that you think it a masquerade. As madamigella 
says, it is a relief to lay aside the uniform, now and 
then, for us who fight the spiritual enemies as well 
\) 
as for the other soldiers. There was one time, 
when I was younger and in the subdiaconate orders, 
that I put off the priest's dress altogether, and wore 
citizen's clothes, not an abbate's suit like this. We 
were in Padua, another young priest and I, my 
nearest and only friend, and for a whole night we 
walked about the streets in that dress, meeting the 
students, as they strolled singing through the moon 
light ; we went to the theatre and to the caffc, we 
smoked cigars, all the time laughing and trembling 
to think of the tonsure under our hats. But in the 
morning we had to put on the stockings and the 
talare and the nicchio again." 
Don Ippolito gave a melancholy laugh. He had 
thrust the corner of his napkin into his collar ; see 
ing that Ferris had not his so, he twitched it out, 
and made a feint of its having been all the time in 
his lap. Every one was silent as if something 
shocking had been said ; Florida looked with grave 
rebuke at Don Ippolito, whose story affected Fer 
ris like that of some girl's adventure in men's 
clothes. He was in terror lest Mrs. Vervain should 
be going to say it was like that ; she was going to 
say something ; he made haste to forestall her, and 
turn the talk on other things. 
The next day the priest came in his usual dress, 
and he did not again try to escape from it. 
VI. 
ONE afternoon, as Don Ippolito was posing to 
Ferris for his picture of A Venetian Priest, the 
painter asked, to make talk, " Have you hit upon 
that new explosive yet, which is to utilize your 
breech-loading cannon ? Or are you engaged upon 
something altogether new ? " 
" No," answered the other uneasily, " I have not 
touched the cannon since that day you saw it at my 
house ; and as for other things, I have not be en able 
to put my mind to them. I have made a few trifles, 
which I have ventured to offer the ladies." 
Ferris had noticed the ingenious reading-desk 
which Don Ippolito had presented to Florida, and 
the footstool, contrived with springs and hinges so 
that it would fold up into the compass of an ordi 
nary portfolio, which Mrs. Vervain carried about 
with her. 
An odd look, which the painter caught at and 
missed, came into the priest's face, as he resumed : 
"I suppose it is the distraction of my new occu 
pation, and of the new acquaintances so very 
strange to me in every way that I have made in 
your amiable country-women, which hinders me 
from going about anything in earnest, now that 
their munificence has enabled me to pursue my aims 
 
with greater advantages than ever before. But 
this idle mood will pass, and in the mean time I am 
very happy. They are real angels, and madam a is 
a true original." 
" Mrs. Vervain is rather peculiar," said the 
painter, retiring a few paces from his picture, and 
quizzing it through his half -closed eyes. " She is a 
woman who has had affliction enough to turn a 
stronger head than hers could ever have been," he 
added kindly. " But she has the best heart in the 
world. In fact," he burst forth, " she is the most 
extraordinary combination of perfect fool and per 
fect lady I ever saw." 
" Excuse me ; I don 't understand," blankly fal 
tered Don Ippolito. 
" No ; and I in afraid I could n t explain to 
you," answered Ferris. 
There was a silence for a time, broken at last by 
Don Ippolito, who asked, " Why do you not marry 
madamigella ? " 
He seemed not to feel that there was anything 
out of the way in the question, and Ferris was too 
well used to the childlike directness of the most 
maneuvering of races to be surprised. Yet he was 
displeased, as he would not have been if Don Ippo 
lito were not a priest. He was not of the type of 
priests whom the American knew from the preju 
dice and distrust of the Italians ; he was alienated 
from his clerical fellows by all the objects of his 
life, and by a reciprocal dislike. About other priests 
 
there were various scandals ; but Don Ippolito was 
like that pretty match-girl of the Piazza of whom it 
was Venetianly answered, when one asked if so 
sweet a face were not innocent, " Oh yes, she is 
mad ! " He was of a purity so blameless that he 
was reputed crack-brained by the caffe -gossip that 
in Venice turns its searching light upon whomever 
you mention ; and from his own association with 
the man Ferris perceived in him an apparent single- 
heartedness such as no man can have but the rarest 
of Italians. He was the albino of his species ; a 
gray crow, a white fly ; he was really this, or he 
knew how to seem it with an art far beyond any 
common deceit. It was the half expectation of com 
ing sometime upon the lurking duplicity in Don 
Ippolito, that continually enfeebled the painter in 
his attempts to portray his Venetian priest, and 
that gave its undecided, unsatisfactory character to 
the picture before him its weak hardness, its pro 
voking superficiality. He expressed the traits of 
melancholy and loss that he imagined in him, yet 
he always was tempted to leave the picture with a 
touch of something sinister in it, some airy and sub 
tle shadow of selfish design. 
He stared hard at Don Ippolito while this per 
plexity filled his mind, for the hundredth time ; 
then he said stiffly, " I don 't know. I don 't want 
to marry anybody. Besides," he added, relaxing 
into a smile of helpless amusement, u it's possi 
ble that Miss Vervain might not want to marry 
me." 
 
"As to that," replied Don Ippolito, " you never 
can 'tell. All young girls desire to be married, I 
suppose," he continued with a sigh. " She is very 
beautiful, is she not ? It is seldom that we see 
such a blonde in Italy. Our blondes are dark ; they 
have auburn hair and blue eyes, but their com 
plexions are thick. Miss Vervain is blonde as the 
morning light ; the sun's gold is in her hair, his 
noonday whiteness in her dazzling throat ; the flush 
of his coming is on her lips ; she might utter the 
dawn ! " 
"you're a poet, Don Ippolito," laughed the 
painter. " What property of the sun is in her 
angry-looking eyes ? " 
" His fire ! Ah, that is her greatest charm ! Those 
strange eyes of hers, they seem full of tragedies. 
She looks made to be the heroine of some stormy 
romance ; and yet how simply patient and good 
she is!" 
" Yes," said Ferris, who often responded in Eng 
lish to the priest's Italian ; and he added half mus 
ingly in his own tongue, after a moment, " but I 
don 't think it would be safe to count upon her. I'm 
afraid she has a bad temper. At any rate, I always 
expect to see smoke somewhere when I look at 
those eyes of hers. She has wonderful self-control, 
however ; and I don 't exactly understand why. 
Perhaps people of strong impulses have strong 
wills to overrule them ; it seems no more than 
fair." 
 
" Is it the custom," asked Don Ippolito, after a 
moment, " for the American young ladies always 
to address their mammas as mother ? " 
" No ; that seems to be a peculiarity of Miss 
Vervain s. It's a little formality that I should say 
served to hold Mrs. Vervain in check." 
" Do you mean that it repulses her ? " 
" Not at all. I don 't think I could explain," said 
Ferris with a certain air of regretting to have gone 
so far in comment on the Vervains. He added 
recklessly, " don 't you see that Mrs. Vervain some 
times does and says things that embarrass her 
daughter, and that Miss Vervain seems to try to 
restrain her ? " 
" I thought," returned Don Ippolito meditatively, 
" that the signorina was always very tenderly sub 
missive to her mother." 
" Yes, so she is," said the painter dryly, and 
looked in annoyance from the priest to the picture, 
and from the picture to the priest. 
After a minute Don Ippolito said, " They must 
be very rich to live as they do." 
" I don 't know about that," replied Ferris. 
" Americans spend and save in ways different from 
the Italians. I dare say the Vervains find Venice 
very cheap after London and Paris and Berlin." 
" Perhaps," said Don Ippolito, " if they were 
rich you would be in a position to marry her." 
" I should not marry Miss Vervain for her 
money," answered the painter, sharply. 
A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. OO 
" No, but if you loved her, the money would en 
able you to marry her." 
" Listen to me, Don Ippolito. I never said that 
I loved Miss Vervain, and I don 't know how you 
feel warranted in speaking to me about the matter. 
Why do you do so ? " 
" I ? Why ? I could not but imagine that you 
must love her. Is there anything wrong in speak 
ing of such things ? Is it contrary to the American 
custom? I ask pardon from my heart if I have 
done anything amiss." 
" There is no offense," said the painter, with a 
laugh, " and I don 't wonder you thought I ought to 
be in love with Miss Vervain. She is beautiful, and 
I believe she's good. But if men had to marry 
because women were beautiful and good, there isn 't  
one of us could live single a day. Besides, I'm the 
victim of another passion, I'm laboring under an 
unrequited affection for Art." 
" Then you do not love her ? " asked Don Ippo 
lito, eagerly. 
" So far as I'm advised at present, no, I don t." 
" It is strange ! " said the priest, absently, but 
with a glowing face. 
He quitted the painter's and walked swiftly 
homeward with a triumphant buoyancy of step. 
A subtle content diffused itself over his face, and 
a joyful light burnt in his deep eyes. He sat down 
before the piano and organ as he had arranged 
them, and began to strike their keys in unison ; this 
 
seemed to him for the first time childish. Then he 
played some lively bars on the piano alone ; they 
sounded too light and trivial, and he turned to the 
other instrument. As the plaint of the reeds arose, 
it filled his sense like a solemn organ-music, and 
transfigured the place ; the notes swelled to the 
ample vault of a church, and at the high altar he 
was celebrating the mass in his sacerdotal robes. 
He suddenly caught his fingers away from the keys ; 
his breast heaved, he hid his face in his hands. 
VII. 
FERRIS stood cleaning his palette, after Don Ip- 
polito was gone, scraping the colors together with 
his knife and neatly buttering them on the palette's 
edge, while he wondered what the priest meant by 
pumping him in that way. Nothing, he supposed, 
and yet it was odd. Of course she had a bad tem 
per 
He put on his hat and coat and strolled vaguely 
forth, and in an hour or two came by a roundabout 
course to the gondola station nearest his own house. 
There he stopped, and after an absent contemplation 
of the boats, from which the gondoliers were clam 
oring for his custom, he stepped into one and or 
dered the man to row him to a gate on a small canal 
opposite. The gate opened, at his ringing, into 
the garden of the Vervains. 
Florida was sitting alone on a bench near the 
fountain. It was no longer a ruined fountain ; the 
broken-nosed naiad held a pipe above her head, 
and from this rose a willowy spray high enough to 
catch some colors of the sunset then striking into 
the garden, and fell again in a mist around her, 
making her almost modest. 
" What does this mean ? " asked Ferris, care- 
 
lessly taking the young girl's hand. " I thought 
this lady's occupation was gone." 
" Don Ippolito repaired the fountain for the land 
lord, and he agreed to pay for filling the tank that 
feeds it," said Florida. " He seems to think it a 
hard bargain, for he only lets it play about half an 
hour a day. But he says it's very ingeniously 
mended. He didn 't believe it could be done. It 
is pretty. 
" It is, indeed," said the painter, with a singular 
desire, going through him like a pang, likewise to 
do something for Miss Vervain. " Did you go to 
Don Ippolito's house the other day, to see his 
traps ? " 
" Yes ; we were very much interested. I was 
sorry that I knew so little about inventions. Do 
you think there are many practical ideas amongst 
his things ? I hope there are he seemed so proud 
and pleased to show them. shouldn 't you think 
he had some real inventive talent ? " 
" Yes, I think he has ; but I know as little about 
the matter as you do." He sat down beside her, 
and picking up a twig from the gravel, pulled the 
bark off in silence. Then, " Miss Vervain," he 
said, knitting his brows, as he always did when he 
had something on his conscience and meant to ease 
it at any cost, " I'm the dog that fetches a bone 
and carries a bone ; I talked Don Ippolito over with 
you, the other day, and now I've been talking you 
over with him. But I've the grace to say that I'm 
ashamed of myself." 
 
" Why need you be ashamed ? " asked Florida. 
" You said no harm of him. Did you of us ? " 
" Not exactly ; but I don 't think it was quite my 
business to discuss you at all. I think you can 't 
let people alone too much. For my part, if I try to 
characterize my friends, I fail to do them perfect 
justice, of course ; and yet the imperfect result re 
mains representative of them in my mind ; it limits 
them and fixes them ; and I can 't get them back 
again into the undefined and the ideal where they 
really belong. One ought never to speak of the 
faults of one's friends : it mutilates them ; they can 
never be the same afterwards." 
" So you have been talking of my faults," said 
Florida, breathing quickly. " Perhaps you could 
tell me of them to my face." 
"I should have to say that unfairness was one of 
them.. But that is common to the whole sex. I 
never said I was talking of your faults. I declared 
against doing so, and you immediately infer that 
my motive is remorse. I don 't know that you have 
any faults. They may be virtues in disguise. 
There is a charm even in unfairness. Well, I did 
say that I thought you had a quick temper," 
Florida colored violently. 
"but now I see that I was mistaken," said 
Ferris with a laugh. 
" May I ask what else you said ? " demanded the 
young girl haughtily. 
"Oh, that would be a betrayal of confidence," 
said Ferris, unaffected by her hauteur. 
 
" Then why have you mentioned the matter to 
me at all ? " 
" I wanted to clear my conscience, I suppose, 
and sin again. I wanted to talk with you about 
P m Ippolito." 
Florida looked with perplexity at Ferris's face, 
while her own slowly cooled and paled. 
" What did you want to say of him ? " she asked 
calmly. 
" I hardly know how to put it : that he puzzles 
me, to begin with. You know I feel somewhat re 
sponsible for him." 
" Yes." 
" Of course, I never should have thought of him, 
if it had n t been for your mother's talk that morn 
ing coming back from San Lazzaro." 
" I know," said Florida, with a faint blush. 
" And yet, don 't you see, it was as much a fancy 
of mine, a weakness for the man himself, as the de 
sire to serve your mother, that prompted me to 
bring him to you." 
" Yes, I see," answered the young girl. 
" I acted in the teeth of a bitter Venetian preju 
dice against priests. All my friends here they re 
mostly young men with the modern Italian ideas, 
or old liberals hate and despise the priests. 
They believe that priests are full of guile and de 
ceit, that they are spies for the Austrians, and al 
together evil." 
" Don Ippolito is welcome to report our most se- 
 
cret thoughts to the police," said Florida, whose 
look of rising alarm relaxed into a smile. 
" Oh," cried the painter, "how you leap to con 
clusions ! I never intimated that Don Ippolito was 
a spy. On the contrary, it was his difference from 
other priests that made me think of him for a mo 
ment. He seems to be as much cut off from the 
church as from the world. And yet he is a priest, 
with a priest's education. What if I should have 
been altogether mistaken ? He is either one of the 
openest souls in the world, as you have insisted, or 
he is one of the closest." 
" I should not be afraid of him in any case," said 
Florida; "but I can 't believe any wrong of him." 
Ferris frowned in annoyance. " I don 't want 
you to ; I don t, myself. I've bungled the matter 
as I might have known I would. I was trying to 
put into words an undefined uneasiness of mine, a 
quite formless desire to have you possessed of the 
whole case as it had come up in my mind. I've 
made a mess of it," said Ferris rising, with a rueful 
air. " Besides, I ought to have spoken to Mrs. 
Vervain." 
" Oh no," cried Florida, eagerly, springing to her 
feet beside him. " don 't ! Little things wear upon 
my mother, so. I'm glad you didn 't speak to her. 
I don 't misunderstand you, I think ; I expressed 
myself badly," she added with an anxious face. u I 
thank you very much. What do you want me to 
do?" 
lZ A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 
By Ferris's impulse they both began to move 
down the garden path toward the water-gate. The 
sunset had faded out of the fountain, but it still lit 
the whole heaven, in whose vast blue depths hung 
light whiffs of pinkish cloud, as ethereal as the dra 
peries that floated after Miss Vervain as she walked 
with a splendid grace beside him, no awkwardness, 
now, or self-constraint in her. As she turned to 
Ferris, and asked in her deep tones, to which some 
latent feeling imparted a slight tremor, " What do 
you want me to do ? " the sense of her willingness 
to be bidden by him gave him a delicious thrill. 
He looked at the superb creature, so proud, so help 
less ; so much a woman, so much a child ; and he 
caught his breath before he answered. Her gauzes 
blew about his feet in the light breeze that lifted 
the foliage ; she was a little near-sighted, and in 
her eagerness she drew closer to him, fixing her 
eyes full upon his with a bold innocence. " Good 
heavens ! Miss Vervain," he cried, with a sudden 
blush, " it isn 't  a serious matter. I'm a fool to 
have spoken to you. don 't do anything. Let 
things go on as before. It isn 't  for me to instruct 
you." 
" I should have been very glad of your advice," 
she said with a disappointed, almost wounded man 
ner, keeping her eyes upon him. u It seems to me 
we are always going wrong " 
She stopped short, with a flush and then a pallor. 
Ferris returned her look with one of comical dis- 
 
may. This apparent readiness of Miss Vervain's 
to be taken command of, daunted him, on second 
thoughts. u I wish you d dismiss all my stupid 
talk from your mind," he said. u I feel as if T d 
been guiltily trying to set you against a man whom 
I like very much and have no reason not to trust, 
and who thinks me so much his friend that he 
couldn t dream of my making any sort of trouble 
for him. It would break his heart, I'm afraid, if 
you treated him in a different way from that in 
which you've treated him till now. It's really 
touching to listen to his gratitude to you and your 
mother. It's only conceivable on the ground that 
he has never had friends before in the world. He 
seems like another man, or the same man come to 
life. And it isn 't  his fault that he's a priest. I 
suppose," he added, with a sort of final throe, 
"that a Venetian family wouldn 't use him with 
the frank hospitality you've shown, not because 
they distrusted him at all, perhaps, but because 
they would be afraid of other Venetian tongues." 
This ultimate drop of venom, helplessly distilled, 
did not seem to rankle in Miss Vervain's mind. 
She walked now with her face turned from his, and 
she answered coldly, " We shall not be troubled. 
We don 't care for Venetian tongues." 
They were at the gate. " Good-by," said Ferris, 
abruptly, " I'm going." 
" won 't you wait and see my mother ? " asked 
Florida, with her awkward self-constraint again 
upon her. 
 
tk No, thanks," said Ferris, gloomily. " I haven 't 
time. I just dropped in for a moment, to blast an 
innocent man's reputation, and destroy a young 
lady's peace of mind." 
" Then you needn 't go, yet," answered Florida, 
coldly, " for you haven 't succeeded." 
" Well, I've done my worst," returned Ferris, 
drawing the bolt. 
He went away, hanging his head in amazement 
and disgust at himself for his clumsiness and bad 
taste. . It seemed to him a contemptible part, first 
to embarrass them with Don Ippolito's acquaint 
ance, if it was an embarrassment, and then try to 
sneak out of his responsibility by these tardy cau 
tions ; and if it was not going to be an embarrass 
ment, it was folly to have approached the matter at 
all. 
What had he wanted to do, and with what mo 
tive ? He hardly knew. As he battled the ground 
over and over again, nothing comforted him save 
the thought that, bad as it was to have spoken to 
Miss Vervain, it must have been infinitely worse to 
speak to her mother. 
VIII. 
IT was late before Ferris forgot Ms chagrin in 
sleep, and when he woke the next morning, the sun 
was making the solid green blinds at his window 
odorous of their native pine woods with its heat, 
and thrusting a golden spear at the heart of Don 
Ippolito's effigy where he had left it on the easel. 
Marina brought a letter with his coffee. The 
letter was from Mrs. Vervain, and it entreated him 
to come to lunch at twelve, and then join them on 
an excursion, of which they had all often talked, up 
the Canal of the Brenta. " Don Ippolito has got 
his permission think of his not being able to go 
to the mainland without the Patriarch's leave ! and 
can go with us to-day. So I try to make this hasty 
arrangement. You must come it all depends 
upon you." 
" Yes, so it seems," groaned the painter, and 
went. 
In the garden he found Don Ippolito and Florida, 
at the fountain where he had himself parted with 
her the evening before ; and he observed with a 
guilty relief that Don Ippolito was talking to her 
in the happy unconsciousness habitual with him. 
Florida cast at the painter a swift glance of latent 
appeal and intelligence, which he refused, and in 
 
the same instant she met him with another look, as 
if she now saw him for the first time, and gave him 
her hand in greeting. It was a beautiful hand ; 
he could not help worshipping its lovely forms, and 
the lily whiteness and softness of the back, the rose 
of the palm and finger-tips. 
She idly resumed the great Venetian fan which 
hung from her waist by a chain. " Don Ippolito 
has been talking about the villeggiatura on the 
Brenta in the old days," she explained. 
" Oh, yes," said the painter, " they used to have 
merry times in .the villas then, and it was worth 
while being a priest, or at least an ablate di casa. 
I should think you would sigh for a return of those 
good old days, Don Ippolito. Just imagine, if you 
were abbate di casa with some patrician family 
about the close of the last century, you might be the 
instructor, companion, and spiritual adviser of Illus- 
trissima at the theatres, card-parties, and masquer 
ades, all winter; and at this season, instead of go 
ing up the Brenta for a day's pleasure with us 
barbarous Yankees, you might be setting out with 
Illustrissima and all the c Strissimi and Strissime, 
big and little, for a spring villeggiatura there. You 
would be going in a gilded barge, with songs and 
fiddles and dancing, instead of a common gondola, 
and you would stay a month, walking, going to 
parties and caffes, drinking chocolate and lemonade, 
gaming, sonneteering, and butterflying about gen 
erally." 
 
" It was doubtless a beautiful life," answered 
the priest, with simple indifference. " But I never 
have thought of it with regret, because I have been 
preoccupied with other ideas than those of social 
pleasures, though perhaps they were no wiser." 
Florida had watched Don Ippolito's face while 
Ferris was speaking, and she now asked gravely, 
" But don 't you think their life nowadays is more 
becoming to the clergy? " 
" Why, madamigella ? What harm was there 
in those gayeties ? I suppose the bad features of 
the old life are exaggerated to us." 
" They could n t have been worse than the amuse 
ments of the hard-drinking, hard-riding, hard- 
swearing, fox-hunting English parsons about the 
same time," said Ferris. " Besides, the abbate di 
casa had a charm of his own, the charm of all rococo 
things, which, whatever you may say of them, are 
somehow elegant and refined, or at least refer to 
elegance and refinement. I don 't say they re en 
nobling, but they re fascinating. I don 't respect 
them, but I love them. When I think about the 
past of Venice, I don 't care so much to see any of 
the heroically historical things ; but I should like 
immensely to have looked in at the Ridotto, when 
the place was at its gayest with wigs and masks, 
hoops and small-clothes, fans and rapiers, bows and 
courtesies, whispers and glances. I dare say I 
should have found Don Ippolito there .in some be 
coming disguise. 
Florida looked from the painter to the priest and 
back to the painter, as Ferris spoke, and then she 
turned, a little anxiously toward the terrace, and 
a shadow slipped from her face as her mother came 
rustling down the steps, catching at her drapery 
and shaking it into place. The young girl hur 
ried to meet her, lifted her arms for what promised 
an embrace, and with firm hands set the elder 
lady's bonnet straight with her forehead. 
" I'm always getting it on askew," Mrs. Ver 
vain said for greeting to Ferris. " How do you do, 
Don Ippolito ? But I suppose you think I Ve kept 
you long enough to get it on straight for once. So 
I have. I am a fuss, and I don 't deny it. At my 
time of life, it's much harder to make yourself ship 
shape than it is when you're younger. I tell Flor 
ida that anybody would take her for the old lady, 
she does seem to give so little care to getting up an 
appearance." 
" And yet she has the effect of a stylish young 
person in the bloom of youth," observed Ferris, 
with a touch of caricature. 
" We had better lunch with our things on," said 
Mrs. Vervain, " and then there needn 't be any 
delay in starting. I thought we would have it 
here," she added, as Nina and the house-servant 
appeared with trays of dishes and cups. " So that 
we can start in a real picnicky spirit. I knew 
you d think it a womanish lunch, Mr. Ferris Don 
Ippolito likes what we do and so I've provided 
 
you with a chicken salad ; and I'm going to ask 
you for a taste of it ; I'm really hungry." 
There was salad for all, in fact ; and it was quite 
one o clock before the lunch was ended, and wraps 
of just the right thickness and thinness were chosen, 
and the party were comfortably placed under the 
striped linen canopy of the gondola, which they had 
from a public station, the house-gondola being en 
gaged that day. They rowed through the narrow 
canal skirting the garden out into the expanse be 
fore the Giudecca, and then struck across the la- 
goon towards Fusina, past the island-church of San 
Giorgio in Alga, whose beautiful tower has flushed 
and darkened in so many pictures of Venetian sun 
sets, and past the Austrian lagoon forts with their 
coronets of guns threatening every point, and the 
Croatian sentinels pacing to and fro on their walls. 
They stopped long enough at one of the customs 
barges to declare to the swarthy, amiable officers 
the innocence of their freight, and at the mouth of 
the Canal of the Brenta they paused before the 
station while a policeman came out and scanned 
them. He bowed to Don Tppolito's cloth, and then 
they began to push up the sluggish canal, shallow 
and overrun with weeds and mosses, into the heart 
of the land. 
The spring, which in Venice comes in the soften 
ing air and the perpetual azure of the heavens, was 
renewed to their senses in all its miraculous loveli 
ness. The garden of the Vervains had indeed con- 
 
fessed it in opulence of leaf and bloom, but there it 
seemed somehow only like a novel effect of the arti 
fice which had been able to create a garden in that 
city of stone and sea. Here a vernal world sud 
denly opened before them, with wide-stretching 
fields of green under a dome of perfect blue ; 
against its walls only the soft curves of far-off hills 
were traced, and near at hand the tender forms of 
full-foliaged trees. The long garland of vines that 
festoons all Italy seemed to begin in the neighbor 
ing orchards ; the meadows waved their tall grasses 
in the sun, and broke in poppies as the sea- waves 
break in iridescent spray ; the well-grown maize 
shook its gleaming blades in the light ; the poplars 
marched in stately procession on either side of the 
straight, white road to Padua, till they vanished 
in the long perspective. The blossoms had fallen 
from the trees many weeks before, but the air was 
full of the vague sweetness of the perfect spring, 
which here and there gathered and defined itself as 
the spicy odor of the grass cut on the shore of the 
canal, and drying in the mellow heat of the sun. 
The voyagers spoke from time to time of some 
peculiarity of the villas that succeeded each other 
along the canal. Don Ippolito knew a few of them, 
the gondoliers knew others ; but after all, their 
names were nothing. These haunts of old-time 
splendor and idleness weary of themselves, and un 
able to escape, are sadder than anything in Venice, 
and they belonged, as far as the Americans were 
 
concerned, to a, world as strange as any to which 
they should go in another life, the world of a 
faded fashion and an alien history. Some of the 
villas were kept in a sort of repair ; some were even 
maintained in the state of old ; but the most showed 
marks of greater or less decay, and here and there 
one was falling to ruin. They had gardens about 
them, tangled and wild-grown ; a population of de 
crepit statues in the rococo taste strolled in their 
walks or simpered from their gates. Two or three 
houses seemed to be occupied ; the rest stood 
empty, each 
" Close latticed to the brooding heat, 
And silent in its dusty vines." 
The pleasure-party had no fixed plan for the day 
further than to ascend the canal, and by and by 
take a carriage at some convenient village and 
drive to the famous Villa Pisani at Stra. 
" These houses are very well," said Don Ippolito, 
who had visited the villa once, and with whom it 
had remained a memory almost as signal as that 
night in Padua when he wore civil dress, but it is 
at Stra that you see something really worthy of the 
royal splendor of the patricians of Venice. Royal ? 
The villa is now one of the palaces of the ex- 
Emperor of Austria, who does not find it less im 
perial than his other palaces." Don Ippolito had 
celebrated the villa at Stra in this strain ever since 
they had spoken of going up the Brenta : now it 
was the magnificent conservatories and orangeries 
 
that he sang, now the vast garden with its statued 
walks between rows of dipt cedars and firs, now 
the stables with their stalls for numberless horses, 
now the palace itself with its frescoed halls and 
treasures of art and vertu. His enthusiasm for the 
villa at Stra had become an amiable jest with the 
Americans. Ferris laughed at his fresh outburst ; 
he declared himself tired of the gondola, and he 
asked Florida to disembark with him and walk 
under the trees of a pleasant street running on one 
side between the villas and the canal. " We are 
going to find something much grander than the 
Villa Pisani," he boasted, with a look at Don Ippo- 
lito. 
As they sauntered along the path together, they 
came now and then to a stately palace like that of 
the Contarini, where the lions, that give their name 
to one branch of the family, crouch in stone before 
the grand portal ; but most of the houses were in 
teresting only from their u listened possibilities to 
the imagination. They were generally of stucco, 
and glared with fresh whitewash through the foli 
age of their gardens. When a peasant's cottage 
broke their line, it gave, with its barns and straw- 
stacks and its beds of pot-herbs, a homely relief 
from the decaying gentility of the villas. 
" What a pity, Miss Vervain," said the painter, 
" that the blessings of this world should be so un 
equally divided ! Why should all this sketchable 
adversity be lavished upon the neighborhood of a 
 
city that is so rich as Venice in picturesque dilapi 
dation ? It's pretty hard on us Americans, and 
forces people of sensibility into exile. What 
wouldn 't cultivated persons give for a stretch of 
this street in the suburbs of Boston, or of your own 
Providence ? I suppose the New Yorkers will be 
setting up something of the kind one of these days, 
and giving it a French name they'll call it Aux 
lords du Brenta. There was one of them carried 
back a gondola the other day to put on a pond in 
their new park. But the worst of it is, you can 't 
take home the sentiment of these things." 
" I thought it was the business of painters to 
send home the sentiment of them in pictures, I said 
Florida. 
Ferris talked to her in this way because it was 
his way of talking ; it always surprised him a little 
that she entered into the spirit of it ; he was not 
quite sure that she did ; he sometimes thought she 
waited till she could seize upon a point to turn 
against him, and so give herself the air of having 
comprehended the whole. He laughed : " Oh yes, 
a poor little fragmentary, faded-out reproduction of 
their sentiment which is as moonlight unto sun 
light and as water unto wine, when compared with 
the real thing. Suppose I made a picture of this 
very bit, ourselves in the foreground, looking at the 
garden over there where that amusing Vandal of an 
owner has just had his statues painted white : would 
our friends at home understand it ? A whole his- 
 
tory must be left unexpressed. I could only hint at 
an entire situation. Of course, people with a taste 
for olives would get the flavor ; but even they would 
wonder that I chose such an unsuggestive bit. Why, 
it is just the most maddeningly suggestive thing to 
be found here ! And if I may put it modestly, for 
my share in it, I think we t\vo young Americans 
looking on at this supreme excess of the rococo, are 
the very essence of the sentiment of the scene ; but 
what would the honored connoisseurs the good 
folks who get themselves up on Ruskin and try so 
honestly hard to have some little ideas about art 
make of us ? To be sure they might justifiably 
praise the grace of your pose, if I were so lucky as 
to catch it, and your way of putting your hand 
under the elbow of the arm that holds your para 
sol," Florida seemed disdainfully to keep her 
attitude, and the painter smiled, " but they 
would n t know what it all meant, and could n t 
imagine that we were inspired by this rascally little 
villa to sigh longingly over the wicked past." .... 
" Excuse me," interrupted Florida, with a touch 
of trouble in her proud manner, " I'm not sighing 
over it, for one, and I don 't want it back. I'm glad 
that I' mAmerican and that there is no past for me. 
I can 't understand how you and Don Ippolito can 
speak so tolerantly of what no one can respect," 
she added, in almost an aggrieved tone. 
If Miss Vervain wanted to turn the talk upon 
Don Ippolito, Ferris by no means did ; he had had 
 
enough of that subject yesterday ; he got as lightly 
away from it as he could. 
" Oh, Don Ippolito's a pagan, I tell you ; and 
I'm a painter, and the rococo is my weakness. I 
wish I could paint it, but I can 't ; I'm a hundred 
years too late. I could n t even paint myself in the 
act of sentimentalizing it." 
While he talked, he had been making a few lines 
in a small pocket sketch-book, with a furtive glance 
or two at Florida. When they returned to the 
boat, lie busied himself again with the book, and 
presently he handed it to Mrs. Vervain. 
Why, it's Florida!" cried the lady; How 
very nicely you do sketch, Mr. Ferris." 
"Thanks, Mrs. Vervain; you're always flatter 
ing me." 
" No, but seriously. I wish that I had paid more 
attention to my drawing when I was a girl. And 
now, Florida she won 't touch a pencil. I wish 
you d talk to her, Mr. Ferris." 
" Oh, people who are pictures needn 't trouble 
themselves to be painters," said Ferris, with a little 
burlesque. 
Mrs. Vervain began to look at the sketch through 
her tubed hand; the painter made a grimace. 
" But you've made her too proud, Mr. Ferris. She 
doesn 't look like that." 
" Yes she does to those unworthy of her kind 
ness. I have taken Miss Vervain in the act of 
scorning the rococo, and its humble admirer, me, 
with it." 
 
" I'm sure I don 't know what you mean, Mr. 
Ferris ; but I can 't think that this proud look is 
habitual with Florida ; and I've heard people say 
very good judges that an artist oughtn t to 
perpetuate a temporary expression. Something like 
that." 
"It can 't be helped now, Mrs. Vervain: the 
sketch is irretrievably immortal. I in sorry, but 
it's too late." 
" Oh, stuff! As if you couldn t turn up the cor 
ners of the mouth a little. Or something." 
" And give her the appearance of laughing at 
me? Never!" 
" Don Ippolito," said Mrs. Vervain, turning 
to the priest, who had been listening intently to 
all this trivial talk, " what do you think of this 
sketch?" 
He took the book with an eager hand, and pe 
rused the sketch as if trying to read some secret 
there. After a minute he handed it back with a 
light sigh, apparently of relief, but said nothing. 
" Well? " asked Mrs. Vervain., 
" Oh ! I ask pardon. No, it isn 't  my idea of 
aiadamigella. It seems to me that her likeness 
must be sketched in color. Those lines are true, 
but they need color to subdue them ; they go too 
far, they are more than true." 
" you're quite right, Don Ippolito," said Ferris. 
 Then you don 't think she always has this proud 
look ? " pursued Mrs. Vervain. 
 
The painter fancied that Florida quelled in her 
self a movement of impatience ; he looked at her 
with an amused smile. 
" Not always, no," answered Don Ippolito. 
" Sometimes her face expresses the greatest meek 
ness in the world." 
k But not at the present moment," thought Fer 
ris, fascinated by the stare of angry pride which the 
girl bent upon the unconscious priest. 
" Though I confess that I should hardly know 
how to characterize her habitual expression," added 
Don Ippolito. 
" Thanks," said Florida, peremptorily. " I'm 
tired of the subject ; it isn 't  an important one." 
" Oh yes it is, my dear," said Mrs. Vervain. 
" At least it's important to me, if it isn 't  to you ; 
for I'm your mother, and really, if I thought you 
looked like this, as a general tiling, to a casual ob 
server, I should consider it a reflection upon my 
self." Ferris gave a provoking laugh, as she con 
tinued sweetly, " I must insist, Don Ippolito : now 
did you ever see Florida look so ? " 
The girl leaned back, and began to wave her fan 
slowly to and fro before her face. 
" I never saw her look so with you, dear mada- 
ma," said the priest with an anxious glance at Flor 
ida, who let her fan fall folded into her lap, and sat 
still. He went on with priestly smoothness, and a 
touch of something like invoked authority, such as 
a man might show who could dispense indulgences 
and inflict penances. " No one could help seeing 
her devotedness to you, and I have admired from 
the first an obedience and tenderness that I have 
never known equaled. In all her relations to you, 
madamigella has seemed to me " 
Florida started forward. " You are not asked to 
comment on my behavior to my mother ; you are 
not invited to speak of my conduct at all ! " she 
burst out with sudden violence, her visage flaming, 
and her blue eyes burning upon Don Ippolito, who 
shrank from the astonishing rudeness as from a blow 
in the face. " What is it to you how I treat my 
mother ? " 
She sank back again upon the cushions, and 
opening the fan with a clash swept it swiftly be 
fore her. 
" Florida ! " said her mother gravely. 
Ferris turned away in cold disgust, like one who 
has witnessed a cruelty done to some helpless thing. 
Don Ippolito's speech was not fortunate at the best, 
but it might have come from a foreigner's misap 
prehensions, and at the worst it was good-natured 
and well-meant. The girl is a perfect brute, as 
I thought in the beginning," the painter said to 
himself. " How could I have ever thought differ 
ently ? I shall have to tell Don Ippolito that I'm 
ashamed of her, and disclaim all responsibility. 
Pah ! I wish I was out of this." 
The pleasure of the day was dead. It could not 
n.lly from that stroke. They went on to Stra, as 
 
they had planned, but the glory of the Villa Pisani 
was eclipsed for Don Ippolito. He plainly did not 
know what to do. He did not address Florida 
again, whose savagery he would not probably have 
known how to resent if he had wished to resent it. 
Mrs. Vervain prattled away to him with unrelenting 
kindness ; Ferris kept near him, and with affection 
ate zeal tried to make him talk of the villa ; but 
neither the frescoes, nor the orangeries, nor the 
green-houses, nor the stables, nor the gardens could 
rouse him from the listless daze in which he moved, 
though Ferris found them all as wonderful as he 
had said. Amidst this heavy embarrassment no one 
seemed at ease but the author of it. She did not, 
to be sure, speak to Don Ippolito, but she followed 
her mother as usual with her assiduous cares, and 
she appeared tranquilly unconscious of the sarcastic 
civility with which Ferris rendered her any service. 
It was late in the afternoon when they got back 
to their boat and began to descend the canal to 
wards Venice, and long before they reached Fusina 
the day had passed. A sunset of melancholy red, 
streaked with level lines of murky cloud, stretched 
across the flats behind them, and faintly tinged 
with its reflected light the eastern horizon which 
the towers and domes of Venice had not yet begun 
to break. The twilight came, and then through 
the overcast heavens the moon shone dim ; a light 
blossomed here and there in the villas, distant voices 
called musically ; a cow lowed, a dog barked ; the 
ricli, sweet breath of the vernal land mingled its 
odors with the sultry air of the neighboring lagoon. 
The wayfarers spoke little ; the time hung heavy 
on all, no doubt ; to Ferris it was a burden almost 
intolerable to hear the creak of the oars and the 
breathing of the gondoliers keeping time together. 
At last the boat stopped in front of the police-sta 
tion in Fusina ; a soldier with a sword at his side 
and a lantern in his hand came out and briefly par 
leyed with the gondoliers ; they stepped ashore, 
and he marched them into the station before him. 
" We have nothing left to wish for now," said 
Ferris, breaking into an ironical laugh. 
" What does it all mean? " asked Mrs. Vervain. 
" I think I had better go see." 
"We will go with you," said Mrs. Vervain. 
" Pazienza ! " replied Ferris. 
The ladies rose ; but Don Ippolito remained 
seated. "Aren t you going too, Don Ippolito?" 
asked Mrs. Vervain. 
" Thanks, madama; but I prefer to stay here." 
Lamentable cries and shrieks, as if the prisoners 
had immediately been put to the torture, came Irom 
the station as Ferris opened the door. A lamp of 
petroleum lighted the scene, and shone upon the fig 
ures of two fishermen, who bewailed themselves un 
intelligibly in the vibrant accents of Chiozza, and 
from time to time advanced upon the gondoliers, and 
shook their heads and beat their breasts at them. 
A few police-guards reclined upon benches about 
the room, and surveyed the spectacle with mild im 
passibility. 
Ferris politely asked one of them the cause of 
the detention. 
" Why, you see, signore," answered the guard 
amiably, " these honest men accuse your gondoliers 
of having stolen a rope out of their boat at Dolo." 
" It was my blood, you know ! " howled the elder 
of the fishermen, tossing his arms wildly abroad, 
" it was my own heart," he cried, letting the last 
vowel die away and rise again in mournful refrain, 
while he stared tragically into Ferris's face. 
" What is the matter ? " asked Mrs. Vervain, 
putting up her glasses, and trying with graceful fu 
tility to focus the melodrama. 
"Nothing," said Ferris; "our gondoliers have 
had the heart's blood of this respectable Dervish ; 
that is to say, they have stolen a rope belonging to 
him." 
" Our gondoliers ! I don 't believe it. They've 
no right to keep us here all night. Tell them 
you're the American consul." 
" I d rather not try my dignity on these under 
lings, Mrs. Vervain ; there's no American squadron 
here that I could order to bombard Fusina, if they 
didn 't mind me. But I'll see what I can do 
farther in quality of courteous foreigner. Can you 
perhaps tell me how long you will be obliged to de 
tain us here ? " he asked of the guard again. 
" I am very sorry to detain you at all, signore. 
 
But what can I do? The commissary is unhappily 
absent. He may be here soon." 
The guard renewed his apathetic contemplation 
of the gondoliers, who did not speak a word ; the 
windy lamentation of the fishermen rose and fell fit 
fully. Presently they went out of doors and poured 
forth their wrongs to the moon. 
The room was close, and with some trouble Fer 
ris persuaded Mrs. Vervain to return to the gondola, 
Florida seconding his arguments with gentle good 
sense. 
It seemed a long time till the commissary came, 
but his coming instantly simplified the situation. 
Perhaps because he had never been able to befriend 
a consul in trouble before, he befriended Ferris to 
the utmost. He had met him with rather a brow 
beating air ; but after a glance at his card, he gave 
a kind of roar of deprecation and apology. He had 
