ashore, a darkey’s voice on the bank said, “ Gimme 
de k’yarpet-bag, Mass’ Jones,” and the next moment 
we were standing up the river again, all serene. I re- 
flected deeply a while, and then said — but not aloud — 
“Well, the finding of that plantation was the luckiest 
accident that ever happened; but it couldn’t happen 
again in a hundred years.” And I fully believed it 
iv as an accident, too. 
By the time we had gone seven or eight hundred 
miles up the river, I had learned to be a tolerably 
plucky up-stream steersman, in daylight, and before we 
reached St. Louis I had made a trifle of progress in 
night-work, but only a trifle. I had a note-book that 
fairly bristled with the names of towns, “points’ 
bars, islands, bends, reaches, etc. ; but the information 
was to he found only in the note-book — none of it 
was in my head. It made my heart ache to think I 
had only got half of the river set down ; for as our 
watch was four hours off and four hours on, day and 
night, there was a long four-hour gap in my book for 
every time I had slept since the voyage began. 
My chief was presently hired to go on a big New 
Orleans boat, and I packed my satchel and went with 
him. She was a grand affair. When I stood in her 
pilot-house I was so far above the water that I seemed 
perched on a mountain; and her decks stretched so far 
away, fore and aft, below me, that I wondered how I 
could ever have considered the little Paul Jones a large 
craft. There were other differences, too. The Paul 
Jones' pilot-house was a cheap, dingy, battered rattle- 
trap, cramped for room; but here was a sumptuous 
glass temple ; room enough to have a dance in ; showy 
red and gold window-curtains; an imposing sofa; 
leather cushions and a back to the high bench where 
visiting pilots sit, to spin yarns and “look at the 
river”; bright, fanciful “ cuspadores,” instead of a 
broad wooden box filled with sawdust ; nice new oil- 
cloth on the floor; a hospitable big stove for winter ; 
a wheel as high as my head, costly with inlaid work; a 
wire tiller- rope ; bright brass knobs for the bells ; and 
a tidy, white-aproned, black “ texas-tender,” to bring 
up tarts and ices and coffee during mid-watch, day and 
night. Now this was “something like”; and so I 
began to take heart once more to believe that piloting 
was a romantic sort of occupation after all. The 
moment we were under way I began to prowl about 
the great steamer and fill myself with joy. She was as 
clean and as dainty as a drawing-room ; when I looked 
down her long, gilded saloon, it was like gazing 
through a splendid tunnel; she had an oil-picture, by 
some gifted sign-painter, on every state-room door ; 
she glittered with no end of prism-fringed chandeliers ; 
the clerk’s office was elegant, the bar was marvelous, 
and the barkeeper had been barbered and upholstered 
at incredible cost. The boiler-deck (i. e., the second 
story of the boat, so to speak), was as spacious as a 
church, it seemed to me; so with the forecastle; and 
there was no pitiful handful of deck-hands, firemen, 
and roustabouts down there, but a whole battalion of 
men. The fires were fiercely glaring from a long row 
of furnaces, and over them were eight huge boilers ! 
This was unutterable pomp. The mighty engines — - 
but enough of this. I had never felt so fine before. 
And when I found that the regiment of natty servants 
respectfully “sir'd” me, my satisfaction was complete. 
CHAPTER VII. 
A DARING DEED 
W HEN I returned to the pilot-house St. Louis was 
gone, and I was lost. Here was a piece of river 
which was all down in my book, but I could make 
neither head nor tail of it: you understand, it was 
turned around. I had seen it when coming up-stream, 
but I had never faced about to see how it looked when 
it was behind me. My heart broke again, for it was 
plain that I had got to learn this troublesome river both 
ways. 
The pilot-house was full of pilots, going down to 
“look at the river .’ 9 What is called the “upper 
river” (the two hundred miles between St. Louis and 
Cairo, where the Ohio comes in) was low; and the 
Mississippi changes its channel so constantly that the 
pilots used to always find it necessary to run down to 
Cairo to take a fresh look, when their boats were to 
lie in port a week; that is, when the water was at a 
low stage. A deal of this “ looking at the river” was 
done by poor fellows who seldom had a berth, and 
whose only hope of getting one lay in their being 
always freshly posted and therefore ready to drop into 
the shoes of some reputable pilot, for a single trip, on 
account of such pilot’s sudden illness, or some other 
necessity. And a good many of them constantly ran 
up and down inspecting the river, not because they 
ever really hoped to get a berth, but because (they 
being guests of the boat) it was cheaper to “look at 
the river” than stay ashore and pay board. In time 
these fellows grew dainty in their tastes, and only 
infested boats that had an established reputation for 
setting good tables. All visiting pilots were useful, 
for they were always ready and willing, winter or sum- 
mer, night or day, to go out in the yawl and help buoy 
the channel or assist the boat’s pilots in any way they 
could. They were likewise welcome because all pilots 
are tireless talkers, when gathered together, and as 
they talk only about the river they are always under- 
stood and are always interesting. Your true pilot cares 
nothing about anything on earth but the river, and his 
pride in his occupation surpasses the pride of kings. 
We had a fine company of these river inspectors 
along this trip. There were eight or ten, and there 
was abundance of room for them in our great pilot- 
house. Two or three of them wore polished silk hats, 
elaborate shirt-fronts, diamond breastpins, kid gloves, 
and patent-leather boots. They were choice in their 
English, and bore themselves with a dignity proper to 
men of solid means and prodigious reputation as pilots. 
The others were more or less loosely clad, and wore 
upon their heads tall felt cones that were suggestive of 
the days of the Commonwealth. 
I was a cipher in this august company, and felt sub- 
dued, not to say torpid. I was not even of sufficient 
consequence to assist at the wheel when it was neces- 
sary to put the tiller hard down in a hurry; the guest 
that stood nearest did that when occasion required — 
and this was pretty much all the time, because of the 
crookedness of the channel and the scant vater. I 
stood in a corner ; and the talk I listened to took the 
hope all out of me. One visitor said to another: 
“Jim, how did you run Plum Point, coming up?” 
“ It was in the night, there, and I ran it the way one 
of the boys on the Diana told me ; started out about 
fifty yards above the wood-pile on the false point, and 
held on the cabin under Plum Point till I raised the 
reef — quarter less twain — then straightened up for 
the middle bar till I got well abreast the old one- 
limbed cottonwood in the bend, then got my stern on 
the cottonwood, and head on the low place above the 
point, and came through a-booming — nine and a 
half.” 
“ Pretty square crossing, an’t it?” 
“ Yes, but the upper bar's working down fast.” 
Another pilot spoke up and said : 
“I had better water than that, and ran it lower 
down; started out from the false point — mark twain 
— raised the second reef abreast the big snag in the 
bend, and had quarter less twain.” 
One of the gorgeous ones remarked : 
“ I don’t want to find fault with your leadsmen, but 
that’s a good deal of water for Plum Point, it seems to  
me. '
There was an approving nod all around as this qiuet 
snub dropped on the boaster and “settled” him. 
And so they went on talk-talk-talking. Meantime, the 
thing that was running in my mind was, “Now, if my 
ears hear aright, I have not only to get the names of 
all the towns and islands and bends, and so on, by 
heart, but I must even get up a warm personal ac- 
quaintanceship with every old snag and one-limbed 
cottonwood and obscure wood-pile that ornaments the 
banks of this river for twelve hundred miles; and more 
than that, I must actually know where these things are 
in the dark, unless these guests are gifted with eyes 
that can pierce through two miles of solid blackness. 
I wish the piloting business was in Jericho and I had 
never thought of it.” 
At dusk Mr. Bixby tapped the big bell three times 
(the signal to land), and the captain emerged from his 
drawing-room in the forward end of the “ texas,” and 
looked up inquiringly. Mr. Bixby said: 
“ We will lay up here all night, captain.” 
“ Very well, sir.” 
That was all. The boat came to shore and was tied 
up for the night. It seemed to me a fine thing that 
the pilot could do as he pleased, without asking so 
grand a captain’s permission. I took my supper and 
went immediately to bed, discouraged by my day’s 
observations and experiences. My late voyage’s note- 
booking was but a confusion of meaningless names. It 
had tangled me all up in a knot every time I had 
looked at it in the daytime. I now hoped for respite 
in sleep ; but no, it reveled all through my head till 
sunrise again, a frantic and tireless nightmare. 
Next morning I felt pretty rusty and low-spirited. 
We went booming along, taking a good many chances, 
for we were anxious to “get out of the river” (as 
getting out to Cairo was called) before night should 
overtake us. But Mr. Bixby’s partner, the other 
pilot, presently grounded the boat, and we lost so 
much time getting her off that it was plain the darkness 
would overtake us a good long way above the mouth. 
This was a great misfortune, especially to certain of 
our visiting pilots, whose boats would have to wait for 
their return, no matter how long that might be. It 
sobered the pilot-house talk a good deal. Coming up- 
stream, pilots did not mind low water or any kind of 
darkness ; nothing stopped them but fog. But down- 
stream work was different; a boat was too nearly help- 
less, with a stiff current pushing behind her ; so it was 
not customary to run down-stream at night in low 
water. 
There seemed to be one small hope, however: if we 
could get through the intricate and dangerous Hat 
Island crossing before night, we could venture the rest, 
for we would have plainer sailing and better water. 
But it would be insanity to attempt Hat Island at 
night. So there was a deal of looking at watches all 
the rest of the day, and a constant ciphering upon the 
speed we were making; Hat Island was the eternal 
subject; sometimes hope was high and sometimes we 
were delayed in a bad crossing, and down it went 
again. For hours all hands lay under the burden of 
this suppressed excitement; it was even communicated 
to me, and I got to feeling so solicitous about Hat 
Island, and under such an awful pressure of responsi- 
bility, that I wished I might have five minutes on shore 
to draw a good, full, relieving breath, and start over 
again. We were standing no regular watches. Each 
of our pilots ran such portions of the river as he had 
run when coming up-stream, because of his greater 
familiarity with it; but both remained in the pilot- 
house constantly. 
An hour before sunset Mr. Bixby took the wheel, 
and Mr. W. stepped aside. For the next thirty min- 
utes every man held his watch in his hand and was 
restless, silent, and uneasy. At last somebody said, 
with a doomful sigh: 
” Well, yonder's Hat Island — and we can't make 
it.” 
All the watches closed with a snap, everybody sighed 
and muttered something about its being <; too bad, 
too bad — ah, if we could only have got here half an 
hour sooner ! ” and the place was thick with the atmo- 
sphere of disappointment. Some started to go out, 
but loitered, hearing no bell-tap to land. The sun 
dipped behind the horizon, the boat went on. Inquir- 
ing looks passed from one guest to another; and one 
who had his hand on the door-knob and had turned it, 
waited, then presently took away his hand and let the 
knob turn back again. We bore steadily down the 
bend. More looks were exchanged, and nods of sur- 
prised admiration — but no words. Insensibly the 
men drew together behind Mr. Bixby, as the sky 
darkened and one or two dim stars came out. The 
dead silence and sense of waiting became oppressive. 
Mr. Bixby pulled the cord, and two deep, mellow notes 
from the big bell floated off on the night. Then a 
pause, and one more note was struck. The watch- 
man’s voice followed, from the hurricane deck: 
"Labboard lead, there! Stabboard lead !” 
The cries of the leadsmen began to rise out of the 
distance, and were gruffly repeated by the word-passers 
on the hurricane deck. 
"M-a-r-k three ! M-a-r-k three ! Quarter-less-three ! 
Half twain ! Quarter twain ! M-a-r-k twain ! Quar- 
ter-less — 
Mr. Bixby pulled two bell-ropes, and was answered 
by faint jinglings far below in the engine-room, and 
our speed slackened. The steam began to whistle 
through the gauge-cocks. The cries of the leadsmen 
went on — and it is a weird sound, always, in the 
night. Every pilot in the lot was watching now, with 
fixed eyes, and talking under his breath. Nobody was 
calm and easy but Mr. Bixby. He would put his 
wheel down and stand on a spoke, and as the steamer 
swung into her (to me) utterly invisible marks — for 
we seemed to be in the midst of a wide and gloomy 
sea — he would meet -and fasten her there* Out of the 
murmur of half-audible talk, one caught a coherent 
sentence nofa and then — such as: 
"There; she’s over the first reef all right!” 
After a pause, another subdued voice: 
“Her stern’s coming down just exactly right, by 
George !' 
“ Now she's in the marks; over she goes!” 
Somebody else muttered : 
“Oh, it was done beautiful — beautiful ” 
Now the engines were stopped altogether, and we 
drifted with the current. Not that I could see the boat 
drift, for I could not, the stars being all gone by this 
time. This drifting was the dismalest work; it held 
one’s heart still. Presently I discovered a blacker 
gloom than that which surrounded us. It was the 
head of the island. We were closing right down upon 
it. We entered its deeper shadow, and so imminent 
seemed the peril that I was likely to suffocate ; and I 
had the strongest impulse to do something , anything, 
to save the vessel. But still Mr. Bixby stood by his 
wheel, silent, intent as a cat, and all the pilots stood 
shoulder to shoulder at his back. 
“ She’ll not make it!” somebody whispered. 
The water grew shoaler and shoaler, by the leads- 
man’s cries, till it was down to: 
‘Eight-and-a-half ! E-i-g-h-t feet ! E-i-g-h-t feet ! 
“ Seven-and ” 
Mr. Bixby said warningly through his speaking tube 
to the engineer : 
“ Stand by, now !” 
“Ay, ay, sir !” 
 ‘ Seven-and-a-half ! Seven feet ! Six- and * ’ 
We touched bottom ! Instantly Mr. Bixby set a lot 
of bells ringing, shouted through the tube, “ Now , let 
her have it — every ounce you’ve got!” then to his 
partner, “Put her hard down! snatch her! snatch 
her!” The boat rasped and ground her way through 
the sand, hung upon the apex of disaster a single 
tremendous instant, and then over she went! And 
such a shout as went up at Mr. Bixby's back never 
loosened the roof of a pilot-house before ! 
There was no more trouble after that. Mr. Bixby 
was a hero that night; and it was some little time, 
too, before his exploit ceased to be talked about by 
river men. 
Fully to realize the marvelous precision required in 
laying the great steamer in her marks in that murky 
waste of water, one should know that not only must 
she pick her intricate way through snags and blind 
reefs, and then shave the head of the island so closely as 
to brush the overhanging foliage with her stern, but at 
one place she must pass almost within arm's reach of a 
sunken and invisible wreck that would snatch the hull 
timbers from under her if she should strike it, and 
destroy a quarter of a million dollars' worth of steam- 
boat and cargo in five minutes, and maybe a hundred 
and fifty human lives into the bargain. 
The last remark I heard that night was a compliment 
to Mr. Bixby, uttered in soliloquy and with unction by 
one of our guests. He said : 
“By the Shadow of Death, but he’s a lightning 
pilot!” 
CHAPTER VIII. 
PERPLEXING LESSONS 
A T the end of what seemed a tedious while, I had 
managed to pack my head full of islands, towns, 
bars, “ points,” and bends; and a curiously inanimate 
mass of lumber it was, too. However, inasmuch as I 
could shut my eyes and reel off a good long string of 
these names without leaving out more than ten miles of 
river in every fifty, I began to feel that I could take a 
boat down to New Orleans if I could make her skip 
those little gaps. But of course my complacency 
could hardly get start enough to lift my nose a trifle 
into the air, before Mr. Bixby would think of some- 
thing to fetch it down again. One day he turned on 
me suddenly with this settler: 
” What is the shape of Walnut Bend?” 
He might as well have asked me my grandmother's 
opinion of protoplasm. I reflected respectfully, and 
then said I didn’t know it had any particular shape. 
My gun-pow T dery chief went off with a bang, of course, 
and then went on loading and firing until he was out 
of adjectives. 
I had learned long ago that he only carried just so 
many rounds of ammunition, and was sure to subside 
into a very placable and even remorseful old smooth- 
bore as soon as they were all gone. That word " old ” 
is merely affectionate ; he was not more than thirty- 
four. I waited. By and by he said: 
'' My boy, you’ve got to know the shape of the 
river perfectly. It is all there is left to steer by on a 
very dark night. Everything else is blotted out and 
gone. But mind you, it hasn’t the same shape in the 
night that it has in the daytime' 
"How on earth am I ever going to learn it, then?" 
"How do you follow a hall at home in the dark? 
Because you know the shape of it. You can’t see it." 
"Do you mean to say that I’ve got to know all the 
million trifling variations of shape in the banks of this 
interminable river as well as I know the shape of the 
front hall at home?" 
"On my honor, you’ve got to know them better 
than any man ever did know the shapes of the halls in 
his own house." 
"I wish I was dead !’’ 
"Now I don’t want to discourage you, but ” 
"Well, pile it on me ; I might as well have it now 
as another time." 
'' You see, this has got to be learned; there isn’t 
any getting around it. A clear starlight night throws 
such heavy shadows that, if you didn’t know the shape 
of a shore perfectly, you would claw away from every 
bunch of timber, because you would take the black 
shadow of it for a solid cape ; and you see you would 
be getting scared to death every fifteen minutes by the 
watch. You would be fifty yards from shore all the 
time when you ought to be within fifty feet of it. You 
can’t see a snag in one of those shadows, but you 
know exactly where it is, and the shape of the river 
tells you when you are coming to it. Then there’s 
your pitch-dark night; the river is a very different 
shape on a pitch-dark night from what it is on a star- 
light night. All shores seem to be straight lines, then, 
and mighty dim ones, too; and you’d run them for 
straight lines, only you know better. You boldly 
drive your boat right into what seems to be a solid, 
straight wall (you knowing very well that in reality 
there is a curve there), and that wall falls back and 
makes way for you. Then there’s your gray mist. 
You take a night when there’s one of these grisly, 
drizzly, gray mists, and then there isn’t any particular 
shape to a shore. A gray mist would tangle the head 
of the oldest man that ever lived. Well, then, different 
kinds of moonlight change the shape of the river in 
different ways. You see ” 
“ Oh, don’t say any more, please! Have I got to 
learn the shape of the river according to all these five 
hundred thousand different ways? If I tried to carry 
all that cargo in my head it would make me stoop- 
shouldered.” 
“No! you only learn the shape of the river; and 
you learn it with such absolute certainty that you can 
always steer by the shape that’s in your head , and 
never mind the one that’s before your eyes.” 
“ Very well, I’ll try it; but, after I have learned it, 
can I depend on it? Will it keep the same form and 
not go fooling around?” 
Before Mr. Bixby could answer, Mr. W. came in to 
take the watch, and he said : 
“ Bixby, you’ll have to look out for President’s 
Island, and all that country clear away up above the 
Old Hen and Chickens. The banks are caving and 
the shape of the shores changing like everything. 
Why, you wouldn’t know the point above 40. You 
can go up inside the old sycamore snag, now.”
So that question was answered. Here were leagues 
of shore changing shape. My spirits were down in the 
mud again. Two things seemed pretty apparent to 
me. One was, that in order to be a pilot a man had 
got to learn more than any one man ought to be 
allowed to know; and the other was, that he must 
learn it all over again in a different way every twenty- 
four hours. 
It may not be necessary, but still it can do no harm to explain that 
you inside ” means between the snag and the shore. — M. T. 
That night we had the watch until twelve. Now it 
was an ancient river custom for the two pilots to chat 
a bit when the watch changed. While the relieving 
pilot put on his gloves and lit his cigar, his .partner, 
the retiring pilot, would say something like this : 
"I judge the upper bar is making down a little at 
Hale's Point; had quarter twain with the lower lead 
and mark twain* with the other.” 
“Yes, I thought it was making down a little, last 
trip. Meet any boats?" 
“ Met one abreast the head of 21 , but she was away 
over hugging the bar, and I couldn't make her out 
entirely. I took her for the Sunny South — hadn’t 
any skylights forward of the chimneys." 
And so on. And as the relieving pilot took the 
wheel his partnerf would mention that we were in 
such-and-such a bend, and say we were abreast of 
such-and-such a man's woodyard or plantation. This 
was courtesy; I supposed it was necessity . But Mr. 
W. came on watch full twelve minutes late on this 
particular night — a tremendous breach of etiquette; in 
fact, it is the unpardonable sin among pilots. So Mr. 
Bixby gave him no greeting whatever, but simply sur- 
rendered the wheel and marched out of the pilot-house 
without a word. I was appalled ; it was a villainous 
night for blackness, we were in a particularly wide and 
blind part of the river, where there was no shape or 
substance to anything, and it seemed incredible that 
Mr. Bixby should have left that poor fellow to kill the 
boat, trying to find out where he was. But I resolved 
that I would stand by him anyway. He should find 
that he was not wholly friendless. So I stood around, 
and waited to be asked where we were. But Mr. W. 
plunged on serenely through the solid firmament of 
black cats that stood for an atmosphere, and never 
opened his mouth. “ Here is a proud devil !** thought 
I; here is a limb of Satan that would rather send us 
all to destruction than put himself under obligations to 
me, because I am not yet one of the salt of the earth 
and privileged to snub captains and lord it over every- 
thing dead and alive in a steamboat.** I presently 
climbed up on the bench ; I did not think it was safe 
to go to sleep while this lunatic was on watch. 
Two fathoms. Quarter twain is 2 fathoms, 13 feet. Mark three 
is three fathoms. “ Partner is technical for “ the other pilot.’
However, I must have gone to sleep in the course of 
time, because the next thing I was aware of was the 
fact that day was breaking, Mr. W. gone, and Mr. 
Bixby at the wheel again. So it was four o’clock and 
all well — but me; I felt like a skinful of dry bones, 
and all of them trying to ache at once. 
Mr. Bixby asked me what I had- stayed up there for. 
I confessed that it was to do Mr. W. a benevolence — 
tell him where he was. It took five minutes for the 
entire preposterousness of the thing to filter into Mr. 
Bixby* s system, and then I judge it filled him nearly 
up to the chin; because he paid me a compliment — 
and not much of a one either. He said : 
“ Well, taking you by and large, you do seem to be 
more different kinds of an ass than any creature I ever 
saw before. What did you suppose he wanted to know 
for?''
I said I thought it might be a convenience to him. 
“Convenience! D nation! Didn*t I tell you 
that a man’s got to know the river in the night the 
same as he*d know his own front hall?** 
“Well, I can follow the front hall in the dark if I 
know it is the front hall; but suppose you set me 
down in the middle of it in the dark and not tell me 
which hall it is; how am I to know?’* 
“ Well, you I've got to, on the river !" 
" All right. Then I’m glad I never said anything to 
Mr. W.” 
" I should say so ! Why, he'd have slammed you 
through the window and utterly ruined a hundred 
dollars' worth of window-sash and stuff." 
I was glad this damage had been saved, for it would 
have made me unpopular with the owners. They 
always hated anybody who had the name of being 
careless and injuring things. 
I went to work now to learn the shape of the river; 
and of all the eluding and ungraspable objects that 
ever I tried to get mind or hands on, that was the 
chief. I would fasten my eyes upon a sharp, wooded 
point that projected far into the river some miles 
ahead of me, and go to laboriously photographing its 
shape upon my brain ; and just as I was beginning to 
succeed to my satisfaction, we would draw up toward 
it and the exasperating thing would begin to melt away 
and fold back into the bank ! If there had been a 
conspicuous dead tree standing upon the very point of 
the cape, I would find that tree inconspicuously merged 
into the general forest, and occupying the middle of a 
straight shore, when I got abreast of it ! No prominent 
hill would stick to its shape long enough for me to 
make up my mind what its form really was, but it was 
as dissolving and changeful as if it had been a moun- 
tain of butter in the hottest corner of the tropics. 
Nothing ever had the same shape when I was coming 
down-stream that it had borne when I went up. I 
mentioned these little difficulties to Mr. Bixby. He 
said : 
"That's the very main virtue of the thing. If the 
shapes didn’t change every three seconds they wouldn’t 
be of any use. Take this place where we are now, for 
instance. As long as that hill over yonder is only one 
hill, I can boom right along the way I’m going; but 
the moment it splits at the top and forms a V, I know 
I’ve got to scratch to starboard in a hurry, or I’ll 
bang this boat’s brains out against a rock ; and then 
the moment one of the prongs of the V swings behind 
the other, I’ve got to waltz to larboard again, or I’ll 
have a misunderstanding with a snag that would snatch 
the keelson out of this steamboat as neatly as if it were 
a sliver in your hand. If that hill didn’t change its 
shape on bad nights there would be an awful steam- 
boat graveyard around here inside of a year.” 
It was plain that I had got to learn the shape of the 
river in all the different ways that could be thought of, 
— upside down, wrong end first, inside out, fore-and- 
aft, and “ thort-ships,” — and then know what to do 
on gray nights when it hadn’t any shape at all. So I 
set about it. In the course of time I began to get the 
best of this knotty lesson, and my self-complacency 
moved to the front once more. Mr. Bixby was all 
fixed, and ready to start it to the rear again. He 
opened on me after this fashion : 
“ How much water did we have in the middle cross- 
ing at Hole-in-the-Wall, trip before last?” 
I considered this an outrage. I said : 
"Every trip, down and up, the leadsmen are singing 
through that tangled place for three-quarters of an 
hour on a stretch. How do you reckon I can remem- 
ber such a mess as that?” 
"My boy, you’ve got to remember it. You’ve got 
to remember the exact spot and the exact marks the 
boat lay in when we had the shoalest water, in every 
one of the five hundred shoal places between St. Louis 
and New Orleans; and you mustn’t get the shoal 
soundings and marks of one trip mixed up with the 
shoal soundings and marks of another, either, for 
they're not often twice alike. You must keep them 
separate." 
When I came to myself again, I said : 
“ When I get so that I can do that, I’ll be able to 
raise the dead, and then I won’t have to pilot a steam- 
boat to make a living. I want to retire from this busi- 
ness. I want a slush-bucket and a brush; I’m only fit - 
for a roustabout. I haven’t got brains enough to be a 
pilot; and if I had I wouldn’t have strength enough to 
carry them around, unless I went on crutches.’’ 
“ Now drop that! When I say I’ll learn* a man 
the river, I mean it. And you can depend on it, I’ll 
learn him or kill him." 
' u Teach ” is not in the river vocabulary. 
CHAPTER IX. 
CONTINUED PERPLEXITIES 
THERE was no use in arguing with a person like this. 
I promptly put such a strain on my memory that 
"by and by even the shoal water and the countless cross- 
ing-marks began to stay with me. But the result was 
just the same. I never could more than get one knotty 
thing learned before another presented itself. Now I 
had often seen pilots gazing at the water and pretending 
to read it as if it were a book ; but it was a book that 
told me nothing. A time came at last, however, when 
Mr. Bixby seemed to think me far enough advanced to 
bear a lesson on water-reading. So he began: 
"Do you see that long, slanting line on the face of 
the water? Now, that's a reef. Moreover, it's a bluff 
reef. There is a solid sand-bar under it that is nearly 
as straight up and down as the side of a house. There 
is plenty of water close up to it, but mighty little on 
top of it. If you were to hit it you would knock the 
boat's brains out. Do you see where the line fringes 
out at the upper end and begins to fade away ? " 
“Yes, sir." 
“ Well, that is a low place; that is the head of the 
reef. You can climb over there, and not hurt any- 
thing. Cross over, now, and follow along close under 
the reef — easy water there — not much current." 
I followed the reef along till I approached the 
fringed end. Then Mr. Bixby said: 
“ Now get ready. Wait till I give the word. She 
won’t want to mount the reef ; a boat hates shoai water. 
Stand by — wait — wait — keep her well in hand. 
Now cramp her down ! Snatch her ! snatch her ! * * 
He seized the other side of the wheel and helped to 
spin it around until it was hard down, and then we held 
it so. The boat resisted, and refused to answer for a 
while, and next she came surging to starboard, mounted 
the reef, and sent a long, angry ridge of water foaming 
away from her bows. 
“ Nov watch her; watch her like a cat, or she’ll get 
away from you. When she fights strong and the tiller 
slips a little, in a jerky, greasy sort of way, let up on 
her a trifle ; it is the way she tells you at night that the 
water is too shoal; but keep edging her up, little by 
little, toward the point. You are well up on the bar 
now; there is a bar under every point, because the 
water that comes down around it forms an eddy and 
allows the sed’ment to sink. Do you see those fine 
lines on the face of the water that branch out like the 
ribs of a fan? Well, those are little reefs; you want to 
just miss the ends of them, but run them pretty close. 
Now look out — look out! Don’t you crowd that 
slick, greasy-looking place; there ain’t nine feet there; 
she won’t stand it. She begins to smell it; look sharp* 
I tell you ! Oh, blazes, there you go ! Stop the star- 
board wheel ! Quick ! Ship up to back ! Set her 
back ! ” 
The engine bells jingled and the engines answered 
promptly, shooting white columns of steam far aloft 
out of the ’scape-pipes, but it was too late. The boat 
had “ smelt ” the bar in good earnest; the foamy ridges 
that radiated from her bows suddenly disappeared, a 
great dead swell came rolling forward, and swept ahead 
of her, she careened far over to larboard, and went 
tearing away toward the shore as if she were about 
scared to death. We were a good mile from where we 
ought to have been when we finally got the upper hand 
of her again. 
During the afternoon watch the next day, Mr. Bixby 
asked me if I knew how to run the next few miles. I 
said : 
“ Go inside the first snag above the point; outside 
the next one, start out from the lower end of Higgins’s 
woodyard, make a square crossing, and — ” 
“ That’s all right. I’ll be back before you close up 
on the next point.” 
But he wasn’t. He was still below when I rounded 
it and entered upon a piece of the river which I had 
some misgivings about. I did not know that he was 
hiding behind a chimney to see how I would perform. 
I went gayly along, getting prouder and prouder, for 
he had never left the boat in my sole charge such a 
length of time before. I even got to “ setting ” her and 
letting the wheel go entirely, while I vaingloriously 
turned my back and inspected the stem marks and 
hummed a tune, a sort of easy indifference which I had 
prodigiously admired in Bixby and other great pilots. 
Once I inspected rather long, and when I faced to the 
front again my heart flew into my mouth so suddenfy 
that if I hadn’t clapped my teeth together I should 
have lost it. One of those frightful bluff reefs was 
stretching its deadly length right across our bows ! My 
head was gone in a moment ; I did not know which 
end I stood on ; I gasped and could not get my breath ; 
I spun the wheel down with such rapidity that it wove 
itself together like a spider’s web; the boat answered 
and turned square away from the reef, but the reef fol- 
lowed her ! I fled, but still it followed, still it kept — 
right across my bows ! I never looked to see where I 
was going, I only fled. The awful crash was imminent. 
Why didn’t that villain come? If I commuted the 
crime of ringing a bell I might get thrown overboard. 
But better that than kill the boat. So in blind despera- 
tion, I started such a rattling << shivaree ,, down below 
as never had astounded an engineer in this world before,. 
I fancy. Amidst the frenzy of the bells the engines 
began to back and fill in a curious way, and my reason 
forsook its throne — we were about to crash into the 
woods on the other side of the river. Just then Mr. 
Bixby stepped calmly into view on the hurricane deck. 
My soul went out to him in gratitude. My distress 
vanished ; I would have felt safe on the brink of Niagara 
with Mr. Bixby on the hurricane deck. He blandly 
and sweetly took his toothpick out of his mouth be- 
tween his fingers, as if it were a cigar, — we were just 
in the act of climbing an overhanging big tree, and the 
passengers were scudding astern like rats, — and lifted 
up these commands to me ever so gently : 
'' Stop the starboard ! Stop the larboard! Set her 
back on both ! ” 
The boat hesitated, halted, pressed her nose among 
the boughs a critical instant, then reluctantly began to 
back away t 
“ Stop the larboard ! Come ahead on it ! Stop the 
starboard ! Come ahead on it ! Point her for the 
bar!” 
I sailed away as serenely as a summer’s morning. 
Mr. Bixby came in and said, with mock simplicity: 
“ When you have a hail, my boy, you ought to tap 
the big bell three times before you land, so that the 
engineers can get ready.” 
I blushed under the sarcasm, and said I hadn’t had 
any hail, 
“Ah! Then it was for wood, I suppose. The 
officer of the watch will tell you when he wants to 
wood up.” 
I went on consuming, and said I wasn’t after wood' 
“ Indeed? Why, what could you want over here in 
the bend, then? Did you ever know of a boat follow- 
ing a bend up-stream at this stage of the river? ” 
“ No, sir — and I wasn’t trying to follow it. I was 
getting away from a bluff reef.” 
“No, it wasn’t a bluff reef; there isn’t one within 
three miles of where you were.” 
“ But I saw it. It was as bluff as that one yonder.” 
“Just about. Run over it! ” 
“ Do you give it as an order? ” 
“ Yes. Run over it ! ” 
“ If I don’t, I wish I may die.” 
“All right; I am taking the responsibility.” 
I was just as anxious to kill the boat, now, as I had 
been to save it before. I impressed my orders upon 
my memory, to be used at the inquest, and made a 
straight break for the reef. As it disappeared under 
our bows I held my breath ; but we slid over it like oil. 
“ Now, don’t you see the difference? It wasn’t any- 
thing but a wind reef. The wind does that.” 
“ So I see. But it is exactly like a bluff reef. How 
am I ever going to tell them apart? ” 
“ I can’t tell you. It is an instinct. By and by you 
will just naturally know one from the other, but you 
never will be able to explain why or how you know 
them apart.” 
It turned out to be true. The face of the water, in 
time, became a wonderful book — a book that was a 
dead language to the uneducated passenger, but which 
told its mind to me without reserve, delivering its most 
cherished secrets as clearly as if it uttered them with 
a voice. And it was not a book to be read once and 
thrown aside, for it had a new story to tell every day. 
Throughout the long twelve hundred miles there was 
never a page that was void of interest, never one that 
you could leave unread without loss, never one that you 
would want to skip, thinking you could find higher en- 
joyment in some other thing. There never was so 
wonderful a book written by man; never one whose 
interest was so absorbing, so unflagging, so sparklingly 
renewed with every re-perusal. The passenger who 
could not read it was charmed with a peculiar sort of 
faint dimple on its surface (on the rare occasions when 
he did not overlook it altogether) ; but to the pilot that 
was an italicized passage; indeed, it was more than 
that, it was a legend of the largest capitals, with a string 
of shouting exclamation points at the end of it, for it 
meant that a wreck or a rock was buried there that 
could tear the life out of the strongest vessel that ever 
floated. It is the faintest and simplest expression the 
water ever makes, and the most hideous to a pilot's eye. 
In truth, the passenger who could not read this book 
saw nothing but all manner of pretty pictures in it, 
painted by the sun and shaded by the clouds, whereas 
to the trained eye these were not pictures at all, but the 
grimmest and most dead-earnest of reading matter. 
Now when I had mastered the language of this water, 
and had come to know every trifling feature that bor- 
dered the great river as familiarly as I knew the letters 
of the alphabet, I had made a valuable acquisition. 
But I had lost something, too. I had lost something 
which could never be restored to me while I lived. All 
the grace, the beauty, the poetry, had gone out of the 
majestic river ! I still kept in mind a certain wonderful 
sunset which I witnessed when steamboating was new 
to me. A broad expanse of the river was turned to 
blood ; in the middle distance the red hue brightened 
into gold, through which a solitary log came floating, 
black and conspicuous ; in one place a long, slanting 
mark lay sparkling upon the water ; in another the surface 
was broken by boiling, tumbling rings, that were 
as many-tinted as an opal ; where the ruddy flush was 
faintest, was a smooth spot that was covered with grace- 
ful circles and radiating lines, ever so delicately traced ; 
the shore on our left was densely wooded, and the 
somber shadow that fell from this forest was broken in 
one place by a long, ruffled trail that shone like silver; 
and high above the forest wall a clean-stemmed dead 
tree waved a single leafy bough that glowed like a flame 
in the unobstructed splendor that was flowing from the 
sun. There were graceful curves, reflected images, 
woody heights, soft distances; and over the whole 
scene, far and near, the dissolving lights drifted steadily, 
enriching it every passing moment with new marvels of 
coloring. 
I stood like one bewitched. I drank it in, in a 
speechless rapture. The world was new to me, and I 
had never seen anything like this at home. But as I 
have said, a day came when I began to cease from 
noting the glories and the charms which the moon and 
the sun and the twilight wrought upon the river's face; 
another day came when I ceased altogether to note 
them. Then, if that sunset scene had been repeated, 
I should have looked upon it without rapture, and 
should have commented upon it, inwardly, after this 
fashion: “ This sun means that we are going to have 
wind to-morrow ; that floating log means that the river 
is rising, small thanks to it; that slanting mark on the 
water refers to a bluff reef which is going to kill some- 
body's steamboat one of these nights, if it keeps on 
stretching out like that; those tumbling ‘ boils ' show a 
dissolving bar and a changing channel there ; the lines 
and circles in the slick water over yonder are a warn- 
ing that that troublesome place is shoaling up danger- 
ously ; that silver streak in the shadow of the forest is 
the ‘ break ’ from a new snag, and he has located himself
in the very best place he could have found to fish 
for steamboats ; that tall dead tree, with a single living 
branch, is not going to last long, and then how is a 
body ever going to get through this blind place at night 
without the friendly old landmark? ’’ 
No, the romance and the beauty were all gone from 
the river. All the value any feature of it had for me 
now was the amount of usefulness it could furnish 
toward compassing the safe piloting of a steamboat. 
Since those days, I have pitied doctors from my heart. 
What does the lovely flush in a beauty’s cheek mean 
to a doctor but a “break’’ that ripples above some 
deadly disease ? Are not all her visible charms sown 
thick with what are to him the signs and symbols of 
hidden decay? Does he ever see her beauty at all, or 
doesn’t he simply view her professionally, and comment 
upon her unwholesome condition all to himself? And 
doesn’t he sometimes wonder whether he has gained- 
most or lost most by learning his trade ? 
CHAPTER X. 
COMPLETING MY EDUCATION 
W HOSOEVER has done me the courtesy to read 
my chapters which have preceded this may pos- 
sibly wonder that I deal so minutely with piloting as a 
science. It was the prime purpose of those chapters; 
and I am not quite done yet. I wish to show, in the 
most patient and painstaking way, what a wonderful 
science it is. Ship channels are buoyed and lighted, 
and therefore it is a comparatively easy undertaking to 
learn to run them ; clear water rivers, with gravel bot- 
toms, change their channels very gradually, and there- 
fore one needs to learn them but once ) but piloting be- 
comes another matter when you apply it to vast streams 
like the Mississippi and the Missouri, whose alluvial 
banks cave and change constantly, whose snags are 
always hunting up new quarters, whose sandbars are 
never at rest, whose channels are forever dodging and 
shirking, and whose obstructions must be confronted in 
all nights and all weathers without the aid of a single 
lighthouse or a single buoy; for there is neither light 
nor buoy to be found anywhere in all this three or 
four thousand miles of villainous river.* I feel justified 
in enlarging upon this great science for the reason that 
I feel sure no one has ever yet written a paragraph 
about it who had piloted a steamboat himself, and so 
had a practical knowledge of the subject. If the theme 
was hackneyed, I should be obliged to deal gently with 
the reader ; but since it is wholly new, I have felt at 
liberty to take up a considerable degree of room with 
it. 
 
When I had learned the name and position of every 
visible feature of the river ; when I had so mastered its 
shape that I could shut my eyes and trace it from St. 
Louis to New Orleans ; when I had learned to read the 
face of the water as one would cull the news from the 
morning paper; and finally, when I had trained my 
dull memory to treasure up an endless array of sound- 
ings and crossing-marks, and keep fast hold of them, 
I judged that my education was complete ; so I got to 
tilting my cap to the side of my head, and wearing a 
toothpick in my mouth at the wheel. Mr. Bixby had 
his eye on these airs. One day he said: 
“What is the height of that bank yonder, at 
Burgess’s? ” 
“ How can I tell, sir? It is three-quarters of a mile 
away. ’ ’ 
“ Very poor eye — very poor. Take the glass.” 
I took the glass and presently said : 
“ I can’t tell. I suppose that that bank is about a 
foot and a half high.” 
“ Foot and a half! That’s a six foot bank. How 
high was the bank along here last trip? ” 
“ I don’t know; I never noticed.” 
“You didn’t? Well, you must always do it 
hereafter.” 
“Why?” 
“ Because you’ll have to know a good many things 
that it tells you. For one thing, it tells you the stage- 
of the river — tells you whether there’s more water or 
less in the river along here than there was last trip.” 
“The leads tell me that.” I rather thought I had 
the advantage of him there. 
“ Yes, but suppose the leads lie? The bank would 
tell you so, and then you would stir those leadsmen up 
a bit. There was a ten-foot bank here last trip, and 
there is only a six-foot bank now. What does that 
signify? ” 
"That the river is four feet higher than it was last 
trip.” 
“ Very good. Is the river rising or falling? ” 
“Rising.” 
“No, it ain’t.” 
“ I guess I am right, sir. Yonder is some drift-wood 
floating down the stream.” 
“A rise starts the drift-wood, but then it keeps on 
floating a while after the river is done rising. Now the 
bank will tell you about this. Wait till you come to a 
place where it shelves a little. Now here: do you see 
this narrow belt of fine sediment? That was deposited 
while the water was higher. You see the drift-wood 
begins to strand, too. The bank helps in other ways. 
Do you see that stump on the false point? ” 
“Ay, ay, sir.” 
"Well, the water is just up to the roots of it. You 
must make a note of that.” 
"Why?” 
"Because that means that there’s seven feet in the 
chute of 103.” 
“ But 103 is a long way up the river yet.” 
"That’s where the benefit of the bank comes in. 
There is water enough in 103 now y yet there may not 
be by the time we get there, but the bank will keep us 
posted all along. You don’t run close chutes on a 
falling river, up-stream, and there are precious few of 
them that you are allowed to run at all down-stream. 
'There’s a law of the United States against it. The 
river may be rising by the time we get to 103, and in 
that case we'll run it. We are drawing — how much? " 
“ Six feet aft — six and a half forward." 
“Well, you do seem to know something." 
“ But what I particularly want to know is, if I have 
got to keep up an everlasting measuring of the banks 
of this river, twelve hundred miles, month in and 
month out? " 
“Of course!" 
My emotions were loo deep for words for a while. 
Presently I said: 
“And how about these chutes? Are there many of 
them ? ’ ' 
“ I should say so ! I fancy we shan't run any of the 
river this trip as you've ever seen it run before — so to 
speak. If the river begins to rise again, we’ll go up 
behind bars that you've always seen standing out of the 
river, high and dry, like a roof of a house; we’ll cut 
across low places that you’ve never noticed at all, right 
through the middle of bars that cover three hundred 
acres of river; we’ll creep through cracks where you've 
always thought was solid land; we’ll dart through the 
woods and leave twenty-five miles of river off to one 
side; we’ll see the hind side of every island between 
New Orleans and Cairo." 
“ Then I've got to go to work and learn just as much 
more river as I already know .''
“ Just about twice as much more, as near as you can 
come at it." 
“ Well, one lives to find out. I think I was a fool 
when I went into this business." 
“ Yes, that is true. And you are yet. But you'll 
not be when you've learned it." 
“Ah, I never can learn it! " 
“ I will see that you do 
By and by I ventured again : 
“ Have I got to learn all this thing just as I know the 
rest of the river — shapes and all — and so I can run it 
at night? ” 
“Yes. And you’ve got to have good fair marks 
from one end of the river to the other, that will help 
the bank tell you when there is water enough in each 
of these countless places — like that stump, you know. 
When the river first begins to rise, you can run half a 
dozen of the deepest of them; when it rises a foot 
more you can run another dozen ; the next foot will 
add a couple of dozen, and so on: so you see you 
have to know your banks and marks to a dead moral 
certainty, and never get them mixed; for when you 
start through one of those cracks, there’s no backing 
out again, as there is in the big river; you’ve got to go 
through, or stay there six months if you get caught on 
a falling river. There are about fifty of these cracks 
which you can’t run at all except when the river is 
