they put in the lives of others when they share 
their pleasures I think the whole world would 



go at it. It would be giving and receiving all 
round the wide earth." 

Are we thankful enough for happiness, I won- 
der? For that is something a little apart from 
life, one of the things not surely promised, like 
the peace of God. Should there not be a special 
thanksgiving for every blessed day, for the breath 
of fragrance, the -pleasantness of sunshine, and 
the subtle essence of delight that wafts itself 
across our sky tender human love? 



 




CHAPTER XVI. 

STEPHEN DUNCAN had taken the boys 
West, and would be gone a month or 
more. They had grown so much, Mrs. 
Whitcomb said, and were almost men. 
"Which do you like best?' asked Fan. 
" I think Louis will make the nobler char- 
acter. Stuart would rather take life just as it 
is, picking out the best for himself, to be 
sure, and not minding much what scraps fall to 
other people. He may feed the hungry after he 
is satisfied, he never will before." 
"Everybody likes him;' I replied. 
" Yes. He is fascinating." 
" And you don't need real virtues to be fascinated
with," I said rather blunderingly, the 
thought being more than the sentence. 

"No, only outside pleasantnesses. That is, 
they answer. Sometimes when you are down 



 

deep in the heart of things, you cannot take 
quite so much pains with the finishing. Not 
but what I consider finishing a great deal. 
Clean paths beautify a garden so much, but I 
have seen people just hoe off the tops and sprin- 
kle gravel or sand over them. The weeds spring 
up after a rain." 

" Has not Louis the outside and inside faults 
as well?' asked Fan. 

" Yes. Only his weeds are seldom covered 
up. Some folks never can cover up anything. 
He cannot be good outside until he has killed 
the weeds inside. Stuart may be fair all his 
life without any fighting.' 

He is good-tempered;' I subjoined. 

He has a pleasant, sunny temper, perfect 
health, and no nerves to speak of. It is no 
effort for him to be jolly. He is gentlemanly 
by instinct, he likes to be in the centre, shoot- 
ing rays in every direction. Is it wonderful if 
somebody comes within their radius ? The some- 
body may think this particular brightness is 
meant for him, but in an instant Stuart may 
wheel round and leave this very person in the 
dark." 

" I am glad you have some hope of Louis ; ' 
I said. 



She seemed to study Fan, the great column 
of westeria and me, all at the same moment. 

" There are some special providences in this 
world, I .do believe," she began. "Mr Dun- 
can's coming here was one, and your taking the 
boys another." 

" Which we should not have done if we had 
not been very poor," said Fan with an odd 
pucker in her face. 

" Well, we will give poverty the credit. Mr. 
Duncan's visit here taught him some new ideas 
of duty. Not but what he would have been a just, 
even a kind brother in any event. But rela- 
tionship counts for so little now-a-days. Very 
few people expect to be their brothers' keepers. 
They are willing to do grand things for others, 
for the heathen, for some great accident that 
stirs up the sympathy ot the whole world, but 
the common every clay dutie's are tiresome." 

" They are," said Fan. " It may be hetero- 
dox, but it is true all the same." 

" That is just it," and Mrs. Whitcomb gave 
her sweet, tender smile that was worth a week 
of June sunshine. " God knew how tiresome 
they would be, or he would not have given 
such continual lessons of patience and love, of 
working and waiting. Think of the mustard 
seed and the corn, and the candle ; the piece of 
money and the one lost sheep. It is nearly all 
little things. And when lie saith 'If a man 
love not his brother whom he hath seen, how 
can he love God whom he hath not seen.' It 
is the home love that is going to save the world. 
Stephen saw it here, and it roused his dormant 
affection." 

"You see it would not do for us to quarrel,' 
said Fan drolly. "We are packed in like peas 
in a pod, or birds in a nest, or bricks in a side- 
walk. There isn't any room." 

" I am glad you have learned that. I think 
too, it is the lesson you are all to teach the 
world." 

"Oh!' exclaimed Fan with a blush of real 
humility. 

" We must be poor and barren indeed, if we 
do not teach something. And the influence last 
summer did a great deal for Louis. It was the be- 
gining of his salvation. It was the begining of 
Stephen's higher life, also. Before that he would 
have saved his brothers for pride's sake, now he 
will endeavor to do it for God's sake, because 
he has been redeemed in the love, as well." 


" It is sermons in everything,*' said Fanny. 

"Mrs. Whitcomb," I began presently, "do 
yon know anything about Lords when he came 
home ? ; Somehow I could- never have asked 
Stephen, much as I wanted to know. 

" It was late in the afternoon, just growing 
dusky. I did not know him when he asked 
for Mr. Duncan, but before I had crossed the 
hall I guessed, so I took him to the library, 
and summoned Stephen from his room up stairs. 
They talked for a long while and then Stephen 
asked that tea might be brought to them. Louis 
lay on the sofa while I spread the little table. 
I could hear the sound of tears in Stephen's 
voice at every word he spoke. At nine, perhaps, 
he took Louis up to the chamber that had been 
prepared for him. When he came down I was 
busy putting the library in order. I just asked 
'Is it all right ? ' and he answered 4 It is the 
beginning of right.' And then he added shall 
I tell you Rose ? 'I think Louis and I will 
owe something of what is best in our lives to 

Rose Endicott ! '" 

"I wish they wouldn't;' I cried in distress. 


" But it is all made up between them ? ' 

" Yes, in a better manner than if the trouble 



had not happened. Out of it all they have 
learned to love each other. Louis has a great, 
shy, morbid, hungry heart, and a most unfortu- 
nate temper." 

'"And we are as poor as church mice, and 
angelic;' said Fan in her gayest mood. "After 
all, the gifts and graces are pretty fairly distrib- 
uted." 

"We went into supper and had other topics of 
conversation. One of the most important was 
sending papa away for a little vacation. "When 
Mr. Churchill heard of that he held up both 
hands, and they were not empty. Papa must 
stay over one Sunday and he would see about a 
clergyman. It was very odd to be without a 
head to our household that length of time. He 


went to Long Island, to Cape May and Phila- 
delphia, bringing Daisy home with him. 

In the meanwhile Fan and I were in the 
midst of a small excitement. Jennie Ryder was 


to be married and wanted us both for brides- 
maids, "that is," she said "I want you, and 
Richard wants Fan. And I don't wish you to 


make a bit of fuss. I am going to be married 
in church at eight in the morning, in white 
organdie, because Richard loves white so much, 

Otherwise I should take my traveling dress. 
We do not intend to send out any invitations, 

and you must be simple, so as not to outshine 
me.' 



"I am glad you have instructed us. We 
might have rushed into some extravagance. May 
we have our white gowns done up fresh, please ? ' 
asked Fan comically. 

Jennie laughed. She was very happy, one 
could see that. A connection had come to stay 
with Mrs. Ryder while Jennie was away, for 
Richard had insisted upon Niagara and the 
Canadas. Afterward they were to move into 
the great house. 

Papa came home on Saturday night, looking 
brown and bright and rested. On Tuesday morii- 
ine Jennie was married. Winthrop came to 

stand with Fan, I think he would not have 
trusted any one else. He was troubled with an 
insane belief that every body wanted Fan, 
" which is iv err y flattering on his part," said Fan, 
"considering that the only other lover I ever 
had has gone off and married some one else, 
never breaking his heart a bit ! 

"Would you have had him, Fanny?' 

"No, little goosie ! And he has the best wife 
that lie could have found in the wide world.'' 
The fact had been noised abroad, and the 
marriage was quite largely attended. It pro- 
voked various comments. I think there were 
some who did envy Jennie Ryder her good 
fortune, and many who rejoiced in it. Still 
there was a feeling that Richard's mother would 

not quite approve. lie had written to her and 
Kate, not giving them time to answer by the 
marriage date. 

I felt my own heart beat as I stood there so 
still and solemn. There was a great awe in 
going out of the old life and putting on the 
new, belonging to yourself one moment, and the 
next having the sense of ownership irrevocably 
taken away. I shivered a little wondering how 
any one could be glad to do it. Some day Fan 
would stand there, and I would feel her gone 
out of my life. 

Then Mrs. Whitcomb had to return to get 
the house in order. Louis expected to enter 
Columbia College. Stephen thought it better on 
account of his health, and the home influence. 
Stewart would be away another year. 

Enclosed in her letter was a note to mamma. 
Would it be agreeable for Louis to spend a 



 

week or ten days with us ? He was very 
anxious so to do. 

" Of course," answered mamma. 

Indeed we were pleased with the opportunity 
of seeing him. Somehow he had become quite 
a hero in our eyes. 

I really do not think I should have known 
him elsewhere. I was up in my room sitting 
on the low window-sill in the breeze, reading a 
magazine. The blinds were tied a little apart, 
bowed, and as I heard the gate click I looked 
down. He was nearly as tall as Stephen, and 
though slender had filled out to a certain manly 
roundness. He nodded to some one, threw back 
his head and laughed, and he was positively 
handsome. His complexion was dark but no 
longer sallow, it had the bronze tint of expos- 
ure and a healthful red in the cheeks. His 
black hair was cropped pretty close, but it 
showed his broad forehead, and there was a 
tiny line of dark moustache that contrasted with 
the fresh scarlet of his lips. 

I ran down. Mamma and Edith were on the 
porch. I do really believe that mamma had 
been kissing him, at all events his face was 
flushed and his eyes had a soft, dewy look. 

" You are the same, you haven't altered a 

bit ! It was so good of you to let me come." 

" Why, we wanted to see you," replied mamma. 

lie was still holding mv hands, and I could 



not help blushing' under his steady gaze. 

" But you have grown and changed out of all 



reason.'' 



" Minnesota did that ! For the first time in 
my life I am not absolutely scrawny ! We had 
such a splendid tour ! Stephen was just royal, 
as much of a boy as either of us. We have 
climbed mountains, camped out, hunted and 
fished and everything ! I did not want to come 
back." 

" I am glad to see you so much improved," 
and mamma glanced him over with a sort of 
motherly pride. 

lie sat down on the step at her feet, and be- 
gan to play with Edith who affected baby shy- 
ness. We did not have him lone;: to ourselves 

though, for Nelly came and in a moment or two 
the children. They were all surprised. 

I watched him as he talked. He was so much 
more fluent and self-possessed. It was not Stuart's 
brightness, but more like Stephen's reliance, and 
a peculiar command of self, an earnestness that 
sat well upon him. 



 

" You cannot think how I wanted to see this 
place once more. How good you were to me 
when I lay sick up-stairs. Miss Rose, do you 
remember getting me some honeysuckle blooms 
one afternoon ? I shall always associate them 
with you. I shall be glad to the latest day of my 
life that Stephen sent me here, though I made 
a desperate fight to go to Lake George with 
some school-fellows." 

"It was fortunate that you did not, for you 
would have been ill in any event," answered 
mamma quietly. 

"Yes. How is everybody? And that Mr. 
Fairlie is married? Does Miss Churchill come 
as she used ? ' 

She was still among our best friends, we told 
him. Fanny was there spending the day. 

Presently papa returned and he was full of 
joy at the improvement. Why, it was almost 
like having a boy of one's very own ! I would 
not have believed that he could be so agreeable 
if I had not seen it, or else I wondered if we 
had not made a mistake last summer. 

There was supper and music after that, and 
Fan's return, and the next day papa invited him 
to go over the river with him, as he had a horse 


and wagon. Consequently I saw nothing of him 
until evening. Mamma asked me to take some 

grapes to a sick parishioner. 

" Allow me to accompany you ; " he said, get- 
ting his hat. 

It was very foolish but I could not help the 
color coming into my face as we walked down 
the path. He had such a grown-up, gentle- 
manly air; he opened the gate and closed it 
ao'ain, and took the outside of the walk and 


glanced at me in a kind of protecting fashion. 

" Do you know that you are very little ? ' he 
began presently. 

"Fully five feet." 

" But then I am getting to be such a great 
fellow ! " 

I looked at him and laughed. 

"What now?' and he colored suddenly.. 

" I was thinking- -of something so absurd! 
Fan used to accuse me of preaching - 

" And very good sermons they were. I may 
want you to preach again." 

" I should be afraid," glancing up at him. 

He laughed then. After a moment or two 
another expression crossed his face, and it grew 
more and more serious. 


"I believe the sermons saved me. There was 
a time when I should have hated to own such 
a thing and from a woman, too; so you may 
know how I have conquered myself." 

" The best of all victories." 

" Looking back at myself I wonder how you 
tolerated me last summer. I was ill and nerv- 
ous to the last degree, but I had a frightful 
temper. I was proud and sullen, and ungrate- 
ful." 

"Not always that." 

" I think I hated almost everybody. I did 
not want to be governed or counseled. And 
Stephen was so rigid and prompt. He treated 
me like a little boy " 

" Oh, hush ! ' I interrupted. 

" Some of it is true. He admits it. And 
when that awful affair happened I expected he 
would disown me. He is so proud, then he 
never did anything bad in all his life. So I felt 
that I had no mercy to expect from him." 

"But you were mistaken," I said eagerly. 

" I couldn't have gone there and in that way 
but for you. Perhaps he has told you " and 
and his eyes questioned mine. 

"No," I answered, glad that we had not dis- 
cussed it. 



"I went to him. I believe it was the first 
manly step of my life. But, oh, I felt so for- 
lorn and miserable I can't tell you! If he 
had been cold and cross I believe I should have 
gone and thrown myself in the river." 

" He was not." 

" Oh, Rose, it was like the story of the prod- 
igal son. c Fell upon his neck and kissed him.' 
I remember his kissing me the day father was 
buried, and I do not believe any one ever did 
since till then. It melted all my soul. Some- 
how I think he is wonderfully changed. His 
goodness is so tender." 

"And you love him?' 

"Love isn't any word. I absolutely adore 
him! I did not think it \vas in me, or in him. 
and all through the weeks that followed, for I 
was very ill and miserable, he was so good. I 
never talked to any one before, except you, 
somehow I could not. But he found his way 
to my heart and said he would help me, that 
we would both try together, for he had many 
faults to correct, that God had given us the tie 
of brotherhood for a high and holy purpose, that 
we were to help and strengthen each other ; as 
if, Rose as if I could do anything for hi^ ! " 



 

" Yes, you can," I replied. " You can keep 
him tender and cordial and brotherly." 

" So he said. We did not come to this all at 
once, and Mrs. Whitcomb's cheerfulness helped. 
I had to try hard to be patient. I was so used 
to flying out at everything. You see, at uncle's 
they all knew that I had a bad temper, they 
expected me to explode or sulk on the slightest 
provocation, and only laughed or tormented me. 
If I had been taught to control myself, it would 
never have been so dreadful." 

"It is good to have the lesson learned now." 

" I never can forget it, never ! I am not an 
angel yet, Rose, cherubim or seraphim, I sup- 
pose Miss Fanny would say ; ' and he smiled 
oddly, " but I am trying. I do not disdain the 
helps as I used to. I do not feel that patience 
and self-control are exclusively girlish virtues." 

"No," I returned, "we girls will not rob you 
of them." 

" You are generous. But then you always 
were. I am beginning to learn that the grand 
corner-stones for the human 'soul are truth and 
love, the truth that leads us to be fair and just 
to others, and the love to our neighbor." 

" Here we are," I said. " Do you want to 
come in?' 



He followed me and we did our errand. 

" I could not understand last summer why 
you loved to do these things;' he began when 
we were homeward-bound. 

" You considered it an evidence of a depraved 
taste?" 

He smiled rather sadly. 


" I supposed people consulted their own pleas- 
ure first. Doinc: any rather distasteful deed and 


hunting around until you found a bright side to 


it was like so much Sanscrit to me." 

"He came not to please Himself;' I said 

solemnly. 

" I understand a little now. Yet when He 

had redeemed the world there must have been 

a great joy in His own mind, as well as in 

heaven." 

" "We cannot do anything like that'' I said. 

" But as He loved us, so we are to love the 
brethren, the whole world." 

" To be willing to do for them. To seek not 
our own pleasure altogether. It is very hard, 
Rose, and sometimes I get discouraged. Then 
Stephen tells me of his failures. It doesn't go 
on continually. It is a little dointr all the time, 


work and healing, and he says it will have to 
be BO in this world.' 

" Yes," I answered. " We cannot hinder noi 
change. God sets the work before us, and 


though tlie pleasant fields are all about us, we 
have no right to choose our own paths. He 
knows best in what ways He wants us to walk." 


" I talked to your father yesterday. I did not 
think I could talk to anybody but you and Stephen. 



I was sorry for all the pain and anxiety I had 
caused him and it was almost like haying a 
father of one's own. I don't wonder that you 
all have such sweet pleasant natures." 

We met Lily and Tim taking a walk, their 


hands full of grasses and wild flowers, so we 

turned them about and all went home together. 

The visit proved a very delightful one. We 

went to the Cascade one day, taking a lunch 


with us, and on another day the Churchills sent 
their family carriage over and we had a royal 
time, crowding it full, and taking turns in driving. 
We all noticed the great change in Louis. 
Not that he was perfect or saintly. In. fact I 
think he was more of a boy, when it came to 



that, than the summer before. He still had a 
dangerous tendency to quickness of temper, 
sometimes he would flush deeply when annoyed, 
but he always spoke afterward in a low, even 




tone of voice, as if he had gained the mastery 
within. His feelings were more healthy-toned, 



he had a heartsomeness that was genuine. You 
never mistrusted it as you did Stuart's. 


We ended the festivities with a croquet and 
tea-party on Saturday afternoon, asking in a half 
dozen young people who all enjoyed themselves 
amazingly. To the surprise of everybody, right 
in the midst of the gayety who should drop 


down upon us but Stephan Duncan. 

"I was homesick to see you all," he began, 
with a comically lugubrious face. 



"If you think you are going to be purely 
ornamental you are much mistaken ; ' declared 
Fanny. " Here is a mallet and here is a place." 

"If you will excuse me '' 



" But I will not. No running away to the 
study to talk with papa, or to play with Edith. 
If you will come uninvited to a party you must 
take the consequences. 

"Can I not soften your heart, if like the old 
man I should 'sit on the stile and continue to 

smile ? ' " 

"Not any smiles. I am obdurate." 
He pretended to be much aggrieved, but in 

reality lie was very gay. I had never seen him 
so amusing and entertaining. 



 

"I don't see how you get acquainted with 
such loads of nice people ; ' said Allie West. 
"And you always have such good times here." 

The good times came without any trying 
There are numberless gates called Beautiful all 
along life, at which you give such as you have, 
and find it more precious than silver or gold. 

It was a lovely moon-light night, so after sup- 
per we walked part of the way with the merry 
crowd. It did not seem to me that I had ever 
been so happy in my life. I could not tell why but 
I felt as if I must have wings somewhere that 
were lifting me off the ground at every step. 

We rambled around under the trees and by 
the way side. Louis came back to my vicinity 
and we fell into a rather grave talk about the 
future. 

"I never thought I should want to stay here 
so much," he said. "I was glad enough to get 
away last summer. I cannot forgive myself for 
being such a boor ! Now I shall want to come 
again and again." 

"Well why not?" I returned. 
"I am afraid you will become tired of me." 
" Try us and see. We are not easily wearied.'' 
"You are all so generous with yourselves." 
I smiled a little. "Why not jnve of your 


best?" 

" True." Then there was a silence. We 
reached the gate presently. " Do not go in just 
yet ; ' he pleaded, so we remained in the silvery 
light that was flooding the whole earth. Moon- 
light always stirs the tender and thoughtful side- 
. of one's soul. 

" I am glad that to-morrow will be Sunday. I 
can just think how I shall enjoy going to church 
and hearing your father preach." 

This from him who had despised religion and 
sneered at sermons. It did startle me. 

" And to have Stephen here." 

I am rejoiced that you feel so kindly toward 
one another," I replied. " You are getting to be 
brothers indeed." 

" And then will come weeks and weeks of 
study," he went on in a musing tone. " I like 
it. Books seem to me well, better than some 
people. Only if you could all come down in 
the winter. Stephen and Mrs. Whitcomb were 
planning for it, but there ! it was a secret and 
I have betrayed it." 

"I can keep secrets;' and I smiled up into 
his remorseful face. 

 

"Yes; I have proved that. Rose" after a 
pause- -"I have half a mind to tell you another, 
to ask some - - advice ; at least, I would like to 
know how it appears to you." 

" Will it be of any real avail ? ' I asked, 
noting the perplexed lines on his countenance. 
" I am not as wise as you think. Because I 
just happened to stumble into one matter with- 
out making a mess of it 

" This is only an idea. I cannot ask Stephen. 
I think it would please him and he might judge 
wrongfully." 

" If I can help you ; ' I replied encouragingly. 

"It is about the future. It may never come 
to anything to be sure, and perhaps I never can 
be good enough. Stuart will go into business. 
He does not love study and he needs an active 
life. He wanted Stephen to put him in a store 
this Autumn. But I- 

I knew then what he meant. Somehow I 
could not help laying my hand on his arm with 
a touch of confidence. 

" Whether I ever could so govern my temper 
and my impatient desires ; ' bowing his head 
humbly. " But if I had some guard about me, 
if I felt that I must try continually would it 
be wrong to think of it ? ' 



 

" Surely not ; ' I returned warmly. " Nor to 
do it if God gives the strength and the grace.'
" I like to think of that grand, earnest Saint 
Paul, with his 4 thorn in the flesh.' Perhaps it 
was some giant temper or desire. I fancy it 
must have been, for you know how he persecuted 
the Christians unto de,ath. And though God 
would not take it away, there was the promise 
of His grace being sufficient." 

" As it is, always." 

" There are some years to live before I decide 
positively. But if they were spent in a worthy 
manner, and I mean them to be, with God's 
help." 

" Oh, you could, surely. And papa would be 
your best friend ; ' I rejoined eagerly. 

"Keep my secret I have your promise," he 
said in a hurried manner, for a step sounded on 
the walk. 

"It is sacred to me until you wish to take 
others into your confidence." 

Stephen spoke and we turned, walking slowly 
up to the house. Louis sat down on the step 
beside papa. I stood undecided whether to be
in or not, \vlien Stephen took my arm and divw 
me around the corner of the porch. There was 



 

a long grape arbor whose gloom was made a 
pleasant twilight by the silver sifted through 
the openings between the leaves, and we took a 
turn up and down. 

" I want to tell you," he began almost abruptly, 
and his voice had a hard, strained sound, "that 
I heard- -the last of what you said. I could 
not help it. And I know your secret." 

I was a trifle annoyed, but I controlled my- 
self. 

"Oh," I said, "then you will be tender and 
helpful and do all in your power to strengthen 
Louis. He feels so humble. I would hardly have 
thought it of him. And there are so few young 
men who have any desire to take such a life 
upon them. With his means and his talents he 
can do so much good." 

He stopped suddenly. " Rose, what are you 
talking about?" he asked. "Did not Louis " 

"He confessed to me his desire- -110, it was 
hardly that, as he is afraid he can never be good 
enough for a clergyman. But you will assist 
hun you do not disapprove of it? ! 

" Louis ! Ah, I understand. It would be the 
delight of my heart. But I thought- -I knew 
he liked you so much. Oh, my little darling ! ' 



 

He turned and gathered me in his arms. My 
heart beat and my cheeks were in a blaze as 
the whole story came to me, dazing me with its 
strange, sweet suddenness. I believe I cried and 
then I laughed hysterically, but somehow the 
cool, steady voice quieted me and made me feel 
the truth and earnestness of what he was say- 
ing, so presently I grew still with a great awe. 

" You will come," he was saving. " We both 

need you. We want just this steady, cheerful, 
loving influence. I think I have a tendency to 
be impatient when people cannot see my ways, 
perhaps requiring a little too much, and your 
sweetness w r ill temper this. Then we can both 
help him." 

Could I? How strange that any one should 
care for me alone. Not for mamma, or Fanny, 
but to want me! 

"Mr. Duncan," I began as we were going 
back to the porch "have you forgotten that 
my hair is - - red ? ' 

"Well, what of that?' in a gay tone. 

"I do not believe you- -like it." 

" You foolish little girl, set your heart at rest. 
Do you remember when I came upon you sud- 
denly last summer? You were standing on 

the porch in a tiny glint of sun-shine, and looked 
like some of the old pictures ! Why, I believe 
it was jour hair that I fell in love with first 
of all." 

"I am glad it was, for I am not half as good 
as you imagine I am." 

" Children," mamma said, standing on the 
porch step. "Do you realize How late it is?' 

I ' felt that she knew all, perhaps had known 
it long before, indeed. But I was glad that the 
knowledge had come to me so suddenly, and 
not any sooner. Even now I was half afraid of 
it. Her kiss and tender clasp re-assured me. 

" Mother ! ' Stephen Duncan said with reverent 
sweetness. 




CHAPTER XVII. 

WISHED there could be no such thing 
as breakfast the next morning, but there 
was, and I had to go through with it, 
feeling that I was no longer I, that Rosalind 
Endicott was some dream-girl of the past. 
Stephen was very good and did not notice me 
much, and l^an appeared wonderfully pre-occu- 
pied. Mamma helped me over the trying places, 
and papa just said with his tender morning kiss, 
"And this little girl, too." 

When I was all dressed for church I opened 
a little drawer to get my gloves. There lay the 
box containing Stephen's gift. I had never worn 
it, but it seemed to me as if I ought to put it 
on no\v. He liked me and the misunderstand- 
ings were at an end. I had accepted a share of 
his burthens, his crosses, whatever they might 
be, so I clasped it around my neck. It was so 

beautiful. I did not envy the queen her diadem. 

We walked to church together. Louis glanced 
back now and then. I believe he began to sus- 
pect. 

It was quite different from the Sunday when 
I had gone to church with that strange sense of 
Fan's new love. I felt quiet and restful, yet it 
was such a great thing to have another's heart 
in one's keeping, to take in a new life beside 
the old. 

They botli left us on Monday. Stephen was 
to come up soon again. In the meanwhile, let- 
ters. 

" I have one of yours to begin with," he 
whispered. 

It was a silent day for us. No one appeared 
to care about talking, yet we were not gloomy. 
Indeed, I think mother, Fan and I understood 
as we never had before, how much we loved 
one another. 

I went on wearing my cross. In the first 
letter there came a pearl ring for me. Fan had 
a handsome diamond but she seldom wore it ex- 
cept when she was going to the Churchills. I 
slipped mine on my finger with a slight present- 
iment that I should turn the pearl inside if any 
one looked at me. 



 

