and ran several miles inland to a swamp, round the head of which we must
go. Opposite was the village of Hogamah. I had my suspicions from the
beginning about this name, and now asked the driver, who was liberally
educated for a driver, how he spelled “Hogamah.”
“Why-ko-ko-magh. Hogamah.”
Sometimes it is called Wykogamah. Thus the innocent traveler is misled.
Along the Whykokomagh Bay we come to a permanent encampment of the
Micmac Indians,--a dozen wigwams in the pine woods. Though lumber is
plenty, they refuse to live in houses. The wigwams, however, are
more picturesque than the square frame houses of the whites. Built up
conically of poles, with a hole in the top for the smoke to escape, and
often set up a little from the ground on a timber foundation, they are
as pleasing to the eye as a Chinese or Turkish dwelling. They may be
cold in winter, but blessed be the tenacity of barbarism, which retains
this agreeable architecture. The men live by hunting in the season,
and the women support the family by making moccasins and baskets. These
Indians are most of them good Catholics, and they try to go once a year
to mass and a sort of religious festival held at St. Peter’s, where
their sins are forgiven in a yearly lump.
At Whykokomagh, a neat fishing village of white houses, we stopped for
dinner at the Inverness House. The house was very clean, and the tidy
landlady gave us as good a dinner as she could of the inevitable green
tea, toast, and salt fish. She was Gaelic, but Protestant, as the
village is, and showed us with pride her Gaelic Bible and hymn-book. A
peaceful place, this Whykokomagh; the lapsing waters of Bras d’Or made
a summer music all along the quiet street; the bay lay smiling with its
islands in front, and an amphitheater of hills rose behind. But for the
line of telegraph poles one might have fancied he could have security
and repose here.
We put a fresh pony into the shafts, a beast born with an everlasting
uneasiness in his legs, and an amount of “go” in him which suited his
reckless driver. We no longer stood upon the order of our going; we
went. As we left the village, we passed a rocky hay-field, where the
Gaelic farmer was gathering the scanty yield of grass. A comely Indian
girl was stowing the hay and treading it down on the wagon. The driver
hailed the farmer, and they exchanged Gaelic repartee which set all the
hay-makers in a roar, and caused the Indian maid to darkly and sweetly
beam upon us. We asked the driver what he had said. He had only inquired
what the man would take for the load--as it stood! A joke is a joke down
this way.
I am not about to describe this drive at length, in order that the
reader may skip it; for I know the reader, being of like passion and
fashion with him. From the time we first struck the Bras d’Or for thirty
miles we rode in constant sight of its magnificent water. Now we were
two hundred feet above the water, on the hillside, skirting a point or
following an indentation; and now we were diving into a narrow valley,
crossing a stream, or turning a sharp corner, but always with the Bras
d’Or in view, the afternoon sun shining on it, softening the outlines of
its embracing hills, casting a shadow from its wooded islands. Sometimes
we opened on a broad water plain bounded by the Watchabaktchkt hills,
and again we looked over hill after hill receding into the soft and hazy
blue of the land beyond the great mass of the Bras d’Or. The reader can
compare the view and the ride to the Bay of Naples and the Cornice Road;
we did nothing of the sort; we held on to the seat, prayed that the
harness of the pony might not break, and gave constant expression to
our wonder and delight. For a week we had schooled ourselves to expect
nothing more from this wicked world, but here was an enchanting vision.
The only phenomenon worthy the attention of any inquiring mind, in this
whole record, I will now describe. As we drove along the side of a
hill, and at least two hundred feet above the water, the road suddenly
diverged and took a circuit higher up. The driver said that was to avoid
a sink-hole in the old road,--a great curiosity, which it was worth
while to examine. Beside the old road was a circular hole, which nipped
out a part of the road-bed, some twenty-five feet in diameter, filled
with water almost to the brim, but not running over. The water was dark
in color, and I fancied had a brackish taste. The driver said that a few
weeks before, when he came this way, it was solid ground where this well
now opened, and that a large beech-tree stood there. When he returned
next day, he found this hole full of water, as we saw it, and the large
tree had sunk in it. The size of the hole seemed to be determined by the
reach of the roots of the tree. The tree had so entirely disappeared,
that he could not with a long pole touch its top. Since then the water
had neither subsided nor overflowed. The ground about was compact
gravel. We tried sounding the hole with poles, but could make nothing of
it. The water seemed to have no outlet nor inlet; at least, it did not
rise or fall. Why should the solid hill give way at this place, and
swallow up a tree? and if the water had any connection with the lake,
two hundred feet below and at some distance away, why didn’t the water
run out? Why should the unscientific traveler have a thing of this kind
thrown in his way? The driver did not know.
This phenomenon made us a little suspicious of the foundations of this
island which is already invaded by the jealous ocean, and is anchored to
the continent only by the cable.
The drive became more charming as the sun went down, and we saw the
hills grow purple beyond the Bras d’Or. The road wound around lovely
coves and across low promontories, giving us new beauties at every turn.
Before dark we had crossed the Middle River and the Big Baddeck, on long
wooden bridges, which straggled over sluggish waters and long reaches
of marsh, upon which Mary might have been sent to call the cattle home.
These bridges were shaky and wanted a plank at intervals, but they
are in keeping with the enterprise of the country. As dusk came on,
we crossed the last hill, and were bowling along by the still gleaming
water. Lights began to appear in infrequent farmhouses, and under cover
of the gathering night the houses seemed to be stately mansions; and we
fancied we were on a noble highway, lined with elegant suburban seaside
residences, and about to drive into a town of wealth and a port of great
commerce. We were, nevertheless, anxious about Baddeck. What sort of
haven were we to reach after our heroic (with the reader’s permission)
week of travel? Would the hotel be like that at Plaster Cove? Were our
thirty-six hours of sleepless staging to terminate in a night of misery
and a Sunday of discomfort?
We came into a straggling village; that we could see by the starlight.
But we stopped at the door of a very unhotel-like appearing hotel. It
had in front a flower-garden; it was blazing with welcome lights; it
opened hospitable doors, and we were received by a family who expected
us. The house was a large one, for two guests; and we enjoyed the luxury
of spacious rooms, an abundant supper, and a friendly welcome; and, in
short, found ourselves at home. The proprietor of the Telegraph House
is the superintendent of the land lines of Cape Breton, a Scotchman,
of course; but his wife is a Newfoundland lady. We cannot violate the
sanctity of what seemed like private hospitality by speaking freely of
this lady and the lovely girls, her daughters, whose education has been
so admirably advanced in the excellent school at Baddeck; but we can
confidently advise any American who is going to Newfoundland, to get a
wife there, if he wants one at all. It is the only new article he can
bring from the Provinces that he will not have to pay duty on. And
here is a suggestion to our tariff-mongers for the “protection” of New
England women.
The reader probably cannot appreciate the delicious sense of rest and
of achievement which we enjoyed in this tidy inn, nor share the
anticipations of undisturbed, luxurious sleep, in which we indulged as
we sat upon the upper balcony after supper, and saw the moon rise over
the glistening Bras d’Or and flood with light the islands and headlands
of the beautiful bay. Anchored at some distance from the shore was
a slender coasting vessel. The big red moon happened to come up just
behind it, and the masts and spars and ropes of the vessel came out,
distinctly traced on the golden background, making such a night picture
as I once saw painted of a ship in a fiord of Norway. The scene was
enchanting. And we respected then the heretofore seemingly insane
impulse that had driven us on to Baddeck.
IV
     “He had no ill-will to the Scotch; for, if he had been
     conscious of that, he never would have thrown himself into
     the bosom of their country, and trusted to the protection of
     its remote inhabitants with a fearless confidence.”
      --BOSWELL’S JOHNSON.
Although it was an open and flagrant violation of the Sabbath day as it
is kept in Scotch Baddeck, our kind hosts let us sleep late on Sunday
morning, with no reminder that we were not sleeping the sleep of the
just. It was the charming Maud, a flitting sunbeam of a girl, who waited
to bring us our breakfast, and thereby lost the opportunity of going
to church with the rest of the family,--an act of gracious hospitality
which the tired travelers appreciated.
The travelers were unable, indeed, to awaken into any feeling of
Sabbatical straitness. The morning was delicious,--such a morning as
never visits any place except an island; a bright, sparkling morning,
with the exhilaration of the air softened by the sea. What a day it was
for idleness, for voluptuous rest, after the flight by day and night
from St. John! It was enough, now that the morning was fully opened
and advancing to the splendor of noon, to sit upon the upper balcony,
looking upon the Bras d’Or and the peaceful hills beyond, reposeful and
yet sparkling with the air and color of summer, and inhale the balmy
air. (We greatly need another word to describe good air, properly
heated, besides this overworked “balmy.”) Perhaps it might in some
regions be considered Sabbath-keeping, simply to rest in such a soothing
situation,--rest, and not incessant activity, having been one of the
original designs of the day.
But our travelers were from New England, and they were not willing to
be outdone in the matter of Sunday observances by such an out-of-the-way
and nameless place as Baddeck. They did not set themselves up as
missionaries to these benighted Gaelic people, to teach them by example
that the notion of Sunday which obtained two hundred years ago in
Scotland had been modified, and that the sacredness of it had pretty
much disappeared with the unpleasantness of it. They rather lent
themselves to the humor of the hour, and probably by their demeanor
encouraged the respect for the day on Cape Breton Island. Neither by
birth nor education were the travelers fishermen on Sunday, and they
were not moved to tempt the authorities to lock them up for dropping
here a line and there a line on the Lord’s day.
In fact, before I had finished my second cup of Maud-mixed coffee, my
companion, with a little show of haste, had gone in search of the kirk,
and I followed him, with more scrupulousness, as soon as I could without
breaking the day of rest. Although it was Sunday, I could not but notice
that Baddeck was a clean-looking village of white wooden houses, of
perhaps seven or eight hundred inhabitants; that it stretched along
the bay for a mile or more, straggling off into farmhouses at each end,
lying for the most part on the sloping curve of the bay. There were a
few country-looking stores and shops, and on the shore three or four
rather decayed and shaky wharves ran into the water, and a few schooners
lay at anchor near them; and the usual decaying warehouses leaned about
the docks. A peaceful and perhaps a thriving place, but not a bustling
place. As I walked down the road, a sailboat put out from the shore
and slowly disappeared round the island in the direction of the Grand
Narrows. It had a small pleasure party on board. None of them were
drowned that day, and I learned at night that they were Roman Catholics
from Whykokornagh.
The kirk, which stands near the water, and at a distance shows a pretty
wooden spire, is after the pattern of a New England meeting-house. When
I reached it, the house was full and the service had begun. There was
something familiar in the bareness and uncompromising plainness
and ugliness of the interior. The pews had high backs, with narrow,
uncushioned seats. The pulpit was high,--a sort of theological
fortification,--approached by wide, curving flights of stairs on either
side. Those who occupied the near seats to the right and left of the
pulpit had in front of them a blank board partition, and could not
by any possibility see the minister, though they broke their necks
backwards over their high coat-collars. The congregation had a striking
resemblance to a country New England congregation of say twenty years
ago. The clothes they wore had been Sunday clothes for at least that
length of time.
Such clothes have a look of I know not what devout and painful
respectability, that is in keeping with the worldly notion of rigid
Scotch Presbyterianism. One saw with pleasure the fresh and rosy-cheeked
children of this strict generation, but the women of the audience were
not in appearance different from newly arrived and respectable Irish
immigrants. They wore a white cap with long frills over the forehead,
and a black handkerchief thrown over it and hanging down the neck,--a
quaint and not unpleasing disguise.
The house, as I said, was crowded. It is the custom in this region to
go to church,--for whole families to go, even the smallest children;
and they not unfrequently walk six or seven miles to attend the service.
There is a kind of merit in this act that makes up for the lack of
certain other Christian virtues that are practiced elsewhere. The
service was worth coming seven miles to participate in!--it was about
two hours long, and one might well feel as if he had performed a work
of long-suffering to sit through it. The singing was strictly
congregational. Congregational singing is good (for those who like it)
when the congregation can sing. This congregation could not sing, but it
could grind the Psalms of David powerfully. They sing nothing else but
the old Scotch version of the Psalms, in a patient and faithful long
meter. And this is regarded, and with considerable plausibility, as an
act of worship. It certainly has small element of pleasure in it.
Here is a stanza from Psalm xlv., which the congregation, without any
instrumental nonsense, went through in a dragging, drawling manner, and
with perfect individual independence as to time:
“Thine arrows sharply pierce the heart of th’ enemies of the king, And
under thy sub-jec-shi-on the people down do bring.”
The sermon was extempore, and in English with Scotch pronunciation; and
it filled a solid hour of time. I am not a good judge of sermons, and
this one was mere chips to me; but my companion, who knows a sermon
when he hears it, said that this was strictly theological, and Scotch
theology at that, and not at all expository. It was doubtless my fault
that I got no idea whatever from it. But the adults of the congregation
appeared to be perfectly satisfied with it; at least they sat bolt
upright and nodded assent continually. The children all went to sleep
under it, without any hypocritical show of attention. To be sure, the
day was warm and the house was unventilated. If the windows had been
opened so as to admit the fresh air from the Bras d’Or, I presume
the hard-working farmers and their wives would have resented such an
interference with their ordained Sunday naps, and the preacher’s sermon
would have seemed more musty than it appeared to be in that congenial
and drowsy air. Considering that only half of the congregation could
understand the preacher, its behavior was exemplary.
After the sermon, a collection was taken up for the minister; and I
noticed that nothing but pennies rattled into the boxes,--a melancholy
sound for the pastor. This might appear niggardly on the part of these
Scotch Presbyterians, but it is on principle that they put only a penny
into the box; they say that they want a free gospel, and so far as they
are concerned they have it. Although the farmers about the Bras d’Or are
well-to-do they do not give their minister enough to keep his soul in
his Gaelic body, and his poor support is eked out by the contributions
of a missionary society. It was gratifying to learn that this was
not from stinginess on the part of the people, but was due to their
religious principle. It seemed to us that everybody ought to be good in
a country where it costs next to nothing.
When the service was over, about half of the people departed; the
rest remained in their seats and prepared to enter upon their Sabbath
exercises. These latter were all Gaelic people, who had understood
little or nothing of the English service. The minister turned himself
at once into a Gaelic preacher and repeated in that language the long
exercises of the morning. The sermon and perhaps the prayers were
quite as enjoyable in Gaelic as in English, and the singing was a great
improvement. It was of the same Psalms, but the congregation chanted
them in a wild and weird tone and manner, as wailing and barbarous to
modern ears as any Highland devotional outburst of two centuries ago.
This service also lasted about two hours; and as soon as it was over
the faithful minister, without any rest or refreshment, organized the
Sunday-school, and it must have been half past three o’clock before that
was over. And this is considered a day of rest.
These Gaelic Christians, we were informed, are of a very old pattern;
and some of them cling more closely to religious observances than to
morality. Sunday is nowhere observed with more strictness. The community
seems to be a very orderly and thrifty one, except upon solemn and
stated occasions. One of these occasions is the celebration of
the Lord’s Supper; and in this the ancient Highland traditions are
preserved. The rite is celebrated not oftener than once a year by
any church. It then invites the neighboring churches to partake with
it,--the celebration being usually in the summer and early fall months.
It has some of the characteristics of a “camp-meeting.” People come from
long distances, and as many as two thousand and three thousand assemble
together. They quarter themselves without special invitation upon the
members of the inviting church. Sometimes fifty people will pounce upon
one farmer, overflowing his house and his barn and swarming all about
his premises, consuming all the provisions he has laid up for his
family, and all he can raise money to buy, and literally eating him out
of house and home. Not seldom a man is almost ruined by one of these
religious raids,--at least he is left with a debt of hundreds of
dollars. The multitude assembles on Thursday and remains over Sunday.
There is preaching every day, but there is something besides. Whatever
may be the devotion of a part of the assembly, the four days are,
in general, days of license, of carousing, of drinking, and of other
excesses, which our informant said he would not particularize; we
could understand what they were by reading St. Paul’s rebuke of the
Corinthians for similar offenses. The evil has become so great and
burdensome that the celebration of this sacred rite will have to be
reformed altogether.
Such a Sabbath quiet pervaded the street of Baddeck, that the fast
driving of the Gaels in their rattling, one-horse wagons, crowded
full of men, women, and children,--released from their long sanctuary
privileges, and going home,--was a sort of profanation of the day; and
we gladly turned aside to visit the rural jail of the town.
Upon the principal street or road of Baddeck stands the dreadful
prison-house. It is a story and a quarter edifice, built of stone and
substantially whitewashed; retired a little from the road, with a square
of green turf in front of it, I should have taken it for the residence
of the Dairyman’s Daughter, but for the iron gratings at the lower
windows. A more inviting place to spend the summer in, a vicious person
could not have. The Scotch keeper of it is an old, garrulous, obliging
man, and keeps codfish tackle to loan. I think that if he had a prisoner
who was fond of fishing, he would take him with him on the bay in
pursuit of the mackerel and the cod. If the prisoner were to take
advantage of his freedom and attempt to escape, the jailer’s feelings
would be hurt, and public opinion would hardly approve the prisoner’s
conduct.
The jail door was hospitably open, and the keeper invited us to enter.
Having seen the inside of a good many prisons in our own country
(officially), we were interested in inspecting this. It was a favorable
time for doing so, for there happened to be a man confined there,
a circumstance which seemed to increase the keeper’s feeling of
responsibility in his office. The edifice had four rooms on the
ground-floor, and an attic sleeping-room above. Three of these rooms,
which were perhaps twelve feet by fifteen feet, were cells; the third
was occupied by the jailer’s family. The family were now also occupying
the front cell,--a cheerful room commanding a view of the village
street and of the bay. A prisoner of a philosophic turn of mind, who
had committed some crime of sufficient magnitude to make him willing to
retire from the world for a season and rest, might enjoy himself here
very well.
The jailer exhibited his premises with an air of modesty. In the rear
was a small yard, surrounded by a board fence, in which the prisoner
took his exercise. An active boy could climb over it, and an
enterprising pig could go through it almost anywhere. The keeper said
that he intended at the next court to ask the commissioners to build
the fence higher and stop up the holes. Otherwise the jail was in good
condition. Its inmates were few; in fact, it was rather apt to be empty:
its occupants were usually prisoners for debt, or for some trifling
breach of the peace, committed under the influence of the liquor that
makes one “unco happy.” Whether or not the people of the region have
a high moral standard, crime is almost unknown; the jail itself is an
evidence of primeval simplicity. The great incident in the old jailer’s
life had been the rescue of a well-known citizen who was confined on a
charge of misuse of public money. The keeper showed me a place in the
outer wall of the front cell, where an attempt had been made to batter
a hole through. The Highland clan and kinsfolk of the alleged defaulter
came one night and threatened to knock the jail in pieces if he was not
given up. They bruised the wall, broke the windows, and finally smashed
in the door and took their man away. The jailer was greatly excited at
this rudeness, and went almost immediately and purchased a pistol. He
said that for a time he did n’t feel safe in the jail without it. The
mob had thrown stones at the upper windows, in order to awaken him, and
had insulted him with cursing and offensive language.
Having finished inspecting the building, I was unfortunately moved by I
know not what national pride and knowledge of institutions superior to
this at home, to say,
“This is a pleasant jail, but it doesn’t look much like our great
prisons; we have as many as a thousand to twelve hundred men in some of
our institutions.”
“Ay, ay, I have heard tell,” said the jailer, shaking his head in pity,
“it’s an awfu’ place, an awfu’ place,--the United States. I suppose it’s
the wickedest country that ever was in the world. I don’t know,--I don’t
know what is to become of it. It’s worse than Sodom. There was that
dreadful war on the South; and I hear now it’s very unsafe, full of
murders and robberies and corruption.”
I did not attempt to correct this impression concerning my native land,
for I saw it was a comfort to the simple jailer, but I tried to put a
thorn into him by saying,
“Yes, we have a good many criminals, but the majority of them, the
majority of those in jails, are foreigners; they come from Ireland,
England, and the Provinces.”
But the old man only shook his head more solemnly, and persisted, “It’s
an awfu’ wicked country.”
Before I came away I was permitted to have an interview with the
sole prisoner, a very pleasant and talkative man, who was glad to see
company, especially intelligent company who understood about things, he
was pleased to say. I have seldom met a more agreeable rogue, or one so
philosophical, a man of travel and varied experiences. He was a lively,
robust Provincial of middle age, bullet-headed, with a mass of curly
black hair, and small, round black eyes, that danced and sparkled with
good humor. He was by trade a carpenter, and had a work-bench in his
cell, at which he worked on week-days. He had been put in jail on
suspicion of stealing a buffalo-robe, and he lay in jail eight months,
waiting for the judge to come to Baddeck on his yearly circuit. He did
not steal the robe, as he assured me, but it was found in his house, and
the judge gave him four months in jail, making a year in all,--a month
of which was still to serve. But he was not at all anxious for the end
of his term; for his wife was outside.
Jock, for he was familiarly so called, asked me where I was from. As I
had not found it very profitable to hail from the United States, and had
found, in fact, that the name United States did not convey any definite
impression to the average Cape Breton mind, I ventured upon the bold
assertion, for which I hope Bostonians will forgive me, that I was from
Boston. For Boston is known in the eastern Provinces.
“Are you?” cried the man, delighted. “I’ve lived in Boston, myself.
There’s just been an awful fire near there.”
“Indeed!” I said; “I heard nothing of it.’ And I was startled with the
possibility that Boston had burned up again while we were crawling along
through Nova Scotia.
“Yes, here it is, in the last paper.” The man bustled away and found his
late paper, and thrust it through the grating, with the inquiry, “Can
you read?”
Though the question was unexpected, and I had never thought before
whether I could read or not, I confessed that I could probably make
out the meaning, and took the newspaper. The report of the fire “near
Boston” turned out to be the old news of the conflagration in Portland,
Oregon!
Disposed to devote a portion of this Sunday to the reformation of this
lively criminal, I continued the conversation with him. It seemed that
he had been in jail before, and was not unaccustomed to the life. He was
not often lonesome; he had his workbench and newspapers, and it was a
quiet place; on the whole, he enjoyed it, and should rather regret it
when his time was up, a month from then.
Had he any family?
“Oh, yes. When the census was round, I contributed more to it than
anybody in town. Got a wife and eleven children.”
“Well, don’t you think it would pay best to be honest, and live with
your family, out of jail? You surely never had anything but trouble from
dishonesty.”
“That’s about so, boss. I mean to go on the square after this. But, you
see,” and here he began to speak confidentially, “things are fixed about
so in this world, and a man’s got to live his life. I tell you how
it was. It all came about from a woman. I was a carpenter, had a good
trade, and went down to St. Peter’s to work. There I got acquainted with
a Frenchwoman,--you know what Frenchwomen are,--and I had to marry her.
The fact is, she was rather low family; not so very low, you know, but
not so good as mine. Well, I wanted to go to Boston to work at my trade,
but she wouldn’t go; and I went, but she would n’t come to me, so in two
or three years I came back. A man can’t help himself, you know, when he
gets in with a woman, especially a Frenchwoman. Things did n’t go very
well, and never have. I can’t make much out of it, but I reckon a man ‘s
got to live his life. Ain’t that about so?”
“Perhaps so. But you’d better try to mend matters when you get out.
Won’t it seem rather good to get out and see your wife and family
again?”
“I don’t know. I have peace here.”
The question of his liberty seemed rather to depress this cheerful and
vivacious philosopher, and I wondered what the woman could be from whose
companionship the man chose to be protected by jail-bolts. I asked the
landlord about her, and his reply was descriptive and sufficient. He
only said,
“She’s a yelper.”
Besides the church and the jail there are no public institutions in
Baddeck to see on Sunday, or on any other day; but it has very good
schools, and the examination-papers of Maud and her elder sister would
do credit to Boston scholars even. You would not say that the place
was stuffed with books, or overrun by lecturers, but it is an orderly,
Sabbath-keeping, fairly intelligent town. Book-agents visit it with
other commercial travelers, but the flood of knowledge, which is said
to be the beginning of sorrow, is hardly turned in that direction yet.
I heard of a feeble lecture-course in Halifax, supplied by local
celebrities, some of them from St. John; but so far as I can see, this
is a virgin field for the platform philosophers under whose instructions
we have become the well-informed people we are.
The peaceful jail and the somewhat tiresome church exhaust one’s
opportunities for doing good in Baddeck on Sunday. There seemed to be no
idlers about, to reprove; the occasional lounger on the skeleton wharves
was in his Sunday clothes, and therefore within the statute. No one,
probably, would have thought of rowing out beyond the island to fish for
cod,--although, as that fish is ready to bite, and his associations
are more or less sacred, there might be excuses for angling for him
on Sunday, when it would be wicked to throw a line for another sort of
fish. My earliest recollections are of the codfish on the meeting-house
spires in New England,--his sacred tail pointing the way the wind went.
I did not know then why this emblem should be placed upon a house of
worship, any more than I knew why codfish-balls appeared always upon the
Sunday breakfast-table. But these associations invested this plebeian
fish with something of a religious character, which he has never quite
lost, in my mind.
Having attributed the quiet of Baddeck on Sunday to religion, we did not
know to what to lay the quiet on Monday. But its peacefulness continued.
I have no doubt that the farmers began to farm, and the traders to
trade, and the sailors to sail; but the tourist felt that he had come
into a place of rest. The promise of the red sky the evening before was
fulfilled in another royal day. There was an inspiration in the air that
one looks for rather in the mountains than on the sea-coast; it seemed
like some new and gentle compound of sea-air and land-air, which was the
perfection of breathing material. In this atmosphere, which seemed to
flow over all these Atlantic isles at this season, one endures a great
deal of exertion with little fatigue; or he is content to sit still, and
has no feeling of sluggishness. Mere living is a kind of happiness, and
the easy-going traveler is satisfied with little to do and less to see,
Let the reader not understand that we are recommending him to go to
Baddeck. Far from it. The reader was never yet advised to go to any
place, which he did not growl about if he took the advice and went
there. If he discovers it himself, the case is different. We know too
well what would happen. A shoal of travelers would pour down upon Cape
Breton, taking with them their dyspepsia, their liver-complaints, their
“lights” derangements, their discontent, their guns and fishing-tackle,
their big trunks, their desire for rapid travel, their enthusiasm about
the Gaelic language, their love for nature; and they would very likely
declare that there was nothing in it. And the traveler would probably be
right, so far as he is concerned. There are few whom it would pay to go
a thousand miles for the sake of sitting on the dock at Baddeck when
the sun goes down, and watching the purple lights on the islands and
the distant hills, the red flush in the horizon and on the lake, and the
creeping on of gray twilight. You can see all that as well elsewhere?
I am not so sure. There is a harmony of beauty about the Bras d’Or
at Baddeck which is lacking in many scenes of more pretension. No. We
advise no person to go to Cape Breton. But if any one does go, he need
not lack occupation. If he is there late in the fall or early in the
winter, he may hunt, with good luck, if he is able to hit anything with
a rifle, the moose and the caribou on that long wilderness peninsula
between Baddeck and Aspy Bay, where the old cable landed. He may also
have his fill of salmon fishing in June and July, especially on the
Matjorie River. As late as August, at the time, of our visit, a hundred
people were camped in tents on the Marjorie, wiling the salmon with
the delusive fly, and leading him to death with a hook in his nose. The
speckled trout lives in all the streams, and can be caught whenever he
will bite. The day we went for him appeared to be an off-day, a sort of
holiday with him.
There is one place, however, which the traveler must not fail to visit.
That is St. Ann’s Bay. He will go light of baggage, for he must hire
a farmer to carry him from the Bras d’Or to the branch of St. Ann’s
harbor, and a part of his journey will be in a row-boat. There is no
ride on the continent, of the kind, so full of picturesque beauty and
constant surprises as this around the indentations of St. Ann’s harbor.
From the high promontory where rests the fishing village of St. Ann, the
traveler will cross to English Town. High bluffs, bold shores, exquisite
sea-views, mountainous ranges, delicious air, the society of a member of
the Dominion Parliament, these are some of the things to be enjoyed at
this place. In point of grandeur and beauty it surpasses Mt. Desert, and
is really the most attractive place on the whole line of the Atlantic
Cable. If the traveler has any sentiment in him, he will visit here, not
without emotion, the grave of the Nova Scotia Giant, who recently laid
his huge frame along this, his native shore. A man of gigantic height
and awful breadth of shoulders, with a hand as big as a shovel, there
was nothing mean or little in his soul. While the visitor is gazing at
his vast shoes, which now can be used only as sledges, he will be
told that the Giant was greatly respected by his neighbors as a man of
ability and simple integrity. He was not spoiled by his metropolitan
successes, bringing home from his foreign triumphs the same quiet and
friendly demeanor he took away; he is almost the only example of a
successful public man, who did not feel bigger than he was. He performed
his duty in life without ostentation, and returned to the home he loved
unspoiled by the flattery of constant public curiosity. He knew, having
tried both, how much better it is to be good than to be great. I should
like to have known him. I should like to know how the world looked to
him from his altitude. I should like to know how much food it took at
one time to make an impression on him; I should like to know what effect
an idea of ordinary size had in his capacious head. I should like to
feel that thrill of physical delight he must have experienced in merely
closing his hand over something. It is a pity that he could not have
been educated all through, beginning at a high school, and ending in a
university. There was a field for the multifarious new education! If we
could have annexed him with his island, I should like to have seen him
in the Senate of the United States. He would have made foreign nations
respect that body, and fear his lightest remark like a declaration of
war. And he would have been at home in that body of great men. Alas!
he has passed away, leaving little influence except a good example of
growth, and a grave which is a new promontory on that ragged coast swept
by the winds of the untamed Atlantic.
I could describe the Bay of St. Ann more minutely and graphically, if it
were desirable to do so; but I trust that enough has been said to make
the traveler wish to go there. I more unreservedly urge him to go there,
because we did not go, and we should feel no responsibility for his
liking or disliking. He will go upon the recommendation of two gentlemen
of taste and travel whom we met at Baddeck, residents of Maine and
familiar with most of the odd and striking combinations of land and
water in coast scenery. When a Maine man admits that there is any place
finer than Mt. Desert, it is worth making a note of.
On Monday we went a-fishing. Davie hitched to a rattling wagon something
that he called a horse, a small, rough animal with a great deal of “go”
 in him, if he could be coaxed to show it. For the first half-hour
he went mostly in a circle in front of the inn, moving indifferently
backwards or forwards, perfectly willing to go down the road, but
refusing to start along the bay in the direction of Middle River. Of
course a crowd collected to give advice and make remarks, and women
appeared at the doors and windows of adjacent houses. Davie said he did
n’t care anything about the conduct of the horse,--he could start him
after a while,--but he did n’t like to have all the town looking at
him, especially the girls; and besides, such an exhibition affected the
market value of the horse. We sat in the wagon circling round and round,
sometimes in the ditch and sometimes out of it, and Davie “whaled” the
horse with his whip and abused him with his tongue. It was a pleasant
day, and the spectators increased.
There are two ways of managing a balky horse. My companion knew one of
them and I the other. His method is to sit quietly in the wagon, and at
short intervals throw a small pebble at the horse. The theory is that
these repeated sudden annoyances will operate on a horse’s mind, and he
will try to escape them by going on. The spectators supplied my friend
with stones, and he pelted the horse with measured gentleness. Probably
the horse understood this method, for he did not notice the attack at
all. My plan was to speak gently to the horse, requesting him to go, and
then to follow the refusal by one sudden, sharp cut of the lash; to wait
a moment, and then repeat the operation. The dread of the coming lash
after the gentle word will start any horse. I tried this, and with a
certain success. The horse backed us into the ditch, and would probably
have backed himself into the wagon, if I had continued. When the animal
was at length ready to go, Davie took him by the bridle, ran by his
side, coaxed him into a gallop, and then, leaping in behind, lashed
him into a run, which had little respite for ten miles, uphill or down.
Remonstrance on behalf of the horse was in vain, and it was only on the
return home that this specimen Cape Breton driver began to reflect how
he could erase the welts from the horse’s back before his father saw
them.
Our way lay along the charming bay of the Bras d’Or, over the sprawling
bridge of the Big Baddeck, a black, sedgy, lonesome stream, to Middle
River, which debouches out of a scraggy country into a bayou with ragged
shores, about which the Indians have encampments, and in which are the
skeleton stakes of fish-weirs. Saturday night we had seen trout jumping
in the still water above the bridge. We followed the stream up two or
three miles to a Gaelic settlement of farmers. The river here flows
through lovely meadows, sandy, fertile, and sheltered by hills,--a green
Eden, one of the few peaceful inhabited spots in the world. I could
conceive of no news coming to these Highlanders later than the defeat
of the Pretender. Turning from the road, through a lane and crossing a
shallow brook, we reached the dwelling of one of the original McGregors,
or at least as good as an original. Mr. McGregor is a fiery-haired
Scotchman and brother, cordial and hospitable, who entertained our
wayward horse, and freely advised us where the trout on his farm were
most likely to be found at this season of the year.
It would be a great pleasure to speak well of Mr. McGregor’s residence,
but truth is older than Scotchmen, and the reader looks to us for truth
and not flattery. Though the McGregor seems to have a good farm, his
house is little better than a shanty, a rather cheerless place for the
“woman” to slave away her uneventful life in, and bring up her scantily
clothed and semi-wild flock of children. And yet I suppose there must
be happiness in it,--there always is where there are plenty of children,
and milk enough for them. A white-haired boy who lacked adequate
trousers, small though he was, was brought forward by his mother to
describe a trout he had recently caught, which was nearly as long as
the boy himself. The young Gael’s invention was rewarded by a present of
real fish-hooks. We found here in this rude cabin the hospitality that
exists in all remote regions where travelers are few. Mrs. McGregor
had none of that reluctance, which women feel in all more civilized
agricultural regions, to “break a pan of milk,” and Mr. McGregor even
pressed us to partake freely of that simple drink. And he refused to
take any pay for it, in a sort of surprise that such a simple act of
hospitality should have any commercial value. But travelers themselves
destroy one of their chief pleasures. No doubt we planted the notion
in the McGregor mind that the small kindnesses of life may be made
profitable, by offering to pay for the milk; and probably the next
travelers in that Eden will succeed in leaving some small change there,
if they use a little tact.
It was late in the season for trout. Perhaps the McGregor was aware of
that when he freely gave us the run of the stream in his meadows, and
pointed out the pools where we should be sure of good luck. It was a
charming August day, just the day that trout enjoy lying in cool, deep
places, and moving their fins in quiet content, indifferent to the
skimming fly or to the proffered sport of rod and reel. The Middle
River gracefully winds through this Vale of Tempe, over a sandy bottom,
sometimes sparkling in shallows, and then gently reposing in the broad
bends of the grassy banks. It was in one of these bends, where the
stream swirled around in seductive eddies, that we tried our skill. We
heroically waded the stream and threw our flies from the highest bank;
but neither in the black water nor in the sandy shallows could any trout
be coaxed to spring to the deceitful leaders. We enjoyed the distinction
of being the only persons who had ever failed to strike trout in that
pool, and this was something. The meadows were sweet with the newly cut
grass, the wind softly blew down the river, large white clouds sailed
high overhead and cast shadows on the changing water; but to all these
gentle influences the fish were insensible, and sulked in their cool
retreats. At length in a small brook flowing into the Middle River we
found the trout more sociable; and it is lucky that we did so, for I
should with reluctance stain these pages with a fiction; and yet the
public would have just reason to resent a fish-story without any fish
in it. Under a bank, in a pool crossed by a log and shaded by a tree,
we found a drove of the speckled beauties at home, dozens of them a foot
long, each moving lazily a little, their black backs relieved by their
colored fins. They must have seen us, but at first they showed no desire
for a closer acquaintance. To the red ibis and the white miller and the
brown hackle and the gray fly they were alike indifferent. Perhaps the
love for made flies is an artificial taste and has to be cultivated.
These at any rate were uncivilized-trout, and it was only when we
took the advice of the young McGregor and baited our hooks with the
angleworm, that the fish joined in our day’s sport. They could not
resist the lively wiggle of the worm before their very noses, and we
lifted them out one after an other, gently, and very much as if we were
hooking them out of a barrel, until we had a handsome string. It may
have been fun for them but it was not much sport for us. All the small
ones the young McGregor contemptuously threw back into the water. The
sportsman will perhaps learn from this incident that there are plenty
of trout in Cape Breton in August, but that the fishing is not
exhilarating.
The next morning the semi-weekly steamboat from Sydney came into the
bay, and drew all the male inhabitants of Baddeck down to the wharf;
and the two travelers, reluctant to leave the hospitable inn, and the
peaceful jail, and the double-barreled church, and all the loveliness of
this reposeful place, prepared to depart. The most conspicuous person on
the steamboat was a thin man, whose extraordinary height was made
more striking by his very long-waisted black coat and his very short
pantaloons. He was so tall that he had a little difficulty in keeping
his balance, and his hat was set upon the back of his head to preserve
his equilibrium. He had arrived at that stage when people affected as
he was are oratorical, and overflowing with information and good-nature.
With what might in strict art be called an excess of expletives, he
explained that he was a civil engineer, that he had lost his rubber
coat, that he was a great traveler in the Provinces, and he seemed to
find a humorous satisfaction in reiterating the fact of his familiarity
with Painsec junction. It evidently hovered in the misty horizon of his
mind as a joke, and he contrived to present it to his audience in that
light. From the deck of the steamboat he addressed the town, and then,
to the relief of the passengers, he decided to go ashore. When the boat
drew away on her voyage we left him swaying perilously near the edge
of the wharf, good-naturedly resenting the grasp of his coat-tail by
a friend, addressing us upon the topics of the day, and wishing us
prosperity and the Fourth of July. His was the only effort in the nature
of a public lecture that we heard in the Provinces, and we could not
judge of his ability without hearing a “course.”
Perhaps it needed this slight disturbance, and the contrast of this
hazy mind with the serene clarity of the day, to put us into the most
complete enjoyment of our voyage. Certainly, as we glided out upon the
summer waters and began to get the graceful outlines of the widening
shores, it seemed as if we had taken passage to the Fortunate Islands.
V
     “One town, one country, is very like another;... there are
     indeed minute discriminations both of places and manners,
     which, perhaps, are not wanting of curiosity, but which a
     traveller seldom stays long enough to investigate and
     compare.”--DR. JOHNSON.
There was no prospect of any excitement or of any adventure on the
steamboat from Baddeck to West Bay, the southern point of the Bras d’Or.
Judging from the appearance of the boat, the dinner might have been an
experiment, but we ran no risks. It was enough to sit on deck forward of
the wheel-house, and absorb, by all the senses, the delicious day. With
such weather perpetual and such scenery always present, sin in this
world would soon become an impossibility. Even towards the passengers
from Sydney, with their imitation English ways and little insular
gossip, one could have only charity and the most kindly feeling.
The most electric American, heir of all the nervous diseases of all the
ages, could not but find peace in this scene of tranquil beauty, and
sail on into a great and deepening contentment. Would the voyage could
last for an age, with the same sparkling but tranquil sea, and the same
environment of hills, near and remote! The hills approached and fell
away in lines of undulating grace, draped with a tender color which
helped to carry the imagination beyond the earth. At this point the
narrative needs to flow into verse, but my comrade did not feel like
another attempt at poetry so soon after that on the Gut of Canso. A
man cannot always be keyed up to the pitch of production, though his
emotions may be highly creditable to him. But poetry-making in these
days is a good deal like the use of profane language,--often without the
least provocation.
Twelve miles from Baddeck we passed through the Barra Strait, or the
Grand Narrows, a picturesque feature in the Bras d’Or, and came into its
widest expanse. At the Narrows is a small settlement with a flag-staff
and a hotel, and roads leading to farmhouses on the hills. Here is a
Catholic chapel; and on shore a fat padre was waiting in his wagon
for the inevitable priest we always set ashore at such a place.
The missionary we landed was the young father from Arichat, and in
appearance the pleasing historical Jesuit. Slender is too corpulent a
word to describe his thinness, and his stature was primeval. Enveloped
in a black coat, the skirts of which reached his heels, and surmounted
by a black hat with an enormous brim, he had the form of an elegant
toadstool. The traveler is always grateful for such figures, and is not
disposed to quarrel with the faith which preserves so much of the ugly
picturesque. A peaceful farming country this, but an unremunerative
field, one would say, for the colporteur and the book-agent; and winter
must inclose it in a lonesome seclusion.
The only other thing of note the Bras d’Or offered us before we reached
West Bay was the finest show of medusm or jelly-fish that could be
produced. At first there were dozens of these disk-shaped, transparent
creatures, and then hundreds, starring the water like marguerites
sprinkled on a meadow, and of sizes from that of a teacup to a
dinner-plate. We soon ran into a school of them, a convention, a herd
as extensive as the vast buffalo droves on the plains, a collection as
thick as clover-blossoms in a field in June, miles of them, apparently;
and at length the boat had to push its way through a mass of them which
covered the water like the leaves of the pondlily, and filled the deeps
far down with their beautiful contracting and expanding forms. I did not
suppose there were so many jelly-fishes in all the world. What a repast
they would have made for the Atlantic whale we did not see, and what
inward comfort it would have given him to have swum through them once
or twice with open mouth! Our delight in this wondrous spectacle did
not prevent this generous wish for the gratification of the whale. It
is probably a natural human desire to see big corporations swallow up
little ones.
At the West Bay landing, where there is nothing whatever attractive,
we found a great concourse of country wagons and clamorous drivers, to
transport the passengers over the rough and uninteresting nine miles to
Port Hawkesbury. Competition makes the fare low, but nothing makes the
ride entertaining. The only settlement passed through has the promising
name of River Inhabitants, but we could see little river and less
inhabitants; country and people seem to belong to that commonplace order
out of which the traveler can extract nothing amusing, instructive, or
disagreeable; and it was a great relief when we came over the last hill
and looked down upon the straggling village of Port Hawkesbury and the
winding Gut of Canso.
One cannot but feel a respect for this historical strait, on account
of the protection it once gave our British ancestors. Smollett makes
a certain Captain C----tell this anecdote of George II. and his
enlightened minister, the Duke of Newcastle: “In the beginning of the
war this poor, half-witted creature told me, in a great fright, that
thirty thousand French had marched from Acadie to Cape Breton. ‘Where
did they find transports?’ said I. ‘Transports!’ cried he; ‘I tell you,
they marched by land.’ By land to the island of Cape Breton?’ ‘What! is
Cape Breton an island?’ ‘Certainly.’ ‘Ha! are you sure of that?’ When I
pointed it out on the map, he examined it earnestly with his spectacles;
then taking me in his arms, ‘My dear C----!’ cried he, you always bring
us good news. I’ll go directly and tell the king that Cape Breton is an
island.’”
Port Hawkesbury is not a modern settlement, and its public house is
one of the irregular, old-fashioned, stuffy taverns, with low rooms,
chintz-covered lounges, and fat-cushioned rocking-chairs, the decay and
untidiness of which are not offensive to the traveler. It has a low
back porch looking towards the water and over a mouldy garden, damp and
unseemly. Time was, no doubt, before the rush of travel rubbed off the
bloom of its ancient hospitality and set a vigilant man at the door
of the dining-room to collect pay for meals, that this was an abode of
comfort and the resort of merry-making and frolicsome provincials. On
this now decaying porch no doubt lovers sat in the moonlight, and vowed
by the Gut of Canso to be fond of each other forever. The traveler
cannot help it if he comes upon the traces of such sentiment. There
lingered yet in the house an air of the hospitable old time; the swift
willingness of the waiting-maids at table, who were eager that we should
miss none of the home-made dishes, spoke of it; and as we were not
obliged to stay in the hotel and lodge in its six-by-four bedrooms, we
could afford to make a little romance about its history.
While we were at supper the steamboat arrived from Pictou. We hastened
on board, impatient for progress on our homeward journey. But haste was
not called for. The steamboat would not sail on her return till morning.
No one could tell why. It was not on account of freight to take in or
discharge; it was not in hope of more passengers, for they were all on
board. But if the boat had returned that night to Pictou, some of the
passengers might have left her and gone west by rail, instead of wasting
two, or three days lounging through Northumberland Sound and idling in
the harbors of Prince Edward Island. If the steamboat would leave at
midnight, we could catch the railway train at Pictou. Probably the
officials were aware of this, and they preferred to have our company
to Shediac. We mention this so that the tourist who comes this way may
learn to possess his soul in patience, and know that steamboats are not
run for his accommodation, but to give him repose and to familiarize
him with the country. It is almost impossible to give the unscientific
reader an idea of the slowness of travel by steamboat in these regions.
Let him first fix his mind on the fact that the earth moves through
space at a speed of more than sixty-six thousand miles an hour. This is
a speed eleven hundred times greater than that of the most rapid
express trains. If the distance traversed by a locomotive in an hour is
represented by one tenth of an inch, it would need a line nine feet long
to indicate the corresponding advance of the earth in the same time.
But a tortoise, pursuing his ordinary gait without a wager, moves eleven
hundred times slower than an express train. We have here a basis of
comparison with the provincial steamboats. If we had seen a tortoise
start that night from Port Hawkesbury for the west, we should have
desired to send letters by him.
In the early morning we stole out of the romantic strait, and by
breakfast-time we were over St. George’s Bay and round his cape, and
making for the harbor of Pictou. During the forenoon something in the
nature of an excursion developed itself on the steamboat, but it had so
few of the bustling features of an American excursion that I thought
it might be a pilgrimage. Yet it doubtless was a highly developed
provincial lark. For a certain portion of the passengers had the
unmistakable excursion air: the half-jocular manner towards each
other, the local facetiousness which is so offensive to uninterested
fellow-travelers, that male obsequiousness about ladies’ shawls and
reticules, the clumsy pretense of gallantry with each other’s wives,
the anxiety about the company luggage and the company health. It became
painfully evident presently that it was an excursion, for we heard
singing of that concerted and determined kind that depresses the spirits
of all except those who join in it. The excursion had assembled on the
lee guards out of the wind, and was enjoying itself in an abandon of
serious musical enthusiasm. We feared at first that there might be some
levity in this performance, and that the unrestrained spirit of the
excursion was working itself off in social and convivial songs. But it
was not so. The singers were provided with hymn-and-tune books, and
what they sang they rendered in long meter and with a most doleful
earnestness. It is agreeable to the traveler to see that the provincials
disport themselves within bounds, and that an hilarious spree here does
not differ much in its exercises from a prayer-meeting elsewhere. But
the excursion enjoyed its staid dissipation amazingly.
It is pleasant to sail into the long and broad harbor of Pictou on a
sunny day. On the left is the Halifax railway terminus, and three rivers
flow into the harbor from the south. On the right the town of Pictou,
with its four thousand inhabitants, lies upon the side of the ridge that
runs out towards the Sound. The most conspicuous building in it as we
approach is the Roman Catholic church; advanced to the edge of the town
and occupying the highest ground, it appears large, and its gilt cross
is a beacon miles away. Its builders understood the value of a striking
situation, a dominant position; it is a part of the universal policy of
this church to secure the commanding places for its houses of worship.
We may have had no prejudices in favor of the Papal temporality when we
landed at Pictou, but this church was the only one which impressed us,
and the only one we took the trouble to visit. We had ample time, for
the steamboat after its arduous trip needed rest, and remained some
hours in the harbor. Pictou is said to be a thriving place, and its
streets have a cindery appearance, betokening the nearness of coal mines
and the presence of furnaces. But the town has rather a cheap and rusty
look. Its streets rise one above another on the hillside, and, except
a few comfortable cottages, we saw no evidences of wealth in the
dwellings. The church, when we reached it, was a commonplace brick
structure, with a raw, unfinished interior, and weedy and untidy
surroundings, so that our expectation of sitting on the inviting hill
and enjoying the view was not realized; and we were obliged to descend
to the hot wharf and wait for the ferry-boat to take us to the steamboat
which lay at the railway terminus opposite. It is the most unfair thing
in the world for the traveler, without an object or any interest in the
development of the country, on a sleepy day in August, to express any
opinion whatever about such a town as Pictou. But we may say of it,
without offence, that it occupies a charming situation, and may have an
interesting future; and that a person on a short acquaintance can leave
it without regret.
By stopping here we had the misfortune to lose our excursion, a loss
that was soothed by no know ledge of its destination or hope of seeing
it again, and a loss without a hope is nearly always painful. Going out
of the harbor we encounter Pictou Island and Light, and presently see
the low coast of Prince Edward Island,--a coast indented and agreeable
to those idly sailing along it, in weather that seemed let down out of
heaven and over a sea that sparkled but still slept in a summer
quiet. When fate puts a man in such a position and relieves him of all
responsibility, with a book and a good comrade, and liberty to make
sarcastic remarks upon his fellow-travelers, or to doze, or to look
over the tranquil sea, he may be pronounced happy. And I believe that my
companion, except in the matter of the comrade, was happy. But I could
not resist a worrying anxiety about the future of the British Provinces,
which not even the remembrance of their hostility to us during our
mortal strife with the Rebellion could render agreeable. For I could
not but feel that the ostentatious and unconcealable prosperity of “the
States” over-shadows this part of the continent. And it was for once in
vain that I said, “Have we not a common land and a common literature,
and no copyright, and a common pride in Shakespeare and Hannah More
and Colonel Newcome and Pepys’s Diary?” I never knew this sort of
consolation to fail before; it does not seem to answer in the Provinces
as well as it does in England.
New passengers had come on board at Pictou, new and hungry, and not
all could get seats for dinner at the first table. Notwithstanding the
supposed traditionary advantage of our birthplace, we were unable
to dispatch this meal with the celerity of our fellow-voyagers, and
consequently, while we lingered over our tea, we found ourselves at the
second table. And we were rewarded by one of those pleasing sights that
go to make up the entertainment of travel. There sat down opposite to
us a fat man whose noble proportions occupied at the board the space
of three ordinary men. His great face beamed delight the moment he came
near the table. He had a low forehead and a wide mouth and small
eyes, and an internal capacity that was a prophecy of famine to his
fellow-men. But a more good-natured, pleased animal you may never see.
Seating himself with unrepressed joy, he looked at us, and a great smile
of satisfaction came over his face, that plainly said, “Now my time has
come.” Every part of his vast bulk said this. Most generously, by his
friendly glances, he made us partners in his pleasure. With a Napoleonic
grasp of his situation, he reached far and near, hauling this and that
dish of fragments towards his plate, giving orders at the same time, and
throwing into his cheerful mouth odd pieces of bread and pickles in an
unstudied and preliminary manner. When he had secured everything within
his reach, he heaped his plate and began an attack upon the contents,
using both knife and fork with wonderful proficiency. The man’s
good-humor was contagious, and he did not regard our amusement as
different in kind from his enjoyment. The spectacle was worth a journey
to see. Indeed, its aspect of comicality almost overcame its grossness,
and even when the hero loaded in faster than he could swallow, and was
obliged to drop his knife for an instant to arrange matters in his mouth
with his finger, it was done with such a beaming smile that a pig would
not take offense at it. The performance was not the merely vulgar thing
it seems on paper, but an achievement unique and perfect, which one is
not likely to see more than once in a lifetime. It was only when the
man left the table that his face became serious. We had seen him at his
best.
Prince Edward Island, as we approached it, had a pleasing aspect, and
nothing of that remote friendlessness which its appearance on the map
conveys to one; a warm and sandy land, in a genial climate, without
fogs, we are informed. In the winter it has ice communication with
Nova Scotia, from Cape Traverse to Cape Tormentine,--the route of the
submarine cable. The island is as flat from end to end as a floor. When
it surrendered its independent government and joined the Dominion, one
of the conditions of the union was that the government should build a
railway the whole length of it. This is in process of construction, and
the portion that is built affords great satisfaction to the islanders,
a railway being one of the necessary adjuncts of civilization; but that
there was great need of it, or that it would pay, we were unable to
learn.
We sailed through Hillsborough Bay and a narrow strait to Charlottetown,
the capital, which lies on a sandy spit of land between two rivers. Our
leisurely steamboat tied up here in the afternoon and spent the night,
giving the passengers an opportunity to make thorough acquaintance with
the town. It has the appearance of a place from which something has
departed; a wooden town, with wide and vacant streets, and the air of
waiting for something. Almost melancholy is the aspect of its freestone
colonial building, where once the colonial legislature held its
momentous sessions, and the colonial governor shed the delightful aroma
of royalty. The mansion of the governor--now vacant of pomp, because
that official does not exist--is a little withdrawn from the town,
secluded among trees by the water-side. It is dignified with a winding
approach, but is itself only a cheap and decaying house. On our way to
it we passed the drill-shed of the local cavalry, which we mistook for a
skating-rink, and thereby excited the contempt of an old lady of whom
we inquired. Tasteful residences we did not find, nor that attention
to flowers and gardens which the mild climate would suggest. Indeed,
we should describe Charlottetown as a place where the hollyhock in the
dooryard is considered an ornament. A conspicuous building is a large
market-house shingled all over (as many of the public buildings are),
and this and other cheap public edifices stand in the midst of a large
square, which is surrounded by shabby shops for the most part. The town
is laid out on a generous scale, and it is to be regretted that we could
not have seen it when it enjoyed the glory of a governor and court and
ministers of state, and all the paraphernalia of a royal parliament.
That the productive island, with its system of free schools, is about to
enter upon a prosperous career, and that Charlottetown is soon to become
a place of great activity, no one who converses with the natives can
doubt; and I think that even now no traveler will regret spending an
hour or two there; but it is necessary to say that the rosy inducements
to tourists to spend the summer there exist only in the guide-books.
We congratulated ourselves that we should at least have a night of
delightful sleep on the steamboat in the quiet of this secluded harbor.
But it was wisely ordered otherwise, to the end that we should improve
our time by an interesting study of human nature. Towards midnight, when
the occupants of all the state-rooms were supposed to be in profound
slumber, there was an invasion of the small cabin by a large and
loquacious family, who had been making an excursion on the island
railway. This family might remind an antiquated novel-reader of the
delightful Brangtons in “Evelina;” they had all the vivacity of the
pleasant cousins of the heroine of that story, and the same generosity
towards the public in regard to their family affairs. Before they had
been in the cabin an hour, we felt as if we knew every one of them.
