talk — to-day it almost drove him wild. 
He had a square or two to walk, and the shade was 
cooling and grateful. Yes, his was a handsome house, 
brown-stone, rich, and all its appointments in keeping. 
It had a good, solid look. How could he exchange it 
for a common-place in one some inferior street, full of 
 
Wagons, dirt, and brawling children. Poor folks had 
not much choice, they must live as they could. 
Here was the vestibule with cool marble tiling, rose- 
wood doors and ground glass. And here the hall 
with its soft carpet, the broad staircase, the spacious 
parlors, the inviting looking library. From the luxuri- 
ous tete-a-tete sprang up a bright, eager girl, who 
clasped her arms around his neck. 
" Oh, papa, how nice of you to come home so early ! 
Mamma has gone out, though. Mrs. Ayrault was here 
to lunch ; and, papa, she wants us to join with her and 
take a lovely cottage at Lake George. There is so 
little style and refinement about watering places now, 
unless you can have your own place, except for a week 
or two at Newport. But the Murrays and the Tread- 
wells are going to Lake George, and they are very 
aristocratic." 
Mr. Colby sighed a little. 
"What is the matter? — are you not well? You 
look tired to death. Papa, are you not rich enough 
to give up business?" 
"Hardly, my darling, unless we retire on cottage 
fare." 
"Well I do not like that, except Lake George", a 
little while in the summer. Papa, Arthur was here 
this morning." And with that Isabel Colby blushed. 
" Well— did you repent?" 
" No, papa." The blushes grew deeper. 
"It is settled finally. He is to start for Europe on 
the first day of September, Wednesday that is. And 
now, papa, that you are going to have me only three 
months longer, hardly that, you must be ever so good 
to me." 
He kissed her fondly. He did love his bright, win- 
some darling. 
" What can I do for you ?" he said involuntarily. 
" Just now I think we will go out and take a drive. 
It will do you a world of good. I will order the horses 
and go for my hat, while you rest a bit." 
She danced away, sweet tyrant that she was. He 
threw himself into an easy chair, glancing at ber 
future. She was to make a very brilliant marriage 
shortly. He could not accuse Arthur Harleigh of 
being mercenary in the slightest degree, but he knew 
that Isabel, in any inferior station, would never have 
met and attracted such a man. She loved him very 
dearly. For her sake he would like all things to go on 
smoothly. Then there were four younger ones, his two 
boys of whom he was so proud, his sweet Nelly, and 
gay, sparkling Leonore, who was worthy of as fair a 
fate as her sister. And yet, he must plunge them all 
into the depths of trouble and despair. 
Isabel returned presently, looking very lovely in her 
dainty hat and elegant carriage shawl, that fell around 
her shoulders like a delicate cloud. She was so tender 
and attentive, that every moment her father's heart 
smote him the more bitterly. Could he have helped 
the misfortune, even years ago? He might steadily 
have kept to his own income, and, living in a moderate 
way, there would be no great sacrifice to make when the 
day of reckoning came. 
Isabel chatted in her pretty, girlish fashion, of her 
lover and many little plans. What if the dreams never 
came true? It would be dastardly in a man to break 
his troth plight with a girl for such a cause, yet hun- 
dreds of men had done it since the world had stood. 
Mrs. Harleigh was exceedingly proud and aristocratic, 
and possesed great influence over her son. 
During the evening, the plan of their summer flitting 
was discussed. Mrs. Colby h$d long since ceased to 
consider a little expense, more or less. The children 
must have some country recreation, they ail needed a 
pleasant home, and this cottage plan would give them 
the desired seclusion. They would shop and take 
with them a seamstress, while the dresses could be left 
at Madame Moreau's, so Isabel's trousseau would be 
in process of completion. 
Mr. Colby listened. That he could do anything 
beside listen and assent, never once entered his life's 
mind. 
"I do not see why you might not as well spend a 
month with us," she said when her own plans had been 
explained. "You are looking quite worn, and need 
some rest. I do not see any use of men, when they 
are in comfortable circumstances, working away the 
best years of their lives." 
"Oh Papa, that will be delightful ! " exclaimed 
Isabel, warmly. "We do not know when we can all 
be together again, and this summer ought to be very, 
very happy." 
" I trust it will prove so to you all," he replied, ris- 
ing and kissing her, for it seemed as if listening to 
their dreams of the days to come would drive him wild. 
They knew nothing of the horrible ruin, staring him in 
the face. How could he tell them ? 
Oh, if there could be some compromise ! If one felt 
sure that this Dora Tremaine was the grandchild of 
Giles Walsingham; but although there was sufficient 
legal proof, he did not feel convinced. The law would, 
in all probability, declare her the heir, and hand her 
over to the tender mercies of Jasper Cameron. 
Surely he had a right to do the best he could for 
himself, and just now he felt like making a hard fight 
of it. Cameron meant to look out for self. Little 
did he care for Dora Tremaine's welfare ; but there 
might be something he, Colby, could do for her. His 
conscience told him that the most honorable course 
would be to go to Ralph Tremaine at once, but fear 
determined him toward another interview with Jasper 
Cameron. 
CHAPTER VII, 
DORA. 
WHEN Dora Tremaine left her husband's home, 
less than a week before, she dropped the strange 
note she had received in her card-case for safe 
keeping, and amused herself with the possible sugges- 
tions her husband might make. They would go together 
of course, and solve the mystery, which could not be 
anything remarkable. 
And yet a strange misgiving stole over Dora. What 
if some old ghost of the past, a past, Ralph Tremaine 
knew nothing of, should rise there and confront her? 
Why had she not confessed, as soon as she knew that 
the secret had been kept from him ! And then she 
remembered the hundred little events that had seemed 
to delay the 'confidence until now. He must be told. 
Latterly, it had grown into a positive burthen, and there 
had been hours, when she hated the very thought of it. 
If she could only blot it out and take up her life where 
it had commenced with her uncle Gilbert, feeling quite 
as free as most girls of her age. 
She was at her journey's end presently, and left the 
car in a lingering fashion, as if some dreaded phantom 
lurked on the outside. If she could once feel safe in 
Ralph's presence, and have his honest, kindly eyes 
smiling upon her, clasp his- hand, and assure herself 
that his great generous heart could forgiye that girlish 
mistake, no sin in itself, but only in the fatal secrecy 
that had surrounded it. 
She was the last one to step from the car. Most of 
the passengers were at the upper end of the platform 
already. Here and there a solitary, detached figure ; 
one, not far from her, who took a gtep and stood di- 
rectly before her. 
Dora glanced up. 
"Mrs. Tremaine, I believe," the person said. 
That face and that voice ! Could the dead rise from 
their graves in the ocean ! 
Dora Tremaine's head swam round in vague terror. 
The street and the throngs of human beings looked in- 
finitesimal. Yet she did not faint or shriek. Jasper 
Cameron was prepared for either emergency. 
" I think you remember me ! " 
- There was something peculiar in the man's voice, a 
kind of latent power which seemed to deprive her of 
the strength necessary to war against him. 
"God help me ! " she moaned. ' ' I believed you dead 
years ago ! " 
" So I supposed. You see I give you the credit of 
not desiring to commit intentional bigamy." 
Her face, that had been deathly white before, flushed 
ieeply, and her frame trembled violently, q 
" I had news of your death,' she returned, rallying 
her strength. 
" News of the wreck, you mean," he corrected with 
a kind of offensive politeness. 
" And through all \hese years you have preserved 
silence! Oh, Jasper! why? why?" 
" I thought your love would be as true and change- 
less as mine." 
Something in his expression chilled the very blood 
in her veins. Did he still love her? Oh Heavens ! 
" I have married, as you know, for you called me by 
my name. That I believed you dead, you can scarcely 
doubt. And now — " 
" We cannot discuss the subject fairly here ; " and he 
glanced suspiciously around. "I am entirely at your 
sendee in any place that you prefer. Mr. Colby's office 
was mentioned in the note — " and his dark eyes 
scanned her face narrowly as, making a bold stroke, he 
added — " or your present husband's place of business, 
if you would feel more at home there." 
She thrust out her hands as if to grasp at some sup- 
port. Go to Ralph Tremaine with this man, whom she 
feared as much as she hated, and being bound soul and 
body as it were, in his presence, rendered unable to 
justify herself or make one tender appeal, her cause 
she felt would be lost. She knew how very just and 
upright Mr. Tremaine was, and this tale of deception 
would shock him so at the first nomwt^ 
"This Mr. Colby? — " 
Her voice faltered and stopped. Oh ! if she only 
knew what to do in this horrible strait ! 
Mr. Cameron had learned or suspected one thing for 
which he had hardly dared to hope. It was evident 
that Dora had kept her first marriage a secret from Mr. 
Tremaine. She could not have played a better card 
for him. 
"Mr. Colby is a warm personal friend of mine, a 
lawyer. I went to him for advice immediately. Of 
course, the law is all on my side." 
He uttered this with a peculiar smile. Every mo- 
ment the man's power seemed to grow upon her. She 
shivered with terror and indignation. 
" The law may be," she said, " but right and justice 
are not. To stay away for years is as much of a de- 
ception, as if you had sworn to a deliberate falsehood. 
You knew that I must have heard of your death I " 
" Hush," he said, more gently, " or we shall have an 
interested audience. If you prefer talking to me alone, 
before you see anyone, let us seek some secluded 
place. Perhaps it would be as well to understand one 
another." 
Almost unconsciously she took a few steps beside 
him, down the platform. 
" It is a pleasant day," he said, " and in a few mo- 
ments we can drive up to the Park. Rambling around 
there we shall feel quite free from observation, and can 
discuss these points more at length. I assure yon that 
I do not intend to spoil my cause by violence or any 
underhand trickery." 
He looked so honorable, as he uttered this, that for a 
moment her doubts and fears were quieted. It was 
better to walk there, where she could summon assist- 
ance if anj- were needed, than to go to a lawyer's 
office, of whom she knew nothing. And after she un- 
derstood his designs, she could the better prepare a 
defence. 
Since early morn, Jasper Cameron had been concoct- 
ing plans in his mind, and laid them so adroitljythat if 
one failed he could take up another without being at all 
disconcerted. Little did Mrs. Tremaine suppose that 
this particular hackman, sitting so indifferently upon 
his box, was but following orders. She did not see the 
two exchange glances. 
"This is about as fair a specimen as any," Cameron 
said, giving it a hasty glance. 
" Never mind, driver," as the man offered to dis- 
mount. " To the Park, immediately." 
Jasper Cameron made a pretence of assisting Mrs. 
Tremaine, but she passed by his proffered hand with 
loft}' scorn. And when the door was shut, a great 
agony of terror fell upon her. The stories she had 
heard of persons being entrapped into private mad 
houses rushed over her, and then she smiled fearlessly. 
With this open window between her and the world, 
there would be assistance within call. 
It did not make much difference to Cameron what 
Mrs. Tremaine did, after the conversation he proposed 
to have with her. So far, fortune had favored him. 
He had intercepted the plans of that rascal Colby, as 
he termed him, and here was Dora, ready to listen to 
him first. He came out pretty generally on the win- 
ning side. 
Mrs. Tremaine watched him with trembling anxiety. 
Happily the ride was short. They paused at one of the 
entrances, and the driver sprang down. 
Jasper Cameron thrust a card in his hand beside the 
bank note. It contained instructions for him to be at 
the same point in about an hour, and wait in the 
vicinity. His services might be needed, or possibly 
not, the pay would be the same in either case. 
There were a few loungers about, and in the distance 
a number of vehicles driving slowly. There was a fine 
breeze, and the heat was not intense, so they saun- 
tered slowly down the walk. Not a word had been 
exchanged during their drive. Indeed, Dora's brain 
seemed in a helpless whirl. At one moment Cameron's 
sudden appearance was too monstrous for belief, but 
she had only to look and recognize him. Except that he 
had grown older, they might have parted yesterday, for 
any change in him. And he had assured himself 
thoroughly of Dora Tremaine's identity, so that when 
the moment came he might be prepared. 
 'Well," he said at length, turning into a narrow, 
shaded path, "we can talk quite at our ease. Of 
course you must know that I am most anxious, for 
some expression of your feelings towards me." 
She turned suddenly, her face aflush, her eyes 
dilated and sparkling, and in a deep, steady voice she 
said — 
"If you will have it, the truth is best. Jasper 
Cameron, I hate you with every pulse and fibre of my 
nature, from the strongest to the weakest ! If I were 
free to-day and you came back with a princely fortune, 
neither it, nor you, would tempt me. But I belong to 
another. Nothing can ever tear that love out of my 
soul. You may subject me to a bitter, agonizing trial, 
but I tell you in the beginning, that you can never 
create a spark of tenderness or pity within me. If you 
are wise, or have any remnant of manhood left, you 
will let me go my way." 
She stood there in such a glow of beauty and dignity 
that Cameron was strangely moved. For a moment, 
he felt inclined to make a desperate fight for supremacy. 
Once he had roused all her girlish love, but he had a 
dim misgiving that the girl and the woman were quite 
different. In that old time of youth, he had not been 
altogether wise. He realized it now. 
" Remember that J am still your husband ;" and 
there was a lingering sound in the voice that chilled 
Dora to the depths of her soul, a kind of suppressed 
power that would not prove a pleasant subject of con- 
DRIFTED ASUNDER, OR 
templation. "Let me make out my case. You loved 
me then. You were ready enough to marry me." 
She interrupted him with an indignant gesture — 
" Stop ! " she exclaimedvehemently. — " You remem- 
ber how you persuaded and entreated. It was an act 
of girlish madness. In those days, you possessed a 
singular authority over me, but I consented only after 
long and urgent entreaty. I wanted to wait until you 
returned, j-ou know that ! " 
u I will admit that a spasm of fear swayed you a 
trifle, but your love for me finally overcame it, and you 
married me. This fact is all that is necessary in law. I used 
no force, no trickery, and you were earnest enough that 
our marriage should be kept secret. There were two 
certificates given, and one is still in my possession. 
All this can be easily proved. I went away, expect- 
ing to be gone two or three years, and was wrecked, 
barely escaping with my life. As soon as I could, I 
wrote, and though I never received any answer, I 
repeated my letters at intervals." 
" Jasper Cameron, I do not believe it," she said with 
indignant sincerity. 
" As you like." There was a smile on his cruel face 
and a sneer in his voice. "I dare say an enlight- 
ened jury might not be so hard to convince, since it is 
evidently to your interest to admit as little as possible. 
After awhile I begin to think you dead, and spend years 
in rambling about the world, but at length the old love 
returns strong upon me, and I long for some tidings of 
my wife, whether she is alive or dead. I come back to 
find the simple, undeveloped girl a lovely woman. I 
take glimpses of her by stealth, knowing that another 
is in the place I covet, my place, indeed. When I can 
no longer endure my anguish in secret, I take advice 
of a legal friend and find that my claim still holds 
good. I, who have loved for years, been true in the face 
of many temptations, have a right to this woman, my 
wife, that no man and no law dare question ! " 
His melo-dramatic air might have imposed upon some 
as the depth of passionate anguish, but Dora it simply 
disgusted. And yet each moment she seemed to grow 
more fearful of him. Still she faced him bravely, say- 
ing— 
' l Jasper Cameron, I hate you ! " 
" You are my wife nevertheless," and there was an 
expression in his eyes that for the moment made her 
cower. 
"I am the true and loyal wife of Ralph Tremaine. 
If we lived in the days of the inquisition } r ou might tear 
me limb from limb, and you would not so much as gain 
a clasp of the hand, or a smile from tortured lips." 
And, standing there in her womanly pride, she made 
ft gesture with her dainty foot, as if she would have 
rushed him like a worm. 
"If Ralph Treraaine chooses to live with a woman 
Ibose husband is still alive, and if she prefers the dis- 
! 
honorable connection, I suppose the injured one must 
submit. And I shall endure. Probably my patience 
will outlast yours, as it has before. So I give you fair 
warning, my lady ! You shall not be Ralph Tremaine'a 
legal wife while I live, if there is any law or any power 
in the land to prevent. Five minutes ago, you might 
have made a friend of me, now we are enemies to the 
last, and you will find that my threats are no idle words." 
"Enemies I" she repeated. "It is best so, for I 
should stand in deadly terror of your smile. We will 
have open warfare that each may know what to expect." 
He laughed, low, cool, and tantalizing. How little 
she was to know of his motives at present ! 
"Very well* You have made your election. The 
law gives me the best right, I believe, but I will not en- 
force my claim rigorously. I simply demand that for 
the sake of your own respectability, you refrain from 
living with Mr. Tremaine openly, until some plan has 
been agreed upon. Or if you prefer, we will go at once 
to him. He will have to know it sooner or later." 
Nothing could have been farther from Jasper Cam- 
eron's real intentions. If Dora had dared the step ? but 
in her cruel strait, she knew not whither to turn. And 
most of all she desired to see Ralph alone, first. If he 
could hear her story, if he could know how truly and 
fervently she loved him ! Ah, if she could but have the 
morning back again! 
"You have kept your secret well" Jasper Cameron 
 
said sneeringly. " I doubt if a man so clear headed 
as Ralph Tremaine would have married a woman, when 
he knew there was a possibility of a former husband 
being still alive." 
Dora blushed a deep and painful crimson. 
" It was not my fault," she answered in a husky, 
agitated tone. " The person with whom I entrusted 
the explanation, did not tell all. I did not learn this 
until after I had married Mr. Tremaine." 
"A wise friend, truly, though the result has proved 
disastrous. I suppose a man would like as good a title 
deed to a wife as to any other property, and he or she 
probably thought it would interfere with your chances 
of matrimony." 
She could have killed him for that sneer. And then 
the thought rushed over her mind — would Mr, Tre- 
maine have married her? Uncle Gilbert must have 
had some fear, or he would have told the simple 
truth, which was in no wise disgraceful. Still, she 
would not have cared then ; now she had learned 
to love, to long for a husband's tenderness. 
They had been walking slowly onward in the pause, 
now she turned suddenly. 
"Jasper," she began, half wondering how the old 
name would sound," there is something behind all this. 
You cannot have so completely forgotten me for years, 
and then in a moment wakened to affectionate remem- 
brance. It is not love. I doubt if you deceive your- 
self, me you cannot deceive. I have grown wiser than 
in those childish days. If you have been unfortunate 
in any respect — if you are in need of money, I can and 
will assist you. I have some thousands at my own 
disposal. If you will take this and go — " 
Her voice trembled in spite of the efforts she made 
to steady it, and there was a strained, painful appre- 
hension in every line of her face. 
" Thank you, Mrs.Tremaine, but I am in no pressing 
need of money, that I should become } r our pensioner in 
such a fashion. Besides, I should have some scruples 
of conscience. Either you are Mr. Treinaine's wife, or 
mine — if the law awards you to him, you surely need 
not buy me off; and if you are mine, something of 
more account than gold must extinguish the claim." 
He rested the tips of his fingers in his pockets with 
a jaunty air that was half swagger, and yet, through all 
his indifference, she saw the determination. A hard, 
implacable enemy ! She blushed that he should have 
suspected her of wishing to buy his absence, much as 
she desired it. 
On they walked in silence. Over head, drifted won- 
derful islands through a sea of peerless blue, birds sung 
in the branches beside them, and bland airs laden with 
fragrance wandered up and down in viewless hosts. 
And she so unutterably wretched, so cut off from hope, 
turn whither she would. For with every breath she 
felt the web closing round her. 
 
"Dora," he said, presently, "will you listen to 
reason?" 
" I will listen," she answered, moodily. 
, u We are husband and wife — any good authority, 
be he lawyer or judge, will tell you so. I have done 
nothing to break my compact, and in the estimation of 
the world I am the injured party. But I know it waa 
a mistake on your part, and I am willing to forgive 
fully and freely. Since you cannot have liberty, let us 
both consent to forget the past. Let us renew our 
vows, and endeavor henceforward to make each other 
happy. It shall be my earnest study— for, Dora, dis- 
believe and scorn as you will, I love you truly, earn- 
estly. My soul cannot brook the thought of your being 
another's." 
This appeal touched her much more deeply than his 
former one, and yet it angered her as well. Did he 
think she could change allegiance at a moment's notice? 
Was that all the sacredness a woman's regard possessed ? 
' ' No," she replied. ' ' Jasper Cameron, 'do not cheat 
yourself with any false hopes. I suppose if we had 
gone on in those old times, your fascination would have 
been sufficiently strong to hold me captive, perhaps to 
make me love, eventually ; but it did die out. Remem-. 
ber that I do not call it love, and will not have fidelity 
measured by it. You took no pains to assure me that 
you were alive. I might have been friendless and in 
want, died of starvation — what would it have mattered 
to you? Another has taught me by slow degrees, the 
sweetest lesson that a woman can learn — faith and 
hope blended in truest affection. I have come to the 
one passion of my life. You can make me suffer 
through it, but I shall never, never give it up. . If I 
never saw Ralph Tremaine again, I should hold myself 
his wife until death parted us, in spite of any jurisdiction 
the law might have. No, you know nothing about 
women's hearts ;" and her face lighted up with a grand, 
proud smile. 
"And I, too, love. Pity me, as well as yourself." 
He was a good actor in some moods. His eyes soft- 
ened now, and the tenderest expression she had yet 
seen, lingered about his face. She did not so much 
wonder that he had won her girlish fancy, but the 
woman's love was immeasurably above it all, and could 
not be dethroned. 
" I have given you my answer. Of what avail is 
pity? " 
" Then the law must take its course. You will not 
let me be merciful." 
" The truest mercy would be to go away. If you 
have enough nobleness and generosity for this — ?" 
" And leave you to himf No, I have not. As I 
said, even if I cannot win you back, you shall never be 
his, honorably. And now it only remains to decide 
upon what course we must pursue. The case shall be 
placed in my friend's hands at once." 
 
She shuddered with shame and terror. 
" Oh," she cried, " wait a little. Give me but a day 
in which to think, for I seem so utterly wrecked that 
not one haven opens its friendly arms. ,, f 
" Yes, one." 
She made a gesture of impatient scorn. She felt 
that if he had loved her truly, he would measure her 
sufferings by his own and be merciful. And she was 
unspeakably thankful that he did not. Fighting 
against him would be less filled with anguish. 
" Give me a little time," she gasped. 
u All that you desire, upon one condition." 
" What is that?" and she glanced at him with quick 
suspicion. 
" That I am present at your first interview with Mr. 
Tremaine." 
" No ! no ! " she exclaimed franticly. 
" Very well. Then I feel at liberty to go to him im- 
mediately. I am not sure, but that it would have been 
the wisest course to go to him at once, but I thought it 
fair to seek you first. Whitlier shall I attend you ? " 
He had been debating whether it was possible to 
carry out the remainder of his plan and gain entire per- 
sonal control over her — for at present he much pre- 
ferred that she should not see Mr. Tremaine. None 
knew better than he, how moments of grace were 
wasted by delay, and that the auspicious season once 
past, another was difficult to find. 
 
She felt faint and sick, and in casting about for a 
place of refuge, bethought herself of one at hand. 
" I have a trusty friend near by — a woman who was 
niy uncle's housekeeper. I will go there for an hour's 
rest, and try to decide upon what it is best to do. Of 
course, Mr. Tremaine must be informed. 
She uttered the last with dreary pathos. Her face, 
that had been so brilliant with different phases of feel- 
ing and indignation, was growing wan and listless. 
She turned, and he followed. 
" Shall I not call a hack when we reach the gate?" 
he asked. 
"No." Somehow it seemed as if she dared not 
trust herself with him again. " It is but a step," she 
added presently. 
Amid this throng of people, she felt quite secure. All 
along their way they met with one and another, and he 
relinquished his scheme with his usual air of gay in- 
difference. Little did she guess the . villiany in his 
heart, though indeed she could think of nothing save 
her weary steps, and wonder if her strength would last 
even this short distance. 
dbyGoogk 
CHAPTER Vnl. 
A FATE BETWEEN. 
SHALL stop here," Dora Tremaine said, paus- 
ing before a cottage, that, with a group of in- 
different houses, stood not far from the river. 
This one was small and unpretending, but it had a 
vegetable garden in the most perfect order, quite a con- 
trast to the straggling weeds and irregular shrubbery 
around. There was a tiny court-yard in front and a 
bed of old fashioned flowers. 
He turned and faced her. " Dora," he said in a 
deep tone, which was scareely less than a threat, " for 
the present I shall depend upon your truth and honor, 
and leave you quite at liberty as regards your place of 
abode, so long as it is not Ralph Tremaine's house. 
The instant you attempt to seek that, I shall invoke the 
law to protect my rights. I will give you the time you 
desire for consideration. When shalj I call for an an- 
swer ? To-morrow morning ? " 
"Yes," she said, her wandering brain scarcely com- 
prehending the answer she made. 
He came a step nearer and almost hissed these words 
in her ear — 
"There will be no evading me. You cannot step 
outside of this door but that you will be watched. Act 
fairly, and no harm shall befall you." 
• She made no repty, but touching the lion's head 
knocker gave a feeble, irregular summons. It seemed 
to her that she stood there an age ; the houses on 
either side revolving grotesquely, the air growing darker 
with gray and purple films, and those deep, vengeful 
eyes staring at her like balls of fire. She uttered a 
wild, terror-stricken cry, and that was all she re- 
membered. 
When Dora Tremaine opened her eyes again, after 
her long, deathlike swoon, she found herself on the 
familiar chintz-covered sofa — the face bending over 
her, though wrinkled and browned, was tender, and 
the eyes, in spite of their questioning alarm, were full 
of solicitude. 
"Oh, Catherine !" she groaned, and nearly lapsed 
into insensibility again. 
"My poor child! Oh, Miss Dora, what has hap- 
pened ?" 
In Catherine's excitement, Mrs. Tremaine was a girl . 
again. 
"I cannot tell you now. Let me rest a little, 
Catherine. I am so tired. I feel as if I should die ! 
Oh, would any one care, would any one be sorry?" 
The eyes wandered about with a wild stare, and } T et 
seemed to cower and shrink from something, and the 
cold fingers clasped Catherine's arm with frantic force. 
" Hush, dear. Lie* still. Nothing shall harm you." 
the woman said, soothingly. 
"Do not let him come in ! Oh, Catherine ! he is out 
there watching — he said he .would. Keep me ! hide 
me ! " she shrieked, burying her face in the other's dress. 
"Yes — no one shall come. Lie still, poor child. 
See I shall bolt the door." 
She rose and did this, and came back to Mrs. Tre- 
maine, who now began to shiver with a hard chill. 
The words she tried to utter, died in incoherent frag- 
ments upon the ashen lips. 
Catherine Dawson was sorely puzzled. The last 
time she had seen her dear young mistress — for Dora 
would always be that to her — was on a bright, breezj-, 
March day, when she had driven up with her husband. 
She had looked so proud, and bright, and happy ! It 
had been a rather conscientious question with Catherine, 
whether Dora's marriage was for the best. The young 
girl had not loved as the girls of her day, and she had 
some old-fashioned notions on the subject. But the 
last doubt had vanished then. 
"Miss Dora's a happy wife," she had said to her 
old husband, as they sat by the fireside that evening. 
" I have always had a little fear about her, but I am 
quite at rest now. There is a content and satisfaction 
shining in her face, that it does one good to see. " 
"I am sure Mr. Tremaine is a man in a thousand," 
Mark Dawson replied, sturdily. "If she could not be 
happy with him, she docs not deserve any one ! " 
"It is not that exactly. There is a kind of fitness 
about people, and sometimes it does not come, even in 
a long married life. Miss Dora had some queer streaks, 
and she was not a girl to love easily." 
" Love ! " Mark Dawson brought it out rather con- 
temptuously. 
"Yes, love I" She leaned over in the light of the 
blazing logs — this was one of his old-fashioned notions. 
"Mark" she said, "when you first wooed me, I was 
young and bonny, with shining eyes and hair, and red 
and white in my face. I do not look like it now that 
I am old and faded — but has not there been something 
in our lives that outlasted youth and beauty, and 
makes us as dear to each other as we were then?" 
He gave the fire a poke that sent the blaze into hun- 
dreds of stars, and with a little tremble in his voice, 
said, — 
"Yes, you are right Katy." 
And Catherine Dawson, contrasting the two pictures, 
shivered with a strange misgiving. Dora was proud 
and high spirited — what if she had quarreled with her 
husband ? She had no mother or sisters in whom she 
could confide ; and Catherine knew that of old, she had 
not been given to intimate friendships. • She looked so 
helpless, as she lay there trembling and moaning, that, 
whatever might be the cause, the woman pitied her 
profound^. But what could she do except to stand 
over her and watch her? She was all alone in the 
house. 
The chill was a very severe one ; but after awhile, 
faint streaks of color began to steal up her temples, 
and a feverish flush to overspread her cheeks. The 
dull eyes grew restless and glassy. She still muttered 
at intervals, but the frantic fear had subsided. 
"Mrs. Tremaine ? w Catherine exclaimed, kneeling 
beside her. 
She gave a stupid sort of stare, making no other 
answer. 
"Dear Miss Dora, what shall I do? What can I do 
for you? Send for Mr. Tremaine?" 
"Oh!" Dora rose in a confused way. "I do not 
know whether, he would think it right to come if I told 
him all," she said, in a slow, wandering manner — and 
a sickening shudder passed over her. I am so sleepy', 
Catherine ; and then— he is watching outside. Oh, 
do not leave me for a moment !" 
"My dear child, no ; but I must do something. You 
are very ill. Mr. Tremaine should be sent for." 
"He said, oh, Catherine, I cannot tell you ! It is 
such a horrible thing ! Mr. Tremaine cannot forgive it, 
and if he could  — she burst into a wild, bitter laugh, 
and threw up her hands. "Why, Catherine, I am not 
his wife at all !" 
"You are losing your senses, Miss Dora!" And a 
shocked expression filled Catherine's face. 
"Am I ?" I had a note somewhere — I do not remem- 
ber — but if I could show it to you. No, Catherine, I 
can never, never be anything to him again. Jasper 
said so. He was so cruel, so cruel ! I am tired, tired ! 
Oh, if I could only die!" 
Dora sank back on the pillow exhausted. Catherine 
bathed her face and chafed the trembling hands. She 
tried to soothe the strained and excited nerves — and 
indeed succeeded so well, that presently Mrs. Tremaine 
sank into an uneasy but heavy slumber. 
Then Catherine Dawson began to consider what she 
must do. What had happened? Was it indeed a 
desperate quarrel in which Mr. Tremaine had said she 
was no wife of his, perhaps, goaded to a moment's des- 
peration. And yet, that seemed so unlike him. Mr. 
Tremaine was not a man to indulge in angry taunts. 
She wondered if he knew that Dora had come to her ; 
at all events, if she were going to be ill — and that 
scarlet fever flush, with the half open eyes presaged it — 
she must have medical attendance. And just now she 
needed a husband's love and tenderness. If he came 
and saw her thus, his heart must melt at sight of her 
suffering, even if she had been in the wrong. 
She rose softly from her seat, and crossing the room 
opened the large Bible. Several sheets of writing-paper 
had been laid in it for safe keeping, as it was an article 
rarely used in their house, save when Mark wrote twice 
a year to the old country, the land they had left behind 
in their young life. She tore a sheet in half, looking 
furtively around, but the sleeper was past a light dis- 
turbance. 
Catherine Dawson's fingers were stiff with labor, and 
writing was almost like a lost art to her. She was a 
long time in thinking what to say, and how to say it ; 
and after all, it was a very simple matter, though the 
most formidable she had undertaken in many a day. 
At.last it was done, and she read it over slowly. 
" Mr. Tremaine — Respected Sir — This is to inform 
you that your wife, Dora Tremaine, is sick at my house. 
I think she will need a physician ; and I much desire 
that you would come immediately. 
" Catherine Dawson." 
After studying it awhile she concluded to add a post- 
script, which contained these words — "Mrs. Tremaine 
seems to be in great trouble." .Then she folded it, 
placed it carefully in a large buff envelope, and puzzled 
for some time over the direction. The number of Mr. 
Tremaine's store she did not know, but the streets it 
was between and the side of the street on which it stood 
were elaborately written. She gave a sigh of relief 
over the achievement. 
There were plenty of neighbor's boys idling about, 
that she could press into the service of postman. She 
went to the window and saw several playing marbles. 
With another glance at Dora she stepped to the street 
door, and gave the group a close scrutiny. 
" Jemmy Connor ! " she called. 
Jemmy looked up, gave the brim of his hat a tug, 
and the marble at his foot a kick, and ran to the gate. 
" Jemmy t will you go down town for me? You can 
ride there and back in the cars. It is to take a note, 
and I will pa\< you a quarter besides if you do it just 
right." 
"Cannot I take Chris?" the boy asked # 
u No, I want you to go alone, and be as quick as 
you can. It is very important. Will you run right 
away? You can find it, I think." 
U I can find anything in this ere town," and the boy 
gave a grin. 
"Well, there is the direction. Give it to Mr. Tre- 
maine if yon can see him. And then come back and 
you shall have your quarter." 
She judged it prudent not to pay him first, as the 
thought of the reward might make^him more expeditious. 
He uttered a parting shout to the boys and rushed 
away. . Mrs. Dawson saw him bounding along to the 
next street, and then with a little old country supersti- 
tion, thought it best not to watch him out of sight. 
Dora was still asleep, but tossing restlessly about and 
moaning at intervals. Mrs. Dawson had unfastened 
her dress, but it still seemed so warm and so confiding, 
that she began to cast about in her mind if something 
• • 
could not be done to render the poor child more com- 
fortable. 
There were three rooms on the lower floor — parlor, 
kitchen and sleeping-room. Up stairs two comfortable 
chambers ; and though Mrs. Dawson could have carried 
Dora up in her strong arms, she was not quite sure that 
it would be advisable. True, Mark would not be home 
for a night or two, but her own little nest was rather 
crowded. Then another thought occurred to her, so she 
went up-stairs and brought down a low, single cot, and 
stood it opposite the sofa. Then a mattress and some 
cool homespun linen sheets, and in a few moments she 
had a most inviting looking bed arranged. 
"Poor thing! She will feel so much easier when 
she is undressed and lying there comfortably. She 
will never do to be taken out of the house this night. 
Poor, dear child ! I wonder what can have happened?" 
Then Mrs. Dawson hunted up an old-fashioned cambric 
gown that she kept laid away for sickness or any sudden 
emergency. She began carefully and gently to disrobe 
Dora, who in her wandering slumbers was only con- 
scious of a slight disturbance. 
" Child," she said presently, u Miss Dora !" and she 
tried to rouse her. 
The vacant, lustreless ej-es opened slowly, then 
closed again. 
"My poor bairn, rise a bit. Lean on me — so;" 
and Dora obeyed unconsciously. Catherine lifted her 
mto the bed at once. 
"Oh," she exclaimed, with a sigh, " do not let him 
take me ! He said he would watch ! " 
For a moment Catherine's heart misgave her. Sup- 
pose Dora should not approve of her message. But 
what harm could come of it? Surely Mr. Tremaine 
was not so obdurate that the sight of this suffering 
face would fail to move him ! 
After that, Catherine Dawson waited anxiously. 
To fan Dora and give her an occasional drink were all 
the duties that divided her thoughts. How long the 
lingering moments of the summer day appeared ! As 
the sun went westward a soft southerly breeze was 
wafted over from the river. The shouts of the boys in 
the streets died away, and a tender stillness brooded in 
the air. 
There was a rude knock at the kitchen door. Dora's 
eyes opened in wild affright. 
" Oh ! " she exclaimed in terror, " he has come for me, 
he said lie would ! Hide me ! Do not let him take me ! " 
" Hush, dear, it is no one to harm you. Let me g© 
for a moment ; " and Catherine unclasped the clinging 
hands, but not before the summons had been repeated. 
It was Jemmy, as she supposed, his white teeth 
showing nearly from ear to ear in his endeavor to smile. 
' Well, Jem ! You found the place ? " 
"Yes, and the man hisself. He was just going 
home, he said, to Wood — something — I have forgot- 
"Woodlea?" 
" Yes. He is a good 'un. He said 'thank 'ee, my 
lad,' as if I had been a genTman. And he gev me — 
a quarter ! " 
Jem brought this out slowly, as if almost afraid that 
he might lose the one in perspective. 
"Did he read the note?" 
" No — he scrunched it up and put it in his pocket. 
I guess he was in a hurry." 
"Thank you for all the trouble, Jem. Here is your 
money, and ask your mother to run over by-andby. I 
want to see her." 
The boy tugged at his hat, his usual effort at polite- 
ness. Catherine sighed. It seemed as if she had ex- 
pected something more, and felt disappointed. 
She turned and was confronted by Dora, whose lips 
were pallid with terror. The poor thing swayed uncer- 
tainly and would have fallen, but for Catherine's timely 
assistance, who bore her back to her couch. 
Yet, she did not entirely relinquish hope. Mr. Tre- 
maine would read the note at the first opportunit}', 
certainly before he left the city. In an hour at the 
latest, she might expect him. How she wished for 
some little break: — Mark coming home to his supper 
with a slow, quiet greeting, but that would not be 
to-night. Like others who had achieved a reputation, 
Mark was in considerable demand. He was an excel- 
lent gardener, and, as not infrequently happened at tb' 
season, his services in laying out grounds were in re- 
quest at quite a distance from home. Catherine rarely 
minded a little loneliness, but at this juncture, she would 
have given much for his return. 
The hour passed at length. The sun had gone down 
now, and a soft pearliness began to blend with the light. 
Doia was still in a hig^ fever, but she lay quiet. Cath- 
erine looked up and down the street. No figure that 
she could recognize, and all about a solemn stillness — 
uncanny, it seemed, and she, too, shivered. 
Mrs. Connor's neighborly call was most welcome. 
A hearty, rosy woman, with a wholesome Irish flavor 
that showed more in .manner than in accent, and still 
young, for all her half-dozen children. 
" You look troubled, I am sure, Mrs. Dawson," was 
the kindly greeting. "Can I do anything now that 
your man's away ? " 
" Yes. I am anxious. I have a poor sick thing in 
the other room, and what to do I do not know ! If 
Mark were only home ! " 
" Sick, indeed ! That is bad. A visitor, like?" 
' 'It is the Miss Dora you have heard me speak of, 
Mrs. Trem&ine now. Mark and I lived with her uncle 
till he died, though she had married a little while before. 
She come this noon — she must have been walking too 
far or too fast, I think, for she fainted dead away in my 
arms. Then she had a chill, and there is a high fever 
still upon her ! " 
" Where is her husband? Why do not you send for 
him?" 
"I did, but if he had been able to come he would 
have been here before now.'
"Ablet" There was a good deal of surprise in 
Mrs. Connor's voice, and Catherine's brown face flushed. 
"Something very unusual keeps him away ;"— she 
knew that this was the truth. But an explanation was 
necessary and Catherine's faculty of invention was not 
a fertile one. 
" If you will step-in and see her — I do not know 
what to do about a doctor. I have put draughts on 
her fee$ and on her wrists. I seem so lost without 
Mark." 
She led the way and Mrs. Connor followed. Dora 
had not changed perceptibly. Her face was still in a 
burning flush, her pulse high and hard. 
" You do not mean to stay alone, surely?" 
"But you do not think her in any danger? Maybe 
Jem had better go for a doctor." 
"Sure," replied Mrs. Connor after some delibera- 
tion. "And -I will come over. It's lonesome for a 
body to be without a hand to help. I'll run back and 
start Jem, and settle the childers, and then I'll stpp 
the night through." 
"Thank you, I'm sure," Catherine Dawson said, for 
somehow, in the coming night and darkness, she began 
to lose her usual fearlessness. 
Mrs. Connor came back a step. "We always have 
Doctor Mackey," she said. "If there's any one else — " 
"I like him. We've never had any doctor, Mark 
and I." 
The doctor came and went. He thought it appeared 
like a settled fever, but he could tell better in the morn- 
ing. Drops were to be administered every hour, and 
cooling drinks given. And at ten o'clock, the cottage 
was quiet, with both watchers comfortably arranged 
for the night, and then Catherine Dawson gave up her 
last hope of Mr. Tremaine. 
"It must have been a desperate quarrel," she 
thought; 
dbyGoogk 
CHAPTER IX. 
WAITING. 
SOR forty-eight hours, Dora Tremaine lingered 
on the brink of a severe and dangerous fever. 
Though young, Dr. Mackey was already skill- 
ful in his profession, and something in this woman's 
face, although he knew nothing of her history, appealed 
to him strongly. All this time Catherine Dawson was 
alone with her, save for the occasional visits of the 
warm-hearted Mrs. Connor, who asked no uncomfort- 
able questions. 
Dora was quiet most of the time, though lapsing now 
and then into momentary wanderings. In the few 
moments of consciousness, she seemed in deadly terror 
of some person, whether her husband or another, Cath- 
erine could not tell. 
Another incident had startled the grave, steady-going 
woman not a little. The morning after Dora's uncere- 
monious arrival, a gentleman had called who insisted 
upon seeing her, and nothing short of representing Dora 
in a most critical position could induce him to forego 
his wishes. He had called again later in the da} r , 
indeed, fairly haunted the house, filling Catherine with 
strange apprehensions. A daring, handsome fellow, 
Di 
/ 
d ^ Google 
It a DRIFTED ASUNDER, OR 
but she instinctively shrank from him. There seemed 
something so cruel in the half-mocking face, and a 
vengeful, determined look in the deep eyes. Catherine 
shivered as she thought of Dora becoming entangled 
with this man. She had heard of women imprudently 
placing themselves in the power of an unscrupulous 
man, and suffering the keenest tortures without being 
able to snap the bond, yet sinless in their own course. 
Catherine Dawson had some rigid, old-fashioned 
notions, but if she had not loved Dora so well, she 
possessed an unswerving, sense of justice. She would 
not blame her even in thought,until she knew all the 
circumstances, and she waited with the utmost patience. 
The child had been very dear to her during the years 
they had spent together. But she was troubled with a 
little misgiving as to whether she had done quite right 
in sending for Mr. Tremaine. However, neither good 
nor harm had come of it. 
Dora opened her eyes languidly on Thursday morn- 
ing. The surroundings were so strange that she would 
not have recollected at all, if she had not recognized 
Catherine's" slow moving figure. She took up con- 
sciousness at the exact time and place where it had 
failed her — her fainting away in Catherine's arms. 
And with that, some detached drifts of the day's doings 
floated dimly through her brain, as with a shudder she 
remembered Jasper Cameron. 
" Catherine," she said feebly, turning her head with 
an effort. 
"My child, my precious bairn ! Thank the Lord that 
you are better," and Mrs. Dawson leaned over the 
pillow. 
" I fainted^ did I not? Why, I feel as weak as a 
child, but I must get up. It is • not night yet. I am 
glad of that, for I must do something. If I could only 
think — Catherine — " 
