sitting by herself in the flower-room, ostensibly with 
her book or sewing ; but when they glanced in through 
the open door, her hands were lying idle on her lap 
and her eyes fixed dreamily on some opening blossom. 
Hours she sat thus, without stirring. 
Waring's plan was a wild one ; no boat could sail 
through the ice, no foot could cross the wide rifts made 
by the thaw, and weeks of the bitterest weather still 
lay between them and the spring. "Along-shore," 
he said. 
" And die pf cold and hunger," answered Yog. 
" Old man, why are you not afraid of me ? " said 
Waring, pausing in his work with a lowering glance. 
 
" Am I not stronger than you, and the master, if I 
so choose, of your castle of logs ? " 
" But you will not so choose." 
"Do not trust me too far!" 
"I do not trust you, but God." 
" For a wrecker and a murderer, you have, I must 
say, a remarkably serene conscience," sneered Waring. 
Again the old man shrank, and crept silently away. 
But when in the early dawn a dark figure stood on 
the ice adjusting its knapsack, a second figure stole 
down the ladder. "Will you go, then," it said, "go 
and leave the child ? " 
" She is no child," answered the younger man, stern- 
ly ; " and you know it." 
"To me she is." 
" I care not what she is to you ; but she shall not 
be more to me." 
" More to you ? " 
"No more than any other pretty piece of wax- 
work," replied Waring, striding away into the gray 
mist. 
Silver came to breakfast radiant, her small head 
covered from forehead to throat with the winding 
braids of gold, her eyes bright, her cheeks faintly 
tinged with the icy water of her bath. "Where is 
Jarvis ? " she asked. 
"Gone hunting," replied old Fog. 
"For all day?" 
 
" Yes ; and perhaps for all night. The weather is 
quite mild, you know." 
" Yes, papa. But I hope it will soon be cold again ; 
he cannot stay out long then," said the girl, gazing out 
over the ice with wistful eyes. 
The danger was over for that day; but the next 
morning there it was again, and with it the bitter 
cold. 
"He must come home soon now," said Silver, con- 
fidently, melting the frost on one of the little win- 
dows so that she could see out and watch for his 
coming. But he came not. As night fell the cold 
grew intense; deadly, clear, and still, with the stars 
shining brilliantly in the steel-blue of the sky. Silver 
wandered from window to window, wrapped in her fur 
mantle ; a hundred times, a thousand times she had 
scanned the ice-fields and the snow, the lake and the 
shore. "When the night closed down, she crept close 
to the old man who sat by the fire in silence, pretend- 
ing to mend his nets, but furtively watching her every 
movement. " Papa," she whispered, " where is he, 
where is he ? " And her tears fell on his hands. 
" Silver," he said, bending over her tenderly, " do I 
not love you ? Am I not enough for you ? Think, 
dear, how long we have lived here, and how happy 
we have been. He was only a stranger. Come, let us 
forget him, and go back to the old days." 
" What ! Has he gone, then ? Has Jarvis gone ? " 
 
Springing to her feet she confronted him with clinched 
hands and dilated eyes. Of all the words she had heard 
but one ; he had gone ! The poor old man tried to 
draw her down again into the shelter of his arms, but 
she seemed turned to stone, her slender form was rigid. 
"Where is he? Where is Jarvis? What have you 
done with him, you, you!" 
The quick unconscious , accusation struck to his 
heart. " Child," he said in a broken voice, " I tried to 
keep him. I would have given him my place in your 
love, in your life, but he would not. He has gone, 
he cares not for you; he is a hard, evil man." 
" He is not ! But even if he were, I love him," said 
the girl, defiantly. 
Then she threw up her arms towards heaven (alas ! 
it was no heaven to her, poor child) as if in appeal. 
"Is there no one to help me?" she cried aloud. 
"What can we do, dear?" said the old man, stand- 
ing beside her and smoothing her hair gently. "He 
would not stay, I could not keep him!" 
" I could have kept him." 
"You would not ask him to stay, if he wished to 
go?" 
" Yes, I would ; he must stay, for my sake." 
" But if he had loved you, dear, he would not have 
gone." 
" Did he say he did not love me ? " demanded Silver, 
with gleaming eyes. 
 
Old Fog hesitated. 
" Did he say he did not love me ? Did Jarvis say 
that ? " she repeated, seizing his arm with grasp of fire. 
" Yes ; he said that." 
But the lie meant to rouse her pride, killed it; as 
if struck by a visible hand, she swayed and fell to the 
floor. 
The miserable old man watched her all the night. 
She was delirious, and raved of Waring through the 
long hours. At daylight he left her with Orange, 
who, not understanding these white men's riddles, and 
sorely perplexed by Waring's desertion, yet cherished 
her darling with dumb untiring devotion, and watched 
her every breath. 
Following the solitary trail over the snow-covered 
ice and thence along-shore towards the east journeyed 
old Fog all day in the teeth of the wind, dragging a 
sledge loaded with furs, provisions, and dry wood; 
the sharp blast cut him like a knife, and the dry 
snow-pellets stung as they touched his face, and clung 
to his thin beard coated with ice. It was the worst- 
day of the winter, an evil, desolate, piercing day ; no 
human creature should dare such weather. Yet the 
old man journeyed patiently on until nightfall, and 
would have gone farther had not darkness concealed 
the track ; his fear was that new snow might fall 
deeply enough to hide it, and then there was no more 
hope of following. But nothing could be done at 
 
night, so he made his camp, a lodge under a drift 
with the snow for walls and roof, and a hot fire that 
barely melted the edges of its icy hearth. As the 
blaze flared out into the darkness, he heard a cry, and 
followed ; it was faint, but apparently not distant, and 
after some search he found the spot ; there lay Jarvis 
Waring, helpless and nearly frozen. " I thought you 
farther on," he said, as he lifted the heavy, inert body. 
" I fell and injured my knee yesterday ; since then 
I have been freezing slowly," replied Waring in a 
muffled voice. " I have been crawling backwards and 
forwards all day to keep myself alive, but had just 
given it up when I saw your light." 
All night the old hands worked over him, and they 
hated the body they touched; almost fiercely they 
fed and nourished it, warmed its blood, and brought 
back life. In the dawning Waring was himself again ; 
weak, helpless, but in his right mind. He said as 
much, and added, with a touch of his old humor, 
"There is a wrong mind you know, old gentleman." 
The other made no reply; his task done, he sat 
by the fire waiting. He had gone after this fellow, 
driven by fate ; he had saved him, driven by fate. 
Now what had fate next in store ? He warmed 
his wrinkled hands mechanically and waited, while 
the thought came to him with bitterness that his 
darling's life lay at the mercy of this man who 
had nothing better to do, on coming back from the 
 
very jaws of death, than make jests. But old Fog 
was mistaken; the man had something better to do, 
and did it. Perhaps he noted the expression of the 
face before him ; perhaps he did not, but was think- 
ing, young-man fashion, only of himself; at any rate 
this is what he said : " I was a fool to go. Help me 
back, old man ; it is too strong for me, I give it up." 
" Back, back where ? " said the other, apathetically. 
"Waring raised his head from his pillow of furs. 
" Why do you ask, when you know already ? Back to 
Silver, of course ; have you lost your mind ? " 
His harshness came from within ; in reality it was 
meant for himself; the avowal had cost him something 
as it passed his lips in the form of words ; it had not 
seemed so when in the suffering, and the cold, and 
the approach of death, he had seen his own soul face 
to face and realized the truth. 
So the two went back to the castle, the saved lying 
on the sledge, the savior drawing it; the wind was 
behind them now, and blew them along. And when 
the old man, weary and numb with cold, reached the 
ladder at last, helped "Waring, lame and irritable, up 
to the little snow-covered balcony, and led the way 
to Silver's room, when Silver, hearing the step, 
raised herself in the arms of the old slave and looked 
eagerly, not at him, no, but at the man behind, did 
he shrink? He did not; but led the reluctant, van- 
quished, defiant, half-angry, half-shamed lover forward, 
 
and gave his darling into the arms that seemed again 
almost unwilling, so strong was the old opposing de- 
termination that lay bound by love's bonds. 
Silver regained her life as if by magic ; not so War- 
ing, who lay suffering and irritable on the lounge in 
the long room, while the girl tended him with a joy 
that shone out in every word, every tone, every motion. 
She saw not his little tyrannies, his exacting demands, 
his surly tempers ; or rather she saw and loved them 
as women do when men lie ill and helpless in their 
hands. And old Fog sat apart, or came and went un- 
noticed; hours of the cold days he wandered through 
the forests, visiting the traps mechanically, and making 
tasks for himself to fill up the time ; hours of the cold 
evenings he paced the snow-covered roof alone. He 
could not bear to see them, but left the post to Orange, 
whose black face shone with joy and satisfaction over 
Waring's return. 
But after a time fate swung around (as she gen- 
erally does if impatient humanity would but give 
her a chance). Waring's health grew, and so did 
his love. He had been like a strong man armed, 
keeping his palace ; but a stronger than* he was come, 
and, the combat over, he went as far the other way, 
and adored the very sandals of the conqueror. The 
gates were open, and all the floods were out. 
And Silver? As he advanced, she withdrew. (It 
is always so in love, up to a certain point; and 
 
beyond that point lies, alas! the broad monotonous 
country of commonplace.) 
This impetuous, ardent lover was not the Jarvis 
she had known, the Jarvis who had been her master, 
and a despotic one at that. Frightened, shy, bewil- 
dered, she fled away from all her dearest joys, and 
stayed by herself in the flower-room with the bar 
across the door, only emerging timidly at meal-times 
and stealing into the long room like a little wraith ; 
a rosy wraith now, for at last she had learned to 
blush. "Waring was angry at this desertion, but only 
the more in love ; for the face had lost its infantile 
calm, the violet eyes veiled themselves under his 
gaze, and the unconscious child-mouth began to try 
to control and conceal its changing expressions, and 
only succeeded in betraying them more helplessly 
than ever. Poor little solitary maiden-heart ! 
Spring was near now; soft airs came over the ice 
daily, and stirred the water beneath ; then the old 
man spoke. He knew what was coming, he saw it 
all, and a sword was piercing his heart ; but bravely 
he played his part. " The ice will move out soon, 
in a month or less you can sail safely," he said, 
breaking the silence one night when they two sat 
by the fire, Waring moody and restless, for Silver 
had openly repulsed him, and fled away early in the 
evening. "She is trifling with me," he thought, "or 
else she does not know what love is. By heavens, 
 
I will teach her though " As far as this his 
mind had journeyed when Fog spoke. "In a month 
you can sail safely, and I suppose you will go for 
good this time?" 
"Yes." 
Fog waited. "Waring kicked a fallen log into place, 
lit his pipe, then let it go out, moved his chair for- 
ward, then pushed it hack impatiently, and finally 
spoke. " Of course I shall take Silver ; I intend to 
make Silver my wife." 
"At last?" 
"At last. No wonder you are glad " 
"Glad!" said old Fog, "glad!" But the words 
were whispered, and the young man went on un- 
heeding. 
"Of course it is a great thing for you to have 
the child off your hands and placed in a home so 
high above your expectations. Love is a strange 
power. I do not deny that I have fought against it, 
but but why should I conceal? I love Silver with 
all my soul, she seems to have grown into my very 
being." 
It was frankly and strongly uttered ; the good 
side of Jarvis Waring came uppermost for the mo- 
ment. 
Old Fog leaned forward and grasped his hand. "I 
know you do," he said. " I know something of men, 
and I have watched you closely, Waring. It is for 
 
this love that I forgive I mean that I am glad 
and thankful for it, very thankful." 
"And you have reason to be," said the younger 
man, withdrawing into his pride again. " As my 
wife, Silver will have a home, a circle of friends, 
which But you could not understand ; let it pass. 
And now, tell me all you know of her." 
The tone was a command, and the speaker leaned 
back in his chair with the air of an owner as he 
relighted his pipe. But Fog did not shrink. "Will 
you have the whole story ? " he asked humbly. 
"As well now as ever, I suppose, but be as brief 
as possible," said the young man in a lordly manner. 
Had he not just conferred an enormous favor, an 
alliance which might be called the gift of a prince, 
on this dull old backwoodsman ? 
" Forty years ago or thereabouts," began Fog in a 
low voice, "a crime was committed in New York 
City. I shall not tell you what it was, there is no 
need ; enough that the whole East was stirred, and a 
heavy reward was offered for the man who did the 
deed. I am that man." 
Waring pushed back his chair, a horror came over 
him, his hand sought for his pistol; but the voice 
went on unmoved. "Shall I excuse the deed to you, 
boy? No, I will not. It was done and I did it; 
that is enough, the damning fact that confronts and 
silences all talk of motive or cause. This much only 
 
will I say; to the passion of the act deliberate in- 
tention was not added, and there was no gain for 
the doer; only loss, the black eternal loss of every- 
thing in heaven above, on the earth beneath, or in 
the waters that are under the earth, for hell itself 
seemed to spew me out. At least so I thought as I 
fled away, the mark of Cain upon my brow; the 
horror was so strong upon me, that I could not kill 
myself, I feared to join the dead. I went to and fro 
on the earth, and walked up and down in it; I fled 
to the uttermost parts of the sea, and yet came back 
again, moved by a strange impulse to be near the 
scene of my crime. After years had passed, and 
with them the memory of the deed from the minds 
of others, though not from mine, I crept to the old 
house where my one sister was living alone, and 
made myself known to her. She left her home, a 
forlorn place, but still a home, and followed me with 
a sort of dumb affection, poor old woman. She was 
my senior by fifteen years, and I had been her pride ; 
and so she went with me from the old instinct, 
which still remained, although the pride was dead, 
crushed by slow horror. "We kept together after that, 
two poor hunted creatures instead of one ; we were 
always fleeing, always imagining that eyes knew us, 
that fingers pointed us out. I called her Shadow, 
and together we took the name of Tog, a common 
enough name, but to us meaning that we were noth- 
ing, creatures of the mist, wandering to and fro by 
night, but in the morning gone. At last one day the 
cloud over my mind seemed to lighten a little, and 
the thought came to me that no punishment can en- 
dure forever, without impugning the justice of our 
great Creator. A crime is committed, perhaps in a 
moment; the ensuing suffering, the results, linger on 
earth, it may be for some years ; but the end of it 
surely comes sooner or later, and it is as though it 
had never been. Then, for that crime, shall a soul 
suffer forever, not a thousand years, a thousand 
ages if you like, but forever? Out upon the mon- 
strous idea! Let a man do evil every moment of 
his life, and let his life be the full threescore years 
and ten; shall there not come a period in the end- 
less cycles of eternity when even his punishment 
shall end? What kind of a God is he whom your 
theologians have held up to us, a God who creates 
us at his pleasure, without asking whether or not we 
wish to be created, who endows us with certain wild 
passions and capacities for evil, turns us loose into a 
world of suffering, and then, for our misdeeds there, 
our whole lives being less than one instant's time 
in his sight, punishes us forever! Never-ending 
tortures throughout the countless ages of eternity for 
the little crimes of threescore years and ten! Hea- 
thendom shows no god so monstrous as this. great 
Creator, Father of our souls, of all the ills done 
 
on the face of thy earth, this lie against thy justice 
and thy goodness, is it not the greatest ? The 
thought came to me, as I said, that no punishment 
could endure forever, that somewhere in the future I, 
even I, should meet pardon and rest. That day I 
found by the wayside a little child, scarcely more than 
a baby ; it had wandered out of the poorhouse, where 
its mother had died the week before, a stranger passing 
through the village. No one knew anything about 
her nor cared to know, for she was almost in rags, 
fair and delicate once they told me, but wasted with 
illness and too far gone to talk. Then a second 
thought came to me, expiation. I would take this 
forlorn little creature and bring her up as my own 
child, tenderly, carefully, a life for a life. My 
poor old sister took to the child wonderfully, it 
seemed to brighten her desolation into something 
that was almost happiness ; we wandered awhile 
longer, and then came westward through the lakes, 
but it was several years before we were fairly settled 
here. Shadow took care of the baby and made her 
little dresses ; then, when the time came to teach her 
to sew and read, she said more help was needed, and 
went alone to the towns below to find a fit servant, 
coming back in her silent way with old Orange, an- 
other stray lost out of its place in the world, and 
suffering from want in the cold Northern city. You 
must not think that Silver is totally ignorant ; Shadow 
 
had the education of her day, poor thing, for ours 
was a good old family as old families go in this new 
country of ours, where three generations of well-to-do 
people constitute aristocracy. But religion, so called, 
I have not taught her. Is she any the worse for 
its want?" 
" I will teach her," said Waring, passing over the 
question (which was a puzzling one), for the new idea, 
the strange interest he felt in the task before him, the 
fair pure mind where his hand, and his alone, would be 
the first to write the story of good and evil. 
"That I should become attached to the child was 
natural," continued old Fog ; " but God gave it to me to 
love her with so great a love that my days have flown ; 
for her to sail out over the stormy water, for her to 
hunt through the icy woods, for her to dare a thousand 
deaths, to labor, to save, to suffer, these have been 
my pleasures through all the years. When I came 
home, there she was to meet me, her sweet voice call- 
ing me father, the only father she could ever know. 
When my poor old sister died, I took her away in 
my boat by night and buried her in deep water ; and 
so I did with the boy we had here for a year or two, 
saved from a wreck. My darling knows nothing of 
death; I could not tell her." 
"And those wrecks," said Waring; "how do you 
make them balance with your scheme of expiation ? " 
The old man sat silent a moment ; then he brought 
 
his hand down violently on the table by his side. " I 
will not have them brought up in that way, I tell you 
I will not ! Have I not explained that I was desper- 
ate ? " he said in an excited voice. " What are one or 
two miserable crews to the delicate life of my beautiful 
child ? And the men had their chances, too, in spite 
of my lure. Does not every storm threaten them with 
deathly force ? Wait until you are tempted, before 
you judge me, boy. But shall I tell you the whole ? 
Listen, then. Those wrecks were the greatest sacri- 
fices, the most bitter tasks of my hard life, the nearest 
approach I have yet made to the expiation. Do you 
suppose I wished to drown the men ? Do you suppose 
I did not know the greatness of the crime ? Ah, I 
knew it only too well, and yet I sailed out and did the 
deed! It was for her, to keep her from suffering; 
so I sacrificed myself- unflinchingly. I would murder 
a thousand men in cold blood, and bear the thousand 
additional punishments without a murmur throughout 
a thousand ages of eternity, to keep my darling safe 
and warm. Do you not see that the whole was a self- 
immolation, the greatest, the most complete I could 
make ? I vowed to keep my darling tenderly. I have 
kept my vow ; see that you keep yours." 
The voice ceased, the story was told, and the teller 
gone. The curtain over the past was never lifted 
again ; but often, in after years, Waring thought of this 
strange life and its stranger philosophy. He could not 
judge them. Can we ? 
 
The next day the talk turned upon Silver. "I 
know you love her," said the old man, "but how 
much ? " 
" Does it need the asking ? " answered Waring with 
a short laugh ; " am I not giving up my name, my life, 
into her hands ? " 
" You could not give them into hands more pure." 
"I know it; I am content. And yet, I sacrifice 
something," replied the young man, thinking of his 
home, his family, his friends. 
Old Fog looked at him. " Do you hesitate ? " he 
said, breaking the pause. 
" Of course I do not ; why do you ask ? " replied 
Waring, irritably. " But some things may be par- 
doned, I think, in a case like mine." 
" I pardon them." 
" I can teach her, of course, and a year or so among 
cultivated people will work wonders ; I think I shall 
take her abroad, first. How soon did you say we 
could go ? " 
" The ice is moving. There will be vessels through 
the straits in two or three weeks," replied Fog. His 
voice shook. Waring looked up ; the old man was 
weeping. " Forgive me," he said, brokenly, " but the 
little girl is very dear to me." 
The younger man was touched. " She shall be as 
dear to me as she has been to you," he said ; " do not 
fear. My IOTO is proved by the very struggle I have 
 
made against it. I venture to say no man ever fought 
harder against himself than I have in this old castle 
of yours. I kept that Titian picture as a counter- 
charm. It resembles a woman who, at a word, will 
give me herself and her fortune, a woman high in the 
cultivated circles of cities both here and abroad, beauti- 
ful, accomplished, a queen in her little sphere. But all 
was useless. That long night in the snow, when I 
crawled backwards and forwards to keep myself from 
freezing, it came to me with power that the whole 
of earth and all its gifts compared not with this love. 
Old man, she will be happy with me." 
"I know it." 
" Did you foresee this end ? " asked Waring after a 
while, watching, as he spoke, the expression of the 
face before him. He could not rid himself of the be- 
lief that the old man had laid his plans deftly. 
"I could only hope for it: I saw that she loved 
you." 
" Well, well," said the younger man, magnanimously, 
"it was natural, after all. Your expiation has ended 
better than you hoped ; for the little orphan child you 
have reared has found a home and friends, and you 
yourself need work no more. Choose your abode here 
or anywhere else in the West, and I will see that you 
are comfortable." 
" I will stay on here." 
"As you please. Silver will not forget you; she 
 
will write often. I think I will go first up the Ehine 
and then into Switzerland," continued Waring, going 
back to himself and his plans with the matter-of- 
course egotism of youth and love. And old Fog lis- 
tened. 
What need to picture the love-scene that followed ? 
The next morning a strong hand knocked at the door 
of the flower-room, and the shy little maiden within 
had her first lesson in love, or rather in its expression, 
while all the blossoms listened and the birds looked 
on approvingly. To do him justice, Waring was an 
humble suitor when alone with her ; she was so fair, so 
pure, so utterly ignorant of the world and of life, that 
he felt himself unworthy, and bowed his head. But 
the mood passed, and Silver liked him better when the 
old self-assertion and quick tone of command came 
uppermost again. She knew not good from evil, she 
could not comprehend or analyze the feeling in her 
heart; but she loved this stranger, this master, with 
the whole of her being. Jarvis Waring knew good 
from evil (more of the latter knew he than of the for- 
mer), he comprehended and analyzed fully the feeling 
that possessed him ; but, man of the world as he was, 
he loved this little water-maiden, this fair pagan, this 
strange isolated girl, with the whole force of his nature. 
"Silver," he said to her, seriously enough, "do you 
know how much I love you? I am afraid to think 
what life would seem without you." 
 
" Why think of it, then, since I am here ? " replied 
Silver. " Do you know, Jarvis, I think if I had not 
loved you so much, you would not have loved me, 
and then it would have been that is, I mean 
it would have been different " She paused; un- 
used to reasoning or to anything like argument, her 
own words seemed to bewilder her. , 
Waring laughed, but soon grew serious again. " Sil- 
ver," he said, taking her into his arms, " are you sure 
that you can love me as I crave ? " (For he seemed 
at times tormented by the doubt as to whether she 
was anything more than a beautiful child.) He held 
her closely and would not let her go, compelling her 
to meet his ardent eyes. A change came over the 
girl, a sudden red flashed up into her temples and 
down into her white throat. She drew herself impet- 
uously away from her lover's arms and fled from the 
room. "I am not sure but that she is a water- 
sprite, after all," grumbled Waring, as he followed her. 
But it was a pleasure now to grumble and pretend 
to doubt, since from that moment he was sure. 
The next morning Fog seemed unusually cheerful. 
"No wonder," thought Waring. But the character 
of benefactor pleased him, and he appeared in it 
constantly. 
"We must have the old castle more comfortable; 
I will try to send up furniture from below," he re- 
marked, while pacing to and fro in the evening. 
"Isn't it comfortable now?" said Silver. "I am 
sure I always thought this room beautiful." 
"What, this clumsy imitation of a second-class 
Western steamer? Child, it is hideous!" 
"Is it?" said Silver, looking around in innocent 
surprise, while old Fog listened in silence. Hours of 
patient labor and risks not a few over the stormy lake 
were associated with each one of the articles Waring 
so cavalierly condemned. 
Then it was, " How you do look, old gentleman ! 
I must really send you up some new clothes. Silver, 
how have you been able to endure such shabby rags 
so long ? All the years before I came, did it never 
force itself upon you ? " 
" I do not know, I never noticed ; it was always 
just papa, you know," replied Silver, her blue eyes 
resting on the old man's clothes with a new and per- 
plexed attention. 
But Fog bore himself cheerily. "He is right, Sil- 
ver," he said, " I am shabby indeed. But when you 
go out into the world, you will soon forget it." 
" Yes," said Silver, tranquilly. 
The days flew by and the ice moved out. This is 
the phrase that is always used along the lakes. The 
ice "moves out" of every harbor from Ogdensburg 
to Duluth. You can see the great white floes drift 
away into the horizon, and the question comes, 
Where do they go ? Do they not meet out there the 
 
counter floes from the Canada side, and then do they 
all join hands and sink at a given signal to the bot- 
tom ? Certainly, there is nothing melting in the 
mood of the raw spring winds and clouded skies. 
" What are your plans ? " asked old Fog, abruptly, 
one morning when the gulls had flown out to sea, 
and the fog came stealing up from the south. 
For what ? " 
" For the marriage." 
" Aha ! " thought Waring, with a smile of covert 
amusement, "he is in a hurry to secure the prize, is 
he ? The sharp old fellow ! " Aloud he said, " I 
thought we would all three sail over to Mackinac; 
and there we could be married, Silver and I, by the 
fort chaplain, and take the first Buffalo steamer; 
you could return here at your leisure." 
" Would it not be a better plan to bring a clergy- 
man here, and then you two could sail without me ? 
I am not as strong as I was; I feel that I cannot 
bear I mean that you had better go without me." 
" As you please ; I thought it would be a change 
for you, that was all" 
"It would only prolong No, I think, if you 
are willing, we will have the marriage here, and then 
you can sail immediately." 
"Very well; but I did not suppose you would be 
in such haste to part with Silver," said Waring, un- 
able to resist showing his comprehension of what he 
 
considered the manoeuvres of the old man. Then, 
waiving further discussion, " And where shall we 
find a clergyman ? " he asked. 
" There is one over on Beaver." 
"He must be a singular sort of a divine to be 
living there ! " 
i " He is ; a strayed spirit, as it were, but a genuine 
clergyman of the Presbyterian church, none the less. 
I never knew exactly what he represented there, but 
I think he came out originally as a sort of mission- 
ary." 
" To the Mormons," said Waring, laughing ; for he 
had heard old Fog tell many a story of the Latter- 
Day Saints, who had on Beaver Island at that time 
their most eastern settlement. 
"No; to the Indians, sent out by some of those 
New England societies, you know. When he reached 
the islands, he found the Indians mostly gone, and 
those who remained were all Eoman Catholics. But 
he settled down, farmed a little, hunted a little, fished 
a little, and held a service all by himself occasionally in 
an old log-house, just often enough to draw his salary 
and to write up in his semiannual reports. He isn't a 
bad sort of a man in his way." 
" And how does he get on with the Mormons ? " 
"Excellently. He lets them talk, and sells them 
fish, and shuts his eyes to everything elsa" 
" What is his name ? " 
 
" "Well, over there they call him the Preacher, princi- 
pally because he does not preach, I suppose. It is a 
way they have over on Beaver to call people names ; 
they call me Believer." 
" Believer ? " 
"Yes, because I believe nothing; at least so they 
think" 
A few days later, out they sailed over the freed 
water, around the point, through the sedge-gate grow- 
ing green again, across the channelled marsh, and out 
towards the Beavers, Fog and Waring, armed as if 
for a foray. 
" Why ? " asked Waring. 
" It 's safer ; the Mormons are a queer lot," was the 
reply. 
When they came in sight of the islands, the younger 
man scanned them curiously. Some years later an ex- 
pedition composed of exasperated crews of lake schoon- 
ers, exasperated fishermen, exasperated mainland set- 
tlers, sailed westward through the straits bound for 
these islands, armed to the teeth and determined upon 
vengeance and slaughter. False lights, stolen nets, 
and stolen wives were their grievances; and no aid 
coming from the general government, then as now 
sorely perplexed over the Mormon problem, they took 
justice into their own hands and sailed bravely out, 
with the stars and stripes floating from the mast of 
their flag-ship, an old scow impressed for military 
 
service. But this was later ; and when Fog and Waring 
came scudding into the harbor, the wild little village 
existed in all its pristine outlawry, a city of refuge for 
the flotsam vagabondage of the lower lakes. 
" Perhaps he will not come with us," suggested 
Waring. 
" I have thought of that, but it need not delay us 
long," replied Fog ; " we can kidnap him." 
" Kidnap him ? " 
" Yes ; he is but a small chap," said the old man, 
tranquilly. 
They fastened their boat to the long log-dock, 
and started ashore. The houses of the settlement 
straggled irregularly along the beach and inland to- 
wards the fields where fine crops were raised by the 
Saints, who had made here, as is their custom every- 
where, a garden in the- wilderness; the only defence 
was simple but strong, an earthwork on one of the 
white sand-hills back of the village, over whose ram- 
part peeped two small cannon, commanding the harbor. 
Once on shore, however, a foe found only a living, 
moving rampart of flesh and blood, as reckless a set of 
villains as New World history can produce. But this 
rampart came together only in times of danger ; ordi- 
nary visitors, coming by twos and threes, they wel- 
comed or murdered as they saw fit, or according to 
the probable contents of their pockets, each man for 
himself and his family. Some of these patriarchal gen- 
 
tlemen glared from their windows at Fog and. Waring 
as they passed along ; but the worn clothes not promis- 
ing much, they simply invited them to dinner ; they 
liked to hear the news, when there was nothing else 
going on. Old Fog excused himself. They had bus- 
iness, he said, with the Preacher ; was he at home ? 
He was ; had anything been sent to him from the 
East, any clothes, now, for the Indians ? 
Old Fog had heard something of a box at Mackinac, 
waiting for a schooner to bring it over. He was glad 
it was on the way, it would be of so much use to the 
Indians, they wore so many clothes. 
The patriarchs grinned, and allowed the two to pass 
on. Waring had gazed within, meanwhile, and discov- 
ered the plural wives, more or less good-looking, gen- 
erally less ; they did not seem unhappy, however, not 
so much so as many a single one he had met in more 
luxurious homes, and he said to himself, " Women of 
the lower class are much better and happier when well 
curbed." It did not occur to him that possibly the 
evil tempers of men of the lower class are made 
more endurable by a system of co-operation ; one reed 
bends, breaks, and dies, but ten reeds together can 
endure. 
The Preacher was at home on the outskirts, a lit- 
tle man, round and rosy, with black eyes and a cheery 
voice. He was attired entirely in blanket-cloth, baggy 
trousers and a long blouse, so that he looked not un- 
 
like a Turkish Santa Glaus, Oriental as to under, and 
arctic as to upper rigging. " Are you a clergyman ? " 
said Waring, inspecting him with curious eyes. 
" If you doubt it, look at this," said the little man ; 
and he brought out a clerical suit of limp black cloth, 
and a ministerial hat much the worse for wear. These 
articles he suspended from a nail, so that they looked 
as if a very poor lean divine had hung himself there. 
Then he sat down, and took his turn at staring. " I do 
not bury the dead," he remarked after a moment, as 
if convinced that the two shabby hunters before him 
could have no other errand. 
Waring was about to explain, but old Fog stopped 
him with a glance. " You are to come with us, sir," 
he said courteously ; " you will be well treated, well 
paid, and returned in a few days." 
" Come with you ! Where ? " 
" Never mind where ; will you come ? " 
" No," said the little blanket-man, stoutly. 
In an instant Fog had tripped him up, seized a 
sheet and blanket from the bed, bound his hands and 
feet with one, and wrapped him in the other. " Now, 
then," he said shouldering the load, " open the door." 
" But the Mormons," objected Waring. 
" O, they like a joke, they will only laugh ! But if, 
by any chance, they should show fight, fire at once," 
replied the old man, leading the way. Waring fol- 
lowed, his mind anything but easy ; it seemed to him 
 
like running the gantlet. He held his pistols ready, 
and glanced furtively around as they skirted the town 
and turned down towards the beach. " If any noise 
is made," Fog had remarked, "I shall know what 
to do." 
Whereupon the captive swallowed down his wrath 
and a good deal of woollen fuzz, and kept silence. He 
was no coward, this little Preacher. He held his own 
manfully on the Beavers j but no one had ever carried 
him off in a blanket before. So he silently considered 
the situation. 
When near the boat they came upon more patri- 
archs. "Put a bold face on it," murmured old Fog. 
" Whom do you suppose we have here ? " he began, 
as they approached. "Nothing less than your little 
Preacher; we want to borrow him for a few days." 
The patriarchs stared. 
" Don't you believe it ? Speak up, Preacher ; are 
you being carried off?" 
No answer. 
"You had better speak," said Fog, jocosely, at the 
same time giving his captive a warning touch with 
his elbow. 
The Preacher had revolved the situation rapidly, 
and perceived that in any contest his round body 
would inevitably suffer from friend and foe alike. He 
was not even sure but that he would be used as a 
missile, a sort of ponderous pillow swung by one end. 
 
So he replied briskly, "Yes, I am being carried as 
you see, dear brethren; I don't care about walking 
to-day." 
The patriarchs laughed, and followed on to the boat, 
laughing still more when Fog gayly tossed in his load 
of blanket, and they could hear the little man growl 
as he came down. " I say, though, when are you going 
to bring him back, Believer ? " said one. 
" In a few days," replied Fog, setting sail 
Away they flew ; and, when out of harbor, the cap- 
tive was released, and Waring told him what was 
required. 
" Why didn't you say so before ? " said the little 
blanket-man ; " nothing I like better than a wedding, 
and a drop of punch afterwards." 
His task over, Fog relapsed into silence ; but War- 
ing, curious, asked many a question about the island 
and its inhabitants. The Preacher responded freely in 
all things, save when the talk glided too near himself. 
The Mormons were not so bad, he thought ; they had 
their faults, of course, but you must take them on the 
right side. 
" Have they a right side ? " asked Waring. 
" At least they haven't a rasping, mean, cold, starv- 
ing, bony, freezing, busy-bodying side," was the reply, 
delivered energetically ; whereat Waring concluded the 
little man had had his own page of history back some- 
where among the decorous New England hills. 
 
Before they came to the marsh they blindfolded 
their guest, and did not remove the bandage until he 
was safely within the long room of the castle. Silver 
met them, radiant in the firelight. 
"Heaven grant you its blessing, maiden," said the 
Preacher, becoming Biblical at once. He meant it, 
however, for he sat gazing at her long with moistened 
eyes, forgetful even of the good cheer on the table; 
a gleam from his far-back youth came to him, a snow- 
drop that bloomed and died in bleak New Hampshire 
long, long before. 
The wedding was in the early morning. Old Fog 
had hurried it, hurried everything; he seemed driven 
by a spirit of unrest, and wandered from place to place, 
from room to room, his eyes fixed in a vacant way 
upon the familiar objects. At the last moment he 
appeared with a prayer-book, its lettering old, its 
cover tarnished. "Have you. any objection to using 
the Episcopal service ? " he asked in a low tone. " I 
I have heard the Episcopal service." 
"None in the world," replied the affable little 
Preacher. 
But he too grew sober and even earnest as Silver 
appeared, clad in white, her dress and hair wreathed 
with the trailing arbutus, the first flower of spring, 
plucked from under the vanishing snows. So beauti- 
ful her face, so heavenly its expression, that Waring, 
as he took her hand, felt his eyes grow dim, and he 
 
vowed to himself to cherish her with tenderest love 
forever. 
"We are gathered together here in the sight of 
God," began the Preacher solemnly; and old Fog, 
standing behind, shrank into the shadow, and bowed 
his head upon his hands. But when the demand 
came, " Who giveth this woman to be married to this 
man ? " he stepped forward, and gave away his child 
without a tear, nay, with even a smile on his brave 
old face. 
" To love, cherish, and to obey," repeated Silver in 
her clear sweet voice. 
And then Waring placed upon her finger the little 
ring he himself had carved out of wood. " It shall 
never be changed," he said, "but coated over with 
heavy gold, just as it is." 
Old Orange, radiant with happiness, stood near, and 
served as a foil for the bridal white. 
It was over ; but they were not to start until noon. 
Fog put the Preacher almost forcibly into the boat 
and sailed away with him, blindfolded and lamenting. 
"The wedding feast," he cried, "and the punch! 
You are a fine host, old gentleman." 
. "Everything is here, packed in those baskets. I 
have even given you two fine dogs. And there is 
your fee. I shall take you in sight of the Beavers, 
and then put you into the skiff and leave you to row 
over alone. The weather is fine, you can reach there 
to-morrow." 
 
Remonstrance died away before the bag of money; 
old Fog had given his all for his darling's marriage- 
fee. " I shall have no further use for it," he thought, 
mechanically. 
So the little blanket-man paddled away in his skiff 
with his share of the wedding-feast beside him; the 
two dogs went with him, and became good Mormons. 
Old Fog returned in the sail-boat through the chan- 
nels, and fastened the sedge-gate open for the out- 
going craft. Silver, timid and happy, stood on the 
balcony as he approached the castle. 
"It is time to start," said the impatient bride- 
groom. " How long you have been, Fog ! " 
The old man made no answer, but busied himself 
arranging the boat ; the voyage to Mackinac would 
last two or three days, and he had provided every 
possible comfort for their little camps on shore. 
" Come," said Waring, from below. 
Then the father went up to say good by. Silver 
flung her arms around his neck and burst into tears. 
" Father, father," she sobbed, " must I leave you ? 
father, father!" 
He soothed her gently; but something in the ex- 
pression of his calm, pallid face touched the deeper 
feelings of the wakening woman, and she clung to 
him desperately, realizing, perhaps, at this last mo- 
ment, how great was his love for her, how great 
his desolation. Waring had joined them on the bal- 
cony. He bore with her awhile and tried to calm 
her grief, but the girl turned from him and clung to 
the old man; it was as though she saw at last how 
she had robbed him. " I cannot leave him thus," she 
sobbed ; " father, father ! " 
Then Waring struck at the root of the difficulty. 
(Forgive him ; he was hurt to the core.) " But he 
is not your father," he said, " he has no claim upon 
you. I am your husband now, Silver, and you must 
come with me; do you not wish to come with me, 
darling?" he added, his voice sinking into fondness. 
"Not my father!" said the girl. Her arms fell, 
and she stood as if petrified. 
" No, dear ; he is right. I am not your father," 
said old Fog, gently. A spasm passed over his fea- 
tures, he kissed her hastily, and gave her into her 
husband's arms. In another moment they were afloat, 
in two the sail filled and the boat glided away. The 
old man stood on the castle roof, smiling and wav- 
ing his hand ; below, Orange fluttered her red hand- 
kerchief from the balcony, and blessed her darling 
with African mummeries. The point was soon round- 
ed, the boat gone. 
That night, when the soft spring moonlight lay 
over the water, a sail came gliding back to the cas- 
tle, and a shape flew up the ladder ; it was the bride 
of the morning. 
 
"O father, father, I could not leave you so, I 
made him bring me back, if only for a few days! 
father, father ! for you are my father, the only fa- 
ther I can ever know, and so kind and good ! " 
In the gloom she knelt by his bedside, and her 
arms were around his neck. Waring came in after- 
wards, silent and annoyed, yet not unkind. He 
stirred the dying brands into a flame. 
" What is this ? " he said, starting, as the light fell 
across the pillow. 
"It is nothing," replied Fog, and his voice sound- 
ed far away; "I am an old man, children, and all 
is well." 
They watched him through the dawning, through 
the lovely day, through the sunset, Waring repent- 
ant, Silver absorbed in his every breath; she lav- 
ished upon him now all the wealth of love her 
unconscious years had gathered. Orange seemed to 
agree with her master that all was well. She came 
and went, but not sadly, and crooned to herself some 
strange African tune that rose and fell more like a 
chant of triumph than a dirge. She was doing her 
part, according to her light, to ease the going of the 
soul out of this world. 
Grayer grew the worn face, fainter the voice, 
colder the shrivelled old hands in the girl's fond 
clasp. 
"O Jarvis, Jarvis, what is this?" she murmured, 
fearfully. 
 
"Waring came to her side and put his strong arm 
around her. " My little wife," he said, " this is Death. 
But do not fear." 
And then he told her the story of the Cross; and, 
as it came to her a revelation, so, in the telling, it 
became to him, for the first time, a belief. 
Old Fog told them to bury him out in deep water, 
as he had buried the others; and then he lay placid, 
a great happiness shining in his eyes. 
"It is well," he said, "and God i very good to 
me. Life would have been hard without you, dar- 
ling. Something seemed to give way when you said 
good by; but now that I am called, it is sweet to 
know that you are happy, and sweeter still to think 
that you came back to me at the last. Be kind to 
her, Waring. I know you love her; but guard her 
tenderly, she is but frail. I die content, my child, 
quite content ; do not grieve for me." 
Then, as the light faded from his eyes, he folded 
his hands. " Is it expiated, God ? Is it expiated ? " 
he murmured. 
There was no answer for him on earth. 
They buried him as he had directed, and then they 
sailed away, taking the old black with them. The 
castle was left alone ; the flowers bloomed on through 
the summer, and the rooms held the old furniture 
bravely through the long winter. But gradually the 
 
walls fell in, and the water entered. The fogs still 
steal across the lake, and wave their gray draperies 
