the eggs should break. They should lie thus in the gravy for at least
five minutes. Have ready, upon a platter, the fried bread. Lay the
sliced egg evenly upon this, pour the gravy over all, and serve hot.
EGG CUTLETS. +
6 hard-boiled eggs.
1 raw egg well-beaten.
1 handful very fine, dry bread-crumbs.
Pepper and salt, and a little parsley minced fine.
3 table-spoonfuls butter or dripping.
1 cup broth, or drawn butter, in which a raw egg has been beaten.
Cut the boiled eggs when perfectly cold, into rather thick slices
with a sharp, thin knife; dip each slice into the beaten egg; roll in
the bread-crumbs which should be seasoned with pepper, salt and minced
parsley. Fry them to a light-brown in the butter or dripping, turning
each piece as it is done on the under side. Do not let them lie in the
frying-pan an instant after they are cooked. Drain free from fat before
laying them on a hot dish. Pour the gravy, boiling hot, over the eggs,
and send to table.
STIRRED EGGS. +
6 eggs.
3 table-spoonfuls of gravy—that made from poultry is best.
Enough fried toast, from which the crust has been pared, to cover the
bottom of a flat dish.
A very little anchovy paste.
1 table-spoonful of butter.
Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and when hot, break into this the
eggs. Stir in the gravy, pepper and salt to taste, and continue to stir
very quickly, and well up from the bottom, for about two minutes, or
until the whole is a soft, yellow mass. Have ready in a flat dish the
fried toast, spread thinly with anchovy paste.
Heap the stirred egg upon this, and serve before it has time to harden.
SCALLOPED EGGS (Raw). +
6 eggs.
4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of ground or minced ham.
A little chopped parsley.
A very little minced onion.
2 great spoonfuls of cream, and 1 of melted butter.
Salt and pepper to taste.
½ cup of bread crumbs moistened with milk and a spoonful of melted
butter.
Line the bottom of a small deep dish, well-buttered, with the soaked
bread-crumbs; put upon these a layer of chopped ham, seasoned with
the onion and parsley. Set these in the oven, closely covered, until
they are smoking hot. Meanwhile, beat up the eggs to a stiff froth,
season with pepper and salt, stir in the cream and a spoonful of melted
butter, and pour evenly upon the layer of ham. Put the dish, uncovered,
back into the oven, and bake five minutes, or until the eggs are “set.”
SCALLOPED EGGS (Hard-boiled). +
6 eggs boiled, and when cold, cut into thin slices.
1 cupful fine bread-crumbs, well moistened with a little good gravy and
a little milk or cream.
½ cup thick drawn butter, into which has been beaten the yolk of an egg.
1 small cupful minced ham, tongue, poultry, or cold halibut, salmon, or
cod.
Pepper and salt to taste.
Put a layer of moistened crumbs in the bottom of a buttered
baking-dish. On this lay the sliced eggs, each piece of which must have
been dipped in the thick drawn butter. Sprinkle the ground meat over
these, cover with another layer of bread-crumbs, and proceed in like
manner, until the egg is all used up. Sift on the top a good layer of
dry bread-crumbs. Cover the dish with an inverted plate, until the
contents are heated through, then remove the plate, and brown the top
upon the upper grating of the oven.
WHIRLED EGGS.
6 eggs.
1 quart of boiling water.
Some thin slices of buttered toast.
Pepper and salt to taste.
A table-spoonful of butter.
Put the water, slightly salted, in a saucepan over the fire, and keep
it at a fast boil. Stir with a wooden spoon or ladle in one direction
until it whirls rapidly. Break the eggs, one at a time, into a cup,
and drop each carefully into the centre, or vortex of the boiling
whirlpool, which must be kept in rapid motion until the egg is a soft,
round ball. Take it out carefully with a perforated spoon, and put it
on a slice of buttered toast laid upon a hot dish. Put a bit of butter
on the top. Set the dish in the oven to keep it warm, and proceed in
the same way with each egg, having but one at a time in the saucepan.
When all are done, dust lightly with salt and pepper, and send up hot.
POACHED EGGS à la Bonne Femme. +
6 eggs.
1 teaspoonful of vinegar.
½ cup nice veal or chicken broth.
Salt and pepper to taste.
½ cup butter or dripping.
Rounds of stale bread, and the beaten yolks of two raw eggs.
Prepare the bread first by cutting it into rather large rounds, and,
with a smaller cutter, marking an inner round on each, leaving a narrow
rim or wall on the outside. Excavate this cautiously, not to break the
bottom of the cup thus indicated, which should be three-quarters of
an inch deep. Dip each round thus prepared in the beaten egg, and fry
quickly to a yellow-brown in hot butter or dripping. Put in order upon
a flat dish, and set in the open oven while you poach the eggs.
Pour about a quart of boiling water into a deep saucepan. Salt
slightly, and add the vinegar. Break the eggs into a saucer, one at a
time, and, when the water is at a hard boil, slide them singly into
the saucepan. If the yolk be broken in putting it in, the effect of
the dish is spoiled. When the whites begin to curdle around the edges,
lessen the heat, and cook slowly until they are firm enough to bear
removal. Take them out with a perforated skimmer, trim each dexterously
into a neat round, and lay within the bread-cup described above. When
all are in their places, pour over them the gravy, which should be well
seasoned and boiling hot.
EGGS POACHED WITH MUSHROOMS. +
6 eggs.
1 tea-cupful of cold chicken or other fowl, minced fine.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
About a cupful of good gravy,—veal or poultry.
2 dozen mushrooms of fair size, sliced.
Some rounds of fried bread.
1 raw egg beaten light.
Mince the cold meat very fine and work into it the butter, with the
beaten egg. Season with pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire in
a saucepan until it is smoking-hot. Poach the eggs as in preceding
receipt, and trim off the ragged edges. The fried bread must be
arranged upon a hot, flat dish, the mince of chicken on this, and
the eggs upon the chicken. Have ready in another saucepan the sliced
mushrooms and gravy. If you use the French champignons—canned—they
should have simmered in the gravy fifteen minutes. If fresh ones, you
should have parboiled them in clean water as long, before they are
sliced into the gravy, and stewed ten minutes in it. The gravy must be
savory, rich and rather highly seasoned. Pour it very hot upon the eggs.
If you will try this receipt, and that for “Eggs à la bonne femme”
for yourself, your family and your guests will be grateful to you, and
you to the writer.
ANCHOVY TOAST WITH EGGS.
6 eggs.
1 cupful drawn butter—drawn in milk.
Some rounds of stale bread, toasted and buttered.
A little anchovy paste.
Pepper and salt to taste.
Spread the buttered toast thinly with anchovy paste, and with this
cover the bottom of a flat dish. Heat the drawn butter to boiling
in a tin vessel set in another of hot water, and stir into this the
eggs beaten very light. Season to taste, and heat—stirring all the
time—until they form a thick sauce, but do not let them boil. Pour over
the toast, and send to table very hot.
FORCEMEAT EGGS. +
6 eggs boiled hard.
1 cupful minced chicken, veal, ham or tongue.
1 cupful of rich gravy.
½ cupful bread-crumbs.
2 tea-spoonfuls mixed parsley, onion, summer savory or sweet marjoram,
chopped fine.
Juice of half a lemon.
1 raw egg beaten light.
While the eggs are boiling, make the forcemeat by mixing the minced
meat, bread-crumbs, herbs, pepper and salt together, and working well
into this the beaten raw egg. When the eggs are boiled hard, drop
for a minute into cold water to loosen the shells. Break these away
carefully. With a sharp knife divide each egg into halves; cut a piece
of the white off at each end (that they may stand firmly when dished),
and coat them thickly with the forcemeat. Brown them by setting them in
a tin plate on the upper grating of a very hot oven, and heap neatly
upon a hot dish. Pour the boiling gravy, in which a little lemon-juice
has been squeezed at the last, over them.
A HEN’S NEST. +
6 or 8 eggs boiled hard.
1 cup minced chicken, or other fowl, ham, tongue, or, if more
convenient, any cold firm fish.
1 cup of drawn butter into which have been stirred two or three
table-spoonfuls of good gravy and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley.
When the eggs are quite cold and firm, cut the whites from the yolks
in long thin strips, or shavings, and set them aside to warm in a very
gentle oven, buttering them, now and then, while you prepare the rest.
Pound the minced meat or fish very fine in a Wedgewood mortar, mixing
in, as you go on, the yolks of the eggs, the parsley, and pepper and
salt to taste. When all are reduced to a smooth paste, mould with your
hands into small, egg-shaped balls. Heap in the centre of a dish,
arrange the shred eggs around them, in imitation of a nest, and pour
over all the hot sauce.
A simple and delightful relish.
OMELETTES.
For omelettes of various kinds, please see “Common Sense in the
Household, No. 1,” page 259.
FISH.
ENTRÉES AND RELISHES OF FISH.
WHAT TO DO WITH COLD FISH. +
1 cup drawn butter with an egg beaten in.
2 hard-boiled eggs.
Mashed potato—(a cupful will do.)
1 cupful cold fish—cod, halibut or shad.
Roe of cod or shad, and 1 table-spoonful of butter.
1 teaspoonful minced parsley.
Pepper and salt to taste.
Dry the roe, previously well boiled. Mince the fish fine, and season.
Work up the roe with butter and the yolks of the boiled eggs. Cut the
white into thin rings. Put a layer of mashed potato at the bottom of
a buttered deep dish—then, alternate layers of fish, drawn butter
(with the rings of white embedded in this), roe,—more potato at top.
Cover the dish and set in a moderate oven until it smokes and bubbles.
Brown by removing the cover for a few minutes. Send to table in the
baking-dish, and pass pickles with it.
FRIED ROES OF COD OR SHAD. +
2 or three roes. If large, cut them in two.
1 pint of boiling water.
1 table-spoonful of vinegar.
Salt and pepper.
1 raw egg, well beaten.
½ cup fine bread-crumbs.
3 table-spoonfuls sweet lard, or dripping.
Wash the roes and dry with a soft, clean cloth. Have ready the boiling
water in which should be put the vinegar, salt, and pepper. Boil the
roes in this for ten minutes, then plunge at once into very cold water,
slightly salted. Wipe dry again; when they have lain about two minutes
in this, roll in the beaten egg, then the bread-crumbs, and fry to a
fine brown in the fat.
Sauce for the above.
1 cup drawn butter, into which beat a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce,
juice of half a lemon, and a pinch of cayenne pepper, with a little
minced parsley. Boil up once, and send around in a gravy-boat.
ROES OF COD OR SHAD STEWED.
Wash the roes, and parboil in water with a little vinegar, pepper,
and salt added. It should be at a hard boil when the roes go in. Boil
five minutes, lay in very cold water for two, wipe, and transfer to a
clean saucepan, with enough melted butter to half cover them. Set it
in a vessel of boiling water, cover closely, and let it stew gently
ten minutes. Should it boil too fast the roes will shrink and toughen.
While they are stewing prepare the—
Sauce.
1 cup of boiling water.
2 teaspoonfuls corn-starch, or rice flour, mixed in cold water.
1 table-spoonful of butter.
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, or good catsup.
Juice of half a lemon.
Beaten yolks of two eggs.
Salt and cayenne pepper.
Stir the corn-starch smoothly into the boiling water, and set it over
the fire, stirring constantly until it thickens up well. Add pepper,
salt, butter, and parsley; mix well together, put in the lemon-juice
and catsup, lastly the roes, which should have been frequently turned
in the melted butter. Set within a vessel of boiling water for about
eight minutes, but do not let the roes and sauce boil fast. Take them
up, lay on a flat, hot dish; add to the sauce the beaten yolks, stir
fast and well over the fire for two minutes, pour over the roes, and
serve.
Should the receipt for so simple a dish seem needlessly prolix, I beg
the reader to remember that I have made it minute to save her time and
trouble.
SCALLOPED ROES. +
3 large roes.
1 cup of drawn butter and yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs.
1 teaspoonful anchovy paste or essence.
1 teaspoonful of parsley.
Juice of half a lemon.
1 cup of bread-crumbs.
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Boil the roes in water and vinegar, as directed in former receipts;
lay in cold water five minutes, then wipe perfectly dry. Break them
up with the back of a silver spoon, or in a Wedgewood mortar, but not
so fine as to crush the eggs. When ready, they should be a granulated
heap. Set aside while you pound the hard-boiled eggs to a powder. Beat
this into the drawn butter, then the parsley and other seasoning;
lastly, mix in, more lightly, the roes. Strew the bottom of a buttered
dish with bread-crumbs, put in the mixture, spread evenly, and cover
with very fine crumbs. Stick bits of butter thickly over the top, cover
and bake in a quick oven, until bubbling hot. Brown, uncovered, on the
upper grating of the oven.
FISH-BALLS. +
2 cupfuls cold boiled cod—fresh or salted.
1 cupful mashed potato.
½ cup drawn butter, with an egg beaten in.
Season to taste.
Chop the fish when you have freed it of bones and skin. Work in the
potato, and moisten with the drawn butter until it is soft enough to
mould, and will yet keep in shape. Roll the balls in flour, and fry
quickly to a golden-brown in lard, or clean dripping. Take from the fat
so soon as they are done; lay in a cullender or sieve and shake gently,
to free them from every drop of grease. Turn out for a moment on white
paper to absorb any lingering drops, and send up on a hot dish.
A pretty way of serving them is to line the dish with clean, white
paper, and edge this with a frill of colored tissue paper—green or
pink. This makes ornamental that which is usually considered a homely
dish.
STEWED EELS à l’Allemande.
1 cup of boiling water.
1 cup rather weak vinegar.
1 small onion, chopped fine.
A pinch of cayenne pepper.
½ saltspoonful mace.
1 saltspoonful salt.
About 2 pounds of eels.
3 table-spoonfuls melted butter.
Chopped parsley to taste.
Make a liquor in which to boil the eels, of the vinegar, water, onion,
pepper, salt and mace. Boil—closely covered—fifteen minutes, when
strain and put in the eels, which should be cleaned carefully and cut
into pieces less than a finger long. Boil gently nearly an hour.
Take them up, drain dry, and put into a sauce made of melted butter
and chopped parsley. Set the vessel containing them in another of hot
water, and bring eels and sauce to the boiling point, then serve in a
deep dish.
EELS STEWED à l’Americain. +
3 pounds eels, skinned and cleaned, and all the fat removed from the
inside.
1 young onion, chopped fine.
4 table-spoonfuls of butter.
Pepper and salt to taste, with chopped parsley.
Cut the eels in pieces about two inches in length; season, and lay in a
saucepan containing the melted butter. Strew the onion and parsley over
all, cover the saucepan (or tin pail, if more convenient) closely, and
set in a pot of cold water. Bring this gradually to a boil, then cook
very gently for an hour and a half, or until the eels are tender. Turn
out into a deep dish.
There is no more palatable preparation of eels than this, in the
opinion of most of those who have eaten it.
FRICASSEED EELS.
3 pounds fresh eels, skinned, cleaned, and cut into pieces about two
inches long.
1 small onion, sliced.
Enough butter, or good dripping, to fry the eels.
1 cup good beef or veal gravy, from which the fat has been skimmed.
Season with wine, catsup and lemon-juice.
Pepper and salt with minced parsley for seasoning.
A little flour.
Flour the eels and fry in the dripping, or butter, until brown. Take
them out and set aside to cool while you fry the sliced onion in the
same fat. Drain this, also the eels, from every drop of grease. When
the eels are almost cold, lay them in the bottom of a tin pail or
farina-kettle, sprinkle the onion, parsley and other seasoning over
them. Add to your gravy a little anchovy sauce, or flavorous catsup;
the juice of half a lemon, and a glass of brown sherry. Pour over
the eels, cover closely, and set in a pot of warm water. Bring to
a gentle boil and simmer, after the contents of the inner vessel are
heated through, about twenty minutes. Too much, or hard cooking, will
spoil them.
Serve upon a chafing-dish.
CUTLETS OF HALIBUT, COD OR SALMON. +
3 pounds fish, cut in slices three-quarters of an inch thick, from the
body of the fish.
A handful of fine bread-crumbs, with which should be mixed pepper and
salt with a little minced parsley.
1 egg beaten light.
Enough butter, lard or dripping to fry the cutlets.
Cut each slice of fish into strips as wide as your two fingers. Dry
them with a clean cloth; rub lightly with salt and pepper; dip in the
egg, then the bread-crumbs, and fry in enough fat to cover them well.
Drain away every drop of fat, and lay upon hot white paper, lining a
heated dish.
CUTLETS OF COD, HALIBUT OR SALMON à la reine.
Prepare the fish as in the last receipt until after frying it, when
have ready the following sauce:
1 cup strong brown gravy—beef or veal.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce or mushroom catsup.
Pepper, salt, a pinch of parsley and a very little minced onion.
1 glass brown sherry and juice of half a lemon.
Thicken with browned flour.
Lay the fried cutlets evenly in a broad saucepan with a top, cover with
the gravy and heat slowly all through, but do not let them boil. Take
up the cutlets with care, and arrange upon a chafing-dish. Pour the
gravy over them.
These are very nice, and well worth the additional trouble it may cost
to prepare the sauce.
BAKED COD OR HALIBUT. +
A piece of fish from the middle of the back, weighing four, five or six
pounds.
A cupful of bread-crumbs, peppered and salted.
2 table-spoonfuls boiled salt pork, finely chopped.
A table-spoonful chopped parsley, sweet marjoram and thyme, with a mere
suspicion of minced onion.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, or Harvey’s, if you prefer it.
½ cupful drawn butter.
Juice of half a lemon.
1 beaten egg.
Lay the fish in very cold salt-and-water for two hours; wipe dry; make
deep gashes in both sides at right angles with the back-bone and rub
into these, as well as coat it all over with a force-meat made of the
crumbs, pork, herbs, onion and seasoning, bound with raw egg. Lay in
the baking-pan and pour over it the drawn butter (which should be quite
thin), seasoned with the anchovy sauce, lemon-juice, pepper and a pinch
of parsley. Bake in a moderate oven nearly an hour,—quite as long if
the piece be large, basting frequently lest it should brown too fast.
Add a little butter-and-water when the sauce thickens too much. When
the fish is done, remove to a hot dish, and strain the gravy over it.
A few capers or chopped green pickles are a pleasant addition to the
gravy.
BAKED SALMON WITH CREAM SAUCE. +
A middle cut of salmon.
4 table-spoonfuls of butter melted in hot water.
Butter a sheet of foolscap paper on both sides, and wrap the fish up
in it, pinning the ends securely together. Lay in the baking-pan, and
pour six or seven spoonfuls of butter-and-water over it. Turn another
pan over all, and steam in a moderate oven from three-quarters of an
hour to an hour, lifting the cover, from time to time, to baste and
assure yourself that the paper is not burning. Meanwhile, have ready in
a saucepan a cup of cream, in which you would do well to dissolve a bit
of soda a little larger than a pea. This is a wise precaution whenever
cream is to be boiled. Heat this in a vessel placed within another of
hot water; thicken with a heaping teaspoonful of corn starch, add a
tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste, a liberal pinch of
minced parsley, and when the fish is unwrapped and dished, pour half
slowly over it, sending the rest to table in a boat. If you have no
cream, use milk, and add a beaten egg to the thickening.
SALMON STEAKS OR CUTLETS (FRIED).
Cut slices from the middle of the fish, an inch thick.
1 table-spoonful butter to each slice, for frying.
Beaten egg and fine cracker crumbs, powdered to dust, and peppered
with cayenne.
Wipe the fish dry, and salt slightly. Dip in egg, then in cracker
crumbs, fry very quickly in hot butter. Drain off every drop of grease,
and serve upon a dish lined with hot, clean paper, fringed at the ends.
Sprinkle green parsley in bunches over it.
The French use the best salad-oil in this receipt, instead of butter.
SALMON STEAKS OR CUTLETS (BROILED).
Three or four slices of salmon.
1 table-spoonful melted butter.
½ cup drawn butter, thickened with browned flour, and seasoned with
tomato catsup.
Pepper and salt to taste.
Rub the steaks with the butter, pepper and salt slightly. Broil upon a
gridiron over a very clear fire, turning often, and rubbing each side
with butter as it comes uppermost. When nicely browned, lay on a hot
dish, and pour the sauce over them.
SALMON CUTLETS EN PAPILLOTE.
Dry and lay in melted butter ten minutes. Dust lightly with cayenne
pepper, and wrap securely in well buttered or oiled white paper,
stitching down the ends of each cover. Fry in nice dripping or sweet
lard. They will be done in ten minutes, unless very thick. Have ready
clean, hot papers, fringed at both ends. Clip the threads of the
soiled ones when you have drained them free from fat, slip dexterously
and quickly, lest they cool in the process, into the fresh covers, give
the fringed ends a twist, and send up on a heated dish.
Salmon en papillote is also broiled by experts. If you attempt this,
be careful that the paper is so well greased and the cutlets turned so
often that it does not scorch. The least taste of burnt paper ruins the
flavor of the fish, which it is the object of the cover to preserve.
SALMON IN A MOULD. (Very good.) +
1 can preserved salmon or an equal amount of cold, left from a company
dish of roast or boiled.
4 eggs beaten light.
4 table-spoonfuls butter—melted, but not hot.
½ cup fine bread-crumbs.
Season with pepper, salt and minced parsley.
Chop the fish fine, then rub it in a Wedgewood mortar, or in a bowl
with the back of a silver spoon, adding the butter until it is a smooth
paste. Beat the bread-crumbs into the eggs and season before working
all together. Put into a buttered pudding-mould, and boil or steam for
an hour.
Sauce for the Above.
1 cupful milk heated to a boil, and thickened with a table-spoonful
corn-starch.
The liquor from the canned salmon, or if you have none, double the
quantity of butter.
1 great spoonful of butter.
1 raw egg.
1 teaspoonful anchovy, or mushroom, or tomato catsup.
1 pinch of mace and one of cayenne.
Put the egg in last and very carefully, boil one minute to cook it, and
when the pudding is turned from the mould, pour over it. Cut in slices
at table.
A nice supper-dish.
STEWED SALMON. +
1 can preserved fresh salmon, or remains of roast or boiled.
1 cup drawn butter.
2 eggs well beaten.
1 teaspoonful anchovy or Harvey’s sauce.
Cayenne and salt to taste.
2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine.
Some capers or minced green pickles.
Stew the salmon in the can liquor, or a very little water, slightly
salted, ten minutes. Have ready, in a larger saucepan, the drawn butter
thickened with rice-flour or corn-starch. Season and stir in cautiously
the beaten raw eggs, then the salmon. Let it come to a gentle boil, add
the chopped eggs and pickles and turn into a covered deep dish.
Or—
Add the hard-boiled eggs and capers to the salmon, with a
table-spoonful of butter, toss up lightly with a fork, pepper slightly,
and heap in the centre of a hot flat dish, then pour the boiling sauce
over all.
It is very appetizing served in either way.
MAYONNAISE OF SALMON.
If you use canned salmon, drain it very dry and pick into coarse flakes
with a silver fork. If the remnants of roast or boiled fish, remove all
bits of bone, skin and fat, and pick to pieces in the same way.
1 bunch of celery, or 2 heads of lettuce.
For Dressing.
1 cup boiling water.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch.
2 table-spoonfuls best salad-oil.
1 teaspoonful made mustard.
½ cup vinegar.
1 small teaspoonful black pepper, or half as much cayenne.
1 teaspoonful salt.
1 table-spoonful melted butter.
2 raw eggs—yolks only,—beaten light.
2 hard-boiled eggs, yolks only.
2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar.
Wet the corn-starch with cold water and stir into the boiling water
until it thickens well; add half of pepper, salt, sugar, and all the
butter. Remove from the fire, and beat in the raw yolks while still
scalding hot. Set aside to cool, while you cut the celery or lettuce
into small pieces, tearing and bruising as little as may be. Mix this
lightly with the fish in a deep bowl. Rub the boiled yolks to a powder,
add the salt, sugar and pepper, then the oil, little by little, beating
it in with a silver spoon; next, the mustard. When the thick egg sauce
is quite cold, whip the other into it with an egg-beater, and when
thoroughly incorporated, put in the vinegar. Mix half the dressing
through the fish and celery, turn this into a salad-dish, mounding it
in the centre, and pour the rest of the dressing over it.
Garnish with rings of boiled white-of-egg or whipped raw whites, heaped
regularly on the surface, with a caper on top of each.
Do not be discouraged at the length of this receipt. It is easy and
safe. Your taste may suggest some modification of the ingredients, but
you will like it, in the main, well enough to try it more than once.
DEVILLED SALMON. +
½ pound smoked salmon, cut into strips half an inch wide and an inch
long.
4 table-spoonfuls good beef gravy, seasoned with onion.
1 table-spoonful tomato or walnut catsup.
1 table-spoonful vinegar.
2 table-spoonfuls melted butter or best salad-oil.
1 teaspoonful made mustard.
Cayenne to taste.
Boil the salmon ten minutes in clear water. Have ready in a saucepan
the gravy and seasoning, hot and closely covered, but do not let it
boil. Lay the salmon for ten minutes more in the melted butter, turning
it several times. Then put into the hot gravy, cover and simmer five
minutes. Pile the fish upon a hot platter; pour the sauce over it, and
serve with split Boston crackers, toasted and buttered.
SMOKED SALMON (Broiled). +
½ pound smoked salmon, cut into narrow strips.
2 table-spoonfuls butter.
Juice of half a lemon.
Cayenne pepper.
Parboil the salmon ten minutes; lay in cold water for the same length
of time; wipe dry, and broil over a clear fire. Butter while hot,
season with cayenne and lemon-juice, pile in a “log-cabin” square upon
a hot plate, and send up with dry toast.
SALT COD an maître d’hôtel. +
About a pound of cod which has been soaked over night, then boiled,
picked into fine flakes.
1 cup milk.
2 table-spoonfuls butter.
Bunch of sweet herbs.
Juice of half a lemon.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch.
Pepper to taste.
Heat the milk to boiling, stir in the butter, then the corn-starch;
stir until it thickens, when add the fish; pepper and cook slowly
fifteen minutes. Turn out upon a dish, strew thickly with chopped green
herbs—chiefly parsley; squeeze the lemon-juice over all and serve.
Mashed potato is an improvement to this dish.
SALT COD WITH EGG SAUCE. +
1 pound salt cod, previously soaked, then boiled and allowed to cool,
picked or chopped fine.
1 small cup milk or cream.
1 teaspoonful corn-starch or flour.
2 eggs beaten light.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
A little chopped parsley.
Half as much mashed potato as you have fish.
Pepper to taste.
Heat the milk, thicken with the corn starch; then the potato, rubbed
very fine; next the butter, the eggs and parsley, lastly the fish. Stir
and toss until smoking hot all through, when pour into a deep dish.
Or,
Make a sauce of all the ingredients except the fish and potato. Mix
these well together, with a little melted butter. Heat in a saucepan,
stirring all the while; heap in the centre of a dish, and pour the
sauce over all.
SALT COD WITH CHEESE.
1 pound boiled codfish, chopped fine.
1 cup drawn butter.
Pepper and parsley.
2 table-spoonfuls grated cheese.
Bread-crumbs.
Heat the butter to boiling, season and stir in the fish, then the
cheese; put into a baking-dish; strew fine bread-crumbs on the top, and
brown in the oven.
SALT COD SCALLOPED.
Boiled cold cod, minced fine.
1 cup oyster liquor.
1 table-spoonful rice-flour or corn-starch.
3 table-spoonfuls butter.
Chopped parsley and pepper.
3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine.
1 cup fine, dry bread-crumbs.
Boil the oyster liquor, thicken and stir in two tablespoonfuls of
butter with seasoning. Let it cool. Put a handful of bread-crumbs on
the bottom of a buttered baking-dish, cover these with the oyster
sauce, next comes a layer of fish; one of chopped egg; then more sauce,
and so on, leaving out the bread-crumbs until the dish is full, when
put a thick layer, with bits of butter set closely in it. Bake covered
until hot through, then brown.
FRICASSEED LOBSTER. +
Meat of a good-sized lobster, boiled.
1 cup rich veal, or chicken broth—quite thick.
½ cup cream.
Juice of half a lemon.
1 table-spoonful of butter.
Pepper and salt to taste.
Cut the lobster-meat in pieces half an inch square; put with the gravy,
pepper and salt, into a saucepan. Cover and stew gently for five
minutes. Add the cream, and just as it is on the point of boiling, stir
in the butter. When this is melted, take the saucepan from the fire,
and stir in, very quickly, the lemon-juice.
Serve in a covered dish.
Boston crackers, split, delicately toasted, and buttered while hot, are
a nice accompaniment to this fricassee.
Canned lobster may be used if you cannot procure fresh.
LOBSTER RISSOLES. +
1 large lobster—boiled.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
Yolks of 3 eggs.
Handful of bread-crumbs.
1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce.
Cayenne, salt, and chopped parsley to liking.
Pick the meat from the boiled lobster, and pound it in a Wedgewood
mortar with half the coral, seasoning with salt and cayenne pepper.
When you have rubbed it to a smooth paste with the butter, add a
table-spoonful of anchovy sauce and the yolk of an egg, well beaten.
Flour your hands well and make the mixture into egg-shaped balls. Roll
these in beaten egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry to a light brown in
sweet lard, dripping, or butter.
For the Sauce.
The coral of the lobster rubbed smooth.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce.
4 table-spoonfuls melted butter.
1 table-spoonful of cream.
Have ready in a saucepan 4 table-spoonfuls of melted butter; the
remainder of the coral of the lobster pounded fine, and stirred in
carefully, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Let this heat almost to
boiling; add the cream, and pour hot over the rissoles when you have
arranged these upon a heated dish.
Garnish with parsley or cresses.
LOBSTER CUTLETS +
Are made precisely as is the paste for rissoles, except that enough
flour is added to it to enable you to roll it out into a sheet about as
thick as your finger. Cut this into strips about three inches in length
and one in width. Fry these quickly and drain dry before arranging them
in the dish.
Pour the sauce over them. If properly made and fried, they are light
and palatable.
LOBSTER CROQUETTES. +
1 fine lobster, well boiled, or a can of lobster.
2 eggs, well beaten.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter, melted, but not hot.
½ cup bread-crumbs.
Season with salt and cayenne pepper.
Pound the lobster-meat, coral and all, in a Wedgewood mortar. Mix with
this the bread-crumbs, then the seasoning and butter. Bind with the
yolk of one egg. Flour your hands and make into oblong croquettes. Dip
in beaten egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry quickly to a light-brown
in sweet lard or butter. Drain off fat, by laying upon a hot, clean
paper, before dishing them.
Make a border of parsley close about them when you have piled them
tastefully in the dish.
LOBSTER PUDDING.
1 large lobster well boiled, or a can of preserved lobster.
½ cup fine bread-crumbs.
½ cup cream or rich milk.
Cayenne pepper and salt.
1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire or Harvey’s sauce.
¼ pound fat, salt pork, or corned ham, cut into very thin slices.
3 eggs.
Pound the meat and coral to a paste. Mix into this two eggs well
beaten, the seasoning, the bread-crumbs, and one table-spoonful of
cream. Stir all together until light. Line the pudding-mould with the
sliced ham. Pour the mixture into this and fit on the top. Set into a
pot or pan of boiling water, and boil steadily for one hour.
Sauce for Pudding.
½ cup drawn butter.
The remainder of the cream.
A little chopped parsley.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce.
Heat almost to boiling; stir in a beaten egg, and so soon as this
begins to thicken, take from the fire.
Turn the pudding out carefully upon a hot dish, and pour the sauce over
it. Cut with a sharp thin knife.
Send around lemon cut into eighths, to be squeezed over each slice,
should the guests wish to do so.
CURRIED LOBSTER.
1 large lobster, boiled.
1 large cup of strong veal or chicken broth.
1 shallot.
1 great spoonful of butter.
1 great spoonful chopped thyme and parsley.
Juice of 1 lemon.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce.
1 table-spoonful curry-powder.
Pick the meat very fine and set aside in a cool place. Mince the onion,
and put it with the chopped herbs, the butter and a table-spoonful of
hot water, into a small covered saucepan. Set this over the fire until
it begins to simmer, then add the broth. Boil all together for five
minutes, strain as for soup, stir in the curry powder and corn-starch,
and stew gently ten minutes longer, stirring often. Season as directed,
and add the picked lobster. Let the saucepan stand in a pan of boiling
water ten minutes, but do not let the contents of the inner vessel
boil. Pour into a deep dish.
Send around wafery slices of toast buttered while hot, and pieces of
lemon to be added if necessary.
DEVILLED LOBSTER. +
1 lobster, well boiled.
3 table-spoonfuls butter.
1 teaspoonful made mustard.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce.
1 wine glass of vinegar.
Cayenne pepper and salt.
2 hard-boiled eggs.
Pick the meat carefully from the shell, breaking it as little as may
be. Rub the coral to a smooth paste with the back of a silver spoon.
Chop the meat fine. Stir into this the butter, melted, but not hot, the
yolks of the eggs, rubbed smooth with the coral, the pepper, mustard
and salt, and put all together in a saucepan over the fire. Stir until
it is smoking hot, then turn into the shell, which should be washed and
heated.
STEWED LOBSTER.
1 large lobster, well boiled.
1 cup good gravy—veal is best.
1 blade of mace.
2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter.
Juice of half a lemon.
Cayenne and salt to liking.
1 glass sherry.
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley.
Cut the meat of the lobster into pieces an inch long and half as
wide, keeping the coral until the last. Put the meat, with the broth
and seasoning, into a saucepan and heat gently, stirring frequently
until it is near boiling. Then add the coral and butter (which should
previously be well rubbed together) and the chopped parsley. When the
mixture again nears the boiling point, add the wine and lemon-juice and
turn into a deep dish.
SCALLOPED LOBSTER (No. 1).
1 boiled lobster.
4 table-spoonfuls of cream.
2 eggs well beaten.
½ cup bread-crumbs.
2 tablespoonfuls butter.
1 tea-spoonful anchovy sauce.
Season to taste with cayenne, salt and nutmeg.
Juice of half a lemon.
Rub the meat of the lobster, including the coral, a little at a time,
in a Wedgewood mortar with the butter, until it is a soft paste. Put
this into a saucepan with the seasoning, and heat to boiling, stirring
constantly. Remove from the fire, and add the cream and lemon-juice,
stirring in well. Fill the lobster shell with this mixture. Strew
bread-crumbs over the top, and set on the upper grate of a quick oven
until the crumbs begin to brown.
Send to table in the shell, laid upon a hot dish.
You can scallop crab in the same manner.
SCALLOPED LOBSTER (No. 2).
1 lobster, well boiled.
3 table-spoonfuls of butter.
1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce.
½ cup of bread-crumbs.
½ cup of cream.
2 eggs well beaten.
Season with cayenne pepper and salt.
Cut the lobster carefully into halves with a sharp knife. Pick out the
meat carefully, and set aside while you prepare the sauce. This is
done by rubbing the coral and the soft green substance, known as the
“pith,” together in a mortar or bowl, adding, a little at a time, a
table-spoonful of butter. Put this on the fire in a covered saucepan,
and stir until it is smoking hot. Then, beat in the anchovy sauce,
pepper and salt before adding the cream. Heat quickly to a boil, lest
the cream should curdle, put in the picked meat, and again stir up well
from the sides and bottom until very hot. The eggs, whipped to a froth,
should now go in. Remove the saucepan from the fire so soon as this is
done.
Have the upper and lower halves of the shell ready buttered, strew
bread-crumbs thickly in the bottom of each, moisten these with cream,
and pour in the lobster mixture while still very hot. Put another layer
of bread-crumbs, well moistened with the remainder of the cream, on the
top. Stick bits of butter all over it, and brown on the upper grating
of a hot oven.
In either of these preparations of scalloped lobster, should the canned
lobster be used, or should you chance to break the shell in getting
out the meat, you may bake the mixture prepared, as directed, in a
pudding-dish or small paté pans.
CRABS
Are so near of kin to the lobster family that the same receipts may
easily be used for both. Only, bear in mind that the lesser and tougher
shell-fish needs more boiling than does the aristocratic lobster. If
underdone, crabs are very unwholesome. Also, in consideration of the
crab’s deficiency in the matter of the coral which lends lusciousness
and color to lobster salads and stews, use more butter and cream in
“getting him up” for the table.
Cayenne pepper is regarded by many as necessary in dishes of lobster or
crab, because of its supposed efficacy in preventing the evil effects
which might otherwise follow indulgence in these delicacies.
SOFT CRABS.
For a receipt for preparing these, please see “Common Sense in the
Household, No. 1,” page 71.
TURTLE FRICASSEE. +
3 pounds turtle steak.
1 large cup strong veal gravy.
4 hard-boiled eggs—the yolks only.
1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce.
1 teaspoonful Harvey’s sauce.
Juice of half a lemon.
2 dozen mushrooms.
1 small onion, minced fine.
1 bunch sweet herbs, minced.
1 glass wine, and butter for frying.
Browned flour for thickening, with cayenne and salt.
Cut the steak in strips as wide and as long as three of your fingers;
fry brown (when you have floured them) in butter. Take up; drain off
the grease; put with the gravy, which should be ready heated, into a
tin vessel with a close cover and set in a pot of hot water. It must
not boil until you have put in the rest of the ingredients. Slice the
onion and mushrooms, and fry in the same butter; add with the herbs and
other seasoning to the meat in the pail, or inner saucepan. Cover and
set to stew gently. To the butter left in the frying-pan, add three
spoonfuls of browned flour (large ones) and stir to a smooth unctuous
paste, without setting it on the range. Add the lemon-juice to this,
and set aside until the turtle has simmered half an hour in the broth.
Take up the meat, and arrange upon a covered hot-water dish; transfer
the gravy to a saucepan, and boil hard five minutes uncovered. Put in
the brown flour paste; stir up until it thickens well; add the wine and
yolks of eggs, each cut in three pieces, and pour over the turtle.
PANNED OYSTERS. +
1 quart of oysters.
Rounds of thin toast, delicately browned.
Butter, salt and pepper.
Have ready several small pans of block tin, with upright sides. The
ordinary “patty-pan” will do, if you can get nothing better, but it
is well, if you are fond of oysters cooked in this way, to have the
neat little tins made, at a moderate price, at a tinsmith’s. Cut stale
bread in thin slices, then round—removing all the crust—of a size that
will just fit in the bottoms of your pans. Toast these quickly to a
light-brown, butter and lay within your tins. Wet with a great spoonful
of oyster liquid, then, with a silver fork, arrange upon the toast as
many oysters as the pans will hold without heaping them up. Dust with
pepper and salt, put a bit of butter on top and set the pans, when
all are full, upon the floor of a quick oven. Cover with an inverted
baking-pan to keep in steam and flavor, and cook until the oysters
“ruffle.” Eight minutes in a brisk oven, should be enough. Send very
hot to the table in the tins in which they were roasted.
Next to roasting in the shell, this mode of cooking oysters best
preserves the native flavor of the bivalves.
FRICASSEED OYSTERS. +
1 pint good broth—veal or chicken—well strained.
1 slice of ham—corned is better than smoked.
3 pints oysters.
1 small onion.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
½ cup of milk.
1 table-spoonful of corn-starch.
1 egg beaten light.
A little chopped parsley and sweet marjoram.
Pepper to taste and juice of a lemon.
If the ham be raw, soak in boiling water for half an hour before
cutting it into very small slices, and putting it into the saucepan
with the broth, the oyster liquor, the onion minced very fine, the
herbs and pepper. Let these simmer for fifteen minutes, and boil fast
for five, then skim and put in the oysters. Boil up once briskly,
keeping the contents of the saucepan well stirred. Have ready the
corn-starch, rubbed smoothly into the milk. Stir this in and heat
carefully, using the spoon constantly until it boils and begins to
thicken, when the butter should go in. So soon as this is melted take
out the oysters with a skimmer; put into a hot covered dish, heat the
broth again to a boil, remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in
cautiously the beaten egg. A better way is to cook the latter gradually
by beating in with it a few tablespoonfuls of the scalding liquor,
before putting the egg into the saucepan.
Turn the gravy over the oysters, and serve at once. Squeeze in the
lemon-juice after the tureen is on the table, as it is apt to curdle
the mixture if left to stand.
Send around cream crackers, and green pickles or olives with this
savory dish.
OYSTERS BOILED IN THE SHELL.
Large shell-oysters, washed very clean and scraped, but not opened.
Pot of boiling water over a hot fire.
Sauce of melted butter with chopped or powdered parsley.
A lemon, cut in half.
Put the oysters, one by one, quickly and carefully into the water,
which must be kept at a hard boil all the time. In five minutes, turn
off every drop of the water by inverting the pot over a cullender, dry
the shells rapidly with a soft cloth and send to table upon a hot dish.
Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice upon each oyster, and put a little
hot melted butter with pepper over it before eating it from the shell.
The epicurean oyster-lover may consider boiled oysters insipid, but
they are liked by many.
SCALLOPED OYSTERS (No. 1). +
Large, fine shell-oysters.
Butter.
Fine bread-crumbs, or rolled cracker.
Minced parsley, pepper and salt.
Lemon-juice.
Open the shells, setting aside for use the deepest ones. Have ready
some melted butter, not hot, seasoned with minced parsley and pepper.
Roll each oyster in this, letting it drip as little as may be, and lay
in the shells, which should be arranged in a baking-pan. Add to each a
little lemon-juice, sift bread-crumbs over it, and bake in a quick oven
until done.
Serve in the shells.
SCALLOPED OYSTERS (No. 2). +
1 quart of oysters.
1 teacupful very dry bread-crumbs, or pounded cracker.
2 great spoonfuls butter.
½ cup of milk, or cream, if you can get it.
Pepper to taste.
A little salt.
Cover the bottom of a baking-dish (well buttered) with a layer of
crumbs, and wet these with the cream, put on spoonful by spoonful.
Pepper and salt, and strew with minute bits of butter. Next, put
in the oysters, with a little of their liquor. Pepper them, stick
bits of butter in among them, and cover with dry crumbs until the
oysters are entirely hidden. More pieces of butter, very small, and
arranged thickly on top. Set in the oven, invert a plate over it to
keep in the flavor, and bake until the juice bubbles up to the top.
Remove the cover, and brown on the upper grating for two or three
minutes—certainly not longer.
Send to table in the bake-dish.
This is a good intermediate course between fish and meat, and is always
popular.
BROILED OYSTERS. +
1 quart of the finest, firmest oysters you can procure.
½ cup very dry bread-crumbs, or pounded crackers, sifted almost as fine
as flour.
Pepper to taste.
½ cup melted butter.
Dry the oysters by laying them on a clean cloth and covering them with
another. Dip each in the melted butter, which should be peppered,
roll over and over in the cracker-crumbs, and broil upon one of the
wire gridirons, made for this purpose, over a clear fire. These wire
“broilers” hold the oysters firmly, and can be safely turned when one
side is done. Five or six minutes should cook them. Butter and pepper a
hot dish, lay in the oysters, and serve immediately.
DEVILLED OYSTERS. +
1 quart fine oysters.
Cayenne pepper.
Lemon-juice.
Some melted butter.
1 egg, beaten light.
½ cup rolled cracker.
Wipe the oysters dry, and lay in a flat dish. Cover with a mixture of
melted butter, cayenne pepper (or pepper-sauce), and lemon-juice. Let
them lie in this for ten minutes, turning them frequently; roll in the
crumbs, then in the beaten egg, again in the crumbs, and fry in mixed
lard and butter, made very hot before the oysters are dropped in.
OYSTERS IN BATTER.
1 quart of oysters.
2 eggs, whipped light.
1 cup of milk.
Flour to make a good batter.
Pepper and salt.
Dry the oysters with a soft cloth, dip in the batter twice, turning
each one dexterously, that it may be thickly coated, and fry in a
mixture of butter and lard.
STEWED OYSTERS.
1 quart of oysters.
1 cup of milk.
Salt very slightly, and pepper to taste.
1 great spoonful butter.
Drain the liquor from the oysters into a saucepan and heat to a boil.
At the same time, put on the milk to heat in another vessel set within
a pot or pan of boiling water. When the liquor in the saucepan boils
up, put in the oysters and stew until they begin to ruffle or crimp at
the edges. Stir in the butter, and when this is quite dissolved, turn
the stew into a tureen. Add the milk immediately (which should be
boiling hot), cover closely, and send to table. Send around pickles, or
olives, and crackers with them. There is no danger, when oysters are
stewed in this way, of the milk curdling.
OYSTER PATÉS.
1 quart of oysters, minced fine with a sharp knife, with a thin
blade,—not a “chopper.”
1 great spoonful butter “drawn” in a cupful of milk, or cream, if
you can get it, and thicken with a teaspoonful of corn-starch or
rice-flour, previously wet up with cold milk.
Salt and pepper to taste.
Drain the liquor from the oysters, and chop them as directed. When the
milk has been boiled and thickened, and the butter well incorporated
with it, stir in the minced oysters, and stew about five minutes,
stirring all the while. Have ready some shapes of nice pastry, baked,
and fill with the mixture. Set in the oven about two minutes to heat
them well, and send to table.
Or,
You can heat the chopped oysters in a very little of their own liquor
before adding to the thickened milk. Unless you are sure that the
latter is quite fresh, this is a prudent precaution.
CREAM OYSTER PIE.
Line a pie-plate with good puff paste; fill it with slices of stale
bread, laid evenly within it; butter that part of the crust lining
the rim of the dish, and cover with a top crust. Bake quickly in a
brisk oven, and while still hot, dexterously and carefully lift the
upper crust. The buttered rim will cause it to separate easily from
the lower. Have ready a mixture of minced oysters and thickened cream,
prepared according to the foregoing receipt, and having taken out the
stale bread (put there to keep the top crust in shape), fill the pie
with the oyster cream. Replace the cover, set in the oven for two
minutes, or until hot, and serve. This is a nice luncheon dish, and not
amiss for supper.
BREAKFAST.
He was a shrewd Cœlebs who restrained his loverly impatience to throw
himself, in unconditional surrender, at the feet of his beloved, by
the resolution to see her first at the breakfast-table. It is to be
regretted that his admiring biographer has not recorded the result of
the experiment. Let us hope, for the sake of preserving the “unities of
the drama,” that Cecilia was “in good form” on the momentous occasion;
not a thread ironed awry in bib or tucker; not a rebellious hair in her
sleek locks. Cœlebs—Hannah More’s Cœlebs—and every other that I ever
read or heard of, was a pragmatical prig; the complacent proprietor of
a patent refrigerator, very commodious and in excellent repair, but
which ought never, even by his conceited self, to have been mistaken
for a heart.
Knowing you, my reader, as I do, I would not insult your good sense by
intimating that the husband of your choice resembles him in any leading
