Meanwhile Ben continued to sleep, happily unconscious of the loss of his
entire personal possessions. In his dreams he was at home once more,
playing with his school companions. Let him sleep! He will waken soon
enough to the hard realities of a street life, voluntarily undertaken,
it is true, but none the less likely to bear heavily upon him.
He slept a long time. When he awoke it was six o'clock.
He sat upon his seat, and rubbed his eyes in momentary bewilderment. In
his dreams he had been back again to his native village, and he could
not at once recall his change of circumstances. But it all came back to
him soon enough. He realized with a slight pang that he had a home no
longer; that he was a penniless vagrant, for whom the hospitality of the
streets alone was open. He did wish that he could sit down at the
plentiful home table, and eat the well-cooked supper which was always
provided; that is, if he could blot out one remembrance: when he thought
of the unjust punishment that had driven him forth, his pride rose, and
his determination became as stubborn as ever. I do not defend Ben in
this. He was clearly wrong. The best of parents may be unintentionally
unjust at times, and this is far from affording an adequate excuse for a
boy to leave home. But Ben had a great deal of pride, and I am only
telling you how he felt.
Our young adventurer did not at first realize the loss which he had
sustained. It was at least five minutes before he thought of his bundle
at all. At length, chancing to look at the seat beside him, he missed
it.
"Where can it be, I wonder?" he thought, perplexed.
He looked under the bench, thinking that perhaps it had rolled off. But
it need not be said that it was not to be seen.
Ben was rather disturbed. It was all he had brought from home, and
constituted his entire earthly possessions.
"It must have rolled off, and been picked up by somebody," he thought;
but the explanation was not calculated to bring any satisfaction. "I
did not think I should fall asleep."
It occurred to him that some of the boys near by might have seen it. So
he went up to a group of boot-blacks near by, one of whom was Jim, who
had actually been concerned in the robbery. The other boys knew nothing
of the affair.
"I say, boys," said Ben, "have you seen anything of my bundle?"
"What bundle, Johnny?" said Jim, who was now smoking his second cigar.
"I had a small bundle tied up in a newspaper," said Ben. "I put it under
my head, and then fell asleep. Now I can't find it."
"Do you think we stole it?" said Jim, defiantly.
"Of course I don't," said Ben; "but I thought it might have slipped out,
and you might have seen somebody pick it up."
"Haven't seen it, Johnny," said one of the other boys; "most likely it's
stole."
"Do you think so?" asked Ben, anxiously.
"In course, you might expect it would be."
"I didn't mean to go to sleep."
"What was there in it?"
"There was two shirts."
"You've got a shirt on, aint you?"
"Yes," said Ben.
"That's all right, then. What does a feller want of a thousand shirts?"
"There's some difference between two shirts and a thousand," said Ben.
"What's the odds? I haven't got but one shirt. That's all I want. When
it is wore out I'll buy a new one."
"What do you do when it gets dirty?" asked Ben, in some curiosity.
"Oh, I wash it once in two or three weeks," was the reply.
This was not exactly in accordance with Ben's ideas of neatness; but he
saw that no satisfaction was likely to be obtained in this quarter, so
he walked away rather depressed. It certainly hadn't been a lucky
day,--this first day in the city. He had been rejected in half-a-dozen
stores in his applications for employment, had spent nearly all his
money, and been robbed of all his clothing except what he wore.
Again Ben began to feel an appetite. He had eaten his dinner late, but
it had consisted of a plate of meat only. His funds being now reduced to
two cents, he was obliged to content himself with an apple, which did
something towards appeasing his appetite.
Next Ben began to consider anxiously how he was to pass the night.
Having no money to spend for lodging, there seemed nothing to do but to
sleep out of doors. It was warm weather, and plenty of street boys did
it. But to Ben it would be a new experience, and he regarded it with
some dread. He wished he could meet with Jerry Collins, his acquaintance
of the morning. From him he might obtain some information that would be
of service in his present strait.
Three or four hours must elapse before it would be time to go to bed.
Ben hardly knew how or where to pass them. He had become tired of the
park; besides, he had got over a part of his fatigue, and felt able to
walk about and explore the city. He turned at a venture up Chatham
Street, and was soon interested in the sights of this peculiar
thoroughfare,--the shops open to the street, with half their stock in
trade exposed on the sidewalk, the importunities of the traders, and the
appearance of the people whom he met. It seemed very lively and
picturesque to Ben, and drew away his attention from his own awkward
position.
He was asked to buy by some of the traders, being promised wonderful
bargains; but his penniless condition put him out of the reach of
temptation.
So he wandered on until he came to the Bowery, a broad avenue, wider
than Broadway, and lined by shops of a great variety, but of a grade
inferior to those of its more aristocratic neighbor.
Here, also, the goods are liberally displayed on the sidewalk, and are
generally labelled with low prices, which tempts many purchasers. The
purchaser, however, must look carefully to the quality of the goods
which he buys, or he will in many cases find the low price merely a
snare and a delusion, and regret that he had not paid more liberally and
bought a better article.
Later in the evening, on his return walk, Ben came to an establishment
brilliant with light, from which proceeded strains of music. Looking
in, he saw that it was filled with small tables, around which were
seated men, women, and children. They had glasses before them from which
they drank. This was a Lager Beer Hall or Garden,--an institution
transplanted from Germany, and chiefly patronized by those of German
birth or extraction. It seemed bright and cheerful, and our young
adventurer thought it would be pleasant to go in, and spend an hour or
two, listening to the music; but he was prevented by the consciousness
that he had no money to spend, and might be considered an intruder.
While he was looking in wistfully, he was struck on the back; and
turning, saw, to his surprise, the face of his only acquaintance in New
York, Jerry Collins, the boot-black.
"I am glad to see you," he said, eagerly offering his hand, without
considering that Jerry's hand, unwashed during the day, was stained with
blacking. He felt so glad to meet an acquaintance, however, that he
would not have minded this, even if it had occurred to him.
"The same to you," said Jerry. "Are you going in?"
"I haven't got any money," said Ben, a little ashamed of the confession.
"Well, I have, and that'll do just as well."
He took Ben by the arm, and they passed through a vestibule, and entered
the main apartment, which was of large size. On one side, about half way
down, was a large instrument some like an organ, from which the music
proceeded. The tables were very well filled, Germans largely
predominating among the guests.
"Sit down here," said Jerry.
They took seats at one of the tables. Opposite was a stout German and
his wife, the latter holding a baby. Both had glasses of lager before
them, and the baby was also offered a share by its mother; but, from the
contortions of its face, did not appear to relish it.
"Zwei Glass Lager," said Jerry, to a passing attendant.
"Can you speak German?" asked Ben, surprised.
"Yaw," said Jerry; "my father was an Irishman, and my mother was a
Dutchman."
Jerry's German, however, seemed to be limited, as he made no further
attempts to converse in that language.
The glasses were brought. Jerry drank his down at a draught, but Ben,
who had never before tasted lager, could not at once become reconciled
to its bitter taste.
"Don't you like it?" asked Jerry.
"Not very much," said Ben.
"Then I'll finish it for you;" and he suited the action to the word.
Besides the lager a few plain cakes were sold, but nothing more
substantial. Evidently the beer was the great attraction. Ben could not
help observing, with some surprise, that, though everybody was drinking,
there was not the slightest disturbance, or want of decorum, or
drunkenness. The music, which was furnished at intervals, was of very
good quality, and was listened to with attention.
"I was goin' to Tony Pastor's to-night," said Jerry, "if I hadn't met
you."
"What sort of a place is that?" asked Ben.
"Oh, it's a bully place--lots of fun. You must go there some time."
"I think I will," answered Ben, mentally adding, "if I ever have money
enough."
Here the music struck up, and they stopped to listen to it. When this
was over, Jerry proposed to go out. Ben would have been willing to stay
longer; but he saw that his companion did not care so much for the music
as himself, and he did not wish to lose sight of him. To be alone in a
great city, particularly under Ben's circumstances, is not very
pleasant, and our young adventurer determined to stick to his new
acquaintance, who, though rough in his manners, had yet seemed inclined
to be friendly, and Ben felt sadly in need of a friend.
CHAPTER VI.
THE BURNING BALES.
"Where are you going to sleep to-night?" asked Ben, introducing a
subject which had given him some anxiety.
"I don't know," said Jerry, carelessly. "I'll find a place somewhere."
"I'll go with you, if you'll let me," said Ben.
"In course I will."
"I haven't got any money."
"What's the odds? They don't charge nothin' at the hotel where I stop."
"What time do you go to bed?"
"Most any time. Do you feel sleepy?"
"Rather. I didn't sleep much last night."
"Well, we'll go and find a place now. How'd you like sleepin' on
cotton-bales?"
"I think that would be comfortable."
"There's a pile of bales down on the pier, where the New Orleans
steamers come in. Maybe we could get a chance there."
"All right. Where is it?"
"Pier 8, North River. It'll take us twenty minutes, or maybe half an
hour, to go there."
"Let us go," said Ben.
He felt relieved at the idea of so comfortable a bed as a cotton-bale,
and was anxious to get stowed away for the night.
The two boys struck across to Broadway, and followed that street down
past Trinity Church, turning down the first street beyond. Rector
Street, notwithstanding its clerical name, is far from an attractive
street. Just in the rear of the great church, and extending down to the
wharves, is a collection of miserable dwellings, occupied by tenants
upon whom the near presence of the sanctuary appears to produce little
impression of a salutary character. Ben looked about him in
ill-concealed disgust. He neither fancied the neighborhood, nor the
people whom he met. But the Island is very narrow just here, and he had
not far to walk to West Street, which runs along the edge of Manhattan
Island, and is lined with wharves. Jerry, of course, did not mind the
surroundings. He was too well used to them to care.
They brought out opposite the pier.
"There it is," said Jerry.
Ben saw a pile of cotton-bales heaped up on the wharf in front. Just
behind them was a gate, and over it the sign of the New Orleans Company.
"I should think somebody would steal the bales," said Ben. "Are they
left out here all night?"
"There's a watchman round here somewhere," said Jerry. "He stays here
all night to guard the bales."
"Will he let us sleep here?"
"I don't know," said Jerry. "We'll creep in, when he isn't looking."
The watchman was sitting down, leaning his back against one of the
bales. A short pipe was in his mouth, and he seemed to be enjoying his
smoke. This was contrary to orders, for the cotton being combustible
might easily catch fire; but this man, supposing that he would not be
detected, indulged himself in the forbidden luxury.
"Now creep along softly," said Jerry.
The latter, being barefooted, had an advantage over Ben, but our young
adventurer crept after him as softly as he could. Jerry found a bale
screened from observation by the higher piles on each side, where he
thought they could sleep unobserved. Following his lead, Ben stretched
himself out upon it.
The watchman was too busily occupied with his pipe to detect any noise.
"Aint it comfortable?" whispered Jerry.
"Yes," said Ben, in the same low tone.
"I wouldn't ask for nothin' better," said Jerry.
Ben was not so sure about that; but then he had not slept out hundreds
of nights, like Jerry, in old wagons, or on door-steps, or wherever else
he could; so he had a different standard of comparison.
He could not immediately go to sleep. He was tired, it was true, but his
mind was busy. It was only twelve hours since he had landed in the city,
but it had been an eventful twelve hours. He understood his position a
little better now, and how much he had undertaken, in boldly leaving
home at ten years of age, and taking upon himself the task of earning
his living.
If he had known what was before him, would he have left home at all?
Ben was not sure about this. He did own to himself, however, that he was
disappointed. The city had not proved the paradise he had expected.
Instead of finding shopkeepers eager to secure his services, he had
found himself uniformly rejected. He began to suspect that it was rather
early to begin the world at ten years of age. Then again, though he was
angry with his father, he had no cause of complaint against his mother.
She had been uniformly kind and gentle, and he found it hard to keep
back the tears when he thought how she would be distressed at his
running away. He had not thought of that in the heat of his first anger,
but he thought of it now. How would she feel if she knew where he was at
this moment, resting on a cotton-bale, on a city wharf, penniless and
without a friend in the great city, except the ragged boy who was
already asleep at his side? She would feel badly, Ben knew that, and he
half regretted having been so precipitate in his action. He could remedy
it all, and relieve his mother's heart by going back. But here Ben's
pride came in. To go back would be to acknowledge himself wrong; it
would be a virtual confession of failure, and, moreover, knowing his
father's sternness, he knew that he would be severely punished.
Unfortunately for Ben, his father had a stern, unforgiving disposition,
that never made allowances for the impulses of boyhood. He had never
condescended to study his own son, and the method of training he had
adopted with him was in some respects very pernicious. His system
hardened, instead of softening, and prejudiced Ben against what was
right, maddening him with a sense of injustice, and so preventing his
being influenced towards good. Of course, all this did not justify Ben
in running away from home. The thought of his mother ought to have been
sufficient to have kept him from any such step. But it was necessary to
be stated, in order that my readers might better understand what sort of
a boy Ben was.
So, in spite of his half relenting, Ben determined that he would not go
home at all events. Whatever hardships lay before him in the new life
which he had adopted, he resolved to stand them as well as he could.
Indeed, however much he might desire to retrace his steps, he had no
money to carry him back, nor could he obtain any unless he should write
home for it, and this again would be humiliating. Ben's last thought,
then, as he sank to sleep, was, that he would stick to New York, and get
his living somehow, even if he had to black boots for a living.
At the end of an hour, both boys were fast asleep. The watchman, after
smoking his pipe, got up, and paced up and down the wharf drowsily. He
did not happen to observe the young sleepers. If he had done so, he
would undoubtedly have shaken them roughly, and ordered them off. It was
rather fortunate that neither Ben nor his companion were in the habit of
snoring, as this would at once have betrayed their presence, even to the
negligent watchman.
After a while the watchman bethought himself again of his pipe, and,
filling the bowl with tobacco, lighted it. Then, with the most culpable
carelessness, he half reclined on one of the bales and "took comfort."
Not having prepared himself for the vigils of the night by repose during
the day, he began to feel uncommonly drowsy. The whiffs came less and
less frequently, until at last the pipe fell from his lips, and he fell
back fast asleep. The burning contents of the pipe fell on the bale, and
gradually worked their way down into the interior. Here the mischief
soon spread. What followed may easily be imagined.
Ben was aroused from his sleep by a confused outcry. He rubbed his eyes
to see what was the matter. There was something stifling and suffocating
in the atmosphere, which caused him to choke as he breathed. As he
became more awake, he realized that the cotton-bales, among which he had
taken refuge, were on fire. He became alarmed, and shook Jerry
energetically.
"What's up?" said Jerry, drowsily. "I aint done nothin'. You can't take
me up."
"Jerry, wake up; the bales are on fire," said Ben.
"I thought 'twas a copp," said Jerry, rousing, and at a glance
understanding the position of affairs. "Let's get out of this."
That was not quite so easy. There was fire on all sides, and they must
rush through it at some risk. However, it was every moment getting
worse, and there was no chance for delay.
"Foller me," said Jerry, and he dashed through, closely pursued by Ben.
By this time quite a crowd of men and boys had gathered around the
burning bales.
When the two boys rushed out, there was a general exclamation of
surprise. Then one burly man caught Jerry by the arm, and said, "Here's
the young villain that set the bales on fire."
"Let me alone, will you?" said Jerry. "Yer grandmother set it on fire,
more likely."
No sooner was Jerry seized, than another man caught hold of Ben, and
forcibly detained him.
"I've got the other," he said.
"Now, you young rascal, tell me how you did it," said the first. "Was
you smokin'?"
"No, I wasn't," said Jerry, shortly. "I was sleepin' along of this other
boy."
"What made you come here to sleep?"
"'Cause we hadn't no other bed."
"Are you sure you wasn't smoking?"
"Look here," said Jerry, contemptuously, "you must think I'm a fool, to
go and set my own bed on fire."
"That's true," said a bystander. "It wouldn't be very likely."
"Who did it, then?" asked the stout man, suspiciously.
"It's the watchman. I seed him smokin' when I turned in."
"Where is he now?"
Search was made for the watchman, but he had disappeared. Awaking to a
consciousness of what mischief he had caused through his carelessness,
he had slipped away in the confusion, and was not likely to return.
"The boy tells the truth," said one of the crowd. "I saw the watchman
smoking myself. No doubt the fire caught from his pipe. The boys are
innocent. Better let them go."
The two custodians of Jerry and Ben released their hold, and they gladly
availed themselves of the opportunity to remove themselves to a safer
distance from their late bedchamber.
Two fire-engines came thundering up, and streams of water were directed
effectively at the burning bales. The flames were extinguished, but not
till considerable damage had been done.
As the two boys watched the contest between the flames and the engines,
from a safe distance, they heard the sonorous clang of the bell in the
church-tower, ringing out twelve o'clock.
CHAPTER VII.
BEN'S TEMPTATION.
"Jest my luck!" complained Jerry. "Why couldn't the fire have waited
till mornin'?"
"We might have burned up," said Ben, who was considerably impressed by
his narrow escape.
"Only we didn't," said Jerry. "We'll have to try another hotel for the
rest of the night."
"Where shall we go?"
"We may find a hay-barge down to the pier at the foot of Franklin
Street."
"Is it far?"
"Not very."
"Let us go then."
So the boys walked along the street until they came to the pier referred
to. There was a barge loaded with hay, lying alongside the wharf. Jerry
speedily provided himself with a resting-place upon it, and Ben followed
his example. It proved to be quite as comfortable, if not more so, than
their former bed, and both boys were soon asleep. How long he slept Ben
did not know, but he was roused to consciousness by a rude shake.
"Wake up there!" said a voice.
Ben opened his eyes, and saw a laboring man bending over him.
"Is it time to get up?" he inquired, hardly conscious where he was.
"I should think it was, particularly as you haven't paid for your
lodging."
"Where's Jerry?" asked Ben, missing the boot-black.
The fact was, that Jerry, whose business required him to be astir early,
had been gone over an hour. He had not felt it necessary to wake up Ben,
knowing that the latter had nothing in particular to call him up.
"I don't know anything about Jerry. You'd better be going home, young
'un. Take my advice, and don't stay out another night."
He evidently thought that Ben was a truant from home, as his dress
would hardly class him among the homeless boys who slept out from
necessity.
Ben scrambled upon the pier, and took a cross street up towards
Broadway. He had slept off his fatigue, and the natural appetite of a
healthy boy began to assert itself. It was rather uncomfortable to
reflect that he was penniless, and had no means of buying a breakfast.
He had meant to ask Jerry's advice, as to some occupation by which he
could earn a little money, and felt disappointed that his companion had
gone away before he waked up. His appetite was the greater because he
had been limited to a single apple for supper.
Where to go he did not know. One place was as good as another. It was a
strange sensation to Ben to feel the cravings of appetite, with nothing
to satisfy it. All his life he had been accustomed to a good home, where
his wants were plentifully provided for. He had never had any anxiety
about the supply of his daily wants. In the city there were hundreds of
boys younger than he, who, rising in the morning, knew not where their
meals were to come from, or whether they were to have any; but this had
never been his case.
"I am young and strong," thought Ben. "Why can't I find something to
do?"
His greatest anxiety was to work, and earn his living somehow; but how
did not seem clear. Even if he were willing to turn boot-black, he had
no box nor brush, and had some doubts whether he should at first possess
the requisite skill. Selling papers struck him more favorably; but here
again the want of capital would be an objection.
So, in a very perplexed frame of mind, our young adventurer went on his
way, and after a while caught sight of the upper end of the City Hall
Park. Here he felt himself at home, and, entering, looked among the
dozens of boys who were plying their work to see if he could not find
his acquaintance Jerry. But here he was unsuccessful. Jerry's business
stand was near the Cortlandt Street pier.
Hour after hour passed, and Ben became more and more hungry and
dispirited. He felt thoroughly helpless. There seemed to be nothing that
he could do. He began to be faint, and his head ached. One o'clock
found him on Nassau Street, near the corner of Fulton. There was a stand
for the sale of cakes and pies located here, presided over by an old
woman, of somewhat ample dimensions. This stall had a fascination for
poor Ben. He had such a craving for food that he could not take his eyes
off the tempting pile of cakes which were heaped up before him. It
seemed to him that he should be perfectly happy if he could be permitted
to eat all he wanted of them.
Ben knew that it was wrong to steal. He had never in his life taken what
did not belong to him, which is more than many boys can say, who have
been brought up even more comfortably than he. But the temptation now
was very strong. He knew it was not right; but he was not without
excuse. Watching his opportunity, he put his hand out quickly, and,
seizing a couple of pies, stowed them away hastily in his pocket, and
was about moving off to eat them in some place where he would not be
observed. But though the owner of the stolen articles had not observed
the theft, there was a boy hanging about the stall, possibly with the
same object in view, who did see it.
"He's got some of your pies, old lady," said the young detective.
The old woman looked round, and though the pies were in Ben's pocket
there was a telltale in his face which betrayed him.
"Put back them pies, you young thafe!" said the angry pie-merchant.
"Aint you ashamed of yerself to rob a poor widdy, that has hard work to
support herself and her childers,--you that's dressed like a gentleman,
and ought to know better?"
"Give it to him, old lady," said the hard-hearted young vagabond, who
had exposed Ben's iniquity.
As for Ben, he had not a word to say. In spite of his hunger, he was
overwhelmed with confusion at having actually attempted to steal, and
been caught in the act. He was by no means a model boy; but apart from
anything which he had been taught in the Sunday school, he considered
stealing mean and discreditable, and yet he had been led into it. What
would his friends at home think of it, if they should ever hear of it?
So, as I said, he stood without a word to say in his defence,
mechanically replacing the pies on the stall.
"I say, old lady, you'd orter give me a pie for tellin' you," said the
informer.
"You'd have done the same, you young imp, if you'd had the chance,"
answered the pie-vender, with more truth than gratitude. "Clear out, the
whole on ye. I've had trouble enough with ye."
Ben moved off, thankful to get off so well. He had feared that he might
be handed over to the police, and this would have been the crowning
disgrace.
But the old woman seemed satisfied with the restoration of her property,
and the expression of her indignation. The attempt upon her stock she
regarded with very little surprise, having suffered more than once
before in a similar way.
But there was another spectator of the scene, whose attention had been
drawn to the neat attire and respectable appearance of Ben. He saw that
he differed considerably from the ordinary run of street boys. He
noticed also the flush on the boy's cheek when he was detected, and
judged that this was his first offence. Something out of the common way
must have driven him to the act. He felt impelled to follow Ben, and
learn what that something was. I may as well state here that he was a
young man of twenty-five or thereabouts, a reporter on one or more of
the great morning papers. He, like Ben, had come to the city in search
of employment, and before he secured it had suffered more hardships and
privations than he liked to remember. He was now earning a modest
income, sufficient to provide for his wants, and leave a surplus over.
He had seen much of suffering and much of crime in his daily walks about
the city, but his heart had not become hardened, nor his sympathies
blunted. He gave more in proportion to his means than many rich men who
have a reputation for benevolence.
Ben had walked but a few steps, when he felt a hand upon his shoulder.
Looking round hastily, he met the gaze of the young man. He had thought
at first it might be a policeman, and he felt relieved when he saw his
mistake.
"You are the boy who just now took a couple of pies from a stall?" said
the reporter.
"Yes," said Ben, hesitatingly, his face crimsoning as he spoke.
"Do you mind telling me why you did so?"
There was something in his tone which reassured Ben, and he determined
to tell the truth frankly.
"I have eaten nothing to-day," he said.
"You never took anything before?"
"No," said Ben, quickly.
"I suppose you had no money to buy with?"
"No, I had not."
"How does it happen that a boy as well dressed as you are, are in such a
position?"
"I would rather not tell," said Ben.
"Have you run away from home?"
"Yes; I had a good reason," he added, quickly.
"What do you propose to do? You must earn your living in some way, or
starve."
"I thought I might get a place in a store; but I have tried half a
dozen, and they won't take me."
"No, your chance will be small, unless you can bring good references.
But you must be hungry."
"I am," Ben admitted.
"That can be remedied, at all events. I am just going to get some
dinner; will you go with me?"
"I have no money."
"I have, and that will answer the purpose for this time. We will go back
to Fulton Street."
Ben turned back thankfully, and with his companion entered the very
restaurant in which he had dined the day before.
"If you are faint, soup will be the best thing for you to begin on,"
said the young man; and he gave an order to the waiter.
Nothing had ever seemed more delicious to Ben than that soup. When he
had done justice to it, a plate of beefsteak awaited him, which also
received his attention. Then he was asked to select some dessert.
"I am afraid you are spending too much for me," he said.
"Don't be afraid of that; I am glad that you have a good appetite."
At length the dinner was over. Ben felt decidedly better. His
despondency had vanished, and the world again seemed bright to him. It
is hard to be cheerful, or take bright views of life on an empty
stomach, as many have learned beside our young adventurer.
"Now," said his new-found friend, "I have a few minutes to spare.
Suppose we talk over your plans and prospects, and see if we can find
anything for you to do."
"Thank you," said Ben; "I wish you would give me your advice."
"My advice is that you return to your home, if you have one," said the
reporter.
Ben shook his head.
"I don't want to do that," he answered.
"I don't, of course, know what is your objection to this, which seems to
me the best course. Putting it aside, however, we will consider what you
can do here to earn your living."
"That is what I want to do."
"How would you like selling papers?"
"I think I should like it," said Ben; "but I have no money to buy any."
"It doesn't require a very large capital. I will lend you, or give you,
the small amount which will be necessary. However, you mustn't expect
to make a very large income."
"If I can make enough to live on, I won't care," said Ben.
He had at first aimed higher; but his short residence in the city taught
him that he would be fortunate to meet his expenses. There are a good
many besides Ben who have found their early expectations of success
considerably modified by experience.
"Let me see. It is half-past one o'clock," said the reporter, drawing
out his watch. "You had better lay in a supply of 'Expresses' and
'Evening Posts,' and take a good stand somewhere, and do your best with
them. As you are inexperienced in the business it will be well to take a
small supply at first, or you might get 'stuck.'"
"That's so."
"You must not lay in more than you can sell."
"Where can I get the papers?"
"I will go with you to the newspaper offices, and buy you half a dozen
of each. If you succeed in selling them, you can buy more. To-morrow you
can lay in some of the morning papers, the 'Herald,' 'World,'
'Tribune,' or 'Times.' It will be well also to have a few 'Suns' for
those who do not care to pay for the higher-priced papers."
"Thank you," said Ben, who was eager to begin his business career.
They rose from the table, and set out for the offices of the two evening
papers whose names have been mentioned.
CHAPTER VIII.
BEN COMMENCES HIS BUSINESS CAREER.
Ben soon took his stand in the street, with a roll of papers under his
arm, supplied by the generosity of his new acquaintance. It was rather a
trying ordeal for a country boy, new to the city and its ways. But Ben
was not bashful. He was not a timid boy, but was fully able to push his
way. So, glancing at the telegraphic headings, he began to call out the
news in a business-like way. He had already taken notice of how the
other newsboys acted, and therefore was at no loss how to proceed.
He met with very fair success, selling out the twelve papers which had
been bought for him, in a comparatively short time. It might have been
that the fact that he was neater and better dressed operated in his
favor. At any rate, though a new hand, he succeeded better than those
who were older in the business.
But his neat dress operated to his disadvantage in another quarter. His
business rivals, who were, with scarcely an exception, dressed with no
great pretensions to style or neatness, looked upon the interloper with
a jealous eye. They regarded him as "stuck up," in virtue of his
superior dress, and were indignant to find their sales affected by his
competition.
"Who's he? Ever seen him afore?" asked Tim Banks of a newsboy at his
side.
"No; he's a new chap."
"What business has he got to come here and steal away our trade, I'd
like to know?" continued Tim, eying Ben with no friendly glance.
At that moment a gentleman, passing Tim, bought an "Evening Post" of
Ben. It was the third paper that Ben had sold since Tim had effected a
sale. This naturally increased his indignation.
"He's puttin' on airs just because he's got good clo'es," said the other
newsboy, who shared Tim's feelings on the subject.
"Let's shove him out," suggested Tim.
"All right."
Tim, who was a boy of twelve, with a shock head, which looked as if it
had never been combed, and a suit of clothes which bore the marks of
severe usage, advanced to Ben, closely followed by his confederate, who
had agreed to back him.
Ben had just sold his last paper when the two approached him. He did not
understand their object until Tim, swaggering up to him, said
offensively, "You'd better clear out; you aint wanted here."
Ben turned and faced his ragged opponent with intrepidity.
"Why aint I wanted here?" he inquired, without manifesting the least
symptom of alarm.
Tim rather anticipated that Ben would show the white feather, and was a
little surprised at his calmness.
"Cause yer aint, that's why," he answered.
"If you don't like my company, you can go somewhere else," said Ben.
"This is my place," said Tim. "You aint got no right to push in."
"If it's your place, how much did you pay for it?" asked Ben. "I thought
that the sidewalk was free to all."
"You aint got no right to interfere with my business."
"I didn't know that I had interfered with it."
"Well, you have. I aint sold more'n half as many papers since you've
been here."
"You've got the same chance as I have," said Ben. "I didn't tell them
not to buy of you."
"Well, you aint wanted here, and you'd better make tracks," said Tim,
who considered this the best argument of all.
"Suppose I don't," said Ben.
"Then I'll give you a lickin'."
Ben surveyed the boy who uttered this threat, in the same manner that a
general would examine an opposing force, with a view to ascertain his
strength and ability to cope with him. It was clear that Tim was taller
than himself, and doubtless older. As to being stronger, Ben did not
feel so positive. He was himself well and compactly made, and strong of
his age. He did not relish the idea of being imposed upon, and prepared
to resist any encroachment upon his rights. He did not believe that Tim
had any right to order him off. He felt that the sidewalk was just as
free to him as to any other boy, and he made up his mind to assert and
maintain his right.
"If you want to give me a licking, just try it," he said. "I've got just
as much right to stand here and sell papers as you have, and I'm going
to do it."
"You needn't be so stuck up jest because you've got good clo'es on."
"If they are good, I can't help it," said Ben. "They're all I have, and
they won't be good long."
"Maybe I could get good clo'es if I'd steal em," said Tim.
"Do you mean to say I stole these?" retorted Ben, angrily. He had no
sooner said it, however, than he thought of the pies which he should
have stolen if he had not been detected, and his face flushed. Luckily
Tim did not know why his words produced an effect upon Ben, or he would
have followed up his attack.
"Yes, I do," said Tim.
"Then you judge me by yourself," said Ben, "that's all I've got to say."
"Say that ag'in," said Tim, menacingly.
"So I will, if you want to hear it. You judge me by yourself."
"I'll give you a lickin'."
"You've said that before."
Tim was not particularly brave. Still Ben was a smaller boy, and besides
he had a friend at hand to back him, so he concluded that it would be
safe to venture. Doubling up a dirty fist, he struck out, intending to
hit Ben in the face; but our young adventurer was on his guard, and
fended off the blow with his arms.
"Will yer go now?" demanded Tim, pausing after his attack.
"Why should I?"
"If you don't I'll give you another lick."
"I can stand it, if it isn't any worse than that."
Tim was spurred by this to renew the assault. He tried to throw his arms
around Ben, and lift him from the ground, which would enable him to
throw him with greater ease. But Ben was wary, and experienced in this
mode of warfare, having often had scuffles in fun with his
school-fellows. He evaded Tim's grasp, therefore, and dealt him a blow
in the breast, which made Tim stagger back. He began to realize that
Ben, though a smaller boy, was a formidable opponent, and regretted that
he had undertaken a contest with him. He was constrained to appeal to
his companion for assistance.
"Just lend a hand, Jack, and we'll give it to him."
"So you have to ask help," said Ben, scornfully, "though you're bigger
than I am."
"I could lick yer well enough alone," said Tim, "but you've been
interferin' with Jack's business, as well as mine."
Jack responded to his friend's appeal, and the two advanced to the
assault of Ben. Of course all this took place much more quickly than it
has taken to describe it. The contest commenced, and our young
adventurer would have got the worst of it, if help had not arrived.
Though a match for either of the boys singly, he could not be expected
to cope with both at a time, especially as he was smaller than either.
Tim found himself seized forcibly by the arm, just as he was about to
level a blow at Ben. Looking up, he met the glance of another newsboy, a
boy of fourteen, who was known among his comrades as "Rough and Ready."
This boy was stout and strong, and was generally liked by those of his
class for his generous qualities, as well as respected for his physical
strength, which he was always ready to exert in defence of a weaker boy.
"What's all this, Tim?" he demanded. "Aint you ashamed, the two of you,
to pitch into a smaller boy?"
"He aint got no business here," said Tim, doggedly.
"Why not?"
"He's takin' away all our trade."
"Hasn't he just as much right to sell papers as you?"
"He can go somewhere else."
"So can you."
"He's a new boy. This is the first day he's sold papers."
"Then you ought to be able to keep up with him. What's your name, young
un?"
This question was, of course, addressed to Ben.
"Ben," answered our young hero. He did not think it necessary to mention
his other name, especially as, having run away from home, he had a
vague idea that it might lead to his discovery.
"Well, Ben, go ahead and sell your papers. I'll see that you have fair
play."
"Thank you," said Ben. "I'm not afraid of either of them."
"Both of them might be too much for you."
"I don't want to interfere with their business. They've got just as good
a chance to sell as I have."
"Of course they have. Is this your first day?"
"Yes."
"How many papers have you sold?"
"Six 'Posts' and six 'Expresses.'"
"That's pretty good for a beginning. Are you going to get some more?"
"Yes, I was just going into the office when that boy," pointing to Tim,
"tried to drive me off."
"He won't do it again. Come in with me. I'm going to buy some papers
too."
"What's your name?" asked Ben. "I like you; you're not mean, like those
fellows."
"My name is Rufus, but the boys call me Rough and Ready."
"Where do you live,--at the Newsboys' Lodging House?"
"No, I live in Leonard Street. I've got a mother and a little sister. I
live with them."
"Have you got a father?"
"No, that is, not a real father. I've got a step-father; but he's worse
than none, for he is loafing round most of the time, and spends all the
money he can get on drink. If it wasn't for me, he'd treat mother worse
than he does. How long have you been in New York?"
"Only a day or two," said Ben.
"Where are you living?"
"Anywhere I can. I haven't got any place."
"Where did you sleep last night?"
"In a hay-barge, at one of the piers, along with a boot-black named
Jerry. That was the first night I ever slept out."
"How did you like it?"
"I think I'd prefer a bed," said Ben.
"You can get one at the Lodge for six cents."
"I didn't have six cents last night."
"They'll trust you there, and you can pay next time."
"Where is the Lodging House?"
"It's on the corner of this street and Fulton," said Rough and Ready.
"I'll show it to you, if you want me to."
"I'd like to have you. I'd rather pay six cents than sleep out again."
By this time they reached the office of the "Express," and, entering,
purchased a supply of papers. He was about to invest his whole capital,
but, by the advice of his companion, bought only eight copies, as by the
time these were disposed of a later edition would be out, which of
course would be more salable.
CHAPTER IX.
SCENES AT THE NEWSBOYS' LODGING HOUSE.
It will be unnecessary to give in detail the record of Ben's sales. He
succeeded, because he was in earnest, and he was in earnest, because his
own experience in the early part of the day had revealed to him how
uncomfortable it was to be without money or friends in a large city. At
seven o'clock, on counting over his money, he found that he had a dollar
and twelve cents. Of this sum he had received half a dollar from the
friendly reporter, to start him in business. This left sixty-two cents
as his net profits for the afternoon's work. Ben felt proud of it, for
it was the first money he had ever earned. His confidence came back to
him, and he thought he saw his way clear to earning his own living.
Although the reporter had not exacted repayment, Ben determined to lay
aside fifty cents for that purpose. Of the remaining sixty-two, a part
must be saved as a fund for the purchase of papers the next morning.
Probably thirty cents would be sufficient for this, as, after selling
out those first purchased, he would have money for a new supply. This
would leave him thirty-two cents to pay for his supper, lodging, and
breakfast. Ben would not have seen his way to accomplish all this for so
small a sum, if he had not been told that at the Newsboys' Lodge the
regular charge was six cents for each meal, and the same for lodging.
This would make but eighteen cents, leaving him a surplus of fourteen.
On inquiry, however, he ascertained that it was already past the hour
for supper at the Lodge, and therefore went into the restaurant, on
Fulton Street, where he ordered a cup of coffee, and a plate of
tea-biscuit. These cost ten cents. Finding his appetite still
unsatisfied, he ordered another plate of biscuit, which carried up the
expense of his supper to fifteen cents. This left seventeen cents for
lodging and breakfast.
After supper, he went out into the street once more, and walked about
for some time, until he began to feel tired, when he turned his steps
towards the Newsboys' Lodge. This institution occupied at that time the
two upper stories of the building at the corner of Nassau and Fulton
Streets. On the first floor was the office of the "Daily Sun." The
entrance to the Lodge was on Fulton Street. Ben went up a steep and
narrow staircase, and kept mounting up until he reached the sixth floor.
Here to the left he saw a door partially opened, through which he could
see a considerable number of boys, whose appearance indicated that they
belonged to the class known as street boys. He pushed the door open and
entered. He found himself in a spacious, but low-studded apartment,
abundantly lighted by rows of windows on two sides. At the end nearest
the door was a raised platform, on which stood a small melodeon, which
was used at the Sunday-evening meetings. There were rows of benches in
the centre of the apartment for the boys.
A stout, pleasant-looking man, who proved to be Mr. O'Connor, the
superintendent, advanced to meet Ben, whom he at once recognized as a
new-comer.
"Is this the Newsboys' Lodge?" asked Ben.
"Yes," said the superintendent; "do you wish to stop with us?"
"I should like to sleep here to-night," said Ben.
"You are quite welcome."
"How much do you charge?"
"Our charge is six cents."
"Here is the money," said Ben, drawing it from his vest-pocket.
"What is your name?"
"Benjamin."
"And your other name?"
"Brandon," answered Ben, with some hesitation.
"What do you do for a living?"
"I am selling papers."
"Well, we will assign you a bed."
"Where are the beds?" asked Ben, looking about him.
"They are on the floor below. Any of the boys will go down and show you
when you get ready to retire."
"Can I get breakfast here in the morning?" inquired Ben.
"Certainly. We charge the same as for lodging."
Ben handed over six cents additional, and congratulated himself that he
was not as badly off as the night before, being sure of a comfortable
bed, and a breakfast in the morning.
"What are those for?" he asked, pointing to a row of drawers or lockers
on the sides of the apartment near the floor.
"Boys who have any extra clothing, or any articles which they value, are
allowed to use them. Here they are safe, as they can be locked. We will
assign you one if you wish."
"I have nothing to put away," said Ben. "I had a little bundle of
clothes; but they were stolen from me while I was lying asleep on a
bench in the City Hall Park."
"I suppose you don't know who took them?"
"No," said Ben; "but I think it was some of the boys that were blacking
boots near me.--That boy's got one of them on," he said, suddenly, in an
excited tone, pointing out Mike, the younger of the two boys who had
appropriated his bundle. Mike had locked up his own shirt, which was
considerably the worse for wear, and put on Ben's, which gave him a
decidedly neater appearance than before. He had thought himself
perfectly safe in doing so, not dreaming that he would be brought face
to face with the true owner in the Lodge.
"What makes you think it is yours?" asked Mr. O'Connor.
"It is cut like mine," said Ben. "Besides I remember getting a large
spot of ink on one of the sleeves, which would not wash out. There it
is, on the left arm."
As Ben had said, there was a faint bluish spot on the sleeve of the
shirt. This made Ben's story a plausible one, though not conclusive. The
superintendent decided to inquire of Mike about the matter, and see what
explanation he could give.
"Mike Rafferty," he said, in a tone of authority, "come here; I want
you."
Mike came forward, but when he saw Ben, whom he recognized, he felt a
little taken aback. But he had not been brought up in the streets for
nothing. His embarrassment was only momentary. He determined to brazen
it out, and swear, if anything was said about the shirt, that it was his
own lawful property.
"I see you've got a new shirt on, Mike," said Mr. O'Connor.
"Yes, sir," said Mike.
"Where did you get it?"
"Where would I get it?" said Mike. "I bought it yesterday."
"Where did you buy it?"
"Round in Baxter Street," said Mike, confidently.
"It is a pretty good shirt for Baxter Street," remarked Mr. O'Connor.
"How much did you pay for it?"
"Fifty cents," answered Mike, glibly.
"This may all be true, Mike," said the superintendent; "but I am not
certain about it. This boy here says it is his shirt, and he thinks that
you stole it from him while he was lying asleep in City Hall Park
yesterday."
"It's a lie he's tellin', sir," said Mike. "I never seed him afore."
Here seemed to be a conflict of evidence. Of the two Ben seemed the more
likely to tell the truth. Still it was possible that he might be
mistaken, and Mike might be right after all.
"Have you any other proof that the shirt is yours?" asked Mr. O'Connor,
turning to Ben.
"Yes," said Ben, "my name is marked on the shirt, just below the waist."
"We can settle the matter quickly then. Mike, pull out the shirt, so
that we can see it."
Mike made some objection, which was quickly overruled. The shirt, being
examined, bore the name of "Benj. Brandon," just as Ben had said.
"The shirt is yours," said the superintendent to Ben.
"Now, Mike, what did you mean by telling me that lie? It was bad enough
to steal, without adding a lie besides."
"I bought the shirt in Baxter Street," persisted Mike, unblushingly.
"Then how do you account for his name on it?"
"Maybe he sold it to the man I bought it of."
"I didn't sell it at all," said Ben.
"Was that all you had taken?"
"No," said Ben. "There was another shirt besides."
"Do you know anything about it, Mike?"
"No, I don't," said Mike.
"I don't know whether you are telling the truth or not," said the
superintendent; "but at any rate you must take this off, and give it to
the right owner."
"And will he pay me the fifty cents?" asked Mike.
"I don't think you bought it at all; but if you did, you can prove it by
the man you bought it of. If you can do that, I will see that the money
is refunded to you."
There was one strong reason for discrediting Mike's story. These
Baxter-Street shops are often the receptacles of stolen goods. As their
identification might bring the dealers into trouble, they are very
careful, as soon as an article comes into their possession, to
obliterate all the marks of former ownership. It was hardly likely that
they would suffer a shirt to go out of their hands so plainly marked as
was the case in the present instance. Mr. O'Connor, of course, knew
this, and accordingly had very little fear that he was doing injustice
to Mike in ordering him to make restitution to Ben.
Mike was forced, considerably against his will, to take off the new
shirt, and put on his old ragged one. But the former was no longer as
clean as formerly.
"Where can I get it washed?" asked Ben.
"You can wash it yourself, in the wash-room, or you can carry it to a
laundry, as some of the boys do, if you are willing to pay for it."
"I think I would rather carry it to a laundry," said Ben, who doubted
strongly his ability to wash the shirt so as to improve its appearance.
The superintendent accordingly gave him the direction to one of these
establishments.
Opposite the room which he had entered was a smaller room used by the
boys as a gymnasium. Ben looked into it, and determined to use it on
some future occasion. He next went into the wash-room. Here he saw two
or three boys, stripped to the waist, engaged in washing out their
shirts. Being provided with but a single one each, they left them to dry
over night while they were in bed, and could dispense with them. Ben
wondered how they managed about ironing them; but he soon found that
with these amateur laundresses ironing was not considered necessary.
They are put on rough-dry in the morning, and so worn until they are
considered dirty enough for another purification.
Ben looked about him with interest. The boys were chatting in an
animated manner, detailing their experiences during the day, or
"chaffing" each other in a style peculiar to themselves.
"Say, Jim," said one, "didn't I see you at the Grand Opera last night?"
"Yes, of course you did," said Jim. "I was in a private box along with
the mayor. I had a di'mond pin in the bosom of my shirt."
"Yes, I seed you through my opera-glass. What have you done with your
di'mond pin?"
"Do you think I'd bring it here to be stole? No, I keep it in my safe,
along of my other valooables."
Ben listened in amusement, and thought that Jim would have cut rather a
singular figure in the mayor's box.
Several boys, who had gone barefoot, were washing their feet, that being
required previous to going to bed. This is necessary; otherwise the
clean bed-clothes would be so soiled as to require daily washing.
The boys seemed to be having a good time, and then, though he was
unacquainted with any of them, felt that it was much pleasanter to be
here, in a social atmosphere, than wandering around by himself in the
dark and lonely streets. He observed one thing with surprise, that the
boys refrained from profane or vulgar speech, though they were by no
means so particular in the street during the day. This is, however, a
rule strictly enforced by the superintendent, and, if not complied with,
the offender is denied the privilege of the Lodging House.
After a while Ben expressed a desire to go to bed, and in company with
one of the boys descended to a room equally large, in the story below,
where over a hundred single beds were arranged in tiers, in a manner
very similar to the berths of a steamboat. Ben was agreeably surprised
by the neat and comfortable appearance of these beds. He felt that he
should be nearly as well provided for as at home. Quickly undressing
himself, he jumped into the bed assigned him, and in a few minutes was
fast asleep.
CHAPTER X.
FURTHER EXPERIENCES.
Ben had a comfortable night's rest, and when he awoke in the morning he
felt that a bed at the Newsboys' Lodge was considerably better than a
bale of cotton, or a hay-barge. At an early hour in the morning the boys
were called, and began to tumble out in all directions, interchanging,
as they performed their hasty toilet, a running fire of "chaff" and
good-humored jesting, some of which consisted of personal allusions the
reverse of complimentary.
Many of the boys stopped to breakfast, but not all. Some wanted to get
to work earlier, and took breakfast at a later hour at some cheap
restaurant, earning it before they ate it. Ben, however, had paid for
his breakfast in advance, knowing that he could not get it so cheap
elsewhere, and so waited to partake of it. He took his place at a long
table with his companions, and found himself served with a bowl of
coffee and a generous slice of bread. Sometimes, but not always, a
little cold meat is supplied in addition. But even when there is bread
only, the coffee warms the stomach, and so strengthens the boys for
their labors outside. The breakfast was not as varied, of course, as Ben
had been accustomed to at home, nor as tempting as my young readers have
spread before them every morning; but it was good of its kind, and Ben
ate it with unusual relish.
When he had finished his meal, he prepared to go out to work; not,
however, till the superintendent, whose recollection of individual boys
is surprising, considering the large number who frequent the Lodging
House in the course of a year, had invited him to come again. The
Lodging House, though it cannot supply the place of a private home,
steps between hundreds of boys and complete vagabondage, into which, but
for its existence, they would quickly lapse. Probably no money is more
wisely expended than that which enables the Children's Aid Society of
New York to maintain this and kindred institutions.
Ben had, after breakfast, eighty-five cents to commence the day on. But
of this sum, it will be remembered, he had reserved fifty cents to pay
the friendly reporter for his loan. This left him a working capital of
thirty-five cents. It was not a large sum to do business on, but it was
enough, and with it Ben felt quite independent.
In front of the 'Times' office, Ben met Rough and Ready,--the newsboy
who had taken his part the day before. He had got the start of Ben, and
was just disposing of his only remaining paper.
"How are you?" asked Ben.
"So's to be around," answered the other. "What are you up to?"
"I'm going to buy some papers."
"I have sold eight already. Where did you sleep last night?"
"At the Lodging House."
"How do you like it?"
"It's a good place, and very cheap."
"Yes, it's a bully place. I'd go there myself, if it wasn't for mother
and Rose. It's enough sight better than our room on Leonard Street. But
I can't leave my mother and sister."
"If you're going to buy some more papers, I'd like to go with you."
"All right. Come ahead."
Ben invested his money under the direction of his companion. By his
advice, he purchased nearly to the amount of his entire capital, knowing
that it would come back to him again, so that his plan for paying the
reporter could still be carried out.
"You can stand near me, if you want to, Ben," said Rough and Ready.
"I am afraid I shall interfere with your trade," answered Ben.
"Don't be afraid of that. I don't ask no favors. I can get my share of
business."
Ben, while engaged in selling papers himself, had an opportunity to
watch the ready tact with which Rough and Ready adapted himself to the
different persons whom he encountered. He succeeded in effecting a sale
in many cases where others would have failed. He had sold all his papers
before Ben had disposed of two-thirds of his, though both began with an
equal number.
"Here, Ben," he said, generously, "give me three of your papers, I'll
sell 'em for you."
By this friendly help, Ben found himself shortly empty-handed.
