they aimed to occupy the heights. They descended into the plain
reluctantly; they made occasional forays into the lowlands, but their
hills were their strength, as the Psalmist said; and they found security
among their crags and secluded glens from the agitations which shook the
great empires of the Eastern world. Invasions, retreats, pursuits, the
advance of devouring hosts or the flight of panic-stricken masses, for
a long time passed by their ridge of country on either side, along the
Mediterranean or through the land of Moab. They were out of the track
of Oriental commerce as well as of war. So removed were they from
participation in the stirring affairs of their era that they seem even
to have escaped the omnivorous Egyptian conquerors. Eor a long period
conquest passed them by, and it was not till their accumulation of
wealth tempted the avarice of the great Asiatic powers that they were
involved in the conflicts which finally destroyed them. The small
kingdom of Judah, long after that of Israel had been utterly swept away,
owed its continuance of life to its very defensible position. Solomon
left Jerusalem a strong city, well supplied with water, and capable
of sustaining a long siege, while the rugged country around it offered
little comfort to a besieging army.
For a short time David made the name of Israel a power in the world, and
Solomon, inheriting his reputation, added the triumphs of commerce to
those of conquest. By a judicious heathen alliance with Hiram of Tyre
he was able to build vessels on the Red Sea and man them with Phoenician
sailors, for voyages to India and Ceylon; and he was admitted by Hiram
to a partnership in his trading adventures to the Pillars of Hercules.
But these are only episodes in the Jewish career; the nation’s part in
Oriental history is comparatively insignificant until the days of their
great calamities. How much attention its heroism and suffering attracted
at that time we do not know.
Though the Israelites during their occupation of the hill-country of
Palestine were not concerned in the great dynastic struggles of the
Orient, they were not, however, at peace. Either the tribes were
fighting among themselves or they were involved in sanguinary fights
with the petty heathen chiefs about them. We get a lively picture of the
habits of the time in a sentence in the second book of Samuel: “And
it came to pass, after the year was expired, at the time when kings go
forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him, and
all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and besieged
Rabbah.” It was a pretty custom. In that season when birds pair and
build their nests, when the sap mounts in the trees and travellers long
to go into far countries, kings felt a noble impulse in their veins to
go out and fight other kings. But this primitive simplicity was mingled
with shocking barbarity; David once put his captives under the saw,
and there is nothing to show that the Israelites were more moved by
sentiments of pity and compassion than their heathen neighbors. There
was occasionally, however, a grim humor in their cruelty. When Judah
captured King Adoni-bezek, in Bezek, he cut off his great toes and his
thumbs. Adoni-bezek, who could appreciate a good thing, accepted the
mutilation in the spirit in which it was offered, and said that he had
himself served seventy kings in that fashion; “threescore and ten
kings, having their thumbs and great toes cut off, gathered their meat
under my table.”
From the death of Joshua to the fall of Samaria, the history of the Jews
is largely a history of civil war. From about seven hundred years before
Christ, Palestine was essentially a satrapy of the Assyrian kings, as it
was later to become one of the small provinces of the Roman empire. At
the time when Sennacherib was waiting before Jerusalem for Hezekiah
to purchase his withdrawal by stripping the gold from the doors of the
Temple, the foundations of a city were laid on the banks of the Tiber,
which was to extend its sway over the known world, to whose dominion the
utmost power of Jerusalem was only a petty sovereignty, and which was
destined to rival Jerusalem itself as the spiritual capital of the
earth.
If we do not find in the military power or territorial consequence of
the Jews an explanation of their influence in the modern world, still
less do we find it in any faithfulness to a spiritual religion, the
knowledge of which was their chief distinction among the tribes about
them. Their lapses from the worship of Jehovah were so frequent, and of
such long duration, that their returns to the worship of the true God
seem little more than breaks in their practice of idolatry. And these
spasmodic returns were due to calamities, and fears of worse judgments.
Solomon sanctioned by national authority gross idolatries which had
been long practised. At his death, ten of the tribes seceded from the
dominion of Judah and set up a kingdom in which idolatry was made and
remained the state religion, until the ten tribes vanished from the
theatre of history. The kingdom of Israel, in order to emphasize its
separation from that of Judah, set up the worship of Jehovah in the
image of a golden calf. Against this state religion of image-worship
the prophets seem to have thought it in vain to protest; they contented
themselves with battling against the more gross and licentious
idolatries of Baal and Ashtaroth; and Israel always continued the
idol-worship established by Jeroboam. The worship of Jehovah was the
state religion of the little kingdom of Judah, but during the period of
its existence, before the Captivity, I think that only four of its kings
were not idolaters. The people were constantly falling away into the
heathenish practices of their neighbors.
If neither territorial consequence nor religious steadfastness gave the
Jews rank among the great nations of antiquity, they would equally fail
of the consideration they now enjoy but for one thing, and that is,
after all, the chief and enduring product of any nationality; we mean,
of course, its literature. It is by that, that the little kingdoms
of Judah and Israel hold their sway over the world. It is that which
invests ancient Jerusalem with its charm and dignity. Not what the Jews
did, but the songs of their poets, the warnings and lamentations of
their prophets, the touching tales of their story-tellers, draw us to
Jerusalem by the most powerful influences that affect the human mind.
And most of this unequalled literature is the product of seasons of
turbulence, passion, and insecurity. Except the Proverbs and Song of
Solomon, and such pieces as the poem of Job and the story of Ruth, which
seem to be the outcome of literary leisure, the Hebrew writings were all
the offspring of exciting periods. David composed his Psalms—the most
marvellous interpreters of every human aspiration, exaltation, want, and
passion—with his sword in his hand; and the prophets always appear to
ride upon a whirlwind. The power of Jerusalem over the world is as truly
a literary one as that of Athens is one of art. That literature was
unknown to the ancients, or unappreciated: otherwise contemporary
history would have considered its creators of more consequence than it
did.
We speak, we have been speaking, of the Jerusalem before our era, and of
the interest it has independent of the great event which is, after all,
its chief claim to immortal estimation. It becomes sacred ground to
us because there, in Bethlehem, Christ was born; because here—not in
these streets, but upon this soil—he walked and talked and taught
and ministered; because upon Olivet, yonder, he often sat with his
disciples, and here, somewhere,—it matters not where,—he suffered
death and conquered death.
This is the scene of these transcendent events. We say it to ourselves
while we stand here. We can clearly conceive it when we are at a
distance. But with the actual Jerusalem of to-day before our eyes, its
naked desolation, its superstition, its squalor, its vivid contrast to
what we conceive should be the City of our King, we find it easier to
feel that Christ was born in New England than in Judæa.
V.—GOING DOWN TO JERICHO.
IT is on a lovely spring morning that we set out through the land of
Benjamin to go down among the thieves of Jericho, and to the Jordan and
the Dead Sea. For protection against the thieves we take some of them
with us, since you cannot in these days rely upon finding any good
Samaritans there.
For some days Abd-el-Atti has been in mysterious diplomatic relations
with the robbers of the wilderness, who live in Jerusalem, and farm out
their territory. “Thim is great rascals,” says the dragoman; and
it is solely on that account that we seek their friendship: the real
Bedawee is never known to go back on his word to the traveller who
trusts him, so long as it is more profitable to keep it than to break
it. We are under the escort of the second sheykh, who shares with the
first sheykh the rule of all the Bedaween who patrol the extensive
territory from Hebron to the fords of the Jordan, including Jerusalem,
Bethlehem, Mar Saba, and the shores of the Dead Sea; these rulers would
have been called kings in the old time, and the second sheykh bears the
same relation to the first that the Cæsar did to the Augustus in the
Roman Empire.
Our train is assembled in the little market-place opposite the hotel,
or rather it is assembling, for horses and donkeys are slow to arrive,
saddles are wanting, the bridles are broken, and the unpunctuality and
shiftlessness of the East manifest themselves. Abd-el-Atti is in fierce
altercation with a Koorland nobleman about a horse, which you would not
say would be likely to be a bone of contention with anybody. They are
both endeavoring to mount at once. Friends are backing each combatant,
and the air is thick with curses in guttural German and maledictions in
shrill Arabic. Unfortunately I am appealed to.
“What for this Dutchman, he take my horse?”
“Perhaps he hired it first?”
“P’aps not. I make bargain for him with the owner day before
yesterday.”
“I have become dis pferd for four days,” cries the Baron.
There seems to be no reason to doubt the Baron’s word; he has ridden
the horse to Bethlehem, and become accustomed to his jolts, and no doubt
has the prior lien on the animal. The owner has let him to both parties,
a thing that often happens when the second comer offers a piastre
more. Another horse is sent for, and we mount and begin to disentangle
ourselves from the crowd. It is no easy matter, especially for the
ladies. Our own baggage-mules head in every direction. Donkeys laden
with mountains of brushwood push through the throng, scraping right and
left; camels shamble against us, their contemptuous noses in the air,
stretching their long necks over our heads; market-women from Bethlehem
scream at us; and greasy pilgrims block our way and curse our horses’
hoofs.
One by one we emerge and get into a straggling line, and begin to
comprehend the size of our expedition. Our dragoman has made as
extensive preparations as if we were to be the first to occupy Gilgal
and Jericho, and that portion of the Promised Land. We are equipped
equally well for fighting and for famine. A party of Syrians, who desire
to make the pilgrimage to the Jordan, have asked permission to join
us, in order to share the protection of our sheykh, and they add both
picturesqueness and strength to the grand cavalcade which clatters out
of Jaffa Gate and sweeps round the city wall. Heaven keep us from undue
pride in our noble appearance!
Perhaps our train would impress a spectator as somewhat mixed, and he
would be unable to determine the order of its march. It is true that the
horses and the donkeys and the mules all have different rates of speed,
and that the Syrian horse has only two gaits,—a run and a slow walk.
As soon as we gain the freedom of the open country, these differences
develop. The ambitious dragomen and the warlike sheykh put their horses
into a run and scour over the hills, and then come charging back upon
us, like Don Quixote upon the flock of sheep. The Syrians imitate this
madness. The other horses begin to agitate their stiff legs; the donkeys
stand still and protest by braying; the pack-mules get temporarily
crazy, charge into us with the protruding luggage, and suddenly wheel
into the ditch and stop. This playfulness is repeated in various ways,
and adds to the excitement without improving the dignity of our march.
We are of many nationalities. There are four Americans, two of them
ladies. The Doctor, who is accustomed to ride the mustangs of New Mexico
and the wild horses of the Western deserts, endeavors to excite a spirit
of emulation in his stiff-kneed animal, but with little success. Our
dragoman is Egyptian, a decidedly heavy weight, and sits his steed like
a pyramid.
The sheykh is a young man, with the treacherous eye of an eagle; a
handsome fellow, who rides a lean white horse, anything but a beauty,
and yet of the famous Nedjed breed from Mecca. This desert warrior
wears red boots, white trousers and skirt, blue jacket, a yellow kufia,
confined about the head by a black cord and falling upon his shoulders,
has a long rifle slung at his back, an immense Damascus sword at his
side, and huge pistols, with carved and inlaid stocks, in his belt. He
is a riding arsenal and a visible fraud, this Bedawee sheykh. We should
no doubt be quite as safe without him, and perhaps less liable to
various extortions. But on the road, and from the moment we set out, we
meet Bedaween, single and in squads, savage-looking vagabonds, every one
armed with a gun, a long knife, and pistols with blunderbuss barrels,
flaring in such a manner as to scatter shot over an acre of ground.
These scarecrows are apparently paraded on the highway to make
travellers think it is insecure. But I am persuaded that none of them
would dare molest any pilgrim to the Jordan.
Our allies, the Syrians, please us better. There is a Frenchified
Syrian, with his wife, from Mansura, in the Delta of Egypt. The wife is
a very pretty woman (would that her example were more generally followed
in the East), with olive complexion, black eyes, and a low forehead-; a
native of Sidon. She wears a dark green dress, and a yellow kufia on
her head, and is mounted upon a mule, man-fashion, but upon a saddle
as broad as a feather-bed. Her husband, in semi-Syrian costume, with
top-boots, carries a gun at his back and a frightful knife in his belt.
Her brother, who is from Sidon, bears also a gun, and wears an enormous
sword. Very pleasant people these, who have armed themselves in the
spirit of the hunter rather than of the warrior, and are as completely
equipped for the chase as any Parisian who ventures in pursuit of game
into any of the dangerous thickets outside of Paris.
The Sidon wife is accompanied by two servants, slaves from Soudan, a boy
and a girl, each about ten years old,—two grinning, comical monkeys,
who could not by any possibility be of the slightest service to anybody,
unless it is a relief to their pretty mistress to vent her ill-humor
upon their irresponsible persons. You could n’t call them handsome,
though their skins are of dazzling black, and their noses so flat
that you cannot see them in profile. The girl wears a silk gown, which
reaches to her feet and gives her the quaint appearance of an old woman,
and a yellow vest; the boy is clad in motley European clothes, bought
second-hand with reference to his growing up to them,—upon which event
the trousers-legs and cuffs of his coat could be turned down,—and a
red fez contrasting finely with his black face. They are both mounted
on a decrepit old horse, whose legs are like sled-stakes, and they sit
astride on top of a pile of baggage, beds, and furniture, with bottles
and camp-kettles jingling about them. The girl sits behind the boy and
clings fast to his waist with one hand, while with the other she holds
over their heads a rent white parasol, to prevent any injury to their
jet complexions. When the old baggage-horse starts occasionally into a
hard trot, they both bob up and down, and strike first one side and then
the other, but never together; when one goes up the other goes down, as
if they were moved by different springs; but both show their ivory and
seem to enjoy themselves. Heaven knows why they should make a pilgrimage
to the Jordan.
Our Abyssinian servant, Abdallah, is mounted, also on a pack-horse, and
sits high in the air amid bags and bundles; he guides his brute only
by a halter, and when the animal takes a fancy to break into a gallop,
there is a rattling of dishes and kettles that sets the whole train into
commotion; the boy’s fez falls farther than ever back on his head, his
teeth shine, and his eyes dance as he jolts into the midst of the mules
and excites a panic, which starts everything into friskiness, waking
up even the Soudan party, which begins to bob about and grin. There are
half a dozen mules loaded with tents and bed furniture; the cook, and
the cook’s assistants, and the servants of the kitchen and the camp
are mounted on something, and the train is attended besides by drivers
and ostlers, of what nations it pleases Heaven. But this is not all. We
carry with us two hunting dogs, the property of the Syrian. The dogs are
not for use; they are a piece of ostentation, like the other portion
of the hunting outfit, and contribute, as do the Soudan babies, to our
appearance of Oriental luxury.
We straggle down through the Valley of Jehoshaphat, and around the Mount
of Olives to Bethany; and from that sightly slope our route is spread
before us as if we were looking upon a map. It lies through the
“wilderness of Judæa.” We are obliged to revise our Western
notions of a wilderness as a region of gross vegetation. The Jews knew a
wilderness when they saw it, and how to name it. You would be interested
to know what a person who lived at Jerusalem, or anywhere along the
backbone of Palestine, would call a wilderness. Nothing but the absolute
nakedness of desolation could seem to him dreary. But this region must
have satisfied even a person accustomed to deserts and pastures of
rocks. It is a jumble of savage hills and jagged ravines, a land of
limestone rocks and ledges, whitish gray in color, glaring in the sun,
even the stones wasted by age, relieved nowhere by a tree, or rejoiced
by a single blade of grass. Wild beasts would starve in it, the most
industrious bird could n’t collect in its length and breadth enough
soft material to make a nest of; it is what a Jew of Hebron or Jerusalem
or Hamah would call a “wilderness”! This exhausts the language of
description. How vividly in this desolation stands out the figure of the
prophet of God, clothed with camel’s hair and with a girdle of skin
about his loins, “the voice of one crying in the wilderness.”
The road is thronged with Jordan pilgrims. We overtake them, they
pass us, we meet them in an almost continuous train. Most of them are
peasants from Armenia, from the borders of the Black Sea, from the
Caucasus, from Abyssinia. The great mass are on foot, trudging wearily
along with their bedding and provisions, the thick-legged women carrying
the heaviest loads; occasionally you see a pilgrim asleep by the
roadside, his pillow a stone. But the travellers are by no means all
poor or unable to hire means of conveyance,—you would say that Judæa
had been exhausted of its beasts of burden of all descriptions for this
pilgrimage, and that even the skeletons had been exhumed to assist in
it. The pilgrims are mounted on sorry donkeys, on wrecks of horses,
on mules, sometimes an entire family on one animal. Now and then we
encounter a “swell” outfit, a wealthy Russian well mounted on a
richly caparisoned horse and attended by his servants; some ride in
palanquins, some in chairs. We overtake an English party, the central
figure of which is an elderly lady, who rides in a sort of high cupboard
slung on poles, and borne by a mule before and a mule behind; the
awkward vehicle sways and tilts backwards and forwards, and the good
woman looks out of the window of her coop as if she were sea-sick of
the world. Some ladies, who are unaccustomed to horses, have arm-chairs
strapped upon the horses’ backs, in which they sit. Now and then two
chairs are strapped upon one horse, and the riders sit back to back.
Sometimes huge panniers slung on the sides of the horse are used instead
of chairs, the passengers riding securely in them without any danger of
falling out. It is rather a pretty sight when each basket happens to be
full of children. There is, indeed, no end to the strange outfits
and the odd costumes. Nearly all the women who are mounted at all are
perched upon the top of all their household goods and furniture, astride
of a bed on the summit. There approaches a horse which seems to have a
sofa on its back, upon which four persons are seated in a row, as much
at ease as if at home; it is not, however, a sofa; four baskets have
been ingeniously fastened into a frame, so that four persons can ride
in them abreast. This is an admirable contrivance for the riders, much
better than riding in a row lengthwise on the horse, when the one in
front hides the view from those behind.
Diverted by this changing spectacle, we descend from Bethany. At first
there are wild-flowers by the wayside and in the fields, and there is a
flush of verdure on the hills, all of which disappears later. The sky
is deep blue and cloudless, the air is exhilarating; it is a day for
enjoyment, and everything and everybody we encounter are in a joyous
mood, and on good terms with the world. The only unamiable exception
is the horse with which I have been favored. He is a stocky little
stallion, of good shape, but ignoble breed, and the devil—which is, I
suppose, in the horse what the old Adam is in man—has never been cast
out of him. At first I am in love with his pleasant gait and mincing
ways, but I soon find that he has eccentricities that require the
closest attention on my part, and leave me not a moment for the scenery
or for biblical reflections. The beast is neither content to go in front
of the caravan nor in the rear he wants society, but the instant he
gets into the crowd he lets his heels fly right and left. After a few
performances of this sort, and when he has nearly broken the leg of the
Syrian, my company is not desired any more by any one. No one is willing
to ride within speaking distance of me. This sort of horse may please
the giddy and thoughtless, but he is not the animal for me. By the time
we reach the fountain ‘Ain el-Huad, I have quite enough of him, and
exchange steeds with the dragoman, much against the latter’s fancy; he
keeps the brute the remainder of the day cantering over stones and waste
places along the road, and confesses at night that his bridle-hand is so
swollen as to be useless.
We descend a steep hill to this fountain, which flows from a broken
Saracenic arch, and waters a valley that is altogether stony and
unfertile except in some patches of green. It is a general halting-place
for travellers, and presents a most animated appearance when we arrive.
Horses, mules, and men are struggling together about the fountain to
slake their thirst; but there is no trough nor any pool, and the only
mode to get the water is to catch it in the mouth as it drizzles from
the hole in the arch. It is difficult for a horse to do this, and the
poor things are beside themselves with thirst. Near by are some
stone ruins in which a man and woman have set up a damp coffee-shop,
sherbet-shop, and smoking station. From them I borrow a shallow dish,
and succeed in getting water for my horse, an experiment which seems to
surprise all nations. The shop is an open stone shed with a dirt floor,
offering only stools to the customers; yet when the motley crowd are
seated in and around it, sipping coffee and smoking the narghilehs
(water-pipes) with an air of leisure as if to-day would last forever,
you have a scene of Oriental luxury.
Our way lies down a winding ravine. The country is exceedingly rough,
like the Wyoming hills, but without trees or verdure. The bed of the
stream is a mass of rock in shelving ledges; all the rock in sight is a
calcareous limestone. After an hour of this sort of secluded travel we
ascend again and reach the Red Khan, and a scene still more desolate
because more extensive. The khan takes its name from the color of
the rocks; perched upon a high ledge are the ruins of this ancient
caravansary, little more now than naked walls. We take shelter for lunch
in a natural rock grotto opposite, exactly the shadow of a rock longed
for in a weary land. Here we spread our gay rugs, the servants unpack
the provision hampers, and we sit and enjoy the wide view of barrenness
and the picturesque groups of pilgrims. The spot is famous for its
excellent well of water. It is, besides, the locality usually chosen for
the scene of the adventure of the man who went down to Jericho and
fell among thieves, this being the khan at which he was entertained for
twopence. We take our siesta here, reflecting upon the great advance in
hotel prices, and endeavoring to re-create something of that past when
this was the highway between great Jerusalem and the teeming plain of
the Jordan. The Syro-Phoenician woman smoked a narghileh, and, looking
neither into the past nor the future, seemed to enjoy the present.
From this elevation we see again the brown Jordan Valley and the Dead
Sea. Our road is downward more precipitously than it has been before.
The rocks are tossed about tumultuously, and the hills are rent, but
there is no evidence of any volcanic action. Some of the rock strata
are bent, as you see the granite in the White Mountains, but this
peculiarity disappears as we approach nearer to the Jordan. The
translator of M. François Lenormant’s “Ancient History of the
East” says that “the miracles which accompanied the entrance of
the Israelites into Palestine seem such as might have been produced by
volcanic agency.” No doubt they might have been; but this whole region
is absolutely without any appearance of volcanic disturbance.
As we go on, we have on our left the most remarkable ravine in
Palestine; it is in fact a canon in the rocks, some five hundred feet
deep, the sides of which are nearly perpendicular. At the bottom of it
flows the brook Cherith, finding its way out into the Jordan plain.
We ride to the brink and look over into the abyss. It was about two
thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine years ago, and probably about
this time of the year (for the brook went dry shortly after), that
Elijah, having incurred the hostility of Ahab, who held his luxurious
court at Samaria, by prophesying against him, came over from Gilead and
hid himself in this ravine.
“Down there,” explains Abd-el-Atti, “the prophet Elijah fed him
the ravens forty days. Not have that kind of ravens now.”
Unattractive as this abyss is for any but a temporary summer residence,
the example of Elijah recommended it to a great number of people in a
succeeding age. In the wall of the precipice are cut grottos, some
of them so high above the bed of the stream that they are apparently
inaccessible, and not unlike the tombs in the high cliffs along the
Nile. In the fourth and fifth centuries monks swarmed in all the desert
places of Egypt and Syria like rabbits; these holes, near the scene of
Elijah’s miraculous support, were the abodes of Christian hermits,
most of whom starved themselves down to mere skin and bones waiting for
the advent of the crows. On the ledge above are the ruins of ancient
chapels, which would seem to show that this was a place of some resort,
and that the hermits had spectators of their self-denial. You might as
well be a woodchuck and sit in a hole as a monk, unless somebody comes
and looks at you.
As we advance, the Jordan valley opens more broadly upon our sight. At
this point, which is the historical point, the scene of the passage
of the Jordan and the first appearance of the Israelitish clans in the
Promised Land, the valley is ten miles broad. It is by no means a level
plain; from the west range of mountains it slopes to the river, and the
surface is broken by hillocks, ravines, and water-courses. The breadth
is equal to that between the Connecticut River at Hartford and the
Talcott range of hills. To the north we have in view the valley almost
to the Sea of Galilee, and can see the white and round summit of Hermon
beyond; on the east and on the west the barren mountains stretch in
level lines; and on the south the blue waters of the Dead Sea continue
the valley between ranges of purple and poetic rocky cliffs.
The view is magnificent in extent, and plain and hills glow with color
in this afternoon light. Yonder, near the foot of the eastern hills,
we trace the winding course of the Jordan by a green belt of trees and
bushes. The river we cannot see, for the “bottom” of the river,
to use a Western phrase, from six hundred to fifteen hundred feet in
breadth, is sunk below the valley a hundred feet and more. This bottom
is periodically overflowed. The general aspect of the plain is that of
a brown desert, the wild vegetation of which is crisped by the scorching
sun. There are, however, threads of verdure in it, where the brook
Cherith and the waters from the fountain ‘Ain es-Sultan wander through
the neglected plain, and these strips of green widen into the thickets
about the little village of Rîha, the site of ancient Gilgal. This
valley is naturally fertile; it may very likely have been a Paradise of
fruit-trees and grass and sparkling water when the Jews looked down
upon it from the mountains of Moab; it certainly bloomed in the Roman
occupation; and the ruins of sugar-mills still existing show that the
crusading Christians made the cultivation of the sugar-cane successful
here; it needs now only the waters of the Jordan and the streams from
the western foot-hills directed by irrigating ditches over its surface,
moistening its ashy and nitrous soil, to become again a fair and smiling
land.
Descending down the stony and precipitous road, we turn north, still on
the slope of the valley. The scant grass is already crisped by the heat,
the bushes are dry skeletons. A ride of a few minutes brings us to some
artificial mounds and ruins of buildings upon the bank of the brook
Cherith. The brickwork is the fine reticulated masonry such as you
see in the remains of Roman villas at Tusculum. This is the site of
Herod’s Jericho, the Jericho of the New Testament. But the Jericho
which Joshua destroyed and the site of which he cursed, the Jericho
which Hiel rebuilt in the days of the wicked Ahab, and where Elisha
abode after the translation of Elijah, was a half-mile to the north of
this modern town.
We have some difficulty in fording the brook Cherith, for the banks are
precipitous and the stream is deep and swift; those who are mounted upon
donkeys change them for horses, the Arab attendants wade in, guiding the
stumbling animals which the ladies ride, the lumbering beast with the
Soudan babies comes splashing in at the wrong moment, to the peril of
those already in the torrent, and is nearly swept away; the sheykh
and the servants who have crossed block the narrow landing; but with
infinite noise and floundering about we all come safely over, and gallop
along a sort of plateau, interspersed with thorny nubk and scraggy
bushes. Going on for a quarter of an hour, and encountering cultivated
spots, we find our tents already pitched on the bushy bank of a little
stream that issues from the fountain of ‘Ain es-Sultan a few rods
above. Near the camp is a high mound of rubbish. This is the site of our
favorite Jericho, a name of no majesty like that of Rome, and endeared
to us by no associations like Jerusalem, but almost as widely known
as either; probably even its wickedness would not have preserved its
reputation, but for the singular incident that attended its first
destruction. Jericho must have been a city of some consequence at
the time of the arrival of the Israelites; we gain an idea of the
civilization of its inhabitants from the nature of the plunder that
Joshua secured; there were vessels of silver and of gold, and of brass
and iron; and this was over fourteen hundred years before Christ.
Before we descend to our encampment, we pause for a survey of this
historic region. There, towards Jordan, among the trees, is the site
of Gilgal (another name that shares the half-whimsical reputation of
Jericho), where the Jews made their first camp. The king of Jericho,
like his royal cousins roundabout, had “no more spirit in him” when
he saw the Israelitish host pass the Jordan. He shut himself up in his
insufficient walls, and seems to have made no attempt at a defence. Over
this upland the Jews swarmed, and all the armed host with seven priests
and seven ram’s-horns marched seven days round and round the doomed
city, and on the seventh day the people shouted the walls down. Every
living thing in the city was destroyed except Rahab and her family, the
town was burned, and for five hundred years thereafter no man dared
to build upon its accursed foundations. Why poor Jericho was specially
marked out for malediction we are not told.
When it was rebuilt in Ahab’s time, the sons of the prophets found
it an agreeable place of residence; large numbers of them were gathered
here while Elijah lived, and they conversed with that prophet when
he was on his last journey through this valley, which he had so often
traversed, compelled by the Spirit of the Lord. No incident in the
biblical story so strongly appeals to the imagination, nor is there
anything in the poetical conception of any age so sublime as the last
passage of Elijah across this plain and his departure into heaven beyond
Jordan. When he came from Bethel to Jericho, he begged Elisha, his
attendant, to tarry here; but the latter would not yield either to his
entreaty or to that of the sons of the prophets. We can see the way the
two prophets went hence to Jordan. Fifty men of the sons of the prophets
went and stood to view them afar off, and they saw the two stand by
Jordan. Already it was known that Elijah was to disappear, and the
two figures, lessening in the distance, were followed with a fearful
curiosity. Did they pass on swiftly, and was there some premonition, in
the wind that blew their flowing mantles, of the heavenly gale? Elijah
smites the waters with his mantle, the two pass over dry-shod, and “as
they still went on and talked, behold there appeared a chariot of fire,
and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by
a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried, ‘My father,
my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof.’ And he saw
him no more.”
Elislia returned to Jericho and abode there while the sons of the
prophets sought for Elijah beyond Jordan three days, but did not find
him. And the men of the city said to Elisha, “Behold, I pray thee, the
situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord seeth, but the water is
naught and the ground is barren.” Then Elisha took salt and healed the
spring of water; and ever since, to this day, the fountain, now called
‘Ain es-Sultan, has sent forth sweet water.
Turning towards the northwest, we see the passage through the mountain,
by the fountain ‘Ain Duk, to Bethel. It was out of some woods there,
where the mountain is now bare, that Elisha called the two she-bears
which administered that dreadful lesson to the children who derided his
baldness. All the region, indeed, recalls the miracles of Elisha. It was
probably here that Naaman the Syrian came to be healed; there at Gilgal
Elisha took the death out of the great pot in which the sons of the
prophets were seething their pottage; and it was there in the Jordan
that he made the iron axe to swim.
Of all this celebrated and ill-fated Jericho, nothing now remains but a
hillock and Elisha’s spring. The wild beasts of the desert prowl about
it, and the night-bird hoots over its fall,—a sort of echo of the
shouts that brought down its walls. Our tents are pitched near the
hillock, and the animals are picketed on the open ground before them by
the stream. The Syrian tourist in these days travels luxuriously. Our
own party has four tents,—the kitchen tent, the dining tent, and
two for lodging. They are furnished with tables, chairs, all the
conveniences of the toilet, and carpeted with bright rugs. The cook is
an artist, and our table is one that would have astonished the sons
of the prophets. The Syrian party have their own tents; a family
from Kentucky has camped near by; and we give to Jericho a settled
appearance. The elder sheykh accompanies the other party of Americans,
so that we have now all the protection possible.
The dragoman of the Kentuckians we have already encountered in Egypt and
on the journey, and been impressed by his respectable gravity. It would
perhaps be difficult for him to tell his nationality or birthplace; he
wears the European dress, and his gold spectacles and big stomach would
pass him anywhere for a German professor. He seems out of place as a
dragoman, but if any one desired a savant as a companion in the East, he
would be the man. Indeed, his employers soon discover that his forte is
information, and not work. While the other servants are busy about the
camps Antonio comes over to our tent, and opens up the richness of his
mind, and illustrates his capacity as a Syrian guide.
“You know that mountain, there, with the chapel on top?” he asks.
“No.”
“Well, that is Mt. Nebo, and that one next to it is Pisgah, the
mountain of the prophet Moses.”
Both these mountains are of course on the other side of the Jordan in
the Moab range, but they are not identified,—except by Antonio.
The sharp mountain behind us is Quarantania, the Mount of Christ’s
Temptation. Its whole side to the summit is honey-combed with the cells
of hermits who once dwelt there, and it is still the resort of many
pilgrims.
The evening is charming, warm but not depressing; the atmosphere is even
exhilarating, and this surprises us, since we are so far below the sea
level. The Doctor says that it is exactly like Colorado on a July night.
We have never been so low before, not even in a coal-mine. We are not
only about thirty-seven hundred feet below Jerusalem, we are over twelve
hundred below the level of the sea. Sitting outside the tent under the
starlight, we enjoy the novelty and the mysteriousness of the scene.
Tents, horses picketed among the bushes, the firelight, the groups of
servants and drivers taking their supper, the figure of an Arab from
Gilgal coming forward occasionally out of the darkness, the singing,
the occasional violent outbreak of kicking and squealing among the
ill-assorted horses and mules, the running of loose-robed attendants
to the rescue of some poor beast, the strong impression of the locality
upon us, and I know not what Old Testament flavor about it all, conspire
to make the night memorable.
“This place very dangerous,” says Antonio, who is standing round,
bursting with information. “Him berry wise,” is Abdel-Atti’s
opinion of him. “Know a great deal; I tink him not live long.”
“What is the danger?” we ask.
“Wild beasts, wild boars, hyenas,—all these bush full of them. It
was three years now I was camped here with Baron Kronkheit. ‘Bout
twelve o’clock I heard a noise and came out. Right there, not twenty
feet from here, stood a hyena as big as a donkey, his two eyes like
fire. I did not shoot him for fear to wake up the Baron.”
“Did he kill any of your party?”
“Not any man. In the morning I find he has carried off our only
mutton.”
Notwithstanding these dangers, the night passes without alarm, except
the barking of jackals about the kitchen tent. In the morning I ask
Antonio if he heard the hyenas howling in the night. “Yes, indeed,
plenty of them; they came very near my tent.”
We are astir at sunrise, breakfast, and start for the Jordan. It is the
opinion of the dragoman and the sheykh that we should go first to the
Dead Sea. It is the custom. Every tourist goes to the Dead Sea first,
bathes, and then washes off the salt in the Jordan. No one ever thought
of going to the Jordan first. It is impossible. We must visit the Dead
Sea, and then lunch at the Jordan. We wished, on the contrary, to lunch
at the Dead Sea, at which we should otherwise only have a very brief
time. We insisted upon our own programme, to the great disgust of all
our camp attendants, who predicted disaster.
The Jordan is an hour and a half from Jericho; that is the distance to
the bathing-place of the Greek pilgrims. We descend all the way. Wild
vegetation is never wanting; wild-flowers abound; we pass through
thickets of thorns, bearing the yellow “apples of the Dead Sea,”
which grow all over this plain. At Gilgal (now called Biha) we find
what is probably the nastiest village in the world, and its miserable
inhabitants are credited with all the vices of Sodom. The wretched
huts are surrounded by a thicket of nubk as a protection against the
plundering Bedaween. The houses are rudely built of stone, with a
covering of cane or brush, and each one is enclosed in a hedge of
thorns. These thorns, which grow rankly on the plain, are those of which
the “crown of thorns” was plaited, and all devout pilgrims carry
away some of them. The habitations within these thorny enclosures
are filthy beyond description, and poverty-stricken. And this is in a
watered plain which would bloom with all manner of fruits with the least
care. Indeed, there are a few tangled gardens of the rankest vegetation;
in them we see the orange, the fig, the deceptive pomegranate with
its pink blossoms, and the olive. As this is the time of pilgrimage, a
company of Turkish soldiers from Jerusalem is encamped at the village,
and the broken country about it is covered with tents, booths, shops,
kitchens, and presents the appearance of a fair and a camp-meeting
combined. There are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of pilgrims, who go
every morning, as long as they remain here, to dip in the Jordan. Near
the village rises the square tower of an old convent, probably, which is
dignified with the name of the “house of Zacchæus.” This plain
was once famed for its fertility; it was covered with gardens and
palm-groves; the precious balsam, honey, and henna were produced here;
the balsam gardens were the royal gift of Antony to Cleopatra, who
transferred the balsam-trees to Heliopolis in Egypt.
As we ride away from Gilgal and come upon a more open and desert plain,
I encounter an eagle sitting on the top of a thorn-tree, not the noblest
of his species, but, for Palestine, a very fair eagle. Here is a chance
for the Syrian hunter; he is armed with gun and pistols; he has his
dogs; now, if ever, is the time for him to hunt, and I fall back and
point out his opportunity. He does not embrace it. It is an easy shot;
perhaps he is looking for wild boars; perhaps he is a tender-minded
hunter. At any rate, he makes no effort to take the eagle, and when I
ride forward the bird gracefully rises in the air, sweeping upward in
magnificent circles, now veering towards the Mount of Temptation, and
now towards Nebo, but always as serene as the air in which he floats.
And now occurs one of those incidents which are not rare to travellers
in Syria, but which are rare and scarcely believed elsewhere. As the
eagle hangs for a second motionless in the empyrean far before me, he
drops a feather. I see the gray plume glance in the sun and swirl slowly
down in the lucid air. In Judæa every object is as distinct as in a
photograph. You can see things at a distance you can make no one believe
at home. The eagle plume, detached from the noble bird, begins its
leisurely descent.
I see in a moment my opportunity. I might never have another. All
travellers in Syria whose books I have ever read have one or more
startling adventures. Usually it is with a horse. I do not remember any
with a horse and an eagle. I determine at once to have one. Glancing a
moment at the company behind me, and then fixing my eye on the falling
feather, I speak a word to my steed, and dart forward.
A word was enough. The noble animal seemed to comprehend the situation.
He was of the purest Arab breed; four legs, four white ankles, small
ears, slender pasterns, nostrils thin as tissue paper, and dilating upon
the fall of a leaf; an eye terrible in rage, but melting in affection;
a round barrel; gentle as a kitten, but spirited as a game-cock. His
mother was a Nedjed mare from Medina, who had been exchanged by a
Bedawee chief for nine beautiful Circassians, but only as a compromise
after a war by the Pasha of Egypt for her possession. Her father was
one of the most respectable horses in Yemen. Neither father, mother, nor
colt had ever eaten anything but selected dates.
At the word, Abdallah springs forward, bounding over the sand, skimming
over the thorn bushes, scattering the Jordan pilgrims right and left.
He does not seem to be so much a horse as a creation of the
imagination,—a Pegasus. At every leap we gain upon the feather, but it
is still far ahead of us, and swirling down, down, as the air takes the
plume or the weight of gravity acts upon the quill. Abdallah does not
yet know the object of our fearful pace, but his docility is such that
every time I speak to him he seems to shoot out of himself in sudden
bursts of enthusiasm. The terrible strain continues longer than I had
supposed it would, for I had undercalculated both the height at which
the feather was cast and my distance to the spot upon which it must
fall. None but a horse fed on dates could keep up the awful gait. We
fly and the feather falls; and it falls with increasing momentum. It is
going, going to the ground, and we are not there. At this instant, when
I am in despair, the feather twirls, and Abdallah suddenly casts his
eye up and catches the glint of it. The glance suffices to put him
completely in possession of the situation. He gives a low neigh of joy;
I plunge both spurs into his flanks about six or seven inches; he leaps
into the air, and sails like a bird,—of course only for a moment; but
it is enough; I stretch out my hand and catch the eagle’s plume before
it touches the ground. We light on the other side of a clump of thorns,
and Abdallah walks on as quietly as if nothing had happened; he was not
blown; not a hair of his glossy coat was turned. I have the feather to
show.
Pilgrims are plenty, returning from the river in a continuous
procession, in numbers rivalling the children of Israel when they first
camped at Gilgal. We descend into the river-bottom, wind through the
clumps of tangled bushes, and at length reach an open place where
the river for a few rods is visible. The ground is trampled like a
watering-spot for cattle; the bushes are not large enough to give shade;
there are no trees of size except one or two at the water’s edge; the
banks are slimy, there seems to be no comfortable place to sit except on
your horse—on Jordan’s stormy banks I stand and cast a wistful eye;
the wistful eye encounters nothing agreeable.
The Jordan here resembles the Arkansas above Little Rock, says the
Doctor; I think it is about the size of the Concord where it flows
through the classic town of that name in Massachusetts; but it is much
swifter. Indeed, it is a rapid current, which would sweep away the
strongest swimmer. The opposite bank is steep, and composed of sandy
loam or marl. The hither bank is low, but slippery, and it is difficult
to dip up water from it. Close to the shore the water is shallow, and
a rope is stretched out for the protection of the bathers. This is the
Greek bathing-place, but we are too late to see the pilgrims enter the
stream; crowds of them are still here, cutting canes to carry away, and
filling their tin cans with the holy water. We taste the water, which
is very muddy, and find it warm but not unpleasant. We are glad that we
have decided to lunch at the Dead Sea, for a more uninviting place than
this could not he found; above and below this spot are thickets and
boggy ground. It is beneath the historical and religious dignity of the
occasion to speak of lunch, but all tourists know what importance it
assumes on such an excursion, and that their high reflections seldom
come to them on the historical spot. Indeed, one must be removed some
distance from the vulgar Jordan before he can glow at the thought of it.
In swiftness and volume it exceeds our expectations, but its beauty is
entirely a creation of the imagination.
We had the opportunity of seeing only a solitary pilgrim bathe. This was
a shock-headed Greek young man, who reluctantly ventured into the dirty
water up to his knees and stood there shivering, and whimpering over the
orders of the priest on the bank, who insisted upon his dipping. Perhaps
the boy lacked faith; perhaps it was his first experiment with water; at
any rate, he stood there until his spiritual father waded in and ducked
the blubbering and sputtering neophyte under. This was not a baptism,
but a meritorious bath. Some seedy fellahs from Gilgal sat on the bank
fishing. When I asked them if they had anything, they produced from the
corners of their gowns some Roman copper coins, picked up at Jericho,
and which they swore were dropped there by the Jews when they assaulted
the city with the rams’-horns. These idle fishermen caught now
and then a rather soft, light-colored perch, with large scales,—a
sickly-looking fish, which the Greeks, however, pronounced “tayeb.”
We leave the river and ride for an hour and a half across a nearly level
plain, the earth of which shows salts here and there, dotted with a low,
fat-leaved plant, something like the American sage-bush. Wild-flowers
enliven the way, and although the country is not exactly cheerful, it
has no appearance of desolation except such as comes from lack of water.
The Dead Sea is the least dead of any sheet of water I know. When we
first arrived the waters were a lovely blue, which changed to green in
the shifting light, but they were always animated and sparkling. It has
a sloping sandy beach, strewn with pebbles, up which the waves come with
a pleasant murmur. The plain is hot; here we find à cool breeze. The
lovely plain of water stretches away to the south between blue and
purple ranges of mountains, which thrust occasionally bold promontories
into it, and add a charm to the perspective.
The sea is not inimical either to vegetable or animal life on its
borders. Before we reach it I hear bird-notes high in the air like the
song of a lark; birds are flitting about the shore and singing, and
gulls are wheeling over the water; a rabbit runs into his hole close by
the beach. Growing close to the shore is a high woody stonewort,
with abundance of fleshy leaves and thousands of blossoms, delicate
protruding stamens hanging over the waters of the sea itself. The plant
with the small yellow fruit, which we take to be that of the apples of
Sodom, also grows here. It is the Solarium spinosa, closely allied
to the potato, egg-plant, and tomato; it has a woody stem with sharp
recurved thorns, sometimes grows ten feet high, and is now covered with
round orange berries.
It is not the scene of desolation that we expected, although some
branches and trunks of trees, gnarled and bleached, the drift-wood of
the Jordan, strewn along the beach, impart a dead aspect to the shore.
These dry branches are, however, useful; we build them up into a wigwam,
over which we spread our blankets; under this we sit, sheltered from
the sun, enjoying the delightful breeze and the cheering prospect of the
sparkling sea. The improvident Arabs, now that it is impossible to get
fresh water, begin to want it; they have exhausted their own jugs and
ours, having neglected to bring anything like an adequate supply. To see
water and not be able to drink it is too much for their philosophy.
The party separates along the shore, seeking for places where bushes
grow out upon tongues of land and offer shelter from observation for
the bather. The first impression we have of the water is its perfect
clearness. It is the most innocent water in appearance, and you would
not suspect its saltness and extreme bitterness. No fish live in it; the
water is too salt for anything but codfish. Its buoyancy has not been
exaggerated by travellers, but I did not expect to find bathing in it
so agreeable as it is. The water is of a happy temperature, soft, not
exactly oily, but exceedingly agreeable to the skin, and it left a
delicious sensation after the bath but it is necessary to be careful
not to get any of it into the eyes. For myself, I found swimming in
it delightful, and I wish the Atlantic Ocean were like it; nobody then
would ever be drowned. Floating is no effort; on the contrary, sinking
is impossible. The only annoyance in swimming is the tendency of the
feet to strike out of water, and of the swimmer to go over on his head.
When I stood upright in the water it came about to my shoulders; but it
was difficult to stand, from the constant desire of the feet to go to
the surface. I suppose that the different accounts of travellers in
regard to the buoyancy of the water are due to the different specific
gravity of the writers. We cannot all be doctors of divinity. I found
that the best way to float was to make a bow of the body and rest
with feet and head out of water, which was something like being in a
cushioned chair. Even then it requires some care not to turn over. The
bather seems to himself to be a cork, and has little control of his
body.
About two hundred yards from the shore is an artificial island of stone,
upon which are remains of regular masonry. Probably some crusader had
a castle there. We notice upon looking down into the clear depths, some
distance out, in the sunlight, that the lake seems, as it flows, to have
translucent streaks, which are like a thick solution of sugar, showing
how completely saturated it is with salts. It is, in fact, twelve
hundred and ninety-two feet below the Mediterranean, nothing but a
deep, half-dried-up sea; the chloride of magnesia, which gives it its
extraordinarily bitter taste, does not crystallize and precipitate
itself so readily as the chloride of sodium.
We look in vain for any evidence of volcanic disturbance or action of
fire. Whatever there may be at the other end of the lake, there is none
here. We find no bitumen or any fire-stones, although the black stones
along the beach may have been supposed to be bituminous. All the pebbles
and all the stones of the beach are of chalk flint, and tell no story of
fire or volcanic fury.
Indeed, the lake has no apparent hostility to life. An enterprising
company could draw off the Jordan thirty miles above here and make all
this valley a garden, producing fruits and sugar-cane and cotton, and
this lake one of the most lovely watering-places in the world. I have
no doubt maladies could be discovered which its waters are exactly
calculated to cure. I confidently expect to hear some day that great
hotels are built upon this shore, which are crowded with the pious, the
fashionable, and the diseased. I seem to see this blue and sunny lake
covered with a gay multitude of bathers, floating about the livelong day
on its surface; parties of them making a pleasure excursion to the foot
of Pisgah; groups of them chatting, singing, amusing themselves as they
would under the shade of trees on land, having umbrellas and floating
awnings, and perhaps servants to bear their parasols; couples floating
here and there at will in the sweet dream of a love that seems to
be suspended between the heaven and the earth. No one will be at any
expense for boats, for every one will be his own boat, and launch
himself without sail or oars whenever he pleases. How dainty will be
the little feminine barks that the tossing mariner will hail on that
peaceful sea! No more wailing of wives over husbands drowned in the
waves, no more rescuing of limp girls by courageous lovers. People may
be shipwrecked if there comes a squall from Moab, but they cannot be
drowned. I confess that this picture is the most fascinating that I have
been able to conjure up in Syria.
We take our lunch under the wigwam, fanned by a pleasant breeze. The
persons who partake it present a pleasing variety of nations and colors,
and the “spread” itself, though simple, was gathered from many
lands. Some one took the trouble to note the variety: raisins from
Damascus, bread, chicken, and mutton from Jerusalem, white wine from
Bethlehem, figs from Smyrna, cheese from America, dates from Nubia,
walnuts from Germany, water from Elisha’s well, eggs from Hen.
We should like to linger till night in this enchanting place, but for
an hour the sheykh and dragoman have been urging our departure; men and
beasts are represented as suffering for water,—all because we have
reversed the usual order of travel. As soon as we leave the lake we lose
its breeze, the heat becomes severe; the sandy plain is rolling and a
little broken, but it has no shade, no water, and is indeed a weary way.
The horses feel the want of water sadly. The Arabs, whom we had supposed
patient in deprivation, are almost crazy with thirst. After we have
ridden for over an hour the sheykh’s horse suddenly wheels off and
runs over the plain; my nag follows him, apparently without reason, and
in spite of my efforts I am run away with. The horses dash along,
and soon the whole cavalcade is racing after us. The object is soon
visible,—a fringe of trees, which denotes a brook; the horses press
on, dash down the steep bank, and plunge their heads into the water up
to the eyes. The Arabs follow suit. The sheykh declares that in fifteen
minutes more both men and horses would have been dead. Never before did
anybody lunch at the Dead Sea.
When the train comes up, the patient donkey that Madame rides is pushed
through the brook and not permitted to wet his muzzle. I am indignant at
such cruelty, and spring off my horse, push the two donkey-boys aside,
and lead the eager donkey to the stream. At once there is a cry of
protest from dragomans, sheykh, and the whole crowd, “No drink donkey,
no drink donkey, no let donkey, bad for donkey.” There could not have
been a greater outcry among the Jews when the ark of the covenant was
likely to touch the water. I desist from my charitable efforts. Why the
poor beast, whose whole body craved water as much as that of the horse,
was denied it, I know not. It is said that if you give a donkey water
on the road he won’t go thereafter. Certainly the donkey is never
permitted to drink when travelling. I think the patient and chastened
creature will get more in the next world than his cruel masters.
Nearly all the way over the plain we have the long snowy range of Mt.
Herinon in sight, a noble object, closing the long northern vista, and a
refreshment to the eyes wearied by the parched vegetation of the valley
and dazzled by the aerial shimmer. If we turn from the north to the
south, we have the entirely different but equally poetical prospect of
the blue sea enclosed in the receding hills, which fall away into the
violet shade of the horizon. The Jordan Valley is unique; by a geologic
fault it is dropped over a thousand feet below the sea-level; it is
guarded by mountain-ranges which are from a thousand to two thousand
feet high; at one end is a mountain ten thousand feet high, from which
the snow never disappears; at the other end is a lake forty miles long,
of the saltest and bitterest water in the world. All these contrasts the
eye embraces at one point.
We dismount at the camp of the Russian pilgrims by Rîha, and walk among
the tents and booths. The sharpers of Syria attend the strangers,
tempt them with various holy wares, and entice them into their dirty
coffee-shops. It is a scene of mingled credulity and knavery, of
devotion and traffic. There are great booths for the sale of vegetables,
nuts, and dried fruit. The whole may be sufficiently described as a
camp-meeting without any prayer-tent.
At sunset I have a quiet hour by the fountain of Elisha. It is a
remarkable pool. Under the ledge of limestone rocks the water gushes
out with considerable force, and in such volume as to form a large brook
which flows out of the basin and murmurs over a stony bed. You cannot
recover your surprise to see a river in this dry country burst suddenly
out of the ground. A group of native women have come to the pool with
jars, and they stay to gossip, sitting about the edge upon the stones
with their feet in the water. One of them wears a red gown, and her
cheeks are as red as her dress; indeed, I have met several women to-day
who had the complexion of a ripe Flemish Beauty pear. As it seems to be
the fashion, I also sit on the bank of the stream with my feet in the
warm swift water, and enjoy the sunset and the strange concourse of
pilgrims who are gathering about the well. They are worthy Greeks, very
decent people, men and women, who salute me pleasantly as they arrive,
and seem to take my participation in the bath as an act of friendship.
Just below the large pool, by a smaller one, a Greek boy, having bathed,
is about to dress, and I am interested to watch the process. The first
article to go on is a white shirt; over this he puts on two blue woollen
shirts; he then draws on a pair of large, loose trousers; into these
the shirts are tucked, and the trousers are tied at the waist,—he is
bothered with neither pins nor buttons. Then comes the turban, which is
a soft gray and yellow material; a red belt is next wound twice about
the waist; the vest is yellow and open in front; and the costume is
completed by a jaunty jacket of yellow, prettily embroidered. The heap
of clothes on the bank did not promise much, but the result is a very
handsome boy, dressed, I am sure, most comfortably for this climate.
While I sit here the son of the sheykh rides his horse to the pool. He
is not more than ten years old, is very smartly dressed in gay colors,
and exceedingly handsome, although he has somewhat the supercilious
manner of a lad born in the purple. The little prince speaks French,
and ostentatiously displays in his belt a big revolver. I am glad of the
opportunity of seeing one of the desert robbers in embryo.
When it is dusk we have an invasion from the neighboring Bedaween,
an imposition to which all tourists are subjected, it being taken for
granted that we desire to see a native dance. This is one of the ways
these honest people have of levying tribute; by the connivance of our
protectors, the head sheykhs, the entertainment is forced upon us, and
the performers will not depart without a liberal backsheesh. We are
already somewhat familiar with the fascinating dances of the Orient, and
have only a languid curiosity about those of the Jordan; but before
we are aware there is a crowd before our tents, and the evening is
disturbed by doleful howling and drum-thumping. The scene in the
flickering firelight is sufficiently fantastic.
The men dance first. Some twenty or thirty of them form in a
half-circle, standing close together; their gowns are in rags, their
black hair is tossed in tangled disorder, and their eyes shine with
animal wildness. The only dancing they perform consists in a violent
swaying of the body from side to side in concert, faster and faster as
the excitement rises, with an occasional stamping of the feet, and a
continual howling like darwishes. Two vagabonds step into the focus of
the half-circle and hop about in the most stiff-legged manner, swinging
enormous swords over their heads, and giving from time to time a
war-whoop,—it seems to be precisely the dance of the North American
Indians. We are told, however, that the howling is a song, and that the
song relates to meeting the enemy and demolishing him. The longer the
performance goes on the less we like it, for the uncouthness is
not varied by a single graceful motion, and the monotony becomes
unendurable. We long for the women to begin.
When the women begin, we wish we had the men back again. Creatures
uglier and dirtier than these hags could not be found. Their dance is
much the same as that of the men, a semicircle, with a couple of women
to jump about and whirl swords. But the women display more fierceness
and more passion as they warm to their work, and their shrill cries,
dishevelled hair, loose robes, and frantic gestures give us new ideas of
the capacity of the gentle sex; you think that they would not only slay
their enemies, but drink their blood and dance upon their fragments.
Indeed, one of their songs is altogether belligerent; it taunts the men
with cowardice, it scoffs them for not daring to fight, it declares that
the women like the sword and know how to use it,—and thus, and thus,
and thus, lunging their swords into the air, would they pierce the
imaginary enemy. But these sweet creatures do not sing altogether of
war; they sing of love in the same strident voices and fierce manner:
“My lover will meet me by the stream, he will take me over the
water.”
When the performance is over they all clamor for backsheesh; it is given
in a lump to their sheykh, and they retire into the bushes and wrangle
over its distribution. The women return to us and say. “Why you give
our backsheesh to sheykh? We no get any. Men get all.” It seems that
women are animated nowadays by the same spirit the world over, and make
the same just complaints of the injustice of men.
When we turn in, there is a light gleaming from a cell high up on Mt.
Temptation, where some modern pilgrim is playing hermit for the night.
We are up early in the morning, and prepare for the journey to
Jerusalem. Near our camp some Abyssinian pilgrims, Christians so called,
have encamped in the bushes, a priest and three or four laymen, the
cleverest and most decent Abyssinians we have met with. They are from
Gondar, and have been a year and a half on their pilgrimage from their
country to the Jordan. The priest is severely ill with a fever, and his
condition excites the compassion of Abd-el-Atti, who procures for him
a donkey to ride back to the city. About the only luggage of the party
consists of sacred books, written on parchment and preserved with great
care, among them the Gospel of St. John, the Psalms, the Pentateuch, and
volumes of prayers to the Virgin. They are willing to exchange some of
these manuscripts for silver, and we make up besides a little purse for
the sick man. These Abyssinian Christians when at home live under the
old dispensation, rather than the new, holding rather to the law of
Moses than of Christ, and practise generally all the vices of all ages;
the colony of them at Jerusalem is a disreputable lot of lewd beggars;
so that we are glad to find some of the race who have gentle manners and
are outwardly respectable. To be sure, we had come a greater distance
than they to the Jordan, but they had been much longer on the way.
