him, having the grace to follow the example set
him.
“But the end was not yet; for, when the count and
Guarin went to search for the body, Riquilda appeared
to them alive and well, though she had been buried
eight years, but with a red ring around her neck, like a
silk thread, rather ornamental than otherwise. The
count founded a nunnery at once; and his daughter
was made the lady superior, while Guarin became the
mayor–domo of the establishment. In time the nuns
were removed, and monks took their places; and the
miracles performed by the image attracted thousands
to its shrines. The treasury of this Virgin was immense
at one time, being valued at two hundred
thousand ducats; but most of it was carried away by
the French. The scenery, you see, is wild and grand,
and I think is more enjoyable than the relics and the
grottos.”
For hours the students wandered about the wild
locality. They saw the wonderful image; and those
who had any taste for art thought that St. Luke, if he
made the little statue, had not done himself any great
credit. They visited the thirteen hermitages, and explored
the grottos till they had had enough of this sort
of thing. An hour after dark they were on board of
the Prince. In two days more the Josephines and
Tritonias arrived; and on Wednesday the squadron
sailed for the South.
During his stay in port, the principal had seen Don
Francisco, and told him all he knew in regard to the
fugitive. The lawyer was satisfied that Mr. Lowington
had done nothing to keep the young Don out of the
way of his guardian; and neither of them could suggest
any means to recover possession of him. As yet no
letter from Don Manuel in New York had been received.
Favored by a good wind, the squadron arrived at
Valencia in thirty hours. After a night’s sleep, all
hands were landed at the port of the city, which the
reader knows is Grao. The professor of geography and
history, while the party were waiting for the vehicles
that were to convey them to the city, gave the students
a description of Valencia. It is an ancient city, founded
by the Phœnicians, inhabited by the Romans for five
centuries, captured by the Moors and held by them
about the same time, though the Cid took the town, and
held it for five years. At his death, in 1099, the Moors
came down upon the city; and the body of the Cid was
placed on his horse, and marched out of the city. The
Moslems opened for it; and the Castilians passed
through their army in safety, the enemy not daring to
attack them. It was not such a victory for the
Spaniards as some of the chronicles describe; for the
Christians had to abandon the place. It was taken
from the Moors in 1238, and became a part of Aragon,
to be united with the other provinces of Spain by the
union of Ferdinand and Isabella. The Moriscoes—the
Moors who had been allowed to remain in Spain
after the capture of Granada—made a great city of it,
building its palaces and bridges; but they were driven
out of the peninsula by Philip II. They had cultivated
its vicinity, and made a paradise of the province; and
their departure was almost a death–blow to the prosperity
of the city.
Though the modern kings of Spain have not spared
its memorials of the past, it is still an interesting city.
It has a population of nearly one hundred and fifty
thousand, making it the fourth city of Spain. It is one
of the most industrious cities of the peninsula; and its
manufactures of silk and velvet are quite extensive.
The city contains nothing very different from other
Spanish towns. The students wandered over the
most of it, looking into a few of the churches, nearly
every one of which has a wonder–working image of the
Virgin, or of St. Vincent, who is the patron saint of
Valencia.
The next day the squadron sailed, and put into Alicante
after a twenty–four hours’ run; the wind being so
light that the steamer had to tow her consorts nearly
the whole distance. The students went on shore; but
the old legend, “Nothing to see,” was passed around
among them. Alicante is an old Spanish town, composed
of white houses, standing at the foot of a high
hill crowned with an old fortress. The lines, walls,
covered ways, and batteries, seem to cover one side of
the elevation. Those who cared to do it climbed to
the top of the hill, and were rewarded with a fine view
of the sea and the country.
“When the Cid had captured Valencia,” said Dr.
Winstock to his pupils, as they stood on the summit of
the hill, “he conducted Ximine, his wife, to the top of
a tower, and showed her the country he had conquered.
It was called the Huerta, which means a large orchard.
The land had been irrigated by the industrious and
enterprising Moors, and bore fruit in luxurious abundance.
The vega, or plain, which we see, is scarcely
less fertile; and the region around us is perhaps the
most productive in Spain. Twelve miles south is
Elche, which is filled with palm–plantations. We see
an occasional palm and fig tree here.”
Mr. Lowington did not favor excursions into the
country when it could be avoided; but the doctor
insisted that the students ought to visit Elche, and the
point was yielded. They made the excursion in four
separate parties; for comfortable carriages could not
be obtained to take them all at once. The road was
dry and dusty at first, and the soil poor; but the aspect
of the country soon changed. Palms began to appear
along the way, and soon the landscape seemed to be
covered with them.
“There is something to see here, at any rate,” said
Sheridan, as the party approached the town.
“I thought you would enjoy it,” replied the doctor.
“This is the East transplanted in Spain.”
“These palms are fifty feet high,” added Murray,
measuring them with his eye.
“Some of them are sixty; but fifty is about the
average. Now we are in the palm–forest, which is said
to contain forty thousand trees. This region is irrigated
by the waters of the Vinalopo River, which are
held back by a causeway stretched across the valley
above. These plantations are very profitable.”
“But all palms are not like these,” said Murray.
“My uncle has seen palms over a hundred feet high.”
“There are nearly a hundred kinds of palm, bearing
different sorts of fruit. These are date–palms; and
one of them bears from one to two hundred pounds of
dates.”
“And they sell at from ten to fifteen cents a pound
at home,” added Sheridan.
“But for not more than one or two cents a pound
here,” continued the doctor. “I suppose you have
learned about sex in plants, which is a modern discovery;
but it is most strikingly illustrated in these
date–palms. Only the female tree bears fruit. The
male palm bears a flower whose pollen was shaken over
the female trees by the Moors long before any thing
was known about sex in plants; and the practice is
continued by their successors. But the male palm
yields a profit in addition to supplying the orchard with
pollen. Its leaves are dried, and made into fans, crowns,
and wreaths, and sold for use on Palm Sunday. This
town gets seventy thousand dollars for its dates, and
ten thousand for its palm–leaves.”
“When are the dates picked?” asked Sheridan.
“In November. The men climb the trees by the
aid of ropes passed around the trunk and the body. I
will ask one of them to ascend a tree for your benefit.”
The excursionists reached the village, which is in the
middle of the forest of palms. It was very Oriental
in its appearance. The people were swarthy, and wore
a peculiar costume, in which were some remnants of
the Moorish fashion. The church has its image of the
Virgin, who dresses very richly, and owns a date–plantation
which pays the expenses of her wardrobe.
The students were so delighted with the excursion
that they made a rollicking time of it on the way back
to Alicante, and astonished the peasants by their lively
demonstrations. The road was no road at all, but
merely a path across the country, and was very rough
in places. The cottages of the vicinity were thatched
with palm–leaves in some instances. At the door of
many of them was a hamper of dates, from which any
one could help himself, and leave a cuarto in payment
for the feast. It is not watched by the owner, for the
Spaniard here is an honest man. The students frequently
availed themselves of these hampers when the
doctor had explained to them the custom of the country;
but he exhorted them to be as honest as the
natives.
The squadron remained at anchor in the port of Alicante
four days; and, when the students of the first
party had told their story, the trip to Elche was the
most popular excursion since they left Italy.
“Which is the best port on the east coast of Spain,
doctor?” asked the principal, as they sat on the deck
of the Prince while the third party had gone to Elche.
“I shall answer you as the admiral did Philip II.,—Carthagena,”
replied the doctor.
“I find that the students are tired of sight–seeing,
and the lessons have been much neglected of late,”
continued the principal. “I think we all need a rest.
I have about made up my mind to lie up for three
months in some good harbor, recruit the students, and
push along their studies.”
“I think that is an excellent plan. April will be a
better month to see the rest of Spain than the middle
of winter.”
The plan was fully discussed and adopted; and on
the following day the squadron sailed for Carthagena,
and having a stiff breeze was at anchor in its capacious
harbor at sunset. The students were not sorry to take
the rest; for the constant change of place for the last
six months had rendered a different programme acceptable.
There was nothing in the town to see; and the
harbor was enclosed with hills, almost landlocked, and
as smooth as a millpond.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE FRUITS OF REPENTANCE.
The mail for the squadron—forwarded by the
principal’s banker in Barcelona—had been
following the fleet down the coast for a week, but was
received soon after it anchored at Carthagena. Among
the letters was one from Don Manuel, Raymond’s
uncle in New York. He was astonished that his
nephew had ventured into Spain, when he had been
cautioned not to do so. He was glad he had left his
vessel, and hoped the principal would do nothing to
bring him back. It was extremely important that his
nephew should not be restored to his uncle in Barcelona,
for reasons which Henry would explain if necessary.
If the fugitive was, by any mischance, captured
by Don Alejandro or his agents, Don Manuel wished
to be informed of the fact at once by cable; and
it would be his duty to hasten to Spain without
delay.
Mr. Lowington was greatly astonished at this letter,
and handed it to Dr. Winstock. It seemed to indicate
that a satisfactory explanation could be given of the
singular conduct of the second master of the Tritonia,
and that he would be able to justify his course.
“That is not the kind of letter I expected to receive,”
said the principal, when the surgeon had read it.
“There is evidently some family quarrel which Don
Manuel does not wish to disclose to others,” replied
the doctor.
“But Don Manuel ought to have informed me
that he did not wish to have his nephew taken into
Spain.”
“We can’t tell about that till we know all the facts
in the case. I have no doubt that the uncle in Barcelona
is the legal guardian of Enrique Raimundo,” continued
the doctor.
“Then how did the boy come into the possession of
Don Manuel?”
“I don’t know; but he seems to be actuated by very
strong motives, for he is coming to Spain if the young
man falls into the hands of his legal guardian. I don’t
understand it; but I am satisfied that it is a case for
the lawyers to work upon.”
“I think not; for Don Manuel seems to believe that
the safety of his nephew can only be secured by keeping
him out of Spain; in other words, that he has no case
which he is willing to take into a Spanish court.”
“Perhaps you are right; but it looks to me like a
fortune for the lawyers to pick upon; though I must
say that Don Francisco is one of the most gentlemanly
and obliging attorneys I ever met, and seems to ask
for nothing that is not perfectly fair.”
They could not solve the problem; and it was no
use to discuss it. The principal had done all he could
to recover the second master of the Tritonia, or rather
to assist the detective who was in search of him. The
last news of him, brought by Bill Stout, was that the
fugitive had gone to Africa. The alguacil had gone to
Africa, but Raimundo had left before he arrived. He
was unable to obtain any clew to him, for Raymond
looked like Spaniards in general; and in the dress he
had put on in Valencia he did not look like Raymond
in the uniform of an officer. While the fugitive was
sunning himself in Gibraltar, the pursuer was looking
for him in Italy and Egypt. The principal was confident
he had gone to the East, for runaways would not
expose themselves to capture till their money was all
gone. Besides, some of the officers of the Tritonia
said that Raymond had often expressed a desire to visit
Egypt and the Holy Land.
The affairs of the squadron went along smoothly for
six weeks. The students were studious, now that they
had nothing to distract their attention. Bill Stout staid
in the brig till he promised to learn his lessons, and
then was let out. He did not like the brig after the
trap in the floor was screwed down so that he could not
raise it. Ben Pardee and Lon Gibbs fell out with him;
first, because he had run away without them, and, second,
because he was a disagreeable and unreasonable
fellow. Bill did study his lessons in order to keep out
of the brig; but he was behind every class in the vessel,
and his ignorance was so dense that the professors
were disgusted with him. It was about six weeks after
the squadron took up its quarters in the harbor of Carthagena,
that a shore–boat came up to the gangway, and
Bark Lingall stepped upon the deck of the Tritonia.
Of course his heart beat violently; but he came back
like the Prodigal Son. He was wiser and better than
when he left, and he was ready to submit cheerfully to
the penalty of his offence; and he expected to be committed
to the brig as soon as he showed himself to the
principal.
It was nearly dark when the prodigal boarded the
Tritonia, and Scott was in charge of the anchor watch
which had been set for the night. He looked at Bark
as he came up the side; and, though the fugitive had
changed his dress, he recognized him at once.
“Lingall!” exclaimed Scott. “You haven’t made a
mistake as Stout did; have you?”
“I don’t know what mistake Stout made, except the
mistake of running away; and I made that one with
him,” replied Bark.
“Stout came on board of the Prince at Lisbon, thinking
she was a steamer bound to England,” laughed
Scott.
“I could not mistake the Tritonia for a steamer,
even if I wanted to go to England.”
“Where did you leave Raimundo?” asked the
officer anxiously.
“Here is a letter from him for you; and that will
explain it all. I wish to see the vice–principal,” continued
Bark.
Mr. Pelham was summoned, and he gave a good–natured
greeting to the returned fugitive, not doubting
that he had spent all his money in riotous living, and
had come back because he could not travel any more
without funds.
“Money all gone, Lingall?” asked the vice–principal,
who, like his superior, believed that satire was an
effective means of discipline at times.
“No, sir: I have over fifty pounds left,” replied
Bark, more respectfully than he had formerly been in
the habit of speaking, even to the principal.
“What did you come back for, then?” demanded
Mr. Pelham.
“Because I am sorry for what I have done, and ask
to be forgiven,” answered Bark, taking off his hat, and
fixing his gaze upon the deck, while his bosom was
swelling with emotion.
The vice–principal was touched by his manner. He
had stood in the same position before the principal
five years before; and he indulged in no more light
words. He took the prodigal down into his cabin, so
that whatever passed between them might have no
witnesses.
“Do you come back voluntarily, Lingall?” asked
the vice–principal in gentle tones.
“I do, sir: I left Cadiz three days ago. I had been
waiting there a month for the squadron to arrive. We
did not know where it was, for the last we could learn
of it was its arrival in Carthagena.”
“You say we: were you not alone?”
“No, sir: Raymond was with me.”
“Who is Raymond?”
“Raimundo: he has translated his name into English,
and now prefers to be called by that name.”
“And you left him in Cadiz?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Is he there now?”
“I don’t know, sir; but I think not. He did not
tell me where he was going, and I did not wish to
know.”
“I see,” added Mr. Pelham. “I hope he will not
be taken by those who are after him.”
Bark looked up, utterly astonished at this last
remark; for he supposed the sympathies of the officers
were with Don Francisco, as they had been at the time
he left the Tritonia. As Mr. Pelham was in the confidence
of the principal in regard to the affair of the
second master, he had been permitted to read the
letter from Don Manuel; and this fact will explain
the remark.
“Raymond does not know from what port the
squadron will sail for the islands; but he wants to
return to his ship as soon as he can,” added Bark.
As Raymond’s case seemed to be of more interest
than his own, Bark told all he knew about his late
companion; but no one was any wiser in regard to his
present hiding–place.
“Where have you been all this time?” asked the
vice–principal, when his curiosity was fully satisfied
concerning Raymond.
“I have been a good deal worse than you think I
have; and I wish that running away was the worst
thing I had on my conscience,” replied Bark, in answer
to this question.
“I am sorry to hear you say that; but, whatever you
have done, it is better to make a clean breast of it,”
added Mr. Pelham.
“That is what I am going to do, sir,” replied Bark;
and he prefaced his confession with what had passed
between Raymond and himself when he decided upon
his course of action.
He related the substance of his conversations with
Bill Stout at the beginning of the conspiracy, and then
proceeded to inform the vice–principal what had occurred
while they were in the brig together, including the setting
of the fire in the hold.
“Do you mean to say that Stout intended to burn
the vessel?” demanded Mr. Pelham, astonished and
shocked at the revelation.
“He and I so intended; and we actually started the
fire three or four times,” answered Bark, detailing all
the particulars.
“You are very tender of Stout—the villain!” exclaimed
the vice–principal. “It appears that he proposed
the plan, and set the fire, while you assented to
the act.”
“I don’t wish to make it out that I am not just as
guilty as Stout.”
“I understand you perfectly,” added Mr. Pelham.
“The villain pretended to be penitent when he came
back, and told lies enough to sink the ship, if they had
had any weight with me. Mr. Marline reported to me
that there had been fire in the old stuff in the hold. I
thought there was some mistake about it; but it is all
plain enough now.”
Bark proceeded with his narrative of the escape,
which had been before related by Bill Stout; but the
two stories differed in some respects, especially in respect
to the conduct of Bill in the affray with the Catalonian
in the felucca. He told about his wanderings
and waitings with Raymond, which explained why he
had not come back before.
“Stout said that you and he pulled the boatman down
when Raimundo missed him with the tiller,” said Mr.
Pelham.
“I mean to tell the truth, if I know how; but Bill
did not lift his finger to do any thing, not even after
Raymond and I had the fellow down,” replied Bark.
“Raymond called him a coward on the spot; and I
wish he were here to tell you so, for I know you would
believe him.”
“And I believe you, Lingall.”
At this moment there was a knock at the state–room
door.
“Come in,” said the principal; and Scott opened
the door at this summons.
“I have a letter from Mr. Raimundo, sir, in which
he has a great deal to say about Lingall,” said the
lieutenant. “I thought you might wish to know what
he says before you settle this case. I will leave it
with you, sir; for there is nothing private in it.”
“Thank you, Mr. Scott,” replied the vice–principal,
as he took the letter.
He opened and read the letter. It related entirely
to the affairs of Lingall, and was an earnest plea for
his forgiveness. It recited all the incidents of the
cruise in the felucca, and the particulars of Bark’s
reformation. The writer added that he hoped to be
able to join his ship soon; and should do so, if he
could, when she was out of Spanish waters.
“Now, Lingall, you may go on board of the Prince
with me,” said Mr. Pelham, when he had finished reading
the letter.
A boat was manned, and they were pulled to the
steamer. The whole story was gone over again; and
Mr. Lowington read the letter of Raymond. The
principal and Mr. Pelham had a long consultation
alone; and then Bark was ordered to return to his duty,
without so much as a reprimand. Bark was bewildered
at this unexpected clemency. He was satisfied that
it was Raymond’s letter that saved him, because it
assured the principal of the thorough reformation of
the culprit. The vice–principal told him afterwards,
that it was as much his own confession of the conspiracy,
which was not even suspected on board, as it
was the letter, that produced the leniency in the minds
of the authorities. The boat that brought Mr. Pelham
and Bark back to the Tritonia immediately conveyed
Bill Stout, in charge of Peaks, to the Prince, where he
was committed to the brig, without any explanation of
the charge against him.
Bill did not know what to make of this sharp discipline;
and he felt very much like a martyr, for he
believed he had been “a good boy,” as he called the
chaplain’s lambs. He had time to think about it
when the bars separated him from the rest of his shipmates.
The news that Bark Lingall had returned was
circulated through the Tritonia before he left the vessel.
He could only explain his present situation by
the supposition that Bark had told about the conspiracy
to burn the vessel. This must be the reason why
he was caged in the Prince rather than in the Tritonia.
For three days the stewards brought him his food;
and for an hour, each forenoon, the big boatswain
walked him up and down the deck to give him his
exercise; but it was in vain that he asked them what
he was caged for. As none of these officials knew,
none of them could tell him. On the fourth day of his
confinement, a meeting of the faculty was held for consultation
in regard to the affairs of the squadron. This
was the high court of the academy, and consisted of
the principal, the vice–principals, the chaplain, the surgeon,
and the professors,—fourteen in all. Though
the authority of the principal was supreme, he preferred
to have this council to advise him in important
matters.
When the faculty had assembled, Peaks brought Bill
Stout into the cabin, and placed him at the end of the
long table at which the members were seated. He was
awed and impressed by the situation. The principal
stated that the culprit was charged with attempting to
set fire to the Tritonia, and asked what he had to say
for himself. Bill made haste to deny the charge with
all his might; but he might as well have denied his
own existence. Raymond’s letter describing what he
saw in the hold was read, but the parts relating to Bark
were omitted. Bill supposed the letter was the only
evidence against him, and the writer had spared Bark
because he was a friend. Bill declared that Raymond
hated him, and had made up this story to injure him.
He had been trying to do his duty, and no complaint
had been made against him since the fleet had been at
anchor.
The chaplain thought a student ought not to be condemned
on the evidence of one who had run away
from his vessel. As Bill would not be satisfied, it
became necessary to call Bark Lingall. The reformed
seaman gave his evidence in the form of a confession;
and, when he had finished his story, no one doubted
his sincerity, or the truth of his statement. By a unanimous
vote of the faculty, approved by the principal,
Bill Stout was dismissed from the academy as one
whom it was not safe to have on board any of the
vessels, and as one whose character was too bad to
allow him to associate with the students. A letter to
his father was written; and he was sent home in charge
of the carpenter of the Josephine, who was about to
return to New York on account of the illness of his
son.
The particulars of this affair were kept from the
students; for the principal did not wish to have them
know that any one had attempted to burn one of the
vessels, lest it might tempt some other pupil to seek a
dismissal by the same means. Bill Stout was glad to
be sent away, even in disgrace.
Early in March Mr. Lowington received a letter from
Don Francisco, asking if any thing had been heard
from Raymond, and informing him that his client Don
Alejandro was dangerously sick. The principal, since
he had received the letter from Don Manuel, had declined
to assist in the search for the absentee, though
he had not communicated his views to the lawyer.
The detective had not returned from his tour in the
East, and was doubtless willing to continue the search
as long as he was paid for it. The principal was “a
square man;” and he informed Don Francisco that his
views on the subject had changed, and that he hoped
the fugitive would not be captured. Ten days after
this letter was answered came Don Francisco himself.
He went on board of the Prince; and, in spite of the
reply of the principal, he was as cordial and courteous
as ever.
“I suppose you have received my letter, declining to
do any thing more to secure the return of the absentee,”
Mr. Lowington began, when they were seated in
the grand saloon.
“I have received it,” replied Don Francisco; “but
now all the circumstances of the case are changed, and
I am confident that you will do all you can to find the
young man. Your letter came to me on the day before
the funeral of my client.”
“Then Don Alejandro is dead!” exclaimed the
principal, startled by the intelligence.
“He died in the greatest agony and remorse,” added
the lawyer. “He was sick four weeks, and suffered
the most intense pain till death relieved him. He confessed
to me, when I went to make his will, that he had
intended to get his nephew out of the way in some
manner, before the boy was of an age to inherit his
father’s property. Don Manuel had charged him with
this purpose before he left Spain, and had repeated the
charge in his letters. He confessed because he wanted
his brother’s forgiveness, as well as that of the Church.
He wished me to see that justice was done to his
nephew. When I wrote you that last letter, my client
desired to see the young man, and to implore his forgiveness
for the injury he had done him as a child, and
for that he had meditated.”
“This is a very singular story,” said Mr. Lowington.
“You did not give me the reason for which Don Alejandro
wished to see his nephew.”
“I did not know it myself. What I have related
transpired since I wrote that letter. The case is one
of the remarkable ones; but I have known a few just
like it,” continued the lawyer. “My client was told
by the physicians that he could not recover. Such an
announcement to a Christian who has committed a
crime—and to meditate it is the same thing in the eye
of the Church, though not of the law—could not but
change the whole current of his thoughts. I know that
it caused my client more suffering than his bodily ailments,
severe as the latter were. The terrors of the
world to come haunted him; and he believed, that, if
he did not do justice to that young man before he died,
he would suffer for his crime through all the ages of
eternity; and I believe so too. I think he confessed
the crime to me, after he had done so to the priest,
because he believed his son, who had been in his confidence,
would carry out his wicked purpose after his
father was gone; for this son would inherit the estate as
the next heir under the will of the grandfather.”
“I can understand how things appear to a man as
wicked as your client was, when death stares him in the
face,” added Mr. Lowington.
“Now the young man is wanted. He is not of age,
but he ought to have a voice in the selection of his
guardian.”
“I don’t know where he is under the altered circumstances,
any more than I did before,” replied the
principal; “but I am willing to make an effort to find
him. Is he in any danger from the son of your late
client?”
“None at all: the son denies that he ever had any
knowledge of the business; and, since the confession
of the father, the son would not dare to do any thing
wrong. Besides, my client put all the property in my
hands before he died.”
The next thing was to find Raymond. He might see
the announcement of the death of his uncle in the
newspapers; but, if he did not, he would be sure to
keep out of the way till the squadron was ready to sail
for the “isles of the sea.” Mr. Lowington sent for
Bark Lingall, who had by this time established his
character as one of the best–behaved and most earnest
students in his vessel. The principal rehearsed the
events that made it desirable to find Raymond.
“Do you think you could find him, Lingall?” asked
Mr. Lowington.
“I think I might if I could speak Spanish,” replied
Bark modestly.
“You and Scott are the only students who know his
history; and he would allow you to approach him, while
he would keep out of the way of any other person connected
with the squadron. We shall sail for Malaga
to–morrow; and you shall have a courier to do your
talking for you,” continued the principal.
Bark was pleased with the mission. He was furnished
with a letter from Don Francisco; and, as he
had some idea of what Raymond’s plans were, he was
hopeful of success. The squadron sailed the next day,
and arrived at Malaga in thirty hours.
CHAPTER XXIII.
GRANADA AND THE ALHAMBRA.
When the academy fleet arrived at Malaga, the
principal decided to follow the plan he had
adopted at Barcelona, though on a smaller scale, and
send the Josephines and Tritonias to Cadiz, while the
Princes proceeded by rail to the same place, seeing
Granada, Cordova, and Seville on the way. As soon as
the transfer could be made, the steamer sailed with its
company of tourists; and her regular crew were domiciled
at the Hotel de la Alameda, in Malaga.
“Here we are again,” said Sheridan, as the party of
the doctor came together again at the hotel.
“I feel more like looking at a cathedral than I
did when we were sight–seeing in December,” added
Murray.
“You have not many more cathedrals to see,”
replied the doctor. “There is one here; but, as this is
Saturday, we will visit it to–morrow. Suppose we take
a walk on the Alameda, as this handsome square is
called.”
It is a beautiful bit of a park, with a fountain at each
end; but it was so haunted with beggars that the tourists
could not enjoy it. It was fresh and green, and
bright with the flowers of early spring.
“What an abomination these beggars are!” exclaimed
Sheridan, as a pair of them, one with his eyes
apparently eaten out with sores, leaning on the shoulder
of another seemingly well enough, saluted them
with the usual petition. “It makes me sick to look at
them.”
Murray gave the speaker two reales; but they would
not go till the others had contributed. A little farther
along they came to a blind man, who had stationed
himself by a bridge, and held out his hand in silence.
“That man deserves to be encouraged for holding
his tongue,” said the captain, as he dropped a peseta
into the extended hand. “Most of them yell and
tease so that one don’t feel like giving.”
The blind beggar called down the blessing of the
Virgin upon the donor, in a gentle and devout tone.
But he seemed to be an exception to all the other mendicants
in Malaga. As the captain said, many of them
were most disgusting sights; and they pointed out
their ailments as though they were proud of them.
“This is a commercial city, and there is not much to
see in it,” said the doctor, as they returned to the
hotel. “Its history is but a repetition of that of nearly
all the cities of Spain. It was a place of great trade
in the time of the Moors: it is the fifth city of Spain,
ranking next to Valencia. You saw the United States
flag on quite a number of vessels in the port; and it
has a large trade with our country. Wine, raisins,
oranges, lemons, and grapes are the principal exports.”
The next day most of the students visited the cathedral,
where they heard mass, which was attended by a
battalion of soldiers, with a band which took part in
the service. Early on Monday morning the tourists
started for Granada, taking the train at quarter past
six o’clock. The ride was exceedingly interesting; for
the country between Malaga and Cordova is very fertile,
though a small portion of it is a region abounding
in the wildest scenery. The first part of the journey
was in the midst of orange–orchards and vineyards.
“What is that sort of an inclined plane?” asked
Sheridan, pointing to a stone structure like one side of
the roof of a small house. “I have noticed a great
many of them here and near Alicante.”
“You observe that they all slope to the south,”
replied the doctor. “They are used in drying raisins.
This is a grape as well as an orange country. Raisins
are dried grapes; and, when you eat your plum–pudding
in the future, you will be likely to think of the country
around Malaga, for the nicest of them come from
here.”
“This is a wild country,” said Murray, after they
had been nearly two hours on the train.
“We pass through the western end of the Sierra
Nevada range. Notice this steep rock,” added the
doctor, as they passed a lofty precipice. “It is ‘Lovers’
Rock.’”
“Of course it is,” laughed Murray; “and they
jumped down that cliff; and there is not a precipice
in the world that isn’t a lovers’ leap.”
“I think you are right. In this case it was a Spanish
knight, and a Moorish maiden whose father didn’t like
the match.”
The travellers left the train at Bobadilla, and proceeded
by rail to Archidona. Between this place and
Loxa the railroad was not then built; and the distance—about
sixteen miles—had to be accomplished by
diligence. Half a dozen of these lumbering vehicles
were in readiness, with their miscellaneous teams of
horses and mules all hitched on in long strings. This
part of the journey was likely to be a lark to the
students; and they piled into and upon the carriages
with great good–nature. The doctor and his pupils
secured seats on the outside.
“This is the coupé in Spain, but it is the banquette in
Switzerland,” said he, when they were seated. “It is
called the dickey in England.”
“But the box for three passengers, with windows in
the front of the diligence, is always the coupé,” added
Sheridan.
“Not in Spain: that is called the berlina here. The
middle compartment, holding four or six, is el interior;
and la rotundo, in the rear, like an omnibus, holds six.
The last is used by the common people because it is
the cheapest.”
“But this seat is not long enough for four,” protested
Murray, when the conductor directed another officer to
mount the coupé”.
“Come up, commodore: I think we can make room
for you,” added Sheridan.
“This is a long team,” said Commodore Cantwell,
when they were seated,—“ten mules and horses.”
“I have travelled with sixteen,” added the doctor.
On a seat wide enough for two, under the windows
of the berlina, the driver took his place. His reins
were a couple of ropes reaching to the outside ends of
the bits of the wheel–horses. He was more properly
the brakeman, since he had little to do with the team,
except to yell at the animals. On the nigh horse or
mule, as he happened to be, rode a young man who
conducted the procession. He is called the delantero.
The zagal is a fellow who runs at the side of the
animals, and whips them up with a long stick. The
mayoral is the conductor, who is sometimes the driver;
but in this case he seemed to have the charge of all
the diligences.
“Oja! oja!” (o–ha) yelled the driver. The zagal
began to hammer the brutes most unmercifully, and the
team started at a lively pace.
“That’s too bad!” exclaimed Sheridan, when he saw
the zagal pounding the mules over the backbone with
his club, which was big enough to serve for a bean–pole.
“I agree with you, captain, but we can’t help ourselves,”
added the doctor. “That villain will keep it
up till we get to the end of our journey.”
The dilijencia passed out of the town, and went
through a wild country with no signs of any inhabitants.
The road was as bad as a road could be, and
was nothing but a track beaten over the fields, passing
over rocks and through gullies and pools of water.
Carts, drawn by long strings of mules or donkeys,
driven by a peasant with a gun over his shoulder, were
occasionally met; but the road was very lonely. Half
way to Loxa they came to a river, over which was a
narrow bridge for pedestrians; but the dilijencia had
to ford the stream.
At this point the horses and mules were changed;
and some of the students went over the bridge, and
walked till they were overtaken by the coaches. At
three o’clock they drove into Loxa. The streets of
the town are very steep and very narrow; and the zagal
had to crowd the team over to the opposite side, in
order to get the vehicle around the corners. The
students on the outside could have jumped into the
windows of the houses on either side, and people on
the ground often had to dodge into the doorways, to
keep from being run over. From this place the party
proceeded to Granada by railroad. Crossing a part of
this city, which is a filthy hole, the party went to the
Hotel Washington Irving, and the Hotel Siete Suelos,
both of which are at the very gate of the Alhambra.
The doctor and his friends were quartered at the
former hotel, which is a very good one, but more expensive
than the Siete Suelos on the other side of the
street. They are both in the gardens of the Alhambra,
the avenues of which are studded with noble elms, the
gift of the Duke of Wellington.
“And this is the Alhambra,” said Capt. Sheridan, as
the trio came out for a walk, after dinner.
“What is the meaning of the name of that hotel?”
“Hotel de los Siete Suelos,—the hotel of the seven
stories, or floors.”
“But it hasn’t more than four or five.”
“Haven’t you read Irving’s Alhambra? He mentions
a tower with this name, in which was the gate
where Boabdil left the Alhambra for the last time. It
was walled up at the request of the Moor.”
The party walked about the gardens till it was dark.
The next morning, before the ship’s company were
ready, the doctor and the three highest officers entered
the walled enclosure.
“This is the Tower of Justice,” said the doctor, as
they paused at the entrance. “It is so called because
the Moorish kings administered the law to the people
here. You see the hand and the key carved over the
door. If you ask the grandson of Mateo Ximenes,
who is a guide here, what it means, he will tell you
the Moors believed that, when this hand reached
down and took the key, the Alhambra might be captured;
but not till then. Then he will tell you that
they were mistaken; and give glory to the Spaniards.
The key was the Moslem symbol for wisdom and
knowledge; and the hand, of the five great commandments
of their religion.”
The party entered the tower, in which is an altar,
and passed into the square of the cisterns. Charles V.
began to build a huge palace on one side of it; but
the fear of earthquakes induced him to desist. He
destroyed a portion of the Moorish palace to make
room for it. The visitors entered an office where they
registered their names, paid a couple of pesetas, and
received a plan of the palace. The first names in the
book are those of Washington Irving and his Russian
companion.
“This is the Court of the Myrtles,” said the doctor,
as they entered the first and largest court of the
palace. “It is also called ‘the Court of Blessing,’
because the Moors believed water was a blessing; and
this pond contains a good deal of it.”
“My guide–book does not call it by either of these
names,” said Commodore Cantwell, who had Harper’s
Guide in his hand. “It says here it is ‘the Patio de la
Alberca,’ or fish–pond.”
“And so says Mr. Ford, who is the best authority on
Spain. We must not try to reconcile the differences in
guide–books. We had better call it after the myrtles
that surround the tank, and let it go at that. This
court is the largest of the palace, though it is only one
hundred and forty by seventy–five feet. But the Alhambra
is noted for its beauty, and not for its size. We
will now pass into the Court of the Lions,” continued
the doctor, leading the way. “This is the most celebrated,
as it is the most beautiful, part of the palace.”
“I have seen many pictures of it, but I supposed it
was ten times as large as it is,” said Sheridan.
“It is about one hundred and twenty by seventy feet.
There are one hundred and twenty–four columns around
the court. Now we must stop and look at the wonderful
architecture and exquisite workmanship. Look at
these graceful arches, and examine that sort of lace–work
in the ceilings and walls.”
While they were thus occupied, the ship’s company
came into the court, and the principal called them
together to hear Professor Mapps on the history of
the Alhambra.
 “In 1238 Ibnu–I–Ahamar founded the kingdom of Granada, and he built the
 Alhambra for his palace and fortress. In Arabic it was Kasr–Alhamra,
 or Red Castle; and from this comes the present name. The Vermilion
 Tower was a part of the original fortress. Under this monarch, whose
 title was Mohammed I., Granada became very prosperous and powerful.
 When the Christians captured Valencia, the Moors fled to Granada, and
 fifty thousand were added to the population of the kingdom; and it
 is estimated that a million more came when Seville and Cordova were
 conquered by the Castilians. The work of this king was continued by his
 successors; and the Alhambra was finished in 1333 by Yosuf I. He built
 the Gate of Judgment, Justice, or Law, as it is variously called, and
 the principal parts of the palace around you. The city was in its glory
 then, and is said to have had half a million inhabitants. But family
 quarrels came into the house of the monarch, here in the Alhambra; and
 this was the beginning of the decline of the Moorish power.
 “Abul–Hassan had two wives. One of them was Ayesha; and the other was
 a very beautiful Christian lady called Zoraya, or the Morning Star.
 Ayesha was exceedingly jealous of the other; and fearing that the son of
 the Morning Star, instead of her own, might succeed to the crown, she
 organized a powerful faction. On Zoraya’s side were the Beni–Serraj,
 whom the Spaniards called the Abencerrages. They were the descendants
 of a vizier of the King of Cordova,—Abou–Serraj. Abou–Abdallah was the
 eldest son of Ayesha; and in 1482 he dethroned his father. The name
 of this prince became Boabdil with the Spaniards; and so he is called
 in Mr. Irving’s works. As soon as he came into power, his mother, and
 the Zegris who had assisted her, persuaded him to retaliate upon the
 Abencerrages for the support they had given to Zoraya. Under a deceitful
 plea, he gathered them together in this palace, where the Zegris were
 waiting for them. One by one they were called into one of these courts,
 and treacherously murdered. Thus was Granada deprived of its bravest
 defenders; and the Moors were filled with indignation and contempt for
 their king. While they were quarrelling among themselves, Ferdinand and
 Isabella advanced upon Granada. They had captured all the towns and
 strong fortresses; and there was nothing more to stay their progress.
 For nine months the sovereigns besieged the city before it fell. It was
 a sad day for the Moors when the victors marched into the town. There
 is a great deal of poetry and romance connected with this palace and
 the Moslems who were driven out of it. You should read Mr. Lockhart’s
 translation of the poems on these subjects, and the works of Prescott
 and Irving.”
When the professor had completed his account, the
doctor’s party passed in to the right, entering one of
the apartments which surround the court on three of its
sides.
“That’s as mean a lot of lions as I ever saw,” said
Murray, who had lingered at the fountain which gives
its name to the court.
“The sculpture of the lions is certainly very poor;
but we can’t have every thing,” replied the doctor.
“This is the Hall of the Abencerrages; and it gets its
name from the story Mr. Mapps has just told you.
Some say these nobles were slain in this room; and
others, that they were beheaded near the fountain in
the court, where the guides point out a dark spot as the
stain of blood. You must closely examine the work in
this little room if you wish to appreciate it.”
They returned to the Court of the Lions, and, crossing
it, entered the Hall of the Two Sisters. The students
expected to hear some romance told of these
two ladies; but they proved to be two vast slabs in
the floor. This room and that of the Abencerrages
were probably the sleeping apartments of the monarch’s
family; and several small chambers, used for baths and
other purposes, are connected with them. On each
side of them are raised platforms for the couches. At
the farther end of the court is the council–hall of justice.
It is long and narrow, seventy–five by sixteen feet; and
is very elaborately ornamented.
At the northern end of the Court of Myrtles, is the
Hall of Ambassadors, which occupies the ground floor
of the Tower of Comares. It is the largest apartment
of the palace, seventy–five by thirty–seven feet. This
was the throne–room, or hall of audience, of the monarchs.
The doctor again insisted that his pupils should
scrutinize the work; and he called their attention to the
horseshoe arches and various other forms and shapes,
to the curious niches and alcoves, to the delicate coloring
in the ceilings and on the walls, and to the interlacing
designs, in the portions of the palace they visited.
They had now seen the principal apartments on the
ground floor; and they ascended to the towers, the open
galleries of which are a peculiarity in the construction
of the edifice. They were shown the rooms occupied
by Washington Irving when he “succeeded to Boabdil,”
and became an inhabitant of the Alhambra; but the
Alhambra is a thing to be seen, and not described.
They visited the Royal Chapel, the fortress, and for
two days they were busy as bees, though one day was
enough to satisfy most of the students.
On the third day of their sojourn at the Alhambra,
the doctor’s party visited the Generalife. The name
means “The Garden of the Architect,” who was probably
an employee of the king; but the palace was purchased
and used as a pleasure–house by one of the
kings. The sword of Boabdil is shown here. The
gardens, which are about all the visitor sees, are more
quaint than beautiful. The walks are hedged in with
box, and the cypress–trees are trimmed in square
blocks, as in the gardens of Versailles. Passing
through these, the visitor ascends a tower on a hill,
which commands a magnificent view of Granada and
the surrounding country.
The abundance of water in and around the Alhambra
attracts the attention of the tourist. The walks
have a stream trickling down the hill on each side. It
comes from the snow–crowned Sierra Nevadas; and, the
warmer the weather, the faster do the ice and snow
melt, and the greater is the flow of the water. In the
Alhambra and in the Generalife these streams of water
are to be met at almost every point.
One day was given to the city of Granada, though
the visitor cares but little for any thing but the Alhambra.
Without mentioning what may be seen in the
cathedral in detail, there is one sight there which is
almost worth the pilgrimage to the city; and that is the
tomb of Ferdinand and Isabella. Dr. Winstock ordered
a carriage for the purpose of taking his charge
to the church.
When the team appeared at the door of the hotel,
the students were very much amused at its singular
character; for it was a very handsome carriage, but it
was drawn by mules. The harness was quite elaborate
and elegant; yet to be drawn by these miserable mules
seemed to some of the party to be almost a disgrace.
But the doctor said that they had been highly honored,
since they had been supplied with what was doubtless
the finest turnout to be had. These mules were very
large and handsome for their kind, and cost more
money than the finest horses. After this explanation,
they were satisfied to ride behind a pair of mules.
There are plenty of pictures and sculptures in the
cathedral; but the party hastened to the royal chapel
