for no other, I prefer to take charge of it mj'self." 
What Nelly might have said further, she scarcely knew ; 
but she heard her husband's voice calling her, and left 
them to any discussion that pleased them best. But her 
heart swelled with indignation. Already she could see 
that Mrs. Kinnarcl and Miss Grove had resolved that she 
should have as few rights as possible in the house. 
They must have planned it before, or they could not have 
acted in such perfect accord. 
" Well," the doctor said, after they had gone some 
distance in silence, " is the bay-window all settled in 
your mind ? and do you see, by the eye of faith, geraniums 
blossoming in it? " 
A bright color stole up into her face, and the serious 
lines relaxed. 
' ' Would it be worth while to have such visions ? ' ' she 
asked with a smile. 
" Well, I don't know. They are generally quite 
expensive. Still, if you did not take too manly of 
Mrs. Glyndon's ideas, I might see about it." 
" I planned it all myself as I was dusting this morning, 
Barton," and she placed her small hand over his driving- 
glove ; but he felt the pressure, gentle as it was. " Will 
you be perfectly honest with me in one thing ? Will you 
tell me if my ideas are ever too extravagant? " 
He was very fond of his wife, foolishly fond ; and, 
somehow, he felt in an excellent mood. There had been 
all along a fear in his mind, lest some of his friends might 
think he had made himself ridiculous by marrying this 
pretty young girl. But he fancied, last evening, they (that 
is those for whom he cared most) considered him a for 
tunate man. And so he was. But he was possessed with 
a boy's eager desire, at times, to take her off to the fairy 
isles of love's first dreams, _ where they two might be 
alone together. He never told even her of this nonsen 
sical idea ; but it always gave him a mood of special 
indulgence. 
"Yes, I will tell you. I ought to be a rich man for 
your sake." 
' ' Why ? I have never had riches ; ' ' and she gave him 
her most winsome smile. " I do not care much, I think. 
Only there are a few things that will make the place more 
homelike." 
" The bay-window, for instance. Is it to be in the 
parlor?" 
Then she began with her plans, which he declared 
excellent, and quite within his means. 
"Adelaide will go somewhere jn August, and take 
Maud with her : she always does. Then we will com 
mence repairs and alterations." 
Neither spoke of new furnishing ; but it was strongly 
in the doctor's mind, and, along with it, the compunction 
of uprooting old ties and memories. If he had been 
happy in them ; but every day he felt more and more 
how utterly barren that life had proved. And that gave 
him a peculiar tenderness, the desire to do his duty 
justly and honorably when there was no love to inspire 
it. 
He made his calls, a long distance apart they were 
this afternoon, and then they reached a lovely little 
nook, sheltered by a high peak on one side, with a cluster 
of twenty or thirty cottages at its foot. Up on the moun 
tain-top was a spring that trickled over a rocky bed, 
broken many places in its descent, but at the last falling 
some fifteen feet. It caught the rays of the setting sun 
 
through an opening in the trees, and gave back the most 
exquisite rainbow tints. All the banks were lined with 
rhododendron, now in its fullest bloom ; and it seemed 
to Nelly that she had never seen any thing so enchant- 
ingly beautiful. The work^was done ; and they lingered 
in the sunset, watching the orange-red as it faded into 
rose and violet. A quiet summer evening was coming 
slowly on, calm, like all the utterances of God. Why 
was -it that souls drifted away from him, trying to find 
peace for themselves, when it was freely offered at his 
hands ? 
They were late home, of course. Miss Grove was 
nowhere to be seen, Mrs. Kinnard was fretful, Jane sul 
len, as she brought in some hot tea. Without a word, 
Nelly cleared a little space at the head of the table, 
brought up her husband's plate and two or three dishes. 
"Sit here by me," she said in a quiet but tender 
tone, waiting upon him with the grace that had so won 
him in the quaint rectory. 
" She can twist him round her finger," muttered Jane ; 
"but she shall see that she cannot rule everybody else. 
I am glad Miss Adelaide has a little spirit ! " 
And Jane tossed her head, as if she might use hers on 
the very first occasion. 
CHAPTER VII. 
" If the round truth lie 
Somewhere between us, and I see the face, 
It turns to me in stronger light than you." HOLLAND. 
IT seemed to Nelly Kinnard that there had never been 
three such long weeks as those three of her married life 
at Edgerly. Her husband was going to drive her over to 
the station now for her first visit at home. Late in the 
afternoon he would come for her ; and they would return 
in the evening train together. 
Papa was at the other station to meet her, papa, 
sweet and smiling, and Gerty with a host of questions. 
Everybody was well, and longing to see her. They had 
missed her so much ! Almost two months since she had 
gone away ! 
How delightful it was ! She felt glad that no watchful 
eyes were there to see her first joy. She could run about 
in girlish freedom. What made thisi simple old house so 
much sweeter than the other, with its large rooms and 
really spacious grounds, its abundance of every thing, 
and the straitened income here? Could she ever fight 
against the great odds, and bring about some kind of 
homelikeness ? She had not done any thing as yet, save 
to smile upon her husband, and be petted by him. Was 
that all of her duty? 
She had been thinking, of late, whether it was better 
to rouse herself, or just float with the tide. Dr. Kinnard 
had married her entirely for himself. The children were 
well enough off. Aunt Adelaide attended to their moral 
and physical welfare, and enjoyed it. She wanted no 
interference. Jane took command of the kitchen, and 
would brook no mistress or control there. Grandmother 
Kinnard considered herself, in another waj', as the female 
head of the house, partly in virtue of her age ; partly 
from the fact that she was the doctor's mother, and had 
a longer and earlier right to him than any other person. 
But as Nelly Endicott she had grown in a larger 
sphere. A little kissing and love, a few pleasant neigh 
bors to come in and chat on the small gossip of the day, 
a ride with her husband, or a walk alone, and the day 
ending with chapters of some interesting book was 
that all? 
"I think that is where so many women dwarf their 
lives," said Mrs.* Endicott in answer to some of Nelly's 
queries. " After a while, a new dress, or a bit of gossip, 
seems the great event of their days. It is so easy, then, 
to sink into a course of novel-reading for amusement, 
and live only in the highty wrought creations of some 
facile pen, forgetting, that, for the one exceptional life 
written out, there are thousands of commonplace, strug 
gling ones." 
" Yet it seems so hard to begin ! I have really nothing 
to do but just gratify my own selfish ease. When Fanny 
was married, she kept her church and social relations, 
and her sphere was widened. People came into it con 
tinually. And Rose found work enough. There was 
Stephen and Louis interested in mission-schools and 
chapels, and Mrs. Whitcomb to help " 
Nelly made a long pause, and flushed a little as her 
mother's fond eyes studied her. Perhaps part was due 
to that secret consciousness that both had thought of the 
same underlying current that would shape Nell's life, 
if she did not resist, and put up some strong barriers. 
Dr. Kinnard was used to thinking of others only in a pro- 
 
fessional or theoretical way. He could discuss the wants, 
mistakes, and failures of the age ; he could be tender and 
watchful when physical life was in danger : but of the 
active, comprehensive charity which is the substratum of 
that most thorough human good, he had very little. He 
could tell you what to do ; but he could not take the 
trouble to help. The labors of his profession were suf 
ficient. The remainder of the time, he might surely 
devote to himself. 
Circumstances had hitherto been against him, as well. 
There had been no delightful home-interest to stimulate 
and quicken the deeper part of his nature. Only petty 
matters had appealed to him there. He knew other 
professional men whose wives amused and entertained 
themselves while their husbands were at more important 
affairs. So he had come to think of home as a select 
sort of lodging-place ; and if the house was kept clean 
and peaceable, the meals well served, it was sufficient. 
It had not always been so. Miss Grove and Jane had 
brought into his household more of order and regularity 
than had ever been it : so no wonder he dreaded to have 
their regime disturbed. 
"Nelly," began her mother presently with a sympa 
thetic smile, ' ' perhaps your mission-work is from within. 
All are not called to go into the highways, or even the 
temples. There are wayside shrines in many lowly 
valleys. And, as in the creation, to every work there is- 
its appointed day." 
' ' I wonder if I am a little impatient ? But, if I felt 
that I was doing ever so small a work, I should be more 
content. Really, mamma, I feel afraid of my tempta 
tion to idleness and listlessness. I realize the truth of 
the adage, that ' labor is worship.' ' 
" And that home is the central pivot. It is one of 
the misfortunes, Nelly, that your life should be taken on 
such terms : so you must look to other duties to counter- 
 
balance it. The difficulties were there when you took 
it." 
"Yes: I cannot plead being deceived in any point. 
But neither does it seem right to give up idly, to fritter 
away my days in uselessness." 
" It is not right. Human life is too short." 
" Then I must find some way out, and some duties. 
O mamma ! how' did you make your life so rich and full 
and outflowing? " 
" It was not so all at once, Nelly. And then I had 
papa to counsel me." 
Papa, who was then twenty-eight. Ah ! it was not the 
years alone, but something finer and deeper in the man ; 
and Nelly Kinnard had seen glimpses of it in her 
husband, long before he had become that to her. How 
did one get at all. these deep and hidden things? the 
precious stones on which every true soul builds its way up ; 
for shifting sand never yet reared a stable character. 
She understood, then, the long years of study that were 
needed, the undoing of some other persons' work, just as 
it had been teaching Gerty to sew. It would have been 
so much easier to do it the first time herself ; but there 
was given us in this world a good deal of second-hand 
work to do ; with crumpled and frayed edges, and puckered 
seams. And, in gardens, how many weeds come up to 
one flower ! 
Then papa sauntered in, and looked at his darling with 
an odd, wistful expression, as if he was not sure how much 
belonged to him any more. She must see some new books 
in the study, and some new flowers in the garden ; and 
there was the girls' room to inspect, with its pretty new 
carpet, and the picture that Fan had painted for the birth 
day of Queen Bess, as they had taken to calling her since 
she had shot up into such a tall, elegant-looking girl. 
Then there was dinner, and, after that, Fan and the 
babies. And Nelly drove down to the station in the 
Churchill carriage for her husband, who sat and studied 
her curiously all the way back. 
He was in a very bright, jolly mood, and would fain 
have taken some of the numerous sisters home with them ; 
but mamma was to have the honor of a first visit. 
"If you like, Nelly, I'll ask Henderson to exchange 
with me ; and then we can spend Sunday," said her fa 
ther. 
' ' Excellent ! " returned Dr. Kinnard with a cordial 
shake of the hand. 
Then he placed his wife in the corner of the seat by the 
open window, and seated himself beside her. 
" Are you sorry?" he asked. 
" Sorry for what?" 
" That you are leaving the Delectable Mountains be 
hind ; " and a half-smile crossed his face. 
" But the Delectable Mountains were not the last, nor 
the best thing in the journey." 
" I am glad you think so, very glad ; " and he gave her 
hand a fond pressure. 
And Nelly Kinnard realized more deeply than ever, 
as they entered the quiet house together that evening, 
the magnitude of her work here, to make a home, a 
woman's duty and province : it had never been a home 
yet. She was not to have the sweet and tender assistance 
that had been vouchsafed to both Rose and Fan. When 
there was peace in the house, Dr. Kinnard did not want 
it disturbed. So long as squabbles were kept out of his 
sight and hearing, the rest of the family might indulge 
in them twenty times a day. The little time he was in 
the house, he insisted upon having peace; and.it had 
been every one's desire to stand well with him. In fact, 
the three women of his household had each adored him 
in her way, his mother, because he was her only son, 
and had been, in the earlier part of his life, very man 
ageable. Aunt Adelaide honored him, secretly, for his 
 
patience with her sister ; then he had the sort of half-im- 
periousness that sways women irresistibly. Perhaps, too, 
she had allowed herself to care as much for him as a 
woman of her temperament could care for a man before 
marriage ; and that he should be foolish enough to choose 
a young thing of twenty, so liberally endowed with girlish 
prettiness, was another affront. Jane tyrannized over him 
in some respects, and was his slave in others. Every thing 
that could minister to his appetite was liberally provided. 
Meals at any time were no trouble, if they were for him ; 
but she would hardly go out of her way for another mem 
ber of the household. 
Great had been the consternation when the proposed 
marriage was known to be a certainty. 
" New wives make new laws," Mrs. Kinnard had said 
to her son. " I suppose, in my old age, 'I must seek 
another home. I did hope, Barton, never to have to 
separate from }^ou again. If it had only been Adelaide, 
we could have gone right along, without any change. But 
a young girl? like Miss Endicott, will want her 
own friends and pleasures ; and old people must be pushed 
aside." 
"What nonsense, mother! This is to be your home 
as long as you care to stay in it, which I hope will be 
always. I don't see why two or three women in a house 
cannot agree." 
' ' I am sure I should like to stay here while I live ; and 
T sometimes feel that will not be very long. Our people 
are healthy while they do live ; but none of them have 
reached old age ; " and Mrs. Kinnard wiped her eyes 
pathetically. 
He hated to see a woman cry : so he comforted her, and 
assured her that she would soon learn to love Nelly 
Endicott like a daughter. 
Which might not have been so difficult a thing, after 
all, if Aunt Adelaide had not been there. The ready 
affection of Nelly Endicott would have thrown out some 
irresistible tendril ; for, at heart, she was not an unkind 
woman : but her son, certainly, had not inherited his self- 
reliance and sturdy independence from her. She had, 
too, a fatal facility of believing and mistrusting the worst ; 
and her fears had been easily- swayed by Miss Grove's 
strong and rigid mind. 
" I consider it my duty to stay and look after these 
motherless children, who will have no real friend now but 
me. I have seen too often the influence a second wife 
gains over a man. She can persuade him into any line 
of conduct respecting his children. ' Second mothers are 
invariably jealous and envious unless, as it sometimes 
happens, they are a connection of the first." 
"If he had only married you, Adelaide!" groaned 
Mrs. Kinnard. 
" I have no necessity for marrying any man," returned 
Miss Grove in her loftiest, tone. " Miss Endicott, of 
course, feels differently. There are a host of girls ; and 
their mother, no doubt, understands the art of getting 
them off her hands. Not that I blame the poor woman. 
Girls with no means of their own have no resource but 
marriage ; while a woman who has an assured income 
can afford to be independent. My sister and I enjoyed 
this exceedingly, I do not understand how any woman 
can endure the thought of marrying a man for a mere 
support." 
" And I daresay she is idle and extravagant," went 
on the elder. "If Barton could have seen! And now 
he has come to a time when he ought to be saving up 
something for old age. I wouldn't have thought he could 
be so short-sighted." 
" It may not have been all his fault,*' said Miss Grove 
with stinging graciousness. " I am thankful that I have 
not a family of girls to settle in life ; though I should 
endeavor to bring them up to something better than hus 
band-hunting." 
Thus discoursed the two women frequently, until the 
subject was varied by Nelly's actual presence, and her 
daily sins. That her room should have been refurnished, 
when there was so much furniture in the house ; that she 
should go off, day after day, riding with her husband, and 
pay no attention to household affairs, except to litter up 
the rooms with foolish flowers, stamped their misgivings 
with the force of certainty. 
And Nelly admitted to herself that she had not made 
much headway. Everywhere she was frustrated. The 
parlor was kept sacredly shut up, though it was not an 
attractive place to her. The piano was in Miss Grove's 
room ; and, so far, she had not been invited within these 
sacred precincts. The children were kept studiously out 
of her reach, and they did not appear to care to venture 
within it. Now and then Bertie responded shyly to some 
demonstration ; but untoward circumstances were sure to 
nip it in the bud. It was too, early yet for neighborhood 
familiarities : indeed, the one or two people Nelly had 
ventured to admire appeared particularly obnoxious to 
Miss Grove. Yet there were no open hostilities : so Dr. 
Kinnard prided himself on his wisdom of waiting until 
both parties gradually fell into a friendly connection. 
On this afternoon Nelly had taken a book, and rambled 
to the chestnut-grove, where she sat at the foot of a large 
tree, thinking, rather than reading, and raising her eyes 
now and then to the soft, floating clouds that moved 
through the interstices of waving grain. Occasionally a 
bird sang overhead, or a squirrel scampered through the 
dry leaves, pausing to peer curiously at her. Then another 
sound broke the peaceful stillness. 
" I won't, either! I ain't going to mind a girl like 
you!" 
" You will go directty into the house, Herbert." 
Nelly could not forbear smiling at the authoritative 
tone, that, save in its youthfulness, was so like Miss 
Grove's. 
" I tell you I won't, either. I always play in the 
afternoon. Papa said I should." 
There was some sort of scuffle, and a sharp blow, fol 
lowed by a scream on Maud's part. Nelly ran forward. 
Herbert's cheek was still red with the print of his 
sister's hand. She had caught him by both arms ; and he 
was struggling to get away, kicking viciously, which she 
adroitly tried to evade. Her dull eyes were in a glow of 
passion, and her usually pale face flushed with anger. 
"Children!" 
They both paused, and glared at her, instead of each 
other. 
" Herbert must come immediately into the house," said 
Maud sharply, recovering herself the first. 
" Why, Maud? I believe it is his papa's wish that he 
shall remain out of doors until tea-time." 
" Aunt Adelaide wants him. He meddled with her 
bracelet, which was lying on the table, and broke it." 
Bertie glanced up sullenly. 
" I didn't break it," he said. 
For a moment Nelly felt puzzled, as she looked from 
one to the other. 
" Where was the bracelet, Maud?" 
The little girl raised her eyes insolently, as if to 
question Nelly's right to ask, then answered, rather 
reluctantly, 
"In a box on the table;" but more briskly, "He 
had no right to touch it. He is always meddling. And 
you'll get soundly punished too." 
Bertie began to cry, and protest that he did not break 
it, he only just raised it up, and then put it back. 
"You dropped it on the floor. Don't tell any more 
stories, Herbert Kinnard ! " 
" Hush, Maud ! " said Nelly with a dignity that over 
awed her childish pretensions. " Tell me truly, Herbert, 
did you break it?'" 
" No, I didn't. I just looked at it, and put it back." 
"It's no such thing! Aunt Adelaide found it on the 
floor, broken ; and no one touched it but you." 
"Maud, either return to the house, or keep silence 
until you are spoken to. Bertie, had you not better go 
to Aunt Adelaide, and tell her just how it was ? " 
"No, I don't want- to. She won't believe me: she 
never does." And Bertie began to cry with a perfect 
boyish uproar. Then, as if for greater safety, he buried 
his face in the skirt of Nelly's gown, and clung to it with 
both hands. 
" My dear child," began Nelly soothingly. 
"Why can't you, if you are my mother?" he inter 
rupted, with a child's inconsequence. 
' ' She is not your mother ! " again exclaimed Maud 
sharply ; for her wounded self-love had seethed to boiling- 
point. ' ' Our own dear mamma is dead and buried ; and 
she is only " 
' ' Only what ? " and the clear eyes arraigned the child's 
bravado. But Maud was angry now. Under the calm 
and formal exterior, there was a depth of passion and 
temper that never found a vent, save upon Herbert. 
"Only a stepmother" she said defiantly. "Because 
papa chose to marry you, it doesn't make you any real 
relation to us ; and we need not love or obey you, if we 
don't want to." 
"Who told you that, Maud, your papa?" Nelly asked 
gravely. 
" Aunt Adelaide told her." And Bertie paused in his 
crying. 
" Grandmamma said we could not be expected to love 
you," began Maud, taking up arms for Aunt Adelaide ; 
' ' and I knew it myself without any telling. You see what 
Aunt Adelaide will give you ! I shall go straight and 
tell her." And Maud made a sudden dash across the 
cleared space. 
Nelly felt that a collision was inevitable. "Herbert,'' 
she began again, "will you not go in and tell Aunt 
Adelaide how it was, and that you are sorry? " 
"I didn't break it! I didn't throw it on the floor! 
Maud tells lies to get me punished." 
' ' How does Aunt Adelaide punish you ? ' ' she asked 
with some curiosity. 
"Shuts me up in a dark closet; and I'm so afraid! 
And she snaps my ears, and won't let me have any sup 
per. I'll run away, and drown myself in the river some 
day, and then I'll bet she'll feel bad!" And Master 
Bertie shook his head with a defiance that was ludicrous. 
Nelly stood, with the child still clinging to her, un 
decided, with a kind of helplessness that was quite new 
to her, expecting every moment that Miss Grove would 
make her appearance. Instead, Maud again came in 
sight. 
" Herbert, you are to come in, or Aunt Adelaide will 
tell papa as soon as he comes home, and you'll get an 
awful whipping." 
Nelly turned, and walked with him. The child took 
a dozen or so reluctant steps, then, suddenly breaking 
away, ran in the opposite direction with the fleetness of a 
deer. It was an ignoble retreat, and most embarrassing 
for her ; yet she could not help smiling. 
Maud turned short about with a contemptuous expres 
sion upon her small face. 
" Maud, come here," said Nelly. 
" I am going in town with Aunt Adelaide," she replied 
over her shoulder, and hurried on. 
"Very well, then. I will try to find Herbert." 
She retraced her steps ; but her search was in vain as 
well as her calls ; and presently she returned to the 
house. Mrs. Kinnard sat at the farther end of the hall 
by the window, with some netting in her hand. Nelly 
thought she would go through to the office ; but she paused 
to make some trifling comment. The old lady's face was 
full of displeasure. 
"Mrs. Kinnard," she began in a severe tone, "I am 
sorry that any thing unpleasant should have occurred about 
the children. We have all tried our best to live at peace. 
We resolved there should be no quarrelling on our p;irt 
when you came into the house. But I must say it is very 
injudicious for you to interfere with Miss Grove. She 
has always had charge of the children, and they are her 
sister's. No one, of course, has the affection for them 
that she has ; for a man soon forgets in new claims. 
Herbert is a very trying child, and needs a firm hand ; 
and your unwarrantable indulgence makes it worse for 
him in the end, as your good sense must tell you." 
Nelly's indignation threatened to master her for the 
moment. At first she could hardly steady her voice ; but, 
when she felt she could trust it, she replied courteously, 
"I cannot forget that the children are also my hus 
band's. In marrying him, I certainly did not lessen their 
claim to his attention. I have a right to exercise a 
mother's supervision over them ; and I have not inter 
fered, save in a childish quarrel which was not creditable 
to Maud or her instructress. The rest of the matter we 
will leave for Dr. Kinnard's decision. Even Miss Grove 
must allow that his right is first." 
" I am sure I don't know what the children would have 
done without their aunt." 
Nelly made no reply, but passed from the room. Once 
in the office, she threw herself on the sofa, and gave vent 
to a flood of hysterical tears, that carried off the nervous 
ness, and left her calmer. Then she began to feel dis 
tressed about Herbert, and again sallied out, and sought 
Mat. 
" The youngster'll come to light, never you fear," was 
his encouraging comment. "But I'll keep my eye out 
a bit." 
\ 
 
If Dr. Kinnard would but return ! Nelly waited anx 
iously, hoping to be able to explain her share in the mat 
ter before the family assembled for supper. But Maud 
and her aunt returned ; and presently the bell rang. One 
glance assured her that there was no Bertie to be seen. 
She ran out, and intercepted Mat in the walk, questioning 
him eagerly. 
" Oh, he is right enough somewhere ! He will want 
something to eat, you may count on that." 
" Then you haven't seen him?" and now her face was 
pale with apprehension. 
"Well, I didn't; but I know he will come to light. 
Every thing does ; and children are no exception." 
"Will you go out and call in the woods again, Mat? 
He might be lost, or have fallen and injured himself. 
The doctor will be so worried ! " 
"He couldn't get lost; and his- father has forbidden 
his going off the grounds. He's afraid of his father too, 
is that little chap. But I'll go." 
CHAPTER VIH. 
" But he who says light does not necessarily say joy." 
VICTOE HUGO. 
THE women around the table looked exasperatingly 
patient as Nelly entered, much disturbed in mind and 
manner. 
" May I venture to inquire about Herbert, Mrs. Kin- 
nard?" began Miss Grove, as Nelly was nervously pour 
ing tea. " Since you have taken him under j^our jurisdic 
tion, I suppose he is safe, at least ; " and there was a 
little sneer in the words. 
" I have not seen Herbert since since he ran away 
in the grove," returned Nelly tremulously. 
' ' Of course you are quite prepared to answer to his 
father for whatever befalls him ? " 
" I will answer to his father as far as I am concerned," 
she made answer quietly. 
It did not seem as if any thing evil could happen to 
the child. It was still broad daylight ; and he was used 
to roaming about. If Miss Grove believed him in danger, 
could she sit there so calmly? Maud wore the same look 
of insolent defiance that had characterized her in the 
afternoon. Nelly experienced a strange sinking about 
the heart, feeling pitted, as it were, against them in a 
cruel struggle. 
" But it is unusual for the child to stay so," said grand 
mother, with much alarm in her countenance. 
" I have always insisted upon promptness ; but then 
like regularity in all matters, and have accustomed 
 self to such habits. For years we have gone on in 
complete order ; but I am no longer mistress, and there 
fore not responsible. Still, since I have consented to 
remain solely on account of these motherless children, 
my only sister's children, I do desire to do my duty by 
them without any interference. It was a very simple 
thing that occurred this afternoon. The child is meddle 
some and destructive to the last degree, and I sent for 
him, as I had a perfect right to do ; for I found he had 
broken my bracelet, and it was my place to punish him. 
You must sec, Mrs. Kinnard, how utterly uncalled for 
your imprudent indulgence was in shielding him, and in 
thus enabling him to defy me. I think his father can 
hardly fail to say so." 
Nelh- heard her through with a quiet dignity. 
" I did not shield him in any respect, Miss Grove. I 
should not have taken any notice of the matter ; but he 
and Maud were wrangling in a very improper manner. 
I am not fully acquainted with your method of bringing 
up children. But in our family, where there was a much 
greater difference in regard to ages, one child was never 
allowed to strike another ; and Maud had given him a 
severe blow." 
" He kicked me," said Maud in eager justification. 
" I think Maud will also bear me witness, if she cares 
to tell the truth, that I insisted upon his obeying you." 
A dull blush suffused Maud's face. 
"You had him in your lap, with your dress around 
him," the young lady returned with a most offensive 
self-complacency. 
Nelty could have shaken her ; for it flashed into her 
mind that Maud might not have repeated the transaction 
correctly. 
' I am not much used to children's quarrels ; and we 
were carefully trained not to misrepresent if it was ever 
 
necessary to bear evidence against one another. Will 
you be kind enough to tell me, Maud, what you said to 
j-our aunt? I shall take the liberty of repeating your 
whole conversation to your father ; for I must say I 
considered it very impertinent in a little girl." 
" Indeed ! Maud gives me no trouble that way. 
Answer Mrs. Kinnard, Maud. You told me" 
" That that " and the child's voice faltered, while 
her eyes sought her aunt's with a sort of frightened 
entreaty. 
Miss Grove generally scorned any thing like falsehood ; 
but now her anger at Dr. Kinnard' s wife was greater 
than her vaunted love of truth. Maud had most impru 
dently colored the whole transaction, and had said of 
her stepmother, " She won't let him come in." 
" That Mrs. Kinnard was his mother, or something of 
that sort, and he clung to her for protection. I suppose it 
was as much your manner that influenced Maud as any 
thing you said," returned Miss Grove with a covert air 
of triumph. 
" Did I tell him to go to your aunt, Maud, or did I 
not? Answer simply yes, or no." 
" I don't remember ; " and Maud began to cry. 
" She gave me the impression that you were shielding 
Herbert. But she was greatly excited, I must confess ; 
and ordinarily Herbert obeys me." 
There was the sound of a breezy voice in the office ; 
and Nelly's heart leaped with joy. He entered with a 
gay salutation, passed around and kissed his wife, noting 
with the quick eye of affection that something had dis 
composed her. 
"Where is Bertie?" he asked as he took his cup of 
tea. " Dismissed on account of some meritorious deed? " 
"Mrs. Kinnard was the last person who saw him, I 
believe," returned Miss Grove. 
" I will tell you after supper," Nelly said quietly. 
Dr. Kinnard glanced from one to the other. There 
had evidently been a storm ; but he was most unromanti- 
cally hungry, and thankful for Nell}*'s good sense. Then 
he had a message to deliver to his mother from a distant 
friend ; and the conversation took a general turn. 
Miss Grove rose when he was through. " Will you 
be kind enough to remain," asked Nelh', "while I 
make my explanations ; ' ' and the lady stood in a haughty 
dignity, with one hand on the back of her chair, her face 
curved with a scornful half-smile. 
Nelly went briefly over the incidents of the afternoon. 
She did not repeat all Maud's insolence, for she did not 
desire to bring either of the elder ladies into personal 
conflict with herself ; and she was by far too kind-hearted 
to thus mortify them in the presence of the son and 
brother. 
Dr. Kinnard turned abruptly. " Where was the brace 
let, Adelaide ? " he asked. 
"On my dressing-table, when I left it: on the floor, 
when I found it, and broken. I had been out of the 
room for a few moments." 
' ' How I wish you would not keep gimcracks around 
where that boy can get at them, or, better still, not have 
him everlastingly in your room ! I have told you a hun 
dred times to send him out just as soon as his lessons 
were through. Is it badly broken? Maud, go and fetch 
it- And he has not come in yet? Has any one sent- Mat 
to see?" 
"I have," said Nelly ; for she could see that her hus 
band was much annoyed. 
" He hasn't spunk enough to run away, so never fear," 
glancing at Nelly's face of alarm. " And, if he did, he 
would run back again. I shall have to take him in hand, 
Adelaide. I have always said women could not manage 
boys." 
"I am sure I have managed him until" and an 
angry light shot out of Miss Grove's eyes. 
' ' But now lie is growing out of your reach ; that is the 
truth. He must either be a molly-coddle (which no son 
of mine ever shall, if I can prevent) , or there must be a 
different state of affairs. Ask Jane if Mat has come yet. 
Oh ! " for at that moment Maud entered with her. aunt's 
bracelet, and handed it to her father, who examined it 
minutely. 
" It has been trodden on," he said. "I'll settle this 
matter myself, Adelaide ; and, if the boy has told a false 
hood, he shall be severely punished. I have a horror of 
children's lying. And, Maud, you are not called upon 
to administer any correction whatever to Bertie. Did 
you strike first, or did he kick? " 
" He he struck me." 
" Keep your hands off him in the future," said the 
doctor in a voice which strongly suggested obedience. 
Nelly glanced at the pale, stolid face. Could she 
understand that her misrepresentation was absolute 
falsehood? or was she wrapped about with that terrible 
self-complacency which deadened all finer distinctions? 
Not a lovable little girl ; and yet Nelly felt as if she 
wanted the doctor to take her on his knee, and talk to 
her until the cold and rigid little heart should melt. She 
could not quite approve of this hardness and indifference 
on his part. 
" I have two or three prescriptions to compound ; so I 
must go to the office. Send Bertie right to me." Then, 
catching a glimpse of Nelly's sad face, he put his arm 
around her, and drew her in the office with him. But 
his departure was a signal for the loosening of tongues. 
Maud listened to the injudicious strictures of aunt and 
grandmother, which were not calculated to increase her 
respect for her stepmother, and felt how absolute^ cruel 
it was of her father to thus transfer his love and interest 
to that young thing, as her aunt termed her, whose pretty 
face had caught his attention, while her own dear 
mamma was lying in the grave. 
 
Dr. Kinnard compounded his two prescriptions silently, 
while Nelly sat and watched him. There were twenty 
things she wanted to say ; but she knew he could not bear 
to be interrupted while he was engaged in any such matter. 
Perhaps the whole secret of his tolerating her in the office 
was, that she did not bother him with subjects foreign to 
the one he had in hand. Then he turned suddenly. 
" Nelly, did you tell me all that happened this after 
noon, all that both children did and said?" 
The question took her so by surprise, that she colored 
violently the first instant, and was silent. 
"There was something else?" and he fixed his keen 
eyes upon her. 
" I told you all that was necessary," she answered. 
" But I want to know every word ; " and, coming around 
the table, he sat down, taking both hands in his. 
"I am not used to telling tales, or making complaints," 
she said almost haughtily. 
' ' First case of insubordination ; " and there was a 
shrewd half-smile in his ej'e, which hardly covered the 
persistent determination. " I am very sorry the incident 
should have occurred, Nelly. I hoped there would be no 
conflict until matters had settled into a somewhat com 
fortable groove for us all ; but I understood from your 
face and voice that you were keeping something back. 
I trusted your judgment then : can you not trust mine 
now?" 
Poor Nelly ! The one thing she had strongly resolved 
not to do, was, to estrange the father from the chil 
dren ; to prejudice him in any way while his love for 
her was so strong and new. Maud's disrespect looked 
worse to her now than it had out in the grove ; and, if she 
told it all, it must make Dr. Kinnard angry in her behalf. 
" Oh," she cried with girlish eagerness, " let it all go ! 
Let us think of Bertie, and what must be done. Little as 
I know about boys, this does not seem the right influence 
for him." 
 
"One thing at a time. You have not -answered my 
question. I want that first of all." 
"I think you are a little cruel," Nelly said with spirit. 
" I do not desire to make any complaint. You must see 
how very embarrassing the position is for me." 
"Let us get through with it, then. Come, be frank 
and honest with me. Don't you suppose that I realize 
the awkward position, that you are stepmother to these 
children ? " 
The tears came into Nelly's eyes ; and she hid her face 
suddenly upon her huband's breast. " I will tell you," 
she said, " if you will promise not to be severe with Maud. 
They are your children : they have even a greater right to 
your love than I." 
' ' Love ! What foolish distinctions you women do 
make ! Nelly, I hope I have sense enough to be just in 
any event. You are over-sensitive." 
Nelly delayed no longer, but repeated the scene, leaving 
out, it must be confessed, a little of the worst. Then she 
glanced timidly up in her husband's face. 
" Oh ! I am not going to scold you," he said with a faint 
smile ; " but you know, Nelly, that I have a great dislike 
of evasions, or, rather, understanding only part of a mat 
ter in which I am to judge. Maud is an insolent little 
vixen ! " and, springing up, the doctor began to pace the 
floor. 
" But you will forgive her this time, for my sake? Oh, 
please do, Barton ! It would make it worse for me. She 
is Aunt Adelaide's favorite ; and, if I brought her into 
disgrace with you " 
"There, there, Nelly ! Don't go to crying about it. I 
will not say a word, if it pleases you better : in fact, I do 
suppose I should get myself into a hornet's nest. But 
Maud must not be allowed in any such conduct. You shall 
be respected by the children : of that I am resolved." 
Just then there was a tap at the door ; and the doctor 
opened it. 
" I don't think Master Bertie is anywhere on the place," 
said Mat. " Would he have gone away, think?" 
' ' Have you looked in the barn ? You found him there 
once asleep, you know. Or, stay " And he called up 
the stairway to Miss Grove, 
" Look in Bertie's room, will you? " 
There was an entrance to this room from the kitchen 
part. While it was yet early, Bertie had stolen home, and 
hurried into bed. He was frightened and hungry ; and, 
hearing his aunt's voice on her return, he had covered 
himself smoothly over. But, though she might have looked 
into his room under any other circumstances, she certainly 
had not done so now, until requested by his father. He 
was soundly asleep. Had his punishment been in her 
hands, she would have roused him in a moment ; but now 
she only glanced at him with a bitter, self-satisfied smile, 
and went quietly down stairs. 
" He is there, Barton. I suppose he was too guilty and 
ashamed to face any one, and had a dread of the punish 
ment that he knew was sure to come. He is a very cow 
ardly child. Shall I wake him up ? " 
The doctor thought a moment. " No : let him sleep. I 
will attend to his case in the morning. . Tell Maud to come 
down to me." 
Miss Grove bit her lip, and hesitated, then said, 
"Barton, she is very much excited, and in a highly 
nervous state. I think you had better defer any thing you 
have to say to her until breakfast-time. I was just about 
to send her to bed." 
There was the least possible entreaty in Miss Grove's 
voice ; but her brother-in-law did not heed it. 
" I will not keep her but a moment or two. It is best 
for me to see her to-night." 
Maud entered the office, pale and trembling. Her aunt 
had half a mind to brave all, and accompany her. But 
being requested to retire would have proved too great an 
 
humiliation ; and she knew Dr. Kinnard to be quite 
capable of such a course. 
There was a look of sullen fear in the child's eyes ; and 
her features seemed sharper and thinner than ever. Nelly 
felt really sorry for her. ^ 
"Maud," began her father, eying her with a half-con 
tempt, " if you were at all disrespectful to your mother 
this afternoon, I want you to beg her pardon. And, in 
future, I want you and Bertie to understand that you are 
to obey her as promptly in any matter as } r ou do me." 
That was all, then. She hated to beg Mrs. Kinnard's 
pardon ; but that was better than her having told all, and 
being in no end of a difficulty. So she collected her self- 
possession, and the certain obtuseness of feeling that so 
largely characterized her, and did as she was bid, in a 
formal way that was extremely annoying to Nelly. 
" My little girl," she returned, compelling herself to 
speak kindly, "I hope you will soon begin to feel that I 
am your friend, at least. I know your own mamma is 
dead, and that is a great loss to any child ; but I shall try 
to fill her place as well as you will allow me. I am ready 
to love you, and sympathize in all your pleasures and 
pursuits when you feel well enough acquainted to give me 
a share. It is our duty to try to make papa happy by 
our loving one another, as well as loving him. Will you 
try?" 
Maud colored, and then became pale again, averted her 
face, and murmured a few indistinct words, turning toward 
the door. Then she opened it, said good-night briefly, 
and vanished. 
The doctor went on pacrng the room, with his hands 
folded behind him. Suddenly he broke out with, 
"It is not what you have been used to, Nelly. The 
elements of affection and kindliness that formed so large 
a part in your household life are altogether wanting here. 
With all a man's solemn truth, I say I am sorry for it. 
But what to do " 
" Let me help you ; " and she slipped her hand within 
his arm, joining his walk. 
" That was all a farce with Maud ; I saw it as well as 
you, but I was determined that she should pay you some 
outward respect. Nelly, the world has a great prejudice 
against stepmothers, and perhaps daughters-in-law. I 
think the matter is about evenly balanced. There are 
good and bad on both sides, just as there are good and bad 
husbands and fathers. Why, think of a man beating his 
poor little child, and sending him out on a cold winter day 
to beg for money to but rum with ! Think how cruel 
Mat's wife was to their little child ! And yet I am sorry 
that you must suffer in the world's estimation for the in 
justice of other people." 
"But isn't that just one of the things the Saviour com 
mends ? What virtue is there in suffering patiently the 
result of our own faults? " 
" I don't pretend to understand these things," and he 
looked a little puzzled. " And I hate to have you. pre 
judged, suspected of any thing so foreign to your nature. 
But I had my way in bringing you here : so I must endure 
the other with what grace I can ; " and he smiled grimly. 
' ' Aunt Adelaide would take nothing short of a positive 
dismissal, I fancy ; for she exaggerates her point of duty 
most heroically. Yet I think sometimes, if she managed 
the children differently, they might not be so so unlike 
childhood in its natural state." 
"Can't you do something for them? can't we both?" 
cried Nelly earnestly. " It seems to me that they are 
not being brought up judiciously." 
" I don't know how much I love children, whether I 
have any of that overwhelming passion that women in 
dulge in ; but I have a great tenderness in some ways. I 
can't bear to see a child abused ' or ill treated ; and 
you'll laugh at me, Nelly ; but I positively cannot endure 
to see a child beaten, so much of it comes under my 
 
notice ! Mothers are tried and angry, and worn out with 
their labors : so, when a child is troublesome or dis 
obedient, a whipping settles it the quickest of anything ; 
therefore it is resorted to. Half the time, it is merely 
indulgence in one's own temper. I found out, a year ago, 
that Adelaide was in the habit of giving Bertie liberal 
allowances with a strap : so I took that away, and told 
her, when Bertie did any thing grave enough for such 
punishment, she must send him to me." 
" And so you were tried frequently ; was that it? " 
On the contrary. She has appealed to me a few times ; 
and Bertie has managed to commit some depredations in 
my office. I will candidly own that I can only strike a 
child in the heat of anger. There seems something so 
cowardly, so obnoxious, in the unequal warfare of a strong 
man pitted against a little child that he could crush and 
kill, and does sometimes maim. It may be necessary in 
schools, where a crowd of boys are herded together ; but it 
seems to me there might be other punishments devised in 
a household, that would not injure a child in any way. 
But I cannot see that Bertie has improved much under 
the new regime" 
"Yet I think he is a good deal afraid of Aunt Ade 
laide." 
"That is true. There is something cowardly about 
the child, that annoys me. I like fearless, outspoken 
children, who are honestly sorry for a fault, and who, 
perhaps, forget the next day, and do the same thing. 
Adelaide is an excellent teacher ; but I do believe the 
boy would be better off in a school with other children." 
" He certainly would," said Nelly decisively. 
"I promised Adelaide that I would make no change 
for the coming year ; but I think I must. I want him to 
be manly, truthful, honest in principle ; not that mere 
outward honesty that refrains from stealing your neigh 
bor's coat or his money. And I wish but here I arn 
shifting these burthens on your shoulders ; a thing I had 
resolved not to do." 
"And why not?" Nelly stood up with a sweet 
bravery shining in her eyes. " Am I not to help in this 
work as well? Is it merely to take your love and service, 
and give nothing in return? I did not marry you for 
that." 
He stooped, and kissed her. " I wish you had been 
their mother," he said huskily ; " and yet you are such a 
child yourself. No, I must not make the burthen too 
heavy. I suspect I am something of a coward and a 
shirk myself," he appended grimly. " I ought to take 
the responsibility of my body ." 
" I think you ought," returned Nelly gravely. 
' ' But I had promised myself a sort of holiday house 
hold life," he continued with a shrug and a half-smile. 
"Barton, life isn't all meant for a holiday. We have 
had a verj* bright golden one ; and now I want you to let 
me help yOU with the work. Bertie needs a father's care 
and interest and love. Let him come a little more into 
your life. It will b,e a trouble, I know ; but it brings 
with it a sweet reward. I wouldn't give up my remem 
brance of papa's sympathy and tenderness for all the 
wealth of the world." 
" Mr. Endicott is a better man than I," said Dr. Kin- 
nard simply. Then, with a smile, "I hope you have 
brought a little of his goodness with you to leaven us ; for 
we all need it." 
He sat down, and took her on his knee, holding the fair 
hand in his, and resting his chin upon it. 
" What will you do with Bertie? " she asked presently. 
" It puzzles me. The bracelet has certainly been 
stepped upon. Just falling from a table could not injure 
it in that manner. It seems as if Bertie ought to have 
told you the truth. And, if he should persist in his state 
ment, Aunt Adelaide will not believe it I am afraid. So 
I am between two fires." 
" You will not punish him, then, unless you are con 
vinced ? " 
"Most assuredly not." 
" I think we shall be able to tell. It seems to me that 
Miss Grove's method with him tends to make him con 
ceal trifles, rather than admit them. She is strict and 
stern, putting him down continually, and finding fault. 
The child really has no freedom of ideas in any direc 
tion." 
" Except mischief." 
" And how much of this is due to unemployed re 
sources ? " Nelly asked with a smile. " I do think, Barton, 
a little judicious praise is ever so much better than repres 
sion and fault-finding. And I shall be so glad to have 
you take him more under your care." 
" Well, we will see. There, let Bertie and his troubles 
rest until to-morrow." 
She wisely said no more. He looked over a late maga 
zine, and read her some extracts from a scientific article. 
Meanwhile she was thinking. What if this episode, 
beginning so uncomfortably, should open the door to the 
duties she had been longing for, and that wider sphere, 
the opportunity of bringing in a fresh current to the 
household so becalmed on the stagnant shores of for 
mality and selfishness? And if she could render these 
