again, and that I thought it was maybe your changed point of 
viewthat made it so easy for you to give me up.'
'But why do you recal all this now, Hazel?' asked Dane, very 
quietly. 'I never gave you up; it was a fancied somebody that was 
not you.'
'It came in the course of my story. I could not pass it. Only for 
that,' she said, turning her face towards him for a moment. 
'Because then, in some of those days, I thoughtperhapsI had 
learned the lesson you set me.'
'And you do not think so now?'
'I am not sure that it was true work,' she answered slowly. 'For in a 
storm one flies to shelter,and just then my hands sought 
anything that could stand and would not change. But now'
Dane was proverbially scarce a patient man after a certain line was 
passed. He left his chair now, stooped and took Hazel's hands and 
gently pulled her up from her low cushion; and then took her in his 
arms and held her close.
'I understand all about it,' he said. 'You need not try to tell me any 
more. My little Wych! Look here; there are just two things to be 
said, one mediate, the other immediate. In the first place, no 
uncertainty of motives need embarrass or delay your action in a 
course that you know to be right. In the next place,Hazel,don't 
you see, that when we have been married a while and I am become 
an old story, I shall be more of a help and less of a hindrance? And 
I know all about you; and I don't know it a bit better after all this 
long exposition than I did before. And if I have changed my 
standpoint relatively to some things, I have never changed it 
respecting you, except to draw nearer. Now confess you have been 
a foolish child.'
The soft laugh which answered him had more than shyness to 
make it unsteady.
'I do not suppose you want to change me for anybody else,' she 
said. 'But I do not want you to think I am anybody else.'
There came just then rapid hoof-beats round the house, and in a 
minute more Dingee presented himself in the red room, bearing a 
request that Mr. Rollo would come to the side door for a moment, 
to see Dr. Arthur Maryland.
CHAPTER XVI.
DR. ARTHUR'S NEWS.
The doctor was on horseback, but standing a little way off from the 
steps.
'Stay where you are' he said, speaking low however. 'Dane, there 
is ship fever among those Swedes that have just come to the 
Hollow.'
'The Schiffers?'
'Yes. I was not certain till to-night, but I have been all day taking 
precautions and making arrangements, and could not get away a 
minute sooner. I was afraid you might miss a message; and I 
would not write notes there to be opened here. Now I cannot stop 
to talk, but if you will send me general orders every morning for 
men and business in the Hollow, I will see them carried out. Good-
night.My respects to her Grace.'
'StopArthur!' said the other as he was moving off'I shall be 
there presently.'
'On no account!' said Dr. Arthur wheeling round. 'I am too glad 
that you were here to-day. Always depute that part of your work 
which somebody else can do.'
'I will be there, Arthur, in an hour or two. Go onyou had better 
not wait for me.'
Dr. Arthur sat still a minute, looking down between his horse's 
ears.
'Well,' he said,'perhaps it is none of my business,  but do you 
know what a sensitive plant you have to deal with in there? She 
must not have another shock like that mysterious one of a month 
ago. Good-night!'
With a somewhat slow step, Rollo left the hall door and went back 
to the red room. But his face shewed no change to disturb Wych 
Hazel. He came back first to the fire, and somewhat thoughtfully, 
quite silently, put it in order. By that time he was ready. He faced 
Wych Hazel, and spoke in his ordinary tone.
'I am glad we have had this day, Wychand I am glad we have 
had our talk this evening: for I find we cannot have another in 
some time.'
'You are going away?' she said, rising and coming towards him. 
'One of your business trips? Then this will be my time for a few 
days in town, to "do about dress" a little. Do you suppose
honestlythat anybody wants my new gloves?' The question came 
with a laugh and a flash which yet did not hide it. But silently 
Dane folded his two arms about her and pressed kiss after kiss 
upon brow and lips. That shewed feeling more than he meant to 
shew it. Yet when he spoke his tone was clear and sweet, no 
shadow at all in it. 
'I am not going away.'
She drew off as far as she could, to look at him, with sudden 
instinctive fear. Only her eyes put questions now.
'Yes,' he said,'there is sickness in the Hollow. And it is 
contagious sickness.'
'O, is there?'with a grave look which yet told more of relief that 
concern. 'And you are going to help Dr. Arthur take care of them!'
He answered absently, looking at her, as a man might who 
expected to lose such an indulgence for some time to come. Her 
face was very thoughtful for a minute; then she looked up with 
almost a smile.
'Yes,' she repeated,'of course you must. Well, I am ready.'
'Are you?' said he. 'For what?'
'You think I do not know enough,' said Hazel with some eagerness; 
'and I do not know much; but I can follow directions. And Byo 
declares she was never so taken care of in her life as once by me.'
Instead of answering, at first, Dane clasped her closer in his arms 
and kissed her, as if in anticipation of the hunger for the sight of 
her which would shortly set in.
'I should like to have you take care of me,' he said at length. 'If I 
needed a little care, that is.'
'Well,' said Wych Hazel, 'you may put it so, if you like. You will 
need a great deal before you have been in that Hollow two days.'
'Need it. Do you think you can give it?' said he wistfully.
'Without a doubt.'
'But you are not my wife, Wychyou cannot be there with me 
now. And if you were my wife, you could not. Do you think I 
would let you?'
She shrank back a little, hanging her head. This view of the case 
had certainly not come up.
'I thoughtI supposeanybody may come and go to see sick 
people,' she said under her breath. 'I thought, anybody might stay 
with them. And I think so now. I never heard of etiquette over 
small-pox.'
'You could not "come and go" to these people. I shall establish a 
strict quarantine, and probably be in it myself. You must not come 
even near the Hollow.'
'But I need not have anything to do with you,' pleaded Hazel. 'I am 
going to serve under Dr. Arthur.'
'That is just my place.'
'You may keep it,' said Hazel. 'A woman's place is not solid and 
stationary like a man's. Nobody will know where I am, but some 
poor sick child that everyone else is too busy for.'
Perhaps Dane smothered a sigh; but he only said, clear and clean-
cut the words were now,
'I cannot have you there, Hazel. You must keep your place and do 
your work here. The Hollow is my business.'
'And you mean to leave me outside of your business?' she 
questioned, with eyes incredulous even yet.
'Outside of this business. And you are not to come even near the 
Hollow. I know you do not like to give promises, and so I do not 
ask for one. This is not a request. You understand?'
'Olaf!'It was the sweetest of pleading tones. But no more words 
followed,neither word nor look.
'Ah you have adopted me at last, have you!' said he. 'I have been 
waiting for this. And the sweetness of it will be in my ears all these 
days before me. The next time you speak that word in such music, 
Hazel, I will give you what you ask.'
'Not now?' she said softly. 'I may not go even to Gyda's?'
'Gyda will be with me.'
The words, the utterance, were cheery, clear and sweet; at the same 
time strong and absolute. And Rollo wore a look which I think a 
woman does not dislike to see on a face she loves, even though its 
decisions be against her; there was sweetness enough in it, also 
unmanageableness! No shadow, it must be noted. If he was going 
into danger, and knew it, the fact did not shadow him.
Hazel stood still, struggling with herself; fighting the 
disappointment and the restraint; most of all, the sorrow which 
came in the train of the other two. For with the passing away of her 
own thought of going, the thought that he must go came out clear 
and strong. Into that infected place, to be shut up in quarantine 
with no one knew what! Hazel passed her hands across her 
forehead as if she were pushing the shadows right and left, bidding 
them wait.
'I wanted to ask,' she said,and then the voice changed, and 
suddenly the soft touch of her fingers came to his face, stroking 
back some lock of hair to its accustomed place. But the look was 
as intent and unconscious as if she never expected to see him again 
in all her life. And he stood still, like a man under a spell, which he 
would not break by the least movement.
'Those people,' she began again hurriedly, bringing herself back to 
business and a business tone, 'will want a great deal. And there is 
not much in the Hollow, nor on the hill. If you will let me, I can 
have supplies sent from here every day. Mrs. Bywank will know 
what. And my messenger need not go near that part of the Hollow; 
the things can be left at any point you say.' She looked up 
eagerlythen down again; not much fonder than he was of asking 
what she could not have.
'Do that, by all means,' was the answer. 'Your supplies may be left 
at the mill where I read.'
The shadow on her face deepened.
'Will you write?'
'No.' His face began to take on something of the yearning look of 
the Huguenot in the picture.
'How then shall I hear?'
'I have been thinking about that. I do not know; unless Arthur can 
carry reports now and then to Dr. Maryland, and Prim or her father 
bring them to you.'
'He may come straight here at once,' said Hazel. 'I can talk out of a 
window as well as anybody else. And if anybody ventures to come 
here to comfort me, I shall'
'What?' said Rollo smiling.
'Send me no reports that way. I could not bear it. And Dr. Arthur 
will stay in the Hollow while you stay.'
There was a moment's gesture that reminded him of the despairing 
way in which she had flung herself down in the chair, that long 
ago night at Green Bush.
'Dr. Arthur will go and come as a physician should, according to 
the demand for him. What will you do, my little Wych?'
'I do not know. Only one thing.'
'What is that one thing?'
Again Hazel was silent, struggling with herself, controlling her lips 
to speak.
'Just one thing'the words came passionately now. 'If you are 
sick, I shall come. And it is no use to lay commands on me, 
because I should break them all in one minute. I know I should. 
Promises or commands or anything else.'
He paused slightly before he spoke.
'Do you know, Mrs. Bywank once said in my hearing that you 
were the lovingest little thing that ever lived. I knew she was right. 
I have been waiting for this minute. It makes me a rich man. But 
you will not come to the Hollow, Hazel, even though I were ill. 
You must love me enough to mind my wishes. It is hard, I know. It 
is the very last and uttermost proof of love.'
Hazel was bending down, busy detaching something from her 
chatelaine. The fingers were quick and hurried, but the words came 
slow.
'Hush,' she said. 'You must not say that. You are confusing things. 
And your rights do not cover all the ground. There is a corner, 
somewhere, where mine grow. Now'she raised her head, 
drawing a long breath,how fast the gathering tide of anxiety and 
sorrow came rolling in!'See here. I know you have nothing so 
womanish as a vinaigrette about you,but womanish things are 
useful just now and then. Will you fasten this to your watch 
chainto please me?'The eyes were wistful in their beseeching. 
She was so uncertain of having anything granted to-night!
He met them with a grave, searching attention, and releasing her 
from the arms which had till then enfolded her, gravely fastened 
the vinaigrette as she wished. He turned slightly then and rested 
his elbow on the mantel-piece, looking down into the fire which 
his care had caused to leap into brilliant life. As motionless on her 
part Hazel stood, with fingers interlaced and still. But her eyes 
were on the floor. Presently Rollo roused himself, and stretching 
out his hand took Wych Hazel's and drew her nearer to him.
'I cannot go and leave this question undecided,' he said; 'and I must 
go soon. How shall it be settled, Wych?'
Some things are hard to talk of, which yet are in the thoughts; and 
contingencies take life and reality by being put in words. The 
shadow on the girl's face grew deep as she answered,yet the 
answer was quiet.
'You know, reverse the case, you would not be bound by any 
words of mine. You knowthat you are what I have in the world. 
And I know, that ifif' there was a moment's pause,'that if it 
came to that, I should go. I could not be bound.'
The gravity of his face as he listened to her, you could hardly call 
it a shadow, changed and flickered with a quivering smile; and the 
eyes flashed and then darkened again. The end was, he drew Wych 
Hazel into his arms, clasping her very tight.
'I knowI know,' he said, kissing her face with passionate touches 
which had all the sorrow of the time, as well as all the joy, in them. 
'I know. All the same, I will not have you there, Hazel, if I am ill. I 
should settle the matter very quickly with anybody else; but you 
disarm me. I cannot stir a step without hurting you. What shall I 
say to you?' he went on, holding her fast, and stroking the hair 
back from her forehead with the gentlest possible touch. 'It has 
come sooner than I expected, this sort of trial, which generally 
comes, I suppose, whenever two lives that have been separate join 
together to become one. There will be differences of judgment, or 
of feeling; and what is to happen then? And what am I to fall back 
upon, when love and authority have both proved insufficient? for I 
have authority as your guardian. I shall have to ask now for your 
promise; the promise that you never break. For I will be secure on 
this head, before I leave the house, Hazel.'
'People should have reasons for exerting their authority.'
'Of that,' said Dane with the same gentleness, but very steadily, 'he 
who exerts it must be the judge himself.'
'Yes!' said Hazel, the impetuous element asserting itself once 
more, 'but there is no use in beginning as you cannot go on. Do 
you mean that alwaysI mean in futureif anything were the 
matter with you, the first thing would be to send me out of the 
house?'
'I hope not!' said Dane smiling. 'In my understanding of it, husband 
and wife belong to one another, and are inseparable. There are 
conceivable circumstances in which I might do it.'
A slight lift of the eyebrows dealt for a moment with this opinion 
and let it drop. Into those imaginary regions Hazel did not see fit to 
go. Nor into any others then. The flush of excitement died away, 
and the weary look settled down upon brow and lips. She said no 
more.
Rollo watched her a little while, then stooped and kissed her.
'I must go. Give me your promise, Hazel, that you will not come 
near the Hollow without my leave.'
She answered with a certain subdued tone that matched the face,
'I have no intention of coming. Your command is enough. If I can 
keep it, I will. No amount of promises could make my words any 
stronger.' But she looked up again, one of her swift eager looks, 
which again fell in silent gravity. There was scarcely another word 
said; except one.
'Look away from second causes, Hazel.'
Linking her fingers round his hand, so she went with him silently 
through the hall and down the steps; and stood there until he rode 
away into the darkness and the light of his work, and she came 
back into the light and the darkness of her own house.
CHAPTER XVII.
ALONE IN THE FIGHT.
Nature, with all her many faces, her thousand voices has seldom a 
look or a tone to help our sorrow. Her joy is too endless in its 
upspringing, her tears are too fresh and sweet; even the calm 
steadiness of her quiet is to bewildered thoughts like the 
unflickering coast light, against which the wild birds of the ocean 
dash themselves, blinded, in the storm. Wych Hazel stood still at 
the foot of the steps, until not even imagination could hear so 
much as an echo of the rapid trot which she was not to hear again 
for so long a time. The sweet October night, its winds asleep, its 
insects silenced with a slight frost, its stars wheeling their brilliant 
courses without a cloud, all smote her like a pain. Then some faint 
stir of air brought, distantly and sweet, the scent of the woods 
where they had been chestnutting that very day. With a half cry the 
girl turned and fled up the steps, locking the door behind her; 
remembering then keenly what else she was shutting out. She went 
back to the red room, and stood thereshe and the spirit of 
desolation. There was no tea tray, happily, with its cheerful 
reminders; but there was the corner of the mantelpiece, and the 
spot on the rug, and the firenow slowly wearing down to 
embers, and the embers to ashes. There was her foot cushionand 
the crimson bergère. But she could not touch anything,could not 
take up the tongs which he had set down, even to put the fire in 
safe order for the night; some one else must do that. Slowly she 
went round the room, with a glance at everything; passed on to the 
door and stood looking back; then shut it and went slowly up the 
stairs. Midway she sat down and leaned her head against the 
banisters. Sat there she knew not how long, until she heard Mrs. 
Bywank's step going the rounds below; then rose and went on 
again. But as Wych Hazel's little foot passed slowly up from stair 
to stair, one thing in her mind came out in clear black and white, of 
one thing she was sure: she must lay hold of those immutable 
things after which she had striven before. Mere hoping would not 
do, she must make sure. In the happiness of the last weeks, she had 
said, like David in his prosperity, "I shall never be moved,"
where was it all now? Above all other thoughts, even to-night, this 
came: she could not live so. Tossed by one storm upon a roof here, 
and by the next one carried out to sea. Something to hold her, 
something that she could hold,that she must have.
Intensely bitter thoughts flocked in along with this. The hand she 
had clasped so lately, and the way it had clasped her; a longing 
that would hardly be gainsaid for the touch of it again. Was she 
forgetting that? was she trying to loosen that bond? She paused, 
leaning back against the wall, holding her hands tight. But even 
with the answer the other cry came up: the world was all reeling 
under her feet,she must have something that would stand. For 
the time everything else gave way. It was true, this trouble might 
pass,then others would come: others from which even Dane 
could not shield her. Already, twice in her little life, twice in three 
months, had such a crisis come. Mrs. Bywank got no sight of her 
that night; only gentle answers to enquiries through the closed 
door; and Hazel lighted her study lamp, and opening her Bible at 
the ninety-first psalm, and setting it up before her in the great easy 
chair, knelt down before it and laid her head down too. No need to 
go over the printed words,there was not one of them she did not 
know. But was there anything there to help? She went them over to 
herself, verse by verse, and verse after verse was not for her. It was 
Dane who had taken that stand, who was leading that life; these 
promises were all to him. No arrow of darkness was his fearshe 
knew that well: no pestilence walking at his side could alarm him. 
But as she went on, half triumphantly at first, with the detail of his 
faith and his security, the vision of his danger come too; and a long 
restless fit of pain ended all study for that time. Ended itself at last 
in sleep,and the dreams of what was about him, and thoughts of 
what he was about, gave no token of their presence but a sob or a 
sigh, until the few remaining hours of the night swept by, and the 
morning broke.
As I said somewhere else, the new day is often good for 
uncertainties. The foolish fears, the needless alarms, the whole 
buzzing troop of fidgets that come out in the darkness, go back to 
their swamps and hiding places when the day has fairly come. 
They cannot make head against the wholesome freshness of the 
morning wind. Then painted hopes and lace-winged fancies flit out 
to take their place: things certainly are better, or they will be better, 
or they never have been bad.
But certainties are another matter. The new burdens, laid down in 
sleep, but now to be taken up, and adjusted, and borne on through 
all the ins and outs of the coming day. Morning does nothing for 
them, but fasten them on securely, with a heavy hand.
Wych Hazel roused herself up as the day came on, and looked 
things in the face so long, that her own face got little attention. 
However, Phoebeand the force of habitsent her down in the 
usual daintiness, at the usual time, to receive Mr. Falkirk, who 
after all did not come. But Dingee was on hand, and so Hazel 
made believe over her breakfast, quite successfully, and carried on 
her mental fight of questions the while with no success at all. So 
on through the day, until dinner time brought Mr. Falkirk; so on, 
with a semi-consciousness, through all the evening's talk; and 
when at length Wych Hazel went to her room again, it was with all 
the trouble of last night, and a day's worry additional. She knew 
what she wanted,she did not seem to know how to get it. Those 
shining words lay up so high, above her reach: a mountain head 
lifting itself out of the fogs of the valley wherein she dwelt. As for 
the first verse of her psalm, it might as well have been a 
description of Gabriel, for any use to her,so she thought, 
shrinking back from the words. Then for the second verse,yes, 
there was human weakness thereor had been. Some time a 
refuge had been needed: but so long ago, that the years of calm 
security had wiped out even the thought of defencelessness. That 
was like Dane: she did not believe it ever occurred to him that he 
wanted anything, or could. What was he doing now to-night, in the 
darkness?Hazel rose and went to the window. What work it 
must be, going round among the shadows of the Hollow, without a 
moon!but then he would be in the houses,darker still! She 
knew; she had sat there through one evening.She stood still at 
the window, going over half mechanically to herself the next 
verses. "Surely,"yes, it was all 'surely,' for him! was there 
nothing for her? She was not in all the psalm, Hazel thought. 
Unlessyes, that might fit well enough: she might stand for "the 
wicked" in the eighth verse. For studying the shining words that 
went before, there had come to her a feeling of soil, a sense of 
degradation, all new, and utterly painful.
'No use to consider that now,' she said, knotting her hands together 
as she went back to her seat. 'I want help. And I begin to think how 
much I want it, I shall lose my wits.'Was there nothing for her?
Again the promises ran on as before, with new images, fresh 
wording. There were angels enough keeping watch over Morton 
Hollow to-night!was there no spare one to come to 
Chickaree?Hazel put her head down and sobbed like a child in 
her loneliness and desolation.
Next day she tried another plan, and began at the end of her psalm, 
passing over the promise of long life as not just now of much 
interest. And honour,she did not want that; nor deliverance, 
where no devil was at hand. But this!
"I will be with him" 
"I will answer him" 
Was it for her?To whom was it said?
"He shall call upon me,"ah, that she had done a great many 
times!this was not the whole description. Who was it then who 
should be heard?She ran back over the words rapidly, fastening 
then upon these few:
"Because he hath set his love upon me"!and Hazel knew she had 
set her love upon some one else.
It was very bitter: the struggle was sharp and long: and duty and 
possibility, and wrong and right, fought each other and fired upon 
their own men.
She could not take back her love: that was impossible. She might 
die, but that she could not do. And now with a certain gleam of 
comfort, Hazel remembered that Dane had not withdrawn his. 
How had he managed then? After all, it did not touch the question 
much,he was a man, dependent of no one: she was a girl, with 
nothing in the world but him. Yet she wanted more. A strength 
above his, a love even more sure: "the things which cannot be 
shaken."
So, slowly, she went back over the verses, laying hold still of but 
that one thing in her way:
"He shall call upon me, and I will answer him."
Yes, it must be meant for her. And Hazel tried to shut her eyes to 
the character that went with the promise. People like that, she 
argued, would need nothing,it must be for her. But oh she had 
called so very often!Far back in the psalm, that is, close at the 
beginning, another word flamed up before her in a sudden 
illumination: a word she had read and reread, but now it stopped 
her short. Another three words, that is:
"I will say."
Something that seemed to head the long list of blessings, 
something for her. But it was something for her to do. What, then?
"I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; 
in him will I trust."
"I will say."But close upon that followed "Surely."
Could she say it? Was she ready for that absolute choice? The 
words came to her as she had heard Dr. Maryland read them:
"You do now declare and avouch the Lord Jehovah to be your 
God; and Jesus Christ to be your Saviour; and the Holy Spirit to be 
your sanctifier.
"You do solemnly give yourself away, in a covenant to be revoked, 
to be his willing servant forever."
She had noticed the words so often, half putting them to herself in 
imagination, that now they came back to her with clear 
distinctness. This was what the psalm meant; nothing less. "A 
willing servant?" Could she promise it? she, who hated control and 
loved so dearly her own pleasure? But it all came to that:
"I will say of the Lord, He is my God."
Back and forth, back and forth, went thoughts and will and 
purpose: sometimes almost persuaded, sometimes all up in arms. 
Something gentler than need was lacking, something stronger than 
fear must work. Slowly and sadly she turned over the leaves, far 
on and on, to the other marked point: seeing them then, those 
common words of print that she had read so often, seeing them 
then in letters of flashing light.
"For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that 
if one died for all, then were all dead: and that he died for all, that 
they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but 
unto him which died for them, and rose again."2 Cor. 5. 14, 15.
Hazel laid her face down upon the open page, and said from her 
heart,
"I will."
CHAPTER XVIII.
SETTLEMENTS.
To go back a little.
When Mr. Falkirk came to dinner that first day, he was very 
taciturn and grumpy indeed until soup and fish and third course 
were disposed of. Then when he got a chance with Dingee out of 
the room, Mr. Falkirk opened his mouth for the discussion of 
somewhat besides grapes and peaches.
'So I understand, Miss Hazel, you have arranged with your other 
guardian to dispense with my services.'
Wych Hazel was not in a mood even for blushing, that day. 
Thoughts were too deeply and abstractedly busy, and spirits were 
under too great a weight, for the usual quick play of lights and 
colours to which Mr. Falkirk was accustomed. A faint little extra 
tinge was all that came with the grave answer,
'May I ask who has been talking about me, sir?'
'Your future guardian, Miss Hazel; no less. Stopped at my door last 
night, on horseback, to say in three minutes what would have been 
more fittingly talked of in three hours.'
Slowly at first, then quick and vivid, the roses stirred and flamed 
up in the thoughtful face, but she said nothing. Only pushed away 
her plate, as if peaches and that could not go on together.
'I would like to know from you whether it is a thing fixed and 
settled and unalterable; absolutely done? I suppose it is, or he 
would not have said it.'
She darted a look at him.
'Do you found suppositions upon such slight circumstantial 
evidence, Mr. Falkirk?'
'Sometimes, Miss Hazel, when the thing happens to be particularly 
difficult of belief.'
'Unalterable?' Hazel repeated, half to herself,'few things are that. 
Suppose your supposition were a mistake, Mr. Falkirk,what 
then?'
'Can you tell me that it is?' he said, looking across the table to her 
with a gaze that would find the truth.
'Would you be glad?' she answered. 'And will you tell me why?'
Then Dingee came in with coffee, and a bouquet; and Hazel sat 
playing idly with the flowers while Dingee set out the cups, the 
scent of heliotrope and geranium filling the room. While Dingee 
was near, Mr. Falkirk was silent; but eyeing the girl however, the 
flowers, her action, with a glance that took it all in and lost no 
item; not a graceful movement nor a tint of the picture.
'Yes,' he said firmly when the boy was gone, 'I should be glad. You 
are just fit for the play you are playing now; it is not played out, 
and should not be, for some time to come. You are young, and 
ought to be free; and you are rich, Miss Hazel, and ought not to 
marry somebody who will ruin you.'
For a minute Hazel spoke not for surprise, and then she let a 
prudent pause lap on to that. For she had no mind just then to get 
up a tirade for Mr. Rollo's benefit, and all the same she felt her 
blood stirring.
'Is this all I am fit for?' she said: but the laugh was a little nervous.
'I said nothing you need take umbrage at,' her guardian returned 
somewhat bitterly. 'I spoke only in care for you, Miss Hazel; not in 
depreciation. I am about the last man in the world to do that.'
'It is nothing very new for you to speak in depreciation of me, sir,' 
said his ward, in her old privileged manner. 'You know you never 
did think I was good for much.'
'Enough to be worth taking care of,' growled Mr. Falkirk in a tone 
which bespoke a mingling of feelings.
'Well, sir,I never was fond of that processbut I have submitted 
indifferently well, I hope.'
'Allow me to ask, Miss Hazel,what sort of care do you expect in 
the future?'
Hazel fairly looked at him and opened her eyes. 'Really, Mr. 
Falkirk,' she said, 'you are very amazing!'
'You know, I must suppose, that yourguardianhas proved 
himself unfit to take care of your fortune, inasmuch as he has 
thrown away his own. And when fortune is gone, Miss Kennedy, 
the means of taking care of you are gone along with it. I warn you, 
though it may not be in time.'
Wych Hazel's hands took a great grip of each other. It was pretty 
hard to bear this to-day.
'For the last year and a half, Mr. Falkirk, the care of mein every 
respecthas been referred, and referred, and referred, to other 
judgment than your own. I used to think you were tired of me,
that you had lost your wits Now, you think I have lost mine.'
'The judgment which I was obliged to consult, and which could not 
hurt you as long as I remained a consenting party, will have no 
restraint when my decisions are dispensed with. He can pitch all 
your thousands after his own, if he thinks proper.'
'Yes, you can do anything with an "if," ' said Hazel, trying to keep 
herself quiet.
'He will think it proper,' said Mr. Falkirk.
'You must have learned a good deal in three minutes, sir.'
'He is an enthusiasta fanatic, I should call it; and an enthusiast 
sees but one object in the universe, and that the object of his 
enthusiasm. It is all right, to him; but it is all wrong for you.'
It might have been the sheer pressure of excitement, it might have 
been some idea that the present object of Mr. Rollo's enthusiasm 
was nearer at hand than Mr. Falkirk thought; but Wych Hazel's 
sweet laugh rang out. She knew again that the laugh was nervous, 
but it was uncontrollable none the less.
Mr. Falkirk's countenance changed slightly, as though he had 
winced with some secret pain; but it did not come out in words, if 
the feeling existed. He waited till the laugh had died away, and 
even the stillness spoke of reaction in the mind of the laugher; and 
then he went on with a quiet unchanged tone,
'There is no use in going into this now. I wish merely to say, Miss 
Hazel, that the habit of taking care for your interests is too old with 
me, and has become too strong, to be immediately laid aside. I 
shall do my best to procure a settlement of your proprietyas 
much of it as possibleupon yourself; and I mention this now 
simply to beg of you that you will not interpose any sentimental or 
quixotic objection on your own part. I shall endeavour to get Dr. 
Maryland to back me; he must see the propriety of the step. I only 
ask you to keep still.'
Mr. Falkirk rose. In a moment Wych Hazel was at his side, linking 
her little hands on his arm in the old fashion.
'What have I done,' she said, 'that you speak so to me? Have I been 
so wayward and wilful that I have really chafed all your love 
away, and there is nothing left but dry care?'
He touched her hand as he rarely had ever done, with a caressing, 
glancing touch, slight and short; but the man was silent. Wych 
Hazel drew him along, softly walking him up and down through 
the room, but she too said nothing, feeling perplexed and hurt, and 
not well knowing why. It was nothing new for Mr. Falkirk's words 
to be dry, but to-night they were so hard!and when had he ever 
called her Miss Kennedy, in the worst of times? For once her 
instinct was at fault. 
'I must go,' said Mr. Falkirk, stopping short after a turn or two.
'It is such an old story for me to make mistakes' Hazel began 
hesitatingly.
'Have you made this one unwittingly?' he asked with sudden 
eagerness.
Hazel dropped his arm and stood off with the air which Mr. 
Falkirk knew very well.
'This one does not happen to exist,' she said. 'But I meanI should 
think you were so used to the reality, sir, that the idea would not 
give you much trouble. And there is one thing more I ought to say.'
'I am not troubled by an idea, Miss Hazel. What is the other thing?'
Not an easy one to speak, by the shewing, as she stood there 
gathering her forces. But the words came clear and low.
'It will be a good day for me, Mr. Falkirk,I shall have more hope 
of myself,when I am as willing to be poor for the sake of other 
people, asMr. Rollois. Would you feel more sure of my being 
taken care of, if you knew that he spent all he has upon himself?'
'Yes. He is spending it upon a vagarya chimera; and that is as 
much as to say he is throwing it into a quicksand. He will go down 
with it.'
'I wonder what will be the result of that?' said Wych Hazel, in the 
cool way she could sometimes assume when she felt particularly 
hot.
'I don't like to look at the result,' said Mr. Falkirk. 'I will go, if you 
please, Miss Hazel.But if you will be so good as not to oppose 
me, the result shall not be your destitution.'
'Oppose you!' said Hazel. 'With such an object in view!'But then 
the mocking tone changed, and she said sorrowfully'I beg your 
pardon, Mr. Falkirk!But you are vexed, sir, and then you always 
vex me. AndI was not just ready for this to-night.'
'You need not be vexed that I want to take care of you,' Mr. Falkirk 
returned.
'No, sir. There are great many things I need not be,' said Hazel.
'I will try to do it. I may not succeed. Good-night.'
She put her hands on his arm again, following his lead now 
towards the door. But on the way another thought struck her.
'Mr. Falkirk,' she said suddenly, 'if you try to do something which 
you know I would not likeor in a way I should not like,you 
must remember that I will never say yes to it. Not if there were 
fifty quicksands in the way!'
'Miss Hazel,' returned her guardian, 'I have not so long held my 
office without finding out that it is impossible to tell beforehand 
what you would like, or in what way you would like it. I must 
work in the dark; unless you prefer to give me illumination.'
'I should like,' said Hazel bravely, 'what Mr. Rollo would have a 
right to like. I suppose Mr. Falkirk will know what that is.'
'Pardon me. My only concern is with what you would have a right 
to like.'
'Very well,' she answered,'if you choose to put it so. But I could 
have no right to like anything which should seem like a 
reflection,anything that could cast the least possible shade of 
dishonour.Further than that, I do not see how it matters.'
'Does it matter to you whether you are your own mistress or not?' 
said Mr. Falkirk, confronting her now with the question.
'I suppose that is past praying for,' said Hazel with a deep blush. 
'But I never have been, yet.'
'You have in money matters.'
'About my own silks and sugarplums. No further, sir.'
'Do you wish it to be "no further" always?'
'I like my own way better than anything in the world,' said Hazel, 
'except'and she paused, and the crimson mounted again,
'except the honour and dignity and standing of the people I love. 
You know better than I, Mr. Falkirk, whether both things can be 
cared for together; but if one has to go down, it must be my will.'
'If it can be done consistently with other people's "dignity and 
standing," you would like to have control of your own property?'
'It cannot be so done.'
'It can be so doneif I and Dr. Maryland do it.'
'No,' said Hazel, 'there is too much of it.'
'Will you please explain?'
'Too much money,too much land,the property is too large.'
'Too large to be divided, that is.'
Hazel turned off with a gesture of distressful impatiencethen 
faced her guardian again.
'Don't you see, Mr. Falkirk?' she said,'do you need to be told? 
Mr. Rollo could not possibly be only my agent.'
'I do not see that he need. You are competent surely to spend your 
own money, in the way you like best.'
'Very competent!' said Hazel gravely. 'And to manage my estate. 
Then I will begin at once, if you please, Mr. Falkirk, and you can 
send up to-morrow all the deeds and leases and writings in your 
possession. It will be quite a nice little amusement for me.'
'Miss Hazel, you talk nonsense,' said her guardian. 'I cannot deliver 
up my charge, except in hands that will have absolute rule over it; 
unless I can secure a separate portion for you. The will makes him 
master, in the event of his marrying you.'
Hazel made no reply. The speech was full of words that she did 
not like. And Mr. Falkirk quitted the room.
If he had wished to render his ward uncomfortable, he had made a 
hit,stirring up thoughts and questions which had been ready 
enough before, only always held in check by the presence and 
influence that were stronger yet. But to-night she was heart-sore to 
begin with, and it had chafed her extremely that not all her 
pleading of the night before had carried a single point. The words 
"master," and "absolute control," came with particular jarring 
effect. She brought a foot-cushion to the front of the fire, there 
where she was in the dining-room; and rested her head upon her 
hands and thought.
CHAPTER XIX.
SCHOOLING.
All Hazel's news thus far had come from Dr. Maryland's house; 
brought by Primrose or sent in a note. There was not much to tell; 
at least not much that anybody wanted to tell. The sick-beds in the 
two cabins, the heavy atmosphere of disease, the terrible 
quarantine, the weary tension of day and night, the incessant strain 
on the physical and mental strength of the few nurses,nobody 
wrote or spoke of these. The suspense, nobody spoke of that either. 
The weeks of October and November slowly ran out, and the days 
of December began to follow.
One mild, gentle winter morning, Dr. Maryland's little old gig 
mounted the hill to Chickaree.
Dr. Maryland had not been there, as it happened, for a long time; 
not since the event which had made such a change in all the 
circumstances of its mistress; nor in all that time had he seen 
Hazel. The place looked wintry enough to-day, with its bare trees, 
and here and there the remnant of a light snow that had fallen 
lately; but the dropped leaves were carried away, and the sweep 
shewed fresh touches of the rake; everything was in perfect order. 
Dingee ushered the visiter into the great drawing-room, to warm 
himself by a corresponding fire; and there in a minute Hazel joined 
him, looking grave and flushed. The doctor had not sat down; he 
turned to face her as she came in.
'Well, my dear!' said he cheerily. 'How do you do?'
'Very well, sir, thank you.'
'You are all alone? Mr. Falkirk is away, I understand; just gone?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Gone to a sick sister in England, and left you alone.'
'Yes, sir. It is nothing very new for me to be alone,' said Hazel.
'But for you to be so much alone? Well, I suppose he thought there 
would be soon somebody to take care of you. We have the good 
news now that those poor people seem to be all getting well. 
Arthur reports that there are no new cases. I am most thankful!'
Hazel answered with merely a gesture of assent. She had no words 
to say that she could say.
'I suppose Dane would be soon out of quarantine now.But he is 
not quite well himself, Arthur tells me; knocked up by watching 
and incessant exertions, I suppose.'
For a minute Hazel held her breathgrowing so white that even 
the old doctor must see it. Then she turned away from him in a 
gentle, noiseless way, and leaned her head down upon the back of 
her chair. She must have support somewhere.
'It is nothing but a low feverish affection,' Dr. Maryland hastened 
to say. 'May be tedious, perhaps, for a while, but shews no 
dangerous symptoms at present. We must not anticipate evil, my 
dear.'
Hazel did not answer that; but presently she sat up again and asked 
one or two quiet questions as to time and place.
'He is at Gyda's, my dear; they took him up there, being the nearest 
place. Mrs. Boërresen is a good nurse, and devoted to him; and so 
is Arthur. He will not want anything. Hazel, my child, can you cast 
your cares off on the one arm strong to help?'
She started up and went to the fire, picking up brands and pushing 
the red coals right and left, until the wood burst out into brilliant 
flame. And all the time she was saying to herself, 'He will not have 
me,he does not want me.' But she came back to her place again 
without a word. Dr. Maryland looked on, pitying, feeling for her, 
and yet oddly without anything to say. He had lived so long and 
seen so much of life and had got so far above its changes; more, he 
had lived so much in his study and felt life so little except in 
contemplation, and with so small an admixture of practical 
experience of human nature, that he looked at the young thing 
before him and was conscious of his unreadiness, and in some sort 
of his unfitness, to minister to her.
'Are you lonely, my dear? Would you like to have Primrose come 
and keep you company?'
'Oh no!' said Hazel hastily. Then she began again, and tried to 
catch up her eager words and soften off their corners; speaking 
with a wistful affectionate tone that was half pleading, half 
deprecating. 'I meanI do not want anybody with me, sir. I am out 
a great dealand sometimes very busy at home. Andsome other 
time, maybe, Primrose will come.'
Dr. Maryland considered her with a recognizing smile on his lips, 
and a very tender look in his thoughtful eyes. 
'I understand,' he said. 'There is room in the house for only one 
presence just now.Are you going to be a true helpmeet to Dane, 
Hazel, in all his work?'
'I do not know, sir.'Hazel always classed such questions, coming 
to a preoccupied mind, under the general head of "pins and 
needles," and never by any chance gave them much of an answer.
'He will want a helpmeet. A wife can hinder her husband, or help 
him, very materially. Dane has taken a great deal on his shoulders. 
He thinks you will be a help to him; "the best possible," he told me 
one day, when I ventured to ask him.'
The words shook her so, coming close as they did upon the news 
of his illness, upon thoughts of his danger, that for a minute Hazel 
moved like one in bodily pain; and more than one minute went by, 
before she answered, low and huskily,'He knew I would try.'
'My dear, there is only one way,' the old doctor said very tenderly. 
'Dane has set out to follow his Master. If you would help him, you 
must follow with him.'
Hazel glanced up at the kind face from under her eyelashes. Could 
she dare open her heart to him? No,young as she was, her life 
experience had cut deeper channels than Dr. Maryland's own; he 
could not follow her; it was no use; she must bear the trials and 
work out her problems alone.
'I know, sir,' she said gently. But she said no more. And perhaps 
Dr. Maryland had an intuitive sense that the right words could not 
be spoken just then, and that the wrong ones would be worse than 
an impertinence. For he only looked gravely at the young creature, 
and added no more either of counsel or comfort at that time. He 
did not stay long, nor talk much while he staid, of anything; but he 
was thoughtfully observant of Hazel. He gave her a parting shot on 
taking leave.
'Good-bye, my dear,' he said with a kind and shrewd smile. 'I hope 
Dane will not let you have your own way too much for your 
good;but I am afraid of it!'
The girl's eyes flashed up at him then, as if she thought there was 
rather less danger of that than of any other one thing in the world. 
Then she ran down the steps after her old friend, and gave little 
finishing touches to his comfort in the shape of a foot-muff and an 
extra lap-robe, and held his hand for a minute in both hers,all 
with very few words and yet saying a great deal. And when Dr. 
Maryland reached home, he found that a basket of game had in 
some surreptitious manner got into his gig.
'Small danger of that!' Hazel thought, going back to his remark, as 
she went back into the house. But it was not such a question that 
brought the little hands in so weary fashion over her face. She 
stood very still for a minute, and then went swiftly upstairs to 
finish the work which Dr. Maryland had interrupted. That could 
not wait; and Hazel was learning, slowly, that the indulgence of 
one's own sorrow can. So the work was well done; only with two 
or three sighs breathed over it, which gave kind Mrs. Bywank a 
heartache for the rest of the day. But then Hazel hastily swallowed 
a cup of the chicken broth and went off to her room. It had come 
now, without if or perhaps, and she could only sit down and face 
it. The one person in all the world to whom she belonged,the 
only one that belonged to her!
For a while, in the bitterness of the knowledge that he was sick, 
Hazel seemed to herself half benumbed; and sat stupidly dwelling 
on that one fact, feeling it, and yet less with a sense of pain than of 
an intolerable burden. A weight that made her stir and move 
sometimes, as if she could get away from it so. It was no use to tell 
her not to anticipate; to say he was not much sick; that was thin 
ice, which would not bear. And now on a sudden Hazel found 
herself confronted with a new enemy, and was deep in the fight. 
What then? Only her own will in a new shape.
She had come out so gently and sweetly, so clearly too, from the 
months of restless perplexity and questioning; she had agreed, she 
had decided, that her will should be the Lord's will. Now came a 
sudden sharp test. She had chosen heaven, with earth yet in her 
hand,how if earth were taken away? And what if to do the 
Lord's will should be all that was left her, to fill her life? Did her 
consent, did her acceptance, reach so far?
AndOh how hard that was!to study the question, she must 
throw full upon it the light (or the darkness) of things that might 
be. Things that she would not have let any one say to her, knife-
edged possibilities, came and went and came again, till Hazel 
stopped her ears and buried her face in the cushions and did 
everything in the world to shut them out. What use? she had to 
consider them. Was she willing now that the Lord should do what 
he pleased with him?She could not word it any other way. And 
the fight was long: and time and again pain came in such measure 
that she could attend only to that. And so the day went by, with 
occasional interruptions, and then the unbroken night.
She could submit,she must submit: could she accept? Nothing 
was anything without that. And she was getting almost too worn 
out to know whether she could or not. So she would sit, with her 
face buried in her hands, putting those fearful questions to herself, 
and with answering shivers running over her from head to foot. 
Then would come an interval of restless pacing the floor, thinking 
all sorts of things; chiefly, that the very minute it was light she 
would set off for Morton Hollow. What would that serve? what 
could she do, if she were there? But one Hand could meddle with 
these things, and work its will. And for a while a bitter sense of the 
Lord's absolute power seemed to lie on her head and heart till she 
felt crushed. She could not walk any longer, she could not debate 
questions; she could only lay her head against the arm of the chair 
and sit still, bearing that dull pain, and starting at the sharp twinges 
that now and then shot through it.
There came to her at last, as she sat there, suddenly, the old words. 
Words read to her so long ago, and learned so lately. They had 
reached her need then, and there she had in a sort left them, bound 
up with that. But once more now they came, so new, so glorious, 
all filled with light.
"For the love of Christ constraineth us"!The key to life work, 
but no less to life endurance. And the key turned softly, and the 
bolts flew back, and Wych Hazel covered her face saying eagerly, 
'Yes, yes!'
But then, even with the saying, she broke quite down, and a stormy 
flood of tears swept over her, and left her at last asleep.
There was no going back when the day dawned. But Hazel soon 
found that this question was not to be ended once for all, like the 
other. It came up anew with each new morning, and must be so 
met, and answered: in full view of what unknown possibilities the 
day might bring or the night have brought, the assenting 'yes' must 
be spoken. The struggle was long, sometimes, and sometimes it 
was late before she left her room; but those who saw her face of 
victory when she came would remember it always.
Still, the days were long. And hearts are weak; and Hazel grew 
exceedingly weary. Chafing most of all against the barriers that 
kept her from Morton Hollow. At first, when Dr. Maryland left her 
that night she thought she should go with the sunrise next day. 
Then recollected herself.
'I said I would follow his bidding if I could,' she remembered,
'and I can wait one day.'
And so she could wait two, and so she waited on. One day she 
must go; the next, she would write and ask permission. 'But he 
never asked me to write!'she thought suddenly, covering her 
face in shame. 'What would he think of me?' But oh, why had he 
given such orders?
It was the old story,she was supposed to have no discretion.
'I dare say he thought I should rush over if I had a fingerache!' she 
said with some natural indignation. Was she then really so little to 
be trusted? Wych Hazel sat down to study the matter, and as usual, 
before the exercise had gone on long, she began to foot up hard 
things against herself. How she had talked to him that night!
what things she had told him! Then afterwards, what other things 
she had proposed to do,propositions that were stamped at once 
with the seal of impropriety. Hazel pressed her hands to her 
cheeks, trying to cool off those painful flushes. Wellhe should 
see now!She could wait, if he could. Which praiseworthy climax 
was reachedlike the top of Mount Washingtonin a shower of 
rain. But the whole effect of the musings was to make her shrink 
within herself, and take up again all the old shyness which had 
been yielding, little by little, before the daily intercourse of the 
month past. Prim found her very stately over reports, after this; and 
even good Dr. Maryland would often fare no better, and betake 
himself home in an extremely puzzled state of mind. That the girl 
was half breaking her heart over the twofold state of things, 
nobody would have guessed. Unless, possibly, Mrs. Bywank.
Meantime, the purchase of the Hollow property from Gov. Powder 
had been completed; and the fine fall weather tempting people to 
stay and come, and the region being thus all full of guests, 
Chickaree had been regularly besieged during most of these two 
months. And almost at the time the sickness broke out in the 
Hollow, Mr. Falkirk had been summoned to England, where his 
only remaining sister was living, with the news that she was very 
ill. Mr. Falkirk had nevertheless stood to his post, until the fever 
was gone in the Hollow and he saw that Rollo would soon be able 
to resume his place. And then he had gone, much to Wych Hazel's 
disgust. 'It seems,' she said, 'that I can never want anybodyeven 
my own guardians,so much as somebody else!'
CHAPTER XX.
ABOUT CHRISTMAS.
The days lingered along, but no worse news came. Rollo was 
slowly regaining his usual condition. Still December was half gone 
before with all his good will he could undertake the drive from the 
Hollow to Chickaree.
Late one afternoon Dr. Arthur set him down at the old house door. 
A cool winter breeze was fitfully rustling the dry leaves and giving 
a monitory brush past the house now and then; whispering that 
Christmas was near, and snow coming. Staying for no look at the 
sunlight in the tree-tops, Rollo marched in and went straight to the 
red room. He stood suddenly still on opening the door. No one was 
there, not even the presence of a fire, but chair and foot-cushion 
stood as they had been left two months before; the ashes had not 
been removed, and the flowers in the vase had faded and dropped 
with no renewal. Rollo next went down the hall to Mrs. Bywank's 
quarters. Here a side door stood open, and Mrs. Bywank herself 
stood on the steps shading her eyes and gazing down the road.
'What are you looking for, Mrs. Bywank?' said a cheery voice 
behind her.
'Mr. Rollo!' cried the old housekeeper turning with a delighted 
face. 'I am glad to see you again sir, surely! And well-nigh 
yourself again! I am just looking for Miss Wychit is time she 
was home.'
'Where is she?'
'Off and away,' said Mrs. Bywank, with the smile of one who 
knows more than his questioner. 'She's a busy little mortal, these 
days.'
'What does she find to be busy about?'
'I should like to tell you the whole story, sir,if we had time,' said 
Mrs. Bywank with a glance down the road. 'She'll never telland 
I think you ought to know. Step this way, Mr. Rollo, and you can 
see just as well and be more comfortable.'
Mrs. Bywank led the way to a little corner room where fire and 
easy chairs and a large window commanding the approach.
'I suppose you'd like to hear, sir,' she said as she replenished the 
fire, 'how the world has gone on down this way for two months 
back?'
'Very much,'Dane said gravely, with however a restless look out 
of the window.
'Well sir, about the first days I cannot say much. I hardly saw Miss 
Wych at all. She used to dress up and come down and meet Mr. 
Falkirk, and then she'd go back to her room, and there she staid. 
Only she'd given me orders about the articles for the Hollow.
'So one morning, just as the beef and things were brought into my 
kitchen, and one of the maids had gone down for a kettle, in 
walked Miss Wych. 'Byo,' says she, 'I am going to make 
everything myself in future.''But my dear!' said I, 'you do not 
know how.'
'I am going to learn,' says she.
'Well,' said I, 'you can look on and learn.'
'I will do it and learn,' says sheand she marched right up to me 
and untied my big apron and put it on herself; for I don't believe 
then she had an apron belonging to her.'
Without ceasing to keep watch of the window, Dane's eyes gave 
token of hearing and heeding, growing large and soft, with a flash 
coming across them now and then.
'It's a nice business to hinder Miss Wych when she has a mind,' 
Mrs. Bywank went on; 'but I couldn't see her tiring herself over the 
fireso I said, 'But my dear, think of your hands! No gloves!'
'What about my hands?' says she.
'Cooking is bad for them, Miss Wych,' says I.
'Is it?' said she. 'Well, they've had their share of being ornamental. 
What is the first thing to do, Byo?'
'So I felt desperate,and said I, 'My dear, when Mr. Rollo comes 
back he will not like to find your hands any different from what 
they are now.'She turned round upon me so,' said Mrs. Bywank 
laughing a little, 'that I didn't know what she would say to me for 
my impertinence. However, she only gave me one great look out 
of her eyes, and then stood looking down at her hands, and then 
she ran off,and was gone a good little while. And I felt so bad I 
couldn't set to work nor anything, till at last I knew it must be 
done, and I told the girl to set the kettle on. And just then back she 
came, lookingWell, you'll know some day, sir, how Miss Wych 
can look,' said Mrs. Bywank with dim eyes. 'However, the gloves 
