contrary. Now and then it captured a pilot who 
was * out of luck," and added him to its list ; and 
these later additions were very valuable, for they 
were good pilots; the incompetent ones had all 
been absorbed before. As buisness freshened, 
wages climbed gradually up to two hundred and 
fifty dollars — the association figure — and became 
firmly fixed there ; and still without benefiting a 
member of that body, for no member was hired. 
The hilarity at the association's expense burst aU 
bounds, now. There was no end to the fun whioh 
that poor martyr had to put up with. 
However, it is a long lane that has no tnmiii<?. 
Winter approached, business doubled and trebled, 
and an avalanche of Missouri, Illinois, and Upper 
Mississippi Eiver boats came pouring down to take 
a chance in the New Orleans trade. All of a 
sadden, pilots were in great dtsmand, and were 
correspondingly scarce. The time for revenge was 
come. It was a bitter pill to have to accept 
association pilots at last, yet captains and owners 
agreed that there was no other way. But none of 
these outcasts offered ! So there was a still bit- 
terer pill to be swallowed : they must be sought 
out and asked for their services. Captain was 
the first man who found it necessary to take the 
dose, and he had been the loudest derider of the 
organization. He hunted up' one of the best of the 
association pilots and said, — 
' Well, you boys have rather got the best of us 
for a little while, so I'll give in with as good a 
grace as I can. I've come to hire you ; get your 
trunk abroad ri ht away. I want to leave at twelve 
o'clock." 
" I don't know about that. Who is your other 
pilot?" 
*' rve got I. S . Why ? " 
" I can't go with him. He don't belong to the 
association." i:iict 
"What!" - 
"It's so." --tRf 
" Bo you mean to tell me that you won't tunl  
wheel with one of the very best and oldest pilots 
on the river because he don't belong to yonr 
assooiation ? " 
" Yes, I do." 
'' Well, if this isn't putting on airs ! I snppoBed 
I was doing you a benevolence ; but I begin to 
think that I am the party that wants a favor dono. 
Are you acting under a law of the concern ? '* 
" Yes' 
. " Show it to me." 
So they stepped into the association rooms, and 
the secretary soon satisfied the captain, who said, — 
''Well, what am I to do? I have hired Mr. 
8 for the entire season." 
" I will provide for you," said the secretary. " I 
will detail a pilot to go with you, and he shall be 
on board at twelve o'clock." 
" But if I discharge S , he will come on me 
for the whole season's wages.'* 
" Of course that is a matter between you and Mr. 
S— , captain. We cannot meddle in your private 
affairs." 
The captain stormed, but to no purpose. In the 
end he had to discharge S , pay him about a 
thousand dollars, and take an association pilot in 
his place. The laugh was beginning to turn the 
other way, now. Every day, thenceforward, a new 
victim fell ; every day some outraged captain dis- 
charged a non-association pet, with tears and pro- 
laniiy, and inttsed ahaiedwasBSociationman in his 
berth. In a very little while, idle non-associa- 
fcionists began to be pretty plenty, brisk as business 
" and much as their services were desired. The 
i- ..gh was shifting to the other side of their mouths 
most palpably. These victims, together with the 
captains and owners, presently ceased to laugh 
altogether, and began to rage about the revenge 
they would take when the passing business " spurt " 
was over. 
Soon all the laughers that were left were the 
owners and crews of boats that had two non- 
association pilots. But their triumph was not very 
long-lived. For this reason : It was a rigid rule 
of the association that its members should never, 
under any circumstances whatever, give information 
about the channel to any " outsider." By this 
time about half the boats had none but association 
pilots, and the other half had none but outsiders. 
At the first glance one wouLi suppose that when it 
came to forbidding information about the river 
these two parties could play equally at that game ; 
but this was not so. At every good-sized town 
from one end of the river to the other, there was a 
" wharf-boat " to land at, instead of a wharf or a 
pier. Freight was stored in it for transportation 
waiting passengers slept in its cabins. Upon each 
of these wharf-boats the association's oflScers placed 
a strong box, fastened with a peculiar lock which 
was used in no other service but one — the United 
States mail service. It was the letter-bag lock, a 
sacret governmental thing. By dint of much 
beseeching the government had been persuaded to 
allow the association to use this lock. Every 
association man carried a key which would open 
these boxes. That key, or rather a peculiar way 
of holding it in the hand when its owner was asked 
for river information by a stranger, — for the 
success of the St. Louis and New Orleans associa- 
tion had now bred tolerably thriving branches in a 
dozen neighboring steamboat trades, — was the 
association man's sign and diploma of membership ; 
and if the stranger did not respond by producing a 
similar key and holding it in a certain manner duly 
prescribed, his question was politely ignored. From 
the association's secretary each member received a 
package of more or less gorgeous blanks, printed 
like a bill-head, on handsome paper, properly ruled 
in columns; a bill-head worded something like 
this : 
These blanks were filled up, day by day, as the 
voyage progressed, and deposited in the several 
wharf-boat boxes. For instance, as soon as the 
first crossing, out from St. Louis, was completed, 
the item would be entered upon the blank, under 
the appropriate heading, thus : 
"St. Louia Nine and a half (feet). Stern on 
oourt-house, head on dead cottonwood above wood- 
yard, until you raise the firsi reef, then pull up 
square." Then under head of Remarks: ''Go 
just outside the wrecks; this is important. New 
snag just where you straighten down ; go above it.'* 
The pilot who deposited that blank in the Cairo 
box (after adding to it the details of every crossing 
all the way down from St. Louis) took out and read 
half a dozen fresh reports (from upward bound 
steamers) concerning the river between Cairo and 
Memphis, posted himself thoroughly, returned them 
to the box, and went back aboard his boat again so 
armed against accident that he could not possibly 
get his boat into trouble without bringing the most 
ingenious carelessness to hio aid. 
Imagine the benefits of so admirable a system in 
a piece of river twelve or thirteen hundred miles 
long, whose channel was shifting every day ! The 
pilot who had formerly been obliged to put up with 
seeing a shoal place once or possibly twice a month, 
had a hundred sharp eyes to watch it for him, now, 
and bushels of intelligent brains to tell him how to 
run it. His information about it was seldom 
twenty-four hours old. If the reports in the last 
box chanced to leave any misgivings on his mind 
concerning a treacherous crossing, he had his 
remedy ; he blew his steam-whistle in, a peculiar 
way aw soou au lio saw a boat approaching ; the 
si;ntil was uiiHwcrfd in a peculiar way if that boat's 
pilotb were asHociution men ; and then the two 
Hteamers ranged alongside and all uncertainties 
were swept away by fresh information furnished to 
the inquirer by word of mouth and in minute detail* 
The first thing a pilot did when he reached New 
Orleans or St. Louis was to take his final and 
elaborate report to the association parlors and hang 
it up there, — after which he was free to visit his 
family. In these parlors a crowd was always 
gathered together, discussing changes in the chan- 
nel, and the moment there was a fresh arrival, 
everj'body stopped talking till this witness had told 
the newest news and settled the latest uncertainty. 
Other craftsmen can " sink the shop," some- 
times, and interest themselves in other matters. 
Not so with a pilot ; he must devote himself wholly 
to his profession and talk of nothing else ; for it 
would be small gain to be perfect one day and im- 
perfect the next. He has no time or words to waste 
if he would keep ** posted." 
But the outsiders had a hard time of it. No 
pai'ticular place to meet and exchange information, 
no wharf-boat reports, none but chtnce and unsatis- 
factory ways of getting news. The consequence 
was that a man sometimes had to run five hun- 
dred miles of river on information that was a weak 
or ten days old. At a If air stage of the river that 
might have answered ; but when the dead low 
water came it was destructive. 
Now came another perfectly logical result. The 
outsiders began to ground steamboats, sink them, 
and get into all sorts of trouble, whereas accidents 
seemed to keep entirely away from the association 
men. Wherefore even the owners and captains of 
boats furnished exclusively with outsiders, and 
previously considered to be wholly independent oi 
the association and free to comfort themselves with 
brag and laughter, began to feel pretty uncomfort- 
able. Still, they made a show of keeping up the 
brag, until one black day when every captain of the 
lot was formally ordered immediately to discharge 
his outsiders and take association pilots in their 
stead. And who was it that had the gaudy pre- 
sumption to do that ? Alas, it came from a power 
behind the throne that was greater than the throne 
itself. It was the underwriters ! 
It was no time to "swap knives." Every out- 
sider had to take his trunk ashore at once. Of 
course, it was supposed that there was collusion 
between the association and the underwriters, but 
this was not so. The latter had come to com- 
prehend the excellence of the "report" system of 
the association and the safety it secured, and so 
they had made their decision among themselves 
and upon plain business principles. 
There was weeping and wailing and gnashing of 
teeth in the camp of the outsiders now. But no mat- 
ter, there was but one course for them to pursue, and 
they pursued it. They came forward in couples and 
groups, and pronered their twelve dollars and asked 
for membership. They were surprised to learn 
that several new by-laws had been long ago added. 
For instance, the initiation fee had been raised to 
fifty dollars ; that sum must be tendered, and also 
ten per cent, of the wages which the applicant had 
received each and every month since the founding 
of the association. In many cases this amounted 
to three or four hundred dollars. Still, the as- 
sociation would not entertain the application until 
the money was present. Even then a single 
adverse vote killed the application. Every member 
had to vote yes or no in person and before witnesses ; 
so it took weeks to decide a candidacy, because 
many pilots were so long absent on voyages. How- 
ever, the repentant sinners scraped their savings 
together, and one by one, by our tedious voting 
process, they were added to the fold. A time 
came, at last, when only about ten remainded out- 
side. They said they would starve before they 
would apply. They remained idle a long while, 
because, of course, nobody could venture to employ 
them. 
By and by the association published the fact that 
upon a certain date the wages would be raised to 
five hundred dollars per month. All the branch 
associations had grown strong, now, and the Red 
River, one had advanced wages to seven hundred 
dollars a month. Reluctantly the ten outsiders 
yielded, in view of these things, and made application. 
There was another new by-law, by this time, 
which required them to pay dues not only on all 
the wages they had received since the association 
was born, but also on what they would have received 
if they had continued at work up to the time of 
their application, instead of going off to pout in 
idleness. It turned out to be a difficult matter to 
elect them, but it was accomplished at last. The 
most virulent sinner of this batch had stayed out 
and allowed "dues " to accumulate against him so 
long that he had to send in six hundred and twenty- 
five dollars with his application. 
The association had a good bank account now, 
and was very strong. There was no longer an out- 
sider. A by-law was added forbidding the recep- 
tion of any more cubs or apprentices for five years ; 
after which time a limited number would be taken, 
not by individuals, but by the association, upon 
these terms : the applicant must not be less than 
eighteen years old, of respectable family and good 
character; he must pass an examination as to 
education, pay a thousand dollars in advance for 
the privilege of becoming an apprentice, and must 
remain under the commands of the association 
antil a great part of the membership (more than 
half, I think) should be willing to sign his applica- 
tion for a pilot's license. 
All previously-articled apprentices - were now 
taken away from their masters and adopted by the 
association. The president and secretary detailed 
them for service on one boat or another, as they 
chose, and changed them from boat to boat ac- 
cording to certain rules. If a pilot could show that 
he was in infirm health and needed assistance, one 
of the cubs would be ordered to go with him. 
The widow and orphan list grew, but so did tht 
association's financial resources. The association 
attended its own funerals in state, and paid foi 
them. When occasion demanded, it sent members 
down the river upon searches for the bodies oi 
brethren lost by steamboat accidents ; a search of 
this kind sometimes cost a thousand dollars. 
The association procured a charter and went 
into the insurance business, also. It not only in- 
sured the lives of its members, but took risks on 
steamboats. 
The organization seemed indestructible. It was 
the tightest monopoly in the world. By the United 
States law, no man could become a pilot unless two 
duly licensed pilots signed his application; and 
now there was nobody outside of the association 
competent to sign. Consequently the making of 
pilots was at an end. Every year some would die 
and others become incapacitated by age and infirm- 
ity ; there would be no new ones to take their 
places. In time, the association could put wages 
up to any figure it chose ; and as long as it should 
be wise enough not to carry the thing too far and 
provoke the national government into amending 
the licensing system, steamboat owners would 
have to submit, since there would be no help for 
it.
The owners and captains were the only obstruc- 
tion that lay between the association and absolute 
power; and at last this one was remoTed. Incred- 
ible as it may seem, the owners and captains dc 
liberately did it themselves. When the pilots' as- 
sociation announced, months beforehand, that on. 
the first day of September, 1861, wages would be 
advanced to five hundred dollars per month, the 
owners and captains instantly put freights up a 
few cents, and explained to the farmers along the 
river the necessity of it, by calling their attention 
to the burdensome rate of wages about to be estab- 
lished. It was rather a slender argument, but the 
farmers did not seem to detect it. It looked reason- 
able to them that to add five cents freight on a 
bushel of corn was justifiable under the circum- 
stances, overlooking the fact that this advance on 
a cargo of forty thousand sacks was a good deal 
more than necessary to cover the new wages. 
So straightway the captains and owners got up 
an association of their own, and proposed to put 
captains' wages up to five hundred dollars, too, 
and move for another advance in freights. It was 
a novel idea, but of course an effect which had 
been produced once could be produced again. The 
new association decreed (for this was before all the 
outsiders had been taken into the pilots' associa- 
tion) that if any captain employed a non-association 
pilot, he should be forced to discharge him. 
and alHo pay a fine of five hundred dollars. Several 
of these heavy fines were paid before the cap- 
tains' organization grew strong finough to exercisf; 
full authority over its membership ; but that all 
ceased, presently. The captains tried to get the 
pilots to decree that no member of their corporation 
should serve under a non-association captain ; but 
this proposition was declined. The pilots saw that 
they would be backed up by the captains and the 
underwriters anyhow, and so they wisely refrained 
from entering into entangling alliances. 
As I have remarked, the pilots association was 
now the compactest monopoly in the world, per- 
haps, and seemed simply indestructible. And yet 
the days of its glory were numbered. First, the 
new railroad stretching up through Mississippi, 
Tennessee, and Kentucky, to Northern railway 
centres, began to divert the passenger travel from 
the steamers ; next the war came and almost en- 
tirely annihilated the steamboating industry dur- 
ing several years, leaving most of the pilots idle, 
and the cost of living advancing all the time ; then 
the treasurer of the St. Louis associaticm put his 
hand into the till and walked off with every dollar 
of the ample fund; and finally, the railroads in- 
truding everywhere, there was little for steamers to 
do, when the war was over, but carj-y fi-ights ; so 
straightway some genius from the Atlantic coast in- 
troduced the plan of towing a dozen steamer cargoes 
down to New Orleans at the tail of a vulgar 
little tug-boat ; and behold, in the twinkling of an 
eye, as it were, the association and the noble science 
of piloting were things of the dead and pathetic 
past! 
CHAPTER VU 
LEAVING PORT : RACING : SHORTENING OF THE 
RIVER BY CUT-OFFS : A STEAMBOAT'S GHOST : 
STEPHEN'S" PLAN OF "RESUMPTION." 
It was always the custom for the boats to leave 
New Orleans between four and five o'clock in the 
afternoon. From three o'clock onward they would 
bo burning rosin and pitch pine (the sign of pre- 
paration), and so one had the picturesque spectacle 
of a rank, some two or three miles long, of tall, 
ascending columns of coal-black smoke ; a colon- 
nade which supported a sable roof of the same 
smoke blended together and spreading abroad over 
the city. Every outward-bound boat had its flag 
Hying at the jack-staff, and sometimes a dupli- 
cate on the verge staff astern. Two or three miles 
of mates were commanding and swearing with 
more than usual emphasis ; countless processions 
of freight barrels and boxes were spinning down the 
slant of the levee and flying aboard the stage- 
planks ; belated passengers were dodging and skip- 
ping among these frantic things, hoping to reach 
the forecastle companion-way alive, but having 
their doubts about it ; women with reticules and 
bandboxes were trying to keep up with husbands 
freighted with carpet-sacks and crying babies, and 
making a failure of it by losing their heads in the 
whirl and roar and general distraction ; drays and 
baggage-vans were clattering hither and thither in 
a wild hurry, every now and then getting blocked 
and jammed together, and then during ten seconds 
one could not see them for the profanity, except 
vaguely and dimly ; every windlass connected with 
every fore-hatch, from one end of that long array 
of steamboats to the other, was keeping up a deaf- 
ening whiz and whir, lowering freight into the hold, 
and the half-naked crews of perspiring negroes that 
worked them were roaring such songs as De Las' 
Sack ! De Las' Sack ! — inspired to unimaginable 
exaltation by the chaos of turmoil and racket that 
was driving everybody else mad. By this time the 
hurricane and boiler decks of the steamers would 
be packed and black with passengers. The " last 
bells '' would begin to clang, all down the line, and 
then the powwow seemed to double  in a moment 
or two the final warning came, — a simultaneous din 
of Chinese gongs, with the cry, "All dat ain't goin', 
please to get asho' ! " — and behold, the powwow 
quadrupled ! People came swarming ashore, over- 
turning excited stragglers that were trying to swarm 
aboard. One more moment later a long array of 
stage-planks was being hauled , in, each with its 
customary latest passenger clinging to the end of 
it with teeth, nails, and everything else, and the 
customary latest procrastinator making a wild 
spring shoreward over his head. 
Now a number of the boats slide backward into 
the stream, leaving wide gaps in the serried rank 
of steamers. Citizens crowd the decks of boats 
that are not to go, in order to see the sight. 
Steamer after steamer straightens herself up, gath- 
ers all her strength, and presently comes swinging 
by, under a tremendous head of steam, with flag 
flying, black smoke rolling, and her entire crew of 
flremen and deck-hands (usually swarthy negroes) 
massed together on the forecastle, the best " voice " 
in the lot towering from the midst (being mounted 
on the capstan), waving his hat or a flag, and all 
roaring a mighty chorus, while the parting cannons 
boom, and the multitudinoui spectators swing their 
hats 8;nd huzza ! Steamer after steamer falls into 
line, and the stately procession goes winging its 
way up the river. 
In the old times, whenever two fast boats started 
out on a race, with a big crowd of people looking 
on, it was inspiring to hear the crews sing, especi- 
ally if the time were night-fall, and the forecastle 
lit up with the red glare of the torch-baskets. 
Kacing was royal fun. The public always had an 
idea that racing was dangerous ; whereas the very 
opposite was the case — that is, after the laws were 
passed which restrict each boat to just so many 
pounds of steam to the square inch. No engineer 
was ever sleepy or careless when his heart was in a 
race. He was constantly on the alert, trying 
gauge-cooks and watching things. The dangerous 
place was on slow, popular boats, where the engi- 
neers drowsed around and allowed chips to get into 
the "doctor" and shut off the water supply from 
the boilers. 
In the " flush times " of steamboating, a race 
between two notoriously fleet steamers was an 
event of vast importance. The date was set for it 
several weeks in advance, and from that time for- 
ward, the whole Mississippi Valley was in a state of 
consuming excitement. Politics and the weather 
were dropped, and people talked only of the com- 
ing race. As the time approached, the two steam- 
ers " stripped " and got ready. Every encum- 
brance that added weight, or exposed a resisting 
surface to wind or water, was removed, if the boat 
could possibly do without it. The " spars," and 
sometimes even their supporting derricks, were 
sent ashore, and no means left to set the boat 
afloat in case she got aground. When the Eclipse 
and the A. L. Shotwell ran their great race twenty- 
two years ago, it was said that pains were taken to 
scrape the gilding off the fanciful device which 
hung between the Eclipse's chimneys, and that for 
one trip the captain left off his kid gloves and had 
his head shaved. But I always doubted these 
things. 
If the boat was known to make her best speed 
when drawing five and a half feet forward and 
five aft, she was carefully loaded to that exact 
figure — she wouldn't enter a dose of homoeopathic 
pills on her manifest after that. Hardly any pas- 
sengers were taken, because they not only add 
weight but they never will "trim boat." They 
always run to the side when there is anything to 
see, whereas a conscientious and experienced steam- 
boatman would stick to the centre of the boat and 
part his hair in the middle with a spirit level. 
No way-freight and no way-passengers were 
allowed, for the racers would stop only at the larg- 
est towns, and then it would be '' only touch and 
go." Coal flats and wood flats were contracted for 
beforehand, and these were kept ready to hitch on 
to the flying steamers at a moment's warning. 
Double crews were carried, so that all work could 
be quickly done. 
The chosen date being come, and all things in 
readiness, the two great steamers back into the 
stream, and lie there jockeying a moment, and 
apparently watching each other's slightest move- 
ment, like sentient creatures ; flags drooping, the 
pent steam shrieking through safety-valves, the 
black smoke rolling and tumbling from the chim- 
neys and darkening all the air. People, people 
everywhere ; the shores, the house-tops, the steam- 
boats, the ships, are packed with them, and you 
know that the borders of the broad Mississippi are 
going to be fringed with humanity thenoe northward 
twelve hundred miles, to welcome these racers. 
Presently tall columns of steam burst from the 
'scape-pipes of both steamers, two guns boom a 
good-bye, two red-shirted heroes mounted on cap- 
stans wave their small flags above the massed 
crews on the forecastles, two plaintiff solos linger 
on the air a few waiting seconds, two mighty 
choruses burst forth — and here they come ! Brass 
bands bray Hail Columbia, huzza, afirer huzza 
thunders from the shores, and the stately creatures 
go whistling by like the wind. 
Those boats will never halt a moment between 
New Orleans and St. Louis, except for a second or 
two at large towns, or to hitch thirty-cord wood- 
boats alongside. You should be on board when 
they take a couple of iiiose wood-boats in tow 
and turn a swarm of men into each ; by the time 
you have wiped your glasses and put them on, you 
will be wondering what has become of that wood. 
Two nicely matched steamers will stay in sight 
of each other day after day. They might even 
stay side by side, but for the fact that pilots are 
not all alike, and the smartest pilots will win the 
race. If one of the boats has a " lightning " pilot, 
whose " partner " is a trifle his inferior, you can 
tell which one is on watch by noting whether that 
boat has gained ground or lost some during each 
four-hour stretch. The shrewdest pilot can delay 
a boat if he has not a fine genius for steering. 
Steering is a very high art. One must not keep a 
rudder dragging across a boat's stern if he wants 
to get up the river fast. 
There is a marvelous difference in boats, ol 
course. For a long time I was on a boat that was 
80 slow that we used to forget what year it was we left 
port in. But of course this was at rare intervals. 
Ferry-boats used to lose valuable trips because 
their passengers grew old and died, waiting for us 
to get by. This was at still rarer intervals. I had 
the documents for these occurrences, but through 
carelessness they have been mislaid. This boat, 
the John J. Roe, was so slow that when she finally 
sunk in Madrid Bend, it was five years before the 
owners heard of it. That was always a confusing 
Tact to me, but it is according to the record, any 
'way. She was dismally slow ; still, we often had 
pretty exciting times racing with islands, rafts and 
such things. One trip, however, we did rather 
well. We went to St. Louis in sixteen days. But 
even at the rattling gait I think we changed 
watches three times in Fort Adams reach, which is 
five miles long. A '' reach " is a piece of straight 
river, and of course the current drives through 
such a place in a pretty lively way. 
That trip we went to Grand Gulf, from New 
Orleans, in four days (three hundred and fortj 
miles, ; the Eclipse and Shot well did it in one. 
We were nine days out, in the chute of 63 (seven 
hundred miles); the Eclipse and Shotwell went 
there in two days. Just about a generation ago 
a boat called the -T. M. White went from New 
Orleans to Cairo in tliree days, six hours, and forty- 
four minutes. Twenty -two years ago the Eclipse 
made the same trip in three days, three hours, and 
twenty minutes. About five years ago the superb 
E. E. Lee did it in three days and one hour. This 
last is called the fastest trip on record. I will try 
to show that it was not. For this reason : the dis- 
tance between New Orleans and Cairo, when the 
J. M. White ran it, was about eleven hundred and 
six miles ; consequently her average speed was a 
trifle over fourteen miles per hour. In the Eclipse's 
day the distance between the two ports had become 
reduced to one thousand and eighty miles ; conse- 
quently her average speed was a shade under four- 
teen and three-eighths miles per hour. In the E. 
E. Lee's time the distance had diminished to about 
one thousand and thirty miles ; consequently her 
average was about fourteen and one eighth miles 
per hour. Therefore the Eclipse's was conspicu- 
ously the fastest time that has ever been made. 
These dry details are of importance in one par- 
ticular. They give me an opportunity of intro- 
ducing one of the Mississippi's oddest peculiarities 
— that of shortening its length from time to time. 
If you will throw a long, pliant apple-paring over 
your shoulder, it will pretty fairly shape itself 
into an average section of the Mississippi Eiver ; 
that is, the nine or ten hundred iniles stretching 
from Cairo, Ilinois, southward to New Orleans, the 
same being wonderfully crooked, with a brief 
straight bit here and there at wide intervals. The 
two-hundred-mile stretch from Cairo northward to 
St. Louis is by no means so crooked, that being a 
rocky country which the river cannot cut much. 
The water cuts the alluvial banks of the '' lower " 
river into deep horseshoe curves ; so deep, indeed, 
that in some places if you were to get ashore at 
one extremity of the horseshoe and walk across the 
neck, half or three quarters of a mile, you could 
sit down and rest a couple of hours while your 
steamer was coming around the long elbow, at a 
speed of ten miles an hour, to take you aboard 
again. When the river is rising fast, some scoun- 
drel whose plantation is back in the country, and 
therefore of inferior value, has only to watch his 
chance, cut a little gutter across the narrow neck 
of land some dark night and turn the water into it, 
and in a wonderfully short time a miracle has hap- 
pened : to wit, the whole Mississippi has taken pos- 
session of that little ditch, and placed the country- 
man's plantation on its bank (quadruplii its value) 
and that other party's formerly valuable plantation 
finds itself away out yonder on a big island ; 
the old water course around it will soon shoal 
up, boats cannot approach within ten miles of 
it, and down goes its value to a fourth of its 
former worth. Watchers are kept on those 
narrow necks, at needful times, and if a man happens
to be caught catting a ditch across them, the 
chances are all against his ever having another 
opportunity to cut a ditch. 
Pray observe the effects of this ditching business. 
Once there was a neck opposite Port Hudson, 
Louisiana, which was only half a mile across, in its 
nairowest place. You could walk across there in 
fifteen minutes; but if you made the journey 
around the cape on a raft, you travel thirty-five 
miles to accomplish the same thing. In 1722 the 
river darted through that neck, deserted its old bed 
and thus shortened itself thirty-five miles. In the 
same way it shortened itself twenty-five mfles at 
Black Hawk Point in 1699. Below Bed Eiver 
Landing, Raccourci cut-off was made (thirty or 
forty years ago, I think). This shortened the 
river twenty-eight miles. In our day, if you travel 
by river from the southernmost of these three cut- 
offs to the northernmost, you go only seventy miles. 
To do the same thing a hundred and seventy-six 
years ago, one had to go a hundred and fifty-eight 
miles ! — a shortening' of eighty-eight miles in that 
trifling distance. At some forgotten time in 
the past, cut-offs were made above Vidalia, Louisi- 
ana; at island 92; at island 84; and at Hale's 
Point. These shortened the river, in the aggregate, 
seventy-seven miles. 
Since my own day on the Mississippi, I am in- 
formed that cut-offs have been made at Hurricane 
Island ; at island 100 ; at Napoleon, Arkansas ; at 
Walnut Bend ; and at Council Bend. These short- 
ened the river, in the aggregate, sixtj'-Peven miles. 
In my own time a cut-off was made at American 
Bend, which shortened the river ten miles or more. 
Therefor, the Mississippi between Cairo and New- 
Orleans was twelve hundred and fifteen miles long 
one hundred and seventy-six years ago. It was 
eleven hundred and eighty after the cut-off of 1722. 
It was one thousand and forty after the American 
Bend cut-off (some sixteen or seventeen years ago). 
It has lost sixty-seven miles since. Consequently 
its length is only nine hundred and seventy-three 
miles at present. 
Now, if I wanted to be one of those ponderous scien- 
tific people, and '' let on " to prove what had occur- 
red in tLe remote past by what had occurred in a 
given time in the recent past, or what will occm' 
in the far future by what has occurred in late years, 
what an opportunity is here ! Geology never had 
such a chance, nor such exact data to argue from ! 
Nor ''development of species," either! Glacial 
epochs are great things, but they are vague — vague. 
Please observe : — 
In the space of one hundred and seventy-six 
years the Lower Mississippi has shortened itself 
two hundred and forty-two miles. That is an 
average of a trifle over one mile and a third per 
year. Therefore, any calm person, who is not 
blind or idiotic, can see that in the Old Oolitic 
Silurian Period, just a million years ago next November, 
the Lower Mississippi River was upwards of one 
million three hundred thousand miles long, and 
stuck out over the Gulf of Mexico like a fishing- 
rod. And by the same token any person can see 
that seven hundred and forty -two years from now 
the Lower Mississippi will be only a mile and three 
quarters long, and Cairo and New Orleans will have 
joined their streets together, and be plodding com- 
fortably along under a single mayor and a mutual 
board of aldermen. There is something facinating 
about science. One gets such wholesale returns of 
conjecture out of such a trifling investment of fact. 
When the water begins to flow through one of 
those ditches I have been speaking of, it is time for 
the people thereabouts to move. The water cleaves 
the banks away like a knife. By the time the 
ditch has become twelve or fifteen feet wide, the 
calamity is as good as accomplished, for no power 
on earth can stop it now. When the width has 
reached a hundred yards, the banks begin to peel 
off in slices half an acre wide. The current flow- 
ing around the bend traveled formerly only five 
miles an hour ; now it is tremendously increased 
by the shortening of the distance. I was on board 
the first boat that tried to go through the cut-off at 
American Bend, but we did not get through. It 
was toward midnight, and a wild night it was — 
thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain. It was 
estimated that the current in the cut-off was mak- 
ing about fifteen or twenty miles an hour ; twelve 
or thirteen was the best our boat could do, even in 
tolerable slack water, therefore perhaps we were 
foolish to try the cut-otf. However, Mr. X. was 
ambitious, and he kept on trying. The eddy run- 
ning up the bank, under the '' point," was about as 
swift as the current out in the middle ; so we 
would go flying up the shore like a lightnin,';- 
express train, get on a big head ot steam, and 
''strind by for a surge" when we struck the cur- 
rent that was whirling by the point. But all our 
preparations were useless. The instant the current 
hit us it spun us around like a top, the water delu- 
ged the forecastle, and the boat careened so far 
over that one could hardly keep his feet. The 
next instant we vere away down the river, clawing 
with might and main to keep out of the woods. 
We tried the experiment four times. I stood on 
the forecastle companion way to see. It was 
astonishing to observe how suddenly the boat 
would spin around and turn tail the moment she 
emerged from the eddy and the current struck her 
nose. The sounding concussion and the quivering 
would have been about the same if she had come 
full speed against a sand-bank. Under the light- 
ning flashes one could see the plantation cabins 
and the goodly acres tumble into the river ; and 
the crash they made was not a bad effort at thun- 
der. Once when we spun around, we only missed 
a house about twenty feet, that had a light bum- 
ins; in the window ; and in the same instant that 
house went overboard. Nobody could stay on oiir 
forecastle ; the water swept across it in a torrent 
every time we plunged athwart the current. At 
the end of our fourth effort we brought up in the 
woods two miles below the cut-off ; all the country 
there was overflowed, of course. A day or two 
later the cut-off was three quarters of a mile wide, 
and boats passed up it without much difficulty and 
so saved ten miles. 
The old Raccourci cut-off reduced the river's 
length twenty-eight miles. There used to be a 
tradition connected with it. It was said that a 
boat came along there in the night and went around 
the enormous elbow in the usual way, the pilots 
not knowing that the cut-off had been made. It 
was a grisly, hideous night, and all shapes were 
vague and distorted. The old bend had already 
begun to fill up, and the boat got to running away 
from mysterious reefs, and occasionally hitting one. 
The perplexed pilots fell to swearing, and finally 
uttered the entirely unecessary wish that they 
might never get out of that place. As always hap- 
pens in such cases, that particular prayer was 
answered, and the others neglected. So to this 
day that phantom steamer is still butting around 
in that deserted river, trying to find her way out. 
More than one grave watchman has sworn to me 
that on drizzly, dismal nights, he has glanced fear- 
fully down that forgotten river as he passed the 
head of the island, and seen the faint glow of the 
spectre steamer's lights drifting through the dis- 
tant gloom, and heard the muffled cough of her 
scape pipes and the plaintive cry of her leadsmen. 
In the absence of further statistics, I beor to close 
this series of Old Mississippi articles with one more 
reminiscence of wayvard, careless, ingenious " Ste- 
phen," whom I described in a former paper. 
Most of the captains and pilots held Stephen's 
note for borrowed sums ranging from two hundred 
and fifty dollars upward. Stepheo never paid one 
of these notes, but he was very prompt and very 
zealous about renewing them every twelvemonth. 
Of course there came a time, at last, when Ste- 
phen could no louger borrow of his ancient credi- 
tors ; so he was obliged to lie in wait for new men 
who did not know him. Such a victim was stood- 
heai*ted, simple-natured young Yates (I use a ficti- 
tious name, but the real name began as this one 
does with a Y). Young Yates graduated as a pilot, 
got a berth, and when the month was ended and ha 
stepped up to the clerk's office and received his two 
hundred and fifty dollars in crisp new bills, Stephen 
was there ! His silvery tongue began to wag, and 
in a very little while Yates's two hundred and fifty 
dollars had changed hands. The fact was soon 
known at pilot headquarters, and the amusement 
and satisfaction of the old creditors were large and 
generous. But innocent Yates never suspected 
thai Stephen's promise to pay promptly at the end 
of the week was a worthless one. Yates called for 
his money at the stipulated time ; Stephen sweet- 
ened him up and put him off a week. He called 
then, according to agreement, and came away 
sujar-coated again, but suffe; ing under anotherpost- 
ponement. So the thing went on. Yates haunted 
Stephen week after week, to no purpose, and at 
last gave it up. And then straightway Stephen 
began to haunt Yates ! Wherever Yates appeared 
there was the inevitable Stephen. And not only 
there, but beaming with affection and gushing with 
af ologies for not being able to pay. By and by, 
whenever poor Yates saw him coming, he would 
turn and fly, and drag his company with him, if 
he had company ; but it was of no use ; his debtor 
would run him down and corner him. Panting 
and red-faced, Stephen would come, with out- 
stretched hands and eager eyes, invade the conver- 
sation, shake both of Yates's arms loose in their 
sockets, and begin : — 
" My what a race I 've had ! I saw you didn't 
see me, and so I clapped on ail steam for fear I 'd 
miss you entirely. And here you are ! there, just 
stand so, and let me look at you ! Just the same 
old noble countenance." [To Yates's friend :] 
" Just look at him ! Look at him ! Ain't it just 
good to look at him ! Ain't it now ? Ain't he just 
a picture ! Some call him a picture ; I call him a 
panorama! That's what he is — an entire pano- 
rama. And now I'm reminded : How I do wish I 
could have seen you an hour earlier ! For twenty- 
four hours I've been saving up that two hundred 
and fifty dollars for you; been looking for you every- 
where. I waited at the Planter's from six yester- 
day evening till two o'clock this morning, without 
rest or food ; my wife says, ' Where have you been 
all night ? ' I said, ' This debt lies heavy on my 
mind.' She says, ' In all my days I never saw a 
man take a debt to heart the way you do.' I said, 
' It's my nature ; how can  change it ? ' She 
says, ' Well, do go to bed and get some rest.' I 
said, ' Not till that poor, noble young man has 
got his money.' So I set up all night, and this 
morning out I shot, and the first man I struck told 
me you had shipped on the Grand Turk and gone to 
New Orleans. Well, sir, I had to lean up against 
a building and cry. So help me goodness, I couldn't 
help it. The man that owned the place came out 
cleaning up with a rag, and said he didn't like to 
have people crying against his building, and then 
it seemed to me that the whole world had turned 
against me, and it wasn't any use to live any more ; 
and coming along an hour ago, suffering no man 
kuQws what agony, I met Jim Wilson and paid 
him the two hundred and fifty dollars on account ; 
and to think that here you are, now, and I have 
n't got a cent ! But as sure as I am standing here 
on this ground, on this particular brick, — there, 
I've scratched a mark on the brick to remember it 
by, — I'll borrow that money and pay it over to you 
at twelve o'clock sharp, to-morrow ! Now, stand 
let me look at you just once more." 
And 80 on. Yate's life became a burden to him. 
He could not escape his debtor and his debtor's 
awful suffering on account of not being able to pay. 
He dreaded to show himself in the street, lest he 
should find Stephen lying in wait for him at the 
corner. 
Bogart's billiarrl saloon was a great resort for. 
pilots in those days. They met there about as 
much to exchange river news as to play. One 
morning Yates was there , Stephen 7as there, too, 
but kept out of sight. But by and by, when about 
all the pilots had arrived who were iu town, Ste- 
phen suddenly appeared in the midst, and rushed 
for Yates as for a long-lost brother. , 
" Oh, I am so glad to see you ! Oh my soul, tha 
sight of you is such a comfort to my eyes ! Gentle- 
men, I owe all of you money ; among you I owe 
probable forty thousand dollars. I want to pay it ; 
[ intend to pay it — every last cent of it. You all 
know, without my telling you, what sorrow it has 
cost me to remain so long under such deep obliga- 
tions to such patient and generous friends ; but 
the sharpest pang I suffer — by far the sharpest — 
is from the debt I owe to this noble young man here ; 
and I have come to this place this morning especi- 
ally to make the announcement that I have at last 
found a method whereby I can pay off all my debts ! 
And most especially I wanted him to be here when 
I announced it. Yes, my faithful friend, — my 
benefactor, I've found the method to pay off all my 
debt, and you'll get your money !'' Hope dawned 
in Yates's eye ; then Stephen, beaming benignantly, 
and placing his hand upon Yates's head, added, 
"I am going to pay them oft" in alphabetical 
order ! " 
Then he turned and disappeared. The full sig- 
nificance of Stephen's " method " did not dawn 
upon the perplexed and musing crowd for somi; two 
minutes ; and tlion Yates murmured with a sigh : — 
'' Well, the Y's stand a gaudy chance. He won't 
get any farther than the C's in this world, and I 
reckon that after a good deal of eternity has wasted 
away in the next one, I'll still be referred to up 
there as ' that poor, ragged pilot that came her 
from St. Louis in the early days ! ' " 
Would the reader please to cast his eye over the 
following verses, and see if he can discover any- 
thing harmful in them ? 
" Conductor, when you receive a fare, 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare, 
A blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare, 
A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, 
A pink trip slip for a three-cent fare ; 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare. 
CHORUS. 
Punch, brothers ! punch with care ! 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare. 
I came across these jingling rhymes in a news- 
paper a little while ago, and read them a couple of 
times. They took instant and entire possession ot 
me. All through breakfast they went waltzing 
through my brain ; and when, at last, I rolled up 
my napkin, I could not tell whether I had eaten 
anything or not. I had carefully laid out my day's 
work the day before — a thiilling tragedy in the 
novel which I am writing. I went to my den to 
begin my deed of blood. I took up my pen, but 
all I could get to say was, " Punch in the presence 
of the passenjare." I fought hard for an hour, but 
it was useless. My head kept humming, " A blue 
trip slip for an eight- cent fare, a buff trip slip for a 
six-cent fare," and so on, and so on, without peace 
or respite. The day's work was ruined — I could 
see that plainly enough. I gave up and drifted 
down town, and presently discovered that my feet 
were keeping time to that relentless jingle. When 
I could stand it no longer I altered my step. But 
it did no good ; those rhymes accommodated them- 
selves to the new step, and went on harassing me 
just as before. I returned home and suffered all 
the afternoon ; suffered all through an unconscious 
And unrefreshing dinner; suffered, and cried, and 
jingled all through the evening ; went to bed, and 
rolled, tossed, and jingled right along, the same as 
ever; got up at midnight frantic, and tried to read ; 
but there was nothing visible on the whirling page 
except, " Punch ! punch in the presence of the pas- 
senjare." By sunrise I was out of my mind, and 
everybody marvelled and was distressed at the 
idiotic burden of my ravings — " Punch ! oh, punch ! 
punch in the presence of the passenjare !" 
Two days later, on Sunday morning, I rose, a 
tottering wreck, and went forth to fulfil an engage- 
ment with a valued friend, the Rev. Mr. — — , to 
walk to the Talcolt Tower, ten miles distant. He 
stared at me, but asked no questions. We started. 
Mr. talked, talkjd, talked — as is his Wont. I 
said nothing : I heard nothing. At the end ot a 
mile Mr. said : 
" Mark, are you sick ? I never saw a man look 
so haggard and worn and absent-minded. Say 
something ; do ! " 
Drearily, without enthusiasm, I said : " Punch, 
brother, punch with care ! Punch in the presence 
of the passenjare ! " 
My friend eyed me blandly, looked perplexed, 
then said — 
" I do not think I get your drift, Mark. There 
does not seem to be any relevancy in what you 
have said, certainly nothing sad ; and yet — maybe 
it was the way you said the words — I never heard 
anything that sounded so pathetic. What is — " 
But I heard no more. I was already far away 
with my pitiless, heart-breaking " blue trip slip for 
an eight-cent fare, buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, 
pink trip slip for a three-cent fare ; punch in the 
presence of the passenjare." I do not know what 
occurred during the other nine miles. However, 
all of a sudden Mr. laid his hand on my 
shoulder and shouted — 
" Oh, wake up ! wake up ! wake up ! Don't 
sleep all day ! Here we are at the Tower, man ! I 
have talked myself deaf and dumb and blind, and 
never got a response. Just look at this magnificent 
autumn landscape ! Look at it ! look at it ! Feast 
your eyes on it ! You have travelled ; you have 
