
General Wyatt, keenly : " Your cousin has men- 
tioned me to you ? " 

Cummings : " Yes, oh yes, certainly ; certainly, 
very often, General Wyatt. But" endeavoring 
to recover himself "your name is known to us 
all, and honored. I I am glad to see you back ; 
I understood you were in Paris." 

General Wyatt, with fierce defiance : " I was in 
Paris three weeks ago." Some moments of awk- 
ward silence ensue, during which General Wyatt 
does not relax his angry attitude. 

Gumming s, finally : " I am sorry my friend is 
not here to meet you. I ought to say, in justice to 
him, that his hasty temper does great wrong to his 
heart and judgment." 

General Wyatt : " Why, yes, sir ; so does mine, 
so does mine." 

Cummings, with a respectful smile lost upon the 



 

General : " And I know that he will certainly be 
grieved in this instance to have yielded to it." 

General Wyatt, with sudden meekness : " I hope 
so, sir. But I am not altogether sorry that he has 
done it. I have not only an explanation but a request to make, a very great and strange favor to 
ask, and I am not sure that I should be able to 
treat him civilly enough throughout an entire interview to ask it properly." Cummings listens 
with an air of attentive respect, but makes, to this 
strange statement, no response other than a look 
of question, while the General pokes about on the 
carpet at his feet with the point of his stick for a 
moment before he brings it resolutely down upon 
the floor with a thump, and resumes, fiercely again : 
" Sir, your friend is the victim of an extraordinary 
resemblance, which is so much more painful to us 
than we could have made it to him that I have to 
struggle with my reason to believe that the apology 
should not come from his side rather than mine. 
He may feel that we have outraged him, but every 
look of his, every movement, every tone of his 
voice, is a mortal wound, a deadly insult to us. 



 

He should not live, sir, in the same solar system ! " 
The General deals the floor another stab with his 
cane, while his eyes burn vindictively upon the 
mild brown orbs of Cummings, wide open with as- 
tonishment. He falters, with returning conscious- 
ness of his attitude : "I I beg your pardon, sir ; 
I am ridiculous." He closes his lips pathetically, 
and lets fall his head. When he lifts it again, it is 
to address Cummings with a singular gentleness : 
" I know that I speak to a gentleman." 

Cummings : "I try to be a good man." 

General Wyatt : " I had formed that idea of you, 
sir, in the pulpit. Will you do me the great kindness to answer a question, personal to myself, which 
I must ask ? " 

Cummings : " By all means." 

General Wyatt : " You spoke of supposing me 
still in Paris. Are you aware of any circumstances painful circumstances connected with my 
presence there ? Pardon my asking ; I wouldn't 
press you if I could help." 

Cummings, with reluctance : " I had just heard 
something about a letter from a friend " 




 

General Wyatt, bitterly : " The news has traveled 
fast. Well, sir, a curious chance a pitiless caprice of destiny connects your friend with that miserable story." At Cummings's look of amaze : 
"Through no fault of his, sir ; through no fault of 
his. Sir, I shall not seem to obtrude my trouble 
unjustifiably upon you when I tell you how ; you 
will see that it was necessary for me to speak. I 
am glad you already know something of the affair, 
and I am sure that you will regard what I have to 
say with the right feeling of a gentleman, of, as 
you say, a good man." 

Gumming : " Whatever you think necessary to 
say to me shall be sacred. But I hope you won't 
feel that it is necessary to say anything more. I 
am confident that when my friend has your assur- 
ance from me that what has happened is the result 
of a distressing association " 

General Wyatt : " I thank you, sir. But some- 
thing more is due to him ; how much more you 
shall judge. Something more is due to us : I 
wish to preserve the appearance of sanity, in his 
eyes and your own. Nevertheless " the Gener- 



 

al's tone and bearing perceptibly stiffen " if you 
are reluctant " 

(Jammings, with reverent cordiality : " General 
Wyatt, I shall feel deeply honored by whatever 
confidence you repose in me. I need not say how 
dear your fame is to us all." General Wyatt, 
visibly moved, bows to the young minister. " It 
was only on your account that I hesitated." 

General Wyatt : " Thanks. I understand. I 
will be explicit, but I will try to be brief. Your 
friend bears this striking, this painful resemblance 
to the man who has brought this blight upon us 
all; yes, sir," at Cummings's look of depreca- 
tion, "to a scoundrel whom I hardly know 
how to characterize aright in the presence of 
a clergyman. Two years ago doubtless your 
correspondent has written my wife and daughter 
(they were then abroad without me) met him in 
Paris ; and he won the poor child's affection. 
My wife's judgment was also swayed in his favor, 
against her first impulse of distrust ; but when 
I saw him, I could not endure him. Yet I was 
helpless : my giiTs happiness was bound up in 



 

him ; all that I could do was to insist upon delay. 
He was an American, well related, unobjectionable by all the tests which society can apply, and 
f might have had to wait long for the proofs that 
an accident gave me against him. The man's 
whole soul was rotten ; at the time he had wound 
himself into my poor girl's innocent heart, a 
woman was living who had the just and perhaps 
the legal claim of a wife upon him ; he was a 
felon besides, a felon shielded through pity for 
his friends by the man whose name he had forged ; 
he was of course a liar and a coward : I beat him 
with my stick, sir. Ah! I made him confess his 
infamy under his own hand, and then " the General advances defiantly upon Cummings, who un- 
consciously retires a pace " and then I compelled 
him to break with my daughter. Do you think I 
did right?" 

Cummings: " I don't exactly understand." 

General Wyatt: "Why, sir, it happens often 

enough in this shabby world that a man gains a 

poor girl's love, and then jilts her. I chose what 

I thought the less terrible sorrow for my child. I 



 

could not tell her how filthily unworthy he was 
without bringing to her pure heart a sense of 
intolerable contamination ; I could not endure to 
speak of it even to my wife. It seemed better 
that they should both suffer such wrong as a bro- 
ken engagement might bring them than that 
they should know what I knew. He was mas- 
ter of the part, and played it well ; he showed 
himself to them simply a heartless scoundrel, and 
he remains in my power, an outcast now and a 
convict whenever I will. My story, as it seems 
to be, is well known in Paris ; but the worst is 
unknown. I choose still that it shall be thought 
my girl was the victim of a dastardly slight, and I 
bear with her and her mother the insolent pity 
with which the world visits such sorrow." He 
pauses, and then brokenly resumes : " The affair 
has not turned out as I hoped, in the little I 
could hope from it. My trust that the blow, 
which must sink so deeply into her heart, would 
touch her pride, and that this would help her to 
react against it, was mistaken. In such things it 
appears a woman has no pride; I did not know 



 

it; we men are different. The blow crushed her ; 
that was all. Sometimes I am afraid that I must 
yet try the effect of the whole truth upon her ; that 
I must try if the knowledge of all his baseness can- 
not restore to her the self-respect which the wrong 
done herself seems to have robbed her of. And 
yet I tremble lest the sense of his fouler shame 
I may be fatally temporizing ; but in her 
present state, I dread any new shock for her ; 
it may be death I " He pauses again, and 
sets his lips firmly ; all at once he breaks into a 
sob. "I I beg your pardon, sir." 

Cummings : u Don't ! You wrong yourself and 
me. I have seen Miss Wyatt ; but I hope" 

General Wyatt: "You have seen* her ghost. 
You have not seen the radiant creature that was 
once alive. Well, sir ; enough of this. There is 
little left to trouble you with. We landed eight 
days ago, and I have since been looking about 
for some place in which my daughter could hide 
herself; I can't otherwise suggest her morbid sen- 
sitiveness, her terror of people. This region was 
highly commended to me for its heal thfuln ess ; but 



 

I have come upon this house by chance. I un- 
derstood that it was empty, and I thought it more 
than probable that we might pass the autumn 
months here unmolested by the presence of any 
one belonging to our world, if not in entire se- 
clusion. At the best, my daughter would hardly 
have been able to endure another change at once ; 
so far as anything could give her pleasure, the 
beauty and the wild quiet of the region had pleased 
her, but she is now quite prostrated, sir, " 

Cummings, definitively : "My friend will go 
away at once. There is nothing else for it." 

General Wyatt : " That is too much to ask." 

Cummings : " I won't conceal my belief that he 
will think so. But there can be no question with 
him when " 

General Wyatt : " When you tell him our 
story ? " After a moment : u Yes, he has a right 
to know it as the rest of the world knows it. 
You must tell him, sir." 

Cummings, gently : " No, he need know nothing 
beyond the fact of this resemblance to some one 
painfully associated with your past lives. He is 



 

a man whose real tenderness of heart would revolt 
from knowledge that could inflict further sorrow 
upon you." 

General Wyatt : " Sir, will you convey to this 
friend of yours an old man's very humble apology, 
and sincere prayer for his forgiveness ? " 

Cummings : " He will not exact anything of 
that sort. The evidence of misunderstanding will 
be clear to Mm at a word from me." 

General Wyatt : " But he has a right to this ex- 
planation from my own lips, and Sir, I am 
culpably weak. But now that I have missed see- 
ing him here, I confess that I would willingly 
avoid meeting him. The mere sound of his voice, 
as I heard it before I saw him, in first coming upon 
you, was enough to madden me. Can you excuse 
my senseless dereliction to him ?" 

Cummings : " I will answer for him." 

General Wyatt : " Thanks. It seems monstrous 
that I should be asking and accepting these great 
favors. But you are doing a deed of charity to a 
helpless man utterly beggared in pride." He 
chokes with emotion, and does not speak for a mo- 



 

merit. " Your friend is also he is not also a 
clergyman ? " 

Cummings, smiling : " No. He is a painter." 

General Wyatt : " Is he a man of note ? Succes- 
ful in his profession ? " 

Cummings : " Not yet. But that is certain to 
come." 

General Wyatt : " He is poor ? " 

Cammings : " He is a young painter." 

General Wyatt : " Sir, excuse me. Had he 
planned to remain here some time, yet ? " 

Cummings, reluctantly : " He has been sketch- 
ing here. He had expected to stay through Octo- 
ber." 

General Wyatt: "You make the sacrifice hard 
to accept I beg your pardon ! But I must ac- 
cept it. I am bound hand and foot." 

Cummings : " I am sorry to have been obliged to 
tell you this." 

General Wyatt : " I obliged you, sir ; I obliged 
you. Give me your advice, sir; you know your 
friend. What shall I do ? I am not rich. I don't 
belong to a branch of the government service in 



 

which people enrich themselves. But I have my 
pay ; and if your friend could sell me the pictures 
he 's been painting here " 

Gummings : " That 's quite impossible. There 
is no form in which I could propose such a thing to 
a man of his generous pride." 

General Wyatt : " Well, then, sir, I must satisfy 
myself as I can to remain his debtor. Will you 
kindly undertake to tell him ? " 

An Elderly Serving- Woman, who appears timidly 
and anxiously at the right-hand door : " General 
Wyatt." 

General Wyatt, with a start: "Yes, Mary! 
Well?" 

Mary, in vanishing: "Mrs. Wyatt wishes to 
speak with you." 

General Wyatt, going up to Cummings : " I 
must go, sir. I leave unsaid what I cannot even 
try to say." He offers his hand. 

Cummings, grasping the proffered hand: "Every- 
thing is understood." But as Mr. Cummings re- 
turns from following General Wyatt to the door, 
his face does not confirm the entire security of his 



 

words. He looks anxious and perturbed, and 
when he has taken up his hat and stick, he stands 
pondering absent-mindedly. At last he puts on his 
hat and starts briskly toward the door. Before 
he reaches it, he encounters Bartlett, who advances 
abruptly into the room. "Oh! I was going to 
look for you." 



VI. 

CUMMINGS and BARTLETT. 

Bartlett, sulkily: "Were you?" He walks, 
without looking at Cummings, to where his paint- 
er's paraphernalia are lying, and begins to pick 
them up. 

Cummings: "Yes." In great embarrassment: 
" Bartlett, General Wyatt has been here." 

Bartlett, without looking round : " Who is Gen- 
eral Wyatt?" 

Cummings: "I mean the gentleman who 
whom you wouldn't wait to see." 

Bartlett: "Urn!" He has gathered the things 
into his arms, and is about to leave the room. 

Cummings, in great distress: "Bartlett, Bart- 
lett! Don't go! I implore you, if you have any 
regard for me whatever, to hear what I have to 
say. It's boyish, it's cruel, it's cowardly to be- 
have as you 're doing ! " 



 

Bartktt : "Anything more, Mr. Cummings? I 
give you benefit of clergy." 

Cummings: "I take it to denounce your pro- 
ceeding as something that you 'll always be sorry 
for and ashamed of." 

Bartlett: "Oh! Then, if you have quite freed 
your mind, I think I may go." 

Cummings : " No, no ! You mustn't go. Don't 
go, my dear fellow. Forgive me ! I know how in- 
sulted you feel, but upon my soul it 's all a mistake, 
it is, indeed. General Wyatt " Bartlett fal- 
ters a moment and stands as if irresolute whether 
to stay and listen or push on out of the room 
" the young lady I don't know how to begin ! " 

Bartlett, relenting a little : " Well ? I 'm sorry 
for you, Cummings. I left a very awkward busi- 
ness to you, and it wasn't yours, either. As for 
General Wyatt, as he chooses to call himself" 

Cummings, in amaze : " Call himself ? It 's his 
name ! " 

Bartlett : " Oh, very likely ! So is King David 
his name, when he happens to be in a Scriptural 
craze. What explanation have you been com- 
missioned to make rne ? What apology ? " 



 

Cummings : " The most definite, the most satis- 
factory. You resemble in a most extraordinary 
manner a man who has inflicted an abominable 
wrong upon these people, a treacherous and cow- 
ardly villain " 

Bartlett, in a burst of fury : " Stop ! Is that 
your idea of an apology, an explanation ? Isn't 
it enough that I should be threatened, and vilified, 
and have people fainting at the sight of me, but 
I must be told by way of reparation that it all 
happens because I look like a rascal ? " 

Cummings : " My dear friend ! Do listen to 
me!" 

Bartlett : " No, sir, I won't listen to you ! I 've 
listened too much ! What right, I should like to 
know, have they to find this resemblance in me ? 
And do they suppose that I 'm going to be placa- 
ted by being told that they treat me like a rogue 
because I look like one? It's a little too much. 
A man calls ' Stop Thief after me and expects 
me to be delighted when he tells me I look like a 
thief! The reparation is an additional insult. I 
don't choose to know that they fancy this infa- 



 

mous resemblance in me. Their pretending it is 
an outrage ; and your reporting it to me is an of- 
fense. Will you tell them what I say ? Will you 
tell this General Wyatt and the rest of his Bed- 
lam-broke-loose, that they may all go to the " 

Cummings : " For shame, for shame ! You out- 
rage a terrible sorrow ! You insult a trouble sore 
to death ! You trample upon an anguish that 
should be sacred to your tears ! " 

Bartlett, resting his elbow on the corner of the 
piano : " What what do you mean, Cummings ? " 

Cummings : " What do I mean ? What you are 
not worthy to know! I mean that these people, 
against whom you vent your stupid rage, are wor- 
thy of angelic pity. I mean that by some disas- 
trous mischance you resemble to the life, in tone, 
manner, and feature, the wretch who won that poor 
girl's heart, and then crushed it ; who Bartlett, 
look here ! These are the people this is the 
young lady of whom my friend wrote me from 
Paris ; do you understand ? " 

Bartlett, in a dull bewilderment: "No, I don't 
understand." 



 

Cummings : " Why, you know what we were 
talking of just before they came in ; you know 
what I told you of that cruel business." 

Bartlett: "Well?" 

Cummings : " Well, this is the young lady " 

Bartlett, dauntedly : " Oh, come, now ! You don't 
expect me to believe that ! It isn't a stage-play." 

Cummings : " Indeed, indeed, I tell you the mis- 
erable truth." 

Bartlett : " Do you mean to say that this is the 
young girl who was jilted in that way ? Who 
Do you mean Do you intend to tell me 
Do you suppose Cummings " 

Cummings : " Yes, yes, yes ! " 

Bartlett : " Why, man, she 's in Paris, according 
to your own showing ! " 

Cummings: "She was in Paris three weeks ago. 
They have just brought her home, to help her hide 
her suffering, as if it were her shame, from all who 
know it. They are in this house by chance, but 
they are here. I mean what I say. You must be- 
lieve it, shocking and wild as it is." 

Bartlett, after a prolonged silence in which he 



 

seems trying to realize the fact: "If you were a 
man capable of such a ghastly joke but that's 
impossible." He is silent again, as before. "And 
I What did you say about me ? That I look 
like the man who" He stops and stares into 
Cummings's face without speaking, as if he were 
trying to puzzle the mystery out ; then, with fallen 
head, he muses in a voice of devout and reverent 
tenderness : " That that broken lily ! Oh ! " 
With a sudden start he flings his burden upon the 
closed piano, whose hidden strings hum with the 
blow, and advances upon Cummings: "And you 
can tell it? Shame on you! It ought to be known 
to no one upon earth! And you you show that 
gentle creature's death- wound to teach something 
like human reason to a surly dog like me? Oh, 
it's monstrous! I wasn't worth it. Better have 
let me go, where I would, how I would. What did 
it matter what I thought or said? And I I look 
like that devil, do I? I have his voice, his face, his 
movement? Cummings, you 've over-avenged your- 
self." 

Cummings : " Don't take it that way, Bartlett. 




 

It is hideous. But I didn't make it so, nor you. 
It 's a fatality, it 's a hateful chance. But you see 
now, don't you, Bartlett, how the sight of you must 
affect them, and how anxious her father must be to 
avoid you? He most humbly asked your forgive- 
ness, and he hardly knew how to ask that you 
would not let her see you again. But I told him 
there could be no question with you ; that of course 
you would prevent it, and at once. I know it 's a 
great sacrifice to expect you to go " 

Harriett : " Go ? What are you talking about ? " 
He breaks again from the daze into which he had 
relapsed. " If there 's a hole on the face of the 
earth where I can hide myself from them, I want 
to find it. What do you think I'm made of? 
Go ? I ought to be shot away out of a mortar ; 
I ought to be struck away by lightning! Oh, I 
can't excuse you, Cummings ! The indelicacy, the 
brutality of telling me that ! No, no, I can't 
overlook it." He shakes his head and walks away 
from his friend ; then he returns, and bends on him 
a look of curious inquiry. " Am I really such a 
ruffian " he speaks very gently, almost meekly, 



 

now that you didn't believe anything short of 
that would bring me to my senses ? Who told 
you this of her ? " 

Cummings : " Her father." 

Bartlett : " Oh, that 's too loathsome ! Had the 
man no soul, no mercy ? Did he think me such a 
consummate beast that nothing less would drive me 
away ? Yes, he did ! Yes, I made him think so ! 
Oh ! " He hangs his head and walks away with a 
shudder. 

Cummings : " I don't know that he did you that 
injustice ; but I 'm afraid I did. I was at my wits' 
end." 

Bartlett, very humbly : " Oh, I don't know that 
you were wrong." 

Cummings : " I suppose that his anxiety for her 
life made it comparatively easy for him to speak of 
the hurt to her pride. She can't be long for this 
world." 

Bartlett : " No, she had the dying look ! " After 
a long pause, in which he has continued to wander 
aimlessly about the room : " Cummings, is it nec- 
essary that you should tell him you told me ? " 



 

Cummings : " You know I hate concealments of 
any kind, Bartlett." 

Bartlett : " Oh, well ; do it, then ! " 

Cummings: "But I don't know that we shall 
see him again ; and even if we do, I don't see how 
I can tell him unless he asks. It 's rather pain- 
ful." 

Bartlett: "Well, take that little sin on your 
conscience, if you can. It seems to me too ghastly 
that I should know what you 've told me ; it 's in- 
decent. Cummings," after another pause, 
" how does a man go about such a thing ? How 
does he contrive to tell the woman whose heart he 
has won that he doesn't care for her, and break 
the faith that she would have staked her life on ? 
Oh, I know, women do such things, too ; but 
it 's different, by a whole world's difference. A 
man comes and a man goes, but a woman stays. 
The world is before him after that happens, and 
we don't think him much of a man if he can't get 
over it. But she, she has been sought out ; she 
has been made to believe that her smile and her 
looks are heaven, poor, foolish, helpless idol ! her 



 

fears have been laid, all her pretty maidenly tradi- 
tions, her proud reserves overcome ; she takes him 
into her inmost soul, to find that his love is a 
lie, a lie ! Imagine it ! She can't do anything. 
She can't speak. She can't move as long as she 
lives. She must stay where she has been left, and 
look and act as if nothing had happened. Oh, 
good Heaven ! And I, I look like a man who 
could do that ! " After a silence : " I feel as if 
there were blood on me ! " He goes to the piano, 
and gathering up his things turns about towards 
Cummings again : " Come, man ; I 'm going. It 's 
sacrilege to stay an instant, to exist." 

Cummings : " Don't take it in that way, Bart- 
lett. I blame myself very much for not having 
spared you in what I said. I wouldn't have told 
you of it, if I could have supposed that an acci- 
dental resemblance of the sort would distress you 
so." 

Bartlett, contritely: "You had to tell me. I 
forced you to extreme measures. I 'in quite worthy to look like him. Good Lord ! I suppose I 
should be capable of his work." He moves to- 



 

wards the door with his burden, but before he 
reaches it General Wyatt, from the corridor, meets 
him with an air of confused agitation. Bartlett 
halts awkwardly, and some of the things slip from 
his hold to the floor. 



VII. 
GENERAL WYATT, CUMMINGS, and BARTLETT. 

General Wyatt : " Sir, I am glad to see you." 
He pronounces the civility with a manner evi- 
dently affected by the effort to reconcile Bartlett's 
offensive personal appearance with his own sense 
of duty. "I I was sorry to miss you before ; 
and now I wish Your friend " referring with 
an inquiring glance to Cummings " has explained 
to you the cause of our very extraordinary behav- 
ior, and I hope you " 

Bartlett : " Mr. Cummings has told me that I 
have the misfortune to resemble some one with 
whom you have painful associations. That is quite 
enough and entirely justifies you. I am going at 
once, and I trust you will forgive my rudeness 
in absenting myself a moment ago. I have a bad 
temper ; but I never could forgive myself if I had 



 

forced my friend " he turns and glares warningly 
at Cummings, who makes a faint pantomime of. 
conscientious protest as Bartlett proceeds " to 
hear anything more than the mere fact from you. 
No, no," as General Wyatt seems about to speak, 
" it would be atrocious in me to seek to go be- 
hind it. I wish to know nothing more." Cummings 
gives signs of extreme unrest at being made a 
party to this tacit deception, and General Wyatt, 
striking his palms hopelessly together, walks to 
the other end of the room. Bartlett touches the 
fallen camp-stool with his foot. " Cummings, will 
you be kind enough to put that on top of this 
other rubbish?" He indicates his armful, and as 
Cummings complies, he says in a swift, fierce whis- 
per : " Her secret is mine. If you dare to hint 
that you 've told it to me, I 'll I 'll assault you 
in your own pulpit." Then to General Wyatt, 
who is returning toward him : " Good morning, 
sir." 

General Wyatt: "Oh! Ah! Stop! That is, 
don't go ! Really, sir, I don't know what to say. 
I must have seemed to you like a madman a mo- 



 

ment ago, and now I Ve come to play the fool." 
Bartlett and Cummings look their surprise and 
General Wyatt hurries on : "I asked your friend 
to beg you to go away, and now I am here to beg 
you to remain. It 's perfectly ridiculous, sir, I 
know, and I can say nothing in defense of the 
monstrous liberties I have taken. Sir, the matter 
is simply this : my daughter's health is so frail that 
her life seems to hang by a thread, and I am powerless to do anything against her wish. It may be 
a culpable weakness, but I cannot help it. When 
I went back to her from seeing your friend, she 
immediately divined what my mission had been, 
and it had the contrary effect from what I had expected. Well, sir ! Nothing would content her 
but that I should return and ask you to stay. She 
looks upon it as the sole reparation we can make 
you." 

Bartlett) gently: "I understand that perfectly; 
and may I beg you to say that in going away I 
thanked her with all my heart, and ventured to 
leave her my best wishes ? " He bows as if to go. 

General Wyatt, detaining him: " Excuse me 



 

thanks but but I am afraid she will not be 
satisfied with that. She will be satisfied with 
nothing less than your remaining. It is the whim 
of a sick child which I must ask you to indulge. 
In a few days, sir, I hope we may be able to con- 
tinue on our way. It would be simply unbearable 
pain to her to know that we had driven you away, 
and you must stay to show that you have forgiven 
the wrong we have done you." 

Bartlett: "That 's nothing, less than nothing. 
But I was thinking I don't care for myself in 
the matter that Miss Wyatt is proposing a very 
unnecessary annoyance for you all. My friend 
can remain and assure her that I have no feeling 
whatever about the matter, and in the mean time 
I can remove the embarrassment of my pres- 
ence." 

General Wyatt: "Sir, you are very considerate, 
very kind. My own judgment is in favor of your 
course, and yet" 

Cummings: "I think my friend is right, and 
that when he is gone " 

General Wyatt : " Well, sir ! well, sir ! It may 



 

be the best way. I think it is the best. We will 
venture upon it. Sir," to Bartlett, "may I 
have the honor of taking your hand?" Bartlett 
lays down his burden on the piano, and gives his 
hand. " Thank you, thank you ! You will not re- 
gret this goodness. God bless you! May you 
always prosper." 

Bartlett: " Good-by ; and say to Miss Wyatt" 
At these words he pauses, arrested by an incom- 
prehensible dismay in General Wyatt's face, and 
turning about he sees Cummings transfixed at 
the apparition of Miss Wyatt advancing directly 
toward himself, while her mother coming behind 
her exchanges signals of helplessness and despair 
with the General. The young girl's hair, thick and 
bronze, has been heaped in hasty but beautiful 
masses on her delicate head; as she stands with 
fallen eyes before Bartlett, the heavy lashes lie 
dark on her pale cheeks, and the blue of her eyes 
shows through their transparent lids. She has a 
fan with which she makes a weak pretense of play- 
ing, and which she puts to her lips as if to hide the 
low murmur that escapes from them as she raises 
her eyes to Bartlett's face. 



VIII. 
CONSTANCE, MRS. WYATT, and the others. 

Constance, with a phantom-like effort at hau- 
teur: "I hope you have been able to forgive the 
annoyance we caused you, and that you won't let 
it drive you*away." She lifts her eyes with a slow 
effort, and starts with a little gasp as they fall 
upon his face, and then remains trembling before 
him while he speaks. 

Bartlett, reverently : " I am to do whatever you 
wish. I have no annoyance but the fear that 
that" 

Constance, in a husky whisper : " Thanks ! " As 
she turns from him to go back to her mother, she 
moves so frailly that he involuntarily puts out his 
hand. 

Mrs. Wyatt, starting forward : "No ! " But Con- 
stance clutches his extended arm with one of her 





pale hands, and staying herself for a moment lifts 
her eyes again to his, looks steadily at him with 
her face half turned upon him, and then, making a 
slight, sidelong inclination of the head, releases his 
arm and goes to her mother, who supports her to 
one of the easy-chairs and kneels beside her when 
she sinks into it. Bartlett, after an instant of hesi- 
tation, bows silently and withdraws, Cummings 
having already vanished. Constance watches him 
going, and then hides her face on her mother's 
neck. 



II. 

DISTINCTIONS AND DIFFERENCES. 



CONSTANCE and MRS. WYATT. 

Constance : " And he is still here ? He is going 
to stay on, mother ? " She reclines in a low fold- 
ing chair, and languidly rests her head against one 
of the pillows with which her mother has propped 
her; on the bright-colored shawl which has been 
thrown over her lie her pale hands loosely holding 
her shut fan. Her mother stands half across the 
parlor from her, and wistfully surveys her work, to 
see if some touch may not yet be added for the 
girl's comfort. 

Mrs. Wyatt : u Yes, my child. He will stay. 
He told your father he would stayi" 

Constance : " That 's very kind of him. He 's 
very good." 

Mrs. Wyatt, seating herself before her daughter : 
" Do you really wish him to stay ? Remember 
 



 

how weak you are, Constance. If you are taking 
anything upon yourself out of a mistaken sense 
of duty, of compunction, you are not kind to your 
poor father or to me. Not that I mean to re- 
proach you." 

Constance : " Oh, no. And I am not unkind to 
you in the way you think. I 'm selfish enough in 
wishing him to stay. I can't help wanting to see 
him again and again, it's so strange, so strange. 
All this past week, whenever I 've caught a glimpse 

of him, it 's been like an apparition ; and when- 



ever he has spoken, it has been like a ghost speak- 
ing. But I haven't been afraid since the first 

 

time. No, there 's been a dreary comfort in it ; 
you won't understand it ; I can't understand it my- 
self; but I know now why people are glad to see 
their dead in dreams. If the ghost went, there 
would be nothing." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Constance, you break my heart ! " 
Constance : " Yes, I know it ; it 's because I Ve 
none." She remains a little space without speak- 
ing, while she softly fingers the edges of the fan 
lying in her lap. " I suppose we shall become 
more acquainted, if he stays ? " 




Mrs. Wyatt : " Why, not necessarily, dear. You 
need know nothing more of him than you do now. 
He seems very busy, and not in the least inclined 
to intrude upon us. Your father thinks him a little 
odd, but very gentlemanly." 

Constance, dreamily : " I wonder what he would 
think if he knew that the man whom I would have 
given ray life did not find my love worth having? 
I suppose it was worthless ; but it seemed so 
much in the giving ; it was that deceived me. He 
was wiser. Oh, me ! " After a silence : " Mother, 
why was I so different from other girls ? " 

Mrs. Wyatt : " So different, Constance ? You 
were only different in being lovelier and better 
than others." 

Constance : " Ah, that 's the mistake ! If that 
were true, it could never have happened. Other 
girls, the poorest and plainest, are kept faith with , 
but I was left. There must have been something 
about me that made him despise me. Was I silly, 
mother ? Was I too bold, too glad to have him 
care for me ? I was so happy that I couldn't help 
showing it. May be that displeased him. I must 



 

have been dull and tiresome. And I suppose I 
was somehow repulsive, and at last he couldn't 
bear it any longer and had to break with me. Did 
I dress queerly ? I know I looked ridiculous at 
times ; and people laughed at me before him." 
