enjoyed their meal as only those can who have worked for it. They had
their chicken pie and their roasted sweet potatoes, the omelet they for
to-day dispensed with, being all tired. They took their dinner on the
bank, there where they could look away down to the river and see the
hilly shores beyond on the other side; and Meredith averred that sweet
potatoes never were so sweet before.
"Such air!" said he; "and such colouring!"
"And it is just warm enough," added Maggie.
"Well, I have got cooled off now," said Flora, "but I consider feeding
bonfires to be hot work."
Then, when dinner was over, and the things packed into the cart, they
arranged themselves on the moss in a delicious feeling of resting and
refreshed langour; the girls took out their fancy work, and Meredith
opened his book. Maggie, who did not trouble herself about fancy work,
crept close to his side and looked with fascinated eyes at the strange
characters out of which he brought such delightful things to her ears.
"'It was about the year 940, according to the chronicle, that a boy of
thirteen or fourteen years old was herding his father's cattle on the
waste land not far from Hermannsburg, when there came along a splendid
train of armed cavaliers riding their horses proudly. The boy looks with
delight on the shining helmets and coats of mail, the glittering spears
and the stately horsemen, and the thought rises in his heart--"Now that
looks something like!" All of a sudden the horsemen quit the road, which
here wound about crookedly, and come riding across country, over the
open land where he is keeping his cattle. That seems to him too bad, for
the field is no highway, and the ground belongs to his father. He
considers a moment, then goes forward to meet the riders, plants himself
in their course, and calls out to them--"Turn back! the road is yours,
the field is mine." There is a tall man riding at the head of the troop,
on whose brow a grave majesty is enthroned, he looks wonderingly at the
boy who has dared to put himself in his way. He checks his horse, taking
a certain pleasure in the spirited little fellow, who returns his look
so boldly and fearlessly and never budges from his place.
"'"Who are you, boy?"
"'"I am Hermann Billing's oldest son, and my name is Hermann too, and
this field is my father's, and you must not ride over it."
"'"But I will, boy," answered the rider with threatening sternness. "Get
out of the way, or I throw you down"--and with that he lifts his spear.
The boy, however, stands fearlessly still, looks up at the horseman with
eyes of fire and says--
"'"Right is right; and you have no business to ride over this field, you
shall ride over me if you do."
"'"What do you know about the right, boy?"
"'"My father is the Billing, and I shall be Billing after him," answered
the boy, "and nobody may do a wrong before a Billing."
"'Then still more threateningly the rider called out--"Is this right
then, boy, to refuse obedience to your king? I am your king, Otto."
"'"You Otto? our king? the shield of Germany and the flower of the
Saxons, that my father tells us so much about? Otto the son of Heinrich
the Saxon? No, that you are not. Otto the king guards the right, and you
are doing the wrong. Otto don't do that, my father says."
"'"Take me to your father, my good boy," answered the king, and an
unwonted gentleness and kindliness beamed upon his stern face.
"'"Yonder is my father's dwelling-house, you can see it," said Hermann,
"but my father has trusted the cattle here to me and I cannot leave
them, so I cannot bring you there. But if you are King Otto, turn off
out of the field into the road, for the king guards the law."
"'And King Otto the first, surnamed the Great, obeyed the boy's voice,
for the boy was in the right, and rode back to the road. Presently
Hermann was fetched from the field. The king had gone into his father's
house and had said to him, "Billing, give me your oldest son and let him
go with me, I will have him brought up at court, he is going to be a
true man, and I have need of true men." And what true Saxon could refuse
anything to a king like Otto?
"'So the brave boy was to journey forward with his king, and when Otto
asked him, "Hermann, will you go with me?" the boy answered gladly, "I
will go with you; you are the king, for you protect the right."
"'So King Otto took the boy along with him, that he might have him
brought up to be a faithful and capable servant of the crown. Otto was
allied in the bonds of warmest friendship with Adaldag, the archbishop
of Bremen, a man who was distinguished for his learning, his piety, and
a lively zeal for the spread of Christianity among the then heathen
Danes and Norsemen. Otto could not confide the boy who had become so
dear to him to a better teacher; and so he sent him to Adaldag at
Bremen. Adaldag, too, recognised the great gifts which God had bestowed
on the boy, and had him instructed under his own eye by the most able
ecclesiastics; among whom a certain Raginbrand is especially named,
who later was appointed to be bishop and preacher to the heathen in
Denmark, and laboured there with great faithfulness and a great
blessing. In Bremen Hermann grew up to be a good young man, loving his
Saviour from his heart; but also he was instructed in the use of arms
and in the business of the state, for Adaldag was at that time one of
King Otto's most confidential advisers. And now Otto took the young
Hermann into his court; and soon could perceive that he had not deceived
himself when his acuteness discerned the boy's lofty nature. Spirit,
daring, and keen intelligence shot in fire from the young man's blue
eyes; his uncommonly fine figure had been grandly developed by knightly
exercises; and, with all that, he was so humble-hearted, and attached to
his benefactor with such grateful, touching devotion, that Otto's eyes
rested on him with pleasure, and he often called Hermann his truest
friend, even called him "his son." But the loveliest thing in Hermann
was, that he never forgot his origin: he showed the most charming
kindness to those who were poor and mean; so that high and low at the
king's court respected as much as they loved him. So he mounted from
step to step, was dubbed a knight, attended the king on his journeys and
campaigns, and the king even intrusted to him the education of his two
sons Wilhelm and Ludolf. Still later he administered the most important
offices of state to the satisfaction of the king; and often travelled
through the country of the Saxons as Graf, i.e., a judge.
"'That is: The judgment of criminal cases, or the tribunal of life and
death, in the whole German fatherland was vested in the king alone.
Therefore at certain times the royal judges made a progress through the
entire German country. They were called Grawen, from the word graw
or grau' (that means, 'grey,' Maggie,) 'because ordinarily old,
experienced, eminent men were chosen for the office. These courts for
cases of life and death were holden by the Grafs under the open sky, in
public, and in full daylight, so that the judgment pronounced could be
at once carried into execution. Our chronicle takes this occasion to
relate a story about our Hermann Billing, which sets in a clear light
the pure character of this admirable man. In his journeyings as Graf, he
came also to his native place, to Harm's ouden dorp. It was then long
after his father's death; and as head of the family he had distributed
his seven manor-farms, as fiefs, partly to his brothers, partly to other
near relations. The great honours to which Hermann had been elevated had
become the ruin of these men; they behaved themselves proudly towards
their neighbours, and even took unrighteous ways to enlarge their
boundaries, secure in the belief that no one would dare to call them in
question about it, whilst they had such a powerful brother and kinsman.
Now, when Hermann, after the accustomed fashion, was holding the
criminal court on the Grawenberg (where now the grauen farm lies,
half an hour from Hermannsburg) there presented himself a certain
Conrad, a freiling, that is, a free man, and accused the holders of
Hermann's fiefs, that they had by violent and unjust means taken from
him half his farm and joined it to their own estates.
"'Hermann's face, at other times so gentle and kind, grew dark, and with
deep sadness but with a lofty severity he ordered his brothers and
kinsmen to be brought before him. Conrad's charge was proved to be true,
for the Billings could not lie, even if they had done injustice. And
what did Hermann? When the acts of violence that his brothers and
relations had done were proved, great tears flowed down the cheeks of
the tall strong man, and he cried out with a voice which his tears half
choked, "Could you do that, and bear the name of Billing!" He said no
more, but was seen to fold his hands and pray with the greatest
earnestness. Then he spoke: "My brothers and kinsmen, make your peace
now with God; we look upon each other for the last time. You are guilty
of death; you must die; you have doubly deserved death, because you are
of the race of Billing."
"'The priests, who were always in attendance on the tribunal of life and
death where Hermann was the judge, came forward; in the grounds of the
court they received the criminals' confession, and upon their penitent
acknowledgment of their sin, gave them assurance of forgiveness and then
the bread that represents the Lord's body. So, reconciled with God, the
seven men came back to the place of judgment; and after Hermann had
again prayed with them and commended the penitents to the Lord, he had
their heads struck off before his eyes.'"
Meredith stopped perforce, for a storm of exclamations burst upon him.
"Horrible!" "Frightful!" "I never heard of such an awful man!"
"I think he was rather an awful man," said Meredith. "I have no doubt
all ill-doers would have held him in a good deal of awe."
"But his own brothers!" said Esther.
"They were convicted criminals, all the same."
"But don't you think a man ought to spare his own!"
"A man--yes. A judge--no."
"But a judge is a man."
"I should think it was very disagreeable for a man to be a judge," said
Meredith.
"But why?" asked Flora. "I should think it was nice, just for that
reason, that a man could spare people he wanted to spare."
"Flora Franklin!" exclaimed her brother. "Is that your idea of a judge?"
"It is my idea of a man."
"But don't you know better? A judge has no business to spare anybody,
except the innocent; his duty is to see justice done--he has nothing to
do with mercy."
"Nothing to do with mercy! O Meredith!"
"Not as a judge. He is put in his place to see the laws executed."
"Then you think that dreadful old heathen you are reading about did
right to have his friends' heads struck off?"
"I think he did just his duty."
"Oh, do you, Ditto?" cried Maggie.
"He did not make the law, Maggie; he had only to see it obeyed. The law
was terribly severe; but I think the judge was very tender."
"O Ditto!"
"He was what you call a true man. He was no heathen, Flora. But nothing
would make him budge from the right. I think he was magnificent. I
wonder how many men could be found nowadays who would be faithful to
duty at such a cost."
"You have strange notions of duty!" said his sister.
"I am afraid you have imperfect notions of faithfulness."
"Well, go on. I have no opinion of religion that is not kind."
"The religion that is from above 'is first pure, then peaceable,'"
said Meredith.
"Go on," said Flora. "I suppose you would cut my head off, if you were
judge, and I had done something you thought deserved it."
"If the law said you deserved it. But I think I would give my head in
that case for yours, Flora. It would be easier."
"What good would that do?"
"Keep the law unbroken and save you. Well, I will go on with my story--
"'When the sitting of the court was ended he sent his retinue to find
quarters in the other six of his manors, but he himself passed the night
at the principal manor-house on the Oerze, which he had himself built,
called the Bondenhof, that is, the "peasant's manor;" for in old Saxon
Bond meant a free peasant. But what a night that was! Sleep never came
to his eyes; he passed that night and also the following day in praying
and fasting. When at last, by the Word of God and the talk of a faithful
priest he had got some comfort, at least a little, he vowed to the Lord
that he would build a church on this manor, the "Bondenhof," which
should be dedicated to the apostles Peter and Paul, like the first one
built by his forefathers at the Deep Moor, which in the course of time
had become far too small. And as with him to resolve and to do were
always the same thing, he did not quit the manor till he had laid the
foundation-stone of the new church and given order to have the building
vigorously carried forward. That was in the year 958.
"'By this deed of rigid, impartial justice, which nevertheless was found
in beautiful harmony with a tender and good heart, the honour in which
people held him was raised to such a point, that everywhere they carried
him on their hands, and at his return to the royal court he was received
with wondering admiration. The great Otto folded him in his arms and
called him his most faithful knight, who served his God and his king
with equal fidelity.
"'Soon thereafter followed Hermann's greatest elevation. Otto had
determined, you must know, in the year 960, to take a journey into
Italy, in order to compose certain troubles which had arisen through
the godless Pope John. But now his beloved Saxon country, out of which
Otto himself drew his origin, lay just in the north of Germany; and was
bordered on the north and north-east by the Danes and Sclaves, but
recently conquered, who indeed were in part nominally Christian, but in
part were still heathen, and the whole of them haters of Christianity.
Who would take care of Christian Saxony in the king's absence, which it
was possible might last for years? Then Otto's eye fell upon the
faithful Hermann, and he had found his man. Hermann was appointed to the
dukedom of Saxony, so that he might thus supply the king's place and
govern in his stead. When this was made known to the good Archbishop
Adaldag, who was to accompany the king in his journey to Rome, he
rejoiced aloud, and said to the king, "Now we can travel in peace and
have no care; for, O king, you can trust him with the land, and I can
trust him with my church; Hermann with God's help will protect church
and land both." And that is what the faithful man truly did. In the
following year the king really set out on his journey to Rome, and
Adaldag went with him. Otto set up a stern tribunal in Rome, deposed the
godless Pope John, and made good Leo Pope. Five years Otto spent in
Italy, and wherever he came he wrought righteousness and judgment,
punished the wicked and relieved the innocent and oppressed; being such
a prince as Germany has had few. In the year 962 Otto was solemnly
crowned kaiser by Leo at Rome, and thus acknowledged as the earthly head
of the whole Christian world. During all this time, the Saxons might
count themselves happy that they had such a true and valiant duke in
Hermann. The Sclaves ventured again to make a marauding incursion,
probably to try whether in Otto's absence they could not accomplish
something. One tribe of the great Sclavic race, namely, the Wends, dwelt
not on the other side of Elbe only, but also on this side, as far as the
neighbourhood of Melzen. These Wends, on the hither side of the Elbe,
reinforced by a strong party of their brethren from beyond the river,
undertook a campaign against Saxony; for they themselves were still
heathen and therefore had a hatred against the Christians. This hatred
was all the stronger because the Saxons under Otto had vanquished them.
In this campaign, so far as they went, they burnt and laid waste
everything, and in especial their aim was directed against the churches
and chapels and Christian priests; the former were burned and levelled
with the ground, the latter were put to death in tortures. So it befell
with that first church which Landolf had built at the Deep Moor; it was
burned down and entirely destroyed. Eight priests, who served this
church and the chapels lying in the neighbourhood, were slain, part of
them at once, part of them were dragged to the Wendish idol altar in
Radegast, not far from the Elbe, and there slaughtered in honour of the
heathen god; those chapels were likewise destroyed. Hermann was just
come to Bremen when this news reached him. He rapidly gathered his
warriors, came suddenly upon the robbing and plundering Wends at the
so-called Hühnenburg, obliged them to flee with great loss, and pursued
them without stay or respite into their own country; whereupon they sued
for peace, and promised they would keep quiet and accept the Christian
religion. He granted them peace, but went on to destroy their idol
temple in Radegast, and then returned in triumph home. He next applied
his whole energy to repair the destruction which had been wrought, to
rebuild the churches and chapels, and establish priests in them. And the
better to secure the land, and especially his own beloved inheritance,
against the like predatory incursions, he built strong fortresses, as,
for instance, the Hermannsburg' (burg means a castle or fortress,
Maggie), 'the Hermannsburg, around which now the people began to build
again, who had fled away before the Wends; the Oerzenburg, the
Wiezenburg, &c.'"
"Then that is how so many names have come to end with 'burg,'" said
Esther.
"Hermann did not build all the castles," said Meredith, "But yes--that
is very much how it has come. In those old Middle Ages, when the right
of the strongest was the only prevailing one, naturally there were a
great many castles built. Indeed all the nobles lived in castles, and
must. Just look at the pictures of the Rhine to see what the Middle Ages
were; see how the people had to perch their fortresses up on almost
inaccessible peaks of rock, where it must have been terribly
inconvenient to live, one would think. I suppose people knew little of
what we call conveniences in these days."
"Then round the principal fortresses, naturally, the villages grew up,"
said Flora. "They would cluster round the castles for protection."
"Well, I never thought before that one could see the Middle Ages through
the stereoscope," said Maggie.
"Pretty fair," said Meredith. "Well, let us go on with Hermann. 'Through
his unintermitting activity all was soon in blooming condition again,
and no enemy dared to show himself any more. Before his end in the year
972, he had the joy of seeing the church, the foundation-stone of which
he had laid at the Bondenhof, consecrated on Peter and Paul's day. That
is this same church which is still standing in Hermannsburg, and in
which we hold divine service.'"
"O Ditto! is that church standing yet that Hermann built?"
"And the very foundation-stone that Hermann laid is there to this day.
I'd like to see it! We have nothing old in this country. Imagine
attending a church that has stood for nine hundred years! He endowed
this church with a tenth, and gave almost the half of the fields and
meadows of the above-named manor to the Hermannsburger pastor.
"'Of his remaining great deeds our chronicle says little; which is
natural, as it is and proposes to be only a Hermannsburg chronicle. In
the year 973, the same year that his great friend and benefactor Otto
died, died also Hermann Billing, the freeman's son who had come to be
Duke of Saxony. About his end the chronicle relates only that he was
sick but a few days; that he wished for and received the Holy Supper
before his death; admonished his son Benno, or Bernhard, who was his
heir: "My son, be true to your God and your kaiser, a protector to the
Church, and a father to your vassals;" laid his hands upon his head and
blessed him; and then extended his hand to all his weeping servants who
were assembled, commended them to the grace of God; and at last
prayed--"Into Thy hands I commend my spirit; Thou hast redeemed me, Lord
God of hosts." Then he softly fell asleep, and the same wonderful
sweetness which in life had given such a charm to his face, in death put
a very glory around his brow.
"'King Otto the second honoured the true man's memory by confirming his
son Bernhard, or Benno, as Duke of Saxony.'"
CHAPTER VII.
"Is that all?" said Maggie.
"All in this place, about Hermann Billing."
"I like him very much!" said Maggie drawing a deep sigh.
"Notwithstanding he was such an incorruptible judge!"
"Notwithstanding he was such a hard, cruel man, you should say," said
Flora. "Ditto, you are ridiculous!"
"It is a great mistake, you must remember, to judge a man of one time by
the lights or laws of another."
"There's a law of nature," said Flora, "in some people, which makes
them dislike to kill their relations."
"There is a higher law than the law of nature. Nature did not prevent
Abraham from making preparations to offer up Isaac. It did not hinder
Moses"----
"I do not know what unnatural thing Moses did," said Flora; "but I
confess to you, I think Abraham acted much more like a heathen than like
a Christian in that event of his life."
"Which only shows, that if you had been in his place you would have
failed to manifest Abraham's faith, and so would have entirely missed
Abraham's blessing. 'Because thou hast done this thing, saith the Lord,
and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son;' then the Lord went on to
heap blessing upon him."
"I don't see how Abraham could do it."
"Because he trusted God. It is not trust, Flo, that will not go any
further than it sees why."
"Ditto, what are you going to read next?" said Maggie.
"We'll see. Next thing, I think, will be the description Pastor Harms
gives of that old church which Hermann Billing built; Hermann the duke,
I mean. Don't you want to hear it?"
"Oh, yes. The description of it as it is now?"
"As it is now. But what a wonderful sort of a church is this we are in!"
said Meredith looking up.
"Here, this bank, do you mean?"
"This bank; and these pillars of tree-stems; and these wonderful Gothic
windows of tree-branches, through which the light comes broken by
transom and mullion. And the incense which fills nature's cathedral. And
the stillness. And the preaching."
"Don't get highfaluten, Meredith," said his sister.
"No; that would be a pity, here."
"I never heard of silent preaching before."
"The strongest of all."
"Is it? Well, go on and read. My work gets on best then."
"It is too lovely to do anything but look and breathe. The air is most
delicious. And nature seems so wide and free. I have an odd feeling that
I am floating with those clouds yonder, and flowing softly with the
river, and hovering about generally, like those eagles. Do you see those
eagles?"
"Highfaluten again, Meredith," said his sister.
"Well, one good poet has been highfaluten then before me. Don't you
remember, Maggie, something your uncle was repeating one day? I have
never forgotten it--
    "'My soul into the boughs does glide.'
"It is an odd feeling--but it makes me very rich for the present. This
is the loveliest place! And now you shall have the Hermannsburg church.
So Pastor Harms writes:
"'It is a great thing indeed, and a beautiful thing, to know somewhat of
the origin and of the history of the church in which one worships and
serves God. When I step into our church, whether it be for holding
divine service or that I may pray there alone, every time, I feel my
whole inmost soul stirred. The very walk to the church through the
churchyard is edifying to me. The church at the beginning was situated
upon a little eminence, so that it was needful to mount several steps to
get to the church doors. Now one must go down several steps from the
churchyard to reach the entrance of the church. How comes that! Since
the year 972 the churchyard has been the place of burial. The dust of
those laid within it has raised the ground-level, till now the church
lies lower than the churchyard. A hill has grown out of the dust of the
dead, and over this hill I go into the church. Does not this walk of
itself preach in the most impressive way: "Put thine house in order, O
man, for thou must die!" Then, when I step inside the church, what a new
sermon I get! Since 972 years after Christ, therefore since 880 years
ago, men have worshipped there the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost;
have sung in his honour the church's songs of praise; have thither
brought their children to be baptized; have heard the preaching of the
Divine Word there, have eaten and drunk the emblems of the Body and
Blood of the Lord there, have bowed their knees there, where now I bow
mine! It always seems to me, then, as if the veil were parted which
divides the church up yonder from the church down below. Where I am,
here have those who are fallen asleep once been and worshipped; and
where they are now, thither shall I go also. So in blessed faith I can
cry out, "A holy Christian church!" Not a place in the world is so dear
to me as the church, my beloved church. I have no paternal mansion; for
I am the son of a pastor, and pastors leave no inheritance for their
children; and yet I have a Father's house, the best there is in the
world, my beloved church; truly that is God's house, and God is my
Father, and so it is justly and truly my home.
"'And how wonderfully God has guarded this house of His. What wars have
raged since this house has been standing, and it has remained uninjured.
Since the Thirty Years' War, Hermannsburg has been four times burned
down; this house has remained standing. Twice lightning has struck the
tower, and so shattered the foundations that only a little turret
stands now upon the riven walls instead of the slender one hundred and
eighty feet high spire which was there before; but the church remained
untouched. The interior has been altered; the many-coloured paintings on
the arched vault of the ceiling are gone; the many-coloured galleries
have disappeared; in the body of the church itself gallery over gallery
mounts up to the vaulted ceiling, to give accommodation for the hearers,
but the church itself has remained unchanged. And when I think of the
blessings that have gone forth from this house, what churches, chapels,
and cloisters have sprung from here, in Bergen, in Wiezendorf, in
Munster, in Müden, and the chronicle mentions many more; yes, when I
remember how from the castles founded by Hermann on the Oerze and Wieze,
the castellans of Oerze and Wiezendorf marched out so early as with Duke
Bernhard, to help bring the heathen people of Lauenburg and Mechlenburg
to Christianity; must not then the zeal of my forefathers kindle my own
zeal to bring the Lord's blessing, His Word and His sacraments, to the
heathen, to the very ends of the earth? And now that seems no longer
strange to me which seems strange to so many, that we from this place
should have undertaken to send out a peasant mission. It has not been
our own doing; it has come from our church and our history. Did the
peasant's son Hermann become Duke of Saxony? Was the blessing of
Christianity carried from here into all the region round about, even
into the countries on the other side of the Elbe? Why should not
Hermann's peasant church preach among the heathen the Saviour who has
been their own so long? May such a primeval blessing only make us right
thankful, right humble, right kind and loving, only zealous and fervent
in spirit. We see well enough that the Lord can use little things;
therefore let nobody despise us because we are small, and let us have
the joy of serving the Lord with our insignificant gifts and strength,
as well as we can. It is written in the Scriptures, "Destroy it not, for
a blessing is in it!"'"
Meredith ceased reading, and there was a silent pause of a few minutes.
Crochet needles worked busily, Maggie sat pondering, Meredith lay back
on his elbow on the moss and looked down at the river. Here and there
the soft-pointed top of a young cedar rose up between, not hindering,
only as it were embellishing the view. In the silence, when the strokes
of the woodcutters halted, little sweet sounds broke in, every one of
them coming like a caress or a murmur of rest; two crows slowly flying
over and calling to each other, some crickets chirruping nearer by, a
little gentle rustle and lapping of the water, then a bugle-call from
the post opposite. Clouds hardly moved, winds were asleep, the air,
fragrant with the breath of the evergreens, scarcely stirred,
luxuriously warm and still. The colouring, too, in which all nature had
dressed herself, gave another touch of delight through every object
which the eye rested on.
"What a sky!" said Meredith. "And what air! It's wonderful."
"Ditto," began Maggie, "have they a mission in Hermannsburg?"
"Yes. They have a mission in Africa."
"Why is it a 'peasant mission,' and what does that mean?"
"Why, you see, Maggie, the whole people of Hermannsburg are just a
parcel of peasants, part in the village, and part, I believe, farming it
here and there on the Lüneburg heath. They are poor people; small
farmers, and the like. They have not much money to give; but when Pastor
Harms had been with them a while and proposed to them to set about
mission work, a dozen men offered themselves to go. They were already so
filled with his own spirit."
"And did they go?"
"They had to be put to school first. They were too ignorant to instruct
the heathen or anybody. So they were set to study under Pastor Harms'
brother for three years. While they were studying Pastor Harms undertook
building a ship which should carry them to Africa. The ship and the men
were ready together about the same time."
"They could not have been a very poor people, I should think," said
Flora.
"They were, though; but you see, they began by giving themselves to the
Lord; and when people do that, I guess they generally find that there is
a good deal else to give. Oh, they were poor enough; but it would cost a
great deal, you know, to pay their passage in a ship belonging to other
people, and the freight on all the goods they must carry, for they were
going out not merely to preach, but to establish a colony and live among
the heathen. And then, whenever new recruits for the mission were sent
out, the expense would have to be incurred over again, so they thought
the cheapest way in the end would be to build their own ship."
"And they did build it?" said Maggie.
"Certainly. The good ship 'Candace.' And everybody helped in some way.
The shoemakers made shoes, and the tailors made clothes, to go out with
the mission; the women knitted and sewed. Do you want to hear what
Pastor Harms says about it?"
"Oh, yes, Ditto, please!"
"Yes, read on--anything," said Flora.
"Two men of the first twelve had died, and two others had proved false.
Eight left, to whom another eight joined themselves, who would go out as
colonists. Now I will read:--
"'So by God's grace, everything was ready. And now one should have seen
the busy industry, the lively expectation, the gleesome bustle, as the
last hand, I may say, was put to everything. In the Mission-house, what
learning and counselling and arranging; in the workshops belonging to
it, what smithwork and cabinetwork and tailoring; how our women and
girls sewed! Our village shoemaker worked with his might at the
foot-gear to be taken along; our village cooper did the same at the
great water casks for the ship; my brother went out with the Mission
pupils in leisure hours and picked berries which were to be taken along.
Here people brought dried apples, pears and plums; there buckwheat and
buckwheat groats; here rye, flour, peas, wheat; there sides of bacon,
hams, and sausages. Then again house-furnishing articles, tools, heather
brooms, trumpets and horns, even live hogs and poultry, and even
potatoes were hauled along--and all was to go. Even a fir-tree with its
roots was planted in a large pot filled with earth, in order that on the
ocean the travellers might light up a Christmas-tree. Then again came
packages of linen made up, and of stuff. And there was a great deal that
never came to Hermannsburg. Whatever was prepared on the other side of
the Elbe, in Hamburg, Lübeck, Haide, &c., was kept in Hamburg, and we
never saw it at all. In Hamburg alone there were handed over from female
friends of the Mission, one hundred and twenty-eight cotton shirts, all
finished and ready; from Haide forty striped shirts for the natives;
from Lübeck and Mechlenburg, besides beautiful under-linen, all sorts of
pictures and little things for the heathen; from some children here came
writing boxes, pens, and writing books for the heathen children. Also
from here, from Osnabrück, Schaumburg, Lüneburg, Bremen, and
neighbourhood, whole rolls of linen cloth. There was a stir and spring
of love that moved people's hearts. Every one of the emigrants was to
take a gun with him, for in East Africa there are a great many wild
beasts, lions, elephants, serpents, &c. Scarcely had this become known,
when guns, rifles, double-barrelled rifles, pistols, and daggers came
in, till we had enough to leave some for a future party that might be
sent out. Then would come our harbourmaster, or our captain, from
Harburg, to arrange this or that; then our pupils journeyed to Harburg
to bring money for the ship. One hardly knew where his head was.'"
"Well, did they go to Africa, Ditto?"
"The colonists and missionaries; yes, sixteen of them."
"Whereabouts in Africa?"
"The east coast, about Natal."
"I haven't the least idea where Natal is."
"You would do well to look it out on the map."
"And are they there yet, Ditto?"
"They went in the year 1853. It is not likely they are all there now.
But others followed them, Maggie, year after year, till now there are, I
believe, between twenty and thirty stations where they are settled."
"All from Hermannsburg! Ditto, it is very curious! So many years ago,
Hermann's castles sent out soldiers to bring heathen Mechlenburg to the
Christian religion; and now Mechlenburg gives shirts and pictures for
Hermannsburg to send to other heathen in Africa."
"What sort of heathen people are those they went to?" Esther asked.
"Quite a good sort. Here is a description of them, written by one of the
brethren who sailed in that first trip of the 'Candace':--
"'I cannot make it out how the heathen can be as they are, although they
are day and night before my eyes. They are powerful, muscular men, with
open faces and sparkling eyes; they all go either quite naked or with a
very slight covering. A late law obliges them, however, to put a shirt
on when they are going into a city. They live in houses which resemble
beehives, into which you must creep. The whole stock of valuables which
you find in these huts is an assaghai (javelin), a club, a mat, a bit of
wood for a pillow, and a great horn for smoking. I have seen nothing
else in them. The people have almost no wants. So many wives as a man
has, so many huts has he also, one for each wife, and then one besides
for himself. The women are bought; paid for with cows and oxen; ten and
twenty oxen for a wife. These become then the man's slaves, and the man,
when he has got a good many wives, hardly does any more work himself.
The women must cultivate the maize and sweet potatoes, which is almost
all the people live upon. Once in a while they kill an ox; and then so
many come together to eat it that it is all disposed of at one meal. Our
German brethren aver that ten Caffres in twenty-four hours will eat up a
whole ox, skin and entrails and all, which they roast at the fire; that
afterwards, however, they can go fasting four days at hard labour. They
are fond of adorning themselves with coral and rings, and snuff-boxes
are to be seen in the hands of both men and women. They cork up the
snuff in their nostrils with a hollowed-out bit of wood, till the tears
run down their cheeks. The women are so hardly used that a mother with a
little five-days-old baby must go out to work in the hot sun with the
baby on her back, and the father does not concern himself at all about
the child. Of twins, one is almost always killed at once. In short, they
are not much above the beasts in their way of life; and the worst of all
is, they are almost inaccessible to the truth, and laugh at everything
sacred.'"
CHAPTER VIII.
"Well," said Maggie, as Meredith paused, "I should think somebody ought
to go to those people!"
"Hopeless work," said Flora, stitching away at her worsted.
"No, it is not hopeless work," answered her brother. "As you would soon
see, if all the Churches had the matter at heart like Pastor Harms and
his Hermannsburg."
"Everybody cannot give himself up to such business," said Flora glancing
at him.
"Everybody ought."
"O Ditto!" cried Maggie, "do you think everybody ought to go to
Africa?"
"Yes," said Flora; "that is just about what he thinks."
"No, Maggie," said Meredith, "neither to Africa nor to other heathen
parts; not everybody. But everybody can give himself up to the work of
the kingdom, even if he stays at home. Most people must stay at home."
"I don't understand," said Maggie with a shrug of her shoulders.
"Don't you remember--'Seek ye first the kingdom of God;'--that's all I
mean."
"'First!'" Flora echoed.
"How 'first,' Ditto?"
"Before everything else. The words mean that, if they mean anything."
"How before everything else?"
"See, Maggie. Suppose you and I have"----
"Now, Ditto, stop!" said his sister. "I do not want to hear any of that
stuff. What is it to Maggie? And Essie and I do not care about it."
"And there comes Fenton," added Esther, springing up to go and meet him.
For Fenton it was, bounding up the bank at their left.
Fenton was grown a good deal since our last sight of him; otherwise not
much changed. A handsome boy, with a good figure and a bright eye, and
also the old, somewhat supercilious upper lip. But he was glad to get
home, and greeted the party cordially enough; then, however, began to
criticise.
"What are you all doing loafing here?" He had sat down on the bank with
the rest, and looked from one to another.
"We do not use your elegant expression," said Flora; "partly perhaps
because we are not wont to indulge ourselves in that particular
amusement."
"What are you doing?"
"You do not see anything to engage our attention in what at present
offers itself to yours," Meredith remarked.
"Nothing offers itself to my attention," replied Fenton. "I don't see
anything except our old cart. Anything to eat in it?"
"There is no pie left," said Esther, "for I gave the last of it to
Fairbairn; and Flora drank up all the cream. There's some sugar in the
sugar-bowl."
Fenton went to get some lumps of sugar, and then stood looking down at
the party.
"Aren't you going home to dinner?" said he. "I tell you, I'm raging."
"Four o'clock," said Meredith, looking at his watch. "Just the pretty
time of day coming now."
"It'll be dinner-time by the time you get the cart home and the girls
get dressed. What did you come out here so far for? I haven't had a
respectable dinner for six months. I am going to have some wine to-day,
if the governor is away."
"Governor!" cried Esther. "What a vulgar expression for Fenton Candlish
to use!"
"Wine!" exclaimed Maggie. "You can't have any wine, Fenton; we don't
drink wine any more in this house."
"What's the matter!"
"The matter is, papa has emptied his wine-cellar," said Esther in a
rather aggrieved tone.
"Drunk it all up?"
"No, no; sent it off and sold it."
"What was the matter with it!"
"Why, I tell you," said Esther, "it is thought improper for good people
to drink wine."
Fenton's face was rather funny to see, there was such a blank dismay in
it.
"And did mamma give in to that?"
"I don't know what mamma thought," said Esther; "but papa sold the wine;
and our dinner-table does not have its pretty coloured glasses any
more."
Fenton uttered a smothered exclamation which I am afraid would have
shocked his sisters.
"I don't see what you want with wine, Fenton," said Maggie; "papa
never let you have it."
"Mamma did though," said Fenton. "That's the good of having two parents.
If one is crochety perhaps the other will be straight. Well, I'm not
going to live if I can't live like a gentleman. I shall send to Forbes
to send me some wine."
His sisters burst out into horrified exclamations and expostulations.
"Papa'll see it in the bill," said Esther, "and he'll be very angry."
"Uncle Eden is coming," said Maggie, "and it will be no use. He'd throw
it into the river."
"Uncle Eden coming?"
The girls nodded.
"If I had known that I wouldn't have come!" said Fenton looking very
dark.
"I'd think better of it if I were you," remarked Meredith quietly.
"There goes more to the making of a gentleman than the drinking of
wine."
"What do you mean?"
"Just that. As for instance--self-control, noble thoughts, care for
others above himself, indifference to low pleasures."
"Low pleasures!" repeated Fenton. "Do you call wine a low pleasure?"
"Well, it brings people into the gutter."
"Pshaw! not gentlemen."
"I grant you they are not gentlemen after they get there."
"What do you know about it?" said the boy not very politely. "Did you
ever drink it yourself?"
"I never will again. A gentleman should be a free man; and wine makes
men slaves. I don't choose to be in bondage. And if it would not enslave
me, it does other people; and I would not give it the help of my
example."
Fenton dropped the subject, but renewed his proposal that they should
return home. So shawls and worsted work were stored in the cart, and the
little book in Meredith's pocket; and the line of march was taken up. It
was indeed coming now to the lovely time of the day. Shadows long,
lights glowing in warm level reflections, all objects getting a sunny
side and a shady side, and standing forth in new beauty in consequence;
the day gathering in its train, as it were, to prepare for a stately
leave-taking by and by. Meredith and Maggie, loath to go, lingered the
last of the party; indeed he had the cart to draw, which was heavy, and
needed careful guiding in places over and between the rocks; and he
could not run on with the heads of the party. And Maggie walked beside
him, and put her little hand upon the handle of the cart which she could
not help to draw. How sweet it was! The light every moment growing
softer, not cooler; the colours more contrasted, as the shadows
lengthened; the bugle notes coming over the water now and then. Meredith
looked, and drew deep breaths of the delicious air; but Maggie walked
along pondering.
"Ditto," she began, "do you think everybody ought to do mission work?"
"The dear Lord did not give the charge to some of His people, did He?"
"But how can they do it? Everybody cannot go to the heathen?"
"He said, 'in all the world'--so that means at home as well as abroad,
doesn't it?"
"Preach the gospel in all the world?"
"Yes."
"How can I, Ditto?"
"You and I, let us say. Well, Maggie, suppose we ask Mr. Murray? But one
thing is certain; those who stay at home must furnish the money for
those that go."
"Does it take a great deal?"
"Not to send a few. But how long would a few people be about telling
the gospel to all the world? Suppose one man had as much as the whole
State of New York for his parish?"
"He'd never get through."
"Exactly. And so it is nearly nineteen hundred years since the Lord gave
the command; and the heathen world is the heathen world still--pretty
much."
"But, then, Ditto--to send a great many people, it would want a great
deal of money."
"It does. What then?"
"Maybe people cannot afford it."
"Let us ask Mr. Murray about that."
"But, Ditto, what do you think? I know you think something."
"Maggie, I think we should seek first the kingdom."
They were turning into the shrubbery grounds near the house, and Maggie
left the discussion. They were all ready for dinner, as far as appetite
went, and in a little while the five young people sat down at the board.
"This is jolly," said Fenton, who took the head of the table.
"Roast-beef, to wit?" said Meredith.
"Roast-beef is a good thing if you are hungry, as I am; but I did not
mean that. It is uncommonly jolly to be out of the way of the
governors."
Maggie looked up astonished.
"'Rulers are not a terror to good works,'" said Meredith.
"They're a nuisance, though."
"Only to one portion of society. I hope you do not class yourself with
them."
"Do you mean," said Maggie, making big eyes, "do you mean, Fenton, that
you are glad papa and mamma are in California?"
"No. Only one of 'em. Mamma never interferes with me."
"She leaves it to papa to do," said Maggie, with dignity and sageness.
"I am glad she does. Shows her wisdom. I can tell what is good for me as
well as anybody else."
"Always do it, I suppose?"
"That's just my affair," said Fenton. "There is no use in putting chains
round a fellow--all the good of it is, he must just break the chains."
"Do you call papa's commands, chains?" said Maggie.
"Don't stare, Maggie; nothing is so vulgar."
"I am glad Uncle Eden is coming, to make you behave yourself."
"If he tries it on, I shall bolt," said Fenton. "I am out for some fun;
and if I can't get it at home I'll get it somewhere else."
Meredith succeeded in turning the conversation to a pleasanter subject;
nevertheless Fenton's deliverances shocked his little sister several
times in the course of the dinner. Among other things, Fenton would go
down to the wine-cellar, to see if a bottle or two might not by chance
have been left; and though the key was not to be had and he came back
discomfited, Maggie could not get over the audacity of his proposition.
She was further and exceedingly shocked after dinner when Fenton
proposed to Meredith to have a cigar. Meredith declining, Fenton went
out to enjoy his cigar alone.
"Fenton is grown very wild," said Maggie.
"Boys can't be like girls," said Esther.
"I don't see why they can't be as respectable as girls," said Maggie.
"They never are, my dear," said Flora. "Comfort yourself. They will run
into what they don't like just to have their own way; because what they
do like is ordered or advised by some kind friend."
"Not true without exception, Maggie," said Meredith; "but there is some
truth in it. Don't worry about Fenton. I don't believe he means quite as
bad as he says."
"But smoking is so disgraceful--in a boy," said Maggie.
"It is not disgraceful in a man," said Esther.
"Well, it isn't nice," returned Maggie. "I always hate to come near that
Professor Wilkins, who always talks to me when he is here. He is kind,
but his breath is dreadful."
Fenton was not so fond of the company of his cigar but that he soon
forsook it. And then his company indoors was hardly an acquisition. He
talked big of doings at the school where he was now placed, horrified
Maggie by showing that he was quite as lawless as in old times, and put
an effectual bar to any reading, or talk either, except of the sort that
suited himself.
"What's up?" he asked at last. "What shall we do to make the time go?"
"Time does not need any whip with us," said Meredith. "He goes fast
enough."
"Oh, we are going out in the woods to dinner," said Maggie.
"You were there to-day."
"Well, we are going to-morrow--and every day. We have a bonfire, and a
nice lunch, and the girls work, and Ditto reads to us."
"Jolly slow!" said Fenton. "I can't stand much of that. I shall go
a-fishing."
"Very well," said Esther. "And come to us for lunch?"
"Same place? It's too far off."
"Then we'll go into the pine wood," said Maggie. "The pine wood is
nice--and the pine needles make a beautiful carpet--and we want to go to
a different place every day."
So it was arranged.
CHAPTER IX.
The same sweet weather continued again the next day; the air was even
warmer still, the leaves of oaks and maples, turning more and more, were
growing browner and ruddier, and the glow on the hills more deep. The
pine wood, however, which lay behind, that is, north of the house, at no
great distance, was uninvaded by this autumn glow. The soft, blue gleam
of the pines alone stood against the heaven's mild blue overhead, and
pine needles, brown and thick, carpeted the ground everywhere between
the rocks. For rocks were almost everywhere at Mosswood. Only on the
skirts of the wood one might see a flaming maple branch, or a golden
cloud of hickory here and there, and here and there a cat-briar vine
taking a tawny hue, or some low-growing cornus putting on lovely tints
of madder at the edges of its leaves. Through the wood the little party
wandered, not knowing where to choose to stop, and Meredith patiently
drew the cart along waiting for orders. At last, on a little rising
ground they found an open space, yet shadowed enough, from which there
was a lookout to the house in the valley; truly no more than the
chimneys could be seen; and a wider space of blue sky, and the hills
towards the south. This would do. Here were pine needles enough for a
carpet, and a felled pine log gave a convenient seat to those who liked
it. For Meredith and Maggie preferred the ground and the pine needles.
The cart was drawn up under the shade of a tree; afghan and worsted
embroidery were taken out; shawls were spread; and the party settled
themselves for a morning of comfort.
"This is good!" said Meredith delaying to open his book.
"How perfectly delicious this warm smell of the pines is!" said Flora.
"You use strong language, Flo, but for once not exaggerated. We have not
got the sound of the wood-chopper's axe to-day."
"I'll tell you what you may hear, though, if you listen," said
Esther,--"the woodpecker--
    'The woodpecker tapping the hollow beech-tree;'
only there are no beech-trees on the place. You may hear him on an oak,
though."
"This hazy light under the pines--through the pines--is bewitching. O
October! O Mosswood!" Meredith exclaimed. "What is so pretty as these
autumn woods?"
"What are you going to read us to-day?" said his sister. "Don't get
poetical."
"I will read you one or two little bits first, which touch something
Maggie and I were talking of yesterday. We do not want a bonfire to-day;
it's too warm."
"No; we will make just a tiny little blaze by and by, to boil our
kettle. It would be too warm for a bonfire; and there are no trees here
to be cut."
"I should think not!" said Meredith looking up at the blue-green pine
needles over his head. "Well, here's a story for you."
"Heathen?" asked Flora.
"No, Christian. 'There was a man, once upon a time, whom God had richly
blessed. He had received a year's income of seven hundred thalers. Four
hundred of them he needed and used for his house and family wants, and
three hundred were left over. So he thought at first he would put the
money out at interest, and enjoy the comfort of receiving rents which
were growing while he was sleeping. As he was just setting about this,
he read in a mission paper about the wants of the heathen; and the
Sunday next following he heard a preaching about how the dear Lord is
the safest of all to trust money to, and gives the best interest. So he
made a short piece of work of it, and sent his three hundred thalers to
the dear Lord for the conversion of the heathen, and said, "Lord, take
Thou them; I got them from Thee, and there is all this left." "Wife,"
said he, when he came home at evening, "I have done a good bit of
business to-day; I have got rid of my three hundred thalers, and am quit
of any care of the money, over and above." "Then you may thank the dear
Lord for that," said his wife. "And so I do," he answered.
"'Do I not hear at this point, not merely many a child of the world, but
also many a believer, secretly half saying, "No, but what is out of
reason is out of reason!"--and so do I see a certain compassionate smile
playing about mouth-corners. But wait a bit; there is something coming
that is more crazy yet. The next year the man was overloaded with such a
blessing, that instead of seven hundred thalers, he made fourteen
hundred thalers, and he did not know where it all came from. Then what
does he do but take the surplus, one thousand thalers, and send it to
the mission. Is the story true? do you say. You can ask the Lord "in
that day;" he knows the story.'"
"I like that," said Maggie.
"Why?" Flora asked.
"I think it is nice," said Maggie with a shrug of her shoulders.
"I don't see it. What good to the man to have twice as much as he had
before, if he must give it all right away again?"
"Why, he has the pleasure of giving it!" cried Maggie.
"And it shows, at any rate, that he did not get poor by his first
venture," said Meredith. "And the Lord will reckon it 'at that day' as
all done for Him."
"I don't think people are obliged to give away all they have got," said
Flora.
"Suppose they do not reckon anything they have their own? The Christians
in the early times did not, if the Lord's work or the needs of others
wanted it more."
"Extravagance!" said Flora. "Just enthusiasm."
"Come, I will read you another story. But the poor woman who gave all
she had into the Lord's treasury was not rated as a fool by Him. I
will read you now--
"'A PROBLEM ABOUT STUTEN MONEY.
"'Most of you know, it is true, right well what stuten money is, but
certainly all do not. Among us, when people go to church on Sunday, the
children and younger serving people of the peasants get a groschen to
take along, with which they can buy a stuten, that is, a white roll, at
noon when they come out of church; by the help of which they can stay in
the village and so go to church again in the afternoon. Now there are a
boy, a girl, and an old woman known to me, who have no other money but
the stuten money they get on Sundays. So each one of them falls to
considering how he or she can do something for the heathen. And they
arrange it on this wise. One of them every other Sunday eats no roll,
and thinks within herself, "I ate as much as I wanted this morning at
home, and I can do the same again this evening." The two others buy each
a small roll for half a groschen, and lay up the other half-groschen
every Sunday; and when the year comes round, they have all three of
them, counting the festivals, thirty groschen saved up, and bring them
with glad, smiling faces to go for the conversion of the heathen. And
upon being afterwards asked whether hunger did not often trouble them on
Sunday? they say, they have always felt as if they had had enough; and,
with God's help, they will do the same way next year.'"
"What sort of a story do you call that?" asked Flora when her brother
paused.
"I call it a story of what can be done."
"And I call it a story of what ought not to be done. Both the children
and the old woman needed their bread for themselves; it was not good for
them to go without it. And what is a groschen? or thirty groschen?"
"What are 'two mites, which make a farthing?'"
"Oh, that is in the Bible."
"But it was in a poor woman's heart first, or we should never have had
it in the Bible."
"Well, look at our luncheon," said Flora.
"I will look at it when I see it. What then?"
"Do you mean that we shall do wrong to eat it?"
"Not at all."
"How can those people be right and we not wrong?"
"Yes, Ditto," said Maggie. "I do not understand."
"Those people must give their groschen or give nothing. It was all they
could give."
"But we might give more than we do, if we would live on bread and
water," said Flora. "If we are to give all we could give, our luncheon
would come to a good many groschen, I can tell you."
"We must ask Mr. Murray. I am not wise enough to talk to you," said
Meredith. "I hope he will come; we are getting work ready for him.
Meantime I will read you another little story. Maybe we shall find some
light.
"'AS POOR, YET MAKING MANY RICH.
"'There was a poor day-labourer who lived by his work from hand to
mouth. He heard it read out of the Old Testament, that under the old
covenant every Israelite was bound to give to God the tenth of all his
incomings. That went through and through the man's head, and he thought:
Could the Israelites do that by the law, and should not we Christians be
able to do it by the love of Christ? So, honestly and faithfully, he
lays by the tenth of his daily wages; the Lord blesses him, so that many
a time he earns sixteen groschen a day; and at the end of the year he
comes with his hands full, bringing sixteen thaler twenty groschen for
the conversion of the heathen, and with hearty pleasure; and he says,
"The love of Christ constraineth me so, I have wanted for nothing."'"
"Not much of a story," said Meredith, in concluding, "but a good deal of
a suggestion."
"Suggestion of what?" asked his sister.
"Duty. Certainly a Christian ought to be able to do more for love than
an old Hebrew did for law; and from this time I will imitate that old
German fellow."
"But, Ditto," exclaimed his sister, "a tenth of your income, you must
remember, is a great deal."
"Not in proportion," said Meredith. "He would want every one of his
remaining groschen for his necessities; I should not. It seems to me,
the richer one is, the larger the proportion should be that should go to
the Lord's uses."
"I shall ask Mr. Murray to make you reasonable!" Flora exclaimed. "Stop
talking, and go on with your reading."
"The next story is about 'One Groschen and Two Pennies.'"
"'It is true what the Bible says--"The Lord maketh sore, and bindeth up;
He woundeth, and His hands make whole." My heart learnt the meaning of
this word when a short time ago I had to expel two pupils from the
Mission-house, who had been led astray by Satan. This gave me great
pain, but it had to be done, for their sakes and for the sake of the
house; and it was somewhat alleviated in that they came back sorry and
penitent and were taken in again.
"'To the honour of the Lord I will here speak good of the balm which
shortly after my great hurt He laid upon the wounds. May it have
somewhat of the sweetness of that ointment which filled the whole house.
"'Soon after the departure of the pupils was made known, I had a visit
from an eight-year-old boy. He had a groschen in his hand and a
reading-book under his arm. He told me that he had found this groschen
fourteen days before on the way to church; that he had asked his father
to publish the discovery, and he himself had announced it in school. But
nobody had been found to own the groschen. I said to him: "Well, what do
you think, my child? does the groschen belong to you? will you buy
something with it?" The boy answered, "No, the groschen is not mine, so
I am not going to keep it. I will give it to the dear Saviour for the
poor heathen children, to get a spelling-book for them." When I
questioned him further, he said that once in the church, where his
father takes him every Sunday, I had said "whoever keeps what does not
belong to him is a thief; and"--he added with great seriousness, "you
said, a Christian child must not be a thief!" I received the groschen
now and thanked him. But the boy had not done yet. He asked me if it
were true that two of the pupils had been expelled from the
Mission-house. When with a sorrowful face I assented, he answered, "You
need not be so troubled about it. You can send me instead. I can spell
already, and I will soon learn to read." When the little fellow with
great earnestness had said that, I could not help folding him to my
breast in heartfelt gladness. Then I knelt down, and together with him
prayed that the Lord would some time make a true missionary of him. He
went away at last, but could not at first rightly understand how it was
that I had as yet no use for him.
"'Soon after this, I receive a letter from a dear friend who had been
making a lively stir in the matter of the Mission among his school and
the parish to which his school belonged. The Lord had granted him access
to the hearts of great and small, and with cordial pleasure he had been
collecting till he should have a full thaler made up, which then should
be sent me. Now he wrote the thaler was made up, and he sent it, and
this was how it had come about. In a hospital, where he is accustomed to
hold devotional service for an hour, he had mentioned the conversion of
the heathen. The next day came a widow, shoved four groschen under one
of the books which lay on the table, and then, with a greeting from her
children, laid two groschen on the table, saying, "Now the thaler will
be made up!" To this Mission thaler, which indeed was made up now, a
little girl of nine years old had every Sunday contributed two pennies,
which she received from her mother to buy rolls with. Some time after,
the mother brought the child's two pennies again, silently; but it
