faithful still, but her intense interest in his world of books was much
lessened: for she was reading a more engrossing volume than any of
these,—the heart of the man she loved. Something was gone which he had
bargained for, thought he had secured, and now felt wronged at
losing,—an indescribable charm, especially pervading his intercourse
with Gladys; for this friendship, sweet as honey, pure as dew, had just
begun to blossom, when a chilly breath seemed to check its progress,
leaving only cheerful service, not the spontaneous devotion which had
been so much to him.
He said nothing; but for all his imperturbability, it annoyed him, as
the gnat annoyed the lion; and, though scarcely acknowledged even to
himself, it lurked under various moods and motives, impelling him to
words and acts which produced dangerous consequences.
“Pray forgive us, we are very late.”
“Time goes so fast, we quite forgot!” exclaimed Felix and Gladys both
together, as they hurried into the library, one bright March morning,
looking so blithe and young, that Helwyze suddenly felt old and sad and
bitter-hearted, as if they had stolen something from him.
“I have learned to wait,” he said, with the cold brevity which was the
only sign of displeasure Gladys ever saw in him.
In remorseful silence she hastened to find her place in the book they
were reading; but Canaris, who seemed bubbling over with good spirits,
took no notice of the chill, and asked, with unabated cheerfulness,—
“Any commissions, sir, beside these letters? I feel as if I ‘could put a
girdle round the earth in forty minutes,’ it is such a glorious,
spring-like day.”
“Nothing but the letters. Stay a moment, while I add another;” and,
taking up the pen he had laid by, Helwyze wrote hastily,—
    “TO OLIVIA AT THE SOUTH:—
    “The swallows will be returning soon; return with them, if you
    can. I am deadly dull: come and make a little mischief to amuse
    me. I miss you.
                                                            JASPER.”
Sealing and directing this, he handed it to Canaris, who had been
whispering to Gladys more like a lover than a husband of half a year’s
standing. Something in the elder man’s face made the younger glance
involuntarily at the letter as he took it.
“Olivia? I promised to write her, but I”—
“Dared not?”
“No: I forgot it;” and Canaris went off, laughing at the grande
passion, which now seemed very foolish and far away.
“This time, I think, you will remember, for I mean to fight fire with
fire,” thought Helwyze, with a grim smile, such as Louis XI. might have
worn when sending some gallant young knight to carry his own
death-warrant.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  XII.
Olivia came before the swallows; for the three words, “I miss you,”
would have brought her from the ends of the earth, had she exiled
herself so far. She had waited for him to want and call her, as he often
did when others wearied or failed him. Seldom had so long a time passed
without some word from him; and endless doubts, fears, conjectures, had
harassed her, as month after month went by, and no summons came. Now she
hastened, ready for any thing he might ask of her, since her reward
would be a glimpse of the only heaven she knew.
“Amuse Felix: he is falling in love with his wife, and it spoils both of
them for my use. He says he has forgotten you. Come often, and teach him
to remember, as penalty for his bad taste and manners,” was the single
order Helwyze gave; but Olivia needed no other; and, for the sake of
coming often, would have smiled upon a far less agreeable man than
Canaris.
Gladys tried to welcome the new guest cordially, as an unsuspicious dove
might have welcomed a falcon to its peaceful cote; but her heart sunk
when she found her happy quiet sorely disturbed, her husband’s place
deserted, and the old glamour slowly returning to separate them, in
spite of all her gentle arts. For Canaris, feeling quite safe in the
sincere affection which now bound him to his wife, was foolhardy in his
desire to show Olivia how heart-whole he had become. This piqued her
irresistibly, because Helwyze was looking on, and she would win his
approval at any cost. So these three, from divers motives, joined
together to teach poor Gladys how much a woman can suffer with silent
fortitude and make no sign.
The weeks that followed seemed unusually gay and sunny ones; for April
came in blandly, and Olivia made a pleasant stir throughout the house by
her frequent visits, and the various excursions she proposed. Many of
these Gladys escaped; for her pain was not the jealousy that would drive
her to out-rival her rival, but the sorrowful shame and pity which made
her long to hide herself, till Felix should come back and be forgiven.
Helwyze naturally declined the long drives, the exhilarating rides in
the bright spring weather, which were so attractive to the younger man,
and sat at home watching Gladys, now more absorbingly interesting than
ever. He could not but admire the patience, strength, and dignity of the
creature; for she made no complaint, showed no suspicion, asked no
advice, but went straight on, like one who followed with faltering feet,
but unwavering eye, the single star in all the sky that would lead her
right. A craving curiosity to know what she felt and thought possessed
him, and he invited confidence by unwonted kindliness, as well as the
unfailing courtesy he showed her.
But Gladys would not speak either to him or to her husband, who seemed
wilfully blind to the slowly changing face, all the sadder for the smile
it always wore when his eyes were on it. At first, Helwyze tried his
gentlest arts; but, finding her as true as brave, was driven, by the
morbid curiosity which he had indulged till it became a mania, to use
means as subtle as sinful,—like a burglar, who, failing to pick a lock,
grows desperate and breaks it, careless of consequences.
Taking his daily walk through the house, he once came upon Gladys
watering the jardinière, which was her especial care, and always kept
full of her favorite plants. She was not singing as she worked, but
seriously busy as a child, holding in both hands her little watering-pot
to shower the thirsty ferns and flowers, who turned up their faces to be
washed with the silent delight which was their thanks.
“See how the dear things enjoy it! I feel as if they knew and watched
for me, and I never like to disappoint them of their bath,” she said,
looking over her shoulder, as he paused beside her. She was used to this
now, and was never surprised or startled when below stairs by his
noiseless approach.
“They are doing finely. Did Moss bring in some cyclamens? They are in
full bloom now, and you are fond of them, I think?”
“Yes, here they are: both purple and white, so sweet and lovely! See how
many buds this one has. I shall enjoy seeing them come out, they unfurl
so prettily;” and, full of interest, Gladys parted the leaves to show
several baby buds, whose rosy faces were just peeping from their green
hoods.
Helwyze liked to see her among the flowers; for there was something
peculiarly innocent and fresh about her then, as if the woman forgot her
griefs, and was a girl again. It struck him anew, as she stood there in
the sunshine, leaning down to tend the soft leaves and cherish the
delicate buds with a caressing hand.
“Like seeks like: you are a sort of cyclamen yourself. I never observed
it before, but the likeness is quite striking,” he said, with the slow
smile which usually prefaced some speech which bore a double meaning.
“Am I?” and Gladys eyed the flowers, pleased, yet a little shy, of
compliment from him.
“This is especially like you,” continued Helwyze, touching one of the
freshest. “Out of these strong sombre leaves rises a wraith-like
blossom, with white, softly folded petals, a rosy color on its modest
face, and a most sweet perfume for those whose sense is fine enough to
perceive it. Most of all, perhaps, it resembles you in this,—it hides
its heart, and, if one tries to look too closely, there is danger of
snapping the slender stem.”
“That is its nature, and it cannot help being shy. I kneel down and look
up without touching it; then one sees that it has nothing to hide,”
protested Gladys, following out the flower fancy, half in earnest, half
in jest, for she felt there was a question and a reproach in his words.
“Perhaps not; let us see, in my way.” With a light touch Helwyze turned
the reluctant cyclamen upward, and in its purple cup there clung a newly
fallen drop, like a secret tear.
Mute and stricken, Gladys looked at the little symbol of herself,
owning, with a throb of pain, that if in nothing else, they were alike
in that.
Helwyze stood silent likewise, inhaling the faint fragrance while he
softly ruffled the curled petals as if searching for another tear.
Suddenly Gladys spoke out with the directness which always gave him a
keen pleasure, asking, as she stretched her hand involuntarily to shield
the more helpless flower,—
“Sir, why do you wish to read my heart?”
“To comfort it.”
“Do I need comfort, then?”
“Do you not?”
“If I have a sorrow, God only can console me, and He only need know it.
To you it should be sacred. Forgive me if I seem ungrateful; but you
cannot help me, if you would.”
“Do you doubt my will?”
“I try to doubt no one; but I fear—I fear many things;” and, as if
afraid of saying too much, Gladys broke off, to hurry away, wearing so
strange a look that Helwyze was consumed with a desire to know its
meaning.
He saw no more of her till twilight, for Canaris took her place just
then, reading a foreign book, which she could not manage; but, when
Felix went out, he sought one of his solitary haunts, hoping she would
appear.
She did; for the day closed early with a gusty rain, and the sunset hour
was gray and cold, leaving no after-glow to tint the western sky and
bathe the great room in ruddy light. Pale and noiseless as a spirit,
Gladys went to and fro, trying to quiet the unrest that made her nights
sleepless, her days one long struggle to be patient, just, and kind. She
tried to sing, but the song died in her throat; she tried to sew, but
her eyes were dim, and the flower under her needle only reminded her
that “pansies were for thoughts,” and hers, alas! were too sad for
thinking; she took up a book, but laid it down again, since Felix was
not there to finish it with her. Her own rooms seemed so empty, she
could not return thither when she had looked for him in vain; and,
longing for some human voice to speak to her, it was a relief to come
upon Helwyze sitting in his lonely corner,—for she never now went to the
library, unless duty called her.
“A dull evening, and dull company,” he said, as she paused beside him,
glad to have found something to take her out of herself, for a time at
least.
“Such a long day! and such a dreary night as it will be!” she answered,
leaning her forehead against the window-pane, to watch the drops fall,
and listen to the melancholy wind.
“Shorten the one and cheer the other, as I do: sleep, dream, and
forget.”
“I cannot!” and there was a world of suffering in the words that broke
from her against her will.
“Try my sleep-compeller as freely as I tried yours. See, these will give
you one, if not all the three desired blessings,—quiet slumber,
delicious dreams, or utter oblivion for a time.”
As he spoke, Helwyze had drawn out a little bonbonnière of
tortoise-shell and silver, which he always carried, and shaken into his
palm half a dozen white comfits, which he offered to Gladys, with a
benign expression born of real sympathy and compassion. She hesitated;
and he added, in a tone of mild reproach, which smote her generous heart
with compunction,—
“Since I may not even try to minister to your troubled mind, let me, at
least, give a little rest to your weary body. Trust me, child, these
cannot hurt you; and, strong as you are, you will break down if you do
not sleep.”
Without a word, she took them; and, as they melted on her tongue, first
sweet, then bitter, she stood leaning against the rainy window-pane,
listening to Helwyze, who began to talk as if he too had tasted the
Indian drug, which “made the face of Coleridge shine, as he conversed
like one inspired.”
It seemed a very simple, friendly act; but this man had learned to know
how subtly the mind works; to see how often an apparently impulsive
action is born of an almost unconscious thought, an unacknowledged
purpose, a deeply hidden motive, which to many seem rather the child
than the father of the deed. Helwyze did not deceive himself, and owned
that baffled desire prompted that unpremeditated offer, and was ready to
avail itself of any self-betrayal which might follow its acceptance, for
he had given Gladys hasheesh.
It could not harm; it might soothe and comfort her unrest. It surely
would make her forget for a while, and in that temporary oblivion
perhaps he might discover what he burned to know. The very uncertainty
of its effect added to the daring of the deed; and, while he talked, he
waited to see how it would affect her, well knowing that in such a
temperament as hers all processes are rapid. For an hour he conversed so
delightfully of Rome and its wonders, that Gladys was amazed to find
Felix had come in, unheard for once.
All through dinner she brightened steadily, thinking the happy mood was
brought by her prodigal’s return, quite forgetting Helwyze and his
bitter-sweet bonbons.
“I shall stay at home, and enjoy the society of my pretty wife. What
have you done to make yourself so beautiful to-night? Is it the new
gown?” asked Canaris, surveying her with laughing but most genuine
surprise and satisfaction as they returned to the drawing-room again.
“It is not new: I made it long ago, to please you, but you never noticed
it before,” answered Gladys, glancing at the pale-hued dress, all broad,
soft folds from waist to ankle, with its winter trimming of swan’s down
at the neck and wrists; simple, but most becoming to her flower-like
face and girlish figure.
“What cruel blindness! But I see and admire it now, and honestly declare
that not Olivia in all her splendor is arrayed so much to my taste as
you, my Sancta Simplicitas.”
“It is pleasant to hear you say so; but that alone does not make me
happy: it must be having you at home all to myself again,” she
whispered, with shining eyes, cheeks that glowed with a deeper rose each
hour, and an indescribably blest expression in a face which now was both
brilliant and dreamy.
Helwyze heard what she said, and, fearing to lose sight of her, promptly
challenged Canaris to chess, a favorite pastime with them both. For an
hour they played, well matched and keenly interested, while Gladys sat
by, already tasting the restful peace, the delicious dreams, promised
her.
The clock was on the stroke of eight, the game was nearly over, when a
quick ring arrested Helwyze in the act of making the final move. There
was a stir in the hall, then, bringing with her a waft of fresh, damp
air, Olivia appeared, brave in purple silk and Roman gold.
“I thought you were all asleep or dead; but now I see the cause of this
awful silence,” she cried. “Don’t speak, don’t stir; let me enjoy the
fine tableau you make. Retsch’s ‘Game of Life,’ quite perfect, and most
effective.”
It certainly was to an observer; for Canaris, flushed and eager, looked
the young man to the life; Helwyze, calm but intent, with his finger on
his lip, pondering that last fateful move, was an excellent Satan; and
behind them stood Gladys, wonderfully resembling the wistful angel, with
that new brightness on her face.
“Which wins?” asked Olivia, rustling toward them, conscious of having
made an impressive entrance; for both men looked up to welcome her,
though Gladys never lifted her eyes from the mimic battle Felix seemed
about to lose.
“I do, as usual,” answered Helwyze, turning to finish the game with the
careless ease of a victor.
“Not this time;” and Gladys touched a piece which Canaris in the hurry
of the moment was about to overlook. He saw its value at a glance, made
the one move that could save him, and in an instant cried “Checkmate,”
with a laugh of triumph.
“Not fair, the angel interfered,” said Olivia, shaking a warning finger
at Gladys, who echoed her husband’s laugh with one still more exultant,
as she put her hand upon his shoulder, saying, in a low, intense voice
never heard from her lips before,—
“I have won him; he is mine, and cannot be taken from me any more.”
“Dearest child, no one wants him, except to play with and admire,” began
Olivia, rather startled by the look and manner of the lately meek, mute
Gladys.
Here Helwyze struck in, anxious to avert Olivia’s attention; for her
undesirable presence disconcerted him, since her woman’s wit might
discover what it was easy to conceal from Canaris.
“You have come to entertain us, like the amiable enchantress that you
are?” he asked, suggestively; for nothing charmed Olivia more than
permission to amuse him, when others failed.
“I have a thought,—a happy thought,—if Gladys will help me. You have
given me one living picture: I will give you others, and she shall sing
the scenes we illustrate.”
“Take Felix, and give us ‘The God and the Bayadere,’” said Helwyze,
glancing at the young pair behind them, he intent upon their
conversation, she upon him. “No, I will have only Gladys. You will act
and sing for us, I know?” and Olivia turned to her with a most engaging
smile.
“I never acted in my life, but I will try. I think I should like it for
I feel as if I could do any thing to-night;” and she came to them with a
swift step, an eager air, as if longing to find some outlet for the
strange energy which seemed to thrill every nerve and set her heart to
beating audibly.
“You look so. Do you know all these songs?” asked Olivia, taking up the
book which had suggested her happy thought.
“There are but four: I know them all. I will gladly sing them; for I set
them to music, if they had none of their own already. I often do that to
those Felix writes me.”
“Come, then. I want the key of the great press, where you keep your
spoils, Jasper.”
“Mrs. Bland will give it you. Order what you will, if you are going to
treat us to an Arabian Night’s entertainment.”
“Better than that. We are going to teach a small poet, by illustrating
the work of a great one;” and, with a mischievous laugh, Olivia
vanished, beckoning Gladys to follow.
The two men beguiled the time as best they might: Canaris playing softly
to himself in the music-room; Helwyze listening intently to the sounds
that came from behind the curtains, now dropped over a double door-way
leading to the lower end of the hall. Olivia’s imperious voice was
heard, directing men and maids. More than once an excited laugh from
Gladys jarred upon his ear; and, as minute after minute passed, his
impatience to see her again increased.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 XIII.
After what would have seemed a wonderfully short time to a more careless
waiter, three blows were struck, in the French fashion, and Canaris had
barely time to reach his place, when the deep blue curtains slid
noiselessly apart, showing the visible portion of the hall, arranged to
suggest a mediæval room. An easy task, when a suit of rusty armor
already stood there; and Helwyze had brought spoils from all quarters of
the globe, in the shape of old furniture, tapestry, weapons, and
trophies of many a wild hunt.
“What is it?” whispered Canaris eagerly.
“An Idyl of the King.”
“I see: the first. How well they look it!”
They did; Olivia, as
                           “An ancient dame in dim brocade;
             And near her, like a blossom, vermeil-white,
             That lightly breaks a faded flower-sheath,
             Stood the fair Enid, all in faded silk.”
Gladys, clad in a quaint costume of tarnished gray and silver damask,
singing, in “the sweet voice of a bird,”—
        “Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel, and lower the proud;
        Turn thy wild wheel through sunshine, storm, and cloud;
        Thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate.
        “Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel with smile and frown;
        With that wild wheel we go not up nor down;
        Our hoard is little, but our hearts are great.
        “Smile and we smile, the lords of many lands;
        Frown and we smile, the lords of our own hands;
        For man is man and master of his fate.
        “Turn, turn thy wheel above the staring crowd;
        Thy wheel and thou art shadows in the cloud;
        Thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate.”
There was something inexpressibly touching in the way Gladys gave the
words, which had such significance addressed to those who listened so
intently, that they nearly forgot to pay the tribute which all actors,
the greatest as the least, desire, when the curtain dropped, and the
song was done.
“A capital idea of Olivia’s, and beautifully carried out. This promises
to be pleasant;” and Helwyze sat erect upon the divan, where Canaris
came to lounge beside him.
“Which comes next? I don’t remember. If it is Vivien, they will have to
skip it, unless they call you in for Merlin,” he said, talking gayly,
because a little conscience-stricken by the look Gladys wore, as she
sung, with her eyes upon him,—
            “Our hoard is little, but our hearts are great.”
“They will not want a Merlin; for Gladys could not act Vivien, if she
would,” answered Helwyze, tapping restlessly as he waited.
“She said she could do ‘any thing’ to-night; and, upon my life, she
looked as if she might even beguile you ‘mighty master,’ of your
strongest spell.”
“She will never try.”
But both were mistaken; for, when they looked again, the dim light
showed a dark and hooded shape, with glittering eyes and the semblance
of a flowing, hoary beard, leaning half-hidden in a bower of tall shrubs
from the conservatory. It was Olivia, as Merlin; and, being of noble
proportions, she looked the part excellently. Upon the wizard’s knee sat
Vivien,—
           “A twist of gold was round her hair;
           A robe of samite without price, that more exprest
           Than hid her, clung about her lissome limbs,
           In color like the satin-shining palm
           On sallows in the windy gleams of March.”
In any other mood, Gladys would never have consented to be loosely clad
in a great mantle of some Indian fabric, which shimmered like woven
light, with its alternate stripes of gold-covered silk and softest wool.
Shoulders and arms showed rosy white under the veil of hair which swept
to her knee, as she clung there, singing sweet and low, with eyes on
Merlin’s face, lips near his own, and head upon his breast:—
              “In Love, if Love be Love, if Love be ours,
              Faith and unfaith can ne’er be equal powers;
              Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all.
              “It is the little rift within the lute
              That by and by will make the music mute,
              And ever widening, slowly silence all.
              “The little rift within the lover’s lute,
              Or little pitted speck in garner’d fruit,
              That, rotting inward, slowly moulders all.
              “It is not worth the keeping: let it go:
              But shall it? Answer, darling, answer ‘No;’
              And trust me not at all or all in all.”
There Gladys seemed to forget her part, and, turning, stretched her arms
towards her husband, as if in music she had found a tongue to plead her
cause. The involuntary gesture recalled to her that other verse which
Vivien added to her song; and something impelled her to sing it,
standing erect, with face, figure, voice all trembling with the strong
emotion that suddenly controlled her:—
         “My name, once mine, now thine, is closelier mine,
         For fame, could fame be mine, that fame were thine;
         And shame, could shame be thine, that shame were mine;
         So trust me not at all or all in all.”
Down fell the curtain there, and the two men looked at one another in
silence for an instant, dazzled, troubled, and surprised; for in this
brilliant, impassioned creature they did not recognize the Gladys they
believed they knew so well.
“What possessed her to sing that? She is so unlike herself, I do not
know her,” said Canaris, excited by the discoveries he was making.
“She is inspired to-night; so be prepared for any thing. These women
will work wonders, they are acting to the men they love,” answered
Helwyze, warily, yet excited also; because, for him, a double drama was
passing on that little stage, and he found it marvellously fascinating.
“I never knew how beautiful she was!” mused Canaris, half aloud, his
eyes upon the blue draperies which hid her from his sight.
“You never saw her in such gear before. Splendor suits her present mood,
as well as simplicity becomes her usual self-restraint. You have made
her jealous, and your angel will prove herself a woman, after all.”
“Is that the cause of this sudden change in her? Then I don’t regret
playing truant, for the woman suits me better than the angel,” cried
Canaris, conscious that the pale affection he had borne his wife so long
was already glowing with new warmth and color, in spite of his seeming
neglect.
“Wait till you see Olivia as Guinevere. I know she cannot resist that
part, and I suspect she is willing to efface herself so far that she may
take us by storm by and by.”
Helwyze prophesied truly; and, when next the curtains parted, the
stately Queen sat in the nunnery of Almesbury, with the little novice at
her feet. Olivia was right splendid now, for her sumptuous beauty well
became the costly stuffs in which she had draped herself with the
graceful art of a woman whose physical loveliness was her best
possession. A trifle too gorgeous, perhaps, for the repentant
Guinevere; but a most grand and gracious spectacle, nevertheless, as she
leaned in the tall carved chair, with jewelled arms lying languidly
across her lap, and absent eyes still full of love and longing for lost
Launcelot.
Gladys, in white wimple and close-folded gown of gray, sat on a stool
beside the “one low light,” humming softly, her rosary fallen at her
feet,—
                “the Queen looked up, and said,
            ‘O maiden, if indeed you list to sing
          Sing, and unbind my heart, that I may weep.’
          Whereat full willingly sang the little maid,
            Late, late, so late! and dark the night and chill!
          Late, late, so late! but we can enter still.
          Too late! too late! ye cannot enter now.
          No light had we: for that we do repent,
          And, learning this, the bridegroom will relent.
          Too late! too late! ye cannot enter now.
          No light, so late! and dark and chill the night!
          O let us in, that we may find the light!
          Too late! too late! ye cannot enter now.
          Have we not heard the bridegroom is so sweet?
          O let us in, tho’ late, to kiss his feet!
          No, no, too late! ye cannot enter now.”
Slowly the proud head had drooped, the stately figure sunk, till, as the
last lament died away, nothing remained of splendid Guinevere but a
hidden face, a cloud of black hair from which the crown had fallen, a
heap of rich robes quivering with the stormy sobs of a guilty woman’s
smitten heart. The curtains closed on this tableau, which was made the
more effective by the strong contrast between the despairing Queen and
the little novice telling her beads in meek dismay.
“Good heavens, that sounded like the wail of a lost soul! My blood runs
cold, and I feel as if I ought to say my prayers,” muttered Canaris,
with a shiver; for, with his susceptible temperament, music always
exerted over him an almost painful power.
“If you knew any,” sneered Helwyze, whose eyes now glittered with
something stronger than excitement.
“I do: Gladys taught me, and I am not ashamed to own it.”
“Much good may it do you.” Then, in a quieter tone, he asked, “Is there
any song in ‘Elaine’? I forget; and that is the only one we have not
had.”
“There is ‘The Song of Love and Death.’ Gladys was learning it lately;
and, if I remember rightly, it was heart-rending. I hope she will not
sing it, for this sort of thing is rather too much for me;” and Canaris
got up to wander aimlessly about, humming the gayest airs he knew, as if
to drown the sorrowful “Too late! too late!” still wailing in his ear.
By this time Gladys was no longer quite herself: an inward excitement
possessed her, a wild desire to sing her very heart out came over her,
and a strange chill, which she thought a vague presentiment of coming
ill, crept through her blood. Every thing seemed vast and awful; every
sense grew painfully acute; and she walked as in a dream, so vivid, yet
so mysterious, that she did not try to explain it even to herself. Her
identity was doubled: one Gladys moved and spoke as she was told,—a
pale, dim figure, of no interest to any one; the other was alive in
every fibre, thrilled with intense desire for something, and bent on
finding it, though deserts, oceans, and boundless realms of air were
passed to gain it.
Olivia wondered at her unsuspected power, and felt a little envious of
her enchanting gift. But she was too absorbed in “setting the stage,”
dressing her prima donna, and planning how to end the spectacle with her
favorite character of Cleopatra, to do more than observe that Gladys’s
eyes were luminous and large, her face growing more and more colorless,
her manner less and less excited, yet unnaturally calm.
“This is the last, and you have the stage alone. Do your best for Felix;
then you shall rest and be thanked,” she whispered, somewhat anxiously,
as she placed Elaine in her tower, leaning against the dark screen,
which was unfolded, to suggest the casement she flung back when
Launcelot passed below,—
                  “And glanced not up, nor waved his hand,
              Nor bade farewell, but sadly rode away.”
The “lily maid of Astolat” could not have looked more wan and weird than
Gladys, as she stood in her trailing robes of dead white, with loosely
gathered locks, hands clasped over the gay bit of tapestry which
simulated the cover of the shield, eyes that seemed to see something
invisible to those about her, and began her song, in a veiled voice, at
once so sad and solemn, that Helwyze held his breath, and Canaris felt
as if she called him from beyond the grave:—
           “Sweet is true love, tho’ given in vain, in vain;
           And sweet is death, who puts an end to pain;
           I know not which is sweeter, no, not I.
           Love, art thou sweet? then bitter death must be;
           Love, thou art bitter; sweet is death to me.
           O Love, if death be sweeter, let me die.
           Sweet love, that seems not made to fade away,
           Sweet death, that seems to make us loveless clay,
           I know not which is sweeter, no, not I.
           I fain would follow love, if that could be;
           I needs must follow death, who calls for me:
           Call and I follow, I follow! let me die!”
Carried beyond self-control by the unsuspected presence of the drug,
which was doing its work with perilous rapidity, Gladys, remembering
only that the last line should be sung with force, and that she sung for
Felix, obeyed the wild impulse to let her voice rise and ring out with a
shrill, despairing power and passion, which startled every listener, and
echoed through the room, like Elaine’s unearthly cry of hapless love and
death.
Olivia dropped her asp, terrified; the maids stared, uncertain whether
it was acting or insanity; and Helwyze sprung up aghast, fearing that he
had dared too much. But Canaris, seeing only the wild, woful eyes fixed
on his, the hands wrung as if in pain, forgot every thing but Gladys,
and rushed between the curtains, exclaiming in real terror,—
“Don’t look so! don’t sing so! my God, she is dying!”
Not dying, only slipping fast into the unconscious stage of the hasheesh
dream, whose coming none can foretell but those accustomed to its use.
Pale and quiet she lay in her husband’s arms, with half-open eyes and
fluttering breath, smiling up at him so strangely that he was bewildered
as well as panic-stricken. Olivia forgot her Cleopatra to order air and
water; the maids flew for salts and wine; Helwyze with difficulty hid
his momentary dismay; while Canaris, almost beside himself, could only
hang over the couch where lay “the lily-maid,” looking as if already
dead, and drifting down to Camelot.
“Gladys, do you know me?” he cried, as a little color came to her lips
after the fiery draught Olivia energetically administered.
The eyes opened wider, the smile grew brighter, and she lifted her hand
to bring him nearer, for he seemed immeasurably distant.
“Felix! Let me be still, quite still; I want to sleep. Good-night,
good-night.”
She thought she kissed him; then his face receded, vanished, and, as she
floated buoyantly away upon the first of the many oceans to be crossed
in her mysterious quest, a far-off voice seemed to say, solemnly, as if
in a last farewell,—
“Hush! let her sleep in peace.”
It was Helwyze; and, having felt her pulse, he assured them all that she
was only over-excited, must rest an hour or two, and would soon be quite
herself again. So the brief panic ended quietly; and, having lowered the
lights, spread Guinevere’s velvet mantle over her, and re-assured
themselves that she was sleeping calmly, the women went to restore order
to ante-room and hall, Canaris sat down to watch beside Gladys, and
Helwyze betook himself to the library.
“Is she still sleeping?” he asked, with unconcealable anxiety, when
Olivia joined him there.
“Like a baby. What a high-strung little thing it is. If she had strength
to bear the training, she would make a cantatrice to be proud of,
Jasper.”
“Ah, but she never would! Fancy that modest creature on a stage for all
the world to gape at. She was happiest in the nun’s gown to-night,
though simply ravishing as Vivien. The pretty, bare feet were most
effective; but how did you persuade her to it?”
“I had no sandals as a compromise: I therefore insisted that the part
must be so dressed or undressed, and she submitted. People usually do,
when I command.”
“She was on her mettle: I could see that; and well she might be, with
you for a rival. I give you my word, Olivia, if I did not know you were
nearly forty, I should swear it was a lie; for ‘age cannot wither nor
custom stale’ my handsome Cleopatra. We ought to have had that, by the
by: it used to be your best bit. I could not be your Antony, but Felix
might: he adores costuming, and would do it capitally.”
“Not old enough. Ah! what happy times those were;” and Olivia sighed
sincerely, yet dramatically, for she knew she was looking wonderfully
well, thrown down upon a couch, with her purple skirts sweeping about
her, and two fine arms banded with gold clasped over her dark head.
Helwyze had flattered with a purpose. Canaris was in the way, Gladys
might betray herself, and all was not safe yet; though in one respect
the experiment had succeeded admirably, for he still tingled with the
excitement of the evening. Now he wanted help, not sentiment, and,
ignoring the sigh, said, carelessly,—
“If all obey when you insist, just make Felix go home with you. The
drive will do him good, for he is as nervous as a woman, and I shall
have him fidgeting about all night, unless he forgets his fright.”
“But Gladys?”
“She will be the better for a quiet nap, and ready, by the time he
returns, to laugh at her heroics. He will only disturb her if he sits
there, like a mourner at a death-bed.”
“That sounds sensible and friendly, and you do it very well, Jasper; but
I am impressed that something is amiss. What is it? Better tell me; I
shall surely find it out, and will not work in the dark. I see mischief
in your eyes, and you cannot deceive me.”
Olivia spoke half in jest; but she had so often seen his face without a
mask, that it was difficult to wear one in her presence. He frowned,
hesitated, then fearing she would refuse the favor if he withheld the
secret, he leaned towards her and answered in a whisper,—
“I gave Gladys hasheesh, and do not care to have Felix know it.”
“Jasper, how dared you?”
“She was restless, suffering for sleep. I know what that is, and out of
pity gave her the merest taste. Upon my honor, no more than a child
might safely take. She did not know what it was, and I thought she would
only feel its soothing charm. She would, if it had not been for this
masquerading. I did not count on that, and it was too much for her.”
“Will she not suffer from the after-effects?”
“Not a whit, if she is let alone. An hour hence she will be deliciously
drowsy, and to-morrow none the worse. I had no idea it would affect her
so powerfully; but I do not regret it, for it showed what the woman is
capable of.”
“At your old tricks. You will never learn to let your fellow-creatures
alone, till something terrible stops you. You were always prying into
things, even as a boy, when I caught butterflies for you to look at.”
“I never killed them: only brushed off a trifle of the gloss by my
touch, and let them go again, none the worse, except for the loss of a
few invisible feathers.”
“Ah! but that delicate plumage is the glory of the insect; robbed of
that, its beauty is marred. No one but their Maker can search hearts
without harming them. I wonder how it will fare with yours when He looks
for its perfection?”
Olivia spoke with a sudden seriousness, a yearning look, which jarred on
nerves already somewhat unstrung, and Helwyze answered, in a mocking
tone that silenced her effectually,—
“I am desperately curious to know. If I can come and tell you, I will:
such pious interest deserves that attention.”
“Heaven forbid!” ejaculated Olivia, with a shiver.
“Then I will not. I have been such a poor ghost here, I suspect I
shall be glad to rest eternally when I once fall asleep, if I can.”
Weary was his voice, weary his attitude, as, leaning an elbow on either
knee, he propped his chin upon his hands, and sat brooding for a moment
with his eyes upon the ground, asking himself for the thousandth time
the great question which only hope and faith can answer truly.
Olivia rose. “You are tired; so am I. Good-night, Jasper, and pleasant
dreams. But remember, no more tampering with Gladys, or I must tell her
husband.”
“I have had my lesson. Take Felix with you, and I will send Mrs. Bland
to sit with her till he comes back. Good-night, my cousin; thanks for a
glimpse of the old times.” Such words, uttered with a pressure of the
hand, conquered Olivia’s last scruple, and she went away to prefer her
request in a form which made it impossible for Canaris to refuse. Gladys
still slept quietly. The distance was not long, the fresh air grateful,
Olivia her kindest self, and he obeyed, believing that the motherly old
woman would take his place as soon as certain housewifely duties
permitted.
Then Helwyze did an evil thing,—a thing few men could or would have
done. He deliberately violated the sanctity of a human soul, robbing it
alike of its most secret and most precious thoughts. Hasheesh had lulled
the senses which guarded the treasure; now the magnetism of a potent
will forced the reluctant lips to give up the key.
Like a thief he stole to Gladys’ side, took in his the dimpled hands
whose very childishness should have pleaded for her, and fixed his eyes
upon the face before him, untouched by its helpless innocence, its
unnatural expression. The half-open eyes were heavy as dew-drunken
violets, the sweet red mouth was set, the agitated bosom still rose and
fell, like a troubled sea subsiding after storm.
So sitting, stern and silent as the fate he believed in, Helwyze
concentrated every power upon the accomplishment of the purpose to which
he bent his will. He called it psychological curiosity; for not even to
himself did he dare confess the true meaning of the impulse which drove
him to this act, and dearly did he pay for it.
Soon the passive palms thrilled in his own, the breath came faint and
slow, color died, and life seemed to recede from the countenance,
leaving a pale effigy of the woman; lately so full of vitality. “It
works! it works!” muttered Helwyze, lifting his head at length to wipe
the dampness from his brow, and send a piercing glance about the shadowy
room. Then, kneeling down beside the couch, he put his lips to her ear,
whispering in a tone of still command,—
“Gladys, do you hear me?”
Like the echo of a voice, so low, expressionless, and distant was it,
the answer came,—
“I hear.”
“Will you answer me?”
“I must.”
“You have a sorrow,—tell it.”
“All is so false. I am unhappy without confidence,” sighed the voice.
“Can you trust no one?”
“No one here, but Felix.”
“Yet he deceives, he does not love you.”
“He will.”
“Is this the hope which sustains you?”
“Yes.”
“And you forgive, you love him still?”
“Always.”
“If the hope fails?”
“It will not: I shall have help.”
“What help?”
No answer now, but the shadow of a smile seemed to float across the
silent lips as if reflected from a joy too deep and tender for speech to
tell.
“Speak! what is this happiness? The hope of freedom?”
“It will come.”
“How?”
“When you die.”
He caught his breath, and for an instant seemed daunted by the truth he
had evoked; for it was terrible, so told, so heard.
“You hate me, then?” he whispered, almost fiercely, in the ear that
never shrank from his hot lips.
“I doubt and dread you.”
“Why, Gladys, why? To you I am not cruel.”
“Too kind, alas, too kind!”
“And yet you fear me?”
“God help us. Yes.”
“What is your fear?”
“No, no, I will not tell it!”
Some inward throe of shame or anguish turned the pale face paler,
knotted the brow, and locked the lips, as if both soul and body revolted
from the thought thus ruthlessly dragged to light. Instinct, the first,
last, strongest impulse of human nature, struggled blindly to save the
woman from betraying the dread which haunted her heart like a spectre,
and burned her lips in the utterance of its name. But Helwyze was
pitiless, his will indomitable; his eye held, his hand controlled, his
voice commanded; and the answer came, so reluctantly, so inaudibly, that
he seemed to divine, not hear it.
“What fear?”
“Your love.”
“You see, you know it, then?”
“I do not see, I vaguely feel; I pray God I may never know.”
With the involuntary recoil of a guilty joy, a shame as great, Helwyze
dropped the nerveless hands, turned from the mutely accusing face, let
the troubled spirit rest, and asked no more. But his punishment began as
he stood there, finding the stolen truth a heavier burden than baffled
doubt or desire had been; since forbidden knowledge was bitter to the
taste, forbidden love possessed no sweetness, and the hidden hope,
putting off its well-worn disguise, confronted him in all its ugliness.
An awesome silence filled the room, until he lifted up his eyes, and
looked at Gladys with a look which would have wrung her heart could she
have seen it. She did not see; for she lay there so still, so white, so
dead, he seemed to have scared away the soul he had vexed with his
impious questioning.
In remorseful haste, Helwyze busied himself about her, till she woke
from that sleep within a sleep, moaned wearily, closed the unseeing
eyes, and drifted away into more natural slumber, dream-haunted, but
deep and quiet.
Then he stole away as he had come, and, sending the old woman to watch
Gladys, shut himself into his own room, to keep a vigil which lasted
until dawn; for all the poppies of the East could not have brought
oblivion that night.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  XIV.
It seemed as if some angel had Gladys in especial charge, bringing light
out of darkness, joy out of sorrow, good out of evil; for no harm came
to her,—only a great peace, which transfigured her face till it was as
spiritually beautiful, as that of some young Madonna.
Waking late the next day she remembered little of the past night’s
events, and cared to remember little, having clearer and calmer thoughts
to dwell upon, happier dreams to enjoy.
She suspected Helwyze of imprudent kindness, but uttered no reproach,
quite unconscious of how much she had to forgive; thereby innocently
adding to both the relief and the remorse he felt. The doubt and dread
which had risen to the surface at his command, seemed to sink again into
the depths; and hope and love, to still the troubled waters where her
life-boat rode at anchor for a time.
Canaris, as if tired of playing truant, was ready now to be forgiven;
more conscious than ever before that this young wife was a possession to
be proud of, since, when she chose, she could eclipse even Olivia. The
jealousy which could so inspire her flattered his man’s vanity, and made
her love more precious; for not yet had he learned all its depth, nor
how to be worthy of it. The reverence he had always felt increased
fourfold, but the affection began to burn with a stronger flame; and
Canaris, for the first time, tasted the pure happiness of loving another
better than himself. Glad to feel, yet ashamed to own, a sentiment whose
sincerity made it very sweet, he kept it to himself, and showed no sign,
except a new and most becoming humility of manner when with Gladys, as
if silently asking pardon for many shortcomings. With Helwyze he was
cold and distant, evidently dreading to have him discover the change he
had foretold, and feeling as if his knowledge of it would profane the
first really sacred emotion the young man had known since his mother
died.
Anxious for some screen behind which to hide the novel, yet most
pleasurable, sensations which beset him, he found Olivia a useful
friend, and still kept up some semblance of the admiration, out of which
all dangerous ardor was fast fading. She saw this at once, and did not
regret it: for she had a generous nature, which an all-absorbing and
unhappy passion had not entirely spoiled.
Obedience to Helwyze was her delight; but, knowing him better than any
other human being could, she was troubled by his increasing interest in
Gladys, more especially since discovering that the girl possessed the
originality, fire, and energy which were more attractive to him than her
youth, gentleness, or grace. Jealousy was stronger than the desire to
obey; and, calling it compassion, Olivia resolved to be magnanimous, and
spare Gladys further pain, letting Canaris return to his allegiance, as
he seemed inclined to do, unhindered by any act of hers.
“The poor child is so young, so utterly unable to cope with me, it is
doubly cruel to torment her, just to gratify a whim of Jasper’s. Better
make my peace handsomely, and be her friend, than rob her of the only
treasure she possesses, since I do not covet it,” she thought, driving
through the May-day sunshine, to carry Jasper the earliest sprays of
white and rosy hawthorn from the villa garden, whither she had been to
set all in order for the summer.
Helwyze was not yet visible; and, full of her new design, Olivia
hastened up to find Gladys, meaning by some friendly word, some
unmistakable but most delicate hint, to reassure her regarding the
errant young husband, whom she had not yet learned to hold.
There was no answer to her hasty tap, and Olivia went in to seek yet
further. Half-way across the larger apartment she paused abruptly, and
stood looking straight before her, with a face which passed rapidly from
its first expression of good-will to one of surprise, then softened,
till tears stood in the brilliant eyes, and some sudden memory or
thought made that usually proud countenance both sad and tender.
Gladys sat alone in her little room, her work lying on her knee, her
arms folded, her head bent, singing to herself as she rocked to and fro,
lost in some reverie that made her lips smile faintly, and her voice
very low. She often sat so now, but Olivia had never seen her thus; and,
seeing, divined at once the hope which lifted her above all sorrow, the
help sent by Heaven, when most she needed it. For the song Gladys sang
was a lullaby, the look she wore was that which comes to a woman’s face
when she rocks her first-born on her knee, and above her head was a new
picture, an angel, with the Lily of Annunciation in its hand.
The one precious memory of Olivia’s stormy life was the little daughter,
who for a sweet, short year was all in all to her, and whose small grave
was yearly covered with the first spring flowers. Fresh from this secret
pilgrimage, the woman’s nature was at its noblest now; and seeing that
other woman, so young, so lonely, yet so blest, her heart yearned over
her,—
                 “All her worser self slipped from her
                 Like a robe,”—
and, hurrying in, she said, impulsively,—
“O child, I wish you had a mother!”
Gladys looked up, unstartled from the calm in which she dwelt. Olivia’s
face explained her words, and she answered them with the only reproach
much pain had wrung from her,—
“You might have been one to me.”
“It is not too late! What shall I do to prove my sincerity?” cried
Olivia, stricken with remorse.
“Help me to give my little child an honest father.”
“I will! show me how.”
Then these two women spent a memorable hour together; for the new tie of
motherhood bridged across all differences of age and character, made
confession easy, confidence sweet, friendship possible. Yet, after all,
Gladys was the comforter, Olivia the one who poured out her heart, and
found relief in telling the sorrows that had been, the temptations that
still beset her, the good that yet remained to answer, when the right
chord was touched. She longed to give as much as she received; but when
she had owned, with a new sense of shame, that she was merely playing
with Canaris for her own amusement (being true to Helwyze even in her
falsehood), there seemed no more for her to do, since Gladys asked but
one other question, and that she could not answer.
“If he does not love you, and, perhaps, it is as you say,—only a poet’s
admiration for beauty,—what is the trouble that keeps us apart? At
first I was too blindly happy to perceive it; now tears have cleared my
eyes, and I see that he hides something from me,—something which he
longs, yet dares not tell.”
“I know: I saw it long ago; but Jasper alone can tell that secret. He
holds Felix by it, and I fear the knowledge would be worse than the
suspicion. Let it be: time sets all things right, and it is ill
thwarting my poor cousin. I have a charming plan for you and Felix; and,
when you have him to yourself, you may be able to win his confidence,
as, I am sure, you have already won his heart.”
Then Olivia told her plan, which was both generous and politic; since it
made Gladys truly happy, proved her own sincerity, secured her own peace
and that of the men whose lives seemed to become more and more
inextricably tangled together.
“Now I shall go to Jasper, and conquer all his opposition; for I know I
am right. Dear little creature, what is it about you that makes one feel
both humble and strong when one is near you?” asked Olivia, looking down
at Gladys with a hand on either shoulder, and genuine wonder in the eyes
still soft with unwonted tears.
“God made me truthful, and I try to keep so; that is all,” she answered,
simply.
“That is enough. Kiss me, Gladys, and make me better. I am not good
enough to be the mother that I might have been to you; but I am a
friend; believe that, and trust me, if you can?”
“I do;” and Gladys sealed her confidence with both lips and hand.
“Jasper, I have invited those children to spend the summer at the villa,
since you have decided for the sea. Gladys is mortally tired of this
hot-house life, so is Felix: give them a long holiday, or they will run
away together. Mrs. Bland and I will take care of you till they come
back.”
Olivia walked in upon Helwyze with this abrupt announcement, well
knowing that persuasion would be useless, and vigorous measures surest
to win the day. Artful as well as courageous in her assault, she
answered in that one speech several objections against her plan, and
suggested several strong reasons for it, sure that he would yield the
first, and own the latter.
He did, with unexpected readiness; for a motive which she could not
fathom prompted his seemingly careless acquiescence. He had no thought
of relinquishing his hold on Canaris, since through him alone he held
Gladys; but he often longed to escape from both for a time, that he
might study and adjust the new power which had come into his life,
unbidden, undesired. Surprise and disappointment were almost
instantaneously followed by a sense of relief when Olivia spoke; for he
saw at once that this project was a wiser one than she knew.
Before her rapid sentences were ended, the thought had come and gone,
the decision was made, and he could answer, in a tone of indifference
which both pleased and perplexed her,—
“Amiable woman, with what helpful aspirations are you blest. Seeing your
failure with Felix, I have been wondering how I should get rid of him
till he recovers from this comically tardy passion for his wife. They
can have another and a longer honeymoon up at the villa, if they like:
the other was far from romantic, I suspect. Well, why that sphinx-like
expression, if you please?” he added, as Olivia stood regarding him from
behind the fading hawthorn which she forgot to offer.
“I was wondering if I should ever understand you, Jasper.”
“Doubtful, since I shall never understand myself.”
“You ought, if any man; for you spend your life in studying yourself.”
“And the more I study, the less I know. It is very like a child with a
toy ark: I never know what animal may appear first. I put in my hand for
a dove, and I get a serpent; I open the door for the sagacious elephant,
and out rushes a tiger; I think I have found a favorite dog, and it is a
wolf, looking ready to devour me. An unsatisfactory toy, better put it
away and choose another.”
Helwyze spoke in the half-jesting, half-serious way habitual to him; but
though his mouth smiled, his eyes were gloomy, and Olivia hastened to
turn his thoughts from a subject in which he took a morbid interest.
“Fanciful, but true. Now, follow your own excellent advice, and find
wholesome amusement in helping me pack off the young people, and then
ourselves. It is not too early for them to go at once. Canaris can come
in and out as you want him for a month longer, then I will have all
things ready for you in the old cottage by the sea. You used to be happy
there: can you not be so again?”
“If you can give me back my twenty years. May-day is over for both of
us; why try to make the dead hawthorn bloom again? Carry out your plan,
and let the children be happy.”
They were very happy; for the prospect of entire freedom was so
delicious, that Gladys had some difficulty in concealing her delight,
while Canaris openly rejoiced when told of Olivia’s offer. All
dinner-time he was talking of it; and afterward, under pretence of
showing her a new plant, he took his wife into the conservatory, that he
might continue planning how they should spend this unexpected holiday.
Helwyze saw them wandering arm in arm; Canaris talking rapidly, and
Gladys listening, with happy laughter, to his whimsical suggestions and
projects. Their content displeased the looker-on; but there was
something so attractive in the flower-framed picture of beauty, youth,
and joy, that he could not turn his eyes away, although the sight
aroused strangely conflicting thoughts within him.
He wished them gone, yet dreaded to lose the charm of his confined life,
feeling that absence would inevitably become estrangement. Canaris never
would be entirely his again; for he was slowly climbing upward into a
region where false ambition could not blind, mere pleasure satisfy, nor
license take the place of liberty. He had not planned to ruin the youth,
but simply to let “the world, the flesh, and the devil” contend against
such virtues as they found, while he sat by and watched the struggle.
As Olivia predicted, however, power was a dangerous gift to such a man;
and, having come to feel that Canaris belonged to him, body and soul, he
was ill-pleased at losing him just when a new interest was added to
their lives.
Yet losing him he assuredly was; and something like wonder mingled with
his chagrin, for this girl, whom he had expected to mould to his will,
exerted over him, as well as Canaris, a soft control which he could
neither comprehend nor conquer. Its charm was its unconsciousness, its
power was its truth; for it won gently and held firmly the regard it
sought. She certainly did possess the gift of surprises; for, although
brought there as a plaything, “little Gladys,” without apparent effort,
had subjugated haughty Olivia, wayward Felix, ruthless Helwyze; and none
rebelled against her. She ruled them by the irresistible influence of a
lovely womanhood, which made her daily life a sweeter poem than any they
could write.
“Why did I not keep her for myself? If she can do so much for him, what
might she not have done for me, had I been wise enough to wait,” thought
Helwyze, watching the bright-haired figure that stood looking up to the
green roof whence Canaris was gathering passion-flowers.
As if some consciousness of his longing reached her, Gladys turned to
look into the softly lighted room beyond, and, seeing its master sit
there solitary in the midst of its splendor, she obeyed the
compassionate impulse which was continually struggling against doubt and
dislike.
“It must seem very selfish and ungrateful in us to be so glad. Come,
Felix, and amuse him as well as me,” she said, in a tone meant for his
ear alone. But Helwyze heard both question and answer.
“I have been court-fool long enough. ’Tis a thankless office, and I am
tired of it,” replied Canaris, in the tone of a prisoner asked to go
back when the door of his cell stands open.
“I must go, for there is Jean with coffee. Follow, like a good boy,
when you have put your posy into a song, which I will set to music by
and by, as your reward,” said Gladys, turning reluctantly away.
“You make goodness so beautiful, that it is easy to obey. There is my
posy set to music at once, for you are a song without words, cariña;”
and Canaris threw the vine about her neck, with a look and a laugh which
made it hard for her to go.
Jean not only brought coffee, but the card of a friend for Felix, who
went away, promising to return. Gladys carefully prepared the black and
fragrant draught which Helwyze loved, and presented it, with a sweet
friendliness of mien which would have made hemlock palatable, he
thought.
“Shall I sing to you till Felix comes to give you something better?” she
asked, offering her best, as if anxious to atone for the sin of being
happy at the cost of pain to another.
“Talk a little first. There will be time for both before he remembers us
again,” answered Helwyze, motioning her to a seat beside him, with the
half-imperative, half-courteous, look and gesture habitual to him.
“He will not forget: Felix always keeps his promises to me,” said
Gladys, with an air of gentle pride, taking her place, not beside, but
opposite, Helwyze, on the couch where Elaine had laid not long ago.
This involuntary act of hers gave a tone to the conversation which
followed; for Helwyze, being inwardly perturbed, was seized with a
desire to hover about dangerous topics: and, seeing her sit there, so
near and yet so far, so willing to serve, yet so completely mistress of
herself, longed to ruffle that composure, if only to make her share the
disquiet of which she was the cause.
“Always?” he said, lifting his brows with an incredulous expression, as
he replied to her assertion.
“I seldom ask any promise of him, but when I do, he always keeps it. You
doubt that?”
“I do.”
“When you know him as well as I, you will believe it.”
“I flatter myself that I know him better; and, judging from the past,
