" Yes, we have." 
"No, we haven't; there is cold ham, and bread, 
and butter, and apple-sauce." 
"Take the salt," said Meredith, "and give me a 
few eggs, and I'll make you a friar's omelet." 
" A friar's omelet ! What is that ? " 
"You'll see. Only I shall want a dish to mix 
it in, you know." 
Delightful! The dish was fetched from the 
kitchen, and the omelet pan. Ham and apple 
sauce Betty had packed for the party already; 
rolls and butter, spoons and knives and forks, a 
pitcher of cream, napkins I do not know what 
all went into the other baskets, and were finally 
stowed in the cart. A light porter's cart, it was; 
roomy enough ; and yet it grew pretty full. The 
tea-kettle must find a place; then books and knitting and paper. Then thick shawls to spread upon 
the rocks, to make softer seats for the more ease- 
loving. Fairbairn carried a tin pail with water. 
All these arrangements took up time ; so the morning was well on its way and the dew long off the 
grass, when at last the procession set forth. Mere 
dith drew the cart, which he was informed he must 
do carefully, or the cream would slop over and possibly other damage be done. 
It was not a long way they had to go, 'this morning. Bordering upon the lawn and shrubbery, to 
the east, rose a little rocky height, which in fact 
prevented the dwellers at Mosswood from ever 
seeing the sun rise. But the hill was so pretty, 
they forgave it. Towards the house it presented a 
smooth wall of grey granite; on the top it also 
shewed granite in quantity, there, however, alternating with moss and thin grass, and overshadowed 
by cedars, oaks, and pines, with now and then a 
young hemlock. The soil was thin ; the growth of 
trees in consequence not lofty; nevertheless very 
graceful. No cultivation, hardly any dressing, had 
been attempted; the purple asters sprung up at 
the edge of the rocks, and huckleberry bushes 
stood where they found footing ; here and there a 
bramble, here and there a bunch of ferns. Now 
the oak leaves were turned yellow and brown ; the 
huckleberry bushes in duller hues of the same; 
moss was dry and crisp, and ferns odourous in the 
warm air. 
To reach the top of the height a circuit must be 
made. There was no path leading straight from 
the house. Through the grounds at the back of 
the house the way wound along between beds of 
acheranthus and cineraria which made warm strips 
 
of bordering, with scarlet pelargoniums lighting 
up the beds beyond in a blaze of brilliance. Turn 
ing then into a carriage road, the party followed 
it to the north of the height which Maggie had 
called the South Pitch, and struck off then southwards into a little mossy, rocky, hardly traced 
path under the trees. 
"This is easy enough," said Meredith, guiding 
his cart somewhat carefully, however, to avoid 
severe jolts which would have endangered the 
cream. "I do not see where the pitch is yet." 
"Ah, but you will, when you get to the south 
end," said Maggie. "Look out, Ditto, here's a 
rock in your way. And these huckleberry bushes 
are very thick." 
Following on over rocks and bushes, they soon 
came to the place Maggie meant, and Meredith 
rested his cart and stood still to look. From the 
southern brow of the little hill, the ground fell 
steeply away ; so steeply that the eye had unhindered range over the river which lay below, and 
the hills bordering it, and the point of Gee's Point 
which there pushes the river to the eastward. Not 
a tree-branch even was in the way ; river and hills 
lay in the October light, still, glowing, fair, as only 
October can be. 
"Do you like it, Meredith?" asked Maggie wist 
fully. Her opinion of Mosswood had been long a 
fixed one. 
" I have never seen such a place ! " 
"Uncle Eden had his tent up here one summer, 
and he cut away all the branches and trees that 
were in the way of the view; for he wanted to lie 
in his tent at night and be able to look out and see 
the river and the hills in the moonlight." 
"And did he have this wall built too?" asked 
Meredith, seeing that the platform where he stood 
was held up on the side towards the river by a 
regularly laid, though unmortared, wall. 
"Oh," said Esther laughing, "that wall was laid 
a hundred years ago, Meredith. Soldiers laid it; 
our soldiers; all Mosswood was fortified; this is a 
breastwork." 
"Whom do you mean by 'our soldiers?'" 
"Why, the Americans," said Esther. "When 
they were fighting that war, a hundred years 
ago. You'll find bits of breastwork all over Mosswood." 
"Well, that is delightful," said Meredith. "We 
are historical. Now, what are we to do first? I 
move, we make our camp just here. We cannot 
have a better place." 
So there a rock under a tree, here a bit of mossy 
bank, was taken possession of; places were carpeted with shawls, and luxurious loungers were at 
rest upon them. Fairbairn set down the pail of 
water and departed; Flora got her worsted embroidery out of the cart, and Esther a strip of afghan which she was ambitiously making. Maggie nestled up to Meredith's side on the moss and 
laid her little hand in his, and for a little while 
they were all quiet: these last two enjoying October. But Meredith did not long sit still ; lie must 
go exploring, up and down and all round the 
South Pitch. Maggie followed him, as ready to 
go as he, and talking all the while. It was nothing but rocks and moss and trees and brambles 
and ferns; with the delicious river glittering be 
low the rocks, and the glow of the hills coming to 
them through the trees, and golden hickory leaves 
falling at their feet, and now and then a chestnut 
burr or a hickory schale to be hammered open. 
Warm and tired at last they came back to their 
place. And then the girls declared it was time for 
dinner. 
 
CHAPTEK II. 
A fire was the first thing. Meredith and Maggie gathered dry pine branches and dead leaves, 
and Meredith built a nice place for the kettle 
with some stones. Then they found they had no 
matches. 
"We always forget something," cried Maggie. 
"Now I'll run home and fetch a box." 
Meredith went too. It was only a little more 
walk. Then the fire was set agoing and the kettle 
filled and put over. Maggie sat by to keep up the 
flame, which being fed with light material needed 
constant supply. Meredith threw himself down on 
the mossy bank and opened his book. For a little 
while there was silence. 
"What are you reading, Ditto?" Maggie asked 
at length. She kept as good watch of Meredith as 
of the fire. 
"You would not understand if I told you. It 
is a German book." 
" Is it very interesting ? " 
" Yes." 
" I knew it was. I could see by your face ; when 
 
you pull your brows together in that way, I always know you are ever so much interested." 
" Well, I am," said Meredith smiling 
" Would it interest me ?" 
"I think, perhaps, it would." 
"Ah, Ditto, don't you want to try? Kead us 
some of it. What is it about ? " 
" It is a Mission Magazine." 
" Missionary ! then we sJiouldnt like it," said 
Esther. " I don't believe we should." 
" And in it are stories," Meredith continued. 
" What sort of stories ? about heathen ? " 
" I like stories about heathen," said Maggie. 
" Stories about heathen and Christian, which a 
certain Pastor Harms used to tell to his people, 
and which he put in the magazine." 
" Did he write the magazine ? " 
"Yes." 
"Who was Pastor Harms?" 
"A wonderful, beautiful man, who loved God 
with all his heart and served him with all his 
strength." 
"Why there are a great many people, Ditto, 
who do that," said his sister. 
" Most people that I have seen, keep a little of 
their strength for something else," remarked Mere 
dith dryly. 
" Was he a German ? " Maggie asked. 
" He was a German ; and he was the minister of 
a poor country parish in Hanover; and the minister and the people together were so full of the love 
 
of Christ that they did what rich churches else 
where don't do." 
"And does that book tell what they did?" 
"Partly; what they did, and what other people 
have done." 
" I should like to hear some of it," was Maggie's 
conclusion. 
"Well, you shall. We'll try, after dinner. Flora 
and Esther may shut their ears, if they will." 
" If you won't read something else," said Flora, 
" I suppose I would rather hear that than nothing. 
I can get on with my work better." 
"And worsted work is the chief end of woman, 
everybody knows," remarked her brother. "The 
kettle is boiling, Maggie ! " 
All was lively activity at once. Even the Afghan and the worsted embroidery were laid on 
the moss, and the two elder girls bestirred themselves to get out the plates and dishes from the 
baskets and arrange them; while Maggie made 
the tea, and Meredith set about his omelet. Maggie watched him with intense satisfaction, as he 
broke and beat his eggs and put them over the 
fire; watched till the cookery was accomplished 
and the omelet was turned out hot and brown and 
savoury. The girls declared it was the best thing 
they had ever tasted, and Flora thought the tea 
was the best tea, and Meredith that the bread and 
butter was the best bread and butter. Maggie privately thought it was the best dinner altogether 
that ever she had eaten in the woods ; but I think 
 
she judged most by the company. It was a long 
dinner! Why should they use haste? The October sun was not hot ; the sweet air gave an appetite ; the thousand things they had to talk about 
gave zest to the food. They were not in a hurry 
with their tea, and they lingered over their apple 
pie. 
When at last they were of a mind to seek a 
change of diversion, and really the dinner was 
done ; for talk as much as you will you yet must 
stop eating some time; the plates and remnants 
were quickly put back in the baskets and set again 
in the cart; tea-kettle and napkins cleared away; 
and the mossy dining-room looked as if no company had been there. 
"This is first-rate, exclaimed Meredith, stretching himself on the warm moss. 
"And now, Ditto, you are going to read to us." 
"Ami?" 
" Yes, for you said so." 
"An honourable man always keeps his promises," said Meredith. But he lay still. 
The two elder girls got out their work again. 
Maggie sat by and silently stroked the hair on 
Meredith's temples. 
" This is good enough, without reading," he pres 
ently went on. "The moss is spicy, the sky is 
blue, I see it through a lace- work of pine needles ; 
the air is like satin. I cannot imagine anything 
much better than to lie here and look up." 
"But you can feel the air and see the sky, 
 
and smell the moss too, while you are reading, 
Ditto." 
" Can I ? Well ! your ten fingers are so many 
persuaders that I cannot withstand. Let's go in 
for Pastor Harms ! " 
So he raised himself on one elbow, no further, 
and laid his book open on the moss before him. 
" But it is in German ! " cried Maggie, looking 
over to see. 
" Never mind, I will give it to you in English, 
I told you it was German." 
" What is the first story about ? " 
" You will find that out as I go on. Now you 
understand it is Pastor Harms who is speaking, 
only he was a famous hand at story-telling, and to 
hear him would have been quite a different thing 
from hearing me." And Meredith began to read. 
" I will go back now a thousand years, and tell 
you a mission story that I am very fond of. I 
found it partly in the parish archives of Hermannsburg, and partly in some old Luneburg chronicles. 
I say I am very fond of it ; for after the fact that I 
am a Christian, comes the fact that I am a Lineburger, body and soul; and there is not a country 
in the whole world, for me, that is better than the 
Luneburg heath ' " 
" stop, Ditto, please ; cried Maggie, " What is 
a ' heath ' ? and where is Luneburg ? " 
" Ah ! there we come with our questions. Luneburg heath isn't like anything in America, that 
I know, Maggie. It is a strange place. There 
 
you'll see acres and miles of level land covered with 
heather, which turns purple and beautiful in the 
latter part of the season ; but in the midst of this 
level country you come suddenly here and there to 
a lovely little valley with houses and grain -fields 
and fruit and running water; or to a piece of 
woods ; or to a hill with a farm-house perched up 
on its side, and as much land cultivated as the 
peasant can manage. So the people of the parishes are scattered about over a wide tract, except 
where the villages happen to be. And for where 
it is Luneburg is in Hanover, and Hanover is in 
Germany. You must look on the map when you 
go home. Now I will go on 
" 'And next to the fact that I am a Luneburger, 
comes the fact that I am a Hermannsburger ; and 
for me Hermannsburg is the dearest and prettiest 
village on the heath. My mission story touches 
this very beloved Hermannsburg. From my youth 
up I have been a sort of a bookworm ; and when 
ever I could find something about Germany, still 
more something about the Luneburg heath, and 
yet more any thing about Hermannsburg, then I 
was delighted. Even as a boy, when I could just 
understand the book of the Roman writer Tacitus 
about old Germany, I knew no greater pleasure 
than with my Tacitus in my pocket to wander 
through the heaths and moors and woodlands, and 
then in the still solitude to sit down under a pine 
tree or an oak and read the account of the manners and customs of our old heathen forefathers. 
And then I read, how our old forefathers were so 
brave and strong that merely their tall forms and 
their fiery blue eyes struck terror into the Romans ; 
and that they were so unshakably true to their 
word, once it was given, that a simple promise 
from one of them was worth more than the strong 
est oath from a Roman. I read how they were so 
chaste and modest that breaking of the marriage 
vow was almost an unknown crime ; so noble and 
hospitable, that even a deadly enemy, if he came 
to one of their houses, found himself in perfect se 
curity, and might stay until the last morsel had 
been shared with him ; and then his host would go 
with him to the next house to prepare him a reception there. 
" ' But my heart bled too, when I read of their 
crimes and misdeeds, their inhuman worship of 
idols, when even human beings were slaughtered 
on bloody altars of stone, or drowned in deep, 
hidden, inland lakes ; when I read how insatiable 
the thirst for war and plunder among our forefathers was, how fearful their anger, how brutish 
their rage for drink and play; and when I read 
further, how the whole of heathen Germany was 
an almost unbroken wood and moorland, without 
cities or villages, where men ran about in the forests almost naked, at the most clothed with the skin 
of a beast, like wild animals themselves; and got 
their living only by the chase, or from wild roots, 
with acorns and beechmast; then even as a boy I 
marvelled at the wonderful workings of Christian- 
 
ity. Only one thing I could not understand; how 
there should be nowadays in Christian Germany 
so much lying, unfaithfulness, and marriage-breaking, while our heathenish ancestors were such true, 
honest, chaste, and loyal men; it always seemed to 
me as if a German Christian must stand abashed 
before his heathen forefathers. And when I ob 
served further, how many Germans nowadays are 
cowardly-hearted, while among our heathen ancestors such a reproach was reckoned the fearfullest 
of insults, it was past my comprehension how a 
Christian German, who believes in everlasting life, 
can be a coward, and his heathenish ancestors who 
yet knew nothing about the blessed heaven, have 
been so valiant and brave.'" 
" Ditto," said Maggie, interrupting him, " do you 
think that is all true ? " 
" Pastor Harms would not have lied to save his 
right hand." 
"And but Ditto, do you think people in America are so bad as that ? " 
Meredith smiled and hesitated. 
"Yes, Ditto," said Flora; "you know they are 
not." 
"I don't know anything about it," said Meredith. "There are not any better soldiers I suppose, in the world, than the Germans, nor any 
where such a band of army officers, for knowledge 
of their business and ability to do it. But there 
are some cowards in every nation, I reckon ; and as 
there, so here. But among those old Saxons, it appears, there were none. As to truth" Meredith 
hesitated "There are not a great many people I 
know whose word I would take through and 
through, if they were pinched." 
There was a chorus of exclamations and reproaches. 
"And as to marriage-breaking," he went on, "it 
'is not at all an uncommon thing here for people to 
separate from their wives or their husbands, or get 
themselves divorced." 
" Why do they do that, Ditto ? " Maggie asked. 
"Because they are not true, and do not love 
each other." 
" So you make it out that the heathen are better 
than the Christians ! " said Esther. 
" I do not make out anything. I am only stat 
ing facts. What is called a ' Christian nation,' has 
but comparatively a few Christians in it, you must 
please to remember. But I do think those old 
Saxons were extraordinary people. I like to think 
that I am descended from them." 
" You, Ditto ! " exclaimed Maggie in the utmost 
astonishment. 
" Why yes, certainly. Don't you know so much 
history as that? Don't you remember that the 
Saxons went over and conquered England, and 
England was peopled by them, and ruled by them, 
until the Norman invasion?" 
"Oh!" said Maggie with a long-drawn note 
of surprise and intelligence. "But I didn't know 
those Saxons were like these." 
 
"No, nor did I. It interests me very much. 
Shall I go on with Pastor Harms? 
" ' The older I grew, the more eager I was to 
learn about Germany, and especially about my 
dear Luneburg country, with its most beautiful 
heaths, moors, and woodlands. I can not express 
the joy I took in the great fights and battles 
which the German Prince Herman fought with 
the mighty Romans. Herman was prince of the 
Cheruski; so the dwellers between the Elbe and 
the Weser at that time were called. In his time 
the never-satisfied Romans were bent upon subjugating all Germany, and sent their most powerful 
armies into the country, clad in iron mail, armed 
with helmets, bucklers, lances, and swords, and led 
by their bravest generals. But Herman, with his 
almost naked Germans, fell upon them, fighting 
whole days at a stretch, and beat them out of the 
land. See now, thought I to myself, there were 
Luneburg people along with him, for they live between the Elbe and the Weser. Or when others 
of our forefathers, who were in general called Saxons, boldly sailed over the sea in their ships, and 
chased the proud Romans, together with the Picts 
and Scots, out of England, and took the beauti 
ful land in possession and ruled it ; then I was 
glad again and thought with secret delight 
"our Luneburg people were there too, for those 
ships sailed from the mouths of the Elbe and the 
Weser." 
"  But what adoration moved my heart, when I 
 
read that these very Saxons, who conquered England, there came to the knowledge of Christianity 
and received it into their hearts; and now from 
England, from the converted Saxons, came numbers of Gospel messengers back to the German 
country, to turn it also to the Lord Jesus. Among 
them was Winfried, the strong in faith, who baptized more than 300,000 Germans, and was called 
the apostle of Germany ; there were the two brothers Ewald, who both heroically died a martyr's 
death, being sacrificed by our forefathers to their 
idols. After them others carried on the work, especially Willehad and Liudgar, and the good em 
peror Charles the Great helped them, until at 
last all Germany was Christianized, and became 
through the Gospel what it is now. And I have 
often thought, how stupid are the unbelievers who 
follow the new fashion of despising Christianity. 
We have to thank Christianity for every thing we 
are or have. Science, art, agriculture, handicrafts, 
cities, villages, houses, all have come to us in the 
first place through Christianity; for before that, 
as I said, our forefathers ran about naked in the 
woods like wild beasts, and fed on roots and acorns; 
and I used to think the best thing would be, to 
drive the iniidels and the scornful contemners of 
Christianity into the woods and forests, draw a 
hedge about them, and let them eat acorns and 
roots in the woods till they come to their senses. 
In young people's heads a great many queer fancies spring up, which yet are not entirely unworthy of regard; and I still believe that would 
be the best medicine for infidels.'" 
"But Meredith," said Flora, "the Greeks and 
Romans had cities and villages, and sciences too, 
and arts, without Christianity." 
" Quite true, but the Saxons didn't." 
" Perhaps they would." 
"Perhaps they wouldn't. The Greeks and Eo 
mans were wonderful people, and so were the an 
cient Egyptians; but though they had arts, and 
built cities, they had very little science. And science and Christianity have changed the face of the 
Christian world. Well, let us have Pastor Harms. 
" ' But I must go back to my story. Whenever 
I happened upon an old library, I searched it 
through to see if I could find something about 
Germany, and especially about Luneburg. And I 
do not regret the quantities of dust I have swallowed in my way; although I did often lament 
aloud to see so many fine old manuscripts almost 
eaten up with dust and mice, about which nobody 
had troubled himself for who knows how many 
years ? But also I found many a one that repaid 
the trouble of the search. From the sound MSS. I 
made extracts diligently. But I had a good many 
vexations, too. For example, I have come to cities 
and villages, in which last there were baronial 
manors. There I sought to come at the books 
and MSS. of the olden time. And would one believe it? Old collections of books had been sold 
entire, by the hamperful, to trades-people for wrapping their cheese in. I was baffled. So much the 
more precious became my extracts. From them I 
will tell you something now, which I found about 
my beloved Hermannsburg. 
"'I may say in the first place to our dear country people, that the whole of northern Germany in 
early times was called the country of the Saxons. 
How wide that was, may best be seen by the language. So far as low German is spoken, so far 
extends the land of the Saxons; for low German 
is their proper mother-tongue. So I am never 
ashamed of the low German in our country; it is 
the true mother-tongue of our land and people; 
my heart always swells when I hear low German 
spoken. This entire Saxon nation was divided into 
three tribes. One tribe, which dwelt for the most 
part towards the west, that is, in the Osnabruck 
region and further west as far as the Rhine, was 
called the Westphalians. The second tribe, which 
dwelt mostly at the east, as far as the Elbe and 
further, was called the Eastphalians. Between the 
two lived the third tribe, called the Enger or the 
Angles; for Enger and Angle are all one. We 
here in Luneburg belong to the Eastphalians. The 
name is said to have come from the bright or pale 
yellow hair of our forefathers. For clear yellow or 
pale yellow was called "fal." Our ancestors wore 
this bright yellow hair long and hanging down, 
something like a lion's mane; what so many young 
people nowadays would esteem a splendid adornment. These forefathers of ours in the time of 
 
Charlemagne were yet mere heathen and held to 
their heathen idol worship with extraordinary tenacity and devotion. They were further a wild, 
bold, stiff-necked people, with an unbending spirit, 
holding fast to everything old, and with that, loving freedom above all else. They had no rulers, 
properly speaking; each house-father was a despotic 
prince in his own house, and lived alone upon his 
territory, just that he might be free and rule his 
realm independently. Their common name, Saxon, 
came from a peculiar weapon, the sachs; a stone 
war-mallet or battle-axe, which was made fast to a 
longer or shorter wooden handle. In the strong 
hands of the Saxons this was a fearful weapon, 
with which they rushed fearlessly upon the foe, 
hastening to come to a hand-to-hand fight; for they 
liked to be at close quarters with their enemies. 
' ' Wild and terrible as their other customs were, 
was also their idol worship. Their principal deity 
was called Woden, in whose honour men were 
slaughtered upon great blocks of stone; their 
throats being cut with stone knives. Not far off, 
some two or three hours from Hermannsburg, are 
still what are called the seven stone-houses; in 
other words blocks of granite set up in a square, 
upon which a great granite block lies like a cover. 
The men to be sacrificed were slain upon these 
blocks of granite. Quite near our village too, there 
stood formerly some such sacrificial altars. How 
fearful and bloody these sacrifices were, appears 
from what an old writer relates; that it was the 
custom of the Saxons, when they returned home 
from their warlike expeditions, to sacrifice to their 
idols every tenth man among the captives; the 
rest they shared among themselves for slaves. And 
upon special occasions, for instance, if they had suffered severe losses in the war, the whole of the cap 
tives would be consecrated to Woden and sacrificed.' That's the Woden we call one day of the 
week after." 
" We ? One day of the week ! " exclaimed Maggie; while Flora looked up and said, "0 yes! 
Wednesday." 
" Wednesday ? " repeated Maggie. 
" Woden's-day," said Meredith. 
"Is it Woden's-day! Wednesday? But how come 
we to call it so, Ditto ? " 
" Because our fathers did." 
"But that is very strange. I don't think we 
ought to call it Woden's-day." 
"The Germans do not call it so, who live at this 
time round those old stone altars; they say Mittwoche," or Mid-week. But the English Saxons 
seem to have kept up the title. 
" Are those stone altars standing now, Ditto ? " 
" Some of them, Pastor Harms says ; and what is 
very odd, it seems they call them stone houses; 
and don't you recollect Jacob called his stone that 
he set up at Bethel, ' God's house ? ' ' 
" Well, Ditto, go on please," said Maggie. 
"You don't care for archaeology. Well 'The 
German emperor Charlemagne, who reigned from 
 
768 to 814, was a good Christian. He governed 
the kingdom of the Franks; and that means the 
whole of central and southern Germany, together 
with France and Italy ; and all these, his subjects, 
had been already Christian a long time. On the 
north his empire was bordered by our heathen ancestors, the Saxons, and they were the sworn foes 
of Christianity. Whenever they could, they made 
a rush upon Charlemagne's dominions, plundered 
and killed, destroyed the churches and put to death 
the Christian priests; and were never quiet. So 
Charlemagne determined to make war upon the 
Saxons, partly to protect his kingdom against their 
inroads, and partly with the intent to convert them 
with a strong hand to the Christian religion. Then 
arose a fearful war of thirty-three years' length, 
which by both sides was carried on with great bitterness. The Saxons had, in especial, two valiant, 
heroic-hearted leaders, called "dukes" because they 
led the armies. The word "duke" therefore means 
the same as army-leader. The one of them in Westphalia, was named Wittekind; the other in Eastphalia was named Albion, also called Alboin. Char 
lemagne was in a difficult position. If he beat the 
Saxons, and thought, now they would surely keep 
the peace, and he went off then to some more distant part of his great empire, immediately the Saxons broke loose again and the war began anew. 
Charlemagne was made so bitter by this, that once 
when he had beaten the Saxons at Verden on the 
Aller and surrounded their army, he ordered 4,500 
captive Saxons to be cut to pieces, hoping so to 
give a disheartening example. But just the contrary befel. Wittekind and Albion now gathered 
together an imposing army to avenge the cruel 
deed ; and fought two bloody battles at Osnabruck 
and Detmold with such furious valour that they 
thrust Charlemagne back, and took 4,000 prisoners ; 
and these prisoners, as a, Luneburg chronicle says, 
they slaughtered; part on the Blocksberg, part in 
the Osnabruck country, and part on the " stone- 
houses"; where the same chronicle relates that 
Wittekind, on his black war-horse, in furious joy, 
would have galloped over the bleeding corpses 
which lay around the stone-houses; but his horse 
shied from treading on the human bodies, and 
making a tremendous leap, struck his hoof so violently against one of the stone-houses that the 
mark of the hoof remained. Wittekind elsewhere 
in the chronicle is described as a noble, magnanimous hero ; and this madness of war in him is explained on the ground of his hatred of Christians 
and revenge for the death of the Saxons at Verden. 
" ' At last, in the year 785, Wittekind and Albion 
were baptized and embraced the Christian religion. 
Thereupon came peace, among that part of the 
Saxons which held them in consideration, for the 
most distinguished men by degrees followed their 
example ; and it was only in the other portions of 
the country that the war lasted until the year 805 ; 
when at last the whole country of the Saxons submitted to Charlemagne, renounced heathenism, and 
 
accepted Christianity. So hard did it go with our 
forefathers before they could become Christians. 
But once Christians, they became so zealous for 
the Christian faith that their land afterwards was 
called "good Saxony" as before it had been known 
as "wild Saxony." Charlemagne, however, was 
not merely at the pains to subdue the Saxons and 
to compel them into the Christian faith, but as a 
truly pious emperor he also took care that they 
should be instructed; and wherever he could he 
established bishoprics and churches. For example, 
the sees of Minden, Osnabruck, Verden, Bremen, 
Munster, Paderhorn, Halberstadt, and Hildesheim, 
all situated in the Saxon country, owe their origin 
to him. At all these places there were mission establishments, from which preachers went out into 
the whole land, to preach the Gospel to the heathen Saxons. 
" 'Among these Willehad and Liudgar were distinguished for their zeal. With untiring faithfulness, 
with steadfast faith, and great self-sacrifice, they 
laboured, and their works were greatly blessed of 
the Lord. Willehad finally became bishop in Bremen and Liudgar bishop of Munster. They may 
with justice be called the apostles of the Saxons. 
In a remarkable manner the conversion of our own 
parts hereabouts proceeded from the mission establishment in Minden. Liudgar had lived there a 
long while, and his piety and his ardour had in 
fected the young monks assembled there with a 
live zeal for missions. One of these monks, who 
the chronicle tells came from Eastphalia, and had 
been converted to Christianity through Liudgar's 
means, was called Landolf. Now when Wittekind and Albion had received holy baptism, and so 
a door was opened in the Saxon land to the messen 
gers of salvation, Landolf could stand it no longer in Munden, but determined to go back to his 
native Eastphalia and carry the sweet Gospel to 
his beloved countrymen. He had no rest day 
nor night; the heathen Eastphalians were always 
standing before him and calling to him, "Come 
here and help us!'" 
" There ! " said Meredith pausing, " that's how I 
feel." 
Every one of the three heads around him was 
lifted up. " You, Ditto ? " exclaimed Maggie, but 
the others only looked. 
"Yes," said Meredith, " I feel just so." 
" About whom ? " said his sister abruptly. 
"All the heathen. Nobody in particular. Every 
body who doesn't know the Lord Jesus." 
" You had better begin at home ! " said Flora 
with an accent of scorn. 
" I do," said her brother gravely ; and Flora was 
silent, for she knew he did. 
"But why, dear Ditto?" said Maggie, with a 
mixture of anxiety and curiosity. 
" I am so sorry for them, Maggie." And watching, she could see that Meredith's downcast eyes 
were swimming. "Think; they do not know Jesus; 
and what is life worth without that ? " 
 
"But it isn't everybody's place to go preaching," 
said Flora after a minute. 
" Can you prove it ? I think it is." 
" Mine, for instance, and Maggie's ? " 
"What is preaching, in the first place? It is 
just telling other people the truth you know yourself. But you must know it first. I don't think it 
is your place to tell what you do not know. But 
the Bible says, ' Let him that heareth say, come ! ' 
and I think we, who have heard, ought to say it. 
And I think," added Meredith slowly, "if anybody 
is as glad of it himself as he ought to be, he cannot help saying it. It will burn in his heart if he 
don't say it." 
" But what do you want to do, Ditto ? " Maggie 
asked again. 
" I don't know, Maggie. Not preach in churches; 
I am not tit for that. But I want to tell all I can. 
People seem to me so miserable that do not know 
Christ. So miserable ! " 
"But, Ditto," said Maggie again, "you can give 
money to send missionaries." 
" Pay somebody else to do my work ? "
" You can tell people here at home." 
"Well" said Meredith with a long breath, "let 
us see what Landolf the Saxon did." 
 
CHAPTER III. 
"'What did this man do in the daring of faith? 
He first got permission of his superiors; then he 
went aboard of a little boat, took nothing else 
with him but his Bible and his prayer-book, his 
few tools, a fishing net, and food for several days, 
and then dropped down the Weser, all alone, intending by that way to get to the Eastphalians. 
But his chief strength was prayer, in which he 
lived day and night. When he came to the place 
where the Aller flows into the Weser, he quitted 
the Weser and went up the Aller, that he might 
look at the spot where those 4,500 Saxons were cut 
to pieces by Charlemagne, and on the ground pray 
for the murdered men. For at that time it was 
believed that even the dead could be helped by 
prayer, as is still the erroneous teaching of the 
Catholics. Leaving that place, he wished to visit 
the "stone-houses," that he might pray there too, 
where the captive Franks had been slaughtered by 
the Saxons; and so he went on up the Aller and 
from the Aller into the Oerze, all the while living 
upon the fish which he caught.' " 
 
" Had he no bread ? " said Maggie. 
"How should he? going through wild woods 
and countries alone in his boat ? He would come 
to no baker's shops, Maggie." 
" Just living on fish ! Well, go on, Ditto." 
"'But all along on this journey he had not only 
caught fish, but also everywhere preached the Gos 
pel. And then must have been the first time that 
the sweet name of Jesus was ever heard in our region. Perhaps when you look at the map you will 
ask, why Landolf went this difficult way by water, 
which was a very roundabout way besides, to get 
to the "stone-houses," when he could have come 
across from Verden by a much nearer and straighter route? Our chronicle gives two reasons: first, 
the whole interior of the country at that time was 
almost nothing but thick forest and deep morasses, 
through which there was no going on foot; and 
secondly, he had been told in Verden, that if he 
wanted to visit the "stone-houses," he must first go 
to the Billing of the long-legged Horz-Saxons, who 
lived on the river Horz in Harm's " ouden dorp." 
Now this river Horz is the Oerze ; and the name, 
the chronicle announces, comes from the fact that 
this river runs and leaps like a Horz that is, a 
horse ; and because a great many horses were pastured on its banks. For the chief wealth of our 
Saxon ancestors consisted in cattle, especially in 
horses, which they used not only for riding and in 
war expeditions, but reckoned their flesh a favourite food. And were a horse but entirely spotless 
and white, it was even held to be sacred. Such 
white horses were kept in the sacred forests of oak, 
where they were used for nothing but soothsaying ; 
for by the neighing of these white horses the hea 
then priests prophesied whether a business, or a campaign, that was in hand, would turn out happily 
or unhappily. For this reason also our Liineburg 
country since the earliest times has borne the free, 
bounding horse in its escutcheon ; and for the same 
reason most of the houses in the country of Liineburg down to the present times have their gables 
adorned with two wooden horses' heads; and it is 
only lately that this custom has somewhat fallen off. 
"'The Saxons, or as the chronicle writes, Sahzen, 
were called " Horzsahzen," either because they lived 
on the Horz, or Oerze ; or because they were almost 
all of them horsemen and owned a great many 
horses. They bore besides the honorary title of 
the "long-legged," for our forefathers were distinguished by their unusual stature. It is remarkable, 
that the name "Lange" is still the widest spread 
family name of any in our region, so that there are 
villages that are almost exclusively inhabited by 
" Langen," among whom a goodly number might 
yet be called " long-legged " ; though many also 
have grown something shorter, while they never 
theless bear the name of Lange. Well, that is all 
one, so they only keep the old, tried faithfulness 
and honesty, and the manly holding to their word, 
and the beautiful pureness of morals, for which our 
forefathers were renowned. 
 
"'But now, what sort of a man is the Billing? 
Our chronicle translates the word into Latin ; curatos legum, that is, the "guardian of the laws." Bill, 
you see, in old low German or Saxon, was a 
"law" which had been confirmed by the whole 
assembly of the people; and the man who proposed these laws, and when they were confirmed 
had the charge of seeing that they were not transgressed, was called the Billing. The Billing of the 
Horzsahzen was at this time a man named Harm ; 
that is Hermann; and he lived in Harm's ouden 
dor por Hermann's old village. The spot where 
this old village of Hermann stood, is now a cultivated field, about ten minutes away from the pres 
ent Hermannsburg ; and this field is still called at 
the present day, upn Ollendorp, and lies right on the 
Oerze. To this place accordingly the brave Landolf repaired, and was received kindly and with 
the customary Saxon hospitality by Hermann the 
Billing. 
" Hermann's dwelling was a large cottage, surrounded with pens for cattle, especially for horses, 
which were pastured on tire river meadows. There 
were no stables; the animals remained day and 
night under the open sky, and even in winter time 
had no shelter beyond that of the thick forest with 
which the land was covered. The pens themselves 
were merely enclosures without a roof. Landolf 
was entertained with roasted horse's flesh, which 
to the astonishment of his hosts he left untouched. 
For by the rules of th Christian Church at that 
 
time it was not permitted to eat horse-flesh ; they 
reckoned it a heathen practice. 
" ' When Landolf had made his abode with the 
Billing for a while, he found out that his host was 
in fact the principal person in all that district of 
country, and as guardian of the laws enjoyed a 
patriarchal and wide-reaching consideration. He 
was indeed no editing (or nobleman), only a freiling a free man; but he possessed seven large 
manors ; on which account later writers, as for instance Adam of Bremen, give the Billing family 
the name of Siebenmeyer' (Sieben means seven, 
Maggie). 'The oldest son, who regularly bore 
the name of Hermann, was the family head; and 
after the death of his father the dignity of Billing 
descended to him. The younger brothers were 
settled in some of the other manors, remaining 
nevertheless always dependent upon the oldest. 
"  Now Landolf preached the Gospel zealously 
to the family whose guest he was, and they listened to him with willing ears. But when he 
would have declared his message also to the Sax 
ons who lived in their neighbourhood, Hermann explained to him that by law and usage he must not 
do that, until permission had first been given him 
by the regular assembly of the people. As the 
house-father he himself could indeed in his own 
family allow the proclamation of the Christian 
faith; but a public proclamation must have the 
decision of the people upon it; that is, of the as 
sembly of all the free men. Landolf had arrived 
 
in the autumn; the stated gathering of the commons would not be till spring, and indeed not till 
May; in the meanwhile he must be contented. 
Hard as it was for Landolf to wait so long, for 
his heart was burning to convert the poor heathen 
to Christ, he yet knew the people and their customs too well to contend against them. So all 
winter he abode with Hermann. And a blessed 
winter that was. It was the habit of the family, 
when at evening a fire was kindled in the middle 
of the hut, that the whole household, men, women, 
and children, even the servants and maids, should 
assemble around it; the master of the house having the place of honour in the midst of them. The 
house-father then generally told stories about the 
heroic deeds of their forefathers ; about the ancient 
laws and usages, the knowledge of which was 
handed down from father to son ; and Landolf sat 
among them and listened with the rest; but soon 
got permission to tell on his part, of the wonderful 
things of the Christian faith. So then he profited 
by the long winter evenings to tell over the whole 
Bible story of the Old and New Testaments. And 
with such simplicity and with such joy of faith 
and confidence he told it, that the hearts of his 
hearers were stirred. In addition to that, he often 
sang the songs of the Christian Church, in a clear, 
fine-toned voice; and presently some among them, 
the younger especially, began to join in the singing. His Bible stories were in all their mouths; 
and the people had such capital memories that, he 
 
says himself, lie needed usually to tell a thing but 
once or twice, and all of them, even the children, 
could repeat it almost word for word. This is a 
common experience among people who have no 
written literature ; they are apt to be uncommonly 
strong in power of memory. And when he prayed 
too, and he did it daily upon his knees, he was 
never disturbed, although he prayed in the cottage, which had only one room for all; instead, 
he soon had the joy of seeing that many kneeled 
down with him and with him called upon Christ, 
"the God of the Christians," as they phrased it. 
So the winter passed, May came, ice and snow 
melted away, and everybody got ready to attend 
the great assembly of the people. It was to be 
held at the stone-houses. Landolf travelled thither as Hermann's guest, under his protection ; Her 
mann even letting him ride his best horse, by way 
of doing him honour before all the people. With 
a noble train of freilings that is, of free men 
they set forth. 
" ' The first day, however, they went no further 
than about a quarter of an hour from Harm's oiidendorp, to a sacrificial altar which was placed close 
by what was called the Deep Moor (Deepenbroock, 
the chronicle says). There Landolf was to be 
spectator of a terrible scene, which shews as well 
the frightful savageness and cruelty of the Saxons 
as their noble purity of manners. By about noon 
of the above-named day, all the free men of that 
whole region had gathered together at the altar of 
 
sacrifice. This altar consisted, as may still be seen 
by the so-called stone-houses now standing, of four 
slabs of granite set up in a quadrangle; with four 
openings, or doors, towards the four quarters of the 
heaven, broad enough to let a man go through; 
and covered over on the top with another great, 
granite block. The young warriors brought up 
two prisoners, who had been taken in a late cam 
paign and fetched along. One of them was made 
to go under the sacrifice altar through the north 
and south doors, the other through the east and 
west doors. Then stepped forth two priests, having their long, flowing hair bound with a mistletoe 
branch, and a sharp knife of flint in the hand. 
You must know that the mistletoe, which is still 
to be found in plenty in our woods, growing especially on birch trees, was held among our fore 
fathers to be sacred. For since it does not grow 
upon the ground like other plants, but upon trees, 
birches particularly, it was' believed that the seed 
of this plant fell down from heaven; and this 
belief was strengthened by the remarkable manner 
of its growth, so unlike other plants, with its forking opposite branches and shining white berries. 
After solemn prayers, which were half sung, half 
said, to the two gods Woden and Thor, and the 
two goddesses Hela and Hertha, the captive men 
were one after the other laid each upon his back 
on the altar, so that his head hung down over the 
edge of the altar/ " 
" stop, Ditto ! " cried Maggie. 
 
"Why?" 
" It is too horrible*" 
" It is pretty horrible. But men did it, and men 
suffered it. Can't you hear it ? " 
" Men were dreadful ! " 
" Men are dreadful, where the light of the Gospel has not come. ' The dark places of the earth 
are full of the habitations of cruelty.' " 
" Tell me about those gods and goddesses." 
" Were those Saxon Druids ? " Flora asked. 
" It sounds so. But I don't know the gods of the 
Teutons as well as I do those of the Greeks ; I can't 
tell you much about Woden and Thor, Maggie. 
We'll look when we go home. Now am I to go 
on?" 
"I suppose so. yes, I want you to go on. 
But it is dreadful." 
"Well, the captives werfc laid on the altar, as I 
read, 'and the priests cut their throats with their 
knives of flint. When the quivering victim had 
ceased to bleed, the body was taken up by the 
young warriors and cast into the Deep Moor, where 
it immediately sunk in the bog. Landolf had not 
recovered from the shock for he had never seen a 
human sacrifice before, having gone while yet a 
boy into the country of the Christians when his 
attention was fettered by another dreadful drama. 
" ' Some of the young men fetched a long and 
broad hurdle woven of fir branches; laid it down 
before the altar, and went away; but came back 
again presently with a man and a woman, who 
 
had been accused and convicted of breaking the 
marriage vow. An accuser stepped forth, and repeated the charge before the Billing. The Billing 
then asked the accused whether the charge was 
true; and admonished them to confess the truth, 
since never yet had a free Saxon told a lie. And 
when the guilty people had owned their guilt, first 
their relations came forward and spat in their faces ; 
then the man's weapons were taken from him, his 
hands and feet and the woman's were tied together: 
and so tied they were thrown into the Deep Moor, 
the hurdle covered over them, and this and the underlying bodies, by their nearest relations first of 
all, were trodden down into the deep morass. So 
came the marriage-breakers to a shameful end and 
received the reward of their sin. 
'"Herman told Landolf afterwards that there 
were three crimes which they punished on this disgraceful wise marriage-breaking, lying, and cow 
ardice; because such people were not held worthy 
to die the honourable death of a warrior, and be 
slain with weapons. Landolf answered, UBilling, 
you are terrible people! yet even as heathen you 
hate the sins that you know. What would you be, 
if you were once Christians, and the Lord Jesus 
gave you His light ! " 
"'And as I write down these words from the 
old chronicle, I could cast my eyes to the ground 
for shame and weep tears of blood over the deep, 
shameful apostasy of the German Christianity of 
the present day. Christ gives us his light now ; we 
are Christians now ; but where have purity, truth, 
and courage hid themselves? Are there ten in a 
hundred German Christians that keep a pure life, 
true lips, and a brave heart? I do not think it. 
Open and secret impurity, coarse and polished false 
hood, disgraceful cowardliness, fear of men and men-pleasing, have infested the whole German Chris 
tian nation, and will soon bring down the judgment of God; for "the bruise is incurable, and the 
wound is grievous." Great and small, men and 
women, old and young, all are tainted with the 
plague. Our heathen forefathers were better and 
cleaner in these things than we Christians; they 
will condemn us at the last judgment; and we 
shall have to stand abashed before them. And 
you that read this, if you prize the name of a German; if, as you should, you prize a thousand times 
more the name of a Christian ; ask your conscience 
whether it has not been uneasy under the fore 
going narration; and if it has, then repent, you 
degenerate German, you hypocritical Christian ; repent in sackcloth and ashes; and on your knees 
implore your God, the living Saviour: "Jesus my 
Lord, thou holy God, give me a pure nature, a lip 
of faithfulness, and a bold heart, through the faith 
that is in Thee." 
" 'And now I must go on to tell what more befell 
that same day, in which the devilish nature of 
heathenism among our forefathers was shewn as 
frightfully as in their murderous sacrifices. Far be 
hindhand as our ancestors at that time were in all 
 
civilization, they nevertheless already understood 
the art of preparing intoxicating drinks. For this 
purpose they used especially the wild oats which 
grew all over, and the darnel grass; of which a 
strong, intoxicating beer was brewed ; and to make 
it yet more stupefying they added a certain marsh 
plant. And scarce ever was there a sacrifice that 
was not concluded with a drinking-bout. So it fell 
out at this time. Many writers tell, how among 
the old Germans it was even made a boast to 
spend eight or even fourteen days, one after an 
other, in such carousals. On the occasion of which 
we are speaking, indeed, they lasted only over the 
rest of that day and through the night; for the 
next day the intent was to go on to the stone- 
houses. But what horror must Landolf have felt 
even in that short time ! When all of them had 
got drunk, a quarrel sprang up ; and as each man 
had his weapons with him, his war-axe especially, 
the quarrel came to duels between man and man; 
and soon blood was flowing from most of the people, and several corpses lay here and there. The 
bodies were burned, their ashes buried, and a round 
hillock of earth thrown up over them; for, as it 
was thought, they had fallen in honourable fight, 
as it became men to do. And when Landolf full 
of astonishment asked the Billing, who of all the 
crowd was the only one that had remained sober, 
whether they did not then punish people for murder? the Billing in wonder retorted by the question, where the murderers were ? There had been 
 
nothing but an open, honest fight, which was to 
