quickly. 
' I don't know whether you know him.' 
' O I know everybody here or I used to.' 
' I was thinking of somebody who didn't use to be here. 
He has only just come. I mean Mr. Masters.' 
 
' The parson ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' I don't know him much. I suppose he belongs to the 
parson language, to carry on our figure. They all do.' 
' He don't, said Diana. ' That is what struck me in 
him. What are the signs of the " parson " language ? ' 
' A black coat and a white neckcloth, to begin with.' 
' He dresses in gray,' said Diana laughing, ' or in white ; 
and wears, any sort of a cravat.' 
'To go on, Generally a grave face and a manner of 
great propriety ; with a square way of arranging words.' 
' Mr. Masters has no manner at all ; and he is one of 
the most entertaining people I ever knew.' 
' Jolly sort, eh ? ' 
' No, I think not,' said Diana ; ' I don't know exactly 
what you mean by jolly ; he is never silly, and he does not 
laugh much particularly ; but he can make other people 
laugh.' 
' Well, another sign is, they put a religious varnish over 
common things. Do you recognize that ? ' 
' I recognize that, for I have seen it ; but it isn't true 
of Mr. Masters.' 
' I give him up,' said young Knowlton. ' I am sure I 
shouldn't like him.' 
' Why, do you like these common signs of the " parson 
language," as you call it, that you have been reckoning ?' 
The answer was a decided negative accompanied with 
a laugh again ; and then Diana's visiter turned the conversation to the country, and the place, and the elm-trees ; 
looked out of the window and observed that the haymakers 
were at work near the house, and finally said he must go 
out to look at them nearer ; he had not made hay since he 
was a boy. 
He went out, and Diana went back to her mother in 
the lean-to. 
' Mother, young Mr. Knowlton is here.' 
' Well keep him out o' my way ; that's all I ask.' 
' Haven't you got through yet ? ' 
' Through ! There was but one single pan of gingerbread left this noon ; and there ain't more'n three loaves 
o' bread in the pantry. What's that among a tribe o' such 
grampuses ? I've got to make biscuits for tea, Di ; and 
I may as well get the piecrust off my hands at the same 
time ; it'll be so much done for to-morrow. I wish you'd 
pick over the berries. And then I'll find you something 
else to do. If I had six hands and two heads, I guess I 
could about get along.' 
' But mother, it won't do for nobody to be in the 
parlour.' 
' I thought he was gone ? ' 
' Only gone out into the field to see the haymakers.' 
' Queer company ! ' . said Mrs. Starling, leaving her 
bowl of dough, with flowery hands, to peer out of a window. 
You may make your mind easy, Di ; he won't come in 
again ; I declare ! he's got his coat off and he's gone at it 
himself ; ain't that him ? ' 
Diana looked and allowed that it was. Mr. Knowlton 
had got a rake in hand, his coat hung on the fence, and he 
was raking hay as busily as the best of them. Diana gave 
a little sigh, and turned to her pan of berries. This young 
officer was a new language to her, and she would have 
liked, she thought, to spell out a little more of its graceful 
peculiarities. The berries took a good while. Meantime 
Mrs. Starling's biscuit went into the oven, and a sweet 
smell began to come thereout. Mrs. Starling bustled about 
setting the table ; with cold pork and pickles, and cheese 
 
and berry pie, and piles of bread brown and white. Clearly, 
the haymakers were expected to supper. 
' Mother,' said Diana doubtfully when she had washed 
her hands from the berry stains, 'will you bring Mr. 
Knowlton out here to tea, if he should possibly stay ? ' 
' He's gone, child, this age.' 
' No, he isn't.' 
' He ain't out yonder any more.' 
' But his horse stands by the fence under the elm.' 
' I wish he was further, then ! Yes, of course he'll 
come here, if he takes supper with me to-night. I don't 
think he will. I don't know him, and I don't know as I 
want to.' 
But this vaguely expressed hope was disappointed. The 
young officer came in, a little while before supper ; laughingly asked Diana for some water to wash his hands ; and 
followed her out to the lean-to. There he was introduced 
to Mrs. Starling, and informed her he had been doing her 
work, begging to know if that did not entitle him to some 
supper. I think Mrs. Starling was a little sorry then that 
she had not made preparations to receive him more 
elegantly but it was too late now ; she only rushed a 
little nervously to fetch him a finer white towel than those 
which usually did kitchen duty for herself and Diana ; and 
then the biscuits were baked, and the farm hands came 
streaming in. 
There were several of them, now in haying time, headed by Josiah Davis, Mrs. Starling's ordinary stand-by. 
Heavy and clumsy, warm from the hay field, a little awkward at sight of the company, they filed in and dropped 
into their several seats round one end of the table ; and 
Mrs. Starling could only play all her hospitable arts around 
her guest, to make him forget if possible his unwonted 
companions. She served him assiduously with the best she 
had on the table ; she would not bring on any dainties 
extra ; and the young officer took kindly even to the pork 
and pickles, and declared the brown bread was worth 
working for ; and when Mrs. Starling let fall a word of 
regretful apology, assured her that in the times when he 
was a cadet he would have risked getting a good many 
marks for the sake of such a meal. 
'What are the marks for?' inquired Mrs. Starling 
curiously. 
' Bad boys,' he told her ; and then went off to a discussion of her hay crop, and a dissertation on the delights 
of making hay and the pleasure he had had from it that 
afternoon ; 'something he did not very often enjoy.' 
' Can't you make hay anywheres ? ' Mrs. Starling asked 
a little dryly. 
He gravely assured her it would not be considered 
military. 
' I don't know wh'at military means,' said Mrs. Starling. 
' You are military, ain't you ? ' 
' Mean to be,' he answered seriously. 
' Well, you are. Then, I should think, whatever you 
do would be military.' 
But at this giving of judgment, after a min-ute of, perhaps, endeavour for self-control, Mr. Knowlton broke 
down and laughed furiously. Mrs. Starling looked stern. 
Diana was in a state of indecision, whether to laugh with 
her friend or frown with her mother ; but the infection of 
fun was too much for her ; the pretty lips gave way. Maybe that was encouragement for the offender ; for he did 
not show any embarrassment or express any contrition. 
' You do me too much honour,' he said as soon as he 
could make his voice steady ; ' you do me too much honour ; 
Mrs. Starling. I assure you, I have been most unmilitary 
this afternoon ; but really I am no better than a boy when 
the temptation takes me ; and the temptation of your 
meadow and those long winrows was too much for me. I 
enjoyed it hugely. I am coming again, may I ? ' 
' You'll have to be quick about it then,' said Mrs Starling, not much mollified ; ' there ain't much more haying to 
do on the home lot, I guess. Ain't you most done, Josiah?' 
' How ? ' said that worthy from the other end of the 
table. Mrs. Starling had raised her voice, but Josiah's 
wits always wanted a knock at the door before they would 
come forth to action. 
' Hain't you 'most got through haying? ' 
' Not nigh.' 
' Why what's to do ? ' inquired the mistress, with a new 
interest. 
'There's all this here lot to finish, and all of Savin 
hill.' 
' Savin hill ain't but half in grass.'' 
' Jes' so. There ain't a lock of it cut, though.' 
' If I was a man,' said Mrs. Starling, ' I believe I 
could get the better o' twenty acres o' hay in less time 
than you take for it. However I ain't. Mr. Knowlton, do 
take one o' those cucumbers. I think there ain't a green 
pickle equal to a cucumber when it's tender and sharp, 
as it had ought to be.' 
' I am sure everything under your hands is as it ought 
to be,' said the young officer, taking the cucumber. ' I 
know these are. Your haymakers have a good time,' he 
added, as the men rose and there was a heavy clangour 
of boots and grating chairs at the lower end of the table. 
' They calculate to have it,' said Mrs. Starling. ' And 
all through Pleasant Valley they do have it. There are no 
 
poor folks in the place ; and there ain't many that calls 
themselves rich ; they all expect to be comfortable ; and I 
guess most of 'em be.' 
'Just the state of society in which There's a sweet 
little stream running through your meadow, Miss Diana,' 
said the young officer with a sudden change of subject. 
' Where does it go to ? ' 
' It makes a great many turns, through different farms, 
and then joins your river the Yellow River that runs 
round Elmfield.' 
' That's a river ; this brook is just what I like. I got 
tired with my labours this afternoon, and then I threw 
myself down by the side of the water to look at it. I lay 
there till I had almost forgotten what I was about.' 
' Not in your shirt sleeves, just as you was ? ' inquired 
Mrs. Starling. The inquiry drew another laugh from her 
guest ; and he then asked Diana where the brook came 
from ? If it was pretty, followed up ? 
' Very pretty ! ' Diana said. ' As soon as you get 
among the hills and in the woods with it, it is as pretty as 
it can be ; not a bit like what it is here j full of rocks and 
pools and waterfalls ; lovely ! ' 
' Any fish ? ' 
' Beautiful trout.' 
'Miss Diana, can you fish ? ' 
' No. I never tried.' 
' Well, trout fishing is not exactly a thing that comes 
by nature. I must go up that brook. I wish you would 
go and shew me the way. When I see anything pretty, I 
always want some one to point it out to, or I can't half 
enjoy it.' 
' I think it would be the other way,' said Diana. ' I 
should be the one to shew the brook to you.' 
 
' You see if I don't make you find more pretty things 
than you ever knew were there. Come ! is it a bargain ? 
I'll take my line and bring Mrs. Starling some trout.' 
' When > ' said Diana. 
' Seems to me,' said Mrs. Starling, ' I could keep along 
a brook if I could once get hold of it.' 
' Ah,' said Mr. Knowlton laughing, ' you are a great 
deal cleverer than I am. You have no idea how fast I can 
lose myself. Miss Diana, the sooner the better, white this 
lovely weather lasts. Shall we say to-morrow ?' 
' I'll be ready,' said Diana. 
' This weather ain't goin' to change in a hurry,' remarked Mrs. Starling. 
But the remark did not seem to be to the purpose. The 
appointment was made for the following day at three 
o'clock ; and Mr. Knowlton's visit having come to an end, 
he mounted and galloped away. 
'Three o'clock!' said Mrs. Starling. 'Just the heat 
o' the day. And trout, indeed ! Don't you be a silly fish 
yourself, Diana.' 
' Mother ! ' said Diana. 'I couldn't help going, when he 
asked me.' 
' You could ha' helped it if you'd wanted to, I s'pose.' 
Which was.no doubt true, and Diana made no response; 
for she wanted to go. She watched the golden promise of 
dawn the next morning ; she watched the cloudless vault 
of the sky, and secretly rejoiced within herself that she 
would be ready. 
CHAPTER VI. 
MR. KNOWLTON'S FISH. 
DOUBTLESS they were ready, those two, for the brook 
and the afternoon. The young officer came at half past 
three ; not in regimentals this time, but in an easy grey undress and straw hat. He came in a wagon, and he brought 
his fishing-rod and carried a basket. Diana had been ready 
ever since three. They lost no time ; they went out into 
the meadow and struck the brook. 
Now the brook, during its passage through the valley 
field, was remarkable for nothing but a rare infirmity of 
purpose which would never let it keep one course for many 
rods together. It twisted and curled about, making many 
little meadow promontories on one side an d the other ; 
hurrying along with a soft sweet gurgle that sounded 
fresh, even under the heat of the summer sun. It was a 
hot afternoon, as Mrs. Starling had said ; and the two 
excursionists were fain to take it gently and to make as 
straight a course across the fields as keeping on one side 
of the brook left possible. They could not cross it. The 
stream was not large, yet quite too broad for a jump ; and 
not deep, yet deep enough to cover its stony bed and 
leave no crossing stones. So sometimes along the border 
of the brook, where a fringe of long grass had been 
left by the mowers' scythes, rank and tangled ; sometimes 
striking across from bend to bend over the meadow, where 
 
no kindly trees stood to shade them, the two went ; on a 
hunt, as Mr. Knowlton said, after pretty things. 
After a mile or more of this walking, the scenery changed. 
Mown fields, hot and fragrant, were left behind ; almost 
suddenly they entered the hills, where the brook issued 
from them; and then they began a slower tracking of its 
course back among the rocks and woods of a dell which 
soon grew close and wild. The sides of the dell became 
higher ; the bed of the stream more steep and rough ; 
the canopy of trees closed in overhead and shewed the 
blue through only in broken patches. The clothing of the 
hillsides was elegant and exquisite ; oaks and firs and 
hemlocks, with slender birches and maples, lining the 
ravine ; and under them a free growth of ferns, and fresh 
beds of moss, and lovely lichens, covered the rocks and 
dressed the ground. The stream rattled along at the bottom; foaming over the stones and leaping down the rocks ; 
making the still deep pools where the fish love to lie ; 
and in its way executing a succession of cascades and tiny 
waterfalls that wanted no picturesque element except 
magnitude. And a good imagination can supply that. 
And how went the afternoon ? How goes it with those 
who have just received a new sense, or found a sudden doubling of that which they had before ? Nay, it was a new sense, a 
new power of perception, able to discern what had eluded 
all their previous lives. The brook in the meadow had 
been to Diana's vision until now merely running water ; 
whence had come those delicious amber hues, where it 
rolled over the stones, and the deep olive shadows where 
the water was deeper ? She had never seen them before. 
Now, they were pointed out and seen to be rich and clear, 
a sort of dilution of sunlight, with a suggestion of sunlight's other riches of possibility. The rank unmown 
 
grass that fringed the stream, Diana had never seen it but 
as what the scythe had missed ; now she was made to notice what an elegant fringe it was, and how the same sunlight glanced upon its curving stems and blades and set 
off the deep brown stream. Diana's own eyes began to 
be quickened, and her tongue loosed. The lovely outline 
of the hills that encircled the valley had never looked just 
so rare and lovely as this afternoon when she pointed them 
out to her companion, and he scanned them and nodded 
in full assent. But when they got into the ravine, it was 
Diana's turn. Mosses, and old trees, and sharp turns of 
the gorge, and fords, where it was necessary to cross the 
brook and recross on stepping stones just lifting them 
above the water, here black enough, Diana knew all these 
things ; and with secret delight unfolded the knowledge of 
them to her companion as they went along. And still the bits 
of blue sky overhead had never seemed so unearthly blue ; 
the drapery of oak and hemlock boughs had never been 
so graceful and bright ; there_ was a presence in the old 
gorge that afternoon, which went with them and cleared 
their eyes from vapour and their minds from everything, it 
seemed, but a susceptibility to beauty and delight in its influence. Perhaps the young officer would have said that 
this presence was embodied in the unconscious eyes and 
fair calm brow which went beside him ; I think he saw 
them more distinctly than anything else. Diana did not 
know it. Somehow she very rarely looked her companion 
in the face ; and yet she knew very well how his face looked too ; so well perhaps that she did not need to refresh 
her memory. So they wandered on ; and the fords were 
pleasant places, where she had to be helped over the 
stones. Not that Diana needed such help ; her foot was 
fearless and true ; she never had had help there before ; 
 
was that what made it so pleasant ? Certainly it did seem 
to her that it was a prettier way of going up the brook than 
alone and unaided. 
' I am not getting much fish at this rate,' said young 
Knowlton at length with a light laugh. 
' No,' said Diana. ' Why don't you stop and try here ? 
Here looks like a good place. Right in that still, deep 
spot, I dare say there are trout.' 
' What will you do in the mean time, if I stop and fish ? 
it will be very stupid for you.' 
' For me ? O no. I shall sit here and look on. It will 
not be stupid. I will keep still, never fear.' 
' I don't want you to keep still ; that would be very 
stupid for me.' 
' You can't talk while you are fishing ; it would scare 
the trout, you know.' 
' I don't believe it.' 
' I have always heard so.' 
' I don't believe it will pay,' said Knowlton as he fitted 
his rod ' If I am to purchase trout at the expense of all 
that ' 
All what, Diana wondered? 
' Suppose we talk very softly in whispers,' he went on 
laughing. ' Do you suppose the trout are so observant as to 
mind it ? If you sit here, on this mossy stone, close by 
me, can't I enjoy two things at once ? ' 
Diana made no objection to this arrangement. She 
took the place indicated, full of a breathless kind of pleasure 
which she did not stop to analyze ; and watched in silence the 
progress of the fishing. In silence, for after Mr. Knowlton's 
arrangement had been carried into effect, he too subsided 
into stillness ; whether engrossed with the business of his 
line, or satisfied, or with thoughts otherwise engaged, did not 
 
appear. But as presently and again a large trout, -speckled, 
and beautiful, was swung up out of the pool below, the two 
faces were turned towards each other and the two pairs of 
eyes met with a smile of so much sympathy that I rather 
think the temporary absence of words lost nothing to the 
growth of the understanding between them. 
The place where they sat was lovely. Just there the 
bank was high, overhanging the brook. A projecting 
rock, brown and green and grey, with lichen and mosses of 
various kinds, held besides a delicate young silver birch, 
the roots of which found their way to nourishment somehow through fissures in the rock. Here sat Knowlton, with 
Diana beside him on a stone, just a little behind ; while he 
sat on the brink to cast, or rather drop, his line into the 
little pool below where the trout were lurking. The opposite side of the stream was but a few yards off, thick with 
a lovely growth of young wood, with one great hemlock 
not far above towering up towards the sky. The view in 
that direction went up a vista of the ravine, so wood-fringed 
on both sides, with the stream leaping and tumbling down 
a steep rocky bed. Overhead the narrow line of blue 
sky. 
' Four ! ' whispered Diana, as another spotted trout 
came up from the pool. 
' I wonder how many there are down there ? ' said 
Knowlton as he unhooked the fish. ' It makes me hungry-' 
' Catching the trout ? ' said Diana softly. 
He nodded. ' Here comes another. I wish we could 
make a fire somewhere hereabouts and cook them.' 
' Is that a good way ? ' 
' The best in the world,' he said adjusting his fly, and 
then looking with a smile at her. ' There is no way that 
fish taste so good. I used to do that, you see, in the hills 
round about the Academy ; and I know all about it.' 
' We could make a fire,' said Diana ; ' but we have no 
gridiron here.' 
' I had no gridiron there. Couldn't have carried a grid- 
iron in my pocket if I had had one. Here's another ' 
'You had not a gridiron of course.' 
' Nor a pocket either.' 
' But did you eat the trout all alone ? without bread, I 
mean, or anything ? ' 
' No ; we took bread and salt and pepper and butter and 
a few such things. There were generally a lot of us ; or 
if only two or three we could manage that. The butter 
was the worst thing to accomplish Here's another ! ' 
' Such beauties ! ' said Diana. 'Well Mr. Knowlton, if 
you get too hungry, we'll cook you one at home, you 
know.' 
' Will you ? ' said he. ' I wish we had salt and bread 
here ! I should like to shew you how wood cookery goes, 
though. But I'll tell you ! we'll get Mrs. Starling to let 
us have it out in the meadow that won't be bad.' . 
Diana thought of her mother's utter astonishment and 
disapprobation at such a proposal ; and there was silence 
again for a few minutes, while the line hung motionless 
over the pool, and Diana's eyes watched it movelessly, 
and the liquid sweetness of the water's talk with the stones 
was heard, as one hears things when the senses are strung 
to double keenness. Diana heard it at least, and listened to 
something in it she had never perceived before; something 
not only sweet and liquid and musical, but in some odd 
sense admonitory. What did it say ? Diana hardly questioned, but yet she heard. " My peace never changes. 
My song never dies. Listen, or not listen, it is all the 
same. You may be in twenty moods in a year. In my 
depth of content I flow on forever." 
A slight rustling of leaves, a slight crackling of stems 
or branches, brought the eyes of both watchers in another 
direction ; and before they could hear a footfall they saw, 
above them on the course of the brook, a figure of a man 
coming towards them, and Diana knew it was the minister. 
Swiftly and lightly he came swinging himself along, bounding over obstacles, with a sure foot and a strong hand ; till 
presently he stood beside them. Just then Mr. Knowlton's 
line was swung up with another trout. Diana introduced 
the gentlemen to each other. 
' Fishing ? ' said the minister. 
' We have got all there are in this place, I'm thinking,' 
said Knowlton, shutting up his rod. 
' You'll not, two minutes ago,' said the other. 'What 
do you judge from? It doesn't do, to be so easily discouraged as that.' 
' Discouraged ? ' said Knowlton. ' Not exactly. Let us 
see. Four, five, six seven, eight. Eight, out of this 
little one pool, Mr. Masters. Do you think there are any 
more?' 
' I always get all I can out of a thing,' said the minister. 
And his very cheery tone, as well as his very quiet manner, 
seemed to say he was in the habit of getting a good deal, 
out of everything. 
' I don't know about that,' answered the young officer 
in another tone. ' Doesn't always pay. To stay too long 
at one pool of a brook, for instance. The brook has 
other pools, I suppose.' 
'I suppose it has,' said the minister, with a manner 
which would have puzzled any but one that knew him, to 
tell whether he were in jest or earnest. ' I suppose it has. 
 
But you may not find them. Or by the time you do, you 
may have lost your bait. Or you may be tired of fishing. 
Or it may be time to go home.' 
' I am never tired,' said Knowlton springing up ; ' and 
I have got a guide that will not let me miss my way.' 
' You are fortunate,' said the other. ' And I will not 
occupy your time. Good afternoon ! I shall hope to see 
more of you.' 
With a warm grasp of the young officer's hand and 
lifting his hat to Diana, the minister went on his way. 
Diana looked after him wondering why he had not shaken 
hands with her too. It was something she was a little 
sorry to miss. 
' Who is that ? ' Knowlton asked. 
' Mr. Masters ? He's our minister.' 
' What sort of a chap is he ? Not like all the rest of them ? ' 
' How are all the rest of them ? ' Diana asked. 
' I declare, I don't know ! ' said Knowlton. ' If I was 
to tell the truth, I should say they puzzle all my wits. See 
'em in one place and hear ' em and you would say they 
thought all the business of this world was of no account, 
nor the pleasure of it either. See 'em anywhere else, and 
they are just as much of this world as you are or as I am, 
I' mean. They change as fast as a chameleon. In the 
light that comes through a church window, now, they'll be 
blue enough, and make you think blue's the only wear ; 
or black ; but once outside, and they like the colour that 
comes through a glass of wine or anything also that's jolly. 
One thing or the other they don't mean that's plain.' 
' Which do you think they don't mean ? ' said Diana. 
' Well, they're two or three hours in church, and the rest 
of the week outside. I believe what they say the rest of 
the time.' 
 
' I don't think Mr. Masters is like that.' 
' What is he like, then ? ' 
' I think he mean-s exactly what he says.' 
' Exactly,' said the young officer laughing ; ' but which 
part of the time, you know ? ' 
' All times. I think he means just the same thing al- 
ways.' 
' Must see more of him,' said Knowlton. ' You like 
him, then, Miss Starling ? ' 
Diana did like him, and it was quite her way to say 
what she thought ; yet she did not say it. She had an undefined shadowy impression that the hearing would not be 
grateful to her companion. Her reply was a very inconclusive remark, that she had not seen much of Mr. Masters ; 
and an inquiry, where Mr. Knowlton meant to fish 
next ? 
So the brook had them without interruption the rest of 
the time. They crept up the ravine, under the hemlock 
branches and oak boughs ; picking their way along the 
rocky banks ; catching one or two more trout and finding 
an unending supply of things to talk about ; while the air 
grew more delicious as the day dipped towards evening, 
and the light flashed from the upper tree tops more clear 
and sparkling as the rays came more slant ; and the brook's 
running commentary on what was going on, like so many 
other commentaries, was heard and not heeded ; until the 
shadows deepening in the dell warned them it was time to 
seek the lower grounds and open fields again. Which they 
did, much more swiftly than the ascent of the brook had been 
made ; in great spirits on both sides, though with a thought 
on Diana's part, how her mother would receive the fish and 
the young officer's proposition. Mrs. Starling was standing at the back door of the kitchen as they came up to it. 
 
' I should think, Diana, you knew enough to remember 
that we don't take visiters in at this end of the house,' was 
her opening remark. 
' How about fish ? ' inquired Mr. KnowltOn, bringing 
forward his basket. 
' What are you going to do with ' em ? ' asked Mrs. 
Starling, standing in the door as if she meant he should not 
come in. 
'We are going to eat them with your leave ma'am, 
and by your help ; and first we are going to cook them.' 
' Who ? ' 
'Miss Starling and myself. I have promised to shew 
her a thing. May I ask for the loan of a match ? ' 
' A match ! ' echoed Mrs. Starling. 
' Or two,' added Mr. Knowlton, with an indescribable 
twinkle in his eye ; indescribable because there was nothing 
contrary to good breeding in it. All the more, Diana felt 
the sense of fun it expressed ; and hastened to change the 
scene and put an end to the colloquy. She threw down 
her bonnet and went for a handful of sticks. Mr. Knowlton had got his match by this time. Mrs. Starling stood 
astonished and scornful. 
' Will this be wood enough ? ' Diana asked. 
Mr. Knowlton replied by taking the sticks out of her 
hand, and led the way into the meadow. Diana followed, 
very quiet and flushed. He had not said a word ; yet the 
manner of that little action had a whole small volume in it. 
' Nobody else ever cared whether I had sticks in my hands 
or not,' thought Diana; and she flushed more and more. 
She turned her face away from the bright West, which 
threw too much illumination on it; and looked down into 
the brook. The brook's song sounded now unheard. 
It was on the border of the brook that Lieut. Knowlton 
 
made his fire. He was in a very jubilant sort of mood. 
The fire was made and the fish were washed ; and Diana 
stood by the column of smoke in the meadow and looked 
on, as still as a mouse. And Mrs. Starling stood in the 
door of the lean-to and looked on too, from a distance 
and if she was still, it was because she had no one near 
just then, to whom it was safe to open her mind. The 
beauty of the picture was all lost upon her : the shorn 
meadow, the soft column of ascending smoke coloured in 
dainty hues from the glowing western sky, the two figures 
moving about it. 
' Now, Miss Diana,' said the young officer, ' if we had 
a little salt, and a dish I am afraid to go and ask Mrs. 
Starling for them ! ' 
Perhaps, so was she ; but Diana went, and got them 
without asking. She smiled at the dishing of the trout, it 
was so cleverly done ; then she was requested to sprinkle 
salt on them herself ; and then with a satisfied air, which 
somehow called up a flush in Diana's cheeks again, Mr. 
Knowlton marched off to the house with the dish in his 
hands. Mrs. Starling had given her farm labourers their 
supper, and was clearing away relics from the board. She 
made no move of welcome or hospitable invitation ; but 
Diana hastened to remove the traces of disorder, and set 
clean plates and cups, and bring fresh butter, and bread, 
and make fresh tea. How very pleasant, and how ex- 
tremely unpleasant, it was altogether ! 
'Mother,' she said, when all was ready, 'won't you 
come and taste Mr. Knowlton's fish ? ' 
' I guess I know how fish taste. I haven't eaten the 
trout of that brook all my life, without.' 
' But you don't know my cookery,' said Mr. Knowlton ; 
' thafs something new.' 
 
' I don't see the sense of doing things in an outlandish 
way, when you have no need to. Nor I don't see why 
men should cook, as long as there's women about.' 
' What is outlandish ? ' inquired Mr. Knowlton. 
' What you've been doing, I should say.' 
' Come and try my cookery, Mrs. Starling ; you will 
never say anything against men in that capacity again.' 
' I never say anything against men anyhow ; only 
against men cooking ; and that ain't natural.' 
' It comes quite natural to me,' said the young officer. 
' Only taste my trout, Mrs. Starling ; and you will be quite 
reconciled to me again.' 
' I ain't quarrelling with nobody fur's I know,' said 
Mrs. Starling 'but I've had my supper.' 
' Well, we haven't had ours,' said the young man ; and he 
set himself not only to supply that deficiency in his own 
case, but to secure that Diana should enjoy and eat hers 
in spite of all hindrances. He saw that she was wofully 
annoyed by her mother's manner ; it brought out his own 
more in contrast than perhaps otherwise would have been. 
He helped her, he coaxed her, he praised the trout, and 
the tea, and the bread, and the butter ; he peppered and 
salted anew, when he thought it necessary, on her own 
plate ; and he talked and told stories and laughed and 
made her laugh, till even Mrs. Starling moving about in 
the pantry, moved softly and set down the dishes carefully 
that she too might hear. Diana sometimes knew that she 
did so ; at other times was fain to forget everything but the 
glamour of the moment. Trout were disposed of at last 
however, and the remainder was cold ; bread and butter 
had done its duty ; and Mr. Knowlton rose from table. 
His adieux were gay ; quite unaffected by Mrs. Starling's 
determined holding aloof; and involuntarily Diana stood 
by the table where she could look out of the window, till 
she had seen him mount into his wagon and go off. 
' Have you got through ? ' said Mrs. Starling. 
' Supper ? ' said Diana starting. ' Yes, mother.' 
' Then perhaps I can have a chance now. Do you 
think there is anything in the world to do ? or is it all 
done up, in the world you have got into ? ' 
Diana began clearing away the relics of the trout supper, in silence and with all haste. 
' That ain't all,' said Mrs. Starling. ' The house don't 
stand still for nobody, nor the world, nor things generally. 
The sponge has got to be set for the bread ; and there's 
the beans, Diana ; to-morrow's the day for the beans ; and 
they ain',t looked over yet, nor put in soak. And you'd 
better get out some codfish and put that on the stove. I 
don't know what to have for breakfast if I don't have that. 
You'd best go and get off your dress, first thing ; that's my 
counsel to ye; and save washing that to-morrow.' 
Diana went into no reasoning, on that subject or any 
other ; but she managed to do all that was demanded of 
her without changing her dress, and yet without damaging 
its fresh neatness. In silence, and in an uncomfortable 
mute antagonism which each one felt in every movement 
of the other. Odd it is, that when words for any reason 
are restrained, the feeling supposed to be kept back manifests itself in the turn of the shoulders and the set of the 
head, in the putting down of the foot or the raising of the 
hand, nay, in the harmless movements of pans and kettles. 
The work was done, however, punctually, as always in that 
house ; though Diana's feeling of mingled resentment and 
shame, grew as the evening wore on. She was glad when 
the last pan was lifted for the last time, the key turned in 
the lock of the door of the lean-to, and she and her mother 
 
moved into the other part of the house, preparatory to 
seeking their several rooms. But Mrs. Starling had not 
done her work yet. 
'When's that young man comin' again?' she asked 
abruptly at the foot of the stairs, stopping to trim the 
wick of her candle, and looking into the light without 
winking. 
' I don't know ' Diana faltered. ' I don't know that 
he is ever coming again.' 
' Don't expect him either, don't you ? ' 
'I think it would be odd if he didn't,' said Diana 
bravely, after a moment's hesitation. 
'Odd? why?' 
Diana hesitated longer this time, and the words did not 
come for her waiting. 
' Why odd ? ' repeated Mrs. Starling sharply. 
'When people seem to like a place they are apt to 
come again,' said Diana, flushing a little. 
' Seem to,' said Mrs. Starling. 'Now, Diana, I have just 
this one thing to say. Don't you go and give that young 
fellow no encouragement.' 
' Encouragement ! mother,' repeated Diana. 
' Yes, encouragement. Don't you give him any. Mind 
my words. 'Cause if you do, I won't ! ' 
' But mother ! ' said Diana, ' what is there to encourage? 
I could not help going to shew the brook to him to-day.' 
'You couldn't,' said Mrs. Starling, beginning to mount 
the stairs. ' Well, it is good to practise. Suppose'n he asked 
you to let him shew you the Mississippi or the Pacific 
Ocean ; couldn't you help that ? ' 
' Mother, I am ashamed ! ' said poor Diana. ' Just 
think. He is educated, and has every advantage, and is 
an officer in the United States army now ; and what 'am I ? ' 
 
' Worth three dozen of him,' said Mrs. Starling decidedly 
' He wouldn't think so, mother, nor anybody else, but 
you.' 
'Well, I think so, mind, and that's enough. I ain't a 
goin' to give you to him, not if he was fifty officers in the 
United States army. So keep my words, Diana, and mind 
what I say. I never will give you to him, nor to any other 
man that calls himself a soldier and looks down upon folks 
that are better than he is. I won't let you marry him ; so 
don't you go and tell him you will.' 
' He won't ask me, mother. You make me ashamed ! ' 
said Diana, with her cheeks burning , 'but I am sure he 
does not look down upon me.' 
' Nobody shall marry you that sets himself up above 
me,' said Mrs. Starling as she closed her door. ' Mind ! ' 
And Diana went into her own room, and shut her door, 
and sat clown to breathe. ' Suppose he should ask you to 
let him shew you the Mississippi, or the Pacific ? ' And the 
hot flush rushed over her and she hid her face, as if even 
from herself. ' He will not. But what if he should ? ' 
Mrs. Starling had raised the question. Diana, in very 
maidenly shame tried to beat it down and stamp the life 
out of it. But that was more than she could do. 
CHAPTER VII. 
BELLES AND BLACKBERRIES. 
IN the first flush of Diana's distress that night it had 
seemed to her that the sight of Lieut. Knowlton in all time 
to come could but give her addition-al distress. How could 
she look at him ? But the clear morning light found her 
nerves quiet again, and her cheeks cool ; and a certain 
sweet self-respect in which she held herself always, forbade any such flutter of vanity or stir even of fancy, as 
could in any wise ruffle the simple dignity of this country 
girl's manner. She had no careful mother's training, or 
father's watch and safeguard ; the artificial rules of propriety were still less known to her ; but innate purity and 
modesty, and, as I said, the poise of a true New England 
self-respect, stood her in better stead. When Diana saw 
Mr. Knowlton the next time, she was conscious of no discomposure ; and he was struck with the placid elegance of 
manner, formed in no school, which was the very outgrowth of the truth within her. His own manner grew 
unconsciously deferential. It is the most flattering homage 
a man can render a woman. 
Mrs. Starling had delivered her mind, and thereafter 
she was content to be very civil to him. Further than that 
a true record cannot go. The young officer tried to negotiate himself into her good graces ; he was attentive and 
respectful and made himself entertaining. And Mrs. Starling was entertained and entertained him also on her part ; 
and Diana watched for a word of favourable comment or 
better judgment of him when he was gone. None ever 
came ; and Diana sometimes sighed when she and her 
mother had" shut the doors, as that night, upon each other. 
For to her mind the favourable comments rose unasked 
for. 
He came very often, on one pretext or andther. He 
began to be very much at home. His eye used to meet 
her's, as something he had been looking for and had just 
found ; and the lingering clasp of his hand said the touch 
was pleasant. Generally their interviews were in the parlour of Diana's home ; sometimes he contrived an occasion 
to get her to drive with him, or to walk ; and Diana never 
found that she could refuse herself the pleasure or need 
refuse it to him. The country was so thinly settled and 
their excursions had as yet been in such lonely places, 
that no village eyes or tongues had been aroused. 
So the depth of August came. The two were standing 
one moonlight night at the little front gate, lingering in 
the moonlight. Mr. Knowlton was going, and could not 
go- 
' Have you heard anything about the Bear hill party ? ' 
he asked suddenly. 
' O yes ; Miss Delamater came here a week ago to 
speak about it.' 
' Are you going ? ' 
' Mother said she would. So I suppose I shall.' 
' Where is it ? and what is it ? ' 
' The place ? Bear hill is a very wild, stony, bare hill- 
at least one side of it is bare ; the other side is covered 
with trees. And the bare side is covered with blackberry 
bushes  the largest you ever saw ; and the berries are the 
 
largest. We always go there every summer, a number of 
us out of Pleasant Valley, to get blackberries.' 
' How far is it ? ' 
'Fifteen miles.' 
'That's a good way to go a blackberrying,' said the 
young man smiling. ' People hereabouts must be very 
fond of that fruit.' 
' We want them for a great many uses, you know ; it 
isn't just to eat them. Mother makes jam and wine for 
the whole year, besides what we eat at once. And we go 
for the fun too, as well as for the berries.' 
' So it is fun, is it ? ' 
' I think so. We make a day of it ; and everybody carries provisions ; and we build a fire, and it is very pleasant.' 
' I'll go,' said Mr. Knowlton. ' I have heard something 
about it at home. They wanted me to drive them, but I 
wanted to know what I was engaging myself to. Well, I'll 
be there, and I'll take care our wagon carries its stock of 
supplies too. Thursday, is it ? ' 
' I believe so.' 
' What time shall you go ? ' 
' About eight o'clock or half-past.'
' Eight ' said the young officer. ' I shall have to revive 
Academy habits. I am grown lazy.' 
' The days are so warm, you know,' D-i-ana explained ; 
'and we have to come home early. We always have dinner 
between twelve and one.' 
'I see!' said the young man. 'I see the necessity, 
and feel the difficulty. Well, I'll be there.' 
He grasped her hand again; they had shaken hands 
before he left the house, Diana remembered ; and this time 
he held her fingers in a light clasp for some seconds after 
 
it was time to let them go. Then he turned and sprang 
upon his horse and went off at a gallop. Diana stood still 
at the gate where he had left her, looking down the road 
and listening to the diminishing sound of his horse's hoofs. 
The moonlight streamed tenderly down upon her and the 
elm trees ; it filled the empty space where Knowlton's 
figure had been ; it flickered where the elm branches stirred lightly and cast broken shadows upon the ground ; it 
poured its floods of effulgence over the meadows and 
distant hills, in still moveless peace and power of everlasting calm. It was one of the minutes of Diana's life that she 
never forgot afterwards ; a point where her life had stood 
still still as the moonlight ; and almost as sweet in its 
broad restfulness. She lingered at the gate, and came 
slowly back again into the house. 
' What are you going to take to Bear hill, mother ? ' in-quired Diana the next day. 
' I don't know ! I declare, I'm 'most tired of picnics ; 
they cost more thar they come to. If we could tackle up 
now, and go off by ourselves, early some morning, and get 
what we want there'd be some fun in that.' 
' It's a very lonely place, mother.' 
' That's what I say. I'm tired o' livin' forever in a crowd.' 
' But you said you'd go ? ' 
'Well ; I'm goin'.' 
' Then we must take something.' 
' Well ; I'm goin' to. I calculated to take something.' 
' What ? ' 
' Somethin' 'nother nobody else'll take if I could contrive what that'd be.' 
' Well, mother, I can tell you. Somebody'll be sure to 
carry cake ; and pies ; and cold ham and cheese ; and 
bread and butter ; and cold chicken. All that's sure.' 
 
' Exactly. I could have told you as much, myself, 
Diana. What I want to know is, somethin' nobody'll take. 
' Green corn to boil, mother ? ' 
' Well ! ' said Mrs. Starling musing, ' that ts an idea. 
How'd you boil it ? ' 
' Must take a pot or borrow one.' 
'Borrow! Not I, from any o' the Bear hill folks. I 
couldn't eat corn out o' their kettles. It's a sight o' trouble 
anyhow, Diana.' 
' Then, mother, suppose I make a chicken-pie ? ' 
' Do what you've a mind to, child. And there must be 
a lot o' coffee roasted. I declare, if I wasn't clean out o' 
blackberry wine, I'd cut the whole concern. There'll be 
churning just ready Thursday ; and Josiah had ought to be 
sent off to mill ; we're 'most out o' flour ; and he can't go 
to-morrow, for he's got to see to the fence round the fresh 
pasture lot. And I want to clean the kitchen this week. 
There's no sittin' still in this world, I do declare ! I haven't 
set a stitch in those gowns o' mine since last Friday, neither ; 
and Society comes here next week. And if I don't catch 
Josiah before he goes out to work in the morning and get 
the stove cleaned out the flues are all choked up it'll drive 
me out o' the house or out o' my mind, with the smoke ; and 
Bear hill won't come off then.'
Bear hill did " come off " however. Early on the morn- 
ing of Thursday, Josiah might be seen loading up the little 
green wagon with tin kettles and baskets, both empty and 
full. Ears of corn went in too, for the " idee " had struck 
Mrs. Starling favourably ; and an iron pot found its way 
into one corner. Breakfast was despatched in haste ; the 
house locked up and the key put under the door-stone for 
Josiah to find at noon ; and the two ladies mounted and 
drove away, while the morning light was yet fresh and cooi 
 
and the shadows of the trees lay long in the meadow. 
August mornings and evenings were seldom hotter than 
was agreeable in Pleasant Valley. 
For some miles the road lay through the region so 
denominated. Then it entered the hills ; and soon the 
way led over them, up and down steep ascents and pitches, 
with a green woodland on each side and often a look-out 
over some Tittle meadow valley of level fields and cultivation 
bordered and encircled by more hills. The drive was a 
silent one ; Mrs. Starling held the reins ; and perhaps they 
gave her thoughts employment enough ; Diana was musing 
about another wagonful and wondering whereabouts it 
was. Till at a turn of the road she discerned behind them, 
at some distance, a vehicle coming along, and knew with a 
jump of her heart the colour of the horse and the figure of 
the driver. Even so far off she was sure of them, and 
turned her sunbonnet to look straight forward again, hoping 
that her mother might not by any chance give a look back. 
She did not herself again ; but Diana's ears were watching 
all the while after that for the sound of hoofs or wheels 
coming near ; and her eyes served her to see nothing but 
what was out of her field of vision. The scenery grew by 
degrees rough and wild ; cultivation and civilization seemed 
as they went on to fall into the rear. A village, or hamlet, 
of miserable, dirty, uncomely houses and people, was passed 
by ; and at last, just as the morning was wakening up into 
fervour, Mrs. Starling drew rein in a desolate rough spot at 
the edge of a woodland. The regular road had been left 
some time before, since when only an uncertain wheel track 
had marked the way. Two or three farm wagons already 
stood at the place of meeting ; nobody was in them ; the 
last comer was just hitching his horse to a tree. 
' Here's Mis' Starling,' he called out. ' Good day ! 
 
good-day to 'ye. Hold on, Mis' Starling I'll fetch him up. 
Coin' to conquer all Bear Hill, ain't ye, with all them pails 
and kettles. Wall blackberries ain't ripe but once in the 
year. I've left all my business to attend upon the women 
folks. What's blackberries good for, now, when you've got 
'em ? ' 
' Don't you like a blackberry pie, Mr. Selden ? ' 
' Bless you !' said the farmer, 'I kin live without it; 
' but my folks can't live 'thout comin' once a year to Bear 
Hill. It is a wonder to me, why things warn't so ordered 
as that folks could get along 'thout eatin'. It'd save a 
sight o' trouble. Why, Mis' Starlin', we're workin' all 
the time to fill our stomachs ; come to think of it, that's 
pretty much what life is fur. Now I'll warrant you, they'll 
have a spread by and by, that'll be worth all they'll get 
here to-day.' 
' Who's come, Mr. Selden ? ' 
' Wall, they ain't all here yet, I guess ; my folks is up 
in the lot, hard to work, I s'pose. Mis' Seelye's gals is here ; 
and Bill Howe and his wife ; and the Delamaters ; that's 
all, I guess. He's safe now, Mis' Starlin'.' 
This last remark had reference to the horse, which 
farmer Selden had been taking out of the shafts and tethering, after helping the ladies down. Mrs. Starling got out 
her pails and baskets destined for the berry picking and 
gave some of them to her daughter. 
' They'll be all flocking together, up in the thickest part 
of the lot,' she whispered. ' Now, Diana, if you'll sheer off a 
little, kind o', and keep out o' sight, you'll have a ventur' ; 
and we can stand a chance to get home early after dinner. 
I'll go along ahead and keep 'em from comin' where you 
are if I can.' 
Diana heard, with tingling ears ; for she heard at the 
same time the sound of the approaching wagon behind her. 
She did not look ; she caught up her pail and basket and 
plunged into the wood path after her mother and Mr. 
Selden ; but she had not gone three yards when she heard 
her name called. 
' You are not going to desert us ? ' cried young Knowlton coming up with her. ' We don't know a step of the way, 
nor where to find blackberries or anything. I have been 
piloting myself all the way by your wagon. Come back 
and let me make you friends with my sister.' 
Blushing and hesitating, Diana had yet no choice. She 
followed Mr. Knovvlton back to the clearing, and looked 
on, feeling partly pleased and partly uncomfortable, while 
he helped from their wagon the ladies he had driven to 
the picnic. The first one dismounted was a beautiful 
vision to Diana's eyes. A trim little figure, robed in a 
dress almost white, with small crimson clusters sprinkled 
over it ; coral buckle and earrings ; a wide Leghorn hat 
with red ribbons ; and curly, luxuriant, long, floating 
waves of hair. She was so pretty, and her attire was so 
graceful, and had so jaunty a style about it, that Diana 
was struck somehow with a fresh though very undefined 
feeling of uneasiness. She turned to the other lady. Very 
pretty, she was too ; smaller even than the first one ; with 
delicate, piquant features and a ready smile. Daintily she 
also was dressed in some stuff of deep green colour, which 
set her off as its encompassing foliage does a bunch of cherries. Her face looked out almost like one, it was so bloom- 
ing, from the shadow of a green silk sunbonnet ; and her 
hands were cased in green kid gloves. Her eyes sought Diana. 
' My sister, Mrs. Reverdy, ' said young Knowlton eagerly, leading her forward. ' Miss Starling, Genevieve ; you 
know who Miss Starling is.' 
 
The little lady's answer was most gracious ; she smiled 
winningly and grasped Diana's hand, and was delighted to 
know her. ' And we are so glad to meet you ; for we are 
strangers here, you know. I never was at Bear Hill in my 
life, but they told us of wonderful blackberries here and 
such multitudes of them ; and we persuaded Evan to 
drive us ; you know we don't often have him to do anything for us ; so we came ; but I don't know what we 
should have done if we had not met you. Gertrude and I 
thought we would come and see what a picnic on Bear 
Hill meant.' And she laughed again ; smiles came very 
easily to her pretty little face. And then she introduced 
Miss Masters. Knowlton stood by, looking on at them all. 
' These elegant women ! ' thought Diana l what must 
I seem to him ? ' And truly her print gown was of homely 
quality and country wear ; she did not take into the account 
a fine figure, which health and exercise had made free and 
supple in all its movements, and which the quiet poise of 
her character made graceful, whether in motion or rest. 
For grace is no gift of a dancing master or result of the 
schools. It is the growth of the mind more than of the 
body ; the natural and almost necessary symbolization in 
outward lines of what is noble, simple, and free from 
self ; and not almost but quite necessary, if the further con- 
ditions of a well made and well jointed figure and a free and 
unconstrained habit of life, are not wanting. The conditions all met in Diana ; the harmony of development was, as 
it always is, lovely to see. 
But a shadow fell on her heart as she turned to lead the 
way through the wood to the blackberry field. For in the 
artistic elegance of the ladies beside her, she thought she 
recognized somewhat that belonged to Mr. Knowlton's 
sphere and not to her own ; something that removed her 
 
from him and drew them near; she thought he could not 
fail to find i-t so. What then ? She did not ask herself 
what then. Indeed she had no leisure for difficult analysis 
of her thoughts. 
' Dear me, how rough ! ' Mrs. Reverdy exclaimed. 
' Really, Evan, I did not know what you were bringing us 
to. Is it much further we have to go ? ' 
' It is all rough,' said Diana. ' You ought to have 
thick shoes.' 
' O, I have ! I put on horridly thick ones, look ! Isn't 
that thick enough ? But I never felt anything like these 
stones. Is the blackberry field full of them too ? Really, 
Evan,I think I cannotget along if you don't give me your arm.' 
'You have two arms, Mr. Knowlton can't I have the 
other one ? ' cried Miss Masters dolefully. 
' I have got trees on my other arm, Gatty I don't see 
where I should put you. Can't you help Miss Starling 
along, till we get out of the woods ? ' 
' Isn't it very impertinent of him to call me Gatty ? ' said 
the little beauty tossing her long locks and speaking in a 
half aside to Diana. ' Now he would like that I should re- 
turn the compliment and call him Evan ; but I won't. What 
do you do, when men call you by your Christian name ? ' 
She was trying to read Diana as she spoke, eyeing 
her with sidelong glances ; and as they went, laying her 
daintily gloved hand on Diana's arm to help herself along. 
Diana was astounded both at her confidence and at her request for council ; but as to meet the request would be to 
return the confidence, she was silent. She was thinking 
