in the light and the shade and the heat, there 
was a great tinkling of the bells of innumerable 
street cars, and a constant strolling and shuffling 
and rustling of many pedestrians, a large proportion of whom were young women in Pompa 
dour-looking dresses. Within, the place was cool 
and vaguely lighted, with the plash of water, the 
odor of flowers, and the flitting of French waiters, as I have said, upon soundless carpets. 
"It 's rather like Paris, you know," said the 
younger of our two travellers. 
  
" It 's like Paris only more so," bis companion 
rejoined. 
"I suppose it 's the French waiters," said the 
first speaker. "Why don 't they have French 
waiters in London ?" 
"Fancy a French waiter at a club," said his 
friend. 
The young Englishman stared a little, as if he 
could not fancy it. " In Paris I'm very apt to 
dine at a place where there 's an English waiter. 
Don 't you know what s-his-name s, close to the 
thingumbob ? They always set an English waiter at me. I suppose they think I can 't speak 
French." 
" Well, you can t." And the elder of the young 
Englishmen unfolded his napkin. 
His companion took no notice whatever of this 
declaration. " I say," he resumed, in a moment, 
I suppose we must learn to speak American. I 
suppose we must take lessons." 
" I can 't understand them," said the clever man. 
" What the deuce is he saying ?" asked his com 
rade, appealing from the French waiter. 
"lie is recommending some soft-shell crabs," 
said the clever man. 
And so, in desultory observation of the idiosyncrasies of the new society in which they found 
themselves, the young Englishmen proceeded to 
dine going in largely, as the phrase is, for cool 
ing draughts and dishes, of which their attendant 
offered them a very long list. After dinner they 
went out and slowly walked about the neighbor 
ing streets. The early dusk of waning summer 
was coming on, but the heat was still very great. 
The pavements were hot even to the stout boot 
soles of the British travellers, and the trees along 
the curb-stone emitted strange exotic odors. The 
young men wandered through the adjoining square 
that queer place without palings, and with mar 
ble walks arranged in black and white lozenges. 
There were a great many benches, crowded with 
shabby-looking people, and the travellers remark 
ed, very justly, that it was not much like Belgrave 
Square. On one side was an enormous hotel, lift 
ing up into the hot darkness an immense array of 
open, brightly lighted windows. At the base of 
this populous structure was an eternal jangle of 
horse-cars, and all round it, in the upper dusk, was 
a sinister hum of mosquitoes. The ground-floor 
of the hotel seemed to be a huge transparent cage, 
flinging a wide glare of gas-light into the street, of 
which it formed a sort of public adjunct, absorbing 
and emitting the passers-by promiscuously. The 
young Englishmen went in with every one else, 
from curiosity, and saw a couple of hundred men 
sitting on divans along a great marble-paved 
corridor,with their legs stretched out, together with 
several dozen more standing in a queue, as at the 
ticket office of a railway station, before a brilliant 
ly illuminated counter of vast extent. These lat 
ter persons, who carried portmanteaus in their 
hands, had a dejected, exhausted look ; their garments were not very fresh, and they seemed to be 
rendering some mysterious tribute to a magnificent 
young man with a waxed mustache, and a shirt 
front adorned with diamond buttons, who every 
now and then dropped an absent glance over their 
multitudinous patience. They were American citizens doing homage to a hotel clerk. 
" I'm glad he didn 't tell us to go there," said 
one of our Englishmen, alluding to their friend 
on the steamer, who had told them so many things. 
They walked up the Fifth Avenue, where, for in 
stance, he had told them that all the first families 
lived. But the first families were out of town, 
and our young travellers had only the satisfaction 
of seeing some of the second or perhaps even the 
third taking the evening air upon balconies and 
high nights of door-steps, in the streets which radiate from the more ornamental thoroughfare. 
They went a little way down one of these side 
streets, and they saw young ladies in. white dress 
es charming-looking persons seated in grace 
ful attitudes on the chocolate-colored steps. In 
one or two places these young ladies were conversing across the street with other young ladies 
seated in similar postures and costumes in front 
of the opposite houses, and in the warm night air 
their colloquial tones sounded strange in the ears 
of the young Englishmen. One of our friends, 
nevertheless the younger one intimated that he 
felt a disposition to interrupt a few of these soft 
familiarities ; but his companion observed, perti 
nently enough, that he had better be careful. 
" We must not begin with making mistakes," said 
his companion. 
" But he told us, you know he told us," urged 
the young man, alluding again to the friend on 
the steamer. 
" Never mind what he told us !" answered his 
comrade, who, if he had greater talents, was also 
apparently more of a moralist. 
By bed-time in their impatience to taste of a 
terrestrial couch again our sea-farers went to bed 
early it was still insufferably hot, and the buzz 
of the mosquitoes at the open windows might have 
passed for an audible crepitation of the temperature. " We can 't stand this, you know," the young 
Englishmen said to each other ; and they tossed 
about all night more boisterously than they had 
tossed upon the Atlantic billows. On the morrow, 
their first thought was that they would re-embark 
  
this day for England ; and then it occurred to 
them that they might find an asylum nearer at 
hand. The cave of JEolus became their ideal of 
comfort, and they wondered where the Americans 
went when they wished to cool off. They had 
not the least idea, and they determined to apply 
for information to Mr. J. L. Westgate. This was 
the name inscribed in a bold hand on the back of 
a letter carefully preserved in the pocket-book of 
our junior traveller. Beneath the address, in the 
left-hand corner of the envelope, were the words, 
"Introducing Lord Lambeth and Percy Beau 
mont, Esq." The letter had been given to the 
two Englishmen by a good friend of theirs in London, who had been in America two years previous 
ly, and had singled out Mr. J. L. Westgate from 
the many friends he had left there as the consignee, as it were, of his compatriots. " He is a 
capital fellow," the Englishman in London had 
said, "and he has got an awfully pretty wife. 
He 's tremendously hospitable he will do every 
thing in the world for you ; and as he knows every 
one over there, it is quite needless I should give 
you any other introduction. He will make you 
see every one ; trust to him for putting you into 
circulation. He has got a tremendously pretty 
wife." It was natural that in the hour of tribulation Lord Lambeth and Mr. Percy Beaumont 
should have bethought themselves of a gentleman 
whose attractions had been thus vividly depicted ; 
all the more so that he lived in the Fifth Avenue, 
and that the Fifth Avenue, as they had ascertained the night before, was contiguous to their hotel. 
"Ten to one he'll be out of town," said Percy 
Beaumont ; " but we can at least find out where 
he has gone, and we can immediately start in pur 
suit. He can 't possibly have gone to a hotter 
place, you know." 
" Oh, there 's only one hotter place," said Lord 
Lambeth, " and I hope he hasn't gone there." 
They strolled along the shady side of the street 
to the number indicated upon the precious letter. 
The house presented an imposing chocolate-color 
ed expanse, relieved by facings and window cor 
nices of florid sculpture, and by a couple of dusty 
rose-trees which clambered over the balconies and 
the portico. This last-mentioned feature was approached by a monumental flight of steps. 
"Kather better than a London house," said 
Lord Lambeth, looking down from this altitude, 
after they had rung the bell. 
"It depends upon what London house you 
mean," replied his companion. "You have a 
tremendous chance to get wet between the house 
door and your carriage." 
"Well," said Lord Lambeth, glancing at the 
burning heavens, "I guess it doesn 't rain so 
much here ?" 
The door was opened by a long negro in a white 
jacket, who grinned familiarly when Lord Lambeth asked for Mr. Westgate. 
" He ain't at home, Sah ; he 's down town at his 
office." 
"Oh, at his office?" said the visitors. "And 
when will he be at home V" 
"Well, Sah, when he goes out dis way in de 
mo ning, he ain't liable to come home all day." 
This was discouraging ; but the address of Mr. 
Westgate 's office was freely imparted by the intelligent black, and was taken down by Percy 
Beaumont in his pocket-book. The two gentle 
men then returned, languidly, to their hotel, and 
sent for a hackney-coach, and in this commodious vehicle they rolled comfortably down town. 
They measured the whole length of Broadway, 
again, and found it a path of fire ; and then, deflecting to the left, they were deposited by their 
conductor before a fresh, light, ornamental structure, ten stories high, in a street crowded with 
keen-faced, light-limbed young men, who were 
running about very quickly, and stopping each 
other eagerly at corners and in doorways. Passing into this brilliant building, they were intro 
duced by one of the keen-faced young men. he 
was a charming fellow, in wonderful cream-color 
ed garments and a bat with a blue ribbon, who 
had evidently perceived them to be aliens and 
helpless to a very snug hydraulic elevator, in 
which they took their place with many other per 
sons, and which, shooting upward in its vertical 
socket, presently projected them into the seventh 
horizontal compartment of the edifice. Here, after brief delay, they found themselves face to face 
with the friend of their friend in London. His 
office was composed of several different rooms, 
and they waited very silently in one of them aft 
er they had sent in their letter and their cards. 
The letter was not one which it would take Mr. 
Westgate very long to read, but he came out to 
speak to them more instantly than they could 
have expected ; he had evidently jumped up from 
his work. He was a tall, lean personage, and was 
dressed all in fresh white linen ; he had a thin, 
sharp, familiar face, with an expression that was 
at one and the same time sociable and business 
like, a quick, intelligent eye, and a large brown 
mustache, which concealed his mouth and made 
his chin, beneath it, look small. Lord Lambeth 
thought he looked tremendously clever. 
" How do you do, Lord Lambeth how do you 
do, Sir ?" he said, holding the open letter in his 
hand. " I'm very glad to see you ; I hope you 're 
very well. You had better come in here ; I think 
it 's cooler," and he led the way into another room, 
where there were law books and papers, and win 
dows wide open beneath striped awning. Just 
opposite one of the windows, on a line with his 
eyes, Lord Lambeth observed the weather-vane 
of a church steeple. The uproar of the street 
sounded infinitely far below, and Lord Lambeth 
felt very high in the air. "I say it 's cooler," 
pursued their host, " but every thing is relative. 
How do you stand the heat ?" 
" I can 't say we like it," said Lord Lambeth ; 
" but Beaumont likes it better than I." 
" Well, it won 't last," Mr. Westgate very cheer 
fully declared ; " nothing unpleasant lasts over 
here. It was very hot when Captain Littledale 
was here ; he did nothing but drink sherry-cobblers. He expresses some doubt in his letter 
whether I will remember him as if I didn 't 
remember making six sherry-cobblers for him 
one day in about twenty minutes. I hope you 
left him well, two years having elapsed since 
then. " 
" Oh yes, he 's all right," said Lord Lambeth. 
" I am always very glad to see your country 
men," Mr. Westgate pursued. "I thought it 
would be time some of you should be coming 
along. A friend of mine was saying to me only 
a day or two ago, " It 's time for the water-melons 
and the Englishmen. " 
" The Englishmen and the water-melons just 
now are about the same thing," Percy Beaumont 
observed, wiping his dripping forehead. 
" Ah, well, we'll put you on ice, as we do the 
melons. You must go down to Newport." 
" We'll go any where," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Yes, you want to go to Newport ; that 's what 
you want to do," Mr. Westgate affirmed. " But 
let 's see when did you get here ?" 
" Only yesterday," said Percy Beaumont. 
" Ah, yes, by the Russia. Where are you staying?" 
"At the Hanover, I think they call it." 
"Pretty comfortable?" inquired Mr. Westgate. 
" It seems a capital place, but I can 't say we 
like the gnats," said Lord Lambeth. 
Mr. Westgate stared and laughed. " Oh no, 
of course you don 't like the gnats. We shall expect you to like a good many things over here, 
but we sha n't insist upon your liking the gnats ; 
though certainly you'll admit that, as gnats, they 
are fine, eh? But you oughtn't to remain in 
the city." 
" So we think," said Lord Lambeth. " If you 
would kindly suggest something " 
" Suggest something, my dear Sir ?" and Mr. 
Westgate looked at him, narrowing his eyelids. 
" Open your mouth and shut your eyes ! Leave 
it to me, and I'll put you through. It 's a matter 
of national pride with me that all Englishmen 
should have a good time ; and as I have had 
considerable practice, I have learned to minister 
to their wants. I find they generally want the 
right thing. So just please to consider your 
selves my property ; and if any one should try to 
appropriate you, please to say, Hands off; too 
late for the market. But let 's see," continued 
the American, in his slow, humorous voice, with 
a distinctness of utterance which appeared to his 
visitors to be part of a humorous intention a 
strangely leisurely, speculative voice for a man 
evidently so busy and, as they felt, so professional " let 's see ; are you going to make something 
of a stay, Lord Lambeth ?" 
"Oh dear no," said the young Englishman; 
"my cousin was coming over on some business, 
so I just came across, at an hour 's notice, for the 
lark." 
" Is it your first visit to the United States ?" 
" Oh dear yes." 
"I was obliged to come on some business," 
said Percy Beaumont, " and I brought Lambeth 
along." 
" And you have been here before, Sir ?" 
" Never never." - 
" I thought, from your referring to business " 
said Mr. Westgate. 
" Oh, you see I'm by way of being a barrister," 
Percy Beaumont answered. " I know some people that think of bringing a suit against one of 
your railways, and they asked me to come over 
and take measures accordingly." 
Mr. Westgate gave one of his slow, keen looks 
again. " What 's your railroad ?" he asked. 
" The Tennessee Central." 
The American tilted back his chair a little, 
and poised it an instant. " Well, I'm sorry you 
want to attack one of our institutions," he said, 
smiling. " But I guess you had better enjoy yourself first!" 
"I'm certainly rather afraid I can 't work in 
this weather," the young barrister confessed. 
" Leave that to the natives," said Mr. West- 
gate. " Leave the Tennessee Central to me, Mr. 
Beaumont. Some day we'll talk it over, and I 
guess I can make it square. But I didn 't know 
you Englishmen ever did any work, in the upper 
clashes." 
" Oh, we do a lot of work ; don 't we, Lambeth ?" 
asked Percy Beaumont. 
"I must certainly be at home by the 19th of 
September," said the younger Englishman, irrelevantly 
but gently. 
"For the shooting, eh ? or is it the hunting, or 
the fishing ?" inquired his entertainer. 
"Oh, I must be in Scotland," said Lord Lam 
beth, blushing a little. 
" Well, then," rejoined Mr. Westgate, " you had 
better amuse yourself first, also. You must go 
down and see Mrs. Westgate." 
" We should be so happy, if you would kindly tell us the train," said Percy Beaumont. 
"It isn't a train it 's a boat." 
" Oh, I see. And what is the name of a the 
a town ?" 
" It isn't a town," said Mr. Westgate, laughing. 
" It 's a well, what shall I call it ? It 's a water 
ing-place. In short, it 's Newport. You'll see 
what it is. It 's cool ; that 's the principal thing. 
You will greatly oblige me by going down there 
and putting yourself into the hands of Mrs. 
Westgate. It isn't perhaps for me to say it, 
but you couldn 't be in better hands. Also in 
those of her sister, who is staying with her. She 
is very fond of Englishmen. She thinks there is 
nothing like them." 
"Mrs. Westgate or a her sister?" asked 
Percy Beaumont, modestly, yet in the tone of an 
inquiring traveller. 
" Oh, I mean my wife," said Mr. Westgate. 
"I don 't suppose my sister-in-law knows much 
about them. She has always led a very quiet 
life ; she has lived in Boston." 
Percy Beaumont listened with interest. " That, 
I believe," he said, "is the most a intellectual 
town ?" 
"I believe it is very intellectual. I don 't go 
there much," responded his host. 
"I say, we ought to go there," said Lord Lambeth to his companion. 
" Oh, Lord Lambeth, wait till the great heat is 
over," Mr. Westgate interposed. "Boston in 
this weather would be very trying; it 's not the 
temperature for intellectual exertion. At Boston, you know, you have to pass an examination 
at the city limits ; and when you come away they 
give you a kind of degree." 
Lord Lambeth stared, blushing a little ; and 
Percy Beaumont stared a little also but only 
with his fine natural complexion glancing aside 
after a moment to see that his companion was 
not looking too credulous, for he had heard a 
great deal of American humor. " I dare say it 
is very jolly," said the younger gentleman. 
" I dare say it is," said Mr. Westgate. " Only 
I must impress upon you that at present to 
morrow morning, at an early hour you will be 
expected at Newport. We have a house there; 
half the people in New York go there for the 
summer. I am not sure that at this very moment my wife can 'take you in ; she has got a lot 
of people staying with her; I don 't know who 
they all are; only she may have no room. But 
you can begin with the hotel, and meanwhile you 
can live at my house. In that way simply 
sleeping at the hotel you will find it tolerable. 
For the rest, you must make yourself at home at 
my place. You mustn't be shy, you know; if 
you are only here for a month that will be a 
great waste of time. Mrs. Westgate won 't neg 
lect you, and you had better not try to resist her. 
I know something about that. I expect you'll 
find some pretty girls on the premises. I shall 
write to my wife by this afternoon 's mail, and to 
morrow morning she and Miss Alden will look 
out for you. Just walk right in and make your 
self comfortable. Your steamer leaves from this 
part of the city, and I will immediately send out 
and get you a cabin. Then, at half past four 
o clock, just call for me here, and I will go with 
you and put you on board. It 's a big boat ; you 
might get lost. A few days hence, at the end of 
the week, I will come down to Newport, and see 
how you are getting on." 
The two young Englishmen inaugurated the 
policy of not resisting Mrs. Westgate by submit 
ting, with great docility and thankfulness, to her 
husband. He was evidently a very good fellow, 
and he made an impression upon his visitors; 
his hospitality seemed to recommend itself consciously
with a friendly wink, as it were as if 
it hinted, judicially, that you could not possibly 
make a better bargain. Lord Lambeth and his 
cousin left their entertainer to his labors and 
returned to their hotel, where they spent three 
or four hours in their respective shower-baths. 
Percy Beaumont had suggested that they ought 
to see something of the town ; but " Oh, damn 
the town !" his noble kinsman had rejoined. 
They returned to Mr. Westgate 's office in a carnage, with their luggage, very punctually ; but it 
must be reluctantly recorded that, this time, he 
kept them waiting so long that they felt themselves missing the steamer, and were deterred 
only by an amiable modesty from dispensing 
with his attendance, and starting on a hasty 
scramble to the wharf. But when at last he appeared, and the carriage plunged into the purlieus of Broadway, they jolted and jostled to such 
good purpose that they reached the huge white 
vessel while the bell for departure was stiil ringing, and the absorption of passengers still active. 
It was indeed, as Mr. Westgate had said, a big 
  
boat, and his leadership in the innumerable and 
interminable corridors and cabins, with which he 
seemed perfectly acquainted, and of which any 
one and every one appeared to have the entree, 
was very grateful to the slightly bewildered voyagers. He showed them their state-room a 
spacious apartment, embellished with gas lamps, 
mirrors en pied, and sculptured- furniture and 
then, long after they had been intimately convinced that the steamer was in motion and 
launched upon the unknown stream that they 
were about to navigate, he bade them a sociable 
farewell. 
"Well, good-by, Lord Lambeth," he said; 
"good-bye  , Mr. Percy Beaumont. I hope you'll 
have a good time. Just let them do what they 
want with you. I'll come down by-and-by and 
look after you." 
The young Englishmen emerged from their 
cabin and amused themselves with wandering 
about the immense labyrinthine steamer, which 
struck them as an extraordinary mixture of a 
ship and a hotel. It was densely crowded with 
passengers, the larger number of whom appeared 
to be ladies and very young children ; and in the 
big saloons, ornamented in white and gold, which 
followed each other in surprising succession, beneath the swinging gas-light, and among the 
small side passages where the negro domestics 
of both sexes assembled with an air of philo 
sophic leisure, every one was moving to and fro 
and exchanging loud and familiar observations. 
Eventually, at the instance of a discriminating 
black, our young men went and had some " supper" in a wonderful place arranged like a theatre, where, in a gilded gallery, upon which little 
boxes appeared to open, a large orchestra was 
playing operatic selections, and, below, people 
were handing about bills of fare, as if they had 
been programmes. All this was sufficiently curious ; but the agreeable thing, later, was to sit 
out on one of the great white decks of the steamer, in the warm breezy darkness, and, in the 
vague starlight, to make out the line of low, mysterious coast. The young Englishmen tried 
American cigars those of Mr. Westgate and 
talked together as they usually talked, with many 
odd silences, lapses of logic, and incongruities of 
transition ; like people who have grown old to 
gether, and learned to supply each other 's missing phrases ; or, more especially, like people 
thoroughly conscious of a common point of view, 
so that a style of conversation superficially lack 
ing in finish might suffice for reference to a fund 
of associations in the light of which every thing 
was all right. 
  
"We really seem to be going out to sea," 
Percy Beaumont observed. " Upon my word, we 
are going back to England. He has shipped us 
off again. I call that real mean. " 
"I suppose it 's all right," said Lord Lambeth. 
" I want to see those pretty girls at Newport. 
You know he told us the place was an island; 
and aren't all islands in the sea ?" 
" Well," resumed the elder traveller after a 
while, " if his house is as good as his cigars, we 
shall do very well." 
"He seems a very good fellow," said Lord 
Lambeth, as if this idea had just occurred to 
him. 
"I say, we had better remain at the inn," rejoined his companion, presently.  I don 't think 
I like the way he spoke of his house. I don 't 
like stopping in the house with such a tremendous lot of women." 
" Oh, I don 't mind," said Lord Lambeth. And 
then they smoked a while in silence. " Fancy his 
thinking we do no work in England !" the young 
man resumed. 
"I dare say he didn 't really think so," said 
Percy Beaumont. 
" Well, I guess they don 't know much about 
England over here !" declared Lord Lambeth, 
humorously. And then there was another long 
pause. "He was devilish civil," observed the 
young nobleman. 
" Nothing, certainly, could have been more civil," rejoined his companion. 
"Littledale said his wife was great fun," said 
Lord Lambeth. 
" Whose wife Littledale 's ?" 
"This American 's Mrs. Westgate. What 's 
his name ? J. L." 
Beaumont was silent a moment. " What was 
fun to Littledale," he said at last, rather sententious, " may be death to us." 
" What do you mean by that ?" asked his 
kinsman. "I am as good a man as Little- 
dale." 
" My dear boy, I hope you won 't begin to flirt," 
said Percy Beaumont. 
" I don 't care. I dare say I sha n't begin." 
" With a married woman, if she 's bent upon it, 
it 's all very well," Beaumont expounded. " But 
our friend mentioned a young lady a sister, a 
sister-in-law. For God 's sake, don 't get entangled 
with her !" 
" How do you mean entangled ?" 
" Depend upon it she will try to hook you." 
" Oh, bother !" said Lord Lambeth. 
"American girls are very clever," urged his 
companion. 
" So much the better," the young man declared. 
" I fancy they are always up to some game of 
that sort," Beaumont continued. 
" They can 't be worse than they are in England," 
said Lord Lambeth, judicially. 
" Ah, but in England," replied Beaumont, " you 
have got your natural protectors. You have got 
your mother and sisters." 
" My mother and sisters " began the young 
nobleman, with a certain energy. But he stopped 
in time, puffing at his cigar. 
" Your mother spoke to me about it, with tears 
in her eyes," said Percy Beaumont. u She said she 
felt very nervous. I promised to keep you out of 
mischief." 
" You had better take care of yourself," said 
the object of maternal and ducal solicitude. 
" Ah," rejoined the young barrister, " I haven 't 
the expectation of a hundred thousand a year, 
not to mention other attractions." 
" Well," said Lord Lambeth, " don 't cry out be 
fore you 're hurt !" 
It was certainly very much cooler at Newport, 
where our travellers found themselves assigned 
to a couple of diminutive bedrooms in a far-away 
angle of an immense hotel. They had gone ashore 
in the early summer twilight, and had very promptly put themselves to bed ; thanks to which circumstance
and to their having, during the previous 
hours, in their commodious cabin, slept the sleep 
of youth and health, they began to feel, toward 
eleven o clock, very alert and inquisitive. They 
looked out of their windows across a row of small 
green fields, bordered with low stone wails of rude 
construction, and saw a deep blue ocean lying be 
neath a deep blue sky, and flecked now and then 
with scintillating patches of foam. A strong, 
fresh breeze came in through the curtainless case 
ments, and prompted our young men to observe, 
generally, that it didn 't seem half a bad climate. 
They made other observations after they had 
emerged from their rooms in pursuit of break 
fast a meal of which they partook in a huge bare 
hall, where a hundred negroes, in white jackets, 
were shuffling about upon an uncarpeted floor; 
where the flies were superabundant, and the tables 
and dishes covered over with a strange, volumi 
nous integument of coarse blue gauze ; and where 
several little boys and girls, who had risen late, 
were seated in fastidious solitude at the morning 
repast. These young persons had not the morning paper before them, but they were engaged in 
languid perusal of the bill of fare. 
This latter document was a great puzzle to our 
friends, who, on reflecting that its bewildering 
categories had relation to breakfast alone, had an 
uneasy prevision of an encyclopedic dinner list. 
They found a great deal of entertainment at the 
hotel, an enormous wooden structure, for the erection of which it seemed to them that the virgin 
forests of the West must have been terribly deflowered. It was perforated from end to end with 
immense bare corridors, through which a strong 
draught was blowing bearing along wonderful 
figures of ladies in white morning dresses and 
clouds of Valenciennes lace, who seemed to float 
down the long vistas with expanded furbelows, 
like angels spreading their wings. In front was 
a gigantic veranda, upon which an army might 
have encamped a vast wooden terrace, with a 
roof as lofty as the nave of a cathedral. Here our young Englishmen enjoyed, as they supposed, 
a glimpse of American society, which was distributed over the measureless expanse in a variety of 
sedentary attitudes, and appeared to consist large 
ly of pretty young girls, dressed as if for a fete 
champetre, swaying to and fro in rocking-chairs, 
fanning themselves with large straw fans, and en 
joying an enviable exemption from social cares. 
Lord Lambeth had a theory, which it might be 
interesting to trace to its origin, that it would be 
not only agreeable, but easily possible, to enter 
into relations with one of these young ladies : and 
his companion (as he had done a couple of days 
before) found occasion to check the young noble 
man 's colloquial impulses. 
" You had better take care," said Percy Beaumont, " or you will have an offended father or 
brother pulling out a bowie-knife." 
"I assure you it is all right," Lord Lambeth 
replied. " You know the Americans come to these 
big hotels to make acquaintances." 
" I know nothing about it, and neither do you," 
said his kinsman, who, like a clever man, had be 
gun to perceive that the observation of Ameri 
can society demanded a re-adjustment of one 's 
standard. 
" Hang it, then, let 's find out !" cried Lord Lambeth, with some impatience. " You know I don 't 
want to miss any thing." 
" We will find out," said Percy Beaumont, very 
reasonably. " We will go and see Mrs. Westgate, 
and make all the proper inquiries." 
And so the two inquiring Englishmen, who had 
this lady 's address inscribed in her husband 's hand 
upon a card, descended from the veranda of the 
big hotel and took their way, according to direction, along a large straight road, past a series of 
fresh-looking villas embosomed in shrubs and 
flowers, and inclosed in an ingenious variety of 
wooden palings. The morning was brilliant and 
cool, the villas were smart and snug, and the walk 
of the young travellers was very entertaining. 
Every thing looked as if it had received a coat of 
fresh paint the day before the red roofs, the 
green shutters, the clean, bright browns and buffs 
of the house fronts. The flower beds on the little 
lawns seemed to sparkle in the radiant air, and 
the gravel in the short carriage sweeps to flash 
and twinkle. Along the road came a hundred little basket-phaetons, in which, almost always, a 
couple of ladies were sitting ladies in white 
dresses and long white gloves, holding the reins 
and looking at the two Englishmen, whose nation 
ality was not elusive, through thick blue veils tied 
tightly about their faces as if to guard their complexions. At last the young men came within 
sight of the sea again, and then, having interrogated a gardener over the paling of a villa, they 
turned into an open gate. Here they found them 
selves face to face with the ocean and with a very 
picturesque structure, resembling a magnified cha 
let, which was perched upon a green embankment 
just above it. The house had a veranda of extraordinary width all around it, and a great many 
doors and windows standing open to the veranda. 
These various apertures had, in common, such an 
accessible, hospitable air, such a breezy flutter 
within of light curtains, such expansive thresh 
olds and re-assuring interiors, that our friends hardly 
knew which was the regular entrance, and, aft 
er hesitating a moment, presented themselves at 
one of the windows. The room within was dark, 
but in a moment a graceful figure vaguely shaped 
itself in the rich-looking gloom, and a lady came 
to meet them. Then they saw that she had been 
seated at a table writing, and that she had heard 
them and had got up. She stepped out into the 
light; she wore a frank, charming smile, with 
which she held out her hand to Percy Beaumont. 
" Oh, you must be Lord Lambeth and Mr. Beau 
mont," she said. " I have heard from my husband 
that you would come. I am extremely glad to see 
you." And she shook hands with each of her visitors. Her visitors were a little shy, but they had 
very good manners ; they responded with smiles 
and exclamations, and they apologized for not 
knowing the front-door. The lady rejoined, with 
vivacity, that when she wanted to see people very 
much she did not insist upon those distinctions, 
and that Mr. Westgate had written to her of his 
English friends in terms that made her really 
anxious. "He said you were so terribly pros 
trated," said Mrs. Westgate. 
"Oh, you mean by the heat?" replied Percy 
Beaumont. " We were rather knocked up, but we 
feel wonderfully better. We had such a jolly a 
voyage down here. It 's so very good of you to 
mind." 
"Yes, it 's so very kind of you," murmured 
Lord Lambeth. 
Mrs. Westgate stood smiling ; she was extreme 
ly pretty. " Well, I did mind," she said ; " and I 
thought of sending for you this morning to the 
Ocean House. I am very glad you are better, and 
I am charmed you have arrived. You must come 
round to the other side of the piazza." And she 
led the way, with a light, smooth step, looking 
back at the young men and smiling. 
The other side of the piazza was, as Lord Lam 
beth presently remarked, a very jolly place. It 
was of the most liberal proportions, and with its 
awnings, its fanciful chairs, its cushions and rugs, 
its view of the ocean, close at hand, tumbling along 
the base of the low cliffs whose level tops intervened in lawn-like smoothness, it formed a charming complement to the drawing-room. As such 
it was in course of use at the present moment ; it 
was occupied by a social circle. There were several ladies and two or three gentlemen, to whom 
Mrs. Westgate proceeded to introduce the distinguished strangers. She mentioned a great many 
names very freely and distinctly ; the young Englishmen, shuffling about and bowing, were rath 
er bewildered. But at last they were provided
with chairs low, wicker chairs, gilded, and tied 
with a great many ribbons and one of the ladies 
(a very young person, with a little snub-nose and 
several dimples) offered Percy Beaumont a fan. 
The fan was also adorned with pink love-knots ; 
but Percy Beaumont declined it, although he was 
very hot. Presently, however, it became cooler ; 
the breeze from the sea was delicious, the view 
was charming, and the people sitting there looked exceedingly fresh and comfortable. Several 
of the ladies seemed to be young girls, and the 
gentlemen were slim, fair youths, such as our 
friends had seen the day before in New York. 
The ladies were working upon bands of tapestry, 
and one of the young men had an open book in 
his lap. Beaumont afterward learned from one 
of the ladies that this young man had been read 
ing aloud, that he was from Boston, and was very 
fond of reading aloud. Beaumont said it was a 
great pity that they had interrupted him ; he 
should like so much (from all he had heard) to 
hear a Bostonian read. Couldn 't the young man 
be induced to go on ? 
"Oh no," said his informant, very freely; "he 
wouldn 't be able to get the young ladies to attend 
to him now." 
There was something very friendly, Beaumont 
perceived, in the attitude of the company ; they 
looked at the young Englishmen with an air of animated sympathy and interest ; they smiled, bright 
ly and unanimously, at every thing either of the 
visitors said. Lord Lambeth and his companion 
felt that they were being made very welcome. 
Mrs. Westgate seated herself between them, and, 
talking a great deal to each, they had occasion to 
observe that she was as pretty as their friend 
Littledale had promised. She was thirty years 
old, with the eyes and the smile of a girl of seventeen, and she was extremely light and graceful, 
elegant, exquisite. Mrs. Westgate was extremely 
spontaneous. She was very frank and demonstrative, and appeared always while she looked 
at you delightedly with her beautiful young eyes 
to be making sudden confessions and concessions, after momentary hesitations. 
" We shall expect to see a great deal of you," 
she said to Lord Lambeth, with a kind of joyous 
earnestness. " We are very fond of Englishmen 
here; that is, there are a great many we have 
been fond of. After a day or two you must come 
and stay with us ; we hope you will stay a long 
time. Newport 's a very nice place when you 
come really to know it, when you know plenty 
of people. Of course you and Mr. Beaumont 
will have no difficulty about that. Englishmen 
are very well received here ; there are almost always
two or three of them about. I think they 
always like it, and I must say I should think they 
would. They receive ever so much attention. I 
must say I think they sometimes get spoiled ; but 
I am sure you and Mr. Beaumont are proof against 
that. My husband tells me you are a friend of 
Captain Littledale ; he was such a charming man. 
He made himself most agreeable here, and I am 
sure I wonder he didn 't stay. It couldn 't have 
been pleasanter for him in his own country, 
though, I suppose, it is very pleasant in England, 
for English people. I don 't know myself ; I 
have been there very little. I have been a great 
deal abroad, but I am always on the Continent. 
I must say I'm extremely fond of Paris ; you 
know we Americans always are ; we go there 
when we die. Did you ever hear that before? 
that was said by a great wit, I mean the good 
Americans ; but we are all good ; you'll see that 
for yourself. All I know of England is London, 
and all I know of London is that place on that 
little corner, you know, where you buy jackets 
jackets with that coarse braid and those big buttons. They make very good jackets in London, 
I will do you the justice to say that. And some 
people like the hats ; but about the hats I was 
always a heretic ; I always got my hats in Paris. 
You can 't wear an English hat at least I never 
could unless you dress your hair d 'Anglaise ; 
and I must say that is a talent I have never 
possessed. In Paris they will make things to 
suit your peculiarities ; but in England I think 
you like much more to have how shall I say it ? 
one thing for every body. I mean as regards 
dress. I don 't know about other things ; but I 
have always supposed that in other things every 
thing was different. I mean according to the 
people according to the classes, and all that. I 
am afraid you will think that I don 't take a very 
favorable view ; but you know you can 't take a 
very favorable view in Dover Street in the month 
of November. That has always been my fate. 
Do you know Jones 's Hotel in Dover Street? 
That 's all I know of England. Of course every one admits that the English hotels are your 
weak point. There was always the most fright 
ful fog; I couldn 't see to try my things on. 
When I got over to America into the light 
I usually found they were twice too big. The 
next time I mean to go in the season ; I think 
I shall go next year. I want very much to take 
my sister; she has never been to England. I 
don 't know whether you know what I mean by 
eaying that the Englishmen who come here some 
times get spoiled. I mean that they take things 
as a matter of course things that are done for 
them. Now, naturally, they are only a matter of 
course when the Englishmen are very nice. But, 
of course, they are almost always very nice. Of 
course this isn't nearly such an interesting coun 
try as England ; there are not nearly so many 
things to see, and we haven 't your country life. 
I have never seen any thing of your country life ; 
when I am in Europe I am always on the Continent. But I have heard a great deal about it ; I 
know that when you are among yourselves in the 
country you have the most beautiful time. Of 
course we have nothing of that sort, we have 
nothing on that scale. I don 't apologize, Lord 
Lambeth ; some Americans are always apologizing ; you must have noticed that. We have the 
reputation of always boasting and bragging and 
waving the American flag ; but I must say that 
what strikes me is that we are perpetually making excuses, and trying to smooth things over. 
The American flag has quite gone out of fashion; it 's very carefully folded up, like an old 
table-cloth. Why should we apologize? The 
English never apologize do they ? Xo ; I must 
say I never apologize. You must take us as we 
come with all our imperfections on our heads. 
Of course we haven 't your country life, and your 
old ruins, and your great estates, and your leisure 
class, and ail that. But if we haven 't, I should 
think you might find it a pleasant change I think 
any country is pleasant where they have pleasant 
manners. Captain Littledale told me he had never seen such pleasant manners as at Newport, 
and he had been a great deal in European society. Hadn 't he been in the diplomatic service? 
He told me the dream of his life was to get ap 
pointed to a diplomatic post in Washington. But 
he doesn 't seem to have succeeded. I suppose 
that in England promotion and all that sort of 
thing is fearfully slow. With us, you know, it 's 
a great deal too fast. You see, I admit our draw 
backs. But I must confess I think Newport is 
an ideal place. I don 't know any thing like it 
any where. Captain Littledale told me he didn 't 
know any thing like it any where. It 's entirely 
different from most watering-places ; it 's a most 
charming life. I must say I think that when 
one goes to a foreign country one ought to en 
joy the differences. Of course there are differences, otherwise what did one come abroad for ? 
Look for your pleasure in the differences, Lord 
Lambeth ; that 's the way to do it ; and then I am 
sure you will find American society at least Newport society most charming and most interesting. I wish very much my husband were here ; but he 's dreadfully confined to New York. I 
suppose you think that is very strange for a 
gentleman. But you see we haven 't any leisure 
class." 
Mrs. "Westgate 's discourse, delivered in a soft, 
sweet voice, flowed on like a miniature torrent, 
and was interrupted by a hundred little smiles, 
glances, and gestures, which might have figured 
the irregularities and obstructions of such a 
stream. Lord Lambeth listened to her with, it 
must be confessed, a rather ineffectual attention, 
although he indulged in a good many little mur 
murs and ejaculations of assent and deprecation. 
He had no great faculty for apprehending gener 
alizations. There were some three or four indeed 
which, in the play of his own intelligence, he had 
originated, and which had seemed convenient at 
the moment ; but at the present time he could 
hardly have been said to follow Mrs. Westgate as 
she darted gracefully about in the sea of speculation. Fortunately she asked for no especial rejoinder, for she looked about at the rest of the 
company as well, and smiled at Percy Beaumont, 
on the other side of her, as if he too must understand her and agree with her. He was rather 
more successful than his companion ; for besides 
being, as we know, cleverer, his attention was not 
vaguely distracted by close vicinity to a remarkably interesting young girl, with dark hair and 
blue eyes. This was the case with Lord Lambeth, 
to whom it occurred after a while that the 
young girl with blue eyes and dark hair was the 
pretty sister of whom Mrs. Westgate had spoken. 
She presently turned to him with a remark which 
established her identity. 
" It 's a great pity you couldn 't have brought 
my brother-in-law with you. It 's a great shame 
he should be in New York in these days." 
" Oh yes ; it 's so very hot," said Lord Lambeth. 
" It must be dreadful," said the young girl. 
"I dare say he is very busy," Lord Lambeth 
observed. 
" The gentlemen in America work too much," 
the young girl went on. 
" Oh, do they ? I dare say they like it," said 
her interlocutor. 
" I don 't like it. One never sees them." 
"Don 't you, really?" asked Lord Lambeth. 
" I shouldn 't have fancied that." 
" Have you come to study American manners ?" 
asked the young girl. 
"Oh, I don 't know. I just came over for a 
lark. I haven 't got long." Here there was a 
pause, and Lord Lambeth began again. "But 
Mr. Westgate will come down here, will not he ?" 
"I certainly hope he will. He must help to 
entertain you and Mr. Beaumont." 
Lord Lambeth looked at her a little with his 
handsome brown eyes. "Do you suppose he 
would have come down with us if we had urged 
him ?" 
Mr. Westgate 's sister-in-law was silent a moment, and then, " I dare say he would," she answered. 
" Really !" said the young Englishman. " He 
was immensely civil to Beaumont and me," he 
added. 
"He is a dear good fellow," the young lady 
rejoined, " and he is a perfect husband. But all 
Americans are that," she continued, smiling. 
" Really !" Lord Lambeth exclaimed again, 
and wondered whether all American ladies had 
such a passion for generalizing as these two. 
He sat there a good while : there was a great 
deal of talk ; it was all very friendly and lively 
and jolly. Every one present, sooner or later, 
said something to him, and seemed to make a 
particular point of addressing him by name. 
Two or three other persons came in, and there 
was a shifting of seats and changing of places ; 
the gentlemen all entered into intimate conversation with the two Englishmen, made them ur 
gent offers of hospitality, and hoped they might 
frequently be of service to them. They were 
afraid Lord Lambeth and Mr. Beaumont were not 
very comfortable at their hotel ; that it was not, 
as one of them said, " so private as those dear 
little English inns of yours." This last gentle 
man went on to say that unfortunately, as yet, 
perhaps, privacy was not quite so easily obtained 
in America as might be desired ; still, he con 
tinued, you could generally get it by paying for 
it ; in fact, you could get every thing in America 
nowadays by paying for it. American life was 
certainly growing a great deal more private ; it 
was growing very much like England. Every 
thing at Newport, for instance, was thoroughly 
private ; Lord Lambeth would probably be struck 
with that. It was also represented to the strangers that it mattered very little whether their 
hotel was agreeable, as every one would want 
them to make visits ; they would stay with other 
people, and, in any case, they would be a great 
deal at Mrs. Westgate's. They would find that 
very charming; it was the pleasantest house in 
Newport. It was a pity Mr. Westgate was al 
ways away ; he was a man of the highest ability 
very acute, very acute. lie worked like a 
horse, and he left his wife well, to do about as 
she liked. He liked her to enjoy herself, and 
she seemed to know how. She was extremely 
brilliant, and a splendid talker. Some people 
preferred her sister; but Miss Alden was very 
different ; she was in a different style altogether. 
Some people even thought her prettier, and, certainly, she was not so sharp. She was more in 
the Boston style ; she had lived a great deal in 
Boston, and she was very highly educated. Boston girls, it was propounded, were more like 
English young ladies. 
' Lord Lambeth had presently a chance to test 
the truth of this proposition, for on the company rising in compliance with a suggestion from 
their hostess that they should walk down to the 
rocks and look at the sea, the young Englishman 
again found himself, as they strolled across the 
grass, in proximity to Mrs. Westgate 's sister. 
Though she was but a girl of twenty, she appeared to feel the obligation to exert an active hospitality ; and this was, perhaps, the more to be 
noticed as she seemed by nature a reserved and 
retiring person, and had little of her sister 's fraternizing quality. She was perhaps rather too 
thin, and she was a little pale ; but as she moved 
slowly over the grass, with her arms hanging at 
her sides, looking gravely for a moment at the 
sea and then brightly, for all her gravity, at him, 
Lord Lambeth thought her at least as pretty as 
Mrs. Westgate, and reflected that if this was the 
Boston style the Boston style was very charming. 
He thought she looked very clever; he 
could imagine that she was highly educated ; but 
at the same time she seemed gentle and graceful. 
For all her cleverness, however, he felt that she 
had to think a little what to say; she didn 't say 
the first thing that came into her head ; he had 
come from a different part of the world and 
from a different society, and she was trying to 
adapt her conversation. The others were scattering themselves near the rocks ; Mrs. Westgate had charge of Percy Beaumont. 
" Very jolly place, isn't it ?" said Lord Lambeth. 
" It 's a very jolly place to sit." 
" Very charming," said the young girl. " I often sit here ; there are all kinds of cozy corners 
as if they had been made on purpose." 
" Ah ! I suppose you have had some of them 
made," said the young man. 
Miss Alden looked at him a moment. " Oh no, 
we have had nothing made. It 's pure nature." 
" I should think you would have a few little 
benches rustic seats and that sort of thing. It 
might be so jolly to sit here, you know," Lord 
Lambeth went on. 
" I am afraid we haven 't so many of those things 
as you," said the young girl, thoughtfully. 
" I dare say you go in for pure nature, as you 
