GREEN PEAS.
See receipts for last Sunday week.
ROAST POTATOES.
Roast in a moderate oven until soft. Cut a piece nearly off the top
of each; thrust a thin-bladed knife into the heart, and slip in a bit
of butter. Replace the skin and send up hot.
OMELETTE AUX CONFITURES.
  7 eggs.
  2 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  ½ cup of milk (or cream).
  Grated peel of ½ lemon.
  ½ cup of marmalade or jam.
Beat yolks and whites apart and very stiff. Add sugar, lemon, and
milk to the yolks; then, with a few rapid whirls of your “beater,”
the whites. Put the marmalade in the bottom of a neat bake-dish
(buttered), pour on the omelette, and bake until it has puffed up high
and begins to “crust” well. Serve at once, or it will fall. Eight
minutes should suffice to cook it—at the outside.
TEA AND ALBERT BISCUITS
May be partaken of at the same time with the omelette, or afterwards.
  Third Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Sago Soup.
  Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton with Potato Edging.
  Boiled Asparagus.      Purée of Peas.
  ——
  Neapolitan Blanc-Mange.
  ——
SAGO SOUP.
  The stock made on yesterday.
  Little more than ½ cup of pearl sago.
  3 eggs.
  1 cup of milk.
  Pepper and salt.
Take the fat from your cold stock; pour off carefully from the sediment
and strain. Heat to boiling. Wash the sago well; soak in warm water
half an hour; put into the soup, and simmer twenty-five minutes.
Meanwhile, heat the milk in another vessel, and pour upon the eggs.
Heat this until it begins to thicken, pour into the tureen, season with
a little salt and pepper, and turn in the boiling soup. It should be
about as thick as hot custard when all the ingredients are in.
STUFFED SHOULDER OF MUTTON.
Get your butcher to take out the bone. (It will help out to-morrow’s
soup.) Fill the hole from which it was taken with a good force-meat
of crumbs, minced pork, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and one raw egg.
Sew up the edges of the skin to keep in the stuffing, and roast about
fifteen minutes—not more—for each pound, basting often, at first with
the boiling water you have poured upon it, at the last twice with
butter. When done, brush with beaten egg; sift crumbs all over it; put
into a stout stone-ware dish—or one of block-tin—surround with the
potato-edging, and brown in a quick oven. Pour off the fat from the
gravy, strain, thicken with browned flour, and serve in a boat.
POTATO EDGING.
Mash the potatoes very soft with milk and butter; beat in two eggs;
return to the saucepan and stir until smoking hot all through. Let them
get quite cool; then, mould by pressing firmly into a wet egg-cup, and
turning out each form upon the mutton-dish. Arrange the little cones
side by side until you have a barricade about the meat. Set in the oven
and brown, glazing with butter just before you take the dish out. Serve
a cone with each slice of mutton.
BOILED ASPARAGUS.
See receipt on first Sunday in May.
PURÉE OF GREEN PEAS.
  Take for half a peck of peas—
  1 small onion.
  3 tablespoonfuls of cream.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter cut up in one tablespoonful of flour.
  1 lump of white sugar.
  Pepper and salt.
Boil the empty pods twenty minutes in hot, salted water. Strain these
out, and put in the peas with the sugar. Boil gently until they are
very soft. Rub through a fine colander. Add a cupful of the water in
which they were cooked, pepper and salt, and put over the fire. When
very hot, stir in the floured butter, and, when this is mixed, the
cream. Stir three minutes and pour out into a dish lined with strips of
fried bread.
NEAPOLITAN BLANC-MANGE.
  1 quart of milk.
  1 package Cooper’s gelatine, soaked two hours in a cup of cold water.
  ¾ of a cup of sugar.
  1 great spoonful grated chocolate, wet in a little boiling water.
  Beaten yolk of an egg.
  1 great spoonful currant jelly, or cranberry jam.
  Rose-water for flavoring.
Heat the milk to boiling, stir in the sugar, then the gelatine.
Cook about five minutes, and strain through thin muslin. Divide the
blanc-mange into four equal portions. Beat the chocolate well into one;
heat for one minute, and put by in a cup or bowl. Do the same with the
egg to a second, and the currant jelly for the third. This last must
be heated carefully, and a little sugar added, that the milk may not
curdle. Leave the fourth white, and flavor with rose-water. When cold
and a little stiff, pour into a wet mould—the white first; when this
is so firm as to bear the weight of the next without mixing, the pink;
then, the yellow; lastly, the brown. Do this on Saturday. On Sunday dip
the mould in warm water, work the surface free with your fingers, and
turn out upon a flat dish. Eat with cream and sugar, or brandied fruit.
  Third Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Clam Soup.
  Cold Mutton.      Brussels-Sprouts.
  Raw Tomatoes.      Stewed Potatoes.
  ——
  Oranges and Bananas.
  Coffee and Cake.
  ——
CLAM SOUP.
Early in the morning crack your mutton-bone, and put on in a quart of
cold water, at the back of the range. When little more than a large
cupful of liquor remains, take it off and strain into a bowl to cool.
When perfectly cold take off the fat, put in a quart of clam liquor
and the hard parts of fifty clams. Season with a teaspoonful of minced
onion, as much chopped parsley, a pinch of mace, pepper and salt to
taste, and cook, covered, half an hour after the boil begins. Heat in
another vessel two cups of milk; when hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls
of butter, rolled in a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and set in
boiling water to keep hot, after it has boiled two minutes. Strain the
soup back into the pot, put in the soft parts of the clams—the only
digestible portions—and simmer five minutes. Pour the thickened milk
into the tureen, stir in the soup, and serve.
This is a delightful and nutritious soup, and since you are to have
cold meat for dinner, you need not grudge the care of preparing it,
even on Job’s birthday.
COLD MUTTON.
Your stuffed shoulder will be nearly as nice cold as hot. Garnish it
tastefully with curled parsley and bleached lettuce-leaves.
BRUSSELS SPROUTS.
Cook in boiling, salted water twenty-five minutes; drain well; add a
liberal lump of butter, with pepper and salt to taste, and put into a
deep dish.
RAW TOMATOES.
Peel with a sharp knife; slice, and lay in a salad-bowl. Season with a
dressing of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper in the proportions given on
last Thursday.
STEWED POTATOES.
Boil whole until a fork will pierce them. Peel quickly; crack, without
breaking, each, by pressing it, and drop into a saucepan containing
a large cup of milk, almost on the boil. When all the potatoes are
in, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, with salt and pepper. Cover and
heat—below the boiling point—until the potatoes begin to crumble. Pour
into a deep dish.
ORANGES AND BANANAS.
Serve whole, upon china plates, with a knife for each.
COFFEE AND CAKE.
You need not be ashamed of “cold meat on Monday,” even should John
have “picked up” his unexpected friend on the street, when your bright
coffee-urn, with the fragrant contents, flanked by a basket of sliced
home-made cake, comes in as a reserved force.
  Third Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Brown Beef Soup.
  Veal Cutlets with Ham.      String Beans.
  Chopped Potatoes.      Lettuce.
  ——
  Graham Hasty Pudding.
  ——
BROWN BEEF SOUP.
  3 lbs. of coarse, lean beef, cut into strips.
  3 onions—small ones.
  3 quarts of cold water.
  1 teaspoonful mixed allspice and mace.
  Bunch of sweet herbs chopped.
  1 teaspoonful Colgate’s essence of celery.
  Glass of brown sherry.
  Dripping.
  Toasted bread.
Fry the sliced onion brown in good dripping; then the beef, quickly.
Put into a soup-pot, cover with the water; put on a tight lid, and stew
four hours. Strain and press hard. Let the soup cool to throw up the
fat. Skim, and return to the pot, with the salt, pepper, herbs, and
spice. Simmer fifteen minutes; add wine and celery, and pour into a
tureen upon dice of crisp, buttered toast.
VEAL CUTLETS AND HAM.
  2 lbs. veal cutlets without bone.
  1½ lbs. of ham.
  Grated lemon-peel.
  Pepper and salt.
  1 raw, beaten egg.
  Rolled cracker.
  Dripping or lard.
Boil the slices of ham ten minutes; let them get cold, and cut of the
same size and shape as the strips of veal, viz., about three inches
long by one and a half wide. Salt and pepper the veal; sprinkle each
cutlet with a pinch of lemon-peel; roll in egg, then cracker, and fry
to a good brown. Fry the ham in its own fat in another pan, and lay
upon a hot dish, alternately with the cutlets.
STRING-BEANS.
If fresh, top and tail, and, with a sharp knife, take off the strings
on both sides. Cut into short pieces, and cook tender in boiling water,
and a little salt. Drain well, heap upon a hot dish; butter freely, and
season to taste.
CHOPPED POTATOES.
Chop cold boiled potatoes rather coarsely. Have ready a great spoonful
of butter in a saucepan, with a little grated lemon-peel, pepper and
salt. Stir in the potatoes until very hot, but do not let them brown.
Serve in a deep dish, after draining.
LETTUCE.
Pick out and pull apart the hearts and best blanched leaves. Pour over
it a dressing such as was directed on last Thursday.
GRAHAM HASTY PUDDING.
  2 eggs.
  1 quart of milk.
  2 even cups of Graham flour.
  ½ teaspoonful of salt.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
Heat half the milk in a greased saucepan or farina-kettle. Wet the
flour with the rest, and beat very light with the butter—melted—the
eggs and salt. Stir this into the hot milk—or, better still—pour the
milk upon it. When thoroughly mixed, return to the fire, and stir
fifteen minutes, surrounded by boiling water at its highest bubble.
Take from the range, leave in the water five minutes; stir up again,
and serve in a deep, uncovered dish. Eat with butter, sugar, and nutmeg.
  Third Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Green Asparagus Soup.
  Stewed Chicken.      Scalloped Tomatoes.
  Corn Fritters.      Grape Jelly.
  Marmalade Roll.
  ——
GREEN ASPARAGUS SOUP.
  3 lbs. knuckle of veal.
  ½ lb. streaked salt pork.
  3 bunches of asparagus.
  4 quarts of water.
  1 pint of spinach leaves.
  Pepper and salt.
  1 small onion, sliced.
  Butter and sugar.
Put the veal, pork, onion, and the hard parts of the
asparagus-stalks—all cut up fine—on in the water, and boil gently four
hours. Meanwhile cook the spinach tender in a little water; chop and
squeeze it through double tarlatan back into the cupful of water in
which it was boiled. Add a lump of sugar to the green liquid. Strain
the soup; season, boil once, and skim; put in the green heads of
the asparagus (kept until now in cold water) and boil slowly twenty
minutes. Stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in flour, and
when this has boiled a minute, the green water. Simmer five minutes
more, and pour out. Dip up from the bottom with each ladleful in
helping the soup.
STEWED CHICKEN.
Cut into joints, leaving none of the pieces large. Put the scrags,
feet (having scalded off the skin), and giblets into two cupfuls of
water, and stew until the meat is in rags. Put a quarter of a pound
of pork, cut as fine as shavings, in the bottom of a saucepan; lay on
this a teaspoonful of minced onion, and then the uncooked chicken.
Strain, and partly cool the gravy, which should have boiled down to one
cupful—setting by the giblets. Pour this over the chicken, pepper and
salt; put on a tight top, and cook very slowly one hour. Then increase
the heat, but still do not let it boil hard, for half an hour longer.
Open the saucepan at the end of the first hour to change the upper
pieces to lower places—and again when the half hour is up, to see if
they are all tender. If not, cover and cook until they are. Take out
the chicken, lay in order upon a hot-water dish, and add to the gravy
the giblets, minced fine, and a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into one
of flour. Boil one minute, and pour upon a half cup of milk in which
have been beaten two eggs. Set over the fire, and stir one minute, but
do not let the gravy boil. Pour upon the chicken.
SCALLOPED TOMATOES.
If raw tomatoes are dear still, drain off most of the liquor from a can
of the vegetable. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with bread-crumbs, lay
in the tomatoes, well seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and sugar;
cover thickly with fine, dry crumbs; put dots of butter, with pepper
and salt, over all, and bake, covered, half an hour—then, brown quickly.
CORN FRITTERS.
Drain the liquor from a can of corn, and chop the grains in a
chopping-tray. Beat into this paste three eggs, one cup of milk, a
heaping tablespoonful of sugar, and as much warmed butter, with two
tablespoonfuls of prepared flour. Beat thoroughly, season with pepper
and salt, and fry, by the spoonful, upon a greased griddle.
MARMALADE ROLL.
  1 quart prepared flour—Hecker’s always, when you can get it.
  1 tablespoonful of lard and two of butter.
  1 pint of milk, or enough for soft dough.
  1 cup of sweet marmalade.
Rub the lard into the flour; wet into a soft paste with the milk, and
roll out very thin. Baste thickly with the butter, sprinkle with flour
lightly, and roll up in close folds. Lay upon ice, or in a very cold
place, one hour. Roll out into a square sheet, a quarter of an inch
thick, spread with the marmalade, leaving a narrow margin all around,
and roll up neatly. Lay in a buttered baking-pan, the joined edge
downward, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Wash over with white of
egg, beaten with a little sugar, just before you take it up. Eat hot
with a good sauce.
  Third Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Sheep’s Head Soup.
  Roast Beef.      Fried Potatoes.
  Asparagus with Eggs.      Spinach on Toast.
  ——
  Corn-Starch Blanc-Mange with Preserves.
  ——
SHEEP’S HEAD SOUP.
  1 sheep’s head, dressed with the skin on.
  2 onions.
  2 carrots.
  Bunch of parsley.
  Crumbs and egg for force-meat balls.
  1 tablespoonful of corn-starch.
  Pepper and salt.
  Dripping.
  4 quarts of cold water.
You will probably have to coax your butcher to dress the head properly,
but the head itself he will be willing to give you, as almost worthless
in his eyes. Be sure it is quite clean, even to the mouth. Soak it in
tepid water, one hour—then put into a pot with the vegetables, sliced,
the chopped herbs and the cold water. Cook gently four hours. Strain
off the soup, rubbing the vegetables through the sieve; let it get
almost cool, that you may remove the fat from the top, and put back
over the fire with pepper and salt. Chop the brains and mix them into a
paste with an equal quantity of crumbs; also pepper, salt, and raw egg,
with enough flour to enable you to roll into little balls. Fry these to
a nice brown, drain in a colander, and put into your tureen. Skim the
boiling soup and stir in the corn-starch wet with half a cup of milk,
then the tongue, skinned and cut into dice. Boil once and pour into the
tureen.
ROAST BEEF.
Put into your dripping-pan; pour a cupful of boiling water over it,
and roast, basting often, allowing a quarter of an hour to the pound.
Towards the last, pepper and salt, dredge with flour, and baste once
well with butter. If you send made gravy to the table, take off all the
“top-grease,” thicken the brown juice in the dripping-pan with browned
flour, boil up, and pour out into a boat.
FRIED POTATOES.
Cut peeled potatoes into long strips, not too thin. Lay in cold water
one hour, dry between two towels, and fry in boiling fat, a little
salt, to a light brown. Drain and dish upon a napkin.
SPINACH UPON TOAST.
Wash well. Cook twenty minutes in boiling, salted water. Drain and
chop very fine. Put a tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan with
a teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of nutmeg, and pepper and salt. Stir
in the spinach, and beat smooth while it heats. At the last add a
tablespoonful of cream, or two of milk. Pour upon crustless slices of
buttered toast laid upon a flat dish.
ASPARAGUS WITH EGGS.
Boil a bunch of asparagus twenty minutes; cut off the tender tops and
lay in a deep pie-plate, buttering, salting, and peppering well. Beat
four eggs just enough to break up the yolks, add a tablespoonful of
melted butter, with pepper and salt, and pour upon the asparagus. Bake
eight minutes in a quick oven, and serve immediately.
CORN-STARCH BLANC-MANGE WITH PRESERVES.
  1 quart of milk.
  4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch wet in cold water.
  3 beaten eggs.
  1 cup of sugar.
  Grated peel of half a lemon.
  1 saltspoonful of salt.
Scald the milk in a farina-kettle; stir in corn-starch, lemon, and
salt, and cook five minutes. Pour this upon the beaten eggs and sugar,
return to the fire and stir two minutes more. Pour into a wet mould and
set in a cold place for four or five hours. Turn out upon a broad glass
dish, and pour rich, sweet preserves about the base.
In helping it out, put a spoonful of preserve upon each share of
blanc-mange.
  Third Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Purée of Tomatoes.
  Boiled Bass with Mushrooms.      Roast Sweetbreads.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Succotash.
  ——
  Strawberry Méringue.
  ——
PURÉE OF TOMATOES.
  1 can of tomatoes.
  2 cups boiling milk with half a teaspoonful of soda stirred in.
  1 heaping teaspoonful sugar.
  1 small minced onion.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed up with one of flour.
  Pepper and salt.
  Handful of dry bread-crumbs.
  1 cup of boiling water.
Put tomatoes and onion over the fire with the hot water. Boil half
an hour; strain and rub through a colander, working the tomatoes to
a pulp. Meanwhile, boil the milk, stir in soda, butter and flour,
and after one boil, keep hot. Put pepper, salt, and sugar with the
tomatoes; simmer five minutes; pour into the tureen; stir in the
crumbs, and one minute later the thickened milk. Serve at once. If the
milk be cooked with the purée, it will almost surely curdle.
BOILED BASS WITH MUSHROOMS.
Clean a fine bass, and sew up in a thin cloth. Put into boiling water
in which you have mixed four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, with six whole
black peppers, and a little salt. Cook about twelve minutes to the
pound. Prepare a cupful of drawn butter, boil half a can of mushrooms
twenty minutes; drain, chop up and stir, with the juice of half a lemon
and a little pepper, into the drawn butter. Simmer together three
minutes—put the fish upon a hot dish, and pour one-third of the sauce
over it, serving the rest in a boat.
ROAST SWEETBREADS.
  3 or 4 fine sweetbreads.
  1 raw egg.
  ½ cup rolled crackers.
  1 cup of gravy (saved from yesterday’s fricassee).
  2 tablespoonfuls melted butter.
  1 tablespoonful mushroom or walnut catsup.
  Pepper and salt.
  Rounds of fried bread.
Parboil and blanch the sweetbreads. Dry, and dip, first, in egg, then,
in cracker-crumbs. Lay in a small dripping-pan; pour the butter over
them, set in the oven, and roast, covered, three-quarters of an hour,
basting often with the gravy. Dish upon fried bread. Add the catsup to
the gravy; boil up and strain over the sweetbreads.
MASHED POTATOES.
Prepare as usual, and pass with the fish.
SUCCOTASH.
Drain off the can liquor; cook the succotash half an hour in boiling
water; drain, add a cup of hot milk, and stir in pepper, salt, and a
great spoonful of butter cut up in flour. Simmer three minutes and pour
out.
STRAWBERRY MÉRINGUE.
Make a good puff-paste, cut out large, and round as a dinner-plate,
and bake to a light brown in a quick oven. Draw to the oven door; lay
strawberries, rolled in sugar, over it, and cover these an inch deep
with a méringue made of the whites of four eggs whisked stiff, with
three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Bake until the méringue
is faintly tinged with yellow brown. Eat fresh, but not hot. It is
delicious.
  Third Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Amber Soup.
  Ham and Omelette.      Ladies Cabbage.
  Buttered Rice.      Summer Salad.
  ——
  Irish Potato Pie.
  ——
AMBER SOUP.
This soup should be prepared very early in the day; therefore, have the
materials in the house overnight.
  4 lbs. lean beef.
  2 slices of lean ham.
  2 lbs. of veal-bones.
  2 onions, sliced and fried.
  1 carrot.
  2 teaspoonfuls essence of celery.
  Pepper, and, if required, salt.
  ½ cup granulated tapioca.
  Whites and shell of an egg.
  5 quarts of cold water.
  Butter and dripping.
  Burnt sugar.
Cut the meat into strips; put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a
soup-pot, and lay the meat in it. Let it stand where it will heat
slowly for half an hour. Then set over the fire, and stir until the
meat is glazed with a brownish crust. Put a quart of water—cold—upon
it, and bring gradually to a boil. Fry the onion and carrot in dripping
to a fine brown, and drain off the fat, then put the vegetables into
the pot with the meat, as soon as the latter is boiling hot. Cook half
an hour; put in the rest of the cold water, the minced ham, and the
bones broken to bits. Boil slowly four hours, then strain. Put meat and
bones—highly seasoned—into a stone vessel, and pour half the soup over
them for to-morrow. Put the rest back into the soup-kettle; season and
boil up. Skim with care; put in the white and shell of an egg; boil
three minutes; take from the fire and pour into a broad pan to cool.
Burn two tablespoonfuls of sugar in a tin cup, on the hot range, and
while still liquid, pour in half a cupful of boiling water. Let it
stand thus until you are ready for it. The tapioca should have been
soaking two hours in a little cold water. When the soup is cold, take
off fat and scum—every particle; return to the scalded pot; boil up
once, put in tapioca, and strain the sugar-water upon it. Simmer ten
minutes, or until the tapioca is clear; skim once again, and pour out.
This is a fine company soup, but you should make it once or twice
for family dinners in order to manage it properly. It is really not
difficult.
HAM AND OMELETTE.
  3 lbs. of ham, cut in very thin slices.
  7 eggs.
  4 tablespoonfuls of milk.
  Pepper and a little salt.
  1 large spoonful of butter.
Lay the ham in boiling water fifteen minutes, then let it get cold. Cut
off all the rind and trim each slice neatly; then broil upon a greased
gridiron. Pepper and keep hot while you prepare the omelette. Beat
whites and yolks together with a few whirls of the beater; put in the
milk and beat fast for one minute; season and pour into a frying-pan in
which the butter is heating—not hissing. Shake briskly over the fire,
slipping your cake-turner under it to prevent sticking, and in four
minutes, double it over in the middle and turn out into a hot dish by a
dexterous inversion of the pan. Lay the ham about it in the dish.
LADIES’ CABBAGE.
Boil a firm cabbage in two waters, and let it get perfectly cold.
Chop fine; add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of melted butter,
pepper, salt, and a few spoonfuls of milk. Stir all up well; put into
a buttered bake-dish, strew with fine crumbs; bake, covered, half an
hour, then brown quickly. Eat hot.
BUTTERED RICE.
Boil a cup of rice soft in hot, salted water. Drain, and heap in a
deep dish. Fry an onion (sliced) very lightly in two tablespoonfuls
of butter; add pepper, and strain the hot butter over the rice in the
dish. Pass grated cheese with it.
SUMMER SALAD.
  3 heads of lettuce.
  2 handfuls cresses.
  1 cucumber, pared and sliced.
  4 radishes, also pared and cut up.
  3 hard-boiled eggs cut lengthwise into sixths.
Cut lettuces and cresses with a sharp knife, and mix with the other
vegetables in a bowl. Pour over them a dressing made as directed on
Thursday of the second week in this month. Lay the sliced eggs on the
top of all.
IRISH POTATO PIE.
  1 lb. mashed potato, rubbed through a colander.
  ½ lb. butter, creamed with the sugar.
  6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
  1 lemon, squeezed into the hot potato.
  1 teaspoonful of nutmeg, and the same of mace.
  2 cups of sugar.
Mix as you would cake, putting the whites in last, and bake in open
shells of paste. Eat cold.
  Fourth Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  German Sago Soup.
  Roast Lamb.      Green Peas.
  Young Onions, Stewed.      Potato Puff.
  ——
  Strawberries and Cream.
  Silver Cake.
  ——
GERMAN SAGO SOUP.
Soak half a cup of German sago in a little cold water for two hours.
Take the fat from the top of your soup stock, and pour off carefully
from the bones, etc. If you have any left from the “amber soup,” add
that, and a cupful of boiling water. Heat, season, and skim; put in the
sago, and simmer half an hour.
ROAST LAMB.
Cook as you did the mutton, last Sunday, leaving out the stuffing and
omitting the egg and crumb coating at the last. Roast about twelve
minutes to the pound.
GREEN PEAS.
See receipt for Saturday of second week in May.
YOUNG ONIONS—STEWED.
Cook ten minutes in boiling water; throw this off, and pour on a cup of
cold milk. Stew tender in this, add pepper, salt, a tablespoonful of
butter rolled in flour; simmer five minutes and turn out.
POTATO PUFF.
Mash the potatoes very soft, beating in butter, and milk, and finally,
the whipped white of an egg. Whisk to a cream; heap roughly in a neat
bake-dish and brown in a good oven.
STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM.
Cap and pile the strawberries in a glass dish. Send around powdered
sugar and a pitcher of cream with them.
SILVER CAKE.
This delicate and handsome cake should have been made on Friday or
Saturday. Please see “COMMON-SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD,” Series No. 1,
General Receipts, page 332.
  Fourth Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Baked Hotch-Potch.
  Minced Lamb, with Poached Eggs.
  Potato Cakes.      Raw Tomatoes.
  ——
  Bread Pudding.
  ——
BAKED HOTCH-POTCH.
  2 lbs. of lean beef.
  1 lb. of good sausage-meat.
  1 sliced onion.
  1 sliced cucumber.
  3 raw tomatoes peeled and sliced.
  Handful of asparagus-tops.
  1 sliced carrot.
  ¼ of a cabbage-heart, chopped fine.
  ½ cup of raw rice.
  2 cups of green peas.
  Pepper and salt.
  Cold water.
Cut the meat small and put in alternate layers with the vegetables and
rice, into a stout stone jar. Pour in three quarts of water, when you
have seasoned the vegetables. Fit a close cover on the jar, sealing
around the edges with a paste of flour and water. Set in the oven early
in the day and do not open for six hours; then pour into the tureen.
This is a good soup for Monday, and almost a dinner in itself.
MINCED LAMB.
Cut the meat from the bone of your cold roast. Salt the bone and put
by for another day’s soup. Mince the meat fine, season highly; put the
gravy left from yesterday (or a cup of your Sunday’s soup would be
even better) in a saucepan, when you have taken off the fat, heat it,
and stir in the mince. Make it very hot; thicken with a little browned
flour if it is too thin, and pile up in a flat dish, with poached eggs
and toast about it.
POACHED EGGS.
Nearly fill a frying-pan with boiling water. Add a little salt and
vinegar. Break your eggs, one at a time, into a wet saucer, and slip
from this upon the surface of the water. Cook slowly three minutes;
take up with a perforated skimmer, and lay carefully upon rounds of
buttered toast laid around the minced lamb.
POTATO CAKES.
Work cold mashed potato—or the remains of your “puff,” soft with a
little melted butter and milk; knead into it enough prepared flour to
enable you to roll it out into a sheet half an inch thick. Cut into
rounds like biscuit, and bake in a floured pan rather quickly to a good
brown. Glaze with butter just before you take them out. Eat hot.
RAW TOMATOES.
Please see receipt for last Monday.
BREAD PUDDING.
  2 cups fine crumbs.
  1 quart of milk.
  ¼ lb. of citron cut into short shavings.
  4 eggs.
  4 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  ¼ teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace.
  2 tablespoonfuls of brandy.
  1 tablespoonful melted butter.
Soak the crumbs in the milk to a soft paste. Put a layer of this into
a buttered bake-dish. Sprinkle with citron, then spice, and cover with
more soaked crumbs. Having nearly filled the dish in this order, pour
over all the eggs whipped light with sugar, butter, and brandy. Bake
covered twenty-five minutes, then brown. Eat warm. It will need no
sauce.
  Fourth Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Cracker Soup.
  Beefsteak and Onion.      Green Peas.
  Baked Corn.      Cress-Salad.
  ——
  Jersey Puffs.
  ——
CRACKER SOUP.
  The cracked bone of the cold lamb.
  1 lb. lean mutton, chopped up.
  ½ lb. Boston crackers, split.
  2 quarts of cold water.
  2 cups boiling milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up in one teaspoonful of flour.
  Pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace.
  1 sliced onion.
  A little chopped parsley.
Put meat, onion, and bones on in the water and cook slowly two hours.
Strain and cool, and take off every particle of fat. While the soup
is cooling, put your crackers into a bowl, or tin pail, salting and
peppering them. Pour on the milk, cover closely, and set for half an
hour in boiling water at one side of the range. Return the broth to
the fire, season and skim as it heats. Now strain the milk from the
crackers, if it be not all absorbed, and turn them, with care, into
your tureen. They should be like a jelly, yet retain their shape. Stir
into the soup the floured butter and parsley; boil one minute and pour
slowly upon the crackers. Set the tureen in hot water—covered—ten
minutes, before sending to the table.
BEEFSTEAK AND ONION.
Broil the steak in the usual manner and lay upon a hot dish. Pepper
and salt, and strain over it three tablespoonfuls of butter in which
a sliced Bermuda onion has simmered—not browned—for ten minutes.
Cover with a hot tin platter for five minutes, and make cuts in the
steak, here and there, to draw out the juices and enable the butter to
penetrate it. This is a nicer way of flavoring a steak than the usual
fashion of serving the onion with it.
GREEN PEAS.
Boil twenty minutes in hot, salted water, with a lump of white sugar,
unless the peas are newly gathered from the home garden. When tender,
drain well, pepper, and add a generous lump of butter. Serve hot.
BAKED CORN.
Open a can of sweet corn; drain and chop it fine. Beat up three eggs
with a tablespoonful of sugar, the same of butter, two cups of milk,
pepper and salt to taste. Stir in the corn and bake forty-five minutes
in a buttered pudding-dish.
CRESS-SALAD.
Cut up—not too small—pile in a salad-bowl, sprinkle with sugar, and
pour over it a dressing made by working up a saltspoonful each of salt,
pepper, and made mustard with two tablespoonfuls of oil, and when this
is well mixed, adding, a few drops at a time, and whipping these in
with an egg-beater, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Toss up with a
silver fork.
JERSEY PUFFS.
  1 quart Hecker’s prepared flour, sifted with a saltspoonful of salt.
  1 tablespoonful of butter melted in 2 cups of hot milk.
  5 eggs—very well whisked.
While milk and butter are cooling—a little above blood-heat—beat in
the yolks, then the flour, and let the batter get stone cold before
whipping in the frothed whites. Bake in greased muffin rings in a quick
oven. Serve as soon as they are baked. Tear open with your fingers, and
eat with liquid sauce.
  Fourth Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Scotch Broth.
  Roast Chickens and Pork.      Asparagus Pudding.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Tomato Salad.
  ——
  Chocolate Blanc-Mange.
  ——
SCOTCH BROTH.
  3 lbs. scrag of mutton, the meat sliced and bones broken.
  2 chopped carrots.
  2 young turnips, sliced.
  1 onion.
  Rather more than ½ cup of barley.
  3 quarts of water.
  1 quart of green peas.
  Pepper and salt.
Put on the mutton and all the vegetables, except the peas, in the
water, and cook slowly four hours. Meanwhile, soak the barley in a cup
of tepid water. Strain the broth, pulping the vegetables through the
colander. Let it cool, and take off the fat. Season, put over the fire,
skim when it reaches the boil, and add peas and barley. Simmer steadily
half an hour, and serve.
ROAST CHICKENS AND PORK.
Clean, wash, and stuff a pair of chickens. Slice half a pound of
fat salt pork very thin and bind with soft strings over the breasts
and upper parts of the bodies. Lay in a dripping-pan; pour in a cup
of boiling water, and roast one hour in a good oven, basting often.
Then clip the strings, lay the pork in the pan; dredge the chickens
with flour, and, as this colors, baste once with butter, and twice
afterwards with gravy. When the chickens are done to a fine brown, lay
upon a hot dish with the pork about them. Strain and skim the gravy,
pepper it, thicken with a little browned flour and serve in a boat.
ASPARAGUS PUDDING.
  The green tops of two bunches of asparagus, boiled tender, left to
          cool, and cut up small.
  4 eggs, well beaten.
  1 tablespoonful melted butter.
  3 tablespoonfuls prepared flour.
  1 scant cup of milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in.
  Pepper and salt.
Beat eggs, butter, pepper and salt together; add the flour; then, by
degrees, the milk, finally the asparagus. Put into a well-greased mould
with a top, and cook in a pot of boiling water nearly two hours. Turn
out upon a dish and pour a cup of drawn butter over it. It is very nice.
MASHED POTATOES.
Prepare in the customary way, taking care not to have them too stiff.
TOMATO SALAD.
Pare with a sharp knife; slice and lay in a salad-bowl. Make a dressing
such as was directed yesterday for your cresses, with the addition of
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, powdered, and worked in with the
oil, pepper, etc. Pour over the tomatoes, and set upon ice for an hour.
CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE.
  1 quart milk.
  1 package Cooper’s gelatine, soaked for one hour in a cup of cold water.
  4 heaping tablespoonfuls of chocolate wet in a little milk.
  ¾ of a cup of sugar.
  2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence.
Boil the milk; stir in sugar and gelatine, and when these are
dissolved, the chocolate. Cook five minutes, stirring all the time, and
strain through double tarlatan, into a wet mould. Set upon ice to form.
When firm, turn out and eat with sweet cream.
  Fourth Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Mock Turtle Soup.
  Boiled Corned Beef.      Young Turnips.
  Casserole of Rice with Calf’s Brains.      Green Pea Fritters.
  ——
  Bananas, Oranges, Nuts, and Raisins.
  Tea, Toasted Crackers, and Cheese.
  ——
MOCK TURTLE SOUP.
As I stated, after writing out the receipt in full for this soup (see
Wednesday—Third Week in March), I shall not repeat it in this volume.
Please, therefore, refer to the minute directions then given, and
follow them in preparing to-day’s soup—only leaving out the brains in
the force-meat. You may make enough soup for two days, keeping that for
Friday upon the ice.
BOILED CORNED BEEF.
Select a piece not too salt. The brisket is a good cut for family
use, when not too fat. Boil in plenty of hot water, allowing fifteen
minutes per pound. Make a good cup of drawn butter, taking some of the
beef-liquor—strained—as a base. Chop up a little parsley and half a
pickled onion, and stir into the butter one minute before pouring it
out into a sauce-boat. Save the liquor for Saturday. For directions
for making drawn butter and other sauces, please consult “General
Receipts,” page 183.
YOUNG TURNIPS.
Peel and quarter. Cook in boiling water, a little salted, about half an
hour, or until tender. Drain, but do not mash. Pepper and salt, then
butter, after dishing them.
CASSEROLE OF RICE WITH CALF’S BRAINS.
Make a cupful of gravy from the bones and stuffing of yesterday’s
chickens. Cool and skim it. Soak a cup of rice two hours in two cups
of cold water; drain this off; put the rice into a farina-kettle with
the gravy, previously heated to a boil, and a cup of boiling water.
Season with salt and pepper, and cook tender, shaking up once in a
while, but not stirring. When the rice is nearly dry, make a rounded
hillock of it in the middle of a dish; strew with grated cheese, and
brown upon the upper grating of the oven.
Boil the calf’s brains ten minutes; lay in cold water twice as long.
Then dry well and beat up with an egg, pepper, salt, and a very little
flour. Fry, by the spoonful, in hot fat, drain, and lay around the rice.
GREEN PEA FRITTERS.
  1 pint boiled green peas, mashed while hot, with pepper, butter, and
          salt.
  2 beaten eggs.
  1 cup of milk.
  Less than ½ cup prepared flour.
Beat eggs, milk, and mashed peas smooth, then add the flour and fry
upon a griddle as you would breakfast-cakes.
BANANAS, ORANGES, NUTS AND RAISINS.
Pile bananas and oranges together, garnishing with green leaves. Put
nuts and raisins upon two smaller dishes. Pass all at the same course.
TEA, TOASTED CRACKERS, AND CHEESE.
If you have a hot-water pot and a spirit-lamp, make the tea upon the
table a few minutes before it is needed, then cover the pot with a
“cozy.” This is a pretty English fashion which, I am glad to see, is
gaining ground in our country. Butter the split crackers while hot, and
send around with the tea and cheese.
  Fourth Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Yesterday’s Soup.
  Lobster Fricassee.      Potato Pasty.
  String-Beans.      Boiled Asparagus.
  ——
  Strawberry Shortcake with Cream.
  ——
YESTERDAY’S SOUP.
Take the fat from the top of the cake of soup-jelly you will find in
the refrigerator, and warm the stock cautiously, lest it should scorch.
It should not quite boil.
LOBSTER FRICASSEE.
  Meat of one large lobster, boiled and cold.
  1 cup of your soup.
  ½ cup of milk.
  Juice of half a lemon.
  1 tablespoonful of butter, rolled in flour.
  Pepper and salt to liking.
Cut the lobster into dice. Put the gravy, pepper, and salt into a
saucepan, and, when hot, the lobster. Cook gently five minutes, and
put in the lemon. Heat the milk in another vessel, stir in the floured
butter; boil up; turn into a deep bowl. Pour the lobster in also, stir
up faithfully, and turn into a deep dish.
POTATO PASTY.
Chop your cold, boiled beef fine; season with pepper and add the
remains of yesterday’s drawn butter, or make more if you have none,
putting in parsley and onion pickle, chopped. Pour this mixture into a
greased bake-dish; cover with hard-boiled eggs, sliced. Work a large
cup of mashed potato soft with a cup of milk and two tablespoonfuls of
butter. Add prepared flour until you can just roll it out—the softer
the better, so long as you can handle it. Roll into a thick sheet;
spread upon the surface of your mince, printing the edges, and bake in
a moderate oven to a fine brown.
STRING-BEANS.
See Tuesday, Third Week in May.
BOILED ASPARAGUS.
Receipt given First Sunday in May.
STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE WITH CREAM.
  1 cup of powdered sugar, creamed with one tablespoonful of butter.
  3 eggs.
  1 cup of prepared flour, heaping.
  2 tablespoonfuls of cream.
Beat the yolks into the creamed butter and sugar; the cream, then the
whites, alternately with the flour. Bake in three jelly-cake tins. When
cold, lay between the cakes nearly a quart of fresh, ripe strawberries.
Sprinkle each layer with powdered sugar, and sift the same whitely over
the top. Eat fresh with cream poured upon each slice.
  Fourth Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Pea and Potato Soup.
  Stewed Mutton Cutlets.      Green Peas.
  Raw Tomatoes.      Potato Scallops.
  ——
  Fig Pudding.
  ——
PEA AND POTATO SOUP.
  The liquor in which your beef was boiled on Thursday.
  10 parboiled potatoes.
  1 pint of green peas.
  1 sliced onion.
  ½ cup raw rice.
  Pepper and parsley.
Take the fat from the liquor, and put on with the onion and potatoes,
sliced. Cook one hour; strain, rubbing the vegetables through the
sieve. Pepper, and return to the fire with the rice, parsley, and peas.
Stew half an hour, or until the rice is tender. Pour out and serve. Dip
up from the bottom in helping it out.
STEWED MUTTON CUTLETS.
  3 lbs. of mutton cutlets.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter.
  2 raw tomatoes, chopped.
  Pepper and salt.
  ½ cup of boiling water.
  Browned flour and currant jelly.
Put the butter into a saucepan, and lay in the cutlets, then the
tomatoes. Set where they will heat very slowly for one hour. Then turn
the meat, add the boiling water, and stew steadily—not fast—half an
hour, keeping the pan closely covered. Lay the cutlets upon a hot dish,
strain the gravy back into the saucepan, thicken with a little browned
flour, stir in a heaping teaspoonful of currant jelly, and when this
has melted, pour over the meat.
GREEN PEAS.
Cook as directed on Tuesday of this week.
RAW TOMATOES.
See “Tomato Salad” on Wednesday. Leave out the boiled eggs.
POTATO SCALLOPS.
Mash the potatoes light with a little milk, and an even tablespoonful
of butter for every cupful. Salt and pepper to taste. Fill buttered
patty-pans, or scallop-shells with the mixture, sift fine crumbs over
the tops, and brown in a good oven. Serve in the shells.
FIG PUDDING.
  ½ lb. best white figs, washed, dried, and minced.
  2 cups of fine crumbs.
  3 eggs.
  ½ cup of beef-suet, powdered.
  2 scant cups of milk.
  ½ cup of white sugar.
  A little salt.
  A pinch of soda, dissolved in hot water, and stirred into the milk.
Soak the crumbs in the milk. Stir in the eggs beaten light with the
sugar, suet, salt, and figs. Beat hard three minutes; pour into a
buttered mould and boil two hours and a half. Eat hot with wine sauce.
JUNE.
  First Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  All-night Soup.
  Roast Beef and Round Potatoes.
  Boiled Macaroni.      Green Peas.
  ——
  Snow Custard.
  ——
ALL-NIGHT SOUP.
  4 lbs. of coarse lean beef.
  3 slices of lean ham.
  2 onions.
  2 turnips.
  2 carrots.
  2 blades of mace.
  Bunch of sweet herbs.
  6 tomatoes.
  Pepper and salt.
  ½ cupful of German sago.
  4 quarts of water.
  1 tablespoonful of walnut catsup.
Cut the meat into dice, and chop the vegetables. Season, as you put
them with sago and herbs in close layers, into a jar with a tight top.
About eight o’clock on Saturday night, set this in a pot of boiling
water (having tied a thick cloth over the lid of the jar) and cook
until bed-time. Leave pot and jar upon the range. When the fire is
built next day see that there is plenty of water in the pot, and pay no
more attention to your soup, except to replenish the water in the pot
with more, as hot from the tea-kettle, until half an hour before dinner
is served. Then strain the contents of the jar, pressing the vegetables
to a pulp. Divide the broth into two portions. Return one to the jar,
with the meat, and set, when cold, in the refrigerator for to-morrow.
Put the other into a saucepan, boil two minutes, skim, add the catsup,
and pour into the tureen. Mem.: Never forget to let the soup stand in
a broad bowl after straining, long enough for the fat to rise and be
skimmed off.
ROAST BEEF AND ROUND POTATOES.
Roast the meat in the usual manner, and, about half an hour before
taking it out, pour off three-quarters of the gravy from the
dripping-pan and lay about the meat some balls of mashed potato, worked
smooth, with pepper, salt and a raw egg, moulded in your hands, and
rolled in flour. Turn as they brown, and, when done, drain off the
grease, and dish with the beef.
BOILED MACARONI.
Break half a pound of macaroni into short pieces; cook about twenty
minutes in salted boiling water. It should be clear at the edges, but
not ragged. Drain well, pepper and salt, and stir in a tablespoonful
of butter. Strew grated cheese over the top when dished, and pass more
with it at table.
GREEN PEAS.
Cook from twenty to twenty-five minutes in boiling water, a little
salt. Drain very well when tender, stir in a great lump of peppered
butter, and serve hot in a vegetable dish.
SNOW CUSTARD.
  ½ package of Coxe’s gelatine.
  3 eggs.
  2 cups of milk.
  2 cups of sugar.
  Juice of one lemon.
  2 cups of boiling water.
  Vanilla, or other essence.
Soak the gelatine one hour in a cup of cold water. Add then a pint
of boiling water, and stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Put in
two-thirds of the sugar and all the lemon-juice. Beat the whites of
the eggs stiff, and when the gelatine is quite cold, whip it in, a
spoonful at a time, for half an hour with the “Dover”—an hour, if you
use the common egg-whisk. When all is a white sponge, put into a wet
mould to form. Make a custard of the milk, yolks, and the reserved
sugar, flavor as you like, and when the “snow” is turned out into
a glass dish, pour this around the base. Prepare this dessert on
Saturday, and keep in the refrigerator. It is very nice.
  First Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Tomato Soup.
  Larded Beef.     Stewed Cream Potatoes.
  Spinach Dressed with Egg.      Green Pickles.
  ——
  Strawberries and Cream.
  Martha’s Cake.
  ——
TOMATO SOUP.
Peel, by pouring boiling water over them, a dozen fine tomatoes, cut
them up, throwing aside the hard cores and unripe portions. Take the
fat from the surface of your soup stock; pour it off from the meat
and sediment; add the tomatoes, and stew gently half an hour. Strain,
rubbing the tomatoes through the sieve; return to the pot; add a little
pepper and salt, a lump of sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter rolled
in flour. Boil one minute, and pour out. It will be a delicious soup.
LARDED BEEF.
Make perpendicular incisions in your cold roast, having trimmed the
top smoothly, and thrust in lardoons of fat salt pork, set closely
together. Take the fat from the cold gravy, and add to the latter a
little minced onion, a tablespoonful of catsup, and a large cup of
boiling water. Lay the meat in a dripping-pan, pour the gravy upon it,
invert another pan over it, and cook in a moderate oven about an hour.
Turn the meat once, and baste six times with the gravy. Dish the meat;
strain the gravy, thicken it with browned flour, boil up and pour into
a boat.
STEWED CREAM POTATOES.
Peel and cut into neat dice. Leave in cold water half an hour; then
cook as long in boiling water, salted. Drain this off before the
potatoes break; add half a cup of milk (or cream) with a pinch of
soda. When it heats, stir in a generous lump of butter cut up in a
teaspoonful of flour, and a mere pinch of finely-grated lemon-peel.
Stew one minute and pour into a deep dish.
SPINACH DRESSED WITH EGG.
Boil the spinach in plenty of hot water, salted, for twenty minutes.
Drain and press out the water. Chop fine; put back over the fire with
a large spoonful of butter, and a teaspoonful of sugar, with salt and
