ball cartridge (ten to the pound), — an excellent weapon belonging to a friend of mine, who had intended, 
for a good many years back, to kill a deer with it. He 
could hit a tree with it — if the wind did nofi blow, 
and the atmosphere was just right, and the tree was 
not too far off — nearly every time. Of course, the 
tree must have some size. Needless to say that I was 
at that time no sportsman. Years ago I killed a robin 
under the most humiliating circumstances. The bird 
was in a low cherry-tree. I loaded a big shot-gun 
pretty full, crept up under the tree, rested the gun on 
the fence, with the muzzle more than ten feet from 
the bird, shut both eyes, and pulled the trigger. 
When I got up to see what had happened, the robin 
was scattered about under the tree in more than a 
thousand pieces, no one of which was big enough to 
enable a naturalist to decide from it to what species it 
belonged. This disgusted me with the life of a sportsman. I mention the incident to show, that, although 
I went blackberrying armed, there was not much inequality between me and the bear. 
In this blackberry-patch bears had been seen. The 
summer before, our colored cook, accompanied by a 
little girl of the vicinage, was picking berries there 
one day, when a bear came out of the woods, and 
walked towards them. The girl took to her heels, and 
escaped. Aunt Chloe was paralyzed with terror. In- 
stead of attempting to run, she sat down on the 
ground where she was standing, and began to weep 
and scream, giving herself up for lost. The bear was 
bewildered by this conduct. He approached and 
looked at her ; he walked around and surveyed her. 
Probably he had never seen a colored person before, 
and did not know whether she would agree with him : 
at any rate, after watching her a few moments, he 
turned about, and went into the forest. This is an 
authentic instance of the delicate consideration of a 
bear, and is much more remarkable than the forbear- 
ance towards the African slave of the well-known lion, 
because the bear had no thorn in his foot. 
When I had climbed the hill, I set up my rifle 
against a tree, and began picking berries, lured on 
from bush to bush by the black gleam of fruit (that 
always promises more in the distance than it realizes 
when you reach it) ; penetrating farther and farther, 
through leaf-shaded cow-paths flecked with sunlight, 
into clearing after clearing. I could hear on all sides 
the tinkle of bells, the cracking of sticks, and the 
stamping of cattle that were taking refuge in the 
thicket from the flies. Occasionally, as I broke 
through a covert, I encountered a meek cow, who 
stared at me stupidly for a second, and then shambled 
off into the brush. I became accustomed to this dumb 
society, and picked on in silence, attributing all the 
wood noises to the cattle, thinking nothing of any 
real bear. In point of fact, however, I was thinking 
all the time of a nice romantic bear, and, as I picked, 
was composing a &tory about a generous she-bear who 
had lost her cub, and who seized a small girl in this 
very wood, carried her tenderly off to a cave, and 
brought her up on bear's milk and honey. When the 
girl got big enough to run away, moved by her in-» 
herited instincts, she escaped, and came into the valley 
to her father's house (this part of the story was to be 
worked out, so that the child would know her father 
by some family resemblance, and have some language 
in which to address him), and told him where the bear 
lived. The father took his gun, and, guided by the 
unfeeling daughter, went into the woods and shot the 
bear, who never made any resistance, and only, when 
dying, turned reproachful eyes upon her murderer. 
The moral of the tale was to be kindness to animals. 
I was in the midst of this tale, when I happened to 
look some rods away to the other edge of the clearing, 
and there was a bear ! He was standing on his hind- 
legs, and doing just what I was doing, — picking 
blackberries. With one paw he bent down the bush, 
while with the other he clawed the berries into his 
mouth, — green ones and all. To say that I was as- 
tonished is inside the mark. I suddenly discovered 
that I didn't want to see a bear, after all. At about 
the same moment the bear saw me, stopped eating 
berries, and regarded me with a glad surprise. It is 
all very well to imagine what you would do under such 
circumstances. Probably you wouldn't do it : I did n't. 
The bear dropped down on his fore-feet, and came 
slowly towards me. Climbing a tree was of no use, 
with so good a climber in the rear. If I started to 
run, I had no doubt the bear would give chase ; and 
 
although a bear cannot run down hill as fast as he 
can run up hill, yet I felt that he could get over this 
rough, brush-tangled ground faster than I could. 
The bear was approaching. It suddenly occurred 
to me how I could divert his mind until I could fall 
back upon my military base. My pail was nearly full 
of excellent berries, — much better than the bear 
could pick himself. I put the pail on the ground, and 
slowly backed away from it, keeping my eye, as beast- 
tamers do, on the bear. The ruse succeeded. 
The bear came up to the berries, and stopped. Not 
accustomed to eat out of a pail, he tipped it over, and 
nosed about in the fruit, " gorming " (if there is such 
a word) it down, mixed with leaves and dirt, like a 
pig. The bear is a worse feeder than the pig. When- 
ever he disturbs a maple-sugar camp in the spring, he 
always upsets the buckets of sirup, and tramples 
round in the sticky sweets, wasting more than he eats. 
The bear's manners are thoroughly disagreeable. 
As soon as my enemy's head was down, I started 
and ran. Somewhat out of breath, and shaky, I 
reached my faithful rifle. It was not a moment too 
soon. I heard the bear crashing through the brush 
after me. Enraged at my duplicity, he was now com- 
ing on with blood in his eye. I felt that the time of 
one of us was probably short. The rapidity of thought 
at such moments of peril is well known. I thought 
an octavo volume, had it illustrated and published, sold 
fifty thousand copies, and went to Europe on the pro- 
ceeds, while that bear was loping across the clearing. 
As I was cocking the gun, I made a hasty and unsatis- 
factory review of my whole life. I noted that, even in 
such a compulsory review, it is almost impossible to 
think of any good thing you have done. The sins 
come out uncommonly strong. I recollected a news- 
paper subscription I had delayed paying years and 
years ago, until both editor and newspaper were dead, 
and which now never could be paid to all eternity. 
The bear was coming on. 
I tried to remember what I had read about encoun?- 
ters with bears. I couldn't recall an instance in 
which a man had run away from a bear in the woods 
and escaped, although I recalled plenty where the bear 
had run from the man and got off. I tried to think 
what is the best way to kill a bear with a gun, when you 
are not near enough to club him with the stock. My 
first thought was to fire at his head ; to plant the ball 
between his eyes ; but this is a dangerous experiment. 
The bear's brain is very small ; and unless you hit 
that, the bear does not mind a bullet in his head ; that 
is, not at the time. I remembered that the instant 
death of the bear would follow a bullet planted just 
back of his fore-leg, and sent into his heart. This 
spot is also difficult to reach, unless the bear stands 
off, side towards you, like a target. I finally deter- 
mined to fire at him generally. 
The bear was coming on. 
The contest seemed to me very different from any- 
thing at Creedmoor. I had carefully read the reports 
of the shooting there ; but it was not easy to apply 
the experience I had thus acquired. I hesitated 
whether I had better fire lying on my stomach ; or 
lying on my back, and resting the gun on my toes. 
But in neither position, I reflected, could I see the 
bear until he was upon me. The range was too short ; 
and the bear wouldn't wait for me to examine the 
thermometer, and note the direction of the wind. 
Trial of the Creedmoor method, therefore, had to be 
 
abandoned ; and I bitterly regretted that I had not 
read more accounts of offhand shooting. 
For the bear was coming on. 
I tried to fix my last thoughts upon my family. As 
my family is small, this was not difficult. Dread of 
displeasing my wife, or hurting her feelings, was up- 
permost in my mind. What would be her anxiety as 
hour after hour passed on, and I did not return ! 
TThat would the rest of the household think as the 
afternoon passed, and no blackberries came ! "What 
would be my wife's mortification when the news was 
brought that her husband had been eaten by a bear ! 
I cannot imagine any thing more ignominious than to 
have a husband eaten by a bear. And this was not 
my only anxiety. The mind at such times is not 
under control. With the gravest fears the most whim- 
sical ideas will occur. I looked beyond the mourning 
friends, and thought what kind of an epitaph they 
would be compelled to put upon the stone. Some- 
thing like this : — 
Aug. 20, 1877. 
It is a very unheroic and even disagreeable epitaph. 
That " eaten by a bear " is intolerable. It is gTO- 
tesque. And then I thought what an inadequate lan- 
guage the English is for compact expression. It would 
not answer to put upon the stone simply " eaten ; " for 
that is indefinite, and requires explanation : it might 
mean eaten by a cannibal. This difficulty could not 
occur in the German, where essen signifies the act of 
feeding by a man, and fresseii by a beast. How sim- 
ple the thing would be in German ! — 
HIER LIEGT 
HOCHWOHLGEBOREN" 
nERR
GEFRESSEN 
Aug. 20, 1877. 
That explains itself. The well-born one was eaten 
by a beast, and presumably by a bear, — an animal 
that has a bad reputation since the days of Elisha. 
The bear was coming on ; he had, in fact, come on. 
I judged that he could see the whites of my eyes. All 
my subsequent reflections were confused. I raised 
the gun, covered the bear's breast with the sight, and 
let drive. Then I turned, and ran like a deer. I 
did not hear the bear pursuing. I looked back. The 
bear had stopped. He was lying down. I then re- 
membered that the best thing to do after having fired 
your gun is to reload it. I slipped in a charge, keep* 
ing my eyes on the bear. He never stirred. I walked 
back suspiciously. There was a quiver in the hind- 
legs, but no other motion. Still he might be sham- 
ming : bears often sham. To make sure, I approached, 
and put a ball into his head. He didn't mind it now : 
he minded nothing. Death had come to him with 
a merciful suddenness. He was calm in death. In 
order that he might remain so, I blew his brains out, 
and then started for home. I had killed a bear ! 
Notwithstanding my excitement, I managed to 
saunter into the house with an unconcerned air. There 
was a chorus of voices : — 
" Where are your blackberries ? " 
" Why were you gone so long ? " 
" Where 's your pail ? " 
"I left the pail.'' 
" Left the pail ! What for ? '' 
"A bear wanted it." 
"Oh, nonsense! " 
" Well, the last I saw of it, a bear had it." 
" Oh, come ! You didn't really see a bear ? ^' 
" Yes, but I did really see a real bear." 
" Did he run?" 
" Yes ; he ran after me." 
" I don't believe a word of it. What did you do ? ** 
'' Oh ! nothing particular — except kill the bear." 
Cries of " Gammon ! " " Don't beKeve it ! '' 
" Where 's the bear ? " 
" If you want to see the bear, you must go up into 
the woods. I couldn't bring him down alone." 
Having satisfied the household that something ex- 
traordinary had occurred, and excited the posthumous 
fear of some of them for my own safety, I went down 
into the valley to get help. The great bear-hunter, 
who keeps one of the summer boarding-houses, re- 
ceived my story with a smile of incredulity ; and the 
incredulity spread to the other inhabitants and to the 
boarders as soon as the story was known. However, 
as I insisted in all soberness, and offered to lead them 
to the bear, a party of forty or fifty people at last 
started off with me to bring the bear in. Nobody be- 
lieved there was any bear in the case ; but everybody 
whp could get a gun carried one ; and we went into 
the woods armed with guns, pistols, pitchforks, and 
sticks, against all contingencies or surprises, — a crowd 
made up mostly of scoffers and jeerers. 
But when I led the way to the fatal spot, and 
pointed out tlie bear, lying peacefully wrapped in his 
own skin, something like terror seized the boarders, 
and genuine excitement the natives. It was a no- 
mistake bear, by George ! and the hero of the fight — 
well, I will not insist upon that. But what a proces- 
sion that was, carrying the bear home ! and what a 
congregation was speedily gathered in the valley to 
see the bear ! Our best preacher up there never drew 
anything like it on Sunday. 
And I must say that my particular friends, who 
were sportsmen, behaved very well, on the whole. 
They didn't deny that it was a bear, although they 
said it was anall for a bear. Mr. Deane, who is 
equally good with a rifle and a rod, admitted that it 
was a very fair shot. He is probably the best salmon- 
fisher in the United States, and he is an equally good 
hunter. I suppose there is no person in America who 
is more desirous to kill a moose than he. But he 
needlessly remarked, after he had examined the wound 
in the bear, that he had seen that kind of a shot made 
by a cow's horn. 
This sort of talk affected me not. When I went to 
sleep that night, my last delicious thought was, " I 've 
killed a bear ! '' 
LOST IN THE WOODS 
It ought to be said, by way of explanation, that my 
being lost in the woods was not premeditated. Noth- 
ing could have been more informal. This apology 
can be necessary only to those who are familiar with 
the Adirondack literature. Any person not familiar 
with it would see the absurdity of one going to the 
Northern Wilderness with the deliberate purpose of 
writing about himself as a lost man. It may be 
true that a book about this wild tract would not be 
recognized as complete without a lost-man story in it ; 
since it is almost as easy for a stranger to get lost in 
the Adirondacks as in Boston. I merely desire to 
say that my unimportant adventure is not narrated in 
answer to the popular demand, and I do not wish to 
be held responsible for its variation from the typical 
character of such experiences. 
We had been in camp a week, on the Upper Au- 
sable Lake. This is a gem — emerald or turquoise as 
the light changes it — set in the virgin forest. It is 
not a large body of water, is irregular in form, and 
about a mile and a half in length ; but in the sweep 
of its wooded shores, and the lovely contour of the 
lofty mountains that guard it, the lake is probably the 
most charming in America. Why the young ladies 
and gentlemen who camp there occasionally vex the 
days and nights with hooting, and singing sentimental 
songs, is a mystery even to the laughing loon. 
I left my companions there one Saturday morning 
to return to Keene Valley, intending to fish down the 
Ausable River. The Upper Lake discharges itself 
into the Lower by a brook which winds through a 
mile and a half of swamp and woods. Out of the north 
end of the Lower Lake, which is a huge sink in the 
mountains, and mirrors the savage precipices, the 
Ausable breaks its rocky barriers, and flows through a 
wild gorge, several miles, to the valley below. Be- 
tween the Lower Lake and the settlements is an ex- 
tensive forest, traversed by a cart-path, admirably 
constructed of loose stones, roots of trees, decayed 
logs, slippery rocks, and mud. The gorge of the river 
forms its western boundary. I followed this carica- 
ture of a road a mile or more ; then gave my luggage 
to the guide to carry home, and struck off through 
the forest, by compass, to the river. I promised my- 
self an exciting scramble down this little-frequented 
canon, and a creel full of trout. There was no diffi- 
culty in finding the river, or in descending the steep 
precipice to its bed : getting into a scrape is usually 
the easiest part of it. The river is strewn with bowl- 
ders, big and little, through which the amber water 
rushes with an unceasing thunderous roar, now plung- 
ing down in white falls, then swirling round in dark 
pools. The day, already past meridian, was delight' 
f ul ; at least, the blue strip of it I could see overhead. 
Better pools and rapids for trout never were, I 
thought, as I concealed myself behind a bowlder, and 
made the first cast. There is nothing like the thrill 
of expectation over the first throw in unfamiliar 
waters. Fishing is like gambling, in that failure only 
LOST IN THE WOODS , 
excites hope of a fortunate throw next time. There 
was no rise to the ''leader " on the first cast, nor on 
the twenty-first; and I cautiously worked my way 
down stream, throwing right and left. When I had 
gone half a mile, my opinion of the character of the 
pools was unchanged: never were there such places 
for trout ; but the trout were out of their places. 
Perhaps they didn't care for the fly : some trout seem 
to be so unsophisticated as to prefer the worm. I 
replaced the fly with a baited hook : the worm 
squirmed; the waters rushed and roared; a cloud 
sailed across the blue : no trout rose to the lonesome 
opportunity. There is a certain companionship in the 
presence of trout, especially when you can feel them 
flopping in your fish-basket; but it became evident 
that there were no trout in this wilderness, and a 
sense of isolation for the first time came over me. 
There was no living thing near. The river had by 
this time entered a deeper gorge ; walls of rocks rose 
perpendicularly on either side, — picturesque rocks, 
painted many colors by the oxide of iron. It was not 
possible to climb out of the gorge ; it was impossible 
to find a way by the side of the river ; and getting 
down the bed, over the falls, and through the flumes, 
was not easy, and consumed time. 
Was that thunder ? Very likely. But thunder- 
showers are always brewing in these mountain-for- 
tresses, and it did not occur to me that there was any 
thing personal in it. Very soon, however, the hole 
in the sky closed in, and the rain dashed down. It 
seemed a providential time to eat my luncheon ; and 
I took shelter under a scraggy pine that had rooted 
itself in the edge of the rocky slope. The shower 
soon passed, and I continued my journej^, creeping 
over the slippery rocks, and continuing to show my 
confidence in the unresponsive trout. The way grew 
wider and more grewsome. The thunder began again, 
rolling along over the tops of the mountains, and re- 
verberating in sharp concussions in the gorge : the 
lightning also darted down into the darkening pas- 
sage, and then the rain. Every enlightened being, 
even if he is in a fisherman's dress of shirt and pan- 
taloons, hates to get wet ; and I ignominiously crept 
under the edge of a sloping bowlder. It was all very 
well at first, until streams of water began to crawl 
along the face of the rock, and trickle down the back 
of my neck. This was refined misery, unheroic and 
humiliating, as suffering always is when unaccom- 
panied by resignation. 
A longer time than I knew was consumed in this 
and repeated efforts to wait for the slackening and 
renewing storm to pass away. In the intervals of 
calm I still fished, and even descended to what a 
sportsman considers incredible baseness ; I put a 
" sinker " on my line. It is the practice of the coun- 
try-folk, whose only object is to get fish, to use a good 
deal of bait, sink the hook to the bottom of the pools, 
and wait the slow appetite of the summer trout. I 
tried this also. I might as well have fished in a pork- 
barrel. It is true, that, in one deep, black, round 
pool, I lured a small trout from the bottom, and de- 
posited him in the creel; but it was an accident. 
Though I sat there in the awful silence (the roar of 
water only emphasized the stillness) full half an hour, 
I was not encouraged by another nibble. Hope, how- 
ever, did not die : I always expected to find the trout 
in the next flume ; and so I toiled slowly on, uncon- 
scious of the passing time. At each turn of the 
LOST IN THE WOODS 
stream I expected to see the end, and at each turn I 
saw a long, narrow stretch of rocks and foaming 
water. Climbing out of the ravine was, in most 
places, simply impossible ; and I began to look with 
interest for a slide, where bushes rooted in the scant 
earth would enable me to scale the precipice. I did 
not doubt that I was nearly through the gorge. I 
could at length see the huge form of the Giant of the 
Valley, scarred with avalanches, at the end of the 
vista ; and it seemed not far off. But it kept its dis- 
tance, as only a mountain can, while I stumbled and 
slid down the rocky way. The rain had now set in 
with persistence, and suddenly I became aware that it 
was growing dark, and I said to myself, " If you don't 
wish to spend the night in this horrible chasm, you 'd 
better escape speedily." Fortunately I reached a 
place where the face of the precipice was bush-grown, 
and with considerable labor scrambled up it. 
Having no doubt that I was within half a mile, 
perhaps within a few rods, of the house above the 
entrance of the gorge, and that, in any event, I should 
fall into the cart-path in a few minutes, I struck 
boldly into the forest, congratulating myself on 
having escaped out of the river. So sure was I of 
my whereabouts, that I did not note the bend of the 
river, nor look at my compass. The one trout in my 
basket was no burden, and I stepped lightly out. 
The forest was of hard-wood, and open, except for 
a thick undergrowth of moose-bush. It was raining, 
— in fact, it had been raining, more or less, for a 
month, — and the woods were soaked. This moose- 
bush is most annoying stuff to travel through in a 
rain ; for the broad leaves slap one in the face, and 
sop him with wet. The way grew every moment 
more dingy. The heavy clouds above the thick foliage 
brought night on prematurely. It was decidedly 
premature to a near-sighted man, whose glasses the 
rain rendered useless : such a person ought to be at 
home early. On leaving the river-bank I had borne 
to the left, so as to be sure to strike either the clear- 
ing or the road, and not wander off into the measure- 
less forest. I confidently pursued this course, and 
went gayly on by the left flank. That I did not 
come to any opening or path, only showed that I had * 
slightly mistaken the distance: I was going in the 
right direction. 
I was so certain of this, that I quickened my pace, 
and got up with alacrity every time I tumbled down 
amid the slippery leaves and catching roots, and 
hurried on. And I kept to the left. It even occurred 
to me that I was turning to the left so much, that I 
might come back to the river again. It grew more 
dusky, and rained more violently ; but there was 
nothing alarming in the situation, since I knew exactly 
where I was. It was a little mortifying that I had 
miscalculated the distance : yet, so far was I from 
feeling any uneasiness about this, that I quickened my 
pace again, and, before I knew it, was in a full run ; 
that is, as full a run as a person can indulge in in the 
dusk, with so many trees in the way* No nervousness, 
but simply a reasonable desire to get there. I desired 
to look upon myself as the person " not lost, but gone 
before." As time passed, and darkness fell, and no 
clearing or road appeared, I ran a little faster. It 
didn't seem possible that the people had moved, or 
the road been changed ; and yet I was sure of my 
direction. I went on with an energy increased by the 
ridiculousness of the situation, the danger that an 
LOST IN THE WOODS 
experienced woodsman was in of getting home late 
for supper ; the lateness of the meal being nothing to 
the gibes of the unlost. How long I kept this course, 
and how far I went on, I do not know ; but suddenly 
I stumbled against an ill-placed tree, and sat down on 
the soaked ground, a trifle out of breath. It then 
occurred to me that I had better verify my course by 
the compass. There was scarcely light enough to dis- 
tinguish the black end of the needle. To my amaze- 
ment, the compass, which was made near Greenwich, 
was wrong. Allowing for the natural variation of the 
needle, it was absurdly wrong. It made out that I 
was going south when I was going north. It inti- 
mated, that, instead of turning to the left, I had been 
making a circuit to the right. According to the com- 
pass, the Lord only knew where I was. 
The inclination of persons in the woods to travel in 
a circle is unexplained. I suppose it arises from the 
sympathy of the legs with the brain. Most people 
reason in a circle : their minds go round and round, 
always in the same track. For the last half-hour I 
had been saying over a sentence that started itself : 
" I wonder where that road is ! " I had said it over 
till it had lost all meaning. I kept going round on it ; 
and yet I could not believe that my body had been 
travelling in a circle. Not being able to recognize 
any tracks, I have no evidence that I had so travelled, 
except the general testimony of lost men. 
The compass annoyed me. I 've known experi- 
enced guides utterly discredit it. It couldn't be that 
I was to turn about, and go the way I had come. 
Nevertheless, I said to myself, '' You 'd better keep 
a cool head, my boy, or you are in for a night of 
it. Better listen • to science than to spunk," And I 
resolved to heed the impartial needle. I was a little 
weary of the rough tramping : but it was necessary to 
be moving ; for, with wet clothes and the night air, 
I was decidedly chilly. I turned towards the north, 
and slipped and stumbled along. A more uninviting 
forest to pass the night in I never saw. Everything 
was soaked. If I became exhausted, it would be 
necessary to build a fire ; and, as I walked on, I 
couldn't find a dry bit of wood. Even if a little punk 
were discovered in a rotten log, I had no hatchet to 
cut fuel. I thought it all over calmly. I had the 
usual three matches in my pocket. I knew exactly 
what would happen if I tried to build a fire. The 
first match would prove to be wet. The second match, 
when struck, would shine and smell, and fizz a little 
and then go out. There would be only one match 
left. Death would ensue if it failed. I should get 
close to the log, crawl under my hat, strike the match, 
see it catch, flicker, almost go out (the reader pain- 
fully excited by this time), blaze up, nearly expire, 
and finally fire the punk, — thank God ! And I said 
to myseK, " The public don't want any more of this 
thing : it is played out. Either have a box of matches, 
or let the first one catch fire." 
In this gloomy mood I plunged along. The pros- 
pect was cheerless ; for, apart from the comfort that 
a fire would give, it is necessary, at night, to keep off 
the wild beasts. I fancied I could hear the tread of 
the stealthy brutes following their prey. But there 
was one source of profound satisfaction, — the cata- 
mount had been killed. Mr. Colvin, the triangulating 
surveyor of the Adirondacks, killed him in his last 
official report to the State. Whether he despatched 
him with a theodolite or a baromeier does not matter : 
LOST IN THE WOODS 
lie is officially dead, and none of the travellers can 
kill him any more. Yet he has served them a good 
turn. 
I knew that catamount well. One night when we 
lay in the bogs of the South Beaver Meadow, under a 
canopy of mosquitoes, the serene midnight was parted 
by a wild and human-like cry from a neighboring 
mountain. " That 's a cat," said the guide. I felt in 
a moment that it was the voice of '' modern cultchah." 
" Modern culture," says Mr. Joseph Cook in a most 
impressive period, — ^' modern culture is a child cry- 
ing in the wilderness, and with no voice but a cry." 
That describes the catamount exactly. The next day, 
when we ascended the mountain, we came upon the 
traces of this brute, — a spot where he had stood and 
cried in the night ; and I confess that my hair rose 
with the consciousness of his recent presence, as it is 
said to do when a spirit passes by. 
Whatever consolation the absence of catamount in 
a dark, drenched, and howling wilderness can impart, 
that I experienced ; but I thought what a satire upon 
my present condition was modern culture, with its 
plain thinking and high living ! It was impossible to 
get much satisfaction out of the real and the ideal, — 
the me and the not-me. At this time what impressed 
me most was the absurdity of my position looked at in 
the light of modern civilization and all my advantages 
and acquirements. It seemed pitiful that society 
could do absolutely nothing for me. It was, in fact, 
humiliating to reflect that it would now be profit- 
able to exchange all my possessions for the woods in- 
stinct of the most unlettered guide. I began to doubt 
the value of the " culture " that blunts the natural 
instincts. 
It began to be a question whether I could hold out 
to walk all night ; for I must travel, or perish. And 
now I imagined that a spectre was walking by my 
side. This was Famine. To be sure, I had only 
recently eaten a hearty luncheon : but the pangs of 
hunger got hold on me when I thought that I should 
have no supper, no breakfast ; and, as the procession 
of unattainable meals stretched before me, I grew 
hungrier and hungrier. I could feel that I was be- 
coming gaunt, and wasting away : already I seemed 
to be emaciated. It is astonishing how speedily a 
jocund, well-conditioned human being can be trans- 
formed into a spectacle of poverty and want. Lose 
a man in the woods, drench him, tear his pantaloons, 
get his imagination running on his lost supper and 
the cheerful fireside that is expecting him, and he will 
become haggard in an hour. I am not dwelling upon 
these things to excite the reader's sympathy, but only 
to advise him, if he contemplates an adventure of this 
kind, to provide himself with matches, kindling-wood, 
something more to eat than one raw trout, and not to 
select a rainy night for it. 
Nature is so pitiless, so unresponsive, to a person in 
trouble ! I had read of the soothing companionship 
of the forest, the pleasure of the pathless woods. But 
I thought, as I stumbled along in the dismal actuality, 
that if I ever got out of it I would write a letter to 
the newspapers, exposing the whole thing. There is 
an impassive, stolid brutality about the woods that 
has never been enough insisted on. I tried to keep 
my mind fixed upon the fact of man's superiority to 
Nature ; his ability to dominate and outwit her. My 
situation was an amusing satire on this theory. I 
fancied that I could feel a sneer in the woods at my 
LOST IN THE WOODS 
detected conceit. There was something personal in 
it. The downpour of the rain and the slipperiness of 
the ground were elements of discomfort ; but there 
was, besides these, a kind of terror in the very charac- 
ter of the forest itself. I think this arose not more 
from its immensity than from the kind of stolidity to 
which I have alluded. It seemed to me that it would 
be a sort of relief to kick the trees. I don't wonder 
that the bears fall to, occasionally, and scratch the 
bark off the great pines and maples, tearing it angrily 
away. One must have some vent to his feelings. It 
is a common experience of people lost in the woods to 
lose their heads ; and even the woodsmen themselves 
are not free from this panic when some accident has 
thrown them out of their reckoning. Fright unsettles 
the judgment : the oppressive silence of the woods is 
a vacuum in which the mind goes astray. It 's a 
hollow sham, this pantheism, I said ; being '' one with 
Nature " is all humbug : I should like to see some- 
body. Man, to be sure, is of very little account, and 
soon gets beyond his depth ; but the society of the 
least human being is better than this gigantic indiffer- 
ence. The " rapture on the lonely shore " is agree- 
able only when you know you can at any moment go 
home. 
I had now given up all expectation of finding the 
road, and was steering my way as well as I could 
northward towards the valley. In my haste I made 
slow progress. Probably the distance I travelled was 
short, and the time consumed not long ; but I seemed 
to be adding mile to mile, and hour to hour. I had 
time to review the incidents of the Russo-Turkish 
war, and to forecast the entire Eastern question ; I 
outlined the characters of all my companions left in 
camp, and sketched in a sort of comedy the sym- 
pathetic and disparaging observations they would 
make on my adventure ; I repeated something like a 
thousand times, without contradiction, " What a fool 
you were to leave the river ! " I stopped twenty times, 
thinking I heard its loud roar, always deceived by the 
wind in the tree tops ; I began to entertain serious 
doubts about the compass, — when suddenly I became 
aware that I was no longer on level ground ; I was 
descending a slope ; I was actually in a ravine. In a 
moment more I was in a brook newly formed by the 
rain. " Thank Heaven ! " I cried : " this I shall follow 
whatever conscience or the compass says." In this 
region, all streams go, sooner or later, into the val- 
ley. This ravine, this stream, no doubt, led to the 
river. I splashed and tumbled along down it in 
mud and water. Down hill we went together, the fall 
showing that I must have wandered to high ground. 
When I guessed that I must be close to the river, I 
suddenly stepped into mud up to my ankles. It was 
the road, — running, of course, the wrong way, but 
still the blessed road. It was a mere canal of liquid 
mud ; but man had made it, and it would take me 
home. I was at least three miles from the point 
where I supposed I was near at sunset, and I had be- 
fore me a toilsome walk of six or seven miles, most of 
the way in a ditch ; but it is truth to say I enjoyed 
every step of it. I was safe ; I knew where I was ; 
and I could have walked till morning. The mind 
had again got the upper hand of the body, and began 
to plume itself on its superiority : it was even disposed 
to doubt whether it had been " lost " at all. 
A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 
Tkout-fishing in the Adirondacks would be a more 
attractive pastime than it is, but for the popular notion 
of its danger. The trout is a retiring and harmless ani- 
mal, except when he is aroused, and forced into a com- 
bat ; and then his agility, fierceness, and vindictiveness 
become apparent. No one who has studied the excel- 
lent pictures representing men in an open boat, exposed 
to the assaults of long, enraged trout flying at them 
through the open air with open mouth, ever ventures 
with his rod upon the lonely lakes of the forest without 
a certain terror, or ever reads of the exploits of daring 
fishermen without a feeling of admiration for their 
heroism. Most of their adventures are thrilling, and 
all of them are, in narration, more or less unjust to 
the trout : in fact, the object of them seems to be to 
exhibit, at the expense of the trout, the shrewdness, the 
skill, and the muscular power of the sportsman. My 
own simple story has few of these recommendations. 
We had built our bark camp one summer, and were 
staying on one of the popular lakes of the Saranac re- 
gion. It would be a very pretty region if it were not 
so flat, if the margins of the lakes had not been flooded 
by dams at the outlets, — which have killed the trees, 
and left a rim of ghastly dead-wood like the swamps of 
the under- world pictured by Dore's bizarre pencil, — 
and if the pianos at the hotels were in tune. It would 
be an excellent sporting-region also (for there is water 
enough) if the fish commissioners would stock the 
waters, and if previous hunters had not pulled all the 
hair and skin off from the deer's tails. Formerly sports- 
men had a habit of catching the deer by the tails, and 
of being dragged in mere wantonness round and round 
the shores. It is well known, that, if you seize a deer 
by this '' holt," the skin will slip off like the peel from 
a banana. This reprehensible practice was carried so 
far, that the traveller is now hourly pained by the sight 
of peeled-tail deer mournfully sneaking about the wood. 
We had been hearing, for weeks, of a small lake 
in the heart of the virgin forest, some ten miles from 
our camp, which was alive with trout, unsophisticated, 
hungry trout : the inlet to it was described as stiff "with 
them. In my imagination I saw them lying there in 
ranks and rows, each a foot long, three tiers deep, a 
solid mass. The lake had never been visited, except 
by stray sable-hunters in the winter, and was known 
as the Unknown Pond. I determined to explore it ; 
fully expecting, however, that it would prove to be a 
delusion, as such mysterious haunts of the trout usually 
are. Confiding my purpose to Luke, we secretly made 
our preparations, and stole away from the shanty one 
morning at daybreak. Each of us carried a boat, a pair 
of blankets, a sack of bread, pork, and maple-sugar ; 
while I had my case of rods, creel, and book of flies, 
and Luke had an axe and the kitchen utensils. We 
think nothing of loads of this sort in the woods. 
Five miles through a tamarack-swamp brought us to 
the inlet of Unknown Pond, upon which we embarked 
our fleet, and paddled down its vagrant waters. They 
were at first sluggish, winding among triste fir-trees, 
but gradually developed a strong current. At the end 
A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 
of three miles a loud roar ahead warned us that we were 
approaching rapids, falls, and cascades. We paused. 
The danger was unknown. We had our choice of 
shouldering our loads and making a detour through 
the woods, or of '' shooting the rapids." Naturally we 
chose the more dangerous course. Shooting the rapids 
has often been described, and I will not repeat the 
description here. It is needless to say that I drove 
my frail bark through the boiling rapids, over the suc- 
cessive water-falls, amid rocks and vicious eddies, and 
landed half a mile below with whitened hair and a 
boat half full of water ; and that the guide was upset, 
and boat, contents, and man were strewn along the 
shore. 
After this common experience we went quickly on 
our journey, and, a couple of hours before sundown, 
reached the lake. If I live to my dying day, I never 
shall forget its appearance. The lake is almost an 
exact circle, about a quarter of a mile in diameter. 
The forest about it was untouched by axe, and unkilled 
by artificial flooding. The azure water had a perfect 
setting of evergreens, in which all the shades of the 
fir, the balsam, the pine, and the spruce, were perfectly 
blended ; and at intervals on the shore, in the emerald 
rim, blazed the ruby of the cardinal-flower. It was at 
once evident that the unruffled waters had never been 
vexed by the keel of a boat. But what chiefly attracted 
my attention, and amused me, was the boiling of the 
water, the bubbling and breaking, as if the lake were 
a vast kettle, with a fire underneath. A tyro would 
have been astonished at this common phenomenon ; 
but sportsmen will at once understand me when I say 
that the water boiled with the breaking trout. I studied 
the surface for some time to see upon what sort of 
flies they were feeding, in order to suit my cast to 
their appetites ; but they seemed to be at play rather 
than feeding, leaping high in the air in graceful curves, 
and tumbling about each other as we see them in the 
Adirondack pictures. 
It is well known that no person who regards his 
reputation will ever kill a trout with anything but a 
fly. It requires some training on the part of the trout 
to take to this method. The uncultivated, unsophisti- 
cated trout in unfrequented waters prefers the bait ; 
and the rural people, whose sole object in going a-fish- 
ing appears to be to catch fish, indulge them in their 
primitive taste for the worm. No sportsman, however, 
will use anything but a fly, except he happens to be 
alone. 
While Luke launched my boat, and arranged his 
seat in the stern, I prepared my rod and line. The 
rod is a bamboo, weighing seven ounces, which has to 
be spliced with a winding of silk thread every time it 
is used. This is a tedious process ; but, by fastening 
the joints in this way, a uniform spring is secured in 
the rod. No one devoted to high art would think of 
using a socket joint. My line was forty yards of un- 
twisted silk upon a multiplying reel. The " leader " — 
X am very particular about my leaders — had been made 
to order from a domestic animal with which I had been 
acquainted. The fisherman requires as good a catgut 
as the violinist. The interior of the house-cat, it is 
well known, is exceedingly sensitive ; but it may not be 
so well known that the reason why some cats leave the 
room in distress when a piano-forte is played is because 
the two instruments are not in the same key, and the 
vibrations of the chords of the one are in discord with 
the catgut of the other. On six feet of this superior 
A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 
article I fixed three artificial flies, — a simple brown 
hackle, a gray body with scarlet wings, and one of my 
own invention, which I thought would be new to the 
most experienced fly-catcher. The trout-fly does not 
resemble any known species of insect. It is a " conven- 
tionalized " creation, as we say of ornamentation. The 
theory is, that, fly-fishing being a high art, the fly must 
not be a tame imitation of nature, but an artistic sug- 
gestion of it. It requires an artist to construct one ; 
and not every bungler can take a bit of red flannel, a 
peacock's feather, a flash of tinsel thread, a cock's 
plume, a section of a hen's wing, and fabricate a tiny 
object that will not look like any fly, but still will sug- 
gest the universal conventional fly. 
I took my stand in the centre of the tipsy boat ; and 
Luke shoved off, and slowly paddled towards some 
lily-pads, while I began casting, unlimbering my tools, 
as it were. The fish had all disappeared. I got out, 
perhaps, fifty feet of line, with no response, and grad- 
ually increased it to one hundred. It is not difficult 
to learn to cast ; but it is difficult to learn not to snap 
off the flies at every throw. Of this, however, we will 
not speak. I continued casting for some moments, un- 
til I became satisfied that there had been a miscalcu- 
lation. Either the trout were too green to know what 
I was at, or they were dissatisfied with my offers. I 
reeled in, and changed the flies (that is, the fly that 
was not snapped off). After studying the color of the 
sky, of the water, and of the foliage, and the moderated 
light of the afternoon, I put on a series of beguilers, 
all of a subdued brilliancy, in harmony with the ap- 
proach of evening. At the second cast, which was a 
short one, I saw a splash where the leader fell, and 
gave an excited jerk. The next instant I perceived 
^ 
the game, and did not need the unfeigned " dam " of 
Luke to convince me that I had snatched his felt hat 
from his head, and deposited it among the lilies. Dis- 
couraged by this, we whirled about, and paddled over 
to the inlet, where a little ripple was visible in the 
tinted light. At the very first cast I saw that the hour 
had come. Three trout leaped into the air. The 
danger of this manoeuvre all fishermen understand. It 
is one of the commonest in the woods : three heavy 
trout taking hold at once, rushing in different direc- 
tions, smash the tackle into flinders. I evaded this 
catch, and threw again. I recall the moment. A her- 
mit thrush, on the tip of a balsam, uttered his long, 
liquid evening note. Happening to look over my 
shoulder, I saw the peak of Marcy gleam rosy in the 
sky (I can't help it that Marcy is fifty miles off, and 
cannot be seen from this region : these incidental 
touches are always used). The hundred feet of silk 
swished through the air, and the tail-fly fell as lightly 
on the water as a three-cent piece, which no slamming 
will give the weight of a ten, drops upon the contri- 
bution plate. Instantly there was a rush, a swirl. I 
struck, and " Got him, by — ! " Never mind what 
Luke said I got him by. " Out on a fly ! " continued 
that irreverent guide ; but I told him to back water, 
and make for the centre of the lake. The trout, as 
soon as he felt the prick of the hook, was off like a 
shot, and took out the whole of the line with a rapid- 
ity that made it smoke. " Give him the butt ! '' 
shouted Luke. It is the usual remark in such an 
emergency. I gave him the butt ; and, recognizing the 
fact and my spirit, the trout at once sank to the bot- 
tom, and sulked. It is the most dangerous mood of a 
trout ; for you cannot tell what he will do next. We 
A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 
reeled up a little, and waited five minutes for him to 
reflect. A tightening of the line enraged him, and 
he soon developed his tactics. Coming to the surface, 
he made straight for the boat faster than I could reel 
in, and evidently with hostile intentions. " Look out 
for him ! " cried Luke as he came flying in the air. 
I evaded him by dropping flat in the bottom of the 
boat ; and, when I picked my traps up, he was spin- 
ning across the lake as if he had a new idea ; but the 
line was still fast. He did not run far. I gave him 
the butt again ; a thing he seemed to hate, even as a 
gift. In a moment the evil-minded fish, lashing the 
water in his rage, was coming back again, making 
straight for the boat as before. Luke, who was used 
to these encounters, having read of them in the writ- 
ings of travellers he had accompanied, raised his pad- 
dle in self-defence. The trout left the water about ten 
feet from the boat, and came directly at me with fiery 
eyes, his speckled sides flashing like a meteor. I 
dodged as he whisked by with a vicious slap of his 
bifurcated tail, and nearly upset the boat. The line 
was of course slack ; and the danger was that he would 
entangle it about me, and carry away a leg. This 
was evidently his game ; but I untangled it, and only 
lost a breast-button or two by the swiftly-moving string. 
The trout plunged into the water with a hissing sound, 
and went away again with all the line on the reel. 
More butt ; more indignation on the part of the cap- 
tive. The contest had now been going on for half an 
hour, and I was getting exhausted. We had been back 
and forth across the lake, and round and round the 
lake. What I feared was, that the trout would start 
up the inlet, and wreck us in the bushes. But he had 
a new fancy, and began the execution of a manoeuvre 
which I had never read of. Instead of coming straight 
towards me, he took a large circle, swimming rapidly, 
and gradually contracting his orhit» I reeled in, and 
kept my eye on him. Round and round he went, nar- 
rowing his circle. I began to suspect the game ; 
which was, to twist my head off. When he had re- 
duced the radius of his circle to about twenty-five feet, 
he struck a tremendous pace through the water. It 
would be false modesty in a sportsman to say that I 
was not equal to the occasion. Instead of turning 
round vdth him, as he expected, I stepped to the bow, 
braced myself, and let the boat swing. Eound went 
the fish, and round we went like a top. I saw a line 
of Mount Marcys all round the horizon ; the rosy tint 
in the west made a broad band of pink along the sky 
above the tree-tops ; the evening star was a perfect 
circle of light, a hoop of gold in the heavens. We 
whirled and reeled, and reeled and whirled. I was 
willing to give the malicious beast butt and line, and 
all, if he would only go the other way for a change. 
When I came to myself, Luke was gaffing the trout 
at the boat-side. After we had got him in and dressed 
him, he weighed three-quarters of a pound. Fish 
always lose by being " got in and dressed." It is best 
to weigh them while they are in the water. The only 
really large one I ever caught got away with my 
leader when I first struck him. He weighed ten pounds. 
A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 
If civilization owes a debt of gratitude to the self- 
sacrificing sportsmen who have cleared the Adiron- 
dack regions of catamounts and savage trout, what 
shall be said of the army which has so nobly relieved 
them of the terror of the deer ? The deer-slayers have 
somewhat celebrated their exploits in print ; but I 
think that justice has never been done them. 
The American deer in the wilderness, left to him- 
self, leads a comparatively harmless but rather stupid 
life, with only such excitement as his own timid 
fancy raises. It was very seldom that one of his tribe 
was eaten by the North American tiger. For a wild 
animal he is very domestic, simple in his tastes, reg- 
ular in his habits, affectionate in his family. Unfor- 
tunately for his^ repose, his haunch is as tender as 
his heart. Of all wild creatures he is one of the 
most graceful in action, and he poses with the skill 
of an experienced model. I have seen the goats on 
Mount Pentelicus scatter at the approach of a stran- 
ger, climb to the sharp points of projecting rocks, and 
attitudinize in the most self-conscious manner, strik- 
ing at once those picturesque postures against the sky 
with which Oriental pictures have made us and them 
familiar. But the whole proceeding was theatrical. 
Greece is the home of art, and it is rare to find any- 
thing there natural and unstudied. I presume that 
A'-HUNTING OF THE DEER 
these goats have no nonsense about them when they 
are alone with the goat-herds, any more than the goat- 
herds have, except when they come to pose in the stu- 
dio ; but the long ages of culture, the presence always 
to the eye o£ the best models and the forms of im- 
mortal beauty, the heroic friezes of the Temple of 
Theseus, the marble processions of sacrificial animals, 
have had a steady moulding, educating influence 
equal to a society of decorative art upon the people 
and the animals who have dwelt in this artistic atmos- 
phere. The Attic goat has become an artificially ar- 
tistic being ; though of course he is not now what he 
was, as a poser, in the days of Polycletus. There is 
opportunity for a very instructive essay by Mr. E. A. 
Freeman on the decadence of the Attic goat imder 
the influence of the Ottoman Turk. 
The American deer, in the free atmosphere of our 
country, and as yet untouched by our decorative art, 
is without self-consciousness, and all his attitudes are 
free and unstudied. The favorite position cl the 
deer — his fore-feet in the shallow margin of the lake, 
among the lily-pads, his antlers thrown back an "* his 
nose in the air at the moment he hears the stealthy 
breaking of a twig in the forest — is still spirited and 
graceful, and wholly unaffected by the pictures of him 
which the artists have put upon canvas. 
Wherever you go in the Northern forest, you will 
find deer-paths. So plainly marked and well-trodden 
are they, that it is easy to mistake them for trails 
made by hunters ; but he who follows one of them is 
soon in difficulties. He may find himself climbing 
through cedar-thickets an almost inaccessible cliff, or 
