pleasantly rippled the placid surface of society. But life went on
there with a sort of dreamy stillness. The different summer flowers
came out in their successive ranks in the neatly-kept garden; roses
followed peonies, and white lilies came and went, and crimson and
white phloxes stood ranged in midsummer ranks, and the yellow tribes
of marigolds brought up the autumnal season. And over on the woody
hills around the town the spring tints deepened and grew dark in
summer richness, and then began breaking here and there into streaks
and flecks of gold and crimson, foretelling autumn. And there were
wonderful golden sunsets, and moonlight nights when the street of
Poganuc seemed overshot with a silver network of tracery like the
arches of some cathedral. The doors and windows of the houses stood
innocently open all night for the moon to shine in, and youths and
maidens walked and wandered and sentimentalized up and down the long,
dewy street, and nobody seemed to know how fast the short, beautiful
summer of those regions was passing away.
As to Dolly, summer was her time of life and joy; but it was not by
any means a joy unmixed.
Dolly's education was conducted on the good old-fashioned principle
that everyone must do his little part in the battle of life, and
that nobody was pretty enough or good enough to be kept merely for
ornamental purposes.
She was no curled darling, to be kept on exhibition in white dresses
and broad sashes, and she had been sedulously instructed in the
orthodoxy of Dr. Watts, that
    "Satan finds some mischief still
    For idle hands to do."
It was the duty of the good house-mother of those days to be so
much in advance of this unpleasant personage that there should be
no room for his temptations. Accordingly, any part of the numerous
household tasks of the Parsonage that could be trusted to a little
pair of hands were turned over to Dolly. In those days were none
of the thousand conveniences which now abridge the labors of the
housekeeper. Everything came in the rough, and had to be reduced to a
usable form in the household.
The delicate, smooth white salt which filled the cellars at the table
was prepared by Dolly's manipulation from coarse rock-salt crystals,
which she was taught to wash and dry, and pound and sift, till it
became of snowy fineness; and quite a long process it was. Then there
were spices to be ground, and there was coffee to be browned to the
exact and beautiful shade dear to household ideality; and Dolly could
do that.
Being a bright, enterprising little body, she did not so much object
to these processes, which rather interested her, but her very soul
was wearied within her at the drill of the long and varied sewing
lessons that were deemed indispensable to her complete education.
Pounding salt, or grinding spice, or beating eggs, or roasting
coffee, were endurable; but darning stockings and stitching
wristbands, and "scratching" gathers, were a weariness unto her
spirit. And yet it was only at the price of penances like these, well
and truly performed, that Dolly's golden own hours of leisure were
given.
Most of her household tasks could be performed in the early morning
hours before school, and after school Dolly measured the height of
the afternoon sun with an avaricious eye. Would there be time enough
to explore the woody hills beyond Poganuc River before sundown? and
would they let her go?
For oh, those woods! What a world of fairyland, what a world of pure,
untold joy was there to Dolly! When she found her face fairly set
towards them, with leave to stay till sundown, and with Spring at her
heels, Dolly was as blissful, as perfectly happy, as a child can ever
be made by any one thing.
The sense of perfect freedom, the wonder, the curiosity, the vague
expectation of what she might find or see, made her heart beat
with pleasure. First came the race down through the tall, swaying
meadow-grass and white-hatted daisies to the Poganuc River--a brown,
clear, gurgling stream, wide, shallow, and garrulous, that might be
easily crossed on mossy stepping-stones. Here was a world of delight
to Dolly. Skipping from stone to stone, or reclining athwart some
great rock around which the brown waters rippled, she watched the
little fishes come and go, darting hither and thither like flecks of
silver. Down under the shade of dark hemlocks the river had worn a
deep pool where the translucent water lay dark and still; and Dolly,
climbing carefully and quietly to the rocky side, could lean over and
watch the slim, straight pickerel, holding themselves so still in the
water that the play of their gossamer fins made no ripple,--so still,
so apparently unwatchful and drowsy, that Dolly again and again
fancied she might slily reach down her little hand and take one out
of the water; but the moment the rosy finger-tips touched the wave,
with a flash, like a ray of light, the coveted prize was gone. There
was no catching a pickerel asleep, however quiet he might appear.
Yet, time after time, Dolly tried the experiment, burning with the
desire to win glory among the boys by bringing home an actual and
veritable pickerel of her own catching.
But there were other beauties, dryad treasures, more accessible. The
woods along the moist margin of the river were full of the pink and
white azalea, and she gathered besides the fragrant blossoms stores
of what were called "honeysuckle apples" that grew upon them--fleshy
exudations not particularly nice in flavor, but crisp, cool, and
much valued among children. There, too, were crimson wintergreen
berries, spicy in their sweetness, and the young, tender leaves of
the wintergreen, ranking high as an eatable dainty among little folk.
Dolly's basket was sure to fill rapidly when she set herself to
gathering these treasures, and the sun would be almost down before
she could leave the enchanted shades of the wood and come back to
real life again.
But Saturday afternoon was a sort of child's Paradise. No school was
kept, and even household disciplinarians recognized a reasonably
well-behaved child's right to a Saturday afternoon play-spell.
"Now, Dolly," had Nabby said to her the week before, "you be sure and
be a good girl, and do up all your stitching and get the stockings
mended afore Saturday comes, and then we'll take Saturday afternoon
to go a-huckleberrying up to Pequannock Rock; and we'll stop and see
Mis' Persis."
This, let it be known, was a programme to awaken Dolly's ambition.
Pequannock Rock was a distance which she never would be permitted
to explore alone, and Mis' Persis was to her imagination a most
interesting and stimulating personage. She was a widow, and the
story ran that her deceased husband had been an Indian--a story
which caused Dolly to regard her with a sort of awe, connecting her
with Cotton Mather's stories of war-whoops and scalping-knives, and
midnight horrors when houses were burned and children carried off to
Canada.
Nevertheless, Mis' Persis was an inoffensive and quite useful member
of society. She had her little house and garden, which she cultivated
with energy and skill. She kept her cow, her pig, her chickens, and
contrived always to have something to sell when she needed an extra
bit of coin. She was versed in all the Indian lore of roots and
herbs, and her preparations of these for medicinal purposes were
much in request. Among the farming population around, Mis' Persis
was held in respect as a medical authority, and her opinions were
quoted with confidence. She was also of considerable repute among
the best families of Poganuc as a filler of gaps such as may often
occur in household economy. There was nothing wanted to be done
that Mis' Persis could not do. She could wash, or iron, or bake,
or brew, or nurse the sick, as the case might require. She was, in
fact, one of the reserved forces of Poganuc society. She was a member
of Dr. Cushing's church, in good and regular standing, and, in her
way, quite devoted to her minister and church, and always specially
affable and gracious to Dolly.
This particular Saturday afternoon all the constellations were
favorable. Dolly was pronounced a good girl, her week's tasks well
performed; and never were dinner-dishes more rapidly whirled into
place than were Nabby's on that same afternoon; so that before three
o'clock the pair were well on their way to the huckleberry-field.
There, under the burning August sun, the ground shot up those ardent
flower-flames well called fire-lilies, and the wild roses showered
their deep pink petals as they pushed through the thickets, and the
huckleberry-bushes bent low under the weight of the great sweet
berries; and Dolly's cheeks were all a-flame, like the fire-lilies
themselves, with heat and enthusiasm as she gathered the purple
harvest into her basket. When the baskets were filled and Dolly had
gathered fire-lilies and wild roses more than she knew how to carry,
it was proposed to stop a little and rest, on the homeward route, at
Mis' Persis's cottage.
They found her sitting on her door-step, knitting. A little wiry,
swart, thin woman was she, alert in her movements, and quick and
decided of speech. Her black eyes had in them a latent fiery gleam
that suggested all the while that though pleased and pleasant at the
present moment Mis' Persis might be dangerous if roused, and Dolly
was always especially conciliatory and polite in her addresses to her.
On the present occasion Mis' Persis was delightfully hospitable. She
installed Dolly in a small splint-bottomed rocking-chair at the door,
and treated her to a cup of milk and a crisp cooky.
"Why, what a little girl you are to be so far from home!" she said.
"Oh, I don't mind," said Dolly; "I am never tired. I could pick
berries all day."
"But, sakes alive! ain't you afraid of snakes?" said Mis' Persis.
"Why, my sister got dreadfully bit by a rattlesnake when she wa'n't
much older 'n you," and Mis' Persis shook her head weirdly.
"Oh, dear me! Did it kill her?" said Dolly, in horror.
"No; she lived many a year after," said Mis' Persis, with a reticent
air, as one who could say more if properly approached.
"Do, do tell us all about it; do, Mis' Persis. I never saw a
rattlesnake. I never heard one. I shouldn't know what it was if I saw
one."
"You wouldn't ever forget it if you did," said Mis' Persis,
oracularly.
"Oh, please, Mis' Persis, do tell about it," said Dolly, eagerly.
"Where were you, and how did it happen?"
"Well," said Mis' Persis, "it was when I was a girl and lived over in
Danbury. There's where I come from. My sister Polly and me, we went
out to High Ledge one afternoon after huckleberries, and as we was
makin' our way through some low bushes we heard the sharpest noise,
jest like a locust screechin', right under foot, and jest then Polly
she screams out, 'Oh, Sally,' says she, 'somethin's bit me!' and I
looked down and saw a great rattlesnake crawlin' off through the
bushes--a great big fellow, as big as my wrist.
"'Well,' says I, 'Polly, I must get you home quick as I can;' and
we set down our pails and started for home. It was a broilin' hot
day, and we hed a'most a mile to walk, and afore we got home I hed
to carry her. Her tongue was swelled so that it hung out of her
mouth; her neck and throat was all swelled, and spotted like the
snake. Oh, it was dreadful! We got her into the house, and on the
bed, and sent for the Indian doctor--there ain't nobody knows about
them snake-bites but Indians. Well, he come and brought a bag of
rattlesnake-weed with him, and he made poultices of it and laid all
over her stomach and breast and hands and feet, and he made a tea of
it and got some down her throat, and kep' a feedin' on it to her till
she got so she could swallow. That's the way she got well."
"Oh, Mis' Persis," said Dolly, after a pause of awe and horror, "what
is rattlesnake-weed?"
"Why, it's a worse poison than the snake-bite, and it kills the
snake-poison 'cause it's stronger. Wherever the snakes grow, there
the rattlesnake-weed grows. The snakes know it themselves, and when
they fight and bite each other they go and eat the weed and it cures
'em. Here's some of it," she said, going to the wall of the room
which was all hung round with dried bunches of various herbs--"here's
some I got over on Poganuc Mountain, if you ever should want any."
"Oh, I hope I never shall," said Dolly. "Nabby, only think! What if
there had been a snake in those bushes!"
"Well, you can always know," said Mis' Persis, "if you hear somethin'
in the bushes jest like a locust, sharp and sudden--why, you'd better
look afore you set your foot down. But we don't hev no rattlesnakes
round this way. I've beat all these lots through and never seen
tail of one. This 'ere ain't one o' their places; over to Poganuc
Mountain, now, a body has to take care how they step."
"Do you suppose, Mis' Persis," said Dolly, after a few moments of
grave thought, "do you suppose God made that weed grow on purpose to
cure rattlesnake bites?"
"Of course he did," said Mis' Persis, as decidedly as if she had been
a trained theologian, "that's what rattlesnake-weed was made fer; any
fool can see that."
"It seems to me," said Dolly, "that it would have been better not to
have the snakes, and then people wouldn't be bit at all--wouldn't it?"
"Oh, we don't know everything," said Mis' Persis; "come to that,
there's a good many things that nobody knows what they's made fer.
But the Indians used to say there was some cure grew for every
sickness if only our eyes was opened to see it, and I expect it's so."
"Come, Dolly," said Nabby, "the sun is gettin' pretty low; I must
hurry home to get supper."
Just then the bell of the distant meeting-house gave three tolling
strokes, whereat all the three stopped talking and listened intently.
Of all the old Puritan customs none was more thrillingly impressive
than this solemn announcement of a death, and this deliberate tolling
out of the years of a finished life.
It was a sound to which every one, whether alone or in company,
at work or in play, stopped to listen, and listened with a nervous
thrill of sympathy.
"I wonder who that is?" said Nabby.
"Perhaps it's Lyddy Bascom," said Mis' Persis, "she's been down with
typhus fever."
The bell now was rapidly tolling one, two, three, four, and all the
company counted eagerly up to sixteen, seventeen, when Mis' Persis
interposed.
"No, 'taint Lyddy; it's goin' on," and they counted and counted, and
still the bell kept tolling till it had numbered eighty. "It's old
Granny Moss," said Mis' Persis decisively; "she's ben lyin' low some
time. Well, she's in heaven now; the better for her."
"Ah, I'm glad she's in heaven," said Dolly, with a shivering sigh;
"she's all safe now."
"Oh, yes, she's better off," said Nabby, getting up and shaking her
dress as if to shake off the very thought of death. A warm, strong,
glowing creature she was, as full of earth-life as the fire-lilies
they had been gathering. She seemed a creature made for this world
and its present uses, and felt an animal repulsion to the very
thought of death.
"Come, Dolly," she said, briskly, as she counted the last toll, "we
can't wait another minute."
"Well, Dolly," said Mis' Persis, "tell your mother I'm a comin' this
year to make up her candles for her, and the work sha'n't cost her a
cent. I've been tryin' out a lot o' bayberry wax to put in 'em and
make 'em good and firm."
"I'm sure you are very good," said Dolly, with instinctive politeness.
"I want to do my part towards supportin' my minister," said Mis'
Persis, "and that's what I hev to give."
"I'll tell my mother, and I know she'll thank you," answered Dolly,
as they turned homeward.
The sun was falling lower and lower toward the west. The long shadows
of the two danced before them on the dusty road.
After walking half a mile they came to a stone culvert, where a
little brawling stream crossed the road. The edges of the brook were
fringed with sweet-flag blades waving in the afternoon light, and the
water gurgled and tinkled pleasantly among the stones.
"There, Dolly," said Nabby, seating herself on a flat stone by the
brook, "I'm goin' to rest a minute, and you can find some of them
sweet-flag 'graters' if you want." This was the blossom-bud of the
sweet flag, which when young and tender was reckoned a delicacy among
omnivorous children.
"Why, Nabby, I thought you were in such a hurry to get home," said
Dolly, gathering the blades of sweet-flag and looking for the
"graters."
"No need of hurry," said Nabby, "the sun's an hour and a half high,"
and she leaned over the curb of the bridge and looked at herself in
the brook. She took off her sun-bonnet and fanned herself with it.
Then she put a bright spotted fire-lily in her hair and watched the
effect in the water. It certainly was a brilliant picture, framed by
the brown stones and green rushes of the brook.
"Oh, Nabby," cried Dolly, "look! There's the stage and Hiel coming
down the hill!"
"Sure e-nough!" said Nabby, in a tone of proper surprise, as if she
had expected anything else to happen on that road at that time of the
afternoon. "As true as I live and breathe it is Hiel and the stage,"
she added, "and not a creature in it. Now, we'll get a ride home."
Nabby's sun-bonnet hung on her arm; her hair fell in a tangle of
curls around her flushed cheeks as she stood waiting for Hiel to come
up. Altogether she was a picture.
That young man took in the points of the view at once and vowed in
his heart that Nabby was the handsomest girl upon his beat.
"Waitin' for me to come along?" he said as he drew up.
"Well, you're sort o' handy now and then," said Nabby. "We've been
huckleberrying all the afternoon, and are tired."
Hiel got down and opened the stage door and helped the two to get in
with their berries and flowers.
"You owe me one for this," said Hiel when he handed in Nabby's
things.
"Well, there's one," said Nabby, laughing and striking him across the
eyes with her bunch of lilies.
"Never mind, miss. I shall keep the account," said Hiel; and he
gathered up the reins, resumed his high seat, made his grand entrance
into Poganuc, and drew up at the parson's door.
For a week thereafter it was anxiously discussed in various circles
how Nabby and Dolly came to be in that stage. Where had they been?
How did it happen? The obscurity of the event kept Hiel on the brain
of several damsels who had nothing better to talk about.
And the day closed with a royal supper of huckleberries and milk. So
went a specimen number of Dolly's Saturday afternoons.
CHAPTER XX
GOING "A-CHESTNUTTING."
The bright days of summer were a short-lived joy at Poganuc. One
hardly had time to say "How beautiful!" before it was past. By
September came the frosty nights that turned the hills into rainbow
colors and ushered in autumn with her gorgeous robes of golden-rod
and purple asters. There was still the best of sport for the
children, however; for the frost ripened the shag-bark walnuts and
opened the chestnut burrs, and the glossy brown chestnuts dropped
down among the rustling yellow leaves and the beds of fringed blue
gentians.
One peculiarity of the Puritan New England régime is worthy of
special notice, and that is the generosity and liberality of its
dealing in respect to the spontaneous growths of the soil. The
chestnuts, the hickory-nuts, the butternuts--no matter upon whose
land they grew--were free to whoever would gather them. The girls and
boys roamed at pleasure through the woods and picked, unmolested,
wherever they could find the most abundant harvest. In like
manner the wild fruits--grapes, strawberries, huckleberries, and
cranberries--were for many years free to the earliest comer. This
is the more to be remarked in a community where life was peculiarly
characterized by minute economy, where everything had its carefully
ascertained money-value. Every board, nail, brad, every drop of
paint, every shingle, in house or barn, was counted and estimated.
In making bargains and conducting domestic economies, there was
the minutest consideration of the money-value of time, labor and
provision. And yet their rigidly parsimonious habit of life presented
this one remarkable exception, of certain quite valuable spontaneous
growths left unguarded and unappropriated.
Our Fathers came to New England from a country where the poor man
was everywhere shut out from the bounties of nature by game-laws and
severe restrictions. Though his children might be dying of hunger he
could not catch a fish, or shoot a bird, or snare the wild game of
the forest, without liability to arrest as a criminal; he could not
gather the wild fruits of the earth without danger of being held a
trespasser, and risking fine and imprisonment. When the Fathers took
possession of the New England forest it was in the merciful spirit of
the Mosaic law, which commanded that something should always be left
to be gathered by the poor. From the beginning of the New England
life till now there have been poor people, widows and fatherless
children, who have eked out their scanty living by the sale of the
fruits and nuts which the custom of the country allowed them freely
to gather on other people's land.
Within the past fifty years, while this country has been filling up
with foreigners of a different day and training, these old customs
have been passing away. Various fruits and nuts, once held free,
are now appropriated by the holders of the soil and made subject to
restriction and cultivation.
In the day we speak of, however, all the forest hills around Poganuc
were a free nut-orchard, and one of the chief festive occasions of
the year, in the family at the Parsonage, was the autumn gathering of
nuts, when Dr. Cushing took the matter in hand and gave his mind to
it.
On the present occasion, having just finished four sermons which
completely cleared up and reconciled all the difficulties between
the doctrines of free agency and the divine decrees, the Doctor was
naturally in good spirits. He declared to his wife, "There! my dear,
that subject is disposed of. I never before succeeded in really
clearing it up; but now the matter is done for all time." Having thus
wound up the sun and moon, and arranged the courses of the stars in
celestial regions, the Doctor was as alert and light-hearted as any
boy, in his preparations for the day's enterprise.
"Boys," he said, "we'll drive over to Poganuc Ledge; up there are
those big chestnuts that grow right out of the rock; there's no
likelihood of anybody's getting them--but I noticed the other day
they were hanging full."
"Oh, father, those trees are awful to climb."
"Of course they are. I won't let you boys try to climb them--mind
that; but I'll go up myself and shake them, and you pick up
underneath."
No Highland follower ever gloried more in the physical prowess of
his chief than the boys in that of their father. Was there a tree
he could not climb--a chestnut, or walnut, or butternut, however
exalted in fastnesses of the rock, that he could not shake down? They
were certain there was not. The boys rushed hither and thither, with
Spring barking at their heels, leaving open doors and shouting orders
to each other concerning the various pails and baskets necessary to
contain their future harvest. Mrs. Cushing became alarmed for the
stability of her household arrangements.
"Now, father, please don't take all my baskets this time," pleaded
she, "just let me arrange----"
"Well, my dear, have it all your own way; only be sure to provide
things enough."
"Well, surely, they can all pick in pails or cups, and then they can
be emptied into a bag," said Mrs. Cushing. "You won't get more than a
bushel, certainly."
"Oh yes, we shall--three or four bushels," said Will, triumphantly.
"There's no end of what we shall get when father goes," said Bob.
"Why, you've no idea how he rattles 'em down."
Meanwhile Mrs. Cushing and Nabby were packing a hamper with
bread-and-butter, and tea-rusks, and unlimited ginger-bread, and
doughnuts crisp and brown, and savory ham, and a bottle of cream,
and coffee all ready for boiling in the pot, and tea-cups and
spoons--everything, in short, ready for a gipsy encampment, while the
parson's horse stood meekly absorbing an extra ration of oats in that
contemplative attitude which becomes habitual to good family horses,
especially of the ministerial profession. Mrs. Cushing and the
Doctor, with Nabby and Dolly, and the hamper and baskets, formed the
load of the light wagon, while Will and Bob were both mounted upon
"the colt"--a scrawny, ewe-necked beast, who had long outgrown this
youthful designation. The boys, however, had means best known to
themselves of rousing his energies and keeping him ahead of the wagon
in a convulsive canter, greatly to the amusement of Nabby and Dolly.
Our readers would be happy could they follow the party along the
hard, stony roads, up the winding mountain-paths, where the trees,
flushing in purple, crimson and gold, seemed to shed light on their
paths; where beds of fringed gentian seemed, as the sunlight struck
them, to glow like so many sapphires, and every leaf of every plant
seemed to be passing from the green of summer into some quaint new
tint of autumnal splendor. Here and there groups of pines or tall
hemlocks, with their heavy background of solemn green, threw out the
flamboyant tracery of the forest in startling distinctness. Here and
there, as they passed a bit of low land, the swamp maples seemed
really to burn like crimson flames, and the clumps of black alder,
with their vivid scarlet berries, exalted the effect of color to the
very highest and most daring result. No artist ever has ventured to
put on canvas the exact copy of the picture that nature paints for us
every year in the autumn months. There are things the Almighty Artist
can do that no earthly imitator can more than hopelessly admire.
As to Dolly, she was like a bird held in a leash, full of
exclamations and longings, now to pick "those leaves," and then to
gather "those gentians," or to get "those lovely red berries;" but
was forced to resign herself to be carried by.
"They would all fade before the day is through," said her mother;
"wait till we come home at night, and then, if you're not too tired,
you may gather them." Dolly sighed and resigned herself to wait.
We shall not tell the joys of the day: how the Doctor climbed the
trees victoriously, how the brown, glossy chestnuts flew down in
showers as he shook the limbs, and how fast they were gathered by
busy fingers below. Not merely chestnuts, but walnuts, and a splendid
butternut tree, that grew in the high cleft of a rocky ledge, all
were made to yield up their treasures till the bags were swelled to a
most auspicious size.
Then came the nooning, when the boys delighted in making a roaring
hot fire, and the coffee was put on to boil, and Nabby spread the
table-cloth and unpacked the hamper on a broad, flat rock around
which a white foam of moss formed a soft, elastic seat.
[Illustration: CHESTNUTTING.
"How the Doctor climbed the trees victoriously, how the brown,
glossy chestnuts flew down in showers.... And Nabby unpacked the
hamper on a broad, flat rock."--p. 226.]
The Doctor was most entertaining, and related stories of the fishing
and hunting excursions of his youth, of the trout he had caught and
the ducks he had shot. The boys listened with ears of emulation,
and Dolly sighed to think she never was to be a man and do all these
fine things that her brothers were going to do.
But in the midst of all came Abel Moss, a hard-visaged farmer from
one of the upland farms, who, seeing the minister's wagon go by, had
come to express his mind to him concerning a portion of his last
Sunday's sermon; and the Doctor, who but a moment before had thought
only of trout and wild ducks, sat down by the side of Abel on a
fragment of rock and began explaining to him the difference between
the laws of matter and the laws of mind in moral government, and the
difference between divine sovereignty as applied to matter and to
mind.
The children wandered off during the discussion, which lasted some
time; but when the western sunbeams, sloping through the tree-trunks,
warned them that it was time to return, the Doctor's wagon might have
been seen coming down the rough slope of the mountain.
"There, my dear, I've set Moss right," he said. "There was a block in
his wheels that I've taken out. I think he'll go all straight now.
Moss has a good head; when he once sees a thing, he does see it,--and
I think I've clinched the nail with him to-day."
CHAPTER XXI.
DOLLY'S SECOND CHRISTMAS.
Once more had Christmas come round in Poganuc; once more the
Episcopal church was being dressed with ground-pine and spruce; but
this year economy had begun to make its claims felt. An illumination
might do very well to open a church, but there were many who said "to
what purpose is this waste?" when the proposition was made to renew
it yearly. Consequently it was resolved to hold the Christmas Eve
service with only that necessary amount of light which would enable
the worshipers to read the prayers.
The lines in Poganuc were now drawn. The crowd who flock after a new
thing had seen the new thing, and the edge of curiosity was somewhat
dulled. Both ministers had delivered their Christmas sermons, to the
satisfaction of themselves and their respective flocks, and both
congregations had taken the direction of their practical course
accordingly.
On this Christmas Eve, therefore, Dolly was not racked and torn with
any violent temptation to go over to the church, but went to bed at
her usual hour with a resigned and quiet spirit. She felt herself a
year older, and more than a year wiser, than when Christmas had first
dawned upon her consciousness.
We have seen that the little maiden was a most intense and
sympathetic partisan, and during the political discussions of the
past year she had imbibed the idea that the Episcopal party were
opposed to her father. Nay, she had heard with burning indignation
that Mr. Simeon Coan had said that her father was not a regularly
ordained minister, and therefore had no right to preach or administer
ordinances. Dolly had no idea of patronizing by her presence people
who expressed such opinions. Whoever and whatever in the world might
be in error, Dolly was sure her father never could be in the wrong,
and went to sleep placidly in that belief.
It was not altogether pleasant to Mrs. Cushing to receive a message
from Mis' Persis that she would come and make up her candles for her
on the 25th of December. In a figurative and symbolical point of
view, the devoting that day to the creation of the year's stock of
light might have seemed eminently appropriate. But the making of so
many candles involved an amount of disagreeable particulars hard to
conceive in our days, when gas and kerosene make the lighting of
houses one of the least of cares.
In the times we speak of, candle-making for a large household was a
serious undertaking, and the day devoted to it was one that any child
would remember as an unlucky one for childish purposes of enjoyment,
seven-fold worse in its way even than washing-day. Mrs. Cushing
still retained enough of the habits of her early education to have
preferred a quiet day for her Christmas. She would willingly have
spent it in letter-writing, reading and meditation, but when Mis'
Persis gave her time and labor it seemed only fair to allow her to
choose her own day.
So, upon this Christmas morning, Mis' Persis appeared on the ground
by day-dawn. A great kettle was slung over the kitchen fire, in which
cakes of tallow were speedily liquefying; a frame was placed quite
across the kitchen to sustain candle-rods, with a train of boards
underneath to catch the drippings, and Mis' Persis, with a brow like
one of the Fates, announced: "Now we can't hev any young 'uns in
this kitchen to-day;" and Dolly saw that there was no getting any
attention in that quarter.
Mis' Persis, in a gracious Saturday afternoon mood, sitting in her
own tent-door dispensing hospitalities and cookies, was one thing;
but Mis' Persis in her armor, with her loins girded and a hard day's
work to be conquered, was quite another: she was terrible as Minerva
with her helmet on.
Dinner-baskets for all the children were hastily packed, and they
were sent off to school with the injunction on no account to show
their faces about the premises till night. The Doctor, warned of what
was going on, retreated to his study at the top of the house, where,
serenely above the lower cares of earth, he sailed off into President
Edwards's treatise on the nature of true virtue, concerning which he
was preparing a paper to read at the next Association meeting.
That candles were a necessity of life he was well convinced, and by
faith he dimly accepted the fact that one day in the year the whole
house was to be devoted and given up to this manufacture; and his
part of the business, as he understood it, was, clearly, to keep
himself out of the way till it was over.
"There won't be much of a dinner at home, anyway," said Nabby to
Dolly, as she packed her basket with an extra doughnut or two. "I've
got to go to church to-day, 'cause I'm one of the singers, and your
ma'll be busy waitin' on her; so we shall just have a pick-up
dinner, and you be sure not to come home till night; by that time
it'll be all over."
Dolly trotted off to school well content with the prospect before
her: a nooning, with leave to play with the girls at school, was not
an unpleasant idea.
But the first thing that saluted her on her arrival was that Bessie
Lewis--her own dear, particular Bessie--was going to have a Christmas
party at her house that afternoon, and was around distributing
invitations right and left among the scholars with a generous freedom.
"We are going to have nuts, and raisins, and cake, and mottoes," said
Bessie, with artless triumph. The news of this bill of fare spread
like wildfire through the school.
Never had a party been heard of which contemplated such a liberal
entertainment, for the rising generation of Poganuc were by no
means blasé with indulgence, and raisins and almonds stood for
grandeur with them. But these mottoes, which consisted of bits of
confectionery wrapped up in printed couplets of sentimental poetry,
were an unheard-of refinement. Bessie assured them that her papa had
sent clear to Boston for them, and whoever got one would have his or
her fortune told by it.
The school was a small, select one, comprising the children of all
ages from the best families of Poganuc. Both boys and girls, and
all with great impartiality, had been invited. Miss Titcome, the
teacher, quite readily promised to dismiss at three o'clock that
afternoon any scholar who should bring a permission from parents, and
the children nothing doubted that such a permission was obtainable.
Dolly alone saw a cloud in the horizon. She had been sent away with
strict injunctions not to return till evening, and children in those
days never presumed to make any exceptions in obeying an absolute
command of their parents.
"But, of course, you will go home at noon and ask your mother, and of
course she'll let you; won't she, girls?" said Bessie.
"Oh, certainly; of course she will," said all the older girls,
"because you know a party is a thing that don't happen every day,
and your mother would think it strange if you didn't come and ask
her." So too thought Miss Titcome, a most exemplary, precise and
proper young lady, who always moved and spoke and thought as became
a schoolmistress, so that, although she was in reality only twenty
years old, Dolly considered her as a very advanced and ancient
person--if anything, a little older than her father and mother.
Even she was of opinion that Dolly might properly go home to lay a
case of such importance before her mother; and so Dolly rushed home
after the morning school was over, running with all her might and
increasing in mental excitement as she ran. Her bonnet blew off upon
her shoulders, her curls flew behind her in the wind, and she most
inconsiderately used up the little stock of breath that she would
want to set her cause in order before her mother.
Just here we must beg any mother and housekeeper to imagine herself
in the very midst of the most delicate, perplexing and laborious of
household tasks, when interruption is most irksome and perilous,
suddenly called to discuss with a child some new and startling
proposition to which at the moment she cannot even give a thought.
Mrs. Cushing was sitting in the kitchen with Mis' Persis, by the side
of a melted caldron of tallow, kept in a fluid state by the heat of
a portable furnace on which it stood. A long train of half-dipped
candles hung like so many stalactites from the frames on which the
rods rested, and the two were patiently dipping set after set and
replacing them again on the frame.
"As sure as I'm alive! if there isn't Dolly Cushing comin'
back--runnin' and tearin' like a wild cretur'," said Mis' Persis.
"She'll be in here in a minute and knock everything down!"
Mrs. Cushing looked, and with a quick movement stepped to the door.
"Dolly! what are you here for? Didn't I tell you not to come home
this noon?"
"Oh, Mamma, there's going to be a party at General Lewis's--Bessie's
party--and the girls are all going, and mayn't I go?"
"No, you can't; it's impossible," said her mother. "Your best dress
isn't ready to wear, and there's nobody can spend time to get you
ready. Go right back to school."
"But, Mamma----"
"Go!" said her mother, in the decisive tone that mothers used in the
old days, when arguing with children was not a possibility.
"What's all this about?" asked the Doctor, looking out of the door.
"Why," said Mrs. Cushing, "there's going to be a party at General
Lewis's, and Dolly is wild to go. It's just impossible for me to
attend to her now."
"Oh, I don't want her intimate at Lewis's; he's a Democrat and an
Episcopalian," said the Doctor, and immediately he came out behind
his wife.
"There; run away to school, Dolly," he said. "Don't trouble your
mother; you don't want to go to parties; why, it's foolish to think
of it. Run away now, and don't think any more about it--there's a
good girl!"
Dolly turned and went back to school, the tears freezing on her
cheek as she went. As for not thinking any more about it--that was
impossible.
When three o'clock came, scholar after scholar rose and departed,
until at last Dolly was the only one remaining in the school-room.
Miss Titcome made no comments upon the event, but so long as one
scholar was left she conscientiously persisted in her duties towards
her. She heard Dolly read and spell, and then occupied herself with
writing a letter, while Dolly sewed upon her allotted task. Dolly's
work was a linen sheet, which was to be turned. It was to be sewed up
on one side and ripped out on the other--two processes which seemed
especially dreary to Dolly, and more particularly so now, when she
was sitting in the deserted school-room. Tears fell and fell on the
long, uninteresting seam which seemed to stretch on and on hopelessly
before her; and she thought of all the other children playing at
"oats, pease, beans and barley grows," of feasting on almonds and
raisins, and having their fortunes told by wonderful mottoes bought
in Boston. The world looked cold and dark and dreary to Dolly on this
her second Christmas. She never felt herself injured; she never even
in thought questioned that her parents were doing exactly right by
her--she only felt that just here and now the right thing was very
disagreeable and very hard to bear.
When Dolly came home that night the coast was clear, and the candles
were finished and put away to harden in a freezing cold room; the
kitchen was once more restored, and Nabby bustled about getting
supper as if nothing had happened.
"I really feel sorry about poor little Dolly," said Mrs. Cushing to
her husband.
"Do you think she cared much?" asked the Doctor, looking as if a new
possibility had struck his mind.
"Yes, indeed, poor child, she went away crying; but what could I do
about it? I couldn't stop to dress her."
"Wife, we must take her somewhere to make up for it," said the Doctor.
Just then the stage stopped at the door and a bundle from Boston was
handed in. Dolly's tears were soon wiped and dried, and her mourning
was turned into joy when a large jointed London doll emerged from the
bundle, the Christmas gift of her grandmother in Boston.
Dolly's former darling was old and shabby, but this was of twice the
size, and with cheeks exhibiting a state of the most florid health.
Besides this there was, as usual in Grandmamma's Christmas bundle,
something for every member of the family; and so the evening went on
festive wings.
Poor little Dolly! only that afternoon she had watered with her
tears the dismal long straight seam, which stretched on before her as
life sometimes does to us, bare, disagreeable and cheerless. She had
come home crying, little dreaming of the joy just approaching; but
before bed-time no cricket in the hearth was cheerier or more noisy.
She took the new dolly to bed with her, and could hardly sleep, for
the excitement of her company.
Meanwhile, Hiel had brought the Doctor a message to the following
effect:
"I was drivin' by Tim Hawkins's, and Mis' Hawkins she comes out and
says they're goin' to hev an apple-cuttin' there to-morrow night,
and she would like to hev you and Mis' Cushin' and all your folks
come--Nabby and all."
The Doctor and his lady of course assented.
"Wal, then, Doctor--ef it's all one to you," continued Hiel, "I'd
like to take ye over in my new double sleigh. I've jest got two new
strings o' bells up from Boston, and I think we'll sort o' make the
snow fly. S'pose there'd be no objections to takin' my mother 'long
with ye?"
"Oh, Hiel, we shall be delighted to go in company with your mother,
and we're ever so much obliged to you," said Mrs. Cushing.
"Wal, I'll be round by six o'clock," said Hiel.
"Then, wife," said the Doctor, "we'll take Dolly, and make up for the
loss of her party."
CHAPTER XXII.
THE APPLE-BEE.
Punctually at six o'clock Hiel's two-horses, with all their bells
jingling, stood at the door of the parsonage, whence Tom and Bill,
who had been waiting with caps and mittens on for the last half hour,
burst forth with irrepressible shouts of welcome.
"Take care now, boys; don't haul them buffalo skins out on t' the
snow," said Hiel. "Don't get things in a muss gen'ally; wait for your
ma and the Doctor. Got to stow the grown folks in fust; boys kin hang
on anywhere."
And so first came Mrs. Cushing and the Doctor, and were installed on
the back seat, with Dolly in between. Then hot bricks were handed in
to keep feet warm, and the buffalo robe was tucked down securely.
Then Nabby took her seat by Hiel in front, and the sleigh drove round
for old Mrs. Jones. The Doctor insisted on giving up his place to
her and tucking her warmly under the buffalo robe, while he took the
middle seat and acted as moderator between the boys, who were in a
wild state of hilarity. Spring, with explosive barks, raced first on
this and then on that side of the sleigh as it flew swiftly over the
smooth frozen road.
The stars blinked white and clear out of a deep blue sky, and the
path wound up-hill among cedars and junipers and clumps of mountain
laurel, on whose broad green leaves the tufts of snow lay like
clusters of white roses. The keen clear air was full of stimulus and
vigor; and so Hiel's proposition to take the longest way met with
enthusiastic welcome from all the party. Next to being a bird, and
having wings, is the sensation of being borne over the snow by a pair
of spirited horses who enjoy the race, apparently, as much as those
they carry. Though Hiel contrived to make the ride about eight miles,
it yet seemed but a short time before the party drove up to the great
red farm-house, whose lighted windows sent streams of radiant welcome
far out into the night.
The fire that illuminated the great kitchen of the farm-house was
a splendid sight to behold. It is, alas, with us only a vision and
memory of the past; for who in our days can afford to keep up the
great fire-place, where the back-logs were cut from the giants of the
forest and the fore-stick was as much as a modern man could lift? And
then the glowing fire-place built thereon! That architectural pile
of split and seasoned wood, over which the flames leaped and danced
and crackled like rejoicing genii--what a glory it was! The hearty,
bright, warm hearth in those days stood instead of fine furniture and
handsome pictures. The plainest room becomes beautiful and attractive
by fire-light, and when men think of a country and home to be fought
for and defended they think of the fireside.
Mr. Timothy Hawkins was a thrifty farmer and prided himself on always
having the best, and the fire that was crackling and roaring up the
chimney that night was, to use a hackneyed modern expression, a
"work of art." The great oak back-log had required the strength of
four men to heave it into its place; and above that lay another log
scarcely less in size; while the fore-stick was no mean bough of
the same tree. A bed of bright solid coals lay stretched beneath,
and the lighter blaze of the wood above was constantly sending down
contributions to this glowing reservoir.
Of course, on an occasion like this, the "best room" of the house was
open, with a bright fire lighting up the tall brass andirons, and
revealing the neatly-fitted striped carpet of domestic manufacture,
and the braided rugs, immortal monuments of the never-tiring industry
of the housewife. Here first the minister and his wife and Dolly
were inducted with some ceremony, but all declared their immediate
preference of the big kitchen, where the tubs of rosy apples and
golden quinces were standing round, and young men, maids, and matrons
were taking their places to assist in the apple-bee.
If the Doctor was a welcome guest in the stately circles of Poganuc
Center, he was far more at home in these hearty rural gatherings.
There was never the smallest room for jealousy, on the part of his
plainer people, that he cared more for certain conventional classes
of society than for them, because all instinctively felt that in
heart he was one of themselves. Like many of the educated men of
New England, he had been a farmer's boy in early days, and all his
pleasantest early recollections were connected with that simple,
wholesome, healthful, rural life. Like many of the New England
clergy, too, he was still to some extent a practical farmer, finding
respite from brain labor in wholesome out-door work. His best
sermons were often thought out at the plow or in the corn-field,
and his illustrations and enforcements of truth were those of a man
acquainted with real life and able to interpret the significance
of common things. His people felt a property in him as their ideal
man--the man who every Sunday expressed for them, better than they
could, the thoughts and inquiries and aspirations which rose dimly
in their own minds.
"I could ha' said all that myself ef I'd only hed the eddication; he
puts it so one can see it can't be no other way," was the comment
once made on a sermon of the Doctor's by a rough but thoughtful
listener; and the Doctor felt more pleased with such applause than
even the more cultured approval of Judge Belcher.
In the wide, busy kitchen there was room enough for all sorts of
goings on. The Doctor was soon comfortably seated, knee to knee, in
a corner with two or three controversial-looking old farmers, who
were attacking some of the conclusions of his last Sunday's sermon.
Of the two results, the Doctor always preferred a somewhat combative
resistance to a sleepy assent to his preaching, and nothing delighted
him more than a fair and square argumentative tilt, showing that the
points he made had been taken.
But while the Doctor in his corner discussed theology, the young
people around the tubs of apples were having the very best of times.
The apple, from the days of Mother Eve and the times of Paris and
Helen, has been a fruit full of suggestion and omen in the meetings
of young men and maidens; and it was not less fruitful this evening.
Our friend Hiel came to the gathering with a full consciousness of
a difficult and delicate part to be sustained. It is easy to carry
on four or five distinct flirtations when one is a handsome young
stage-driver and the fair objects of attention live at convenient
distances along the route. But when Almiry Ann, and Lucindy Jane, and
Lucretia, and Nabby are all to be encountered at one time, what is a
discreet young man to do?
Hiel had come to the scene with an armor of proof in the shape of a
new patent apple-peeler and corer, warranted to take the skin from
an apple with a quickness and completeness hitherto unimaginable.
This immediately gave him a central position and drew an admiring
throng about him. The process of naming an apple for each girl, and
giving her the long ribbon of peel to be thrown over her head and
form fateful initial letters on the floor, was one that was soon in
vigorous operation, with much shrieking and laughing and opposing of
claims among the young men, all of whom were forward to claim their
own initials when the peeling was thrown by the girl of their choice.
And Hiel was loud in his professions of jealousy when by this mode
of divination Almira Smith was claimed to be secretly favoring Seth
Parmelee, and Nabby's apple-peeling thrown over her head formed a
cabalistic character which was vigorously contended for both by Jim
Sawin and Ike Peters. As the distinction between an I and a J is of
a very shadowy nature, the question apparently was likely to remain
an open one; and Hiel declared that it was plain that nobody cared
for him, and that he was evidently destined to be an old bachelor.
It may be imagined that this sprightly circle of young folks were not
the ones most particularly efficient in the supposed practical labors
of the evening. They did, probably, the usual amount of work done
by youths and maids together at sewing societies, church fairs and
other like occasions, where by a figure of speech they are supposed
to be assisting each other. The real work of the occasion was done by
groups of matrons who sat with their bright tin pans in lap, soberly
chatting and peeling and cutting, as they compared notes about pies
and puddings and custards, and gave each other recipes for certain
Eleusinian mysteries of domestic cookery.
Yet, let it not be supposed that all these women thought of nothing
but cookery, for in the corner where the minister was talking were
silent attentive listeners, thoughtful souls, who had pushed their
chairs nearer, and who lost not a word of the discussion on higher
themes. Never was there a freer rationalism than in the inquiries
which the New England theology tolerated and encouraged at every
fireside. The only trouble about them was that they raised awful
questions to which there is no answer, and when the Doctor supposed
he had left a triumphant solution of a difficulty he had often left
only a rankling thorn of doubt.
A marked figure among the Doctor's circle of listeners is Nabby's
mother. A slight figure in a dress of Quakerlike neatness, a thin old
delicate face, with its aureole of white hair and its transparent
cap-border--the expression of the face a blending of thoughtful
calmness and invincible determination. Her still, patient blue eyes
looked as if they habitually saw beyond things present to some
far off future. She was, in fact, one of those quiet, resolute
women whose power lay more in doing than in talking. She had
passed, through the gate of silence and self-abnegation, into that
summer-land where it is always peace, where the soul is never more
alone, because God is there.
Now, as she sits quietly by, not a word escapes her of what her
minister is saying; for though at her husband's command she has left
her church, her heart is still immovably fixed in its old home.
Her husband had stubbornly refused to join the social circle, though
cordially invited. However, he offered no word of comment or dissent
when his wife departed with all her sons to the gathering. With her
boys, Mary Higgins was all-powerful. They obeyed the glance of her
eye; they listened to her softest word as they never heeded the
stormy imperiousness of their father.
She looks over with satisfaction to where her boys are joining with
full heart in the mirth of the young people, and is happy in their
happiness. The Doctor comes and sits beside her, and inquires after
each one; and the measure of her content is full. She does not need
to explain to him why she has left her church; she sees that he
understands her position and her motives; but she tells him her heart
and her hopes, her ambition for her darling son, Abner, who alone
of all her boys has the passion for learning and aspires toward a
college education; and the Doctor bids her send her boy to him and
he will see what can be done to help him on his way. More talk they
have, and more earnest, on things beyond the veil of earth--on the
joy that underlies all the sorrows of this life and brightens the
life beyond--and the Doctor feels that in the interview he has gained
more than he has given.
Long before the evening was through, the task of apple-cutting was
accomplished, the tubs and pans cleared away, and the company sat
about the fire discussing the nuts, apples and cider which were
passed around, reinforced by doughnuts and loaf-cake. Tales of
forest life, of exploits in hunting and fishing, were recounted,
and the Doctor figured successfully as a raconteur, for he was an
enthusiast in forest lore, and had had his share of adventure.
In those days there was still a stirring background of wilderness
life, of adventures with bears, panthers, and wild Indians, and of
witches and wizards and ghostly visitors and haunted houses, to make
a stimulating fireside literature; and the nine o'clock bell ringing
loudly was the first break in the interest of the circle. All rose at
once, and while the last greetings were exchanged, Hiel and the other
young men brought their horses to the door, and the whole party were,
in their several sleighs, soon flying homeward.
Our little Dolly had had an evening of unmixed bliss. Everybody had
petted her, and talked to her, and been delighted with her sayings
and doings, and she was carrying home a paper parcel of sweet things
which good Mrs. Hawkins had forced into her hand at parting.
As to Hiel and Nabby, they were about on an even footing. If he had
been devoted to Lucinda Jane Parsons she had distinguished Jim Sawin
by marks of evident attention, not forgetting at proper intervals to
pay some regard to Ike Peters; so that, as she complacently said to
herself, 'he didn't get ahead of her.'
Of course, on the way home, in the sleigh with Doctor and Mrs.
Cushing, there were no advantages for a settling-up quarrel, but
Nabby let fly many of those brisk little missiles of sarcasm and
innuendo in which her sex have so decided a superiority over
the other, and when arrived at the door of the house, announced
peremptorily that she was 'going straight to bed and wasn't goin' to
burn out candles for nobody that night!'
Hiel did not depart broken-hearted, however; and as he reviewed the
field mentally, after his return home, congratulated himself that
things were going on "'bout as well as they could be."
A misunderstanding to be made up, a quarrel to be settled, was, as he
viewed it, a fair stock in trade for a month to come.
CHAPTER XXIII.
SEEKING A DIVINE IMPULSE.
In the scenes which we have painted we have shown our Dr. Cushing
mingling as man with men, living a free, natural, healthy human life.
Yet underneath all this he bore always on his spirit a deeper and
heavier responsibility.
The ideal of a New England minister's calling was not the mere
keeping up of Sunday services, with two regular sermons, the pastoral
offices of visiting the sick, performing marriages, and burying the
dead. It was not merely the oversight of schools, and catechising of
children, and bringing his people into a certain habitual outward
routine of religion, though all these were included in it. But,
deeper than all these, there was laid upon his soul the yearning
desire to bring every one in his flock to a living, conscious union
with God; to a life whose source and purposes were above this earth
and tending heavenward. In whatever scene of social life he met
his people his eye was ever upon them, studying their characters,
marking their mental or moral progress, hoping and praying for this
final result. Besides the stated services of Sunday, our good Doctor
preached three or four evenings in a week in the small district
school-houses of the outlying parishes, when the fervor of his zeal
drew always a full audience to listen. More especially now, since the
late political revolution had swept away the ancient prescriptive
defenses of religion and morals, and thrown the whole field open to
individual liberty, had the Doctor felt that the clergy must make up
in moral influence what had passed away of legal restraints.
With all his soul he was seeking a revival of religion; a deep,
pathetic earnestness made itself felt in his preaching and prayers,
and the more spiritual of his auditors began to feel themselves
sympathetically affected. Of course, all the church members in good
standing professed to believe truths which made life a sublime
reality, and religion the one absorbing aim. The New Testament gives
a glorified ideal of a possible human life, but hard are his labors
who tasks himself to keep that ideal uppermost among average human
beings.
The coarse, the low, the mean, the vulgar, is ever thrusting itself
before the higher and more delicate nature, and claiming, in virtue
of its very brute strength, to be the true reality.
New England had been founded as a theocracy. It had come down to Dr.
Cushing's time under laws and customs specially made and intended to
form a Christian State, and yet how far it was below the teachings of
the New Testament none realized so deeply as the minister himself.
He was the confidant of all the conflicts between different
neighborhoods, of the small envies, jealousies and rivalries that
agitated families and set one part of his parish against another. He
was cognizant of all the little unworthy gossip, the low aims, the
small ambitions of these would-be Christians, and sometimes his heart
sank at the prospect.
Yet the preaching, the prayers, the intense earnestness of the New
England religious life had sometimes their hour of being outwardly
felt; the sacred altar-flame that was burning in secret in so many
hearts threw its light into the darkness, and an upspringing of
religious interest was the result.
The quarrel which had separated Zeph Higgins from the church had
spread more or less unwholesome influence through the neighborhood,
and it was only through some such divine impulse as he sought that
the minister could hope to bring back a better state of things.
In this labor of love he felt that he had a constant, powerful
co-operative force in the silent, prayerful woman, who walked by
Zeph's side as a guardian angel. Had it not been for her peculiar
talent for silence and peace the quarrel would have gone much
farther and produced wider alienation; but there is nothing that so
absolutely quenches the sparks of contention as silence. Especially
is this the case with the silence of a strong, determined nature,
that utters itself only to God. For months Zeph had been conscious
of a sort of invisible power about his wife--a power that controlled
him in spite of himself. It was that mysterious atmosphere created by
intense feeling without the help of words.
People often, in looking on this couple, shook their heads and said,
"How could that woman ever have married that man?"
Such observers forget that the woman may see a side of the man's
nature that they never see, and that often the chief reason why
a man wins a woman's heart is that she fancies herself to have
discerned in him that which no other could discern, an undiscovered
realm peculiarly her own. The rough, combative, saturnine man known
as Zeph Higgins had had his turn of being young, and his youth's
blossoming-time of love, when he had set his heart on this Mary,
then an orphan, alone in the world. Like many another woman, she was
easily persuaded that the stormy, determined, impetuous passion thus
seeking her could take no denial; was of the same nature with the
kind of love she felt able to give in return--love faithful, devoted,
unseeking of self, and asking only to bless.
But, in time, marriage brought its revelations, and life lay before
her a bare, cold, austere reality, with the lover changed into the
toiling fellow-laborer or the exacting master.
A late discernment of spirit showed her that she was married to a man
whose love for her was all demand, who asked everything from her and
had little power of giving in return; that, while he needed her, and
clung to her at times with a sort of helpless reliance, he had no
power of understanding or sympathizing with her higher nature, and
that her life, in all that she felt most deeply and keenly, must be a
