with a beautiful name, the expectation of a large 
property, and, as they said in Europe, a social 
position, an only son should know how to carry 
himself. 
Once Clifford had begun to come and see her by 
himself and for himself, he came very often. He 
hardly knew why he should come ; he saw her al- 
most every evening at his father's house ; he had 
nothing particular to say to her. She was not a 
young girl, and fellows of his age called only upon 
young girls. He exaggerated her age ; she seemed 
to him an old woman ; it was happy that the 
Baroness, with all her intelligence, was incapable 
of guessing this. But gradually it struck Clifford 
that visiting old women might be, if not a natural, 
at least, as they say of some articles of diet, an ac- 
quired taste. The Baroness was certainly a very 
amusing old woman ; she talked to him as no lady 
and indeed no gentleman had ever talked to 
him before. 
" You should go to Europe and make the tour," 
she said to him one afternoon. " Of course, on 
leaving college you will go." 
"I don't want to go," Clifford declared. "I 
know some fellows who have been to Europe. 
They say you can have better fun here." 
 
" That depends. It depends upon your idea of 
fun. Your friends probably were not introduced." 
" Introduced ? " Clifford demanded. 
" They had no opportunity of going into socie- 
ty; they formed no relations" This was one of a 
certain number of words that the Baroness often 
pronounced in the French manner. 
" They went to a ball, in Paris ; I know that," 
said Clifford. 
" Ah, there are balls and balls ; especially in 
Paris. No, you must go, you know ; it is not a 
thing from which you can dispense yourself. You 
need it." 
" Oh, I 'm very well," said Clifford. " I 'm not 
sick." 
" I don't mean for your health, my poor child. 
I mean for your manners." 
" I have n't got any manners ! " growled Clifford. 
" Precisely. You don't mind my assenting to 
that, eh ? " asked the Baroness with a smile. " You 
must go to Europe and get a few. You can get 
them better there. It is a pity you might not 
have come while I was living in in Germany. 
I would have introduced you; I had a charming 
little circle. You would perhaps have been rather 
young ; but the younger one begins, I think, the 
better. Now, at any rate, you have no time to 
lose, and when I return you must immediately 
come to me." 
   
All this, to Clifford's apprehension, was a great 
mixture his beginning young, Eugenia's return 
to Europe, his being introduced to her charming 
little circle. What was he to begin, and what was 
her little circle ? His ideas about her marriage had 
a good deal of vagueness ; but they were in so far 
definite as that he felt it to be a matter not to be 
freely mentioned. He sat and looked all round 
the room ; he supposed she was alluding in some 
way to her marriage. 
" Oh, I don't want to go to Germany," he said ; 
it seemed to him the most convenient thing to say. 
She looked at him a while, smiling with her 
lips, but not with her eyes. 
" You have scruples ? " she asked. 
" Scruples ? " said Clifford. 
" You young people, here, are very singular ; 
one doesn't know where to expect you. When 
you are not extremely improper you are so terri- 
bly proper. I dare say you think that, owing to 
my irregular marriage, I live with loose people. 
You were never more mistaken. I have been all 
the more particular." 
" Oh, no," said Clifford, honestly distressed. 
" I never thought such a thing as that." 
" Are you very sure? I am convinced that 
your father does, and your sisters. They say to 
each other that here I am on my good behavior, 
 
but that over there married by the left hand 
I associate with light women." 
" Oh, no," cried Clifford, energetically, " they 
don't say such things as that to each other ! " 
" If they think them they had better say them," 
the Baroness rejoined. " Then they can be con- 
tradicted. Please contradict that whenever you 
hear it, and don't be afraid of coming to see me 
on account of the company I keep. I have the 
honor of knowing more distinguished men, my 
poor child, than you are likely to see in a life-time. 
I see very few women ; but those are women of 
rank. So, my dear young Puritan, you needn't 
be afraid. I am not in the least one of those who 
think that the society of women who have lost 
their place in the vrai monde is necessary to form 
a young man. I have never taken that tone. I 
have kept my place myself, and I think we are a 
much better school than the others. Trust me, 
Clifford, and I will prove that to you," the Bar- 
oness continued, while she made the agreeable re- 
flection that she could not, at least, be accused of 
perverting her young kinsman. " So if you ever 
fall among thieves don't go about saying I sent 
you to them." 
Clifford thought it so comical that he should 
know in spite of her figurative language 
what she meant, and that she should mean what 
  
he knew, that he could hardly help laughing a 
little, although he tried hard. *' Oh, no ! oh, no ! " 
he murmured. 
" Laugh out, laugh out, if I amuse you ! " cried 
the Baroness. " I am here for that ! " And 
Clifford thought her a very amusing person in- 
deed. " But remember," she said on this occasion, 
" that you are coming next year to pay me 
a visit over there." 
About a week afterwards she said to him, point- 
blank, " Are you seriously making love to your 
little cousin ? " 
" Seriously making love " these words, on 
Madame Miinster's lips, had to Clifford's sense a 
portentous and embarrassing sound; he hesitated 
about assenting, lest he should commit himself to 
more than he understood. " Well, I should n't 
say it if I was ! " he exclaimed. 
" Why would n't you say it ? " the Baroness de- 
manded. " Those things ought to be known." 
" I don't care whether it is known or not," 
Clifford rejoined. " But I don't want people look- 
ing at me." 
" A young man of your importance ought to 
learn to bear observation to carry himself as if 
he were quite indifferent to it. I won't say, ex- 
actly, unconscious," the Baroness explained. " No, 
he must seem to know he is observed, and to 
 
think it natural he should be ; but he must ap- 
pear perfectly used to it. Now you have n't that, 
Clifford ; you have n't that at all. You must have 
that, you know. Don't tell me you are not a 
young man of importance," Eugenia added. 
Don't say anything so flat as that." 
" Oh, no, you don't catch me saying that ! " 
cried Clifford. 
" Yes, you must come to Germany," Madame 
Minister continued. " I will show you how people 
can be talked about, and yet not seem to know it. 
You will be talked about, of course, with me ; it 
will be said you are my lover. I will show you 
how little one may mind that how little I shall 
mind it." 
Clifford sat staring, blushing and laughing. " I 
shall mind it a good deal ! " he declared. 
" Ah, not too much, you know ; that would be 
uncivil. But I give you leave to mind it a little ; 
especially if you have a passion for Miss Acton. 
Voyons ; as regards that, you either have or you 
have not. It is very simple to say it." 
" I don't see why you want to know," said 
Clifford. 
" You ought to want me to know. If one is 
arranging a marriage, one tells one's friends." 
" Oh, I'm not arranging anything," said Clifford. 
" You don't intend to marry your cousin ? " 
   
" Well, I expect I shall do as I choose ! " 
The Baroness leaned her head upon the back of 
her chair and closed her eyes, as if she were tired. 
Then opening them again, " Your cousin is very 
charming ! " she said. 
" She is the prettiest girl in this place," Clifford 
rejoined. 
" ' In this place ' is saying little ; she would be 
charming anywhere. I am afraid you are entan- 
gled." 
" Oh, no, I 'm not entangled." 
"Are you engaged? At your age that is the 
same thing." 
Clifford looked at the Baroness with some au- 
dacity. " Will you tell no one? " 
" If it 's as sacred as that no." 
" Well, then we are not ! " said Clifford. 
" That 's the great secret that you are not, 
eh ? " asked the Baroness, with a quick laugh. 
" I am very glad to hear it. You are altogether 
too young. A young man in your position must 
choose and compare ; he must see the world first. 
Depend upon it," she added, "you should not 
settle that matter before you have come abroad 
and paid me that visit. There are several things 
I should like to call your attention to first." 
" Well, I am rather afraid of that visit," said 
Clifford. " It seems to me it will be rather like 
going to school again." 
 
The Baroness looked at him a moment. 
" My dear child," she said, " there is no agreea- 
ble man who has not, at some moment, been to 
school to a clever woman probably a little older 
than himself. And you must be thankful when 
you get your instructions gratis. With me you 
would get it gratis." 
The next day Clifford told Lizzie Acton that 
the Baroness thought her the most charming girl 
she had ever seen. 
Lizzie shook her head. " No, she does n't ! " 
she said. 
" Do you think everything she says," asked 
Clifford, " is to be taken the opposite way ? " 
" I think that is ! " said Lizzie. 
Clifford was going to remark that in this case 
the Baroness must desire greatly to bring about a 
marriage 'between Mr. Clifford Went worth and 
Miss Elizabeth Acton ; but he resolved, on the 
whole, to suppress this observation. 
IX. 
IT seemed to Robert Acton, after Eugenia had 
come to his house, that something had passed be- 
tween them which made them a good deal more 
intimate. It was hard to say exactly what, except 
her telling him that she had taken her resolution 
with regard to the Prince Adolf; for Madame 
Minister's visit had made no difference in their re- 
lations. He came to see her very often ; but he 
had come to see her very often before. It was 
agreeable to him to find himself in her little draw- 
ing-room ; but this was not a new discovery. 
There was a change, however, in this se*nse : that 
if the Baroness had been a great deal in Acton's 
thoughts before, she was now never out of them. 
From the first she had been personally fascinat- 
ing; but the fascination now had become intel- 
lectual as well. He was constantly pondering her 
words and motions ; they were as interesting as 
the factors in an algebraic problem. This is say- 
ing a good deal ; for Acton was extremely fond of 
mathematics. He asked himself whether it could 
be that he was in love with her, and then hoped 
 
he was not ; hoped it not so much for his own sake 
as for that of the amatory passion itself. If this 
was love, love had been overrated. Love was a 
poetic impulse, and his own state of feeling with 
regard to the Baroness was largely characterized 
by that eminently prosaic sentiment curiosity. 
It was true, as Acton with his quietly cogitative 
habit observed to himself, that curiosity, pushed to 
a given point, might become a romantic passion ; 
and he certainly thought enough about this charm- 
ing woman to make him restless and even a little 
melancholy. It puzzled and vexed him at times 
to feel that he was not more ardent. He was not 
in the least bent upon remaining a bachelor. In 
his younger years he had been or he had tried 
to be of the opinion that it would be a good deal 
" jollier " not to marry, and he had flattered him- 
self that his single condition was something of a 
citadel. It was a citadel, at all events, of which 
he had long since leveled the outworks. He had 
removed the guns from the ramparts ; he had 
lowered the draw-bridge across the moat. The 
draw-bridge had swayed lightly under Madame 
Miinster's step ; why should he not cause it to be 
raised again, so that she might be kept prisoner ? 
He had an idea that she would become in time 
at least, arid on learning the conveniences of the 
place for making a lady comfortable a tolerably 
   
patient captive. But the draw-bridge was never 
raised, and Acton's brilliant visitor was as free to 
depart as she had been to come. It was part of 
his curiosity to know why the deuce so susceptible 
a man was not in love with so charming a woman. 
If her various graces were, as I have said, the fac- 
tors in an algebraic problem, the answer to this 
question was the indispensable unknown quantity, 
The pursuit of the unknown quantity was ex- 
tremely absorbing ; for the present it taxed all 
Acton's faculties. 
Toward the middle of August he was obliged to 
leave home for some days ; an old friend, with 
whom he had been associated in China, had begged 
him to come to Newport, where he lay extremely 
ill. His friend got better, and at the end of a week 
Acton was released. I use the word " released " 
advisedly; for in spite of his attachment to his 
Chinese comrade he had been but a half-hearted 
visitor. He felt as if he had been called away 
from the theatre during the progress of a remarka- 
bly interesting drama. The curtain was up all this 
time, and he was losing the fourth act ; that fourth 
act which would have been so essential to a just 
appreciation of the fifth. In other words, he was 
thinking about the Baroness, who, seen at this 
distance, seemed a truly brilliant figure. He saw 
at Newport a great many pretty women, who cer- 
 
tainly were figures as brilliant as beautiful light 
dresses could make them ; but though they talked 
a great deal and the Baroness's strong point was 
perhaps also her conversation Madame Minister 
appeared to lose nothing by the comparison. He 
wished she had come to Newport too. Would it 
not be possible to make up, as they said, a party 
for visiting the famous watering-place and invite 
Eugenia to join it ? It was true that the complete 
satisfaction would be to spend a fortnight at New- 
port with Eugenia alone. It would be a great 
pleasure to see her, in society, carry everything 
before her, as he was sure she would do. When 
Acton caught himself thinking these thoughts he 
began to walk up and down, with his hands in his 
pockets, frowning a little and looking at the floor. 
What did it prove for it certainly proved some- 
thing this lively disposition to be "off" some- 
where with Madame Miinster, away from all the 
rest of them ? Such a vision, certainly, seemed a 
refined implication of matrimony, after the Baron- 
ess should have formally got rid of her informal 
husband. At any rate, Acton, with his character- 
istic discretion, forbore to give expression to what- 
ever else it might imply, and the narrator of these 
incidents is not obliged to be more definite. 
He returned home rapidly, and, arriving in the 
afternoon, lost as little time as possible in joining 
   
the familiar circle at Mr. Wentworth's. On reach- 
ing the house, however, he found the piazzas 
empty. The doors and windows were open, and 
their emptiness was made clear by the shafts of 
lamp-light from the parlors. Entering the house, 
he found Mr. Wentworth sitting alone in one of 
these apartments, engaged in the perusal of the 
" North American Review." After they had ex- 
changed greetings and his cousin had made dis- 
creet inquiry about his journey, Acton asked what 
had become of Mr. Wentworth's companions. 
" They are scattered about, amusing themselves 
as usual," said the old man. " I saw Charlotte, a 
short time since, seated, with Mr. Brand, upon the 
piazza. They were conversing with their custom- 
ary animation. I suppose they have joined her 
sister, who, for the hundredth time, was doing the 
honors of the garden to her foreign cousin." 
" I suppose you mean Felix," said Acton. And 
on Mr. Wentworth's assenting, he said, " And the 
others ? " 
" Your sister has not come this evening. You 
must have seen her at home," said Mr. Went- 
worth. 
" Y^es. I proposed to her to come. She de- 
clined." 
" Lizzie, I suppose, was expecting a visitor," said 
the old man, with a kind of solemn slyness. 
 
" If she was expecting Clifford, he had not 
turned up." 
Mr. Wentworth, at this intelligence, closed the 
" North American Review " and remarked that he 
had understood Clifford to say that he was going 
to see his cousin. Privately, he reflected that if 
Lizzie Acton had had no news of his son, Clifford 
must have gone to Boston for the evening : an un- 
natural course of a summer night, especially when 
accompanied with disingenuous representations. 
" You must remember that he has two cousins," 
said Acton, laughing. And then, coming to the 
point, "If Lizzie is not here," he added, "neither 
apparently is the Baroness." 
" Mr. Wentworth stared a moment, and remem- 
bered that queer proposition of Felix's. For a 
moment he did not know whether it was not to be 
wished that Clifford, after all, might have gone to 
Boston. "The Baroness has not honored us to- 
night," he said. " She has not come over for three 
days." 
"Is she ill?" Acton asked. 
" No ; I have been to see her." 
" What is the matter with her ? " 
" Well," said Mr. Wentworth, " I infer she has 
tired of us." 
Acton pretended to sit down, but he was rest- 
less ; he found it impossible to talk with Mr. 
   
Wentworth. At the end of ten minutes he took 
up his hat and said that he thought he would " go 
off." It was very late ; it was ten o'clock. 
His quiet-faced kinsman looked at him a mo- 
ment. " Are you going home ? " he asked. 
Acton hesitated, and then answered that he had 
proposed to go over and take a look at the Bar- 
oness. 
"Well, you are honest, at least," said Mr. 
Wentworth, sadly. 
" So are you, if you come to that ? " cried Ac- 
ton, laughing. " Why should n't I be honest ? " 
The old man opened the " North American " 
again, and read a few lines. "If we have ever 
had any virtue among us, we had better keep hold 
of it now," he said. He was not quoting. 
" We have a Baroness among us," said Acton. 
" That 's what we must keep hold of ! " He was 
too impatient to see Madame Miinster again to 
wonder what Mr. Wentworth was talking about. 
Nevertheless, after he had passed out of the house 
and traversed the garden and the little piece of 
road that separated him from Eugenia's provisional 
residence, he stopped a moment outside. He stood 
in her little garden ; the long window of her parlor 
was open, and he could see the white curtains, 
with the lamp-light shining through them, sway- 
ing softly to and fro in the warm night wind. 
 
There was a sort of excitement in the idea of see- 
ing Madame Miinster again ; he became aware 
that his heart was beating rather faster than usual. 
It was this that made him stop, with a half-amused 
surprise. But in a moment he went along the pi- 
azza, and, approaching the open window, tapped 
upon its lintel with his stick. He could see the 
Baroness within ; she was standing in the middle 
of the room. She came to the window and pulled 
aside the curtain ; then she stood looking at him a 
moment. She was not smiling ; she seemed serious. 
"Mais entrez done!" she said at last. Acton 
passed in across the window-sill ; he wondered, for 
an instant, what was the matter with her. But 
the next moment she had begun to smile and had 
put out her hand. "Better late than never," she 
said. " It is very kind of you to come at this hour." 
" I have just returned from my journey," said 
Acton. 
" Ah, very kind, very kind," she repeated, look- 
ing about her where to sit. 
" I went first to the other house," Acton con- 
tinued. " I expected to find you there." 
She had sunk into her usual chair ; but she got 
up again, and began to move about the room. 
Acton had laid down his hat and stick ; he was 
looking at her, conscious that there was in fact a 
great charm in seeing her again. " I don't know 
   
whether I ought to tell you to sit down," she said. 
"It is too late to begin a visit." 
" It 's too early to end one," Acton declared ; 
"and we needn't mind the beginning." 
She looked at him again, and, after a moment, 
dropped once more into her low chair, while he 
took a place near her. " We are in the middle, 
then ? " she asked. " Was that where we were 
when you went away ? No, I have n't been to the 
other house." 
" Not yesterday, nor the day before, eh ? " 
" I don't know how many days it is." 
" You are tired of it," said Acton. 
She leaned back in her chair; her arms were 
folded. " That is a terrible accusation, but I have 
not the courage to defend myself." 
" I am not attacking you," said Acton. " I ex- 
pected something of this kind." 
" It 's a proof of extreme intelligence. I hope 
you enjoyed your journey." 
" Not at all," Acton declared. " I would much 
rather have been here with you." 
"Now you are attacking me," said the Bar- 
oness. " You are contrasting my inconstancy with 
your own fidelity." 
" I confess I never get tired of people I like." 
"Ah, you are not a poor wicked foreign woman, 
with irritable nerves and a sophisticated mind ! " 
 
" Something has happened to you since I went 
away," said Acton, changing his place. 
" Your going away that is what has happened 
to me." 
"Do you mean to say that you have missed 
me ? " he asked. 
" If I had meant to say it, it would not be worth 
your making a note of. I am very dishonest and 
my compliments are worthless." 
Acton was silent for some moments. " You 
have broken down," he said at last. 
Madame Miinster left her chair, and began to 
move about. 
" Only for a moment. I shall pull myself to- 
gether again." 
" You had better not take it too hard. If you 
are bored, you need n't be afraid to say so to me 
at least." 
"You shouldn't say such things as that," the 
Baroness answered. " You should encourage me." 
" I admire your patience ; that is encouraging." 
" You should n't even say that. When you talk 
of my patience you are disloyal to your own peo- 
ple. Patience implies suffering ; and what have I 
had to suffer?" 
" Oh, not hunger, not unkindness, certainly," 
said Acton, laughing. " Nevertheless, we all ad- 
mire your patience." 
   
" You all detest me I " cried the Baroness, with a 
sudden vehemence, turning her back toward him. 
" You make it hard, said Acton, getting up, 
" for a man to say something tender to you." 
This evening there was something particularly 
striking and touching about her ; an unwonted 
softness and a look of suppressed emotion. He 
felt himself suddenly appreciating the fact that 
she had behaved very well. She had come to this 
quiet corner of the world under the weight of a 
cruel indignity, and she had been so gracefully, 
modestly thankful for the rest she found there. 
She had joined that simple circle over the way; 
she had mingled in its plain, provincial talk ; she 
had shared its meagre and savorless pleasures. 
She had set herself a task, and she had rigidly 
performed it. She had conformed to the angular 
conditions of New England life, and she had had 
the tact and pluck to carry it off as if she liked 
them. Acton felt a more downright need than he 
had ever felt before to tell her that he admired 
her and that she struck him as a very superior 
woman. All along, hitherto, he had been on his 
guard with her ; he had been cautious, observant, 
suspicious. But now a certain light tumult in his 
blood seemed to tell him that a finer degree of con- 
fidence in this charming woman would be its own 
reward. " We don't detest you," he went on. 
 
"I don't know what you mean. At any rate, I 
speak for myself; I don't know anything about 
the others. Very likely, you detest them for the 
dull life they make you lead. Really, it would 
give me a sort of pleasure to hear you say so." 
Eugenia had been looking at the door on the 
other side of the room ; now she slowly turned her 
eyes toward Robert Acton. "What can be the 
motive," she asked, " of a man like you an hon- 
est man, a galant homme in saying so base a 
thing as that ? " 
" Does it sound very base ? " asked Acton, can- 
didly. "I suppose it does, and I thank you for 
telling me so. Of course, I don't mean it liter- 
ally." 
The Baroness stood looking at him. " How do 
you mean it? " she asked. 
This question was difficult to answer, and Ac- 
ton, feeling the least bit foolish, walked to the 
open window and looked out. He stood there, 
thinking a moment, and then he turned back. 
" You know that document that you were to send 
to Germany," he said. " You called it your ' re- 
nunciation.' Did you ever send it ? " 
Madame Miinster's eyes expanded ; she looked 
very grave. "What a singular answer to my 
question ! " 
" Oh, it is n't an answer," said Acton. " I have 
 
   
wished to ask you, many times. I thought it prob- 
able you would tell me yourself. The question, 
on my part, seems abrupt now ; but it would be 
abrupt at any time." 
The Baroness was silent a moment ; and then, 
" I think I have told you too much ! " she said. 
This declaration appeared to Acton to have a cer- 
tain force ; he had indeed a sense of asking more 
of her than he offered her. He returned to the 
window, and watched, for a moment, a little star 
that twinkled through the lattice of the piazza. 
There were at any rate offers enough he could 
make; perhaps he had hitherto not been suffi- 
ciently explicit in doing so. "I wish you would 
ask something of me," he presently said. "Is 
there nothing I can do for you ? If you can't stand 
this dull life any more, let me amuse you ! " 
The Baroness had sunk once more into a chair, 
and she had taken up a fan which she held, with 
both hands, to her mouth. Over the top of the 
fan her eyes were fixed on him. " You are very 
strange to-night," she said, with a little laugh. 
" I will do anything in the world," he rejoined, 
standing in front of her. " Should n't you like to 
travel about and see something of the country? 
Won't you go to Niagara? You ought to see 
Niagara, you know." 
" With you, do you mean ? " 
 
" I should be delighted to take you." 
" You alone ? " 
Acton looked at her, smiling, and yet with a 
serious air. " Well, yes ; we might go alone," he 
said. 
" If you were not what you are," she answered, 
"I should feel insulted." 
" How do you mean what I am ? " 
" If you were one of the gentlemen I have been 
used to all my life. If you were not a queer Bos- 
tonian." 
" If the gentlemen you have been used to have 
taught you to expect insults," said Acton " I am 
glad I am what I am. You had much better come 
to Niagara." 
" If you wish to ' amuse ' me," the Baroness de- 
clared, " you need go to no further expense. You 
amuse me very effectually." 
He sat down opposite to her ; she still held her 
fan up to her face, with her eyes only showing 
above it. There was a moment's silence, and then 
he said, returning to his former question, " Have 
you sent that document to Germany ? " 
Again there was a moment's silence. The ex- 
pressive eyes of Madame Miinster seemed, how- 
ever, half to break it. 
" I will tell you at Niagara ! " she said. 
She had hardly spoken when the door at the fur- 
   
ther end of the room opened the door upon 
which, some minutes previous, Eugenia had fixed 
her gaze. Clifford Wentworth stood there, blush- 
ing and looking rather awkward. The Baroness 
rose, quickly, and Acton, more slowly, did the 
same. Clifford gave him no greeting ; he was 
looking at Eugenia. 
" Ah, you were here ? " exclaimed Acton. 
" He was in Felix's studio," said Madame Mini- 
ster. " He wanted to see his sketches." 
Clifford looked at Robert Acton, but said noth- 
ing ; he only fanned himself with his hat. " You 
chose a bad moment," said Acton ; " you had n't 
much light." 
" I had n't any ! " said Clifford, laughing. 
" Your candle went out ? " Eugenia asked. 
" You should have come back here and lighted it 
again." 
Clifford looked at her a moment. " So I have 
come back. But I have left the candle ! " 
Eugenia turned away. " You are very stupid, 
my poor boy. You had better go home." 
" Well," said Clifford, " good night ! " 
" Have n't you a word to throw to a man when 
he has safely returned from a dangerous journey ? " 
Acton asked. 
" How do you do ? " said Clifford. " I thought 
I thought you were " and he paused, looking 
at the Baroness again. 
 
" You thought I was at Newport, eh ? So I was 
this morning." 
" Good night, clever child ! " said Madame Miin- 
ster, over her shoulder. 
Clifford stared at her not at all like a clever 
child ; and then, with one of his little facetious 
growls, took his departure. 
" What is the matter with him ? " asked Acton, 
when he was gone. " He seemed rather in a mud- 
dle." 
Eugenia, who was near the window, glanced out, 
listening a moment. " The matter the matter " 
she answered. " But you don't say such, things 
here." 
" If you mean that he had been drinking a lit- 
tle, you can say that." 
" He does n't drink any more. I have cured 
him. And in return he 's in love with me." 
It was Acton's turn to stare. He instantly 
thought of his sister ; but he said nothing about 
her. He began to laugh. " I don't wonder at his 
passion ! But I wonder at his forsaking your so- 
ciety for that of your brother's paint-brushes." 
Eugenia was silent a little. " He had not been 
in the studio. I invented that at the moment." 
" Invented it ? For what purpose ? " 
" He has an idea of being romantic. He has 
adopted the habit of coming to see me at midnight 
   
passing only through the orchard and through 
Felix's painting-room, which has a door opening 
that way. It seems to amuse him," added Eu- 
genia, with a little laugh. 
Acton felt more surprise than he confessed to, 
for this was a new view of Clifford, whose irregu- 
larities had hitherto been quite without the ro- 
mantic element. He tried to laugh again, but he 
felt rather too serious, and after a moment's hes- 
itation his seriousness explained itself. " I hope 
you don't encourage him," he said. " He must 
not be inconstant to poor Lizzie." 
" To your sister ? " 
"You know they are decidedly intimate," said 
Acton. 
"Ah," cried Eugenia, smiling, "has she has 
she " 
" I don't know," Acton interrupted, " what she 
has. But I always supposed that Clifford had a 
desire to make himself agreeable to her." 
" Ah, par exemple ! " the Baroness went on. 
" The little monster ! The next time he becomes 
sentimental I will him tell that he ought to be 
ashamed of himself." 
Acton was silent a moment. " You had better 
say nothing about it." 
" I had told him as much already, on general 
grounds," said the Baroness. " But in this coun- 
 
try, you know, the relations of young people are 
so extraordinary that one is quite at sea. They 
are not engaged when you would quite say they 
ought to be. Take Charlotte Went worth, for in- 
stance, and that young ecclesiastic. If I were her 
father I should insist upon his marrying her ; but 
it appears to be thought there is no urgency. On 
the other hand, you suddenly learn that a boy of 
twenty and a little girl who is still with her gov- 
erness your sister has no governess? Well, then, 
who is never away from her mamma a young 
couple, in short, between whom you have noticed 
nothing beyond an exchange of the childish pleas- 
antries characteristic of their age, are on the point 
of setting up as man and wife." The Baroness 
spoke with a certain exaggerated volubility which 
was in contrast with the languid grace that had 
characterized her manner before Clifford made his 
appearance. It seemed to Acton that there was 
a spark of irritation in her eye a note of irony 
(as when she spoke of Lizzie being never away 
from her mother) in her voice. If Madame Miin- 
ster was irritated, Robert Acton was vaguely mys- 
tified ; she began to move about the room again, 
and he looked at her without saying anything. 
Presently she took out her watch, and, glancing 
at it, declared that it was three o'clock in the 
morning and that he must go. 
   
" I have not been here an hour," he said, " and 
they are still sitting up at the other house. You 
can see the lights. Your brother has not come in." 
" Oh, at the other house," cried Eugenia, " they 
are terrible people ! I don't know what they 
may do over there. I am a quiet little humdrum 
woman; I have rigid rules and I keep them. 
One of them is not to have visitors in the small 
hours especially clever men like you. So good 
night ! " 
Decidedly, the Baroness was incisive ; and 
though Acton bade her good night and departed, 
he was still a good deal mystified. 
The next day Clifford Wentworth came to see 
Lizzie, and Acton, who was at home and saw him 
pass through the garden, took note of the circum- 
stance. He had a natural desire to make it tally 
with Madame Minister's account of Clifford's dis- 
affection ; but his ingenuity, finding itself unequal 
to the task, resolved at last to ask help of the 
young man's candor. He waited till he saw him 
going away, and then he went out and overtook 
him in the grounds. 
" I wish very much you would answer me a 
question," Acton said. " What were you doing, 
last night, at Madame Miinster's ? " 
Clifford began to laugh and to blush, by no 
means like a young man with a romantic secret. 
" What did she tell you ? " he asked. 
 
" That is exactly what I don't want to say." 
" Well, I want to tell you the same," said Clif- 
ford ; " and unless I know it perhaps I can't." 
They had stopped in a garden path ; Acton 
looked hard at his rosy young kinsman. " She 
said she could n't fancy what had got into you ; 
you appeared to have taken a violent dislike to 
her." 
Clifford stared, looking a little alarmed. " Oh, 
come," he growled, " you don't mean that !" 
"And that when for common civility's sake 
you came occasionally to the house you left her 
alone and spent your time in Felix's studio, under 
pretext of looking at his sketches." 
" Oh, come ! " growled Clifford, again. 
" Did you ever know me to tell an untruth ? " 
" Yes, lots of them ! " said Clifford, seeing an 
opening, out of the discussion, for his sarcastic 
powers. " Well," he presently added, " I thought 
you were my father." 
" You knew some one was there ? " 
" We heard you coming in." 
Acton meditated. "You had been with the 
Baroness, then ? " 
" I was in the parlor. We heard your step out- 
side. I thought it was my father." 
" And on that," asked Acton, " you ran away ? " 
" She told me to go to go out by the studio.'* 
   
Acton meditated more intensely ; if there had 
been a chair at hand he would have sat down. 
" Why should she wish you not to meet your 
father?" 
Well," said Clifford, " father does n't like to 
see me there.'* 
Acton looked askance at his companion and 
forbore to make any comment upon this asser- 
tion. " Has he said so," he asked, " to the Baron- 
ess? " 
" Well, I hope not," said Clifford. " He has n't 
said so in so many words to me. But I 
know it worries him ; and I want to stop worry- 
ing him. The Baroness knows it, and she wants 
me to stop, too." 
" To stop coming to see her?" 
" I don't know about that ; but to stop worry- 
ing father. Eugenia knows everything," Clifford 
added, with an air of knowingness of his own. 
" Ah," said Acton, interrogatively, " Eugenia 
knows everything ? " 
" She knew it was not father coming in." 
" Then why did you go ? " 
Clifford blushed and laughed afresh. " Well, 
I was afraid it was. And besides, she told me to 
go, at any rate." 
" Did she think it was I ? " Acton asked. 
" She did n't say so." 
 
Again Robert Acton reflected. "But you did n't 
go," he presently said ; "you came back." 
" I could n't get out of the studio," Clifford re- 
joined. " The door was locked, and Felix has 
nailed some planks across the lower half of the 
confounded windows to make the light come in 
from above. So they were no use. I waited 
there a good while, and then, suddenly, I felt 
ashamed. I did n't want to be hiding away from 
my own father. I could n't stand it any longer. 
I bolted out, and when I found it was you I was 
a little flurried. But Eugenia carried it off, did 
n't she?" Clifford 'added, in the tone of a young 
humorist whose perception had not been perma- 
nently clouded by the sense of his own discom- 
fort. 
" Beautifully ! " said Acton. " Especially," he 
continued, " when one remembers that you were 
very imprudent and that she must have been a 
good deal annoyed." 
" Oh," cried Clifford, with the indifference of a 
young man who feels that however he may have 
failed of felicity in behavior he is extremely just 
in his impressions, "Eugenia does n't care for any- 
thing!" 
Acton hesitated a moment. " Thank you for 
telling me this," he said at last. And then, lay- 
   
ing Ms hand on Clifford's shoulder, he added, 
" Tell me one thing more : are you by chance a 
little in love with the Baroness ? " 
" No, sir ! " said Clifford, almost shaking off his 
hand. 
X. 
THE first Sunday that followed Robert Acton's 
return from Newport witnessed a change in the 
brilliant weather that had long prevailed. The 
rain began to fall and the day was cold and 
dreary. Mr. Wentworth and his daughters put on 
overshoes and went to church, and Felix Young, 
without overshoes, went also, holding an umbrella 
over Gertrude. It is to be feared that, in the 
whole observance, this was the privilege he most 
highly valued. The Baroness remained at home ; 
she was in neither a cheerful nor a devotional 
mood. She had, however, never been, during her 
residence in the United States, what is called a" 
regular attendant at divine service ; and on this 
particular Sunday morning of which I began with 
speaking she stood at the window of her little 
drawing-room, watching the long arm of a rose- 
tree that was attached to her piazza, but a portion 
of which had disengaged itself, sway to and fro, 
shake and gesticulate, against the dusky drizzle of 
the sky. Every now and then, in a gust of wind, 
the rose-tree scattered a shower of water-drops 
   
against the window-pane; it appeared to have a 
kind of human movement a menacing, warn- 
ing intention. The room was very cold ; Mad- 
ame Miinster put on a shawl and walked about. 
Then she determined to have some fire ; and sum- 
moning her ancient negress, the contrast of whose 
polished ebony and whose crimson turban had 
been at first a source of satisfaction to her, she 
made arrangements for the production of a crack- 
ling flame. This old woman's name was Azarina. 
The Baroness had begun by thinking that there 
would be a savory wildness in her talk, and, for 
amusement, she had encouraged her to chatter. 
But Azarina was dry and prim ; her conversation 
was anything but African ; she reminded Eugenia 
of the tiresome old ladies she met in society. She 
knew, however, how to make a fire ; so that after 
she had laid the logs, Eugenia, who was terribly 
bored, found a quarter of an hour's entertainment 
in sitting and watching them blaze and sputter. 
She had thought it very likely Robert Acton would 
come and see her ; she had not met him since 
that infelicitous evening. But the morning waned 
without his coming ; several times she thought she 
heard his step on the piazza ; but it was only a 
window-shutter shaking in a rain -gust. The Bar- 
oness, since the beginning of that episode in her 
career of which a slight sketch has been attempted 
 
in these pages, had had many moments of irrita- 
tion. But to-day her irritation had a peculiar 
keenness ; it appeared to feed upon itself. It 
urged her to do something ; but it suggested no 
particularly profitable line of action. If she could 
have done something at the moment, on the spot, 
she would have stepped upon a European steamer 
and turned her back, with a kind of rapture, upon 
that profoundly mortifying failure, her visit to her 
American relations. It is not exactly apparent 
why she should have termed this enterprise a fail- 
ure, inasmuch as she had been treated with the 
highest distinction for which allowance had been 
made in American institutions. Her irritation 
came, at bottom, from the sense, which, always 
present, had suddenly grown acute, that the social 
soil on this big, vague continent was somehow not 
adapted for growing those plants whose fragrance 
she especially inclined to inhale and by which she 
liked to see herself surrounded a species of vege- 
tation for which she carried a collection of seed- 
lings, as we may say, in her pocket. She found 
her chief happiness in the sense of exerting a cei 
tain power and making a certain impression ; and 
now she felt the annoyance of a rather wearied 
swimmer who, on nearing shore, to land, finds a 
smooth straight wall of rock when he had counted 
upon a clean firm beach. Her power, in the Amer- 
   
lean air, seemed to have lost its prehensile attri- 
butes ; the smooth wall of rock was insurmount- 
able. "Surely je n'en suis pas la," she said to 
herself, " that I let it make me uncomfortable that 
a Mr. Robert Acton shouldn't honor me with a 
visit ! " Yet she was vexed that he had not come ; 
and she was vexed at her vexation. 
Her brother, at least, came in, stamping in the 
hall and shaking the wet from his coat. In a 
moment he entered the room, with a glow in his 
cheek and half-a-dozen rain-drops glistening on 
his mustache. " Ah, you have a fire," he said. 
" Les beaux jours sont passes," replied the Bar- 
oness. 
" Never, never ! They have only begun," Felix 
declared, planting himself before the hearth. He 
turned his back to the fire, placed his hands be- 
hind him, extended his legs and looked away 
through the window with an expression of face 
which seemed to denote the perception of rose- 
color even in the tints of a wet Sunday. 
His sister, from her chair, looked up at him, 
watching him ; and what she saw in his face was 
not grateful to her present mood. She was puz- 
zled by many things, but her brother's disposition 
was a frequent source of wonder to her. I say 
frequent and not constant, for there were long 
periods during which she gave her attention to 
 
other problems. Sometimes she had said to herself that his happy temper, his eternal gayety, was 
an affectation, a pose ; but she was vaguely con- 
scious that during the present summer he had been 
a highly successful comedian. They had never 
yet had an explanation ; she had not known the 
need of one'. Felix was presumably following the 
bent of his disinterested genius, and she felt that 
she had no advice to give him that he would un- 
derstand. With this, there was always a certain 
element of comfort about Felix the assurance 
that he would not interfere. He was very deli- 
cate, this pure-minded Felix ; in effect, he was her 
brother, and Madame Miinster felt that there was 
a great propriety, every way, in that. It is true 
that Felix was delicate ; he was not fond of ex- 
planations with his sister ; this was one of the very 
few things in the world about which he was un- 
comfortable. But now he was not thinking of 
anything uncomfortable. 
" Dear brother," said Eugenia at last, " do stop 
making Us yeux doux at the rain." 
" With pleasure. I will make them at you ! " 
answered Felix. 
" How much longer," asked Eugenia, in a mo- 
ment, " do you propose to remain in this lovely 
spot? " 
