"I suppose I could spare the time for that," said John Riley.
"Of course you can. It won't take you two minutes. Here is the ten
cents. I'll hold your bundle for you while you run up."
"All right!" said the errand-boy, and, suspecting nothing, he
surrendered his parcel, and taking the note and the dime, ran upstairs.
No sooner was he out of sight than the young man began to walk off
rapidly with the bundle. It was an old trick, that has been many times
played upon unsuspecting boys, and will continue to be played as long as
there are knavish adventurers who prefer dishonest methods of getting a
living to honest industry.
In this case, however, the rogue was destined to disappointment. It may
be stated that he had been present in the dry-goods store from which the
parcel came, and, knowing that the contents were valuable, had followed
the boy.
No sooner did Frank understand the fellow's purpose than he pursued him,
and seized him by the arm.
"What do you want of me?" demanded the rogue, roughly. "I am in a hurry
and can't be detained."
"I want you to give me that bundle which you are trying to steal from my
friend, John Riley."
The rogue's countenance changed.
"What do you mean?" he demanded, to gain time.
"I mean that I heard your conversation with him, and I know your game.
Come back, or I will call a policeman."
The young man was sharp enough to see that he must give up his purpose.
"There, take the bundle," he said, tossing it into Frank's arms. "I was
only going for a cigar; I should have brought it back."
When John Riley came downstairs, with the letter in his hand,--for he
had been unable to find any man named Conant in the building,--he found
Frank waiting with the parcel.
"Holloa, Frank! Where's that man that sent me upstairs? I can't find Mr.
Conant."
"Of course you can't. There's no such man in the building. That man was
a thief; but for me he would have carried off your bundle."
"What a fool I was!" said the errand-boy. "I won't let myself be fooled
again."
"Don't give up a bundle to a stranger again," said Frank. "I'm only a
country boy, but I don't allow myself to be swindled as easily as you."
"I wish that chap would come here again," said Johnny, indignantly. "But
I've come out best, after all," he added, brightening up. "I've made ten
cents out of him."
CHAPTER XVIII.
A RICH WOMAN'S SORROW.
One day Frank was summoned to a handsome residence on Madison avenue.
"Sit down in the parlor," said the servant "and I will call Mrs.
Graham."
As Frank looked around him, and noted the evidences of wealth in the
elegant furniture and rich ornaments profusely scattered about, he
thought, "How rich Mrs. Graham must be! I suppose she is very happy. I
should be if I could buy everything I wanted."
It was a boy's thought, and betrayed our hero's inexperience. Even
unlimited means are not sure to produce happiness, nor do handsome
surroundings prove wealth.
Five minutes later an elderly lady entered the room. She was richly
dressed, but her face wore a look of care and sorrow.
As she entered, Frank rose with instinctive politeness, and bowed.
"You are the telegraph boy," said the lady, inquiringly.
"Yes, ma'am."
Mrs. Graham looked at him earnestly, as if to read his character.
"I have sent for you," she said, at length, "to help me in a matter of
some delicacy, and shall expect you not to speak of it, even to your
employers."
"They never question me," said Frank, promptly. "You may rely upon my
secrecy."
Frank's statement was correct. The business entrusted to telegraph
messengers is understood to be of a confidential nature, and they are
instructed to guard the secrets of those who make use of their services.
"I find it necessary to raise some money," continued the lady,
apparently satisfied, "and am not at liberty, for special reasons, to
call upon my husband for it. I have a diamond ring of considerable
value, which I should like to have you carry, either to a jeweller or a
pawnbroker, and secure what advance you can upon it."
"And I believed she had plenty of money," thought Frank, wondering.
"I will do the best I can for you, madam," said our hero.
Mrs. Graham drew from her pocket a small box, containing a diamond ring,
which sparkled brilliantly in the sunshine.
"It is beautiful," said Frank, admiringly.
"Yes, it cost originally eight hundred dollars," said the lady.
"Eight hundred dollars!" echoed Frank, in wonder. He had heard of
diamond rings, and knew they were valuable, but had no idea they were so
valuable as that.
"How much do you expect to get on it?" he asked.
"Nothing near its value, of course, nor is that necessary. Two hundred
dollars will be as much as I care to use, and at that rate I shall be
able the sooner to redeem it. I believe I will tell you why I want the
money."
"Not unless you think it best," said Frank.
"It is best, for I shall again require your services in disposing of the
money."
The lady sat down on the sofa beside Frank, and told him the story which
follows:--
"I have two children," she said, "a daughter and a son. The son has
recently graduated from college, and is now travelling in Europe. My
daughter is now twenty-six years of age. She was beautiful, and our
social position was such that my husband, who is a proud man,
confidently anticipated that she would make a brilliant match. But at
the age of nineteen Ellen fell in love with a clerk in my husband's
employ. He was a young man of good appearance and character, and nothing
could be said against him except that he was poor. This, however, was
more than enough in Mr. Graham's eyes. When Lawrence Brent asked for the
hand of our daughter, my husband drove him from the house with insult,
and immediately discharged him from his employ. Ellen was high-spirited,
and resented this treatment of the man she loved. He soon obtained a
place quite as good as the one he had lost, and one day Ellen left the
house and married him. She wrote to us, excusing her action, and I would
gladly have forgiven her; but her father was obdurate. He forbade my
mentioning her name to him, and from that day to this he has never
referred to her.
"I am now coming to the business in which you are to help me. For years
my son-in-law was able to support his wife comfortably, and also the two
children which in time came to them. But, a year since, he became sick,
and his sickness lasted till he had spent all his savings. Now he and
his poor family are living in wretched lodgings, and are in need of the
common necessaries of life. It is for them I intend the money which I
can secure upon this ring."
Frank could not listen without having his sympathies aroused.
"I shall be still more glad to help you," he said, "now that I know how
the money is to be used."
"Thank you," said the lady. "You are a good boy, and I see that I can
trust you implicitly."
She handed Frank the box, enjoining upon him to be careful not to lose
it.
"It is so small that it might easily slip from your pocket," she said.
"I shall take the best care of it," said Frank. "Where would you advise
me to go first?"
"I hardly know. If I wished to sell it I would carry it to Tiffany; but
it was purchased there, and it might in that case come to my husband's
ears. There is a pawnbroker, named Simpson, who, I hear, is one of the
best of his class. You may go there first."
"How much shall I say you want on it?" asked Frank.
"Don't mention my name at all," said the lady, hastily.
"I suppose I shall have to give some name," said Frank, "in order that
the ticket may be made out."
"What is your own name?"
"Frank Kavanagh."
"Have you a mother living?"
"No," said Frank, gravely.
"Then let the ticket be made out in your name."
"If you wish it."
"Shall I bring the money to you, Mrs. Graham?"
"No; my husband might be at home, and it would arouse his suspicions. At
twelve o'clock I will meet you at Madison Park, at the corner opposite
the Union League Club House. You can then report to me your success."
"Very well," said Frank.
He went at once to the pawnbroker mentioned by Mrs. Graham. But for his
uniform he would have been questioned closely as to how he came by the
ring; but telegraph boys are so often employed on similar errands that
the pawnbroker showed no surprise. After a careful examination he agreed
to advance two hundred dollars, and gave Frank the money and the ticket.
When Frank gave his own name, he said, "That is your name, is it not?"
"Yes, sir."
"But the ring does not belong to you?"
"No; it belongs to a lady who does not wish her name known."
"It is all the same to us."
"That was easily done," thought Frank. "Now I must go and meet Mrs.
Graham."
"Have you got the money?" asked Mrs. Graham, anxiously, as Frank made
his appearance.
"Yes," replied Frank.
"How much?"
"The amount you asked for."
"That is well. Now I shall be able to relieve my poor daughter. I cannot
bear to think of her and her poor children suffering for the lack of
bread, while I am living in luxury. I wish Mr. Graham was not so
unforgiving."
"Will you take the money now?" asked Frank.
"I wish you to take fifty dollars to my daughter."
"I will do so with pleasure. What is her address?"
Mrs. Graham drew out a card, on which she had pencilled her daughter's
address. It proved to be a tenement-house on the east side of the city,
not far from Fourteenth street.
"I wish I could go myself," said Mrs. Graham, sadly; "but I do not dare
to do so at present. Give Ellen this money, with my best love; and say
to her that a month hence I will again send her the same sum. Tell her
to keep up good courage. Brighter days may be in store."
"I will be sure to remember," said Frank, in a tone of sympathy.
The errand was to his taste; for he was about to carry help and comfort
to those who needed both.
CHAPTER XIX.
A MESSENGER OF GOOD TIDINGS.
There stands a large tenement-house on East Fourteenth street, five
stories in height, and with several entrances. Scores of barefooted and
scantily attired children play in the halls or on the sidewalk in front,
and the great building is a human hive, holding scores of families. Some
of them, unaccustomed to live better, are tolerably content with their
squalid and contracted accommodations; but a few, reduced by gradual
steps from respectability and comfort, find their positions very hard to
bear.
On the third floor three small rooms were occupied by Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Morgan, and their two children. She was the daughter of Mrs.
Graham, and had been reared in affluence. How she had incurred her
father's displeasure has already been told. He had been taken sick some
months before, his little stock of money had melted away, and now he was
unable even to pay the small expenses of life in a tenement-house.
Just before Frank made his appearance there was sadness in the little
household.
"How much money is there left, Ellen?" asked Robert Morgan.
"Seventy-five cents," she answered, in a tone which she tried to make
cheerful.
"And our week's rent will become due to-morrow."
"I may hear from mother," suggested Mrs. Morgan.
"If you don't, I don't know what will become of us all. We shall be
thrust into the street. Even this squalid home will be taken from us."
"Don't get discouraged, Robert."
"Isn't there enough to make me despondent, Ellen? I can see now that I
did very wrong to marry you."
"Do you regret our marriage, then, Robert?" asked his wife.
"Only because it has brought you poverty and discomfort."
"I have not yet regretted it."
"How different a position you would have occupied if I had not dragged
you down! You would still be living in luxury."
"I should not have you and these dear children."
"And will they compensate you for what has come upon you?"
"Yes," she answered, emphatically.
"You have more philosophy than I have, Ellen."
"More trust, perhaps. Do you know, Robert, I think we are on the eve of
good fortune?"
"I hope so, but I see no prospects of it."
Just then there was a knock at the door.
Thinking that it might be some humble neighbor, on a borrowing
expedition, Mrs. Morgan opened the door. Before her stood our hero in
his uniform.
"Is this Mrs. Robert Morgan?" asked Frank.
"Yes," she answered.
"I come from your mother."
"From my mother? Robert, do you hear that?" said the poor woman, in a
voice of gladness. "Here is a messenger from my mother. Didn't I tell
you there was good luck in store for us?"
Mr. Morgan did not answer. He waited anxiously to hear what Frank had to
communicate.
"Your mother sends you her love, and fifty dollars," continued Frank.
"She hopes to call soon herself."
"Fifty dollars!" exclaimed Ellen Morgan, in delight. "It is a fortune."
"Thank Heaven!" ejaculated her husband, in great relief.
"A month hence you may expect a similar sum," said Frank. "I suppose I
shall bring it. Shall I find you here?"
Ellen Morgan looked at her husband.
"No," said he. "Let us get out of this neighborhood as soon as possible.
Can't you find a respectable place to-day?"
"Yes," said his wife. "I shall be glad to move. I saw some neat rooms on
West Twentieth street on Monday. They will cost us but little more, and
will suit us better."
"I will send my mother my new address," she said to Frank.
"Then you may send it under cover to me, and I will see that she gets it
privately," said Frank, who had received instructions to that effect
from Mrs. Graham.
When Frank had left the room the little household seemed quite
transformed. Hope had entered, and all looked more cheerful.
"We are provided for, for two months, Robert," said his wife. "Is not
that a piece of good luck?"
"Yes, indeed it is," he answered heartily. "Before that time I can get
to work again, and with health and employment I shall not need to ask
favors of any one."
"I wish father were as forgiving as mother," said Ellen Morgan.
"Your father is a hard man. He will never forgive you for marrying a
poor man. He would punish you by starvation."
"He is very proud," said Mrs. Morgan. "I was an only daughter, you know,
and he had set his heart upon my making a brilliant marriage."
"As you might have done."
"As I did not care to do. I preferred to make a happy marriage with the
man of my choice."
"You are a good wife, Ellen."
"I hope you will always find me so, Robert."
"I should have sunk utterly if you had been like some women."
In the afternoon Mrs. Morgan went out, taking one of her children with
her. She went to the rooms on West Twentieth street, and, finding them
still vacant, secured them, paying a month's rent in advance, as her
mother's timely gift enabled her to do. Before the next evening they
were installed in their new home, and Mrs. Morgan sent a note to her
mother, under cover to Frank, apprising her of the removal.
Two days later Frank received a summons to the house on Madison avenue.
He obeyed, thinking he should probably be sent with some message to Mrs.
Morgan.
He found Mrs. Graham in a state of nervous excitement.
"My husband has been stricken with paralysis," she said. "It is terribly
sudden. He went out yesterday, apparently in vigorous health. He was
brought home pale and helpless."
"Can I do anything for him or you?" asked Frank.
"Yes; you can go at once to my daughter, and summon her to her father's
bedside."
Frank was surprised, remembering how obdurate Mrs. Graham had described
her husband to be.
"You look surprised," she said; "but sickness often produces a great
change in us. My husband's pride has given way. His affection has
returned; and it is at his request that I send for Ellen."
Frank had come to feel a personal interest in the family, and he gladly
set out for the modest home in West Twentieth street. He felt that it
was pleasant to be a messenger of reconciliation.
Mrs. Morgan recognized him at once, and received him cordially.
"Do you come from my mother?" she asked.
"Yes. She wishes you to come home at once."
"But--my father."
"Your father is very sick; and he joins in the request."
"It has come at last,--the time I have looked forward to for so long,"
said Ellen Morgan, clasping her hands. "Robert, do you feel equal to
looking after the children while I am gone?"
"Yes, Ellen. Go at once. God grant that your father's heart may be
softened, for your sake. For myself I am content to live in poverty; but
I don't like to see you suffer."
"What is the matter with father? Did my mother tell you?"
Frank explained, and thus gave her fresh cause for anxiety.
On reaching her father's chamber she was shocked by his changed
appearance; but her heart was gladdened by the wan smile that lighted
up his face, assuring her that she was welcome. From the doctor she
received the assurance that her father was in no immediate danger.
Indeed, he expressed a confident hope that Mr. Graham would rally from
his present attack, and be able to go about his business again, though
caution would be required against undue excitement or fatigue.
The doctor's prediction was verified. Mr. Graham recovered; but his old
pride and obduracy did not come back. He became reconciled to his
son-in-law, and provided him a well-paid position in his own mercantile
establishment, and provided rooms in the Madison-avenue mansion for the
little family whom Frank had first visited in the squalid tenement-house
in Fourteenth street, and the glad voices of children made the house no
longer lonely.
"You must call and see us often," said Ellen Morgan to our hero. "I
shall always remember you as the messenger who brought us good tidings
at the darkest hour in our fortunes. We shall always welcome you as a
friend."
CHAPTER XX.
A NEW JOB, AND A LETTER FROM HOME.
One morning an elderly gentleman entered the office in which Frank was
employed, and sought an interview with the superintendent.
"I want a smart boy for detective work," he said. "Have you one you can
recommend?"
The superintendent cast his eyes over the line of boys, and called
Frank. Our hero's recognition of the disguised counterfeiter by his ring
had given him a reputation for shrewdness.
"I think this boy will suit you," he said. "Do you wish him to go with
you now?"
"Yes; I may want him a week."
"Very well."
Frank accompanied the gentleman into the street.
"Have you no other clothes except this uniform?" asked Mr. Hartley.
"Yes, sir."
"Then go and put them on. Then report to me at No. -- Broadway."
"All right, sir."
"It is fortunate I have a good suit," thought Frank.
He was not long in exchanging his uniform for the neat suit given him by
Mr. Bowen. Thus attired, he presented himself in Mr. Hartley's
counting-room. The merchant surveyed him with approval.
"You will enter my service as errand-boy," he said. "You will be sent to
the post-office, the bank, and on similar errands, in order not to
excite suspicion of the real object of your presence. Keep your eyes
open, and I will take an opportunity of explaining to you later what I
wish you to do."
Frank bowed.
"Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, calling a thin, sallow young man, "I
have engaged this boy as an errand-boy. Has any one been to the
post-office this morning?"
"No, sir."
"Then he will go."
Haynes regarded Frank with disfavor.
"I have a nephew who would have liked the position," he said.
"Too late now," said the merchant, curtly.
"What is your name, boy?" asked Haynes, coldly..
"Frank Kavanagh."
"How did Mr. Hartley happen to engage you?" asked the subordinate.
"A gentleman recommended me," Frank answered.
"I had already mentioned my nephew to him. I am surprised he said
nothing to me about engaging a boy."
Frank said nothing, feeling no particular interest in the matter. As he
was only filling temporarily the position of errand boy, it made little
difference to him whether he was acceptable to Mr. Haynes or not.
In the course of the day Mr. Hartley handed Frank a card, containing the
street and number of his residence, with a pencilled invitation to call
that evening.
Of course Frank did so.
Seated alone with the merchant in his back parlor, the latter said, "I
have invited you here because I could not speak with you freely at the
store. How do you like Mr. Haynes?"
Frank was surprised at the abruptness of the question.
"I don't like him," he answered, candidly.
"Why not?"
"There is no good reason that I know of," said Frank; "but I think his
manner is disagreeable."
"Our instincts are often to be trusted," said the merchant,
thoughtfully. "I confess that I myself don't like Haynes, nor do I feel
implicit confidence in him, though he has been eight years in the
service of our house. He is outwardly very circumspect, and apparently
very faithful, but there is something in his eye which I don't like."
Frank had noticed this, but Mr. Hartley's remark called fresh attention
to its furtive, crafty expression.
Frank's curiosity was aroused, naturally enough. He wondered what Mr.
Haynes had to do with his mission. He did not have long to wait for
information.
"I will come to the point," said Mr. Hartley, after a pause. "I am an
importing merchant, and deal, among other articles, in silks. During the
last year I have discovered that some one is systematically robbing me,
and that parts of my stock have been spirited away. The loss I have
sustained is already considerable, and unless the leakage is put a stop
to, I may as well give up business. You can now guess why I have engaged
you. No one will suspect an errand boy of being a detective, while a man
would very probably excite distrust, and put the rogue on his guard."
Frank listened attentively to his employer.
"Do you suspect any one in particular, Mr. Hartley?" he asked.
"It must be some one in my employ," he said. "The man who, more than any
other, has facilities for robbing me is the man of whom I have spoken to
you."
"Mr. Haynes?"
"Yes, Mr. Haynes. He holds an important position, and enjoys special
privileges. On the other hand, so far as I can learn, he lives in a
sober, inexpensive way, quite within his salary, which is liberal. He is
prominently connected with an up-town church, and it seems very
improbable that he would be guilty of robbery, or breach of trust; yet
there have been such cases before. At any rate, I cannot wholly divest
myself of suspicion."
"What do you wish me to do?" asked Frank.
"To watch Mr. Haynes carefully, both in and out of the store, to
ascertain whether he has any unexplained expenses, or any questionable
companions. I want to know how he spends his time out of the office. It
may be that the result of my investigation will be to his credit. It may
be that he is all that he seems,--a reputable member of the church and
of society, with nothing against him but an unpleasant manner. Should
this be the case, I shall be glad to correct my suspicions, and give him
back my confidence. In that case, we must look elsewhere for the rogue
who is robbing me."
"Have you any particular instructions to give me?" asked Frank.
"No, only to follow Haynes, and find out all you can about him. Use
great care in doing it, not to arouse his or any one else's suspicion. I
will find an opportunity for you to make your reports."
"Very well, sir."
       *       *       *       *       *
When Frank got home, he found a letter awaiting him from his country
home. It was in answer to one which he had written to his uncle, Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh, in reference to a trunk which had belonged to his
father.
This is the letter:--
     MY DEAR NEPHEW,--I am glad to learn that you are making a living in
     the city. It is much better that you should earn your own living
     than to be a burden upon me, though of course I would not see you
     suffer. But a man's duty is to his own household, and my income
     from the farm is very small, and Hannah and I agreed that we had
     little to spare for others.
     There is an old trunk, belonging to your deceased father, in the
     attic. It contains some old clothes, which may be made over for
     you, and so save you expense. I would use them myself, and allow
     you for them, but your father was a much smaller man than I, and
     his clothes would not fit me. I will send the trunk by express to
     the address which you gave me. Of course I shall expect you to pay
     the express, as I have no interest in it, or its contents.
     Your cousin Jonathan has left school, and is working on the farm. I
     feel so glad that he has no extravagant tastes, but inherits the
     careful and economical habits of his mother and myself. I am sure
     he will never waste or squander the little property which I hope to
     leave him.
"I don't believe he will," thought Frank, "for he is about as mean as
his mother, and that is saying a good deal."
     Your aunt and I hope that you will steer clear of the temptations
     of the city. Do not seek after vain amusements, but live a sober
     life, never spending a cent unnecessarily, and you will in time
     become a prosperous man. I would invite you to come and stop with
     us over Sunday, but for the railroad fare, which is high. It will
     be better to save your money, and put off the visit till you can
     afford it.
     Your uncle,
     PELATIAH KAVANAGH.
Reading this letter, it would hardly be supposed that the writer owned
ten thousand dollars in stocks, bonds, and mortgages, over and above an
excellent farm. Such, however, was the worldly position of the man who
sent Frank to the city in quest of a living, because he could not afford
to provide for him. With some men prudence is a virtue; with Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh it was carried so far as to be a positive defect.
CHAPTER XXI.
FRANK'S FIRST DISCOVERY.
So far as Frank could observe, Mr. Haynes was an active, energetic
salesman. He appeared to understand his duties thoroughly, and to go
about them in a straightforward manner. So far as his personal habits
were concerned, they seemed irreproachable. He was neatly but plainly
dressed, wore no jewelry, and carried a plain silver watch, which, when
new, probably did not cost over twenty dollars.
Frank had no difficulty in ascertaining where he lived. It was in a
brick house, on Waverley place, very unpretentious and certainly not
fashionable. In order to find out how much he paid for his
accommodations Frank visited the house on pretence of being in search of
board.
"We have a hall bed-room on the third floor, at five dollars a week,
including board," said the landlady. "How would that suit you?"
"I may have a friend board with me," said Frank. "In that case we should
need a large room. Have you any vacant?"
"There is the front room on the third floor. We would let it to two
gentlemen at eleven dollars for the two."
"Isn't the back room cheaper?" inquired our hero.
"Yes; but it is occupied by a business gentleman."
"Can you tell me his name? I may be acquainted with him."
"His name is Haynes."
"How much does he pay?"
"He pays eight dollars a week, and has the room alone."
"I suppose his room is not likely to become vacant soon?"
"Oh, dear, no. He has been with us for several years. We should be sorry
to lose him. Last Christmas he gave my daughter a present of a nice
silk-dress pattern."
Frank was struck by this information.
"I don't believe he paid anything for the silk," thought he. "I wish I
could find out."
He had learned all he cared for, and left, saying he might call again.
"His expenses seem very moderate for a man in his position," thought
Frank. "I wonder if he makes any investments."
Fortune favored our hero in the prosecution of his inquiry. Keeping
Haynes in sight, as was his custom, he observed that the latter, in
pulling out a handkerchief from the breast-pocket of his coat, had
brought with it a letter also. Frank, quickly and unobserved, picked it
up, and when he was alone looked at the address. It was directed to
James Haynes, at his residence in Waverley place. On the envelope was
the printed address of a real-estate broker in Brooklyn.
Frank knew that there was at that time considerable speculation in
Brooklyn real estate, and he examined the letter. It ran thus:--
     We have found a corner lot, with several lots adjoining, near
     Prospect Park, which may be obtained for five thousand dollars,
     half cash. We have no hesitation in recommending the purchase,
     being convinced, from the tendencies of the market, that the buyer
     will double his money in a comparatively short time. If you are
     engaged at other times, come over on Sunday afternoon, and we will
     show you the property. The house you purchased of us last year is
     worth fully a thousand dollars more than the price you gave.
"I wonder how much he gave," said Frank to himself.
The letter was signed "Henderson & Co., No. -- Fulton street."
Our hero was elated by the discovery he had made, and he sought an
interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Have you discovered anything?" asked the merchant, noticing the eager
look of his young detective.
Without attaching especial importance to the fact, Frank answered, "I
have found out that Mr. Haynes owns a house in Brooklyn."
"Indeed!" said Hartley, quickly. "But," he continued more slowly, "he
might buy one with the money saved from his salary."
"He is also thinking of buying some lots near Prospect Park."
"How did you learn this?" asked the merchant, surprised.
"I would rather not tell you," said Frank, who was not quite sure
whether Mr. Hartley would sanction his examination of a private letter.
"You may be sure that it is true."
"Very well; I will rest contented with that assurance. I will leave you
to work in your own way. Your information is important, for it seems to
show that Mr. Haynes has made investments beyond his ability, if he were
dependent upon his savings alone."
"That is what I thought," said Frank. "I must try to find out where he
gets this extra money."
"If you do that, and prove my suspicions correct, I will make you a
handsome present, besides paying the company regular rates for your
services."
"Thank you, sir. I will try to earn your gifts."
CHAPTER XXII.
FOLLOWING UP A CLUE.
This is not a detective story, and I shall not, therefore, detail the
steps by which our young hero succeeded in tracing out the agency of
Haynes in defrauding the firm by which he was employed. It required not
one week, but three, to follow out his clues, and qualify himself to
make a clear and intelligible report to Mr. Hartley. He had expressly
requested the merchant not to require any partial report, as it might
interfere with his working unobserved. Towards the end of the third week
he asked an interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Well, Frank," said the merchant, familiarly, "who is the rogue?"
"Mr. Haynes," answered our hero.
"You speak confidently," said his employer; "but surmise will not do. I
want proof, or I cannot act."
"I will tell you what I have discovered," said Frank; "and I leave you
to judge for yourself."
"Have you a customer in Hartford named Davis?" he asked.
"Yes; and a very good customer. He is frequent in his orders, and makes
prompt payments. I wish I had more like him."
"If you had more like him you would soon be bankrupt," said Frank,
quietly.
"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Hartley, in genuine surprise. "How can a
customer who buys largely, and pays promptly, be undesirable?"
"Did you know that Mr. Davis is a brother-in-law of Mr. Haynes?"
"No; but even if he is I have to thank Mr. Haynes for securing me so
excellent a customer."
Hartley spoke confidently, evidently believing that Frank was on the
wrong tack.
"I have noticed," said Frank, "that when goods are packed to go to Mr.
Davis, Mr. Haynes personally superintends the packing, and employs one
particular man to pack."
"What then?"
"I think he has something to conceal."
"I don't understand what he can have to conceal. If Davis is his
brother-in-law, it is natural that he should feel a special interest in
filling his orders."
"I shouldn't wonder if Mr. Haynes were a partner as well as a
brother-in-law of Mr. Davis."
Mr. Hartley looked surprised.
"That may be true; though I don't know why you should conjecture it.
Admitting that you are right, I don't know that I have any right to
object. I should like it better, however, if I were frankly told by Mr.
Haynes of this circumstance."
"I will tell you what I think I have discovered," continued Frank. "The
cases that are shipped to Mr. Davis not only contain the goods he has
ordered, but valuable silks that he has not ordered, and does not
propose to pay for."
"I see, I see," exclaimed Mr. Hartley, a light dawning upon him for the
first time. "I was stupid not to comprehend your meaning earlier. What
warrant have you for suspecting this?"
"First, your steady losses of goods; next, the ease with which Mr.
Haynes, in his position of trust, could carry out this plan. Why should
he superintend the packing of Mr. Davis's goods, alone of all your
customers?"
"There is weight in what you say, Frank. You are certainly an
extraordinary boy. You have shown so much shrewdness that I now ask your
advice. What steps shall I take to ascertain whether Mr. Haynes is
really guilty of what we suspect him?"
"There is an order now being filled for Mr. Davis," answered Frank.
"When the order is filled, can't you open the case, and find out whether
the contents correspond exactly to the bill?"
"The very thing. To facilitate matters I will send Mr. Haynes to
Brooklyn on a confidential errand. Fortunately there is a matter that
will give me a good excuse for doing so. Go back to your post, and when
Mr. Haynes appears to be at liberty send him to me."
Half an hour later Mr. Haynes entered the counting room of his
employer.
"You sent for me, sir?" he said, a little uneasily; for, when conscience
accuses, the mind is always apprehensive.
"Yes, Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, in his usual tone. "Have you any
objection to go to Brooklyn for me, on a confidential errand?"
"None in the world, sir," said Haynes, relieved. "I shall be glad to
take the trip this fine morning. It is almost too pleasant to remain
in-doors."
"Thank you; I will give you your instructions, and shall be glad to have
you go at once."
It is not necessary to our story that we should know the nature of the
errand on which Haynes was sent. It served the purpose of getting him
out of the way.
When the suspected clerk was fairly on his way Mr. Hartley went to the
packing-room, and looked about him till he discovered the case addressed
to
    H. L. DAVIS & CO.,
    HARTFORD, CONN.
"Open this case," said he to one of the workmen. "There was a mistake
recently in sending some goods to Davis, and I wish to compare these
with the bill."
"I think they are all right, sir," said the man addressed. "Mr. Haynes
saw them packed."
"Mr. Haynes will not be responsible for any mistake," said Mr. Hartley.
"I would rather see for myself."
The case was opened, and the merchant discovered about two hundred
dollars' worth of silk, which was not included in the bill.
"Go and call Mr. Hunting," said Mr. Hartley, quietly.
Mr. Hunting filled one of the most important positions in the
establishment. To him his employer explained the nature of his
discovery.
"Mr. Hunting," he said, "I wish you to see and attest the fraud that has
been attempted upon me. This case was packed under the special charge of
Mr. Haynes."
"Is it possible that Mr. Haynes knew of this?" exclaimed his
fellow-clerk.
"Davis is his brother-in-law," said Mr. Hartley, significantly.
"Has this been going on long, do you think, sir?"
"For several years, I suspect. Mr. Haynes has, no doubt, found it very
profitable."
"Shall I close up the case again, sir?" asked the workman.
"Yes, but it is not to go. You may await my further orders."
The silk was taken out, and replaced in the silk department.
"So much has been saved, at least," said the merchant.
"When Mr. Haynes comes back," he said to the usher, "send him to me."
CHAPTER XXIII.
BROUGHT TO BAY.
Mr. Haynes had a private reason for accepting readily the commission to
visit Brooklyn. It occurred to him at once that it would give him an
excellent chance to call on his real-estate agent, and confer with him
upon future investments. For James Haynes had the comfortable
consciousness that he was a prosperous man. Month by month, and year by
year, he was adding largely to his gains, and while he was still a young
man he would be rich, if all went well.
Of course this meant if his peculations remained undiscovered. Why
should they not be? He plumed himself on the skill with which he managed
to rob his employer. He was no vulgar bungler to break into the store,
or enter into an alliance with burglars. Not he! The property he took
was carried off openly before Mr. Hartley's very eyes, and he knew
nothing of it. He did not even suspect that he was being robbed. This is
what Mr. Haynes thought; but, as we know, he was mistaken. Even now he
was in a net; but did not know it.
After attending to Mr. Hartley's commission Haynes went to see his
broker. The conversation he had with the broker was of a very
encouraging character. He was congratulated upon his investments, and
assured that they would pay him handsomely.
James Haynes returned from Brooklyn in a very pleasant mood.
"A year or two more of life as a clerk, and I will throw off the yoke,"
he said to himself. "I must be worth at least fifteen thousand dollars
now, apart from any rise in the value of my investments. When I reach
twenty-five thousand I will resign my position, and go to Europe. I
shall than possess an income adequate to my simple wants."
"Is Mr. Hartley in the counting-room?" he asked, as he reëntered the
store.
"Yes, sir, and he wishes to see you."
"Of course he wants to see me,--to hear my report."
The merchant looked up as Haynes entered the counting-room.
"So you are back?" he said, gravely.
"Yes, sir; I was detained a little, but I fulfilled my commission."
"That is well."
Here Haynes made his report. Mr. Hartley listened with an abstracted
air, for his thoughts were upon the defalcation of the man before him.
Finishing his statement, James Haynes turned to leave the office, but
his employer called him back.
"Wait a minute, Mr. Haynes," he said, gravely. "I wish to ask you one or
two questions."
"Certainly, sir."
"I believe we have transactions with a party in Hartford, with the
firm-name of H. L. Davis & Co.?"
"Yes, sir," said Haynes, starting and flushing a little.
"Is Mr. Davis a relative of yours?"
"Yes, sir. I wonder where he heard that?" Haynes asked himself. "Is
there any trouble? Is he behind in his payments?" inquired the clerk.
"No; he has always settled his bills with commendable promptness."
"I insisted on that," said Haynes, in a satisfied tone. "I didn't want
you to lose by any connection of mine."
"And you are quite sure that I have lost nothing by Mr. Davis?" demanded
the merchant, regarding Haynes intently.
The latter changed color.
"How is that possible," he inquired, "since he has met his payments
promptly?"
"You have personally seen to the packing of Mr. Davis's goods, I
believe, Mr. Haynes?"
"Well--generally," stammered the rather disconcerted clerk.
"At all events, you did so this morning?"
"Ye-es."
"After you started for Brooklyn, I had the case opened, and found some
patterns of silk not included in the bill."
"I suppose there was a mistake," said Haynes, turning pale.
"You think this has not happened before?"
"I am sure of it."
"Mr. Haynes," said his employer, sternly, "you may as well drop the mask
of innocence. I have been robbed systematically for the last three
years, and I now understand how it was done. You and Davis, between you,
have plundered me in an exceedingly ingenious manner. It will go hard
with you before a jury."
"You won't have me arrested!" exclaimed Haynes, his pallor indicating
his dismay.
"Why should I not?"
"You could prove nothing."
"I will take my chance of that. Have you nothing more to say?"
"I--though I do not admit that your charge is correct--I am willing to
make over to you the greater part of my property, to avoid the scandal
of a trial."
"That will not do, Mr. Haynes. Were I to accept this upon such a ground,
you could rightfully bring against me a charge of blackmail."
"What, then, are your terms?" asked Haynes, sullenly.
"You must write out a confession of your guilt, which I shall put among
my private papers, and not make public unless necessary, and in addition
you must make over to me property to the amount of ten thousand dollars.
It will not make up my losses, but I will accept it as restitution in
full."
Against this James Haynes most strongly protested, alleging that the sum
demanded was far beyond the amount of his purloinings; but finally he
yielded, being privately resolved to make his brother-in-law pay
one-half of the forfeiture.
"You will leave my service at the end of the week, Mr. Haynes," said his
employer, "and during next week you must attend to the transfer."
"How did he find out?" said Haynes to himself, as with grave face he
went about the duties of the place he was so soon to leave. "If I could
find out, I would have my revenge."
CHAPTER XXIV.
AN OPEN ENEMY.
Frank remained with Mr. Hartley till the guilty clerk left the
establishment. This was at the special request of the merchant, who did
not care to let Mr. Haynes suspect who had been instrumental in bringing
his guilt to light.
"I suppose you have no further use for me, now, Mr. Hartley?" said the
telegraph boy.
"Not at present, Frank," said his employer, kindly.
"Then I will report for duty at the telegraph office."
"Wait a moment. You have done me a great service."
"I am glad of that sir," answered Frank, modestly.
"You have shown uncommon shrewdness and intelligence."
Frank looked gratified, and expressed his thanks for the compliment.
"I want to make you a present, in addition to the wages which you
receive from the office," said Mr. Hartley.
"Thank you, sir."
Mr. Hartley drew from his desk a five-twenty government bond, of one
hundred dollars, and handed it to our hero.
"Do you mean all this for me?" asked Frank, quite overwhelmed by the
magnitude of the gift.
"It is not more than you deserve. I might have given you the money value
of the bond; but I give it to you in this shape, because I hope you will
keep it as an investment. It will yield you six dollars interest
annually in gold. I hope the time will come when you will have more
interest in the same way."
"I hope I shall, sir. I shall feel quite rich now."
"You are richer in the qualities which have won you this acknowledgment.
How do you like the telegraph service?"
"Very well, sir, for the present. It is much better than being a
newsboy."
"Exactly; but there are positions you would prefer?"
"Yes, sir; I would like to be in some mercantile business, where I might
work my way up. In a few years I shall be too old for a telegraph boy,
and then I shall be out of place."
"I will relieve your fears on that score. In six months I shall make
some changes in the list of employees. When that time comes I will find
a place for you."
"There is nothing I should like better, sir," said Frank, his face
flushing with pleasure.
"I am satisfied that you will make a useful and intelligent clerk. Until
I want you, remain where you are. The discipline of your present office
will do you no harm, but will help qualify you for usefulness and
success in the mercantile career."
"Thank you, sir. Now I have something to look forward to I shall work
much more cheerfully."
Frank went back to the office, and resumed his ordinary duties. One day
he was riding down Broadway in a stage, when he became sensible that he
had attracted the attention of a gentleman sitting opposite. This led
him to scan the face of the man who was observing him. He at once
recognized Mr. Haynes.
The stage was not full, and the latter came over, and took a seat next
to the telegraph boy.
"Isn't your name Frank Kavanagh?" he asked, abruptly.
"Yes, sir."
"Were you not for a short time in the employ of Mr. Hartley?"
"Yes," answered Frank, feeling embarrassed, for he knew that he was
suspected.
"I infer from your uniform that you have left Mr. Hartley."
"Yes."
"Why did you leave him?" asked Haynes, sharply.
"Because he had no further occasion for my services. Why did you
leave him?" asked Frank, in turn.
James Haynes colored, and looked angry. However, he answered the
question.
"I have other business views," he said, briefly.
"So have I."
The next question was also of an embarrassing character.
"Were you a telegraph boy before you entered Mr. Hartley's employ?"
"I was," answered Frank.
"Were you detailed for duty there?"
Our hero thought that he had answered questions enough by this time, and
signified as much to his questioner.
"If I had been," he said, "I shouldn't be permitted to inform a
stranger."
"I have particular reasons for asking the question," said Haynes.
"Then you can ask Mr. Hartley, or the superintendent of my office.
Good-morning, sir, I get out here."
Frank pulled the strap, and got out. But he was not rid of his
questioner. Haynes got out too, and walked beside our hero.
"I believe," he said, sternly, "that you were sent for to act as a spy
on me."
"What makes you think so?" asked the telegraph boy, looking him in the
eye.
"There was a difficulty between Mr. Hartley and myself, occasioned by a
base and groundless charge, concocted by some enemy. I believe that you
had something to do with this."
"I have brought no groundless charge against any one," said Frank.
"Did you make any report to Mr. Hartley in regard to me?"
"I must refer you to Mr. Hartley for information," said Frank. "I have
an errand in here;" and he entered a store in the lower part of
Broadway.
"There is no doubt about it," thought Haynes.
"That boy was a spy upon me. I have learned all I cared to. I owe you a
debt of gratitude for this, Frank Kavanagh, and mean to pay the debt."
When Frank came out he thought it possible that Haynes might be waiting
for him; but the disgraced clerk was gone.
"I suppose he would injure me if he had a chance," thought the telegraph
boy. "I won't give him the chance if I can help it."
CHAPTER XXV.
WHAT THE OLD TRUNK CONTAINED.
Mention has been made of an old trunk belonging to Frank's father,
which, had been forwarded to him from the country by his Uncle Pelatiah.
It may be mentioned here that our hero's father had been agent of a
woollen mill in a large manufacturing town. For a considerable number of
years he had been in receipt of a handsome salary, and had lived in good
style, but still within his income. He was naturally supposed to possess
a comfortable property.
His death was sudden. He was thrown from a carriage, and, striking his
head upon the curbstone, was picked up senseless, and died unconscious.
Upon examining into his affairs his administrator was unable to find any
property beyond what was needed to pay the few debts he left behind him.
So it came about that Frank was left a penniless orphan. His Uncle
Pelatiah was his nearest relative, and to him he was sent. Pelatiah
Kavanagh was not a bad man, nor was he intentionally unkind; but he was
very close. All his life he had denied himself, to save money; and in
this he had been ably assisted by his wife, who was even closer and
meaner than her husband. It may readily be supposed that it was very
disagreeable to both husband and wife to have a penniless nephew thrown
upon their care and protection.
"How could your brother be so thoughtless and inconsiderate as to use up
all his money, and leave his son destitute? Didn't he have a handsome
income?"
"Yes," said Pelatiah. "He got two thousand dollars a year, and maybe
more."
"You don't say so!" ejaculated his wife. "He'd ought to have saved
two-thirds of it. I declare it's scandalous for a man to waste his
substance in that way."
"My brother was allus free with his money. He wasn't so keerful as you
and I be."
"I should think not, indeed. We don't begin to spend half as much as he
did, and now he comes upon us to support his child."
"It don't seem right," said Pelatiah.
"Right? It's outrageous!" exclaimed Mrs. Kavanagh, energetically. "I
declare I have no patience with such a man. It would only be right to
send this boy Frank to the poor-house."
"The neighbors would talk," protested Pelatiah, who was half inclined to
accept his wife's view, but was more sensitive to the criticism of the
community in which he lived.
"Let 'em talk!" said his more independent helpmate. "It isn't right that
this boy should use up the property that we have scraped together for
his cousin Jonathan."
"We must keep him for a while, Hannah; but I'll get rid of him as soon I
can consistently."
With this Mrs. Kavanagh had to be satisfied; but, during her nephew's
stay of two months in the farm-house, she contrived to make him
uncomfortable by harsh criticisms of his dead father, whom he had
tenderly loved.
"You must have lived very extravagant," she said, "or your father would
have left a handsome property."
"I don't think we did, Aunt Hannah."
"You father kept a carriage,--didn't he?"
"Yes; he had considerable riding to do."
"How much help did he keep?"
"Only one servant in the kitchen, and a stable-boy."
"There was no need of a boy. You could have done the work in the
stable."
"I was kept at school."
"Oh, of course!" sneered his aunt. "You must be brought up as a young
gentleman. Our Jonathan never had any such chances, and now you're
livin' on him, or about the same. I suppose you kept an extravagant
table too. What did you generally have for breakfast?"
So Aunt Hannah continued her catechising, much to Frank's discomfort.
She commented severely upon the wastefulness of always having pastry for
dinner.
"We can't afford it," she said, emphatically; "but then again we don't
mean to have our Jonathan beholden to anybody in case your uncle and I
are cast off sudden. What did you have for dinner on Sunday?"
"Meat and pudding and ice-cream,--that is, in warm weather."
"Ice-cream!" ejaculated Aunt Hannah, holding up both hands. "No wonder
your father didn't leave nothin'. Why, we don't have ice-cream more'n
once a year, and now we can't afford to have it at all, since we've got
another mouth to feed."
"I am sorry that you have to stint yourself on my account," replied
Frank, feeling rather uncomfortable.
"I suppose it's our cross," said Mrs. Kavanagh, gloomily; "but it does
seem hard that we can't profit by our prudence because of your father's
wasteful extravagance."
Such remarks were very disagreeable to our young hero, and it was hard
for him to hear his father so criticised. He supposed they must have
lived extravagantly, since it was so constantly charged by those about
him, and he felt puzzled to account for his father's leaving nothing.
When, after two months, his uncle and aunt, who had deliberated upon
what was best to be done, proposed to him to go to New York and try to
earn his own living, he caught at the idea. He knew that he might suffer
hardships in the new life that awaited him, but if he could support
himself in any way he would escape from the cruel taunts to which he was
now forced to listen every day. How he reached the city, and how he
succeeded, my readers know. We now come to the trunk, which, some time
after its reception, Frank set about examining.
He found it was filled with clothing belonging to his father. Though a
part were in good condition it seemed doubtful whether they would be of
much service to him. It occurred to him to examine the pockets of the
coats. In one he found a common yellow envelope, bearing his father's
name. Opening it, he found, to his great astonishment, that it was a
certificate of railroad stock, setting forth his father's ownership of
one hundred shares of the capital stock of the said railway.
Our hero was greatly excited by his discovery. This, then, was the form
in which his father had invested his savings. What the shares were worth
he had no idea; but he rejoiced chiefly because now he could defend his
father from the charge of recklessly spending his entire income, and
saving nothing. He resolved, as soon as he could find time, to visit a
Wall-street broker, by whom he had occasionally been employed, and
inquire the value of the stock. Two days afterwards the opportunity
came, and he availed himself of it at once.
"Can you tell me the value of these shares, Mr. Glynn?" he asked.
"They are quoted to-day at one hundred and ten," answered the broker,
referring to a list of the day's stock quotations.
"Do you mean that each share is worth a hundred and ten dollars?" asked
Frank, in excitement.
"Certainly."
"Then the whole are worth five thousand five hundred dollars?"
"Rather more; for the last semi-annual dividend has not been collected.
To whom do they belong?"
"They did belong to my father. Now I suppose they are mine."
"Has your father's estate been administered upon?"
"Yes; but these shares had not then been found."
"Then some legal steps will be necessary before you can take possession,
and dispose of them. I will give you the address of a good lawyer, and
advise you to consult him at once."
Frank did so, and the lawyer wrote to Uncle Pelatiah to acquaint him
with the discovery. The news created great excitement at the farm.
"Why, Frank's a rich boy!" ejaculated Aunt Hannah.
"And my brother wasn't so foolishly extravagant as we supposed."
"That may be; but with his salary we could have saved more."
"Perhaps we might; but these shares are worth almost six thousand
dollars. That's a good deal of money, Hannah."
"So it is, Pelatiah. I'll tell you what we'd better do."
"What?"
"Invite Frank to come back and board with us. He can afford to pay
handsome board, and it seems better that the money should go to us than
a stranger."
"Just so, Hannah. He could board with us, and go to school."
"You'd better write and invite him to come. I allus liked the boy, and
if we could have afforded it, I'd have been in favor of keepin' him for
nothing."
"So would I," said his uncle; and he probably believed it, though after
what had happened it will be rather difficult for the reader to credit
it.
The letter was written, but Frank had no desire to return to the old
farm, and the society of his uncle's family.
"I have got used to the city," he wrote, "and have made a good many
friends here. I don't know yet whether I shall take a business position,
or go to school; but, if the latter, the schools here are better than in
the country. I hope to come and see you before long; but, I would prefer
to live in New York."
"He's gettin' uppish," said Aunt Hannah, who was considerably
disappointed, for she had made up her mind just how much they could
venture to charge for board, and how this would increase their annual
savings.
"I suppose it's natural for a boy to prefer the city," said his uncle.
"If the boy has a chance to handle his money there won't be much of it
left by the time he's twenty-one," said Aunt Hannah. "You ought to be
