Caroline buy things for nobody's behoof but  my 
own. I remonstrated, but she told me she was 
spending nothing. Gloves, beautiful gloves, several pairs, of different tints and colours; handkerchiefs ; cravats and neck ribbands ; collars and laces ; 
boots and shoes. Then she went into a milliner's 
and bought me a new bonnet. We were all the 
morning about it, in the course of which I saw a 
good deal of Philadelphia. Then, as soon as lunch 
was over, we set about trying on dresses, and doing 
the little that was needful to make one of them fit 
me. At dinner Mr. Birkenstall asked me how I 
felt? 

" I feel guilty," I said. " Caroline has spent the 
whole day upon me and my dress." 

" I presume she would have felt guilty if she had 
not done it," he returned. " Don't you know, Desire, that the principal business of a woman is to 
dress herself ? " 

"No," said I, bluntly. 

"Your education is not finished." 

"What is the purpose of her dressing herself, 
then?" 

" Ah," said Mr. Birkenstall smiling, " do you ask 
me that? I am curious to see how things will 
approve themselves to your judgment. Wait till 
after Mrs. Marshall's party; and then you shall tell 
me what you think is the answer to your own 
question." 

So to-morrow comes the party; and I suppose I
shall learn several things, besides that. 






Sep. 8. 

IT is over, and I will tell about it. 
Caroline dressed me in a white muslin, prettier 
than anything I ever had on in my life; it was 
ruffly and fleecy, and looped with blue knots hero 
and there, and she said I looked very nice. For 
me, I did not know myself; and when we joined 
Mr. Birkenstall down stairs, I certainly felt like 
Cinderella in the fairy tale after the wand of her 
fairy godmother had been waved over her. Sandie 
looked at me approvingly. 

"Will she do?" said Caroline. "The hat fits 
her, don't you think ? " 

It was a Leghorn flat, with a blue ribband. I 
would have liked a black ribband better, but my 
sister said for this afternoon it must be blue. 

" She will do," said Sandie. " I am going to be 
very curious to know all the new impressions De 
sire will have received before the evening is over." 

Caroline laughed, and we went at once to Mrs. 
Marshall's. 

There is no doubt but the new impressions of that 
day were various. First came delight and wonder. 
The favourable weather continuing, warm, spicy, 
and dry, all the world was in summer attire ; and 
it gave the scene an inexpressibly pretty character. Mrs. Marshall's grounds are ample, nicely 
laid out, perfectly well kept ; there was an abundance of pleasant shade, groves of ornamental trees, 



 

copses, clumps of shrubbery, beds of gay flowers 
and stretches of well shaven green turf. Every 
where seats were placed ; in every shady spot, in 
every nice point for seeing anything pretty ; and 
as we entered the grounds the picture they presented was an exceedingly gay and lively one. It 
looked at first sight as if the flowers had forsaken 
their sphere and taken to walking and promenad 
ing. What I would have liked now would have 
been an invisible cap, and liberty to wander about 
and look at everybody and everything ; but of 
course nothing of the kind was to be thought of. 
I could as little be free as invisible. 

My next experience was a gentleman whom Mrs. 
Marshall charged with the care of me. She told 
him I was a stranger, and confided it to him to 
shew me the grounds. So we set out. But I could 
see nothing half so well with him as without him. 
He was a middle-aged man, a little bald, with 
rather prominent light blue eyes; and I thought 
he did not exactly know what to do with me. At 
least he did not know what to say to me ; and I 
did not know what to say to him. The sense of 
this became so painful to me that I could neither 
see or enjoy in any direction, for thinking that I 
ought to talk ; when I could not talk. Mr. Stone, 
that was his name, remarked indeed once that it 
was very warm; to which of course I assented, as 
it was impossible to dispute it; and then he said 
that it was a pretty scene, which was likewise undeniable; I could only endorse his opinion. Then 



 

he asked me if I would like to look at the croquet 
players; and I said yes; but when we came to the 
croquet ground nobody was playing. A game had 
been played and finished ; the balls and cues were 
lying idly about. Mr. Stone and I walked on. I 
was so sorry for him that I forgot to be sorry for 
myself. At last I sat down to rest on a sofa giv 
ing a pretty view of the lawn and the house; and 
Mr. Stone took post beside me like a sentinel. 
Then a loophole of escape for himself and for me 
(I suppose) suggested itself; he asked me suddenly 
if I would not like some refreshment ? I hesitated, 
and he went on to say eagerly, there was a refreshment tent on the lawn at the other side of the 
house. I was as glad as he was to know it ; and 
we went there. 

We found a very large, long tent, in which a 
long table stood full of everything tempting. I 
took what my companion offered me, just to give 
him and myself some change and the fiction of being occupied with something. Must I be a bur 
den on him the whole afternoon, I wondered? 
But no ; that was not to be. Our hostess came up, 
and gave Mr. Stone another commission ; introduced 
to me a Mr. Francis, and then flitted away again. 
Seeing that I was taking an ice, Mr. Francis also 
took one, and we stood beside one another, plying 
our spoons. 

My new friend was a new variety; I saw that 
immediately. He was a younger man, very tall 
and slender, but not at a loss what to do with his 



 

length of limb; not in the least awkward; very 
well dressed; with an air of general acquaintance 
with everything in the world which it is very difficult to describe and impossible to explain. I do 
not mean that he was conceited; the knowledge 
was genuine ; how I came to see that he had it, I 
cannot tell, but I got the impression almost immediately. I think he was what the books call "a 
fine gentleman." I got the impression too that he 
was surveying me, and I have a small guess at the 
result of his survey. 

His first remark was that the afternoon was very 
warm. 

" Luckily for Mrs. Marshall," I said. 

" Why, if you please ? " 

" I fancy the scene would not be so pretty if people could not come out in their summer dresses." 

"You find it pretty, then?" 

"Very pretty." 

" You think ladies look better in summer than in 
winter?" 

"More like flowers," I answered, glancing at 
him; for I wondered if he thought me a niriny 

"More like flowers," he repeated. "I do not see 
any difference. I am always in a garden of roses 
when I see a collection of ladies." 

"Philadelphia must be a wonderful place then 
for beauty," I answered, not knowing how to interpret the glance with which he said this. 

" Don't you know it is ? " 

" I am a stranger here, and cannot tell." 



 

"Have you been to the river side?" 

"No." 

"Let us go." 

He gave me his arm and we strolled away, tak 
ing a direction that I had not followed before. 
The scene was indeed very pretty. As the sun 
got lower the lights were more picturesque and 
gay flitting figures in all the colours of the rain 
bow made a sort of kaleidoscope variety. 

" What do you think of garden parties ? " my com 
panioii began again. Now Caroline had told me 
not to say that I had never been to one before ; so 
I hesitated. He went on. 

"I hope Mrs. Marshall will give us a dance by 
and by. Do you like dancing?" 

" I have never tried it." 

" Never tried ! But you are going to try ? " 

"I think not." dear, this was worse than Mr. 
Stone. I thought of jEsop's fable, and wished for 
my King Log again. 

"What can have deprived so pleasant an amuse 
ment of the favour of one so fitted to enjoy it and 
make others enjoy?" 

" I suppose, Mr. Francis, it would not have your 
favour, if you could not acquit yourself in it to 
your satisfaction." 

"Is that the reason?" he asked laughing. 

" No, it is not the reason. I never go to balls." 

"Have you heard Tricarelli? " 

"No. I do not know who he is." 

"Not know Tricarelli? What a. pleasure before 


you! She is the famous new prima donna. Are 
you fond of music ? " 

" Some sorts," I said ; feeling vaguely that my 
sorts would not be his. 

" Well, you go to the opera ? " 

"No." 

" You will go ? " 

" I think not. I go to nothing of the kind." 

"Why not?" he inquired, looking down at me. 
" May my curiosity ask ? " 

"I am a country girl, Mr. Francis, and under 
stand none of your city ways." 

"I am sure you understand everything that is 
good," he said carelessly. And I ain sure you 
don t, went through my head. 

We were passing through an open grove of locust trees, where the ground was nicely kept, and 
winding paths invited one in every direction. The 
lights and shades under the trees were beautiful. 
By and by I saw water appearing between the 
branches and leaves, and then in a minute we 
came out upon the bank of the river. Seats were 
placed here too, as everywhere, but we were almost 
alone; the croquet ground and the refreshment 
pavilion had attracted all the world another way. 
Mr. Francis asked me if I would rest, and I sat 
down on one of the settees fronting the river. The 
lights from the clouds were reflected in the water 
the trees and banks shewed double; the soft rich 
colours, the fair sky, made a sweet picture. If I 
had but been alone! 



 

"This is a painter's colouring," said Mr. Francis. 
" Do you paint ? " 

"No." - -I was beginning to feel most miserably my 
ignorance of everything my companion knew, my 
ignorance of everything in the world; the intense 
contraction of my range of thought as compared with 
his. And yet, I had a world too, equally unknown 
to him ; but neither of us could talk to the other 
of what each knew. We had nothing in common. 

"This is also an evening to tempt a poet. Who's your favourite ? " 

" My favourite poet ? " 

" I was so bold as to ask that ? " 

"I have not read much. I believe Milton is my 
favourite." 

" Milton ! Paradise Lost ? " 

"Yes, that especially." 

"Do you mean," said he, sitting down now beside me, "that you believe in all that paraphernalia of devils and angels ? You, with so gentle a 
mouth, and such wise eyes ? " 

I thought my gentleman had no business to tell 
me about my mouth and eyes, and that he deserved 
a setting down; but I could not give it him. I 
did not know how. I defended myself with si 
lence, but everybody knows that is a very insufficient defence. 

" You don't believe in a personal devil, for in 
stance ? " Mr. Francis went on. I knew he was 
laughing at me in a polite way. I answered how 
ever,- - 



 

"Why not?" 

"Why not? Why because one should alwayp 
believe the best. Don't you think so? Who ever 
saw a devil? And you you have certainly had 
nothing to do but with the angels, ever since you 
drew the breath of this world." 

"Who ever saw an angel?" I returned coolly. 

At this moment a party came by, whom my 
companion started up to greet. These were people of his own sort. They understood one another ; 
the encounter was very lively, and the badinage 
on both sides very spirited; the ladies rallied him 
for not having sought them out, and he declared 
himself bound in flowery chains and a captive. I
think he thought the little country girl would not 
follow his meaning. They parted with an agree 
ment to meet presently in another quarter of the 
grounds. Mr. Francis sat down again. I felt very 
uncomfortable; sorry for him, and sorry for myself. I was a terribly stupid companion for him ; 
and he could not get rid of me! I meditated, how 
I could set him free. 

After a minute he asked me if I was rested ? if 
I would like to walk ? 

" I would rather be quiet here a little longer," 
i said. " But if you will go and join your friends, 
Mr. Francis, I can find my way quite well alone." 

" You are not dismissing me ? " he said. 

" Not at all ; only unbinding your chains." 

" Don't you know, that is sometimes the cruel 
lest unkindness you can do to a man ? " 



 

" Unbinding his chains ? " 

"Yes, when the chains are regarded as a distinction." 

" This is not one of those cases," said I, with 
laughter which I could not help. " I know the care 
of me is keeping you from your friends. Please 
do not let me keep you." 

" You do me the honour to speak of my friends. 
I will confess. I do not believe in friends, any 
more than I do in devils." 

" I am sorry for you." 

" It would be delightful to have you sorry for 
me." 

" I am quite serious, Mr Francis. I am not at 
all afraid to be left alone. Consider me a country 
girl, used to take care of herself; and go and rejoin 
your companions." 

" Leave you here alone ! " said he. " Heavens 
and earth ! what should I deserve. If you heard 
me mention chains a while ago, you heard me 
mention that they were chains of flowers ; not only 
distinction, but pleasure. I shall wear no others 
so willingly this evening." 

The light, careless, superior way in which this 
was said, and looked, was very unendurable to 
me. Not that the man was rude ; he was not rude ; 
but I could read him better than he knew. Ho 
thought I was a little country girl and could not 
read him; but I saw he was partly amused and 
wholly bored. I did not like precisely to furnish 
him stuff for either experience. 





" I beg you will leave me ! " I repeated. 

" That is impossible ; but Ah, here comes somebody. Good evening! Miss Burgoyne, since you 
dismiss me, may I give you into the charge of 
this gentleman, a friend of mine ? Mr. Iredell, 
let me present you to Miss Burgoyne. She expresses a wish to rest, and I am under the necessity of putting in an appearance elsewhere. I 
will trust you to see that she gets safe back to 
the house." 

He handed me over as easily as if I had been a 
parcel ; I do not know whether he would have been 
as careless about a parcel. He raised his hat and 
was gone ; and I looked anxiously at the stranger 
to see what sort of new protection I was to expect. 
However, the very first words reassured me, and I 
breathed freer. 

What a subtle difference there is in manner. In 
Borne things these two men were not unlike. They 
were both, I judge, about of an age ; they were both 
gentlemen, in one way; they both knew the world; 
they h A both travelled; neither of them, I should 
think, was a bad man ; both had great ease of manner. And yet, the ease of Mr. Francis set me on 
thorns; while the ease of Mr. Iredell seemed to put 
every annoying thing at an infinite distance from 
me. I had been like a bird with feathers all ruffled 
by fright or anger; and suddenly the ruffled plu 
mage was smooth, and I was as calm as if I had 
been in my own nest, instead of Mrs. Marshall's 
garden party. 



 

Mr. Iredell had understood that I wished to be 
quiet; so he made no move to go from the spot. 
He sat down and began to talk. Well, Mr. Francis 
had begun to talk, too, but we could not got on ; 
now it went as easily as oiled machinery. Of what 
did we not talk! Mr. Iredell told me about the 
Bavarian Alps, among which he had rambled; he 
described the scenery; he detailed the manners and 
habits of the people. From them we got naturally 
to the Dolomite mountains of the Rienz valley, (I 
don't in the least know where the Rienz valley is.) 
And I listened as if I were listening to a fairy tale, so 
wild and strange and unearthly the story sounded. 
Of the barren wilderness, the utterly dead world, 
the rocks cleft and riven into shafts and battlements and towers, only towers with no light to 
them; and of the stone pines which once green 
and glorious now stand upon the stone heaps and 
stretch their skeleton arms over the waste, bearing 
testimony of the life that once was and the death 
that reigns now in those solitudes. Mr. Iredell had 
seen them himself and could describe them well ; 
and he told me about the daring climbers that get 
to the top of those sheer dolomite pinnacles, and 
how they do it. I suppose he saw that I was interested, for he went on, from one thing to another. 
He had travelled much in Switzerland. I had read 
about Switzerland ; but it is quite another thing to 
look in the face of somebody who has been there 
and tells you with his own mouth what his own 
eyes have seen. He told me, moreover, things 



 

had never heard or read before; not only detaila 
of the scenery, but details of the people's life, and 
their character and manners and superstitions; especially in the German Alps. One story I recall 
particularly. It seems it is an article of their faith, 
that the great glaciers are a place of purgatory for 
the departed, where they are gradually purified not 
by fire but by frost. So many times they must be 
all frozen up, before the work is done and they can 
be released. 

"And they believe this?" I asked. 

"Not only believe it, but they think they can 
hear sometimes the sounds that come either from 
these weary souls or from the clinking of their ice- 
fringed garments. Don't you know what peculiar 
sounds are given out from large masses of ice in 
winter, even in our latitudes ? " 

"No. I do not think I do." 

" You have not been where you could hear them. 
But in the neighbourhood of one of those great 
glaciers the noises are exceedingly weird and startling, arising from the combined effects of frost 
and of the glacier's motion." 

" Then they move ? How can they ? " 

" They must They are forced onward and downward by the pressure of the upper portions, con 
stantly reinforced by new masses forming from the 
reservoirs of snow. They are just rivers of ice, 
making their way slowly down through the bed 
they have found for themselves, till they reach 
lower ground at a point where the melting just 



 

keeps pace with the amount of ice supplied by the 
daily motion or flow. Are you tired? Shall I tell 
you one of the people's purgatory legends?" 

"Pray do ! I should like to hear it very mncn." 

"It takes me back there again. Well Iliere 
was a young Swiss fellow once upon a time who 
was a devotee of the dance. Nothing in all the 
world he liked so well. Do you dance ? " 

"Mr. Francis was very much astonished al me, 
that I declared I did not." 

"Mr. Francis is a good dancer himself. How 
ever, he is not near loving it as my Swiss boy did. 
He danced whenever he could dance. He would 
give up anything else for an opportunity of dancing. Of course he was well known and much 
sought after to be a member of the company at all 
merry-makings. At some of these he became acquainted with a girl of like mind with himself; 
she liked nothing so well as the dance; and they 
danced together, till they danced into an affection 
and a betrothal. What do you think of such 
matches ? " 

"Do people, other people, make such matches?" 

"Excuse me, I am very impertinently wondering in what part of the world you have lived?" 
Mr. Iredell said with humourous gravity. 

" In no part," I said. " I have not lived in the 
world at all." 

" So I should suppose. Take it from your independent standpoint then. What should you think 
of such matches ? " 



 

"Very good," said I gravely, "if people 
nothing to do but dance." 

" I am tempted to ask you, what beside have 
people to do ? " 

" I don't know what you have to do," I said, 
smiling at the oddity of the question. " For me, 
I have to help my sister take care of our old 
grandmother." 

" And your heart has no sympathy with my Swiss 
boy's and Swiss girl's longing for the waltz ? " 

"I might say no and l yes. I love pleasure, 
as well as other people, Swiss or American. Dancing does not seem to me the highest pleasure in 
the world. But besides that Mr. Iredell, I am 
a Christian." 

"What then?" said he with a pleasant look. 
"You surely know that the amusement you de 
cline is practised by nearly all that call them 
selves Christians ? " 

"Not in our village. And, of course I am no 
rule for others, but since you ask me, I always 
remember those words, Whatsoever ye do, ... do 
all in the name of the Lord Jesus ; and when I 
have been invited to dancing parties, a few times, 
and wanted to go, I never could see how I could 
go in his name. So I staid at home." 

I looked at Mr. Iredell as I said this, to see how 
he would take it; and I did not quite know. He 
was silent and his eyes cast down, and the look 
was steadfast, but at the same time had a kind of 
peculiar light in it. Then he asked if I would like 



 

to hear the rest of his story? I said, " yes, if he 
pleased ! " 

"My two young Swiss were alike in their su 
preme devotion to the dance. So they danced 
wherever they could, whenever they met. Their 
courtship was dancing, whatever their life might 
turn out to be. But the life never came to them 
together. The girl caught cold at a merry-making, 
and died. 

"Then her lover was desolate. Dancing was 
ended, and everything else, for him; he avoided 
society and lived alone as much as he could. Neither did his sorrow give way with time, or any 
thing induce him to change his solitary manner of 
life. His love was true love, you see. A long time 
passed. One summer he was employed in cutting 
wood high up on the mountain ; and while so employed had his home in a retired little hamlet, like 
wise high up on the mountain, near the regions 
of perpetual snow and ice. This little hamlet was 
deserted as well as retired; forsaken perhaps be 
cause of its exposed situation and great severity of 
climate ; at any rate it had long had no inhabitants. 
He lived in it alone. Therefore he was greatly surprised one evening on returning late from work, to 
see that the window-shutters of a ruined old house 
opposite his hut were open, light was pouring out 
from them, and the gay notes of a violin floated 
merrily out on the air. Moreover, the music was 
dance music, festive and merry. Many a day 
was it since the fellow had heard a violin; and 



 

now lie listened, and his foot beat time involuntarily ; and at last he could not stand it any longer ; 
he must see what was going on, even if he took 
no part. Of course he would take no part. He 
tipped over the road on the ends of his toes, saw 
that the house door was not quite shut, pushed it 
open, found the inner door also manageable, and 
peeped in. The room was fully lighted, though 
he could see neither fire nor candles; the illumi 
nation seemed to come from the dancers, who 
were whirling round the room in a wild, furious 
waltz. Yet every face was pale and grave and 
earnest, as if it had been a sad rather than a mer 
ry occasion that they were celebrating. They were 
dressed in old-fashioned costumes ; but the looker-
on could hear now and then between the notes of 
the violin, a singular clicking and clashing, as of 
bits of ice together; and then, looking more narrowly, he observed that the dresses and even the 
hair of the company were hung full of little icicles, 
and their very fingers had the appearance of having been turned to water crystals. There was no 
noise but that of the music and the ice clinking ; no 
voices made themselves heard; the revelry was as 
still as it was wild." 

" Where did the music come from ? " 
" yes, the music ! Two musicians sat upon the 
stove, in which there was no fire, and played; one 
an odd little humpbacked figure, with a violin, the 
other handling a bass viol. Among all the dancers 
the young man noticed one in particular; a tall figure of a girl, whose face he could not see; she wore 
a long white robe and in her hair was a glittering 
chaplet. He could not see her face, yet something 
about the figure seemed strangely familiar ; he 
could not turn his eyes away from her. Sudden 
ly she faced him, and the young man shrank back 
with a cry of horror; it was the face of his bridn 
whom he had lost." 

" Were they married ? " 

" No, but the Germans call a lady a bride before 
her wedding, instead of after; from the time of 
her betrothal. The poor young man gave way 
and fled ; ran over the road, shut himself up in his 
hut, and covered himself up in his bed ; but as you 
may suppose, he was unable to sleep. His limbs 
shook, his horror was like a cold bath; he could 
not get out of his ears the sound of the music and 
of the clinking flakes of ice. Hours may have 
gone by; and then he was conscious of a bright 
light that was filling his own little room. He took 
his head from under the bedclothes and watched, 
full of fear, as he saw the light in a sort gather itself into form and substance and assume the out 
lines of a human shape. He guessed who it must 
be, and shuddering closed his eyes. But now he 
heard the clink of the ice flakes again, close to his 
bed; his coverlet was gently drawn back and an 
icy hand passed over his face. This was too much 
to bear; he started up and called out, In Heaven's 
name, who are you? Then he felt an icy kiss 
upon his lips. 



 

"According to the popular belief, spirits of the 
departed cannot begin a conversation with the living. But if they are spoken to, then they are per 
mitted to breathe human breath and to carry on 
a discourse with a living person, which may last 
from midnight to cockcrow. Also, the kiss of their 
lips takes away the fear naturally felt before then. 
So the way was smooth now for an interview. The 
apparition answered that she was his lost love; 
that she had come from the glacier; and that at 
this season she was obliged to come up here with 
the rest of her companions and dance. She in 
formed the young man that the sin of their life 
time formed their punishment in purgatory. How 
long I should have had to do penance, she went 
on, if you had not spoken to me! Now the salvation of us all depends upon you. Will you help 
us? 

" He answered with a solemn promise; and they 
talked together during the rest of the night. 

"Next day the young man went to see his priest. 
They had a long conference. When midnight 
came again, the two met at the church, went in, 
the priest fastened the doors on the inside; and 
what passed nobody knew, but when after a time 
they came out again, the young man's face was 
pale, but resolute and glad. From that day he 
had nothing more to do with merry-makings. He 
was a changed man. He spoke little, prayed much 
for the poor souls in the glacier, and did a great 
deal of good in the world. He remained unmarried 



 

till his death. After his death, the priest revealed 
what until then he had been obliged to keep secret. 
He told how that night in the church, after receiving the young man's confession, he had solemnly 
married him to the lady of his love. The bride 
had been invisible to the priest, but not so to the 
bridegroom, who had given his life to her to save 
her and her companions of dancing tendencies 
from the purgatory of the freezing glacier. What 
do you think of that for a story, Miss Burgoyne ? " 

I looked away, for I had been eagerly listening, 
and could not at first find an answer. 

"What do you say to such constancy? " 

" I do not think much of it. Any good and true 
man would do as much." 

"You think so?" 

"Do not you, Mr. Iredell?" 

"I am afraid it is rare. Men are selfish." 

"But true love seeks not her own. I am sure 
there are women, and men, who would give their 
lives, or the comfort and happiness of their lives, 
which is more, to secure those they love from 
great evil." 

And ask no return ? " 

No return but that fact. Why, you believe 
that, don't you?" 

" If the poor mountaineers of the German Alps 
believe it, why should not I ? " 

"Are you thinking that there is more truth 
among mountaineers than among people that live 
in low lands ? " 



 

I was not thinking that. But perhaps it is 
true." 

" 
" Why should it be true?" 

"I do not know; but there may be several reasons. The influence of grand nature scenes can 
not be without effect. And then life that is led in 
a mountainous country cannot be one of ease and 
dalliance." 

" But there are grand nature scenes everywhere, 
Mr. Iredell." 

" Quite true," said he with a quick light in his 
face. "That is quite true. But you have never 
seen the Alps ? " 

"No, I have never seen anything, except Long 
Island Sound. But then, why should ease of living 
extinguish truth and nobleness?" 

"Miss Burgoyne, experience has shewn that it 
is not good for people, taken in the mass and taken 
individually, to be exempt from the necessity of 
work, and even hard work. The command, or sen 
tence, given in the garden of Eden, condemning 
man to hard labour, was most beneficent and kind." 

"Thorns and thistles too!" said I. 

"Thorns and thistles too; as things are." 

" As things are ? " 

"Yes. I mean, with sin in the world." 

"Mr. Iredell, have you travelled also in warm 
countries? in the East?" 

"Yes, much." 

"And found the people not so good?" 

" We must beware of hasty judgments. Before 

one race can be compared fairly with another, very 
many things must be taken account of. Not only 
mountains and glaciers, or the absence of them; 
but religion, government, and education. In any 
case however, climate has a great deal to do. An 
Oriental bazar would be simply impossible in a cold 
country. So would an Oriental coffee house. And 
customs and manners act and react upon one an 
other." 

And then he went on to tell me of the first; a ba 
zui in an Eastern city. I shall never forget that
talk. It was as good as the Arabian Nights. I 
seemed to myself to be there, going through the 
streets of some Oriental wonderplace; with the 
warm colouring, the soft twilight, the hush of the 
great mart, in the midst of all its business. I saw 
the large courtyards, passed from time to time, 
where the camels were getting unloaded in the 
shade of the plane trees, and the idling Turks 
were sitting looking on. Then the little shops, all 
along the- Bazar ways; the Asiatic variety and odd 
ity and beauty of Ihe wares, which Mr. Iredell was 
so good as to describe to me; having, I suppose, a 
kindly sympathy for my womanish eagerness of 
curiosity. lie told me of embroidered cloths, mar 
vellous in pattern and execution; silk gauzes of 
rarest manufacture; inhiid weapons, and old china. 
I followed him in fancy, going on through one 
after another street or alley of the bazar; I drank 
almond milk with him nL a sort of little restaurant, 
and looked about me at the cook shops, the confectioner's ; saw the skewers full of bits of broiled mut 
ton, the honey cakes and the unleavened broad 
After that, we went in imagination to a seller of 
carpets, in the purely Turkish portion of the bazar ; 
where in a large, cool room the merchant's clerk 
gives us chairs, and delicate cups of coffee and cigarettes are brought, before we eriter upon the heavy 
business that has brought us there. And then the 
carpets! Turkey carpets, thick and soft and rich, 
of all sorts of colours, yet so mixed that the general 
tone is almost grave. Persian carpets, more brilliant and vivid. And after buying our carpets, on 
and on we went, through whole streets filled not 
only with one kind of shops, but the shops filled 
with only one or two kinds of ware. Think of a 
whole street of shops in which nothing is offered 
for sale but different kinds of fcz; and another 
with nothing to be seen but shoes; and another 
with silk scarfs and velvet jackets. 

"What a distance," said I at last, "between such 
a bazar, and one of our country stores ; where every 
thing is sold at once, from ).ork and candles to 
muslin and books ! " 

"And where there i&lt;s no one thing pleasant 
to look upon, or arranged with the smallest degree of the sense of beauty. While in an Oriental bazar almost every article is beautiful ; artistic 
in design, just and frequently exquisite in execution, and oftentimes absolutely wonderful in 
colour. Europeans cannot equal them; western 
imitations are unbearable. To go no further, the 



 

carpets and stuffs and embroideries and pottery 
forms, are studies of harmony and grace and sub 
dued splendour." 

" Is it just the difference between an old country 
and a new ? " said I, ruminating. 

" No, that will not do. European countries are 
not new. No, and it is not civilization. The fact is, 
that the children of Shem and the children of Ham 
are gifted with a luxurious sense of beauty in some 
things, such as the children of Japhet never had." 

" Are we the children of Japhet ? " 

"Yes." 

" And Europeans ? " 

" Certainly," said Mr. Iredell smiling. 

"I have never studied these things," said I. 
"But I thought Greek art and European art " 

" Right enough. The old Greeks had an high 
sense of beauty, both in nature and art. Yet it 
was rather intellectual and poetical than luxurious; it had little to do with colour. The art of 
the rest of Europe has been largely the outgrowth 
of religious feeling. Among all its painters there 
has been but one Titian. The children of Japhet 
are thinkers, in venters, originaters of progress, 
travellers; the children of Shem and Ham do not 
invent and do not make progress; they like to be 
still and enjoy. In. the levees of Indian princes 
to-day there is a daring and delicious use of colour, which not the most splendid of European 
courts can even rival." 

"I have never seen beautiful things," said I, 



 

coming back, "except the beautiful things of 
nature." 

"The models and patterns for all the rest," said 
Mr. Iredell. " If you have seen those your eye has 
been filled. And yet, between the country store 
you speak of, or a village fair, and the shows of 
an Eastern bazar, there is a wide, wide distance. 
That is like a small city; with its fountains, and 
even its mosques, and its public baths ; its most varied and most picturesque costumes, and its endless 
diverse kinds of merchandise; and beauty every 
where." 

"You have made me see it," I said. "I shall 
never forget it." 

"I have tired you, I fear? Never get an old 
traveller upon his rambles, if you do not want him 
to keep going. You see, I have forgotten myself." 

" I was going to say, I w r as afraid I had tired 
you," said I rising; " for you must have seen how 
I liked to listen." 

" Are you going ? " 

" Isn't it time ? " 

" Upon my word, I believe it must be," said he 
looking at the sky and then around him at the coloured lanterns, to which neither of us till now had 
paid much attention. In fact, we had been sitting 
with our backs to them, as I said, on a seat front 
ing the water ; from which the reflection of the sunset glow had long unheeded faded away. Now 
stars were out; and whun we rose up and turned 
about, we saw the grounds transformed into a 



 

gay, bright, witcliingly pretty wilderness of coloured lights and reflections. It was lovely; but 
I was sorry to turn from the quiet starlight in 
which we had been talking. I was sorry to go. 
It was time to go indeed. I was presently received and taken possession of by our hostess who 
informed me my sister was looking for me; and 
we came home. 



Sep. 9. 

I WAS up as early as usual the next morning, 
even earlier, eager to get dressed and sit down 
at my balcony door. I set the glass and the blind 
wide open and let the gentle morning air and sun 
light stream in. How glad I am of this glass door 
and balcony ! It is true, I see from it nothing so 
pretty as the heads of the old chestnut trees at 
home and the soft hilly outlines; but then I have 
no wish to see those just now ; I get instead a gay 
flash of all the c olours in the rainbow from the artemisias down in the garden. Pale yellow and or 
ange, lavender and rose and purple, copper brown 
