mind.
As for Sylvie Barry, she made up her mind never to go to Hope Terrace
again. The friendship was not of her seeking, and now it should end.
Friendship, indeed! It disgraced the word to use it in connection with
Irene Lawrence.
That very evening she went around to the Darcys. Neither she nor Jack
mentioned the rencontre, but there was an indescribable something in her
manner that told Jack the insult had been as much to her as to him.
Hardly a fortnight later the Lawrence carriage stood at the gate of the
pretty court-yard, and the liveried driver brought a note to the door.
          DEAR SYLVIE,--[in a tremulous, uncertain hand] I
          am wretched and lonely. Fred and Irene are away,
          and Mr. Lawrence has gone West on business. Will
          you not, out of the generosity of your heart, come
          and cheer me up a bit? I was in bed all day
          yesterday with a frightful headache, and can just
          crawl to-day. Do not disappoint me. I have set my
          heart on hearing you read, and have some nice new
          books.
                            Ever your obliged friend, A. L.
"You must go," was her aunt's comment in a sympathizing tone. "I have
promised all the afternoon to the School Club, you know, and you would
only be home alone. Poor Mrs. Lawrence! What an invalid she has become!
And think of me,"--with a cheery laugh,--"able to get about anywhere!"
So Sylvie went up to Hope Terrace in the luxurious carriage she thought
she had tabooed forever.
Mrs. Lawrence did look very poorly. She kept to her room a great deal
nowadays; or rather there were two of them,--one off the bedchamber,
with a pretty oriel window, and exquisitely fitted up with every luxury
wealth and taste could devise.
Mrs. Lawrence had already lost her interest in life. Her two daughters
were well married. Irene would be, of course; but marriages were an old
story for her. She had loved to shine at watering-places, but the gayety
no longer lured her. She had dazzled in diamonds, silks, and velvets,
been admired on the right hand and on the left, until it was an old,
trite story. Servants managed her house admirably. Mr. Lawrence never
wearied her with any business details. Her clothes were ordered, and
made, and hung in the closets. The carriage was always at hand. Not a
want of any kind, hardly a desire, that could not be instantly
satisfied. She had sunk into a kind of graceful semi-invalidism, and
enjoyed the coming and going of her children, but her own time was over.
"How good you are, Sylvie dear!" and, drawing the young girl to her, she
kissed her fondly. "I don't know what I should do without you. Irene
would stay at home if I wanted her; but she is so full of life and
excitement, that it wears me out. You are not always in such a whirl of
society, and then you are different. You have such a sweet,
sympathetic nature, child! I can always feel it in your hand, and your
voice is so soothing. What a difference there is in voices!"
Her own was finely modulated: indeed, Sylvie used to think sometimes
that these Lawrences had more than their share of the good things of
this world. No physical gift or grace had been denied them.
So Sylvie read and talked, and sang two or three songs before she went
home. Then she came again and again, sometimes with her aunt, oftener
alone. Miss Barry took duty calls with her neighbors as one of the
demands of society, to be fulfilled with the fine grace of thorough
good-breeding. Beyond the little formalities that always surrounded her
like a delicate hoar-frost, there was a large heart for the weal and woe
of all who could in any way be benefited.
"It is a pity to see such a waste of life," she said of Mrs. Lawrence.
"Some people, after they have served their own turn, and had their good
time, set about doing something for God and their neighbors at the
eleventh hour; but she still clings to self, even when all the pleasure
has dropped out. If she only would exert herself a little, her health
and interest would improve, and she has so much in her hands."
One day Sylvie had turned the last leaf of her book, when Fred Lawrence
crossed the hall, having come home unexpectedly half an hour before.
"Miss Sylvie is with your mother," the housekeeper had said; and he had
begged that they should not be disturbed. He stood now listening to the
cool, soft voice, and an odd thought entered his mind.
Sylvie should really be a daughter of the house. How his mother liked
her, depended upon her! She was not always going to watering-places and
parties and theatres, she did not talk continually of dress and
conquests. He did not despise cultivated elegance: in fact, it was a
strong point with all the Lawrences; but he knew that a great deal of
this much-praised culture ran into artificiality, while Sylvie's
elegance had the comprehensiveness of nature. It would be quite
impossible for her to do an awkward or ungraceful act; for her innate
sense of beauty, harmony, and right guided her. Something higher than
worldly maxims toned her soul. And though he, a man with his hands full
of gold that he had never earned, could content himself with indolent
dilettanteism, he wanted an earnest, honest, truthful woman, if he ever
took a wife. He had flirted in a lazy fashion, common with young men who
find themselves an object to women, and who have only to raise their
hand, sultan-like, to bring a host of houris. That he had kept out of
many grosser pleasures was perhaps a credit to him, although that was
not the weak side of his character.
He did not fall in love with the picture before him, sweet as it
was,--the young girl in a soft flowing white dress (she was too true an
artist to have starchy outlines), the shimmering hair, the delicate
wavering color, the proud poise of the head, the plump white arm and
slender fingers with their pale-pink nails, and, above all, the
exquisite voice that seemed so to enter into the culmination of the
story, the last few sentences of pathos, joy, and complete fruition.
She closed her book. Neither of the ladies spoke. Mrs. Lawrence had been
deeply touched. She lived almost exclusively in this world of fictitious
sentiment, I was going to say; but I remember that it is often a
transcript of human lives. Still she liked sentiment in books, out of
them she scarcely recognized it.
There was a step and a low tap at the door; then, before Mrs. Lawrence
could answer, Fred marched in, kissed his mother dutifully, and shook
hands with Sylvie.
He had always liked Sylvie better as a little girl than any one else who
ever came to the house, and he liked her now. How happy his mother would
be! for of course they would go on living here. Irene would be away
presently, and his parents would need some one. His summer work was
mapped out before him; and really it was a pleasure to think he should
escape the bore of society as one found it at summer-resorts, and
entertain himself with this piquant brown-eyed girl with a heart fresh
as a rose. He did not want a woman who had been wooed by every Tom,
Dick, and Harry.
Yet another and more heroic thought entered his mind after chatting with
her a few moments. He would save her as well. She might have a slight
fancy for Jack Darcy: his sisters had spoken of it, and these great,
fair, muscular giants were often attractive to women, through the very
strength and rude force with which they pushed their suit. But such a
lumbering, vulgar fellow in Miss Barry's dainty, womanish parlor! and he
smiled at the thought. Yes, he would be doing a good deed to snatch
Sylvie from any such possibility.
Fred Lawrence suddenly assumed a new importance in his own eyes. He made
himself very agreeable to both ladies. Sylvie remained to dinner; and,
when Mrs. Lawrence would have sent her home in the carriage, he proposed
to escort her,--he wished to pay his respects to Miss Barry.
They did not take the most direct course, but, leaving the streets with
their noise of children and possibly vulgar contact, strolled through
"Lovers' Lane." The old trees met overhead; there were dooryards full of
sweet, old-fashioned flowers, and now and then the sound of a weak piano
or a plaintive voice.
"I am glad these streets have been kept free from the vice of modern
improvement," said he. "It always brings back a touch of my boyhood when
I walk through them. Your aunt made a good fight, Miss Sylvie, when she
refused to listen to the golden tongues of speculators, though of course
you would have been much richer. But it can be turned into money any
time."
"Money is not every thing," answered the young girl, with a touch of
sharpness. "Are one's own desires and old associations to count for
nothing? This place was very dear to my aunt and to many others. I am
sure there is quite enough of Yerbury laid waste now. The town looks as
if it were a sort of general house-cleaning, and every thing was thrust
out of doors and windows. And it was so pretty!" with a curious heat and
passion. "It was like a dream, with its winding river and green fields,
and men at their hay, and cows grazing in knee-deep pastures. Now all
the milkmaids are herded in mills and factories; and the
children,--well, there are no children any more!"
"No children!" lifting his pencilled brows in languid surprise. "Why, I
think you can find swarms of them. The poorer the man, the larger the
family."
"There are babies and babies; then little prigs and drudges. I am not
sure I am in love with the so-called civilization. For the great
majority it only means harder work."
"Did we not learn in some school-book--I am quite sure I did--that
          'Satan finds some mischief still,
              For idle hands to do'?"
"Are you not afraid?" She turned with a bright, tormenting smile to the
handsome young fellow, who flushed under her clear glance.
"For those who have brains, manual labor may not be the only chance of
salvation," he returned with a somewhat haughty flippancy.
"I wonder they do not turn their brains to some account."
They reached the gate, and Miss Barry was sitting on the porch. Sylvie
was too pretty and too womanly to be quarrelled with for the sake of a
subject that did not in the least interest him. Beside, he meant to come
in; so he opened the gate for her, and followed in a well-bred,
gentlemanly way, that had nothing obtrusive in it. Miss Barry welcomed
him with the quaint formality, the subtile air of education, refinement,
and morality, so much a part of herself. It pleased him extremely, and
settled him in his determination.
"Sylvie has a touch of radicalism," he mused to himself; "but it is a
disease of youth, and thrives by association. Take her quite away, and
she will soon recover her normal tone."
He found his mother still up on his return, and rather restless. She lay
on her sofa, and dozed so much through the day, that night had but
little slumber to bring her.
"I am so glad you did not go to Long Branch," she remarked, as she toyed
with her son's silken, perfumed hair. "I get so lonesome when your
father is away; and he seems to think of nothing but business"--in a
complaining tone. "I do not know what I should do but for Sylvie. She is
such a charming little body! Fred, do you think there is any truth in
Gertrude's gossip about her and that--one of your father's mill-hands,
is it not? How can Miss Barry allow it?"
"There is no truth in it," with a light, scornful laugh. "The families
are neighbors, you know; and I suppose the boor takes a look for
encouragement. I shall not go away this summer. I can find pleasanter
employment."
She pressed his hand, and smiled, as their eyes met. Sons-in-law were
very little to one, except in the way of respectability, but a daughter
like Sylvie would be such a comfort! Fred had no need to marry a
fortune, but Sylvie would not be poor.
CHAPTER V.
NOW that Fred Lawrence had come home, there was no need of going so
often to Hope Terrace, Sylvie thought. Time never hung heavy on her
hands; for she was not indolent, and there were friends and pleasures.
Miss Barry had a conscientious misgiving that Sylvie ought to be taken
about like other young ladies; but she shrank from fashionable life
herself, and could not resolve to trust her darling with any other
person. Beside, Sylvie always seemed contented.
She was content indeed; at least, with her home and her aunt. Up-stairs,
just out of her sleeping-chamber, she had a studio, chosen because this
room, of all in the house, had the finest view in summer, when the tall
old trees shut out so much. From here there were two exquisite
perspectives. The trees and houses were so arranged that a long, arrowy
ray of light penetrated through a narrow space over to a small rise of
ground called Berry Hill on account of its harvest of blueberries. Two
old, scraggy, immense oak-trees still remained; and she used to watch
them from their first faint green to the blood-red and copper tints of
autumn, when the sun shone through them. Down behind he dropped when the
day was done; sometimes a ball of fire, at others bathed in roseate
hues, tinged with all the wondrous grades of color, and making fleecy
islands in a far-off, weird world, dream-haunted. She used to study the
grand effects of shifting light, that made the hill bold and strong, or
fused it into dreamy harmonies that seemed to have the subtile essence
of music; then contrasts that were abrupt and apparently dissonant,
quite against well-known edicts of human taste. Who was right,--the
great Author of all? She smiled to herself when she heard people talk so
glibly of nature, as if the one little rose-leaf were the whole world.
The other picture held in its soft, still, light, an old-fashioned,
low-gabled house with wide eaves; a broad doorway, with the upper half
always open in summer; a well with curb and sweep and bucket where
farm-hands came to drink; a pond with a shady side, where cows herded in
their peaceful fashion, wading knee-deep on hot days, chewing their cud
contentedly at others, browsing through golden hours; fields of glowing
grain, then tawny stubble, a bit of corn with nodding tassels, and not
infrequently a group of children, picturesque in this far light. It all
stood out with the clearness of a stereoscope.
She had her ambitions too, this bright little girl. They were tinctured
with the crudeness of youth, and its boundless vision, it is true; and
sometimes the passion of despair seized her soul in a cold grasp, when
she felt hemmed in on every side, and longed for some opening, some step
in the great world higher than fashionable frivolity.
Miss Barry had no taste for famous women. They were well enough in the
world: she paid a proper and polite deference to Mrs. Somerville, Mrs.
Browning, and Rosa Bonheur,--that kind of intellectual deference that
sets them out of the sphere of ordinary women. Wives and mothers were
better for the every-day life of the world; since pictures and poetry
were luxuries, accessories, but not home or food or clothes. Though she
had missed her woman's destiny, she had not lost faith in it; though she
had held out her hand to the woman who had made shipwreck of her own
life for the wild, graceless brother's sake, she still looked on clear
seas and smooth sailing as possible for lovers' barks. In her plans for
Sylvie there was a fine, manly, generous husband; a love so sweet and
entire that the girl should forget her restless yearnings; baby hands to
cling to her, baby lips to press, young lives to mould, and a future to
plan for others.
Miss Barry believed in work devoutly, but gentlewomen had a firm place
in her creed. The paintings and music were well enough as
accomplishments, and she was proud of them; but she delicately repressed
the other dreams and desires until Sylvie ceased to speak of them except
to her friend Jack.
Miss Barry had experienced some anxiety on this point, it must be
confessed. You would never have perceived it from the wise little
woman's face or any tone of her voice. She went more frequently to the
Darcys of an evening with Sylvie: she rolled her easy-chair and
work-table to the opposite side of the sitting-room, where it commanded
a view of the piano and the sofa in the parlor, the door being always
open. She could hear and see, she could make pleasant, trenchant
remarks: indeed, she was one of themselves, as young in heart, if the
hair did glisten silvery under the bit of exquisite thread-lace that did
duty as an apology for a cap.
Jack and Sylvie were not lovers. A rare good friendship it was, more
perfect than brotherly and sisterly regard, in that it held no
duty-element, and was spontaneous. Sylvie never laughed at Jack in his
awkward boyish days: he had never tormented her small belongings as
brothers are wont to do.
Miss Barry feared the flame might be easily fanned. A little opposition
or warning would bring Sylvie's innocent wandering thoughts to a focus,
and kindle the fire. She was very wary. She trusted Sylvie to Jack with
an air that said, "You are too honorable to betray the confidence I
repose in you."
The old class prejudice spoke out in this covert objection to Jack as
a suitor. She honored him sincerely for giving up the dreams of
ambitious and energetic manhood to stay at home and comfort these two
delicate women. Yet (strange contradiction) she had a half fancy that it
betokened weakness or lack of some kind in the very content with which
he seemed to go about his daily duties. Alas for consistency! We preach
content from the pulpit on Sunday, and on Monday glance with quiet
contempt on our plodding neighbor, who can commune with the daisies by
the wayside, while there is gold lying untroubled in desert gulches.
Honest, sturdy Jack, taking up the duty of to-day cheerfully with a
manful endurance, because the hands holding his fate were too weak and
tender to be wrestled with, and that in his large, generous soul he
could not war on a smaller antagonist, neither was it his nature to
continually thrust any sacrifice he might make before the eyes of the
one he was benefiting. How much silent heroism goes unpraised in the
world, while we stand on the highways, and prate of our discrimination,
our quick insight! Jack might be praised for his self-denial, but the
higher appreciation was withheld. Even Sylvie was fretted at times,
because he would get interested in all things pertaining to the mill.
Miss Barry said to herself, "It is best that Sylvie should marry in her
own circle, a man of cultivation, refinement, and position. Jack is a
dear good fellow, but not the person to satisfy her for a lifetime."
Jack thought nothing at all about it. He never gave up the idea of a
great wide world, where he could have a hand-to-hand struggle with
something as powerful as himself. He had come to no dreams of wife and
children. He did like Sylvie with all his big, honest heart. If she had
fallen in love with him, and betrayed it by some girlish sign, he would
have been startled at first, then thought it over in his slow, careful
way, asked her to marry him, and loved her devotedly all his days,
leaving the dreams to the past with a tender benediction.
But Sylvie was no more in love than he.
As I said, she decided that she was not needed at Hope Terrace, and
staid away four days. Then the carriage came, with a beseeching note.
Had Fred gone again?
She found him there in all his elegant listlessness. It exasperated her
strangely.
"What have you been about, Sylvie?" cried Mrs. Lawrence. "Is your aunt
ill? It seems a full week since you were here."
"Oh, no!" with her beguiling little smile. "I cannot tell exactly what,
only I thought"--
"You thought because Fred was home I would need no one else! As if a
love-story would not bore him, and an invalid's whims--well, men are not
women, my dear," decisively, and with a complacent expression as if she
had settled the argument beyond any question, for the first time since
the world began.
"Why, you never tried me on a love-story," interposed Fred. "You do not
know how deeply sympathetic I might be with your favorite heroines."
"He is laughing at us, Sylvie. Ah, well! I suppose it is a man's duty to
make love, not to listen to it second-hand. How charming and fresh you
look this morning! And how lovely it is after the shower of last night!
Fred, if you could leave Latin verses and Greek essays you might take us
to drive. We could stop and bring your aunt with us for lunch, Sylvie."
"Thank you for her. She has gone to Coldbridge to see about a nurse for
the Orphans' Home, and will not be back until four."
"Then I can keep you without a single scruple," and Mrs. Lawrence looked
oddly pleased. "Fred, tell them not to put the horses out. What
wonderful health your aunt has, Sylvie! I don't see how she can endure
the bother of those schools and institutions: it would wear me out in
no time. But I have had a family of children;" and she leaned back on
her pillow with a satisfied air.
The carriage came around again; and with the assistance of a maid,
Sylvie, and her son, Mrs. Lawrence walked down stairs. He handed both
ladies in, and seated himself opposite with the air of a prince.
Sylvie looked so bright and gay this morning, her velvety eyes full of
tender light, her cheek all abloom with youth and health, the sweet
scarlet lips half smiling, and her attire far enough removed from the
rigor of fashion to have a kind of originality about it. She always wore
something that added tone and brightness,--a bit of colored ribbon or a
flower, or a bow that flashed out unexpectedly, as if greeting you with
laughing surprise.
"What do you do to mother, Sylvie?" Fred asked, with a touch of
complimentary curiosity in his voice. "Yesterday she was dull and
moping. I could not persuade her to drive."
"It was so warm, no wonder. I felt dull and drowsy myself. But to-day is
the perfection of loveliness."
"And you have a charm, Sylvie. I do not know but it is your perfect,
buoyant health. You seem to lift one up. I only wish I could keep you
all the time," remarked Mrs. Lawrence with a touch of longing.
Sylvie colored, and averted her eyes: then she gave herself a kind of
mental shaking, and resolutely glanced back, uttering some rather trite
remark. She would not suspect or understand.
They came home again, and had lunch: then, while Mrs. Lawrence was
taking her siesta, Fred carried off Sylvie to his study. It was
luxuriously beautiful. Several gems of pictures adorned the wall, which
had been newly frescoed to suit his fancy. Easy chairs lured one to test
their capacious depth, some exquisitely-bound books were arranged in a
carved and polished case, and the table was daintily littered with
papers. He had an idea that a man's surroundings were a very fair index
to his character and tastes, quite forgetting that it implied length of
purse as well.
He made spasmodic attempts at literary work. Abstruse essays were begun
under the impression that he had something brilliant and original to
say, but before they were finished a new train of thought led him
captive. He dreamed delicately sensuous dreams, lapped in luxurious
idleness, the rooms stifling with odorous hot-house flowers. He went
clothed in soft raiment, he sunned himself in languid seas of
imagination, and was too indifferent to concentrate his powers upon any
great faith or belief, or even emotion. He had a contempt for cheap and
plain belongings, as leaning insensibly to vitiation of taste. Nothing
modern met his approbation. The old-time philosophies won him with their
subtile flavor. He could propound his theories eloquently, but they did
not touch him deeply enough to rouse him into action of any kind. All
that his education and culture had done for him so far was to develop an
incapacity for any regular, wholesome work that would be of the
slightest use to any human being.
Something of this passed through Sylvie's mind as she sat there. This
handsome and stalwart lily of the valley, with no desire for toiling,
and no ability for spinning, would be content to drift and dawdle
through life on his father's money. At that moment he was more
contemptible to her than Irene, winning lovers by the score, and casting
them aside with no more compunction than if they were the litter of
faded flowers.
After all, why should she care if he did not reach her standard of moral
and intellectual excellence, of that knightly chivalry whose
rallying-cry was, "God and my fellow-men!" Why should she desire to
rouse him from that complacent ease and fastidiousness, brought about
by wealth, and the certainty of no need of effort on his part? Surely
she was no modern apostle carrying around the watchword of work.
Yet somehow--if all the subtile forces running to waste in both him and
Jack could be galvanized into earnest, active life; if the sturdy,
wholesome thought of the one could be mated with the clear, crisp
training of the other; if both could have the wide outlook beyond
material wants and comforts! It fretted her.
Yet these two, sitting here on this peerless summer day, skimmed over
wide fields like gay butterflies. She could not be in earnest with him.
Just when she was roused and warm, he seemed to lift her by some flight
of eloquence, and waft her to his realm of fancy. It annoyed her to find
he had that much power over her.
It must be admitted that when Fred Lawrence willed, he could be
extremely fascinating. Women yielded gracefully, nay, eagerly, to his
sway; and much delicate flattery had their eyes and lips fed him upon.
Sylvie piqued him a trifle by her utter unconcern--or was it the fine
instinct of coquetry inherent in feminine nature?
There was no telling what this queer, bright, unconventional little
thing might do if left to herself. A good marriage would prove her
salvation. She had many womanly possibilities: yet, with all due
deference to Miss Barry and her old blue blood, Sylvie might overstep
the bounds, and take up some of the reforming projects so dear to
elderly spinsters. As Mrs. Fred Lawrence she would be held regally above
them, and could depute her charitable work to her aunt.
In justice to the man, it must be confessed that Sylvie's dainty,
piquant loveliness stirred his soul; and, if self had not been so
intense a centre, he might have been ardently in love, or
clearer-sighted. Much of the time her demeanor toward him was coldly
indifferent: yet the misfortune was, her interest in all things kindled
so easily that she could not, at a moment, change to him. Her moods of
reticence and shy evasion added a flavor to the cup. With a man's
egregious vanity, he jumped at the conclusion that these little
intangible things signified love.
One day Sylvie stumbled over Irene. She came flying up stairs with some
choice nectarines for Mrs. Lawrence, a kind that seemed only to reach
perfection in Miss Barry's old-fashioned garden. There sat Irene,
superb, nonchalant.
"Oh, you little darling!" clasping her, and pinching the peach-bloom
cheek. "I am so glad to have a glimpse of you; for mamma has sung your
praises until I ought to be jealous, but out of my boundless generosity
I still smile upon you. No need to ask how you are, but one may
inquire after your aunt?"
"Miss Barry is quite well," Sylvie said with some constraint,
remembering their last parting.
Irene had honestly forgotten it. She laughed now, a low, ringing,
melodious laugh.
"Why, it is quite a treat to see you open wide your sunrise eyes. I have
taken everybody by surprise, and enjoy it immensely. Gerty and I are off
to fresh fields and pastures new, and home came right in my way. Sylvie,
you are a good little creature to come and amuse mamma when her own
lovely and amiable daughter is racing after the pomps and vanities of
this naughty world. Sit down;" and she made room on the sofa beside
herself. "Don't let such a frivolous creature as I turn you from the
post of duty."
"I did not come to stay," Sylvie answered rather stiffly.
"As if the intention were cast in adamant! Oh! why is not Fred here to
use his persuasive tongue?"
There was a peculiar laughing light in Irene's eye that annoyed Sylvie,
for it seemed to indicate a secret knowledge.
"I can stay just half an hour," was the reply in a decisive tone. "At
eleven I take my lesson in painting.-- Aunt wanted you to have these,
Mrs. Lawrence, in their first bloom of ripeness."
"They are delightful. A thousand thanks to both of you, my dear."
"And you really manage to exist in this dull place, Sylvie! You are a
miracle of content," interposed Irene.
"I have not come near dying yet," was the rather dry rejoinder.
"You need not be so curt and sharply sweet, my dear. Here I have been
listening to marvellous accounts of your amiability and devotion"--
"Don't, Rene!" implored her mother. "Sylvie is good to me."
"And it might make the sweetness weak if she stretched it out to me!
Keep it intact for those who so delight in it. I am fond of spice and
high flavoring."
"These nectarines are perfect," declared Mrs. Lawrence. "One can taste
the sunshine in them."
"How poetic, mother mine! Does Fred come and read Latin verses to you
and Sylvie? I may have one"--stretching out her jewelled hand. "Oh, they
are delicious! worth coming home for, even if I had not wanted mamma's
pearls."
"And money and every thing," added her mother. "Rene, you ought not to
be so extravagant. Papa is quite depressed with the state of business."
"Yes, I have heard that ever since I left my cradle;" and Rene laughed
gayly.
It suddenly crossed Sylvie's mind: what if this proud, imperious girl
should be reduced to poverty some day?
"Don't plan a conspiracy against me, Sylvie Barry! I saw it in your
eyes!"
A vivid flush overspread Sylvie's face, as if she had been caught in the
commission of some crime. Irene's laugh rang again with a peculiar
irritating sound.
"I could not form a conspiracy against you--even if I so desired. And I
must go."
Sylvie rose with a haughty air.
"Wish me worlds to conquer at least, or scalps to hang at my belt. No?
You ungracious little thing! There is a good-by kiss to show you that I
always hold out the right hand of peace."
"Have the carriage, Sylvie: it will not take a moment"--
"No, thank you," in a crisp tone. She would have nothing of these
Lawrences just now.
"Fred will get a spicy wife," commented Irene, with a peculiar smile.
"She is never so with him. They get along beautifully," said the mother.
"Fred is too lazy to rouse Sylvie. Women have quite spoiled him. And
Sylvie is ever so much prettier when a trifle vexed. Don't tell me about
her angelic qualities, though I suppose she does keep super-amiable
before you and Fred just now. I wonder if I could if I were in love!"
"Irene, I am sorry I hinted it. If you begin to tease Fred"--
"I shall not: set your heart at rest. I give full and free consent, and
approve heartily. Beside, the little thing might throw herself away if
she was not looked after. There will always be some one to stay at home
with you."
Mrs. Lawrence turned to her book and her nectarines; and Irene tumbled
over jewel-cases,--a proud, imperious beauty, whose heart had never been
touched, who cared only for pleasure and triumphs. Over yonder, men and
women were toiling, that she might have gold to squander. They lived
scantily, that she might feast. And the brave old world, seeing it all,
uttered a silent groan. One day it would speak out.
CHAPTER VI.
SYLVIE BARRY meanwhile walked along rather rapidly for a warm morning.
She felt irritated. Her sweet lips were set in defiant curves, the red
heats of annoyance burned and faded on her cheek with each passing
thought, and there was something out of harmony: a fateful discordance
that swept over her, as if the parts of music had been wrongly put
together.
Did they think--did Fred imagine--
She had never faced the idea before. Now she thrust it out in the garish
sunlight. Her eyes sparkled, but there was no triumph in the girl's
fine, resolute face. This man might lay his father's wealth at her feet,
borrowed plumes in which he was quite content to shine; his heart--and a
smile of withering scorn crossed her red lips. She would be a little
dearer than his horse: dogs the fastidious man could not endure.
Practically his wooing would be,--
          "I will love thee--half a year,
              As a man is able."
Not because of a fresher, fairer face: he would give her all he had, all
that he could rouse his languid pulses to experience. She would be
lifted out of her present occupations and interests; for Sylvie was too
clear-eyed to blind herself with the specious reasoning that as the wife
of a rich man's son, she would be a greater power in the world for good.
They would fit her into their sphere. She fancied herself coming to an
aimless middle-life like that of Mrs. Lawrence, taking no interest in
any thing, but reading novels, and complaining, to pass away the time.
Did she really care for any one else? More than one young man in Yerbury
had paid her the peculiar deferential attention that asks encouragement
if there is any to give, but is too truly delicate to proceed without.
Then there was Jack, who understood her soul better than any one else;
but had he touched her heart in a lover-like way?
She turned her clear, honest eyes to the blue overhead, as if taking
Heaven for a witness. Her heart and fancy were quite free. Much as she
cared for him, there was no thrill of that high sentiment in it.
In some fascinating ideal life she had seen a lover with whom she could
walk down through the years, whose life would touch hers at all points,
who could fathom the depths of the nature that so puzzled herself, who
could measure and supply the yearning reaches of intellect; who could
awake in her soul a love, strong, deep, and unquestioning, so fervent,
indeed, that she would turn from all other dreams and desires to him. A
young girl's ideal--perhaps it is well for the world that some women
have ideals, and keep faith with them.
As for Fred, his vanity led him straight on. She tried honestly to place
herself right in his estimation; but he misunderstood her, and liked her
the better for the variety. She saw too, with dismay, that her aunt
favored him. Her natural kindness of heart shrank from the pain of
rejecting him, and to her the triumph had no pleasure. But in her
anxiety and desperation she saw only this one course.
He dropped in nearly every day, he took her and Miss Barry to drive. He
haunted croquet-parties, which he hated, because she accepted
invitations to them. He never met Jack. Some fine sense warned the
latter that an encounter in Sylvie's parlor would be uncomfortable.
Yet, strange to say, sometimes when he saw the handsome fellow
sauntering by, a peculiar tenderness came over him, remembering the
little boy who had clung fondly to him.
An old-fashioned courtship would prove no end of a bore, Fred decided.
So one day he marched over to Larch Avenue when he knew Miss Barry was
alone, and laid his case before her. She received him with graceful
kindliness, listened to his offer, and assented with evident pleasure.
There was not a happier woman that night in all Yerbury than Miss Barry.
The care and desire of her life had been justly crowned. Her good-night
kiss to Sylvie was inexpressibly sweet.
Fred did not see Sylvie for the next two days, but meanwhile wrought
himself into a state that he was quite sure was proper and well-bred
love. Then she came to Hope Terrace, and they kept her to tea. The late,
heavy dinners were dispensed with at present.
"Will you walk home, to-night, Sylvie?" asked Fred. "I feel in a walking
mood."
"The slightest symptom of industry ought to be encouraged," she made
answer gayly. She had been of some real service this afternoon, charmed
away a fretful headache, and restored Mrs. Lawrence to a comfortable
state of feeling, and was correspondingly light-hearted. Then, too, Fred
had kept out of the way, and been gravely polite to her at the
tea-table. She liked him in such moods.
It was a late August evening, with a small crescent moon shining softly
as if its forces were well-nigh spent. The heat of the day was over, and
the falling dew evolved a kind of autumnal sweetness, the flavor of
ripening fruits rather than flowers. Yerbury was very quiet in the part
they were to traverse. They walked under great maples where a shadowy
light sifted through, and the houses looked like fragments of dreams,
with here and there a lamp in a distant window. The slow wind wandered
through pines and hemlocks, as if some fairy Puck had laid his finger to
his lips, saying to crooning insects, "Hush, hush!" A night to dream as
one went down "Lovers' Lane."
Sylvie was radiantly beautiful. Her face always changed so with her
moods. Every feature had a perfect sculptured look, but intensely
human,--the straight nose with the flexible, sensitive nostrils,
quivering at any sudden breath, the dainty chin and white throat, the
red curved lips that seem to smile at some inward, richly satisfying
thought, the large lustrous eyes serious as those of a nun, and the
calm, clear brow that seemed to index the strength and fineness of the
nature. He did not take in any of the occult meanings: to him she was
simply a pretty girl whom he could dress in silk instead of lawn.
The small hand had lain on his arm without the faintest movement. Now he
took it in his, and pressed it softly. She frowned, and made a slight,
repellant gesture.
"Sylvie?" with a lingering intonation that was hardly inquiry.
"Well!" roused out of her quiet into a momentary petulance.
"Sylvie, I love you. Will you be my wife?"
In his most commonplace dreams he had never made love so briefly. He
startled himself.
"Don't!" in a short, decisive tone, as if he were merely teasing.
"Sylvie, I am in earnest;" and in his tone the man spoke.
"Then I think you are mistaken." She seemed to look at him in the cool
light of invincible candor and honesty.
"No, Sylvie, I am not mistaken," gaining courage that it was to be
argument instead of sentiment. "I have had this purpose in my mind for
some time, and have solicited your aunt's consent. You have only to
say"--
"I have many things to say, but assent is not one of them;" in a voice
that, though low, seemed to cleave the air with a steely ring. "You
think you love me. Perhaps you do--as far as you are capable of loving
any thing beside yourself. You have seen a good deal of me this summer,
and have made up your mind to marry. I possess some of the necessary
requirements, and doubtless suit you better than any mere fashionable
woman. But you have none of that intense desire that makes a matter of
life and death of love, that elects one woman, or forever keeps a vacant
niche in the soul."
"Sylvie!"
Her passionate words stunned him. He turned to her with a puzzled look,
a certain helplessness, as if he were stranded on some far, foreign
shore. And then he met her lustrous eyes, so clear that they were almost
pitiless in the glow of undimmed truth.
"Can you not trust me?" with the gentle reproachfulness so winning to
most women, so confident of a victory over a heart that loves.
"I could trust you to care for no other woman when your word was passed,
but it seems to me," and her heart swelled with something like contempt,
"that you are but playing at love. Marriage in your estimation is a fit
and proper step: your mother likes me, you prefer me to any one else"--
"Good heavens, Sylvie! what more do you want?" and a flood of scarlet
mounted his calm, handsome brow. "When a man chooses a woman out of the
whole circle of his friends and acquaintances, what higher compliment
can he pay her? I have seen women beside those in Yerbury; and, though
it may savor of vanity, I believe there are those who would
appreciate"--
"I wonder you did not go to them;" with a fine irony, cutting short his
sentence.
"Because I liked you, chose you."
"I do not so desire to be chosen," she answered quickly. "The man I
marry must win my respect, my highest faith; must have an aim, an
ambition, and not dawdle through life as some silly woman might."
The decisive voice seemed to cut a path between him and her as it went.
It struck home uncomfortably.
"Then I suppose you call all men not engaged in manual labor,
dawdlers,--scholars, poets, men of leisure, who can devote their lives
to work that requires patience and fineness of detail, rather than the
heavy swing of a blacksmith's hammer. When a man has no need of
work"--and Fred paused, a trifle out of temper.
"I do not believe God ever made an idler," she said, with high gravity
that widened the gulf between them. "To whom much is given, much will be
required."
How unreasonable she was! He hated women who flung texts or proverbs at
you; and yet he did not hate her. She had a girl's flighty notions, born
of crude contact with inferior minds, and perhaps over-much
novel-reading.
"I do not exactly understand what a man must do to win your love," he
said in one of those calm, intensely irritating tones. "I have chosen
what suited me best,--culture, refinement, and the education that fits
me for the sphere in which I am likely to move all my days,"
impressively. "It is true, much of the wisdom of the world is little to
my taste. I do not know why a man should wade through a slough of evil
for the sake of repenting afterward, for looking white in contrast to
that foul blackness. The ninety and nine just ones seem to me the better
example."
"I am afraid I shall not be able to make you understand," she went on,
with a little hesitation. "Perhaps I have not the power or patience to
shape a man's soul to a noble purpose or ambition. I want him strong
and earnest, full of energy and that high sense of duty to all around
him, not satisfied to drift down the stream in frivolous content, but to
make the way better for his having gone over it. I want him true as
steel to his friends, generous, yet uncompromising to his foes, to all
evil; the kind of man who, if crushed down by fate to-day, could see
some ray above his head to-morrow, who has sufficient moral fibre not to
be rigidly bound by class feelings and narrow prejudices."
Sylvie paused, startled at herself. She had never framed her hero in
words before, and that she should do it for this man!
"These are the heroes of our youth, Miss Sylvie, and you are very
young," in that insufferably patronizing tone.
"I am old enough to know what I want," she retorted, all the fiery blood
in her pulses leaping to the charge. "I think, too, I can discern
between the true worker, and him who is content with the frivolous
outside show."
"Perhaps not. You have been advising me, now allow me a like privilege.
Do not imagine me actuated by jealousy,--that vice of the Moor is not in
my nature. I have seen with some surprise that your fancies were for
those beneath you in the social scale. A woman always loses in this
dangerous experiment. She seldom raises her commonplace hero to a level
with the gods, and is much more likely to be dragged down."
She turned suddenly, her face flaming scarlet. The indignation misled
him. He took it as a sign of personal anger, and wondered if she could,
if she dared, throw him over for that coarse, stupid, blundering
fellow.
"Yes," he continued, glad to stab her in a vulnerable point; "you
certainly have made a mistake, if you think this soul an aspiring one. A
boy who excels in brute strength and force merely, a man who makes a
deliberate choice between the nobler results of education and the
common purposes of rude daily labor, will hardly rank with a knight of
Arthur's time, even if some self-deceived woman chooses to lavish her
affection upon him."
"If you mean Mr. Darcy"-- And she stood quite still, tremulous with
passion.
"I mean Mr. Darcy." She had not shown such delicate consideration for
his feelings that he should hesitate. "I do not see how you, with your
artistic tastes and refinement, can find companionship in such a nature.
I understand it very thoroughly. Beware, for you cannot plead even
daffodil blindness, my fair Persephone."
Sylvie Barry could have struck the man beside her. All the passion of
her nature surged up in contempt, great waves of white heat. If a look
could have annihilated, hers might. Even in the shady gloom, he saw the
flashing eye and quivering lip of scorn.
"Do not distress yourself about me," she answered, with suave
bitterness. "Jack Darcy may be a mill-hand; but he has the honor, the
white soul, of a gentleman! And you--you dare to trample on what was
once a friendship!"
"I believe he was once my admiration because he used to show fight so
easily. He was for marching West then, and doing some grand thing; but
you see his hero days are gone by. Ten years from this he may be a
demagogue, a rank socialist, whining about equality. Still, if I must
congratulate you"--
She made a haughty gesture, and her first impulse was to let it go; but
her truthful nature could not brook the implied deception.
"You may congratulate me upon the friendship alone," with a clear, sharp
emphasis.
His shattered self-confidence returned suddenly, shaped to arrogance. If
she was not entangled with Jack Darcy, there certainly was no one else.
"Sylvie," he began loftily, "this has been child's play, and I am
heartily ashamed of my share of it. Let us go back, and forget it. You
have had your tilt at windmills; so suppose we return to common sense.
You are still heart-free, it seems; and I beg pardon for repeating
foolish gossip. Your aunt has accepted me as your suitor; my mother is
waiting to receive you as a daughter; and I think," with some pride in
his tone, "that few men can offer you a cleaner hand, or a better
record. You will have a life of ease and leisure, and-- Why, Sylvie, you
can teach me,--you can help me up these glowing heights."
"I have answered you!"
She seemed to grow tall and regal as she stood there by the gate, the
long, arrowy ray of lamp-light from within illumining her proud, cold
face, that could flush with such bewildering warmth. He discerned in
some dim way that she had access to a life far above his; an atmosphere
like hoar-frost surrounded her, raying off fine points, that thrust him
farther away into darkness and coldness. Had something been taken out of
his life?
The man's well-nigh imperturbable complacency had received a shock.
"Good-night," in a softer tone. One cannot break a pleasant friendship
without a pang.
As one in a dream he heard the gate close, the soft footfall on the
brick walk, and a waft of voices from within. Then it occurred to him
that he, Frederic De Woolfe Lawrence, had been rejected by this little
girl upon whose head he had meant to shower the blessing of marital
protection, the regard of a soul that was not quite indifferent, after
all. What was this dull pang somewhere in his symmetrical, well-kept
body? Was it the night that made his pulses heavy and turgid?
Then he turned. "By Jove!" he muttered, "there's not another girl in the
country that could have kept her fingers out of the governor's
money-bags! Poor mother! What a disappointment for her! Of course
Sylvie will marry Jack Darcy,--Pluto and Persephone again."
Then he softly whistled a stave of opera-music, and sauntered about
leisurely. He had no fancy for facing his mother that night.
As for Sylvie, she knew her face was very white when she entered the
door; but she bustled about with womanly evasion, and began to ask if
her aunt had been lonesome, if any one had called, and declared she was
tired from walking home, and her head ached a little, which was true;
and presently the two women barred their doors, and went to bed.
Was she glad to have it over? Was she sorry she had left no loop-hole
for future hope? Strange to say, she could not tell.
"But I could never live, like a pauper, on some other person's money!"
she thought decisively. "And he did not care. It was for his mother's
sake chiefly."
Again there was a breach between the Montagues and the Capulets, this
time crossed by no lovers' hands. Mrs. Lawrence was highly indignant,
Miss Barry vexed and sore disappointed. They went the even tenor of
their way, however, while the poor self-made invalid at Hope Terrace
grew more querulous and exacting. Fred took a week at Saratoga to
restore his wounded vanity, and then settled himself at a hotel in New
York, wondering if he had not better read a little law to pass away the
winter. Mrs. Minor was a queen of fashion, and she was glad to have the
attendance of her handsome brother. Irene and Mrs. Eastman flitted about
like gay butterflies, with trains of admirers. The faint mutterings in
the financial world made little difference to them. It was their
province to spend, to enjoy; and what the strata beneath them did or
suffered or hoped, was of no more account than the far-off ocean-froth
beating up on the hard white sand,--picturesque in a drama or a story.
CHAPTER VII.
IT was a dull, gray day, the first of December. Autumn had set in early
this year. There had been a week of cold rain that had quite destroyed
the magnificent foliage, one of Yerbury's greatest charms; and it became
a sodden mass, trodden under foot by pedestrians. The ground was baked
by sharp frosts at night, making the unpaved streets a mass of ruts
early and late, and quagmires in the middle of the day.
Yerbury had changed much from the pretty, clean, thriving country-town,
to something that aped a grand city; unfinished streets, small farms
laid waste, rows of pretentious houses or florid cottages that had never
been thoroughly completed, nearly every one adorned with the ominous
placard, "For Sale." They needed painting and tidying: vines were left
about, dahlia-stalks hung to poles, steps were awry, and gates swinging
on one hinge; heaps of ashes and garbage lay here and there.
This day Yerbury wore a particularly listless air. The leafless trees
hung out long and drooping arms, that swayed to and fro in the biting
wind. The sullen sky overhead added its tone of dreariness to the
picture. There was no cheerful whir of factories and shops, no brisk
steps of men going to and fro, though there were enough standing around
in groups with scowling faces and compressed lips, or flushed with angry
gesticulation.
The only places that evinced any air of business were the beer-shops.
Here a man harangued his fellows; there he did not deign to argue, but
openly cursed. "Let's treat on that!" said one. "I'll stand to that
sentiment," declared another. Sometimes voices rose so high that a
proprietor was forced to command order.
Yerbury was on a strike. There had been a new scale of prices with the
opening of autumn, submitted to by most of the men with a sympathetic
good-nature. Trade was getting dull. Fancy prices no longer ruled. An
ominous feeling pervaded all classes. Building fell off. One tenant gave
up his house, and took part with another. Housewives looked about for
the cheapest market, and talked of making last year's coat or cloak do
for the winter.
Hope Mills had been among the first to propose this second reduction.
David Lawrence had returned from his business tour much depressed. There
was an undercurrent of distrust, a disinclination to lay in stock, a
wordless questioning from eye to eye, with no hopeful response.
Horace Eastman had worked himself into the charge of the inside
business. He had no real interest, but a liberal salary; and Mr.
Lawrence felt that he lifted a weight of care from his shoulders. If
only Fred-- But with college training and elegant tastes he could hardly
be expected to take to the dull routine of business cares. So matters
had been left more and more to Eastman, who was shrewd and sharp, who
always managed to get the most for his money.
Now Mr. Lawrence was appalled by the amount of stock on hand. They had
been running the mills at full capacity all summer.
"We must offer goods at a lower figure," said Mr. Eastman promptly. "We
must get command of trade again. Prices will come down,--that is a
foregone conclusion. The abundant harvests have glutted the market, and
living will be cheaper. The laborer can live on less; and, if we can
manufacture at less cost, we shall be all right again."
"But there seems no demand for goods," said Mr. Lawrence faintly.
"Store-shelves are full. People are carrying last year's stock with no
call for it. It has always seemed to me, Eastman, that a liberal policy
to workmen brought its own reward. They are large consumers. Cut them
down to mere food and shelter, and clothes are the first to go. In
decent times your workman is ashamed of a ragged coat."
"All very true, Mr. Lawrence; but, if there is no market, we must create
one. Sell cheaper stock to new men. That will make a demand at once."
"Undersell! We used to call that a cut-throat business, Mr. Eastman;"
and a flush stained the fine face, now rather worn and thin.
"It is what we must come to. There is next to no premium on gold, and
the first man who touches bottom will be the lucky one, to my thinking.
Cheap goods, cheap every thing, will be the next cry. The farmers must
dispose of their wool, and labor must come down. Why, ordinary workmen
have been living like princes."
The delicate brows were drawn thoughtfully.
"I always hated to grind workmen down to a bare subsistence," spoke the
honest, loyal gentleman, as God made him. Trade had not warped body and
soul. He was an aristocrat, if you please, and his home was as sacred to
refinement and elegance as a ducal palace. A common person would have
stood in his hall until his errand was done, and he would never even
have asked a workman to take a seat in his office; but his soul was
honorable, if haughty.
"Let me manage it," with a confident nod. "We'll keep the topmost wave,
as you will see."
So to New York Horace Eastman went, and arranged for a large
auction-sale of goods, which was a remarkable success, and created quite
a ripple in the sea of stagnation. Then he contracted to deliver another
lot by the first of January, at certain prices. And now either
manufacturer must give up profits, or workman yield his margin, and be
contented with daily bread alone.
"There really was no need of workmen owning houses, having Brussels
carpets and pianos," argued Eastman. "They were in some degree
answerable for the hard times. Every one wanted to out-do his neighbor.
They were not content to live as their fathers had lived; and, where the
mothers wore print dresses, the daughters must have silk. They had gone
on altogether too fast."
Yet only a few years ago workingmen had been urged to put their money
into homes. Rows of houses had been built for them, and sold on such
ridiculously easy terms, only a trifle down. The interest would not be
as much as rent. Then the fascinating shopkeeper had flaunted his wares
in the faces of the thrifty housewives. "A good article is cheapest in
the end. This Brussels will outwear two ingrain carpets, at a very
little advance on the first cost. No moths will trouble it, once down it
is there for years, saving worry and hard work;" and the buyer was
persuaded. Then there must be new furniture, and so on to the end. Was
it altogether their fault? The old things were passing away. The world
was awaking from its Rip-Van-Winkle nap. There was to be a wider
outlook, a liberal cultivation, a general rising of every one.
So there had been years of plenty, and men had pulled down the old
storehouses to build new ones.
Such people as the Eastmans and the Lawrences could not economize at a
moment's warning. The screws must be put on elsewhere.
At first the workmen looked at each other in blank dismay. Winter was
coming on--a hard one it bid fair to be. Coal had risen, and in spite of
the abundant harvest the absolute staples of life had not much decreased
by the time they reached the consumer. Coffees were high: pease, beans,
and chiccory were sold at a reduction, to be sure, and you could get
lumpy heavy flour that spoiled your bread, and poor butter, and teas
that were colored and doctored; and this was cheap living.
There was a stormy wrangle. Meetings were held, and speakers figured out
the actual cost of living. Less than the present rates meant loss,
privation, and want in the end. So a strike was determined upon.
Jack Darcy, being foreman of one department, stood, as it were, between
the upper and nether millstone, at present just escaping both. He
thought it hard that the men should have this second reduction so soon,
and it did seem to him reasonable that profits ought to yield a little,
that there ought to be a sympathy between them. Personally, he should be
comfortable enough; but if he had a wife and three or four children, a
helpless, bedridden mother, or a drunken father, or a do-nothing
brother, hanging upon him, what then?
He advised a little moderation and patience. It might be better to take
the wages now, and wait until spring--
"They doant give up any thing, as we sees," broke in an elderly English
weaver. "The great house is full of every thing, and coal eno' burning
in the greenhouses to ripen a few bunches of grapes out of God's own
season, as would keep many of us warm. Who puts our coal down a dollar
in the ton, or takes it off of house-rent when wages come down? I'll
work as cheap as the next one if ye'll gi' me a cheap house to live in
and cheap beef and bread. I doant care for money in the savin's bank, or
a house that they tax all out o' sight. When I'm old I'll go to the
poorhouse, I will; but I'm danged if I like starvin' before then, and
they a-ridin' over us in their carriages. I left 'em over yonder"--with
a nod of the head--"for that."
"What do you think of it?" asked a thin, hungry-looking man, fingering
his Cardigan nervously. "See here! If I could have one more prosperous
year, I'd be through the woods, have the house I've worked so hard for
settled upon my old woman, and would be out of the reach of misfortune.
But this thing hits me hard, it does."
"I don't believe striking will succeed just now," said Jack candidly.
"And it's a bad time. Two or three weeks lost time will more than cover
the odds in wages."
"I don't want to lose time. I'd rather keep straight on."
"It's the principle of the thing," broke in another. "I'd lose six
months before I'd give in an inch. I'd have struck the other time."
There was a call for the overseers, and Jack left the group. Eastman was
talking to several of the men in his office. A fine, portly figure he
had, indicating rich living and good wines; a man still on the sunny
side of forty, stout, rather florid, a full dark beard and hair, but
with eyes that were light and furtive; eyes that could stare you out of
countenance, and yet not meet yours ordinarily, with a frank, outward
look. He always went handsomely dressed, and wore diamond shirt-studs,
an expensive seal-ring, a substantial watch-chain with two or three
costly charms. He had not a flashy look, but the sign and seal of
gentlemanliness was wanting in that intensely selfish face.
He had heard of the disaffection. There was not much to say except that
the new scale of prices would go into effect next Monday morning. He
never asked a man to work for any less wages than he, the workman,
considered his services worth. Here was the work, and the wages Hope
Mills could afford to pay. They could take it, or leave it. There were
plenty of men at Coldbridge, thrown out by the failure of Kendrick &
Co., who would be glad to come. He could fill any vacant place.
But the ball grew and grew by handling. There were union-meetings and
violent harangues, much of them truth, too, but badly and unwisely
used. And the result was that the men demanded the old wages, were
peremptorily refused, and struck. The great engine subsided, and a
Sunday stillness reigned. Down at Hull's Iron Works the same proceedings
were going on, but the saloons seemed to profit by it.
Jack hung around the mill for a while, then went down stairs. The
chilliness in the air made him draw his coat together by one button, and
slip his hands into his pockets. He sauntered through several streets,
nodding to one and another, or exchanging a few words. Once again his
advice was asked.
"I think you had better come to work to-morrow," he said. "Don't muddle
your brains with beer or bad whiskey: that will not make the way any
clearer."
"A good enough lad!" was the surly comment, "but why grudge a man a sup
of beer when he can't have wine like the big folks?"
Jack had hardly planned for the enforced idleness. He did not want to go
home and read, he could not call on Sylvie thus early in the morning,
neither did he feel in the humor for argument with any of the men. So he
stopped at the door of a small office, and turned the knob rather
hesitatingly.
"Hillo, Darcy, is that you? Come in, come in! Sullen gray day, isn't it?
Off on a strike, eh?"
Jack laughed,--the sound with no real music in it, the sort of
lip-service merely.
"Come in, old fellow; don't be afraid. I've neither pistol nor bludgeon,
and I'll promise to treat you civilly."
The man's accents were clear and curt, with a certain ring of out-door
freshness,--a capital voice to travel with up mountain-sides and through
forests. The face, too, indicated a kind of joyous strength; for the
blue eyes were merry and baffling, the laughing lips a brilliant
scarlet, the nose neither Grecian nor aquiline, but slightly
retrouss; a bronze moustache with long curling ends that were
undeniably red, and hair a little darker, slightly curling as well. A
broad-shouldered man with the deep breathing of intense vitality;
healthy nerves that could enjoy laziness to the full, as well as a brisk
walk across the country.
A glance at the interior showed the place to be a doctor's office. On
one side a long case with glass doors above and drawers underneath,
filled with bottles and books and papers, perhaps in not the most
systematic order; at the farther end a fire in an open-front stove; a
luxurious Turkish lounge covered with russet leather, and a bright wool
blanket thrown carelessly over it; several capacious armchairs; and in
one, with his legs stretched out on another, sat Dr. Philip Maverick,
eight and twenty or thirty years old, perhaps.
"How nice and cosey you are! I really did not know what to do with
myself. Yes, we are all on a strike, I am sorry to say."
"Bad time," and Maverick shook his head. "What's the prospect? Have a
cigar."
"The prospect is that the weakest goes to the wall, of course," answered
Jack. "Maverick, I am dreadfully muddled on this point. I have thought
of it all the week. It is hard on the men. I know the general advice
is to economize more closely, but how can you do it just at the
beginning of winter? One cannot move to a cheaper tenement, fire and
lights cost more, and provision is a little dearer. Low living in winter
does not conduce to a healthy state in the spring. Then, on the other
hand, if they are going to make such sales as they did last month, they
cannot pay the wages, and realize what they consider a fair profit. But
why shouldn't the Lawrences and the Eastmans and many others give up
