make of yourself? " 
Rupert half laughed. " I haven't any prospects 
to speak of. In fact I don't see ahead any further 
than Venice. As to what I am to be, or do, I 
expect that will be settled without any choice of 
mine. I've got along, so far, somehow; I guess 
I'll get along yet." 
"Are you a Christian?" Dolly asked, following a 
sudden impulse. 
" I guess I ain't what you mean by that." 
" What do you mean by it ? " 
 
" Well where I come from, they call Christians, 
folks that have j'ined the church." 
" That's making a profession " said Dolly. 
"Yes I've heard folks call it that." 
" But what is the reality ? What do you think 
a man professes when he joins the church." 
" I'll be shot if I know," Rupert answered, looking at her hard in the fading light. "I'd like first 
rate to hear you say." 
" It is just to be a servant of Christ," said Dolly. 
" A true servant, ' doing the will of God rom the 
heart.' " 
" How are you going to know what his will is ? 
I should be bothered if you asked me." 
" he has told us that," said Dolly surprised. 
" In the Bible." 
"Then I s'pose you've got to study that considerable." 
" Certainly." 
" Well, don't it say things pretty different from 
what most folks do ? " 
" Yes. What then ? " 
"Then it wouldn't be just easy to get along 
with it, I should think." 
" What then ? " 
"Well!" said Rupert, "how are you going to 
live in the world, and not do as the world do ? " 
" Then you have studied the Bible a little ? " 
"No, fact, I haven't," said Rupert. "But I've 
heard folks talk now and again; and that's what I 
think about it." 
 
" Suppose it is difficult ? " said Dolly. " But it 
is really not difficult, if one is a true servant of God 
and not only make-believe. Suppose it were difficult, though. Do you remember what Christ said 
of the two ways, serving him and not serving 
him ? " 
Eupert shook his head. 
" Have you got a Bible of your own ? " 
" No," said Eupert. "That's an article I never 
owned yet. I've always wanted other things more, 
you see." 
"And I would rather want everything else in 
the world," said Dolly. " I mean, I would rather 
be without everything else." 
" Surely ! " said Rupert. 
"Because I am a servant of Christ, you see. 
Now that is what I want you to be. And as to 
the question of ease or difficulty this is what I 
was going to repeat to you. Jesus said, that those 
who hear and obey him are like a house planted 
on a rock ; fixed and firm ; a house that when the 
storms come and the winds blow, is never so much 
as shaken. But those who do not obey him are 
like a house built on the sand. When the storms 
blow and the winds beat, it will fall terribly and 
all to ruins. It seems to me, Mr. Babbage, that 
that is harder than the other." 
" Suppose the storms do not come ? " said Eupert. 
" I guess they come to most people," said Dolly 
soberly. " But the Lord did not mean these storms 
merely. I don't know whether he meant them at 
 
all. He meant the time by and by. Come, we 
must go home," said Dolly, beginning to go forward again. " I wish you would be a servant of 
Christ, Mr. Babbage ! " 
"Why?" 
" because all that is sure and strong and safe 
and happy is on that side," said Dolly, speaking 
eagerly. "All that is noble and true and good. 
You are sure of nothing, if you are not a Christian, 
Mr. Babbage; you are not sure even of yourself. 
Temptation may whirl you, you don't know where, 
and before you know it and before you can help it. 
And when the storms come, those storms your 
house will go down in the sands " And to 
Kupert's enormous astonishment, Dolly's voice 
broke here, and for a second she stood still, drawing long sobs; then she lifted her head with ail 
effort, took his arm and went swiftly back on 
the way to the hotel. He had not been able to 
say one word. Eupert could not have the faintest 
notion of the experience which had pointed and 
sharpened Dolly's last words; he could not imagine why, as they walked home, she should catch a 
hasty breath now and then, as he Knew she did, a 
breath which was almost a sob; but Rupert Babbage was Dolly's devoted slave from that day. 
Lawrence himself marvelled somewhat at the 
appearance and manner of the young lady in the 
evening. The talk and the thoughts had roused 
and stirred Dolly, with partly the stir of pain, 
but partly also the sense of work to do and the 
 
calling up of all her loving strength to do it. Hei 
cheek had a little more colour than usual, her eye 
a soft hidden fire, her voice a thrill of tender power. 
She was like, Lawrence thought, a most rare wild 
wood flower, some spiritual orchis or delicious and 
delicate geranium; in contrast to the severely 
trained, massive and immoveable tulips and camelias of society. She was at a vexatious distance 
from him, however; and handled him with a calm 
superiority which no woman of the world could 
have improved upon. Only it was nature with 
Dolly. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
SEEING SIGHTS. 
THE next day's journey was uninteresting and 
slow. Mrs. Copley grew tired; and even dinner and rest at a good hotel failed to restore her 
spirits. 
"How many more days will it be before we get 
to Dresden ? " she desired to know. 
" Keep up your courage, Mrs. Copley," said Lawrence. " Remember the Green vaults ! We have 
some work before us yet to gBt there." 
" We shall not get there to-morrow ? " 
"We shall hardly do more than reach Cassel 
to-morrow." 
" I don't know anything about Cassel. Will it 
be nothing but sand all the way, like to-day? 
We have left everything pretty behind us in Holland." 
" I think the way will mend a little," Lawrence 
allowed. 
"What place is next to Cassel?" 
"As our resting place for the night? I am 
afraid it will take us two days to get to Weimar." 
" And then Dresden ? " 
" No, then Leipzig." 
 
"I should like to see Leipzig," cried Dolly. 
"What for?" said her mother. "I am sure all 
these places are nothing to us, and I think the 
country is very stupid. And I like travelling 
where I know what the people say. I feel as if 
I had got five thousand miles from anywhere. 
What do you suppose keeps your father, Dolly ? " 
" I don't know, mother." 
"You may write and tell him, if he don't come 
to us in Dresden I shall go back. This isn't my 
notion of pleasure." 
" But it is doing you good, mother." 
" I hadn't anything I could eat this evening. If 
you don't mind, Dolly, I'll go to bed." 
Dolly did mind, for she longed for a walk again 
among the strange scenes and people. As it was 
not to be had this time, she sat at her window and 
looked out. It was moonlight, soft weather; and 
her eye was at least filled with novelty enough, 
even so. But her thoughts went back to what was 
not novel. The day had been dull and fatiguing. 
Dolly's spirits were quiet. She too was longing 
for her father, with a craving, anxious longing 
that was more full of fear than of hope. And 
as she thought it over again, she did not like her 
position. Her mother was little of a shield between her and what she wanted to escape, Lawrence St. Leger's attentions; and she could but 
imperfectly protect herself. True, she knew she 
gave him no direct encouragement. Yet he was 
constantly with her, he had the right of taking 
 
care of her, he let her see daily what a pleasure it 
was, and she was not able to turn it into the reverse of pleasure. She could not repulse him, 
unless he pushed his advances beyond a certain 
point; and Lawrence was clever enough to see 
that he had better not do that. He took things 
for granted a little, in a way that annoyed Dolly. 
She knew she gave him no proper encouragement ; 
nevertheless, the things she could not forbid might 
seem to weave a tacit claim by and by. She 
wished for her father on her own account. But 
when she thought of what was keeping him, 
Dolly's head went down in agony. "O father, 
father ! " she cried in the depths of her heart 
" why don't you come ! how can you let us ask in 
vain ? and what dreadful, dreadful entanglement it 
must be that has such power over you to make you 
do things so unlike yourself ! what shall I do ? 
what shall I do ? I cannot reach him now only 
by letters." 
Mrs. Copley got up next morning in renewed 
spirits. "Dolly," she inquired while she was dressing, in which business Dolly always helped her, 
" is anything settled between St. Leger and you ? " 
"Settled, mother? He is father's secretary, 
at least so he calls himself, taking care of us in 
father's absence. There is nothing else settled; 
nor to be settled." 
"You know why he is here, child." 
" Because father isn't, mother; and I should like 
to make the exchange as quickly as possible." 
 
" What's the matter with him, Dolly ? " 
"The principal thing is, he won't take a hint." 
"No, no; I mean, what fault do you find in 
him ? " 
"That, mother. Nothing else." 
" He worships the ground you tread on." 
" Mother, I think that is a pity. Don't you ? " 
" I think you ought to be very glad of it. I 
am. Dolly, the St. Legers are very well off; he 
is rich, and his father is rich; and there is that 
beautiful place, and position, and everything you 
could desire." 
" Position " Dolly repeated. " Mother, I think 
I make my own position. At any rate, I like it 
better than his." 
" Dolly ! the St. Legers" 
"They are not anything particular, mother. 
Eich bankers; that is all." 
" And isn't that enough ? " 
"Well, no," said Dolly laughing. "It would 
take a good deal more to tempt me away from you 
and father." 
" But child, you've got to go. And Mr. St. Leger is as fond of you as ever he can be." 
" He will not break his heart, mother. He is 
not that sort. Don't think it." 
" I don't care if he did ! " said Mrs. Copley half 
crying. "It is not him I am thinking of; it is you." 
"Thank you, mother," said Dolly, putting her 
arms round her mother's neck and kissing her 
repeatedly. "But I am not going to leave you 
 
for any such person. And I don't think so much 
of money as you do." 
" Dolly, Dolly, money is a good thing." 
"There is not enough of it in the world to buy 
me, mother. Don't try to fix my price." 
The rest of that day Dolly was gay. "Whether 
from the reaction of spirits natural to seventeen, 
or whether she were lightened in heart by the 
explicitness of her talk with her mother in the 
morning, she was the life of the day's journey. 
The road itself mended; the landscape was often 
noble, with fine oak and beech woods, and lovely 
in its rich cultivation; meadows and ploughed fields 
and tracts of young grain and smiling villages alternating with one another. There was no tedium 
in the carriage from morning to night. St. Leger and Rupert laughed at Dolly, and with her; 
and Mrs. Copley, in spite of chewing the cud of 
mortification at Dolly's impracticableness, was beguiled into forgetting herself. Sometimes this 
happy effect could be managed; at other times it 
was impossible. But more days followed, not so 
gay. 
" I'm as tired as I can be ! " was Mrs. Copley's 
declaration, as they were approaching Leipzig. 
" We'll soon get to our hotel now," said Lawrence 
soothingly: 
"'Tain't that," said Mrs. Copley; "I am tired of 
hotels too. I am tired of going from one place to 
another. I should like to stay still somewhere." 
" But it is doing you good, mother." 
 
" I don't see it," said Mrs. Copley. " And what 
do you mean by its doing me good, Dolly ? What 
is good that you don't feel ? It's like something 
handsome that you can't see; and if you call that 
good, I don't. I wonder if life's to everybody what 
it is to me ! " 
"Not exactly," said Lawrence. "Not every- 
body can go where he likes and do what he will, 
and have such an attendant handmaiden everywhere." 
" Do what I will ! " cried Mrs. Copley, who like 
other dissatisfied people did not like to have her 
case proved against her, "much you know about 
it, Mr. St. Leger ! If I had my will, I would go 
back to America." 
" Then you would have to do without your hand- 
maiden," said Lawrence. " You do not think that 
we on this side are so careless of our own ad- 
vantage as to let such a valuable article go out of 
the country?" 
It was said with just such a mixture of jest and 
earnest that Dolly could hardly take it up. The 
words soothed Mrs. Copley, though her answer 
hardly sounded so. 
" I suppose that is what mothers have to make 
up their minds to," she said. "Just when their 
children are ready to be some comfort to them, 
off they go, to begin the same game on their own 
account. I sometimes wonder whether it is worth 
while to live at all ! " 
" But one can't help that," said Rupert. 
 
" I don't see what it amounts to." 
"Mother, think of the Dresden Green vaults," said 
Dolly. 
"Well, I do," said Mrs. Copley. "That keeps 
me up. But whten I have seen them, Dolly ; what 
will keep me up then ? " 
" Why Venice, mother." 
" And suppose I don't like Venice ? I sometimes think I shan't." 
"Then we will not stay there, dear. We will 
go on to Sorrento." 
"After all, Dolly, one can't keep always going 
somewhere. One must come to a stop." 
" The best way is not to think of that till one is 
obliged to do it," said Lawrence. " Enjoy while 
you have to enjoy." 
"That ain't a very safe maxim, seems to me," 
said Rupert. "One's rope might get twisted up." 
" It is the maxim of a great many wise men," 
said Lawrence, ignoring the figure. 
" Is it wise ? " said Dolly. " Would you spend 
your money so, like your time ? spend to the last 
farthing, before you made any provision for what 
was to be next ? " 
"No, for I need not. In money matters one 
can always take care to have means ahead." 
" So you can in the other thing." 
" How ? " said Eupert, and " How ? " said Lawrence, in the same breath. "You cannot always, 
as Mrs. Copley said, go on finding new places to 
go to and new things to see." 
 
"I'd have what would put me above the need 
of that." 
" What ? Philosophy ? Stoicism ? " 
" No " said Dolly softly. 
" Have you discovered the philosopher's stone ? " 
said Lawrence; "and can you turn common 
things into gold for your purposes ? " 
" Yes," said Dolly in the same way. 
" Let us hear how, won't you ? Is it books, or 
writing, or art perhaps? You are very fond of 
that I know." 
"No," said Dolly slowly; "and I cannot shew 
it to you, either, Mr. St. Leger. It is like the 
golden water in the story in the Arabian Nights, 
which was at the top of a hill, and people went 
up the hill to get it; but on the way so many 
strange voices sounded in their ears that they were 
tempted to look round; and if they looked round 
they were turned to stone. So the way was 
marked with stones." 
" And nobody got the golden water ? " 
"Yes. At last one went up, who being fore- 
warned, stopped her ears and never looked round. 
She got to the top and found the golden water. 
We in these times give it another name. It is the 
water of life." 
" What are you talking about, Dolly ? " said her 
mother. 
"Must one go up the hill with one's ears stopped 
noiv, to get the wonderful water?" Lawrence asked. 
Dolly nodded. 
 
"And when you have got it what then?" 
"Then you have got it," said Dolly. "It is the 
water of life. And you have done with this dry 
wilderness that mother is complaining of, and you 
are recommending." 
Lawrence stroked and pulled his moustache, as 
he might have done if a lady had spoken to him in 
polite Sanscrit. Rupert looked gravely out of the 
carriage window. Neither answered, and nobody 
spoke another word, till Mrs. Copley exclaimed, 
"There's Leipzig!" 
"Looks sort o' peaceful now " remarked Rupert. 
" Peaceful ? Why, ain't the place quiet ? " Mrs. 
Copley asked anxiously. 
"Quiet enough," said Lawrence; "but there was 
a time, not so long ago, when it wasn't exactly so." 
" When was that ? " 
" When all the uniforms of Europe were chasing 
through it," said Dolly; "some chased and some 
chasing; when the country was covered with armies; when a half a million of men or so fought 
a long battle here, and the suburbs of Leipzig were 
full of dead and wounded and sick and starving; 
there was not much peace then in or out of the 
city; though there was some rejoicing." 
"0," said Mrs. Copley, " you mean " 
" When Napoleon was beaten here, mother." 
" War's a mean thing ! " said Rupert. 
" That's not precisely the view civilized peoples 
take of it," said Lawrence with a slight sneer. 
 
" True, though," said Dolly. 
" Mean ? " said Lawrence. " Do you think it 
was a mean thing for Germany to rise up and cast 
out the power that had been oppressing her? or 
for the other powers of Europe to help ? " 
" No; but very mean for the side that had given 
the occasion." 
" That's as you look at it," said Lawrence. 
" No, but how God looks at it. You cannot 
possibly think," said Dolly slowly, going back to 
her old childish expression, " that He likes it." 
Lawrence could not help smiling at this very 
original view. " Very few people that make war 
ask that question " he said. 
" God will ask them, though," said Dolly, " why 
they did not. I think few people ask that question, Mr. St. Leger, about anything." 
"It is not usual, except for a little saint here 
and there like you," he allowed. 
" And yet it is the only question. There is 
nothing else to be asked about a matter; almost 
nothing else. If that is settled, it is all settled." 
" If we were only all saints," Lawrence put in. 
" Why are not we ? " 
" I don't know. I suppose everybody is not cut 
out for such a vocation." 
" Everybody ought to be a saint" 
" Do you mean that ? " cried Rupert. " I thought, 
I mean, I thought it was a special gift." 
" Yes," said Dolly with a smile at him, " but God 
gives it to every one that wants it. And when the 
 
King comes, Mr. St. Leger, he will gather his saints 
to him, and none others; don't yon want to be 
counted among them then ? I do ! " 
I don't know what had wrought up Dolly to this 
sudden burst; but she dropped her veil upon eyes 
all alight, while some soft dripping tears were falling from them like diamonds. Everyone knows 
the peculiar brilliancy of a sunlit shower; and the 
two young men remained fairly dazzled. Kupert 
however looked very grave, while the other wore a 
cloud on his brow. 
Dolly was as matter of fact as possible when she 
came out from under her veil again ; and declared 
she should not go to a hotel in Dresden, but take a 
lodging. 
"Why?" Lawrence enquired. 
" Cheaper. And pleasanter. And much quieter. 
We shall probably have to stay several days in 
Dresden. We must get letters there." 
"But you do not know where to go, to find 
lodgings." 
" Yes, I do. Or I shall. I hope so. I have sent 
for the address of the woman with whom Lady 
Brierley had lodgings a whole winter." 
" Where do you expect to receive this address ? " 
" In Leipzig, I hope." 
" Eeally, Dolly, you take a good deal upon you, 
considering how old you are," said her mother. 
"Don't you think Mr. St. Leger knows best?" 
" No, mother, not for you and me. O he can go 
to a hotel. He will, of course." 
 
However this Mr. St. Leger did not desire. He 
was obliged to do it nevertheless. The letter was 
found at Leipzig, the lodgings were found in Dres- 
den, but not roomy enough to hold them all. Mrs. 
Copley and her daughter and their attendant Rupert were very comfortably accommodated; and to 
Dolly's great joy found themselves alone. Frau 
Wetterhahn was all obligingness, hearing Lady 
Brierley's name, and made them right welcome. 
This Frau Wetterhahn ! She was the most lively, 
active, capable, talkative, bright -eyed, good-humoured, free and easy little woman that you can 
imagine. She was really capable, and cooked them 
a nice supper. Dolly had unpacked a few things, 
and felt herself at home, and the three sat down 
comfortably to their meal. 
" Now, mother dear," said Dolly, " this is pleas- 
ant!" ' 
" Well," said Mrs. Copley, " I think it is. If you 
only hadn't sent Lawrence away ! " 
" He couldn't stay, mother. Frau Wetterhahn 
sent him away not I. Change will be good for 
him. And for me too. I am going to make believe we are at home for a little while. And you 
are going to see the Green vaults; and I am going 
to see everything. And these rooms are so cosy ! " 
"Aren't you going to see the Green vaults too?" 
" Indeed I hope so. But we may have to wait a 
day or two, dear mother ; that will be good, and 
you can have a rest." 
" I'm sure I'm glad of it," said Mrs. Copley. " I 
 
am just tired of riding, and more tired yet of seeing everlasting new things. I am aching for some- 
thing I've seen before in my life." 
" Well, here's a cup of coffee, mother." 
Mrs. Copley tasted. 
" If you think that's like anything I used to have 
at home, I'm sorry for you ! " she said with a reproachful look. 
" Don't you like it ? I do. I like it because it 
is different. But I think it is very good, mother. 
And look here is some delicious bread." 
" It's like no bread I ever saw till I came to Germany. mercy ! why must folks have so many 
ways ? I wonder how things will be at Venice ? " 
"Stranger than ever, mother, I'm afraid." 
" Then I shall get tired of it. Isn't this a very 
roundabout way that we are going to Venice? 
round this way by Dresden ? " 
"Why yes, mother, of course; but the Green 
vaults are here, and you were bound to see the 
Green vaults." 
" I wouldn't have come, if I had known it was 
so far," said Mrs. Copley. 
But she relished her supper, and was not nervous, and slept well; and Dolly was somewhat in 
hopes that Dresden was not a bad move after all. 
They had to wait, as she said, for letters, and for 
the sight of the glories that had attracted them 
hither. Several days passed by. 
They passed in delights, for Dolly. Two morn- 
ings were spent in the great picture gallery. Mrs. 
 
Copley's desires and expectations having focussed 
upon the Green vaults, were hardly able to see 
anything else clearly ; indeed she declared that she 
did not think the wonderful Madonna was so very 
wonderful after all; no woman could stand upon 
clouds in that way, and as she was a woman, she 
did not see why the painter did not exhibit her in 
a possible situation; and those little angels at the 
foot of the picture, where was the other half of 
them supposed to be ? she did not like half of anything. But Dolly dreamed in rapture, before this 
and many another wonder of art. Mrs. Copley 
made processions round the rooms constantly, drawing of course St. Leger with her; she could not be 
still. , But Dolly would stop before a picture and 
be immoveable for half an hour, drinking in pleasure and feeding upon knowledge; and Eupert generally took post behind lier and acted as body-guard. 
What he made of the show, I do not know. Dolly asked him how he liked it? He said, "first- 
rate." 
" Well, what do you think of it, Rupert ? " Dolly 
asked gaily. 
" Well, I guess I don't just see into it," was the 
dubious answer. " If these are likenesses of folks, 
they ain't like my folks." 
"0 but they are not likenesses; most of them 
are not." 
"What are they, then? and what is the good 
of 'em, if they don't mean anything ? " 
"They are out of people's imagination; as the 
 
painter imagined such and such persons might 
have looked, in such situations." 
" How the painter imagined they might have 
looked ! " cried Rupert. 
"Yes. And they mean a great deal; all that 
was in the painter's mind." 
"I don't care a red cent how a man fancies 
somebody looked. I'd like the real thing, if I 
could get it. I'd go some ways to see how the 
mother of Christ did look; but you say that ain't 
it?" 
" No," said Dolly smiling. 
Rupert surveyed the great picture again. 
" Don't you think it is beautiful, Rupert ? " Dolly 
pursued, curious to know what went on in his 
thoughts. 
" I've seen as handsome faces and handsomer," 
he said slowly; "and I lik^ flesh and blood a long 
sight better than a painting, anyhow." 
" Handsome ? " said Dolly. " it is not that 
it is so much more ! 
" What is it, Miss Dolly ? " said Lawrence just 
then coming up behind her. " I should like to 
hear your criticism. Do put it in words." 
"That's not easy; and it is not criticism. But 
I'll tell you how it seems to me; as the painting, not of anybody's features, but of somebody's 
nature spirit. It is a painting of the spiritual 
character." 
" Mental traits can be expressed in words, though," 
said Lawrence. "You'll go on, I hope?" 
 
" I cannot," said Dolly. " It is not the lovely 
face, Mr. Babbage; it is Thought and Feeling, 
Love, and Purity and Majesty but the majesty 
of a person who has no thought of herself." 
Dolly could not get out of that one room; she 
sat before the Raphael, and then stood fixed before 
the "Notte" or the "Magdalene" of Correggio; and 
would not come away. Eupert always attended on 
her, and Mrs. Copley as regularly made progresses 
through the rooms on Lawrence's arm, till she declared herself tired out. They were much beholden 
to Lawrence and his good offices thbse days, more 
than they knew; for it was past the season when 
the gallery was open to the public, and entrance 
was obtained solely by the influence of St. Leger's 
mediation and money ; how much of the latter they 
never knew. Lawrence was a very good escort 
also; his address was pleasant, and his knowledge of men and things sufficient for useful purposes; he knew in general what was what and 
who was who, and was never at a loss. Rupert 
followed the party like a faithful dog, ready for 
service a,nd with no opportunity to shew it; Lawrence held the post of leader and manager now, 
and filled it well. In matters of art, however, I 
am bound to say, though he could talk more he 
knew as little as Rupert himself. 
"What is to be done to-morrow?" he asked, in 
the evening of that second day. 
" We haven't got our letters yet," said Mrs. Copley. " I can't see why they don't come." 
 
 
"So the Green vaults must wait. What else 
shall we do ? " 
" 0," said Dolly, " might we not go to the gallery again ? " 
"Another day?" cried her mother. "Why you 
have been there two whole mornings, child. Ain't 
that enough?" 
" Mother, I could go two months, I think." 
"Then you'd catch your death," said Mrs. Copley. " That inner room is very chill now. For my 
part, I do not want to see another picture again 
in days and duys. My head swims with looking 
at them. I don't see what you find in the old 
things." 
Dolly could not have told. She sighed, and it 
was agreed that they would drive about the city 
and its environs next day; Lawrence assuring them 
that it was one of the pleasantest towns in Ger- 
many. But the next morning early came the letters from Mr. Copley; one to his wife and one to 
Dolly. 
Dolly read them both and pondered them ; and 
was unsatisfied. They were rather cheerful letters ; 
at the same time Mr. Copley informed his wife and 
daughter that he could not join them in Dresden ; 
nor at any rate before they got to Venice. So much 
was final; but what puzzled and annoyed Dolly 
yet more than this delay was the, amount of money 
he remitted to her. To her; for Mrs. Copley, as an 
invalid, it was agreed, should not be burdened with 
business. So the draft came in the letter to Dolly ; 
 
and it was not half large enough. Dolly kept the 
draft, gave the letter to her mother to read, and 
sat in a mazed kind of state, trying to bring her 
wits to a focus upon this condition of affairs. 
What was her father thinking of? It is one 
thing to be short of funds at home, in one's own 
country and in one's own house ; it is bad enough 
even there; what is it when one is in a strange land 
and dependent upon the shelter of other people's 
houses, for which an equivalent must be paid in 
money? and when one is obliged to travel from 
one place to another, and every mile of the way 
demands another equivalent in money ? Mr. Copley had sent a little, but Dolly knew it would by 
no means take them to Venice. What did he intend ? or what did he expect her to do ? Apply to 
Lawrence ? Never ! No, not under any pressure 
or combination that could be brought to bear. He 
would demand an equivalent too ; or worse, think 
that it was guarantied, if she made such an application. How could Mr. Copley place his child in 
such a predicament ? And then Dolly's head went 
down in her hands, for the probable answer crushed 
her. He never would, he never could, but for yielding to unworthy indulgences; becoming entangled 
in low pleasures; taken possession of by the influence of unprincipled men. Her father ! Dolly felt 
as if her heart would break or her head burst with 
its burden of pain, " a father never should let 
his child feel ashamed for him ! " was the secret 
cry down in the depths of her heart. Dolly would 
 
not speak it out ever, even to herself, but it was 
there, all the same; and it tortured her, with a 
nameless, exquisite torture, under which she mentally writhed, without being able to get the least 
relief. Every surge of the old love and reverence broke on those sharp rocks of pain more 
hopelessly. " father ! father ! " she cried silently, with a pitiful vain appeal which could never 
be heard. 
And then the practical question came back, 
taking away her breath. What was she to do? 
If they did not stay too long in Dresden they 
would have enough money to pay their lodging 
bill and go, she calculated, half the way to Venice. 
What then ? And if Mr. Copley met them in 
Venice, according to promise, who would assure 
her that he would then come provided with the 
necessary funds? and what if he failed to come? 
Dolly started up, feeling that she could not sit 
any longer thinking about it; her nerves were 
getting into a hard knot. She would not think; 
she busied herself in making her mother and her- 
self ready for their morning's excursion. And 
Lawrence came with a carriage; and they set off. 
It was a lovely day, and certainly the drive was 
all it had promised ; and Dolly barred off thought, 
and would look and enjoy and talk and make 
others enjoy; so the first part of the day passed 
very well. Dolly would make no arrangements 
for the afternoon, and Mrs. Copley was able for 
no more that day. 
But when the ea^y dinner was over, Dolly 
asked Rupert to wa|c with her. Eupert was always ready, and gav a delighted assent. 
" Are you going mt again ? and to leave me all 
alone ? " said Mrs. Oopley. 
"You will be ying down, mother dear; you 
will not want mfi and I have business on hand, 
that I must attend to." 
" I don't see what business," said Mrs. Copley 
fretfully; "aricyyou can't do anything here, in a 
strange place You'd better get Mr. St. Leger to 
do it for you.
" He cannyt do my work," said Dolly lightly. 
" But your had better wait and take him along, 
Dolly. He knows where to go." 
" So do , mother. I want Rupert this time, and 
not Mr.  Leger. You sleep, till I come back." 
Dolly had said she meant business, but at first 
going to things did not look like it. She went 
slowly And silently along the streets, not attend- 
ing mjch to what she was passing, Rupert thought ; 
till ttey arrived at an open spot from which the 
viewof the river, with the bridge and parts of the 
towi, could be enjoyed; and there Dolly sat down 
on a step, and still without speaking to Rupert, 
b#it forward leaning on her knees and seemed to 
g.ve herself up to studying the beautiful scene. 
She saw it; the river, the picturesque bridge, the 
vavy, vine-clad hills, the unfamiliar buildings of 
the city, the villas scattered about on the banks 
of the Elbe; she saw it all under a clear heaven 
and a sunny light which Iressed everything in 
hues of loveliness; and her face was fixed the while 
in lines of grave thought anc gave back no reflection of the beauty. It had teauty enough of its 
own, Eupert thought; who I mist say paid little 
heed to the landscape, and watihed his companion 
instead. The steady, intent, swept eyes, how much 
grave womanliness was in them , how delicate the 
colour was on the cheek, and how tender were the 
curves of the lips ; while the wilful,clustering curly 
hair gave an almost childish setting to the features 
whose expression was so very un-ch'ldish. For it 
was exceedingly grave. Dolly did $e the lovely 
landscape, and it made her feel alone md helpless. 
There was nothing wonted or familiar; she seemed 
to herself somehow cast away in the Saoii capital. 
And truly she was all alone. Lawrence she could 
not apply to, her mother must not even be talked 
to ; she knew nobody else. Her father had let her 
come on this journey, had sent her forth, and now 
left her unprovided even for the barest necessities. 
No doubt he meant that she should be beiolden 
to Mr. St. Leger, to whom he could retun the 
money by and by. " Or not at all," thought tolly 
bitterly, "if I would give him myself instead. 
father, could you seU me ! " Then came the thought 
of the entanglements and indulgences which had 
brought Mr. Copley to do other things so unlife 
himself; and Dolly's heart grew too full. She
could not bear it; she had borne up and foughi 
it out all the morning; now feeling and truth must 
 
have a minute for themselves ; her head went down 
on her hands and she burst into quiet sobs. 
Quiet, but deep. Eupert, looking on in dismayed 
alarm, saw that this outbreak of pain had some 
deep grounded cause; right or wrong, it came 
from Dolly's very heart and her whole nature was 
trembling. He was filled with a great awe; and 
in this awe his sympathy was silent for a time; 
but he could not leave the girl to herself too long. 
" Miss Dolly," he said in a pause of the sobs, 
" I thought you were such a Christian ? " 
Dolly started, lifted her quivering, tearful face, 
and looked straight at him. "Yes," she said, 
" what then ? " 
"I always thought religious folks had something 
to comfort them." 
"Don't think they haven't," said Dolly. But 
there she broke down again, and it was a storm of 
a rain shower that poured from her eyes this time. 
She struggled to get the better of it, and as soon 
as she could she sat up again, brushing the tears 
right and left with her hands and speaking in a 
voice still half choked. 
"Don't think they haven't! If I had not that, 
my heart would just break and be done with it. 
But being a Christian does not keep one from 
suffering sometimes." Her voice failed. 
"What is the matter? No, I don't mean that 
you should tell me that; only can't I do something ? " 
" No, thank you ; nobody can. Yes, you are doing a great deal, Rupert ; you are the greatest com- 
fort to me. I depend upon you." 
Rupert's eyes glistened. He was silent for sheer 
swelling of heart. He gulped down something 
and went on presently. 
"I was thinkin' of something my old mother 
used to say. I know I've heard her say it, lots o' 
times. I don't know what the trouble is, that's a 
fact so maybe I hadn't oughter speak; but she 
used to say that nothing could happen to Christians that would do 'em any real hurt." 
" I know," said Dolly, wondering to herself how 
it could be true; "the Bible says so." And then 
conscience rebuked her. "And it is true," she said 
lifting up her head; " everything is true that the 
Bible says, and that is true; and it says other 
things ' 
" What ? " said Rupert ; more for her sake I confess than for his own. 
" It says ' Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, 
whose mind is staid upon thee ' ; I was reading it 
this morning. You see I must be a very poor 
Christian, or I should not have doubted a minute. 
But even a Christian, and the best, must be sorry 
sometimes for things he cannot help," said Dolly. 
"Then you were not troubled about yourself just 
now ? " said Rupert. 
"Yes, I was! I was indeed, in spite of all those 
words and a great many others. I believe I forgot 
them." 
"I should think, if God gives people promises, 
 
he would like them to be trusted," said Kupert 
"That's what ice do." 
Dolly looked at him again as if he had said 
something that struck her; and then she got up, 
and taking his arm set off this time at a business 
pace. She knew, she said, where to find what she 
wanted; however, she had gone out of her way, 
and it cost her some trouble and time to get to the 
place. It was a store of artists' materials among 
other things; and here Dolly made careful purchases of paper, colours, and camel's hair pencils. 
Rupert was reassured as to a suspicion that had 
crossed him, that part of Dolly's trouble might 
have been caused by want of means; seeing that 
she was buying articles of amusement with a free 
hand. Then Dolly went straight home. 
All the rest of that afternoon she sat drawing. 
The two next days, the weather was unfavourable 
for going out, and she sat at her work persistently, 
whenever she was not obliged to be reading to her 
mother or attending upon her. The day following 
the long-planned visit to the Green vaults was 
made. In the evening Lawrence came to see 
them. 
"Well, Mrs. Copley; tired?" he began. 
" I don't know which part of me's most tired," 
said the lady; "my eyes, or my head, cr my feet." 
" Did it pay, after all ? " 
"Pay! I wouldn't have missed it for a year's 
length of life! It went ahead of all lever thought 
of or dreamt of. It was most like Altddin's lamp 
 
or what he saw, I mean, when he went down into 
fairyland. I declare, it was just as good." 
" Only that you could not put things in your 
pockets. What would you have brought, Mrs. 
Copley, if it had been safe and allowable? The 
famous egg ? " 
"Mercy, no, Mr. St. Leger ! I shouldn't have a minute's peace of my life, for fear I should lose it again." 
" That's about how they say the first owner felt. 
They tell of him, that a lady once coaxed him to 
let her have the egg in her hand ; and she kept it 
in her hand; and the prince forgot; and she drove 
back to Dresden with it." 
" Where was he, the prince ? " 
"At some hunting castle, I believe. It was 
night before he found out his loss; and then he 
booted and spurred in hot haste and rode to Dresden in the middle of the night, to fetch the egg 
from the lady again." 
"What's the use of things that give folks so 
much trouble ? " said Rupert. 
"A matter of taste!" said Lawrence, shrugging his shoulders. "But I am glad to have 
been through those rooms myself; and I never 
should, but for you, Mrs. Copley. I suppose there 
is hardly the like to be seen anywhere else." 
" What delicious things there were in the ivory 
room," said Dolly. "Those drunken musicians, 
mother, of .Albert D'urer; and some of the vases; 
how beautiful they were ! " 
" I did not tee the musicians," said Mrs. Copley. 
 
" I don't see how drunken musicians, or drunken 
anything, could be pretty. Odd taste, I think." 
"Then perhaps you didn't like the piece with 
the fallen angels?" said Rupert. "That beat me!" 
" How could there be peace with the fallen angels?" Mrs. Copley asked scornfully. At which 
however there was a great burst of laughter. " I 
liked best of all the room where the egg was, I 
believe. But the silver room was magnificent." 
" I liked the ivory better than the silver, mother." 
" Who does it all belong to ? " Rupert asked. 
" The reigning house of Saxony," Lawrence answered. 
"The whole of it?" 
"Yes." 
" And that big picture gallery into the bargain ? " 
" Yes." 
"That's bein' grasping, for any one family to 
have so much," was Rupert's conclusion. 
"Well you see," said Lawrence, "we get the 
good of it, and they have the care." 
" I don't see how we get the good of it," said Mrs. 
Copley. " I suppose if I had one of those golden 
birds, now, with the eyes of diamonds; or one of 
those wonderfully chased silver caskets; I should 
have enough to keep me in comfort the rest of my 
life. I think things are queer, somehow. One single one of those jewels that lie heaped up there, 
and I should want for nothing more in this world. 
And there they lie, and nobody has 'em." 
"Do you want for anything now, mother dear?" 
 
asked Dolly. She was busy at a side table, arranging something in a little frame, and did not look 
up from her work. 
" I should think I did ! " was Mrs. Copley's rejoinder. "What don't I want, from breath up?" 
"Here you have had one wish fulfilled to-day 
you have seen the Green vaults and now we 
are going to Venice to fulfil another wish what 
would you have ? " 
"I don't like to think I am going away from 
here. I like Dresden best of all the places we've 
been in. And I would like to go through the 
Green vaults but why they are called so I cannot conceive about once every month. I would 
never get tired." 
" So you would like to settle in Dresden ? " said 
Lawrence. " I don't think it would be safe to let 
you go through the Green vaults often, Mi-s. Copley; you would certainly be tempted too much for 
your principles. Miss Dolly, we had better get her 
away. When do we go, by the by ? " 
Instead of answering, Dolly rose up and brought 
him something to look at; a plain little oval frame 
of black wood, within which was a head in light 
water colours. 
"Mrs. Copley ! " exclaimed Lawrence. 
"Is it like?" 
" Striking ! Capital. I'm not much of a judge 
of painting in general, but I know a friend's face 
when I see it; and this is to the life. To the life! 
Graceful, too. Where did you get it ? " 
 
" I got the paper and the paints at a little shop 
in I forget the name of the strasse; and mother 
was here to my hand. Ecco ! " 
"You don't mean you did it?" said Lawrence, 
while the others crowded near to look. 
" I used to amuse myself with that kind of thing 
when I was at school, and I had always a knack 
at catching likenesses. I am going to try you, 
Rupert, next." 
" Ah, try me ! " cried Lawrence. " Will you ? 
and we will stay in Dresden till it is done." 
"Suppose I succeed," said Dolly softly, "will 
you get me orders ? " 
"Orders?" 
"Yes. To paint likenesses, like this, in miniature. I can take ivory, but I would not waste 
ivory on this one. I'll do yours on ivory if you 
like." 
" But orders ? " said Lawrence, dumbfounded. 
"Yes," said Dolly nodding. "Orders; and for 
as high pay as you think I can properly ask. 
Hush ! say nothing to mother " 
"Is that like me?" Mrs. Copley asked, after 
studying the little picture. 
" Capitally like you ! " Lawrence cried. 
"Then I've changed more'n I thought I had, 
that's all. I don't think I care about your painting 
me any more, Dolly, if that's the best you can do." 
" Why Mrs. Copley," said Lawrence, " it's beautiful. Exactly your turn of the head, and the delicate fresh colour in your cheeks. It's perfect ! " 
 
" Is it ? " said Mrs. Copley in a modified tone. 
" So that's what you've been fussing about, Dolly, 
these two days. Well, take Mr. St. Leger next.. 
I want to see what yoii'll make of him. She 
won't natter you," the lady went on ; " that's one 
thing you may lay your account with; she won't 
natter you. But if we're going away, you won't 
have much chance; and seems to me, we had 
better settle which way we are going." 
Lawrence did not take up this hint. He sat 
gazing at the little miniature, which was in its 
way very lovely. The colours were lightly laid in, 
the whole was rather sketchy; but the grace of 
the delineation was remarkable, and the likeness 
was perfect; and Dolly had shewn a true artist's 
eye in her choice of position and point of view. 
" I did not know you had such a wonderful talent " he remarked. 
Dolly made no answer. 
" You'll do me next ? " 
" If you like my conditions." 
" I do not understand them," he said, looking up 
at her. 
" I want orders " Dolly said almost in a whisper. 
" Orders ? To paint things like this ? For money ? Nonsense, Dolly ! " 
" As you please, Mr. St. Leger ; then I will stay 
here a while and get work through Frau Wetterhahn. She wants me to paint Jier." 
" You never will ! " 
 
" I'll try." 
" As a favour, then ? " 
Dolly lifted her eyes and smiled at the young 
man; a smile that utterly and wholly bewitched 
him. Wilful ? yes, he thought it was wilful, but 
sweet and arch, and bright with hope and purpose and conscious independence; a little defiant, 
a great deal glad. 
" Paint me," said he hastily, " and I'll give you 
anything you like." 
"Dolly nodded. "Very well," said she; u tnoi 
you may talk with mother about our route." 
CHAPTER XX. 
LIMBURG. 
LAWRENCE did talk with Mrs. Copley; and 
the result of the discussion was that the 
decision and management of their movements was 
finally made over to him. Whether it happened 
by design or not, the good lady's head was quite 
confused among the different plans suggested ; she 
could understand nothing of it, she said ; and so it 
all fell into Lawrence's hand. I think that was 
what he wanted, and that he had views of his own 
to gratify; for Dolly, who had been engaged with 
other matters this time, expressed some surprise a 
day or two after they set out, at finding herself 
again in Weimar. 
"Going back the way we came?" she cried. 
" Only for a little distance a few stages," explained Lawrence ; " after that it will be all new." 
Dolly did not much care, nor know enough to 
correct him if he was going wrong; she gave herself up to hopeful enjoyment of the constantly 
vaiying new scenes and sights. Mrs. Copley on 
the contrary seemed able to enjoy nothing beyond 
the shortening of the distance between her and 
 
Venice. If she had known how much longer than 
was necessary Lawrence had made it ! 
So it happened that they were going one day 
down a pleasant road which led along a river valley, when an exclamation from Dolly roused her 
mother out of a half nap. "What is it?" she 
