3 quarts of strawberries, mashed and strained. To the juice (there
should be about a quart, if the berries are ripe and fresh) add
    1 quart of water.
    1 lb. of sugar.
Stir up well and ferment in a clean, sweet cask, leaving the bung out.
When the working subsides close tightly, or rack off into bottles.
This is said by those who have tasted it to be very good.
CURRANT WINE.
Pick, stem, mash, and strain the currants, which should be very ripe.
    To 1 quart of juice add
       ¾ lb. white sugar.
       ½ pint of water.
Stir all together long and well; put into a clean cask, leaving out the
bung, and covering the whole with a bit of lace or mosquito net. Let it
ferment about four weeks—rack off when it is quite still, and bottle.
JAMAICA GINGER-BEER.
    1 bottle Jamaica Ginger Extract.
    1 oz. cream-tartar.
    6 quarts water.
    1 lb. sugar.
Stir until the sugar is melted, then put in the grated peel of a lemon,
and heat until blood-warm. Add a tablespoonful of brewers’ yeast; stir
well and bottle, wiring down the corks. It will be fit for use in four
days.
This is a refreshing and healthful beverage mixed with pounded ice in
hot weather.
RAISIN WINE.
    1 lb. white sugar.
    2 lbs. raisins, seeded and chopped.
    1 lemon—all the juice and half the grated peel.
    2 gallons boiling water.
Put all into a stone jar, and stir every day for a week. Strain, then,
and bottle it. It will be fit for use in ten days.
LEMONADE OR SHERBET.
    3 lemons to a quart of water.
    6 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
Pare the yellow peel from the lemons, and, unless you mean to use the
Sherbet immediately, leave it out. It gives a bitter taste to the sugar
if left long in it. Slice and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar, add
a very little water, and let them stand fifteen minutes. Then fill up
with water; ice well, stir, and pour out.
ORANGEADE
Is made in the same manner, substituting oranges for lemons.
STRAWBERRY SHERBET. (Delicious.) 
    1 quart of strawberries.
    3 pints of water.
    1 lemon—the juice only.
    1 tablespoonful orange-flower water.
    ¾ lb. white sugar.
The strawberries should be fresh and ripe. Crush to a smooth paste; add
the rest of the ingredients (except the sugar), and let it stand three
hours. Strain over the sugar, squeezing the cloth hard; stir until the
sugar is dissolved; strain again and set in ice for two hours or more
before you use it.
REGENT’S PUNCH. (Fine.)
    1 lb. loaf-sugar or rock candy.
    1 large cup strong black tea—(made).
    3 wineglasses of brandy.
    3 wineglasses of rum.
    1 bottle champagne.
    2 oranges—juice only.
    3 lemons—juice only.
    1 large lump of ice.
This receipt was given me by a gentleman of the old school, a
connoisseur in the matter of beverages as of cookery. “Tell your
readers,” he writes, “that better punch was never brewed.” I give
receipt and message together.
ROMAN PUNCH.
    3 coffee cups of lemonade—(strong and sweet.)
    1 glass champagne.
    1 glass rum.
    2 oranges—juice only.
    2 eggs—whites only—well whipped.
    ½ lb. powdered sugar, beaten into the stiffened whites.
You must ice abundantly—or, if you prefer, freeze.
SHERRY COBBLER.
    Several slices of pineapple, cut in quarters.
    A lemon, sliced thin.
    An orange, sliced thin.
    ½ cup of powdered sugar.
    1 tumbler of Sherry wine.
    Ice-water.
    Pounded ice.
Take a wide-mouthed quart pitcher and lay the sliced fruit in order at
the bottom, sprinkling sugar and pounded ice between the layers. Cover
with sugar and ice, and let all stand together five minutes. Add then
two tumblers of water and all the sugar, and stir well to dissolve
this. Fill the pitcher nearly full of pounded ice, pour in the wine,
and stir up from the bottom until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed.
In pouring it out put a slice of each kind of fruit in each goblet
before adding the liquid.
It is best sucked through a straw or glass tube.
NECTAR. 
Make as above, substituting a little rose-water for the pineapple, and
squeezing out the juice of the orange and lemon, instead of putting in
the slices. Sprinkle nutmeg on the top.
This forms a delicious and refreshing drink for invalids.
CLARET PUNCH. 
    1 bottle of claret.
    ¼ the quantity of ice-water.
    2 lemons, sliced.
    ½ cup powdered sugar.
Cover the sliced lemon with sugar and let it stand ten minutes. Add the
water; stir hard for a whole minute, and pour in the wine. Put pounded
ice in each glass before filling with the mixture.
EGG NOGG. 
    6 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately and very stiff.
    1 quart rich milk.
    ½ cup of sugar.
    ½ pint best brandy.
    Flavor with nutmeg.
Stir the yolks into the milk with the sugar, which should first be
beaten with the yolks. Next comes the brandy. Lastly whip in the whites
of three eggs.
CHERRY BOUNCE.
    4 lbs. of sour and the same quantity of sweet cherries.
    2½ lbs. white sugar.
    1 gallon best whiskey.
Crush the cherries to pieces by pounding in a deep wooden vessel with
a smooth billet of wood. Beat hard enough to crack all the stones.
Put into a deep stone jar, mix in the sugar well, and cover with the
whiskey. Shake around briskly and turn into a demijohn. Cork tightly
and let it stand a month, shaking it every day, and another month
without touching it. Then strain off and bottle.
It is better a year than six months old.
If the Maltese cross appears but seldom in the section devoted
to drinks, it is because most of my information respecting their
manufacture is second-hand. In my own family they are so little used,
except in sickness, that I should not dare to teach others, upon my own
authority, how to prepare them. Indeed, the temptation I felt to omit
many of them reminded me of a remark made, introductory of preserves,
by one of the “Complete Housewives,” who, all five together, drove me
to the verge of an attack of congestion of the brain, before I had
been a housekeeper for a week. Said this judicious lady:—“Preserves
of all kinds are expensive and indigestible, and therefore poisonous.
Therefore”—again—“I shall not give directions for their manufacture,
except to remark that barberries stewed in molasses are economical, and
a degree less hurtful than most others of that class of compounds.”
Then I reflected that I might, upon the same principle, exclude all
receipts in which cocoanut is used, because it is rank poison to me;
while a dear friend of mine would as soon touch arsenic as an egg. A
large majority of the beverages I have named are highly medicinal, and
deserve a place in the housekeeper’s calendar on that account. Many, so
far from being hurtful, are beneficial to a weak stomach or a system
suffering under general debility. None which contain alcohol in any
shape should be used daily, much less semi- or tri-daily by a well
person.
This principle reduced to practice would prove the preventive ounce
which would cure, all over the land, the need for Temperance Societies
and Inebriate Asylums.
THE SICK-ROOM.
The sick-chamber should be the most quiet and cheerful in the house—a
sacred isle past which the waves of domestic toil and solicitude glide
silently. This is not an easy rule to obey. Whoever the invalid may
be, whether the mother, father, or the sweet youngling of the flock,
the foundations of the household seem thrown out of course while the
sickness lasts. You may have good servants and kind friends to aid
you, but the hitch in the machinery is not to be smoothed out by their
efforts. The irregularity does not annoy you: you do not notice it if
the attack be severe or dangerous. All other thoughts are swallowed
up in the all-absorbing, ever-present alarm. You count nothing an
inconvenience that can bring present relief, or possible healing to the
beloved one; disdain for yourself rest or ease while the shadow hangs
above the pillow crushed by the helpless head. But when it passes,
when the first transport of thankfulness has subsided into an abiding
sense of safety, the mind swings back to the accustomed pivot, and
your eyes seem to be suddenly unbound. You find, with dismay, that
the children have run wild, and the comfort of the whole family been
neglected during your confinement to the post of most urgent duty; with
displeasure, that the servants have, as you consider, taken advantage
of your situation to omit this task, and to slur over that;—in fine,
that nothing has been done well, and so many things left altogether
undone, that you are “worried out of your senses”—a phrase that too
often signifies, out of your temper.
And it is just at this juncture—when you are called to fifty points of
attention and labor at once, and are on the verge of despair at the
conglomeration worse conglomerated arising before you; fidgetting to
pick up dropped stitches in the web you were wont to keep so even—that
the invalid becomes most exacting. “Unreasonable,” you name it to
yourself, even though it be John himself who calls upon you every third
minute for some little office of loving-kindness; who wants to be
amused and fed and petted, and made generally comfortable as if he were
a six-months-old baby; who never remembers that you must be wearied out
with watching and anxiety, and that everything below-stairs is going to
destruction for the want of a balance-wheel. The better he loves you
the more apt is he to fancy that nobody but you can do anything for
him; the more certain to crave something which no one else knows how
to prepare. And when you have strained muscle and patience a little
further to get it ready, and with prudent foresight made enough to
last for several meals, it is more than probable that his fickle taste
will suggest something entirely different for “next time.” “Just for a
change, you know, dear. One gets so tired of eating the same thing so
often!”
He might be more considerate—less childish—you think, turning away that
he may not see your change of countenance. When you have taken so much
pains to suit him exactly! It is harder yet when he refuses to do more
than taste the delicacy you hoped would tempt him.
“It is very nice, I suppose, my love,” says the poor fellow, with the
air of a martyr. “But it does not taste right, somehow. Maybe the
children can dispose of it. If I had a lemon ice, or some wine jelly
such as my mother used to make, I am sure I could relish it. I always
did detest sick peoples’ diet!”
If he is very much shaken as to nerves, he will be likely to say,
“messes.”
“I am fairly wild!” said a loving wife and mother, and thrifty
housekeeper, to me one day, when I called to see her.
She had just nursed her husband and three children through the
influenza. All had been down with it at once. That form of demoniacal
possession is generally conducted upon the wholesale principle. One of
her servants had left in disgust at the increased pressure of work; the
weather was rainy, blowy, raw; the streets were muddy, and there was no
such thing as keeping steps and halls clean, while the four invalids
were cross as only toothache or influenza can make human beings.
“I am fairly wild!” said the worthy creature, with tears in her eyes.
“I cannot snatch a minute, from morning until night, to put things
straight, and yet I am almost tired to death! I was saying to myself
as you came in, that I wouldn’t try any longer. I would just sit still
until the dirt was piled up to my chin, and then I would get upon the
table!”
How often I have thought of her odd speech since! sometimes with a
smile—more frequently with a sigh. But with all my pity for the nurse
and housekeeper, I cannot conceal from myself—I would not forget,
or let you forget for a moment—the truth that the sick one is the
greater sufferer. It is never pleasant to be laid upon the shelf. The
resting-place—falsely so-called—is hard and narrow and uneven enough,
even when the tramp of the outer world does not jar the sore and
jaded frame; when there is no apparent need for the sick person to be
upon his feet, and for aught that others can see, or he can say, he
might just as well stay where he is for a month or two. But when, the
rack of pain having been removed, the dulled perceptions of the mind
re-awaken to sensitiveness, and there comes to his ear the bugle-call
of duty—sharp, imperative;—when every idle moment speaks to him of a
slain opportunity, and the no longer strong man shakes his fetters
with piteous cries against fate, do not despise, or be impatient
with him. He is feverish and inconsiderate and capricious because he
is not himself. You see only the poor wreck left by the demon as he
tore his way out of him at the Divine command. Gather it up lovingly
in your arms, and nurse it back to strength and comeliness. The sick
should always be the chief object of thought and care with all in the
household.’ If need be, let the dirt lie chin-deep everywhere else, so
long as it is kept out of that one room. There be jealous in your care
that nothing offends sight and smell.
There should be no smell in a sick-chamber. To avoid this, let in
the air freely and often. Cologne-water will not dispel a foul odor,
while disinfectants are noisome in themselves. Bathe the patient as
frequently and thoroughly as prudence will allow, and change his
clothing, with the bed-linen, every day. Do not keep the medicines
where he can see them, nor ever let him witness the mixing of that
which he is to swallow. So soon as his meals are over, remove every
vestige of them from the room. Even a soiled spoon, lying on table or
bureau, may offend his fastidious appetite. Cover the stand or waiter
from which he eats with a spotless napkin, and serve his food in your
daintiest ware.
My heart softens almost to tearfulness when I recall the hours, days,
weeks, I have myself spent in the chamber of languishing, and the
ingenuity of tenderness that, from my babyhood, has striven to cheat
the imprisonment of weariness, and make me forget pain and uselessness.
The pretty surprises daily invented for my entertainment; the exceeding
nicety with which they were set out before me; the loving words that
nourished my spirit when the body was faint unto death,—these are
events, not slight incidents, in the book of memory. When I cease to be
grateful for them, or to learn from them how to minister unto others of
the like consolation, may my heart forget to beat, my right hand lose
her cunning!
Do not ask your charge what he would like to eat to-day. He will, of a
surety, sicken with the effort at selection, and say, “Nothing!” But
watch attentively for the slightest intimation of a desire for any
particular delicacy, and if you are assured that it cannot hurt him,
procure it, if you can, without letting him guess at your intention.
Feed him lightly and often, never bringing more into his sight than he
may safely eat. A big bowl of broth or jelly will either tempt him to
imprudence, or discourage him. “Am I to be burdened with all that?”
cries the affrighted stomach, and will have none of it. While he is
very weak, feed him with your own hand, playfully, as you would a
child, talking cheerily of something besides his food, and coaxing him
into taking the needed nutriment as only a wife and mother can, or as
nobody but John could beguile you to effort in the same direction.
Study all pleasant and soothing arts to while away the time, and keep
worry of every kind away from him. A trifle at which you can laugh will
be a burden to the enfeebled mind and body, and he has nothing to do
but lie still and roll it over until it swells into a mountain. When
he can be removed without danger, let him have his meals in another
room, changing the air of each when he is not in it. Every one who has
suffered from long sickness knows the peculiar loathing attendant upon
the idea that all food is tainted with the atmosphere of the chamber
in which it is served, and if eaten in bed, tastes of the mattress and
pillows. The room and all in it may be clean, fresh, and sweet, but the
fancy cannot be dismissed. And it is wiser to humor than to reason with
most sick fancies.
A hired nurse is a useful, often a necessary thing, but while you are
upon your feet, and mistress of your own house, delegate to no one
the precious task of catering for the dear sufferer. It is an art in
itself. I hope a practical knowledge of it will be taught in Women’s
Medical Colleges, when they are an established “institution” with us.
I wish it were proper to record here the name of one of the kindest
and best family physicians I ever knew, who had charge of my not very
firm health during my girlhood. He owed much—I suppose no one ever knew
really how much—of his success in his practice to his tact and skill in
devising palatable and suitable nourishment for his patients. I well
remember the childish pleasure with which I would hear him say when the
violence of the attack had passed—“Now, my dear child, we must begin
with kitchen physic!” and the glow of amused expectation with which I
used to watch him, as, with an arch show of mystery, he would beckon my
mother from the room to receive his “prescription;” the impatience with
which I awaited the result of the conference, and the zest with which I
ate whatever he ordered.
If I could have persuaded him to manage this department of my work,
it would win for me the degree of M.D. with a new meaning—Mistress of
Dietetics.
THE SICK-ROOM.
BEEF TEA. 
    1 lb. lean beef, cut into small pieces.
Put into a jar without a drop of water; cover tightly, and set in a pot
of cold water. Heat gradually to a boil, and continue this steadily
for three or four hours, until the meat is like white rags, and the
juice all drawn out. Season with salt to taste, and when cold, skim.
The patient will often prefer this ice-cold to hot. Serve with Albert
biscuit or thin “wafers,” unleavened, made by a receipt given under the
head of BREAD.
MUTTON BROTH. 
    1 lb. lean mutton or lamb, cut small.
    1 quart water—cold.
    1 tablespoonful rice, or barley, soaked in a very little warm water.
    4 tablespoonfuls milk.
    Salt and pepper, with a little chopped parsley.
Boil the meat, unsalted, in the water, keeping it closely covered,
until it falls to pieces. Strain it out, skim, add the soaked barley or
rice; simmer half an hour, stirring often; stir in the seasoning and
the milk, and simmer five minutes after it heats up well, taking care
it does not burn.
Serve hot with cream crackers.
CHICKEN BROTH. 
Is excellent made in the same manner as mutton, cracking the bones well
before you put in the fowl.
VEAL AND SAGO BROTH.
    2 lbs. knuckle of veal, cracked all to pieces.
    2 quarts of cold water.
    3 tablespoonfuls best pearl sago, soaked in a cup of cold water.
    1 cup cream, heated to boiling.
    Yolks of two eggs, beaten light.
Boil the veal and water in a covered saucepan very slowly until reduced
to one quart of liquid; strain, skim, season with salt, and stir in the
soaked sago (having previously warmed it by setting for half an hour in
a saucepan of boiling water, and stirring from time to time.) Simmer
half an hour, taking care it does not burn; beat in the cream and eggs;
give one good boil up, and turn out.
This is excellent for consumptives.
BEEF AND SAGO BROTH.
    2 lbs. of beef—cut up small.
    2 quarts of water.
    1 cup of sago, soaked soft in a little lukewarm water.
    Yolks of three eggs.
    Salt to taste.
Stew the beef until it falls to pieces; strain it out, salt the liquid
and stir in the sago. Simmer gently one hour, stirring often. Add the
beaten yolks: boil up once and serve.
This is a strengthening and nice soup. Eat with dry toast.
ARROWROOT JELLY (Plain.) 
    1 cup boiling water.
    2 heaping teaspoonfuls of best Bermuda arrowroot.
    1 teaspoonful lemon juice.
    2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar.
Wet the arrowroot in a little cold water, and rub smooth. Then stir
into the hot, which should be on the fire and actually boiling at the
time, with the sugar already melted in it. Stir until clear, boiling
steadily all the while, and add the lemon. Wet a cup in cold water, and
pour in the jelly to form. Eat cold with sugar and cream flavored with
rose-water.
An invaluable preparation in cases where wine is forbidden.
ARROWROOT WINE JELLY. 
    1 cup boiling water.
    2 heaping teaspoonfuls arrowroot.
    2 heaping white sugar.
    1 tablespoonful brandy or 3 tablespoonfuls of wine.
An excellent corrective to weak bowels.
ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE. 
    1 cupful boiling milk.
    2 dessertspoonfuls best arrowroot, rubbed smooth in cold water.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    Vanilla or other essence.
Boil until it thickens well, stirring all the while. Eat cold with
cream, flavored with rose-water, and sweetened to taste.
SAGO
May be substituted for arrowroot in any of the foregoing receipts,
when you have soaked it an hour in water poured over it cold, and
gradually warmed by setting the cup containing it in hot water. Boil
rather longer than you do the arrowroot.
SAGO GRUEL. 
    2 cups water.
    2 tablespoonfuls sago.
    3 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    1 glass of wine.
    1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
    Nutmeg to taste, and a pinch of salt.
Put the sago in the water while cold, and warm by setting in a saucepan
of boiling water. Stir often, and let it soften and heat for one
hour. Then boil ten minutes, stirring all the while; add the sugar,
wine, and lemon, and pour into a bowl or mould to cool. Eat warm, if
preferred. The wine and nutmeg should be omitted if the patient be
feverish.
INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 
    2 quarts of boiling water.
    1 cup of Indian meal, and
    1 tablespoonful flour, wet up with cold water.
    Salt to taste—and, if you like, sugar and nutmeg.
Wet the meal and flour to a smooth paste, and stir into the water while
it is actually boiling. Boil slowly one hour, stirring up well from
the bottom. Season with salt to taste. Some sweeten it, but I like it
better with a little pepper added to the salt.
If a cathartic is desired, omit the wheat flour altogether.
OATMEAL GRUEL
Is made in the same way.
MILK AND RICE GRUEL.
    1 quart boiling milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls (heaping) of ground rice, wet with cold milk.
    1 saltspoonful of salt.
Stir in the rice-paste and boil ten minutes, stirring all the while.
Season with sugar and nutmeg, and eat warm with cream.
You may use Indian meal instead of rice-flour, which is an astringent.
In this case, boil an hour.
DRIED FLOUR FOR TEETHING CHILDREN.
    1 cup of flour, tied in a stout muslin bag and dropped into cold
        water, then set over the fire.
Boil three hours steadily. Turn out the flour ball and dry in the hot
sun all day; or, if you need it at once, dry in a moderate oven without
shutting the door.
To use it—
Grate a tablespoonful for a cupful of boiling milk and water (half and
half). Wet up the flour with a very little cold water, stir in and boil
five minutes. Put in a little salt.
TAPIOCA JELLY.  (Very good.)
    1 cup of tapioca.
    3 cups of cold water.
    Juice of a lemon, and a pinch of the grated peel.
    Sweeten to taste.
Soak the tapioca in the water four hours. Set within a saucepan of
boiling water; pour more lukewarm water over the tapioca if it has
absorbed too much of the liquid, and heat, stirring frequently. If too
thick after it begins to clear, put in a very little boiling water.
When quite clear, put in the sugar and lemon. Pour into moulds. Eat
cold, with cream flavored with rose-water and sweetened.
TAPIOCA BLANC-MANGE. 
    1 cup of tapioca soaked in two cups cold water.
    3 cups boiling milk.
    3 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    Rose-water or vanilla.
Soak the tapioca four hours, and stir, with the water in which it was
soaked, into the boiling milk. Sweeten and boil slowly, stirring all
the while, fifteen minutes. Take off, flavor and pour into moulds.
Eat cold with cream. Wash tapioca well before soaking.
ARROWROOT CUSTARD. (Nice.)
    2 cups of boiling milk.
    3 heaping teaspoonfuls arrowroot, wet up with a little cold milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar, beaten with the egg.
    1 egg very well beaten.
Mix the arrowroot paste with the boiling milk; stir three minutes; take
from the fire and whip in the egg and sugar. Boil two minutes longer,
flavor with vanilla or rose-water, and pour into moulds.
RICE-FLOUR MILK.
    2 cups of milk, boiling.
    2 tablespoonfuls rice-flour, wet up with cold milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Boil ten minutes, stirring all the while, and flavor to taste. Eat warm
with cream.
SAGO MILK. 
    3 tablespoonfuls sago, soaked in a large cup cold water one hour.
    3 cups boiling milk.
    Sweeten and flavor to taste.
Simmer slowly half an hour. Eat warm.
TAPIOCA MILK
Is made in the same way.
BOILED RICE. 
    ½ cup whole rice, boiled in just enough water to cover it.
    1 cup of milk.
    A little salt.
    1 egg, beaten light.
When the rice is nearly done, turn off the water, add the milk and
simmer—taking care it does not scorch—until the milk boils up well.
Salt, and beat in the egg.
Eat warm with cream, sugar, and nutmeg.
PANADA. 
    6 Boston crackers, split.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    A good pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg.
    Enough boiling water to cover them well.
Split the crackers, and pile in a bowl in layers, salt and sugar
scattered among them. Cover with boiling water and set on the hearth,
with a close top over the bowl, for at least one hour. The crackers
should be almost clear and soft as jelly, but not broken.
Eat from the bowl, with more sugar sprinkled in if you wish it. If
properly made, this panada is very nice.
BREAD PANADA, OR JELLY. 
Pare some slices of stale baker’s bread and toast nicely, without
burning. Pile in a bowl, sprinkling sugar and a very little salt
between; cover well with boiling water, and set, with a tight lid
upon the top, in a pan of boiling water. Simmer gently, until the
contents of the bowl are like jelly. Eat warm with powdered sugar and
nutmeg.
CHICKEN JELLY. (Very nourishing.) 
    Half a raw chicken, pounded with a mallet, bones and meat together.
    Plenty of cold water to cover it well—about a quart.
Heat slowly in a covered vessel, and let it simmer until the meat is
in white rags and the liquid reduced one half. Strain and press, first
through a cullender, then through a coarse cloth. Salt to taste, and
pepper, if you think best; return to the fire, and simmer five minutes
longer. Skim when cool. Give to the patient cold—just from the ice—with
unleavened wafers. Keep on the ice. You can make into sandwiches by
putting the jelly between thin slices of bread spread lightly with
butter.
CALVES’ FEET BROTH.
    2 calves’ feet.
    2 quarts cold water.
    1 egg, beaten up with two tablespoonfuls milk for each cupful
        of broth.
    Pepper and salt.
Boil the feet to shreds; strain the liquor through a double muslin
bag; season to taste, and set by for use, as you need it. Warm by
the small quantity, allowing to each cupful a beaten egg and two
tablespoonfuls of milk. Give a good boil up to cook these, and serve
“with thin, crisp toast. If the patient can take it, a dash of
lemon-juice improves the broth.
TOAST WATER. 
    Slices of toast, nicely browned, without a symptom of burning.
    Enough boiling water to cover them.
Cover closely, and let them steep until cold. Strain the water, sweeten
to taste, and put a piece of ice in each glassful. If the physician
thinks it safe, add a little lemon-juice.
APPLE WATER. 
    1 large juicy pippin, the most finely-flavored you can get.
    3 cups of cold water—1 quart if the apple is very large.
Pare and quarter the apple, but do not core it. Put it on the fire in
a tin or porcelain saucepan with the water, and boil, closely covered,
until the apple stews to pieces. Strain the liquor at once, pressing
the apple hard in the cloth. Strain this again through a finer bag, and
set away to cool. Sweeten with white sugar, and ice for drinking.
It is a refreshing and palatable drink.
JELLY WATER. 
    1 large teaspoonful currant or cranberry jelly.
    1 goblet ice-water.
Beat up well for a fever-patient.
Wild cherry or blackberry jelly is excellent, prepared in like manner
for those suffering with summer complaint.
FLAX-SEED LEMONADE. 
    4 tablespoonfuls flax-seed (whole.)
    1 quart boiling water poured upon the flax-seed.
    Juice of two lemons, leaving out the peel.
    Sweeten to taste.
Steep three hours in a covered pitcher. If too thick, put in cold water
with the lemon-juice and sugar. Ice for drinking.
It is admirable for colds.
SLIPPERY-ELM BARK TEA.
Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over it, cover and let it
infuse until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take for summer disorders, or add
lemon-juice and drink for a bad cold.
APPLE TODDY. 
Boil a large juicy pippin in a quart of water, and when it has broken
to pieces strain off the water. While it is still boiling-hot, add a
glass of fine old whiskey, a little lemon-juice, and sweeten to taste.
Take hot at bed-time for influenza.
MILK PUNCH. 
    1 tumbler of milk, well sweetened.
    2 tablespoonfuls best brandy, well stirred in.
I have known very sick patients to be kept alive for days at a time by
this mixture, and nothing else, until Nature could rally her forces.
Give very cold with ice.
EGG AND MILK PUNCH 
Is made by the preceding receipt, with an egg beaten very light with
the sugar, and stirred in before the brandy is added.
ICELAND OR IRISH MOSS LEMONADE. 
    1 handful Irish or Iceland moss, washed in five waters.
    2 quarts boiling water, poured upon the moss, and left until cold.
    2 lemons, peeled and sliced, leaving out the peel.
    Sweeten very well and ice.
Do not strain, and if it thicken too much, add cold water.
Excellent for feverish colds and all pulmonary troubles.
ICELAND OR IRISH MOSS JELLY. 
    1 handful moss, washed in five waters, and soaked an hour.
    1 quart boiling water.
    2 lemons—the juice only.
    1 glass of wine.
    ¼ teaspoonful cinnamon. (Measure scantily.)
Soak the washed moss in a very little cold water; stir into the
boiling, and simmer until it is dissolved. Sweeten, flavor, and strain
into moulds. You may use two glasses of cider instead of one of wine
for a fever-patient, putting in a little less water.
Good for colds, and very nourishing.
SEA-MOSS BLANC-MANGE
Is made in the same way, using boiling milk instead of water, and
leaving out the lemons and wine. Flavor with vanilla or rose-water.
DRY TOAST.
Pare off the crust from stale light bread; slice half an inch thick and
toast quickly. Graham bread is very nice toasted.
Butter lightly if the patient can eat butter.
MILK TOAST. 
Toast as just directed; dip each slice, as it comes from the toaster,
in boiling water; butter, salt slightly, and lay in a deep covered
dish. Have ready in a saucepan enough boiling milk to cover all well.
When your slices are packed, salt this very slightly; melt in it a
bit of butter and pour over them. Cover closely and let it stand five
minutes before using it. It is excellent when made of Graham bread.
This is a good dish for a family tea as well as for invalids.
UNLEAVENED BISCUIT, OR WAFERS. 
Mix good, dry flour to a stiff dough with milk; salt, and roll out
thin. Cut into round cakes and roll these again almost as thin as
letter-paper. Bake very quickly.
They may also be mixed with water. These are very simple and palatable,
and go well with all kinds of broth, especially oyster-soup.
DRIED RUSK. (See Bread.)
BEEF STEAK AND MUTTON CHOPS.
Choose the tenderest cuts and broil over a clear hot fire with your
wisest skill. Let the steak be rare—the chops well-done. Salt and
pepper, lay between two hot plates three minutes, and serve to your
patient. If he is very weak, do not let him swallow anything except
the juice, when he has chewed the meat well.
The essence of rare beef—roast or broiled—thus expressed, is considered
by some physicians to be more strengthening than beef-tea, prepared in
the usual manner.
SANGAREE OR PORTEREE.
One-third wine or porter mixed with two-thirds cold water. Sweeten,
grate nutmeg on the top, and ice.
Serve dry toast with it. Taken hot, it is good for a sudden cold.
WINE WHEY.
    1 pint boiling milk.
1 large glass pale wine, poured in when the milk is scalding hot. Boil
up once, remove from the fire and let it cool. Do not stir it after the
wine is put in. When the curd forms, draw off the whey and sweeten.
HERB TEAS
Are made by infusing the dried or green leaves and stalks in boiling
water, and letting them stand until cold. Sweeten to taste.
Sage tea, sweetened with honey, is good for a sore throat, used as a
gargle, with a small bit of alum dissolved in it.
Catnip tea is the best panacea for infant ills, in the way of cold and
colic, known to nurses.
Pennyroyal tea will often avert the unpleasant consequences of a sudden
check of perspiration, or the evils induced by ladies’ thin shoes.
Chamomile and gentian teas are excellent tonics taken either cold or
hot.
The tea made from blackberry-root is said to be good for summer
disorders. That from green strawberry leaves is an admirable and
soothing wash for a cankered mouth.
Tea of parsley-root scraped and steeped in boiling water, taken warm,
will often cure strangury and kindred affections, as will that made
from dried pumpkin-seed.
Tansy and rue teas are useful in cases of colic, as are fennel seeds
steeped in brandy.
A tea of damask-rose leaves, dry or fresh, will usually subdue any
simple case of summer complaint in infants.
Mint tea, made from the green leaves, crushed in cold or hot water and
sweetened, is palatable and healing to the stomach and bowels.
MINT JULEP. 
Some sprigs of green mint, slightly bruised in a tumbler with a
teaspoon. Put in a generous teaspoonful of white sugar; add gradually,
stirring and rubbing lightly, enough water to fill the glass
three-quarters of the way to the top. Fill up with pounded ice; stir
hard; pour into a larger glass that you may shake up well, and put in
two tablespoonfuls fine brandy.
This is called a “hail-storm julep.”
EAU SUCRÉ. 
Dissolve three or four lumps of loaf sugar in a glass of ice-water, and
take a teaspoonful every few minutes for a “tickling in the throat,” or
a hacking cough. Keep it ice-cold.
A simple, but often an efficacious remedy.
THE NURSERY.
All food intended for infants should be very thoroughly cooked. The
numerous varieties of farinaceous substances—biscotine, farina,
rice-flour, arrowroot, etc., however nourishing may be their properties
when rightly prepared, are harsh and drastic when underdone. Unless you
have a nurse whom you know for yourself to be faithful and experienced,
always superintend the cooking of baby’s food. It can do no harm—it may
prevent much—if you examine it every day to see that it is right as
to quality and quantity. Do not aim at variety in this branch of your
profession. Confine a child under three years of age to a very limited
bill of fare. His stomach is too delicate an organ to be tampered with.
Let milk—scalded or boiled, as a rule—be the staple, mixed with farina,
barley, or something of the sort. Let him munch Graham bread and light
crackers freely. Remove far from him hot bread and griddle-cakes. When
he has cut his carnivorous teeth, Nature says—“This creature wants
meat.” And Nature’s supply is seldom in advance of the demand. If he
did not need what the teeth are designed to chew, you may be sure they
would not be given him. Grant him the novel food sparingly and with
discretion as to kind. Rare beef and well-boiled mutton, tender roast
or boiled chicken and turkey are safe. Withhold fried meats of every
description. Do not let him touch veal or pork in any shape. Mince
the meat very finely to save his digestive apparatus all unnecessary
work. Mealy old potatoes—never new or waxy—young onions, boiled in
two waters; fresh asparagus, green peas, and dry sweet potatoes should
suffice for vegetables, with, of course, rice and hominy. For dessert,
once in a while, a simple custard, a taste of home-made ice-cream,
rice and farina puddings, Graham hasty pudding; the inner part of a
well-roasted apple, and, in their season, ripe peaches and apples, will
not harm him, taken in moderation, if he be well and strong.
Pare the fruit always. The skin of an apple is as bad for him as a
bit of your kid gloves would be; that of a grape more indigestible than
sole-leather. Raisins—“skins and all”—are unfit for anybody to eat.
Pulp and pits, they are poisonous for baby. Ditto, pickles, pastry, and
preserves. Ditto, most kinds of cake and all sorts of fruit puddings.
Give him light suppers, and put him to bed early in a dark room. He
will not grow better in a glare of artificial light than will your
camellias and azalias.
Always see for yourself that his last waking thoughts are pleasant;
that he shuts his eyes at peace with the world and in love with you;
that his feet are warm, his stomach easy, and his body not overloaded
with blankets and quilts; also, that the nursery is clean and freshly
aired. These are better prescriptions for sound slumber than all the
old wives’ fables of the excellent properties of that pernicious
drug—Soothing Syrup.
FARINA. 
    1 cup boiling water.
    1 cup fresh milk.
    1 large tablespoonful Hecker’s Farina, wet up with cold water.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    A pinch of salt.
Stir the farina into the boiling water (slightly salted) in the
farina kettle (i. e., one boiler set within another, the latter
filled with hot water). Boil fifteen minutes, stirring constantly until
it is well-thickened. Then add the milk, stirring it in gradually, and
boil fifteen minutes longer. Sweeten, and give to the child so soon as
it is cool enough.
You may make enough in the morning to last all day; warming it up with
a little hot milk as you want it. Keep in a cold place. Some of the
finest children I have ever seen were reared upon this diet. Do not get
it too sweet, and cook it well. Be sure the farina is sweet and dry.
BARLEY.
It sometimes happens that milk disagrees with a delicate infant so
seriously that it is necessary to substitute some other article of diet
for a few days. I have known barley water to be used, in such cases,
with great success.
    2 cups boiling water.
    2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley—picked over and washed.
    A pinch of salt.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar—not heaping.
Soak the barley half an hour in a very little lukewarm water, and stir,
without draining, into the boiling water, salted very slightly. Simmer
one hour, stirring often, and strain before sweetening.
ARROWROOT. 
    1 cup of boiling water.
    1 cup fresh milk.
    2 teaspoonfuls best Bermuda arrowroot, wet with cold water.
    1 small pinch of salt.
    2 even teaspoonfuls white sugar, dissolved in the milk.
Stir the arrowroot paste into the salted boiling water; stir and boil
five minutes or until it is clear; add the sweetened milk, and boil ten
minutes, slowly, still stirring.
If the child has fever, or cannot digest milk, substitute hot water for
it. It is, however, a dangerous experiment to forbid milk altogether
for an infant. I should rather diminish the quantity, putting in, say,
one-third or one-fourth as much as the receipt names, and filling up
with boiling water.
RICE JELLY. 
    ½ cup whole rice, well-washed and soaked two hours in a little warm
        water; then added, with the water, to that in the kettle.
    3 pints cold water.
    1 small pinch of salt, put into the water.
    Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar.
Simmer the rice half an hour; then boil it until it is a smooth paste,
and the water is reduced one-half. Strain through double tarlatan,
sweeten, and give to the child.
This is an admirable preparation for an infant suffering with weakness
of the bowels. If there is no fever, you may put one-third part milk,
boiled with the rice. Give a few spoonfuls every hour or half hour.
MILK AND BREAD. 
    1 cup boiled milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls stale Graham bread.
    A very little sugar.
Crumble the bread into the boiled milk, sweeten, and when cool enough,
feed to the child with a spoon.
WHEATEN GRITS. 
    4 tablespoonfuls grits (cracked wheat) soaked in a little cold
        water one hour, and then put into the kettle.
    1 quart boiling water.
    1 cup milk.
    A pinch of salt.
Boil the soaked grits in the quart of water one hour, stirring up
often; add the milk and boil half an hour longer. Sweeten to taste, and
if the child is well, pour cream over it. This is designed for children
over a year old. It is slightly cathartic; especially if the milk be
omitted, and is most useful in regulating the bowels. When this can be
done without drugs, it is far better.
HOMINY AND MILK. 
    ½ cup small hominy.
    1 scant quart of cold water.
    Pinch of salt.
Boil one hour, stirring often. While hot, mix some soft with new milk,
sweeten to taste and feed to baby with a spoon.
This is also relaxing to the bowels, and should not be given if the
child is disposed to summer complaint.
GRAHAM HASTY PUDDING. 
    1 cup Graham flour, wet up with cold water.
    1 large cup boiling water and same quantity of milk.
    1 saltspoonful of salt.
Stir the wet flour into the boiling water, slightly salted. Boil
fifteen minutes, stirring almost constantly. Add the milk and cook,
after it has come again to a boil, ten minutes longer. Give with sugar
and milk for breakfast.
Eaten with cream, nutmeg, and powdered sugar, this is a good plain
dessert for grown people as well as children.
RICE FLOUR HASTY PUDDING
Is made as above, substituting two heaping tablespoonfuls rice flour
for the Graham.
MILK PORRIDGE.
    1 tablespoonful Indian meal } wet to a paste with cold
    1 tablespoonful white flour }   water.
    2 cups boiling water.
    2 cups milk.
    A good pinch of salt.
Boil the paste in the hot water twenty minutes; add the milk and cook
ten minutes more, stirring often.
Eat with sugar and milk, stirred in while hot.
MUSH AND MILK.
    1 cup Indian meal, wet up with cold water.
    2 quarts cold water.
    Salt to taste.
Boil two hours; stirring often with a wooden spoon or a stick.
To be eaten hot with milk and sugar.
CONDENSED MILK.
This is perhaps the safest substitute for the “good milk from one cow,”
which few mothers in town can procure. Keep the can in a cool place and
mix according to directions.
SUNDRIES.
CLEANING POTS, KETTLES, AND TINS.
Boil a double handful of hay or grass in a new iron pot, before
attempting to cook with it; scrub out with soap and sand; then set on
full of fair water, and let it boil half an hour. After this, you may
use it without fear. As soon as you empty a pot or frying-pan of that
which has been cooked in it, fill with hot or cold water (hot is best)
and set back upon the fire to scald thoroughly.
New tins should stand near the fire with boiling water in them, in
which has been dissolved a spoonful of soda, for an hour; then be
scoured inside with soft soap; afterward rinsed with hot water. Keep
them clean by rubbing with sifted wood-ashes, or whitening.
Copper utensils should be cleaned with brickdust and flannel.
Never set a vessel in the pot-closet without cleaning and wiping it
thoroughly. If grease be left in it, it will grow rancid. If set aside
wet, it is apt to rust.
KNIVES.
Clean with a soft flannel and Bath brick. If rusty, use wood-ashes,
rubbed on with a newly cut bit of Irish potato. This will remove spots
when nothing else will. Keep your best set wrapped in soft white
paper; then in linen, in a drawer out of damp and dust.
Never dip the ivory handles of knives in hot water.
SILVER.
Wash, after each meal, all that is soiled, in very hot soft water,
with hard soap. Wipe hard and quickly on a clean towel; then polish
with dry flannel. If discolored with egg, mustard, spinach, or beans,
by any other means, rub out the stain with a stiff toothbrush (used
only for this purpose), and silver soap.
For years I have used no other preparation for cleaning silver than the
Indexical silver soap, applied as I have described. After rubbing with
a stiff lather made with this, wash off with hot water, wipe and polish
while hot. There is no need for the weekly silver cleaning to be an
event or a bugbear, if a little care and watchfulness be observed after
each meal. Silver should never be allowed to grow dingy. If Bridget
or Chloe will not attend properly to this matter, take it in hand
yourself. Have your own soap-cups—two of them—one with common soap, the
other with a cake of silver soap in the bottom. Have for one a mop, for
the other a stiff brush—a toothbrush is best. Use your softest towels
for silver.
Besides being clean and easy of application, the silver soap will not
wear away the metal as will whiting or chalk, or plate-powder, however
finely pulverized.
CHINA AND GLASS.
There are few of the minor crooks in the lot of the careful housewife
that cause her more anxiety and more discouragement than the attempt to
teach domestics how to wash up dishes.
“I’ve heard that Mrs. —— is very exact about some things, such as
washing up dishes and the likes of that!” said a woman to me, with an
affected laugh, having called to apply for the then vacant position of
cook in my kitchen. She had high recommendations, a whine engrafted
upon her native brogue, and spoke of me in the third person—a trick of
cheap (and bogus) gentility that tries my nerves and temper to the very
marrow of my spine. “I was a-saying to myself, as I came along, that
Mrs. —— must have been very onlucky in her girls if she had to tache
them how to wash up dishes. I always thought that was one of the things
that came kinder nat’ral to every cook.”
“Mrs. ——’s” experience goes to prove that the wrong way of doing
this must “come natural” to the class mentioned, and that Nature is
mighty in woman. The fact that the right way is not to pile unrinsed
dishes and plates in a big pan with a loose bit of soap on top, and
pour lukewarm water over all; then with a bit of rag to splash said
water over each separately, and make another pile of them upon the
kitchen-table, until the last is drawn, reeking with liquid grease,
sticky and streaming, from the now filthy puddle of diluted swill; then
to rub them lightly and leisurely with one towel—be they many or few—is
as difficult of comprehension to the scullionly mind as would be a
familiar lecture upon the pons asinorum.
Yet the right and only neat method is so simple and easy! Rinse the
greasy plates, and whatever is sticky with sugar or other sweet, in hot
water and transfer to a larger pan of very hot. Wash glass first;
next silver; then china—one article at a time, although you may put
several in the pan. Have a mop with a handle; rub upon the soap (over
which the water should have been poured) until you have strong suds.
There is a little implement made by the “Dover Stamping Co.,” a cup
of tinned wire, called a “soap-shaker,” that greatly facilitates this
process of suds-making, without waste of soap. Wash both sides of plate
and saucer, and wipe before putting it out of your hand. Draining
leaves streaks which can be felt by sensitive finger-tips, if not seen.
If china is rough to the touch, it is dirty. Hot, clean suds, a dry,
clean towel, and quick wiping leave it bright and shining. Roll your
glasses around in the water, filling them as soon as they touch it, and
you need never crack one. A lady did once explain the dinginess of her
goblets to me by saying that she was “afraid to put them in hot water.
It rots glass and makes it so tender! I prefer to have them a little
cloudy.” This is literally true—that she said it, I mean. Certainly not
that a year’s soak in hot water could make glass tender.
WASHING WINDOWS.
Dissolve a little washing-soda in the water if the glass is very dim
with smoke or dirt. Do not let it run on the sash, but wash each pane
with old flannel; dry quickly with a soft, clean towel, wiping the
corners with especial care. Polish with chamois skin, or newspapers
rubbed soft between the hands.
TO CLEAN CARPETS.
Sprinkle the carpet with tea-leaves; sweep well; then use soap and
soft, warm water for the grease and dirt spots. This freshens up old
carpets marvellously. Rub the wet spots dry with a clean cloth.
TO CLEAN PAINT.
Scour with a flat brush, less harsh than that used for floors, using
warm soft suds; before it dries wash off with old flannel dipped in
clean cold water, and wipe dry with a linen towel or cloth. Go through
the whole process quickly, that the water may not dry upon and streak
the paint.
TO KEEP WOOLENS.
Beat out all the dust, and sun for a day; shake very hard; fold neatly
and pin—or, what is better, sew up—closely in muslin or linen cloths,
putting a small lump of gum-camphor in the centre of each bundle. Wrap
newspapers about all, pinning so as to exclude dust and insects.
These are really all the precautions necessary for the safety even of
furs, if they are strictly obeyed. But you may set moths at defiance
if you can, in addition to these, secure, as a packing-case, a whiskey
or alcohol barrel, but lately emptied, and still strongly scented by
the liquor. Have a close head, and fit it in neatly. Set away in the
garret, and think no more of your treasures until next winter.
TO WASH DOUBTFUL CALICOES.
Put a teaspoonful of sugar of lead into a pailful of water, and soak
fifteen minutes before washing.
TO CLEAN A CLOTH COAT.
Rub soap upon the wristbands and collar; dip them in boiling-hot
suds—and scrub with a stiff clean brush. Treat the grease and dirt
spots in the same way. Change the suds for clean and hot as it gets
dirty. Wet and brush the whole coat, the right way of the cloth,
with fresh suds, when you have scoured out the spots, adding three
or four tablespoonfuls of alcohol to the water. Stretch the sleeves,
pocket-holes, wristbands, and collar into shape, folding the sleeves
as if they had been ironed, also the collar. Lay upon a clean cloth,
spread upon the table or floor, and let it get perfectly dry in the
shade, turning over three or four times without disturbing the folds.
TO CLEAN SILK.
To Remove Grease Spots.—Scrape Venetian or French chalk fine;
moisten to a stiff paste with soap-suds; make it into flat cakes by
pressing between two boards, and dry in the sun or oven. Keep these
for use. When you need them, scrape one to powder and cover the spot
with it, laying the silk upon a fine clean linen or cotton cloth. Lay
two or three folds of tissue-paper upon the chalk, and press it with
a hot iron for a minute or more, taking care it does not touch the
silk. Raise the paper and scrape off the grease with the chalk. Split
a visiting-card, and rub the place where the spot was, with the
inside, to restore the lustre. The silk should be pressed on the wrong
side.
If the spot be discovered at once, simply rub the wrong side hard with
powdered French chalk, and leave it to wear off.
To Wash Silk.—Mix together
    2 cups cold water.
    1 tablespoonful honey.
    1 tablespoonful soft soap.
    1 wineglass alcohol.
Shake up well; lay the silk, a breadth at a time, on a table, and
sponge both sides with this, rubbing it well in; shake it about well
and up and down in a tub of cold water; flap it as dry as you can, but
do not wring it. Hang it by the edges, not the middle, until fit to
iron. Iron on the wrong side while it is very damp.
Black and dark or sober-colored silks may be successfully treated in
this way.
To Smooth Wrinkled Silk.—Sponge on the right side with very weak
gum-arabic water, and iron on the wrong side.
TO RENEW WRINKLED CRAPE.
Stretch over a basin of boiling water, holding it smooth, but not
tight, over the top, and shifting as the steam fairly penetrates it.
Fold, while damp, in the original creases, and lay under a heavy book
or board to dry. It will look almost as well as new.
TO RESTORE THE PILE OF VELVET.
If but slightly pressed, treat as you would crape. Steam on the right
side until heated through. If very badly crushed, wet on the wrong
side; let an assistant hold a hot iron, bottom upward, and pass
the wet side of the velvet slowly over the flat surface—a sort of
upside-down ironing. When the steam rises thickly through to the right
side, it will raise the pile with it. Dry without handling.
TO CURL TUMBLED FEATHERS.
Hold over the heated top of the range or stove, not near enough to
burn; withdraw, shake them out, and hold them over it again until
curled.
TO CLEAN STRAW MATTING.
Wash with a cloth dipped in clean salt and water; then wipe dry at
once. This prevents it from turning yellow.
TO WASH LAWN OR THIN MUSLIN.
Boil two quarts of wheat-bran in six quarts, or more, of water, half
an hour. Strain through a coarse towel and mix in the water in which
the muslin is to be washed. Use no soap, if you can help it, and no
starch. Rinse lightly in fair water. This preparation both cleanses and
stiffens the lawn. If you can conveniently, take out all the gathers.
The skirt should always be ripped from the waist.
TO WASH WOOLENS.
