dered through the village. The Casino was shrouded 
in darkness and silence, and there was nothing in the 
streets of the little town but the salt smell of the 
sea, a vague aroma of fish and the distant sound of 
the breakers. Little by little, Bernard lost the feeling 
of having been startled, and began to perceive that 
he could reason about his trouble. Trouble it was, 
though this seems an odd name for the consciousness 
of a bright enchantment; and the first thing that 
reason, definitely consulted, told him about the mat- 
ter was that he had been in love with Angela Vivian 
any time these three years. This sapient faculty 
supplied him with further information ; only two or 
three of the items of which, however, it is necessary 
to reproduce. He had been a great fool — an incredible fool — not to have discovered before this what 
was the matter with him! Bernard's sense of his 
own shrewdness — always tolerably acute — had never 
received such a bruise as this present perception that 
a great many things had been taking place in his 
clever mind without his clever mind suspecting them. 
But it little mattered, his reason went on to declare, 
what he had suspected or what he might now feel 
about it ; his present business was to leave Blanquais- 
les-Galets at sunrise the next morning and never rest 
his eyes upon Angela Vivian again. This was his 
duty; it had the merit of being perfectly plain and 
definite, easily ap]3rehended, and unattended, as far 
as he could discover, with the smallest material difficulties. Not only this, reason continued to remark ; 
hut the moral difficulties were equally inconsiderable. 
He had never breathed a word of his passion to Miss 
Vivian — quite the contrary; he had never committed 
himself nor given her the smallest reason to suspect 
his hidden flame ; and he was therefore perfectly free 
to turn his back upon her — he could never incur the 
reproach of trifling with her affections. Bernard was 
in that state of mind when it is the greatest of bless- 
ings to be saved the distress of choice — to see a 
straight path before you and to feel that you have 
only to follow it. Upon the straight path I have 
indicated, he fixed his eyes very hard ; of course he 
would take his departure at the earliest possible 
hour on the morrow. There was a streak of morn- 
ing in the eastern sky by the time he knocked for 
re-admittance at the door of the inn, which was 
opened to him by a mysterious old woman in a 
nightcap and meagre accessories, whose identity he 
failed to ascertain; and he laid himself down to 
rest — he was very tired — with his attention fast- 
ened, as I say, on the idea — on the very image — of 
departure. 
On waking up the next morning, rather late, he 
found, however, that it had attached itself to a very 
different object. His vision was filled with the 
brightness of the delightful fact itself, which seemed 
to impregnate the sweet morning air and to flutter in 
the light, fresh breeze that came through his open 
window from the sea. He saw a great patch of the 
sea between a couple of red-tiled roofs ; it was bluer 
than any sea had ever been before. He had not slept 
long — only three or four hours; but he had quite 
slept off his dread. The shadow had dropped away 
and nothing was left but the beauty of his love, 
which seemed to shine in the freshness of the early 
day. He felt absurdly happy — as if he had discov- 
ered El Dorado ; quite apart from consequences — he 
was not thinking of consequences, which of course 
were another affair — the feeling was intrinsically the 
finest one he had ever had, and — as a mere feeling — 
he had not done with it yet. The consideration of 
consequences could easily be. deferred, and there 
would, meanwhile, be no injury to any one in his 
extracting, very quietly, a little subjective joy from 
the state of his heart. He would let the flower bloom 
for a day before plucking it up by the roots. Upon 
this latter course he was perfectly resolved, and in 
view of such an heroic resolution the subjective 
interlude appeared no more than his just privilege. 
The project of leaving Blanquais-les-Galets at nine 
o'clock in the morning dropped lightly from his 
mind, making no noise as it fell ; but another took its 
place, which had an air of being still more excellent 
and which consisted of starting off on a long walk 
and absenting himself for the day. Bernard grasped 
his stick and wandered away ; he climbed the great 
shoulder of the further cliff and found himself on the 
level downs. Here there was apparently no obstacle 
whatever to his walking as far as his fancy should 
carry him. The summer was still in a splendid 
mood, and the hot and quiet day — it was a Sunday 
— seemed to constitute a deep, silent smile on the 
face of nature. The sea glistened on one side, and 
the crops ripened on the other ; the larks, losing 
themselves in the dense sunshine, made it ring here 
and there in undiscoverable spots ; this was the only 
sound save when Bernard, pausing now and then in 
his walk, found himself hearing far below him, at the 
base of the cliff, the drawling murmur of a wave. 
He walked a great many miles and passed through 
half a dozen of those rude fishing-hamlets, lodged in 
some sloping hollow of the cliffs, so many of which, 
of late years, all along the Norman coast, have 
adorned themselves with a couple of hotels and a 
row of bathing-machines. He walked so far that the 
shadows had begun to lengthen before he bethought 
himself of stopping ; the afternoon had come on and 
had already begun to wane. The grassy downs still 
stretched before him, shaded here and there with 
shallow but windless dells. He looked for the softest 
place and then flung himself down on the grass ; he 
lay there for a long time, thinking of many things. 
He had determined to give himself up to a day's 
happiness ; it was happiness of a very harmless kind 
-the satisfaction of thought, the bliss of mere consciousness ; but such as it was it did not elude him 
nor turn bitter in his heart, and the long summer day 
closed upon him before his spirit, hovering in perpetual circles round the idea of what might be, had 
begun to rest its wing. When he rose to his feet 
again it was too late to return to Blanquais in the 
same way that he had come; the evening was at 
hand, the light was already fading, and the walk he 
had taken was one which even if he had not felt very 
tired, he would have thought it imprudent to attempt 
to repeat in the darkness. He made his way to the 
nearest village, where he was able to hire a rustic 
carriole, in which primitive conveyance, gaining the 
high-road, he jogged and jostled through the hours of 
the evening slowly back to his starting-point. It 
wanted an hour of midnight by the time he reached 
his inn, and there was nothing left for him but to go 
to bed. 
He went in the unshaken faith that he should 
leave BlancLuais early on the morrow. But early on 
the morrow it occurred to him that it would be simply grotesque to go off without taking leave of Mrs. 
Vivian and her daughter, and offering them some 
explanation of his intention. He had given them to 
understand that, so delighted was he to find them 
there, he would remain at Blanquais at least as long 
as they. He must have seemed to them wanting in 
civility, to spend a whole bright Sunday without 
apparently troubling his head about them, and if the 
unlucky fact of his being in love with the girl were a 
reason for doing his duty, it was at least not a reason 
for being rude. He had not yet come to that — to 
accepting rudeness as an incident of virtue ; it had 
always been his theory that virtue had the best manners in the world, and he flattered himself at any 
rate that he could guard his integrity without making 
himself ridiculous. So, at what he thought a proper 
hour, in the course of the morning, he retraced his 
steps along the little lane through which, two days 
ago, Angela Vivian had shown him the way to her 
mother's door. At this humble portal he knocked ; 
the windows of the little chalet were open, and the 
white curtains, behind the flower-pots, were fluttering 
as he had seen them before. The door was opened 
by a neat young woman, wno informed him very 
promptly that Madame and Mademoiselle had left 
Blanquais a couple of hours earlier. They had gone 
to Paris — yes, very suddenly, taking with them but 
little luggage, and they had left her — she had the 
honor of being the fenime de chambre of ces dames 
— to put up their remaining possessions and follow 
as soon as possible. On Bernard's expressing sur- 
prise and saying that he had supposed them to be 
fixed at the sea-side for the rest of the season, the 
femme de chambre, who seemed a very intelligent 
person, begged to remind him that the season was 
drawing to a close, that Madame had taken the chalet 
but for five weeks, only ten days of which period 
were yet to expire, that ces dames, as Monsieur perhaps knew, were great travellers, who had been half 
over the world and thought nothing of breaking 
camp at an hour's notice, and that, in fine, Madame 
might very well have received a telegram summoning 
her to another part of the country. 
" And where have the ladies gone ? " asked Ber- 
nard. 
" For the moment, to Paris." 
" And in Paris where have they gone ?" 
" Bame, chez dies — to their house," said the 
femme .de chambre, who appeared to think that Ber- 
nard asked too many questions. 
But Bernard persisted. 
" Where is their house ? " 
The waiting-maid looked at him from head to foot. 
" If Monsieur wishes to write, many of Madame's 
letters come to her banker," she said, inscrutably. 
" And who is her banker ? " 
" He lives in the Eue de Provence." 
" Very good — I will find him out," said our hero, 
turning away. 
The discriminating reader who has been so good as 
to interest himself in this little nan-ative will perhaps at this point exclaim with a pardonable consciousness of shrewdness : " Of course he went the 
next day to the Rue de Provence ! " Of course, yes ; 
only as it happens Bernard did nothing of the kind. 
He did one of the most singular things he ever did 
in his life — a thing that puzzled him even at the 
time, and with regard to which he often afterward 
wondered whence he had drawn the ability for so 
remarkable a feat — he simply spent a fortnight at 
Blanquais-les-Galets. It was a very quiet fortnight ; 
he spoke to no one, he formed no relations, he was 
company to himself. It may be added that he had 
never found his own company half so good. He 
struck himself as a reasonable, delicate fellow, who 
looked at things in such a way as to make him refrain — refrain successfully, that was the point — 
from concerning himself practically about Angela 
Vivian. His saying that he would find out the 
banker in the Rue de Provence had been for the 
benefit of the femme de chambre, whom he thought 
rather impertinent ; he had really no intention what- 
ever of entering that classic thoroughfare. He took 
long walks, rambled on the beach, along the base of 
the cliffs and among the brown sea-caves, and he 
thought a good deal of certain incidents which have 
figured at an earlier stage of this narrative. He had 
forbidden himself the future, as an object of contem- 
plation, and it was therefore a matter of necessity 
that his imagination should take refuge among the 
warm and familiar episodes of the past. He wondered why Mrs. Vivian should have left the place so 
suddenly, and was of course struck with the analogy 
between this incident and her abrupt departure from 
Baden. It annoyed him, it troubled him, but it by 
no means rekindled the alarm he had felt on first 
perceiving the injured Angela on the beach. That 
alarm had been quenched by Angela's manner during 
the hour that followed and during their short talk in 
the evening. This evening was to be forever memorable, for it had brought with it the revelation which 
still, at moments, suddenly made Bernard tremble ; 
but it had also brought him the assurance that Angela 
cared as little as possible for anything that a chance 
acquaintance might have said about her. It is all 
the more singular, therefore, that one evening, after 
he had been at Blanquais a fortnight, a train of 
thought should suddenly have been set in motion in 
his mind. It was kindled by no outward occurrence, 
but by some wandering spark of fancy or of memory, 
and the immediate effect of it was to startle our hero 
very much as he had been startled on the evening I 
have described. The circumstances were the same ; 
he had wandered down to the beach alone, very late, 
and he stood looking at the duskily-tumbling sea. 
Suddenly the same voice that had spoken before 
murmured another phrase in the darkness, and it 
rang upon his ear for the rest of the night. It 
startled him, as I have said, at first ; then, the next 
morning, it led him to take his departure for Paris. 
During the journey it lingered in his ear ; he sat in 
the corner of the railway-carriage with his eyes 
closed, abstracted, on purpose to prolong the reverberation. If it were not true it was at least, as the 
Italians have it, hen trovato, and it was wonderful 
how well it bore thinking of It bears telling less 
well ; but I can at least give a hint of it. The 
theory that Angela hated him had evaporated in her 
presence, and another of a very different sort had 
sprung into being. It fitted a great many of the 
facts, it explained a great many contradictions, anomalies, mysteries, and it accounted for Miss Vivian's 
insisting upon her mother's leaving Blanquais at a 
few hours' notice, even better than the theory of her 
resentment could have done. At any rate, it obliterated Bernard's scruples very effectually, and led him 
on his arrival in Paris to repair instantly to the Euede Provence. This street contains more than one 
banker, but there is one with whom Bernard deemed 
Mrs. Vivian most likely to have dealings. He found 
he had reckoned rightly, and he had no difficulty in 
procuring her address. Having done so, however, he 
by no means went immediately to see her ; he waited 
a couple of days — perhaps to give those obliterated 
scruples I have spoken of a chance to revive. They 
kept very quiet, and it must be confessed that Ber- 
nard took no great pains to recall them to life. After 
he had been in Paris three days, he knocked at Mrs. 
Vivian's door. 
XXII. 
It was opened by the little waiting-maid whom he 
had seen at Blanquais, and who looked at him very 
hard before she answered his inquiry. 
"You see I have found Mrs. Vivian's dwelling, 
though you wouldn 't give me the address," Bernard 
said to her, smiling. 
" Monsieur has put some time to it ! " the young 
woman answered dryly. And she informed him that 
Madame was at home, though Mademoiselle, for 
whom he had not asked, was not. 
Mrs. Vivian occupied a diminutive apartment at 
the summit of one of the tall white houses which 
ornament the neighborhood of the Arc de Triomphe. 
The early days of September had arrived, but Paris 
was still a city of absentees. The weather was warm 
and charming, and a certain savour of early autumn 
in the air was in accord with the somewhat melan- 
choly aspect of the empty streets and closed shutters 
of this honorable quarter, where the end of the monumental vistas seemed to be curtained with a hazy 
emanation from the Seine. It was late in the afternoon when Bernard was ushered into Mrs. Vivian's 
little high-nestling drawing-room, and a patch of 
sunset tints, faintly red, rested softly upon the 
gilded wall. Bernard had seen these ladies only 
in borrowed and provisional abodes ; but here was 
a place where they were really living and which 
was stamped with their tastes, their habits, their 
charm. The little salon was very elegant; it contained a multitude of pretty things, and it appeared 
to Bernard to be arranged in perfection. The long 
windows — the ceiling being low, they were really 
very short — opened upon one of those solid bal- 
conies, occupying the width of the apartment, which 
are often in Paris a compensation for living up five 
flights of stairs, and this balcony was filled with 
flowers and cushions. Bernard stepped out upon it 
to await the coming of Mrs. Vivian, and, as she was 
not quick to appear, he had time to see that his 
friends enjoyed a magnificent view. They looked up 
at the triumphal Arch, which presented itself at a 
picturesque angle, and near the green tree-tops of the 
Champs Elyses, beyond which they caught a broad 
gleam of the Seine and a glimpse, blue in the distance, of the great towers of Notre Dame. The 
whole vast city lay before them and beneath them, 
with its ordered brilliancy and its mingled aspect of 
compression and expansion ; and yet the huge Pari- 
sian murmur died away before it reached Mrs. 
Vivian's sky-parlor, which seemed to Bernard the 
brightest and quietest little habitation he had ever 
known. 
His hostess came rustling in at last; she seemed 
agitated; she knocked over with the skirt of her 
dress a little gilded chair which was reflected in the 
polished parquet as in a sheet of looking-glass. Mrs. 
Vivian had a fixed smile — she hardly knew what to 
say. 
" I found your address at the banker's," said Bernard. " Your maid, at Blanquais, refused to give it 
to me." 
Mrs. Vivian gave him a little look — there was 
always more or less of it in her face — which seemed 
equivalent to an entreaty that her interlocutor should 
spare her. 
" Maids are so strange," she murmured ; " especially 
the French ! " 
It pleased Bernard for the moment not to spare 
her, though he felt a sort of delight of kindness for 
her. 
" Your going off from Blanquais so suddenly, without leaving me any explanation, any clue, any message of any sort — made me feel at first as if you 
didn' t wish that T should look you up. It reminded 
me of the way you left Baden — do you remember ? 
— three years ago." 
"Baden was so charming — but one couldn't stay 
forever," said Mrs. Vivian. 
" I had a sort of theory one could. Our life was 
so pleasant that it seemed a shame to break the spell, 
and if no one had moved I am sure we might be sitting there now." 
Mrs. Vivian stared, still with her little fixed smile. 
" I think we should have had bad weather." 
" Very likely," said Bernard, laughing. " Nature 
would have grown jealous of our good-humor — of 
our tranquil happiness. And after all, here we are 
together again — that is, some of us. But I have 
only my own audacity to thank for it. I was quite 
free to believe that you were not at all pleased to 
see me re-appear — and it is only because I am not 
easy to discourage — am indeed probably a rather 
impudent fellow — that I have ventured to come 
here to-day." 
" I am very glad to see you re-appear, Mr. Longue- 
ville," Mrs. Vivian declared with the accent of ve- 
racity. 
" It was your daughter's idea, then, running away 
from Blanquais ? " 
Mrs. Viviati lowered her eyes. 
"We were obliged to go to Fontainebleau. We 
have but just come back. I thought of writing to 
you," she softly added. 
" Ah, what pleasure that would have given me ! " 
" I mean, to tell you where we were, and that we 
should have been so happy to see you." 
"I thank you for the intention. I suppose your 
daughter wouldn 't let you carry it out." 
" Angela is so peculiar," Mrs. Vivian said, simply. 
" You told me that the first time I saw you." 
" Yes, at Siena," said Mrs. Vivian. 
"I am glad to hear you speak frankly of that 
place!" 
" Perhaps it 's better," Mrs. Vivian murmured. 
She got up and went to the window ; then stepping 
upon the balcony, she looked down a moment into 
the street. " She will come back in a moment," she 
said, coming into the room again. " She has gone to 
see a friend who lives just beside us. We don't 
mind about Siena now," she added, softly. 
Bernard uiiderstood her — understood this to be a 
retraction of the request she had made of him at 
Baden. 
"Dear little woman," he said to himself, "she 
wants to marry her daughter still — only now she 
wants to marry her to me ! " 
He wished to show her that he understood her, 
and he was on the point of seizing her hand, to do 
he didn' t know what — to hold it, to press it, to kiss 
it — when he heard the sharp twang of the bell at 
the door of the little apartment. 
Mrs. Vivian fluttered away. 
" It 's Angela," she cried, and she stood there waiting and listening, smiling at Bernard, with her handkerchief pressed to her lips. 
In a moment the girl came into the drawing-room, 
but on seeing Bernard she stopped, with her hand on 
the door-knob. Her mother went to her and kissed 
her. 
" It 's Mr. Longueville, dearest — he has found us 
out." 
" Found us out ? " repeated Angela, with a little 
laugh. " What a singular expression ! " 
She was blushing as she had blushed when she first 
saw him at Blanquais. She seemed to Bernard now 
to have a great and peculiar brightness — something 
she had never had before. 
" I certainly have been looking for you," he said. 
" I was greatly disappointed when I found you had 
taken flight from Blanquais.'' 
" Taken flight ? " She repeated his words as she 
had repeated her mother's. " That is also a strange 
way of speaking ! " 
" I don't care what I say," said Bernard, " so long 
as I make you understand that I have wanted very 
much to see you again, and that I have wondered 
every day whether I might venture — " 
" I don't know why you shouldn 't venture ! " she 
interrupted, giving her little laugh again. " We are 
not so terrible, are we, mamma ? — that is, when once 
you have climbed our five flights of stairs." 
" I came up very fast,'' said Bernard, " and I find 
your apartment magnificent." 
" Mr. Longueville must come again, must he not, 
dear ? " asked mamma. 
"I shall come very often, with your leave," Ber- 
nard declared. 
" It will be immensely kind," said Angela, looking 
away. 
" I am not sure that you will think it that." 
" I don't know what you are trying to prove," said 
Angela ; " first that we ran away from you, and then 
that we are not nice to our visitors." 
" Oh no, not that ! " Bernard exclaimed ; " for I 
assure you I shall not care how cold you are with 
me. 
She walked away toward another door, which was 
masked with a curtain that she lifted. 
" I am glad to hear that, for it gives me courage to 
say that I am very tired, and that I beg you will ex- 
cuse me." 
She glanced at him a moment over her shoulder ; 
then she passed out, dropping the curtain. 
Bernard stood there face to face with Mrs. Vivian, 
whose eyes seemed to plead with him more than ever. 
In his own there was an excited smile. 
"Please don't mind that," she murmured. "I 
know it 's true that she is tired.' 
" Mind it, dear lady ? " cried the young man. " I 
delight in it. It 's just what I like." 
" Ah, she 's very peculiar ! " sighed Mrs. Vivian. 
" She is strange — yes. But I think I understand 
her a little." 
" You must come back to-morrow, then." 
" I hope to have many to-morrows ! " cried Bernard 
as he took his departure. 
XXIII. 
And he had them in fact. He called the next day 
at the same hour, and he found the mother and the 
daughter together in their pretty salon. Angela was 
very gentle and gracious ; he suspected Mrs. Vivian 
had given her a tender little lecture upon the manner 
in which she had received him the day before. After 
he had been there five minutes, Mrs. Vivian took a 
decanter of water that was standing upon a table and 
went out on the balcony to irrigate her flowers. Ber- 
nard watched her a while from his place in the room ; 
then she moved along the balcony and out of sight. 
Some ten minutes elapsed without her re-appearing, 
and then Bernard stepped to the threshold of the win- 
dow and looked for her. She was not there, and as 
he came and took his seat near Angela again, he an- 
nounced, rather formally, that Mrs. Vivian had passed 
back into one of the other windows. 
Angela was silent a moment — then she said — 
" Should you like me to call her ? " 
She was very peculiar — that was very true ; yet 
Bernard held to his declaration of the day before that 
he now understood her a little. 
" No, I don't desire it," he said, " I wish to see 
you alone; I have something particular to say to 
you." 
She turned her face toward him, and there was 
something in its expression that showed him that he 
looked to her more serious than he had ever looked. 
He sat down again ; for some moments he hesitated 
to go on. 
" You frighten me,", she said laughing ; and in spite 
of her laugh this was obviously true. 
" I assure you my state of mind is anything but 
formidable. I am afraid of you, on the contrary ; I 
am humble and apologetic." 
"I am sorry for that," said Angela. "I particu- 
larly dislike receiving apologies, even when I know 
what they are for. What yours are for, I can't im- 
agine." 
"You don't dislike me — you don't hate me?" 
Bernard suddenly broke out. 
"You don't ask me that humbly. Excuse me 
therefore if I say I have other, and more practical, 
things to do." 
"You despise me," said Bernard. 
"That is not humble either, for you" seem to insist 
upon it." 
"It would he after all a way of thinking of me, 
and I have a reason for wishing you to do that." 
"I remember very well that you used to have a 
reason for everything. It was not alwaya a good 
one." 
" This one is excellent," said Bernard, gravely. " I 
have heen in love with you for three years." 
She got up slowly, turning away. 
" Is that what you wished to say to me ? " 
She went toward the open window, and he followed 
her. 
" I hope it doesn 't offend you. I don't say it lightly 
— it 's not a piece of gallantry. It 's the very truth 
of my being. I didn' t know it till lately — strange 
as that may seem. I loved you long before I knew 
it —  before I ventured or presumed to know it. I 
was thinking of you when I seemed to myself to be 
thinking of other things. It is very strange — there 
are things in it I don't understand. I travelled over 
the world, I tried to interest, to divert myself ; but at 
bottom it was a perfect failure. To see you again — 
that was what I wanted. When I saw you last month 
at Blanquais I knew it ; then everything became clear. 
It was the answer to the riddle. I wished to read it 
very clearly — I wished to be sure ; therefore I didn' t 
follow you immediately. I questioned my heart — -I 
cross-questioned it. It has borne the examination, 
and now I am sure. I am very sure. I love you as 
my life — I beg you to listen to me ! " 
She had listened — she had listened intently, look- 
ing straight out of the. window and without moving. 
" YoTi have seen very little of me," she said, pres- 
ently, turning her illuminated eye on him. 
"I have seen enough," Bernard added, smiling. 
"You must remember that at Baden I saw a good 
deal of you." 
" Yes, but that didn' t make you like me. I don't 
understand." 
Bernard stood there a moment, frowning, with his 
eyes lowered. 
" I can imagine that. But I think I can explain." 
''Don't explain now," said Angela. "You have 
said enough; explain some other time." And she 
went out on the balcony. 
Bernard, of course, in a moment was beside her, 
and, disregarding her injunction, he began to explain. 
" I thought I disliked you — but I have come to the 
conclusion it was just the contrary. In reality I was 
in love with you. I had been so from the first time 
I saw you — when I made that sketch of you at 
Siena." 
" That in itself needs an explanation. I was not 
at all nice then — I was very rude, very perverse. I 
was horrid ! " 
" Ah, you admit it ! " cried Bernard, with a sort of 
quick elation. 
She had been pale, but she suddenly blushed. 
" Your own conduct was singular, as I remember it. 
It was not exactly agreeable." 
" Perhaps not ; but at least it was meant to be. I 
didn' t know how to please you then, and T am far 
from supposing that I have learned now. But I 
entreat you to give me a chance." 
She was silent a while ; her eyes wandered over the 
great prospect of Paris. 
" Do you know how you can please me now ? " she 
said, at last. " By leaving me alone." 
Bernard looked at her a moment, then came straight 
back into the drawing-room and took his hat. 
" You see I avail myself of the first chance. But I 
shall come back to-morrow." 
" I am greatly obliged to you for what you have 
said. Such a speech as that deserves to be listened 
to with consideration. You may come back to-mor- 
row," Angela added. 
On the morrow, when he came back, she received 
him alone. 
" How did you know, at Baden, that I didn' t like 
you ? " he asked, as soon as she would allow him. 
She smiled, very gently. 
" You assured me yesterday that you did like me." 
" I mean that I supposed I didn' t. How did you 
know that ? " 
" I can only say that I observed." 
" You must have observed very closely, for, super- 
iicially, I rather had the air of admiring you," said 
Bernard. 
" It was very superficial." 
" You don't mean that ; for, after all, that is just 
M'hat my admiration, my interest in you, were not. 
They were deep, they were latent. They were not 
superficial — they were subterranean." 
" You are contradicting yourself, and I am perfectly 
consistent," said Angela. " Your sentiments were so 
well- hidden that I supposed I displeased you." 
" I remember that at Baden, you used to contradict 
yourself Bernail'llHiswered. 
" Yc T,rd Wixx his l5ifi memory ! " 
" D( ,.it, and it seemele, for it sees everything now 
in a cl 'et to be d'e. ti the light of this understanding tl .s bjeasVe at last arrived at, which seems to 
shino backward — to shine full on those Baden days." 
"Have we at last arrived at an understanding?" 
she asked, with a grave directness which Bernard 
thought the most beautiful thing he had ever seen. 
" It only depends upon you," he declared ; and then 
he broke out again into a protestation of passionate 
tenderness. " Don't put me off this time," he cried. 
" You have had time to think about it ; you have had 
time to get over the surprise, the shock. I love you, 
and I offer you everything that belongs to me in this 
world." As she looked at him with her dark, clear 
eyes, weighing this precious vow and yet not committing herself — "Ah, you don't forgive me!" he 
murmured. 
She gazed at him with the same solemn brightness. 
" What have I to forgive you ? " 
This question seemed to him enchanting. He 
reached forward and took her hands, and if Mrs. 
Vivian had come in she would have seen him, kneeling at her daughter's feet. 
But Mrs. Vivian remained in seclusion, and Bernard 
saw her only the next time he came. 
" I am very happy, because I think my daughter is 
happy," she said."
" And what do you think of first *o-Miifnce. 
" I think you are very cley .promise 
me to be very good to her."9i' '''"Qr what yc 
" I am clever enough to promise tnSttohe 
" I think you are good enough to keep it," said Mrs. 
Vivian. She looked as happy as she said, and her 
happiness gave her a communicative, confidential 
tendency. " It is very strange how things come 
about — how the wheel turns round," she went on. 
" I suppose there is no harm in my telling you that I 
believe she always cared for you." 
" Why didn' t you tell me before ? " said Bernard, 
with almost filial reproachfulness. 
' How could I ? I don't go about the world offer- 
ing my daughter to people — especially to indifferent 
people." 
"At Baden you didn't think I was indifferent. 
You were afraid of my not beiDg indifferent enough." 
Mrs. Vivian colored. 
" Ah, at Baden I was a little too anxious ! " 
" Too anxious I shouldn 't speak to your daughter ! " 
said Bernard, laughing. 
" At Baden," Mrs. Vivian went on, " I had views. 
But I haven 't any now — I have given them up." 
" That makes your acceptance of me very flatter- 
ing ! " Bernard exclaimed, laughing still more gaily. 
" I have something better," said Mrs. Vivian, laying 
her finger-tips on his arm. " I have confidence." 
Bernard did his best to encourage this gracious 
sentiment, and it seemed to him that there was some- 
thing yet to be done to implant it more firmly in 
Angela's breast. 
" I have a confession to make to you," he said to 
her one day. " I wish you would listen to it." 
" Is it something very horrible ? " Angela asked. 
" Something very horrible indeed. I once did you 
an injury." 
" An injury ?" she repeated, in a tone which seemed 
to reduce the offence to contemptible proportions by 
simple vagueness of mind about it. 
" I don't know what to call it," said Bernard. " A 
poor service — an ill-turn." 
Angela gave a shrug, or rather an imitation of a 
shrug ; for she was not a shrugging person. 
" I never knew it." 
" I misrepresented you to Gordon Wright," Bernard 
went on. 
" Why do you speak to me of him ? " she asked 
rather sadly. 
" Does it displease you ? " 
She hesitated a little. 
"Yes, it displeases me. If your confession has 
anything to do with him, I would ratHer not hear it." 
Bernard returned to the subject another time — he 
had plenty of opportunities. He spent a portion of 
every day in the company of these dear women ; and 
these days were the happiest of his life. The autumn 
weather was warm and soothing, the quartier was still 
deserted, and the uproar of the great city, which 
seemed a hundred miles away, reached them through 
the dense October air with a softened and muffled 
sound. The evenings, however, were growing cool, 
and before long they lighted the first fire of the sea- 
son in Mrs. Vivian's heavily draped little chimney- 
piece. On this occasion Bernard sat there with 
Angela, watching the bright crackle of the wood and 
feeling that the charm of winter nights had begun. 
These two young persons were alone together in the 
gathering dusk ; it was the hour before dinner, before 
the lamp had been lighted. 
" I insist upon making you my confession," said 
Bernard. " I shall be very unhappy until you let me 
do it." 
" Unhappy ? You are the happiest of men." 
" I lie upon roses, if you will ; but this memory. 
this remorse, is a folded rose-leaf. I was completely 
mistaken about you at Baden ; I thought all manner 
of evil of you — or at least I said it." 
" Men are dull creatures," said Angela. 
" I think they are. So much so that, as I look 
back upon that time, there are some things I don't 
understand even now." 
" I don't see why you should look back. People in 
our position are supposed to look forward." 
" You don't like those Baden days yourself," said 
Bernard. " You don't like to think of them." 
" What a wonderful discovery ! " 
Bernard looked at her a moment in the brighten- 
ing fire-light. 
" "What part was it you tried to play there ? " 
Angela shook her head. 
" Men are dull creatures!' 
"I have already granted that, and I am eating 
humble pie in asking for an explanation." 
" What did you say of me ? " Angela asked, after a 
silence. 
" I sid you were a coquette. Remember that I 
am simply historical." 
She got up and stood in front of the fire, having 
her hand on the chimney-piece and looking down at 
the blaze. For some moments she remained there. 
Bernard could not see her face. 
" I said you were a dangerous woman to marry," 
he went "on deliberately. " I said it because 1 thought 
it. I gave Gordon an opinion about you — it was a 
very unfavorable one. I couldn 't make you out — 
I thought you were playing a double part. I believed 
that you were ready to marry him, and yet I saw — 
I thought I saw — " and Bernard paused again. 
" What did you see ? " and Angela turned toward 
him. 
" That you were encouraging me — playing with 
me.'' 
" And you didn' t like that ? " 
"I liked it immensely — for myself! But didn't 
like it for Gordon ; and I must do myself the justice 
to say that I thought more of him than of myself" 
"You were an excellent friend," said Angela, 
simply. 
"I believe I was. And I am so still," Bernard 
added. 
She shook her head sadly. 
" Poor Mr. Wright ! " 
" He is a dear good fellow," said Bernard. 
" Thoroughly good, and dear, doubtless to his wife, 
the affectionate Blanche." 
"You don't like him — you don't like her," said 
Bernard. 
" Those are two very different matters. I am very 
sorry for Mr. Wright." 
"You needn't be that. He is doing very well." ' 
"So you have already informed me. But I am 
sorry for him, all the same." 
" That doesn 't answer my question," -Bernard ex- 
claimed, with a certain irritation. " What part were 
you playing ? " 
" "What part do you think ? " 
" Haven 't I told you I gave it up, long ago ? " 
Angela stood with her back to the fire, looking at 
him ; her hands were locked behind her. 
" Did it ever strike you that my position at Baden 
was a charming one ? — knowing that I had been 
handed over to you to be put under the microscope 
— like an insect with a pin stuck through it ! " 
" How in the world did you know it ? I thought 
we were particularly careful." 
" How can a woman help knowing such a thing ? 
She guesses it — she discovers it by instinct ; espe- 
cially if she be a proud woman." 
" Ah," said Bernard, " if pride is a source of in- 
formation, you must be a prodigy of knowledge ! " 
" I don't know that you are particularly humble ! " 
the girl retorted. " The meekest and most submis- 
sive' of her sex would not have consented to have 
such a bargain as that made about her — such a trick 
played upon her ! " 
" My dearest Angela, it was no bargain — no 
trick ! " Bernard interposed. 
"It was a clumsy trick — it was a bad bargain ! " 
she declared. At any rate I hated it — I hated the 
idea of your pretending to pass judgment upon me ; 
of your haying come to Baden for the purpose. It 
was as if Mr. Wright had been buying a horse and 
you had undertaken to put me through my paces ! " 
" I undertook nothing — I declined to undertake." 
" You certainly made a study of me — and I was 
determined you should get your lesson wrong. I de- 
termined to embarrass, to mislead, to defeat you. Or 
rather, I didn' t determine ; I simply obeyed a 
natural impulse of self-defence — the impulse to 
evade the fierce light of criticism. I wished to put 
you in the wrong." 
" You did it all very well. You put me admirably 
in the wrong." 
" The only justification for my doing it at all was 
my doing it well," said Angela. 
"You were justified then! You must have hated 
me fiercely." 
She turned her back to him and stood looking at 
the fire again. 
" Yes, there are some things that I did that can be 
accounted for only by an intense aversion." 
She said this so naturally that in spite of a certain 
theory that was touched upon a few pages back, 
Bernard was a good deal bewildered. He rose from 
the sofa where he had been lounging and went and 
stood beside her a moment. Then he passed his arm 
round her waist and murmured an almost tim- 
orous — 
" Eeally ? " 
" I don't know what you are trying to make me 
say ! " she answered. 
He looked down at her for a moment as he held 
her close to him. 
" I don't see, after all, why I should wish to make 
you say it. It would only make my remorse more 
acute." 
She was musing, with her eyes on the fire, and for 
a moment she made no answer ; then, as if her atten- 
tion were returning — 
" Are you still talking about your remorse ? " she 
asked. 
" You see I put it very strongly." 
" That I was a horrid creature ? " 
" That you were not a woman to marry." 
"Ah, my poor Bernard," said Angela, "I can't 
attempt to prove to you that you are not inconsis- 
tent ! " 
The month of September drew to a -close, and she 
consented to fix a day for their wedding. The last 
of October was the moment selected, and the selection 
was almost all that was wanting to Bernard's happi- 
ness. I say " almost," for there was a solitary spot in 
his consciousness which felt numb and dead — unper- 
vaded by the joy with which the rest of his spirit 
seemed to thrill and tingle. The removal of this 
hard grain in the sweet savour of life was needed to 
complete his felicity. Bernard felt that he had made 
the necessary excision when, at the end of the month, 
he wrote to Gordon Wright of his engagement. He 
had been putting off the performance of this duty 
from day to day — it seemed so hard to accomplish 
it gracefully. He did it at the end very briefly ; it 
struck him that this was the best way. Three days 
after he had sent his letter there arrived one from 
Gordon himself, informing Bernard that he had sud- 
denly determined to bring Blanche to Europe. She 
was not well, and they would lose no time. They 
were to sail within a week after his writing. The 
letter contained a postscript — " Captain Lovelock 
comes with us." 
XXIV. 
Beenakd prepared for Gordon's arrival in Paris, 
which, according to his letter, would take place in a 
few days. He was not intending to stop in England ; 
Blanche desired to proceed immediately to the 
French capital, to confer with her man-milliner, after 
which it was probable that they would go to Italy or 
to the East for the winter. '' I have given her a 
choice of Eome or the Nile," said Gordon, "but she 
tells me she doesn 't care a fig where we go." 
I say that Bernard prepared to receive his friends, 
and I mean that he prepared morally — or even in- 
tellectually. Materially speaking, he could simply 
hold himself in readiness to engage an apartment at 
a hotel and to go to meet them at the station. He 
expected to hear from Gordon as soon as this inter- 
esting trio should reach England but the first noti- 
fication he received came from a. Parisian hotel. It 
came to him in the shape of a very short note, in 
the morning, shortly before lunch, and was to the 
effect that his friends had alighted in the Eue de la 
Paix the night before. 
" We were tired, and I have slept late," said 
Gordon ; " otherwise you should have heard from 
me earlier. Come to lunch, if possible. I want ex- 
tremely to see you." 
Bernard, of course, made a point of going to lunch. 
In as short a time as possible he found himself in 
Gordon's sitting-room at the Hotel Middlesex. The 
table was laid for the midday repast, and a gentleman 
stood with his back to the door, looking out of the 
window. As Bernard came in, this gentleman turned 
and exhibited the ambrosial beard, the symmetrical 
shape, the monocular appendage, of Captain Lovelock. 
The Captain screwed his glass into his eye, and 
greeted Bernard in his usual fashion — that is, as if 
he had parted with him overnight. 
" Oh, good morning ! Beastly morning, isn 't it ? 
I suppose you are come to luncheon — I have come 
to luncheon. It ought to be on table, you know — 
it's nearly two o'clock. But I dare say you have 
noticed foreigners are never punctual — it's only 
English servants that are punctual. And they don't 
understand luncheon, you know — they can't make 
out our eating at this sort of hour. You know they 
always dine so beastly early. Do you remember the 
sort of time they used to dine at Baden ? — half-past 
five, half-past six ; some unearthly hour of that kind. 
That 's the sort of time you dine in America. I found 
they 'd invite a man at half -past six. That 's what I 
call being in a hurry for your food. You know they 
always accuse the Americans of making a rush for 
their victuals. I am bound to say that in New York, 
and that sort of place, the victuals were very good 
when you got them. I hope you don't mind my say- 
ing anything about America? You know the Am- 
ericans are so deucedly thin-skinned — they always 
bristle up if you say anything against their institu- 
tions. The English don't care a rap what you say — 
they've got a different sort of temper, you know. 
With the Americans I'm deuced careful — I never 
breathe a word about anything. While I was over 
there I went in for being complimentary. I laid it 
on thick, and I found they would take all I could 
give them. I didn' t see much of their institutions, 
after all ; I went in for seeing the people. Some of 
the people were charming — upon my soul, I was 
surprised at some of the people. I dare say you 
know some of the people I saw ; they were as nice 
people as you would see anywhere. There were 
always a lot of people about Mrs. Wright, you 
know ; they told me they were all the best people. 
You know she is always late for eveiything. She 
always comes in after every one is there — looking so 
devilish pretty, pulling on her gloves. She wears the 
longest gloves I ever saw in my life. Upon my word, 
if they don't come, I think I will ring the bell and 
ask the waiter what 's the matter. Wouldn 't you ring 
the bell ? It 's a great mistake, their trying to carry 
out their ideas of lunching. That 's Wright's char- 
acter, you know; he's always trying to carry out 
some idea. When I am abroad, I go in for the for- 
eign breakfast myself. You may depend upon it 
they had better give up trying to do this sort of thing 
at this houi-.'' 
Captain Lovelock was more disposed to conversa- 
tion than Bernard had known him before. His dis- 
course of old had been languid and fragmentary, and 
our hero had never heard him pursue a train of ideas 
through so many involutions. To Bernard's obser- 
vant eye, indeed, the Captain was an altered man. 
His manner betrayed a certain restless desire to be 
agreeable, to anticipate judgment — a disposition to 
smile, and be civil, and entertain his auditor, a ten- 
dency to move about and look out of the window and 
at the clock. He struck Bernard as a trifle nervous 
— as less solidly planted on his feet than when he 
lounged along the Baden gravel-walks by the side of 
his usual companion — a lady for whom, apparently, 
his admiration was still considerable. Bernard was 
curious to see whether he would ring the bell to in- 
quire into the delay attending the service of lunch ; 
but before this sentiment, rather idle under the cir- 
cumstances, was gratified, Blanche passed into the 
room from a neighboring apartment. To Bernard's 
pgrroption Blanche, at least, was always Blanche ; she 
was a person in whom it would not have occurred to 
him to expect any puzzling variation, and the tone of 
her little, soft, thin voice instantly rang in his ear 
like an echo of yesterday's talk. He had already re- 
marked to himself that after however long an interval 
one might see Blanche, she re-appeared with an air of 
familiarity. This was in some sense, indeed, a proof 
of the agreeable impression she made, and she looked 
exceedingly pretty as she now suddenly stopped on 
seeing our two gentlemen, and gave a little cry of 
surprise. 
" Ah ! I didn' t know you were here. They never 
told me. Have you been waiting a long time ? How 
d' ye do ? You must think we are polite." She held 
out her hand to Bernard, smiling very graciously. 
At Captain Lovelock she barely glanced. " I hope 
you are very well," she went on to Longueville ; " but 
I needn 't ask that. You 're as blooming as a rose. 
What in the world has happened to you ? You look 
so brilliant — so fresh. Can you say that to a man 
— that he looks fresh ? Or can you only say that 
about butter and eggs ? " 
" It depends upon the man," said Captain Lovelock. 
" You can't say that a man 's fresh who spends his 
time in running about after you ! " 
" Ah, are you here ? " cried Blanche with another 
little cry of surprise. "I didn't notice you — I 
thought you were the waiter. This is what he calls 
running about after me," she added, to Bernard; 
" coming to breakfast without being asked. How 
queerly they have arranged the table ! " she went on, 
gazing with her little elevated eyebrows at this piece 
of furniture. "I always thought that in Paris, if 
they couldn't do anything else, they could arrange 
a table. I don't like that at all — those horrid little 
dishes on each side ! Don't you think those things 
ought to be off the table, Mr. Longueville ? I don't 
