hair, a very much freckled face, a nose that turned up, a 
short upper lip, with a similar tendency, and a funny round 
chin, that betokened a like aspiration. Moppet was eight, 
and something in the same style, softened into girlish 
prettiness, I was about to say, but she was only pretty 
with the superb health and audacity of childhood, while 
Cissy had dark hair, and eyes like her father. 
 
They were as much like two puffy, solemn, blinking toads 
as anything you ever saw. They had surely thriven on 
dirt and neglect, when other motherless babies would have 
died. Perhaps their very lawlessness was the key-note to 
their health. None of the children minded anything. 
They ran out in the sunshine or the rain ; they slept in 
their clothes or out of them, in a bed, or in the corner 
where they happened to tumble, and nothing seemed to 
make any difference. It was an absolute triumph over 
civilization. 
"This is your aunt Madeira," announced their father. 
"You remember she came when your ma died. She is 
going to take charge of you, and I hope you'll all be good 
and obey her. Bridget, show Miss Madeira her room, and 
then help take up the trunks. I hope you are not very 
tired, for I want a good talk to-night, as to-morrow, at ten, 
I shall be off again." 
Queenie stared at the little group, in amazement, and 
then followed Miss Madeira. The room was in tolerable 
order. It had a worn, dingy velvet carpet on the floor, a 
very-much battered black walnut suite, with stained marble 
tops, glaring glass and china vases, and a toilet-set, in 
which there was hardly a whole piece. Added to this 
some pictures, in tarnished gilt frames, and a soiled and 
tumbled counterpane on the bed, and you will grant that 
the room did not look very inviting. 
This was a fair sample of the whole house. Mrs. Captain 
Mullins had been addicted to cheap finery, and now the 
remnants wore a very shabby look. Miss Madeira cried a 
little, and then said things would look better when they 
had a thorough good cleaning. 
The children were terrible, certainly. Miss Madeira was 
so dazed and astonished that she could not eat a mouthfuL 
Queenie was struck with a sort of mirthful wonder at so 
much turbulence. 
At eight the next morning the captain said good-by, 
after exhorting them all to be very good, and promising to 
bring them home something wonderful if they were, and 
then uttering a hasty farewell. Moppet followed him out 
to the sidewalk, and, sitting down on the stoop step, abso- 
lutely howled, while the twins joined in chorus. Cissy ran 
back and began to ride down the banisters, and Pug de- 
clared they would have jolly times, " now the guv'ner had 
taken out." 
" You're a wicked boy I " shrieked Moppet. '"Suppose 
pa should get drowned, and you could never see him 
again ! " 
" Pooh ! Who ever heard of a sea-captain being drownd- 
ed ! They can always swim ! " was Pug's reply, in 
withering disdain. 
"I'll just tell him when he comes home, you bad, 
miserable boy, with no respect " 
"Shut your head, brick-top! What do girls know? 
And they're always telling tales! " 
With that Moppet forgot her grief, and sprang up 
fiercely. The two clinched for a scrimmage. 
It was no unusual thing. They often settled a dis- 
pute in this fashion. 
" Oh dear ! " cried Miss Madeira, wringing her hands. 
a Their poor mother in her grave, and their father hardly 
out of sight! Whatever am I to do with 'em? I've 
never had a chick nor child, and this is worse than contrary 
hens, when you try to shoo them out of a door-yard. And 
there is that sweet little hymn they don't know a word of 
'But children you should never let,' and oh, there's 
the twins ! " 
Miss Madeira stood there, the picture of Despair and be- 
wilderment. Bridget rushed out and parted the com- 
batants, administering to each sundry cuffs. Pug wriggled 
out, and ran down the street, his fingers applied suggest- 
ively to his nose. Moppet was brought in by the shoulder 
 
aiid thrust into a chair, from which she rose like a Jack in 
a box the instant Bridget's hand left her. 
The twins always cried when any one else did, seeming 
to be touched more deeply by sympathy than by their own 
sorrows. They sat on the floor, now, two puffy pyramids, 
howling to the extent of their lungs. Cissy was consoling 
herself by building a wall of the best books. 
Queenie laughed at the ludicrous picture, then stooped 
to comfort the wailing babies. Miss Madeira recovered a 
little from her astonishment, and ventured to advise Cissy 
about the books, but was told to "Mind her own business, 
and not come bossing her, or she'd find herself higher 'n a 
kite," at which she prudently withdrew. 
But presently a show of order reigned > and the two 
girls, remembering their father had given them a quarter 
apiece, rushed out to spend it, Cissy giving the books a 
farewell kick. 
Miss Madeira took Queenie up-stairs for counsel. Never 
in all her life had that worthy woman been so perplexed. 
" If I had not promised, and poor, dear sister lying in 
her grave, with the children all in rags again, and the 
house not fit to be seen ; and he said I was to do just what 
I liked ; but there's no home like your own ; and if we 
only were back, Queenie, for I am afeared this will be the 
death of me as to wits, for I can't remember so much as a 
night-cap or a handkerchief; and they laying out in their 
nice piles at home, and the drawers and everything a mop 
of dirt here. I only wonder poor sister didn't die long 
ago, and I shall not draw a decent breath till the house is 
all cleaned over again. As for Bridget Captain Mullins 
said I might send her away, and have a woman to wash and 
iron instead; as for the cooking, I'm afeared of such messes, 
and potatoes not boiled fit to eat. Whatever shall we do?" 
Her look was so pathetic that Queenie flew to her and 
kissed the thin cheek. 
" It is dreadful, dear Miss Madeira, but we might get the 
house cleaner by and by, and the children in better order, 
Moppet and Pug could go to school, and that would make 
a little quiet ; then I think I could look after Cissy and the 
babies." 
" You do draw things out of a snarl so, Queenie. The 
Lord must a'known all about this when you ran away, and 
huddled up in a corner of the stoop, and me a-sleeping in 
a Christian bed, which I never can forgive myself, but for 
being timid and not liking to search round out of doors at 
night. But you are a darling and a picter, and the great 
comfort of my life, coming here to this hurrying, worrying 
city where one can't get a breath, with an Irish servant-girl 
at their elbow. The captain said I must take the children 
to school, but I don't know where it is; and oh, my! I feel 
like a hen with her head cut off, caterin' round and not 
able to see where she's going." 
Miss Madeira cried a little, then wiped her eyes, and de- 
clared she must do something or she should lose the little 
sense God had given her. 
So to work they went with a good will. Up came the 
carpet in Miss Madeira's room, and in spite of Bridget's 
declaration " that the whole house had been kalsomined, 
and that white-washing was so old-fashioned no lady 
would think of living in a white-washed house," Miss Ma- 
deira procured some lime, and rejoiced in the fresh, whole- 
some smell. Drawers, closets, nooks, and corners, under- 
went a thorough revision. Bridget went off in high dud- 
geon. " She knew a rale lady when she saw her, and she 
wasn't going to put up with a skimpy old maid who didn't 
have sinse enough to wear an overskirt or a waterfall ! " 
" I'm glad she's gone ! " exclaimed Miss Madeira, much 
relieved. "And to tell the truth, Captain Mullins could 
not afford the waste of that creature, my dear, with soap 
and starch and sugar disappearing in a twinkling, and cold 
meat thrown away that could be cooked over, and the 
pieces of bread, as if we lived right over a mint of money 
LOST IN A GREAT CITY. 
and shovelled it up like so much coal ; and she a-setting 
the children up against me all the time, and fair to my face; 
but you can't most always tell, and beauty is vain, though 
she was the plainest woman I ever saw, and not young 
either that she should throw being an old maid in my face; 
yet I've come to thank the Lord for that, and a quiet life 
when I had it; but His way is past finding out, which is a 
comfort, for if I'd had these children and poor dear dead 
sister to think of all my life, I'd nigh about gone crazy, and 
I don't know but I shall now." 
After about a month they reached a state of tolerable 
order. The house was clean, the meals well cooked, the 
two older children in school, Cissy and the twins reduced 
to a state of management through Queenie's patience and 
happy adaptiveness. There was not an angel among them 
all, in fact they were sometimes so bad that Queenie was 
at her wits' end. Yet they took to her wonderfully, in 
fact began to adore her, and generally obeyed her much 
more readily than they would their aunt. 
It was hard work for Queenie, and yet she would not 
have gone back to her simple country life. Here was the 
great, boundless city, the throngs of people, the stir and 
activity, the intangible something that she could not, dared 
not put into words, but she knew it was the hope of find- 
ing an old friend some day, of stepping into a new and 
different existence. 
And there was the wonderful park. She used to take 
the babies and Cissy, and though it was a task to draw the 
lumpy little ones in their wagon, the sights and sounds 
always repaid her. To sit and dream under the shady 
trees, to see the elegant carriages go by with their smiling 
and richly dressed occupants, to watch the great ladies 
out with their babies, who were all a fleece of lawn, lace, 
and embroidery, and trim, jaunty nursemaids, was like 
reading a page out of a book. In one sense it educated 
her, She came to have a certain style in carrying herself, 
in speaking, even in the graceful indolence with which she 
would sometimes sit. More than one person gave her a 
second glance, but she was very modest, and still too much 
of a child to attract any designing watcher. 
If only some day Kate would come riding by ! Or how 
strange it would be if among the many nurses she should 
some time light upon Maggie. When these thoughts 
entered her mind a sudden thrill would send the blood 
speeding through her veins. 
Once she and Miss Madeira went down Broadway. 
" It is just here that I was lost," she cried, pointing out 
the place. " Maggie went over, and I was so frightened 
that I ran back, and down some street. How wild I was! 
I do wonder what became of Maggie, and whether she 
ever found my own papa?" 
Miss Madeira could not answer, but she caught the 
child's arm tightly, lest she should be lost again. 
Captain Mullins returned to find the most wonderful 
charm worked in his household. True, Tip was full of airs 
and graces, and the authority of a boy who begins to feel 
great, but he appreciated the cleanliness and order. Pug 
stood on his head, turned summersaults, and puzzled aunt 
Madeira with the funniest and sauciest of slang, but even 
he was improving. Moppet cried and quarrelled ; she could 
pick a dispute out of an empty peanut shell, but her father 
thought her marvellously toned down. As for the babies, 
they were simply perfection. 
I doubt if Captain Mullens had ever so enjoyed being 
on shore, certainly not since the first year of his mar- 
riage. Miss Madeira might be old and queer, and jumble 
her sentences all together, but it could be forgiven in a 
woman who made such bread, and could cook a steak to 
perfection, to say nothing of dishes that were polished 
until they shone, and chair-backs that felt clean to the 
touch. 
Of course the children rioted and broke out of all syste- 
matic habits, it was vacation, besides being the occasion 
of their father's visit, but they had a grand good time. 
He hired a great family carriage, and took them all about 
the park, and afterwards they went up for sails on the lake, 
and donkey-rides. What a gala time it was, to be sure ! 
" I don't see how you have managed, sister Madeira," 
exclaimed the captain ; " and to get along without a ser- 
vant ! I am afraid you are making it too hard for yourself 
and little Queenie here. You must have some witchcraft." 
Miss Madeira smiled, and pushed up her glasses. 
" You see," she said, as if apologizing, " Queenie and I
have been so used to working in our own fashion that we 
can't stand other peoples' ways, and they're that careless 
and dirty, besides the expense, and too impudent, with 
setting up what a lady shan't do, and what she shall, and 
keeping you out of the kitchen that they may throw away 
enough for two or three, economy looking stingy to them. 
I'm glad you're pleased, and I hope you'll think that poor, 
dear sister would be satisfied if she could see it all." 
" Satisfied ! " And then Captain Mullins bethought him- 
self. He would not reflect on the dead ; but he knew in 
his soul that nothing ever had quite satisfied Mrs. Mullens, 
even when she had been indulged in her own way to the 
uttermost. 
Queenie captivated him just as she had the other mem- 
bers of the family. He used to watch her pretty, motherly 
ways with the children, her happy faculty of settling dis- 
putes, and her many methods of amusement, being much 
wiser in this respect than Miss Madeira. 
He became strangely interested in her history as well, 
and wondered whether it would not be a good thing to 
advertise. 
"And I think she ought to go to school," he said, kindly. 
" I feel that I have no right to take all her time for my 
children. She will grow up to womanhood, ere long ; and 
she is too pretty to be left at the mercy of ignorance." 
Miss Madeira talked it over with her. 
I'd rather stay at home, and help you," she cried, " and 
study some, as I get a chance. But oh, Miss Madeira, if 
Captain Mullins thought he could it would cost a good 
deal, I suppose, but it would make me so happy ; " and her 
soft, dark eyes were all aglow with hope. 
" What is it, my dear ? " 
" If I could take lessons in music ! Madame Felix 
would teach me, and it would be so delightful. Some- 
times I take the babies in, and she plays for me and sings. 
I can't tell how it is, only I seem then to remember some- 
thing about my own mamma. And she thinks I could 
learn so easily." 
" I wonder if it would be good judgment ? " said Miss 
Madeira, thoughtfully. "If you could learn enough to 
teach ; but there'd be the piano, and they cost a mint of 
money, not but what you deserve it all, and more, 
and maybe the captain'd want a piano for Moppet and 
Cissy, though why people shouldn't have good Christian 
names, and be called by them, puzzles me. Sister used to 
think Bible names so dreadful, and I can't say that Bath- 
sheba is an easy one to call, but Daphne and Psyche don't 
better the matter any, to my thinking. And Mullins, 
somehow, seems so plain a name to tack all the others 
to." 
Queenie laughed a little. Captain Mullins liked the fan- 
ciful names bestowed by his wife so little, indeed, that he 
never used them. If the children had not been christened 
he would certainly have suggested that Miss Madeira re- 
name them to her liking. 
The music plan was mentioned, and Captain Mullins 
assented most cordially, though he could hardly give up 
the school. Madame Felix lived at the end of the block, 
kept house in a simple, half French, fashion in three rooms, 
supporting herself and her blind, invalid husband, a 
email, dark, plain woman, who had taken a great fancy to 
the sunny-haired girl, and asked her in now and then of 
an evening. 
Miss Madeira went to call with Queenie. Madame 
Felix received them cordially, and spoke with a pretty 
accent that made you forget her plainness. She would be 
delighted to take the little girl ; she knew her so well 
already, and she had a musical face, musical hands, too. 
And if she would come in the evening, for madame had 
all the day engagements that she could attend to. 
Queenie was wild with delight. And then Captain 
Mullens had to go away, much to his sorrow, for he had 
never so enjoyed his home. Moppet was inconsolable, 
and made so much trouble that Miss Madeira was at her 
wits' end ; but then school began, which created quite a 
diversion, and quieted the house wonderfully. 
Two evenings a week Queenie spent with her new 
friend, Madame Felix. She always gave the babies their 
supper, and put them to bed ; indeed, Miss Maderia was 
helpless as a baby herself when it came to managing them. 
But when Queenie took them in hand they generally 
yielded at once, allowed their hands and faces to be 
washed, and trotted up-stairs in the wake of their small 
mistress, whose rule was of the gentlest. If they were 
very bad she would not sit by the crib and sing, but go 
down at once. When they saw her golden head vanish- 
ing from the door-way, they gave in, and cried out, " Polly 
will be dood ! " Tassy will be dood ! " and then Queenie 
would run back smiling, and kiss their little red lips. 
There had been one quite serious mutiny with the 
older ones after their father's departure. Pug and Moppet 
had behaved dreadfully to their aunt, and told her she was 
a sharp-nosed old maid, who had come there purposely to 
marry their father, but that they wouldn't have her for a 
step-mother; indeed, Pug declared he would punch her 
head first. 
"Marrv your father !" cried Miss Madeira, aghast; 
"when I haven't a chick nor a child of my own except 
Queenie, and a nice comfortable home, where I shouldn't 
have to work half so hard ! Marry your father when your 
poor, dear mother is hardly cold in her grave! What 
wicked children to think of such a thing!" 
" Then you had better march," said Pug, with an air of 
authority. "We don't wan't you poking around here. 
We can get along with Queenie." 
Miss Madeira tried to reason, to command, but the bat- 
tle only raged the more fiercely. 
At this juncture Queenie entered the room, and took in 
the scene. 
" Children ! " she cried, " holding her golden-crowned 
head up to its fullest height, M children, I am amazed at 
you ! Do you really want aunt Madeira to go away ? " 
There was a chorus of affirmative voices. 
"Very well." Then she went straight over to Miss 
Madeira, and put her arms around the astonished woman's 
neck. "Dear Miss Madeira, let us go away, since the chil- 
dren are so naughty. We will find a servant to take care 
of them, and we two will live in peace and happiness in 
your pretty little cottage." 
" I don't care ! " ejaculated Moppet, sulkily. 
" But we don't want you to go ! " shouted Pug. M We 
like you. You may stay and marry father when you get 
to be a big woman, and we'll all mind you. But we don't 
want any old maids around." 
" We shall both go," said Queenie, firmly. " Come, dear 
Miss Madeira, let us go up-stairs and pack our trunks." 
"You shan't go," screamed Cissy, catching Queenie'r 
dress. "I love you, and who will tell us stories, and tuck 
us up in bed, and make 'lasses candy, and sing for us, and 
take us to the Park ? " 
Queenie put the child aside, and led Miss Madeira up- 
stairs. She paused, bewildered, and glanced into the soft, 
dark eyes. 
We must let them believe it, auntie Madeira," she 
said, gayly, yet there were tears glittering on her long 
lashes. 
" I wonder if they think I should be such an old fool as 
to marry their father?" she jerked out. "Me, without a 
chick nor a child, and they the very torments of the earth ! 
I should be glad enough to have him marry some one who 
will make them stand around sharp. Oh, dear, it is an un- 
grateful office, and if it was my mother instead of me Mop- 
pet would get spanked soundly, the audacious little huzzy ! 
But I don't feel as if I could beat one of my poor, dear 
sister's children, and she hardly cold in her grave." 
"Oh, no, don't beat them, poor little things," said 
Queenie, pitifully, and then she smiled, knowing the rebels 
richly deserved it. 
There was a great uproar in the kitchen for a while, 
then it subsided, and the three dispersed in the street. 
Queenie brought up some bread and milk, and fed the 
babies, made a cup of tea for Miss Madeira, and cut a plate 
of sandwiches, which they two enjoyed. 
It was dusk when the children came in, hungry as bears 
from their run, and prepared to oppose lawful authority to 
the uttermost. There was no light, the fire was nearly 
out, and instead of the plentiful supper an empty table. 
Had Queenie and aunt Madeira really gone ? 
Cissy began to cry. Pug made a light, and ransacked 
the pantry. There was some bread, but the butter-jar 
could not be found ; the cake-tin contained only a few 
broken pieces. 
"There always seemed to be enough for supper," ex- 
claimed Pug. "I wonder what they can have done with 
it ? " glancing around hi perplexity. 
"Do you suppose they really will go?" and Moppet's 
bravado began to ooze out. I am afraid to stay alone at 
tight." 
" I'm afraid, too," and Cissy cried louder than even 
Moppet undertook to make her hush, but it ended by the 
little one running up-stairs. 
Moppet and Pug set about making a fire, with a vague 
idea that the supper would in some way prepare itself. 
They raised a great smoke, and burned their fingers, which 
seemed to be the signal for another scrimmage. 
Cissy, meanwhile, found refuge up-stairs, being taken on 
Queenie's lap and undressed, but she had to go to bed 
supperless. The twins were sleeping sweetly, unconscious 
of the mutiny in the household. 
"I don't want you to go away," said Cissy, between 
tears and cunning little kisses. " You will stay and give 
me some breakfast, won't you ? " 
"Ask auntie Madeira. If she goes, I must go too." 
" But you won't go, dear auntie Madeira ? " said the 
little thing, coaxingly. " I should starve. And I won't be 
naughty any more. I do love you." 
With that she crawled up in Misa Madeira's lap, and 
made all manner of promises. 
" Dear little thing," said Miss Madeira, after Cissy had 
been tucked in bed. "They're not pretty, and they all 
have such heathenish names, but one can't help loving 
them, and my not being fond of children naturally ; only 
it happened so lucky, Queenie, that the Lord sent you to 
prepare the way, like John the Baptist. But I'm afraid 
I am an old fool, after all ! " 
"Dear Miss Madeira, you are the best and sweetest 
friend in the wide world. Think how you took me in, a 
stranger, and how you have loved me. And that is the 
quality of your love." 
" But you're near to being an angel. It's no great stretch 
of love to be good to you." 
And then the sweet young girl and the foolish old girl 
clasped hands tenderly. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
THE QUEEN OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 
PUG went out and borrowed ten cents of a boy he knew, 
and bought a generous cut of Washington pie, but wo- 
man-like, Moppet had to stay at home. It was chilly in the 
kitchen, and her burnt finger hurt sadly. She cried a lit- 
tle, took another search through the pantry, and then ran 
up-stairs rapidly, feeling that there might be some one be- 
hind to catch her. Cissy was not asleep. She had to tell 
over her good fortune. She was not going to be naughty 
any more ; and if auntie Madeira went home, she was go- 
ing with her, and the twins, and Moppet could get her own 
breakfast; and Pug was as naughty as he could be. 
"Pug is awfully bad," said Moppet. "I think father 
ought to take him to sea next time. We should get along 
real nicely without him. Only aunt Madeira is an old 
maid." 
"I like old maids. I mean to be one myself," returned 
Cissy, confidently. "And I'll have a little house in the 
country, and when your children are dreadful bad I shall 
go there and stay, and you'll be awfully sorry." 
" I'm hungry ; I know that," was the rather grim and 
irrelevant rejoinder. 
' And auntie Madeira makes such good things to eat," 
said the little gourmand. 
Moppet sighed. " Do you really believe she will go, and 
Queenie ? And will we have any breakfast ? " 
Cissy rose up in the bed, her dark eyes staring solemnly, 
and filled with a new resolve. 
" Mop," and she put her arms tightly about her sister's 
neck, " let's go and coax her ! You just say you're sorry, 
and that you won't do so any more. You are a little 
sorry, aren't you?" and her tone was one of strategic 
entreaty. 
"Well, my finger's burned, and I'd like to have some- 
thing to eat," returned Moppet, with a deliberation that 
could hardly be esteemed penitential. " And some of the 
girls at school said pa would marry her. I shouldn't 
mind a real nice, pretty step-mother, with curly hair, and 
diamond rings, and silk dresses , and oh, a carriage to take 
us out in the park! I'd love her, and be ever so good." 
" We might ask pa about it when he comes back," said 
Cissy. 
"I guess I can wait until morning," began Moppet, 
presently. "I'm getting nice and snug now, and shall 
soon be sleepy, and my finger doesn't hurt so much as it 
did." 
But for all that Cissy fell asleep the first, and Moppet 
had rather a solemn time with her thoughts. Once she 
was sure she heard robbers in the house, and quickly cov- 
ered up her head. It would be terrible to live alone, with- 
out aunt Madeira." 
Pug came in, and stumbled up-stairs in the dark, for he 
didn't know just where to find a lamp. Then Queenie 
went softly down and locked the doors and windows. 
" But there's to-morrow ! " said the troubled woman, 
brushing out her little wisp of hair and twisting it very 
tight. 
"And a good many to-morrows," laughed Queenie. 
"But I think when the rebels are starved out they will 
capitulate. At all events, it won't do for us to haul down 
our colors." 
Pug was up quite early, for a wonder. There was a 
stir in aunt Madeira's room, and the twins were talking, 
but the kitchen was deserted. He sauntered around, 
whistled to keep up his courage, was desperately hungry, 
walked round the block, came back and roused Moppet, 
Seven o'clock half past eight. 
Cissy went to reconnoitre, and came back with big eyes 
swimming in tears. 
" They are really going," she announced. "The trunk is 
packed, the babies are dressed and waiting, and their hats 
and things are on the bed. And Queenie said" here 
her voice quivered over a big sob "that I had better 
stay with you, but I don't want to, and I do want some 
breakfast." 
His little sister's sorrow made Pug feel rather solemn. 
Moppet's defiance was all gone out of her face, and she 
did look really troubled. 
" I could do well enough if it wasn't for you girls," said 
Pug, with a mannish air. " But, I say, how did Tip get 
some breakfast?" 
Queenie could have told of a private arrangement, made 
last evening, whereby Tip was to go to an eating-house. 
"And oh, suppose he's run away!" cried Moppet, " and 
we're to be left all alone. Oh, Pug, if you only hadn't 
said if you hadn't been so very bad and saucy stop 
crying, Cissy." 
" I wasn't any worse than you," was the quick rejoinder. 
"You said you wouldn't have a cross old maid in the 
house " 
" Well, you said we needn't mind her " 
"And we needn't " 
" But if we should starve. Oh, you bad, wicked boy ! " 
and Moppet burst into loud crying. 
Queenie opened the door, and came out with her Sun- 
day hat and dress on, and a little satchel in her hand. 
" Pug," she said, pleasantly, " don't you want to walk 
round to the express office with me ? Moppet, I wouldn't 
cry so. You had better be getting Cissy some breakfast." 
Moppet made one rush and had her arms arouud 
Queeuie's neck. 
"Oh, Queenie, darling, don't go and leave us," she cried, 
over her sobs. "We might be kidnapped and sold U 
doctors, to be cut up for our bones, a girl told me so in 
school ; and I don't know how to get breakfast, and I 
haven't any money, and I'm afraid to stay alone, and you 
shan't go " 
"No, you shan't ! " screamed Cissy, who dropped on the 
floor and caught her ankles, nearly toppling her over. 
"What makes you, Queenie? Oh, do stay," pleaded 
Pug, with a quivering voice. 
" Children," and Queenie held herself up with a 
lovely, yet gracious, dignity, "children, I am going be- 
cause you are so naughty to aunt Madeira. She is so 
good and kind, and I love her so well that I cannot see 
her treated disrespectfully. She only came here for your 
sakes, to take care of you, your papa begged her so hard 
to do it. When he comes home you must tell him how 
it was " 
That put a new and more embarrassing aspect upon 
affairs for Pug. 
"Oh, Queenie," ask her to stay," he exclaimed. "Pa 
would be so very angry." 
"No," she answered, decisively, "I am not going to ask 
her to stay, for I think she will be much happier in her 
own quiet little home, with no one to worry her, or to be 
ungrateful for her labor, and patience, and love. And I 
belong to her, so I cannot stay." 
" But what are we to do ? " cried the chorus of voices. 
" Perhaps if you were all to go to her," and Queenie 
looked at the group out of her great, soft, brown eyes, 
and tell her you were sorry, for I think you do love her a 
little, and are really glad to have her take care of you." 
" I'll go," and Moppet sprang to the door, followed by 
Cissy. 
Pug stood irresolute. Indulgent as their mother had 
been to these little Arabs, she seldom made an appeal to 
their love or duty, and never to their principle. 
But Queenie was bent on being master of the situation. 
She looked so brave and bewitchingly lovely as she stood 
there that she might easily have won a more obdurate 
heart than the boy's." 
" Pug," she said, softly, laying her fair hand on the 
boy's shoulder, "I think you were really the ringleader. 
You are older than Moppet, and we expect courage, and 
honor, and manliness from you, because some day you are 
to be a gentleman. The least you can do is to tell aunt 
Madeira you are sorry, that is, if you would like to have 
her stay." 
" Come with me," replied Pug, in the gruff tone a boy 
not infrequently uses when he is moved by a tender feel- 
ing, and is half ashamed to show it. So they went to 
aunt Madeira's room, where Moppet was crying in her 
arms, and Cissy was explaining it to the solemn-looking 
twins, and what happened no one could quite have told, 
but they cried and kissed all round, and made promises; 
and then Queenie asked Pug if he did not want to go out 
with her, and buy something for breakfast, so that they 
could have a regular feast. Of course he did. Aunt Ma- 
deira went down to the kitchen and made the fire. There 
was no school for them that morning, and never were a set 
of little prodigals happier over a fatted calf. I think they 
would all then and there have consented to aunt Ma- 
deira's becoming their stepmother, instantly, if Queenie 
had proposed it. 
However, it was a substantial victory for aunt Madeira. 
Pug and Moppet began to think a little, and improved 
under the process. Queenie they adored. Moppet in- 
sisted that she should be their big sister, and be called 
Queenie Mullins, which was hardly a more ridiculous end 
ing than in their own case. 
Matters went on very comfortably with them. Captain 
Mullins was more delighted with his home at every trip, 
and thought aunt Madeira a paragon of management. 
The children grew less boisterous and selfish in their ways, 
and the toning down of their outward roughness seemed 
to have a corresponding effect upon their faces. They 
would never be lovely, but each countenance came to have 
a charm of its own, the intangible prettiness of refinement 
and an atmosphere of affection. 
Busy and happy Queenie certainly was. Madame Felix 
and her music were the child's great delight. After the 
lesson they talked, and began a little French, an Italian 
song now and then, and some studies that were very bene- 
ficial, if not of the most practical order. Yet her thoughts 
and aspirations came to have a much wider range than if 
she had been confined to a school routine. 
And yet her busy brain was occasionally haunted by a 
vision of something different. A home the like of which 
had not as yet shone on her path, the tenderness of a 
mother, the pride of a father, gay, girlish companionships, 
brightness, beauty, and a peaceful gliding away of days so 
happy, that just to anticipate them lent a strange and 
starry radiance to her lustrous eyes, and deepened her 
cheek with a soft rose-hue. 
And so Queenie came to her fifteenth birthday. She 
had grown considerably during the year, and looked taller 
than she really was, with her slender, shapely figure. Her 
beautiful hair had grown again, and was more abundant 
than before, still preserving the wonderful golden tints of 
her childhood. She was not unconscious of her beauty, 
though she seldom thought of it save in a glad, exultant 
way, just as she rejoiced in the sunshine, or any good and 
perfect gift of God. 
What would the future bring her? What work was 
she to do ? Something quite beyond this narrow round. 
She laughed gaily as she went over housekeeping matters 
with Miss Madeira, who rejoiced to save a little here to 
 
meet the increased expenditures there, and whose whola 
soul was in these every -day affairs. 
Thanks to her economy captain Mullins was out of debt, 
and prosperous. For the first time since the birth of the 
twins he felt himself a free man. 
And now a new opening came to him, the charge of a 
trading vessel bound to Australia and the Indies. The 
salary attached was higher, and there was an opportunity 
of sharing the profits that was not to be lightly passed by. 
" I should be gone from one to two years," he explained 
to Miss Madeira, "but I think I could be spared better 
now than at any other time. The children are still 
small, and there would not be so much anxiety about 
them, and between you and Queenie you do manage 
them beautifully. Their poor mother " and the worthy 
captain paused, wondering in his heart what made women 
so different "she hadn't the health and the nerves, you 
see, and they were all so little. It would be a great com- 
fort for her to come back and just see how pretty and 
well-behaved they are it does one's very heart good. 
So if you don't mind too much, I'll take charge of the 
Linlithgow, and make a little money, and when Fm once 
fairly ahead in the world I might find some opening 
that would keep me at home regular when the lads and 
lasses were growing up to be men and women, and want- 
ing a father's hand." 
After discussing the matter, with all its pros and cons, it 
did appear too favorable to let slip. The owners, Hard- 
ham, Jenkins & Co., East India traders, were very much in 
earnest, and finally the parties came to a settlement. On 
the first of July he was to start. Miss Madeira was to 
draw her monthly allowance from the firm, not stinting 
herself, but being economical, as she always was. 
"For to tell the truth," she said somewhat softly to 
Queenie, " it does seem as if poor sister had been rather 
wasteful in some things, and she brought up to save and 
be careful, and having a good deal of her own to start with, 
and dying in debt as one may say. I'd always had an idea 
that the captain hadn't much judgment, but we don't look 
for men to have, when their part is to earn the money, 
and he's that easy tempered, you may see for yourself, and 
one man out of a thousand. And now we'll just do our best 
so that he can get a little start, and it'll all come back to 
us fourfold as the Lord has promised, and far as I can see, 
though there ain't any glasses to look into the future, the 
children are hearty and strong ; for to have one of 'em 
dying on my hands and he away would about finish me." 
But Queenie was to be grandly rewarded for her love 
and patience. Two or three days before his departure 
Captain Mullins sent home a piano. 
" You deserve it all, and more too, and if you wouldn't 
mind teaching Moppet a bit, the little witch coaxed this 
out of me, pretending it was for you, as if I couldn't see 
through it! And you must not think it exratvagant, auntie 
Madeira, though to tell the truth I couldn't spare the 
money to pay for it out and out, but the balance doesn't 
come due till next January, and then I'll be a little fore- 
handed. And now you must be as happy as larks until I 
get back." 
The children promised they would be the very best chil- 
dren in the world, and write to pa as often as there was 
a chance. Queenie kissed the kindly, weather-beaten face, 
and smiled with tears in her eyes. How good he was ! 
Not quite the papa of her dreams, but she loved him 
nevertheless, with all her grateful heart. 
They felt very sad at first, but childhood is too buoyant 
to grieve long when the future shines brightly. And 
there was the wonderful piano, on which they all wanted 
to play, even down to the twins. Moppet, as was to be 
expected, put on so many airs and graces that Pug teased 
her unmercifully, and the school-girls laughed and quizzed 
her ; but it most be confessed she held her ground very 
well. 
Much trouble as they were, they hardly gave the anxi- 
ety that Tip did. He was sixteen now, a well-grown, 
passable lad, but he seemed to have great trouble in getting 
fitted either in a round or a square hole in this busy, bus- 
tling world. School he hated, always had for that matter, 
though he was a smart, bright boy, who picked up bits of 
experience that stood him in stead of education. He bad 
been in sundry offices and stores, and there was always a 
plausible reason for a change. 
His wages, which were never very large, he spent upon 
himself, principally in car-fares, lunches, cigars, and amuse- 
ments. Auntie Madeira had been much shocked when she 
first learned that he smoked, and his father had sternly 
forbidden it, but it merely made the youth careful at home. 
True, while his father was in port he behaved with con- 
siderable circumspection, and though the lad had not set 
his heart upon evil, he only wanted to " be like the other 
fellows." 
When his father was out of sight and hearing again he 
began to allow himself a little more latitude, staying out 
nights and going off Sundays. Queenie used to coax, with 
her bewitching assumption of womanliness, and sometimes 
she won, and would keep him home listening to her singing 
and playing, and persuading him to invite in his boy 
friends, though some of them rather shocked her. But 
she seemed to understand the danger more readily than 
Miss Madeira. She had seen it, indeed, though she put 
by that strange and painful experience like some terrible 
dream. 
Then an incident occurred to divide her interest. The 
nusband of Madame Felix had a stroke of paralysis, which 
left him entirely helpless, though his mind was unimpaired. 
A good-hearted German woman came in to nurse him, but 
he used to get so weary, and it seemed just now as if 
Madame was busier than ever. Queenie was always ready 
to go in and read, or amuse him, sometimes taking the 
twins, who 'had grown into quite cunning specimens of 
babyhood, and not the least entertaining was the perti- 
nacity with which one always repeated the sayings of the 
other. Polly generally made known his ideas first, except 
about meal-time, when both were equally urgent. 
But the end came at length one September evening, and 
the poor blind invalid opened his eyes on glories of which 
we know little indeed, except that we shall be satisfied. 
Pain, weariness, and helplessness fell away like a garment, 
and the soul was clothed with its new and glorified body. 
Poor Madame Felix was stunned by the blow. She had 
watched and tended him so long that her wifely love had 
become almost that of a mother. Miss Madeira was much 
interested, and offered her store of consolation, which was 
tender and sweet, if quaint, and always reminded one of 
old-fashioned garden herbs, with their useful fragrance. 
This event brought a great change to Queenie. Hither- 
to Madame Felix had been her only friend beside Miss 
Madeira, and it was a link with an experience that Miss 
Madeira, with all her kindness, could not understand. It 
had been such a pleasure to Queenie to listen to bits of 
Parisian life that she could almost see, because of her own 
strange experiences. She had told Madame Felix about 
Kate. 
" The poor foolish woman ! " Madame had said. " Could 
she not have been wiser ? Paris is very beautiful and very 
dangerous, like a siren to these people who have money 
and not good judgment. And this new husband will spend 
all hers, and perhaps treat her badly and leave her, and 
she will go out as companion or nurse or seamstress, and 
maybe come back to America as a lady's maid for her pas< 
sage. And if she should find you and want you again, my 
sweet child, do not leave your good Miss Madeira for her, 
who put you off" so cruelly when she was rich. No, no J n 
Queenie sighed. Finding Kate had been one of her 
dreams. True, that weak regard could not compare with 
Miss Madeira's affection. 
But Madame Felix was to go out of her life almost as 
entirely. The parents of two of her pupils just growing 
to womanhood had resolved to spend two or three years 
in Europe, and desired much that Madame Felix should 
accompany them as a governess. 
"I cannot remain at my rooms," said Madame, vehe- 
mently. "Everything speaks of my poor lost Auguste, 
and the long nights are intolerable. Then I should like to 
see my own country, and travel about, and the young ladies 
are extremely amiable. I shall be very sorry to part with 
you, little Queenie. You have been like a sunbeam, with 
your beautiful golden head and your radiant face. Some 
rich man ought to adopt you, my darling. I shall look 
about and find a charming papa for you, some grand old 
musician, maybe, who does not care for a wife, but would 
like a daughter." 
Queenie smiled and sighed. tt If you could only have 
known my dear Dick," she said, her eyes filling with 
tears. 
So Madame's rooms were to let, and in about a week a 
new tenant took them, who bought all of the furniture that 
Madame wanted to spare. 
" Quite a pretty young girl and her grandmother," ex- 
plained Madame Felix. " I thought she was musical, as 
she had a piano, but I believe she is connected with the 
stage." 
Queenie's heart gave a great bound. When Tip talked 
of this and that actress, or singer or dancer, her pulses 
would always start and quiver, and sometimes there would 
come an irrepressible longing to see that mimic world 
again. 
Madame Felix said good-by to them with tears in her
 
soft eyes. They had made her very happy, and she should 
not forget them. Queenie must be sure to answer the let- 
ters she would write, and some day the child might visit 
her in beautiful Paris. And so passed out another friend, 
leaving Queenie very lonesome. 
CHAPTER XXVL 
MISFORTUNES. 
MADAMS FELIX went away the last of October, and for 
a month Queenie was very busy helping with the fall sew- 
ing. Miss Madeira might be an old maid, but few mothers 
could plan and execute so comfortably, or with such skill, 
and with less absolute worry. Dresses were marvellously 
lengthened or turned, or furbished up anew. Patching 
trousers and darning stockings became a fine art, and Tip 
supposed those natty jackets came straight from the 
tailors. 
Early in December Miss Madeira took a severe cold, and 
had an attack of pleurisy. She made a great effort to get 
about at Christmas, and have a nice gala dinner for the 
children, but she was worse afterward, with a run of low 
nervous fever, that kept her very weak, and made her now 
and then rather flighty. Then Moppet must needs get 
pushed down, one slippery day, at school, and break her 
arm. 
If the bad luck had stopped there! But just then it 
came in a pelting shower. Queenie had been so busy that 
it was the middle of January before she could go down to 
Hardham & Co. for their monthly allowance. 
"It is quite impossible to let you have any money to- 
day," said Mr. Jennings. "We have had some heavy losses, 
and hardly know what to do ourselves. Come down again 
in a week or ten days." 
Queenie went home rather dismayed. The rent was due, 
there was very little money in the house, and how could 
ehe stretch it over ten days? True, the grocer and the 
butcher might trust for a while ; they had coal and flour, 
and that was some comfort. 
" You must not worry Miss Madeira about anything," 
the doctor said. " Such a complete state of mental and 
nervous prostration rarely occurs, and unless she is kept 
quiet and cheerful I can hardly answer for the result." 
" Oh, you don't think she will die ? " cried Queenie, in 
sudden terror. 
" Well, I hardly think that. If it was pleasant weather 
I should send her to the sea-side ; indeed, a change would 
be the very best thing for her. Keep the children quiet, 
and, as I said, do not trouble her with the details of house- 
hold affairs." 
Poor Queenie ! She was well, and in spite of her slen- 
derness and delicate, high-bred air, she had a fund of 
strength, but all this was enough to dismay the stoutest 
heart. To whom could she go for counsel? And here 
were a troop of hungry, noisy children. 
" But they are so much better than they used to be," she 
mused, " and Moppet really is quite a thoughtful little lady ; 
but there is her broken arm, which does not improve one'a 
temper, and if there was only plenty of money " 
"Me darlint," said Peggy O'Brian, the good-hearted 
washerwoman, " don't you begin to worry now, jest. I've 
been through a-many tight time, whin I couldn't see bite 
nor sup for the next day, but praised be the saints, they 
made an openin' in the darkest cloud. 'An one time, whin 
I had three helpless little babies, as one may say, me poor 
Pat was brought home, scalded so the flesh dropped off of 
him, and lay for weeks and weeks. An' all his long sick- 
ness at the last but whirra ! I'm an old fool to try to 
brighten you with dead-and-gone troubles. Now look here, 
jest, I'm a little easy now, the two boys bein' in good 
places, thank the Lord, and me keepin' the won room with 
a handful of fire at night, but if ye'd say the word I'd come 
and stay here beside lookin' after the waslun' and ironin', 
and not a cent to pay till such time as you're forehanded 
agen ! " 
" Oh, how good you are ! " and Queenie seized her 
hand, pressing it between her dainty palms. 
" There's Monday at Mrs. Gales til' four, an' Tuesday 
half a day, an' Wednesday here, an' the sweepin' at Mrs. 
Carter's on Friday. That's the big boardin'-house, an' it 
takes all day, jest. But there's nights and mornin's, and 
you ought'nt be alone, ye swate pretty darlint." 
" If you only will come. It is so hard to see to every- 
thing." 
" Sure I'd run me feet off for you and Miss Madeiry, 
an' she's wasted away to a skeleton, jest. A better-hearted 
woman never lived, so me darlint, beauty's not everything 
m this world, though it's swate enough to look at whin 
it's such as you, with beauty for a dozen. An' now I'll 
come in the night, and all the time when I'm not busy." 
The kind offer lifted a load off of Queenie's shoulders, 
for Peggy was a great favorite with the babies. But when 
she went for the money she was put off again, and Peggy 
insisted upon her taking ten dollars of her savings to tide 
her over. 
The doctor finally decided that Miss Madeira must go 
nway. 
" She needs something to rouse her, to change the cur- 
rent of her thoughts. Wouldn't some friend in her native 
town take her for a while ? " he asked. 
Queenie wrote to Mrs. Wardlow, who said, in reply, 
"Send her immediately." 
" I must make one more effort," declared Queenie, and 
again went down to the shipping-house. 
Alas! The news was doubly bad. Hardham & Co. 
had stopped payment, and there was a report that the Lin- 
lithgow had been lost at sea. She went home stunned and 
incredulous. 
" It will never do to tell her," said Queenie, to faithful 
Peggy. "And it may not be quite so bad. Oh, what 
would become of the poor children ! And they are all 
improving so, and growing quite pretty. Miss Madeira 
meant to have them so nice when their poor father came 
back ; " and Queenie finished in a flood of tears. 
" There, me darlint, don't go out over the say to meet 
trouble. I've known people to come home after seven year, 
and everybody belay vin' 'em dead, but whirra ! it's bad 
about the money, jest." 
Then Queenie took Tip into confidence. He had not 
been doing very well through the winter, and business was 
dull now. 
"And I've borrowed of all the fellows I know," con- 
fessed Tip, ruefully. " I meant to beg a little out of aunt 
Madeira I say, Queenie, she has quite a pile of her 
own, hasn't she? She's never had anything to do but just 
save up her money." 
"Oh, Tip! I'm ashamed of you!" cried Qneenie, in- 
dignantly. " Why, when your mother was alive, Miss Ma- 
deira used to be sending little gifts, and she worked almost 
every day of her life at dress-making. And she hasn't 
much beside the house. Then she would not take any of 
the wages your father offered her, because she wanted to 
help him." 
" Well, if I had it I'd do anything. But five dollars a 
week is such a beggarly salary, and I don't see as I can 
help. But you don't believe that about father, Queen- 
ie ? It can't be true." 
" Oh, I hope not ! I pray not ! " returned Queenie, with 
quivering lip. " For I don't see how Miss Madeira could 
take care of everybody, even if she should get well. You 
see she has worked very hard. Oh, Tip, you never can 
know ! I want you to be good, and noble, and unselfish, 
for if part of this burden comes upon you " 
Tip hung his head. He was just a careless, selfish boy, 
iitent upon his own gratification, and feeling that the world 
used him rather hardly, in that it did not pour a golden 
shower at his feet. But to be asked to do something for 
others, why, how could he ? 
They packed off Miss Madeira. Queenie went with her to 
her journey's end, where Mrs. Wardlow met her, and then 
turned straight about for home. It was quite in the even- 
ing when the train returned, but Tip was watching for her, 
and took her on his arm with a sense of manliness and 
protection. How stylish and pretty she was ! And, after 
all, she wasn't a fellow's sister, really. 
The children were in bed, and Peggy was sitting there 
with a bright smile of welcome. 
"An' how did you lave the poor dear?" 
" Oh, Peggy ! " Queenie stopped to wipe away a tear. 
" She didn't know Mrs. Wardlow at first. She seems quite 
like a little child, doesn't she, dear Miss Madeira ! It broke 
my heart to leave her, and, oh, if it should be some disease 
of the brain, as the doctor feared ! " 
" There, me purty pink, don't worry another stitch to- 
night. I've a nice cup of tay for you, and we'll lave dear 
Miss Madeira in the hands of the good Lord and his blessed 
mother. You don't belave in the Virgin, I know ; but she 
seemed so near to us, and when you haven't a mother or 
a sister, or mayhap no womenkind of your own, she's dear 
and precious. And we won't say another word until we 
hear ; and may the saints send us good tidings." 
Queenie echoed it in her heart, but she could not trust 
her pale, quivering lips. 
In a few days the fate of the " Linlithgow " was settled 
