“Yes, ‘m, I will;” and Jill composed herself to consider what
missionaries usually did when the natives hurled tomahawks and
boomerangs at one another, and defied the rulers of the land.
Mrs. Minot wrote one page of a new letter, then stopped, pushed her
papers about, thought a little, and finally got up, saying, as if she
found it impossible to resist the yearning of her heart for the naughty
boy,--
“I am going to see if Jack is covered up, he is so helpless, and liable
to take cold. Don’t stir till I come back.”
“No, ‘m, I won’t.”
Away went the tender parent to find her son studying Caesar for dear
life, and all the more amiable for the little gust which had blown away
the temporary irritability. The brothers were often called “Thunder
and Lightning,” because Frank lowered and growled and was a good while
clearing up, while Jack’s temper came and went like a flash, and the air
was all the clearer for the escape of dangerous electricity. Of course
Mamma had to stop and deliver a little lecture, illustrated by sad tales
of petulant boys, and punctuated with kisses which took off the edge of
these afflicting narratives.
Jill meantime meditated morally on the superiority of her own good
temper over the hasty one of her dear playmate, and just when she was
feeling unusually uplifted and secure, alas! like so many of us, she
fell, in the most deplorable manner.
Glancing about the room for something to do, she saw a sheet of paper
lying exactly out of reach, where it had fluttered from the table
unperceived. At first her eye rested on it as carelessly as it did on
the stray stamp Frank had dropped; then, as if one thing suggested the
other, she took it into her head that the paper was Frank’s composition,
or, better still, a note to Annette, for the two corresponded when
absence or weather prevented the daily meeting at school.
“Wouldn’t it be fun to keep it till he gives back Jack’s stamps? It
would plague him so if it was a note, and I do believe it is, for
compo’s don’t begin with two words on one side. I’ll get it, and Jack
and I will plan some way to pay him off, cross thing!”
Forgetting her promise not to stir, also how dishonorable it was to read
other people’s letters, Jill caught up the long-handled hook, often in
use now, and tried to pull the paper nearer. It would not come at once,
for a seam in the carpet held it, and Jill feared to tear or crumple it
if she was not very careful. The hook was rather heavy and long for
her to manage, and Jack usually did the fishing, so she was not very
skilful; and just as she was giving a particularly quick jerk, she lost
her balance, fell off the sofa, and dropped the pole with a bang.
“Oh, my back!” was all she could think or say as she felt the jar all
through her little body, and a corresponding fear in her guilty little
mind that someone would come and find out the double mischief she had
been at. For a moment she lay quite still to recover from the shock,
then as the pain passed she began to wonder how she should get back, and
looked about her to see if she could do it alone. She thought she could,
as the sofa was near and she had improved so much that she could sit
up a little if the doctor would have let her. She was gathering herself
together for the effort, when, within arm’s reach now, she saw the
tempting paper, and seized it with glee, for in spite of her predicament
she did want to tease Frank. A glance showed that it was not the
composition nor a note, but the beginning of a letter from Mrs. Minot to
her sister, and Jill was about to lay it down when her own name caught
her eye, and she could not resist reading it. Hard words to write of one
so young, doubly hard to read, and impossible to forget.
“Dear Lizzie,--Jack continues to do very well, and will soon be up
again. But we begin to fear that the little girl is permanently injured
in the back. She is here, and we do our best for her; but I never
look at her without thinking of Lucinda Snow, who, you remember, was
bedridden for twenty years, owing to a fall at fifteen. Poor little
Janey does not know yet, and I hope”--There it ended, and “poor little
Janey’s” punishment for disobedience began that instant. She thought she
was getting well because she did not suffer all the time, and every one
spoke cheerfully about “by and by.” Now she knew the truth, and shut her
eyes with a shiver as she said, low, to herself,--
“Twenty years! I couldn’t bear it; oh, I couldn’t bear it!”
A very miserable Jill lay on the floor, and for a while did not care who
came and found her; then the last words of the letter--“I hope”--seemed
to shine across the blackness of the dreadful “twenty years” and cheer
her up a bit, for despair never lives long in young hearts, and Jill was
a brave child.
“That is why Mammy sighs so when she dresses me, and every one is so
good to me. Perhaps Mrs. Minot doesn’t really know, after all. She was
dreadfully scared about Jack, and he is getting well. I’d like to ask
Doctor, but he might find out about the letter. Oh, dear, why didn’t I
keep still and let the horrid thing alone!”
As she thought that, Jill pushed the paper away, pulled herself up, and
with much painful effort managed to get back to her sofa, where she laid
herself down with a groan, feeling as if the twenty years had already
passed over her since she tumbled off.
“I’ve told a lie, for I said I wouldn’t stir. I’ve hurt my back, I’ve
done a mean thing, and I’ve got paid for it. A nice missionary I am;
I’d better begin at home, as Mammy told me to;” and Jill groaned again,
remembering her mother’s words. “Now I’ve got another secret to keep all
alone, for I’d be ashamed to tell the girls. I guess I’ll turn round and
study my spelling; then no one will see my face.”
Jill looked the picture of a good, industrious child as she lay with her
back to the large table, her book held so that nothing was to be seen
but one cheek and a pair of lips moving busily. Fortunately, it is
difficult for little sinners to act a part, and, even if the face is
hidden, something in the body seems to betray the internal remorse and
shame. Usually, Jill lay flat and still; now her back was bent in a
peculiar way as she leaned over her book, and one foot wagged nervously,
while on the visible cheek was a Spanish stamp with a woman’s face
looking through the black bars, very suggestively, if she had known it.
How long the minutes seemed till some one came, and what a queer little
jump her heart gave when Mrs. Minot’s voice said, cheerfully, “Jack
is all right, and, I declare, so is Jill. I really believe there is a
telegraph still working somewhere between you two, and each knows what
the other is about without words.”
“I didn’t have any other book handy, so I thought I’d study awhile,”
 answered Jill, feeling that she deserved no praise for her seeming
industry.
She cast a sidelong glance as she spoke, and seeing that Mrs. Minot was
looking for the letter, hid her face and lay so still she could hear the
rustle of the paper as it was taken from the floor. It was well she did
not also see the quick look the lady gave her as she turned the letter
and found a red stamp sticking to the under side, for this unlucky
little witness told the story.
Mrs. Minot remembered having seen the stamp lying close to the sofa when
she left the room, for she had had half a mind to take it to Jack, but
did not, thinking Frank’s plan had some advantages. She also recollected
that a paper flew off the table, but being in haste she had not stopped
to see what it was. Now, the stamp and the letter could hardly have come
together without hands, for they lay a yard apart, and here, also, on
the unwritten portion of the page, was the mark of a small green thumb.
Jill had been winding wool for a stripe in her new afghan, and the green
ball lay on her sofa. These signs suggested and confirmed what Mrs.
Minot did not want to believe; so did the voice, attitude, and air of
Jill, all very unlike her usual open, alert ways.
The kind lady could easily forgive the reading of her letter since the
girl had found such sad news there, but the dangers of disobedience were
serious in her case, and a glance showed that she was suffering either
in mind or body--perhaps both.
“I will wait for her to tell me. She is an honest child, and the truth
will soon come out,” thought Mrs. Minot, as she took a clean sheet, and
Jill tried to study.
“Shall I hear your lesson, dear? Jack means to recite his like a good
boy, so suppose you follow his example,” she said, presently.
“I don’t know as I can say it, but I’ll try.”
Jill did try, and got on bravely till she came to the word “permanent;”
 there she hesitated, remembering where she saw it last.
“Do you know what that means?” asked her teacher, thinking to help her
on by defining the word.
“Always--for a great while--or something like that; doesn’t it?”
 faltered Jill, with a tight feeling in her throat, and the color coming
up, as she tried to speak easily, yet felt so shame-stricken she could
not.
“Are you in pain, my child? Never mind the lesson; tell me, and I’ll do
something for you.”
The kind words, the soft hand on her hot cheek, and the pity in the eyes
that looked at her, were too much for Jill. A sob came first, and then
the truth, told with hidden face and tears that washed the blush away,
and set free the honest little soul that could not hide its fault from
such a friend.
“I knew it all before, and was sure you would tell me, else you would
not be the child I love and like to help so well.”
Then, while she soothed Jill’s trouble, Mrs. Minot told her story and
showed the letter, wishing to lessen, if possible, some part of the pain
it had given.
“Sly old stamp! To go and tell on me when I meant to own up, and get
some credit if I could, after being so mean and bad,” said Jill, smiling
through her tears when she saw the tell-tale witnesses against her.
“You had better stick it in your book to remind you of the bad
consequences of disobedience, then perhaps this lesson will leave a
‘permanent’ impression on your mind and memory,” answered Mrs. Minot,
glad to see her natural gayety coming back, and hoping that she had
forgotten the contents of the unfortunate letter. But she had not; and
presently, when the sad affair had been talked over and forgiven, Jill
asked, slowly, as she tried to put on a brave look,--
“Please tell me about Lucinda Snow. If I am to be like her, I might as
well know how she managed to bear it so long.”
“I’m sorry you ever heard of her, and yet perhaps it may help you to
bear your trial, dear, which I hope will never be as heavy a one as
hers. This Lucinda I knew for years, and though at first I thought her
fate the saddest that could be, I came at last to see how happy she was
in spite of her affliction, how good and useful and beloved.”
“Why, how could she be? What did she do?” cried Jill, forgetting her own
troubles to look up with an open, eager face again.
“She was so patient, other people were ashamed to complain of their
small worries; so cheerful, that her own great one grew lighter; so
industrious, that she made both money and friends by pretty things she
worked and sold to her many visitors. And, best of all, so wise and
sweet that she seemed to get good out of everything, and make her poor
room a sort of chapel where people went for comfort, counsel, and an
example of a pious life. So, you see, Lucinda was not so very miserable
after all.”
“Well, if I could not be as I was, I’d like to be a woman like that.
Only, I hope I shall not!” answered Jill, thoughtfully at first, then
coming out so decidedly with the last words that it was evident the life
of a bedridden saint was not at all to her mind.
“So do I; and I mean to believe that you will not. Meantime, we can try
to make the waiting as useful and pleasant as possible. This painful
little back will be a sort of conscience to remind you of what you ought
to do and leave undone, and so you can be learning obedience. Then,
when the body is strong, it will have formed a good habit to make duty
easier; and my Lucinda can be a sweet example, even while lying here, if
she chooses.”
“Can I?” and Jill’s eyes were full of softer tears as the comfortable,
cheering words sank into her heart, to blossom slowly by and by into her
life, for this was to be a long lesson, hard to learn, but very useful
in the years to come.
When the boys returned, after the Latin was recited and peace restored,
Jack showed her a recovered stamp promptly paid by Frank, who was as
just as he was severe, and Jill asked for the old red one, though
she did not tell why she wanted it, nor show it put away in the
spelling-book, a little seal upon a promise made to be kept.
Chapter VIII. Merry and Molly
Now let us see how the other missionaries got on with their tasks.
Farmer Grant was a thrifty, well-to-do man, anxious to give his children
greater advantages than he had enjoyed, and to improve the fine place
of which he was justly proud. Mrs. Grant was a notable housewife, as
ambitious and industrious as her husband, but too busy to spend any time
on the elegancies of life, though always ready to help the poor and sick
like a good neighbor and Christian woman. The three sons--Tom, Dick,
and Harry--were big fellows of seventeen, nineteen, and twenty-one;
the first two on the farm, and the elder in a store just setting up for
himself. Kind-hearted but rough-mannered youths, who loved Merry very
much, but teased her sadly about her “fine lady airs,” as they called
her dainty ways and love of beauty.
Merry was a thoughtful girl, full of innocent fancies, refined tastes,
and romantic dreams, in which no one sympathized at home, though she was
the pet of the family. It did seem, to an outsider, as if the delicate
little creature had got there by mistake, for she looked very like a
tea-rose in a field of clover and dandelions, whose highest aim in life
was to feed cows and help make root beer.
When the girls talked over the new society, it pleased Merry very much,
and she decided not only to try and love work better, but to convert
her family to a liking for pretty things, as she called her own more
cultivated tastes.
“I will begin at once, and show them that I don’t mean to shirk my duty,
though I do want to be nice,” thought she, as she sat at supper one
night and looked about her, planning her first move.
Not a very cheering prospect for a lover of the beautiful, certainly,
for the big kitchen, though as neat as wax, had nothing lovely in it,
except a red geranium blooming at the window. Nor were the people all
that could be desired, in some respects, as they sat about the table
shovelling in pork and beans with their knives, drinking tea from their
saucers, and laughing out with a hearty “Haw, haw,” when anything amused
them. Yet the boys were handsome, strong specimens, the farmer a hale,
benevolent-looking man, the housewife a pleasant, sharp-eyed matron, who
seemed to find comfort in looking often at the bright face at her elbow,
with the broad forehead, clear eyes, sweet mouth, and quiet voice that
came like music in among the loud masculine ones, or the quick, nervous
tones of a woman always in a hurry.
Merry’s face was so thoughtful that evening that her father observed it,
for, when at home, he watched her as one watches a kitten, glad to see
anything so pretty, young, and happy, at its play.
“Little daughter has got something on her mind, I mistrust. Come and
tell father all about it,” he said, with a sounding slap on his broad
knee as he turned his chair from the table to the ugly stove, where
three pairs of wet boots steamed underneath, and a great kettle of cider
apple-sauce simmered above.
“When I’ve helped clear up, I’ll come and talk. Now, mother, you sit
down and rest; Roxy and I can do everything,” answered Merry, patting
the old rocking-chair so invitingly that the tired woman could not
resist, especially as watching the kettle gave her an excuse for
obeying.
“Well, I don’t care if I do, for I’ve been on my feet since five
o’clock. Be sure you cover things up, and shut the buttery door, and put
the cat down cellar, and sift your meal. I’ll see to the buckwheats last
thing before I go to bed.”
Mrs. Grant subsided with her knitting, for her hands were never idle;
Tom tilted his chair back against the wall and picked his teeth with
his pen-knife; Dick got out a little pot of grease, to make the boots
water-tight; and Harry sat down at the small table to look over his
accounts, with an important air,--for every one occupied this room, and
the work was done in the out-kitchen behind.
Merry hated clearing up, but dutifully did every distasteful task, and
kept her eye on careless Roxy till all was in order; then she gladly
went to perch on her father’s knee, seeing in all the faces about her
the silent welcome they always wore for the “little one.”
“Yes, I do want something, but I know you will say it is silly,” she
began, as her father pinched her blooming cheek, with the wish that his
peaches would ever look half as well.
“Shouldn’t wonder if it was a doll now;” and Mr. Grant stroked her head
with an indulgent smile, as if she was about six instead of fifteen.
“Why, father, you know I don’t! I haven’t played with dollies for years
and years. No; I want to fix up my room pretty, like Jill’s. I’ll do it
all myself, and only want a few things, for I don’t expect it to look as
nice as hers.”
Indignation gave Merry courage to state her wishes boldly, though she
knew the boys would laugh. They did, and her mother said in a tone of
surprise,--
“Why, child, what more can you want? I’m sure your room is always as
neat as a new pin, thanks to your bringing up, and I told you to have a
fire there whenever you wanted to.”
“Let me have some old things out of the garret, and I’ll show you what
I want. It is neat, but so bare and ugly I hate to be there. I do so
love something pretty to look at!” and Merry gave a little shiver of
disgust as she turned her eyes away from the large greasy boot Dick was
holding up to be sure it was well lubricated all round.
“So do I, and that’s a fact. I couldn’t get on without my pretty girl
here, any way. Why, she touches up the old place better than a dozen
flower-pots in full blow,” said the farmer, as his eye went from the
scarlet geranium to the bright young face so near his own.
“I wish I had a dozen in the sitting-room window. Mother says they are
not tidy, but I’d keep them neat, and I know you’d like it,” broke in
Merry, glad of the chance to get one of the long-desired wishes of her
heart fulfilled.
“I’ll fetch you some next time I go over to Ballad’s. Tell me what you
want, and we’ll have a posy bed somewhere round, see if we don’t,” said
her father, dimly understanding what she wanted.
“Now, if mother says I may fix my room, I shall be satisfied, and I’ll
do my chores without a bit of fuss, to show how grateful I am,” said
the girl, thanking her father with a kiss, and smiling at her mother so
wistfully that the good woman could not refuse.
“You may have anything you like out of the blue chest. There’s a lot of
things there that the moths got at after Grandma died, and I couldn’t
bear to throw or give ‘em away. Trim up your room as you like, and mind
you don’t forget your part of the bargain,” answered Mrs. Grant, seeing
profit in the plan.
“I won’t; I’ll work all the morning to-morrow, and in the afternoon I’ll
get ready to show you what I call a nice, pretty room,” answered Merry,
looking so pleased it seemed as if another flower had blossomed in the
large bare kitchen.
She kept her word, and the very stormy afternoon when Jill got into
trouble, Merry was working busily at her little bower. In the blue chest
she found a variety of treasures, and ignoring the moth holes, used them
to the best advantage, trying to imitate the simple comfort with a touch
of elegance which prevailed in Mrs. Minot’s back bedroom.
Three faded red-moreen curtains went up at the windows over the chilly
paper shades, giving a pleasant glow to the bare walls. A red quilt with
white stars, rather the worse for many washings, covered the bed, and a
gay cloth the table, where a judicious arrangement of books and baskets
concealed the spots. The little air-tight stove was banished, and a pair
of ancient andirons shone in the fire-light. Grandma’s last and largest
braided rug lay on the hearth, and her brass candlesticks adorned the
bureau, over the mirror of which was festooned a white muslin skirt,
tied up with Merry’s red sash. This piece of elegance gave the last
touch to her room, she thought, and she was very proud of it, setting
forth all her small store of trinkets in a large shell, with an empty
scent bottle, and a clean tidy over the pincushion. On the walls she
hung three old-fashioned pictures, which she ventured to borrow from
the garret till better could be found. One a mourning piece, with a very
tall lady weeping on an urn in a grove of willows, and two small boys in
knee breeches and funny little square tails to their coats, looking like
cherubs in large frills. The other was as good as a bonfire, being an
eruption of Vesuvius, and very lurid indeed, for the Bay of Naples was
boiling like a pot, the red sky raining rocks, and a few distracted
people lying flat upon the shore. The third was a really pretty scene
of children dancing round a May-pole, for though nearly a hundred years
old, the little maids smiled and the boys pranced as gayly as if the
flowers they carried were still alive and sweet.
“Now I’ll call them all to see, and say that it is pretty. Then I’ll
enjoy it, and come here when things look dismal and bare everywhere
else,” said Merry, when at last it was done. She had worked all the
afternoon, and only finished at supper time, so the candles had to be
lighted that the toilette might look its best, and impress the beholders
with an idea of true elegance. Unfortunately, the fire smoked a little,
and a window was set ajar to clear the room; an evil-disposed gust blew
in, wafting the thin drapery within reach of the light, and when Merry
threw open the door proudly thinking to display her success, she was
horrified to find the room in a blaze, and half her labor all in vain.
The conflagration was over in a minute, however, for the boys tore down
the muslin and stamped out the fire with much laughter, while Mrs. Grant
bewailed the damage to her carpet, and poor Merry took refuge in
her father’s arms, refusing to be comforted in spite of his kind
commendation of “Grandma’s fixins.”
The third little missionary had the hardest time of all, and her first
efforts were not much more satisfactory nor successful than the others.
Her father was away from morning till night, and then had his paper to
read, books to keep, or “a man to see down town,” so that, after a hasty
word at tea, he saw no more of the children till another evening, as
they were seldom up at his early breakfast. He thought they were well
taken care of, for Miss Bathsheba Dawes was an energetic, middle-aged
spinster when she came into the family, and had been there fifteen
years, so he did not observe, what a woman would have seen at once, that
Miss Bat was getting old and careless, and everything about the house
was at sixes and sevens. She took good care of him, and thought she had
done her duty if she got three comfortable meals, nursed the children
when they were ill, and saw that the house did not burn up. So Maria
Louisa and Napoleon Bonaparte got on as they could, without the tender
cares of a mother. Molly had been a happy-go-lucky child, contented
with her pets, her freedom, and little Boo to love; but now she was just
beginning to see that they were not like other children, and to feel
ashamed of it.
“Papa is busy, but Miss Bat ought to see to us; she is paid for it,
and goodness knows she has an easy time now, for if I ask her to do
anything, she groans over her bones, and tells me young folks should
wait on themselves. I take all the care of Boo off her hands, but I
can’t wash my own things, and he hasn’t a decent trouser to his blessed
little legs. I’d tell papa, but it wouldn’t do any good; he’d only say,
‘Yes, child, yes, I’ll attend to it,’ and never do a thing.”
This used to be Molly’s lament, when some especially trying event
occurred, and if the girls were not there to condole with her, she would
retire to the shed-chamber, call her nine cats about her, and, sitting
in the old bushel basket, pull her hair about her ears, and scold all
alone. The cats learned to understand this habit, and nobly did their
best to dispel the gloom which now and then obscured the sunshine of
their little mistress. Some of them would creep into her lap and purr
till the comfortable sound soothed her irritation; the sedate elders sat
at her feet blinking with such wise and sympathetic faces, that she felt
as if half a dozen Solomons were giving her the sagest advice; while the
kittens frisked about, cutting up their drollest capers till she laughed
in spite of herself. When the laugh came, the worst of the fit was over,
and she soon cheered up, dismissing the consolers with a pat all round,
a feast of good things from Miss Bat’s larder, and the usual speech:--
“Well, dears, it’s of no use to worry. I guess we shall get along
somehow, if we don’t fret.”
With which wise resolution, Molly would leave her retreat and freshen
up her spirits by a row on the river or a romp with Boo, which always
finished the case. Now, however, she was bound to try the new plan and
do something toward reforming not only the boy’s condition, but the
disorder and discomfort of home.
“I’ll play it is Siam, and this the house of a native, and I’m come to
show the folks how to live nicely. Miss Bat won’t know what to make of
it, and I can’t tell her, so I shall get some fun out of it, any way,”
 thought Molly, as she surveyed the dining-room the day her mission
began.
The prospect was not cheering; and, if the natives of Siam live in such
confusion, it is high time they were attended to. The breakfast-table
still stood as it was left, with slops of coffee on the cloth; bits of
bread, egg-shells, and potato-skins lay about, and one lonely sausage
was cast away in the middle of a large platter. The furniture was dusty,
stove untidy, and the carpet looked as if crumbs had been scattered to
chickens who declined their breakfast. Boo was sitting on the sofa, with
his arm through a hole in the cover, hunting for some lost treasure
put away there for safe keeping, like a little magpie as he was. Molly
fancied she washed and dressed him well enough; but to-day she seemed to
see more clearly, and sighed as she thought of the hard job in store for
her if she gave him the thorough washing he needed, and combed out that
curly mop of hair.
“I’ll clear up first and do that by and by. I ought to have a nice
little tub and good towels, like Mrs. Minot, and I will, too, if I buy
them myself,” she said, piling up cups with an energy that threatened
destruction to handles.
Miss Bat, who was trailing about the kitchen, with her head pinned up
in a little plaid shawl, was so surprised by the demand for a pan of
hot water and four clean towels, that she nearly dropped her snuff-box,
chief comfort of her lazy soul.
“What new whimsey now? Generally, the dishes stand round till I have
time to pick ‘em up, and you are off coasting or careering somewhere.
Well, this tidy fit won’t last long, so I may as well make the most of
it,” said Miss Bat, as she handed out the required articles, and then
pushed her spectacles from the tip of her sharp nose to her sharper
black eyes for a good look at the girl who stood primly before her, with
a clean apron on and her hair braided up instead of flying wildly about
her shoulders.
“Umph!” was all the comment that Miss Bat made on this unusual neatness,
and she went on scraping her saucepans, while Molly returned to her
work, very well pleased with the effect of her first step, for she felt
that the bewilderment of Miss Bat would be a constant inspiration to
fresh efforts.
An hour of hard work produced an agreeable change in the abode of
the native, for the table was cleared, room swept and dusted, fire
brightened, and the holes in the sofa-covering were pinned up till time
could be found to mend them. To be sure, rolls of lint lay in corners,
smears of ashes were on the stove hearth, and dust still lurked on
chair rounds and table legs. But too much must not be expected of a
new convert, so the young missionary sat down to rest, well pleased and
ready for another attempt as soon as she could decide in what direction
it should be made. She quailed before Boo as she looked at the
unconscious innocent peacefully playing with the spotted dog, now bereft
of his tail, and the lone sausage with which he was attempting to feed
the hungry animal, whose red mouth always gaped for more.
“It will be an awful job, and he is so happy I won’t plague him yet.
Guess I’ll go and put my room to rights first, and pick up some clean
clothes to put on him, if he is alive after I get through with him,”
 thought Molly, foreseeing a stormy passage for the boy, who hated a bath
as much as some people hate a trip across the Atlantic.
Up she went, and finding the fire out felt discouraged, thought she
would rest a little more, so retired under the blankets to read one of
the Christmas books. The dinner-bell rang while she was still wandering
happily in “Nelly’s Silver Mine,” and she ran down to find that Boo had
laid out a railroad all across her neat room, using bits of coal for
sleepers and books for rails, over which he was dragging the yellow sled
laden with a dismayed kitten, the tailless dog, and the remains of the
sausage, evidently on its way to the tomb, for Boo took bites at it now
and then, no other lunch being offered him.
“Oh dear! why can’t boys play without making such a mess,” sighed Molly,
picking up the feathers from the duster with which Boo had been trying
to make a “cocky-doo” of the hapless dog. “I’ll wash him right after
dinner, and that will keep him out of mischief for a while,” she
thought, as the young engineer unsuspiciously proceeded to ornament his
already crocky countenance with squash, cranberry sauce, and gravy, till
he looked more like a Fiji chief in full war-paint than a Christian boy.
“I want two pails of hot water, please, Miss Bat, and the big tub,” said
Molly, as the ancient handmaid emptied her fourth cup of tea, for she
dined with the family, and enjoyed her own good cooking in its prime.
“What are you going to wash now?”
“Boo--I’m sure he needs it enough;” and Molly could not help laughing as
the victim added to his brilliant appearance by smearing the colors
all together with a rub of two grimy hands, making a fine “Turner” of
himself.
“Now, Maria Louisa Bemis, you ain’t going to cut up no capers with that
child! The idea of a hot bath in the middle of the day, and him full
of dinner, and croupy into the bargain! Wet a corner of a towel at the
kettle-spout and polish him off if you like, but you won’t risk his life
in no bath-tubs this cold day.”
Miss Bat’s word was law in some things, so Molly had to submit, and took
Boo away, saying, loftily, as she left the room,--
“I shall ask father, and do it to-night, for I will not have my
brother look like a pig.”
“My patience! how the Siamese do leave their things round,” she
exclaimed, as she surveyed her room after making up the fire and
polishing off Boo. “I’ll put things in order, and then mend up my rags,
if I can find my thimble. Now, let me see;” and she went to exploring
her closet, bureau, and table, finding such disorder everywhere that her
courage nearly gave out.
She had clothes enough, but all needed care; even her best dress had two
buttons off, and her Sunday hat but one string. Shoes, skirts, books,
and toys lay about, and her drawers were a perfect chaos of soiled
ruffles, odd gloves, old ribbons, boot lacings, and bits of paper.
“Oh, my heart, what a muddle! Mrs. Minot wouldn’t think much of me if
she could see that,” said Molly, recalling how that lady once said she
could judge a good deal of a little girl’s character and habits by a
peep at her top drawer, and went on, with great success, to guess how
each of the school-mates kept her drawer.
“Come, missionary, clear up, and don’t let me find such a glory-hole
again, or I’ll report you to the society,” said Molly, tipping the whole
drawer-full out upon the bed, and beguiling the tiresome job by keeping
up the new play.
Twilight came before it was done, and a great pile of things loomed up
on her table, with no visible means of repair,--for Molly’s work-basket
was full of nuts, and her thimble down a hole in the shed-floor, where
the cats had dropped it in their play.
“I’ll ask Bat for hooks and tape, and papa for some money to buy
scissors and things, for I don’t know where mine are. Glad I can’t do
any more now! Being neat is such hard work!” and Molly threw herself
down on the rug beside the old wooden cradle in which Boo was blissfully
rocking, with a cargo of toys aboard.
She watched her time, and as soon as her father had done supper, she
hastened to say, before he got to his desk,--
“Please, papa, I want a dollar to get some brass buttons and things to
fix Boo’s clothes with. He wore a hole in his new trousers coasting
down the Kembles’ steps. And can’t I wash him? He needs it, and Miss Bat
won’t let me have a tub.”
“Certainly, child, certainly; do what you like, only don’t keep me. I
must be off, or I shall miss Jackson, and he’s the man I want;” and,
throwing down two dollars instead of one, Mr. Bemis hurried away, with a
vague impression that Boo had swallowed a dozen brass buttons, and Miss
Bat had been coasting somewhere in a bath-pan; but catching Jackson was
important, so he did not stop to investigate.
Armed with the paternal permission, Molly carried her point, and oh,
what a dreadful evening poor Boo spent! First, he was decoyed upstairs
an hour too soon, then put in a tub by main force and sternly scrubbed,
in spite of shrieks that brought Miss Bat to the locked door to condole
with the sufferer, scold the scrubber, and depart, darkly prophesying
croup before morning.
“He always howls when he is washed; but I shall do it, since you
won’t, and he must get used to it. I will not have people tell me he’s
neglected, if I can help it,” cried Molly, working away with tears in
her eyes--for it was as hard for her as for Boo; but she meant to be
thorough for once in her life, no matter what happened.
When the worst was over, she coaxed him with candy and stories till the
long task of combing out the curls was safely done; then, in the clean
night-gown with a blue button newly sewed on, she laid him in bed, worn
out, but sweet as a rose.
“Now, say your prayers, darling, and go to sleep with the nice red
blanket all tucked round so you won’t get cold,” said Molly, rather
doubtful of the effect of the wet head.
“No, I won’t! Going to sleep now!” and Boo shut his eyes wearily,
feeling that his late trials had not left him in a prayerful mood.
“Then you’ll be a real little heathen, as Mrs. Pecq called you, and
I don’t know what I shall do with you,” said Molly, longing to cuddle
rather than scold the little fellow, whose soul needed looking after as
well as his body.
“No, no; I won’t be a heevin! I don’t want to be frowed to the
trockindiles. I will say my prayers! oh, I will!” and, rising in
his bed, Boo did so, with the devotion of an infant Samuel, for he
remembered the talk when the society was formed.
Molly thought her labors were over for that night, and soon went to bed,
tired with her first attempts. But toward morning she was wakened by the
hoarse breathing of the boy, and was forced to patter away to Miss Bat’s
room, humbly asking for the squills, and confessing that the prophecy
had come to pass.
“I knew it! Bring the child to me, and don’t fret. I’ll see to him, and
next time you do as I say,” was the consoling welcome she received as
the old lady popped up a sleepy but anxious face in a large flannel cap,
and shook the bottle with the air of a general who had routed the foe
before and meant to do it again.
Leaving her little responsibility in Miss Bat’s arms, Molly retired
to wet her pillow with a few remorseful tears, and to fall asleep,
wondering if real missionaries ever killed their pupils in the process
of conversion.
So the girls all failed in the beginning; but they did not give up, and
succeeded better next time, as we shall see.
Chapter IX. The Debating Club
“Look here, old man, we ought to have a meeting. Holidays are over, and
we must brace up and attend to business,” said Frank to Gus, as they
strolled out of the schoolyard one afternoon in January, apparently
absorbed in conversation, but in reality waiting for a blue cloud and a
scarlet feather to appear on the steps.
“All right. When, where, and what?” asked Gus, who was a man of few
words.
“To-night, our house, subject, ‘Shall girls go to college with us?’
Mother said we had better be making up our minds, because every one is
talking about it, and we shall have to be on one side or the other,
so we may as well settle it now,” answered Frank, for there was an
impression among the members that all vexed questions would be much
helped by the united eloquence and wisdom of the club.
“Very good; I’ll pass the word and be there. Hullo, Neddy! The D.C.
meets to-night, at Minot’s, seven sharp. Co-ed, &c.,” added Gus, losing
no time, as a third boy came briskly round the corner, with a little bag
in his hand.
“I’ll come. Got home an hour earlier to-night, and thought I’d look
you up as I went by,” responded Ed Devlin, as he took possession of the
third post, with a glance toward the schoolhouse to see if a seal-skin
cap, with a long, yellow braid depending therefrom, was anywhere in
sight.
“Very good of you, I’m sure,” said Gus, ironically, not a bit deceived
by this polite attention.
“The longest way round is sometimes the shortest way home, hey, Ed?” and
Frank gave him a playful poke that nearly sent him off his perch.
Then they all laughed at some joke of their own, and Gus added, “No
girls coming to hear us to-night. Don’t think it, my son.
“More’s the pity,” and Ed shook his head regretfully over the downfall
of his hopes.
“Can’t help it; the other fellows say they spoil the fun, so we have
to give in, sometimes, for the sake of peace and quietness. Don’t
mind having them a bit myself,” said Frank, in such a tone of cheerful
resignation that they laughed again, for the “Triangle,” as the three
chums were called, always made merry music.
“We must have a game party next week. The girls like that, and so do
I,” candidly observed Gus, whose pleasant parlors were the scene of many
such frolics.
“And so do your sisters and your cousins and your aunts,” hummed Ed,
for Gus was often called Admiral because he really did possess three
sisters, two cousins, and four aunts, besides mother and grandmother,
all living in the big house together.
The boys promptly joined in the popular chorus, and other voices all
about the yard took it up, for the “Pinafore” epidemic raged fearfully
in Harmony Village that winter.
“How’s business?” asked Gus, when the song ended, for Ed had not
returned to school in the autumn, but had gone into a store in the city.
“Dull; things will look up toward spring, they say. I get on well
enough, but I miss you fellows dreadfully;” and Ed put a hand on the
broad shoulder of each friend, as if he longed to be a school-boy again.
“Better give it up and go to college with me next year,” said Frank, who
was preparing for Boston University, while Gus fitted for Harvard.
“No; I’ve chosen business, and I mean to stick to it, so don’t you
unsettle my mind. Have you practised that March?” asked Ed, turning to a
gayer subject, for he had his little troubles, but always looked on the
bright side of things.
“Skating is so good, I don’t get much time. Come early, and we’ll have a
turn at it.”
“I will. Must run home now.”
“Pretty cold loafing here.”
“Mail is in by this time.”
And with these artless excuses the three boys leaped off the posts, as
if one spring moved them, as a group of girls came chattering down the
path. The blue cloud floated away beside Frank, the scarlet feather
marched off with the Admiral, while the fur cap nodded to the gray hat
as two happy faces smiled at each other.
The same thing often happened, for twice a-day the streets were full
of young couples walking to and from school together, smiled at by the
elders, and laughed at by the less susceptible boys and girls, who went
alone or trooped along in noisy groups. The prudent mothers had tried to
stop this guileless custom, but found it very difficult, as the fathers
usually sympathized with their sons, and dismissed the matter with the
comfortable phrase, “Never mind; boys will be boys.” “Not forever,”
 returned the anxious mammas, seeing the tall lads daily grow more manly,
and the pretty daughters fast learning to look demure when certain names
were mentioned.
It could not be stopped without great parental sternness and the danger
of deceit, for co-education will go on outside of school if not inside,
and the safest way is to let sentiment and study go hand in hand, with
teachers and parents to direct and explain the great lesson all are
the better for learning soon or late. So the elders had to give in,
acknowledging that this sudden readiness to go to school was a comfort,
that the new sort of gentle emulation worked wonders in lazy girls and
boys, and that watching these “primrose friendships” bud, blossom,
and die painless deaths, gave a little touch of romance to their own
work-a-day lives.
“On the whole I’d rather have my sons walking, playing, and studying
with bright, well-mannered girls, than always knocking about with rough
boys,” said Mrs. Minot at one of the Mothers’ Meetings, where the good
ladies met to talk over their children, and help one another to do their
duty by them.
“I find that Gus is more gentle with his sisters since Juliet took him
in hand, for he wants to stand well with her, and they report him if he
troubles them. I really see no harm in the little friendship, though I
never had any such when I was a girl,” said Mrs. Burton, who adored her
one boy and was his confidante.
“My Merry seems to be contented with her brothers so far, but I
shouldn’t wonder if I had my hands full by and by,” added Mrs. Grant,
who already foresaw that her sweet little daughter would be sought after
as soon as she should lengthen her skirts and turn up her bonny brown
hair.
Molly Loo had no mother to say a word for her, but she settled matters
for herself by holding fast to Merry, and declaring that she would have
no escort but faithful Boo.
It is necessary to dwell a moment upon this new amusement, because it
was not peculiar to Harmony Village, but appears everywhere as naturally
as the game parties and croquet which have taken the place of the
husking frolics and apple-bees of olden times, and it is impossible to
dodge the subject if one attempts to write of boys and girls as they
really are nowadays.
“Here, my hero, see how you like this. If it suits, you will be ready to
march as soon as the doctor gives the word,” said Ralph, coming into the
Bird Room that evening with a neat little crutch under his arm.
“Ha, ha, that looks fine! I’d like to try it right off, but I won’t till
I get leave. Did you make it yourself, Ral?” asked Jack, handling it
with delight, as he sat bolt upright, with his leg on a rest, for he was
getting on capitally now.
“Mostly. Rather a neat job, I flatter myself.”
“I should say so. What a clever fellow you are! Any new inventions
lately?” asked Frank, coming up to examine and admire.
“Only an anti-snoring machine and an elbow-pad,” answered Ralph, with a
twinkle in his eye, as if reminded of something funny.
“Go on, and tell about them. I never heard of an anti-snorer. Jack
better have one,” said Frank, interested at once.
“Well, a rich old lady kept her family awake with that lively music, so
she sent to Shirtman and Codleff for something to stop it. They thought
it was a good joke, and told me to see what I could do. I thought it
over, and got up the nicest little affair you ever saw. It went over the
mouth, and had a tube to fit the ear, so when the lady snored she woke
herself up and stopped it. It suited exactly. I think of taking out a
patent,” concluded Ralph, joining in the boys’ laugh at the droll idea.
“What was the pad?” asked Frank, returning to the small model of an
engine he was making.
“Oh, that was a mere trifle for a man who had a tender elbow-joint and
wanted something to protect it. I made a little pad to fit on, and his
crazy-bone was safe.”
“I planned to have you make me a new leg if this one was spoilt,” said
Jack, sure that his friend could invent anything under the sun.
“I’d do my best for you. I made a hand for a fellow once, and that
got me my place, you know,” answered Ralph, who thought little of such
mechanical trifles, and longed to be painting portraits or modelling
busts, being an artist as well as an inventor.
Here Gus, Ed, and several other boys came in, and the conversation
became general. Grif, Chick, and Brickbat were three young gentlemen
whose own respectable names were usually ignored, and they cheerfully
answered to these nicknames.
As the clock struck seven, Frank, who ruled the club with a rod of iron
when Chairman, took his place behind the study table. Seats stood about
it, and a large, shabby book lay before Gus, who was Secretary, and kept
the records with a lavish expenditure of ink, to judge by the blots. The
members took their seats, and nearly all tilted back their chairs and
put their hands in their pockets, to keep them out of mischief; for, as
every one knows, it is impossible for two lads to be near each other
and refrain from tickling or pinching. Frank gave three raps with an old
croquet-mallet set on a short handle, and with much dignity opened the
meeting.
“Gentlemen, the business of the club will be attended to, and then
we will discuss the question, ‘Shall girls go to our colleges?’ The
Secretary will now read the report of the last meeting.”
Clearing his throat, Gus read the following brief and elegant report:--
“Club met, December 18th, at the house of G. Burton, Esq. Subject: ‘Is
summer or winter best fun?’ A lively pow-wow. About evenly divided.
J. Flint fined five cents for disrespect to the Chair. A collection of
forty cents taken up to pay for breaking a pane of glass during a free
fight of the members on the door-step. E. Devlin was chosen Secretary
for the coming year, and a new book contributed by the Chairman.”
“That’s all.”
“Is there any other business before the meeting?” asked Frank, as the
reader closed the old book with a slam and shoved the new one across the
table.
Ed rose, and glancing about him with an appealing look, said, as if sure
his proposition would not be well received, “I wish to propose the name
of a new member. Bob Walker wants to join, and I think we ought to let
him. He is trying to behave well, and I am sure we could help him. Can’t
we?”
All the boys looked sober, and Joe, otherwise Brickbat, said, bluntly,
“I won’t. He’s a bad lot, and we don’t want any such here. Let him go
with chaps of his own sort.”
“That is just what I want to keep him from! He’s a good-hearted boy
enough, only no one looks after him; so he gets into scrapes, as we
should, if we were in his place, I dare say. He wants to come here, and
would be so proud if he was let in, I know he’d behave. Come now, let’s
give him a chance,” and Ed looked at Gus and Frank, sure that if they
stood by him he should carry his point.
But Gus shook his head, as if doubtful of the wisdom of the plan, and
Frank said gravely: “You know we made the rule that the number should
never be over eight, and we cannot break it.”
“You needn’t. I can’t be here half the time, so I will resign and let
Bob have my place,” began Ed, but he was silenced by shouts of “No, no,
you shan’t!” “We won’t let you off!” “Club would go to smash, if you
back out!”
“Let him have my place; I’m the youngest, and you won’t miss me,” cried
Jack, bound to stand by Ed at all costs.
“We might do that,” said Frank, who did object to small boys, though
willing to admit this particular one.
“Better make a new rule to have ten members, and admit both Bob and Tom
Grant,” said Ralph, whereat Grif grinned and Joe scowled, for one lad
liked Merry’s big brother and the other did not.
“That’s a good idea! Put it to vote,” said Gus, too kind-hearted to shut
the door on any one.
“First I want to ask if all you fellows are ready to stand by Bob, out
of the club as well as in, for it won’t do much good to be kind to him
here and cut him at school and in the street,” said Ed, heartily in
earnest about the matter.
“I will!” cried Jack, ready to follow where his beloved friend led, and
the others nodded, unwilling to be outdone by the youngest member.
“Good! With all of us to lend a hand, we can do a great deal; and I tell
you, boys, it is time, if we want to keep poor Bob straight. We all turn
our backs on him, so he loafs round the tavern, and goes with fellows
we don’t care to know. But he isn’t bad yet, and we can keep him up, I’m
sure, if we just try. I hope to get him into the Lodge, and that will be
half the battle, won’t it, Frank?” added Ed, sure that this suggestion
would have weight with the honorable Chairman.
“Bring him along; I’m with you!” answered Frank, making up his mind at
once, for he had joined the Temperance Lodge four years ago, and already
six boys had followed his example.
“He is learning to smoke, but we’ll make him drop it before it leads
to worse. You can help him there, Admiral, if you only will,” added Ed,
giving a grateful look at one friend, and turning to the other.
“I’m your man;” and Gus looked as if he knew what he promised, for he
had given up smoking to oblige his father, and kept his word like a
hero.
“You other fellows can do a good deal by just being kind and not
twitting him with old scrapes, and I’ll do anything I can for you all
to pay for this;” and Ed sat down with a beaming smile, feeling that his
cause was won.
The vote was taken, and all hands went up, for even surly Joe gave in;
so Bob and Tom were duly elected, and proved their gratitude for the
honor done them by becoming worthy members of the club. It was only
boys’ play now, but the kind heart and pure instincts of one lad showed
the others how to lend a helping hand to a comrade in danger, and win
him away from temptation to the safer pastimes of their more guarded
lives.
Well pleased with themselves--for every genuine act or word, no matter
how trifling it seems, leaves a sweet and strengthening influence
behind--the members settled down to the debate, which was never very
long, and often only an excuse for fun of all sorts.
“Ralph, Gus, and Ed are for, and Brickbat, Grif, and Chick against, I
suppose?” said Frank, surveying his company like a general preparing for
battle.
“No, sir! I believe in co-everything!” cried Chick, a mild youth, who
loyally escorted a chosen damsel home from school every day.
A laugh greeted this bold declaration, and Chick sat down, red but firm.
“I’ll speak for two since the Chairman can’t, and Jack won’t go against
those who pet him most to death,” said Joe, who, not being a favorite
with the girls, considered them a nuisance and lost no opportunity of
telling them so.
“Fire away, then, since you are up;” commanded Frank.
“Well,” began Joe, feeling too late how much he had undertaken, “I don’t
know a great deal about it, and I don’t care, but I do not believe in
having girls at college. They don’t belong there, nobody wants ‘em, and
they’d better be at home darning their stockings.”
“Yours, too,” put in Ralph, who had heard that argument so often he was
tired of it.
“Of course; that’s what girls are for. I don’t mind ‘em at school,
but I’d just as soon they had a room to themselves. We should get on
better.”
“You would if Mabel wasn’t in your class and always ahead of you,”
 observed Ed, whose friend was a fine scholar, and he very proud of the
fact.
“Look here, if you fellows keep interrupting, I won’t sit down for half
an hour,” said Joe, well knowing that eloquence was not his gift, but
bound to have his say out.
Deep silence reigned, for that threat quelled the most impatient member,
and Joe prosed on, using all the arguments he had ever heard, and
paying off several old scores by sly hits of a personal nature, as older
orators often do.
“It is clear to my mind that boys would get on better without any
girls fooling round. As for their being as smart as we are, it is all
nonsense, for some of ‘em cry over their lessons every day, or go home
with headaches, or get mad and scold all recess, because something
‘isn’t fair.’ No, sir; girls ain’t meant to know much, and they can’t.
Wise folks say so and I believe ‘em. Haven’t got any sisters myself, and
I don’t want any, for they don’t seem to amount to much, according to
those who do have ‘em.”
Groans from Gus and Ed greeted the closing remarks of the ungallant Joe,
who sat down, feeling that he had made somebody squirm. Up jumped Grif,
the delight of whose life was practical jokes, which amiable weakness
made him the terror of the girls, though they had no other fault to find
with the merry lad.
“Mr. Chairman, the ground I take is this: girls have not the strength to
go to college with us. They couldn’t row a race, go on a lark, or take
care of themselves, as we do. They are all well enough at home, and I
like them at parties, but for real fun and go I wouldn’t give a cent for
them,” began Grif, whose views of a collegiate life were confined to the
enjoyments rather than the studies of that festive period. “I have tried
them, and they can’t stand anything. They scream if you tell them there
is a mouse in the room, and run if they see a big dog. I just put a
cockroach in Molly’s desk one day, and when she opened it she jumped as
if she was shot.”
So did the gentlemen of the club, for at that moment half-a-dozen
fire-crackers exploded under the chair Grif had left, and flew wildly
about the room. Order was with difficulty restored, the mischievous
party summarily chastised and commanded to hold his tongue, under
penalty of ejectment from the room if he spoke again. Firmly grasping
that red and unruly member, Grif composed himself to listen, with his
nose in the air and his eyes shining like black beads.
Ed was always the peace-maker, and now, when he rose with his engaging
smile, his voice fell like oil upon the troubled waters, and his bright
face was full of the becoming bashfulness which afflicts youths of
seventeen when touching upon such subjects of newly acquired interest as
girls and their pleasant but perplexing ways.
“It seems to me we have hardly considered the matter enough to be able
to say much. But I think that school would be awfully dry and dismal
without--ahem!--any young ladies to make it nice. I wouldn’t give a pin
to go if there was only a crowd of fellows, though I like a good game
as well as any man. I pity any boy who has no sisters,” continued Ed,
warming up as he thought of his own, who loved him dearly, as well they
might, for a better brother never lived. “Home wouldn’t be worth having
without them to look after a fellow, to keep him out of scrapes, help
him with his lessons, and make things jolly for his friends. I tell you
we can’t do without girls, and I’m not ashamed to say that I think the
more we see of them, and try to be like them in many ways, the better
men we shall be by and by.”
“Hear! hear!” cried Frank, in his deepest tone, for he heartily agreed
to that, having talked the matter over with his mother, and received
much light upon things which should always be set right in young heads
and hearts. And who can do this so wisely and well as mothers, if they
only will?
Feeling that his sentiments had been approved, and he need not be
ashamed of the honest color in his cheeks, Ed sat down amid the applause
of his side, especially of Jack, who pounded so vigorously with his
crutch that Mrs. Pecq popped in her head to see if anything was wanted.
“No, thank you, ma’am, we were only cheering Ed,” said Gus, now upon
his legs, and rather at a loss what to say till Mrs. Pecq’s appearance
suggested an idea, and he seized upon it.
“My honored friend has spoken so well that I have little to add. I agree
with him, and if you want an example of what girls can do, why, look
at Jill. She’s young, I know, but a first-rate scholar for her age. As
for pluck, she is as brave as a boy, and almost as smart at running,
rowing, and so on. Of course, she can’t play ball--no girl can; their
arms are not made right to throw--but she can catch remarkably well.
I’ll say that for her. Now, if she and Mabel--and--and--some others I
could name, are so clever and strong at the beginning, I don’t see why
they shouldn’t keep up and go along with us all through. I’m willing,
and will do what I can to help other fellows’ sisters as I’d like to
have them help mine. And I’ll punch their heads if they don’t;” and Gus
subsided, assured, by a burst of applause, that his manly way of stating
the case met with general approval.
“We shall be happy to hear from our senior member if he will honor us
with a few remarks,” said Frank, with a bow to Ralph.
No one ever knew whom he would choose to personate, for he never spoke
in his own character. Now he rose slowly, put one hand in his bosom, and
fixing his eye sternly on Grif, who was doing something suspicious with
a pin, gave them a touch of Sergeant Buzfuz, from the Pickwick trial,
thinking that the debate was not likely to throw much light on the
subject under discussion. In the midst of this appeal to “Me lud and
gentlemen of the jury,” he suddenly paused, smoothed his hair down upon
his forehead, rolled up his eyes, and folding his hands, droned out Mr.
Chadband’s sermon on Peace, delivered over poor Jo, and ending with the
famous lines:--
  “Oh, running stream of sparkling joy,
  To be a glorious human boy!”
Then, setting his hair erect with one comprehensive sweep, he caught up
his coat-skirts over his arm, and, assuming a parliamentary attitude,
burst into a comical medley, composed of extracts from Jefferson Brick’s
and Lafayette Kettle’s speeches, and Elijah Pogram’s Defiance, from
“Martin Chuzzlewit.” Gazing at Gus, who was convulsed with suppressed
merriment, he thundered forth:--
“In the name of our common country, sir, in the name of that righteous
cause in which we are jined, and in the name of the star-spangled
banner, I thank you for your eloquent and categorical remarks. You, sir,
are a model of a man fresh from Natur’s mould. A true-born child of
this free hemisphere; verdant as the mountains of our land; bright and
flowin’ as our mineral Licks; unspiled by fashion as air our boundless
perearers. Rough you may be; so air our Barrs. Wild you may be; so air
our Buffalers. But, sir, you air a Child of Freedom, and your proud
answer to the Tyrant is, that your bright home is in the Settin’ Sun.
And, sir, if any man denies this fact, though it be the British Lion
himself, I defy him. Let me have him here!”--smiting the table, and
causing the inkstand to skip--“here, upon this sacred altar! Here, upon
the ancestral ashes cemented with the glorious blood poured out like
water on the plains of Chickabiddy Lick. Alone I dare that Lion, and
tell him that Freedom’s hand once twisted in his mane, he rolls a corse
before me, and the Eagles of the Great Republic scream, Ha, ha!”
By this time the boys were rolling about in fits of laughter; even sober
Frank was red and breathless, and Jack lay back, feebly squealing, as he
could laugh no more. In a moment Ralph was as meek as a Quaker, and
sat looking about him with a mildly astonished air, as if inquiring the
cause of such unseemly mirth. A knock at the door produced a lull, and
in came a maid with apples.
“Time’s up; fall to and make yourselves comfortable,” was the summary
way in which the club was released from its sterner duties and permitted
to unbend its mighty mind for a social half-hour, chiefly devoted to
whist, with an Indian war-dance as a closing ceremony.
Chapter X. The Dramatic Club
While Jack was hopping gayly about on his crutches, poor Jill was
feeling the effects of her second fall, and instead of sitting up, as
she hoped to do after six weeks of rest, she was ordered to lie on a
board for two hours each day. Not an easy penance, by any means, for the
board was very hard, and she could do nothing while she lay there, as it
did not slope enough to permit her to read without great fatigue of both
eyes and hands. So the little martyr spent her first hour of trial in
sobbing, the second in singing, for just as her mother and Mrs. Minot
were deciding in despair that neither she nor they could bear it, Jill
suddenly broke out into a merry chorus she used to hear her father
sing:--
  “Faut jouer le mirliton,
  Faut jouer le mirlitir,
  Faut jouer le mirliter,
  Mir--li--ton.”
The sound of the brave little voice was very comforting to the two
mothers hovering about her, and Jack said, with a look of mingled pity
and admiration, as he brandished his crutch over the imaginary foes,--
“That’s right! Sing away, and we’ll play you are an Indian captive being
tormented by your enemies, and too proud to complain. I’ll watch the
clock, and the minute time is up I’ll rush in and rescue you.”
Jill laughed, but the fancy pleased her, and she straightened herself
out under the gay afghan, while she sang, in a plaintive voice, another
little French song her father taught her:--
  “J’avais une colombe blanche,
  J’avais un blanc petit pigeon,
  Tous deux volaient, de branche en branche,
  Jusqu’au faîte de mon dongeon:
  Mais comme un coup de vent d’automne,
  S’est abattu là, l’épervier,
  Et ma colombe si mignonne
  Ne revient plus au colombier.”
“My poor Jean had a fine voice, and always hoped the child would take
after him. It would break his heart to see her lying there trying to
cheer her pain with the songs he used to sing her to sleep with,” said
Mrs. Pecq, sadly.
“She really has a great deal of talent, and when she is able she shall
have some lessons, for music is a comfort and a pleasure, sick or well,”
 answered Mrs. Minot, who had often admired the fresh voice, with its
pretty accent.
Here Jill began the Canadian boat-song, with great vigor, as if bound to
play her part of Indian victim with spirit, and not disgrace herself by
any more crying. All knew the air, and joined in, especially Jack, who
