It seemed to Catherine that no one who had once 
seen him would ever forget him; but though she 
made this reflection she kept it to herself, almost as 
you would keep something precious. 
They sat there for some time. He was very amus- 
ing. He asked her about the people that were near 
them ; he tried to guess who some of them were, 
and he made the most laughable mistakes. He criticised 
them very freely, in a positive, off-hand way. 
Catherine had never heard any one especially any 
young man talk just like that. It was the way a 
young man might talk in a novel ; or, better still, in 
a play, on the stage, close before the foot-lights, look- 
ing at the audience, and with every one looking at 
him, so that you wondered at his presence of mind. 
And yet Mr. Townsend was not like an actor; he 
seemed so sincere, so natural. This was very inter- 
esting ; but in the midst of it Marian Almond came 
pushing through the crowd, with a little ironical cry, 
when she found these young people still together, 
which made every one turn round, and cost Cathe- 
rine a conscious blush. Marian broke up their talk, 
and told Mr. Townsend whom she treated as if she 
were already married, and he had become her cousin 
to run away to her mother, who had been wishing 
for the last half hour to introduce him to Mr. Al- 
mond. 
"We shall meet again," he said to Catherine as 
he left her, and Catherine thought it a very original 
speech. 
Her cousin took her by the arm, and made her 
walk about. " I needn't ask you what you think of 
Morris," the young girl exclaimed. 
" Is that his name ?" 
" I don't ask you what you think of his name, but 
what you think of himself," said Marian. 
" Oh, nothing particular," Catherine answered, dis- 
sembling for the first time in her life. 
" I have half a mind to tell him that !" cried Ma- 
rian. " It will do him good ; he's so terribly con- 
ceited." 
" Conceited ?" said Catherine, staring. 
" So Arthur says, and Arthur knows about him." 
" Oh, don't tell him !" Catherine murmured, im- 
ploringly. 
" Don't tell him he's conceited ! I have told him 
so a dozen times." 
At this profession of audacity Catherine looked 
down at her little companion in amazement. She 
supposed it was because Marian was going to be 
married that she took so much on herself ; but she 
wondered too, whether, when she herself should be- 
come engaged, such exploits would be expected of 
her. 
Half an hour later she saw her aunt Penniman 
sitting in the embrasure of a window, with her head 
a little on one side, and her gold eye-glass raised to 
her eyes, which were wandering about the room. In 
front of her was a gentleman, bending forward a 
little, with his back turned to Catherine. She knew 
his back immediately, though she had never seen it ; 
for when he left her, at Marian's instigation, he had 
retreated in the best order, without turning round. 
Morris Townsend the name had already become 
very familiar to her, as if some one had been re- 
peating it in her ear for the last half hour Morris 
Townsend was giving his impressions of the com- 
pany to her aunt, as he had done to herself ; he was 
saying clever things, and Mrs. Penniman was smiling, 
as if she approved of them. As soon as Catherine 
had perceived this she moved away ; she would not 
have liked him to turn round and see her. But it 
gave her pleasure the whole thing. That he should 
talk with Mrs. Penniman, with whom she lived and 
whom she saw and talked with every day that 
seemed to keep him near her, and to make him 
even easier to contemplate than if she herself had 
been the object of his civilities ; and that Aunt La- 
vinia should like him, should not be shocked or star- 
tled by what he said, this also appeared to the girl a 
personal gain ; for Aunt Lavinia's standard was ex- 
tremely high, plan ted as it was over the grave of her 
late husband, in which, as she had convinced every 
one, the very genius of conversation was buried. 
One of the Almond boys, as Catherine called them, 
invited our heroine to dance a quadrille, and for a 
quarter of an hour her feet at least were occupied. 
This time she was not dizzy; her head was very 
clear. Just when the dance was over, she found 
herself in the crowd face to face with her father. 
Doctor Sloper had usually a little smile, never a very 
big one, and with this little smile playing in his clear 
eyes and on his neatly-shaved lips, h looked at his 
daughter's crimson gown. 
" Is it possible that this magnificent person is my 
child ?" he said. 
You would have surprised him if you had told 
him so ; but it is a literal fact that he almost never 
addressed his daughter save in the ironical form. 
Whenever he addressed her he gave her pleasure ; 
but she had to cut her pleasure out of the piece, as 
it were. There were portions left over, light rem- 
nants and snippets of irony, which she never knew 
what to do with, which seemed too delicate for her 
own use ; and yet Catherine, lamenting the limita- 
tions of her understanding, felt that they were too 
valuable to waste, and had a belief that if they passed 
over her head they yet contributed to the general 
sum of human wisdom. 
" I am not magnificent," she said, mildly, wishing 
that she had put on another dress. 
"You are sumptuous, opulent, expensive," her 
father rejoined. "You look as if you had eighty 
thousand a year." 
" Well, so long as I haven't " said Catherine, il- 
logically. Her conception of her prospective wealth 
was as yet very indefinite. 
" So long as you haven't you shouldn't look as if 
you had. Have you enjoyed your party ?" 
Catherine hesitated a moment ; and then, looking 
away, "I am rather tired," she murmured. I have 
said that this entertainment was the beginning of 
something important for Catherine. For the sec- 
ond time in her life she made an indirect answer; 
and the beginning of a period of dissimulation is 
certainly a significant date. Catherine was not so 
easily tired as that. 
Nevertheless, in the carriage, as they drove home, 
she was as quiet as if fatigue had been her portion. 
Doctor Sloper's manner of addressing his sister La- 
vinia had a good deal of resemblance to the tone he 
had adopted toward Catherine. 
" Who was the young man that was making love 
to you ?" he presently asked. 
" Oh, my good brother !" murmured Mrs. Penniman, 
in deprecation. 
"He seemed uncommonly tender. Whenever I 
looked at you for half an hour, he had the most de- 
voted air." 
" The devotion was not to me," said Mrs. Penniman. 
"It was to Catherine; he talked to me of 
her." 
Catherine had been listening with all her ears. 
" Oh, Aunt Penniman !" she exclaimed, faintly. 
" He is very handsome ; he is very clever ; he ex- 
pressed himself with a great deal a great deal of 
felicity," her aunt went on. 
"He is in love with this regal creature, then?" 
the Doctor inquired, humorously. 
" Oh, father !" cried the girl, still more faintly, de- 
voutly thankful the carriage was dark. 
" I don't know that ; but he admired her dress." 
Catherine did not say to herself in the dark, " My 
dress only ?" Mrs. Penniman's announcement struck 
her by its richness, not by its meagreness. 
" You see," said her father, " he thinks you have 
eighty thousand a year." 
" I don't believe he thinks of that," said Mrs. Pen- 
niman ; " he is too refined." 
" He must be tremendously refined not to think 
of that !" 
"Well, he is!" Catherine exclaimed, before she 
knew it. 
" I thought you had gone to sleep," her father an- 
swered. " The hour has come !" he added to him- 
self. "Lavinia is going to get up a romance for 
Catherine. It's a shame to play such tricks on the 
girl. What is the gentleman's name ?" he went on, 
aloud. 
" I didn't catch it, and I didn't like to ask him. 
He asked to be introduced to me," said Mrs. Penni- 
man, with a certain grandeur ; " but you know how 
indistinctly Jefferson speaks." Jefferson was Mr. 
Almond. " Catherine, dear, what was the gentle- 
man's name ?" 
For a minute, if it had not been for the rumbling 
of the carriage, you might have heard a pin drop. 
"I don't know, Aunt Lavinia," said Catherine, 
very softly. And, with all his irony, her father be- 
lieved her. 
Y. 
HE learned what he had asked some three or four 
days later, after Morris Townsend, with his cousin, 
had called in Washington Square. Mrs. Penniman 
did not tell her brother, on the drive home, that she 
had intimated to this agreeable young man, whose 
name she did not know, that, with her niece, she 
should be very glad to see him ; but she was greatly 
pleased, and even a little flattered, when, late on a 
Sunday afternoon, the two gentlemen made their 
appearance. His coming with Arthur Townsend 
made it more natural and easy; the latter young 
man was on the point of becoming connected with 
the family, and Mrs. Penniman had remarked to 
Catherine that, as he was going to marry Marian, it 
would be polite in him to call. These events came 
to pass late in the autumn, and Catherine and her 
aunt had been sitting together in the closing dusk, 
by the fire-light, in the high back-parlor. 
Arthur Townsend fell to Catherine's portion, 
while his companion placed himself on the sofa be- 
side Mrs. Penniman. Catherine had hitherto not 
been a harsh critic ; she was easy to please she liked 
to talk with young men. But Marian's betrothed, 
this evening, made her feel vaguely fastidious; he 
sat looking at the fire and rubbing his knees with 
his hands. As for Catherine, she scarcely even pre- 
tended to keep up the conversation ; her attention 
had fixed itself on the other side of the room ; she 
was listening to what went on between the other 
Mr. Townsend and her aunt. Every now and then 
he looked over at Catherine herself and smiled, as if 
to show that what he said was for her benefit too. 
Catherine would have liked to change her place, to 
go and sit near them, where she might see and hear 
him better. But she was afraid of seeming bold 
of looking eager; and, besides, it would not have 
been polite to Marian's little suitor. She wondered 
why the other gentleman had picked out her aunt 
how he came to have so much to say to Mrs. Penni- 
man, to whom, usually, young men were not espe- 
cially devoted. She was not at all jealous of Aunt 
Lavinia, but she was a little envious, and, above all, 
she wondered ; for Morris Townsend was an object 
on which she found that her imagination could ex- 
ercise itself indefinitely. His cousin had been de- 
scribing a house that he had taken in view of his 
union with Marian, and the domestic conveniences 
he meant to introduce into it ; how Marian wanted a 
larger one, and Mrs. Almond recommended a smaller 
ons, and how he himself was convinced that he had 
got the neatest house in New York. 
" It doesn't matter," he said ; " it's only for three 
or four years. At the end of three or four years 
we'll move. That's the way to live in New York 
to move every three or four years. Then you al- 
ways get the last thing. It's because the city's 
growing so quick you've got to keep up with it. 
It's going straight up town that's where New 
York's going. If I wasn't afraid Marian would be 
lonely, I'd go up there right up to the top and 
wait for it. Only have to wait ten years they'll 
all come up after you. But Marian says she wants 
some neighbors she doesn't want to be a pioneer. 
She says that if she's got to be the first settler she 
had better go out to Minnesota. I guess we'll move 
up little by little ; when we get tired of one street 
we'll go higher. So you see we'll always have a 
new house; it's a great advantage to have a new 
house ; you get all the latest improvements. They 
invent everything all over again about every five 
years, and it's a great thing to keep up with the new 
things. I always try and keep up with the new 
things of every kind. Don't you think that's a 
good motto for a young couple to keep ' going 
higher?' What's the name of that piece of poetry 
what do they call it ? Excelsior ." 
Catherine bestowed on her junior visitor only just 
enough attention to feel that this was not the way 
Mr. Morris Townsend had talked the other night, or 
that he was talking now to her fortunate aunt. But 
suddenly his aspiring kinsman became more inter- 
esting. He seemed to have become conscious that 
she was affected by his companion's presence, and 
he thought it proper to explain it. 
" My cousin asked me to bring him, or I shouldn't 
have taken the liberty. He seemed to want very 
much to come; you know he's awfully sociable. I 
told him I wanted to ask you first, but he said Mrs. 
Penniman had invited him. He isn't particular 
what he says when he wants to come somewhere. 
But Mrs. Penniman seems to think it's all right." 
" We are very glad to see him," said Catherine. 
And she wished to talk more about him, but she 
hardly knew what to say. "I never saw him be- 
fore," she went on, presently. 
Arthur Townsend stared. 
" Why, he told me he talked with you for over 
half an hour the other night." 
" I mean before the other night. That was the 
first time." 
" Oh, he has been away from New York he has 
been all round the world. He doesn't know many 
people here, but he's very sociable, and he wants to 
know every one." 
" Every one ?" said Catherine. 
" Well, I mean all the good ones. All the pretty 
young ladies like Mrs. Penniman !" And Arthur 
Townsend gave a private laugh. 
" My aunt likes him very much," said Catherine. 
" Most people like him he's so brilliant." 
" He's more like a foreigner," Catherine sug- 
gested. 
" Well, I never knew a foreigner," said young 
Townsend, in a tone which seemed to indicate that 
his ignorance had been optional. 
" Neither have I," Catherine confessed, with more 
humility. " They say they are generally brilliant," 
she added, vaguely. 
" Well, the people of this city are clever enough 
for me. I know some of them that think they are 
too clever for me ; but they ain't." 
"I suppose you can't be too clever," said Cathe- 
rine, still with humility. 
" I don't know. I know some people that call 
my cousin too clever." 
Catherine listened to this statement with extreme 
interest, and a feeling that if Morris Townsend had 
a fault it would naturally be that one. But she did 
not commit herself, and in a moment she asked, 
" Now that he has come back, will he stay here 
always ?" 
"Ah !" said Arthur, " if he can get something to do." 
" Something to do ?" 
" Some place or other ; some business." 
"Hasn't he got any?" said Catherine, who had 
never heard of a young man of the upper class 
in this situation. 
" No ; he's looking round. But he can't find 
anything." 
."I am very sorry," Catherine permitted herself 
to observe. 
" Oh, he doesn't mind," said young Townsend. 
" He takes it easy he isn't in a hurry. He is very 
particular." 
Catherine thought he naturally would be, and 
gave herself up for some moments to the contempla- 
tion of this idea, in several of its bearings. 
" Won't his father take him into his business his 
office ?" she at last inquired. 
" He hasn't got any father he has only got a sis- 
ter. Your sister can't help you much." 
It seemed to Catherine that if she were his sister 
she would disprove this axiom. "Is she is she 
pleasant ?" she asked in a moment. 
" I don't know I believe she's very respectable," 
said young Townsend. And then he looked across 
to his cousin and began to laugh. " I say, we are 
talking about you," he added. 
Morris Townsend paused in his conversation with 
Mrs. Penniman, and stared, with a little smile. Then 
he got up, as if he were going. 
" As far as you are concerned, I can't return the 
compliment," he said to Catherine's companion. 
" But as regards Miss Sloper, it's another affair." 
Catherine thought this little speech wonderfully 
well turned ; but she was embarrassed by it, and she 
also got up. Morris Townsend stood looking at her 
and smiling ; he put out his hand for farewell. He 
was going, without having said anything to her ; but 
even on these terms she was glad to have seen him. 
" I will tell her what you have said when you 
go !" said Mrs. Penniman, with a little significant 
laugh. 
Catherine blushed, for she felt almost as if they 
were making sport of her. What in the world could 
this beautiful young man have said ? He looked at 
her still, in spite of her blush, but very kindly and 
respectfully. 
" I have had no talk with you," he said, " and 
that was what I came for. But it will be a good 
reason for coming another time ; a little pretext if 
I am obliged to give one. I am not afraid of what 
your aunt will say when I go." 
With this the two young men took their depart- 
ure ; after which Catherine, with her blush still lin- 
gering, directed a serious and interrogative eye to 
Mrs. Penniman. She was incapable of elaborate ar- 
tifice, and she resorted to no jocular device to no 
affectation of the belief that she had been maligned 
to learn what she desired. 
"What did you say you would tell me?" she 
asked. 
Mrs. Penniman came up to her, smiling and nod- 
ding a little, looked at her all over, and gave a twist 
to the knot of ribbon in her neck. " It's a great se- 
cret, my dear child ; but he is coming a-courting !" 
Catherine was serious still. " Is that what he told 
you ?" 
" He didn't say so exactly ; but he left me to 
guess it. I'm a good guesser." 
" Do you mean a-courting me ?" 
" Not me, certainly, miss ; though I must say he 
is a hundred times more polite to a person who has 
no longer extreme youth to recommend her than 
most of the young men. He is thinking of some 
one else." And Mrs. Penniman gave her niece a 
delicate little kiss. " You must be very gracious to 
him." 
Catherine stared she was bewildered. " I don't 
understand you," she said ; " he doesn't know me." 
" Oh yes, he does ; more than you think. I have 
told him all about you." 
" Oh, Aunt Penniman !" murmured Catherine, as 
if this had been a breach of trust. " He is a perfect 
stranger we don't know him." There was infinite 
modesty in the poor girl's " we." 
Aunt Penniman, however, took no account of it ; 
she spoke even with a touch of acrimony. "My 
dear Catherine, you know very well that you ad- 
mire him." 
" Oh, Aunt Penniman !" Catherine could only 
murmur again. It might very well be that she 
admired him though this did not seem to her a 
thing to talk about. But that this brilliant stran- 
ger this sudden apparition, who had barely heard 
the sound of her voice took that sort of interest 
in her that was expressed by the romantic phrase of 
which Mrs. Penniman had just made use this could 
only be a figment of the restless brain of Aunt La- 
vinia, whom every one knew to be a woman of pow- 
erful imagination. 
YI. 
MRS. PENNIMAN even took for granted at times 
that other people had as much imagination as her- 
self ; so that when, half an hour later, her brother 
came in, she addressed him quite on this principle. 
" He has just been here, Austin ; it's such a pity 
you missed him." 
"Whom in the world have I missed?" asked the 
Doctor. 
" Mr. Morris Townsend ; he has made us such a 
delightful visit." 
" And who in the world is Mr. Morris Townsend ?" 
" Aunt Penniman means the gentleman the gen- 
tleman whose name I couldn't remember," said Cath- 
erine. 
" The gentleman at Elizabeth's party who was so 
struck with Catherine," Mrs. Penniman added. 
" Oh, his name is Morris Townsend, is it ? And 
did he come here to propose to you ?" 
" Oh, father !" murmured the girl for an answer, 
turning away to the window, where the dusk had 
deepened to darkness. 
" I hope he won't do that without your permis- 
sion," said Mrs. Penniman, very graciously. 
" After all, my dear, he seems to have yours," her 
brother answered. 
Lavinia simpered, as if this might not be quite 
enough, arid Catherine, with her forehead touching 
the window-panes, listened to this exchange of epi- 
grams as reservedly as if they had not each been a 
pin-prick in her own destiny. 
"The next time he comes," the Doctor added, 
"you had better call me. He might like to see 
me." 
Morris Townsend came again some five days after- 
ward ; but Doctor Sloper was not called, as he was 
absent from home at the time. Catherine was with 
her aunt when the young man's name was brought 
in, and Mrs. Penniman, effacing herself and protest- 
ing, made a great point of her niece's going into the 
drawing-room alone. 
" This time it's for you for you only," she said. 
" Before, when he talked to me, it was only prelim- 
inary it was to gain my confidence. Literally, my 
dear, I should not have the courage to show myself 
to-day." 
And this was perfectly true. Mrs. Penniman was 
not a brave woman, and Morris Townsend had struck 
her as a young man of great force of character, and 
of remarkable powers of satire a keen, resolute, 
brilliant nature, with which one must exercise a 
great deal of tact. She said to herself that he was 
" imperious," and she liked the word and the idea. 
She was not the least jealous of her niece, and she 
had been perfectly happy with Mr. Penniman, but 
in the bottom of her heart she permitted herself the 
observation, " That's the sort of husband I should 
have had !" He was certainly much more imperi- 
ous she ended by calling it imperial than Mr. 
Penniman. 
So Catherine saw Mr. Townsend alone, and her 
aunt did not come in even at the end of the visit. 
The visit was a long one ; he sat there, in the front 
parlor, in the biggest arm-chair, for more than an 
hour. He seemed more at home this time more 
familiar ; lounging a little in the chair, slapping a 
cushion "that was near him with his stick, and look- 
ing round the room a good deal, and at the objects 
it contained, as well as at Catherine; whom, how- 
ever, he also contemplated freely. There was a 
smile of respectful devotion in his handsome eyes 
which seemed to Catherine almost solemnly beauti- 
ful ; it made her think of a young knight in a poem. 
His talk, however, was not particularly knightly ; it 
was light and easy and friendly ; it took a practical 
turn, and he asked a number of questions about her- 
self what were her tastes if she liked this and that 
what were her habits. He said to her, with his 
charming smile, " Tell me about yourself ; give me 
a little sketch." Catherine had very little to tell, 
and she had no talent for sketching ; but before he 
went she had confided to him that she had a secret 
passion for the theatre, which had been but scantily 
gratified, and a taste for operatic music that of Bel- 
lini and Donizetti, in especial (it must be remembered, 
in extenuation of this primitive young woman, that 
she held these opinions in an age of general dark- 
ness) which she rarely had an occasion to hear, ex- 
cept on the hand-organ. She confessed that she was 
not particularly fond of literature. Morris Towns- 
end agreed with her that books were tiresome 
things ; only, as he said, you had to read a good 
many before you found it out. He had been to 
places that people had written books about, and they 
were not a bit like the descriptions. To see for your- 
self that was the great thing ; he always tried to see 
for himself. He had seen all the principal actors- 
he had been to all the best theatres in London and 
Paris. But the actors were always like the authors 
they always exaggerated. He liked everything to 
be natural. Suddenly he stopped, looking at Cath- 
erine with his smile. 
" That's what I like you for ; you are so natural. 
Excuse me," he added ; " you see I am natural my- 
self." 
And before she had time to think whether she 
excused him or not which afterward, at leisure, she 
became conscious that she did he began to talk 
about music, and to say that it was his greatest pleas- 
ure in life. He had heard all the great singers in 
Paris and London Pasta and Rubin i and Lablache 
and when you had done that, you could say that 
you knew what singing was. 
" I sing a little myself," he said ; " some day I 
will show you. Not to-day, but some other time." 
And then he got up to go. He had omitted, by 
accident, to say that he would sing to her if she 
would play to him. He thought of this after he 
got into the street; but he might have spared his 
compunction, for Catherine had not noticed the lapse. 
She was thinking only that " some other time " had 
a delightful sound ; it seemed to spread itself over 
the future. 
This was all the more reason, however, though 
she was ashamed and uncomfortable, why she should 
tell her father that Mr. Morris Townsend had called 
again. She announced the fact abruptly, almost 
violently, as soon as the Doctor came into the 
house ; and having done so it was her duty she 
took measures to leave the room. But she could 
not leave it fast enough; her father stopped her 
just as she reached the door. 
" Well, my dear, did he propose to you to-day ?" 
the Doctor asked. 
This was just what she had been afraid he would 
say ; and yet she had no answer ready. Of course 
she would have liked to take it as a joke as her 
father must have meant it ; and yet she would have 
liked also, in denying it, to be a little positive, a lit- 
tle sharp, so that he would perhaps not ask the ques- 
tion again. She didn't like it it made her unhap- 
py. But Catherine could never be sharp ; and for 
a moment she only stood, with her hand on the door- 
knob, looking at her satiric parent, and giving a 
little laugh. 
"Decidedly," said the Doctor to himself, "my 
daughter is not brilliant !" 
But he had no sooner made this reflection than 
Catherine found something ; she had decided, on the 
whole, to take the thing as a joke. 
" Perhaps he will do it the next time," she ex- 
claimed, with a repetition of her laugh ; and she 
quickly got out of the room. 
The Doctor stood staring; he wondered whether 
his daughter were serious. Catherine went straight 
to her own room, and by the time she reached it 
she bethought herself that there was something else 
something better she might have said. She al- 
most wished, now, that her father would ask his 
question again, so that she might reply, " Oh yes, 
Mr. Morris Townsend proposed to me, and I refused 
him." 
The Doctor, however, began to put his questions 
elsewhere ; it naturally having occurred to him that 
he ought to inform himself properly about this 
handsome young man, who had formed the habit of 
running in and out of his house. He addressed 
himself to the elder of his sisters, Mrs. Almond 
not going to her for the purpose ; there was no such 
hurry as that ; but having made a note of the mat- 
ter for the first opportunity. The Doctor was never 
eager, never impatient or nervous; but he made 
notes of everything, and he regularly consulted his 
notes. Among them the information he obtained 
from Mrs. Almond about Morris Townsend took its 
place. 
" Lavinia has already been to ask me," she said. 
" Lavinia is most excited ; I don't understand it. 
It's not, after all, Lavinia that the young man is 
supposed to have designs upon. She is very pecul- 
iar." 
" Ah, my dear," the Doctor replied, " she has not 
lived with me these twelve years without my finding 
it out." 
" She has got such an artificial mind," said Mrs. 
Almond, who always enjoyed an opportunity to dis- 
cuss Lavinia's peculiarities with her brother. " She 
didn't want me to tell you that she had asked me 
about Mr. Townsend ; but I told her I would. She 
always wants to conceal everything." 
"And yet at moments no one blurts things out 
with such crudity. She is like a revolving light- 
house pitch darkness alternating with a dazzling 
brilliancy ! But what did you tell her ?" the Doctor 
asked. 
"What I tell you that I know very little of 
him." 
"Lavinia must have been disappointed at that," 
said the Doctor; "she would prefer him to have 
been guilty of some romantic crime. However, we 
must make the best of people. They tell me our 
gentleman is the cousin of the little boy to whom 
you are about to intrust the future of your little 
girl." 
"Arthur is not a little boy ; he is a very old man ; 
you and I will never be so old ! He is a distant 
relation of Lavinia's protege. The name is the same, 
but I am given to understand that there are Towns- 
ends and Townsends. So Arthur's mother tells me ; 
she talked about 'branches' younger branches, 
elder branches, inferior branches as if it were a 
royal house. Arthur, it appears, is of the reigning 
line, but poor Lavinia's young man is not. Beyond 
this, Arthur's mother knows very little about him ; 
she has only a vague story that he has been 'wild.' 
But I know his sister a little, and she is a very nice 
woman. Her name is Mrs. Montgomery ; she is a 
widow, with a little property and five children. She 
lives in the Second Avenue." 
" What does Mrs. Montgomery say about him ?" 
" That he has talents by which he might distin- 
guish himself." 
"Only he is lazy, eh?" 
" She doesn't say so." 
"That's family pride," said the Doctor. "What 
is his profession ?" 
" He hasn't got any ; he is looking for something. 
I believe he was once in the Navy." 
" Once ? What is his age ?" 
" I suppose he is upward of thirty. He must have 
gone into the Navy very young. I think Arthur 
told me that he inherited a small property- which 
was perhaps the cause of his leaving the Navy and 
that he spent it all in a few years. He travelled all 
over the world, lived abroad, amused himself. I be- 
lieve it was a kind of system, a theory he had. He 
has lately come back to America with the intention, 
as he tells Arthur, of beginning life in earnest." 
" Is he in earnest about Catherine, then ?" 
"I don't see why you should be incredulous," said 
Mrs. Almond. " It seems to me that you have never 
done Catherine justice. You must remember that 
she has the prospect of thirty thousand a year." 
The Doctor looked at his sister a moment, and 
then, with lightest touch of bitterness, " You at least 
appreciate her," he said. 
Mrs. Almond blushed. 
"I don't mean that is her only merit; I simply 
mean that it is a great one. A great many young 
men think so ; and you appear to me never to have 
been properly aware of that. You have always had 
a little way of alluding to her as an un marriageable 
girl." 
"My allusions are as kind as yours, Elizabeth," 
said the Doctor, frankly. " How many suitors has 
Catherine had, with all her expectations how much 
attention has she ever received? Catherine is not 
unmarriageable, but she is absolutely unattractive. 
What other reason is there for Lavinia being so 
charmed with the idea that there is a lover in the 
house ? There has never been one before, and La- 
vinia, with her sensitive, sympathetic nature, is not 
used to the idea. It affects her imagination. I must 
do the young men of New York the justice to say 
that they strike me as very disinterested. They 
prefer pretty girls lively girls girls like your own. 
Catherine is neither pretty nor lively." 
" Catherine does very well ; she has a style of her 
own which is more than my poor Marian has, who 
has no style at all," said Mrs. Almond. " The reason 
Catherine has received so little attention, is that she 
seems to all the young men to be older than them- 
selves. She is so large, and she dresses so richly. 
They are rather afraid of her, I think ; she looks as 
if she had been married already, and you know they 
don't like married women. And if our young men 
appear disinterested," the Doctor's wiser sister went 
on, " it is because they marry, as a general thing, so 
young before twenty-five, at the age of innocence 
and sincerity before the age of calculation. If they 
only waited a little, Catherine would fare better." 
"As a calculation? Thank you very much," said 
the Doctor. 
"Wait till some intelligent man of forty comes 
along, and he will be delighted with Catherine," Mrs. 
Almond continued. 
" Mr. Townsend is not old enough, then ? His mo- 
tives may be pure." 
" It is very possible that his motives are pure ; I 
should be very sorry to take the contrary for grant- 
ed. Lavinia is sure of it; and, as he is a very pre- 
possessing youth, you might give him the benefit of 
the doubt." 
Doctor Sloper reflected a moment. 
" "What are his present means of subsistence ?" 
" I have no idea. He lives, as I say, with his sister." 
" A widow, with five children ? Do you mean he 
lives upon her ?" 
Mrs. Almond got up, and with a certain impa- 
tience, " Had you not better ask Mrs. Montgomery 
herself ?" she inquired. 
" Perhaps I may come to that," said the Doctor. 
"Did you say the Second Avenue?" He made a 
note of the Second Avenue. 
 
VII. 
HE was, however, by no means so much in earnest 
as this might seem to indicate ; and, indeed, he was 
more than anything else amused with the whole sit- 
uation. He was not in the least in a state of tension 
or of vigilance with regard to Catherine's prospects ; 
he was even on his guard against the ridicule that 
might attach itself to the spectacle of a house 
thrown into agitation by its daughter and heiress 
receiving attentions unprecedented in its annals. 
More than this, he went so far as to promise him- 
self some entertainment from the little drama if 
drama it was of which Mrs. Penniman desired to 
represent the ingenious Mr. Townsend as the hero. 
He had no intention, as yet, of regulating the denoue 
ment. He was perfectly willing, as Elizabeth had 
suggested, to give the young man the benefit of ev- 
ery doubt. There was no great danger in it; for 
Catherine, at the age of twenty-two, was, after all, a 
rather mature blossom, such as could be plucked from 
the stem only by a vigorous jerk. The fact that 
Morris Townsend was poor, was not of necessity 
against him ; the Doctor had never made up his 
mind that his daughter should marry a rich man. 
The fortune she would inherit struck him as a very 
sufficient provision for two reasonable persons, and 
if a penniless swain who could give a good account 
of himself should enter the lists, he should be judged 
quite upon his personal merits. There were other 
things besides. The Doctor thought it very vulgar 
to be precipitate in accusing people of mercenary 
motives, inasmuch as his door had as yet not been 
in the least besieged by fortune-hunters ; and, lastly, 
he was very curious to see whether Catherine might 
really be loved for her moral worth. He smiled as 
he reflected that poor Mr. Townsend had been only 
twice to the house, and he said to Mrs. Penniman 
that the next time he should come she must ask him 
to dinner. 
He came very soon again, and Mrs. Penniman had 
of course great pleasure in executing this mission. 
Morris Townsend accepted her invitation with equal 
good grace, and the dinner took place a few days 
later. The Doctor had said to himself, justly 
enough, that they must not have the young man 
alone ; this would partake too much of the nature of 
encouragement. So two or three other persons were 
invited; but Morris Townsend, though he was by 
no means the ostensible, was the real occasion of the 
feast. There is every reason to suppose that he de- 
sired to make a good impression ; and if he fell short 
of this result, it was not for want of a good deal of 
intelligent effort. The Doctor talked to him very 
little during dinner ; but he observed him attentive- 
ly, and after the ladies had gone out he pushed him 
the wine and asked him several questions. Morris 
was not a young man who needed to be pressed, and 
he found quite enough encouragement in the supe- 
rior quality of the claret. The Doctor's wine was 
admirable, and it may be communicated to the read- 
er that while he sipped it Morris reflected that a cel- 
larful of good liquor there was evidently a cellar- 
ful here would be a most attractive idiosyncrasy 
in a father-in-law. The Doctor was struck with his 
appreciative guest ; he saw that he was not a com- 
monplace young man. " He has ability," said Cathe- 
rine's father, " decided ability ; he has a very good 
head if he chooses to use it. And he is uncommon- 
ly well turned out; quite the sort of figure that 
pleases the ladies ; but I don't think I like him." 
The Doctor, however, kept his reflections to himself, 
and talked to his visitors about foreign lands, con- 
cerning which Morris offered him more information 
than he was ready, as he mentally phrased it, to 
swallow. Doctor Sloper had travelled but little, and 
he took the liberty of not believing everything that 
his talkative guest narrated. He prided himself on 
being something of a physiognomist ; and while the 
young man, chatting with easy assurance, puffed his 
cigar and filled his glass again, the Doctor sat with 
his eyes quietly fixed on his bright, expressive face. 
" He has the assurance of the devil himself !" said 
Morris's host ; " I don't think I ever saw such assur- 
ance. And his powers of invention are most re- 
markable. He is very knowing ; they were not so 
knowing as that in my time. And a good head, did 
I say? I should think so after a bottle of Madeira, 
and a bottle and a half of claret !" 
After dinner Morris Townsend went and stood 
before Catherine, who was standing before the fire 
in her red satin gown. 
" He doesn't like me he doesn't like me at all," 
said the young man. 
" Who doesn't like you ?" asked Catherine. 
" Your father ; extraordinary man !" 
" I don't see how you know," said Catherine, 
blushing. 
" I feel ; I am very quick to feel." 
" Perhaps you are mistaken." 
" Ah, well ! you ask him, and you will see." 
" I would rather not ask him, if there is any dan- 
ger of his saying what you think." 
Morris looked at her with an air of mock mel- 
ancholy. 
" It wouldn't give you any pleasure to contradict 
him F 
" I never contradict him," said Catherine. 
" Will you hear me abused without opening your 
lips in my defence ?" 
" My father won't abuse you. He doesn't know 
you enough." 
Morris Townsend gave a loud laugh, and Cathe- 
rine began to blush again. 
" I shall never mention yon," she said, to take 
refuge from her confusion. 
" That is very well ; but it is not quite what I 
should have liked you to say. I should have liked 
you to say, ' If my father doesn't think well of you, 
what does it matter ?' ' : 
" Ah, but it would matter ; I couldn't say that !" 
the girl exclaimed. 
He looked at her for a moment, smiling a little ; 
and the Doctor, if he had been watching him just 
then, would have seen a gleam of fine impatience in 
the sociable softness of his eye. But there was no im- 
patience in his rejoinder none, at least, save what was 
expressed in a little appealing sigh. " Ah, well ! then 
I must not give up the hope of bringing him round." 
He expressed it more frankly to Mrs. Penniman 
later in the evening. But before that he sung two 
or three songs at Catherine's timid request ; not that 
he flattered himself that this would help to bring 
her father round. He had a sweet light tenor voice, 
and, when he had finished, every one made some ex- 
clamation every one, that is, save Catherine, who 
remained intensely silent. Mrs. Penniman declared 
that his manner of singing was " most artistic," and 
Doctor Sloper said it was "very taking very tak- 
ing, indeed;" speaking loudly and distinctly, but 
with a certain dryness, 
"He doesn't like me he doesn't like me at all," 
said Morris Town send, addressing the aunt in the 
same manner as he had done the niece. " He thinks 
I am all wrong." 
Unlike her niece, Mrs. Penniman asked for no ex- 
planation. She only smiled very sweetly, as if she 
understood everything ; and, unlike Catherine too, 
she made no attempt to contradict him. "Pray, 
what does it matter ?" she murmured, softly. 
"Ah, you say the right thing!" said Morris, great- 
ly to the gratification of Mrs. Penniman, who prided 
herself on always saying the right thing. 
The Doctor, the next time he saw his sister Eliza- 
beth, let her know that he had made the acquaint- 
ance of Lavinia's protege. 
" Physically," he said, " he's uncommonly well set 
up. As an anatomist, it is really a pleasure to me 
to see such a beautiful structure ; although, if peo- 
ple were all like him, I suppose there would be very 
little need for doctors." 
" Don't you see anything in people but their 
bones ?" Mrs. Almond rejoined. " What do you 
think of him as a father ?" 
"As a father? Thank Heaven, I am not his 
father !" 
" No ; but you are Catherine's. Lavinia tells me 
she is in love." 
" She must get over it. He is not a gentleman." 
" Ah, take care ! Eemember that he is a branch 
of the Townsends." 
" He is not what I call a gentleman ; he has not 
the soul of one. He is extremely insinuating ; but 
it's a vulgar nature. I saw through it in a minute. 
He is altogether too familiar; I hate familiarity. 
He is a plausible coxcomb." 
"Ah, well," said Mrs. Almond, " if you make up 
your mind so easily, it's a great advantage." 
"I don't make up my mind easily. What I tell 
you is the result of thirty years of observation ; 
and in order to be able to form that judgment in a 
single evening, I have had to spend a lifetime in 
study." 
" Very possibly you are right. But the thing is 
for Catherine to see it." 
" I will present her with a pair of spectacles !" 
said the Doctor. 
YIIL 
IF it were true that she was in love, she was cer- 
tainly very quiet about it; but the Doctor was of 
course prepared to admit that her quietness might 
mean volumes. She had told Morris Town send that 
she would not mention him to her father, and she 
saw no reason to retract this vow of discretion. It 
was no more than decently civil, of course, that, after 
having dined in Washington Square, Morris should 
call there again ; and it was no more than natural 
that, having been kindly received on this occasion, 
he should continue to present himself. He had had 
plenty of leisure on his hands ; and thirty years ago, 
in New York, a young man of leisure had reason to 
be thankful for aids to self-oblivion. Catherine said 
nothing to her father about these visits, though they 
had rapidly become the most important, the most 
absorbing thing in her life. The girl was very hap- 
py. She knew not as yet what would come of it ; 
but the present had suddenly grown rich and sol- 
emn. If she had been told she was in love, she 
would have been a good deal surprised ; for she had 
an idea that love was an eager and exacting passion, 
and her own heart was filled in these days with the 
impulse of self-effacement and sacrifice. Whenever 
Morris Town send had left the house, her imagina- 
tion projected itself, with all its strength, into the 
idea of his soon coming back ; but if she had been 
told at such a moment that he would not return for 
a year, or even that he would never return, she would 
not have complained nor rebelled, but would have 
humbly accepted the decree, and sought for consola- 
tion in thinking-over the times she had already seen 
him, the words he had spoken, the sound of his 
voice, of his tread, the expression of his face. Love 
demands certain things as a right; but Catherine 
had no sense of her rights; she had only a con- 
sciousness of immense and unexpected favors. Her 
very gratitude for these things had hushed itself; 
for it seemed to her that there would be something 
of impudence in making a festival of her secret. 
Her father suspected Morris Townsend's visits, and 
noted her reserve. She seemed to beg pardon for 
it ; she looked at him constantly in silence, as if she 
meant to say that she said nothing because she was 
afraid of irritating him. But the poor girl's dumb 
eloquence irritated him more than anything else 
would have done, and he caught himself murmuring 
more than once that it was a grievous pity his only 
child was a simpleton. His murmurs, however, were 
inaudible; and for awhile he said nothing to any 
one. He would have liked to know exactly how 
often young Town send came ; but he had deter- 
mined to ask no questions of the girl herself to 
say nothing more to her that would show that he 
watched her. The Doctor had a great idea of being 
largely just: he wished to leave his daughter her 
liberty, and interfere only when the danger should 
be proved. It was not in his manner to obtain in- 
formation by indirect methods, and it never even oc- 
curred to him to question the servants. As for La- 
vinia, he hated to talk to her about the matter ; she 
annoyed him with her mock romanticism. But he 
had to come to this. Mrs. Penniman's convictions 
as regards the relations of her niece and the clever 
young visitor, who saved appearances by coming os- 
tensibly for both the ladies ]V(rs. Penniman's con- 
victions had passed into a riper and richer phase. 
There was to be no crudity in Mrs. Penniman's treat- 
ment of the situation ; she had become as uncom- 
municative as Catherine herself. She was tasting 
of the sweets of concealment ; she had taken up the 
line of mystery. " She would be enchanted to be 
able to prove to herself that she is persecuted," said 
the Doctor ; and when at last he questioned her, he 
was sure she would contrive to extract from his 
words a pretext for this belief. 
" Be so good as to let me know what is going on 
in the house," he said to her, in a tone which, under 
the circumstances, he himself deemed genial. 
" Going on, Austin ?" Mrs. Penniman exclaimed. 
" Why, I am sure I don't know. I believe that last 
night the old gray cat had kittens." 
"At her age?" said the Doctor. "The idea is 
startling almost shocking. Be so good as to see 
that they are all drowned. But what else has hap- 
pened ?" 
"Ah, the dear little kittens!" cried Mrs. Penni- 
man. "I wouldn't have them drowned for the 
world !" 
Her brother puffed his cigar a few moments in 
silence. "Your sympathy with kittens, Lavinia," 
he presently resumed, " arises from a feline element 
in your own character.'" 
" Cats are very graceful, and very clean," said Mrs. 
Penniman, smiling. 
"And very stealthy. You are the embodiment 
