" I shall not think of dying, unless we fail," an 
swered Olive. " And, as for hating it, I haven 't con 
sulted my feelings a great deal ; but I rather think I 
like it." 
" Like going out to be a witness in an Indiana di 
vorce case ! " 
" I don 't look at it in that way, Clara. It 's a cru 
sade to me ; it 's a holy war ; it 's the cause of an in 
nocent woman against a wicked oppression. I know 
how you would feel about it, Clara ; but I never ivas 
as respectable as you are, and I 'm quite satisfied to 
do what Ben, and father, and Mr. Atherton approve. 
 
They think it 's my duty, and I am glad to go, and to be 
of all the use I can. But you shall have my heartfelt 
sympathy through all, Clara, for your involuntary ac 
quaintance with our proceedings." 
" Olive ! You know that I 'm proud of your courage 
and Ben 's goodness, and that I fully appreciate the 
sacrifice you 're making. And I 'm not ashamed of 
your business : I think it 's grand and sublime, and I 
would just as soon scream it out at the top of my 
voice, right here in the Albany depot." 
" Don V said Olive. " It would frighten the child." 
She had Flavia by the hand, and she made the 
little girl her special charge throughout the journey. 
The old Squire seemed anxious to be alone, and he 
restlessly escaped from Marcia 's care. He sat all the 
first day apart, chewing upon some fragment of wood 
that he had picked up, and now and then putting up 
a lank hand to rasp his bristling jaw ; glancing fur 
tively at people who passed him, and lapsing into his 
ruminant abstraction. He had been vexed that they 
did not start the night before; and every halt the 
train made visibly afflicted him. He would not leave 
his place to get anything to eat when they stopped 
for refreshment, though he hungrily devoured the 
lunch that Marcia brought into the car for him. 
At New York he was in a tumult of fear lest they 
should lose the connecting train on the Pennsylvania 
Road; and the sigh of relief with which he sank 
into his seat in the sleeping-car expressed the suffer 
ing he had undergone. He said he was not tired, but 
he went to bed early, as if to sleep away as much of 
the time as he could. 
When Halleck came into their car, the next morn 
ing, he found Marcia and her father sitting together, 
and looking out of the window at the wooded slopes 
of .the Alleghanies through which the train was run 
ning. The old man 's impatience had relaxed ; he let 
 
Marcia lay her hand on his, and he answered her with 
quiet submission, when she spoke now and then of 
the difference between these valleys, where the wild 
rhododendrons were growing, and the frozen hollows 
of the hills at home, which must be still choked with 
snow. 
" But, oh ! how much I would rather see them ! " 
she said at last with a homesick throb. 
" Well," he assented, " we can go right back 
afterwards." 
" Yes," she whispered. 
"Well, sir, good morning," said the old man to 
Halleck, " we are getting along, sir. At this rate, un 
less our calculations were mistaken, we shall be there 
by midnight. We are on time, the porter tells me." 
" Yes, we shall soon be at Pittsburg," said Halleck, 
and he looked at Marcia, who turned away her face. 
She had not spoken of the object of the journey to 
him since they had left Boston, and it had not been so 
nearly touched by either of them before. 
He could see that she recoiled from it, but the old 
man, once having approached it, could not leave it. 
" If everything goes well, we shall have our grip on 
that fellow 's throat in less than forty-eight hours." 
He looked down mechanically at his withered hands, 
lean and yellow like the talons of a bird, and lifted 
his accipitral profile with a predatory alertness. " I 
didn 't sleep very well the last part of the night, but I 
thought it all out. I shan 't  care whether I get there 
before or after judgment is rendered; all I want is to 
get there before he has a chance to clear out. I think 
I shall be able to convince Bartley Hubbard that 
there is a God in Israel yet ! Don 't you be anxious, 
Marcia ; I 've got this thing at my fingers ends, as clear 
as a bell. I intend to give Bartley a little surprise ! " 
Marcia kept her face averted, and Halleck relin - 
quished his purpose of sitting down with them, and 
 
went forward to the state-room that Marcia and Olive 
had occupied with the little girl. He tapped on the 
door, and found his sister dressed, but the child still 
asleep. 
" What is the matter, Ben ? " she asked. " You 
don 't look well. You oughtn 't to have undertaken 
this journey." 
" Oh, I in all right. But I 've been up a good while, 
wibli nothing to eat. That old man is terrible, 
Olive ! " 
" Her father ? Yes, he 's a terrible old man ! " 
"It sickened me to hear him talk, just now, 
throwing out his threats of vengeance against Hubbard. 
It made me feel a sort of sympathy for that poor dog. 
Do you suppose she has the same motive ? I couldn 't 
forgive her ! " he said, with a kind of passionate weak 
ness. " I couldn 't forgive myself ! " 
" We 've got nothing to do with their motive, Ben. 
We are to be her witnesses for justice against a wicked 
wrong. I don 't believe in special providences, of 
course ; but it does seem as if we had been called to 
this work, as mother would say. Your happening to 
go home with her, that night, and then that paper 
happening to come to you, doesn 't it look like it ? " 
" It looks like it, yes." 
" We couldn 't have refused to come. That 's what 
consoles me for being here this minute. I put on a 
bold face with Clara Atherton, yesterday morning at 
the depot ; but I was in a cold chill, all the time. Our 
coming off, in this way, on such an errand, is some 
thing so different from the rest of our whole life ! 
And I do like quiet, and orderly ways, and all that we 
call respectability ! I 've been thinking that the trial 
will be reported by some such interviewing wretch 
as Bartley himself, and that we shall figure in the news 
papers. But I 've concluded that we mustn 't care. 
It 's right, and we must do it. I don 't shut my eyes 
 
to the kind of people we 're mixed up with. I pity 
Marcia, and I love her poor, helpless, unguided 
thing ! but that old man is terrible ! He 's as cruel 
as the grave where he thinks he 's been wronged, and 
crueller where he thinks she 's been wronged. You 've 
forgiven so much, Ben, that you can 't understand a 
man who forgives nothing ; but I can, for I 'm a pretty 
good hater, myself. And Marcia 's just like her father, 
at times. I 've seen her look at Clara Atherton as if 
she could kill her ! " 
The little girl stirred in her berth, and then lifted 
herself on her hands, and stared round at them 
through her tangled golden hair. " Is it morning, 
yet ? " she asked sleepily. " Is it to-morrow ? " 
" Yes ; it 's to-morrow, Flavia," said Olive. " Do 
you want to get up ? " 
" And is next day the day after to-rnorrow ? " 
" Yes." 
" Then it 's only one day till I shall see papa. That 's 
what mamma said. Where is mamma ? " asked the 
child, rising to her knees, and sweeping back her hair 
from her face with either hand. 
" I will go and send her to you," said Halleck. 
At Pittsburg the Squire was eager for his break 
fast, and made amends for his fast of the day before. 
He ate grossly of the heterogeneous abundance of the 
railroad restaurant, and drank two cups of coffee that 
in his thin, native air would have disordered his pulse 
for a week. But he resumed his journey with a tran 
quil strength that seemed the physical expression of 
a mind clear and content. He was willing and even 
anxious to tell Halleck what his theories and plans 
were ; but the young man shrank from knowing them. 
He wished only to know whether Marcia were privy 
to them, and this, too, he shrank from knowing. 
 
XXXIX. 
THEY left Pittsburg under the dun pall of smoke 
that hangs perpetually over the city, and ran out of a 
world where the earth seemed turned to slag and cin 
ders, and the coal grime blackened even the- sheath 
ing from which the young leaves were unfolding their 
vivid green. Their train twisted along the banks of 
the Ohio, and gave them now and then a reach of 
the stream, forgetful of all the noisy traffic that once 
fretted its waters, and losing itself in almost primitive 
wildness among its softly rounded hills. It is a 
beautiful land, and it had, even to their loath eyes, a 
charm that touched their hearts. They were on the 
borders of the illimitable West, whose lands stretch 
like a sea beyond the hilly Ohio shore ; but as yet this 
vastness, which appalls and wearies all but the born 
Westerner, had not burst upon them ; they were still 
among heights and hollows, and in a milder and softer 
New England. 
" I have a strange feeling about this journey," 
said Marcia, turning from the window at last, and 
facing Halleck on the opposite seat. " I want it to 
be over, and yet I am glad of every little stop. I feel 
like some one that has been called to a death-bed, 
and is hurrying on and holding back with all her 
might, at the same time. I shall have no peace till I 
am there, and then shall I have peace ? " She fixed 
her eyes imploringly on his. " Say something to me, 
if you can ! What do you think ? " 
" Whether you will succeed ? " He was con- 
 
founding what he knew of her father 's feeling with 
what he had feared of hers. 
" Do you mean about the lawsuit ? I don 't care 
for that ! Do you think lie will hate me when he 
sees me ? Do you think he will believe me when I 
tell him that I never meant to leave him, and that 
I 'm sorry for what I did to drive him away ? " 
She seemed to expect him to answer, and he 
answered as well as he could : "He ought to believe 
that, yes, he must believe it." 
" Then all the rest may go," she said. " I don 't 
care who gains the case. But if he shouldn 't believe 
me, if he should drive me away from him, as I 
drove him from me She held her breath in the 
terror of such a possibility, and an awe of her igno 
rance crept over Halleck. Apparently she had not 
understood the step that Bartley had taken, except 
as a stage in their quarrel from which they could both 
retreat, if they would, as easily as from any other 
dispute ; she had riot realized it as a final, an almost 
irrevocable act on his part, which could only be met 
by reprisal on hers. All those points of law which 
had been so sharply enforced upon her must have 
fallen blunted from her longing to be at one with 
him ; she had, perhaps, not imagined her defence in 
open court, except as a sort of public reconciliation. 
But at another time she recurred to her wrongs in 
all the bitterness of her father 's vindictive purpose. 
A young couple entered the car at one of the country 
stations, and the bride made haste to take off her 
white bonnet, and lay her cheek on her husband 's 
shoulder, while he passed his arm round her silken 
waist, and drew her close to him on the seat, in the 
loving rapture which is no wise inconvenienced by 
publicity on our railroad trains. Indeed, after the first 
general recognition of their condition, no one noticed 
them except Marcia, who seemed fascinated by the 
 
spectacle of their unsophisticated happiness ; it must 
have recalled the blissful abandon of her own wed 
ding journey to her. "Oh, poor fool!" she said to 
Olive. " Let her wait, and it will not be long before 
she will know that she had better lean on the empty 
air than on him. Some day, he will let her fall to 
the ground, and when she gathers herself up all 
bruised and bleeding But he hasn 't got the all- 
believing simpleton to deal with that he used to have ; 
and he shall pay me back for all drop by drop, and 
ache for ache ! " 
She was in that strange mental condition into 
which women fall who brood long upon opposing 
purposes and desires. She wished to be reconciled, and 
she wished to be revenged, and she recurred to either 
wish for the time as vehemently as if the other did 
not exist. She took Flavia on her knee, and began 
to prattle to her of seeing papa to-morrow, and pres 
ently she turned to Olive, and said : " I know he 
will find us both a great deal changed. Flavia looks 
so much older, and so do I. But I shall soon show 
him that I can look young again. I presume he 's 
changed too." 
Marcia held the little girl up at the window. They 
had now left the river hills and the rolling country 
beyond, and had entered the great plain which 
stretches from the Ohio to the Mississippi ; and mile 
by mile, as they ran southward and westward, the 
spring unfolded in the mellow air under the dull, 
warm sun. The willows were in perfect leaf, and 
wore their delicate green like veils caught upon their 
boughs ; the may-apples had already pitched their 
tents in the woods, beginning to thicken and darken 
with the young foliage of the oaks and hickories ; 
suddenly, as the train dashed from a stretch of forest, 
the peach orchards flushed pink beside the brick 
farmsteads. The child gave a cry of delight, and 
 
pointed ; and her mother seemed to forget all that had 
gone before, and abandoned herself to Flavia 's joy in 
the blossoms, as if there were no trouble for her in the 
world. 
Halleck rose and went into the other car ; he felt 
giddy, as if her fluctuations of mood and motive had 
somehow turned his own brain. He did not come 
back till the train stopped at Columbus for dinner. 
The old Squire showed the same appetite as at break 
fast : he had the effect of falling upon his food like a 
bird of prey ; and as soon as the meal was despatched 
he went back to his seat in the car, where he lapsed 
into his former silence and immobility, his lank jaws 
working with fresh activity upon the wooden tooth 
pick he had brought away from the table. While 
they waited for a train from the north which was to 
connect with theirs, Halleck walked up and down 
the vast, noisy station with Olive and Marcia, and 
humored the little girl in her explorations of the place. 
She made friends with a red-bird that sang in its 
cage in the dining-hall, and with an old woman, 
yellow, and wrinkled, and sunken-eyed, sitting on a 
bundle tied up in a quilt beside the door, and smok 
ing her clay pipe, as placidly as if on her own cabin 
threshold. " Pears like you ain 't much afeard of 
strangers, honey," said the old woman, taking her 
pipe out of her mouth, to fill it. "Where do you 
live at when you 're home ? " 
" Boston," said the child, promptly. " Where do 
you live ?" 
"I used to live in Old Virginny. But my son, 
he 's takin me out to Illinoy, now. He 's settled out 
there." She treated the child with the serious equal 
ity which simple old people use with children ; and 
spat neatly aside in resuming her pipe. " Which 
o them ladies yender is your maw, honey ? " 
" My mamma ? " 
 
The old woman nodded. 
Flavia ran away and laid her hand on Marcia 's 
dress, and then ran back to the old woman. 
" That your paw, with her ? " Flavia looked blank, 
and the old woman interpreted, " Your father." 
" No ! We 're going out to see papa, out West. 
We 're going to see him to-rnorrow, and then he 's 
coming back with us. My grandpa is in that car." 
The old woman now laid her folded arms on her 
knees, and smoked obliviously. The little girl lin 
gered a moment, and then ran off laughing to her 
mother, and pulled her skirt. " Wasn 't it funny, 
mamma ? She thought Mr. Halleck was my papa ! " 
She hung forward by the hold she had taken, as chil 
dren do, and tilted her head back to look into her 
mother 's face. " What is Mr. Halleck, mamma ? " 
" What is he ? " The group halted involuntarily. 
" Yes, what is he ? Is he my uncle, or my cousin, 
or what ? Is he going out to see papa, too ? What is 
he going for ? Oh, look, look ! " The child plucked 
away her hand, and ran off to join the circle of idle 
men and half-grown boys who were forming about 
two shining negroes with banjos. The negroes flung 
their hands upon the strings with an ecstatic joy in 
the music, and lifted their black voices in a wild 
plantation strain. The child began to leap and dance, 
and her mother ran after her. 
" Naughty little girl ! " she cried. " Come into the 
car with me, this minute." 
Halleck did not see Marcia again till the train 
had run far out of the city, and was again sweeping 
through the thick woods, and flashing out upon the 
levels of the fields where the farmers were riding their 
sulky-plows up and down the long furrows in the 
pleasant afternoon sun. There was something in 
this transformation of man 's old-time laborious de 
pendence into a lordly domination over the earth, 
 
which strikes the westward journey er as finally ex 
pressive of human destiny in the whole mighty region, 
and which penetrated even to Halleck 's sore and 
jaded thoughts. A different type of men began to 
show itself in the car, as the Western people gradually 
took the places of his fellow-travellers from the East. 
The men were often slovenly and sometimes uncouth 
in their dress ; but they made themselves at home in 
the exaggerated splendor and opulence of the car, as 
if born to the best in every way ; their faces suggested 
the security of people who trusted the future from 
the past, and had no fears of the life that had always 
used them well ; they had not that eager and intense 
look which the Eastern faces wore ; there was energy 
enough and to spare in them, but it was not an 
anxious energy. The sharp accent of the seaboard 
yielded to tlie rounded, soft, and slurring tones, and 
the prompt address was replaced by a careless and 
confident neighborliness of manner. 
Flavia fretted at her return to captivity in the 
car, and demanded to be released with a teasing per 
sistence from which nothing she was shown out of 
the window could divert her. A large man leaned 
forward at last from a seat near by, and held out an 
orange. " Come here to me, little Trouble," he said ; 
and Flavia made an eager start toward this unlooked- 
for friend. 
Marcia wished to check her ; but Halleck pleaded 
to have her go. " It will be a relief to you," he 
said. 
" Well, let her go," Marcia consented. " But she 
was no trouble, and she is no relief." She sat looking 
dully at the little girl after the Westerner had gath 
ered her up into his lap. " Should I have liked to 
tell her," she said, as if thinking aloud, "how we 
were really going to meet her father, and that you 
were coming with me to be my witness against him 
A MODERX IXSTAN.CE. 
in a court, to put him down ami disgrace him, 
to fight him, as father says ? " 
" You mustn 't think of it in that way," said Hal- 
leek, gently, but, as he felt, feebly and inadequately. 
"Oh, I shall not think of it in that way long," she 
answered. " My head is in a whirl, and I can 't hold 
what we 're doing before my mind in any one shape 
for a minute at a time. I don 't know what will 
become of me, I don 't know what will become of 
But in another breath she rose from this desolation, 
and was talking with impersonal cheerfulness of the 
sights that the car- window showed. As long as the 
light held, they passed through the same opulent and 
monotonous landscape ; through little towns full of 
signs of material prosperity, and then farms, and farms 
again ; the brick houses set in the midst of evergreens, 
and compassed by vast acreages of corn land, where 
herds of black pigs wandered, and the farmers were 
riding their ploughs, or heaping into vast windrows for 
burning the winter-worn stalks of the last year 's crop. 
Where they came to a stream the landscape was 
roughened into low hills, from which it sank again 
luxuriously to a plain. If there was any difference 
between Ohio and Indiana, it was that in Indiana 
the spring night, whose breath softly buffeted their 
cheeks through the open window, had gathered over 
those eternal cornfields, where the long crooked wind 
rows, burning on either hand, seemed a trail of fiery 
serpents writhing away from the train as it roared 
and clamored over the track. 
They were to leave their car at Indianapolis, and 
take another road which would bring them to Tecum- 
seh by daylight the next morning. Olive went away 
with the little girl, and put her to bed on the sofa in 
their state-room, and Marcia suffered them to go 
alone ; it was only by fits that she had cared for the 
 
cliild, or even noticed it. " Now tell me again," she 
said to Halleck, " why we are going." 
" Surely you know^ 
" Yes, yes, I know ; but I can 't think, I don 't 
seem to remember. .Didn 't I give it up once ? Didn 't 
I say that I would rather go home, and let Bartley 
get the divorce, if lie wanted ? " 
" Yes, you said that, Marcia." 
" I used to make him very unhappy ; I was very 
strict with him, when I knew he couldn 't bear any 
kind of strictness. And he was always so patient 
with me ; though he never really cared for me. Oh, 
yes, I knew that from the first ! He used to try ; but 
he must have been glad to get away. Poor Bartley! 
It was cruel, cruel, to put that in about my abandon 
ing him when he knew I would come back ; but per 
haps the lawyers told him he must ; he had to put in 
something ! Why shouldn 't I let him go ? Father 
said he only wanted to get rid of me, so that he could 
marry some one else Yes, yes ; it was that that 
made me start ! Father knew it would ! Oh," she 
grieved, with a wild self-pity that tore Halleck 's 
heart, " he knew it would ! " She fell wearily back 
against the seat, and did not speak for some minutes. 
Then she said, in a slow, broken utterance : " But 
now I don 't seem to mind even that, any more. Why 
shouldn 't he marry some one else that he really likes, 
if he doesn 't care for me ? " 
Halleck laughed in bitterness of soul as his thought 
recurred to Atherton 's reasons. " Because," he said, 
" you have a public duty in the matter. You must 
keep him bound to you, for fear some other woman, 
whose husband doesn 't care for her, should let Mm 
go, too, and society be broken up, and civilization 
destroyed. In a matter like this, which seems to 
concern yourself alone, you are only to regard others." 
His reckless irony did not reach her through her 
 
manifold sorrow. "Well," she said, simply, "it must 
be that. But, oh ! how can I bear it ! how can I bear 
it!" 
The time passed; Olive did not return for an hour; 
then she merely said that the little girl had just fallen 
asleep, and that she should go back and lie down 
witli her ; that she was sleepy too. 
Marcia did not answer, but Halleck said he would 
call her in good time before they reached Indian 
apolis. 
The porter made up the berths of such as were 
going through to St. Louis, and Marcia was left sit 
ting alone with Halleck. " I will go and get your 
father to come here," he said. 
" I don 't want him to come ! I want to talk to 
you to say something What was it ? I can 't 
think ! " She stopped, like one trying to recover a 
faded thought ; he waited, but she did not speak 
again. She had laid a nervous clutch upon his arm, 
to detain him from going for her father, and she kept 
her hand there mechanically ; but after a while he 
felt it relax ; she drooped against him, and fell away 
into a sleep in which she started now and then like a 
frightened child. He could not release himself with 
out waking her ; but it did not matter ; her sorrow 
had unsexed her; only the tenderness of his love for 
this hapless soul remained in his heart, which ached 
and evermore heavily sank within him. 
He woke her at last when he must go to tell Olive 
that they were running into Indianapolis. Marcia 
struggled to her feet : " Oh, oh ! Are we there ? Are 
we there ? " 
" We are at Indianapolis," said Halleck. 
" I thought it was Tecumseh ! " She shuddered. 
" We can go back ; oh, yes, we can still go back ! " 
They alighted from the train in the chilly mid 
night air, and found their way through the crowd to 
 
the eating-room of the station. The little girl cried 
with broken sleep and the strangeness, and Olive 
tried to quiet her. Marcia clung to Halleck 's arm, 
and shivered convulsively. Squire Gay lord stalked 
beside them with a demoniac vigor. " A few more 
hours, a few more hours, sir ! " he said. He made a 
hearty supper, while the rest scalded their mouths 
with hot tea, which they forced with loathing to their 
lips. 
Some women who were washing the floor of the 
ladies waiting-room told them they must go into the 
men 's room, and wait there for their train, which was 
due at one o clock. They obeyed, and found the room 
full of emigrants, and the air thick with their tobacco 
smoke. There was no choice ; Olive went in first 
and took the child on her lap, where it straightway 
fell asleep ; the Squire found a seat beside them, and 
sat erect, looking round on the emigrants with the 
air of being amused at their outlandish speech, into 
which they burst clamorously from their silence at 
intervals. Marcia stopped Halleck at the threshold. 
" Stay out here with me," she whispered. " I want 
to tell you something," she added, as he turned me 
chanically and walked away with her up the vast 
lamp-shot darkness of the depot. " I  am not going 
on ! I am going back. We will take the train that 
goes to the East ; father will never know till it is too 
late. We needn 't speak to him about it " 
Halleck set himself against this delirious folly : he 
consented to her return ; she could do what she 
would ; but he would not consent to cheat her father. 
" We must go and tell him," he said, for all answer 
to all her entreaties. He dragged her back to the 
waiting-room ; but at the door she started at the fig 
ure of a man who was bending over a group of emi 
grant children asleep in the nearest corner, poor, 
uncouth, stubbed little creatures, in old-mannish 
clothes, looking like children roughly blocked out of 
wood, and stittiy stretched on the floor, or resting 
woodenly against their mother. 
" There ! " said the man, pressing a mug of coffee 
on the woman. "You drink that! It ll do you 
good, every drop of it! I 've seen the time," lie 
said, turning round with the mug, when she had 
drained it, in his hand, and addressing Marcia and 
Halleck as the most accessible portion of the English- 
speaking public, " when I used to be down on coffee ; 
I thought it was bad for the nerves ; but I tell you, 
when you 're travelling it 's a brain-food, if ever there 
was a brain " He dropped the mug, and stumbled 
back into the heap of sleeping children, fixing a 
ghastly stare on Marcia. 
She ran toward him. " Mr. Kinney ! " 
" No, you don 't ! no, you don 't ! " 
" Why, don 't you know me ? Mrs. Hubbard ? " 
" He lie told me you was dead ! " roared 
Kinney. 
" He told you I was dead ? " 
" More n a year ago ! The last time I seen him ! 
Before I went out to Leadville ! " 
" He told you I was dead," repeated Marcia huskily. 
" He must have wished it!" she whispered. "Oh, 
mercy, mercy, mercy!" She stopped, and then she 
broke into a wild laugh : " Well, you see he was 
wrong. I 'm on my way to him now to show him 
that I 'm alive ! " 
 
XL. 
HALLECK woke at daybreak from the drowse into 
which he had fallen. The train was creeping slowly 
over the track, feeling its way, and he heard frag 
ments of talk among the passengers about a broken 
rail that the conductor had been warned of. He 
turned to ask some question, when the pull of rising 
speed came from the locomotive, and at the same mo 
ment the car stopped with a jolting pitch. It settled 
upon the track again ; but the two cars in front were 
overturned, and the passengers were still climbing 
from their windows, when Halleck got his bewildered 
party to the ground. Children were crying, and a 
woman was led by with her face cut and bleeding 
from the broken glass ; but it was reported that no one 
else was hurt, and the trainmen gave their helpless 
ness to the inspection of the rotten cross-tie that had 
caused the accident. One of the passengers kicked 
the decayed wood with his boot. " Well," he said, " I 
always like a little accident like this, early ; it makes 
us safe the rest of the day." The sentiment appar 
ently commended itself to popular acceptance ; Halleck 
went forward with part of the crowd to see what was 
the matter with the locomotive: it had kept the track, 
but seemed to be injured somehow; the engineer was 
working at it, hammer in hand ; he exchanged some 
dry pleasantries with a passenger who asked him 
if there was any chance of hiring a real fast ox-team 
in that neighborhood, in case a man was in a hurry 
to get on to Tecumseh. 
 
They were in the midst of a level prairie that 
stretched all round to the horizon, where it was broken 
by patches of timber ; the rising sun slanted across 
the green expanse, and turned its distance to gold ; 
the grass at their feet was full of wild-flowers, upon 
which Flavia flung herself as soon as they got out of the 
car. By the time Halleck returned to them, she was 
running with cries of joy and wonder toward a wind 
mill that rose beautiful above the roofs of a group 
of commonplace houses, at a little distance from the 
track ; it stirred its mighty vans in the thin, sweet 
inland breeze, and took the sun gayly on the light 
gallery that encircled it. 
A vision of Belgian plains swept before Halleck 's 
eyes. "There ought to be storks on its roof," he 
said, absently. 
" How strange that it should be here, away out in 
the West ! " said Olive. 
" If it were less strange than we are, here, I couldn 't 
stand it," he answered. 
A brakeman came up with a flag in his hand, and 
nodded toward Flavia. " She 's on the right track for 
breakfast," he said. " There 's an old Dutchman at that 
mill, and his wife knows how to make coffee like a 
fellow 's mother. You 'll  have plenty of time. This 
train has come here to stay till somebody can walk 
back five miles and telegraph for help." 
" How far are we from Tecumseh ? " asked Hal 
leck. 
" Fifty miles," the brakeman called back over his 
shoulder. 
"Don 't you worry any, Marcia," said her father, 
moving off in pursuit of Flavia. " This accident 
makes it all right for us, if we don 't get there for a 
week." 
Marcia answered nothing. Halleck began to talk 
to her of that Belgian landscape in which he had first 
 
seen a windmill, and he laughed at the blank unin- 
telligerice with which she received his reminiscences 
of travel. For the moment, the torturing stress was 
lifted from his soul ; he wished that the breakfast in 
the miller 's house might never come to an end ; he 
explored the mill with Flavia ; he bantered the Squire 
on his saturnine preference for steam power in the 
milling business ; he made the others share his mood ; 
lie pushed far from him the series of tragic or squalid 
facts which had continually brought the end to him 
in reveries in which he found himself holding his 
breath, as if he might hold it till the end really came. 
But this respite could not last. A puff of white 
steam showed on the horizon, and after an interval 
the sound of the locomotive whistle reached them, as 
it came backing down a train of empty cars towards 
them. They were quickly on their journey again, and 
a scanty hour before noon they arrived at Tecurnseh. 
The pretty town, which in prospect had worn to 
Olive Halleck 's imagination the blended hideousness 
of Sodom and Gomorrah, was certainly very much more 
like a New England village in fact. After the brick 
farmsteads and coal-smoked towns of Central Ohio, its 
wooden houses, set back from the street with an ample 
depth of door-yard, were appealingly familiar, and she 
exchanged some homesick whispers with Marcia about 
them, as they drove along under the full-leaved maples 
which shadowed the way. The grass was denser and 
darker than in New England, and, pretty as the town 
was, it wore a more careless and unscrupulous air than 
the true New England village ; the South had touched 
it, and here and there it showed a wavering line of 
fence and a faltering conscientiousness in its paint. 
Presently all aspects of village quiet and seclusion 
ceased, and a section of conventional American city, 
with flat-roofed brick blocks, showy hotel, stores, 
paved street, and stone sidewalks expressed the readi- 
 
ness of Tecumseh to fulfil the destiny of every West 
ern town, and become a metropolis at a day 's notice, 
if need be. The second-hand omnibus, which 're 
flected the actuality of Tecumseh, set them down at 
the broad steps of the court-house, fronting on an 
avenue which for a city street was not very crowded 
or busy. Such passers as there were had leisure and 
inclination, as they loitered by, to turn and stare at the 
strangers ; and the voice of the sheriff , as he called 
from an upper window of the court-house the names 
of absentee litigants or witnesses required to come 
into court, easily made itself heard above all the other 
noises. 
It seemed to Halleck as if the sheriff were call 
ing them ; he lifted his head and looked at Olive, 
but she would not meet his eye ; she led by the hand 
the little girl, who kept asking, "Is this the house 
where papa lives ? " with the merciless iteration of a 
child. Halleck dragged lamely after the Squire, who 
had mounted the steps with unnatural vigor ; he 
promptly found his way to the clerk 's office, where he 
examined the docket, and then returned to his party 
triumphant. " We are in time," he said, and he led 
them on up into the court-room. 
A few spectators, scattered about on the rows of 
benching, turned to look at them as they walked up 
the aisle, where the cocoa matting, soaked and dried, 
and soaked again, with perpetual libations of tobacco- 
juice, mercifully silenced their footsteps; most of the 
faces turned upon them showed a slow and thought 
ful movement of the jaws, and, as they were dropped 
or averted, a general discharge of tobacco-juice seemed 
to express the general adoption of the new T -comers, 
whoever they were, as a necessary element of the 
scene, which it was useless to oppose, and about which 
it was idle to speculate. Before the Squire had found 
his party seats on one of the benches next the bur, the 
 
spectators had again given their languid attention to 
the administration of justice, which is everywhere in 
formal with us, and is only a little more informal in 
the West than in the East. An effect of serene 
disoccupation pervaded the place, such as comes at 
the termination of an interesting affair; and no one 
seemed to care for what the clerk was reading aloud 
in a set, mechanical tone. The judge was "busy with 
his docket ; the lawyers, at their several little tables 
within the bar, lounged in their chairs, or stalked 
about laughing and whispering to each other; the 
prosecuting attorney leaned upon the shoulder of* a 
jolly-looking man, who lifted his face to joke up at 
him, as he tilted his chair back ; a very stout, young 
ish person, who sat next him, kept his face dropped 
while the clerk proceeded : 
" And now, on motion of plaintiff, it is ordered by 
the Court that said defendant be now here three times 
called, which is done in open court, and she comes 
not; but wholly makes default herein. And this 
cause is now submitted to the Court for trial, and the 
Court having heard the evidence, and being fully 
advised, find for the plaintiff, that the allegations of 
his complaint are true, and that he is entitled to a 
divorce. It is therefore considered by the Court, that 
said plaintiff be and he is hereby divorced, and the 
bonds of matrimony heretofore existing between said 
parties are dissolved and held for naught." 
As the clerk closed the large volume before him, 
the jolly lawyer, as if the record had been read at his 
request, nodded to the Court, and said, " The record of 
the decree seems correct, your honor." He leaned for 
ward, and struck the fat man 's expanse of back, with 
the flat of his hand. " Congratulate you, my dear 
boy ! " he said in a stage whisper that was heard 
through the room. " Many happy returns of the 
day ! " 
 
A laugh went round, and the judge said severely, 
"Mr. Sheriff, see that order is kept in the court 
room." 
The fat man rose to shake hands with another 
friend, and at the same moment Squire Gaylord 
stretched himself to his full height before stooping 
over to touch the shoulder of one of the lawyers 
within the bar, and his eyes encountered those of 
Bartley Hubbard in mutual recognition. 
It was not the fat on Bartley 's ribs only that had 
increased : his broad cheeks stood out and hung down 
with it, and his chin descended by the three succes 
sive steps to his breast. His complexion was of a 
tender pink, on which his blonde moustache showed 
white ; it almost vanished in the tallowy pallor to 
which the pink turned as he saw his father-in-law, 
and then the whole group which the intervening 
spectators had hitherto hidden from him. He dropped 
back into his chair, and intimated to his lawyer, with 
a wave of his hand and a twist of his head, that some 
hopeless turn in his fortunes had taken place. That 
jolly soul turned to him for explanation, and at the 
same time the lawyer whom Squire Gaylord had 
touched on the shoulder responded to a few whispered 
words from him by beckoning to the prosecuting at 
torney, who stepped briskly across to where they stood. 
A brief dumb-show ensued, and the prosecutor ended 
by taking the Squire 's hand, and inviting him within 
the bar ; the other attorney politely made room for 
him at his table, and the prosecutor returned to his 
place near the jury-box, where he remained standing 
for a moment. 
" If it please the Court," he began, in a voice break 
ing heavily upon the silence that had somehow fallen 
upon the whole room, " I wish to state that the de 
fendant in the case of Hubbard vs. Hubbard is now 
and here present, having been prevented by an acci- 
 
dent on the road between this place and Indianapolis 
from arriving in time to make defence. She desires 
to move the Court to set aside the default." 
The prosecutor retired a few paces, and nodded 
triumphantly at Bartley 's lawyer, who could not 
wholly suppress his enjoyment of the joke, though it 
told so heavily against him and his client. But he 
was instantly on his feet with a technical objection. 
The judge heard him through, and then opened his 
docket, at the case of Hubbard vs. Hubbard. " What 
name shall I enter for the defence ? " he inquired 
formally. 
Squire Gaylord turned with an old-fashioned state 
and deliberation which had their effect, and cast a 
glance of professional satisfaction in the situation at 
the attorneys and the spectators. " I ask to be allowed 
to appear for the defence -in this case, if the Court 
please. My friend, Mr. Hathaway, will move niy 
admission to this bar." 
The attorney to whom the Squire had first intro 
duced himself promptly complied : " Your honor, I 
move the admission of Mr. F. J. Gaylord, of Equity, 
Equity County, Maine, to practise at this bar." 
The judge bowed to the Squire, and directed the 
clerk to administer the usual oath. " I have entered 
your name for the defence, Mr. Gaylord. Do you 
desire to make any motion in the case ? " he pursued, 
the natural courtesy of his manner further qualified 
by a feeling which something pathetic in the old 
Squire 's bearing inspired. 
" Yes, your honor, I move to set aside the default, 
and I shall offer in support of this motion my affida 
vit, setting forth the reasons for the non-appearance 
of the defendant at the calling of the cause." 
" Shall I note your motion as filed ? " asked the 
judge. 
" Yes, your honor," replied the old man. He made 
 
 
a futile attempt to prepare the paper; the pen flew 
out of his trembling hand. "I  can 't write," he .said 
in despair that made other hands quick to aid him. 
A young lawyer at the next desk rapidly drew up 
the paper, and the Squire duly offered it to the clerk 
of the Court. The clerk stamped it with the file- 
mark of the Court, and returned it to the Squire, who 
read aloud the motion and affidavit, setting forth the 
facts of the defendant 's failure to receive the notice 
in time to prepare for her defence, and of the accident 
which had contributed to delay her appearance, de 
claring that she had a just defence to the plaintiffs 
bill, and asking to be heard upon the facts. 
Hartley 's attorney was prompt to interpose again. 
He protested that the printed advertisement was 
sufficient notice to the defendant, whenever it came 
to her knowledge, or even if it never came to her 
knowledge, and that her plea of failure to receive it 
in time was not a competent excuse. This might be 
alleged in any case, and any delay of travel "might 
be brought forward to account for non-appearance as 
plausibly as this trumped-up accident in which no 
body was hurt. He did his best, which was also his 
worst, and the judge once more addressed the Squire, 
who stood waiting for Hartley 's counsel to close. " I 
was about to adjourn the Court," said the judge, in 
that accent which is the gift of the South to some 
parts of the West ; it is curiously soft and gentle, and 
expressive, when the speaker will, of a caressing def 
erence. " But we have still some minutes before 
noon in which we can hear you in support of your 
motion, if you are ready." 
" I am m-ready, your honor ! " The old man 's 
nasals cut across the judge 's rounded tones, almost 
before they had ceased. His lips compressed them 
selves to a waving line, and his high hawk-beak came 
down over them ; the fierce light burned in his cav- 
ernous eyes, and his grizzled hair erected itself like a 
crest. He swayed slightly back and forth at the 
table, behind which he stood, and paused as if wait 
ing for his hate to gather head. 
In this interval it struck several of the spectators, 
who had appreciative friends outside, that it was a 
pity they should miss the coming music, and they 
risked the loss of some strains themselves that they 
might step out and inform these dilettanti. One of 
them was stopped by a man at the door. " What 's 
up, now ? " The other impatiently explained ; but 
the inquirer, instead of hurrying in to enjoy the fun, 
turned quickly about, and ran down the stairs. He 
crossed the street, and, by a system of alleys and by 
ways, modestly made his way to the outlying fields 
of Tecumseh, which he traversed at heightened speed, 
plunging at last into the belt of timber beyond. This 
excursion, which had so much the appearance of a 
chase, was an exigency of the witness who had cor 
roborated on oath the testimony of Bartley in regard 
to his wife 's desertion. Such an establishment of 
facts, purely imaginary with the witness, was simple 
enough in the absence of rebutting testimony ; but 
confronted with this, it became another affair ; it had 
its embarrassments, its risks. 
"M-ready," repeated Squire Gaylord, "m-ready with 
facts and witnesses " The word, in which he exulted 
till it rang and echoed through the room, drew the 
eyes of all to the little group on the bench next the 
bar, where Marcia, heavily veiled in the black whicli 
she had worn ever since Hartley 's disappearance, sat 
with Halleck and Olive. The little girl, spent with 
her long journey, rested her head on her mother 's 
lap, and the mother 's hand tremulously smoothed her 
hair, and tried to hush the grieving whisper in which 
she incessantly repeated, " Where is papa ? I want 
to see papa ! " 
 
Olive looked straight before her, and Halleck 's eyes 
were fixed upon the floor. After the first glance at 
them Bartley did not lift his head, but held it bent 
forward where he sat, and showed only a fold of fat 
red neck above his coat-collar. Marcia might have 
seen his face in that moment before it blanched and 
he sank into his chair ; she did riot look toward him 
again. 
" Mr. Sheriff, keep silence in the Court ! " ordered 
the judge, in reprimand of the stir that ensued upon 
the general effort to catch sight of the witnesses. 
" Silence in the Court ! Keep your seats, gentle 
men ! " cried the sheriff. 
" And I thank the Court," resumed the Squire, " for 
this immediate opportunity to redress an atrocious 
wrong, and to vindicate an innocent and injured 
woman. Sir, I think it will prejudice our cause with 
no one, when I say that we are here not only in the 
relation of attorney and client, but in that of father 
and daughter, and that I stand in this place singularly 
and sacredly privileged to demand justice for my own 
child ! " 
" Order, order ! " shouted the sheriff. But he could 
not quell the sensation that followed ; the point had 
been effectively made, and it was some moments 
before the noise of the people beginning to arrive 
from the outside permitted the Squire to continue. 
He waited, with one lean hand hanging at his side, 
and the other resting in a loosely folded fist on the 
table before him. He took this fist up as if it were 
some implement he had laid hold of, and swung it in 
the air. 
" By a chance which I  shall not be the last to 
describe as providential," he paused, and looked 
round the room as if defying any one there to chal 
lenge the sincerity of his assertion, " the notice, 
which your law requires to be given by newspaper 
 
advertisement to the non-resident defendant in such 
a case as this, came, by one chance in millions, to her 
hand. By one chance more or less, it would not have 
reached her, and a monstrous crime against justice 
would have been irrevocably accomplished. For she 
had mourned this man as dead, dead to the uni 
versal frame of things, when he was only dead to 
honor, dead to duty, and dead to her ; and it was that 
newspaper, sent almost at random through the mail, 
and wandering from hand to hand, and everywhere 
rejected, for weeks, before it reached her at last, 
which convinced her that he was still in such life as 
a man may live who has survived his own soul. We 
are therefore here, standing upon our right, and pre 
pared to prove it God 's right, and the everlasting 
truth. Two days ago, a thousand miles and a thou 
sand uncertainties intervened between us and this 
right, but now we are here to show that the defendant, 
basely defamed by the plea of abandonment, returned 
to her home within an hour after she had parted there 
with the plaintiff, and has remained there day and 
night ever since." He stopped. " Did I say she had 
never absented herself during all this time ? I was 
wrong. I spoke hastily. I forgot." He dropped his 
voice. "She did absent herself at one time, for 
three days, while she could come home to close her 
mother 's dying eyes, and help me to lay her in the 
grave !" He tried to close his lips firmly again, but 
the sinuous line was broken by a convulsive twitch 
ing. " Perhaps," he resumed with the utmost gentle 
ness, "the plaintiff returned in this interval, and, 
finding her gone, was confirmed in his belief that she 
had abandoned him." 
He felt blindly about on the table with his 
trembling hands, and his whole figure had a pathos 
that gave the old dress-coat statuesque dignity. 
The spectators quietly changed their places, and 
 
occupied the benches near him, till Bartley was left 
sitting alone with his counsel. We are beginning to 
talk here at the East of the decline of oratory ; but it 
is still a passion in the West, and his listeners now 
clustered about the Squire in keen appreciation of his 
power ; it seemed to summon even the loiterers in the 
street, whose ascending tramp on the stairs continu 
ally made itself heard ; the lawyers, the officers of 
the court, the judge, forgot their dinner, and posed 
themselves anew in their chairs to listen. 
No doubt the electrical sphere of sympathy and 
admiration penetrated to the old man 's consciousness. 
When he pulled off his black satin stock the relic 
of ancient fashion which the piety of his daughter 
kept in repair and laid it on the table, there was a 
deep inarticulate murmur of satisfaction which he 
could not have mistaken. His voice rose again : 
" If the plaintiff indeed came at that time, the 
walls of those empty rooms, into which he peered like 
a thief in the night, might have told him if walls 
had tongues to speak as they have ears to hear a 
tale that would have melted even his heart with 
remorse and shame. They might have told him of a 
woman waiting in hunger and cold for his return, and 
willing to starve and freeze, rather than own herself 
