Isabel knew that his was not a soft nature, from which pin- 
pricks would draw blood ; and from the first of her acquaintance 
with him and of her having to defend herself against a certain 
air that he had of knowing better what was good for her than 
she knew herself, she had recognised the fact that perfect frank- 
ness was her best weapon. To attempt to spare his sensibility 
or to escape from him edgewise, as one might do from a man 
who had barred the way less sturdily this, in dealing with 
Caspar Goodwood, who would take everything of every sort 
that one might give him, was wasted agility. It was not 
that - he had not susceptibilities, but his passive surface, as 
well as his active, was large and firm, and he might always be 
trusted to dress his wounds himself. In measuring the effect 
of his suffering, one might always reflect that he had a sound 
constitution. 
" I cant reconcile myself to that," he said. 
There was a dangerous liberality about this ; for Isabel felt 
that it was quite open to him to say that he had not always 
displeased her. 
" I can't reconcile myself to it either, and it is not the state 
of things that ought to exist between us. If you would only 
try and banish me from your mind for a few months we should 
be on good terms again." 
 
<: I see. If I should cease to think of you for a few months 
I should find I could keep it up indefinitely." 
" Indefinitely is more than I ask. It is more even than I 
should like." 
' You know that what you ask is impossible," said the young 
man, taking his adjective for granted in a manner that Isabel 
found irritating. 
" Are you not capable of making an effort 1 " she demanded. 
"You are strong for everything else; why shouldn't you be 
strong for that 1 " 
' Because I am in love with you," said Caspar Goodwood 
simply. " If one is strong, one loves only the more strongly." 
" There is a good deal in that ; " and indeed our young 
lady felt the force of it. " Think of me or not, as you find most 
possible ; only leave me alone." 
"Until when?" 
" Well, f<r a year or two." 
" " Which do you mean 1 Between ons year and two there is a 
great difference." 
" Call it two, then," said Isabel, wondering whether a little 
cynicism might not be effective. 
"And what shall I gain by that ?" Mr. Goodwood asked, 
giving no sign of wincing. 
" You will have obliged me greatly." 
' But what will be my reward   " 
" Do you need a reward for an act of generosity 1 " 
" Yes, when it involves a great sacrifice." 
" There is no generosity without sacrifice. Men don't under- 
stand such things. If you make this sacrifice I shall admire 
you greatly." 
"I don't care a straw for your admiration. Will you marry 
me ? That is the question." 
" Assuredly not, if I feel as I feel at present." 
" Then I ask again, what I shall gain ? " 
" You will gain quite as much as by worrying me to death ! " 
Caspar Goodwood bent his eyes again and gazed for a while 
into the crown of his hat. A deep flush overspread his face, 
and Isabel could perceive that this dart at last had struck home. 
To see a strong man in pain had something terrible for her, and 
she immediately felt very sorry for her visitor. 
" Why do you make me say such things to yu 1  iie cried 
in a trembling voice. " I only want .to be gentle to be kind. 
It is not delightful to me to feel that people care for me, and 
yet to have to try and reason them out of it. I think others 
 
also ought to be considerate; we have each to judge for our- 
selves. I know you are considerate, as much as you can be : 
you have good reasons for what you do. But I don't want to 
marry. I shall probably never marry. I have a perfect right 
to feel that way, and it is no kindness to a woman to urge her 
to persuade her against her will. If I give you pain I can only 
say I am very sorry. It is not my fault ; I can't marry you 
simply to please you. I won't say that I shall always remain 
your friend, because when women say that, in these circum- 
stances, it is supposed, I believe, to be a sort of mockery. But 
try me some day." 
Caspar Goodwood, during this speech, had kept his eyes fixed 
upon the name of his hatter, and it was not until some time 
after she had ceased speaking that he raised them. When he 
did so, the sight of a certain rosy, lovely eagerness in Isabel's 
face throw some confusion into his attempt to analyse what she 
had said. " I will go home I will go to-morrow 1 will leave 
you alone," he murmured at last. " Only," he added in a louder 
tone " I hate to lose sight of you ! " 
" Never fear. I will do no harm." 
" You will marry some one else," said Caspar Goodwood. 
" Do you think that is a generous charge? " 
" Why not 1 Plenty of men will ask you." 
" I told you just now that 1 don't wish to marry, and that T 
shall probably never do so." 
" I know you did ; but I don't believe it." 
" Thank you very much. You appear to think I am attempt- 
ing to deceive you ; you say very delicate things." 
"Why should I not say that? You have given me no 
promise that you will not marry." 
" JS"o, that is all that would be wanting ! " cried Isabel, with a 
bitter laugh. 
" You think you won't, but you will," her visitor went on, as 
if he were preparing himself fur the worst. 
"Very well, I will then. Have it as you please." 
" I don't know, however," said Caspar Goodwood, " that my 
keeping you in sight would prevent it." 
" Don't you indeed ? I am, after all, very much afraid of you. 
Do you think I am so very easily pleased 1 " she asked suddenly, 
changing her tone. 
" No, I don't ; I shall try and console myself with that. But 
there are a certain number of very clever men in the world ; if 
there were only one, it would be enough. You will be sure to 
take no one who is not." 
 
" I don't need the aid of a clever man to teacli me how to 
live," said Isabel. " I can find it out for myself." 
" To live alone, do you mean 1 I wish that when you have 
found that out, you would teach ;iie." 
Isabel glanced at him a moment ; then, with a quick smile 
" Oh, you ought to marry ! " she said. 
Poor Caspar may be pardoned if for an instant this exclama- 
tion seemed to him to have the infernal note, and I cannot take 
upon myself to say that Isabel uttered it in obedience to an 
impulse strictly celestial. It was a fact, however, that it had 
always seemed to her that Caspar Goodwood, of all men, ought 
to enjoy the whole devotion of some tender woman. " God 
forgive you ! " he murmured between his teeth, turning 
away. 
Her exclamation had put her slightly in the wrong, and after 
a moment she felt the need to right herself. The easiest way 
to do it was to put her suitor in the wrong. " You do me great 
injustice you say what you don't know ! " she broke out. " I 
should not be an easy victim I have proved it." 
" Oh, to me, perfectly." 
" I have proved it to others as well." And she paused a 
moment." " I refused a proposal of marriage last week what 
they call a brilliant one." 
" I am very glad to hear it," said the young man, gravely. 
" It was a proposal that many girls would have accepted ; it 
had everything to recommend it." Isabel had hesitated to tell 
this story, but now she had begun, the satisfaction of speaking 
it out and doing herself justice took possession of her. "I 
was offered a great position and a great fortune by a person 
whom I like extremely." 
Caspar gazed at her with great interest. " Is he an 
Englishman 1 " 
" He is an English nobleman," said Isabel. 
Mr. Goodwood received this announcement in silence ; then, 
at last, he said " I am glad he is disappointed." 
" Well, then, as you have companions in misfortune, make the 
best of it." 
" I don't call him a companion," said Caspar, grimly. 
" Why not dnce I declined his offer absolutely ? " 
"That doesn't make him my companion. Besides, he's an 
Englishman." 
" And pray is not an Englishman a human being 1 " Isabel 
inquired. 
" Oh, no ; he's superhuman." 
 
" You are angry," said the girl. " We have discussed this 
matter quite enough." 
" Oh, yes, I am angry. I plead guilty to that ! " 
Isabel turned away from him, walked to the open window, 
and stood a moment looking into the dusky vacancy of the 
street, where a turbid gaslight alone represented social anima- 
tion. For some time neither of these young persons spoke ; 
Caspar lingered near the chimney-piece, with his eyes gloomily 
fixed upon our heroine. She had virtually requested him to 
withdraw he knew that ; but at the risk of making himself 
odious to her he kept his ground. She was far too dear to him 
to be easily forfeited, and he had sailed across the Atlantic to 
extract some pledge from her. Presently she left the window 
and stood before him again. 
"You do me very little justice," she said "after my telling 
you what I told you just now. I am sorry I told you since it 
matters so little to you." 
"Ah," cried the young man, "if you were thinking of me 
when you did it ! " And then he paused, with the fear that she 
might contradict so happy a thought. 
" I was thinking of you a little," said Isabel. 
"A little ? I don't understand. If the knowledge that I 
love you had any weight with you at all, it must have had a 
good deal." 
Isabel shook her head impatiently, as if to carry off a blush. 
" I have refused a noble gentleman. Make the most of that." 
" I thank you, then," said Caspar Goodwood, gravely. " I 
thank you immensely." 
"And now you had better go home." 
" May I not see you again " he asked. 
" I think it is better not. You will be sure to talk of this, 
and you see it leads to nothing." 
" I promise you not to say a word that will annoy you." 
Isabel reflected a little, and then she said "I return in a day 
or two to my uncle's, and I can't propose to you to come there ; 
it would be very inconsistent." 
Caspai Goodwood, on his side, debated within himself. "You 
must do me justice too. I received an invitation to your uncle's 
more than a week ago, and I declined it." 
"From whom was your invitation?" Isabel asked, surprised. 
"From Mr. Ralph Touchett, whom I suppose to be your 
cousin. I declined it because I had not your authorisation to 
accept it. The suggestion that Mr. Touchett should invite me 
appeared to have come from Miss Stackpole." 
 
" It certainly did not come from me. Henrietta certainly goes 
very far," Isabel added. 
" Don't be too hard on her that touches me." 
" No ; if you declined, that was very proper of you, and 
I thank you for it." And Isabel gave a little shudder of 
dismay at the thought that Lord Warburton and Mr. Goodwood 
might have met at Gardencourt : it would have been so awkward 
for Lord Warburton ! 
"When you leave your uncle, where are you going?" Caspar 
asked. 
" I shall go abroad with my aunt to Florence and other 
places." 
The serenity of this announcement struck a chill to the young 
man's heart j he seemed to see her whirled away into circles from 
which he was inexorably excluded. Nevertheless he went on 
quickly with his questions. "And when shall you come back 
to America ? " 
" Perhaps not for a long time ; I am very happy here." 
" Do you mean to give up your country ? " 
" Don't be an infant." 
" Well, you will be out of my sight indeed ! " said Caspar 
Goodwood. 
" I don't know," she answered, rather grandly. " The world 
strikes me as small." 
" It is too large for me ! " Caspar exclaimed, with a simplicity 
which our young lady might have found touching if her face 
had not been set against concessions. 
This attitude was part of a system, a theory, that she had 
lately embraced, and to be thorough she said after a moment 
" Don't think me unkind if I say that it's just that being out 
of your sight that I like. If you were in the same place as I, 
I should feel as if you were watching me, and I don't like that 
I like my liberty too much. If there is a thing in the world 
that I am fond of," Isabel went on, with a slight recurrence of 
the grandeur that had shown itself a moment before "it is my 
personal independence." 
But whatever there was of grandeur in this speech moved 
Caspar Goodwood's admiration ; there was nothing that displeased 
him in the sort of feeling it expressed. This feeling not .only did 
no violence to his way of looking at the girl he wished to make 
his wife, but seemed a grace the more in so ardent a spirit. To 
his mind she had always had wings, and this was but the nutter 
of those stainless pinions. He was not afraid of having a wife 
with a certain largeness of movement ; he was a man of long 
 
steps himself. Isabel's words, if they had been meant to shock 
him, failed of the mark, and only made him smile with the 
sense that here was common ground. " Who would wish less 
to curtail your liberty than I?" he asked. "What can give 
me greater pleasure than to see you perfectly independent 
doing whatever you like 1 It is to make you independent that 
I want to marry you." 
" That's a beautiful sophism," said the girl, with a smile more 
beautiful still. 
" An unmarried woman a girl of your age is not inde- 
pendent. There are all sorts of things she can't do. She is 
hampered at every step." 
" That's as she looks at the question," Isabel answered, with 
much spirit. " I am not in my first youth I can do what I 
choose I belong quite to the independent class. I have neither 
father nor mother ; I am poor ; 1 am of a serious disposition, 
and not pretty. I therefore am not bound to be timid and 
conventional ; indeed I can't afford such luxuries. Besides I 
try to judge things for myself; to judge wrong, 1 think, is more 
honourable than not to judge at all. I don't wish to be a mere 
sheep in the flock ; I wish to choose my fate and know some- 
thing of human affairs beyond what other people think it com- 
patible with propriety to tell me." She paused a moment, but 
not long enough for her companion to reply. He was apparently 
on the point of doing so, when she went on " Let me say this 
to you, Mr. Goodwood. You are so kind as to speak of being 
afraid of my marrying. If you should hear a rumour that I 
am on the point of doing so girls are liable to have such things 
said about them remember what I have told you about my 
love of liberty, and venturfe to doubt it." 
There was something almost passionately positive in the tone 
in which Isabel gave him this advice, and he saw a shining 
candour in her eyes which helped him to believe her. On the 
whole he felt reassured, and you might have perceived it by the 
manner in which he said, quite eagerly " You want simply to 
travel for two years ? I am quite willing to wait two years, and 
you may do what you like in the interval. If that is all you 
want, pray say so. I don't want you to be conventional ; do I 
strike you: as conventional myself ? Do you want to improve 
your mind 1 Your iuind is quite good enough for me ; .but if 
it interests you to wander about a while and see different 
countries, I shall be delighted to help you, in any way in my 
power." 
" You are very generous ; that is nothing new to me. The 
 
best way to help me will be to put as many hundred miles of 
sea between us as possible." 
" One would think you were going to commit a crime ! " said 
Caspar Goodwood. 
" Perhaps I am. I wish to be free even to do that, if the 
fancy takes me." 
"Well then," he said, slowly, "I will go home." And he 
put out his hand, trying to look contented and confident. 
Isabel's confidence in him, however, was greater than any he 
could feel in her. Not that he thought her capable of commit- 
ting a crime } but, turn it over as he would, there was something 
ominous in the way she reserved her option. As Isabel took 
his hand, she felt a great respect for him ; she knew how much 
he cared for her, and she thought him magnanimous. They 
stood so for a moment, looking at each other, united by a hand- 
clasp which was not merely passive on her side. "That's 
right," she said, very kindly, almost tenderly. " You will lose 
nothing by being a reasonable man." 
" But I will come back, wherever you are, two years hence," 
he returned, with characteristic grimness. 
We have seen that our young lady was inconsequent, and at 
this she suddenly changed her note. "Ah, remember, I 
promise nothing absolutely nothing!" Then more softly, as 
if tu help him to leave her, she added " And remember, too, 
that I shall not be an easy victim ! " 
" You will get very sick of your independence." 
" Perhaps I shall ; it is even very probable. When that day 
comes I shall be very glad to see you." 
She had laid her hand on the knob of the door that led into 
her room, and she waited a moment to see whether her visitor 
would not take his departure. But he appeared unable to 
move ; there was stiil an immense unwillingness in his attitude 
a deep remonstrance in his eyes. 
" I must leave you now," said Isabel ; and she opened the 
door, and passed into the other room. 
This apartment was dark, but the darkness was tempered by 
a vague radiance sent up through the window from the court 
of the hotel, and Isabel could make out the masses of the 
furniture, the dim shining of the mirror, and the looming of the 
big four-posted bed. She stood still a moment, listening, and 
at last she heard Caspar Goodwood walk out of the sitting-room 
and close the door behind him. She stood still a moment 
longer, and then, by an irresistible impulse, she dropped on her 
knees before her bed, and hid her face in her arms. 
 
XVII. 
SHE was not praying ; she was trembling trembling all 
over. She was an excitable creature, and now she .was much 
excited ; but she wished to resist her excitement, and the 
attitude of prayer, which she kept for some time, seemed to 
help her to be still. She was extremely glad Caspar Goodwood 
was gone ; there was something exhilarating in having got rid 
of him. As Isabel became conscious of this feeling she bowed 
her head a little lower ; the feeling was there, throbbing in her 
heart ; it was a part of her emotion ; but it was a thing to be 
ashamed of it was profane and out of place. It was not for 
some ten minutes that she rose from her knees, and when she 
came back to the sitting-room she was still trembling a little. 
Her agitation had two causes ; part of it was to be accounted 
for by her long discussion with Mr. Goodwood, but it might be 
feared that the rest was simply the enjoyment she found in the 
exercise of her power. She sat down in the same chair again, 
and took up her book, but Avithout going through the form of 
opening the volume. She leaned back, with that low, soft, 
aspiring murmur with which she often expressed her gladness 
in accidents of which the brighter side was not superficially 
obvious, and gave herself up to the satisfaction of having re- 
fused two ardent suitors within a fortnight. That love of 
liberty of which she had given Caspar Goodwood so bold a 
sketch was as yet almost exclusively thnoretic ; she had not 
been able to indulge it- on a large scale. But it seemed to her 
that she had done somnthing ; she had tasted of the delight, if 
not of battle, at least of victory ; she had done what she pre- 
ferred. In the midst of this agreeable sensation the image of 
Mr. Goodwood taking his sad walk homeward through the 
dingy town presented itself with a certain reproachful force ; so 
that, as at the same moment the door of the room was opened, 
she rose quickly with an apprehension that he had come back. 
But it was only Henrietta Stackpole returning from her dinner. 
Miss Stackpole immediately saw that something had happened 
to Isabel, and indeed the discovery demanded no great penetra- 
tion. Henrietta went straight up to her friend, who received 
her without a greeting. Isabel's elation in having sent Caspar 
Goodwood back to America pre-supposed her being glad that he 
had come to see her ; but at the same time she perfectly remem- 
bered that Henrietta had had no right to set a trap for her. 
 
" Has he been here, dear   " Miss Stackpole inquired, softly. 
Isabel turned away, and for some moments answered nothing. 
" You acted very wrongly," she said at last. 
" I acted for the best, dear. I only hope you acted as well." 
" You are not the judge. I can't trust you," said Isabel. 
This declaration was unflattering, but Henrietta was much too 
unselfish to heed the charge it conveyed ; she cared only for 
what it intimated with regard to her friend. 
"Isabel Archer," she declared, with equal abruptness and 
solemnity, " if you marry one of these people, I will never speak 
to you again ! " 
" Before making so terrible a threat, you had better wait till 
I am asked," Isabel replied. Never having said a word to Miss 
Stackpole about Lord Warburton's overtures, she had now no 
impulse whatever to justify herself to Henrietta by telling her 
that she had refused that nobleman. 
" Oh, you'll be asked quick enough, once you get off on the 
continent. Annie Climber was asked three times in Italy poor 
plain little Annie." 
" Well, if Annie Climber was not captured, why should 
Ibe " 
" I don't believe Annie was pressed ; but you'll be." 
" That's a flattering conviction," said Isabel, with a laugh. 
'" I don't flatter you, Isabel, I tell you the truth ! " cried her 
friend. " I hope you don't mean to tell me that you didn't give 
Mr. Goodwood some hope." 
" I don't see why I should tell you anything ; as I said to 
you just now, I can't trust you. But since you are so much 
interested in Mr. Goodwood, I won't conceal from you that he 
returns immediately to America." 
"You don't mean to say you have sent him off? " Henrietta 
broke out in dismay. 
" I asked him to leave me alone ; and I ask you the same, 
Henrietta." 
Miss Stackpole stood there with expanded eyes, and then she 
went to the mirror over the chimney-piece and took off her 
bonnet. 
" I hope you have enjoyed your dinner," Isabel remarked, 
lightly, as she did so. 
But Miss Stackpole was not to be diverted by frivolous pro- 
positions, nor bribed by the offer of autobiographic opportunities. 
" Do you know where you are going, Isabel Archer 1 " 
"Just now I am going to bed," said Isabel, with persistent 
frivolity. 
 
" Do you know where you are drifting   " Henrietta went on 
holding out her bonnet delicately. 
"No, I haven't the least idea, and I find it very pleasant 
not to know. A swift carnage, of a dark night, rattling with 
four horses over roads that one can't see that's my idea of 
happiness." 
" Mr. Goodwood certainly didn't teach you to say such things 
as that like the heroine of an immoral novel," said Miss Stack- 
pole. " You are drifting to some great mistake." 
Isabel was irritated by her friend's interference, but even in 
the midst of her irritation she tried to think what truth this 
declaration could represent. She could think of nothing that 
diverted her from saying " You must be very fond of me, 
Henrietta, to be willing to be so disagreeable to me." 
" I love you, Isabel!' said Miss Stackpole, with feeling. 
" Well, if you love me, let me alone. I asked that of Mr. 
Goodwood, and I must also ask it of you." 
" Take care you are not let alone too much." 
" That is what Mr. Goodwood said to me. I told him I must 
take the risks." 
" You are a creature of risks you make me shudder ! " cried 
Henrietta. " When does Mr. Goodwood return to America ?" 
" I don't know he didn't tell me." 
" Perhaps you didn't inquire," said Henrietta, with the note 
of righteous irony. 
" I gave him too little satisfaction to have the right to ask 
questions of him." 
This assertion seemed to Miss Stackpole for a moment to bid 
defiance to comment ; but at last she exclaimed " Well, Isabel, 
if I didn't know you, I might think you were heartless ! " 
" Take care," said Isabel; " you are spoiling me." 
" I am afraid I have done that already. I hope, at least," 
Miss Stackpole added, " that he may cross with Annie 
Climber ! " 
Isabel learned from her the next morning that she had deter- 
mined not to return to Gardencourt (where old Mr. Touchett 
had promised her a renewed welcome), but to await in London 
the arrival of the invitation that Mr. Bantling had promised her 
from his sister, Lady Pensil. Miss Stackpole related very freely 
her conversation with Ealph Touchett's sociable friend, and 
declared to Isabel that she really believed she had now got hold 
of something that would lead to something. On the receipt of 
Lady Pensil's letter Mr. Bantling had virtually guaranteed 
the arrival of this document she would immediately depart for 
 
Bedfordshire, and if Isabel cared to look out for her impressions 
in the Interviewer, she would certainly find them. Henrietta 
was evidently going to see something of the inner life this time. 
"Do you know where you are drifting, Henrietta Stackpolel " 
Isabel asked, imitating the tone in which her friend had spoken 
the night before. 
" I am drifting to a big position that of queen of American 
journalism. If my next letter isn't copied all over the West, 
I'll swallow my pen- wiper ! " 
She had arranged with her friend Miss Annie Climber, the 
young lady of the continental offers, that they should go together 
to make those purchases which were to constitute Miss Climber's 
farewell to a hemisphere in which she at least had been appreci- 
ated ; and she presently repaired to Jermyn Street to pick up 
her companion. Shortly after her departure Ealph Touclfett 
was announced, and as soon as he came in Isabel saw that he 
had something on his mind. He very soon took his cousin 
into his confidence. He had received a telegram from his 
mother, telling him that his father had had a sharp attack of 
his old malady, that she was much alarmed, and that she begged 
Ralph would instantly return to Gardencourt. On this occa- 
sion, at least, Mrs. Touchett's devotion to the electric wire had 
nothing incongruous. 
" I have judged it best to see the great doctor, Sir Matthew 
Hope, first," Ealph said ; " by great good luck he's in town. He 
is to see me at half-past twelve, and I shall make sure of his 
coming down to Gardencourt which he will do the more readily 
as he has already seen my father several times, both there and in 
London. There is an express at two-forty-five, which I shall 
take, and you will come back with me, or remain here a few 
days longer, exactly as you prefer." 
" I will go with you ! " Isabel exclaimed. " I don't suppose 
I can be of any use to my uncle, but if he is ill I should like to 
be near him." 
"I think you like him," said Ralph, with a certain shy 
pleasure in his eye. " You appreciate him, which all the world 
hasn't done. The quality is too fine." 
" I think I love him," said Isabel, simply. 
" That's very well. After his son, he is your greatest admirer." 
Isabel welcomed this assurance, but she gave secretly a little 
sigh of relief at the thought that Mr. Touchett was one of those 
admirers who could not propose to marry her. This, however, 
was not what she said ; she went on to inform Ralph that there 
were other reasons why she should not remain in London. She 
L 
146  
was tired of it and wished to leave it ; and then Henrietta was 
going away going to stay in Bedfordshire." 
" In Bedfordshire ? " Ralph exclaimed, with surprise. 
"With Lady Pensil, the sister of Mr. Bantling, who has 
answered for an invitation." 
Ralph was feeling anxious, but at this he broke into a laugh. 
Suddenly, however, he looked grave again. " Bantling is a man 
of courage. But if the invitation should get lost on the way   " 
" I thought the British post-office was impeccable." 
" The good Homer sometimes nods," said Ralph. " However," 
he went on, more brightly, " the good Bantling never does, and, 
whatever happens, he will take care of Henrietta," 
Ralph went to keep his appointment with Sir Matthew Hope, 
and Isabel made her arrangements for quitting Pratt's Hotel. 
He"r uncle's danger touched her nearly, and while she stood 
before her open trunk, looking about her vaguely for what she 
should put into it, the tears suddenly rushed into her eyes. It 
was perhaps for this reason that when Ralph came back at two 
o'clock to take her to the station she was not yet ready. 
He found Miss Stackpole, however, in the sitting-room, where 
she had just risen from the lunch-table, and this lady immedi- 
ately expressed her regret at his father's illness. 
" He is a grand old man," she said ; " he is faithful to the 
last. If it is really to be the last excuse my alluding to it, 
but you must often have thought of the possibility I am sorry 
that I shall not be at Gardencourt." 
"You will amuse yourself much more in Bedfordshire."  
" I shall be sorry to amuse myself at such a time," said 
Henrietta, with much propriety. But she immediately added 
" I should like so to commemorate the closing scene." 
" My father may live a long time," said Ralph, simply. 
Then, adverting to topics more cheerful, he interrogated Miss 
Stackpole as to her own future. 
Now that Ralph was in trouble, she addressed him in a tone 
of larger allowance, and told him that she was much indebted 
to him for having made her acquainted with Mr. Bantling. 
" He has told me just the things I want to know," she said ; 
" all the society-items and all about the royal family. I can't 
make out that what he tells me about the royal family is much 
to their credit ; but he says that's only my peculiar way of 
looking at it. Well, all I want is that he should give me the 
facts; I can put them together quick enough, once I've got 
them." And she added that Mr. Bantling had been so good 
as to promise to come and take her out in the afternoon. 
 
" To take you where ? " Ralph ventured to inquire. 
" To Buckingham Palace. He is going to show me over it, 
so that I may get some idea how they live." 
" Ah," said Ralph, " we leave you in good hands. The first 
thing we shall hear is that you are invited to Windsor Castle." 
" If they ask me, I shall certainly go. Once I get started I 
am not afraid. But for all that," Henrietta added in a moment, 
" I am not satisfied; I am not satisfied about Isabel." 
" What is her last misdemeanour ? " 
" Well, I have told you before, and I suppose there is no 
harm in my going on. I always finish a subject that I take up. 
Mr. Goodwood was here last night." 
Ralph opened his eyes ; he even blushed a little his blush 
being the sign of an emotion somewhat acute. He remembered 
that Isabel, in separating from him in Winchester Square, had 
repudiated his suggestion that her motive in doing so was the 
expectation of a visitor at Pratt 's Hotel, and it was a novel 
sensation to him to have to suspect her of duplicity. On the 
other hand, he quickly said to himself, what concern was it of 
his that she should have made an appointment with a lover 1 
Had it not been thought graceful in every age that young ladies 
should make a mystery of such appointments? Ralph made 
Miss Stackpole a diplomatic answer. " I should have thought 
that, with the views you expressed to me the other day, that 
would satisfy you perfectly." 
" That he should come to see her 1 That was very well, as 
far as it went. It was a little plot of mine ; I let him know 
that we were in London, and when it had been arranged that I 
should spend the evening out, I just sent him a word a word 
to the wise. I hoped he would find her alone ; I won't pretend 
I didn't hope that you would be out of the way. He came to 
see her ; but he might as well have stayed away." 
" Isabel was cruel ? " Ralph inquired, smiling, and relieved at 
learning that his cousin had not deceived him. 
" I don't exactly know what passed between them. But she 
gave him no satisfaction she sent him back to America." 
" Poor Mr. Goodwood ! " Ralph exclaimed. 
" Her only idea seems to be to get rid of him," Henrietta 
went on. 
" Poor Mr. Goodwood ! " repeated Ralph. The exclamation, 
it must be confessed, was somewhat mechanical. It failed 
exactly to express his thoughts, which were taking another 
line. 
" You don't say that as if you felt it ; I don't believe you care." 
" Ah," said Ralph, " you must remember that I don't know 
this interesting young man that I have never seen him." 
" Well, I shall see him, and I shall tell him not to give up. 
If I didn't believe Isabel would come round," said Miss Stack- 
pole " well, I'd give her up myself ! " 
XVIII. 
IT had occurred to Ralph that under the circumstances Isabel's 
parting with Miss Stackpolc might be of a slightly embarrassed 
nature, and he went down to the door of the hotel in advance 
of his cousin, who after a slight delay followed, with the traces 
of an unaccepted remonstrance, as he thought, in her eye. The 
two made the journey to Gardencourt in almost unbroken 
silence, and the servant who met them at the station had no 
better news to give them of Mr. Touchett a fact which caused 
Ralph to congratulate himself afresh on Sir Matthew Hope's 
having promised to come down in the five o'clock train and spend 
the night. Mrs. Touchett, he learned, on reaching home, had 
been constantly with the old man, and was with him at that 
moment ; and this fact made Ralph say to himself that, after 
all, what his mother wanted was simply opportunity. The 
finest natures were those that shone on large occasions. Isabel 
went to her own room, noting, throughout the house, that per- 
ceptible hush which precedes a crisis. At the end of an hour, 
however, she came down-stairs in search of her aunt, whom 
she wished to ask about Mr. Touchett. She went into the 
library, but Mrs. Touchett was not there, and as the weather, 
which had been damp and chill, was now altogether spoiled, 
it was not probable that she had gone for her usual walk in 
the grounds. Isabel was on the point of ringing to send an 
inquiry to her room, when her attention was taken by an un- 
expected sound the sound of low music proceeding appar- 
ently from the drawing-room. She knew that her aunt never 
touched the piano, and the musician was therefore probably 
Ralph, who played for his own amusement. That he should 
have resorted to this recreation at the present time, indicated 
apparently that his anxiety about his father had been relieved ; 
so that Isabel took her way to the drawing-room with much 
alertness. The drawing-room at Gardencourt was an apart- 
ment of great distances, and as the piano was placed at the end 
of it furthest removed from the door at which Isabel entered, 
 
her arrival was not noticed by the person seated before the 
instrument. This person was neither Balph nor his mother ; it 
was a lady whom Isabel immediately saw to be a stranger to 
herself, although her back was presented to the door. This 
back an ample and well-dressed one Isabel contemplated for 
some moments in surprise. The lady was of course a visitor 
who had arrived during her absence, and who had not been 
mentioned by either of the servants one of them her aunt's 
maid of whom she had had speech since her return. Isabel 
had already learned, however, that the British domestic is not 
effusive, and she was particularly conscious of having been 
treated with dryness by her aunt's maid, whose offered assistance 
the young lady from Albany versed, as young ladies are in 
Albany, in the very metaphysics of the toilet had perhaps 
made too light of. The arrival of a visitor was far from dis- 
agreeable to Isabel; she had not yet divested herself of a 
youthful impression that each new acquaintance would exert 
some momentous influence upon her life. By the time she 
had made these reflections she became aware that the lady at 
the piano played remarkably well. She was playing something 
of Beethoven's Isabel knew not what, but she recognised 
Beethoven and she touched the piano softly and discreetly, 
but with evident skill. Her touch was that of an artist ; Isabel 
sat down noiselessly on the nearest chair and waited till the 
end of the piece. When it was finished she felt a strong desire 
to thank the player, and rose from her seat to do so, while at the 
same time the lady at the piano turned quickly round, as if she 
had become aware of her presence. 
"That is very beautiful, and your playing makes it moro 
beautiful still," said Isabel, with all the young radiance with 
which she usually uttered a truthful rapture. 
"You don't think I disturbed Mr. Touchett, then?" the 
musician answered, as sweetly as this compliment deserved. 
" The house is so large, and his room so far away, that I thought 
I might venture especially as I played just just du bout des 
" She is a Frenchwoman," Isabel said to herself ; " she says 
that as if she were French." And this supposition made the 
stranger more interesting to our speculative heroine. " I hope 
my uncle is doing well," Isabel added. " I should think that 
to hear such lovely music as that would really make him feel 
better." 
The lady gave a discriminating smile. 
" I am afraid there are moments in life when even Beethoven 
 
has nothing to say to us. We must admit, however, that they 
are our worst moments." 
" I am not in that state now," said Isabel. " On the con- 
trary, I should be so glad if you would play something more." 
" If it will give you pleasure most willingly." And this 
obliging person took her place again, and struck a few chords, 
while Isabel sat down nearer the instrument. Suddenly the 
stranger stopped, with her hands on the keys, half-turning and 
looking over her shoulder at the girl. She was forty years old, 
and she was not pretty; but she had a delightful expression. 
" Excuse me," she said ; " but are you the niece the young 
American 1 " 
" I am my aunt's niece," said Isabel, with nawetS. 
The lady at the piano sat still a moment longer, looking over 
her shoulder with her charming smile. 
" That's very well," she said, " we are compatriots." 
And then she began to play. 
" Ah, then she is not French," Isabel murmured ; and as the 
opposite supposition had made her interesting, it might have 
seemed that this revelation would have diminished her effective- 
ness. But such was not the fact ; for Isabel, as she listened to 
the music, found much stimulus to conjecture in the fact that 
an American should so strongly resemble a foreign woman. 
Her companion played in the same manner as before, softly 
and solemnly, and while she played the shadows deepened in the 
room. The autumn twilight gathered in, and from her place 
Isabel could see the rain, which had now begun in earnest, 
washing the cold-looking lawn, and the wind shaking the great 
trees. At last, when the music had ceased, the lady got up, and, 
coming to her auditor, smiling, before Isabel had time to thank 
her again, said 
" I am very glad you have come  back ; I have heard a great 
deal about you." 
Isabel thought her a very attractive person ; but she never- 
theless said, with a certain abruptness, in answer to this 
speech 
" From whom have you heard about me 1 " 
The stranger hesitated a single moment, and then 
" From your uncle," she answered. " I have been here three 
days, and the first day he let me come and pay him a visit in his 
room. Then he talked constantly of you." 
" As you didn't know me, that must have bored you." 
" It made me want to know you. All the more that since 
then your aunt being so much with Mr. Touchett I have been 
 
quite alone, and have got rather tired of my own society. I 
have not chosen a good moment for my visit." 
A servant had come in with lamps, and was presently followed 
by another, bearing the tea-tray. On the appearance of this 
repast Mrs. Touchett had apparently been notified, for she now 
arrived and addressed herself to the tea-pot. Her greeting to her 
niece did not differ materially from her manner of raising the lid 
of this receptacle in order to glance at the contents : in neither 
act was it becoming to make a show of avidity. Questioned 
about her husband, she was unable to say that he was better ; 
but the local doctor was with him, and much light was expected 
from this gentleman's consultation with Sir Matthew Hope. 
" I suppose you two ladies have made acquaintance 1 " she 
said. " If you have not, I recommend you to do so ; for so long 
as we continue Ralph and I to cluster about Mr. Touchett's 
bed, you are not likely to have much society but each other." 
" I know nothing about you but that you are a great 
musician," Isabel said to the visitor. 
" There is a good deal more than that to know," Mrs. Touchett 
affirmed, in her little dry tone. 
" A very little of it, I am sure, will content Miss Archer ! " 
the lady exclaimed, with a light laugh. " I am an old friend of 
your aunt's I have lived much in Florence I am Madame 
Merle." 
She made this last announcement as if she were referring to a 
person of tolerably distinct identity. 
For Isabel, however, it represented but little ; she could only 
continue to feel that Madame Merle had a charming manner. 
" She is not a foreigner, in spite of her name," said Mrs. 
Touchett. "She was born I always forget where you were 
born." 
"It is hardly worth while I should tell you, then." 
" On the contrary," said Mrs. Touchett, who rarely missed a 
logical point ; " if I remembered, your telling me would be quite 
superfluous." 
Madame Merle glanced at Isabel with a fine, frank smile. 
" I was born under the shadow of the national banner." 
" She is too fond of mystery," said Mrs. Touchett ; " that is 
her great fault." 
" Ah," exclaimed Madame Merle, " I have great faults, but I 
don't think that is one of them ; it certainly is not the greatest. 
I came into the world in the Brooklyn navy-yard. My father 
was a high officer in the United States navy, and had a post a 
post of responsibility in that establishment at the time. I 
 
suppose I ought to love the sea, but I hate it. That's why I 
don't return to America. I love the land ; the great thing is to 
love something." 
Isabel, as a dispassionate witness, had not been struck with 
the force of Mrs. Touchett's characterisation of her visitor, who 
had an expressive, communicative, responsive face, by no means 
of the sort which, to Isabel's mind, suggested a secretive disposi- 
tion. It was a face that told of a rich nature and of quick and 
liberal impulses, and though it had no regular beauty was in the 
highest degree agreeable to contemplate. 
Madame Merle was a tall, fair, plump woman ; everything in 
her person was round and replete, though without those accumu- 
lations which minister to indolence. Her features were thick, 
but there was a graceful harmony among them, and her com- 
plexion had a healthy clearness. She had a small grey eye, with 
a great deal of light in it an eye incapable of dulness, and, 
according to some people, incapable of tears ; and a wide, firm 
mouth, which, when she smiled, drew itself upward to the left 
side, in a manner that most people thought very odd, some very 
affected, and a few very graceful. Isabel inclined to range 
herself in the last category. Madame Merle had thick, fair hair, 
which was arranged with picturesque simplicity, and a large 
white hand, of a perfect shape a shape so perfect that its 
owner, preferring to leave it unadorned, wore no rings. Isabel 
had taken her at first, as we have seen, for a Frenchwoman ; but 
extended observation led her to say to herself that Madame 
Merle might be a German a German of rank, a countess, a 
princess. Isabel would never have supposed that she had been 
born in Brooklyn though she could doubtless not have justified 
her assumption that the air of distinction, possessed by Madame 
Merle in so eminent a degree, was inconsistent with such a birth. 
It was true that the national banner had floated immediately 
over the spot of the lady's nativity, and the breezy freedom of 
the stars and stripes might have shed an influence upon the 
attitude which she then and there took towards life. And yet 
Madame Merle had evidently nothing of the fluttered, flapping 
quality of a morsel of bunting in the wind ; her deportment 
expressed the repose and confidence which come from a large 
experience. Experience, however, had not quenched her youth ; 
it had simply made her sympathetic and supple. She was in a 
word a woman of ardent impulses, kept in admirable order. 
What an ideal combination ! thought Isabel. 
She made these reflections while the three ladies sat at their 
tea ; but this cerempny was interrupted before long by the arrival 
 
of the great doctor from London, who had been immediately 
ushered into the drawing-room. Mrs. Touchett took him off to 
the library, to confer with him in private ; and then Madame 
Merle and Isabel parted, to meet again at dinner. The idea of 
seeing more of this interesting woman did much to mitigate 
Isabel's perception of the melancholy that now hung over 
Gardencourt. 
When she came into the drawing-room before dinner she 
found the place empty ; but in the course of a moment Ralph 
arrived. His anxiety about his father had been lightened ; Sir 
Matthew Hope's view of his condition was less sombre than 
Ralph's had been. The doctor recommended that the nurse 
alone should remain with the old man for the next three or four 
hours ; so that Ralph, his mother, and the great physician him- 
self, were free to dine at table. Mrs. Touchett and Sir Matthew 
came in ; Madame Merle was the last to appear. 
Before she came, Isabel spoke of her to Ralph, who was 
standing before the fireplace. 
" Pray who is Madame Merle ? " 
" The cleverest woman I know, not excepting yourself," said 
Ralph. 
" I thought she seemed very pleasant." 
" I was sure you would think her pleasant," said Ralph. 
" Is that why you invited her 1 " 
" I didn't invite her, and when we came back from London I 
didn't know she was here. No one invited her. She is a friend 
of my mother's, and just after you and I went to town, my 
mother got a note from her. She had arrived in England (she 
usually lives abroad, though she has first and last spent a good 
deal of time here), and she asked leave to come down for a few 
days. Madame Merle is a woman who can make such proposals 
with perfect confidence ; she is so welcome wherever she goes. 
And with my mother there could be no question of hesitating ; 
she is the one person in the world whom my mother very much 
admires. If she were not herself (which she after all much 
prefers), she would like to be Madame Merle. It would, indeed, 
be a great change." 
" Well, she is very charming," said Isabel. " And she plays 
beautifully." 
" She does everything beautifully. She is complete." 
Isabel looked at her cousin a moment. " You don't like her." 
" On the contrary, I was once in love with her." 
" And she didn't care for you, and that's why you don't like 
her." 
 
"How can we have discussed such things? M. Merle was 
then living." 
" Is he dead now 1 " 
"So she says." 
"Don't you believe her? " 
" Yes, because the statement agrees wiih the probabilities 
The husband of Madame Merle would be likely to pass away." 
Isabel gazed at her cousin again. " I don't know what you 
mean. You mean something that you don't mean. What was 
M. Merle ? " 
" The husband of Madame." 
" You are very odious. Has she any children ? " 
" Not the least little child fortunately." 
"Fortunately?" 
"I mean fortunately for the child; she would be sure to 
spoil it." 
Isabel was apparently on the point of assuring her cousin for 
the third time that he was odious ; but the discussion was inter- 
rupted by the arrival of the lady who was the topic of it. She 
came rustling in quickly, apologising for being late, fastening a 
bracelet, dressed in dark blue satin, which exposed a white 
bosom that was ineffectually covered by a curious silver necklace. 
Ralph offered her his arm with the exaggerated alertness of a 
man who was no longer a lover. 
Even if this had still been his condition, however, Ealph had 
other things to think about. The great doctor spent the night 
at Gardencourt, and returning to London on the morrow, after 
another consultation with Mr. Touchett' s own medical adviser, 
concurred in Ralph's desire that he should see the patient again 
on the day following. On the day following Sir Matthew Hope 
reappeared at Gardencourt, and on this occasion took a less 
encouraging view of the old man, who had grown worse in the 
twenty-four hours. His feebleness was extreme, and to his son, 
who constantly sat by his bedside, it often seemed that his end 
was at hand. The local doctor, who was a very sagacious man, 
and in whom Ealph had secretly more confidence than in his 
distinguished colleague, was constantly in attendance, and Sir 
Matthew Hope returned several times to Gardencourt. Mr. 
Touchett was much of the time unconscious ; he slept a great 
deal ; he rarely spoke. Isabel had a great desire to be useful to 
him, and was allowed to watch with him several times when 
his other attendants (of whom Mrs. Touchett was not the least 
regular) went to take rest. He never seemed to know her, and 
ehe always said to herself " Suppose he should die while I am 
 
sitting here ; " an idea which excited her and kept her awake. 
Once he opened his eyes for a while and fixed them upon her 
intelligently, but when she went to him, hoping he would recog- 
nise her, he closed them and relapsed into unconsciousness. 
The day after this, however, he revived for a longer time ; but 
on this occasion Ealph was with him alone. The old man began 
to talk, much to his son's satisfaction, who assured him that they 
should presently have him sitting up. 
" No, my boy!' said Mr. Touchett, " not unless you bury me 
in a sitting posture, as some of the ancients was it the ancients'? 
used to do." 
" Ah, daddy, don't talk about that," Ealph murmured. " You 
must not deny that you are getting better!' 
" There will be no need of my denying it if you don't say so," 
the old man answered. " Why should we prevaricate, just at 
the last? We never prevaricated before. I have got to die 
some time, and it's better to die when one is sick than when 
one is well. I am very sick as sick as I shall ever be. I hope 
you don't want to prove that I shall ever be worse than this   
That would be too bad. You don't 1 Well then." 
Having made this excellent point he became quiet ; but the 
next time that Ralph was with him he again addressed himself 
to conversation. The nurse had gone to her supper and Ralph 
was alone with him, having just relieved Mrs. Touchett, who 
had been on guard since dinner. The room was lighted only by 
the nickering fire, which of late had become necessary, and 
Ralph's tall shadow was projected upon the wall and ceiling, 
with an outline constantly varying but always grotesque. 
" Who is that with me is it my son ?" the old man asked. 
" Yes, it's your son, daddy." 
" And is there no one else ? " 
" No one else." 
Mr. Touchett said nothing for a while ; and then, " I want to 
talk a little," he went on. 
" Won't it tire you 1 " Ralph inquired. 
" It won't matter if it does. I shall have a long rest. I want 
to talk about you." 
Ralph had drawn nearer to the bed ; he sat leaning forward, 
with his hand on his father's. "You had better select a 
brighter topic," he said. 
"You were always bright; I used to be proud of your 
brightness. I should like so much to think that you would do 
something." 
"If you leave us," said Ralph, "I shall do nothing but miss you." 
 
" That is just what I don't want ; it's what I want to talk 
about. You must get a new interest." 
" I don't want a new interest, daddy. I have more old ones 
than I know what to do with." 
The old man lay there looking at his son ; his face was the 
face of the dying, but his eyes were the eyes of Daniel Touchett. 
He seemed to be reckoning over Ealph's interests. " Of course 
you have got your mother," he said at last. " You will take care 
of her." 
"My mother will always take care of herself," Ealph an- 
swered. 
" Well," said his father, " perhaps as she grows older she will 
need a little help." 
" I shall not see that. She will outlive me." 
"Very likely she will ; but that's no reason " Mr. Touchett 
let his phrase die away in a helpless but not exactly querulous 
sigh, and remained silent again. 
"Don't trouble yourself about us," said his son. "My 
mother and I get on very well together, you know." 
" You get on by always being apart ; that's not natural." 
" If you leave us, we shall probably see more of each other." 
"Well," the old man observed, with wandering irrelevance, 
" it cannot be said that my death will make much difference in 
your mother's life." 
"It will probably make more than you think." 
"Well, she'll have more money," said Mr. Touchett. "I 
have left her a good wife's portion, just as if she had been a good 
wife." 
"She has been one, daddy, according to her own theory. 
She has never troubled you." 
"Ah, some troubles are pleasant," Mr. Touchett murmured. 
" Those you have given me, for instance. But your mother has 
been less less what shall I call it 1 less out of the way since 
I have been ill. I presume she knows I have noticed it." 
" I shall certainly tell her so ; I am so glad you mention it." 
" It won't make any difference to her ; she doesn't do it to 
please me. She does it to please to please " And he lay 
a while, trying to think why she did it. " She does it to 
please herself. But that is not what I want to talk about," he 
