bury with an astounded look and a whispered, 
“See, my lord!”— pointing to a something con- 
nected with the hose. The Archbishop paled, then 
flushed, and passed the hose to the Lord High Admiral,
whispering, “See, my lord!” The Admiral 
passed the hose to the Hereditary Grand Diaperer, 
and had hardly breath enough in his body to ejaculate,
“See, my lord!” The hose drifted backward 
along the line, to the Chief Steward of the House- 
hold, the Constable of the Tower, Norroy Krng-at- 
Arms, the Master of the Wardrobe, the Chancellor 
Royal of the Duchy of Lancaster, the Third Groom 
of the Stole, the Head Ranger of Windsor Forest, 
the Second Gentleman of the Bedchamber, the First 
Lord of the Buckhounds — accompanied always with 
that amazed and frightened “See! see!” — till they 
finally reached the hands of the Chief Equerry in 
'Waiting, who gazed a moment, with a pallid face, 
upoa what had caused all this dismay, then hoarsely 
whispered, “Body of my life, a tag gone from a 
truss point! — to the Tower with the Head Keeper 
of the King’s Hose!” — after which he leaned upon 
the shoulder of the First Lord of the Buckhounds to 
regather his vanished strength while fresh hose, without 
any damaged strings to them, were brought. 
But all things must have an end, and so in time 
Tom Canty was in a condition to get out of bed. 
The proper official poured water, the proper official 
engineered the washing, the proper official stood by 
with a towel, and by and by Tom got safely through 
the purifying stage and was ready for the services of 
the Hairdresser-royal. When he at length emerged 
from his master’s hands, he was a gracious figure 
and as pretty as a girl, in his mantle and trunks 
of purple satin, and purple -plumed cap. He now 
moved in state toward his breakfast-room, through 
the midst of the courtly assemblage; and as he 
passed, these fell back, leaving his way free, and 
dropped upon their knees. 
After breakfast he was conducted, with regal 
ceremony, attended by his great officers and his 
guard of fifty Gentlemen Pensioners bearing gilt 
battle-axes, to the throne-room, where he proceeded 
to transact business of state. His “uncle,” Lord 
Hertford, took his stand by the throne, to assist the 
royal mind with wise counsel. 
The body of illustrious men named by the late 
king as his executors, appeared, to ask Tom’s ap- 
proval of certain acts of theirs — rather a form, and 
yet not wholly a form, since there was no Protector 
as yet. The Archbishop of Canterbury made report 
of the decree of the Council of Executors concern- 
ing the obseqtdes of his late most illustrious majesty, 
and finished by reading the signatures of the execu- 
tors, to wit: the Archbishop of Canterbury; the 
Lord Chancellor of England; William Lord St. John; 
John Lord Russell; Edward Earl of Hertford; John 
Viscount Lisle; Cuthbert Bishop of Durham — 
Tom was not listening — an earlier clause of the 
document was puzzling him. At this point he 
turned and whispered to Lord Hertford; 
“What day did he say the burial hath been ap- 
pointed for?” 
“The 16th of the coming month, my liege.” 
‘"Tis a strange folly. Will he keep?” 
Poor chap, he was still new to the customs of 
royalty; he was used to seeing the forlorn dead of 
Offal Court hustled out of the way with a very 
different sort of expedition. However, the Lord 
Hertford set his mind at rest with a word or two. 
A secretary of state presented an order of the 
council appointing the morrow at eleven for the 
reception of the foreign ambassadors, and desired 
the kmg’s assent. 
Tom turned an inquiring look toward Hertford, 
who whispered: 
“Your majesty will signify consent. They come 
to testify their royal masters’ sense of the heavy 
calamity which hath visited your grace and the realm 
of England.” 
Tom did as he was bidden. Another secretary 
began to read a preamble concerning the expenses 
of the late king’s household, which had amounted 
to £28,000 during the preceding six months — a sum 
so vast that it made Tom Canty gasp; he gasped 
again when the fact appeared that £20,000 of this 
money were still owing and unpaid and once more 
when it appeared that the long’s coffers were about 
empty, and his twelve hundred servants much em- 
barrassed for lack of the wages due them. Tom 
spoke out, with lively apprehension. 
“We be going to the dogs, ’tis plain. ’Tis meet 
and necessary that we take a smaller house and set 
the servants at large, sith they be of no value but to 
make delay, and trouble one with offices that harass 
the spirit and shame the soul, they misbecoming 
any but a doll, that hath nor brains nor hands to 
help itself withal. I remember me of a small house 
that standeth over against the fish-market, by Bill- 
ingsgate — ” 
A sharp pressure upon Tom’s arm stopped his 
foolish tongue and sent a blush to his face; but no 
countenance there betrayed any sign that this strange 
speech had been remarked or given concern. 
A secretary made report that forasmuch as the 
late king had provided in his will for conferring the 
ducal degree upon the Earl of Hertford and raising 
his brother, Sir Thomas Seymour, to the peerage, 
and likewise Hertford’s son to an earldom, together 
with similar aggrandizements to other great servants 
of the crown, the council had resolved to hold a 
sitting on the i6th of February for the delivering 
and confirming of these honors; and that meaniime 
the late king not having granted, in TCriting, estates 
suitable to the support of these dignities, the council, 
knowing his private wishes in that regard, had 
thought proper to grant to Seymour “500 pound 
lands,” and to Hertford’s son ”800 potind lands, and 
300 pound of the next bishop’s lands which should 
fall vacant,” — his present majesty being wtlliag. 
Tom was about to blurt out something about the 
propriety of paying the late king’s debts first before 
squandering all his money; but a timely touch 
upon his arm, from the thoughtful Hertford, saved 
him this indiscretion; wherefore he gave the royal 
assent, without spoken comment, but with much in- 
ward discomfort. While he sat reflecting a moment 
over the ease with which he was doing strange and 
glittering miracles, a happy thought shot into his 
mind: why not make his mother Duchess of Oflfal 
Court and give her an estate? But a sorrowful 
thought swept it instantly away; he was only a king 
in name, these grave veterans and great nobles were 
his masters; to them his mother was only the crea- 
ture of a diseased mind; they would simply listen to 
his project with unbelieving ears, then send for the 
doctor. 
The dull work went tediously on. Petitions were 
read, and proclamations, patents, and all manner of 
wordy, repetitious, and wearisome papers relating to 
the public business; and at last Tom sighed pa- 
thetically and murmured to himself, “In what have 
I offended, that the good God should take me away 
from the fields and the free air and the sunshine, to 
shut me up here and make me a king and affiict me 
so?” Then his poor muddled head nodded awhile, 
and presently dropped to his shoulder; and the 
business of the empire came to a standstill for want 
of that august factor, the ratifying power. Silence 
ensued around the slumbering child, and the sages 
of the realm ceased from their deliberations. 
During the forenoon, Tom had an enjoyable hour, 
by permission of his keepers, Hertford and St. 
John, with the Lady Elizabeth and the little Lady 
Jane Grey; though the spirits of the princesses were 
rather subdued by the mighty stroke that had fallen 
upon the royal house; and at the end of the visit 
his “elder sister” — afterward the “Bloody Mary” 
of history — chilled him with a solemn interview 
which had but one merit in his eyes, its brevity. 
He had a few moments to himself, and then a slim 
lad of about twelve years of age was admitted to his 
presence, whose clothing, except his snowy ruff and 
the laces about his wrists, was of black — doublet, 
hose and all. He bore no badge of mourning but a 
knot of purple ribbon on his shoulder. He ad- 
vanced hesitatingly, with head bowed and bare, and 
dropped upon one knee in front of Tom. Tom sat 
still and contemplated him soberly for a moment. 
Then he said: 
“Rise, lad. Who art thou? What wouldst have?” 
The boy rose, and stood at graceful ease, but with 
an aspect of concern in his face. He said: 
“Of a surety thou must remember me, my lord. 
I am thy whipping-boy.” 
*'My whipping-hoy?" 
“The same, your grace. I am Humphrey— 
Humphrey Marlow.” 
Tom perceived that here was some one whom his 
keepers ought to have posted him about. The 
situation was delicate. What should he do? — pre- 
tend he knew this lad, and then betray, by his every 
utterance, that he had never heard of him before? 
No, that would not do. An idea came to his relief : 
accidents like this might be likely to happen with 
some frequency, now that business urgencies would 
often call Hertford and St. John from his side, they 
being members of the council of executors; there- 
fore perhaps it would be well to strike out a plan 
himself to meet the requirements of such emergen- 
cies. Yes, that would be a wise course — he would 
practise on this boy, and see what sort of success he 
might achieve. So he stroked his brow, perplexedly, 
a moment or two, and presently said; 
“Now I seem to remember thee somewhat — but 
my wit is clogged and dim with suffering — ” 
“Alack, my poor master!” ejaculated the whip- 
ping-boy, with feeling; adding, to himself, “In 
truth ’tis as they said — his mind is gone — alas, 
poor soul! But misfortune catch me, how am I 
forgetting! they said one must not seem to observe 
that aught is wrong with him.” 
“’Tis strange how my memory doth wanton with 
me these days,” said Tom. “But mind it not — 
mend apace — a. little clue doth often serve to bring 
me back again the things and names which had 
escaped me. [And not they, only, forsooth, but 
e’en such as I ne’er heard before — as this lad shall 
see.] Give thy business speech.” 
“’Tis matter of small weight, my liege, yet will I 
touch upon it, an it please your grace. Two days 
gone by, when your majesty faulted thrice in your 
Greek — in the morning lessons — dost remember 
it?” 
“Ye-e-s — methinks I do. [It is not much of a 
lie — an I had meddled with the Greek at all, I had 
not faulted simply thrice, but forty times.] Yes, I 
do recall it now — go on.” 
— “The master, being wroth with what he termed 
such slovenly and doltish work, did promise that he 
would soundly whip me for it — and — ” 
“Whip theeJ” said Tom, astonished out of his 
presence of mind. “Why should he whip thee for 
faults of mine?” 
“Ah, your grace forgetteth again. He always 
scourgeth me, when thou dost fail in thy les- 
sons,” 
“True, true — had forgot. Thou teachest me 
in private — then if I fail, he argueth that thy office 
was lamely done, and — ” 
“Oh, my liege, what words are these? I, the 
humblest of thy servants, presume to teach thee?” 
“Then where is thy blame? What riddle is this? 
Am I in truth gone mad, or is it thou? Explain — 
speak out.” 
“But, good your majesty, there’s naught that 
needeth simplifying. None may visit the sacred 
person of the Prince of Wales with blows; where- 
fore when he faulteth, ’tis I that take them; and 
meet it is and right, for that it is mine office and 
my livelihood.” 
Tom stared at the tranquil boy, observing to him- 
self, “Lo, it is a wonderful thing— a most strange 
and curious trade; I marvel they have not hired a 
boy to take my combings and my dressings for me 
— would heaven they wotild! — an they will do this 
thing, I will take my lashings in mine own person, 
giving God thanks for the change.” Then he said 
aloud; 
“And hast thou been beaten, poor friend, accord- 
ing to the promise?” 
“No, good your majesty, my punishment was 
appointed for this day, and peradventure it may be 
annulled, as tmbefitting the season of mourning that 
is come upon us; I know not, and so have made 
bold to come hither and remind your grace about 
your gracious promise to intercede in my belialf — ” 
‘ ‘ With the master ? To save thee thy whipping ?’ ’ 
“Ah, thou dost remember!” 
“My memory mendeth, thou seest. Set thy 
mind at ease — thy back shall go unscathed — I will 
see to it.” 
“Oh, thanks, my good lord!” cried the boy, 
dropping upon his knee again. “Mayhap I have 
ventured far enow; and yet”. . . . 
Seeing Master Humphrey hesitate, Tom encour- 
aged him to go on, saying he was “in the granting 
mood.” 
“Then will I qjeak it out, for it lieth near my 
heart. Sith thou art no more Prince of Wales but 
king, thou canst order matters as thou wilt, with 
none to say thee nay; wherefore it is not in reason 
that thou wilt longer vex thyself with dreary studies, 
but wilt bum thy books and turn thy mind to things 
less irksome. Then am I ruined, and mine orphan 
sisters with me!” 
“Ruined? Prithee, how?” 
“My back is my bread, O my gracious liege! M 
it go idle, I starve. An thou cease from study, 
mine office is gone, thou’lt need no whipping-boy. 
Do not turn me away!” 
Tom was touched with this pathetic distress. He 
said, with a right royal burst of generosity: 
“Discomfort thyself no further, lad. Thine office 
fihflll be permanent in thee and thy line, forever.” 
Then he struck the boy a light blow on the shoulder 
with the flat of his sword, exclaiming, “Rise, Hum- 
phrey Marlow, Hereditary Grand Whipping-Boy 
to the royal house of England! Banish sorrow — 
will betake me to my books again, and study so lU 
that they must in justice treble thy wage, so mightily 
shall the business of thine office be augmented.” 
The grateful Humphrey responded fervidly: 
“Thanks, oh, most noble master, this princely 
lavishness doth far surpass my most distempered 
dreams of fortune. Now shall I be happy all my 
days, and all the house of Marlow after me.” 
Tom had wit enough to perceive that here was a 
lad who could be useful to him. He encouraged 
Htunphrey to talk, and he was nothing loath. He 
was delighted to believe that he was helping in 
Tom’s “cure”; for always, as soon as he had finished 
calling back to Tom’s diseased mind the various 
particulars of his experiences and adventures in 
the royal schoolroom and elsewhere about the 
palace, he noticed that Tom was then able to “re- 
call” the circumstances quite clearly. At the end 
of an hour Tom found himself well freighted with 
very valuable information concerning personages 
and matters pertaining to the court; so he resolved 
to draw instruction from this source daily; and to 
this end he would give order to admit Humphrey to 
the royal closet whenever he might come, provided 
the majesty of England was not engaged with other 
people. 
Humphrey had hardly been dismissed when my 
Lord Hertford arrived with more trouble for Tom. 
He said that the lords of the council, fearing that 
some overwrought report of the king’s damaged 
health might have leaked out and got abroad, they 
deemed it wise and best that his majesty should 
begin to dine in public after a day or two — his 
wholesome complexion and vigorous step, assisted 
by a carefully guarded repose of manner and ease 
and grace of demeanor, would more surely quiet the 
general pulse — in case any evil rumors had gone 
about — than any other scheme that could be devised. 
Then the earl proceeded, very delicately, to instruct 
Tom as to the observances proper to the 
stately occasion, under the rather thin disguise of 
“reminding” him concerning things already known 
to him; but to his vast gratification it turned out that 
Tom needed very little help in this line — he had been 
making use of Humphrey in that direction, for 
Humphrey had mentioned that within a few days he 
was to begin to dine in public; having gathered it 
from the swift-winged gossip of the court. Tom 
kept these facts to himself, however. 
Seeing the royal memoiy so improved, the earl 
ventured to apply a few tests to it, in an apparently 
casual way, to find out how far its amendment had 
progressed. The results were happy, here and there, 
in gjots — spots where Humphrey’s tracks remained 
— aind, on the whole, my lord was greatly pleased 
and encouraged. So encouraged was he, indeed, 
that he spoke up and said in a quite hopeful voice: 
“Now am I persuaded that if your majesty will 
but tax your memory yet a little further, it -v re- 
solve the puzzle of the Great Seal — a loss which 
was of moment yesterday, although of none to-day, 
since its term of service ended with our late lord’s 
life. May it please your grace to make the trial?” 
Tom was at sea — a. Great Seal was a something 
which he was totally unacquainted with. After a 
moment’s hesitation he looked up innocently and 
asked: 
“What was it like, my lord?” 
The earl started, almost imperceptibly, muttering 
to himself, “Alack, his wits are flown again! — it 
was ill wisdom to lead him on to strain them” — 
then he deftly turned the talk to other matters, with 
the purpose of sweeping the unlucky Seal out of 
Tom’s thoughts — a purpose which easily succeeded. 
CHAPTER XV 
TOM AS KING 
The next day the foreign ambassadors came, 
with their gorgeous trains; and Tom, throned 
in awful state, received them. The splendors of the 
scene delighted his eye and fired his imagination at 
first, but the audience was long and dreary, and so 
were most of the addresses — wherefore, what began 
as a pleasure, grew rato weariness and homesickness 
by and by. Tom said the words which Hertford 
put into his mouth from time to time, and tried 
hard to acquit himself satisfactorily, but he was too 
new to such things, and too ill at ease to accomplish 
more than a tolerable success. He looked suflS- 
dently like a king, but he was ill able to feel like 
one. He was cordially glad when the ceremony was 
aided. 
The larger part of his day was “wasted” — as he 
termed it, in his own mind — in labors pertaining to 
his royal office. Even the two hours devoted to 
certain princely pastimes and recreations were rather 
a burden to him than otherwise, they were so fettered 
by restrictions and ceremonious observances. 
However, he had a private hour with his whipping- 
boy which he counted clear gain, since he got both 
enterta inme nt and needful information out of it. 
The third day of Tom Canty’s kingship came and 
went much as the others had done, but there was a 
lifting of his cloud in one way — he felt less uncomfortable 
than at first; he was getting a little used to 
his circumstances and surrotmdings; his chains still 
galled, but not all the time; he found that the 
presence a nd homage of the great afiflicted and 
embarrassed him less and less sharply with every hour 
that drifted over his head. 
But for one single dread, he could have seen the 
fourth day approach without serious distress — the 
dining in public; it was to begin that day. There 
were greater matters in the program — for on that 
day he would have to preside at a council which 
would take his views and commands concerning the 
policy to be pursued toward various foreign nations 
scattered far and near over the great globe; on that 
day, too, Hertford would be formally chosen to the 
grand office of Lord Protector; other things of note 
were appointed for that fourth day also, but to Tom 
they were all insignificant compared with the ordeal 
of dining all by himself with a multitude of curious 
eyes fastened upon him and a multitude of mouths 
whispering comments upon his performance — and 
upon his mistakes, if he should be so unludsy as to 
make any. 
Still, not hing could stop that fourth day, and so 
it came. It found poor Tom low-spirited and ab- 
sent-minded, and this mood continued; he could not 
shake it off. The ordinary duties of the morning 
dragged upon his hands, and wearied him. Once 
more he felt the sense of captivity heavy upon him. 
Late in the forenoon he was in a large audience 
chamber, conversing with the Earl of Hertford and 
duly awaiting the striking of the hour appointed for 
a visit of ceremony from a considerable number of 
great officials and courtiers. 
After a little while Tom, who had wandered to a 
window and become interested in the life and movement
of the great highway beyond the palace gates 
— and not idly interested, but longing with all his 
heart to take part in person in its stir and freedom 
—saw the van of a hooting and shouting mob of 
disorderly men, women, and children of the lowest 
and poorest degree approaching from up the road. 
“I would I knew what ’tis about!” he exclaimed, 
with all a boy’s curiosity in such happenings. 
“Thou art the king!” solemnly responded the 
earl, with a reverence. “Have I yottr grace’s leave 
to act?” 
“Oh, blithely, yes! Oh, gladly, yes!” exclaimed 
Tom, excitedly, adding to himself with a lively sense 
of satisfaction, “In truth, being a king is not all 
dreariness — it hath its compensations and con- 
veniences.” 
The earl called a page, and sent him to the cap- 
tain of the guard 'with the order: 
“Let the mob be halted, and inquiry made con- 
cerning the occasion of its movement. By the 
king’s command!” 
A few seconds later a long rank of the royal 
guards, cased in flashing steel, filed out at the gates 
and formed across the highway in front of the 
multitude. A messenger returned, to report that 
the crowd were following a man, a woman, and a 
young girl to execution for crimes committed against 
the peace and dignity of the realm. 
Death — and a violent death — for these poor un- 
fortunates ! The thought wrung Tom’s heartstrings. 
The spirit of compassion took control of him, to the 
exclusion of all other considerations ; he never thought 
of the offended laws, or of the grief or loss which 
these three criminals had inflicted upon fheir vic- 
tims, he could think of nothing but the scaffold and 
the grisly fate hanging over the hea(k of the con- 
demned. His concern made him even forget, for 
the moment, that he was but the false shadow of a 
king, not the substance; and before he knew it he 
had blurted out the command; 
“Bring them here!” 
Then he blushed scarlet, and a sort of apology 
spnmg to his lips; but observing that his order had 
wrought no sort of surprise in the earl or the waiting 
page, he suppressed the words he was about to 
utter. The page, in the most matter-of-course way, 
made a profound obeisance and retired backward 
out of the room to deliver the command. Tom 
experienced a glow of pride and a renewed sense of 
the compensating advantages of the kingly office. 
He said to himself, “Truly it is like what I used to 
feel when I read the old priest’s tales, and did im- 
agine mine own self a prince, giving law and com- 
mand to all, saying, ‘Do this, do that,’ while none 
durst offer let or hindrance to my will.” 
Now the doors swung open; one high-sounding 
title after another was announced, the personages 
owning them followed, and the place was qtdcMy 
half filled with noble folk and finery. But Tom was 
hardly conscious of the presence of these people, so 
wrought up was he and so intensely absorbed in that 
other and more interesting matter. He seated 
himself, absently, in his chair of state, and turned his 
eyes upon the door with manifestations of impatient 
expectancy; seeing which, the company for- 
bore to trouble him, and fell to chatting a mixture 
of public business and court gossip one with another. 
In a little while the measured tread of military 
men was heard approaching, and the culprits entered 
the presence in charge of an under-sheriff and 
escorted by a detail of the Mng’s guard. The civil 
officer knelt before Tom, then stood aside; the three 
doomed persons knelt also, and remained so; the 
guard took position behind Tom’s chair. Tom 
scanned the prisoners curiously. Something about 
the dress or appearance of the man had stirred a 
vague memory in him. “Methinks I have seen this 
man ere now . . . but the when or the where fail 
me” — such was Tom’s thought. Just then the man 
glanced quickly up, and quickly dropped his face 
again, not being able to endure the awful port of 
sovereignty; but the one full glimpse of the face, 
which Tom got, was sufficient. He said to himself: 
“Now is the matter dear; this is the stranger that 
plucked Giles Witt out of the Thames, and saved 
his life that windy, bitter first day of the New Year 
— a brave, good deed — pity he hath been doing 
baser ones and got himself in this sad case. ... I 
have not forgot the day, neither the hour; by reason 
that an hour after, upon the stroke of eleven, I did 
get a hiding by the hand of Gammer Canty which 
was of so goodly and admired severity that all that 
went before or followed after it were but fondlings 
and caresses by comparison.” 
Tom now ordered that the woman and the girl 
be removed from the presence for a little time; then 
addressed himself to the under-sheriff, saying: 
“Good sir, what is this man’s offense?” 
The officer knelt, and answered: 
‘‘So please your majesty, he hath taken the life 
of a subject by poison.” 
Tom’s compassion for the prisoner, and admiration
of him as the daring rescuer of a drowning boy, 
experienced a most damaging shock. 
“The thing was proven upon him?” he asked. 
“Most clearly, sire.” 
Tom sighed, and said: 
“Take him away — he hath earned his death. 
’Tis a pity, for he was a brave heart — na — na, I 
mean he hath the look of it!” 
The prisoner clasped his hands together with sud- 
den energy, and wrung them despairingly, at the 
same time appealing imploringly to the “king” in 
broken and terrified phrases: 
“Oh, my lord the king, an thou canst pity the 
lost, have pity upon me! I am innocent — neither 
hath that wherewith I am charged been more than 
but lamely proved — yet I speak not of that; the 
judgment is gone forth against me and may not 
suffer alteration; yet in mine extremity I beg a 
boon, for my doom is more than I can bear. A 
grace, a grace, my lord the king! in thy royal
compassion grant my prayer — give commandment that 
I be hanged!” 
Tom was amazed. This was not the outcome he 
had looked for. 
“Odds my life, a strange boon! Was it not the 
fate intended thee?” 
“Oh, good my liege, not so! It is ordered that 
I be boiled alive! ” 
The hideous surprise of these words almost made 
Tom spring from his chair. As soon as he could 
recover his wits he cried out : 
“Have thy wish, poor soul! an thou had poisoned 
a hundred men thou shouldst not suffer so miserable 
a death.” 
The prisoner bowed his face to the ground and 
burst into passionate expressions of gratitude — 
ending with: 
“If ever thou shouldst know noisfortune — which 
God forbid! — may thy goodness to me this day be 
remembered and requited!” 
Tom ttuned to the Earl of Hertford, and said: 
“My lord, is it believable that there was warrant 
for this man’s ferocious doom?” 
“It is the law, your grace — for poisoners. In 
Germany coiners be boiled to death in oil — not cast 
in of a sudden, but by a rope let down into the oil 
by degrees, and slowly; first the feet, then the legs, 
then—” 
“Oh, prithee, no more, my lord, I cannot bear 
it !” cried Tom, covering his eyes with his hands to 
shut out the picture. “I beseech your good lordship 
that order be taken to change this law — oh, let 
no more poor creatures be visited with its tortures.” 
The earl’s face showed profound gratification, for 
he was a man of merciful and generous impulses — a 
thing not very common with his class in that fierce 
age. He said : 
“These your grace’s noble words have sealed its 
doom. History will remember it to the honor of 
your royal house.” 
The under-sheriff was about to remove his pris- 
oner; Tom gave him a sign to wait; then he said: 
“Good sir, I would look into this matter further. 
The man has said his deed was but lamely proved. 
Tell me what thou knowest.” 
“If the king’s grace please, it did appear upon 
the trial, that this man entered into a house in the 
hamlet of Islington where one lay sick — three
witnesses say it was at ten of the clock in the morning 
and two say it was some minutes later — the sick 
man being alone at the time, and sleeping — and 
presently the man came forth again, and went his 
way. The sick man died within the hour, being 
tom with spasm and retchings.” 
“Did any see the poison givai? Was poison 
found?” 
“Many, no, my liege.” 
“Then how doth one know there was poison 
given at all?” 
“Please your majesty, the doctors testified that 
none die with such symptoms but by poison.” 
Weighty evidence, this — in that simple age, Tom 
recognized its formidable nature, and said: 
“The doctor knoweth his trade — belike they 
were right. The matter hath an ill look for this 
poor man.” 
“Yet was not this all, your majesty; there is 
more and worse. Many testified that a witch, since 
gone from the village, none know whither, did 
foretell, and speak it privately in their ears, that the 
sick man would die by poison — and more, that a 
stranger would give it — & stranger with brown hair 
and clothed in a worn and common garb ; and surely 
this prisoner doth answer woundily to the bill. 
Please, your majesty, to give the circumstance that 
solemn weight which is its due, seeing it was fore 
told." 
This was an argument of tremendous force, in 
that superstitious day. Tom felt that the thing was 
settled; if evidence was worth anything, this poor 
fellow’s guilt was proved. Still he offered the 
prisoner a chance, saying: 
“If thou canst say aught in thy behalf, speak.” 
“Naught that will avail, my king. I am inno- 
cent, yet cannot I make it appear. I have no friends, 
else might I show that I was not in Islington that 
day; so also might I show that at that hour they 
name I was above a league away, seeing I was at 
Wapping Old Stairs; yea more, my king, for I 
could show, that while they say I was taking life, I 
was saving it. A drowning boy — ” 
‘ ‘ Peace ! Sheriff, name the day the deed was done !” 
“At ten in the morning, or some minutes later, 
the first day of the new year, most illustrious — ” 
“Let the prisoner go free — it is the king’s will!” 
Another blush followed this unregal outburst, and 
he covered his indecorum as well as he could by 
adding; 
“It enrageth me that a man should be hanged 
upon such idle, hare-brained evidence I’’ 
A low buzz of admiration swept through the 
assemblage. It was not admiration of the decree 
that had been delivered by Tom, for the propriety 
or expediency of pardoning a convicted poisoner 
was a thing which few there would have felt justified 
in either admitting or admiring — no, the admiration 
was for the intelligence and spirit which Tom had 
displayed. Some of the low-voiced remarks were 
to this effect: 
“This is no mad king — he hath his wits sound.” 
“How sanely he put his questions — how like his 
former natural self was this abrupt, imperious dis- 
posal of the matter!” 
“God be thanked his infirmity is spent! This is 
no weakling, but a king. He hath borne himself 
like to his own father.” 
The air being filled with applause, Tom’s ear 
necessarily caught a little of it. The effect which 
this had upon him was to put him greatly at his 
ease, and also to charge his system with very 
gratifying sensations. 
However, his juvenile curiosity soon rose superior 
to these pleasant thoughts and feelings; he was 
eager to know what sort of deadly mischief the 
woman and the little girl could have been about; so, 
by his command the two terrified and sobbing
creatures were brought before him. 
“What is it that these have done?” he inquired 
of the sheriff. 
“Please your majesty, a black crime is charged 
upon them, and clearly proven; wherefore the judges 
have decreed, according to the law, that they be 
hanged. They sold themselves to the devil — such 
is their crime.” 
Tom shuddered. He had been taught to abhor 
people who did this wicked thing. Still, he was not 
going to deny himself the pleasure of feeding his 
ctuiosity, for all that; so he asked: 
“Where was this done? — and when?” 
“On a midnight, in December — in a ruined 
church, your majesty.” 
Tom shuddered again. 
“Who was there present?” 
“Only these two, your grace — and that other.” 
“Have these confessed?” 
“Nay, not so, sire — they do deny it.” 
“Then, prithee, how was it known?” 
“Certain witnesses did see them wending thither, 
good your majesty; this bred the suspicion, and 
dire efiEects have since confirmed and justified it. In 
particular, it is in evidence that through the wicked 
power so obtained, they did invoke and bring about 
a storm that wasted all the region round about. 
Above forty witnesses have proved the storm; and 
sooth one might have had a thousand, for all had 
reason to remember it, sith all had suffered by it.” 
“Certes this is a serious matter.” Tom turned 
this dark piece of scoundrelism over in his mind 
awhile, then asked: 
“Sttffered the woman, also, by the storm?” 
Several old heads among the assmiblage nodded 
their recognition of the wisdom of this question. 
The sheriff, however, saw nothing consequential in 
the inquiry; he answered, with simple directness: 
“Indeed, did she, your majesty, and most right- 
eously, as all aver. Her habitation was swept away, 
and herself and child left shelterless.” 
“Methinks the power to do herself so ill a turn 
was dearly bought. She had been cheated, had she 
paid but a farthing for it; that she paid her soul, 
and her child’s, argueth that she is mad; if she is mad 
she kno weth not what she doth, therefore sinneth not. ’’ 
The elderly heads nodded recognition of Tom’s 
wisdom once more, and one individual murmured, 
“An the king be mad himself, according to report, 
then it is a madness of a sort that would improve 
the sanity of some I wot of, if by the gentle 
providence of God they cotdd but catch it.” 
“What age hath the child?” asked Tom. 
“Nine years, please your majesty.” 
“By the law of England may a child enter into 
covenant and sell itself, my lord?” asked Tom, 
turning to a learned judge. 
“The law doth not permit a child to make or 
meddle in any weighty matter, good my liege, holding
that its callow wit unfitteth it to cope with the 
riper wit and evil schemings of them that are its 
elders. The devil may buy a child, if he so choose, 
and the child agree thereto, but not an Englishman 
— in this latter case the contract would be null and 
void.” 
“It seemeth a rude tmchristian thing, and ill 
contrived, that English law denieth privileges to 
Englishmen, to waste them on the devil!” cried Tom, with 
honest heat. 
This novel view of the matter excited many smiles, 
and was stored away in many heads to be repeated 
about the court as evidence of Tom’s originality as 
well as progress toward mental health. 
The elder culprit had ceased from sobbing, and 
was hanging upon Tom’s words with an excited 
interest and a growing hope. Tom noticed this, 
and it strongly inclined his sympathies toward her 
in her perilous and unfriended situation. Presently 
he asked: 
"How wrought they, to bring the storm?” 
“By pulling off their stockings, sire.” 
This astonished Tom, and also fired his curiosity 
to fever heat. He said, eagerly: 
"It is wonderful ! Hath it always this dread effect ?” 
"Always, my Hege — at least if the woman desire 
it, and utter the needful words, either in her mind 
or with her tongue.” 
Tom turned to the womans and said with impetu- 
ous zeal: 
"Exert thy power — would see a storm!” 
There was a sudden paling of cheeks in the superstitious 
assemblage, and a general, though unexpressed,
desire to get out of the place — all of which 
was lost upon Tom, who was dead to everything but 
the proposed cataclysm. Seeing a puzzled and 
astonished look in the woman’s face, he added, excitedly; 
 
“Never fear — thou shalt be blameless. More — 
thou shalt go free — none shall touch thee. Exert 
thy power.” 
“O, my lord the king, I have it not — I have 
been falsely accused.” 
“Thy fears stay thee. Be of good heart, thou 
shalt suffer no harm. Make a storm — it mattereth 
not how small a one — require naught great or 
harmful, but indeed prefer the opposite— do this 
and thy life is spared — thou shalt go out free, with 
thy child, bearing the king’s pardon, and safe from 
hurt or malice from any in the realm.” 
The woman prostrated herself, and protested, with 
tears, that she had no power to do the miracle, else 
she would gladly win her child’s life alone, and be 
content to lose her own, if by obedience to the 
king’s command so precious a grace might be acquired. 
Tom urged — the woman still adhered to her 
declarations. Finally, he said: 
“I think the woman hath said true. An my 
mother were in her place and gifted with the devd’s 
functions, she had not stayed a moment to call her 
storms and lay the whole land in ruins, if the saving 
of my forfeit life were the price she got! It is 
argument that other mothers are made in like 
mold. Thou art free, good wife — thou and thy 
child — for I do think thee innocent. Now thou’st 
naught to fear, being pardoned — pull off thy stockings! 
— an thou canst make me a storm, thou shalt 
be rich !” 
The redeemed creature was loud in her gratitude, 
and proceeded to obey, while Tom looked on with 
eager expectancy, a little marred by apprehension; 
the courtiers at the same time manifesting decided 
discomfort and uneasiness. The woman stripped 
her own feet and her little girl’s also, and plainly 
did her best to reward the king’s generosity with an 
earthquake, but it was all a failure and a disappointment. 
Tom sighed, and said: 
“There, good soul, trouble thyself no further, 
thy power is departed out of thee. Go thy way in 
peace; and if it return to thee at any time, forget 
me not, but fetch me a storm.”  
CHAPTER XVI 
THE STATE DINNER 
The dinner -hour drew near — yet, strangely 
enough, the thought brought but sKght dis- 
comfort to Tom, and hardly any terror. The morn- 
ing’s experiences had wonderfully built up his 
confidence; the poor little ash-cat was already more 
wonted to his strange garret, after four days’ habit, 
than a mature person could have become in a full 
month. A child’s facility in accommodating itself 
to circumstances was never more strikingly illus- 
trated. 
Let us privileged ones htury to the great banquet- 
ing-room and have a glance at matters there while 
Tom is being made ready for the imposing occasion. 
It is a spacious apartment, with gilded pillars and 
pilasters, and pictured walls and ceilings. At the 
door stand tall guards, as rigid as statues, dressed 
in rich and picturesque costumes, and bearing hal- 
berds. In a high gallery which runs all around the 
place is a band of musicians and a packed com- 
pany of citizens of both sexes, in brilliant attire. 
In the center of the room, upon a raised platform, 
is Tom’s table. Now let the ancient chronicler 
speak: 
“A gentleman enters the room bearing a rod, 
and along with him another bearing a table-doth, 
which, after they have both kneeled three times with 
the utmost veneration, he spreads upon the table, 
and after kneeling again they both retire ; then come 
two others, one with the rod again, the other with 
a salt-cellar, a plate, and bread; when they have 
kneeled as the others had done, and placed what was 
brought upon the table, they too retire with the 
same ceremonies performed by the first; at last 
come two nobles, richly clothed, one bearing a 
tasting-knife, who, after prostrating themselves in 
the most graceful manner, approach and rub the 
table with bread and salt, with as much awe as if 
the king had been present.” 
So end the solemn preliminaries. Now, far down 
the echoing corridors we hear a bugle-blast, and the 
indistinct cry, "Place for the king! way for the 
king’s most excellent majesty!” These sounds are 
momently repeated — they grow nearer and nearer — 
and presently, almost in our faces, the martial note 
peals and the cry rings out, “Way for the king!” 
At this instant the shining pageant appears, and 
files in at the door, with a measured march. Let 
the chronicler speak again: 
“First come Gentlemen, Barons, Earls, Knights 
of the Garter, all richly dressed and bareheaded; 
next comes the Chancellor, between two, one of 
which carries the royal scepter, the other the Sword 
of State in a red scabbard, studded with golden 
fleurs-de-lis, the point upwards; next comes the King 
himself — whom, upon his appearing, twelve trumpets 
and many drums salute with a great burst of welcome, 
whilst all in the galleries rise in their places, 
crying ‘God save the King!’ After him come 
nobles attached to his person, and on his right and 
left march his guard of honor, his fifty Gentlemen 
Pensioners, with gilt battle-axes.” 
This was all fine and pleasant. Tom’s pulse beat 
high and a glad light was in his eye. He bore himself 
right gracefully, and all the more so because he 
was not thinking of how he was doing it, his mind 
being charmed and occupied with the blithe sights 
and sounds about him — and besides, nobody can 
be very ungraceful in nicely fitting beautiful clothes 
after he has grown a little used to them — especially 
if he is for the moment unconscious of them. Tom 
remembered his instructions, and acknowledged his 
greeting with a slight inclination of his plumed head, 
and a courteous ‘‘I thank ye, my good people.” 
He seated himself at table without removing his 
cap; and did it without the least embarrassment: 
for to eat with one’s cap on was the one solitary 
royal pustom upon which the kings and the Cantys 
met upon common ground, neither party having any 
advantage over the other in the matter of old 
familiarity with it. The pageant broke up and 
grquped itself picturesquely, and remained bare- 
headed. 
Now, to the sound of gay music, the Yeomen of 
the Guard entered — “the tallest and mightiest men 
in England, they being selected in this regard” — but 
we win let the chronicler tell about it : 
“The Yeomen of the Guard entered bareheaded, 
clothed in scarlet, wth golden roses upon their 
backs; and these went and came, bringing in each 
turn a course of dishes, served in plate. These 
dishes •were received by a gentleman in the same 
order they were brought, and placed upon the table, 
while the taster gave to each guard a mouthful to 
eat of the particular dish he had brought, for fear 
of any poison.” 
Tom made a good dinner, not'withstanding he was 
conscious that hmxdreds of eyes followed each morsel 
to his mouth and watched him eat it with an inter- 
est which could not have been more intense if it had 
been a deadly explosive and was expected to blow 
him up and scatter him all over the place. He 
was careful not to hurry, and equally careftd not to 
do anything whatever for himself, but wait till the 
proper official knelt down and did it for him. Ete 
got through without a mistake — flawless and precious 
triumph. 
• When the meal was over at last and he marched 
away in the midst of his bright pageant, with the 
happy noises in his ears of blaring bugles, rolling 
drums, and thundering acclamations, he felt that if 
he had seen the worst of dining in public, it was an 
ordeal which he would be glad to endure several 
times a day if by that means he could but buy himself
free from some of the more formidable require- 
ments of his royal office. 
CHAPTER XVII 
FOO-FOO THE FIRST 
Miles HENDON hurried along toward the 
Southwark end of the bridge, keeping a sharp 
lookout for the persons he sought, and hoping and 
expecting to overtake them presently. He was disappointed 
in this, however. By asking questions, 
he was enabled to track them part of the way 
through Southwark; then all traces ceased, and he 
was perplexed as to how to proceed. Still, he continued 
his efforts as best he could during the rest 
of the day. Nightfall foimd him leg-weary, half 
famished, and his desire as far from accomplishment 
as ever; so he supped at the Tabard inn and went 
to bed, resolved to make an early start in the morning,
and give the town an exhaustive search. As 
he lay thinking and planning, he presently began to 
reason thus : The boy would escape from the ruffian, 
his reputed father, if possible; would he go back to 
London and seek his former haimts? No, he would 
not do that, he would avoid recapture. What, then, 
would he do? Never having had a friend in the 
wcorld, or a protector, until he met Miles Hendon, 
he would naturally try to find that friend again, 
provided the effort did not require him to go toward 
London and danger. He would strike for Hendon 
Hall, that is what he woidd do, for he loiew Hendoa 
was homeward bound, and there he might expect 
to find him. Yes, the case was plain to Hendon — he 
must lose no more time in Southwark, but move at 
once through Kent, toward Monk’s Holm, searching 
the wood and inqtdring as he went. Let us return 
to the vanished little king now. 
The ruffian, whom the waiter at the inn on the 
Bridge saw “about to join” the youth and the king, 
did not exactly join them, but fell in close behind 
them and followed their steps. He said nothing. 
His left arm was in a sling, and he wore a large 
green patch over his left eye; he limped slightly, 
and used an oaken staff as a support. The youth 
led the king a crooked course through Southwark, 
and by and by struck into the highroad beyond. 
The king was irritated now, and said he would stop 
here — it was Hendon’s place to come to Mm, not his 
to go to Hendon. He would not endure such 
insolence; ho would stop where he was. The youth 
said: 
“Thou’lt taiTy here, and thy friend lying wotmded 
in the wood yonder? So be it, then.” 
The king’s manner changed at once. He cried 
out: 
“Wounded? And who hath dared to do it? But 
that is apart; lead on, lead on I Faster, sirrah! art 
shod with lead? Wounded, is he? Now though the 
doer of it be a duke’s son, he shall rue it!” 
It was some distance to the wood, but the space 
was speedily traversed. The youth looked about 
him, discovered a bough sticking in the ground, 
with a small bit of rag tied to it, then led the way 
iito the forest, watching for similar boughs and 
fkiding them at intervals; they were evidently guides 
tc the point he was aiming at. By and by an open 
place was reached, where were the charred remains 
of a farmhouse, and near them a bam which was 
falling to ruin and decay. There was no sign of 
life anywhere, and utter silence prevailed. The 
youth entered the bam, the king following eagerly 
