sophic age, just as this old house lapped over too far into 
past decades to be modernized. Certainly, Mark Ormis- 
ton was to be commended for making his additions so 
in keeping with its spirit. He could not fancy Ward 
Allaire here in the capacity of master ; he was too friv- 
olous, too much taken up with small personal desires. 
Would they change and refurnish and belittle? Perhaps 
they would not come at all. Was Miss Ormiston's fancy 
anything beyond a sense of ownership? He knew so very 
litda about her. 
 
 
CHAFTBB VI. 
THAT KNOWLEDOB IS SOBSOIT. 
Christhas ORBasTON is walking under the great maples 
at Meadowcroft that shower down on her the red 
blossoms in which the early spring has arrayed them. 
The grass is of a tender, soggestive greenness; the 
beds are full of yellow jonquil and almost every shade of 
crocus. Baqk in the edges are hosts of white and blue 
field violets. Nature is allowed some rights here that 
gardeners are bound to respect. 
They have left the city on Mrs. Allaire's account, and 
very much to Dolly's disgust. But her mother has been 
threatened with an illness, and the doctor ordered her 
away at once. 
''You two girls may remain with Helen,'' she says, 
languidly. 
'' I would rather go," Christmas replies, at once. 
Later on she recognizes one of the vague impulses that 
warns her to fly from a danger ; but she feels now that she 
is tired of balls and parties, theatres, drives, calls, and 
luncheons. The same people, the same dances and jests 
worn threadbare. Does it amuse or interest? How can 
women endure it year after year? How can Helen Stan- 
nard, with her fine and noble mental gifts, bend all her 
energies to keep at the head of a small circle, and with 
the exclusiveness of a queen, bar out all who do not come 
up to the full measure of birth, refinement, and position? 
Has she condescended to her, Christmas wonders ? 
She is glad she has had the experience. The intangible 
something that indicates one's bent decides her that she 
is not meant for purely fashionable life. Yet she has 
 
 
 
learned mneli that will make her after-existence richer, 
fuller, and she feels grateful to Mrs. Allaire for the kind* 
ness, even if it had an awkward commencement. 
She draws long, free breaths in the clear, wholesome air. 
Her very soul seems strong and joyous, as if she was just 
beginning life. There will be plenty of work for her to 
do at Glen Ormiston when she comes into her own, and 
it will be BO soon. Every month counts. 
A step startles her. Ward Allaire walks down the 
path. So solicitous is he about his mother's health that 
every few days he takes a run up and remains all night. 
Dolly is always engaged, and he is left to her for enter* 
tainment. She has come to have an uncomfortable feel- 
ing in regard to him, and last night she laid awake a long 
time, planning some means of defence against this curious 
assumption of tender familiarity. 
" Oh I " she says coldly, " I thought you had taken the 
train." 
" Without a word of good-by from you?" There is a 
gentle reproach in his tone, as if she must know such a 
step was impossible. 
" I left a good-by with Dolly," she answers frankly. 
" I wanted it first hand, you see." 
" But yen have missed your train." 
«« Well, let it go. There are trains and trains." And 
he laughs lightly. 
He, too, has learned that in certain ways Christmas is 
hard to get on with ; but he has a superb faith in his own 
attractions, and he likes her none the worse because she 
is difficult to win. 
They take a turn up and down ; then she says, sud- 
denly, with a touch that might be sarcasm, ''You find 
climbing the steeps to fortune and fame very easy, do you 
not? It allows a deal of pleasant loitering." 
'' I have made no very great effort for fame as yet. I 
have had no special incentive." 
 
 
 
" I wonder if anything bat necessity ever gives one a 
special incentiye I And you will never have that.' 
She does not know lu>w near he is coming to it. He 
has gone over his finances in a sort of dismay, surprised 
at the inroads he has made upon his capital, and decided 
that marriage is the necessity. But has she blundered 
into the very opportunity he has been seeking so long ? 
" You can give me the incentive,'' he says, suddenly. 
" You can rouse my ambition, you can be my inspiration. 
Christmas — I love you." 
She looks at him with a kind of shocked incredulity 
and draws away. 
" My dear girl," he goes on, with a touch of arrogant 
joyousness ; " you must have seen that you were the great 
attraction of this place ; since mother's headaches unfit her 
for society, and Dolly is always engrossed in some way. 
Before you left town I tried to show you that you alone 
ware in my thoughts. It came to me like a lightning flash 
one day, and my whole path was illumined. Since then I 
have worshipped you in secret, and offered you the fra- 
grant savor of humble adoration — " 
" Don't," she cries, raising her hand authoritatively, 
while her cheeks flame with indignant blood. " Why do 
you say such things to me? " 
" Good heavens I Christmas, you do, you must understand 
that I offer you the great love of a man's life ; that I 
ask you to be my wife — " 
It is not the elegance of love making the young man 
indulges in when he is not in earnest ; but this is such an 
unfrequent mood that it sits awkwardly upon him. 
" I do not want to marry," she says, frankly, unable 
to decide whether it is real earnest. " I have planned 
out my life so differently from the pleasures you enjoy, 
and — " (she is honestly sorry to hurt him, for he has been 
a pleasant friend) — " I do not love you — in that way." 
" But you can learn, my darling. I have been awk« 
 
 
ward with my story. I meant to have told it better. 
Yon are the one woman for me. Yonr strength, yonr 
high ideals and ambitions, shall roose me to something 
worthy of you. My life shall not be spent in the trifles 
that have occupied it hitherto." 
" A man ought to make his life worthy before he offers 
it to any woman," Christmas Ormiston declares, with dig- 
nity. 
" Give me a little time, a little hope, and I will make it 
worthy. I will not hnrry you. You shall learn your 
sweet lesson with the most patient of teachers. You do 
not know your own white soul or its capabilities. Love 
with you will be a plant of slow growth." 
" I will not listen," she cries, sharply ; and before he is 
aware, she is flying up the path, and disappears in the 
wide doorway. To be rebuffed, in any manner, by a 
woman, is so new an experience to Ward AUaire, that his 
breath comes in gasps, as if he had been struck a physical 
blow. Anger succeeds the surprise. He opens the gate 
and wends his way briskly to the station. 
Christmas gains her room, slips the bolt on the door, 
and throws herself in the wicker chair by the window 
that looks out at the rear of the house. She is amazed, 
indignant Dolly has had proposals through the winter ; 
but no one has dared to approach such a subject with her. 
That she might be considered a prize in the matrimonial 
line does not occur to her. No part of her life has been 
productive of personal vanity, hardly self-esteem ; and 
the business at Camley has been represented to her as 
precarious in the extreme. There are women who would 
be glad to marry Ward Allaire ; she has seen them almost 
throw themselves at his head, and she shivers with disgust. 
There is nothing in his life that would suit her, and she 
cannot imagine the favorite of city drawing-rooms bury- 
ing himself at Camley Mills and Glen Orimston ; besides, 
sAs does not want a husband. She has been dreaming 
pasBionately of her own liberty. All these years she hus 
nursed the smouldering fire in silence, fairly revelling in the 
inner sight of the broad genial fiame in which she is to 
sun herself presently ; to live her own life ; and spring- 
ing np, she crosses the floor with the proud tread of a 
goddess. Can she afford to spend her long, glorious days 
in studying the becomingness of a gown, or considering 
Just the shade of manner to be used toward the people 
who shall fill her drawing-room in the evening ; can she 
carry herself with languid grace, and tone her interest to 
an artistic indifference, while the bright blood is bounding 
through her veins? 
" They can keep their brilUant, hollow world," she cries 
to herself. " I was not made for it. I am starved and 
stifled in it" 
Mrs. Allaire came down to luncheon in an amiable mood, 
and decided that she would like a drive while the air was 
still warm with the midday sun. Had the girls any engagement? 
Of course she could not go alone. 
" Christmas will go with you," responds Dolly. 
" Kate Conningsford is coming over to arrange about a 
german." 
Christmas does go, with an odd, questioning mood. 
What would Mrs. Allaire say if she knew her son had 
elected her, Christmas, to fill the important position of 
daughter to her? The girl's common-sense refuses to 
believe that she would approve of it Mrs. Allaire has a 
peculiar graciousness this afternoon, and it touches Christ- 
mas. She is really glad to be friends with them, and she 
will do nothing so foolish as to hold out the slightest hope 
to Ward. 
Two or three days pass, and Miss Ormiston smiles a 
little over her trepidation. The wretched fashion of — 
shall she call it flirtation?— -must have been answerable 
for the episode. Would not some of the young men who 
have knelt at Dolly's feet have been surprised if she had 
 
 
accepted them? So she regains her spirits; she even 
allows the joyoosness bom of her secret hope to blossom 
in her face. 
"Do you know I think yon a great deal handsomer,' 
says Dolly with frank naivete. " I fancied you extremely 
plain at first" 
" That is becanse you are all such a handsome race ; 
the contrast was so great." And Christmas laughs. 
Ward comes up for Miss Conningsf ord's german. This 
is how he sees Christmas. He has resolved to try again, 
and he feels mortified when he remembers how he blun- 
dered. The only comfort is, that he persuades himself 
that he is very much in love, or such a contretemps could 
never have occurred. Miss Ormiston has declined the 
party ; but there will be the morning, he thinks, though he 
gently endeavors to persuade her to reconsider. 
" You need not fancy you will be allowed to drop back 
into those wretched, secluded school ways," says Dolly, 
with a touch of imperiousness. " I should not excuse 
you ; only you don't do the german, and I hate to see wall 
flowers. Come along, Ward," 
Dolly looks like a fairy in white India silk and lace, and 
her fiuffy gold-brown hair. Ward smiles courteously. 
" I was mistaken," Christmas ruminates. " He is so in 
the habit of making sham love ; and there never could be 
any common bond between us. I am not even like Mrs. 
Stannard. I could not grace such a position. I should 
come to hate it, just as if I was chained to a throne in a 
prison cell. I have seen it all, and am content to go back." 
Dolly slept late the next morning, and Mrs. Allaire did 
not come down. Christmas took her place at the table, 
and the breakfast was being brought in when Ward 
entered with a gay good-morning. Fate surely had be- 
friended him. 
Christmas will not commit herself to the head of the 
table, but she pours the coffee. The toast, cold chicken. 
 
 
 
and steak are at his hand ; he helps to the latter and 
passes the former. He is not so much in love but that he 
can view her with critical eyes. There is something in 
her freshness and fine positive strength that is inspiriting. 
She has no vulgar color. Her lips are always an exquisite 
scarlet ; and though her mouth is not small, it seems in a 
certain harmony with her face, for her chin is broad and 
cleft; it almost dimples, but a dimple would render it 
weak. A tint of wandering pink comes and goes, set- 
tling a moment in her cheeks, then fading to a frosty 
white which might be cold if the tint did not so soon re- 
turn. She has a great deal of the dignity that charac- 
terizes Mrs. Allaire in her most delightful moods. Mrs. 
Allaure can glide imperceptibly into hauteur. Christmas 
coldly draws within herself. 
Yes, she will make a more attractive wife than the gold 
and blond beauties one meets so often. She would fill 
her position with a certain aplomb : he is thinking now of 
London and Paris. He has made so many English friends, 
and it will be quite stylish to live abroad for several years ; 
Just the life for her. BeaUy, the marriage gain will not 
be all on his side. 
" Christmas,'' he begins in one of the pauses, after he 
has carefully wiped his bronze mustache with due delib- 
eration, "I ought to apologize for my blundering the 
other morning. I had thought so much of the subject 
that itdid not occur to me that you could be taken by 
surprise. I was hasty, perhaps rude ; but the strength of 
my passion must plead my excuse. I cannot rest until 
you have forgiven it." 
"I thought — the subject was finished," she says, not 
quite sure whether it is, or whether he means to go on. 
To run away in the middle of her breakfast would be 
silly ; besides, it miLst be positively settled. 
" Is it not, it never will be until you consent, or marry 
another man ; and though I may hate the man, I hope I am 
 
 
too good a Chnstiaii to covet his wife. Yoa cannot keep 
me from loving you, from trying to deserve and to win 
you." 
Christmas Ormiston is puzzled above measure. Is he 
in this solemn eamcBt? Is there something stronger and 
more resolute in his nature than Bhe has imagined I If so, 
she can respect his passion, but she feels no nearer re- 
turning it. 
" Ward," she says, much more quietly than she feels, 
" let us have done with this forever. Why do you want 
me? Our views and ideas of life are totally different. 
You are fond of society ; you would like your wife to reign 
as a queen ; to gather about her fashionable circles and 
grace the position you wish to hold. All this would be 
wearisome to me. I should not suit you in any respect, 
and we should be miserable." 
*« But you do suit me. You do not understand yourself 
at all. You have a fancy of going back to Camley and 
playing at business ; but there is absolutely nothing you 
could do. There must be a man to manage the mill, and 
a trustee to look after the estate, and a young girl like 
you could not live alone in that great house. Lady 
Bountifuls have gone out of date, or exist only in books." 
"I do not think I have planned the role of a Lady 
Bountiful," she returns, somewhat annoyed. "Glen 
Ormiston is my home, and I have had no thought but to fit 
myself to spend my life there. You cannot understand 
what its interests are to me." 
''Well, you shall have interest there, then," replies 
Ward with much suavity. " Still, a year or two of it will 
cure your romantic fancy. As I said, I am willing to 
wait. When you have given it a trial — " 
"Your waiting will only annoy me and not do your 
cause the slightest good," she answers sharply. "Can 
you not see how altogether unlike we are? I must do 
something. I cannot spend my days in mounting bric-a- 
 
 
 
brac, in discussing the on-dits of society, in considering 
the fit of a glove or the shade of a dress. I cannot con- 
sent to fritter away my energies. There is something 
larger, better to life, and I must have it." 
" You will not find it in workmen or workwomen's 
stories " ; and a superior little smile curls his lip. " Many 
of us have dreams of frantic endeavor in youth. But 
the gray old world resists our futile attempts to move it, 
and we fall back into the places set for us. You will find 
it so." 
<*Then I will find it alone," she says almost angrily, a 
vivid flash playing over her cheeks like rose-hued light- 
ning. " If you choose to take life in this indolent, indif- 
ferent manner, if you are satisfied to waste your manhood, 
your education and talents, do not debar others from 
at least trying to achieve something worthier." 
"I offer you the opportunity," he returns, amused at 
her earnestness. " Instead of a large indistinctness for 
the whole world, something one can never grasp or prop- 
erly apply, take the work that comes to your hand, that 
begs a guiding, sustaining power. Mark out some path 
for me, and you will see how I shall strive to reach the 
goal you point out." 
She looks at him with a kind of bitter steadfastness 
that would wither a man less intrenched in his own self- 
esteem. 
"Let this be the last," she says, decisively. "I have 
Hked you, but you will make me hate you." 
"Is it not your Carlyle who says, ' Whoso passes from 
the negative pole to tiie positive must necessarily pass 
through the centre of indifference' ? That you have 
passed the latter gives me hope." 
His tone is not insolent, but indicative of pertinacity. 
She has read of women who have been won against will 
and judgment; and though she feels assured she never 
oould be» she cast about in secret consternation for some 
 
 
more forcible argnment to close the useless discussion. 
The simple trath comes uppermost. 
" I shall never marry you, never, Ward Allaire." 
Then she rises in a sort of superb dignity and leaves 
the room with a step firm and slow as if to emphasize the 
resolve to its fullest extent. Nothing shall make her dis- 
cuss the matter again with him. But what shall she do 
here in his mother's house ? 
He finishes his cup of coffee leisurely. He fancies he 
understands womankind thoroughly, at twenty-five. He 
is a little annoyed ; for he has given St. George the 
assurance that he and Miss Ormiston are as good as engaged ; 
but he means to win her now, for the pure pleasure of tri- 
umphing. How she could love if she would only let go 
this eternal self-consciousness, and the idiotic idea of a 
woman's duty to the world instead of to her husband! 
She cannot run away ; she has no other friends, and she 
will not go toGlen Ormiston on sufferance merely. 
What she will do puzzles her as well. She is still 
revolving it in her mind when she sees Mr. St. George 
walking slowly up the wide path. It is almost luncheon 
time. Ward left two hours ago. Mrs. Allaire has come 
down and is lying on the library sofa. She realizes that an 
interview with him will be most difficult to manage, for they 
have never been used to any private talks. In a moment 
she flies softly down the stairs and out on the lawn. He has 
stopped to inspect a pansy bed of regal size and color. 
Something in her face arrests him as the greeting is 
spoken. " Mrs. Allaire?" he says, inquiringly. 
"Mrs. Allaire is better. She is down-stairs. It is 
about myself that I have come." And there is a certain 
breathlessness in her aspect that stamps it as important. 
He can guess ; but would it not be more womanly deli- 
cate to let Ward AUaire announce the impending change ? 
His face hardens the merest trifle. It is one of those 
clear-cut faces that can settle into marble at a thought* 
 
 
 
" Yes,'' he retams in a polite, half-inqoiring manner. 
Christmas flashes scarlet. Inward humility is not an 
easy thing for her. 
"I want to ask yon — I want to say — "Then her per- 
fect honesty comes to the surface. " Some time ago yon 
brought me a kindly invitation from Mrs. Donaldson. I 
was rude and indignant about it, as I know now, but 
indeed, I could not have gone then. I have grown wiser 
I hope, and — better mannered," with a faint smile. 
" Would she renew it if she thought I wanted to come 
very much, that I would be the quietest of yisitors ? Any 
little comer will sufllce." 
He glances steadily at her, surprised at the rapid, 
entreating tone. 
" It is a remarkable change." And he pauses. 
"Why should you not know the truth? Women of ihe 
highest order never boast of their conquests, I believe ; but 
this is not boasting " ; and she makes a gesture of disdain. 
" Ward Allaire fancies — has paid me the compliment of 
asking me to be his wife — " How shall she say the rest? 
"Yes, I know. He asked my permission some time 
past. I left it all in your hands." 
Is it the tone or the words that sting her? Did he 
suppose, does he suppose, that she will elect any such 
man as Ward AUajre to guide and direct her life? She 
could find comfort and relief in stamping on the ground, 
as in that other childish episode ; then she brings herself 
up to womanly heights. 
" I have tried to make him understand the utter impos- 
sibility of such a union," she rejoins, with a fine, biting 
scorn in her tone ; "but from some strange blindness, he 
affects to treat my answer as merely the lure of a coquette. 
So you can see that remaining here would not be agree- 
able." 
Leighton St. George studies the hard, smooth path at 
his feet, with the vacant look people give whose eyes are 
 
 
Intent upon one thing while their thoughts are busy upon 
another. He is so utterly surprised. That she should 
accept him was a foregone conclusion, and now he feels 
suddenly at a loss to account for such a proceeding, as if 
it must needs be accounted for before he took the next 
step. 
" I am sorry to trouble you " ; and she draws her breath 
over a great lump in her throat. Is she fated to come 
unwelcomely to every one when she is in trouble or per- 
plexity ? If she were twenty-one now, instead of seven 
long months away from that desired haven ! 
" I think there will be no difficulty,' he replies. 
"I believe I shall be able to make Mrs. Donaldson 
understand how I felt then. It was crude and childish, 
ungrateful." She will confess all her sins now. " But to 
seek a new home elsewhere — " 
" That is not to be thought of,'' he answers, with more 
alacrity than he has yet evinced. "Yes, it shall be 
attended to at once." 
"You think— I may come?" There is a long-drawn 
tremulousness in her voice. St. Greorge glances up at 
her, and for the first time, perhaps, actually sees her. 
The scarlet lips seem to radiate light and warmtii ; the eyes 
are deep and lustrous in their pleading ; there is an inten- 
sity about her that stirs him into a strange interest. It 
has been her affairs hitherto, not herself. 
"Very well." She will not detain him; so she turns 
away, her cheeks flushing deeper, but her head as proudly 
erect. He wonders a little how timid, womanly Mrs. 
Donaldson, who will seem small by contrast, will get on 
with her. Dolly, now, would go to her heart at once, 
even if she did not quite approve of her volatile light- 
ness. 
The servant ushers St. Oeorge into the library. Mrs. 
Allaire rises to a graceful, half -reclining posture, and 
holds out her soft hand with its two dazzling rings. 
 
 
 
" Was not your train late ? " she asks. 
" The train ? Oh, no ! " Then he colors a trifle, trying 
to think if he stood many minutes just where Miss Or- 
miston left him. There is something rather distraught in 
his expression, so unusual to his perfect breeding, that it 
startles Mrs. Allaire; but he speedily recovers himself. 
There are one or two little matters of business, soon 
settled. 
"Mrs. Stannard has invited us all to Newport,'' she 
says, presently. ''Under the existing circumstances I 
think we had better go. She will certainly act the part of 
the kindliest sister to Christmas ; and for Ward's sake, I 
want her to be able to take the position in society he can 
give her. With my son settled and having an interest of 
his own, I shall have to fall back exclusively upon you, 
Leighton. Will you not join us at Helen's? There are 
to be some charming English people. Lord and Lady 
Ranceford. Do you not know them?" 
Leighton gives a smile of pleasure. " I once went up 
the Nile with Lord Ranceford," he says, ''and I shall be 
glad to meet him again." 
" Helen sent me an invitation for you, — the sort of 
general sisterly one " ; and a motherly glow irradiates her 
face. " But she will write herself and tell you when they 
are expected." 
Leighton looks grave again. Is it his duty to explain 
about his ward, he wonders? And will the rejection — 
it is that, surely, and he can think of no softer term — 
trouble her in any way? She was not particularly enthu- 
siastic about an engagement, he remembers. 
She does not devote many thoughts to their affairs, 
considering it as good as settled, and there are more 
entertaining subjects to discuss with St. George. The 
luncheon bell rings, and he escorts her to the table. 
Somehow Mrs. Allaire comes especially near to him in 
this break in her health; it recalls the years with his 
 
 
father, and shadows a possible ending that brings a pang 
with it. 
Christmas is quiet, grave; Dolly in exuberant spirits 
as usual, and planning her Newport campaign. Oh  has 
he heard that one of Lucia's cousins-in-law by marriage 
is dead, and that the title is almost sure to be theirs? 
" Fancy Lucia owning town houses and country houses 
and being my lady !" and Dolly's laugh ripples with a 
soft, amused gayety. "They have both married for 
families," she goes on, '' and I shall surprise you aU by 
making an idiotic love match ; not that I believe so much 
in love ; but it will be my fate." 
" Dolly," says her mother, reprovingly. 
Dolly certainly looks enchanting talking nonsense. Her 
voice has a fascination in itself, with its bright ripple like 
a wayside stream dancing over its pebbly way. Christmas 
watches her with a curious feeling, not strong enough for 
envy, yet a touch of regret that she has not some of the 
society charms that win attention. She would like to make 
her way with Mrs. Donaldson. 
She does not see St. George alone again ; but before he 
leaves them to take the evening train to the city, he says 
with his good-by, — 
" I will write to you to-morrow evening." 
Indeed, he has resolved to place the matter in such a 
light that Mrs. Donaldson will not be able to refuse. He 
can see that it is not possible for Miss Ormiston to go to 
Newport; and, after all, she will so soon have a legal 
right to Glen Ormiston that it cannot matter any great 
deal. 
Christmas waits with bated breath for her letter. The 
ladies inspect their wardrobes and consider what fresh 
attire must be ordered. Mrs. Allaire is a little puzzled ; 
Ward must have the matter decided before they go, so that 
Miss Ormiston can take her true place as an engaged 
young lady. There need be no further effort for her. 
 
 
 
On the whole, it is a good thing to have settled, only 
Ward might haye done better. Affairs at Camley are 
not in a glowing condition, though St. Greorge will make 
the best of them. 
"You must go to the city with Dolly to-day," Mrs. 
Allaire says at breakfast a few days later. "I do not 
feel equal to a shopping round, but Helen will see that 
you do not waste your money in foolish bargains. I tele- 
graphed to her when Morris went down for the letters." 
They came in now and are handed first to Mrs. Allaire. 
She recognizes St. George's clear but rather fine chirogra- 
phy, and passes it to Christmas, somewhat surprised. 
Miss Ormiston colors, but does not open it until she goes 
to her room. To a more romantic girl it would seem for- 
mal, indeed ; but Christmas likes the straightforward mes- 
sage. Mrs. Donaldson will receive her with pleasure, at 
Miss Ormiston's convenience. 
St. Greorge has wisely left explanations with his ward, 
feeling it was too delicate a matter for the interference of 
a third party. Christmas has the habit of going at an 
unpleasant duty at once; so she taps lightiy at Mrs. 
Allair's half -open door. 
"My child," says Mrs. Allaire, "why are you not 
getting ready for your journey? You haye not a moment 
to lose." 
Some unwonted sound in the tone pricks Christmas to 
the heart, and she wishes she possessed the lovely 
suavity that can explain a disagreeable matter without 
embarrassment. 
"I came to tell you," she begins with a rather awk* 
ward air, " that I cannot — I mean that it is better for 
me not to go Newport with you. I did not know until 
Just now that I could return to Glen Ormiston." 
' ' What new freak is this ? " inquires Mrs. Allaire, rathei 
sharply. 
" It is best" ; and Christmas hesitates. 
 
 
" I Bhotdd like to know what makes it better." Can it 
be some motive of delicacy or perhaps love. 
" It is right for me to tell you." Yet Miss Ormiston's 
face is scarlet. " I am almost sure you would not ap- 
prove — I mean — what happened before," she goes on 
disconnectedly. " It is about Ward." 
" Yes?" is the inquiring comment. 
" He asked me, but I fancied at first he could not bo 
in earnest ; we are so very different, you must see that ; 
you do, I know, and you will help liim to believe there 
never could be anything warmer than friendship between 
us" ; and Christmas takes her hand with an imploring 
gesture. " So this is why I would rather go to Glen 
Ormiston. I asked Mr. St. George if it might not he 
arranged." 
Mrs. AUaife is amazed, and her emotions are so contra- 
dictory that she does not know which side to espouse. 
That a girl like Miss Ormiston should hesitate to accept 
her son is deeply mortifying ; she could wither her with 
scorn ; she could deride her folly. She has resolved to 
accommodate herself to circumstances, with a kind moth- 
erly heroism, and lo, there is nothing heroic in tba 
matter. 
" O Mrs. Allaire, you must, you will believe," she entreats, 
" that I have not meant to win your son's regard. 
There are no points of likeness between us that would make 
such a union happy. I do not care to marry ; I have not 
thought of marriage as an event likely to happen to me. 
I shaJl never shine in society and take the position Ward's 
wife might. You have been very kind to me ; but I know 
there are others you would prefer, and, indeed, he is mis- 
taken in his own feelings ; but can we not all be friends 
as we were before? " 
The fact that Miss Ormiston sees her unfitness mollifies 
the mortification, and also, that she infers her entrance 
into the family would not be what they had a right to 
 
 
 
expect. Perhaps it is wiser not to say the stinging things 
that flash through her mind. St. George will be at New- 
port, and she can bias his mind as to propriety, and his 
guardianship will soon come to an end. 
" You look at the matter in a sensible light,' she says ; 
" still I would like to have you go to the city with Dolly. 
You need not waste your money in finery that you will not 
need at Glen Ormiston.'' 
 
 
CHAPTER VIL 
THE FLAYOB OF TOUTH. 
Christmas Obmiston has been home Just a week. 
Looking at it in one light, it seems yesterday that she 
came ; and yet, she has lived so much, truly lived, that 
ages seem to have passed. The parting with the Allaires 
has been amicable, and DoUy had invited herself to Glen 
Ormiston with her gay insistence, and been warmly sec- 
onded by Christmas. 
Mr. Donaldson, being in the city, had escorted her 
thither. The day was warm, the journey long, tiresome 
in a certain degree ; yet her heart rose every moment with 
an exultant sense of freedom. This time, is it a good 
omen? She comes an expected guest, and meets with a 
welcome. 
Mrs. Donaldson is a woman who looks much smaller 
than she really is, and to whom the word " petite " seems to 
apply. She has a smaU head and fine features, ex- 
tremely lady-like. Her shoulders are narrow, her arms 
thin, her hands childish, but she does not impress one as 
helpless. She rather seems bound on every side by limi- 
tations that she does not seek to overpass ; health, educa- 
tion, training, circumstances, and perhaps her way of 
translating the duties of life in the station she has been 
placed. Her manners have a peculiar delicacy ; no woman 
of society could be more refined. She is very gentle, but 
one feels that she is not weak within her own set jurisdic- 
tion, and beyond that she does not go. 
She has arranged the room that belonged to Miss Ormis- 
ton in the years before ; but she has had to trust her judg- 
ment for the adomings, and she has not gone very wide of 
 
 
 
the musk if she wished to take her guest back to the past 
When Christmas glances aronnd, a strange feeling comes 
over her. Has she outgrown that past? She has been so 
used to the seductive harmony of modem beauty that this 
looks formal and cold. 
Perhaps there is no keener disappointment than to re- 
turn to a place one has left reluctantly, and dreamed over 
fondly, until memory and adoration have softened every 
defect, and then find it so different from the dream. The 
house is gray and old, the walls dull, the carpet and cur" 
tains faded, more than that, they have a stiff, repellent 
look. True, Mrs. Donaldson's chief apartments have been 
brightened with home-like ornamentations ; but the uncer- 
tainty of their tenure, and the need of rigorous economy, 
have kept Philip Donaldson from improvements that would 
attract a woman's eye, though out of doors there is a cer- 
tain order and neatness that warm the heart of the young 
girl. 
Whether she shall like Mrs. Donaldson she cannot 
decide. She recalls her girlish fancy for Mrs. Treverton 
with a sort of disgust, and feels wary about committing 
herself with any stranger. The children are rather shy, 
nicely trained, but undeniably afraid of this tall stranger 
with her stately walk. Mrs. Donaldson is not one of the 
gushing mothers who inflict her offspring upon everybody ; 
instead, she guards them with a kind of jealous care, so 
that they are in no sense annoying. Indeed, her posses- 
sions are entirely her own, and she is not lavish of them. 
But if Christmas hesitates about the rest, she cordially 
likes Mr. Donaldson at once. He is pre-eminently a 
business man. The air of fashion and elegant ease or 
habitual supremacy to which she has been used is quite 
absent ; yet be is refined, courteous, a gentleman withal, 
but strong, resolute, energetic in the way of a man who 
has no doubt of his strength or his ability. The expression 
is keen and kind, lines of power and protection crossing a 
 
 
trusty yet baffling face, showing the outside cordiality 
and truth that cannot be misread, but reserving much. 
She has been no great student of character, and she 
feels suddenly that there lies "before her an interesting 
pursuit. Dinners, receptions, and balls are very well in 
their way, no doubt ; but what real knowledge does one 
obtain when faces are all wreathed with the same smiles ? 
Christmas is very busy for some time visiting the old 
haunts. Ah, what floods of memories assail her as, 
mounted on Mrs. Donaldson's gentle but spirited horse, she 
gallops over the old paths where her father used to send 
her for exercise ! The exultant physical strength, so long 
repressed, clipped, and trimmed to accord with circum- 
stances, suddenly springs to the surface. She can live 
her own free proud life. After a few months she will not 
be amenable to any one. She will be mistress of her 
house and have its appointments to her liking, invite 
guests: then with a little dismay she remembered that 
she has so few real friends. She has met many people : 
does one in that round of gayety ever make a friend? she 
questions. 
When she has visited the old nooks and explored the 
old house, she drives down to the mill in the phaeton. 
Camley has altered very much since she used to come here 
with her father. Several tall factory chimneys have 
arisen, rows of low business buildings in dull red brick ; 
farther out, long lines of cottages. It is not handsome, 
but it looks thrifty and is full of busy life. There are 
some gardens and many pretty court-yards with geraniums 
in bloom. Some of them were built by her father. She 
wonders a little what kind of a master he was, and if the 
workmen were as much afraid of him as she was. Ail 
these matters she will have in her hands presently. The 
welfare of others ; and something in the idea seems to add 
strength and dignity. 
She enters the office on the right, but here she finds a 
great change. It has been enlarged, it has another irin« 
dow, the walls are clean with fresh paint, the floor is 
oorered, there is a lounge in russet leather, some arm<r 
chairs, several pictures, and a vase of flowers on the low 
desk. No, that does not look like the severity of her 
father's time. She used to stand by that taU desk and 
add long columns of figures, copy pages from the great 
books, study the different qualities of paper, their worth, 
their processes of manufacture. It is like a dream ; and 
as a dream, much of it has escaped her memory. 
Mr. Donaldson takes her through the building. Every- 
where it seems lighter and cleaner. The men and boys 
are busy and wear a cheerful look. Certainly there is no 
moody discontent of labor here. 
Philip Donaldson watches her with his pleasant dark 
eyes, whose smiles never betray any secrets. She is so 
different from the various impressions concerning her. Has 
Leighton St. Greorge been blind all these months ? He 
almost covets Glen Ormiston ; and if he reached out his 
hand with the resolution he is so easily master of , he could 
not only win that, but a love he could mould and fashion 
to his liking. How could he believe, if he had taken the 
trouble to study her at all, that she could be content with 
a man like Ward Allaire ! Yet she might have allowed 
herself to be persuaded into such a step : it is to her 
credit that she saw the unsuitableness herself. Still she 
is a novice in such lore ; she has no more idea of what 
love really is than a baby ; so her step has been taken in 
ignorance rather than wisdom, — fortunate step that it 
was. But how could St. George look on and not see? 
" You have changed the aspect of everything so much," 
she begins presently. " I hardly understood until I came 
here how great the wreck might have been. I had only 
a confused, girlish notion that losses must inevitably right 
themselves, and that my father's business was too solid to 
be really hurt by any thmg Mr. Treverton could do ; but I 
 
 
realize mare and more how nearly it came to rain. I shall 
always feel deeply indebted to yon " ; and she pauses ; 
shall she be frank enough to include them both? 
" The real credit is due to St. George. I doubt if any- 
thing could have been done without money and influence." 
A little crease comes in her forehead, not distinct 
enough for a frown, but it shows her annoyance. 
"Yes," Donaldson continues, " that Ormiston Mills 
holds its head above water, and that we have been able 
to save even so much, are due to him in great part, and the 
prosperous times we have had. I could wish, and I know 
he wishes it, than when he gives in his final accounting, a 
few months hence, that the estate had paid all claims 
against it, and that you might receive it unincumbered ; 
but he will be a lenient creditor." 
A startled look crosses Miss Ormiston's face. 
" Then," she begins with a little hesitation, " the debt 
is not all paid." 
' I think we would have been superhuman " — and a dry 
sort of half -smile gleams in his eyes — " to have accom- 
plished that. You see the business had dropped down, 
and it had to be brought up and extended. To win back 
a good name we paid cash for everything while there was 
no money coming in; indeed, debts instead that were 
pressing. So you see if there had been no money at 
hand — " 
Christmas winces perceptibly. She is under heavy obli- 
gations to St. Greorge. A great lump of pride rises in her 
throat, and she could weep tears of vexation ; but they 
would be ungrateful as well as foolish. 
" Mr. Donaldson," she begins after a silence of some 
moments spent in steadying her nerves so that her voice 
will not tremble, " I want a true and honest friend very 
much. Mr. St. Greorge's connection with the business would, 
no doubt, make him a generous one ; but you are differ- 
ently situated, and probably would be as good an adviser. 
 
 
 
I would rather be penniless than ask aid in the sympa- 
thetic manner that is hardly less than charity. I do not 
want pity because I am a woman." 
Donaldson makes a gentle inclination of the head, but 
be says warmly, " Do not misunderstand St. George. 
He felt he owed this to his father's memory. Your father 
placed the utmost confidence in the elder Mr. St. George, 
and I do believe strict watching would have kept Trever- 
ton honest. The first year, indeed, until nearly the close 
of the second, there was no crooked work. Then he felt 
quite secure, as the probability was that Mr. St. George 
would not be able to return. What kind of a woman was 
Mrs. Treverton?'' 
'' I do not believe I could give any correct estimate of 
her. She professed great fondness for me; and up to 
that period of my life no one had shown me any demon- 
strative regard. My father was a stem, self-contained 
man, whose whole soul was in the aim of building up a 
grand business house. Then he wanted a son to carry it 
on"; and she colors with a delicate shadow of pain. 
" No one had ever deceived me, and I believed in Mrs. 
Treverton entirely. Then, — she tired of me. She had 
so many other entertainments and friends. From that 
tune I saw very little of her. I was at school, and in my 
vacations she was rarely at home, and then the house was 
full of guests. I fancy she was ostentatious and fond of 
distracting pleasures. I know she liked extravagant dress- 
ing and a luxurious table." 
"And the sons, what were they like? " 
"Maurice and I always quarrelled"; and she smiles 
with a rising color at that old childishness. " But Wil- 
fred, the elder, was very good to me, and used to comfort 
me when matters went wrong, and take my part against 
Maurice. He was very handsome, I used to think" ; and 
there is a peculiar cadence in her voice. " It used to 
be BO vivid|" she says, her eyes gazing into vacancy " and 
 
 
now it is dreamlike. The years with my father seem much 
more distinct. But for the rain they wrought, I should 
half fancy they were the creatures of imagination." 
" You have never heard of them? " 
" No ; has any one ? " 
" Some one told St. George that Treverton was keeping 
a gaming-house at Paris. If the man had his deserts he 
would be behind prison bars ; but justice is sometimes too 
expensive for the people who have been sinned against." 
He gives a half -smile of irony. " But we have strayed 
from our subject. St. George would have done this in 
any event, no matter who his ward might have been. It 
was for the satisfaction to himself." 
He can see he has pleased her there. He understands 
the delicacy of a proud woman. 
" I would like to know just how the busineds stands ; 
but I suppose I have no right to inquire at present? " And 
she glances up at him. 
" There are no secrets," with his good-humored but 
baffling smile. "Perhaps it would be better for you to 
know, as you must make some decisions at that time, and 
consider what is best for you to do." 
" The business comes into my hands, then, I believe?" 
she questions in a hesitating manner. 
He studies her with keen eyes. 
"Have you a fancy for taking it?" he asks. 
An expression of surprise crosses her face. 
" It was my father's wish. He began to train me for 
it ; but I am afraid, since his death, I have forgotten bo 
much that I must begin all over again. I want to talk 
about this " ; and she flushes with a touch of embarrass- 
ment. "If I have hitherto acquiesced in all other plans 
for myself, it was not because I gave up this one." 
She holds her head erect with grave dignity. No, she 
is not likely to be turned aside from any purpose. St. 
Gtoorge, be is well aware, does not admire business women. 
 
 
 
"Yet there will be no real need, presently" he wyn with 
a kind of soggestiye persnasiyeness. 
A light smile illnmines her face ; rather, it is the fore- 
shadowing of a smile. He has seen it before, and is 
interested in its peculiarity, since with it her lips do not 
move. 
««Do not think that I fancy no one will do me justice, or 
is really capable of carrying out my father's ideas. You 
and Mr. St. George have effectually disproved such an 
idea ; but I want it for the sake of an interest. I must 
do something with my life ; and it was my father's wish." 
" Surely you have not found life barren already?" in a 
rather incredulous tone. 
" But it might be \t one drank down to the very dregs, 
and then had the courage or the perverseness to look in 
the cup. I have had a taste of pleasure and fashion, and 
I believe it better not to rub off the gilding. Some time I 
may want a little of the gay world around me ; but I can 
never make it my one desire. It cannot satisfy me." 
Her tone is quietly resolute, not marked by any young- 
girl vehemence. 
"There are other things," suggestively. 
"Yes," she replies. " Some women have many pleas- 
ant gifts or fancies, that amount almost to genius. I can 
paint fairly well, I shall never be an artist. I can sing 
and play to some extent, but my taste is not in the popu- 
lar vein. I like old, sombre music, pathetic ballads, but 
even here I am no genius. I could not write — " 
Her inventory of herself is so utterly dispassionate, 
quite as if she were speaking of a third person. 
"There is marriage," he says. "Your father made 
provision for this also. He considered it quite pos- 
sible." 
" I shall not be silly enough to declare that I shall never 
marry," she replies seriously ; " but I do not believe I am 
the Idnd of woman that men affect very much. I am too 
grave too reliant, and, perhaps, too self-contained. Mar« 
riage has not been one of my dreams. I want a home of 
my own, and that it is possible for me to have, and I want 
a Tital interest. I, too, regret that my father's only child 
should not have been a son." 
There is nothing masculine in this. Her voice is truned 
to the utmost nicety of feminine softness ; but it is not 
weak. There is no unwomanly assumption, no fierce 
demand for place or rights. Why should she not have 
her chance ? Will it be any worse for her than the flirta- 
tions that occupy so many of her Bex ? There is something 
about her that seems to give a promise of good comrade- 
ship, without the sentimentality so common to women. 
He has meant to laugh a little at her crude ideas, for he 
has fancied her with a smattering of political economy, a 
decided opinion of the rights and wrongs of labor, and 
untried speculations as to the feasibility of regenerating 
the whole business. Instead, she has no ideas to advance ; 
she will take up her inheritance with all the seriousness of 
a man ; perhaps, indeed, few young men of her age could 
do it. Tes, let her have the opportunity her father marked 
out for her. Will an imperfect life be much worse than 
an imperfect marriage to such a woman? 
She gravely watches him these few minutes of silence, 
and the expression crossing her face is not infpatient but 
inquiring. 
" Yes," he answers frankly, " I think it is best that you 
should know thoroughly about matters before you come of 
age, for then you will have to decide several important 
questions. My contract expires the first pf December, 
and if you choose, a new trustee can be appointed. I 
would like you to know just what we have done, and 
where you are likely to stand." 
'' I thank you." Then she stretches out her hand to 
his lying there on the comer of the table toying with a bit 
of card. " I want a friend," she says quietly. " I think 
 
 
 
so far I have bad only negative ones who have simply 
wished me well. But I might like to come for counsel." 
" You will find me at your service any time you choose 
to test me." And he makes a courteous inclination of the 
head. 
He keeps his word. All sources of information are 
placed at her disposal. She spends hours at home por- 
ing over them ; she sits at the office desk and goes over 
the pages grown dingy with years. Her thoroughness, 
her infinite patience, amaze Donaldson, who is often 
called upon for explanations. She is appaUed at the 
Treverton breach of trust, and almost afraid to go on ; 
indeed, if a hopeful result was not here before her very 
eyes, she would close the book in despair. 
" I do not know how you had the energy to fight through 
such a discouraging case," she says, with a faint, serious 
smile. " I can imagine one doing it for one's self — " 
"Or for honor, or even as a matter of business. To 
me it was almost a god-send in the sense that it took all 
my attention at a time when, if my mind had not been 
fidly occupied, I should have brooded over my own mis- 
fortunes." 
Coming down later, she finds they have retrieved a 
great deal. There were many losses that it was not pos- 
sible to make up. There is even now property so heavily 
encumbered as to render it a burden of expense, and this 
can be disposed of in a few months, if there was only 
enough to pay Leighton St. George ; yet she is aware she 
could find no more honorable trustee, and she questions 
whether she could ever find so excellent a manager as Mr. 
Donaldson. 
The days pass rapidly ; indeed, they are aU too short* 
