could see (her long gloves were white) the steady 
pull of her hand on the reins, at which the pony 
was twiching and shying over the uneven road. 
After a moment of oppressive silence, she said, 
with cruelly gentle sadness, 

" That is exactly what you are not strong enough 
to do." 

" Do you presume to tell a man he doesn't  
know when he loves a woman ? " cried Yorke, 
quivering, stung beyond endurance. 

" You are not in love," she said calmly, " you 
are only nervous." 



X. 

THEY had come out now upon the open road. 
Faint colors remained in the west, ashes-of-roses 
and alloyed gold. There was a young moon sink 
ing behind the forest. The untrodden street 
stretched on, dimly defined in the immature light. 
The windows of the near village glimmered rud- 
dily beyond. 

" Drive faster," said Yorke. " I must get 
home." He had the heavy, painful pant of an ex 
hausted man. She gave one glance at him, and 
one fleck of the whip to the pony, who put down 
her head, and took to her slender feet the wings 
of the wind. The night air came in warm gusts 
against their faces as they flew over the solitary 
road. She drove directly to her own side of the 
house, tied the horse, and resolutely presented her 
shoulder. 

" I have hurt you," she said gently. " You 
must let me help you this once." 

He did not repulse her ; he felt too sick. It 
seemed to make little difference what happened, 
and so he got into the house. She helped him 



 

through into the parlor, and shut the outer doors. 
Only one low lamp burned somewhere ; in the of 
fice, he thought. She groped for matches; he 
lay a nd listened to the fine rustle of her linen 
dress. As more light flashed into the room, he 
saw her standing in her white clothes. She looked 
very tall and pale? She brought him a tablespoon- 
ful of brandy, which he swallowed obediently, and 
for which he felt better. Then, without percepti 
ble hesitation, this remarkable young woman took 
out her medicine-case. 

" Are you a woman ? " he panted. 

" I am a doctor." 

" Take away your sugar-plums ! " 

She drew the rubber strap over the case. 

" As you please. Your condition calls for a 
remedy. I can't have you subject to these nerv 
ous sinking-turns." 

"I need no remedy but one. It is the only 
one, the Divine Remedy in deed and truth. You 
refuse it to me." 

" I have refused you nothing." 

"True; I have asked for nothing. But you 
would deny me, if I did." 

" Yes," she replied solemnly, " I should." 

" Sit down by me," pleaded Yorke. " I want 
to finish this." 




 

You had much better wait," she urged with 
decision, but not without tenderness, that ready, 
cruel, professional tenderness ; he would rather 
she had poisoned him. 

" I will not wait. I am stronger. See ! I am 
all right now, although, as you said, not strong 
enough to What a merciless thing that was 
to say ! " 

" I know it must have seemed so, Mr. Yorke. 
Believe, if you can, that I mean to be kind." 

" It seems to me," said Yorke, struggling up 
against the bright bizarre sofa pillows, and turn 
ing his haggard face towards her, " that the only 
thing I am strong enough to do, yet, is to love 
you. I believe it is the only thing I have ever done 
strongly in my life. It will not be the last. I can 
see already how it is going to alter everything. 
Good God ! What is a man going to do, with life 
before him, and such a feeling in it ! It will take 
the work of ten to hold him. There isn't  a woman 
of the whole of you that knows what it is. 
There 's more of you than any other woman I ever 
knew, but you don't know ; you cant know." 

She sat on the edge of the chair, a little side- 
wise, leaning back, just as she had dropped there 
when he asked her to sit by him, her hands clasped 
over the medicine-case, with whose rubber strap 



 

she had bound her fingers down. She watched 
him with a look which no plummet in his soul 
could fathom. 

" You are wrong ! " lie cried. " You are cold, 
unnatural ! It was unwomanly in you to tell me 
I was only nervous ! " 

" It is not the first time that a woman has been 
called unwomanly for saying the truth," said
Doctor Zay, without flinching. " I do not doubt I 
have seemed unwomanlike to you in many other 
respects. Your ideal and my fact are a world 's 
width apart." 

" You have never seemed unwomanly to me, in 
all that we have been through, never once!" 


said Yorke. " I have thought you, from the very 
first you have been to me the loveliest woman I 
ever knew ! " His voice shook. She sat, without 
a change either in her attitude or expression, 
regarding him with narrow, inscrutable eyes. 

" I have not thought," he went on, with gather 
ing strength, " I have not dared to think, that I 
had won anything from you, a sick man whin 
ing on your little bottles for the breath of life ! 
And I know that others, other men I understand 
my cruel disadvantage ; it is that that galls me 
so!" 

* Other men have nothing to do with it," she 



 

said gravely. " I have had different things to do 
from thinking what would be pleasing to men. 
My life is not like other women 's. It is not often 
that I am troubled in this way. I do not mean to 
treat you harshly, believe me. But I do not say 
hard things easily ; perhaps I am out of practice." 

" Surely," said Yorke, smiling despite himself 
at this, " you have known what it is to be loved." 

" Yes, I have been beloved," she answered simply. 
" I suppose no woman avoids that. If I had 
not, I should have no right to tell you that you are 
not in love. I should not have any standard." 

" Nothing can give you any such right ! " he 
repeated feverishly. 

" I do not know how to continue this discus 
sion," she said, after a painful pause. " I seem to 
have few ideas and fewer words for such a pur 
pose. I can find nothing to tell you but what I 
said in the carriage. My professional responsibility 
gives me my right." 

" And I reiterate what I said in the carriage, 
that I relieve you of what you call your 
responsibility." 

" Then I must renew my answer, that this is 
a thing you cannot do. So we are repeating our 
selves, like history, and proving how worse than 
vain it is to talk in this way." 



 

" You speak as if I were a creature lent to you, 
intrusted to you, soul and body ! " blazed the 
young man. 

" So you were," said the physician quietly. 
" So you are." 

" If anything could make me wnlove you," said 
Yorke, with calm desperation, " such a speech as 
that would do it. But it works just the other way. 
Listen to me, Miss Lloyd. I will love you. You 
cannot help it. I will tell you so. You cannot 
help that. You must accept it. You must endure 
it. You must remember it. I shall not allow you 
to forget it." 

One swift, dangerous gleam darted from her 
guarded eyes. The whole woman seemed impelled 
by some elemental instinct, mightier than he, 
mightier than herself, to warn him off. She did 
not trust herself to speak, and this gave him the 
first advantage he had felt ; he hastened to avail 
himself of it. 

" It is insufferable that any woman should treat 
any man as you treat me. Because I am a patient,
am I not a man ? Because I dislocated my 
ankle and concussed my brain (as is quite evident 
now, if it never was before), am I to be set aside 
like a hysteric girl, for the state of whose limp 
emotions her medical attendant feels in honor 
bound to look out? " 



 

" Can you tell me any reason," asked Doctor 
Zay serenely, " why I should not feel the same 
sense of honor that a man would in the case you 
describe ? But I have never called you hysteric." 

" You consider my lova a symptom, I suppose, 

another symptom ; like a nervous sinking-turn, 
or my afternoon headaches." 

" Since you press the question, Mr. Yorke, I do, 
indeed. That is just what I consider it." 

" It 's a pretty serious one," fiercely, " as you 
will find out before you have done with me. It 
is beyond the reach of any pellet in your little 
case ; the remedy is not included in your Materia 
Medica." 

" That may be true. But Nature has her own 
unerring prescriptions. A single dose of absence 

even in the first attenuation will work a recovery 
which will astonish yourself, sir. It will 
not surprise me." 

She said the last five words with a vague sad 
ness, elusive as the sigh of a ghost, which did not 
escape the lover 's fine ear. She rose as she spoke, 
and pushed back her chair. She stood looking 
down at him. For a silent moment his suffering 
and weakness seemed to plead with her splendid 
nerve and strength, and to find them implacable ; 
yet to urge her, perhaps, against her own deterinination, 
into the tone of something like self-defense, 
in which, she said, 

" What should I be, if I could take the charge 
of a man like you, a sensitive man, struck down 
in perfect health by such a serious nervous shock, 
knowing nothing of its subtler effects ; a man 
brought up from the grip of death inch by inch 
back to life, dependent on the creature who saves 
him, confusing his gratitude and his idleness and 
his suffering with other feelings so much greater, 
what sort of a woman should I be, if I did not 
feel responsible for him ? I should despise myself, 
Mr. Yorke, if I let you drift into such breakers as 
those ; if I allowed you to believe that this is love 
you feel for me. I should think it was the most 
unwomanly thing I ever did in my life ! " 

He had risen to reply to her, and they confronted 
each other, flashing and pale. 

" Not a word more to-night," she said authoritatively.
" It is unsafe and wrong ; I cannot per 
mit you talk in this way another moment. Go 
back to your room, and go to bed. Sleep if you 
can. Go home next week ; as you intended. It 
will be the wisest thing you have done for a long 
while." 

" I must see you again to-morrow," said Yorke, 
stretching out his hand blindly. 



 

" Very well," she replied, without hesitation. 
" I do not advise it, but I will not refuse it. Only 
go now, and I hope you will sleep," she added 
sorrowfully. 

She stood watching him as he tottered to the 
door. Had he seen the expression of her face he 
would have got no comfort from it ; he would 
not even have understood it ; yet he would have 
felt it to be an indefinable gain that he had not 
missed it. 

" Mr. Yorke ! " He turned drearily around. 
" Put yourself in my place for a moment. 
Reverse our positions." 

Her words died before his protesting, passionate 
man 's eyes. Just then she pitied them more than 
any woman 's she had ever seen. 

" I can t," he said hoarsely. " It makes a mad 
man of me ! " 



THE next morning it rained. Mr. and Mrs. 
Butterwell therefore experienced astonishment 
when their invalid lodger appeared at breakfast 
with the request that Mr. Bulterwell would drive 
him out to conduct some business relative to his 
uncle 's estate. 

" You look fitter to be abed and tended up," 
said his hostess, halting at that stage of latent 
sympathy which we are moved to express to the 
sick by active severity. " I 'll read to you, if that 
will keep you home and teach you sense. I 'll read 
poetry, if you like. I can. Isaiah has a copy of 
Tennyson 's In Memorial (I gave it to him Christmas), 
though I must&gt;.fay I never could find head 
nor tail on it more 'll on a roasted chicken. I 'll 
read you anything but the Bible. It 's against my 
principles to read Bible to sick folks. It ain't 
cheerful enough. Mr. Butterwell had the liver 
complaint once, and he got such a shine for readia 
in the Minor Prophets and the Imprecatory Psalms 
I told the Doctor it was the most serious symptom 
about him ; and it was. He 'd have pined right 



DOCTOR ZAY. 

along if I hadn't  got him into the genealogies in 
Matthew, and so eased off on to the secular page 
of the Congregationalist, and slipped him up one 
day into Mark Twain 's Innocents Abroad. : 

" Why, Sar-iik ! " said Mr. Butterwell patiently. 
But he went out to harness his big sorrel at once, 
since, if Mr. Yorke wished to ride, that ended the 
matter. Mr. Butterwell failed to see what his 
liver complaint had to do with poor Jed 's estate, 
and more than ever realized his own deficiencies 
in general conversation. 

" It is time I began to thank you for an infinite 
series of obligations, Mrs. Butterwell," said Yorke, 
pushing back his chair from .the breakfast table. 
" I am going home next week." 

" Infinite fiddlesticks ! " retorted Mrs. Butter- 
well. " Going to Surinam ! " Her soft eyes 
peered at him gently as a bird 's over these 
terrible words. " Why, Doctor hjon't  got half through 
with you ! " 

"I am afraid she has, quite through," said the 
young man. " I am going by Monday 's boat, if I 
can get over to Jonesboro in season to take it. I 
shall find the best man I can round here, and leave 
Uncle Jed 's affairs in the hands of a local lawyer. 
I am not strong enough to be bothered with them. 
I have written to my mother that I shall join her 
at Nahant as soon as possible." 



 

" Does Doctor think you're fit to take the jour 
ney ? " asked Mrs. Butterwell, after some studious 
consideration. 

"I didn't ask her. She approves of my going." 

" Doctor knows best about things in her line," 
replied Mrs. Butterwell, closely regarding her 
lodger. " But between you and me, there 's one 
thing that ain't in it." 

" What is that ? " asked Yorke, with a pale 
smile. 

"Men-folks," said Mrs. Butterwell succinctly. 
She considerered this a truly scholarly reply, which 
it was not precise to amend by foot-notes. Her 
shrewd, homely face lengthened as Mr. Yorke 
limped away. Mrs. Butterwell had received a 
shock. 

Doctor Zay was called out early that day, and 
kept out late. Yorke attended to his business, 
and made no effort to see her till night. She was 
away at dinner, and he took tea in his own room. 
The storm continued. He passed an idle, almost 
an entirely solitary day. He had some scientific 
books of Wallace 's which she had lent him : he 
tried to read; the thing was impossible. The rain 
came in gusts upon the windows, with lulls be 
tween ; he listened to it with a sense of personal 



 

irritation at the nervous combat of sound and si 
lence, which served as a shallow outlet to the 
steady torrent of his feeling. 

We find it in our way, as we get well past these 
sharp alternations of shine and shade, to miss some 
thing of sympathy with what time has blurred into 
dim backgrounds for ourselves ; to see less of the 
dignity, less of the pathos, more of the frailty, and 
more of the folly of the great passions before which 
youth and vigor and hope and rectitude are beaten 
down like breath before the oncoming of cyclones. 
And yet I think it is not the best way of aging, 
to grow so gray at the heart, and that it were what 
might almost be called a coarse thing to smile at 
our young fellow here, wri tiling in the grip of his 
first clench with life. He loved, or thought he 
did. It is better to be off with our hats and down 
on our knees to illusions that we have long since 
overthrown, than to withhold from the most trans 
parent of them the reverence which is the eternal 
due of human conflict. 

He sought her in the evening, through the steady 
downfall of the storm. She had never invited him 
to make use of that other door, which connected 
her parlor with the body of the house. It was so 
wet that he ventured to go before the office hours 
were over, thinking that no one would be there. 



 

He found himself mistaken. A patient was in 
conference with her, and he waited awkwardly in 
the office till the woman had gone. 

This little misstep seemed, when they were left 
alone together, to give him an unnecessary disad 
vantage before her. He stood, embarrassed and 
savage, midway between the office and the lighted 
parlor. " I thought there was nobody here," he 
said confusedly. 

" And there is n t," she answered, smiling up 
at him as if nothing had happened. Her sweet 
womanly graciousness, which set him at ease again, 
seemed subtly to put her out of it, and to give him 
a vague sense of having gained a mastery of the 
moment, which he did not see his way to use. 

He did not try to use it, and followed her into 
the parlor, cursing his inadequacy. 

" Won't you take the lounge ? " she asked, 
wheeling it lightly towards him. 

"No. I must learn to sit up, if I am going 
Monday." 

" Monday ? " She could not, or did not control 
a slight movement of surprise. He tried in vain 
to interpret it as one of regret. 

" If I can. The sooner the better. You agree 
with me, I am sure." 

" As a person, yes. As a physician, no. It 



 

would be safer for you to wait till the next boat. 
You are hardly ready for the journey. You are 
living on nerve." 

" And shall till I get away from you," said 
Yorke bluntly. 

" Perhaps so," returned the doctor, sighing; " I 
am of course a little at sea in such a case as this. 
I wish to facilitate your departure as much and as 
fast as I can." She stiffened into her professional 
manner. He felt as if he had struck a glacier in a 
clover-field. 

" I want to talk this out before I go," proceeded 
Yorke doggedly. 

" It only wastes nerve-fibre," said the doctor in 
an undertone. 

" The physiological basis is not the only one on 
which life is to be taken, Doctor Zay. I have 
told you before, that I am a man as well as a 
patient. Try to remember it, if you can." 

" What is the use in remembering it ? " she said 
unexpectedly. He held his breath for a moment, 
scrutinizing her averted face. 

" Do you mind," he asked suddenly, " my ask 
ing whether I am so far too late in the declaration 
of my feeling for you, that some other man would 
have a right, or think he had, to " 
. " I am not going to marry Dr. Penhallow, if that 
is what you mean," she interrupted calmly. 



 

" Thank you," said Yorke, after what seemed to 
her a long silence. He could not keep the rebel 
lious hope out of his pale face. It dashed at her 
like a sunlit shower. 

She looked up, saw it, and shook her head at it, 
as if it had been a word or outcry. 

"It is not impossible, then," persisted he, 
" that you might some time begin to love me " 

" It is like the miracles," replied the doctor. 
" It is not logic to assume their impossibility. 
Their improbability is so great that it amounts 
to about the same thing. Put aside the thought 
of my loving you, Mr. Yorke, in justice and in 
mercy to yourself. I cannot demonstrate to you 
the futility of your hope. I can only state it. The 
sooner you accept it, the better for us both. Let 
us consider this a case of aphonia and aphasia, and 
be done with it." 

" Explain yourself to the ignorant, my learned 
physician." 

" Aphonia is inability to speak " 

" Oh yes ; my Greek might have stood me for 
that. And aphasia is " 

" Inability to say certain things. Or at least 
that will pass for a popular definition." 

" That is a scientific reply," said Yorke, 
regarding her keenly. " I am not sure that it is" He 



 

checked himself. She did not ask him to finish 
his sentence, but sat with downcast, troubled lids 
before him. 

" Suppose yon could love me," he urged, " in 
the course of time, after a good while ; suppose 
you did not thwart or deny the feeling of 
kindliness which I hope I may say you have for me ; 
suppose you reconsidered the reasonableness of the 
miracle." 

" It would make no difference ; none at all ! " 
She lifted her head, and her eyes, like sleepless 
sentinels, forced him off. All his manhood roused 
itself to defy them. He felt himself swept along 
by a power as mysterious to him as if he only out 
of the world had ever come into helpless and beau 
tiful contact with it. All his lot, like a Pagan 
fate, moved on in its destined way to its appointed 
end. He experienced the terrible acceleration of a 
passion, and found that neither nature nor obser 
vation had given him any more prevision of the 
force of the torrent than they had power where 
with to stay it. 

" I love you," he repeated, "I love you ! " 
as if the fact itself must be an appeal inexorable 
to her as the laws of light, or gravitation, or any 
natural code which she could not infringe without 
penalty. 



 

She made a slight gesture, which seemed one 
of entreaty rather than of impatience, rose, and 
walked over to the window, which she flung open. 
A dash of rain swept through. She stood in the 
gust for a moment. The light from the globed 
lamps struggled out against the darkness, and 
Yorke could see a wet honeysuckle staring in ; the 
yellow flower dripped and nodded at him. 

He got up and followed her, half unconsciously. 

" You would not want to give up your profes 
sion," he began. " You should not give it up ! I 
would not ask it " 

A slow, slight smile curled the delicate corners 
of her lips. 

" You will take cold," she said. She shut the 
window, and, turning, faced him. Her hair was 
wet with the rain, and glittered. 

" Have you nothing for me ? " he cried. 

" Nothing that you would care for. Men do 
not value a woman 's friendship. They do not 
understand it. They do not know what to do 
with it." 

" No ! I will not have your friendship ! " He 
turned his back to her, and stood, trembling. 

" It would be perfectly useless to you, if you 
would," said Doctor Zay, a little drearily. " You 
are not well enough to try difficult experiments. 
14 



 

Make up your mind to let them all alone, and 
me, too." 

" I will never let you alone ! " said the lover, 
under his breath. 

" Oh yes, you will," said the woman of science 
quietly. " In a few months you will find it easier 
to let me alone than to shatter your nervous sys 
tem over me in this way. Nothing could be 
worse," she added, " for those spinal symptoms." 

" I believe they are right," answered Yorke, 
with dull bitterness ; his imagination at that 
moment was denuded of hope. " A woman cannot 
follow a career without ruin to all that is noblest 
and sweetest and truest in her nature. Your heart 
is as hard as your lancet. Your instinct has be 
come as cruel. If I had a fair chance, it should 
not be so. I would compel you to feel my pres 
ence, to recognize my claim. You should be 
wounded by a bullet that you could not find, 
that slipped, and defied your probe, and rankled 
till you respected it." 

He had made his way back, weakly, as he spoke, 
to the sofa, upon which he sank, pale and pant 
ing. 

" The sick are at such horrible odds ! " he cried. 
" It must be bad enough for a woman, but for a 
man " 



 

He stopped, startled. She had floated to him 
with an impetuous motion. He saw her out 
stretched hands ; she leaned above him ; her 
resolute features broke. 

" Stop ! " she said. " Please stop ! " 

"What should I stop for?" He held up his 
arms. She retreated like a dream, and stood 
towering above him, like a statue. The agitation of 
her face contrasted singularly with the massive- 
ness of her attitude. He was sure that he saw 
tears before she dashed them away as if they had 
been ignoble impulses. 

" Mr. Yorke," she said, in a tone of infinite gen 
tleness, " the time will come when you will bless 
me for what I am doing now, for my heart- 
lessness, my cruelty, my unwomanliness. They 
are three words easy to remember. I shall not 
forget them at once. You will retract them 
some time. You will tell me that perhaps I de 
served a milder phrase. But never mind that ! 
It is not a question of what I deserve. It is a 
question of what you require. Beyond doubt, that 
is absolute separation from all this pathological 
sentiment, and the exciting cause of it. I insist 
upon this separation. I will not receive any move 
expressions of your supposed feeling for myself. 
Go home to your mother and your own people, 



 

to the kind of women you are used to, and under 
stand. As you grow physically stronger, you will 
rebound to your own environment as naturally as 
you will walk without crutches. I have been noth 
ing but a crutch to you, Mr. Yorke ! " 

He raised himself upon the pillows, leaning his 
head upon his hand and shading his eyes, watch 
ing her intently ; he did not interrupt her. She 
went on, in a low, controlled voice : 

" Take it away, and go alone, and you will learn 
what you would never learn as long as you de 
pended on it. I think you will always remember 
me gratefully and affectionately. I hope you will. 
Nothing is more valuable in life to a physician 
than the fidelity of a patient ; it is surprising how 
little there is of it, after all. They go their ways 
when they need us no longer, and drop us out of 
their thoughts. After all, it is a solemn tie to 
fight with death together, as you and I have done. 
We will not break it flippantly. Believe me, that 
I shall remember you. And some time, when 
you have righted all this little delusion about me, 
somewhere, perhaps, we may meet on fairer 
ground, when our views of one another would not, 
could not, be subject to this law of refraction 
which acts upon them now. You do not love me. 
You have needed me. I have been useful to you ; 



 

I have occupied your thoughts. You may miss 
me. But that is not love. Go home, and find it 
out. Get well, and find it out." 

While Doctor Zay was speaking, an increasing 
calmness had settled upon Yorke 's face. It seemed 
to her that she could see the tide, for whose ebb 
she had watched, turning in his soul. She felt 
that it was her duty to welcome it, as it had been 
her fate to foresee it. He still sat with his hand 
above his eyes, which he had not once removed 
from her. He roused himself, and confusedly 
said, 

" You may be right, for aught I know. I will 
go, as you bid me ; and thank you, as you sug 
gest, whenever I can. I am able even now to ap 
preciate your position. You are the only woman 
I ever saw who was able to save a man from him 
self ! " 

He took her hand with more self-control than 
he had shown for many days ; and they parted, 
heavily and silently. 

He went by the Monday 's boat. Mr. Butter- 
well drove him to Jonesboro on Sunday. Doctor 
Zay had been out all night, and most of the day. 
She was lying on the parlor sofa when he went to 
say good-by. She had flung herself down, 
exhausted, craving five minutes rest. She had on 



 

that white linen dress, and the vari-colored afghan 
over her feet. It was a sultry August day, but 
her hand was cold ; he had often noticed that it 
was so after she had been up all night. She rose 
when she saw him, and asked if he found the 
package of medicine, with the directions, and if 
he understood them all. He thanked her, and 
said they were quite clear. Her face had its 
stolid look. He searched in vain for its beautiful 
sensitiveness. 

" I shall write to you," he said, hesitating, " if 
I may." 

" Oh yes. Do, by all means. I shall wish, to 
hear all about the journey, and its effect on you. 
Tell your mother if I had had two weeks more I 
would have sent you back in better condition." 

" Or worse," he said, impetuously. She put her 
finger on her lips, and smiled. They shook hands. 
He pulled his hat over his eyes, and got away. 

He looked back through the little oval buggy 
window, as Mr. Butterwell drove him off. Mrs. 
Butterwell was wiping the tears off her black silk 
dress. Handy, by the wood-pile, very large as to 
his hat and bare as to his feet, eloquently confided 
his emotions to the sawdust heap. 

The phaeton and the gray pony stood at the 
doctor 's gate. She did not come out. The big 



 

sorrel turned the post-office corner, and Mr. But- 
terwell observed that there was a fine lobster 
factory on the road. They canned em. Which had 
the worst of it, the consumer or the lobster, Mr. 
Butterwell would not undertake to say. 

Half a mile down the Jonesboro road, Mr. But 
terwell reined up. 

" There ain't but one horse in these parts that 
can overtake the sorrel," he said, leisurely. " I 
hear the pony after us." 

Yorke looked back through the little buggy win 
dow. The gray mare, with a stiff head and clean 
step, was close behind them. Before he could turn 
his head, the doctor 's phaeton overtook the buggy. 

"Mr. Yorke has forgotten his brandy-flask," 
she called, cheerily. * Mrs. Butterwell found it 
out in the nick of time. You might have missed 
it on the boat." She stretched her hand over 
the wheel with the wicker traveling-flask, which 
Yorke took stupidly. He forgot to thank her. 
Their eyes met for a moment. She flung him a 
bright, light smile, turned dexterously in the nar 
row road, and whirled away. He leaned out of the 
buggy to look after her. All he saw distinctly 
was the Scotch plaid shawl folded on the empty 
seat beside her. 



XII. 

IT was an ill-tempered December day, gray 
from Passamaquoddy to Point Judith ; grimmer in 
the State of Maine than in any other privileged 
portion of the proud New England coast. 

" We allers do hev everything wuss than other 
folks," said a passenger in the Bangor mail-coach. 
" Freeze and Prohibition, mud and Fusion. We 've 
got one of the constitooshuns that take things. 
Like my boy. He 's had the measles n the 
chicken-porx and the mumps and the nettle-rash, 
and fell in love with his school-marm  got 
religion and lost the prize for elocootin all in one 
darned year." 

A passenger from Boston laughed at this. He 
had not laughed before since they left Bangor, at 
seven o clock in the morning, with the thermometer 
eight below, and the storm-signals flying from Kit- 
tery to Kitty Hawk. Of all places where it might 
be supposed that a man with a free will and fore 
knowledge absolute of his especial fate would not 
be on a December day, the Bangor and Sherman 
mail-stage was the most notable. The mud of for- 



 

gotten seasons and un mentioned regions, splashed, 
tormented, and congealed, adorned the rotund yel 
low body and black, loose-jointed top of the vehi 
cle. The high windows were opaque with the 
thick brown spatter. The laborious wheels, en 
crusted with frozen clay, had given place to gaunt 
runners, that "brought up" on the abundant in 
equalities of the road with a kind of moral ferocity, 
like unpleasant second thoughts or good resolutions 
after moral lapses. The driver swore at his horses, 
and insulted the passengers by looking perfectly 
comfortable in a new buffalo coat. Inside the 
stage, lunatic gloom and the chill of the Glacial 
Period descended upon the unfortunate travelers. 
The straw was cold and thin. The blankets- were 
icy and emaciated. The leather seats seemed to 
have absorbed and preserved the storms of winters, 
the rheumatism of the past, the sciatica of the fut 
ure. The Boston passenger, though protected by 
his individual traveling blanket and highly-becom 
ing seal-bound coat, expressed an opinion that he 
was freezing to the cushions, which the jocose pas 
senger honored by a stare and the comforting ob 
servation, 

" Why, we expect to." 

This pleasant person got out, about four o clock, 
at what he called his " store," a centre of trade 



 

at some uncertain remove from the metropolis of 
East Sherman, and the traveler from Boston 
had the impressive experience of finding himself . 
alone in the stage during its passage through that 
segment of the Black Forest which the Bangor and 
Sherman route embraced. 

He looked through the muddy windows upon 
the ghastly scenery with a sense of repulsion so 
active that it fairly kept him warm. The forest, 
through which the Machias stage-route ran nine 
awful miles unmet by a human habitation, turned 
its December expression upon him like a Medusa, 
before which the bravest pulse must petrify. Twi 
light and the storm were coming on. The runners 
made a fine, grating sound, like a badly-tuned 
stringed instrument, in the solidly-packed snow. 
Darkness already had its lair in the woods. Ice 
encrusted the trunks of the trees and the fallen 
logs. The stripped and tossing boughs moaned in 
the rising wind with an incredibly human cry. 
The leathery leaves that clung to the low oaks 
rustled as the stage crept by, as if they had been 
watching for it. It was too late to hear in the 
distant gloom the thud of the wood-chopper 's axe. 
One leisurely and lonely rabbit, white against the 
whiteness, crossed the way and disappeared in 
the thicket. All the shadows on the snowy road 



 

were blue. The light that struggled from the sky 
was gray. The drifts were freshly blown over 
and deep, and the horses plunged and struggled in 
them, and panted up the little hills. In the for 
est the snow lay on a level of five feet. The 
silence was profound; the desolation pathetic; the 
cold deadly. It was like the corpse of a world. 
The vivid face of the young man in the fur-trimmed 
coat disappeared, at the end of the first 
mile, from the mud-bespattered stage window. 
He rolled himself up to the throat in his travel 
ing-rug, pulled his hat over his eyes, and let the 
Black Forest severely alone. His whole soul sank 
before it. He thought of the lives barred in be 
hind it, bound to their frozen places like its icicles. 
He thought of the delicate nerve, the expectant 
possibility, the bourgeoning nature 

" Poor girl ! " he said aloud. " Poor girl ! " 
It seemed that he felt the necessity of com 
manding himself, or of defending himself from his 
