who did no housework any longer, was dressed in a stuff gown, and wore
an apron of black silk. Charity, as I said, was knitting; so was her
grandmother. Madge was making more linen collars. Lois sat by her
grandmother's chair, for the minute doing nothing.
"What do you expect to do for a bonnet, Lois?" Charity broke the
silence.
"Or I either?" put in Madge. "Or you yourself, Charity? We are all in
the same box."
"I wish our hats were!" said the elder sister.
"I have not thought much about it," Lois answered. "I suppose, if
necessary, I shall wear my straw."
"Then you'll have nothing to wear in the summer! It's robbing Peter to
pay Paul."
"Well," said Lois, smiling,--"if Paul's turn comes first. I cannot look
so long ahead as next summer."
"It'll be here before you can turn round," said Charity, whose knitting
needles flew without her having any occasion to watch them. "And then,
straw is cold in winter."
"I can tie a comforter over my ears."
"That would look poverty-stricken."
"I suppose," said Madge slowly, "that is what we are. It looks like it,
just now."
"'The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich,'" Mrs. Armadale said.
"Yes, mother," said Charity; "but our cow died because she was tethered
carelessly."
"And our hay failed because there was no rain," Madge added. "And our
apples gave out because they killed themselves with bearing last year."
"You forget, child, it is the Lord 'that giveth rain, both the former
and the latter, in his season.'"
"But he didn't give it, mother; that's what I'm talking about;
neither the former nor the latter; though what that means, I'm sure I
don't know; we have it all the year round, most years."
"Then be contented if a year comes when he does not send it."
"Grandmother, it'll do for you to talk; but what are we girls going to
do without bonnets?"
"Do without," said Lois archly, with the gleam of her eye and the arch
of her pretty brow which used now and then to bewitch poor Tom
Caruthers.
"We have hardly apples to make sauce of," Charity went on. "If it had
been a good year, we could have got our bonnets with our apples,
nicely. Now, I don't see where they are to come from."
"Don't wish for what the Lord don't send, child," said Mrs. Armadale.
"O mother! that's a good deal to ask," cried Charity. "It's very well
for you, sitting in your arm-chair all the year round; but we have to
put our heads out; and for one, I'd rather have something on them.
Lois, haven't you got anything to do, that you sit there with your
hands in your lap?"
"I am going to the post-office," said Lois, rising; "the train's in. I
heard the whistle."
The village street lay very empty, this brown November day; and so, to
Lois's fancy, lay the prospect of the winter. Even so; brown and
lightless, with a chill nip in the air that dampened rather than
encouraged energy. She was young and cheery-tempered; but perhaps there
was a shimmer yet in her memory of the colours on the Isles of Shoals;
at any rate the village street seemed dull to her and the day
forbidding. She walked fast, to stir her spirits. The country around
Shampuashuh is flat; never a hill or lofty object of any kind rose upon
her horizon to suggest wider look-outs and higher standing-points than
her present footing gave her. The best she could see was a glimpse of
the distant Connecticut, a little light blue thread afar off; and I
cannot tell why, what she thought of when she saw it was Tom Caruthers.
I suppose Tom was associated in her mind with any wider horizon than
Shampuashuh street afforded. Anyhow, Mr. Caruthers' handsome face came
be fore her; and a little, a very little, breath of regret escaped her,
because it was a face she would see no more. Yet why should she wish to
see it? she asked herself. Mr. Caruthers could be nothing to her; he
never could be anything to her; for he knew not and cared not to know
either the joys or the obligations of religion, in which Lois's whole
life was bound up. However, though he could be nothing to her, Lois had
a woman's instinctive perception that she herself was, or had been,
something to him; and that is an experience a simple girl does not
easily forget. She had a kindness for him, and she was pretty sure he
had more than a kindness for her, or would have had, if his sister had
let him alone. Lois went back to her Appledore experiences, revolving
and studying them, and understanding them a little better now, she
thought, than at the time. At the time she had not understood them at
all. It was just as well! she said to herself. She could never have
married him. But why did his friends not want him to marry her? She was
in the depths of this problem when she arrived at the post-office.
The post-office was in the further end of a grocery store, or rather a
store of varieties, such as country villages find convenient. From
behind a little lattice the grocer's boy handed her a letter, with the
remark that she was in luck to-day. Lois recognized Mrs. Wishart's
hand, and half questioned the assertion. What was this? a new
invitation? That cannot be, thought Lois; I was with her so long last
winter, and now this summer again for weeks and weeks-- And, anyhow, I
could not go if she asked me. I could not even get a bonnet to go in;
and I could not afford the money for the journey.
She hoped it was not an invitation. It is hard to have the cup set to
your lips, if you are not to drink it; any cup; and a visit to Mrs.
Wishart was a very sweet cup to Lois. The letter filled her thoughts
all the way home; and she took it to her own room at once, to have the
pleasure, or the pain, mastered before she told of it to the rest of
the family. But in a very few minutes Lois came flying down-stairs,
with light in her eyes and a sudden colour in her cheeks.
"Girls, I've got some news for you!" she burst in.
Charity dropped her knitting in her lap. Madge, who was setting the
table for tea, stood still with a plate in her hand. All eyes were on
Lois.
"Don't say news never comes! We've got it to-day."
"What? Who is the letter from?" said Charity.
"The letter is from Mrs. Wishart, but that does not tell you anything."
"O, if it is from Mrs. Wishart, I suppose the news only concerns you,"
said Madge, setting down her plate.
"Mistaken!" cried Lois. "It concerns us all. Madge, don't go off. It is
such a big piece of news that I do not know how to begin to give it to
you; it seems as if every side of it was too big to take hold of for a
handle. Mother, listen, for it concerns you specially."
"I hear, child." And Mrs. Armadale looked interested and curious.
"It's delightful to have you all looking like that," said Lois, "and to
know it's not for nothing. You'll look more 'like that' when I've told
you--if ever I can begin."
"My dear, you are quite excited," said the old lady.
"Yes, grandmother, a little. It's so seldom that anything happens,
here."
"The days are very good, when nothing happens. I think," said the old
lady softly.
"And now something has really happened--for once. Prick up your ears,
Charity! Ah, I see they are pricked up already," Lois went on merrily.
"Now listen. This letter is from Mrs. Wishart."
"She wants you again!" cried Madge.
"Nothing of the sort. She asks--"
"Why don't you read the letter?"
"I will; but I want to tell you first. She says there is a certain
friend of a friend of hers--a very nice person, a widow lady, who would
like to live in the country if she could find a good place; and Mrs.
Wishart wants to know, if we would like to have her in our house."
"To board?" cried Madge.
Lois nodded, and watched the faces around her.
"We never did that before," said Madge.
"No. The question is, whether we will do it now."
"Take her to board!" repeated Charity. "It would be a great bother.
What room would you give her?"
"Rooms. She wants two. One for a sitting-room."
"Two! We couldn't, unless we gave her our best parlour, and had none
for ourselves. That wouldn't do."
"Unless she would pay for it," Lois suggested.
"How much would she pay? Does Mrs. Wishart say?"
"Guess, girls! She would pay--twelve dollars a week."
Charity almost jumped from her chair. Madge stood leaning with her
hands upon the table and stared at her sister. Only the old grandmother
went on now quietly with her knitting. The words were re-echoed by both
sisters.
"Twelve dollars a week! Fifty dollars a month!" cried Madge, and
clapped her hands. "We can have bonnets all round; and the hay and the
apples won't matter. Fifty dollars a month! Why, Lois!--"
"It would be an awful bother," said Charity.
"Mrs. Wishart says not. At least she says this lady--this Mrs.
Barclay--is a delightful person, and we shall like her so much we shall
not mind the trouble. Besides, I do not think it will be so much
trouble. And we do not use our parlour much. I'll read you the letter
now."
So she did; and then followed an eager talk.
"She is a city body, of course. Do you suppose she will be contented
with our ways of going on?" Charity queried.
"What ways do you mean?"
"Well--will our table suit her?"
"We can make it suit her," said Madge. "Just think--with fifty dollars
a month--"
"But we're not going to keep a cook," Charity went on. "I won't do
that. I can do all the work of the house, but I can't do half of it.
And if I do the cooking, I shall do it just as I have always done it. I
can't go to fussing. It'll be country ways she'll be treated to; and
the question is, how she'll like 'em?"
"She can try," said Lois.
"And then, maybe she'll be somebody that'll take airs."
"Perhaps," said Lois, laughing; "but not likely. What if she did,
Charity? That would be her affair."
"It would be my affair to bear it," said Charity grimly.
"Daughters," said Mrs. Armadale gently, "suppose we have some tea."
This suggestion brought all to their bearings. Madge set the table
briskly, Charity made the tea, Lois cut bread and made toast; and
presently talking and eating went on in the harmonious combination
which is so agreeable.
"If she comes," said Lois, "there must be curtains to the parlour
windows. I can make some of chintz, that will look pretty and not cost
much. And there must be a cover for the table."
"Why must there? The table is nice mahogany," said Charity.
"It looks cold and bare so. All tables in use have covers, at Mrs.
Wishart's."
"I don't see any sense in that. What's the good of it?"
"Looks pretty and comfortable."
"That's nothing but a notion. I don't believe in notions. You'll tell
me next our steel forks won't do."
"Well, I do tell you that. Certainly they will not do, to a person
always accustomed to silver."
"That's nothing but uppishness, Lois. I can't stand that sort of thing.
Steel's just as good as silver, only it don't cost so much; that's
all."
"It don't taste as well."
"You don't need to eat your fork."
"No, but you have to touch your lips to it."
"How does that hurt you, I want to know?"
"It hurts my taste," said Lois; "and so it is uncomfortable. If Mrs.
Barclay comes, I should certainly get some plated forks. Half a dozen
would not cost much."
"Mother," said Charity, "speak to Lois! She's getting right worldly, I
think. Set her right, mother!"
"It is something I don't understand," said the old lady gravely. "Steel
forks were good enough for anybody in the land, when I was young. I
don't see, for my part, why they ain't just as good now."
Lois wisely left this question unanswered.
"But you think we ought to let this lady come, mother, don't you?"
"My dear," said Mrs. Armadale, "I think it's a providence!"
"And it won't worry you, grandmother, will it?"
"I hope not. If she's agreeable, she may do us good; and if she's
disagreeable, we may do her good."
"That's grandma all over!" exclaimed Charity; "but if she's
disagreeable, I'll tell you what, girls, I'd rather scrub floors.
'Tain't my vocation to do ugly folks good."
"Charity," said Mrs. Armadale, "it is your vocation. It is what
everybody is called to do."
"It's what you've been trying to do to me all my life, ain't it?" said
Charity, laughing. "But you've got to keep on, mother; it ain't done
yet. But I declare! there ought to be somebody in a house who can be
disagreeable by spells, or the rest of the world'd grow rampant."
CHAPTER XX.
SHAMPUASHUH.
It was in vain to try to talk of anything else; the conversation ran on
that one subject all the evening. Indeed, there was a great deal to be
thought of and to be done, and it must of necessity be talked of first.
"How soon does she want to come?" Mrs. Armadale asked, meaning of
course the new inmate proposed for the house.
"Just as soon as we are ready for her; didn't you hear what I read,
grandmother? She wants to get into the country air."
"A queer time to come into the country!" said Charity. "I thought city
folks kept to the city in winter. But it's good for us."
"We must get in some coal for the parlour," remarked Madge.
"Yes; and who's going to make coal fires and clean the grate and fetch
boxes of coal?" said Charity. "I don't mind makin' a wood fire, and
keepin' it up; wood's clean; but coals I do hate."
There was general silence.
"I'll do it," said Lois.
"I guess you will! You look like it."
"Somebody must; and I may as well as anybody."
"You could get Tim Bodson to carry coal for you," remarked Mrs.
Armadale.
"So we could; that's an excellent idea; and I don't mind the rest at
all," said Lois. "I like to kindle fires. But maybe she'll want soft
coal. I think it is likely. Mrs. Wishart never will burn hard coal
where she sits. And soft coal is easier to manage."
"It's dirtier, though," said Charity. "I hope she ain't going to be a
fanciful woman. I can't get along with fancy folks. Then she'll be in a
fidget about her eating; and I can't stand that. I'll cook for her, but
she must take things as she finds them. I can't have anything to do
with tomfooleries."
"That means custards?" said Lois, laughing. "I like custards myself.
I'll take the tomfoolery part of the business, Charity."
"Will you?" said Charity. "What else?"
"I'll tell you what else, girls. We must have some new tablecloths, and
some napkins."
"And we ought to have our bonnets before anybody comes," added Madge.
"And I must make some covers and mats for the dressing table and
washstand in the best room," said Lois.
"Covers and mats! What for? What ails the things as they are? They've
got covers."
"O, I mean white covers. They make the room look so much nicer."
"I'll tell you what, Lois; you can't do everything that rich folks do;
and it's no use to try. And you may as well begin as you're goin' on.
Where are you going to get money for coal and bonnets and tablecloths
and napkins and curtains, before we begin to have the board paid in?"
"I have thought of that. Aunt Marx will lend us some. It won't be much,
the whole of it."
"I hope we aren't buying a pig in a poke," said Charity.
"Mother, do you think it will worry you to have her?" Lois asked
tenderly.
"No, child," said the old lady; "why should it worry me?"
So the thing was settled, and eager preparations immediately set on
foot. Simple preparations, which did not take much time. On her part
Mrs. Barclay had some to make, but hers were still more quickly
despatched; so that before November had run all its thirty days, she
had all ready for the move. Mr. Dillwyn went with her to the station
and put her into the car. They were early, so he took a seat beside her
to bear her company during the minutes of waiting.
"I would gladly have gone with you, to see you safe there," he
remarked; "but I thought it not best, for several reasons."
"I should think so!" Mrs. Barclay returned dryly. "Philip, I consider
this the very craziest scheme I ever had to do with!"
"Precisely; your being in it redeems it from that character."
"I do not think so. I am afraid you are preparing trouble for yourself;
but your heart cannot be much in it yet!"
"Don't swear that," he said.
"Well, it cannot, surely. Love will grow on scant fare, I acknowledge;
but it must have a little."
"It has had a little. But you are hardly to give it that name yet. Say,
a fancy."
"Sensible men do not do such things for a fancy. Why, Philip, suppose I
am able to do my part, and that it succeeds to the full; though how I
am even to set about it I have at present no idea; I cannot assume that
these young women are ignorant, and say I have come to give them an
education! But suppose I find a way, and suppose I succeed; what then?
You will be no nearer your aim--perhaps not so near."
"Perhaps not," he said carelessly.
"Phil, it's a very crazy business! I wouldn't go into it, only I am so
selfish, and the plan is so magnificent for me."
"That is enough to recommend it. Now I want you to let me know, from
time to time, what I can send you that will either tend to your
comfort, or help the work we have in view. Will you?"
"But where are you going to be? I thought you were going to Europe?"
"Not till spring. I shall be in New York this winter."
"But you will not come to--what is the name of the place--where I am
going?" she asked earnestly.
"No," said he, smiling. "Shall I send you a piano?"
"A piano! Is music intended to be in the programme? What should I do
with a piano?"
"That you would find out. But you are so fond of music--it would be a
comfort, and I have no doubt it would be a help."
Mrs. Barclay looked at him with a steady gravity, under which lurked a
little sparkle of amusement.
"Do you mean that I am to teach your Dulcinea to play? Or to sing?"
"The use of the possessive pronoun is entirely inappropriate."
"Which is she, by the way? There are three, are there not? How am I
to know the person in whom I am to be interested?"
"By the interest."
"That will do!" said Mrs. Barclay, laughing. "But it is a very mad
scheme, Philip--a very mad scheme! Here you have got me--who ought to
be wiser--into a plan for making, not history, but romance. I do not
approve of romance, and not at all of making it."
"Thank you!" said he, as he rose in obedience to the warning stroke of
the bell. "Do not be romantic, but as practical as possible. I am.
Good-bye! Write me, won't you?"
The train moved out of the station, and Mrs. Barclay fell to
meditating. The prospect before her, she thought, was extremely misty
and doubtful. She liked neither the object of Mr. Dillwyn's plan, nor
the means he had chosen to attain it; and yet, here she was, going to
be his active agent, obedient to his will in the matter. Partly because
she liked Philip, who had been a dear and faithful friend of her
husband; partly because, as she said, the scheme offered such tempting
advantage to herself; but more than either, because she knew that if
Philip could not get her help he was more than likely to find some
other which would not serve him so well. If Mrs. Barclay had thought
that her refusal to help him would have put an end to the thing, she
would undoubtedly have refused. Now she pondered what she had
undertaken to do, and wondered what the end would be. Mr. DilIwyn had
been taken by a pretty face; that was the old story; he retained wit
enough to feel that something more than a pretty face was necessary,
therefore he had applied to her; but suppose her mission failed? Brains
cannot be bought. Or suppose even the brains were there, and her
mission succeeded? What then? How was the wooing to be done? However,
one thing was certain--Mr. Dillwyn must wait. Education is a thing that
demands time. While he was waiting, he might wear out his fancy, or get
up a fancy for some one else. Time was everything.
So at last she quieted herself, and fell to a restful enjoyment of her
journey, and amused watching of her fellow-travellers, and observing of
the country. The country offered nothing very remarkable. After the
Sound was lost sight of, the road ran on among farms and fields and
villages; now and then crossing a stream; with nothing specially
picturesque in land or water. Mrs. Barclay went back to thoughts that
led her far away, and forgot both the fact of her travelling and the
reason why. Till the civil conductor said at her elbow--"Here's your
place, ma'am--Shampuashuh."
Mrs. Barclay was almost sorry, but she rose, and the conductor took her
bag, and they went out. The afternoons were short now, and the sun was
already down; but Mrs. Barclay could see a neat station-house, with a
long platform extending along the track, and a wide, level, green
country. The train puffed off again. A few people were taking their way
homewards, on foot and in waggons; she saw no cab or omnibus in waiting
for the benefit of strangers. Then, while she was thinking to find some
railway official and ask instructions, a person came towards her; a
woman, bundled up in a shawl and carrying a horsewhip.
"Perhaps you are Mrs. Barclay?" she said unceremoniously. "I have come
after you."
"Thank you. And who is it that has come after me?"
"You are going to the Lothrops' house, ain't you? I thought so. It's
all right. I'm their aunt. You see, they haven't a team; and I told 'em
I'd come and fetch you, for as like as not Tompkins wouldn't be here.
Is that your trunk?--Mr. Lifton, won't you have the goodness to get
this into my buggy? it's round at the other side. Now, will you come?"
This last to Mrs. Barclay. And, following her new friend, she and her
baggage were presently disposed of in a neat little vehicle, and the
owner of it got into her place and drove off.
The soft light showed one of those peaceful-looking landscapes which
impress one immediately with this feature in their character. A wide
grassy street, or road, in which carriages might take their choice of
tracks; a level open country wherever the eye caught a sight of it;
great shadowy elms at intervals, giving an air of dignity and elegance
to the place; and neat and well-to-do houses scattered along on both
sides, not too near each other for privacy and independence. Cool fresh
air, with a savour in it of salt water; and stillness--stillness that
told of evening rest, and quiet, and leisure. One got a respect for the
place involuntarily.
"They're lookin' for you," the driving lady began.
"Yes. I wrote I would be here to-day."
"They'll do all they can to make you comfortable; and if there's
anything you'd like, you've only to tell 'em. That is, anything that
can be had at Shampuashuh; for you see, we ain't at New York; and the
girls never took in a lodger before. But they'll do what they can."
"I hope I shall not be very exacting."
"Most folks like Shampuashuh that come to know it. That is!--we don't
have much of the high-flyin' public; that sort goes over to Castletown,
and I'm quite willin' they should; but in summer we have quite a
sprinklin' of people that want country and the sea; and they most of
'em stay right along, from the beginning of the season to the end of
it. We don't often have 'em come in November, though."
"I suppose not."
"Though the winters here are pleasant," the other went on. "I think
they're first-rate. You see, we're so near the sea, we never have it
very cold; and the snow don't get a chance to lie. The worst we have
here is in March; and if anybody is particular about his head and his
eyes, I'd advise him to take 'em somewheres else; but, dear me! there's
somethin' to be said about every place. I do hear folks say, down in
Florida is a regular garden of Eden; but I don' know! seems to me I
wouldn't want to live on oranges all the year round, and never see the
snow. I'd rather have a good pippin now than ne'er an orange. Here we
are. Mr. Starks!"--addressing a man who was going along the side
way--"hold on, will you? here's a box to lift down--won't you bear a
hand?"
This service was very willingly rendered, the man not only lifting the
heavy trunk out of the vehicle, but carrying it in and up the stairs to
its destination. The door of the house stood open. Mrs. Barclay
descended from the buggy, Mrs. Marx kept her seat.
"Good-bye," she said. "Go right in--you'll find somebody, and they'll
take care of you."
Mrs. Barclay went in at the little gate, and up the path of a few yards
to the house. It was a very seemly white house, quite large, with a
porch over the door and a balcony above it. Mrs. Barclay went in,
feeling herself on very doubtful ground; then appeared a figure in the
doorway which put her meditations to flight. Such a fair figure, with a
grave, sweet, innocent charm, and a manner which surprised the lady.
Mrs. Barclay looked, in a sort of fascination.
"We are very glad to see you," Lois said simply. "It is Mrs. Barclay, I
suppose? The train was in good time. Let me take your bag, and I will
show you right up to your room."
"Thank you. Yes, I am Mrs. Barclay; but who are you?"
"I am Lois. Mrs. Wishart wrote to me about you. Now, here is your room;
and here is your trunk. Thank you, Mr. Starks.--What can I do for you?
Tea will be ready presently."
"You seem to have obliging neighbours! Ought I not to pay him for his
trouble?" said Mrs. Barclay, looking after the retreating Starks.
"Pay? O no!" said Lois, smiling. "Mr Starks does not want pay. He is
very well off indeed; has a farm of his own, and makes it valuable."
"He deserves to be well off, for his obligingness. Is it a general
characteristic of Shampuashuh?"
"I rather think it is," said Lois. "When you come down, Mrs. Barclay, I
will show you your other room."
Mrs. Barclay took off her wrappings and looked about her in a maze. The
room was extremely neat and pleasant, with its white naperies and
old-fashioned furniture. All that she had seen of the place was
pleasant. But the girl!--O Philip, Philip! thought Mrs. Barclay, have
you lost your heart here! and what ever will come of it all? I can
understand it; but what will come of it!
Down-stairs Lois met her again, and took her into the room arranged for
her sitting-room. It was not a New York drawing-room; but many gorgeous
drawing-rooms would fail in a comparison with it. Warm-coloured chintz
curtains; the carpet neither fine nor handsome, indeed, but of a hue
which did not clash violently with the hue of the draperies; plain,
dark furniture; and a blaze of soft coal. Mrs. Barclay exclaimed,
"Delightful! O, delightful! Is this my room, did you say? It is quite
charming. I am afraid I am putting you to great inconvenience?"
"The convenience is much greater than the inconvenience," said Lois
simply. "I hope we may be able to make you comfortable; but my sisters
are afraid you will not like our country way of living."
"Are you the housekeeper?"
"No," said Lois, with her pleasant smile again; "I am the gardener and
the out-of-doors woman generally; the man of business of the house."
"That is a rather hard place for a woman to fill, sometimes."
"It is easy here, and where people have so little out-of-door business
as we have."
She arranged the fire and shut the shutters of the windows; Mrs.
Barclay watching and admiring her as she did so. It was a pretty
figure, though in a calico and white apron. The manner of quiet
self-possession and simplicity left nothing to be desired. And the
face,--but what was it in the face which so struck Mrs. Barclay? It was
not the fair features; they were fair, but she had seen others as
fair, a thousand times before. This charm was something she had never
seen before in all her life. There was a gravity that had no connection
with shadows, nor even suggested them; a curious loftiness of mien,
which had nothing to do with external position or internal
consciousness; and a purity, which was like the grave purity of a
child, without the child's want of knowledge or immaturity of mental
power. Mrs. Barclay was attracted, and curious. At the same time, the
dress and the apron were of a style--well, of no style; the plainest
attire of a plain country girl.
"I will call you when tea is ready," said Lois. "Or would you like to
come out at once, and see the rest of the family?"
"By all means! let me go with you," Mrs. Barclay answered; and Lois
opened a door and ushered her at once into the common room of the
family. Here Mrs. Armadale was sitting in her rocking-chair.
"This is my grandmother," said Lois simply; and Mrs. Barclay came up.
"How do you do, ma'am?" said the old lady. "I am pleased to see you."
Mrs. Barclay took a chair by her side, made her greetings, and surveyed
the room. It was very cheerful and home-looking, with its firelight,
and the table comfortably spread in the middle of the floor, and
various little tokens of domestic occupation.
"How pleasant this fire is!" she remarked. "Wood is so sweet!"
"It's better than the fire in the parlour," said Mrs. Armadale; "but
that room has only a grate."
"I will never complain, as long as I have soft coal," returned the new
guest; "but there is an uncommon charm to me in a wood fire."
"You don't get it often in New York, Lois says."
"Miss Lois has been to the great city, then?"
"Yes, she's been there. Our cousin, Mrs. Wishart, likes to have her,
and Lois was there quite a spell last winter; but I expect that's the
end of it. I guess she'll stay at home the rest of her life."
"Why should she?"
"Here's where her work is," said the old lady; "and one is best where
one's work is."
"But her work might be elsewhere? She'll marry some day. If I were a
man, I think I should fall in love with her."
"She mightn't marry you, still," said Mrs. Armadale, with a fine smile.
"No, certainly," said Mrs. Barclay, returning the smile; "but--you
know, girls' hearts are not to be depended on. They do run away with
them, when the right person comes."
"My Lois will wait till he comes," said the old lady, with a sort of
tender confidence that was impressive and almost solemn. Mrs. Barclay's
thoughts made a few quick gyrations; and then the door opened, and
Lois, who had left the room, came in again, followed by one of her
sisters bearing a plate of butter.
"Another beauty!" thought Mrs. Barclay, as Madge was presented to her.
"Which is which, I wonder?" This was a beauty of quite another sort.
Regular features, black hair, eyes dark and soft under long lashes, a
white brow and a very handsome mouth. But Madge had a bow of ribband in
her black hair, while Lois's red-brown masses were soft, and fluffy,
and unadorned. Madge's face lacked the loftiness, if it had the
quietness, of the other; and it had not that innocent dignity which
seemed--to Mrs. Barclay's fancy--to set Lois apart from the rest of
young women. Yet most men would admire Madge most, she thought. O
Philip, Philip! she said to herself, what sort of a mess have you
brought me into! This is no common romance you have induced me to put
my fingers in. These girls!--
But then entered a third, of a different type, and Mrs. Barclay felt
some amusement at the variety surrounding her. Miss Charity was plain,
like her grandmother; and Mrs. Armadale was not, as I have said, a
handsome old woman. She had never been a handsome young one; bony,
angular, strong, not gracious; although the expression of calm sense,
and character, and the handwriting of life-work, and the dignity of
mental calm, were unmistakeable now, and made her a person worth
looking at. Charity was much younger, of course; but she had the
plainness without the dignity; sense, I am bound to say, was not
wanting.
The supper was ready, and they all sat down. The meal was excellent;
but at first very silently enjoyed. Save the words of anxious
hospitality, there were none spoken. The quicker I get acquain'ted, the
better, thought Mrs. Barclay. So she began.
"Your village looks to me like a quiet place."
"That is its character," said Mrs. Armadale.
"Especially in winter, I suppose?"
"Well, it allays was quiet, since I've known it," the old lady went on.
"They've got a hotel now for strangers, down at the Point--but that
ain't the village."
"And the hotel is empty now," added Lois.
"What does the village do, to amuse itself, in these quiet winter days
and nights?"
"Nothing," said Charity.
"Really? Are there no amusements? I never heard of such a place."
"I don't know what you mean by amusements," Mrs. Armadale took up the
subject. "I think, doin' one's work is the best amusement there is. I
never wanted no other."
"Does the old proverb not hold good then in Shampuashuh, of 'All work
and no play'--you know? The consequences are said to be disastrous."
"No," said Lois, laughing, "it does not hold good. People are not dull
here. I don't mean that they are very lively; but they are not dull."
"Is there a library here?"
"A sort of one; not large. Books that some of the people subscribe for,
and pass round to each other's houses."
"Then it is not much of a reading community?"
"Well, it is, considerable," said Mrs. Armadale. "There's a good many
books in the village, take 'em all together. I guess the folks have as
much as they can do to read what they've got, and don't stand in need
of no more."
"Well, are people any happier for living in such a quiet way? Are they
sheltered in any degree from the storms that come upon the rest of the
world? How is it? As I drove along from the station to-night, I thought
it looked like a haven of peace, where people could not have
heartbreaks."
"I hope the Lord will make it such to you, ma'am," the old lady said
solemnly.
The turn was so sudden and so earnest, that it in a sort took Mrs.
Barclay's breath away. She merely said, "Thank you!" and let the talk
drop.
CHAPTER XXI.
GREVILLE'S MEMOIRS.
Mrs. Barclay found her room pleasant, her bed excellent, and all the
arrangements and appointments simple, indeed, but quite sufficient. The
next morning brought brilliant sunlight, glittering in the elm trees,
and on the green sward which filled large spaces in the street, and on
chimneys and housetops, and on the bit of the Connecticut river which
was visible in the distance. Quiet it was certainly, and peaceful, and
at the same time the sight was inspiriting. Mrs. Barclay dressed and
went down; and there she found her parlour in order, the sunlight
streaming in, and a beautiful fire blazing to welcome her.
"This is luxury!" thought she, as she took her place in a comfortable
rocking-chair before the fire. "But how am I to get at my
work!"--Presently Lois came in, looking like a young rose.
"I beg pardon!" she said, greeting Mrs. Barclay, "but I left my
duster--"
Has she been putting my room in order! thought the lady. This elegant
creature? But she showed nothing of her feeling; only asked Lois if she
were busy.
"No," said Lois, with a smile; "I have done. Do you want something of
me?"
"Yes, in that case. Sit down, and let us get acquain'ted."
Lois sat down, duster in hand, and looked pleasantly ready.
"I am afraid I am giving you a great deal of trouble! If you get tired
of me, you must just let me know. Will you?"
"There is no fear," Lois assured her. "We are very glad to have you. If
only you do not get tired of our quiet. It is very quiet, after what
you have been accustomed to."
"Just what I want! I have been longing for the country; and the air
here is delicious. I cannot get enough of it. I keep sniffing up the
salt smell. And you have made me so comfortable! How lovely those old
elms are over the way! I could hardly get dressed, for looking at them.
Do you draw?"
"I? O no!" cried Lois. "I have been to school, of course, but I have
learned only common things. I do not know anything about drawing."
"Perhaps you will let me teach you?"
The colour flashed into the girl's cheeks; she made no answer at first,
and then murmured, "You are very kind!"
"One must do something, you know," Mrs. Bar clay said. "I cannot let
all your goodness make me idle. I am very fond of drawing, myself; it
has whiled away many an hour for me. Besides, it enables one to keep a
record of pretty and pleasant things, wherever one goes."
"We live among our pleasant things," said Lois; "but I should think
that would be delightful for the people who travel."
"You will travel some day."
"No, there is no hope of that."
"You would like it, then?"
"O, who would not like it! I went with Mrs. Wishart to the Isles of
Shoals last summer; and it was the first time I began to have a notion
what a place the world is."
"And what a place do you think it is?"
"O, so wonderfully full of beautiful things--so full! so full!--and of
such different beautiful things. I had only known Shampuashuh and the
Sound and New York; and Appledore was like a new world." Lois spoke
with a kind of inner fire, which sparkled in her eyes and gave accent
to her words.
"What was the charm? I do not know Appledore," said Mrs. Barclay
carelessly, but watching her.
"It is difficult to put some things in words. I seemed to be out of the
world of everyday life, and surrounded by what was pure and fresh and
powerful and beautiful--it all comes back to me now, when I think of
the surf breaking on the rocks, and the lights and colours, and the
feeling of the air."
"But how were the people? were they uncommon too? Part of one's
impression is apt to come from the human side of the thing."
"Mine did not. The people of the Islands are queer, rough people,
almost as strange as all the rest; but I saw more of some city people
staying at the hotel; and they did not fit the place at all."
"Why not?"
"They did not enjoy it. They did not seem to see what I saw, unless
they were told of it; nor then either."
"Well, you must come in and let me teach you to draw," said Mrs.
Barclay. "I shall want to feel that I have some occupation, or I shall
not be happy. Perhaps your sister will come too."
"Madge? O, thank you! how kind of you! I do not know whether Madge ever
thought of such a thing."
"You are the man of business of the house. What is she?"
"Madge is the dairywoman, and the sempstress. But we all do that."
"You are fond of reading? I have brought a few books with me, which I
hope you will use freely. I shall unpack them by and by."
"That will be delightful," Lois said, with a bright expression of
pleasure. "We have not subscribed to the library, because we felt we
could hardly spare the money."
They were called to breakfast; and Mrs. Barclay studied again with
fresh interest all the family group. No want of capacity and receptive
readiness, she was sure; nor of active energy. Sense, and
self-reliance, and independence, and quick intelligence, were to be
read in the face and manner of each one; good ground to work upon.
Still Mrs. Barclay privately shook her head at her task.
"Miss Madge," she said suddenly, "I have been proposing to teach your
sister to draw. Would you like to join her?"
Madge seemed too much astonished to answer immediately. Charity spoke
up and asked, "To draw what?"
"Anything she likes. Pretty things, and places."
"I don't see what's the use. When you've got a pretty thing, what
should you draw it for?"
"Suppose you have not got it."
"Then you can't draw it," said Charity.
"O Charity, you don't understand," cried Lois. "If I had known how to
draw, I could have brought you home pictures of the Isles of Shoals
last summer."
"They wouldn't have been like."
Lois laughed, and Mrs. Barclay remarked, that was rather begging the
question.
"What question?" said Charity.
"I mean, you are assuming a thing without evidence."
"It don't need evidence," said Charity. "I never saw a picture yet that
was worth a red cent. It's only a make-believe."
"Then you will not join our drawing class, Miss Charity?"
"No; and I should think Madge had better stick to her sewing. There's
plenty to do."
"Duty comes first," said the old lady; "and I shouldn't think duty
would leave much time for making marks on paper."
The first thing Mrs. Barclay did after breakfast was to unpack some of
her books and get out her writing box; and then the impulse seized her
to write to Mr. Dillwyn.
"I had meant to wait," she wrote him, "and not say anything to you
until I had had more time for observation; but I have seen so much
already that my head is in an excited state, and I feel I must relieve
myself by talking to you. Which of these ladies is the one? Is it the
black-haired beauty, with her white forehead and clean-cut features?
she is very handsome! But the other, I confess, is my favourite; she is
less handsome, but more lovely. Yes, she is lovely; and both of them
have capacity and cleverness. But, Philip, they belong to the strictly
religious sort; I see that; the old grandmother is a regular Puritan,
and the girls follow her lead; and I am in a confused state of mind
thinking what can ever be the end of it all. Whatever would you do with
such a wife, Philip Dillwyn? You are not a bad sort of man at all; at
least you know I think well of you; but you are not a Puritan, and
this little girl is. I do not mean to say anything against her; only,
you want me to make a woman of the world out of the girl--and I doubt
much whether I shall be able. There is strength in the whole family; it
is a characteristic of them; a capital trait, of course, but in certain
cases interfering with any effort to mould or bend the material to
which it belongs. What would you do, Philip, with a wife who would
disapprove of worldly pleasures, and refuse to take part in worldly
plans, and insist on bringing all questions to the bar of the Bible? I
have indeed heard no distinctively religious conversation here yet; but
I cannot be mistaken; I see what they are; I know what they will say
when they open their lips. I feel as if I were a swindler, taking your
money on false pretences; setting about an enterprise which may
succeed, possibly, but would succeed little to your advantage. Think
better of it and give it up! I am unselfish in saying that; for the
people please me. Life in their house, I can fancy, might be very
agreeable to me; but I am not seeking to marry them, and so there is no
violent forcing of incongruities into union and fellowship. Phil, you
cannot marry a Puritan."
How Mrs. Barclay was to initiate a system of higher education in this
farmhouse, she did not clearly see. Drawing was a simple thing enough;
but how was she to propose teaching languages, or suggest algebra, or
insist upon history? She must wait, and feel her way; and in the
meantime she scattered books about her room, books chosen with some
care, to act as baits; hoping so by and by to catch her fish. Meanwhile
she made herself very agreeable in the family; and that without any
particular exertion, which she rightly judged would hinder and not help
her object.
"Isn't she pleasant?" said Lois one evening, when the family were alone.
"She's elegant!" said Madge.
"She has plenty to say for herself," added Charity.
"But she don't look like a happy woman, Lois," Madge went on. "Her face
is regularly sad, when she ain't talking."
"But it's sweet when she is."
"I'll tell you what, girls," said Charity,--"she's a real proud woman."
"O Charity! nothing of the sort," cried Lois. "She is as kind as she
can be."
"Who said she wasn't? I said she was proud, and she is. She's a right,
for all I know; she ain't like our Shampuashuh people."
"She is a lady," said Lois.
"What do you mean by that, Lois?" Madge fired up. "You don't mean, I
hope, that the rest of us are not ladies, do you?"
"Not like her."
"Well, why should we be like her?"
"Because her ways are so beautiful. I should be glad to be like her.
She is just what you called her--elegant."
"Everybody has their own ways," said Madge.
"I hope none of you will be like her," said Mrs. Armadale gravely; "for
she's a woman of the world, and knows the world's ways, and she knows
nothin' else, poor thing!"
"But, grandmother," Lois put in, "some of the world's ways are good."
"Be they?" said the old lady. "I don' know which of 'em."
"Well, grandmother, this way of beautiful manners. They don't all have
it--I don't mean that--but some of them do. They seem to know exactly
how to behave to everybody, and always what to do or to say; and you
can see Mrs. Barclay is one of those. And I like those people. There is
a charm about them."
"Don't you always know what's right to do or say, with the Bible before
you?"
"O grandmother, but I mean in little things; little words and ways, and
tones of voice even. It isn't like Shampuashuh people."
"Well, we're Shampuashuh folks," said Charity. "I hope you won't set
up for nothin' else, Lois. I guess your head got turned a bit, with
goin' round the world. But I wish I knew what makes her look so sober!"
"She has lost her husband."
"Other folks have lost their husbands, and a good many of 'em have
found another. Don't be ridiculous, Lois!"
The first bait that took, in the shape of books, was Scott's "Lady of
the Lake." Lois opened it one day, was caught, begged to be allowed to
read it; and from that time had it in her hand whenever her hand was
free to hold it. She read it aloud, sometimes, to her grandmother, who
listened with a half shake of her head, but allowed it was pretty.
Charity was less easy to bribe with sweet sounds.
"What on earth is the use of that?" she demanded one day, when she had
stood still for ten minutes in her way through the room, to hear the
account of Fitz James's adventure in the wood with Roderick Dhu.
"Don't you like it?" said Lois.
"Don't make head or tail of it. And there sits Madge with her mouth
open, as if it was something to eat; and Lois's cheeks are as pink as
if she expected the people to step out and walk in. Mother, do you like
all that stuff?"
"It is poetry, Charity," cried Lois.
"What's the use o' poetry? can you tell me? It seems to me nonsense for
a man to write in that way. If he has got something to say, why don't
he say it, and be done with it?"
"He does say it, in a most beautiful way."
"It'd be a queer way of doing business!"
"It is not business," said Lois, laughing. "Charity, will you not
understand? It is poetry."
"What is poetry?"
But alas! Charity had asked what nobody could answer, and she had the
field in triumph.
"It is just a jingle-jangle, and what I call nonsense. Mother, ain't
that what you would say is a waste of time?"
"I don't know, my dear," said Mrs. Armadale doubtfully, applying her
knitting needle to the back of her ear.
"It isn't nonsense; it is delightful!" said Madge indignantly.
"You want me to go on, grandmother, don't you?" said Lois. "We want to
know about the fight, when the two get to Coilantogle ford."
And as she was not forbidden, she went on; while Charity got the
spice-box she had come for, and left the room superior.
The "Lady of the Lake" was read through. Mrs. Barclay had hoped to draw
on some historical inquiries by means of it; but before she could find
a chance, Lois took up Greville's Memoirs. This she read to herself;
and not many pages, before she came with the book and a puzzled face to
Mrs. Barclay's room. Mrs. Barclay was, we may say, a fisher lying in
wait for a bite; now she saw she had got one; the thing was to haul in
the line warily and skilfully. She broke up a piece of coal on the
fire, and gave her visitor an easy-chair.
"Sit there, my dear. I am very glad of your company. What have you in
your hand? Greville?"
"Yes. I want to ask you about some things. Am I not disturbing you?"
"Most agreeably. I can have nothing better to do than to talk with you.
What is the question?"
"There are several questions. It seems to me a very strange book!"
"Perhaps it is. But why do you say so?"
"Perhaps I should rather say that the people are strange. Is this
what the highest society in England is like?"
"In what particulars, do you mean?"
"Why, I think Shampuashuh is better. I am sure Shampuashuh would be
ashamed of such doings."
"What are you thinking of?" Mrs. Barclay asked, carefully repressing a
smile.
"Why, here are people with every advantage, with money and with
education, and with the power of place and rank,--living for nothing
but mere amusement, and very poor amusement too."
"The conversations alluded to were very often not poor amusement. Some
of the society were very brilliant and very experienced men."
"But they did nothing with their lives."
"How does that appear?"
"Here, at the Duke of York's," said Lois, turning over her
leaves;--"they sat up till four in the morning playing whist; and on
Sunday they amused themselves shooting pistols and eating fruit in the
garden, and playing with the monkeys! That is like children."
"My dear, half the world do nothing with their lives, as you phrase it."
"But they ought. And you expect it of people in high places, and having
all sorts of advantages."
"You expect, then, what you do not find."
"And is all of what is called the great world, no better than that?"
"Some of it is better." (O Philip, Philip, where are you? thought Mrs.
Barclay.) "They do not all play whist all night. But you know, Lois,
people come together to be amused; and it is not everybody that can
talk, or act, sensibly for a long stretch."
"How can they play cards all night?"
"Whist is very ensnaring. And the little excitement of stakes draws
people on."
"Stakes?" said Lois inquiringly.
"Sums staked on the game."
"Oh! But that is worse than foolish."
"It is to keep the game from growing tiresome. Do you see any harm in
it?"
"Why, that's gambling."
"In a small way."
"Is it always in a small way?"
"People do not generally play very high at whist."
"It is all the same thing," said Lois. "People begin with a little, and
then a little will not satisfy them."
"True; but one must take the world as one finds it."
"Is the New York world like this?" said Lois, after a moment's pause.
"No! Not in the coarseness you find Mr. Greville tells of. In the
matter of pleasure-seeking, I am afraid times and places are much
alike. Those who live for pleasure, are driven to seek it in all manner
of ways. The ways sometimes vary; the principle does not."
"And do all the men gamble?"
"No. Many do not touch cards. My friend, Mr. Dillwyn, for example."
"Mr. Dillwyn? Do you know him?"
"Very well. He was a dear friend of my husband, and has been a faithful
friend to me. Do you know him?"
"A little. I have seen him."
"You must not expect too much from the world, my dear."
"According to what you say, one must not expect anything from it."
"That is too severe."
"No," said Lois. "What is there to admire or respect in a person who
lives only for pleasure?"
"Sometimes there are fine qualities, and brilliant parts, and noble
powers."
"Ah, that makes it only worse!" cried Lois. "Fine qualities, and
brilliant parts, and noble powers, all used for nothing! That is
miserable; and when there is so much to do in the world, too!"
"Of what kind?" asked Mrs. Barclay, curious to know her companion's
course of thought.
"O, help."
"What sort of help?"
"Almost all sorts," said Lois. "You must know even better than I. Don't
you see a great many people in New York that are in want of some sort
of help?"
"Yes; but it is not always easy to give, even where the need is
greatest. People's troubles come largely from their follies."
"Or from other people's follies."
"That is true. But how would you help, Lois?"
"Where there's a will, there's a way, Mrs. Barclay."
"You are thinking of help to the poor? There is a great deal of that
done."
"I am thinking of poverty, and sickness, and weakness, and ignorance,
and injustice. And a grand man could do a great deal. But not if he
lived like the creatures in this book. I never saw such a book."
"But we must take men as we find them; and most men are busy seeking
their own happiness. You cannot blame them for that. It is human
nature."
"I blame them for seeking it so. And it is not happiness that people
play whist for, till four o'clock in the morning."
"What then?"
"Forgetfulness, I should think; distraction; because they do not know
anything about happiness."
"Who does?" said Mrs. Barclay sadly.
Lois was silent, not because she had not something to say, but because
she was not certain how best to say it. There was no doubt in her sweet
face, rather a grave assurance which stimulated Mrs. Barclay's
curiosity.
"We must take people as we find them," she repeated. "You cannot expect
men who live for pleasure to give up their search for the sake of other
people's pleasure."
"Yet that is the way,--which they miss," said Lois.
"The way to what?"
"To real enjoyment. To life that is worth living."
"What would you have them do?"
"Only what the Bible says."
"I do not believe I know the Bible as well as you do. Of what
directions are you thinking? 'The poor ye have always with you'?"
"Not that," said Lois. "Let me get my Bible, and I will tell
you.--This, Mrs. Barclay--'To loose the bands of wickedness, to undo
the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break
every yoke..... To deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring
the poor that are cast out to thy house; when thou seest the naked,
that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own
flesh'....."
"And do you think, to live right, one must live so?"
"It is the Bible!" said Lois, with so innocent a look of having
answered all questions, that Mrs. Barclay was near smiling.
"Do you think anybody ever did live so?"
"Job."
"Did he! I forget."
Lois turned over some leaves, and again read--"'When the ear heard me,
then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me:
because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him
that had none to help him. The blessing of him that was ready to perish
came upon me: and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.... I was
eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame. I was a father to the
poor: and the cause that I knew not I searched out. And I brake the
jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth.'"
"To be a father to the poor, in these days, would give a man enough
to do, certainly; especially if he searched out all the causes which
were doubtful. It would take all a man's time, and all his money too,
if he were as rich as Job;--unless you put some limit, Lois."
"What limit, Mrs. Barclay?"
"Do you put none? I was not long ago speaking with a friend, such a man
of parts and powers as was mentioned just now; a man who thus far in
his life has done nothing but for his own cultivation and amusement. I
was urging upon him to do something with himself; but I did not tell
him what. It did not occur to me to set him about righting ail the
wrongs of the world."
"Is he a Christian?"
"I am afraid you would not say so."
"Then he could not. One must love other people, to live for them."
"Love all sorts?" said Mrs. Barclay.
"You cannot work for them unless you do."
"Then it is hopeless!--unless one is born with an exceptional mind."
"O no," said Lois, smiling, "not hopeless. The love of Christ brings
the love of all that he loves."
There was a glow and a sparkle, and a tenderness too, in the girl's
face, which made Mrs. Barclay look at her in a somewhat puzzled
admiration. She did not understand Lois's words, and she saw that her
face was a commentary upon them; therefore also unintelligible; but it
was strangely pure and fair. "You would do for Philip, I do believe,"
she thought, "if he could get you; but he will never get you." Aloud
she said nothing. By and by Lois returned to the book she had brought
in with her.
"Here are some words which I cannot read; they are not English. What
are they?"
Mrs. Barclay read: "Le bon got, les ris, l'aimable libert. That is
French."
"What does it mean?"
"Good taste, laughter, and charming liberty. You do not know French?"
"O no," said Lois, with a sort of breath of longing. "French words come
in quite often here, and I am always so curious to know what they mean."
"Very well, why not learn? I will teach you."
"O, Mrs. Barclay!"--
"It will give me the greatest pleasure. And it is very easy."
"O, I do not care about that," said Lois; "but I would be so glad to
know a little more than I do."
"You seem to me to have thought a good deal more than most girls of
your age; and thought is better than knowledge."
"Ah, but one needs knowledge in order to think justly."
"An excellent remark! which--if you will for give me--I was making to
myself a few minutes ago."
"A few minutes ago? About what I said? O, but there I have
knowledge," said Lois, smiling.
"You are sure of that?"
"Yes," said Lois, gravely now. "The Bible cannot be mistaken, Mrs.
Barclay."
"But your application of it?"
"How can that be mistaken? The words are plain."
"Pardon me. I was only venturing to think that you could have seen
little, here in Shampuashuh, of the miseries of the world, and so know
little of the difficulty of getting rid of them, or of ministering to
them effectually."
"Not much," Lois agreed. "Yet I have seen so much done by people
without means--I thought, those who have means might do more."
"What have you seen? Do tell me. Here I am ignorant; except in so far
as I know what some large societies accomplish, and fail to accomplish."
"I have not seen much," Lois repeated. "But I know one person, a
farmer's wife, no better off than a great many people here, who has
