danger that his ankle, which had been severely sprained, would not be in
a condition for travelling for a considerable time yet. The rough
mountain-paths would have tried it, and perhaps a second sprain would
have resulted.
Now, however, he would be able to ride on one of the horses, and need
not walk at all if he pleased.
This idea occurred to Jake Bradley, who suggested it to Richard Dewey.
Dewey's face brightened up, for he was secretly chafing over the delay
made necessary by his accident. "But, my friend," he said, "it would be
selfish in me to take your horse and leave you to go on foot."
"Look here, Dick Dewey," said Bradley: "what do you take me for? Do you
think I'm so delicate I can't walk? I wasn't brought up in no such way.
I can do my regular share of trampin', whether on the prairie or on the
mountain. I ain't no tender-foot."
"I don't doubt your strength and endurance, friend Bradley," said Dewey,
"but a man doesn't always like to do what he is fully able to do."
"Then we needn't say no more about it. There's a gal--I beg your pardon,
a young lady--in 'Frisco that's pinin' to see you, Dick Dewey, and that
hoss'll get you there sooner'n if you waited till you could walk."
"I am too selfish to resist your arguments, my good friend," said Dewey.
"I think I can venture to start within a week, as I am to ride."
"No doubt of it."
"You'd better let me buy your horse, and then if we don't meet again,
or anything happens to it, you won't be the loser."
"'If we don't meet again'?" repeated Bradley, puzzled. "You don't mean
to say you are goin' to set out alone?"
"I don't want to take you and Ben away from your claim. It isn't half
exhausted yet."
"Then let somebody else exhaust it," returned Bradley. "You don't
suppose, Dick, we are goin' to let you go off alone?"
"I shall not be alone. My faithful attendant, Ki Sing, will be with me."
"And what good would Ki Sing be in case you fell in with a grizzly? I
want to know that," asked Bradley. "I don't say anything against the
heathen; he's squarer than many a white man I've met with, and he's
worth a dozen such men as Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley; but, all the same,
he wouldn't be much in a scrimmage. Them Chinamen are half women,
accordin' to my reckonin'. They look like it and speak like it. No, Ben
and I go when you do, and the first man that comes along is welcome to
the claim."
"I shall certainly be delighted to have you both with me," said Richard
Dewey. "You're a good fellow, Jake Bradley, and I trust you more than
any man I have met since I came to California. Ben acted as escort to
Florence, and I owe him a debt for that which I hope some day to repay."
"Then it's all fixed," said Bradley, in a tone of satisfaction. "We four
are to keep together till we see you within reach of 'Frisco. When you
and your young lady meet you won't need us any more."
Richard Dewey smiled. "Florence will wish to thank you for your kind
care of me, Bradley," he said.
"I've no objection to that. You can invite me to the weddin', Dick."
"I give you that invitation now, and hope you may not have long to wait
for the occasion. All difficulties are not yet removed, but I hope they
may vanish speedily. I get impatient sometimes, but I try to curb my
impatient feeling."
"I reckon I would feel so myself if I was in your fix," observed
Bradley.
"I hope you may be, Jake."
Bradley shook his head.
"I'm a cross-grained old bachelor," he said, "and I reckon no gal would
look at me twice."
CHAPTER XII.
THE PROFITS OF MINING.
A few evenings later Ben and Bradley were sitting just outside the cabin
as the twilight deepened.
"It doesn't seem as if this was our last night in the old shanty," said
Jake Bradley, taking the pipe from his mouth. "It ain't a palace, but I
shall kinder hate to leave it."
"I've got to feel very much at home here myself, Jake; still, I should
like to get somewhere where it isn't quite so far out of the world."
"There's something in that, Ben."
"I haven't heard anything from home for a good many weeks; I wish I knew
whether my uncle's family are all well."
"How many is there in the family, Ben?"
"There's Uncle Job and Aunt Hannah and Cousin Jennie."
"That's just what I thought," said Jake.
"I don't understand you," said Ben, puzzled. "What did you think?"
"I thought there was a Cousin Jennie."
Our hero laughed, and, it may be, blushed a little. "What made you think
that?"
"There generally is, I notice," said Mr. Bradley, eagerly. "Is Cousin
Jennie pretty?"
"To be sure she is."
"I thought that too, Ben."
"What are you driving at, Jake?"
"I was sure there was some one besides the old folks that you was
anxious about."
"Well, you happen to be right," said Ben, laughing. "But I must tell you
that Jennie is only fourteen, and I am only sixteen."
"You'll both of you be older some day, Ben. But there's a matter that we
must settle before we go."
"What's that?"
"About the gold we have found since we've been here. We must have some
arrangement about dividin' it."
"We sha'n't quarrel about that, Jake."
"No, there's no danger of that. That'll be easy enough. We'll divide it
into two piles, one for you, and the other for me."
"Jake, I have no right to half of it. You ought to have two-thirds."
"I'd like to argy that matter, Ben. Why should I have two-thirds?"
"Because you earned it. You understood mining better than I."
"We're equal partners, Ben. I stick to that, and I mean to have my way.
I've been making a little calculation, and I reckon there's nigh on to a
thousand dollars for the two of us."
"As much as that, Jake?" said Ben, eagerly.
"I reckon there is, though I can't justly tell."
"It doesn't seem possible I can be worth five hundred dollars," said
Ben, thoughtfully. "We've only been here four weeks. That makes a
hundred and twenty-five dollars a week."
"So it does. That's pretty high pay for a boy."
"Before I left home," said Ben, "there was an old farmer, Deacon
Pitkins, who wanted to hire me for a year. What do you think he offered
me?"
"How much?"
"Twenty dollars a year and board," answered Ben.
"I reckon you did better to come to Californy."
"It looks so now. How the old deacon would stare if he knew how I had
been prospering at the mines! I wish there was any way of sending part
of this money home. I would like to make a present to Uncle Job."
"When you get to 'Frisco you won't have any trouble about sendin' it."
"Uncle Job thought it was very risky for a boy like me to leave home and
seek my fortune in California. I would like to prove to him that I
didn't make a mistake."
"It's likely you haven't, Ben," said Bradley cautiously, "but you ain't
out of the woods yet. I hope things will go on as well as they have, and
you'll be able to carry a pile home. But we've got to start in good
season to-morrow, and we may as well turn in and go to sleep."
CHAPTER XIII.
KI SING'S RIDE.
The next morning after breakfast the party got off. Fortunately, there
were no trunks or heavy luggage to carry. California pioneers had no
occasion for Saratoga trunks, and the amount of clothing they carried in
addition to what they had on was very small.
"Ki Sing," said Bradley, jocosely, "I am afraid we can't carry your
trunk with us."
"'Tlunk'!" repeated the Chinaman, looking puzzled.
"Yes, trunk, or 'tlunk,' as you call it. Haven't you a trunk to carry
your clothes?"
"Got clothes on," said Ki Sing, pointing to his blouse and wide pants.
"I see," said Bradley, laughing. "We're all about in the same fix. The
clothes of the whole party wouldn't half fill a trunk."
The two horses were brought out and saddled.
Bradley assisted Richard Dewey to mount one, and motioned to Ben to
mount the other. "Get on, Ben," he said. "It's time the procession was
moving."
Ben shook his head. "No, Jake," he said. "You are older than I am. It is
proper that you should ride."
"If I'm older than you," said Bradley, "I am stronger than you, and am
better able to walk."
"I am strong enough, Jake. I sha'n't get tired."
"One of us ought to ride. There's no use in havin' a horse if you ain't
going to use him."
"Suppose," suggested Ben, laughing, "we let Ki Sing ride?"
Bradley saw that a joke was intended, and he turned gravely to the
Chinaman. "Ki Sing," he said, "come here and mount this mustang. We are
goin' to let you ride."
An expression of alarm overspread the Chinaman's broad face. He had
never been on a horse's back in his life, but he knew something of the
Californian mustangs. More than once he had seen them buck and throw
the ill-fated riders over their heads, and, not being of a daring or
venturesome nature, he preferred to walk rather than trust himself to
mount the back of so treacherous an animal.
"Ki Sing no wantee lide," he said, starting back in alarm.
"But, Ki Sing, you will get tired tramping over these hills. It will be
much easier to ride on a mustang."
"No likee mustang--mustang buckee," objected the Chinaman.
"You are right, Ki Sing. They do buck sometimes, but this animal is as
mild and peaceful as a lamb. However, we won't insist on your riding
now. Some other day, when you have found out how safe he is, you shall
try him."
The Chinaman seemed much relieved at the privilege accorded him of
walking, and with his small bundle prepared to take his place in the
procession.
"Ben," said Bradley, "the best way for us to arrange will be to take
turns in riding. I'd a good deal rather walk half the way. My legs get
cramped when I am on horseback too long. You remember I used to get off
and lead the horse when we had one apiece. You may take your turn first,
and as you are riding I will give you a bag to carry. Mind you don't
lose it, for it contains our store of gold-dust."
"All right, Jake. I'll ride first, if you say so." In truth, Ben was
pleased to find himself once more on the back of a horse. He had not had
much practice in riding at the East, but the practice he had had in
California had already made him a good rider, and even if the mustang
had taken a fancy to buck he would have found it rather hard to dislodge
our young hero. The animal he bestrode, however, was very well-behaved,
especially when he felt that his rider had the mastery over him. Any
horse, with any spirit, is apt to take advantage of a timid or
unpractised rider, and the animal is very quick to learn when this is
the case.
During the first day the mustang behaved remarkably well. To begin with,
both Ben and Bradley were good riders. Moreover, the path was very
uneven, chiefly up and down hill, and the horse was too sensible to go
much beyond a walk.
As for Dewey, he got on very comfortably. His ankle was nearly as strong
as at first, but if he had been compelled to use it for a day's tramp it
would undoubtedly have ached and become sensitive. On the back of his
horse--or rather Bradley's--there was of course no danger of injury.
When he became tired of his constrained position he got off and walked a
quarter or half a mile, and experienced the needed relief.
At the end of the first day they had got well down the mountain, and the
commencement of the second day's ride was over a nearly level plateau.
"This is a good place for Ki Sing to ride," suggested Ben.
"Just so," said Bradley, taking the hint.--"Ki Sing, you must take your
turn now."
"No wantee lide," said the Chinaman, but he did not greet the proposal
with so much alarm as on the morning previous. He had noticed the quiet
behavior and regular pace of the two mustangs, and concluded that they
were of a different kind from those he had seen misbehave on former
occasions.
"Oh, you'll like it well enough when you try it, Ki Sing," said Bradley.
"Were you ever on a horse's back?"
"Me never lide," answered the Chinaman.
"Then it is high time you began. You see, Ki Sing, it isn't exactly fair
that Ben and I should ride half the time and leave you to walk all the
way."
"Likee walk," said Ki Sing.
"That's because you never tried riding. You see, these two hosses of
ours are jest like lambs. They're so gentle they could be rid by a
two-year-old baby."
The Chinaman looked at the mustangs, and confidence came to him. So far
as he had observed, what Jake Bradley said was strictly true. They
certainly did seem remarkably tame.
With a little more persuasion he was induced to mount, Ben assisting him
to get into position, and the reins were put into his hands.
The mustang began to move off at a regular pace, very favorable to an
inexperienced rider, and a bland and child-like smile of content
overspread the face of the Chinaman.
"You see, Ki Sing," said Bradley, who walked alongside, "it's nothing to
ride. You thought you couldn't ride, yet you are pacing it off like a
veteran."
"Me likee lide," observed Ki Sing, with a pleased smile.
"Just so: I thought you would.--Ben, doesn't Ki Sing ride well?"
"Splendidly!" said Ben, contemplating with amusement the Mongolian
horseman.
Certainly, Ki Sing in his Chinese garb, as he gingerly held the reins,
with his bland, smiling face, did look rather queer.
But I am sorry to say that the poor Chinaman's pleasure and contentment
were destined to be of short duration. Bradley and Ben were eager for
the amusement they promised themselves when they planned this practical
joke at the expense of their Asiatic friend.
Winking at Ben, Bradley said, "You don't go fast enough, Ki Sing."
As he spoke he brought down a stick which he had in his hand with
emphasis on the flanks of the mustang. The effect was magical. The tame
animal immediately started off at great speed, arching his neck and
shaking his head, while the poor Chinaman, his bland smile succeeded by
a look of extreme terror, was bounced up and down in the most
unceremonious fashion, and would have been thrown off quickly but for
the Mexican saddle, which is a securer seat than that used at the East.
He uttered a howl of anguish, while his almond eyes seemed starting out
of their sockets as his steed dashed along the road.
Though Ben sympathized with the terrified Chinaman, he knew there was
little or no danger, and he threw himself on the ground and gave way to
a paroxysm of laughter.
Finally the horse slackened his pace, and Ki Sing lost no time in
sliding to the ground.
"How do you like it, Ki Sing?" asked Bradley, trying to keep his face
straight.
"No likee lide," answered Mr. Chinaman. "Horsee 'most kill Ki Sing."
"You rode splendidly, Ki Sing," said Ben, laughing. "You made him go
fast."
"No likee go fast," said Ki Sing, inspecting his limbs to see that none
were broken.
The poor Chinaman's limbs were sore for a day or two, and he could never
be induced to mount one of the mustangs again.
It was his first and last ride.
CHAPTER XIV.
GOLDEN GULCH HOTEL.
The party were able to cover a greater distance on the second day than
on the first, being now among the foot-hills, where travelling was
attended with less difficulty.
In the mountain-cabin they had been solitary. Their only visitors had
been Bill Mosely and his friend Tom Hadley, and such visitors they were
glad to dispense with. Now, however, it was different. Here and there
they found a little mining-settlement with its quota of rough, bearded
men clad in strange fashion. Yet some of these men had filled
responsible and prominent positions in the East. One of the most
brigandish-looking miners had been a clergyman in Western New York, who
had been compelled by bronchial troubles to give up his parish, and,
being poor, had wandered to the California mines in the hope of
gathering a competence for the support of his family.
"It seems good to see people again," said Ben, whose temperament was
social. "I felt like Robinson Crusoe on his desert island when I was up
on the mountain."
"Yes," answered Bradley, "I like to see people myself when they're of
the right sort. When they're like Bill Mosely I'd rather be alone."
"I agree with you there," said Ben. "Poor company is worse than none."
Besides the mining-settlements there were little knots of miners at work
here and there, who generally gave the travellers a cordial welcome, and
often invited them to stay and join them.
"No," said Bradley, "we're in a hurry to get to 'Frisco."
"Oh, you've made your pile, then?" was generally answered. "What luck
have you had?"
"Our pile is a small one," Bradley was wont to reply, "but we've got
business in 'Frisco. Leastwise, he has," pointing to Richard Dewey, who
headed the procession.
"Will you come back to the mines?"
"I shall, for one," said Bradley. "I ain't rich enough to retire yet,
and I don't expect to be for half a dozen years yet."
"Will the boy come back?"
"Yes," answered Ben. "I'm in the same situation as my friend, Mr.
Bradley. I haven't my fortune yet."
"You'd better stay with us, boy. We'll do the right thing by you."
Ben shook his head and declined with thanks. He did not want to forsake
his present companions. Besides, he had been commissioned by Florence
Douglas to find Richard Dewey, and he wanted to execute that commission
thoroughly. He wanted to see the two united, and then he would be
content to return to the rough life of the mining-camp.
It is easy to understand why Ben should have received so many friendly
invitations. A boy was a rarity in California at that time--at any rate,
in the mining-districts. There were plenty of young men and men of
middle age, but among the adventurous immigrants were to be found few
boys of sixteen, the age of our hero. The sight of his fresh young face
and boyish figure recalled to many miners the sons whom they had left
behind them, and helped to make more vivid the picture of home which
their imaginations often conjured up, and they would have liked to have
Ben join their company. But, as I have said, Ben had his reasons for
declining all invitations at present, though he had every reason to
anticipate good treatment.
Toward the close of the second day the little party reached a small
mining-settlement containing probably about fifty miners.
It was known as Golden Gulch, and it even boasted a small hotel, with a
board sign, on which had been scrawled in charcoal--
GOLDEN GULCH HOTEL.
KEPT BY JIM BROWN.
"I believe we are getting into the domain of civilization," said Richard
Dewey. "Actually, here is a hotel. If Mr. Brown is not too exorbitant
in his prices, we had better put up here for the night."
"It doesn't look like an expensive hotel," said Ben, looking at the
rough shanty which the proprietor had dignified by the appellation of
"hotel."
It was roughly put together, had but one story, was unpainted, and was
altogether hardly equal, architecturally, to some of the huts which are
to be found among the rocks at the upper end of Manhattan Island.
Such was Jim Brown's "Golden Gulch Hotel." Such as it was, however, it
looked attractive to our pilgrims, who for so long had been compelled to
be their own cooks and servants.
They found, upon inquiry, that Jim Brown's terms for supper, lodging,
and breakfast were five dollars a day, or as nearly as that sum could be
reached in gold-dust. It was considerably higher than the prices then
asked at the best hotels in New York and Philadelphia; but high prices
prevailed in California, and no one scrupled to pay them.
The party decided to remain, and the landlord set to work to prepare
them a supper as good as the limited resources of the Golden Gulch Hotel
would allow. Still, the fare was better and more varied than our
travellers had been accustomed to for a long time, and they enjoyed it.
Ki Sing sat down to the table with them. This was opposed at first by
Jim Brown, the landlord, who regarded Chinamen as scarcely above the
level of his mules.
"You don't mean to say you want that heathen to sit down at the table
with you?" he remonstrated.
"Yes, I do," said Richard Dewey.
"I'd sooner be kicked by a mule than let any yaller heathen sit next to
me," remarked Jim Brown, whose education and refinement made him
sensitive to such social contamination.
Richard Dewey smiled. "Of course you can choose for yourself," he said.
"Ki Sing is a friend of mine, though he is acting as my servant, and I
want him to have equal privileges."
Jim Brown remarked that of course Dewey could choose his own company,
though he intimated that he thought his taste might be improved.
"Me eatee aftelward," said Ki Sing when he perceived that his presence
at the table was the subject of controversy, but he was overruled by
Richard Dewey, who possessed a large share of independence, and would
not allow himself to be controlled or influenced by the prejudices of
others.
This may not seem a very important matter, but it aroused a certain
hostility on the part of the landlord, which arrayed him against Dewey
and his companions at a critical time.
Entirely unconscious of the storm that was soon to gather about them,
the little party did good justice to the supper which Mr. Brown set
before them.
"How would it seem, Jake, to have supper like this every night?"
remarked Ben.
"It would make me feel like a prince," answered Jake Bradley.
"It is no better than I used to get at Uncle Job's, and yet he was a
poor man. How he would stare if he knew I was paying five dollars a day
for no better fare than he gave me!" replied our hero.
"That's true, Ben; but maybe it's easier to get the five dollars here
than it would have been to scrape together fifty cents at home."
"You're right there, Jake. Fifty cents was a pretty big sum to me a year
ago. I don't believe Uncle Job himself averages over a dollar and a
quarter a day, and he has a family to support. If I only do well here,
I'll make him comfortable in his old age."
"I guess you'll have the chance, Ben. You're the boy to succeed. You're
smart, and you're willin' to work, and them's what leads to success out
here."
"Thank you, Jake. I will try to deserve your favorable opinion."
As Ben finished these words, there was a confused noise outside, the
hoarse murmur as of angry men, and a minute later Jim Brown the landlord
entered the room, his face dark and threatening.
"Strangers," said he, "I reckoned there was something wrong about you
when you let that yaller heathen sit down with you. Now, I know it. You
ain't square, respectable men; you're hoss-thieves!"
CHAPTER XV.
BILL MOSELY REAPPEARS.
It will be necessary to go back a little in order to explain how so
extraordinary a charge came to be made against the party in which we are
interested.
Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley did not become reconciled to the loss of
their stolen horses. They found it much less agreeable to use their own
legs than the legs of the two mustangs which had borne them so
comfortably over the hills. They cursed the fate which had led to their
meeting with Ki Sing, and the poor Chinaman would have fared worse at
their hands had they anticipated the trouble which he indirectly brought
them.
Bill Mosely was naturally lazy; any sort of work he considered beneath
him, and he desired to avoid all possible trouble in the lawless and
vagabond life which he had chosen. He took it worse, indeed, than his
companion, who was neither so shiftless nor so lazy as he.
During the few days which had elapsed since they were glad to leave the
mountain-cabin they had averaged less than ten miles' daily travel. They
had money enough to purchase animals to replace those which had been
taken from them, but had not found any one who was willing to sell for a
reasonable price, and Mosely, though he came easily by his money, was
far from lavish in the spending of it.
It chanced that an hour after the arrival of Richard Dewey and his party
at the Golden Gulch Hotel, Mosely and his companion, dusty and tired,
approached the small mining-settlement, of which the hotel was the
principal building.
They had had nothing to eat since morning, and both of them felt hungry,
not to say ravenous.
"Thank Heaven, Tom, there's a mining-town!" ejaculated Mosely, with an
expression of devotion not usual to him. "Now we can get something to
eat, and I, for my part, feel as empty as a drum. It's hard travelling
on an empty stomach."
"I should say so," remarked Mr. Hadley, with his usual formula. It must
be admitted, however, that in the present instance he was entirely
sincere, and fully meant what he said.
"There's a hotel," said Tom Hadley, a minute later, venturing on an
original observation.
"So there is; what is the name?" inquired Mosely, who was not as
far-sighted as his companion.
"The Golden Gulch Hotel," answered Hadley, shading his eyes and reading
from a distance of fifty rods the pretentious sign of the little inn.
"I suppose they'll charge a fortune for a supper," said Mosely, whose
economical spirit was troubled by the exorbitant prices then prevalent
in California, "but we must have it at any cost."
"I should say so," assented Tom Hadley, cordially.
"You always have a good appetite of your own," observed Mosely, not
without sarcasm, which, however, Tom Hadley was too obtuse to
comprehend.
"I should say so," returned Tom complacently, as if he had received a
compliment.
"No doubt you'll get your money's worth, no matter how much we pay for
supper."
Tom Hadley himself was of this opinion, and so expressed himself.
They had already caught sight of two mustangs which were browsing near
the Golden Gulch Hotel, and the sight of these useful animals excited
the envy and longing of Bill Mosely.
"Do you see them mustangs, Tom?" he inquired.
"I should say so."
"I wish we had them."
"Couldn't we take them?" suggested Hadley, his face brightening at the
thought of this easy mode of acquiring what they so much needed.
"Are you mad, Tom Hadley?" returned Bill Mosely, shrugging his
shoulders. "Are you anxious to die?"
"I should say--not."
"Then you'd better not think of carrying off them horses. Why, we'd have
the whole pack of miners after us, and we'd die in our boots before
twenty-four hours had passed."
On the whole, this prospect did not appear to be of an encouraging
character, and Tom Hadley quietly dropped the plan.
"Perhaps we can buy them," suggested Mosely by way of amendment. "I've
got tired of tramping over these hills on foot. After we've got some
supper we'll inquire who they belong to."
Up to this point neither Mosely nor his companion suspected that the
mustangs which they desired to purchase had once been in their
possession. That discovery was to come later.
Before reaching the Golden Gulch Hotel they encountered the landlord,
already introduced as Jim Brown.
Mr. Brown scanned the new-comers with an eye to business. Being
strangers, he naturally looked upon them as possible customers, and was
disposed from motives of policy to cultivate their acquaintance.
"Evenin', strangers," he remarked, as affably as a rather gruff voice
and manner would permit.
"Good-evening," said Bill Mosely, socially. "What might be the name of
this settlement?"
"You kin see the name on that sign yonder, stranger, ef your eyes are
strong enough."
"Golden Gulch?"
"I reckon."
"It ought to be a good place, from the name."
"It's middlin' good. Where might you be from?"
"We're prospectin' a little," answered Bill Mosely vaguely; for there
had been circumstances in his California career that made it impolitic
to be too definite in his statements.
"Where are you bound?" continued the landlord, with that licensed
curiosity which no one ventured to object to in California.
"That depends upon circumstances, my friend," said Bill Mosely,
guardedly. "We may go to 'Frisco, and then again we may not. To-night we
propose to remain here in Golden Gulch. Is that a comfortable hotel?"
"Well, stranger, seein' I keep it myself, it mightn't be exactly the
thing for me to say much about it; but I reckon you won't complain of it
if you stop there."
"I'm glad to meet you," said Bill Mosely, grasping the landlord's hand
fervently. "I don't need to ask any more about it, seein' you're the
landlord. You look like a man that can keep a hotel--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," returned Tom Hadley, making the answer that was
expected of him.
"You're a gentleman!" said Jim Brown, on whom this flattery had its
effect. "Just come along with me and I'll see that you are treated as
such."
"What are your terms, say, for supper and lodgin', landlord?" asked
Bill, with commendable caution.
"Five dollars," answered Brown.
Bill Mosely's jaw fell. He had hoped it would be less.
"And for supper alone?" he asked.
"Two dollars."
"We'll only take supper," said Mosely.
"Just as you say."
"We're so used to campin' out that we couldn't breathe in-doors--eh,
Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"Suit yourselves, strangers. I reckon you'll want breakfast in the
mornin'."
"As likely as not." Then, turning his attention to the mustangs: "Are
them mustangs yours, landlord?"
"No; they belong to a party that's stoppin' with me."
"Will they sell?"
"I reckon not. There's a lame man in the party, and he can't walk much."
"A lame man? Who is with him?" asked Bill Mosely, with a sudden
suspicion of the truth.
"Well, there's another man and a boy and a heathen Chinee."
"Tom," said Bill Mosely, in excitement, "it's the party we left on the
mountain."
"I should say so, Bill."
"Do you know them, strangers?"
"Know them?" ejaculated Bill Mosely, who instantly formed a plan which
would gratify his love of vengeance and secure him the coveted horses at
one and the same time--"I reckon I know them only too well. They stole
those mustangs from me and my friend a week ago. I thought them animals
looked natural."
"Hoss-thieves!" said the landlord. "Well, I surmised there was something
wrong about them when they let that yaller heathen set down to the table
with them."
CHAPTER XVI.
A TRAVESTY OF JUSTICE.
It was speedily noised about in the mining-camp that a party of
horse-thieves had had the audacity to visit the settlement, and were
even now guests of the Golden Gulch Hotel.
Now, in the eyes of a miner a horse-thief was as bad as a murderer. He
was considered rather worse than an ordinary thief, since the character
of his theft gave him better facilities for getting away with his
plunder. He was looked upon by all as a common and dangerous enemy, on
whom any community was justified in visiting the most condign
punishment.
Bill Mosely knew very well the feeling he would rouse against the men
whom he hated, and, having started the movement, waited complacently for
the expected results to follow.
Jim Brown was by no means slow in spreading the alarm. True, these men
were his guests, and it might be considered that it was against his
interests to denounce them, but he knew his claim for entertainment
would be allowed him out of the funds found in possession of the party,
with probably a liberal addition as a compensation for revealing their
real character.
Horse-thieves! No sooner did the news spread than the miners, most of
whom were through work for the day, began to make their way to the
neighborhood of the hotel.
There hadn't been any excitement at Golden Gulch for some time, and this
promised a first-class sensation.
"Hang 'em up! That's what I say," suggested Brown the landlord.
"Where's the men that call 'em thieves?" asked one of the miners, a
middle-aged man, who was sober and slow-spoken, and did not look like a
man to be easily carried away by a storm of prejudice or a wave of
excitement.
"Here they be," said Brown, pointing to Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley, who
were speedily surrounded by an excited crowd.
"What have you say?" asked the first speaker of Mosely.
Bill Mosely repeated his story glibly. It was to this effect: They had
met the Chinaman, who induced them to accompany him to the cabin where
his master lay sick. From motives of compassion they assented. When they
reached the cabin they were set upon by the combined party, their horses
were taken from them, they were tied to trees, where they were kept in
great pain all night, and in the morning stripped of the greater part of
their money and sent adrift.
It will be seen that the story did not entirely deviate from fact, and
was very artfully framed to excite sympathy for the narrator and
indignation against the perpetrators of the supposed outrage. Tom
Hadley, who had not the prolific imagination of his comrade, listened in
open-mouthed wonder to the fanciful tale, but did not offer to
corroborate it in his usual manner.
The tale was so glibly told that it carried conviction to the minds of
most of those present, and a storm of indignation arose.
"Let's have 'em out! let's hang 'em up!" exclaimed one impetuous miner.
Others echoed the cry, and the company of miners in stern phalanx
marched to the hotel, where, unconscious of the impending peril, our
friends were resting after the day's fatigue.
We have already described the manner in which Jim Brown burst in upon
them with the startling charge that they were horse-thieves.
Of course all were startled except Ki Sing, who did not fully comprehend
the situation.
Richard Dewey was the first to speak. "What do you mean," he said,
sternly, "by this preposterous charge?"
"You'll find out soon enough," said the landlord, nodding significantly.
"Jest you file out of that door pretty quick. There's some of us want to
see you."
"What does all this mean?" asked Dewey, turning to Jake Bradley.
"I don't know," answered Bradley. "It looks like a conspiracy."
The party filed out, and were confronted by some thirty or forty
black-bearded, stern-faced men, who had tried and condemned them in
advance of their appearance.
Richard Dewey glanced at the faces before him, and his spirit sank
within him. He had been present at a similar scene before--a scene which
had terminated in a tragedy--and he knew how swift and relentless those
men could be. Who could have made such a charge he did not yet know,
but, innocent as he and his companions were, he knew that their word
would not be taken, and the mistake might lead to death. But he was not
a man to quail or blanch.
"Hoss-thieves! string 'em up!" was shouted from more than one throat.
Richard Dewey calmly surveyed the angry throng. "Gentlemen," he said, "I
am no more a horse-thief than any one of you."
There was a buzz of indignation, as if he had confessed his guilt and
implicated them in it.
"I demand to see and face my accusers," he said boldly. "What man has
dared to charge me and my friends with the mean and contemptible crime
of stealing horses?"
Jake Bradley had been looking about him too. Over the heads of the men,
who stood before them drawn up in a semicircle, he saw what had escaped
the notice of Richard Dewey, the faces and figures of Bill Mosely and
Tom Hadley.
"Dick," said he, suddenly, "I see it all. Look yonder! There are them
two mean skunks, Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley. It's they who have been
bringin' this false slander ag'in us."
Richard Dewey and Ben immediately looked in the direction indicated.
Bill Mosely eyed them with a glance of evil and exulting triumph, as
much as to say, "It's my turn now; I am having my revenge."
But Jim Brown, who seemed to be acting as prosecuting attorney, had
already summoned the two men to come forward and testify.
"Here's the men!" he said, exultingly. "Here's the men you robbed of
their horses and tied to trees.--Isn't it so, stranger?"
Bill Mosely inclined his head in the affirmative, and Tom Hadley, being
also asked, answered, but rather faintly, "I should say so."
Lying did not come as natural to him as to Bill.
Richard Dewey laughed scornfully.
"Are those the men," he asked, "who charge us with stealing their
horses?"
"In course they do."
"Then," burst forth Jake Bradley, impetuously, "of all the impudent and
lyin' scoundrels I ever met, they'll carry off the prize."
"Of course you deny it," said Bill Mosely, brazenly persisting in his
falsehood. "A man that'll steal will lie. Perhaps you will charge us
with stealin' the horses next."
"That's just what I do," said Bradley, in an excited tone. "You're not
only horse-thieves, but you'll take gold-dust an' anything else you can
lay your hands on."
"Gentlemen," said Bill Mosely, shrugging his shoulders, "you see how he
is tryin' to fasten his own guilt on me and my innocent pard here. It
isn't enough that he stole our horses and forced us to foot it over
them rough hills, but now he wants to steal away our reputation for
honor and honesty. He thinks you're easy to be imposed on, but I know
better. You won't see two innocent men lied about and charged with
disgraceful crimes?"
"I admire that fellow's cheek," said Bradley in an undertone to Richard
Dewey, but he soon found that the consequences were likely to be
disastrous to him and his party. The crowd were getting impatient, and
readily seconded the words of Jim Brown when he followed up Bill
Mosely's speech by a suggestion that they proceed at once to vindicate
justice by a summary execution.
They rushed forward and seized upon our four friends, Ki Sing included,
and hurried them off to a cluster of tall trees some twenty rods away.
CHAPTER XVII.
LYNCH LAW.
Nothing is so unreasoning as a crowd under excitement. The miners were
inflamed with fierce anger against men of whom they knew nothing, except
that they were accused of theft by two other men, of whom also they knew
nothing. Whether the charge was true or false they did not stop to
inquire. Apparently, they did not care. They only wanted revenge, and
that stern and immediate.
The moderate speaker, already referred to, tried to turn the tide by an
appeal for delay. "Wait till morning," he said. "This charge may not be
true. Let us not commit an injustice."
But his appeal was drowned in the cries of the excited crowd, "Hang the
horse-thieves! string 'em up."
Each of the four victims was dragged by a force which he couldn't
resist to the place of execution.
Richard Dewey was pale, but his expression was stern and contemptuous,
as if he regarded the party of miners as fools or lunatics.
"Was this to be the end?" he asked himself. "Just as the prospect of
happiness was opening before him, just as he was to be reunited to the
object of his affection, was he to fall a victim to the fury of a mob?"
Jake Bradley perhaps took the matter more philosophically than either of
the other three. He had less to live for, and his attachment to life was
not therefore so strong. Still, to be hanged as a thief was not a
pleasant way to leave life, and that was what he thought of most. Again,
his sympathy was excited in behalf of the boy Ben, whom he had come to
love as if he were his own son. He could not bear to think of the boy's
young life being extinguished in so shocking a manner.
"This is rough, Ben," he managed to say as the two, side by side, were
hurried along by the vindictive crowd.
Ben's face was pale and his heart was full of sorrow and awe with the
prospect of a shameful death rising before him. Life was sweet to him,
and it seemed hard to lose it.
"Yes it is," answered Ben, faltering. "Can't something be done?"
Jake Bradley shook his head mournfully. "I am afraid not," he said. "I'd
like to shoot one of those lyin' scoundrels" (referring to Bill Mosely
and his companion) "before I am swung off. To think their word should
cost us our lives! It's a burnin' shame!"
Ki Sing looked the image of terror as he too was forced forward by a
couple of strong miners. His feet refused to do their office, and he was
literally dragged forward, his feet trailing along the ground. He was
indeed a ludicrous figure, if anything connected with such a tragedy can
be considered ludicrous. Probably it was not so much death that Ki Sing
feared, for with his race life is held cheap, but Chinamen shrink from
violence, particularly that of a brutal character. They are ready with
their knives, but other violence is not common among them.
Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley followed in the rear of the crowd. They would
have liked to improve the time by stealing away with the mustangs which
they coveted, but even in this hour of public excitement they knew it
would not be safe, and the act might arouse suspicion.
While Mosely felt gratified that the men he hated were likely to be put
out of the way, there was in his heart a sensation of fear, and he
involuntarily shuddered when he reflected that if justice were done he
would he in the place of these men who were about to suffer a shameful
death. Moreover, he knew that some day it were far from improbable that
he himself would be figuring in a similar scene as a chief actor, or
rather chief victim. So, though he exulted, he also trembled.
Meanwhile the place of execution had been reached. Then it was
discovered that one important accessory to the contemplated tragedy was
lacking--a rope. So one of the party was sent to the hotel for a rope,
being instructed by Jim Brown where to find it.
It seemed the last chance for an appeal, and, hopeless as it seemed,
Richard Dewey resolved to improve it. "Gentlemen," he said in a solemn
tone, "I call God to witness that you are about to put to death four
innocent men."
"Enough of that!" said Jim Brown, roughly, "We don't want to hear any
more of your talk."
But Dewey did not stop. "You have condemned us," he proceeded, "on the
testimony of two as arrant scoundrels as can be found in California;"
and he pointed scornfully at Bill Mosely and his partner.
"Are you goin' to let him insult us?" asked Mosely in the tone of a
wronged man.
"That don't go down, stranger," said Jim Brown. "We know you're guilty,
and that's enough."
"You know it? How do you know it?" retorted Dewey. "What proof is there
except the word of two thieves and liars who deserve the fate which you
are preparing for us?"
"Hang 'em up!" shouted somebody; and the cry was taken up by the rest.
"If you won't believe me," continued Dewey, "I want to make one
appeal--to ask one last favor. Spare the life of that innocent boy, who
certainly has done no evil. If there are any fathers present I ask, Have
you the heart to take away the life of a child just entering upon life
and its enjoyments?"
He had touched the chord in the hearts of more than one.
"That's so!" cried the speaker who had tried to stem the popular
excitement. "It would be a crime and a disgrace, and I'll shoot the man
that puts the rope 'round the boy's neck."
"You're right," cried three others, who themselves had left children in
their distant homes. "The boy's life must be saved."
The two men who held Ben in their grasp released him, and our young hero
found himself free. There was a great rush of joy to his heart as he saw
the shadow of death lifted from him, but he was not satisfied that his
life alone should be spared. He resolved to make an appeal in turn.
"Gentlemen," he said, "I am only a boy, but I want to speak a few words,
and those words shall be true."
Ben had been a good speaker at school, and he had unconsciously assumed
the attitude with which he commenced declaiming upon the school-rostrum.
"Hear the boy!" shouted several; and there was a general silence. It was
a new thing to be addressed by a boy, and there was a feeling of
curiosity as to what he would say.
"I want to say this," continued Ben--"that what Mr. Dewey has said is
strictly true. Not one of us is guilty of the crime that has been
charged upon us. The men who have testified against us are thieves, and
robbed us of these very horses, which we finally recovered from them.
May I tell you how it all happened?"
Partly from curiosity, the permission was given, and Ben, in plain,
simple language, told the story of how they had received Mosely and
Hadley hospitably, and awoke in the morning to find that they had stolen
their horses. He also described the manner in which later they tried to
rob Dewey when confined to his bed by sickness. His words were frank and
sincere, and bore the impress of truth. Evidently a sentiment was being
created favorable to the prisoners, and Bill Mosely saw it and
trembled.
"Let us go," he whispered to Hadley.
"If you wish to know whether I speak the truth," Ben concluded, "look in
the faces of those two men who have accused us."
The terror in the face of Bill Mosely was plainly to be seen. Suddenly
the minds of the fickle multitude veered round to the two accusers, and
shouts arose: "The boy's right! Hang the thieves!"
Then Bill Mosely did perhaps the most unwise thing possible. His courage
fairly broke down, and he started to run. Immediately a dozen men were
on his track. He was brought back, moaning and begging for mercy, but
the crowd was in no merciful mood. Victims they demanded, and when the
rope was brought the two wretched men were summarily suspended to the
branches of two neighboring trees.
They had fallen into the pit which they had prepared for others.
As for Ben, he became the hero of the hour. The miners raised him on
their shoulders and bore him aloft in triumph to the hotel from which he
had so recently been dragged to execution.
CHAPTER XVIII.
AFTER THE EXECUTION.
While Ben rejoiced and lifted silent thanks to God for his narrow escape
from a shameful death, he felt no satisfaction in the knowledge that the
men who had basely conspired against them had suffered the like terrible
fate. He averted his head in horror from the sight, and, innocent as he
was of fault, he felt depressed to think that his words had resulted in
bringing this punishment upon them.
I have said that he was the hero of the hour. Boys were scarce in
California, and the hearts of the miners warmed to him on account of his
youth and the memories it called up of their own children far away.
A self-appointed committee waited upon him and asked him to stay with
them.
"We'll all help you along," they said. "We will make your share equal
to that of the luckiest miner among us. You're true grit, and we respect
you for it. What do you say?"
"What shall I do, Jake?" he asked of Bradley.
"It's a fair offer, Ben. Perhaps you'd best stay. I'd stay too, only I
want to see Dick Dewey safe in 'Frisco. When he and his gal are j'ined
I'll come back and try my luck here."
"I will do the same, Jake. I want to go to San Francisco and see the
lady who was so kind to me. I sha'n't feel that I've done all my duty
till I have seen her and Mr. Dewey united. Then I shall be ready to come
back."
"Tell 'em so, Ben."
Ben gave this answer to those who had asked him to stay, thanking them
gratefully for their kind offer. His answer gave general satisfaction.
Ben could hardly realize that these very men had been impatient to hang
him only an hour before. He was thankful for this change in their
sentiments, though he did not pretend to understand it.
Bradley and Dewey, knowing the fickleness of a mining-community, were a
little apprehensive that their original suspicions might again be
aroused, and that some among them might be led to think they had make a
mistake, after all, and hung the wrong men. That would be serious, and
perhaps dangerous to them. They reflected that only Ben's speech had
turned the tide of sentiment, and the two thieves had been hung on the
unsupported word of a boy. Might not this occur to some of the company
in some of their cooler moments? They decided in a secret conference
that it would be best for them to get away early the next morning--that
is, as early as practicable--before any change had come over the minds
of their new friends.
Later, however, they were relieved from their momentary apprehension.
Two men who had been out hunting did not return to the camp till an hour
after the execution had taken place.
"What's happened? they asked.
"We've only been hangin' a couple of hoss-thieves," was answered coolly
by one of their comrades. "We came near hangin' the wrong men, but we
found out our mistake."
The two hunters went to view the bodies of the malefactors, who were
still suspended from the extemporized gallows.
"I know them men," said one with sudden recognition.
"What do you know about them? Did you ever meet them?"
"I reckon I did. They camped with me one night, and in the morning they
were missing, and all my gold-dust too."
"Then it's true what the boy said? they're thieves, and no mistake?"
"You've made no mistake this time. You've hung the right men."
This fresh testimony was at once communicated to the miners, and
received with satisfaction, as one or two had been a little in doubt as
to whether the two men were really guilty. No one heard it with more
pleasure than Dewey and Bradley, who felt now that they were completely
exonerated.
CHAPTER XIX.
BEN WINS LAURELS AS A SINGER.
Our party had no further complaint to make of ill-treatment. During the
remainder of the evening they were treated with distinguished
consideration, and every effort was made to make their sojourn pleasant.
As the miners gathered round a blazing log-fire built out of doors,
which the cool air of evening made welcome, it was proposed that those
who had any vocal gifts should exert them for the benefit of the
company.
Three or four of those present had good voices, and sang such songs as
they knew.
Finally, one of the miners turned to Bradley. "Can't you sing us
something, friend?" he asked.
"You don't know what you're asking," said Bradley. "My voice sounds like
a rusty saw. If you enjoy the howlin' of wolves, mayhap you might like
my singin'."
"I reckon you're excused," said the questioner.
"My friend Dick Dewey will favor you, perhaps. I never heard him sing,
but I reckon he might if he tried."
"Won't you sing?" was asked of Dewey.
Richard Dewey would have preferred to remain silent, but his life had
been spared, and the men around him, though rough in manner, seemed to
mean kindly. He conquered his reluctance, therefore, and sang a couple
of ballads in a clear, musical voice with good effect.
"Now it's the boy's turn," said one.
Ben, was in fact, a good singer. He had attended a country
singing-school for two terms, and he was gifted with a strong and
melodious voice. Bradley had expected that he would decline bashfully,
but Ben had a fair share of self-possession, and felt there was no good
reason to decline.
"I don't know many songs," he said, "but I am ready to do my share."
The first song which occurred to him was "Annie Laurie," and he sang it
through with taste and effect. As his sweet, boyish notes fell on the
ears of the crowd they listened as if spellbound, and at the end gave
him a round of applause.
I don't wish to represent that Ben was a remarkable singer. His
knowledge of music was only moderate, but his voice was unusually strong
and sweet, and his audience were not disposed to be critical.
He sang one song after another, until at last he declared that he was
tired and would sing but one more. "What shall it be?" he asked.
"'Sweet Home,'" suggested one; and the rest took it up in chorus.
That is a song that appeals to the heart at all times and in all places,
but it may well be understood that among the California mountains,
before an audience every man of whom was far from home, it would have a
peculiar and striking effect. The singer, too, as he sang, had his
thoughts carried back to the home three thousand miles away where lived
all who were near and dear to him, and the thought lent new tenderness
and pathos to his song.
Tears came to the eyes of more than one rough miner as he listened to
the sweet strains, and there were few in whom home-memories were not
excited.
There was a moment's hush, and then a great roar of applause. Ben had
made a popular success of which a prima donna might have been proud.
One enthusiastic listener wanted to take up a contribution for the
singer, but Ben steadily declined it. "I am glad if I have given any one
pleasure," he said, "but I can't take money for that."
"Ben," said Jake Bradley, when the crowd had dispersed, "you've made two
ten-strikes to-day. You've carried off all the honors, both as an orator
and a singer."
"You saved all our lives by that speech of yours, Ben," said Dewey. "We
will not soon forget that."
"It was your plea for me that give me the chance, Mr. Dewey," said Ben.
"I owe my life, first of all to you."
"That does not affect my obligation to you. If I am ever in a situation
to befriend you, you may count with all confidence upon Richard Dewey."
"Thank you, Mr. Dewey. I would sooner apply to you than any man I
know--except Bradley," he added, noticing that his faithful comrade
seemed disturbed by what he said.
Jake Bradley brightened up and regarded Ben with a look of affection. He
had come to feel deeply attached to the boy who had shared his dangers
and privations, and in all proved himself a loyal friend.
The next morning the three friends set out for San Francisco, carrying
with them the hearty good wishes of the whole mining-settlement.
"You have promised to come back?" said more than one.
"Yes," said Bradley; "we'll come back if we ain't prevented, and I
reckon we won't be unless we get hanged for hoss-stealin' somewhere on
the road."
This sally called forth a hearty laugh from the miners, who appreciated
the joke.
"It's all very well for you to laugh," said Bradley, shaking his head,
"but I don't want to come any nearer hangin' than I was last night."
"All's well that ends well," said one of the miners lightly.
Neither Ben nor Richard Dewey could speak or think so lightly of the
narrow escape they had had from a shameful death, and though they
smiled, as was expected by the crowd, it was a grave smile, with no
mirth in it.
"You'll come back too, boy?" was said to Ben.
"Yes, I expect to."
"You won't be sorry for it.--Boys, let us stake out two claims for the
boy and his friend, and when they come back we'll help them work them
for a while."
"Agreed! agreed!" said all.
So with hearty manifestations of good-will the three friends rode on
their way.
"It's strange," observed Dewey, thoughtfully, "how this wild and lonely
life effects the character. Some of these men who were so near hanging
us on the unsupported accusation of two men of whom they knew nothing
were good, law-abiding citizens at home. There they would not have
dreamed of such summary proceedings."
"That's where it comes in," said Bradley. "It ain't here as it is there.
There's no time here to wait for courts and trials."
"So you too are in favor of Judge Lynch?"
"Judge Lynch didn't make any mistake when he swung off them two rascals,
Hadley and Bill Mosely."
"We might have been in their places, Jake," said Ben.
"That would have been a pretty bad mistake," said Bradley, shrugging his
shoulders.
CHAPTER XX.
A LITTLE RETROSPECT.
It will be remembered that a merchant in Albany, Mr. John Campbell, was
the guardian of Miss Florence Douglas, whom our hero, Ben, had escorted
from New York to San Francisco.
The disappearance of his ward was exceedingly annoying, since it
interfered with plans which he had very much at heart. He had an only
son, Orton Campbell, now a young man of twenty-eight. He was young in
years only, being a stiff, grave, wooden-faced man, who in his starched
manners was a close copy of his father. Both father and son were
excessively fond of money, and the large amount of the fortune of the
young lady, who stood to the father in the relation of ward, had excited
the covetousness of both. It was almost immediately arranged between
father and son that she should marry the latter, either of her own free
will or upon compulsion.
In pursuance of this agreement, Mr. Orton Campbell took advantage of the
ward's residence in his father's family to press upon her attentions
which clearly indicated his ultimate object.
Florence Douglas felt at first rather constrained to receive her
guardian's son with politeness, and this, being misinterpreted, led to
an avowal of love.
Orton Campbell made his proposal in a confident, matter-of-fact manner,
as if it were merely a matter of form, and the answer must necessarily
be favorable.
The young lady drew back in dignified surprise, hastily withdrawing the
hand which he had seized. "I cannot understand, Mr. Campbell," she said,
"what can have induced you to address me in this manner."
"I don't know why you should be surprised, Miss Douglas," returned Orton
Campbell, offended.
"I have never given you any reason to suppose that I regarded you with
favor."
"You have always seemed glad to see me, but perhaps that was only
coquetry," said Orton, in a disagreeable manner.
"I certainly have never treated you with more than ordinary politeness,
except, indeed, as my residence in your father's house has necessarily
brought us nearer together."
"I don't think, Miss Douglas, you would find me a bad match," said the
young man, condescending to drop his sneering tone and plead his cause.
"I am already worth a good sum of money. I am my father's partner, and I
shall become richer every year."
"It is not a matter of money with me, Mr. Campbell. When I marry, that
will be a minor consideration."
"Of course, because you have a fortune of your own."
"Yes," said Florence, regarding him significantly, for she suspected
that it was rather her fortune than herself that he desired, being no
stranger to his love of money.
Perhaps he understood her, for he continued: "Of course I don't care
for that, you know. I should offer myself to you if you had nothing."
