turn out your feet so, when you walk?" and such things.
If grandpa hadn't been the best-natured old gentleman in the world, he
wouldn't have liked this: but he only laughed at Poppy, especially when
she spoke of his legs; for he was rather proud of them, and always wore
long black silk stockings, and told every one that the legs were so
handsome an artist put them in a picture of General Washington; which
was quite true, as any one may see when they look at the famous picture
in Boston.
Well, Poppy behaved herself respectably for a day or two; but the house
was rather dull, she missed Nelly, wanted to run in the street, and
longed to see mamma. She amused herself as well as she could with
picture-books, patchwork, and the old cat; but, not being a quiet,
proper, little Rosamond sort of a child, she got tired of hemming neat
pocket-handkerchiefs, and putting her needle carefully away when she had
done. She wanted to romp and shout, and slide down the banisters, and
riot about; so, when she couldn't be quiet another minute, she went up
into a great empty room at the top of the house, and cut up all sorts of
capers. Her great delight was to lean out of the window as far as she
could, and look at the people in the street, with her head upside down.
It was very dangerous, for a fall would have killed her; but the danger
was the fun, and Poppy hung out till her hands touched the ledge below,
and her face was as red as any real poppy's.
She was enjoying herself in this way one day, when an old gentleman,
who lived near, came home to dinner, and saw her.
"What in the world is that hanging out of the colonel's upper window?"
said he, putting on his spectacles. "Bless my soul! that child will kill
herself. Hallo, there! little girl; get in this minute!" he called to
Poppy, flourishing his hat to make her see him.
"What for?" answered Poppy, staring at him without moving an inch.
"You'll fall, and break your neck!" screamed the old gentleman.
"Oh, no, I shan't!" returned Poppy, much flattered by his interest, and
hanging out still further.
"Stop that, instantly, or I'll go in and inform the colonel!" roared the
old gentleman, getting angry.
"I don't care," shouted Poppy; and she didn't, for she knew grandpa
wasn't at home.
"Little gipsy! I'll settle her," muttered the old man, bustling up to
the steps, and ringing the bell, as if the house was on fire.
No one was in but the servants; and, when he'd told old Emily what the
matter was, she went up to "settle" Poppy. But Poppy was already
settled, demurely playing with her doll, and looking quite innocent.
Emily scolded; and Poppy promised never to do it again, if she might
stay and play in the big room. Being busy about dinner, Emily was glad
to be rid of her, and left her, to go and tell the old gentleman it was
all right.
"Ain't they crosspatches?" said Poppy to her doll. "Never mind, dear:
you shall hang out, if I can't. I guess the old man won't order you
in, any way."
Full of this idea, Poppy took her long-suffering dolly, and, tying a
string to her neck, danced her out of the window. Now this dolly had
been through a great deal. Her head had been cut off (and put on again);
she had been washed, buried, burnt, torn, soiled, and banged about till
she was a mournful object. Poppy loved her very much; for she was two
feet tall, and had once been very handsome: so her trials only endeared
her to her little mamma. Away she went, skipping and prancing like
mad,--a funny sight, for Poppy had taken off her clothes, and she hadn't
a hair on her head.
Poppy went to another window of the room for this performance, because
in the opposite house lived five or six children, and she thought they
would enjoy the fun.
So they did, and so did the other people; for it was a boarding-house,
and all the people were at home for dinner. They came to the windows,
and looked and laughed at dolly's capers, and Poppy was in high feather
at the success of her entertainment.
All of a sudden she saw grandpa coming down the street, hands behind
his back, feet turned out, gold-headed cane under his arm, and the
handsome legs in the black silk stockings marching along in the most
stately manner. Poppy whisked dolly in before grandpa saw her, and
dodged down as he went by. This made the people laugh again, and grandpa
wondered what the joke was. The minute he went in out flew dolly,
dancing more frantically than ever; and the children shouted so loud
that grandpa went to see what the matter was. The street was empty; yet
there stood the people, staring out and laughing. Yes; they were
actually looking and laughing at his house; and he didn't see what
there was to laugh at in that highly respectable mansion.
He didn't like it; and, clapping on his hat, he went out to learn what
the matter was. He looked over at the house, up at the sky, down at the
ground, and through the street; but nothing funny appeared, for Poppy
and dolly were hidden again, and the old gentleman was puzzled. He went
in and sat down to watch, feeling rather disturbed. Presently the fun
began again: the children clapped their hands, the people laughed, and
every one looked over at the house, in what he thought a very
impertinent way. This made him angry; and out he rushed a second time,
saying, as he marched across the street:
"If those saucy young fellows are making game of me, I'll soon stop
it."
Up to the door he went, gave a great pull at the bell, and, when the
servant came, he demanded why every one was laughing at his house. One
of the young men came and told him, and asked him to come in and see the
fun. Poppy didn't see grandpa go in, for she hid, and when she looked
out he was gone: so she boldly began the dancing; but, in the midst of a
lively caper, dolly went bounce into the garden below, for the string
fell from Poppy's hand when she suddenly saw grandpa at the window
opposite, laughing as heartily as any one at her prank.
She stared at him in a great fright, and looked so amazed that every one
enjoyed that joke better than the other; and poor Poppy didn't hear the
last of it for a long time.
Her next performance was to fall into the pond on the Common. She was
driving hoop down the hill, and went so fast she couldn't stop herself;
so splashed into the water, hoop and all. How dreadful it was to feel
the cold waves go over her head, shutting out the sun and air! The
ground was gone, and she could find no place for her feet, and could
only struggle and choke, and go down, down, with a loud roaring sound in
her ears. That would have been the end of Poppy, if a little black boy
hadn't jumped in and pulled her out. She was sick and dizzy, and looked
like a drowned kitten; but a kind lady took her home in a carriage.
After that mishap grandpa thought he wouldn't keep her any longer, for
fear she should come to some worse harm. So Miss Poppy was sent home,
much to her delight and much to mamma's also; for no matter where she
went, or how naughty she was, mamma was always glad to see the little
wanderer back, and to forgive and forget all Poppy's pranks.
VII.
WHAT THE SWALLOWS DID.
A man lay on a pile of new-made hay, in a great barn, looking up at the
swallows who darted and twittered above him. He envied the cheerful
little creatures; for he wasn't a happy man, though he had many friends,
much money, and the beautiful gift of writing songs that everybody loved
to sing. He had lost his wife and little child, and would not be
comforted; but lived alone, and went about with such a gloomy face that
no one liked to speak to him. He took no notice of friends and
neighbors; neither used his money for himself nor others; found no
beauty in the world, no happiness anywhere; and wrote such sad songs it
made one's heart ache to sing them.
As he lay alone on the sweet-smelling hay, with the afternoon sunshine
streaming in, and the busy birds chirping overhead, he said sadly to
himself:
"Happy swallows, I wish I were one of you; for you have no pains nor
sorrows, and your cares are very light. All summer you live gayly
together; and, when winter comes, you fly away to the lovely South,
unseparated still."
"Neighbors, do you hear what that lazy creature down there is saying?"
cried a swallow, peeping over the edge of her nest, and addressing
several others who sat on a beam near by.
"We hear, Mrs. Skim; and quite agree with you that he knows very little
about us and our affairs," answered one of the swallows with a shrill
chirp, like a scornful laugh. "We work harder than he does any day. Did
he build his own house, I should like to know? Does he get his daily
bread for himself? How many of his neighbors does he help? How much of
the world does he see, and who is the happier for his being alive?"
"Cares indeed!" cried another; "I wish he'd undertake to feed and teach
my brood. Much he knows about the anxieties of a parent." And the little
mother bustled away to get supper for the young ones, whose bills were
always gaping wide.
"Sorrows we have, too," softly said the fourth swallow. "He would not
envy me, if he knew how my nest fell, and all my children were killed;
how my dear husband was shot, and my old mother died of fatigue on our
spring journey from the South."
"Dear neighbor Dart, he would envy you, if he knew how patiently you
bear your troubles; how tenderly you help us with our little ones; how
cheerfully you serve your friends; how faithfully you love your lost
mate; and how trustfully you wait to meet him again in a lovelier
country than the South."
As Skim spoke, she leaned down from her nest to kiss her neighbor; and,
as the little beaks met, the other birds gave a grateful and approving
murmur, for Neighbor Dart was much beloved by all the inhabitants of
Twittertown.
"I, for my part, don't envy him," said Gossip Wing, who was fond of
speaking her mind. "Men and women call themselves superior beings; but,
upon my word, I think they are vastly inferior to us. Now, look at that
man, and see how he wastes his life. There never was any one with a
better chance for doing good, and being happy; and yet he mopes and
dawdles his time away most shamefully."
"Ah! he has had a great sorrow, and it is hard to be gay with a heavy
heart, an empty home; so don't be too severe, Sister Wing." And the
white tie of the little widow's cap was stirred by a long sigh as Mrs.
Dart glanced up at the nook where her nest once stood.
"No, my dear, I won't; but really I do get out of patience when I see so
much real misery which that man might help, if he'd only forget himself
a little. It's my opinion he'd be much happier than he now is, wandering
about with a dismal face and a sour temper."
"I quite agree with you; and I dare say he'd thank any one for telling
him how he may find comfort. Poor soul! I wish he could understand me;
for I sympathize with him, and would gladly help him if I could."
And, as she spoke, kind-hearted Widow Dart skimmed by him with a
friendly chirp, which did comfort him; for, being a poet, he could
understand them, and lay listening, well pleased while the little
gossips chattered on together.
"I am so tied at home just now, that I know nothing of what is going on,
except the bits of news Skim brings me; so I enjoy your chat immensely.
I'm interested in your views on this subject, and beg you'll tell me
what you'd have that man do to better himself," said Mrs. Skim, settling
herself on her eggs with an attentive air.
"Well, my dear, I'll tell you; for I've seen a deal of the world, and
any one is welcome to my experience," replied Mrs. Wing, in an important
manner; for she was proud of her "views," and very fond of talking. "In
my daily flights about the place, I see a great deal of poverty and
trouble, and often wish I could lend a hand. Now, this man has plenty of
money and time; and he might do more good than I can tell, if he'd only
set about it. Because he is what they call a poet is no reason he should
go moaning up and down, as if he had nothing to do but make songs. We
sing, but we work also; and are wise enough to see the necessity of
both, thank goodness!"
"Yes, indeed, we do," cried all the birds in a chorus; for several more
had stopped to hear what was going on.
"Now, what I say is this," continued Mrs. Wing impressively. "If I were
that man, I'd make myself useful at once. There is poor little Will
getting more and more lame every day, because his mother can't send him
where he can be cured. A trifle of that man's money would do it, and he
ought to give it. Old Father Winter is half starved, alone there in his
miserable hovel; and no one thinks of the good old man. Why don't that
lazy creature take him home, and care for him, the little while he has
to live? Pretty Nell is working day and night, to support her father,
and is too proud to ask help, though her health and courage are going
fast. The man might make hers the gayest heart alive, by a little help.
There in a lonely garret lives a young man studying his life away,
longing for books and a teacher. The man has a library full, and might
keep the poor boy from despair by a little help and a friendly word. He
mourns for his own lost baby: I advise him to adopt the orphan whom
nobody will own, and who lies wailing all day untended on the poor-house
floor. Yes: if he wants to forget sorrow and find peace, let him fill
his empty heart and home with such as these, and life won't seem dark to
him any more."
"Dear me! how well you express yourself, Mrs. Wing; it's quite a
pleasure to hear you; and I heartily wish some persons could hear you,
it would do 'em a deal of good," said Mrs. Skim; while her husband gave
an approving nod as he dived off the beam, and vanished through the open
doors.
"I know it would comfort that man to do these things; for I have tried
the same cure in my small way, and found great satisfaction in it,"
began little Madame Dart, in her soft voice; but Mrs. Wing broke in,
saying with a pious expression of countenance:
"I flew into church one day, and sat on the organ enjoying the music;
for every one was singing, and I joined in, though I didn't know the
air. Opposite me were two great tablets with golden letters on them. I
can read a little, thanks to my friend, the learned raven; and so I
spelt out some of the words. One was, 'Love thy neighbor;' and as I sat
there, looking down on the people, I wondered how they could see those
words week after week, and yet pay so little heed to them. Goodness
knows, I don't consider myself a perfect bird; far from it; for I know
I am a poor, erring fowl; but I believe I may say I do love my
neighbor, though I am 'an inferior creature.'" And Mrs. Wing bridled
up, as if she resented the phrase immensely.
"Indeed you do, gossip," cried Dart and Skim; for Wing was an excellent
bird, in spite of the good opinion she had of herself.
"Thank you: well, then, such being the known fact, I may give advice on
the subject as one having authority; and, if it were possible, I'd give
that man a bit of my mind."
"You have, madam, you have; and I shall not forget it. Thank you,
neighbors, and good night," said the man, as he left the barn, with the
first smile on his face which it had worn for many days.
"Mercy on us! I do believe the creature heard every thing we said,"
cried Mrs. Wing, nearly tumbling off the beam, in her surprise.
"He certainly did; so I'm glad I was guarded in my remarks," replied
Mrs. Skim, laughing at her neighbor's dismay.
"Dear me! dear me! what did I say?" cried Mrs. Wing, in a great twitter.
"You spoke with more than your usual bluntness, and some of your
expressions were rather strong, I must confess; but I don't think any
harm will come of it. We are of too little consequence for our
criticisms or opinions to annoy him," said Mrs. Dart consolingly.
"I don't know that, ma'am," returned Mrs. Wing, sharply: for she was
much ruffled and out of temper. "A cat may look at a king; and a bird
may teach a man, if the bird is the wisest. He may destroy my nest, and
take my life; but I feel that I have done my duty, and shall meet
affliction with a firmness which will be an example to that indolent,
ungrateful man."
In spite of her boasted firmness, Mrs. Wing dropped her voice, and
peeped over the beam, to be sure the man was gone before she called him
names; and then flew away, to discover what he meant to do about it.
For several days, there was much excitement in Twittertown; for news of
what had happened flew from nest to nest, and every bird was anxious to
know what revenge the man would take for the impertinent remarks which
had been made about him.
Mrs. Wing was in a dreadful state of mind, expecting an assault, and the
destruction of her entire family. Every one blamed her. Her husband
lectured; the young birds chirped, "Chatterbox, chatterbox," as she
passed; and her best friends were a little cool. All this made her very
meek for a time; and she scarcely opened her bill, except to eat.
A guard was set day and night, to see if any danger approached; and a
row of swallows might be seen on the ridgepole at all hours. If any one
entered the barn, dozens of little black heads peeped cautiously over
the edges of the nests, and there was much flying to and fro with
reports and rumors; for all the birds in the town soon knew that
something had happened.
The day after the imprudent conversation, a chimney-swallow came to call
on Mrs. Wing; and, the moment she was seated on the beam, she began:
"My dear creature, I feel for you in your trying position,--indeed I do,
and came over at once to warn you of your danger."
"Mercy on us! what is coming?" cried Mrs. Wing, covering her brood with
trembling wings, and looking quite wild with alarm.
"Be calm, my friend, and bear with firmness the consequences of your
folly," replied Mrs. Sooty-back, who didn't like Mrs. Wing, because
she prided herself on her family, and rather looked down on
chimney-swallows. "You know, ma'am, I live at the great house, and am in
the way of seeing and hearing all that goes on there. No fire is lighted
in the study now; but my landlord still sits on the hearth, and I can
overhear every word he says. Last evening, after my darlings were
asleep, and my husband gone out, I went down and sat on the andiron, as
I often do; for the fireplace is full of oak boughs, and I can peep out
unseen. My landlord sat there, looking a trifle more cheerful than
usual, and I heard him say, in a very decided tone:
"'I'll catch them, one and all, and keep them here; that is better than
pulling the place down, as I planned at first. Those swallows little
know what they have done; but I'll show them I don't forget.'"
On hearing this a general wail arose, and Mrs. Wing fainted entirely
away. Madam Sooty-back was quite satisfied with the effect she had
produced, and departed, saying loftily:
"I'm sorry for you, Mrs. Wing, and forgive your rude speech about my
being related to chimney-sweeps. One can't expect good manners from
persons brought up in mud houses, and entirely shut out from good
society. If I hear any thing more, I'll let you know."
Away she flew; and poor Mrs. Wing would have had another fit, if they
hadn't tickled her with a feather, and fanned her so violently that she
was nearly blown off her nest by the breeze they raised.
"What shall we do?" she cried.
"Nothing, but wait. I dare say, Mrs. Sooty-back is mistaken; at any
rate, we can't get away without leaving our children, for they can't fly
yet. Let us wait, and see what happens. If the worst comes, we shall
have done our duty, and will all die together."
As no one could suggest any thing better, Mrs. Dart's advice was taken,
and they waited. On the afternoon of the same day, Dr. Banks, a
sand-swallow, who lived in a subterranean village over by the great
sand-bank, looked in to see Mrs. Wing, and cheered her by the following
bit of news:
"The man was down at the poor-house to-day, and took away little Nan,
the orphan baby. I saw him carry her to Will's mother, and heard him ask
her to take care of it for a time. He paid her well, and she seemed glad
to do it; for Will needs help, and now he can have it. An excellent
arrangement, I think. Bless me, ma'am! what's the matter? Your pulse is
altogether too fast, and you look feverish."
No wonder the doctor looked surprised; for Mrs. Wing suddenly gave a
skip, and flapped her wings, with a shrill chirp, exclaiming, as she
looked about her triumphantly:
"Now, who was right? Who has done good, not harm, by what you call
'gossip'? Who has been a martyr, and patiently borne all kinds of blame,
injustice, and disrespect? Yes, indeed! the man saw the sense of my
words; he took my advice; he will show his gratitude by some good turn
yet; and, if half a dozen poor souls are helped, it will be my doing,
and mine alone."
Here she had to stop for breath; and her neighbors all looked at one
another, feeling undecided whether to own they were wrong, or to put
Mrs. Wing down. Every one twittered and chirped, and made a great noise;
but no one would give up, and all went to roost in a great state of
uncertainty. But, the next day, it became evident that Mrs. Wing was
right; for Major Bumble-bee came buzzing in to tell them that old Daddy
Winter's hut was empty, and his white head had been seen in the sunny
porch of the great house.
After this the swallows gave in; and, as no harm came to them, they had
a jubilee in honor of the occasion. Mrs. Wing was president, and
received a vote of thanks for the good she had done, and the credit she
had bestowed upon the town by her wisdom and courage. She was much
elated by all this; but her fright had been of service, and she bore her
honors more meekly than one would have supposed. To be sure, she cut
Mrs. Sooty-back when they met; assumed an injured air, when some of her
neighbors passed her; and said, "I told you so," a dozen times a day to
her husband, who got so many curtain lectures that he took to sleeping
on the highest rafter, pretending that the children's noise disturbed
him.
All sorts of charming things happened after that, and such a fine summer
never was known before; for not only did the birds rejoice, but people
also. A good spirit seemed to haunt the town, leaving help and happiness
wherever it passed. Some unseen hand scattered crumbs over the barn
floor, and left food at many doors. No dog or boy or gun marred the
tranquillity of the birds, insects, and flowers who lived on the great
estate. No want, care, or suffering, that love or money could prevent,
befell the poor folk whose cottages stood near the old house. Sunshine
and peace seemed to reign there; for its gloomy master was a changed man
now, and the happiness he earned for himself, by giving it to others,
flowed out in beautiful, blithe songs, and went singing away into the
world, making him friends, and bringing him honor in high places as well
as low.
He did not forget the wife and little child whom he had loved so well;
but he mourned no longer, for cheerful daisies grew above their graves,
and he knew that he should meet them in the lovely land where death can
never come. So, while he waited for that happy time to come, he made his
life a cheery song,--as every one may do, if they will; and went about
dropping kind words and deeds as silently and sweetly as the sky drops
sunshine and dew. Every one was his friend, but his favorites were the
swallows. Every day he went to see them, carrying grain and crumbs,
hearing their chat, sharing their joys and sorrows, and never tiring of
their small friendship; for to them, he thought, he owed all the content
now his.
When autumn leaves were red, and autumn winds blew cold, the inhabitants
of Twittertown prepared for their journey to the South. They lingered
longer than usual this year, feeling sorry to leave their friend. But
the fields were bare, the frosts began to pinch, and the young ones
longed to see the world; so they must go. The day they started, the
whole flock flew to the great house, to say good-by. Some dived and
darted round and round it, some hopped to and fro on the sere lawn, some
perched on the chimney-tops, and some clung to the window ledges; all
twittering a loving farewell.
Chirp, Dart, and Wing peeped everywhere, and everywhere found something
to rejoice over. In a cosey room, by a bright fire, sat Daddy Winter and
Nell's old father, telling stories of their youth, and basking in the
comfortable warmth. In the study, surrounded by the books he loved, was
the poor young man, happy as a king now, and learning many things which
no book could teach him; for he had found a friend. Then, down below was
Will's mother, working like a bee; for she was housekeeper, and enjoyed
her tasks as much as any mother-bird enjoys filling the little mouths of
her brood. Close by was pretty Nell, prettier than ever now; for her
heavy care was gone, and she sung as she sewed, thinking of the old
father, whom nothing could trouble any more.
But the pleasantest sight the three gossips saw was the man with Baby
Nan on his arm and Will at his side, playing in the once dreary nursery.
How they laughed and danced! for Will was up from his bed at last, and
hopped nimbly on his crutches, knowing that soon even they would be
unneeded. Little Nan was as plump and rosy as a baby should be, and
babbled like a brook, as the man went to and fro, cradling her in his
strong arms, feeling as if his own little daughter had come back when he
heard the baby voice call him father.
"Ah, how sweet it is!" cried Mrs. Dart, glad to see that he had found
comfort for his grief.
"Yes; indeed: it does one's heart good to see such a happy family,"
added Mrs. Skim, who was a very motherly bird.
"I don't wish to boast; but I will say that I am satisfied with my
summer's work, and go South feeling that I leave an enviable reputation
behind me." And Mrs. Wing plumed herself with an air of immense
importance, as she nodded and bridled from her perch on the window-sill.
The man saw the three, and hastened to feed them for the last time,
knowing that they were about to go. Gratefully they ate, and chirped
their thanks; and then, as they flew away, the little gossips heard
their friend singing his good-by:
    "Swallow, swallow, neighbor swallow,
      Starting on your autumn flight,
    Pause a moment at my window,
      Twitter softly your good-night;
    For the summer days are over,
      All your duties are well done,
    And the happy homes you builded
      Have grown empty, one by one.
    "Swallow, swallow, neighbor swallow,
      Are you ready for your flight?
    Are all the feather cloaks completed?
      Are the little caps all right?
    Are the young wings strong and steady
      For the journey through the sky?
    Come again in early spring-time;
      And till then, good-by, good-by!"
VIII.
LITTLE GULLIVER.
Up in the light-house tower lived Davy, with Old Dan the keeper. Most
little boys would have found it very lonely; but Davy had three friends,
and was as happy as the day was long. One of Davy's friends was the
great lamp, which was lighted at sunset, and burnt all night, to guide
the ships into the harbor. To Dan it was only a lamp; but to the boy it
seemed a living thing, and he loved and tended it faithfully. Every day
he helped Dan clear the big wick, polish the brass work, and wash the
glass lantern which protected the flame. Every evening he went up to see
it lighted, and always fell asleep, thinking, "No matter how dark or
wild the night, my good Shine will save the ships that pass, and burn
till morning."
Davy's second friend was Nep, the Newfoundland, who was washed ashore
from a wreck, and had never left the island since. Nep was rough and
big, but had such a loyal and loving heart that no one could look in his
soft brown eyes and not trust him. He followed Davy's steps all day,
slept at his feet all night, and more than once had saved his life when
Davy fell among the rocks, or got caught by the rising tide.
But the dearest friend of all was a sea-gull. Davy found him, with a
broken wing, and nursed him carefully till he was well; then let him go,
though he was very fond of "Little Gulliver," as he called him in fun.
But the bird never forgot the boy, and came daily to talk with him,
telling all manner of wild stories about his wanderings by land and sea,
and whiling away many an hour that otherwise would have been very
lonely.
Old Dan was Davy's uncle,--a grim, gray man, who said little, did his
work faithfully, and was both father and mother to Davy, who had no
parents, and no friends beyond the island. That was his world; and he
led a quiet life among his playfellows,--the winds and waves. He seldom
went to the main land, three miles away; for he was happier at home. He
watched the sea-anemones open below the water, looking like
fairy-plants, brilliant and strange. He found curious and pretty shells,
and sometimes more valuable treasures, washed up from some wreck. He saw
little yellow crabs, ugly lobsters, and queer horse-shoes with their
stiff tails. Sometimes a whale or a shark swam by, and often sleek black
seals came up to bask on the warm rocks. He gathered lovely sea-weeds of
all kinds, from tiny red cobwebs to great scalloped leaves of kelp,
longer than himself. He heard the waves dash and roar unceasingly; the
winds howl or sigh over the island; and the gulls scream shrilly as they
dipped and dived, or sailed away to follow the ships that came and went
from all parts of the world.
With Nep and Gulliver he roamed about his small kingdom, never tired of
its wonders; or, if storms raged, he sat up in the tower, safe and dry,
watching the tumult of sea and sky. Often in long winter nights he lay
awake, listening to the wind and rain, that made the tower rock with
their violence; but he never was afraid, for Nep nestled at his feet,
Dan sat close by, and overhead the great lamp shone far out into the
night, to cheer and guide all wanderers on the sea.
Close by the tower hung the fog-bell, which, being wound up, would ring
all night, warningly. One day Dan found that something among the chains
was broken; and, having vainly tried to mend it, he decided to go to the
town, and get what was needed. He went once a week, usually, and left
Davy behind; for in the daytime there was nothing to do, and the boy was
not afraid to stay.
"A heavy fog is blowing up: we shall want the bell to-night, and I must
be off at once. I shall be back before dark, of course; so take care of
yourself, boy," said Dan.
Away went the little boat; and the fog shut down over it, as if a misty
wall had parted Davy from his uncle. As it was dull weather, he sat and
read for an hour or two; then fell asleep, and forgot everything till
Nep's cold nose on his hand waked him up. It was nearly dark; and,
hoping to find Dan had come, he ran down to the landing-place. But no
boat was there, and the fog was thicker than ever.
Dan never had been gone so long before, and Davy was afraid something
had happened to him. For a few minutes he was in great trouble; then he
cheered up, and took courage.
"It is sunset by the clock; so I'll light the lamp, and, if Dan is lost
in the fog, it will guide him home," said Davy.
Up he went, and soon the great star shone out above the black-topped
light-house, glimmering through the fog, as if eager to be seen. Davy
had his supper, but no Dan came. He waited hour after hour, and waited
all in vain. The fog thickened, till the lamp was hardly seen; and no
bell rung to warn the ships of the dangerous rocks. Poor Davy could not
sleep, but all night long wandered from the tower to the door, watching,
calling, and wondering; but Dan did not come.
At sunrise he put out the light, and, having trimmed it for the next
night, ate a little breakfast, and roved about the island hoping to see
some sign of Dan. The sun drew up the fog at last; and he could see the
blue bay, the distant town, and a few fishing-boats going out to sea.
But nowhere was the island-boat with gray Old Dan in it; and Davy's
heart grew heavier and heavier, as the day passed, and still no one
came. In the afternoon Gulliver appeared: to him Davy told his trouble,
and the three friends took counsel together.
"There is no other boat; and I couldn't row so far, if there was: so I
can't go to find Dan," said David sorrowfully.
"I'd gladly swim to town, if I could; but it's impossible to do it, with
wind and tide against me. I've howled all day, hoping some one would
hear me; but no one does, and I'm discouraged," said Nep, with an
anxious expression.
"I can do something for you; and I will, with all my heart. I'll fly to
town, if I don't see him in the bay, and try to learn what has become of
Dan. Then I'll come and tell you, and we will see what is to be done
next. Cheer up, Davy dear: I'll bring you tidings, if any can be had."
With these cheerful words, away sailed Gulliver, leaving Nep and his
master to watch and wait again.
The wind blew hard, and the broken wing was not quite well yet, else
Gulliver would have been able to steer clear of a boat that came swiftly
by. A sudden gust drove the gull so violently against the sail that he
dropped breathless into the boat; and a little girl caught him, before
he could recover himself.
"Oh, what a lovely bird! See his black cap, his white breast,
dove-colored wings, red legs and bill, and soft, bright eyes. I wanted a
gull; and I'll keep this one, for I don't think he is much hurt."
Poor Gulliver struggled, pecked and screamed; but little Dora held him
fast, and shut him in a basket till they reached the shore. Then she put
him in a lobster pot,--a large wooden thing, something like a cage,--and
left him on the lawn, where he could catch glimpses of the sea, and
watch the light-house tower, as he sat alone in this dreadful prison. If
Dora had known the truth, she would have let him go, and done her best
to help him; but she could not understand his speech, as Davy did, for
very few people have the power of talking with birds, beasts, insects,
and plants. To her, his prayers and cries were only harsh screams; and,
when he sat silent, with drooping head and ruffled feathers, she thought
he was sleepy: but he was mourning for Davy, and wondering what his
little friend would do.
For three long days and nights he was a prisoner, and suffered much. The
house was full of happy people, but no one took pity upon him. Ladies
and gentlemen talked learnedly about him; boys poked and pulled him;
little girls admired him, and begged his wings for their hats, if he
died. Cats prowled about his cage; dogs barked at him; hens cackled over
him; and a shrill canary jeered at him from the pretty pagoda in which
it hung, high above danger. In the evening there was music; and the poor
bird's heart ached as the sweet sounds came to him, reminding him of the
airier melodies he loved. Through the stillness of the night, he heard
the waves break on the shore; the wind came singing up from the sea; the
moon shone kindly on him, and he saw the water-fairies dancing on the
sand. But for three days no one spoke a friendly word to him, and he
pined away with a broken heart.
On the fourth night, when all was quiet, little Gulliver saw a black
shadow steal across the lawn, and heard a soft voice say to him:
"Poor bird, you'll die, if yer stays here; so I'se gwine to let yer go.
Specs little missy'll scold dreffle; but Moppet'll take de scoldin for
yer. Hi, dere! you is peart nuff now, kase you's in a hurry to go; but
jes wait till I gits de knots out of de string dat ties de door, and den
away you flies."
"But, dear, kind Moppet, won't you be hurt for doing this? Why do you
care so much for me? I can only thank you, and fly away."
As Gulliver spoke, he looked up at the little black face bent over him,
and saw tears in the child's sad eyes; but she smiled at him, and shook
her fuzzy head, as she whispered kindly:
"I don't want no tanks, birdie: I loves to let you go, kase you's a
slave, like I was once; and it's a dreffle hard ting, I knows. I got
away, and I means you shall. I'se watched you, deary, all dese days; and
I tried to come 'fore, but dey didn't give me no chance."
"Do you live here? I never see you playing with the other children,"
said the gull, as Moppet's nimble fingers picked away at the knots.
"Yes: I lives here, and helps de cook. You didn't see me, kase I never
plays; de chilen don't like me."
"Why not?" asked Gulliver, wondering.
"I'se black," said Moppet, with a sob.
"But that's silly in them," cried the bird, who had never heard of such
a thing. "Color makes no difference; the peeps are gray, the seals
black, and the crabs yellow; but we don't care, and are all friends. It
is very unkind to treat you so. Haven't you any friends to love you,
dear?"
"Nobody in de world keres fer me. Dey sold me way from my mammy when I
was a baby, and I'se knocked roun eber since. De oder chilen has folks
to lub an kere fer em, but Moppet's got no friends;" and here the black
eyes grew so dim with tears that the poor child couldn't see that the
last knot was out.
Gulliver saw it, and, pushing up the door, flew from his prison with a
glad cry; and, hopping into Moppet's hand, looked into the little dark
face with such grateful confidence that it cleared at once, and the
brightest smile it had worn for months broke over it as the bird nestled
its soft head against her cheek, saying gently:
"I'm your friend, dear; I love you, and I never shall forget what you
have done for me to-night. How can I thank you before I go?"
For a minute, Moppet could only hug the bird, and cry; for these were
the first kind words she had heard for a long time, and they went
straight to her lonely little heart.
"O my deary! I'se paid by dem words, and I don't want no tanks. Jes lub
me, and come sometimes to see me ef you can, it's so hard livin' in dis
yere place. I don't tink I'll bar it long. I wish I was a bird to fly
away, or a oyster safe in de mud, and free to do as I's a mind."
"I wish you could go and live with Davy on the island; he is so kind, so
happy, and as free as the wind. Can't you get away, Moppet?" whispered
Gulliver, longing to help this poor, friendless little soul. He told her
all his story; and they agreed that he should fly at once to the island,
and see if Dan was there; if not, he was to come back, and Moppet would
try to get some one to help find him. When this was done, Davy and Dan
were to take Moppet, if they could, and make her happy on the island.
Full of hope and joy, Gulliver said good-by, and spread his wings; but,
alas for the poor bird! he was too weak to fly. For three days he had
hardly eaten any thing, had found no salt water to bathe in, and had sat
moping in the cage till his strength was all gone.
"What shall I do? what shall I do?" he cried, fluttering his feeble
wings, and running to and fro in despair.
"Hush, birdie, I'll take kere ob you till you's fit to fly. I knows a
nice, quiet little cove down yonder, where no one goes; and dare you kin
stay till you's better. I'll come and feed you, and you kin paddle, and
rest, and try your wings, safe and free, honey."
As Moppet spoke, she took Gulliver in her arms, and stole away in the
dim light, over the hill, down to the lonely spot where nothing went but
the winds and waves, the gulls, and little Moppet, when hard words and
blows made heart and body ache. Here she left the bird, and, with a
loving "Good-night," crept home to her bed in the garret, feeling as
rich as a queen, and much happier; for she had done a kind thing, and
made a friend.
Next day, a great storm came: the wind blew a hurricane, the rain
poured, and the sea thundered on the coast. If he had been well,
Gulliver wouldn't have minded at all; but, being sick and sad, he spent
an anxious day, sitting in a cranny of the rock, thinking of Davy and
Moppet. It was so rough, even in the cove, that he could neither swim
nor fly, so feeble was he; and could find no food but such trifles as he
could pick up among the rocks. At nightfall the storm raged fiercer than
ever, and he gave up seeing Moppet; for he was sure she wouldn't come
through the pelting rain just to feed him. So he put his head under his
wing, and tried to sleep; but he was so wet and weak, so hungry and
anxious, no sleep came.
"What has happened to Davy alone on the island all this while? He will
fall ill with loneliness and trouble; the lamp won't be lighted, the
ships will be wrecked, and many people will suffer. O Dan, Dan, if we
could only find you, how happy we should be!"
As Gulliver spoke, a voice cried through the darkness:
"Is you dere, honey?" and Moppet came climbing over the rocks, with a
basket full of such bits as she could get. "Poor birdie, is you
starvin'? Here, jes go at dis, and joy yourself. Dere's fish and tings I
tink you'd like. How is you now, dear?"
"Better, Moppet; but, it's so stormy, I can't get to Davy; and I worry
about him," began Gulliver, pecking away at his supper: but he stopped
suddenly, for a faint sound came up from below, as if some one called,
"Help, help!"
"Hi! what's dat?" said Moppet, listening.
"Davy, Davy!" called the voice.
"It's Dan. Hurrah, we've found him!" and Gulliver dived off the rock so
reckless that he went splash into the water. But that didn't matter to
him; and he paddled away, like a little steamer with all the engines in
full blast. Down by the sea-side, between two stones, lay Dan, so
bruised and hurt he couldn't move, and so faint with hunger and pain he
could hardly speak. As soon as Gulliver called, Moppet scrambled down,
and fed the poor man with her scraps, brought him rain-water from a
crevice near by, and bound up his wounded head with her little apron.
Then Dan told them how his boat had been run down by a ship in the fog;
how he was hurt, and cast ashore in the lonely cove; how he had lain
there half dead, for no one heard his shouts, and he couldn't move; how
the storm brought him back to life, when he was almost gone, and the
sound of Moppet's voice told him help was near.
How glad they all were then! Moppet danced for joy; Gulliver screamed
and flapped his wings; and Dan smiled, in spite of pain, to think he
should see Davy again. He couldn't understand Gulliver; but Moppet told
him all the story, and, when he heard it, he was more troubled for the
boy than for himself.
"What will he do? He may get killed or scared, or try to come ashore. Is
the lamp alight?" he cried, trying to move, and falling back with a moan
of pain.
Gulliver flew up to the highest rock, and looked out across the dark
sea. Yes, there it was,--the steady star shining through the storm, and
saying plainly, "All is well."
"Thank heaven! if the lamp is burning, Davy is alive. Now, how shall I
get to him?" said Dan.
"Never you fret, massa: Moppet'll see to dat. You jes lay still till I
comes. Dere's folks in de house as'll tend to you, ef I tells em who and
where you is."
Off she ran, and soon came back with help. Dan was taken to the house,
and carefully tended; Moppet wasn't scolded for being out so late; and,
in the flurry, no one thought of the gull. Next morning, the cage was
found blown over, and every one fancied the bird had flown away. Dora
was already tired of him; so he was soon forgotten by all but Moppet.
In the morning it was clear; and Gulliver flew gladly to the tower where
Davy still watched and waited, with a pale face and heavy heart, for the
three days had been very hard to bear, and, but for Nep and Shine, he
would have lost his courage entirely. Gulliver flew straight into his
bosom, and, sitting there, told his adventures; while Davy laughed and
cried, and Nep stood by, wagging his tail for joy, while his eyes were
full of sympathy. The three had a very happy hour together, and then
came a boat to carry Davy ashore, while another keeper took charge of
the light till Dan was well.
Nobody ever knew the best part of the story but Moppet, Davy, and
Gulliver. Other people didn't dream that the boy's pet gull had any
thing to do with the finding of the man, or the good fortune that came
to Moppet. While Dan lay sick, she tended him, like a loving little
daughter; and, when he was well, he took her for his own. He did not
mind the black skin: he only saw the loneliness of the child, the tender
heart, the innocent, white soul; and he was as glad to be a friend to
her as if she had been as blithe and pretty as Dora.
It was a happy day when Dan and Davy, Moppet, Gulliver, and Nep sailed
away to the island; for that was still to be their home, with stout
young Ben to help.
The sun was setting; and they floated through waves as rosy as the rosy
sky. A fresh wind filled the sail, and ruffled Gulliver's white breast
as he sat on the mast-head crooning a cheery song to himself. Dan held
the tiller, and Davy lay at his feet, with Nep bolt upright beside him;
but the happiest face of all was Moppet's. Kneeling at the bow, she
leaned forward, with her lips apart, her fuzzy hair blown back, and her
eyes fixed on the island which was to be her home. Like a little black
figure-head of Hope, she leaned and looked, as the boat flew on, bearing
her away from the old life into the new.
As the sun sunk, out shone the lamp with sudden brightness, as if the
island bade them welcome. Dan furled the sail; and, drifting with the
tide, they floated in, till the waves broke softly on the shore, and
left them safe at home.
IX.
THE WHALE'S STORY.
Freddy sat thinking on the seat under the trees. It was a wide, white
seat, about four feet long, sloping from the sides to the middle,
something like a swing; and was not only comfortable but curious, for it
was made of a whale's bone. Freddy often sat there, and thought about it
for he was very much interested in it, and nobody could tell him any
thing of it, except that it had been there a long time.
"Poor old whale, I wonder how you got here, where you came from, and if
you were a good and happy creature while you lived," said Freddy,
patting the old bone with his little hand.
It gave a great creak; and a sudden gust of air stirred the trees, as if
some monster groaned and sighed. Then Freddy heard a strange voice, very
loud, yet cracked and queer, as if some one tried to talk with a broken
jaw.
"Freddy ahoy!" called the big voice. "I'll tell you all about it; for
you are the only person who ever pitied me, or cared to know any thing
about me."
"Why, can you talk?" asked Freddy, very much astonished and a little
frightened.
"Of course I can, for this is a part of my jaw-bone. I should talk
better if my whole mouth was here; but I'm afraid my voice would then be
so loud you wouldn't be able to hear it. I don't think any one but you
would understand me, any way. It isn't every one that can, you know; but
you are a thoughtful little chap, with a lively fancy as well as a kind
heart, so you shall hear my story."
"Thank you, I should like it very much, if you would please to speak a
little lower, and not sigh; for your voice almost stuns me, and your
breath nearly blows me away," said Freddy.
"I'll try: but it's hard to suit my tone to such a mite, or to help
groaning when I think of my sad fate; though I deserve it, perhaps,"
said the bone, more gently.
"Were you a naughty whale?" asked Freddy.
"I was proud, very proud, and foolish; and so I suffered for it. I dare
say you know a good deal about us. I see you reading often, and you seem
a sensible child."
"No: I haven't read about you yet, and I only know that you are the
biggest fish there is," replied Freddy.
The bone creaked and shook, as if it was laughing, and said in a tone
that showed it hadn't got over its pride yet:
"You're wrong there, my dear; we are not fishes at all, though stupid
mortals have called us so for a long time. We can't live without air; we
have warm, red blood; and we don't lay eggs,--so we are not fishes. We
certainly are the biggest creatures in the sea and out of it. Why,
bless you! some of us are nearly a hundred feet long; our tails alone
are fifteen or twenty feet wide; the biggest of us weigh five hundred
thousand pounds, and have in them the fat, bone, and muscle of a
thousand cattle. The lower jaw of one of my family made an arch large
enough for a man on horseback to ride under easily, and my cousins of
the sperm-family usually yield eighty barrels of oil."
"Gracious me, what monsters you are!" cried Freddy, taking a long
breath, while his eyes got bigger and bigger as he listened.
"Ah! you may well say so; we are a very wonderful and interesting
family. All our branches are famous in one way or another. Fin-backs,
sperms, and rights are the largest; then come the norwhals, the
dolphins, and porpoises,--which last, I dare say, you've seen."
"Yes: but tell me about the big ones, please. Which were you?" cried
Freddy.
"I was a Right whale, from Greenland. The Sperms live in warm places;
but to us the torrid zone is like a sea of fire, and we don't pass it.
Our cousins do; and go to the East Indies by way of the North Pole,
which is more than your famous Parrys and Franklins could do."
"I don't know about that; but I'd like to hear what you eat, and how you
live, and why you came here," said Freddy, who thought the whale rather
inclined to boast.
"Well, we haven't got any teeth,--our branch of the family; and we live
on creatures so small, that you could only see them with a microscope.
Yes, you may stare; but it's true, my dear. The roofs of our mouths are
made of whalebone, in broad pieces from six to eight feet long, arranged
one against the other; so they make an immense sieve. The tongue, which
makes about five barrels of oil, lies below, like a cushion of white
satin. When we want to feed, we rush through the water, which is full of
the little things we eat, and catch them in our sieve, spurting the
water through two holes in our heads. Then we collect the food with our
tongue, and swallow it; for, though we are so big, our throats are
small. We roam about in the ocean, leaping and floating, feeding and
spouting, flying from our enemies, or fighting bravely to defend our
young ones."
"Have you got any enemies? I shouldn't think you could have, you are so
large," said Freddy.
"But we have, and many too,--three who attack us in the water, and
several more that men use against us. The killer, the sword-fish, and
the thrasher trouble us at home. The killer fastens to us, and won't be
shaken off till he has worried us to death; the sword-fish stabs us with
his sword; and the thrasher whips us to death with his own slender, but
strong and heavy body. Then, men harpoon us, shoot or entrap us; and
make us into oil and candles and seats, and stiffening for gowns and
umbrellas," said the bone, in a tone of scorn.
Freddy laughed at the idea, and asked, "How about candles? I know about
oil and seats and umbrellas; but I thought candles were made of wax."
"I can't say much on that point: I only know that, when a sperm whale is
killed, they make oil out of the fat part as they do of ours; but the
Sperms have a sort of cistern in their heads, full of stuff like cream,
and rose-colored. They cut a hole in the skull, and dip it out; and
sometimes get sixteen or twenty barrels. This is made into what you call
spermaceti candles. We don't have any such nonsense about us; but the
Sperms always were a light-headed set."
Here the bone laughed, in a cracked sort of roar, which sent Freddy
flying off the seat on to the grass, where he stayed, laughing also,
though he didn't see any joke.
"I beg your pardon, child. It isn't often that I laugh; for I've a
heavy heart somewhere, and have known trouble enough to make me as sad
as the sea is sometimes."
"Tell me about your troubles; I pity you very much, and like to hear you
talk," said Freddy, kindly.
"Unfortunately we are very easily killed, in spite of our size; and have
various afflictions besides death. We grow blind; our jaws are deformed
sometimes; our tails, with which we swim, get hurt; and we have
dyspepsia."
Freddy shouted at that; for he knew what dyspepsia was, because at the
sea-side there were many sickly people who were always groaning about
that disease.
"It's no laughing matter, I assure you," said the whale's bone. "We
suffer a great deal, and get thin and weak and miserable. I've sometimes
thought that's the reason we are blue."
"Perhaps, as you have no teeth, you don't chew your food enough, and so
have dyspepsia, like an old gentleman I know," said Freddy.
"That's not the reason; my cousins, the Sperms, have teeth, and
dyspepsia also."
"Are they blue?"
"No, black and white. But I was going to tell you my troubles. My father
was harpooned when I was very young, and I remember how bravely he
died. The Rights usually run away when they see a whaler coming; not
from cowardice,--oh, dear, no!--but discretion. The Sperms stay and
fight, and are killed off very fast; for they are a very headstrong
family. We fight when we can't help it; and my father died like a hero.
They chased him five hours before they stuck him; he tried to get away,
and dragged three or four boats and sixteen hundred fathoms of line from
eight in the morning till four at night. Then they got out another line,
and he towed the ship itself for more than an hour. There were fifteen
harpoons in him: he chewed up a boat, pitched several men overboard, and
damaged the vessel, before they killed him. Ah! he was a father to be
proud of."
Freddy sat respectfully silent for a few minutes, as the old bone seemed
to feel a great deal on the subject. Presently he went on again:
"The Sperms live in herds; but the Rights go in pairs, and are very fond
of one another. My wife was a charming creature, and we were very happy,
till one sad day, when she was playing with our child,--a sweet little
whaleling only twelve feet long, and weighing but a ton,--my son was
harpooned. His mamma, instead of flying, wrapped her fins round him, and
dived as far as the line allowed. Then she came up, and dashed at the
boats in great rage and anguish, entirely regardless of the danger she
was in. The men struck my son, in order to get her, and they soon
succeeded; but even then, in spite of her suffering, she did not try to
escape, but clung to little Spouter till both were killed. Alas! alas!"
Here the poor bone creaked so dismally, Freddy feared it would tumble to
pieces, and bring the story to an end too soon.
"Don't think of those sorrowful things," he said; "tell me how you came
to be here. Were you harpooned?"
"Not I; for I've been very careful all my life to keep out of the way of
danger: I'm not like one of my relations, who attacked a ship, gave it
such a dreadful blow that he made a great hole, the water rushed in, and
the vessel was wrecked. But he paid dearly for that prank; for a few
months afterward another ship harpooned him very easily, finding two
spears still in him, and a wound in his head. I forgot to mention, that
the Sperms have fine ivory teeth, and make ambergris,--a sort of stuff
that smells very nice, and costs a great deal. I give you these little
facts about my family, as you seem interested, and it's always well to
improve the minds of young people."
"You are very kind; but will you be good enough to tell about yourself?"
said Freddy again; for the bone seemed to avoid that part of the story,
as if he didn't want to tell it.
"Well, if I must, I must; but I'm sorry to confess what a fool I've
been. You know what coral is, don't you?"
"No," said Freddy, wondering why it asked.
"Then I must tell you, I suppose. There is a bit in the house
there,--that rough, white, stony stuff on the table in the parlor. It's
full of little holes, you know. Well, those holes are the front doors of
hundreds of little polypes, or coral worms, who build the great branches
of coral, and live there. They are of various shapes and colors,--some
like stars; some fine as a thread, and blue or yellow; others like
snails and tiny lobsters. Some people say the real coral-makers are
shaped like little oblong bags of jelly, closed at one end, the other
open, with six or eight little feelers, like a star, all around it. The
other creatures are boarders or visitors: these are the real workers,
and, when they sit in their cells and put out their feelers, they make
all manner of lovely colors under the water,--crimson, green, orange,
and violet. But if they are taken up or touched, the coral people go in
doors, and the beautiful hues disappear. They say there are many coral
reefs and islands built by these industrious people, in the South Seas;
but I can't go there to see, and I am contented with those I find in the
northern latitudes. I knew such a community of coral builders, and used
to watch them long ago, when they began to work. It was a charming
spot, down under the sea; for all manner of lovely plants grew there;
splendid fishes sailed to and fro; wonderful shells lay about; crimson
and yellow prawns, long, gliding green worms, and purple sea-urchins,
were there. When I asked the polypes what they were doing, and they
answered, 'Building an island,' I laughed at them; for the idea that
these tiny, soft atoms could make any thing was ridiculous. 'You may
roar; but you'll see that we are right, if you live long enough,' said
they. 'Our family have built thousands of islands and long reefs, that
the sea can't get over, strong as it is.' That amused me immensely; but
I wouldn't believe it, and laughed more than ever."
"It does seem very strange," said Freddy, looking at the branch of coral
which he had brought out to examine.
"Doesn't it? and isn't it hard to believe? I used to go, now and then,
to see how the little fellows got on, and always found them hard at it.
For a long while there was only a little plant without leaves, growing
slowly taller and taller; for they always build upward toward the light.
By and by, the small shrub was a tree: flying-fish roosted in its
branches; sea-cows lay under its shadow; and thousands of jolly little
polypes lived and worked in its white chambers. I was glad to see them
getting on so well; but still I didn't believe in the island story, and
used to joke them about their ambition. They were very good-natured, and
only answered me, 'Wait a little longer, Friend Right.' I had my own
affairs to attend to; so, for years at a time, I forgot the
coral-workers, and spent most of my life up Greenland way, for warm
climates don't agree with my constitution. When I came back, after a
long absence, I was astonished to see the tree grown into a large
umbrella-shaped thing, rising above the water. Sea-weed had washed up
and clung there; sea-birds had made nests there; land-birds and the
winds had carried seeds there, which had sprung up; trunks of trees had
been cast there by the sea; lizards, insects, and little animals came
with the trees, and were the first inhabitants; and, behold! it was an
island."
"What did you say then?" asked Freddy.
"I was angry, and didn't want to own that I was wrong; so I insisted
that it wasn't a real island, without people on it. 'Wait a little
longer,' answered the polypes; and went on, building broader and broader
foundations. I flounced away in a rage, and didn't go back for a great
while. I hoped something would happen to the coral builders and their
island; but I was so curious that I couldn't keep away, and, on going
back there, I found a settlement of fishermen, and the beginning of a
thriving town. Now I should have been in a towering passion at this, if
in my travels I hadn't discovered a race of little creatures as much
smaller than polypes as a mouse is smaller than an elephant. I heard two
learned men talking about diatoms, as they sailed to Labrador; and I
listened. They said these people lived in both salt and fresh water, and
were found in all parts of the world. They were a glassy shell, holding
a soft, golden-yellow substance, and that they were so countless that
banks were made of them, and that a town here in these United States was
founded on them. They were the food of many little sea-animals, who, in
turn, fed us big creatures, and were very interesting and wonderful. I
saved up this story; and, when the polypes asked if they hadn't done
what they intended, I told them I didn't think it so very remarkable,
for the tiny diatoms made cities, and were far more astonishing animals
than they. I thought that would silence them; but they just turned
round, and informed me that my diatoms were plants, not animals,--so my
story was all humbug. Then I was mad; and couldn't get over the fact
that these little rascals had done what we, the kings of the sea,
couldn't do. I wasn't content with being the biggest creature there: I
wanted to be the most skilful also. I didn't remember that every thing
has its own place and use, and should be happy in doing the work for
which it was made. I fretted over the matter a long while, and at last
decided to make an island myself."
"How could you?" asked Freddy.
"I had my plans; and thought them very wise ones. I was so bent on
outdoing the polypes that I didn't much care what happened; and so I
went to work in my clumsy way. I couldn't pile up stones, or build
millions of cells; so I just made an island of myself. I swam up into
the harbor yonder one night; covered my back with sea-weed; and lay
still on the top of the water. In the morning the gulls came to see what
it was, and pecked away at the weeds, telling me very soon that they
knew what I was after, and that I couldn't gull them. All the people on
shore turned out to see the wonder also; for a fisherman had carried the
tidings, and every one was wild to behold the new island. After staring
and chattering a long while, boats came off to examine the mystery.
Loads of scientific gentlemen worked away at me with microscopes,
hammers, acids, and all sorts of tests, to decide what I was; and kept
up such a fire of long words that I was 'most dead. They couldn't make
up their minds; and meanwhile news of the strange thing spread, and
every sort of person came to see me. The gulls kept telling them the
joke; but they didn't understand, and I got on capitally. Every night I
dined and fed and frolicked till dawn; then put on my sea-weeds, and
lay still to be stared at. I wanted some one to come and live on me;
then I should be equal to the island of the polypes. But no one came,
and I was beginning to be tired of fooling people, when I was fooled
myself. An old sailor came to visit me: he had been a whaler, and he
soon guessed the secret. But he said nothing till he was safely out of
danger; then he got all ready, and one day, as I lay placidly in the
sun, a horrible harpoon came flying through the air, and sunk deep into
my back. I forgot every thing but the pain, and dived for my life. Alas!
the tide was low; the harbor-bar couldn't be passed; and I found
hundreds of boats chasing me, till I was driven ashore down there on the
flats. Big and strong as we are, once out of water, and we are perfectly
helpless. I was soon despatched; and my bones left to whiten on the
sand. This was long ago; and, one by one, all my relics have been
carried off or washed away. My jaw-bone has been used as a seat here,
till it's worn out; but I couldn't crumble away till I'd told some one
my story. Remember, child, pride goeth before a fall."
Then, with a great creak, the bone tumbled to pieces; and found a
