regard for boys ; but as little did he care for being a girl's 
favorite. To be let alone with books or experiments was 
his delight ; and his passion was horseback rides on Jas- 
per, who had now reverted to him. 
Invitations poured in upon Kathie. Already quite a 
charming "set" had been formed, happily of cultivated 
people with some interest beyond the exciting one of dress. 
There were many out-door amusements, though the boat 
club was shorn of its glory. Archery had become a great 
favorite. Georgia Halford was queen here, and Mr. 
Adams had fitted up an admirable archery ground. Then 
there was a sketching club, that went out now and then to 
study nature. They were all bright with the dreams and 
hopes of youth, and tinged with the inseparable romance 
which lends to these early years its greatest charm. 
They welcomed Kathie warmly. Uncle Robert had 
made himself an immense favorite with young people, and 
they all felt acquainted with her after the evening of the 
party. There were little teas and musical evenings, which 
often ended with some favorite quadrilles. 
" How do you ever find time for anything?" she asked 
in despair, as she sat one morning in the pretty room at 
the Collamores', that was devoted to everything, Louise 
said, and in wbich one felt at home immediately. Fay had 
her easel in the bay -window, and Louise a pretty willow 
workstand, with her bright, soft silks and quaint embroid- 
eries. 
" I don't know," and Fay glanced up with a quiet 
smile, " unless it is that we have settled, and you are 
still on the wing. Coming back has made everything 
new to you. Last summer mamma and I spent all the 
time in calls and company, it seemed to me, and taking 
our bearings, as a sailor would say. Lou was in school 
then ; and I have a fancy companionship helps you along." 
" Then I shall have to bring my work over here. Only 
what shall it be? I think it spoils one to go abroad. 
You buy such an endless sight of pretty things at such 
bargains ; and I know I should never have the patience 
to work a set of curtains" ; stooping to examine Louise's 
delicate embroidery. 
" I am fond of sewing. I sit here and go over the old 
romances, of queens with their maids doing marvellous 
handiwork, of ladies making colors for their true knights, 
who went crusading, and it takes me back to the old world 
of chivalry." 
" And Lou is romantic," declared Fay. u Now I should 
never care to sew unless I was in great trouble. It seems 
to me distracting rather than tranquillizing ; and yet it is 
a pretty sight to see a group around a table, in the glow of 
a lighted lamp, the busy fingers sewing, while one reads 
aloud." 
" Then Fay and I decided not to have the same special- 
ties. Of course we both studied music, that seems a 
necessity nowadays, but I had no genius for painting, 
and I wanted some pretty house accomplishment ; and 
the reason why I began curtains was that I was afraid I 
should get the house too full of tidies and lambrequins and 
banners, and this would last me a long while. So, 
Kathie, you can come over and read to us, or tell us of 
the wonders abroad : we may never go to Europe." 
" I hope you will," returned Kathie, warmty. " Hear- 
ing is not quite like seeing ; but I do not want to fall into 
the ridiculous habit of prefacing everything with, when I 
was in Rome, or, when I was in Paris." 
" I think you are extremely modest, and I do enjoy 
your descriptions, they are so fresh and graphic. Some- 
times you remind me of your brother. How you must 
miss him !" 
" You see I never had very much of him. He was at 
school and college, and now I have been the truant. We 
should all have enjoyed his being nearer home ; but then 
he was u't I mean he never cared for girls." 
Louise laughed at that. 
" lie used to consider us a great trouble, but I think 
he has changed somewhat." And Kathie flushed a little, 
while a look of fun lighted up her eyes. 
"How fortunate young men do change!" exclaimed 
Lou. " Who is it says that some one else always has to 
find out how nice boy's sisters are? We thought him 
quite gallant ; and papa praised the young men of Brook- 
side without stint. Only it is remembered virtues, or 
blessings, brightening, etc., for they do seem to have taken 
their flight pretty generally. Eugene groans dismally." 
" I thought it nice that some one should charm Rob out 
of his boyish indifference, to use the mildest term. He 
always admired men so much. Mr. Meredith used to be 
his ideal." 
" I don't wonder, I am sure: he is a most delightful 
gentleman ; and there is some one else I am anxious to 
see Gen. Mackenzie's son your cousin by courtesy. 
Do you suppose he will ever come back to Brookside? 
Your brother told us so much about him." 
" You will like him," Kathie said, enthusiastically. " I 
don't know whether the government will give him any va- 
cation until his three years are up, but I hope so." 
" I do sometimes experience a little tinge of envy when 
I see you in all your glory, Miss Kathie Alston," began 
Lou, in a whimsical tone, when Fay interrupted. 
" Here comes your ' loyal knight and true,' to spirit you 
away. It is like a story-book. Shall I wave my lily hand 
to him?" 
Kathie glanced out of the window. Uncle Robert had 
the large carriage and a sudden thought flashed across 
her mind. 
" I will run down a moment, she said, vanishing. 
" Do you all want to go for a lovely drive?" he asked. 
" We shall not have many such gorgeous days, for autumn 
is on the wane." 
" Yes," answered Kathie, " I will gather up the girls." 
They were delighted , and went to inform their mother 
and hunt up their wraps Mr. Conover was on very 
friendly terms with them, and he was the kind of man to 
prove an invaluable companion to young girls. They 
were too young to count on his marrying, consequently 
there was the charm of perfect ease. 
Kathie resigned to Fay the seat of honor beside her 
uncle, and after they hnd|i||ped on the lovely river road 
he gave Fay the reins ; she was very fond of driving the 
ponies. It was a fragrant, dreamy, Indian-summer day, 
and made one feel luxuriously indolent. 
" Oh, here is a letter fdr you ! " said Uncle Robert, hand- 
ing one to Kathie. 
It was from Rob, as she knew at a glance. He was not 
a very diffusive correspondent, but quite exacting of late. 
'' Tell me what you do, and where you. go," he said ; "I 
nm hungry for home news. I did not think I should miss 
it so much. Do you see anything of Miss Collamore and 
her sister? Remember me kindly to them." 
Kathie read the paragraph aloud. " How queer for 
Rob to long for home ! " she said ; " and yet he seems a 
good deal interested in business " 
"Tell him you do see us," said Lou, "and that we 
couldn't live without you." Fay colored delicately and 
made a gentle inclination of the head. Was it the fresh, 
bright morning that stirred her with unwonted emotion? 
She could afford to give him, not one thought, but many, 
the young toiler in a far-away city. There were pleasant 
walks still sacred to her, little bits and fragments of talk 
to which she had a half-fancy she held the kev. He had 
never cared for girls before, but he had seemed much in- 
terested in them ; she would not detatch herself from her 
sister ; and she wondered if he would be back at Christ- 
mas, or another summer : there were so many pleasant 
things yet to discuss, so much of earnest purpose left un- 
said. 
Uncle Robert watched the wavering color. He could 
not know the thoughts that were bringing her nearer to 
him, but he speculated slowly upon what life would have 
in store for her The strange, sweet mystery folded deep 
within, like the frond of a fern, the joy or sorrow, or nega- 
tive content of a young girl's life. No, it would never be 
the last. When nature was once roused, moved to its ut- 
termost, it must be for joy or suffering, something that 
involved her in the supreme emotions of life. 
The two on the back seat laughed and chatted in gay 
unconcern. Their time would come later. How could 
 one help being joyous on this queen of days, in this 
air of heavenly content. ! 
It was past noon when they returned. Dinner was 
waiting, and Mrs. Alston was going to the sewing society 
that afternoon. 
" And I shall write letters every precious moment of 
the time ! " declared Kathie. " How they do accumulate ! 
Uncle Robert, do you know that I have been extremely 
remiss to an old friend? I have not been to see Sarah 
Strong. She told me she should not expect me until I 
had gone the round of the home friends, and was thor- 
oughly rested. I have been home almost two months, and 
shall never get around, because the circle widens contin- 
ually. I 've been wondering if I shall feel disappointed in 
her." 
"No," answered Uncle Robert decisively. "She has 
been going on as well as you. She is not of the stuff to 
ptop while there is a next." 
" Well, I am anxious to see her, even if I have waited. 
It was because I thought it best to go on Saturday, as she 
is more at liberty then ; but my Saturdays have been so 
occupied. Suppose I promise for this week, can yen 
take me?" 
" I am at your service," bowing. 
" Thank you. Then I will write." 
She settled herself to her proposed employment. A 
long, gossipy letter to Rob, but it seemed full of the Coi- 
lamores. They had gone here and there, they had talked 
over so many things, and she liked them so much. u I 
suppose I ought to be fondest of Lou, because she is near 
my own age, and I do like her to be gay with ; but if I 
should ever be in bitter trouble, with no mamma or Uncle 
Robert, I should go to Fay. Isn't it queer how suddenly 
and inexplicably you trust some people ? " 
" He will set that down as girls' rodomontade," she 
said to herself, with a smile. 
Aunt Ruth, and then Bruce, to whom she sent all the 
news about the boys. I think the thing that comforted 
him the most was her naive admission that they had all 
gone, and Brookside seemed so queer without them. 
It. was dark before she came to the end of her notes, 
but she drew a long breath of relief, and resolved to keep 
them in better order in the future. After mamma's re- 
turn came supper, and nearh r all the evening Kathie sat at 
the piano and played soft, bewildering tunes. The night 
had turned rainy after the day of wonderful loveliness, 
and sometimes between the lingering chords one could 
hear the soft dripping without. 
" Have I tired you?" She bent over Uncle Robert as 
he lay on the sofa, and kissed his forehead. 
" Tired ! my little darling, no. It is so seldom that I 
get you all to myself, unless I am taking you somewhere 
or bringing you home." 
'' I have developed into a sad run-about. You ought 
to have a great deal more of me. I am defrauding you 
out of your just dues." 
" I must not turn into a selfish old fellow and shadow 
your brightness. I am so glad to have you happy." 
"But, can any one be too full of joy", too easily 
pleased ? Am I not childish and frivolous ? " 
" I told you the other day you were to have your holi- 
day of youth. Enjoy it and you will please me." 
He watched her as she flitted across the room to her 
mother. These sweet, pure, transparent young girls' lives 
interested him so much, for he had reached a time when 
he ould detect the false, and the true had become dearer 
to him. His little Kathie had grown into this tall, fair 
being, and stood on the threshold of womanhood. Some 
time But no, it was pain to anticipate. 
Saturday was fair and auspicious, with a rather crisp 
air after the storm. They decided upon an early dinner, 
and then Uncle Robert handed her into the phaeton, and 
tucked the soft robe about her. How pretty and refined 
she looked, with a little dash of scarlet in her soft, gray 
costume, and everything so exquisitely harmonious ! 
The road to Middleville had met with few changes or 
improvements, and looked rather cheerless, with its well- 
nigh leafless trees and yellow or brown stubble fields ; 
yet Kathie enjoyed the drive, thinking how all the changes 
of the seasons contributed, each in its turn, a beauty and 
tone to the world ; and this was like a plain dish the day 
after a gorgeous feast. 
But as they caught sight of Farmer Strong's, they re- 
marked a change. The trees were trimmed up, the fences 
in good order, and the fields had a cleared, tidy look, as if 
the harvest was finished and put away, with no loose ends 
or fragments left about. The house had been painted a 
soft, restful stone color, with brighter trimmings, and the 
old-fashioned door-yard still abounded in bloom. There 
were chrysanthemums of almost every color, some late 
roses, and clusters of geraniums. A porch ran across part 
of the front in place of the little stoop, and at one end a 
Chinese honeysuckle was timidly clinging, while a Virginia 
creeper had made bolder essays and was hanging out its 
scarlet sprays. 
A figure flashed out of the door and down the walk. 
Yes, the two years had cKrme a great deal for Sarah Strong. 
Kathie felt that she would hardly have known her the first 
momrnt, and yet it was more the inward, spiritual change 
manifest in every direction, than any purely outward alter- 
ation. She was of medium height and rather stout, but 
there was a compactness to her figure, a firmness and vigor 
to her step, a character in the poise of her head. Her 
hair had deepened in its color, though it was still red, but 
its tint and abundance rendered it really beautiful. Her 
clear, serious, gray eyes, her gracious expression and ten- 
der smile, made the face good looking in the truest sense. 
"Oh !" she exclaimed, then paused suddenly, as if half 
abashed. 
Kathie sprang out and clasped her arms about her old- 
time friend and admirer. 
"How good of you to come!" Sarah cried, with a 
long, struggling breath. " And oh, how how beautiful 
you have grown ! I must say it ; has nt she ? " turning to 
Mr. Conover. " I have thought so much about you, and 
wondered, and your letters were such treasures. But 
there is nothing like really having you. once again ; changed 
and yet not changed ; but I don't believe anything could 
spoil you." 
" I don't know," returned Kathie, archly. " Praioe 
might." 
" No, it wouldn't: you would know that the truth was 
true, and the rest you wouldn't care for; an I sometimes 
people cannot help speaking out what is in their hearts, 
sure that it will not be wrongly interpreted. But they are 
all so anxious to see you, and yet they are afraid that you 
are a great lady." 
Sarah laughed softly, with a mellow kind of cadence, 
and Kathie joined her, as the two walked across the porch 
and entered the parlor. 
Kathie recalled unconsciously her first introduction to it. 
That too had been gradually toned down. And what 
pleased Kathie the most was the utter absence of any 
sense of newness, though she realized that it was Sarah's 
parlor, for it had nearly all been refurnished. The carpet 
was a rich deep brown, with here and there a dash of 
crimson and olive green. A few easy-chairs and the sofa 
she had once been so proud of acquiring, a pretty home- 
made bookcase, with some jars and ornaments on the top, 
and getting to be quite well filled ; the melodeon, some 
well-chosen pictures, and soft, drapery curtains in ecru, 
that toned the white wall, which Mrs. Strong would retain 
as a point of cleanliness. A cheerful fire was burning in 
an open-front stove, and the air felt delightful after the 
ride. 
"No, I am not a great lady that any one might be 
afraid of," said Kathie, with some amusement. " I feel 
very natural in getting back to the old places ; sometimes 
it seems as if another Kathie had been abroad, until I 
count up the changes." 
' Mother ! " Sarah said ; " Cousin Ellen ! " 
Mrs. Strong entered, her own hearty self in spite of a 
certain diffidence ; and her delight was visible in every line 
of her face. Beside Cousin Ellen, Martha, a tall, bashful 
girl, seemed longing to hide herself, and jet a certain curi- 
osity conquered her shyness ; but in a few moments the 
group seemed increased indefinitely, with almost every 
child pushing forward, until Kathie stood in the midst, a 
little princess with her loyal retainers. 
Uncle Robert had driven down to the barn, as usual. To 
the thrift here had been added a kind of sensible orderli- 
ness. The farmers around rather sneered at the new-fan- 
gled notions of the Strongs, taken out of books and papers, 
but the result remained a source of astonishment, and not a 
little secret envy. There were better crops finer fruit, 
some successful ventures in new things ; and the money 
gain was the thing they could not well despise. Father 
and sous labored harmoniously together. James had his 
workshop and exercised his ingenuity on rainy days pro- 
ducing some creditable pieces of workmanship. He had 
decided not to go to the cityfor a trade, and add another 
to the stragglers. 
Within the house they talked and talked. Kathie in her 
refinement, breeding, and culture was the same marvel to 
them as heretofore. There was no condescension, no 
standing a little apart, and yet they, by a fine natural con- 
sent, set her above themselves. 
" Now, children," said Mrs. Strong, "come out in the 
kitchen and leave Sarah and Miss Kathie to themselves a 
little while." 
The children obeyed rather reluctantly, but the two were 
finally left for a girlish confidence. And there was so 
much to say, school, with its gradual advancement; 
church, with its music and its grand lessons, a little soci- 
ety, even in that country place, and the work to do. 
Sarah Strong said it with a glad, true ring. Work was 
the thorough comprehensiveness of living. A plain, nar- 
row place, but not small, only a little soul could contract 
it. Everything she touched came presently to have a vi- 
tality of its own. She was not a nurse, she could not 
pander to weakness ; her theory must stand alone, robust, 
far-reaching, and her practice must lead others to help 
themselves. Yet there was no rudeness in all this, rather 
a gentle firmness, that allowed no turning back, that pointed 
out mistakes clearly. 
As Kathie listened she wondered. What would Sarah 
do with this life presently ? Was she not needed out in the 
great world? And how would she get there? And then 
Kathie knew the God who had guided hitherto could not 
fail or go wrong. 'Perhaps it was just here the work was 
required. And she was holding herself steadfast, garner- 
ing up the true content, staying here, but learning all the 
time to go up higher when the true summons came, yet 
not hurrying nor dimming the grace of the present by any 
impatience. 
" What a grand thing," she said, presently, " to have 
been in all these places ; and the next best is to see through 
a friend's eyes. When I had your two or three letters 
from Rome, I knew you were looking at things for me. 
But further back, when you were in Moscow, you. spoke of 
Napoleon, and we found two or three histories and read 
them aloud. James was so interested. Then we wanted 
to know about Russia and Prussia, and all these quarrels 
with kings and emperors. I interested the school children, 
and they in turn roused their parents. It is always the 
little leaven. And how can people shut their eyes and 
care nothing about the events outside their little circle ? I 
always did want to know"; smiling. "When I find a 
child dull and ignorant, and am tempted to be impatient, 
I think of your goodness." 
"But you were not dull," said Kathie "Ask Uncle 
Robert. I believe his sympathy has brought about higher 
results than any act of mine." 
" There was a step on the porch and Sarah started. It 
was too dark to see the quick color mantle her face. 
" Kathie," she said, " I must beg your pardon for some- 
thing I have done. I hated to lose even a moment of 
your precious time, but I read one of your letters to our 
minister, and promised him if ever I could arrange it you 
should meet ; so father asked him down to tea. He 
is coming now. Don't feel annoyed, please." 
Then she began to light the lamp. Martha opened the 
door and announced Mr. Tmesdell. 
Kathie rose. A grave, rather careworn man, not much 
beyond thirty, but looking old for hisyears, yet with a cer- 
tain scholarly refinement and a gentle, almost entreating 
strand in his voice. 
The moment after the " men" came up from the barn, 
and Mrs. Strong announced supper, a generous country 
supper, with a table that would not have shamed more 
pretentious people. 
Mr. Truesdell and Uncle Robert were acquainted, it 
seemed. Mr. Strong and James were delighted to see 
Kathie, the young man somewhat shy at first. It certainty 
was a pleasant supper, and Mr. Truesdell proved himself 
very companionable. 
There was a bright moon, so the guests did not hasten 
away immediately. Sarah opened the melodeon and they 
sang a few grand old hymns. Some strange conscious- 
ness flashed across Kathie as they stood there, and it 
seemed as if her question about Sarah was answered. 
But they had to say good by presently. Kathie promised 
to come again, and Sarah was to have a whole Saturday at 
the Palace Beautiful, as she called it. 
"Well?" said Uncle Robert interrogatively, when they 
had ridden a long distance in silence. 
" Uncle Robert, who is Mr. Truesdell? and has he been 
long at Middleville?" 
" About a year, I think. He is an earnest worker, for all 
his quiet air, and a widower with two children." 
" Oh ! and Sarah will go to the very place she is so well 
fitted for. Did you guess or know " 
" I know that he cares a great deal for her, but Sarah is 
hardly conscious of its meaning. She likes him, but the 
cousin being there blinds her a little. How did you come 
to see such a thing ? I did not know your eyes were so 
sharp." 
" It was his tone when he spoke, and his look. I am so 
glad ! What a strange thing that all her improvement 
should tend to this point! And she is such a sincere 
believer, such a noble worker, I feel quite shamed beside 
her. The pupil far exceeds the desultory teacher." 
" I think it will be an excellent marriage. They are not 
the people to hurry Providence, but will go on tranquilly 
until some day when her eyes will see the truth and tender- 
ness awaiting her. But remember, Kitty, that you have 
surprised the knowledge." 
"Oh, I could never hint such a thing to her. Do not 
think that poorly of me. But you know " and he under- 
stood the kind of tender amusement in her voice " that 
I have been in the midst of a good many love affairs." 
" Yes. You deserve credit for the judgment evinced, 
and I know you will not fail in this." 
She was silent for a long time again, wondering, in an 
innocent, young-girl way, how this great mystery would 
come to her, if ever it came at all. 
CHAPTER VII. 
KATHIE was rather quiet and thoughtful after her visit 
to Sarah Strong. Was she really idling away too much of 
her time ? She could take up some study, a course of read- 
ing, or an accomplishment. She did practise her music, 
she was very fond of that ; and she dropped in now and 
then among the old friends she had known, who were 
always delighted to see her. The Morrisons were still at 
the Lodge, and another baby had been added to the group. 
She used to talk over old times with grandmother, who 
was still hearty and cheery. Far-away Ethel and her 
father were doing well ; and, thugh she realized more 
truly than ever that she had outgrown some of the girls, 
there was no need of any abrupt breaking off. As Uncle 
Robert said, these matters settled themselves. 
Mrs. Alston wanted to go to New York, and her brother 
proposed that they should take a real holiday with Kathie, 
go up to the city and board for a month or two, shop and 
see pictures, and attend some operas, as there were sev- 
eral noted singers announced. Hannah would look after 
the house and Fred, and Jane would be glad to go home 
for a few weeks, as this was always considered a great 
treat by the Mabeyond bin family. 
Kathie's new friends were in despair. 
" I don't believe you ever mean to stay at home !" de- 
clared Eugene Collamore. " Here we are just getting in 
nice train for in-door amusements, planning a series of 
amateur concerts and a Shakespeare reading club, and now 
away you go." 
" But I am only one." 
" Every one counts, especially in the winter. Girls, 
let us try to persuade her." 
There was such a very evident admiration in Eugene's 
glance that Eathie colored with a curious sensation not 
quite comfortable 
" I have expended all my eloquence and all my reasons," 
answered Lou, " but the stubborn fact remains ; and if I 
had so good an opportunity I should go. Perhaps we will 
for a week, Eathie ; wouldn't it be jolly?" 
"Oh do!" cried Eathie. 
"Worse and worse. You set a bad example, Miss Al- 
ston, and stir up disaffection. If you could plead duty now, 
but pure pleasure " 
"Let us seek pleasure while we may," carolled Lou, 
gayly. 
Eugene walked over home with Eathie ; they, too, had be- 
come great friends. 
" Eugene is regularly smitten with Eathie Alston," said 
Louise, after they had gone. "If they were older, one 
might wish " 
" But they are too young to wish about. I never saw a 
girl so innocent of love-making or marrying as she. I 
don't believe it ever enters her mind." 
So they made ready and went to the city. Mrs. Mere- 
dith would not hear of their staying at a hotel. She was 
just settled in her lovely new house, as Mr Meredith de- 
cided that now they might safely purchase. It was but a 
short distance from the Park, and in a very select neigh- 
borhood. The furnishing was elegant and artistic, and 
Mrs. Edward herself a stylish find fascinating woman, 
with her Paris culture and experience. Her sister-in-law 
was amazed and a trifle envious. Jessie would never be 
a purely fashionable leader, but one clique no longer ruled 
society : it was the thing now to have a specialty ; and 
Jessie chose hers among the pleasures she really enjoyed. 
Ada was glad to be drawn into this delightful circle. 
Kathie declared they did nothing but go and enjoy. 
Charlie Darrell was a frequent visitor at his sister's. Dick 
Grayson and some other student friends found a cordial 
welcome, and Kathie soon had a train of admirers. It 
troubled her mother a little at first. 
" We shall not always be able to keep her a child," said 
Uncle Robert, smilingly : ' ' young men will discover her 
charms." 
" But I should be sorry to see her flirting or making a 
bid for admiration." 
"She has little need for that. And you. know, Dora, 
she has been brought up with boys, as one may say, and 
is in a certain way used to their attentions. Think how 
Mr. Meredith and Mr. Langdon treated her two or three 
years ago, and she never overstepped the bounds of child- 
ish pleasure. "We will not trouble her with cautions until 
we see her on the verge of dangerous paths. There is 
nothing so lovely as the entire innocence of a young girl." 
"If young men do not mistake it. The most finished 
coquettes of the day assume it as their strongest ally." 
" There are no counterfeits on base metals," said 
Uncle Robert, with a pleasant laugh. 
Dr. Markham had not lost his olden fondness for his 
favorite. She took rides with him, and they had long 
talks about Ada. 
" She has awakened to the true sense of living," said 
the doctor, "but she is. grasping at too much. A man 
doesn't expect to master all the knowledge of a lifetime 
in a few years. You have to try things, to sift and win- 
now, to hold fast of some truths not altogether palatable, 
to let others go that may be charming, but have no real 
place in your manner of life. It is the fitness that makes 
symmetrical characters, not the many bits of knowledge 
pieced on. Some time I think she will get things un- 
tangled, and realize that of this great mystery, life, we 
can only have one small piece here. But she is making a 
better woman than I ever fancied she would. After all, I 
think it takes love and mothering to make true girls and 
women, and heaven knows she had little enough of 
that." 
"And I had so much," said Kathie, with a thrill of 
strange, secret joy. 
Beside the operas and dinner parties, Kathie went to 
some quite gay entertainments, where she danced to her 
heart's content. Weeks flew by rapidly. Gen. Mackenzie 
was up once on business, armed with entreaties that Mrs. 
Alston and Kathie would spend the remainder of the win- 
ter in Washington. 
"Well, why should you not?" asked Uncle Robert. 
" There is really nothing to confine you at home, and you 
are not so old as to have lost all zest for society. Ruth 
would be delighted, I know, and Kathie would have a 
glimpse of the most important men and women of her own 
country. Congress will be in session ; and so many ce- 
lebrities seek Washington in the winter to see and be 
seen." 
Kathie was enchanted with the idea, and so the elders 
laid their plans accordingly. The Collamores were to 
come up and keep Christmas with some cousins, and they 
hoped Kathie would stay. There was shopping and dress- 
making, and no diminution of enjoyments. Kathie was 
the same favorite here that she had been in childhood. 
" I will tell you what I want to do Christmas morning, 
Uncle Robert," she said, her eyes softened with emotion. 
" Let us go to some quiet church for morning service. I 
want to think of the winter when I was here with Aunt 
Ruth, while she was being cured. It was so hard to stay 
away from you all, and somehow she and I both fell into 
the Slough of Despond, I believe " ; and a soft, sad smile 
played over her face at the remembrance. " But Christ- 
mas morning brought great joy to our souls, and I would 
like to keep the feast reverently, thanking God for all the 
blessings." 
It surprised all her friends that Kathie resisted the grand 
music and elaborate decorations of the great churches, and 
went off with Uncle Robert to a plain church to celebrate her 
festival. They could not understand what it was to her, 
but Uncle Robert knew by that how little the child's 
heart had changed, that under all the lightness there 
were deep soundings to be touched by the greater hand, 
and to answer in kind. 
Eugene Collamore came up Christmas eve to stay over 
Sunday with his sisters, who were already very much at 
home at Mrs. Meredith's, and having no end of enjoyment 
with the young College Clan, as Lou called it. They were 
nice, jolly fellows, and Eugene had enjoyed Charlie and 
Dick wonderfully the summer before ; but he soon made 
the discovery that he had not come to see the boys, and as 
for Kathie, one could never get near her any more. When 
she was talking and laughing with Dick Grayson he was 
very sure she liked him best, and when Sunday evening 
they were all singing hymns, as Charlie played on the organ, 
there came a rapt, heavenly look in their faces that 
seemed to make them so of one kin, of one mind, that 
Eugene turned sorrowfully away with a pang he could not 
fathom, something beyond boyish perception, yet very 
real and keen. 
How often they said, u If Rob were here; if Bruce 
were here," and called up old and fond memories. Kathie 
wrote to them both, but she felt that letters were a poor 
substitute for this delight. 
Mrs. Alston went home for a week, and then the party 
started for Washington, where Aunt Ruth received them 
with unalloyed gladness. Kathie recalled her first visit to 
Washington, but oh, how different everything was now ! 
Aunt Ruth was the centre, one might say, of a very charm- 
ing circle. Her husband's position, her own culture and 
recent travel, and perhaps the indescribable charm that 
goes by the name of fascination, filled her rooms with choice 
friends. She still looked very young, and her slight lame- 
ness seemed to give a touch of romance, an excuse for her 
husband's devotion. 
Mrs. Alston awoke to a peculiar interest in it all. The 
war had not quite dropped out of everybody's mind, for 
the heroes were still honored, some of them showing scars 
or betraying the loss of a limb ; and with it had developed 
a wider national life ; denizens of other countries came to 
\Vashington to study and observe, and foreign ministers 
and their families added a piquant charm. 
" It is almost like being abroad again," said Kathie. 
There was this difference, she was regularly in society 
now. Young people were not long in finding her out. 
Her freshness and zest, her sunny temper and generous 
disposition, made her a favorite. Invitations piled up on 
her little table, and it was quite impossible to attend to 
them all. Uncle Robert was oftenest her escort ; indeed, 
he seemed never to tire of taking her about and showing 
her the things she hardly dreamed of in her former visit. 
They attended congressional debates, and her bright face 
and interested air caught more than one eye as she looked 
and listened. 
Of parties, dinners, dances, and drives she had a full 
share. Sometimes her mother became anxious lest she 
should injure her health or run into some danger. She was 
forced to admit that her little Kathie was a very attractive 
girl. 
Perhaps it was the fact that Kathie had grown accus- 
tomed to a certain degree of approval from her boyish 
friends as well as the elders that led her to accept atten- 
tions with a winning grace quite removed from coquetry. 
Young men observed that much sentiment or blandishment 
was lost upon her. She often checked a fulsome compli- 
ment by merely raising her eyes to the speaker ; and she kept 
her delicate manner of reserve about her like a fine foil. 
It was with her the simplest truth and honesty. 
On their return they made a short stay in Baltimore and 
in Philadelphia. It was quite a disappointment to Kathie 
that Bruce had not been able to make a flying trip to Wash- 
ington, but he consoled her with the thought that he might 
spend a few weeks during the summer at Cedarwood, which 
would be ever so much pleasanter. While they were in 
New York, Uncle Robert took a brief journey to Chicago, 
and found his nephew and namesake giving entire satisfac- 
tion in his position. 
Some great change had certainly come over gay, laugh- 
ing, fun-loving Rob Alston. He looked older, with a 
settled, determined expression, as if he had already begun 
to fight his battle of life and did not mean to be worsted. 
He explained to Uncle Robert that he was living very 
quietly in the suburbs, but the two nights he spent with 
him at a hotel. 
" Rob," his uncle said, " I do not like to see you taking 
life quite so hard, giving up the useful and innocent pleas- 
ures. There is only one youth after all, and if it is spent 
with a wise economy you lay up pleasant remembrances 
for middle life. Money is not quite all, my boy." 
" I have been a good deal engrossed mastering the in- 
tricacies of business. The other will all come in time." 
And he gave a kind of half-smile, that seemed to lack 
heart 
" You are going on very fast, Mr. Farwell informs me, 
and have learned more rapidly than any one he has had. 
It is high praise, Rob, but you must not neglect health, and 
some of the attainments acquired in the past. I think you 
do show your close confinement." 
" Then I must take a course at a gymnasium, and the 
fresh spring air will soon tone me up. You are very good 
to me, Uncle Robert, but you need not be afraid of a great 
strong fellow like me working too hard." 
It was a satisfactory visit in all respects save one. Was 
there not something kept back, some secret or perplexity ? 
All he could think of that seemed probable was that Rob 
had contracted a debt in the past and was working out of 
it himself, as a penance and a punishment. If so, it was 
brave and manly, and he would not interfere with the work 
of conscience. Yet it pained Uncle Robert to leave him 
toiling on alone, away from old friends, and making no 
new ones ; it seemed unnatural for youth. 
It was really delightful to get home once more and set- 
tle, Kathie thought. 
"Now, mamma," she declared, "we will not have any 
journeyings or wanderings about in strange places, but just 
a little bit of home life and home people. It will take me 
ever so long to get my mind untangled, and know what of 
the past I want to keep and what I shall throw away, 
dismiss and forget." 
' ' Then you think there will be some you shall not care 
to retain? " And her mother smiled. " It is a good thing 
to have a weeding-out process now and then." 
The house was to be cleaned, the garden put in order, 
and taking up her old interests engrossed Mrs. Alston con- 
siderably. Kathie carolled about the place, joyous as a 
bird, her smile as bright as when in the midst of gayety. 
Clearly she had not yet been spoiled. 
She stood by the open window one morning early in 
May. Oh, how fresh and fragrant it was with all this 
dewy sweetness ! Birds were singing and darting hither 
and thither. Yonder a hen was clucking to her brood of 
downy chicks, and the ducks were swimming about in the 
lake. How wide and inspiriting after the narrow in-doors 
of pleasure ! 
Uncle .Robert was sauntering slowly through the walks, 
surveying some improvements. The young girl tied back 
her beautiful flowing Locks and Tan down to iiim. 
' * Upon my word , Miss Kathie ! " And there was a merry 
twinkle of affected surprise in his eye. 
" You did not think I would be able to rise with 'the lark 
after a winter of dissipation, did you? " she asked, with be- 
witching archness. 
" Why, the lark has been up to heaven's gate and come 
back to her breakfast," he made answer, humorously. 
" I have been almost up to heaven's gate, too" ; and a 
sweet seriousness overspread her face. " I was glancing 
out over to the mountain, hill I suppose we ought to 
say now, and all the glory of the scene, the peace and 
brooding tenderness, filled me with gratitude. I have 
seen so much, Uncle Robert, and yet nothing seems bet- 
ter to me than Cedarwood, though many things are 
grander." 
li My little girl, I am glad, yes, thankful, that you can 
enjoy it thus heartily. It seems to me, a true appreciation 
of what is lofty and great ought never, would never, I 
should say , lead one to despise smaller phases of beauty 
and excellence." 
" I shouldn't want to dwell among the Alps," Kathie 
said slowly : ' ' they chill me and leave a kind of awe- 
some admiration. I do not think either that I would care 
to live at Rome, among ruins and old palaces and pictures ; 
yet I am very glad to have seen it all, and now I am con- 
tent and happy to be here and watch these lovely pictures 
that grow nearer perfection daily." 
" your winter's dissipation has not spoiled you? " 
She laughed brightly. 
'' I do suppose you sometimes thought I might dance 
away my senses. It was lovely, Uncle Robert, enchant- 
ing." And she gave a graceful pirouette on the gravel walk. 
" Am I queer and changeable? But it is so delightful to 
be alive, to enjoy everything. How would it feel, I wonder, 
to be languid and bored, and have no emotions ! " 
" O Miss Alston!" exclaimed a fresh, young voice; 
and Eugene Collamore reigned his horse up to the hedge. 
" Must I wish you joy, or shall you wish me ? It 's such a 
rare delight to see you. And I have stolen a march on the 
girls. They were talking of you last night and will call 
to-day." 
" I shall be glad to see them." And though the words 
were simply uttered, the earnest eyes she raised gave 
them meaning. 
How beautiful she was, he thought, standing there 
in the sunshine, the wind blowing lightty among her 
curls, stirring them so softly they looked like a shower 
of gold. 
" You have had a grand time at Washington, among the 
magnates and great people and everybody. I wonder if 
we shall not seem just a little commonplace, uninterest- 
ing?" 
" Why should you not make yourself interesting ? " And 
she glanced up archly. " You must not allow me to pine 
and waste away with ennui. 
"O Miss Kathie, I don't believe you know what ennui 
is!" 
She surely did not look as if it had depressed her seri- 
ously. He glanced her all over in a quick eager fashion, 
even to the dainty feet that still seemed to take dancing 
steps on the gravel walk. 
" No, I do not believe I ever suffered from it. I think it 
would be extremely ungrateful in me. What a pretty 
pony ! Do you ride much ? " 
" Now and then of a morning. Fred and I have been 
taking constitutionals," with a laugh. u What a queer, 
old-fashioned chap he is ! O Miss Kathie, if you would 
go out some time ! Wouldn't you trust her to go with me, 
Mr. Conover ? " 
" Oh, he trusts me to ride alone," cried Kathie, with 
innocent grace ;  but I like better to have company." 
" Will you go to-morrow, then? The girls nearly 
always drive in the afternoon." 
" I could " And she glanced at Uncle Robert. 
" Of course," he said, consenting rather against his will. 
" You must take good care of h'er." 
Eugene promised in a delighted tone, and presently 
rode slowly away. 
Was it best to utter some little word of warning ? What 
could he say to his darling, with her fresh, pure heart, that 
would not somehow shadow it ? 
CHAPTER VIII. 
KATHIE declared she meant to begin living in real earnest, 
and practised her music for an hour, then read with Uncle 
Robert. 
" But it seems all for myself," she said. " Ought it not 
be something wider and better? Why, I used to be such 
a busy little girl ! " 
" I think you will find your hands full presently." 
Indeed, just after luncheon, Mrs. Alston asked her to 
attend to some kindly errand for her, and when she re- 
turned Fay and Louise Collamore had come ; so the girls 
had a chatty and delightful time, talking over all the hap- 
piness. They were very glad to get Kathie back again, 
and before their visit had ended, Georgie Halford came to 
insist that she should join the archery club. 
No, the days were not likely to hang heavily on her 
hands. Eugene Collamore began to haunt her like a 
shadow. Their cousins came from the city for a fortnight, 
and there were teas, and discussions on needle- work and 
painting and music. 
" If one could only tell just how much of one's life ought 
to be given to these pleasures," Kathie said to her mother. 
" It is so lovely to be flitting from one thing to another 
like a butterfly, enjoying all, and tiring of none. Do I 
waste my time, mamma?" 
"My dear, there is a season of enjoyment as well as 
study and work. I think your mission just now is to make 
us all happy ; and you do that." 
" Thank you," with a fond kiss. 
Then the invitations for Lucy Gardiner's marriage were 
sent out. It was to be in church. Harrj- Cox had a very 
nice position in one of the mills, and they were to have 
their house furnished and ready for living when they came 
back from their wedding journey. Kathie went over it 
with Lucy, and pleased the young girl by her ready admi- 
ration. It was neat and pretty, some of the furnishing 
Lucy's own handiwork. 
" Kathie," she said, when they had inspected everything, 
"it is so nice not to have you proud and over-critical. 
You have seen so many beautiful and costly articles, and 
you can have almost anything yourself; and if you were 
going to be married there would be such a time." 
" How odd to think of my being married ! " And Kathie 
gave a wondering, incredulous smile. " I don't know 
after all, it is such a sacred, solemn kind of step, that it 
seems as if one ought to be grave and serious, and not 
think only of handsome attire or rich gifts." 
"Well, you will have them all yourself, no doubt; but 
it is lovely in you to praise mine. You see Harry and I 
are not not " and Lucy flushed. " What I mean is, that 
we shall never be rich or grand, but we can be just as 
happy. And you will have plenty of other friends ; but 
you won't let them crowd me quite out. We used to have 
such a good time at school, playing and studying ; and you 
were so kind to us all when you first had your pretty pony 
carriage ; and what lovely, lovely times we had at Cedar- 
wood playing croquet and rowing on the lake. But so many 
new people have come in, girls that I shall never know 
enough about to feel at home with, even if they cared for 
me, and, Kathie, don't }~ou think it best to be happy in 
one's own way? I really don't care for things that I can't 
enjoy, well, like Italian songs, for instance. I would so 
much rather listen to a pretty English ballad. And I don't 
know much about pictures or wonderful poems ; I am quite 
sure I couldn't understand them : so I think it is best to 
keep to things I do understand." 
" O Lucy, it is so much wiser and more sensible ! " And 
it seemed as if all of Kathie's old regard for her friend 
came back. "I do think people often make themselves 
miserable in striving to be something they do not really 
enjoy. I am glad you are b)ave enough not to attempt 
it." 
" Harry and I mean to be real happy in a plain way, and 
you must drop in and see us, and come to tea ; for I 
think you will never quite forget the old times." 
" Indeed I shall not," said Kathie warmly. 
She talked the call over with her mother afterward. 
" Lucy certainly has the right view of common-sense en- 
joyment," Mrs. Alston made answer. ' ' I think many of 
the young girls of to-day do make themselves useless and 
miserable by attempting the things they cannot achieve ; 
for the one grand life there are so many plain, every-day 
ones, that require household virtures instead of accomplish- 
ments. If one brings out his best, that is the true aim, 
and an excellence much to be preferred to any second-rate 
work." 
So Lucy's marriage passed off very nicely, and the young 
couple came home bright and happy and began their new 
life with as much satisfaction, perhaps more, than many in 
a broader sphere. 
It seemed to Kathie that she lived almost entirely in the 
lives of her friends. Perhaps it was the result of the les- 
sons she had learned in childhood, the continual outgiv- 
ing of herself and the best she had. Her interests were 
widespread. Every one claimed her. Fay Coliamore and 
Georgie Hnlford, dissimilar as they were, insisted upon her 
bringing to each a fond and warm sympathy. 
Then Sarah Strong came clown for a Saturday. Some let- 
ters had passed between them while Kathie was in Wash- 
ington ; but Sarah evinced a high delicacy in regard to 
Kathie. She was confidential in many things, and yet 
never dependent. Her trenchant sentences often brought 
to Kathie a kind of breezy freshness, as of clear mountain 
air. They never tired or depressed. 
She wondered a little if the romance had gone on to 
fruition. Sarah seldom made any allusion to Mr. Trues- 
dell, and then in the most ordinary way. 
She was fresh and bright this morning as she greeted 
Kathie. Her clear eyes had a curiously limpid look, and 
a little something about her was changed. Kathie guessed, 
but held her peace. 
"We are to have a nice, long day to ourselves," the 
young hostess said, as she led her up-stairs. " I have an- 
nounced on the right hand and on the left that I am 
engaged." 
" How good you are to give up all other plans and 
friends for me ! " And Sarah turned toward her with an 
appreciative smile. 
" There isn't much virtue in it when you are really in- 
terested yourself," answered Kathie. 
" Sometimes it quite puzzles me" and a dreamy look 
filled Sarah's eyes "how it is that you can care, that 
others care." And a softened inflection marked the words. 
" If I could give you back a tithe of the pleasure you have 
given me." 
" You have given me back an interest. One does tire 
of pure pleasures sometimes. I did last winter. I was 
really glad to get away from the gayeties, the round that 
never leads anywhere. And yet I enjoyed it. I realty 
am afraid sometimes of growing quite frivolous ; but it 
hasn't taken awaj" my appetite for solid food. When it 
does I shall have to turn over a new leaf." 
She looked so bright and enchanting that she seemed to 
Sarah, as she had more than once before, a denizen of a 
different world. Something beside wealth and culture had 
given her this. What was it? The glad heartsomeness 
that she put into everything, the truth that seemed better 
for being uttered in such a winsome voice. 
"I should like to go to Washington just once," Sarah 
began slowly. " Not for balls or parties, but to see the 
capital of the nation, and the men who make and obey 
her laws, the foreign ministers who come to us from other 
great countries. Did you ever think that seems our widest 
and greatest life? Then comes the State centre, then the 
family, and it reaches out to every one ; we all have a part 
in it, and it belongs to us just as truly as our own lives. I 
don't understand how people can become indifferent ; and yet 
nations do, and let themselves drop into decay. Individ- 
uals do, as well. Little towns and hamlets seem to go to 
sleep, and the slumber is dangerous. It is the old story of 
the enchanted lands, and the lotus-eaters crying, ' Let 
us alone.' " 
"I think you could rouse some of them, the near-by 
ones," said Kathie. " You make me feel as if I had been 
lazy and careless " 
" No one will accuse you" ; and Sarah colored a little. 
" I think you have roused a great many, and what is bet- 
ter, you reach out your hand to lead them over rough 
places. So many of them are like me, wandering about 
unguided, and needing to be put in the right way. But oh, 
there are so many things to see and to hear that I must 
not keep the floor, and dream aloud ! " 
Kathie thought how Bruce would enjoy a stirring talk 
with Sarah. He seemed always to be the one she wanted 
to share such things with. 
" And now," the visitor said, quietly, " I want to see the 
pictures and go on the journey with you. We did not 
finish last time, you remember, and that is six months 
ago." 
" Then we shall have to go to the library." And Kathie 
led the way. 
Uncle Robert had arranged the photopraphs and engrav- 
ings in portfolios, and the girls could sit at their ease 
and turn them over as they stood on the low easel. The 
library had taken on a deeper tone. It seemed to Kathie 
that everything had changed with her growth and develop- 
ment. 
Their first journey with the pictures had been in Paris 
and Rome. They went through Kathie's Russian expe- 
rience now, until luncheon was announced. Afterward 
they took up Scotland ; and here Kathie was vivid and en- 
thusiastic. 
The day grew warmer and lovelier. 
" We ought to go out and enjoy it," Kathie said, pres- 
ently. " Let us save the others for the next visit, then 
you will be sure to come again." 
" I shall want to come again, often : it is like a bit of 
fairy-land here ; but I would like a walk down around the 
lake. Do you ever go out rowing now? " 
" Not so much," returned Kathie. " You see the boys 
are grown up and busy or away, and there seem new pleas- 
ures. It is archery and lawn-tennis now ; and I have a friend 
who is fond of painting, so we go out together sketch- 
ing and studying up nature. Now and then Uncle Robert 
takes a row for exercise. How bright and happy it was ! " 
They turned into a half-shady path. The sunshine glim- 
mered through the young leaves and sifted golden grains 
