defending idealism against so knowing an apostle of corrup 
tion as Gloriani, and he wished to help the elder artist to 
be confuted. He silently handed him the photograph. 

" Bless me !" cried Gloriani, "did he do this?" 

"Ages ago," said Roderick. 

Gloriani looked at the photograph a long time, with 
evident admiration. 

"It 's deucedly pretty," he said at last. "But, my 
dear young friend, you can't keep this up." 

" I shall do better," said Roderick. 

"You will do worse ! You will become weak. You 
will have to take to violence, to contortions, to roman 
ticism, in self-defence. This sort of thing is like a man 
trying to lift himself up by the seat of his trousers. He 
may stand on tiptoe, but he can't do more. Here you 
stand on tiptoe, very gracefully, I admit ; but you can't 
fly ; there 's no use trying." 

"My America shall answer you !" said Roderick, 
shaking towards him a tall glass of champagne and 
drinking it down. 

Singleton had taken the photograph, and was poring 
over it with a little murmur of delight. 

" Was this done in America?" he asked. 

"In a square white wooden house at Northampton, 
Massachusetts," Roderick answered. 



 

"Dear old white wooden houses!" said Miss Blan- 
chard. 

" If you could do as well as this there," said Singleton, 
blushing and smiling, "one might say that really you 
had only to lose by coming to Rome." 

"Our host is to blame for that," said Roderick. 
" But I am willing to risk the loss." 

The photograph had been passed to Madame Grandoni. 
" It reminds me," she said, " of the things a young man 
used to do whom I knew years ago, when I first came 
to Rome. He was a German, a pupil of Overbeck, 
and a votary of spiritual art. He used to wear a black 
velvet tunic and a very low shirt collar ; he had a neck 
like a sickly crane, and he let his hair grow down to his 
shoulders. His name was Herr Schaafgans. He never 
painted anything so profane as a man taking a drink, for 
none of his people had anything so vulgar as an appetite. 
They were all angles and edges they looked like dia 
grams of human nature. They were figures if you please 
but geometrical figures. He would not have agreed 
with Gloriani any more than you. He used to come 
and see me very often, and in those days I thought his 
tunic and his long neck infallible symptoms of genius. 
His talk was all of gilded aureoles and beatific visions ; 
he lived on weak wine and biscuits, and wore a lock of 
Saint Somebody 's hair in a little bag round his neck. 
If he was not a Beato Angel ico it was not his own fault. 
I hope with all my heart that Mr. Hudson will do the 
fine things he talks about, but he must bear in mind the 
history of dear Mr. Schaafgans as a warning against high- 
flown pretensions. One fine day this poor young man 
fell in love with a Roman model, though she had never 
sat to him, I believe, for she was a buxom, bold-faced, 
high-coloured creature, and he painted none but pale and 
sickly women. He offered to marry her, and she looked 
at him from head to foot, gave a shrug, and consented. 
But he was ashamed to set up his menage in Rome. 



 

They went to Naples, and there, a couple of years after 
wards, I saw him. The poor fellow was ruined. His 
wife used to beat him, and he had taken to drinking. 
He wore a ragged black coat, and he had a blotchy red 
face. Madame had turned washerwoman, and used to 
make him go and fetch the dirty linen. His talent had 
gone heaven knows where ! He was getting his living 
by painting views of Vesuvius in eruption on the little 
boxes they sell at Sorrento." 

" Moral : don't fall in love with a buxom Roman 
model," said Roderick. " I am much obliged to you 
for your story, but I don't medn to fall in love with any 
one." 

Gloriani had possessed himself of the photograph 
again, and was looking at it curiously. "It 's a happy 
bit of youth," he said. "But you can't keep it up 
you can't keep it up ! " 

The two sculptors pursued their discussion after dinner 
in the drawing-room. Rowland left them to have it out 
in a corner, where Roderick 's Eve stood over them in 
the shaded lamplight, in vague white beauty, like the 
guardian angel of the young idealist. Singleton was 
listening to Madame Grandoni, and Rowland took his 
place on the sofa near Miss Blanchard. They had a 
good deal of familiar desultory talk ; every now and 
then Madame Grandoni looked round at them. Miss 
Blanchard at last asked Rowland certain questions about 
Roderick who he was, where he came from, whether it 
was true, as she had heard, that Rowland had discovered 
him and brought him out at his own expense. Rowland 
answered her questions ; to the last he gave a vague 
affirmative. Finally, after a pause, looking at him, 
"You are very generous," Miss Blanchard said. The 
declaration was made with a certain richness of tone, 
but it brought to Rowland 's sense neither delight nor 
confusion. He had heard the words before ; he suddenly 
remembered the grave sincerity with which Mary Garland 



had uttered them as he strolled with her in the woods 
on the day of Roderick 's picnic. They had pleased him 
then ; now he asked Miss Blanchard whether she would 
have some tea. 

When the two ladies withdrew he went with them to 
their hackney coach. Coming back to the drawing-room, 
he paused outside the open door ; he was struck by the 
group formed by the three men. They were standing 
before Roderick 's statue of Eve, and the young sculptor 
had lifted up the lamp and was showing different parts 
of it to his companions. He was talking ardently the 
lamplight covered his head and face. Rowland stood 
looking on, for the group struck him with its picturesque 
symbolism. Roderick, bearing the lamp and glowing in 
its radiant circle, seemed the beautiful image of a genius 
which combined sincerity with power. Gloriani, with 
his head on one side, pulling his long moustache and 
looking keenly from half-closed eyes at the lighted marble, 
represented art with a worldly motive, skill unleavened 
by faith, the mere base maximum of cleverness. Poor 
little Singleton, on the other side, with his hands behind 
him, his head thrown back and his eyes following 
devoutly the course of Roderick 's explanations, might 
pass for an embodiment of aspiring candour afflicted with 
feebleness of wing. In all this, Roderick 's was certainly 
the beau rdle. 

Gloriani turned to Rowland as he came up, and pointed 
back with his thumb to the statue, with a smile half 
sardonic, half good-natured. " A pretty thing a devilish 
pretty thing," he said. " It 's as fresh as the foam in 
the milk-pail. He can do it once, he can do it twice, he 
can do it at a stretch half a dozen times. But but " 

He was returning to his former refrain, but Rowland 
intercepted him. "Oh, he will keep it up," he said, 
smiling, " I will answer for him !" 

Gloriani was not encouraging, but Roderick had 
listened smiling. He was floating on the tide of his deep 



 

self-confidence. Now, suddenly, however, he turned 
with a flash of irritation in his eye, and demanded in a 
ringing voice, " In a word, then, you prophesy that I 
shall fail ? " 

Gloriani answered imperturbably, patting him kindly 
on the shoulder. " My dear fellow, passion burns out, 
inspiration runs to seed. Some fine day every artist finds 
himself sitting face to face with his lump of clay, with his 
empty canvas, with his sheet of blank paper, waiting in 
vain for the revelation to be made, for the Muse to 
descend. He must learn to do without the Muse ! When 
the fickle jade forgets the way to your studio, don't waste 
any time in tearing your hair and meditating on suicide. 
Come round and see me, and I will show you how to 
console yourself." 

" If I break down," said Roderick passionately, "I 
shall stay down. If the Muse deserts me, she shall at 
least have her infidelity on her conscience !" 

"You have no business," Rowland said to Gloriani, 
"to talk lightly of the Muse in this company. Mr. 
Singleton too has received pledges from her which place 
her constancy beyond suspicion." And he pointed out 
on the wall, near by, two small landscapes by the modest 
water-colourist. 

The sculptor examined them with deference, and 
Singleton himself began to laugh nervously j he was 
trembling with hope that the great Gloriani would be 
pleased. "Yes, these are fresh too," Gloriani said; 
" extraordinarily fresh ! How old are you ?" 

"Twenty-six, sir," said Singleton. 

" For twenty-six they are famously fresh. They must 
have taken you a long time ; you work slowly." 

"Yes, unfortunately I work very slowly. One of 
them took me six weeks, the other two months." 

" Upon my word ! The Muse pays you long visits." 
And Gloriani turned and looked from head to foot at so 
unlikely an object of her favours. Singleton smiled and 



 

began to wipe his forehead very hard. " Oh, you," said 
the sculptor " you ll keep it up ! " 

A week after his dinner party Rowland went into 
Roderick 's studio and found him sitting before an un 
finished piece of work, with a hanging head and a heavy 
eye. He might have fancied that the fatal hour foretold 
by Gloriani had struck. Roderick rose with a sombre 
yawn and flung down his tools. " It 's no use," he said, 
" I give it up !" 

" What is it ?" 

"I have struck a shallow! I have been sailing 
bravely, but for the last day or two my keel has been 
grinding the bottom." 

"A difficult place?" Rowland asked, with a sympa 
thetic inflection, looking vaguely at the roughly-modelled 
figure. 

" Oh, it 's not the poor old clay !" Roderick answered. 
" The difficult place is here /" And he struck a blow on 
his heart. "I don't know what 's the matter with me. 
Nothing comes ; all of a sudden I hate things. My old 
things look ugly ; everything looks stupid. " 

Rowland was perplexed. He was in the situation of 
a man who has been riding a blood-horse at a steady 
elastic gallop, and of a sudden feels him stumble and 
balk. As yet, he reflected, he had seen nothing but the 
sunshine of genius ; he had forgotten that it has its storms. 
Of course it has ! And he felt a flood of comradeship 
rise in his heart which would float them both safely 
through the worst weather. " Why, you are tired !" he 
said. "Of course you are tired. You have a right 
to be." 

" Do you think I have a right to be ?" Roderick asked, 
looking at him. 

" Unquestionably, after all you have done." 

"Well, then, right or wrong, I am tired. I certainly 
have done a fair winter 's work. I want a change." 

Rowland declared that it was certainly high time they 



 

should be leaving Rome. They would go north and 
travel. They would go to Switzerland, to Germany, 
to Holland, to England. Roderick assented, his eye 
brightened, and Rowland talked of a dozen things they 
might do. Roderick walked up and down ; he seemed 
to have something to say which he hesitated to bring out. 
He hesitated so rarely that Rowland wondered, and at 
last asked" him what was on his mind. Roderick stopped 
before him, frowning a little. 

"I have such unbounded faith in your good-will," he 
said, " that I believe nothing I can say would offend you." 

" Try it !" said Rowland. 

"Well, then, I think my journey will do me more 
good if I take it alone. I needn't say I prefer your 
society to that of any man living. For the last six 
months it has been a fund of comfort. But I have a 
perpetual feeling that you are expecting something of 
me, that you are measuring my doings by a terrifically 
high standard. You are watching me ; I don't want to 
be watched ! I want to go my own way ; to work when 
I choose, and to loaf when I choose. It is not that I 
don't know what I owe you : it is not that we are not 
friends. It is simply that I want a taste of perfect free 
dom. Therefore I say let us separate." 

Rowland shook him by the hand. "Willingly do 
as you desire ! I shall miss you, and I venture to be 
lieve you will pass some lonely hours. But I have only 
one request to make that if you get into trouble of any 
kind whatever, you will immediately let me know." 

They began their journey, however, together, crossing 
the Alps side by side, muffled in one rug, on the top of 
the St. Gothard coach. Rowland was going to England 
to pay some promised visits ; his companion had no plan 
save to ramble through Switzerland and Germany as 
fancy should guide him. He had money that would out 
last the summer ; when it was spent he would come back 
to Rome and make another statue. At a little moun- 



 

tain village by the way Roderick declared that he would 
stop ; he would scramble about a little in the high places 
and doze in the shade of the pine forests. The coach 
was changing horses ; the two young men walked along 
the village street, picking their way between dunghills, 
breathing the light cool air, and listening to the plash of 
the fountain and the tinkle of cattle bells. The coach 
overtook them, and then Rowland, as he prepared to 
mount, felt an almost overmastering reluctance. 

" Say the word," he exclaimed, " and I will stop too !" 
Roderick frowned. "Ah, you don't trust me; you 
don't think I am able to take care of myself ! That 
proves that I was right in feeling as if I were watched !" 
"Watched, my dear fellow?" said Rowland, "I 
hope you may never have anything worse to complain of 
than being watched in the spirit in which I watch you. 
But I will spare you even that. Good-bye !" Standing 
in his place as the coach rolled away, he looked back at 
his friend lingering by the roadside. A great snow 
mountain behind Roderick was beginning to turn pink 
in the sunset. The slim and straight young figure waved 
its hat with a sort of mocking solemnity. Rowland 
settled himself in his place, reflecting, after all, that this 
was a salubrious beginning of independence. Roderick 
was among forests and glaciers, leaning on the pure 
bosom of nature. And then and then was it not in 
itself a guarantee against folly to be engaged to Mary 
Garland ? 



VII. 



ROWLAND passed the summer in England, staying with 
several old friends and two or three new ones. On his 
arrival he felt it on his conscience to write to Mrs. Hud 
son and inform her that her son had relieved him of his 


tutelage. He felt that she thought of him as an incor 
ruptible Mentor, following Roderick like a shadow, and 
he wished to let her know the truth. But he made the 
truth very comfortable, and gave a detailed account of 
the young man 's brilliant beginnings. He owed it to 
himself, he said, to remind her that he had not judged 
lightly, and that Roderick 's present achievements were 
more profitable than his inglorious drudgery at Messrs. 
Striker and Spooner s. He was now taking a well-earned 
holiday and proposing to see a little of the world. He 
would work none the worse for this ; every artist needed 
to knock about and look at things for himself. They 
had parted company for a couple of months, for Roderick 
was now a great man and beyond the need of going 
about with a keeper. But they were to meet again in 
Rome in the autumn, and then he should be able to send 
her more good news. Meanwhile he was very happy in 
what Roderick had already done especially happy in 
the happiness it must have brought his mother. He 
ventured to ask to be kindly commended to Miss Garland. 

His letter was promptly answered to his surprise in 
the hand of the latter lady. The same post brought also 
an epistle from Cecilia. The document was voluminous, 
and we must content ourselves with giving an extract. 

"Your letter was filled with an echo of that brilliant 
Roman world which made me almost ill with envy. For 
a week after I got it I thought Northampton really un- 
pardonably tame. But I am drifting back again to my 
old deeps of resignation, and I rush to the window, when 
any one passes, with all my old gratitude for small favours. 
So Roderick Hudson is already a great man, and you 
turn out to be a great prophet? My compliments to 
both of you ; I never saw a trick so prettily played ! 
And he takes it all very quietly, and doesn't lose his 
balance nor let it turn his head ? You judged him, then, 
in a day better than I had done in six months, for I 
really did not expect that he would behave so properly. 



vii.  

I believed he would do fine things, but I was sure he 
would intersperse them with a good many follies, and 
that his beautiful statues would spring up out of the 
midst of a dense plantation of wild oats. But from what 
you tell me, Mr. Striker may now go hang himself. . . . 
There is one thing, however, to say as a friend, in the way 
of warning. That candid soul can keep a secret, and 
he may have private designs on your peace of mind. 
What do you think of his being engaged to Mary Gar 
land ? The two ladies had given no hint of it all winter, 
but a fortnight ago, when those big photographs of his 
statues arrived, they first pinned them up on the wall, and 
then trotted out into the town and made a dozen calls, 
announcing the news. Mrs. Hudson did, at least ; Miss 
Mary, I suppose, sat at home writing letters. To me, I 
confess, the thing was a brutal surprise. I had not a 
suspicion that all the while he was coming so regularly 
to make himself agreeable on my verandah, he was 
quietly preferring his cousin to any one else. Not, in 
deed, that he was ever at particular pains to make him 
self agreeable ! I suppose he has picked up a few graces 
in Rome. But he must not pick up too many ; if he is 
too polite when he comes back, Miss G. will count him 
as one of the lost. She will be a very good wife for a 
man of genius, and such a one as they are often shrewd 
enough to take. She will darn his stockings and keep 
his accounts, and sit at home and trim the lamp and 
keep up the fire, while he studies the Beautiful in pretty 
neighbours at dinner-parties. The two ladies are evi 
dently very happy, and, to do them justice, very humbly 
grateful to you. Mrs. Hudson never speaks of you with 
out tears in her eyes, and I am sure she regards you as 
our leading philanthropist. Verily, it 's a good thing for 
a woman to be in love ; Mary Garland has grown almost 
pretty. I met her the other night at a tea-party ; she 
had a white rose in her hair, and sang a sentimental 
ballad in a fine contralto voice." 




Mary Garland 's letter was so much shorter that we 
may give it entire : 

"Mv DEAR SIR Mrs. Hudson, as I suppose you 
know, has been for some time unable to use her eyes. 
She requests me, therefore, to answer your beautiful letter 
of the 22d of June. She thanks you extremely for 
writing, and wishes me to say that she considers herself 
under great obligations to you. Your account of her 
son 's progress, and the high esteem in which he is held, 
has made her very happy, and she earnestly prays that 
all may go on well. He sent us a short time ago several 
large photographs of his two statues, taken from different 
points of view. We know little about such things, but 
they seem to us wonderfully beautiful. We sent them to 
Boston to be handsomely framed, and the man, on re 
turning them, wrote us that he had exhibited them for a 
week in his gallery, and that they had attracted great 
attention. The frames are magnificent, and the pictures 
now hang in a row on the parlour wall. Our only 
quarrel with them is that they make the old papering 
and the engravings look dreadfully shabby. Mr. Striker 
stood and looked at them the other day full five minutes, 
and said at last that if Roderick 's head had been running 
on such things it was no wonder he could not learn to 
draw up a deed. We lead here so quiet and monotonous 
a life that I am afraid I can tell you nothing that will 
interest you. Mrs. Hudson requests me to say that the 
little that might happen to us more or less is of small 
importance, as we live in our thoughts, which are fixed on 
her dear son. She thanks Heaven he has so good a 
friend. Mrs. Hudson says that this is too short a letter, 
but I can say nothing more. 

" Yours most respectfully  

" MARY GARLAND." 

It is a question whether the reader will know why, 



 

but this letter gave Rowland extraordinary pleasure. He 
liked its shortness and meagreness, and there seemed to 
him an exquisite modesty in its saying nothing from the 
young girl herself. He delighted in the formal address 
and conclusion ; they pleased him as he had been pleased 
by an angular gesture in some expressive girlish figure in 
an early painting. The letter renewed that impression 
of fine feeling combined with an almost rigid simplicity 
which Roderick 's betrothed had personally given him. 
And its homely stiffness seemed a vivid reflection of a 
life concentrated, as the young girl had borrowed warrant 
from her companion to say, in a single devoted idea. 
The monotonous days of the two women seemed 
to Rowland 's fancy to follow each other like the tick- 
tick of a great timepiece, marking off the hours which 
separated them from the supreme felicity of clasping the 
far-away son and lover to lips sealed with the intensity 
of joy. 

He was left to vain conjectures, however, as to Rode 
rick 's own state of mind. He knew he was no letter 
writer, and that, in the young sculptor 's own phrase, he 
would at any time rather build a monument than write a 
note. But when a month had passed without news of 
him, he began to be half anxious and half angry, and 
wrote him three lines, in the care of a Continental banker, 
begging him at least to give some sign of life. A week 
afterwards came an answer brief, and dated Baden- 
Baden. " I know I have been a great brute," Roderick 
wrote, " not to have sent you a word before ; but really 
I don't know what has got into me. I have lately learned 
terribly well how to do nothing. I am afraid to think 
how long it is since I wrote to my mother or to Mary. 
Heaven help them poor patient trustful creatures ! I 
don't know how to tell you what I am doing or not 
doing. It seems all amusing enough while it lasts, but it 
would make a poor show in a narrative intended for 
your formidable eyes. I found Baxter in Switzerland, or 



 

rather he found me, and he grabbed me by the arm and 
brought me here. I was walking twenty miles a day in 
the Alps, drinking milk in lonely chalets, sleeping as you 
sleep, and thinking it was all very good fun ; but Baxter 
told me it would never do, that the Alps were damned 
rot, that Baden-Baden was the place, and that if I knew 
what was good for me I would come along with him. 
It is a wonderful place certainly, though, thank the 
Lord, Baxter departed last week, blaspheming horribly 
at trente et quarante. But you know all about it, and 
what one does what one is liable to do. I have suc 
cumbed, in a measure, to the liabilities, and I wish I had 
some one here to give me a kicking. Not you you 
would kick me with your boots off; you are too devilish 
generous. I have fits of horrible homesickness for my 
studio, and I shall be devoutly grateful when the summer 
is over and I can go back and potter about there. I 
feel as if nothing but the chisel would satisfy me ; as if 
I could rush in a rage at a block of unshaped marble, 
like Michael A. There are a lot of Roman people here, 
English and American ; I live in the midst of them, and 
talk nonsense from morning till night. There is also 
some one else ; and to her I don't talk sense, nor, thank 
Heaven, mean what I say. I confess I need a month 's 
work to recover my self-respect." 

These lines brought Rowland a large perturbation ; 
the more that what they seemed to point to surprised 
him. During the nine months of their companionship 
Roderick had shown so little taste for disorderly doings 
that Rowland had come to think of these things as a 
cancelled danger, and it greatly perplexed him to learn 
that his friend had apparently proved so pliant to oppor 
tunity. But Roderick 's allusions were ambiguous, and 
it was possible they might simply mean that he was out 
of patience with a frivolous way of life, and fretting 
wholesomely over his absent work. It was a very good 
thing certainly that idleness should prove on experiment 



 

to sit heavily on his conscience. Nevertheless the letter 
needed to Rowland 's mind a key : the key arrived a 
week later. "In common charity," Roderick wrote, 
" lend me a hundred pounds ! I have gambled away 
my last franc I have made a villainous heap of debts. 
Send me the money first ; lecture me afterwards ! " 
Rowland sent the money by return of post ; then he pro 
ceeded, not to lecture, but to think. He hung his head 
he was acutely disappointed. He had no right to be, 
he assured himself ; but so it was. Roderick was young, 
impulsive, unpractised in stoicism ; it was a hundred to 
one that he was to pay the usual vulgar tribute to folly. 
But his friend had regarded it as securely gained to his l 
own belief in virtue that he was not as other foolish 
youths are, and that he would have been capable of 
looking at folly in the face and passing on his way. 
Rowland for a while felt a sore sense of wrath. What 
right had a man who was engaged to that delightful girl 
in Northampton to behave as if his consciousness were 
a common blank, to be overlaid with coarse sensations ? 
Yes, distinctly, he was disappointed. He had accom 
panied his missive with an urgent recommendation to 
leave Baden-Baden immediately, and an offer to meet 
Roderick at any point he would name. The answer 
came promptly ; it ran as follows: "Send me another 
fifty pounds ! I have been back to the tables. I will 
leave as soon as the money comes, and meet you at 
Geneva. There I will tell you everything." 

There is an ancient terrace at Geneva, planted with 
trees and studded with benches, overlooked by stately 
houses and overlooking the distant Alps. A great many 
generations have made it a lounging-place, a great many 
friends and lovers strolled there, a great many confi 
dential talks and momentous interviews gone forward. 
Here, one morning, sitting on one of the battered green 
benches, Roderick, as he had promised, told his friend 
everything. He had arrived late the night before ; he 


looked tired, and yet flushed and excited. He made no 
professions of penitence, but he practised an unmitigated 
frankness, and his remorse might be taken for granted. 
He implied in every phrase that he had done with 
licentious experiments, and that he was counting the 
hours till he should get back to work. We shall not 
rehearse his confession in detail ; its main outline will 
be sufficient. He had fallen in with some very idle 
people, and had discovered the charms of emulation. 
What could he do ? He never read books, and he had 
no studio ; in one way or another he had to pass the 
time. He passed it in dangling about several very pretty 
women, and reflecting that it was always something 
gained for a sculptor to sit under a tree looking at his 
leisure into a charming face, and saying things that made 
it smile and play its muscles and part its lips and show 
its teeth. Attached to these ladies were certain gentle 
men who walked about in clouds of fragrance, rose at 
midday, and supped at midnight. Roderick had found 
himself in the mood for thinking them very amusing 
fellows. He was surprised at his own taste, but he let 
it take its course. It led him to the discovery that to 
live with ladies who expect you to present them with 
expensive bouquets, to ride with them in the Black 
Forest on well-looking horses, to arrange parties for the 
opera on nights when Patti sang and the prices were 
consequent, to propose light suppers at the Kursaal or 
drives by moonlight to the Castle, to be always arrayed 
and anointed, trinketed and gloved that to move in 
such society, we say, though it might be a privilege, was 
a privilege with a penalty attached. But the tables 
made such things easy ; half the Baden world lived by the 
tables. Roderick tried them, and found them at first a 
wonderful help. The help, however, was only momentary, 
for he soon perceived that to seem to have money, and to 
have it in fact, exposed a good-looking young man to 
peculiar liabilities. At this point of his friend 's narrative 



 

Rowland was reminded of Madame de Cruchecassee in 
Thackeray 's novel, and though he had listened in tranquil 
silence to the rest of it, he found it hard not to say that 
all this had been under the circumstances a very bad 
business. Roderick admitted it with bitterness, and 
then told how much measured simply financially it 
had cost him. His luck had changed ; the tables had 
ceased to back him, and he had found himself up to his 
knees in debt. Eveiy penny had gone of the solid sum 
which had seemed a large equivalent of those shining 
statues in Rome. He had been an ass, but it was not 
irreparable ; he could make another statue in a couple 
of months. 

Rowland frowned. "For Heaven 's sake," he said, 
" don't play such dangerous games with your facility. 
If you have got facility, revere it, respect it, adore it, 
hoard it don't speculate on it." And he wondered 
what his companion, up to his knees in debt, would have 
done if there had been no good-natured Rowland Mallet 
to lend a helping hand. But he did not express his 
curiosity audibly, and the contingency seemed not to 
have presented itself to Roderick 's imagination. The 
young sculptor reverted to his late adventures again in 
the evening, and this time talked of them more objectively, 
as the phrase is ; more as if they had been the adventures 
of another person. He related half a dozen droll things 
that had happened to him, and, as if his responsibility 
had been disengaged by all this free discussion, he 
laughed extravagantly at the memory of them. Rowland 
sat perfectly grave, on principle. Then Roderick began 
to talk of half a dozen statues that he had in his head, 
and set forth his ideas with his usual vividness. Sud 
denly, as it was relevant, he declared that his Baden 
doings had not been altogether fruitless, for the lady 
who had reminded Rowland of Madame de Cruchecassee 
was tremendously statuesque. Rowland at last said that 
such experiments might pass if one felt one was really 



the wiser for them. "By the wiser," he added, "I 
mean the stronger in purpose, in will." 

"Oh, don't talk about will!" Roderick answered, 
throwing back his head and looking at the stars. This 
conversation also took place in the open air, on the little 
island in the shooting Rhone, where Jean-Jacques has a 
monument. "The will, I believe, is the mystery of 
mysteries. Who can answer for his will ? who can say 
beforehand that it 's strong ? There are all kinds of in 
definable currents moving to and fro between one 's will 
and one 's inclinations. People talk as if the two things 
were essentially distinct ; on different sides of one 's 
organism, like the heart and the liver. Mine, I know, 
are much nearer together. It all depends upon circum 
stances. I believe there is a certain group of circum 
stances possible for every man, in which his will is 
destined to snap like a diy twig." 

" My dear boy," said Rowland, " don't talk about the 
will being destined. The will is destiny itself. That 's 
the way to look at it." 

" Look at it, my dear Rowland," Roderick answered, 
" as you find most comfortable. One conviction I have 
gathered from my summer 's experience," he went on 
"it 's as well to look it frankly in the face is that I 
possess an almost unlimited susceptibility to the influence 
of a beautiful woman." 

Rowland stared, then strolled away, softly whistling to 
himself. He was unwilling to admit even to himself that 
this speech had really the ominous meaning it seemed to 
have. In a few days the two young men made their way 
back to Italy, and lingered a while in Florence before 
going on to Rome. In Florence Roderick seemed to 
have won back his old innocence and his preference for 
the pleasures of study. Rowland began to think of the 
Baden episode as a bad dream, or at the worst as a mere 
sporadic escapade, without roots in his companion 's char 
acter. They passed a fortnight looking at pictures and 



 

exploring for out-of-the-way fragments of fresco and carv 
ing, and Roderick recovered all his earlier energy of 
appreciation and criticism. In Rome he went eagerly to 
work again, and finished in a month two or three small 
things he had left standing on his departure. He talked, 
the most joyous nonsense about finding himself back in 
his old quarters. On the first Sunday afternoon following 
their return, on their going together to Saint Peter s, he 
delivered himself of a lyrical greeting to the great church 
and to the city in general, in a tone of voice so irrepres- 
sibly elevated that it rang through the nave in an almost 
scandalous fashion, and arrested a procession of canons 
who were marching across to the choir. He began to 
model a new statue a female figure of which he had said 
nothing to Rowland. It represented a woman leaning 
lazily back in her chair, with her head drooping as if she 
were listening, a vague smile on her lips, and a pair of 
remarkably beautiful arms folded in her lap. With rather 
less softness of contour it would have resembled the noble 
statue of Agrippina in the Capitol. Rowland looked at 
it, and was not sure he liked it. Who is it ? what does 
it mean ?" he asked. 

" Anything you please !" said Roderick, with a certain 
petulance. "I call it A Lady Listening. " 

Rowland then remembered that one of the Baden 
listeners had been " statuesque," and asked no more ques 
tions. This, after all, was a way of profiting by experience. 
A few days later he took his first ride of the season on the 
Campagna, and as on his homeward way he was passing 
across the long shadow of a ruined tower, he perceived a 
small figure at a short distance bent over a sketch-book. 
As he drew near he recognised his friend Singleton. The 
honest little painter 's face was scorched to flame-colour 
by the light of southern suns, and borrowed an even 
deeper crimson from his gleeful greeting of his most 
appreciative patron. He was making a careful and 
charming little sketch. On Rowland 's asking him how 



he had spent his summer he gave an account of his wan 
derings which made our poor friend sigh with a sense of 
more contrasts than one. He had not been out of Italy, 
but he had been delving deep into the picturesque heart 
of the lovely land, and gathering a wonderful store of sub 
jects. He had rambled about among the unvisited vil 
lages of the Apennines, pencil in hand and knapsack on 
back, sleeping on straw and eating black bread and beans, 
but feasting on local colour, rioting on chiaroscuro, and 
laying up a treasure of reminiscences. He took a devout 
satisfaction in his hard-earned knowledge and his happy 
frugality. Rowland went the next day by appointment 
to look at his sketches, and spent a whole morning turn 
ing them over. Singleton talked more than he had ever 
done before, explained them all, and told some comical 
anecdote about the production of each. 

" Dear me, how I have chattered ! " he said at last. 
" I am afraid you would rather have looked at the things 
in peace and quiet. I didn't know I could talk so much. 
But somehow I feel very happy ; I feel as if I had im 
proved." 

" That you have," said Rowland. " I doubt whether 
an artist ever got more out of three months. You must 
feel much more sure of yourself." 

Singleton looked for a long time with great intentness 
at a knot in the floor. "Yes," he said at last in a fluttered 
tone, "I feel much more sure of myself. I have got more 
facility !" And he lowered his voice as if he were com 
municating a secret which it took some courage to impart. 
" I hardly like to say it, for fear I should, after all, be mis 
taken. But since it strikes you, perhaps it 's true. It 's 
a great happiness ; I would not exchange it for a great 
deal of money." 

" Yes, I suppose it 's a great happiness," said Rowland. 
" I shall really think of you as living here in a state of 
scandalous bliss. I don't believe it 's good for an artist 
to be in such brutally high spirits." 



 

Singleton stared for a moment, as if he thought Row 
land was in earnest ; then suddenly fathoming the kindly 
jest, he walked about the room agitating his head and 
laughing intensely to himself. "And Mr. Hudson?" he 
said, as Rowland was going j "I hope he is well and 
happy." 

"He is very well," said Rowland. "He is back at 
work again." 

" Ah, there 's a man," cried Singleton, "who has taken 
his start once for all and doesn't need to stop and ask 
himself in fear and trembling every month or two whether 
he is going on. When he stops it 's to rest ! And where 
did he spend his summer ?" 

" The greater part of it at Baden-Baden." 

"Ah, that 's in the Black Forest," cried Singleton, 
with profound simplicity. "They say you can make 
capital studies of trees there. " 

" No doubt," said Rowland, with a smile, laying an 
almost paternal hand on the little artist 's stooping 
shoulder. " Unhappily, trees are not Roderick 's line. 
Nevertheless he tells me that at Baden he made some 
studies. Come when you can, by the way," he added 
after a moment, "to his studio, and tell me what you 
think of something he has lately begun." Singleton 
declared that he would come delightedly, and Rowland 
left him at his work. 

He met a number of his last winter 's friends, and found 
that Madame Grandoni, Miss Blanchard, and Gloriani had 
again taken up the golden thread of Roman life. The 
ladies gave an excellent account of themselves. Madame 
Grandoni had been taking sea-baths at Rimini, and Miss 
Blanchard painting wild flowers in the Tyrol. Her com 
plexion was somewhat browned, which was very becom- \ 
ing, and her flowers were uncommonly pretty. Gloriani 
had been in Paris, and had come away in high good- 
humour, finding no one there in the artist-world cleverer / 
than himself. He came in a few days to Roderick 's / 



i io  vii. 

studio, one afternoon when Rowland was present. He 
examined the new statue with great deference, said it 
was very promising, and abstained considerately from 
irritating prophecies. But Rowland fancied he observed 
certain signs of inward jubilation on the clever sculptor 's 
part, and walked away with him to learn his private 
opinion. 

"Certainly; I liked it as well as I said," Gloriani 
declared in answer to Rowland 's anxious query; "or 
rather I liked it a great deal better. I didn't say how 
much, for fear of making your friend angry. But one 
can leave him alone now, for he 's coming round. I told 
you he couldn't keep up the transcendental style, and he 
has already broken down. Don't you see it yourself, 
man ?" 

" I don't particularly like this new statue," said Row 
land. 

"That 's because you are a purist. It 's deuced clever, 
it 's deuced knowing, it 's deuced pretty, but it isn't the 
topping high art of three months ago. He has taken 
his turn sooner than I supposed. What has happened 
to him ? Has he been disappointed in love ? But that 's 
none of my business. I congratulate him on having 
become a practical man. " 

Roderick, however, was less to be congratulated than 
Gloriani had taken it into his head to believe. He was 
discontented with his work, he applied himself to it by 
fits and starts, he declared that he didn't know what 
was coming over him ; he was turning into a man of 
moods. * Is this of necessity what a fellow must come 
to?" he asked of Rowland, with a sort of peremptory 
flash in his eye, which seemed to imply that his com 
panion had undertaken to insure him against perplexities 
and was not fulfilling his contract "this damnable 
uncertainty when one goes to bed at night as to whether 
one is going to wake up in an ecstasy or in a tantrum ? 
Have we only a season, over before we know it, in which 



vii.  in 

we can call our faculties our own? Six months ago I 
could stand up to my work like a man, day after day, 
and never dream of asking myself how I felt. But now, 
some mornings, it 's the very devil to get going. My 
statue looks so bad when I come into the studio that I 
have twenty minds to smash it on the spot, and I lose 
three or four hours in sitting there moping and getting 
used to it." 

Rowland said that he supposed that this sort of thing 
was the lot of every artist, and that the only remedy was 
plenty of courage and faith. And he reminded him of 
Gloriani 's having forewarned him against these sterile 
moods the year before. 

" Gloriani 's an ass!" said Roderick, almost fiercely. 
He hired a horse, and began to ride with Rowland on 
the Campagna. This delightful amusement restored him 
in a measure to cheerfulness, but it seemed to Rowland, 
on the whole, not to stimulate his industry. Their rides 
were always very long, and Roderick insisted on making 
them longer by dismounting in picturesque spots and 
stretching himself in the sun among a heap of over- 
tangled stones. He let the scorching Roman luminary 
beat down upon him with a bravery which Rowland 
found it hard to emulate. But in this situation Roderick 
talked so much amusing nonsense that, for the sake of 
his company, Rowland consented to be uncomfortable, 
and often forgot that, though in these diversions the 
days passed quickly, they brought forth neither high art 
nor low. And yet it was perhaps by their help, after all, 
that Roderick secured several mornings of ardent work 
on his new figure and brought it to rapid completion. 
One afternoon when it was finished Rowland went to 
look at it, and Roderick asked him for his opinion. 

"What do you think yourself?" Rowland demanded 
not from pusillanimity but from real uncertainty. 

"I think it is curiously bad," Roderick answered. 
"It was bad from the first; it has fundamental vices. 



I have shuffled them out of sight in a sort of way, but I 
have not corrected them. I can't I can't I can't !" 
he cried passionately. "They stare me in the face 
they are all I see !" 

Rowland offered several criticisms of detail, and sug 
gested certain practicable changes. But Roderick differed 
with him on each of these points ; the thing had faults 
enough, but they were not those faults. Rowland, un 
ruffled, concluded by saying that whatever its faults might 
be, he had an idea people in general would like it. 

"I wish to heaven some person in particular would 
buy it, and take it off my hands and out of my sight !" 
Roderick cried. "What am I to do now?" he went 
on. " I haven't an idea. I think of subjects, but they 
remain mere lifeless names. They are mere words they 
are not images. What am I to do?" 

Rowland was a trifle annoyed. " Be a man," he was 
on the point of saying, "and don t, for Heaven 's sake, 
talk in that confoundedly querulous voice ! " But before 
he had uttered the words there rang through the studio 
a loud peremptory ring at the outer door. 

