he hurried away, saying he was afraid of taking some 
ill if he remained here where it is so damp. I will 
tell him how much you appreciated him." 
"Curious is it," remarked the count. "I heard 
him not going off." 
" He stood in the doorway of the sacristy, by the 
high altar, Signor Conte." 
 
"In that case is it different." 
"I am sorry," said Nino. "The signorina was so 
unkind as to say, lately, that we Italians have no 
sense of the beautiful, the mysterious " 
"I take it back," said Hedwig gravely, still stand 
ing in the moonlight. "Your cousin has a very 
great power over the beautiful." 
"And the mysterious," added the baroness, who 
had not spoken, " for his departure without showing 
himself has left me the impression of a sweet dream. 
Give me your arm, Professore Cardegna. I will not 
stay here any longer, now that the dream is over." 
Nino sprang to her side politely, though to tell 
the truth she did not attract him at first sight. He 
freed one arm from the old cloak, and reflected that 
she could not tell in the dark how very shabby it 
was. 
"You give lessons to the Signorina di Lira?" she 
asked, leading him quickly away from the party. 
"Yes in Italian literature, signora." 
" Ah she tells me great things of you. Could 
you not spare me an hour or two in the week, professore?" 
Here was a new complication. Nino had certainly 
not contemplated setting up for an Italian teacher to 
all the world, when he undertook to give lessons to 
Hedwig. 
"Signora" he began, in a protesting voice. 
"You will do it to oblige me, I am sure," she said 
eagerly, and her slight hand just pressed upon his 
arm a little. 
Nino had found time to reflect that this lady was 
 
intimate with Hedwig, and that he might possibly 
gain an opportunity of seeing the girl he loved if 
he accepted the offer. 
"Whenever it pleases you, signora," he said at 
length. 
" Can you come to me to-morrow at eleven ? " she 
asked. 
"At twelve, if you please, signora, or half past. 
Eleven is the contessina's hour to-morrow." 
"At half past twelve, then, to-morrow," said she, 
and she gave him her address, as they went out into 
the street. "Stop," she added, "where do you live?" 
"Number twenty-seven, Santa Catarina dei Funari," he answered, wondering why she asked. The 
rest of the party came out, and Nino bowed to the 
ground, as he bid the contessina good-night. 
He was glad to be free of that pressure on his arm, 
and he was glad to be alone, to wander through the 
streets under the moonlight and to think over what 
he had done. 
" There is no risk of my being discovered," he said 
to himself, confidently. " The story of the near relation was well imagined, and, besides, it is true. Am 
I not my own nearest relation ? I certainly have no 
others that I know of. And this baroness what 
can she want of me? She speaks Italian like a 
Spanish cow, and indeed she needs a professor badly 
enough. But why should she take a fancy for me 
as a teacher? Ah! those eyes! Not the baroness's. 
Edvigia Edvigia di Lira Edvigia Ca Cardegna! Why not?" He stopped to think, and 
looked long at the moonbeams playing on the waters 
 
of the fountain. " Why not ? But the baroness 
may the diavolo fly away with her! What should I 
do I indeed ! with a pack of baronesses ? I will go 
to bed and dream not of a baroness! Macche
never a baroness in my dreams, with eyes like a stake 
and who cannot speak three words properly in the 
only language under the sun worth speaking! Not 
I I will dream of Edvigia di Lira she is the 
spirit of my dreams. Spirto gentil " and away he 
went, humming the air from the Favorita in the top 
of his head, as is his wont. 
The next day the contessina could talk of nothing 
during her lesson but the unknown singer who had 
made the night so beautiful for her, and Nino flushed 
red under his dark skin and ran his fingers wildly 
through his curly hair, with pleasure. But he set 
his square jaw, which means so much, and explained 
to his pupil how hard it would be for her to hear him 
again. For his friend, he said, was soon to make 
his appearance on the stage, and of course he could 
not be heard singing before that. And as the young 
lady insisted, Nino grew silent, and remarked that 
the lesson was not progressing. Thereupon Hedwig 
blushed the first time he had ever seen her blush 
and did not approach the subject again. 
After that he went to the house of the baroness, 
where he was evidently expected, for the servant 
asked his name and immediately ushered him into 
her presence. She was one of those lithe, dark 
women of good race, that are to be met with all over 
the world, and she has broken many hearts. But 
she was not like a snake at all, as Nino had thought 
 
at first. She was simply a very fine lady who did 
exactly what she pleased ; and if she did not always 
act rightly, yet I think she rarely acted unkindly. 
After all, the buon Dio has not made us all paragons 
of domestic virtue. Men break their hearts for so 
very little, and, unless they are ruined, they melt 
the pieces at the next flame and join them together 
again like bits of sealing wax. 
The baroness sat before a piano in a boudoir, 
where there was not very much light. Every part 
of the room was crowded with fans, ferns, palms, 
Oriental carpets and cushions, books, porcelain, 
majolica, and pictures. You could hardly move 
without touching some ornament, and the heavy 
curtains softened the sunshine, and a small open fire 
of wood helped the warmth. There was also an odour 
of Turkish tobacco. The baroness smiled and turned 
on the piano seat. 
"Ah, professore! You come just in time," said 
she. "I am trying to sing such a pretty song to 
myself, and I cannot pronounce the words. Come 
and teach me." Nino contrasted the whole air of 
this luxurious retreat with the prim, soldierly order 
that reigned in the count's establishment. 
" Indeed, signora, I come to teach you whatever I 
can. Here I am. I cannot sing, but I will stand 
beside you and prompt with the words." 
Nino is not a shy boy at all, and he assumed the 
duties required of him immediately. He stood by 
her side, and she just nodded and began to sing a 
little song which stood on the desk of the piano. 
She did not sing out of tune, but she made wrong 
notes and pronounced horribly. 
 
"Pronounce the words for me," she repeated every 
now and then. 
"But pronouncing in singing is different from 
speaking," he objected at last, and fairly forgetting 
himself, and losing patience, he began softly to sing 
the words over. Little by little, as the song pleased 
him, he lost all memory of where he was, and stood 
beside her singing just as he would have done to De 
Pretis, from the sheet, with all the accuracy and 
skill that were in him. At the end, he suddenly 
remembered how foolish he was. But, after all, he 
had not sung to the power of his voice, and she might 
not recognise in him the singer of last night. The 
baroness looked up with a light laugh. 
"I have found you out," she cried, clapping her 
hands. "I have found you out." 
"What, signora?" 
" You are the tenor of the Pantheon that is all. 
I knew it. Are you so sorry that I have found you 
out?" she asked, for Nino turned very white, and 
his eyes flashed at the thought of the folly he had 
committed. 
CHAPTER V. 
NINO was thoroughly frightened, for he knew that 
discovery portended the loss of everything most dear 
to him. No more lessons with Hedwig, no more 
parties to the Pantheon no more peace, no more 
anything. He wrung his fingers together and 
breathed hard. 
" Ah, signora ! " he found voice to exclaim, " I am 
sure you cannot believe it possible " 
"Why not, Signer Cardegna?" asked the baron 
ess, looking up at him from under her half-closed 
lids with a mocking glance. "Why not? Did you 
not tell me where you lived? And does not the 
whole neighbourhood know that you are no other 
than Giovanni Cardegna, commonly called Nino, who 
is to make his debut in the Carnival season ? " 
"Dio mio!" ejaculated Nino in a hoarse voice, 
realising that he was entirely found out, and that 
nothing could save him. He paced the room in an 
agony of despair, and his square face was as white 
as a sheet. The baroness sat watching him with a 
smile on her lips, amused at the tempest she had 
created, and pretending to know much more than 
she did. She thought it not impossible that Nino, 
who was certainly poor, might be supporting himself 
by teaching Italian while studying for the stage, and 
 
she inwardly admired his sense and two-fold talent, 
if that were really the case. But she was willing to 
torment him a little, seeing that she had the power. 
"Signor Cardegna" she called him in her soft 
voice. He turned quickly, and stood facing her, his 
arms crossed. 
"You look like Napoleon at Waterloo, when you 
stand like that," she laughed. He made no answer, 
waiting to see what she would do with her victory. 
"It seems that you are sorry I have discovered you," 
she added presently, looking down at her hands. 
"Is that all! " he said, with a bitter sneer on his 
pale young face. 
" Then, since you are sorry, you must have a reason for concealment," she went on, as though reflect 
ing on the situation. It was deftly done, and Nino 
took heart. 
"Signora," he said in a trembling voice, "it is 
natural that a man should wish to live. I give les 
sons now, until I have appeared in public, to support 
myself." 
"Ah I begin to understand," said the baroness. 
In reality, she began to doubt, reflecting that if this 
were the whole truth Nino would be too proud or 
any other Italian to say it so plainly. She was 
subtle, the baroness! 
"And do you suppose," he continued, "that if 
once the Conte di Lira had an idea that I was to be 
a public singer he would employ me as a teacher for 
his daughter?" 
"No, but others might," she objected. 
"But not the count," -Nino bit his lip, fearing 
he had betrayed himself. 
 
"Nor the contessina," laughed the baroness, completing the sentence. He saw at a glance what she 
suspected, and instead of keeping cool grew angry. 
" I came here, Signora Baronessa, not to be cross- 
examined, but to teach you Italian. Since you do 
not desire to study, I will say good-morning." He 
took his hat, and moved proudly to the door. 
"Come here," she said, not raising her voice, but 
still commanding. He turned, hesitated, and came 
back. He thought her voice was changed. She 
rose, and swept her silken morning-gown between 
the chairs and tables, till she reached a deep divan 
on the other side of the room. There she sat down. 
"Come and sit beside me," she said kindly, and he 
obeyed in silence. 
"Do you know what would have happened," she 
continued, when he was seated, " if you had left me 
just now ? I would have gone to the Graf von Lira 
and told him that you were not a fit person to teach 
his daughter; that you are a singer, and not a professor at all ; and that you have assumed this disguise for the sake of seeing his daughter." But I 
do not believe that she would have done it. 
"That would have been a betrayal," said Nino 
fiercely, looking away from her. She laughed 
lightly. 
" Is it not natural, " she asked, " that I should make 
inquiries about my Italian teacher, before I begin 
lessons with him? And if I find he is not what 
he pretends to be, should I not warn my intimate 
friends ? " She spoke so reasonably that he was fain 
to acknowledge that she was right. 
 
"It is just," he said sullenly. "But you have 
been very quick to make your inquiries, as you call 
them." 
" The time was short, since you were to come this 
morning." 
" That is true," he answered. He moved uneasily. 
" And now, signora, will you be kind enough to tell 
me what you intend to do with me ? " 
"Certainly, since you are more reasonable. You 
see I treat you altogether as an artist, and not at all 
as an Italian master. A great artist may idle away 
a morning in a woman's boudoir; a simple teacher of 
languages must be more industrious." 
"But I am not a great artist," said Nino, whose 
vanity we all have it began to flutter a little. 
"You will be one before long, and one of the 
greatest. You are a boy yet, my little tenor," said 
she, looking at him with her dark eyes, "and I 
might almost be your mother. How old are you, 
Signer Nino?" 
"I was twenty on my last birthday," he answered, 
blushing. 
"You see! I am thirty at least," she added, 
with a short laugh. 
"Well, signora, what of that?" asked Nino, half 
amused. "I wish I were thirty myself." 
"I am glad you are not," said she. "Now listen. 
You are completely in my power, do you understand ? 
Yes. And you are apparently very much in love 
with my young friend, the Contessina di Lira " 
Nino sprang to his feet, his face white again, but 
with rage this time. 
 
"Signora," he cried, "this is too much! It is 
insufferable! Good-morning." And he made as 
though he would go. 
"Very well," said the baroness; "then I will go 
to the Graf and explain who you are. Ah you are 
calm again in a moment? Sit down. Now I have 
discovered you, and I have a right to you, do you 
see? It is fortunate for you that I like you." 
"You! You like me? In truth, you act as 
though you did! Besides, you are a stranger, Sig 
nora Baron essa, and a great lady. I never saw you 
till yesterday." But he resumed his seat. 
" Good," said she. " Is not the Signorina Edvigia 
a great lady, and was there never a day when she 
was a stranger too ? " 
" I do not understand your caprices, signora. In 
fine, what do you want of me ? " 
" It is not necessary that you should understand 
me," answered the dark-eyed baroness. "Do you 
think I would hurt you or rather your voice ? " 
"I do not know." 
"You know very well that I would not; and as 
for my caprices, as you call them, do you think it is 
a caprice to love music? No, of course not. And 
who loves music loves musicians; at least," she 
added, with a most enchanting smile, "enough to 
wish to have them near one. That is all. I want 
you to come here often and sing to me. Will you 
come and sing to me, my little tenor ? " 
Nino would not have been human had he not felt 
the flattery through the sting. And I always say 
that singers are the vainest kind of people. 
 
"It is very like singing in a cage," he said, in protest. Nevertheless, he knew he must submit; for, 
however narrow his experience might be, this 
woman's smile and winning grace, even when she 
said the hardest things, told him that she would have 
her own way. He had the sense to understand, too, 
that whatever her plans might be, their object was to 
bring him near to herself, a reflection which was 
extremely soothing to his vanity. 
" If you will come and sing to me, only to me, 
of course, for I would not ask you to compromise 
your de*but, but if you will come and sing to me, 
we shall be very good friends. Does it seem to you 
such a terrible penance to sing to me in my solitude ? " 
"It is never a penance to sing," said Nino simply. 
A shade of annoyance crossed the baroness's face. 
"Provided," she said, " it entails nothing. Well, 
we will not talk about the terms." 
They say women sometimes fall in love with a 
voice : vox et prseterea nihil, as the poet has it. I 
do not know whether that is what happened to the 
baroness at first, but it has always seemed strange to 
me that she should have given herself so much trouble to secure Nino, unless she had a very strong fancy 
for him. I, for my part, think that when a lady of 
her condition takes such a sudden caprice into her 
head, she thinks it necessary to maltreat the poor 
man a little at first, just to satisfy her conscience, 
and to be able to say later that she did not encourage 
him. I have had some experience, as everybody is 
aware, and so I may speak boldly. On the other hand, 
a man like Nino, when he is in love, is absolutely 
 
blind to other women. There is only one idea in his 
soul that has any life, and every one outside that 
idea is only so much landscape ; they are no better 
for him the other women than a museum of wax 
dolls. 
The baroness, as you have seen, had Nino in her 
power, and there was nothing for it but submission ; 
he came and went at her bidding, and often she 
would send for him when he least expected it. He 
did as she commanded, somewhat sullenly and with 
a bad grace, but obediently, for all that; she had his 
destiny in her hands, and could in a moment frustrate all his hopes. But, of course, she knew that if 
she betrayed him to the count, Nino would be lost 
to her also, since he came to her only in order to 
maintain his relations with Hedwig. 
Meanwhile, the blue-eyed maiden of the North 
waxed fitful. Sometimes two or three lessons passed 
in severe study. Nino, who always took care to 
know the passages they were reading, so that he 
might look at her instead of at his book, had instituted an arrangement by which they sat opposite 
each other at a small table. He could watch her 
every movement and look, and carry away a series of 
photographs of her, a whole row, like the little 
books of Roman views they sell in the streets, strung 
together on a strip of paper, and these views of 
her lasted with him for two whole days, until he 
saw her again. But sometimes he caught a glimpse 
of her in the interval, driving with her father. 
There were other days when Hedwig could not be 
induced to study, but would overwhelm Nino with 
 
questions about his wonderful cousin who sang; so 
that he longed with his whole soul to tell her it was 
he himself who had sung. She saw his reluctance 
to speak about it, and she blushed when she men 
tioned the night at the Pantheon ; but for her life 
she could not help talking of the pleasure she had 
had. Her blushes seemed like the promise of spring 
roses to her lover, who drank of the air of her presence till that subtle ether ran like fire through his 
veins. He was nothing to her, he could see; but 
the singer of the Pantheon engrossed her thoughts 
and brought the hot blood to her cheek. The beam 
of moonlight had pierced the soft virgin darkness 
of her sleeping soul, and found a heart so cold and 
spotless that even a moon ray was warm by comparison. And the voice that sang "Spirto gentil del 
sogni miei " had itself become by memory the gentle 
spirit of her own dreams. She is so full of imagination, this statue of Nino's, that she heard the 
notes echoing after her by day and night, till she 
thought she must go mad unless she could hear the 
reality again. As the great solemn statue of Egyptian Memnon murmurs sweet, soft sounds to its 
mighty self at sunrise, a musical whisper in the 
desert, so the pure white marble of Nino's living 
statue vibrated with strange harmonies all the day 
long. 
One night, as Nino walked homeward with De 
Pretis, who had come to supper with us, he induced 
the maestro to go out of his way at least half a mile, 
to pass the Palazzo Carmandola. It was a still night, 
not over-cold for December, and there were neither 
 
stars nor moon. As they passed the great house 
Nino saw a light in Hedwig's sitting-room the 
room where he gave her the lessons. It was late, 
and she must be alone. On a sudden he stopped. 
"What is the matter?" asked De Pretis. 
For all answer, Nino, standing in the dark street 
below, lifted up his voice and sang the first notes of 
the air he always associated with his beautiful contessina. Before he had sung a dozen bars, the win 
dow opened, and the girl's figure could be seen, 
black against the light within. He went on for a 
few notes, and then ceased suddenly. 
"Let us go," he said in a low voice to Ercole; and 
they went away, leaving the contessina listening in 
the stillness to the echo of their feet. A Roman girl 
would not have done that; she would have sat quietly 
inside, and never have shown herself. But foreigners are so impulsive I 
Nino never heard the last of those few notes, any 
more than the contessina, literally speaking, ever 
heard the end of the song. 
"Your cousin, about whom you make so much 
mystery, passed under my window last night," said 
the young lady the next day, with the usual display 
of carnation in her cheeks at the mention of him. 
"Indeed, signorina?" said Nino calmly, for he 
expected the remark. " And since you have never 
seen him, pray how did you know it was he?" 
"How should one know?" she asked scornfully. 
" There are not two such voices as his in Italy. He 
sang." 
" He sang ? " cried Nino, with an affectation of 
 
alarm. " I must tell the maestro not to let him sing 
in the open air; he will lose his voice." 
"Who is his master?" asked Hedwig, suddenly. 
"I cannot remember the name just now," said 
Nino, looking away. "But I will find out, if you 
wish." He was afraid of putting De Pretis to any 
inconvenience by saying that the young singer was 
his pupil. " However," he continued, "you will hear 
him sing as often as you please, after he makes his 
dbut next month." He sighed when he thought 
that it would all so soon be over. For how could he 
disguise himself any longer, when he should be singing in public every night ? But Hedwig clapped her 
hands. 
" So soon ? " she cried. " Then there will be an 
end of the mystery." 
"Yes," said Nino gravely, "there will be an end 
of the mystery." 
" At least you can tell me his name, now that we 
shall all know it?" 
"Oh, his name his name is Cardegna, like mine. 
He is my cousin, you know." And they went on 
with the lesson. But something of the kind occurred 
almost every time he came, so that he felt quite sure 
that, however indifferent he might be in her eyes, 
the singer, the Nino of whom she knew nothing, 
interested her deeply. 
Meanwhile he was obliged to go very often to the 
baroness's scented boudoir, which smelled of incense 
and other Eastern perfumes, whenever it did riot 
smell of cigarettes; and there he sang little songs, 
and submitted patiently to her demands for more and 
 
more music. She would sit by the piano and watch 
him as he sang, wondering whether he were hand 
some or ugly, with his square face and broad throat 
and the black circles round his eyes. He had a fascination for her, as being something utterly new to 
her. 
One day she stood and looked over the music as he 
sang, almost touching him, and his hair was so curly 
and soft to look at that she was seized with a desire 
to stroke it, as Mariuccia strokes the old grey cat for 
hours together. The action was quite involuntary, 
and her fingers rested only a moment on his head. 
"It is so curly," she said, half playfully, half 
apologetically. But Nino started as though he had 
been stung, and his dark face grew pale. A girl 
could not have seemed more hurt at a strange man's 
touch. 
"Signora!" he cried, springing to his feet. The 
baroness, who is as dark as he, blushed almost red, 
partly because she was angry, and partly because she 
was ashamed. 
" What a boy you are ! " she said, carelessly 
enough, and turned away to the window, pushing 
back one heavy curtain with her delicate hand, as 
though she would look out. 
"Pardon me, signora, I am not a boy," said Nino, 
speaking to the back of her head as he stood behind 
her. "It is time we understood each other better. 
I love like a man and I hate like a man. I love 
some one very much." 
"Fortunate contessina!" laughed the baroness, 
mockingly, without turning round. 
 
" It does not concern you, signora, to know whom 
I love, nor, if you know, to speak of her. I ask you 
a simple question. If you loved a man with your 
whole soul and heart, would you allow another man 
to stand beside you and stroke your hair, and say 
it was curly?" The baroness burst out laughing. 
"Do not laugh," he continued. "Remember that I 
am in your power only so long as it pleases me to 
submit to you. Do not abuse your advantage, or I 
shall be capable of creating for myself situations 
quite as satisfactory as that of Italian master to the 
Signorina di Lira." 
" What do you mean ? " she asked, turning suddenly 
upon him. " I suppose you would tell me that you 
will make advantages for yourself which you will 
abuse, against me ? What do you mean ? " 
" I do not mean that. I mean only that I may not 
wish to give lessons to the contessina much longer." 
By this time the baroness had recovered her equa 
nimity; and as she would have been sorry to lose 
Nino, who was a source of infinite pleasure and 
amusement to her, she decided to pacify him, instead 
of teasing him any more. 
" Is is not very foolish for us to quarrel about your 
curly hair?" said she. "We have been such good 
friends, always." It might have been three weeks, 
her "always." 
"I think it is," answered Nino gravely. "But do 
not stroke my hair again, Signora Baronessa, or I 
shall be angry." 
He was quite serious, if you will believe it, though 
he was only twenty. He forthwith sat down to the 
 
piano again and sang on. The baroness sat very 
silent and scarcely looked at him ; but she held her 
hands clasped on her knee, and seemed to be think 
ing. After a time Nino stopped singing, and sat 
silent also, absently turning over the sheets of music. 
It was warm in the room, and the sounds from the 
street were muffled and far away. 
"Signer Nino," said the lady at last, in a different 
voice, "I am married." 
"Yes, signora," he replied, wondering what was 
to come next. 
"It would be very foolish of me to care for you." 
"It would also be very wicked," he said calmly; 
for he is well grounded in religion. The baroness 
stared at him in some surprise ; but seeing he was 
perfectly serious, she went on. 
" Precisely, as you say, very wicked. That being 
the case, I have decided not to care for you any more 
I mean, not to care for you at all. I have made 
up my mind to be your friend." 
"I am much obliged to your ladyship," he an 
swered, without moving a muscle. For you see, he 
did not believe her. 
" Now tell me, then, Signor Nino, are you in ear 
nest in what you are doing ? Do you really set your 
heart on doing this thing ? " 
"What?" asked Nino, annoyed at the persistence 
of the woman. 
" Why need you be afraid to understand me ? Can 
you not forgive me ? Can you not believe in me, 
that I will be your friend ? I have always dreamed 
of being the friend of a great artist. Let me be 
yours, and believe me, the thing you have in your 
heart shall be done." 
" I should like to hope so," he said. But he smiled 
incredulously. " I can only say that if you can ac 
complish what it is in my heart to do, I will go 
through fire and water at your bidding; and if you 
are not mocking me, I am very grateful for the offer. 
But if you please, signora, we will not speak any 
more of this at present. I may be a great artist, 
some day. Sometimes I feel sure that I shall. But 
now I am simply Giovanni Cardegna, teacher of lit 
erature; and the highest favour you can confer on 
me is not to deprive me of my means of support, by 
revealing to the Conte di Lira my other occupation. 
I may fail hopelessly at the outset of my artistic 
career, and in that case I shall certainly remain a 
teacher of language." 
"Very well," said the baroness, in a subdued 
voice ; for, in spite of her will and wilfulness, this 
square-faced boy of mine was more than a match for 
her. " Very well, you will believe me another day, 
and now I must ask you to go, for I am tired." 
I cannot be interrupted by your silly questions 
about the exact way in which things happened. I 
must tell this story in my own way, or not at all; 
and I am sacrificing a great deal to your taste in cutting out all the little things I really most enjoy telling. Whether you are astonished at the conduct 
of the baroness, after a three weeks acquaintance, or 
not, I care not a fig. It is just the way it happened, 
and I dare say she was really madly in love with 
Nino. If I had been Nino, I should have been in 
 
love with her. But I should like you to admire my 
boy's audacity, and to review the situation, before I
go on to speak of that important event in his life, his 
first appearance on the boards of the opera. At the 
time of his de*but he was still disguised as a teacher 
of Italian to the young contessina. She thought him 
interesting and intelligent, but that was all. Her 
thoughts were entirely, though secretly, engrossed 
by the mysterious singer, whom she had heard twice, 
but had not seen, so far as she knew. Nino, on the 
other hand, loved her to desperation, and would 
have acted like a madman had he been deprived of his 
privilege of speaking to her three times a week. He 
loved her with the same earnest determination to 
win her which he had shown for years in the study 
of his art, and with all the rest of his nature besides, 
which is saying much not to mention his soul, of 
which he thinks a great deal more than I do. 
Besides this, the baroness had apparently fallen in 
love with him, had made him her intimate, and flat 
tered him in a way to turn his head. Then she 
seemed to have thought better of her passion, and 
had promised him her friendship, a promise which 
he himself considered of no importance whatever. 
As for the old Conte di Lira, he read the German 
newspapers, and cared for none of these things. De 
Pretis took an extra pinch of his good snuff, when 
he thought that his liberal ideas might yet be realised, and a man from the people marry a great lady 
by fairly winning her. Do not, after this, complain 
that I have left you in the dark, or that you do not 
know how it happened. It is as clear as water, and 
 
it was about four months from the time Nino saw 
Hedwig in St. Peter's to the time when he first sang 
in public. 
Christmas passed by, thank Heaven, the municipality has driven away those most detestable pifferari, who played on their discordant bagpipes at 
every corner for a fortnight, and nearly drove me 
crazy, and the Befana, as we call the Epiphany in 
Rome, was gone, with its gay racket, and the night 
fair in the Piazza Navona, and the days for Nino's 
first appearance drew near. I never knew anything 
about the business arrangements for the debut, since 
De Pretis settled all that with Jacovacci, the impresario; but I know that there were many rehearsals, 
and that I was obliged to stand security to the the 
atrical tailor, together with De Pretis, in order that 
Nino might have his dress made. As for the cowl 
in the last act, De Pretis has a brother who is a 
monk, and between them they put together a very 
decent friar's costume; and Mariuccia had a good 
piece of rope, which Nino used for a girdle. 
" What does it matter ? " he said, with much good 
sense. "For if I sing well, they will not look at my 
monk's hood ; and if I sing badly, I may be dressed 
like the Holy Father, and they will hiss me just the 
same. But in the beginning I must look like a 
courtier, and be dressed like one." 
"I suppose so," said I; "but I wish you had taken 
-,o philosophy." 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
I SHALL never forget the day of Nino's first ap 
pearance. You may imagine whether we were in a 
state of excitement or not, after all those years of 
study and waiting. There was much more trouble 
and worry than if he had written a great book, and 
was just to publish it, and receive the homage of all 
the learning and talent in Europe ; which is the kind 
of de*but I had hoped he would make in life, instead 
of putting on a foolish dress, and stamping about on 
a stage, and squalling love songs to a packed house, 
making pantomime with his hands, and altogether 
behaving like an idiot, a crowd of people ready to 
hiss him at the slightest indication of weakness, or 
to carry him on their shoulders if they fancied his 
voice to their taste. 
No wonder Nino was sad and depressed all day, 
and when he tried his voice in the afternoon thought 
it was less clear than usual, and stared at himself in 
the looking-glass, wondering whether he were not 
too ugly altogether, as I always told him. To tell 
the truth, he was not so ugly as he had been ; for the 
months with the contessina had refined him singu 
larly, and perhaps he had caught a certain grace of 
manner from the baroness. He had grown more 
silent, too, and seemed always preoccupied, as well 
 
he might he; hut he had concealed his affair with 
the Lira family from me until that day, and I supposed him anxious about his appearance. 
Early in the morning came De Pretis, and sug 
gested that it would be better for Nino to take a walk 
and breathe the fresh air a little ; so I bade him go, 
and I did not see him again until the afternoon. De 
Pretis said that the only cause for anxiety was from 
stage fright, and went away taking snuff and flour 
ishing his immense cotton handkerchief. I thought 
a man must be a fool to work for years in order to 
sing, and then, when he had learned to do it quite 
well, to be afraid of showing what he knew. I did 
not think Nino would be frightened. 
Of course, there was a final rehearsal at eleven, 
and Nino put off the hour of the lesson with the contessina to three in the afternoon, by some excuse or 
other. He must have felt very much pressed for 
time, having to give her a lesson on the very day of 
his coming out ; and beside, he knew very well that 
it might be the last of his days with her, and that a 
great deal would depend on the way he bore himself 
at his trial. He sang badly, or thought he did, at 
the rehearsal, and grew more and more depressed and 
grave as the day advanced. He came out of the lit 
tle stage door of the Apollo theatre at Tordinona, 
and his eyes fell upon the broad bills and posters 
announcing the first appearance of " Giovanni Cardegna, the most distinguished pupil of the Maestro 
Ercole De Pretis, in Donizetti's opera the Favorita." 
His heart sank at the sight of his own name, and he 
turned towards the Bridge of Sant Angelo to get 
 
away from it. He was the last to leave the theatre, 
and De Pretis was with him. 
At that moment he saw Hedwig von Lira sitting 
in an open carriage, in front of the box office. De 
Pretis bowed low, she smiled, and Nino took off his 
hat, but would not go near her, escaping in the opposite direction. He thought she looked somewhat sur 
prised, but his only idea was to get away, lest she 
should call him and put some awkward question. 
An hour and a half later he entered her sitting- 
room. There she sat, as usual, with her books, await 
ing him perhaps for the last time, a fair, girlish figure 
with gold hair, but oh, so cold! it makes me shiver 
to think how she used to look. Possibly there was 
a dreaminess about her blue eyes which made up for 
her manner; but how Nino could love her, I cannot 
understand. It must have been like making love to 
a pillar of ice. 
"I am much indebted to you for allowing me to 
come at this hour, signorina," he said, as he bowed. 
" Ah, professore, it looks almost as though it were 
you yourself who were to make your de*but," said 
she, laughing and leaning back in her chair. " Your 
name is on every corner in Rome, and I saw you 
coming out of a side door of the theatre this morning." Nino trembled, but reflected that if she had 
suspected anything she would not have made so light 
of it. 
"The fact is, signorina, my cousin is so nervous 
that he begged me earnestly to be present at the 
rehearsal this morning ; and as it is the great event 
of his life, I could not easily refuse him. I presume 
 
you are going to hear him, since I saw your carriage 
at the theatre." 
" Yes. At the last minute, my father wanted to 
change our box for one nearer the stage, and so we 
went ourselves. The baroness you know, the lady 
who went with us to the Pantheon is going with 
us to-night." 
It was the first time Hedwig had mentioned her, 
and it was evident that Nino's intimacy with the 
baroness had been kept a secret. How long would 
it be so ? Mechanically he proceeded with the lesson, thinking mournfully that he should never give 
her another. But Hedwig was more animated than 
he had ever seen her, and often stopped to ask questions about the coming performance. It was evident 
that she was entirely absorbed with the thought of 
at last hearing to its fullest extent the voice that 
had haunted her dreams; most of all, with spec 
ulating as to what this wonderful singer was to be 
like. Dwelling on the echo of his singing for 
months had roused her interest and curiosity to such 
a pitch that she could hardly be quiet a moment, or 
think calmly of what she was to enjoy; and yet she 
looked so very cold and indifferent at most times. 
But Nino had noticed all this, and rejoiced at it; 
young as he was, however, he understood that the 
discovery she was about to make would be a shock 
that must certainly produce some palpable result, 
when she should see him from her box in the theatre. 
He trembled for the consequences. 
The lesson was over all too soon, and Nino lin 
gered a moment to see whether the very last drops of 
 
his cup of happiness might not still be sweet. He 
did not know when he should see her again, to speak 
with her; and though he determined it should not 
be long, the future seemed very uncertain, and he 
would look on her loveliness while he might. 
"I hope you will like my cousin's singing," he 
said, rather timidly. 
" If he sings as he has sung before, he is the great 
est artist living," she said calmly, as though no one 
would dispute it. " But I am curious to see him, as 
well as to hear him." 
"He is not handsome," said Nino, smiling a little. 
" In fact, there is a family resemblance ; he is said 
to look like me." 
"Why did you not tell me that before?" she asked 
quickly, and fixed her blue eyes on Nino's face, as 
though she wished to photograph the features in her 
mind. 
" I did not suppose the signorina would think twice 
about a singer's appearance," said Nino quietly. 
Hedwig blushed and turned away, busying herself 
with her books. At that moment Graf von Lira 
entered from the next room. Nino bowed. 
"Curious is it," said the count, "that you and the 
about-to-make-his-appearance tenor should the same 
name have." 
" He is a near relation, Signor Conte, the same 
whom you heard sing in the Pantheon. I hope you 
will like his voice." 
"That is what we shall see, Signor Professore," 
answered the other severely. He had a curious way 
of bowing, as though he were made only in two 
 
pieces, from his waist to his heels, and from his 
waist to the crown of his head. Nino went his way 
sadly, and wondering how Hedwig would look when 
she should recognise him from her box in the theatre, 
that very evening. 
It is a terrible and a heart-tearing thing to part 
from the woman one loves. That is nothing new, 
you say. Every one knows that. Perhaps so, 
though I think not. Only those can know it who 
have experienced it, and for them no explanations 
are in any way at all necessary. The mere word 
"parting" calls up such an infinity of sorrow that it 
is better to draw a veil over the sad thing and bury 
it out of sight, and put upon it the seal on which is 
graven "No Hope." 
Moreover, when a man only supposes, as Nino did, 
that he is leaving the woman he loves, or is about 
to leave her, until he can devise some new plan for 
seeing her, the case is not so very serious. Never 
theless, Nino, who is of a very tender constitution of 
the affections, suffered certain pangs which are always hard to bear, and as he walked slowly down the 
street he hung his head low, and did not look like 
a man who could possibly be successful in anything 
he might undertake that day. Yet it was the most 
important day of his life, and had it not been that he 
had left Hedwig with little hope of ever giving her 
another lesson, he would have been so happy that the 
whole air would have seemed dancing with sunbeams 
and angels and flowers. I think that when a man 
loves he cares very little for what he does. The 
greatest success is indifferent to him, and he cares 
 
not at all for failure, in the ordinary undertakings 
of life. These are my reflections, and they are worth 
something, because I once loved very much myself, 
and was parted from her I loved many times, before 
the last parting. 
It was on this day that Nino came to me and told 
me all the history of the past months, of which I 
knew nothing; but, as you know all about it, I need 
not tell you what the conversation was like, until he 
had finished. Then I told him he was the prince and 
chief of donkeys, which was no more than the truth, 
as everybody will allow. He only spread out his 
palms and shrugged his shoulders, putting his head 
on one side, as though to say he could not help it. 
" Is it perhaps my fault that you are a little don 
key?" I asked; for you may imagine whether I was 
angry or not. 
"Certainly not, Sor Cornelio," he said. "It is 
entirely my own doing but I do not see that I am a 
donkey." 
" Blood of Bacchus ! " I ejaculated, holding up my 
hands. "He does not believe he is a great stupid! " 
But Nino was not angry at all. He busied himself 
a little with his costume, which was laid out on the 
piano, with the sword and the tinsel collar, and all 
the rest of it. 
"I am in love," he said. "What would you 
have?" 
"I would have you put a little giudizio, just a 
grain of judgment and common sense, into your love 
affairs. Why, you go about it as though it were the 
most innocent thing in the world to disguise yourself, and present yourself as a professor in a noble 
man's house, in order to make love to his daughter! 
You, to make love to a noble damigella, a young 
countess, with a fortune! Go back to Serveti, and 
marry the first contadina girl you meet ; it is much 
more fitting, if you must needs marry at all. I repeat it, you are an ignorant donkey! " 
"Eh!" cried Nino, perfectly unmoved, "if I am 
ignorant, it is not for lack of your teaching; and as 
for being the beast of burden to which you refer, I 
have heard it said that you were once in love yourself. Meanwhile, I have told you this, because there 
will perhaps be trouble, and I did not intend you to 
be surprised." 
"Surprised?" said I. "I should not be surprised 
at anything you might fancy doing, now. No, I 
should not dream of being surprised! " 
"So much the better," answered Nino imperturbably. He looked sad and weary, though, and as I 
am a prudent man I put my anger away to cool for 
a little while, and indulged in a cigar until it should 
be time to go to the theatre; for of course I went 
with him, and Mariuccia too, to help him with his 
dress. Poor old Mariuccia! she had dressed him 
when he was a ragged little boy, and she was deter 
mined to put the finishing touches to his appearance 
now that he was about to be a great man, she said. 
His dressing-room was a narrow little place, sufficiently ill lighted, and there was barely space to turn 
round. Mariuccia, who had brought the cat and had 
her pocket full of roasted chestnuts, sat outside on a 
chair until he was ready for her; and I am sure that 
 
if she had spent her life in the profession of adorning players she could not have used her fingers more 
deftly in the arrangement of the collar and sword. 
Nino had a fancy to wear a moustache and a pointed 
beard through the first part of the opera ; saying that 
a courtier always had hair on his face, but that he 
would naturally shave if he turned monk. I represented to him that it was a needless expense, since 
he must deposit the value of the false beard with the 
theatre barber, who lives opposite; and it was 
twenty-three francs. Besides, he would look like a 
different man two separate characters. 
"I do not care a cabbage for that," said Nino. 
"If they cannot recognise me with their ears, they 
need not trouble themselves to recognise me at all." 
"It is a fact that their ears are quite long enough," 
said Mariuccia. 
"Hush, Mariuccia!" I said. "The Roman public 
is the most intelligent public in the world." And 
at this she grumbled 
But I knew well enough why he wanted to wear 
the beard. He had a fancy to put off the evil moment as long as possible, so that Hedwig might not 
recognise him till the last act, a foolish fancy, in 
truth, for a woman's eyes are not like a man's; and 
though Hedwig had never thought twice about Nino's 
personality, she had not sat opposite him three times 
a week for nearly four months without knowing all 
his looks and gestures. It is an absurd idea, too, 
to attempt to fence with time, when a thing must 
come in the course of an hour or two. What is it, 
after all, the small delay you can produce? The 
 
click of a few more seconds in the clock-work, before 
the hammer smites its angry warning on the bell, 
and leaves echoes of pain writhing through the poor 
bronze, that is Time. As for Eternity, it is a 
question of the calculus, and does not enter into a 
singer's first appearance, nor into the recognition of
a lover. If it did, I would give you an eloquent 
dissertation upon it, so that you would yawn and 
take snuff, and wish me carried off by the diavolo 
to some place where I might lecture on the infinite 
without fear of being interrupted, or of keeping sinners like you unnecessarily long awake. There will 
be no hurry then. Poor old diavolo! He must have 
a dull time of it among all those heretics. Perhaps 
he has a little variety, for they say he has written up 
on his door, "Ici Ton parle fran^ais," since Monsieur 
de Voltaire died. But I must go on, or you will 
never be any wiser than you are now, which is not 
saying overmuch. 
I am not going to give you a description of the 
Favorita, which you may hear a dozen times a year 
at the theatre, for more or less money but it is 
only a franc if you stand; quite enough, too. I 
went upon the stage before it began, and peeped 
through the curtain to see what kind of an audience 
there was. It is an old curtain, and there is a hole 
in it on the right-hand side, which De Pretis says 
was made by a foreign tenor, some years ago, be 
tween the acts ; and Jacovacci, the impresario, tried 
to make him pay five francs to have it repaired, but 
did not get the money. It is a better hole than the 
one in the middle, which is so far from both sides of 
 
the house that you cannot see the people well. So 
I looked through, and there, sure enough, in a box 
very near to the stage, sat the Contessina di Lira and 
the baroness, whom I had never seen before, but recognised from Nino's description; and behind them 
sat the count himself, with his great grey moustaches 
and a white cravat. They made me think of the 
time when I used to go to the theatre myself and sit 
in a box, and applaud or hiss, just as I pleased. 
Dio mio! What changes in this world! 
I recognised also a great many of our noble ladies, 
with jewels and other ornaments, and it seemed to 
me that some of them were much more beautiful than 
the German contessina whom Nino had elected to 
worship, though she was well enough, to be sure, in 
white silk and white fur, with her little gold cross 
at her throat. To think that a statue like that, 
brought up with all the proprieties, should have 
such a strange chapter of life! But my eye began 
to smart from peering through the little hole, and 
just then a rough-looking fellow connected with the 
stage reminded me that, whatever relation I might be 
to the primo tenore, I was not dressed to appear in 
the first act; then the audience began to stamp and 
groan because the performance did not begin, and I 
went away again to tell Nino that he had a packed 
house. I found De Pretis giving him blackberry 
syrup, which he had brought in a bottle, and entreating him to have courage. Indeed, it seemed to me 
that Nino had the more courage of the two ; for De 
Pretis laughed and cried and blew his nose, and took 
snuff with his great fat fingers, and acted altogether 
 
like a poor fool ; while Nino sat on a rush-bottomed 
chair and watched Mariuccia, who was stroking the 
old cat and nibbling roasted chestnuts, declaring all 
the while that Nino was the most beautiful object 
she had ever seen. Then the bass and the baritone 
came, together, and spoke cheering words to Nino, 
and invited him to supper afterwards ; but he thanked 
