When they were alone, he offered her his arm, and led her out into the
air, and they sat down side by side in deep chairs. Marcantonio
leisurely lighted a cigarette, and puffed a few minutes in silence.
"Leonora," he said at last, "I have heard a curious thing, and I must
tell you immediately." His voice was even and cold; his whole manner was
different from anything she remembered in her experience of him; he was
more imposing, altogether more of a man and stronger. Leonora trembled
violently, knowing instinctively that he had discovered something. She
did not speak, but let him continue.
"I chanced to inquire if you were at home this afternoon, and the man
said he supposed you were gone out in the boat with Mr. Batiscombe, as
you did every day. Is it true? The man who told me said it as though it
were quite natural, as though every one in the house knew it except
myself."
Leonora was dumb for a moment. The accusation came so suddenly that she
was taken off her guard, besides being thoroughly frightened at her
husband's terrible calmness, so unlike his manner under ordinary
circumstances. She lay back in her low chair and tried to collect her
thoughts.
"The man had also observed," continued Marcantonio, turning his keen
dark eyes upon her, "that Monsieur Batiscombe had a beard, and was
dressed like a fisherman. Altogether, it was extremely curious."
Marcantonio and his sister always spoke the truth. Batiscombe never lied
in his life to save himself, but could do it boldly when it was
absolutely necessary to save some one else. He had no principle about
it, except that cowards told lies, and men did not,--that was the way he
put it. He was not afraid of anything himself, but for a woman he would
perjure himself by all the oaths in Christendom. It was his idea of
chivalry to women, and could not altogether be blamed. But Leonora by a
long apprenticeship to a very worldly mother, and owing to the singular
confusion of her ideas, had acquired a moral obliquity which she
defended to herself on the ground that the ultimate results she obtained
were intended to be good. The telling of untruths, she argued, was in
itself neither good nor bad; the consequences alone deserved to be
considered. But as the consequences of lies are not easily cast up into
totals of good and bad from the starting point, it sometimes occurred
that she got herself into trouble. However, she was not hampered by
prejudice, and she was a very clever woman, much cleverer than the great
majority, and she was just now in a very hard position. In a few minutes
she had made up her mind, and she answered Marcantonio fluently enough.
"Why," said she calmly, "should I not go out with Mr. Batiscombe when I
please? If he chooses to dress like a fisherman, I suppose he has the
right."
Marcantonio was rather staggered at her sudden confession. He had
expected a denial; but there she sat as calmly as possible, telling him
to his face that it was all true. However, he was not likely to lose his
nerve again now that he was face to face with the difficulty.
"It appears to me, Leonora," he said, "that when I have turned a man out
of my house for insulting you, it is sufficient reason"--
"For insulting me?" exclaimed Leonora in well-feigned astonishment. "Mr.
Batiscombe never insulted me! You must be dreaming." She laughed a small
dry laugh. But Marcantonio was not so easily put off.
"My sister," said he, "told me that Batiscombe insulted you in her
hearing. I have always known my sister to speak the truth. Perhaps you
will explain."
"What explanation do you want? You sent Mr. Batiscombe out of the house
on the pretence that I was ill. Of course Diana made you do it,--I do
not know how, nor what she said. You must talk it over with her. She was
probably sick of him, and wanted him out of the way."
Leonora spoke scornfully, and almost brutally, and Marcantonio's blood
began to grow hot.
"That is absurd," he said instantly. "Perhaps Monsieur Batiscombe would
not object to being confronted with me for five minutes?"
"I am sure he would not object," said Leonora, without hesitation. She
was quite certain of her lover's courage, at all events. She knew he
would face anybody.
"Meanwhile," said Marcantonio, "you will oblige me by giving up your
harmless habit of going out with him every day. I should have supposed
that you would at least have had the pride to deny it, after what
occurred when he was here." Marcantonio was angry, but he reasoned
rightly.
"You would have preferred that I should lie to you, my dear," said his
wife disdainfully, in the full virtue of having told half the truth--the
first half.
"I would not permit myself to apply such a word to anything you say,"
answered Marcantonio, with cold courtesy. "But I would have you observe
that you are mistaken with regard to my sister, and that if she told me
she heard the man insult you, he did. Perhaps you did not understand
what he said. It is the same. You will not meet him again at the
rocks--nor anywhere else."
"Why not? Why shall I not meet him?" she inquired, raising her eyebrows
in disdain.
"Because I forbid you." He spoke shortly, as if that ended the matter.
Leonora shrugged her shoulders a little, with an expression of pity,
and shifted her position, so as to face him.
"You forbid me, do you?" she asked, lowering her voice.
"Mais oui! I forbid you to see him anywhere."
"Do you know what you are saying?" she asked, and there was a tone of
menace in her words.
"Oh, perfectly," answered her husband calmly; "and I will also take care
that you obey me--bien entendu!"
"Then it is war?" asked Leonora, as though she hoped it might be, and to
the knife.
"If you disobey, it is war," said Marcantonio, "but you will not."
"Why not?"
"Because I will prevent you. It is useless to prolong this discussion."
"Mon Dieu, I ask nothing better than to finish it as soon as possible,"
said Leonora.
"In that case, good-night," replied Marcantonio, rising.
"Good-night," answered Leonora, still seated. "I am not sleepy yet. You
are not afraid that Monsieur Batiscombe will be announced after you are
gone to bed?"
She spoke scornfully, as though trying to drive a wound with every word.
She thought she knew her husband, and she felt triumphant.
Marcantonio did not answer, and withdrew in silence. In a few hours his
whole character had developed, and he was a very different man from the
Marcantonio of that morning. He had passed through a few hours of a
desperate crisis, and had come out of it with an immovable determination
to clear up the whole affair, and to force his wife to break off her
intimacy with Batiscombe. Even now he could believe no evil,--only the
foolish infatuation of a young woman for a man who had the romantic
faculty strongly developed. It would cost an effort to break it
off,--and Leonora would be very much annoyed, of course,--but it must be
done. And so Marcantonio had gone about it in the boldest and simplest
way, by attacking her directly. He congratulated himself, for at one
stroke he had ascertained the truth of the servant's statement, and had
gone through the much dreaded scene with his wife. Henceforth she knew
what to expect; he had declared himself as a jealous husband, and had
said he would be obeyed. He went to bed in the consciousness that he had
done the best thing possible under the circumstances, and promising
himself an early explanation with Batiscombe.
But for all the success of this first move, he was wretchedly unhappy.
He still loved Leonora, as he would always love her, whatever she did,
with all his might and main, though he saw well enough that she did not
love him. But he was furiously jealous, and he swore by all the saints
in the calendar that she should never love any one else. His jealousy
had made a man of him.
CHAPTER XVI.
It was clear that after what had passed between Leonora and her husband,
the relations must assume the aspect described in diplomatic language as
"strained," to say the least of it. The two met many times in the course
of the day, and never referred to the subject of their difference; but
Leonora was well aware that she was watched. If ever she sallied out
into the garden, hoping to escape observation, her husband was at hand,
offering to accompany her. She once even went so far as to go down some
distance with him towards the rocks, she could not tell why,--perhaps
because it would have been a comfort to her to catch a glimpse of Julius
in the boat. But he was probably lurking behind the rocks, just out of
sight, and she could not see him. She knew that he still kept his watch
during half the day, not having yet invented a better plan,--for she was
in correspondence with him,--and in the meanwhile, until new
arrangements could be made, there was a bare chance that she might
escape for a moment in the morning and be able to see him. Her husband
never left her side in the afternoon.
Temistocle, the knave, had failed in his attempt to gain Marcantonio's
favour, as has been seen, but he now reaped a golden harvest from the
lovers, who paid him handsomely for carrying letters, with a reckless
feeling that if he betrayed them the deluge might come,--but that
without him they were utterly cut off from each other. He had at first
carefully opened one or two letters and skilfully closed them again, but
had desisted on finding that they were written in English, a language he
unfortunately did not understand. It was now his business to encourage
the correspondence to the best of his ability, in order that whenever it
should be convenient to spring the mine, he might have some letter
passing through his hands, which he could show to Marcantonio. He made a
bargain with an old man who had a little donkey cart, to hang about the
lane leading to the villa in the afternoon hours, when Temistocle, being
free from the cares of the pantry, found it convenient to play postman.
As the distance was considerable, and as Batiscombe always gave him a
gold piece for a letter, and Leonora another, he thought he could afford
himself ten sous a day for the hire of his primitive cab, without any
reckless extravagance.
The first letter he had carried was to Batiscombe. Leonora informed him
briefly of the scene with her husband, and begged that he would wait as
usual for a few days, or until something better could be devised. But he
waited in vain. Then he wrote and proposed that she should drive
somewhere and meet him. But she answered that her husband always drove
with her when she went out. He proposed to get into the garden at night,
to scale her window,--anything. But Marcantonio had bought a brace of
abominable English terriers that howled as though they had swallowed a
banshee. Marcantonio also kept pistols, and slept with his windows open.
Meanwhile Marcantonio would have given anything to catch Batiscombe and
call upon him for an explanation,--but he was afraid to leave his wife
for an hour, lest she should have an opportunity of going down to the
sea. He could never be quite certain whether Batiscombe were there or
not, for the latter had grown cautious and lay very quietly in his boat
just out of sight, knowing that Leonora would call if she wanted him,
according to the agreement, and he only came in the morning now and
waited till twelve o'clock, in order to be at home to receive her
letters in the afternoon. Yet Marcantonio would not employ a spy to
watch whether Batiscombe were on the water. He could not do that--it was
too utterly mean.
Leonora grew pale and thin. She was as thoroughly in love with Julius as
a woman of strong temper and impulse can be with the first man she has
ever cared for. She dreamed of him, thought of him, longed for him,
during every hour of the day and night. He was to her the realisation
of the strongest fancy of her life, the passionate, ruthless,
all-daring lover; and the consciousness of utter wrong that underlay her
feelings only lent the strength of moral desperation to her passion.
Having lost all right to other things, she had that left, and only that,
on which to rely for all the happiness the world owed her. She would go
to the end of it, and enjoy it all, now that she had found it; and
then--then she would die, she said to herself, and no one should suffer
by her fault. But she was long past the elementary stage, when love can
be put upon a block and modelled and shaped with tools, or pulled to
pieces, at will, being as yet but a fragile clay sketch and very
yielding. The clay had been done into marble, and the marble set up in
the inmost sanctuary of the temple,--and if the idol were broken the
pieces could not be joined, and the temple must be empty and bare
forever. It had come about very quickly--but what of that? Who shall say
that passion born in a moment, ready armed, is not so strong and
enduring as that which is evolved like man from a pitiful thing with a
tail--a mere flirtation, to the semblance of humanity, to the godlike
presence of true love?
Or who shall tell us that love is less a real thing, because it is evil
instead of being good? Devils are quite as real as angels, as I have no
doubt many of us will find in due time. Do not underrate the strength of
a thing because it is bad, nor doubt its reality because you do not like
its looks.
Leonora was in love with all her might, and it makes no difference in
the effect upon the individual whether love is lawful or not, so long as
it is thwarted and opposed at every turn. Her character, from being
vague and indistinct, reaching out after many things, and never wholly
grasping any, had suddenly become definite and full of a mature
purpose--the purpose to love Julius recklessly, without consideration or
question. The one real thing which remained possible for her had come,
dominating and crushing down the army of her most favourite unrealities.
The man she loved stood out from the chaotic darkness of the past and
from the dreary shadows of the present as a glorious figure of light,
magnificent in all that could be noblest; and she gave to him her soul,
her life, and her strength, without hesitation and without fear. She had
no remorse, no pity for her husband, no present consciousness of sin,
for she was too near the wrong, and too new to it, not to enjoy it.
The traditional hardened sinner, the very monstrosity and arch-deformity
of complicated vice, held up by preachers as a bugbear and a moral
scarecrow to the young, the creature without heart, conscience, or
capacity of good, does not enjoy his wickedness in the least. It has
lost its novelty for him and its sharp, peppery savour. The people who
really enjoy it are young; they are those who have tasted little of
life, and have yet all the sensibility and refinement of palate that
can distinguish between one sauce and another--between green, red, and
black pepper. They have dreamed of the pepper, have never been allowed
to have it, and have been fed on a kind of moral pap that disagreed with
them from childhood. Suddenly the spice is within their reach, and they
make to themselves a glorious feast of hot things, vaguely hoping that
they will recover from the indigestion before they are found out. And
sometimes they do, though the recovery is very painful--and sometimes
they do not.
Leonora had subsisted on what she could get in the way of enjoyment, but
her capacity far exceeded the supply that presented itself. She was not
one of those people who can live for days in happiness from one sight of
something beautiful, from a glimpse at a great picture, or from the
memory of one strain of music. She liked all that was artistic, and
especially that which was admirable for novelty, fineness of execution,
or boldness of conception. She was not impressed with the beauty of
small and unpretending things,--the art that amused her was necessarily
of the most brilliant kind. The people she liked were the stirring,
active, original people who either make history or make public fools of
themselves, or both. The philosophies she had dabbled in were such as
could produce in her a sensation of odd possibility rather than such as
could satisfy a logical intellect, and they resolved themselves into a
vast sea of aspirations, emotions, and potential passions, in which she
loved to disport herself, diving and splashing and floating,
like a magnificent sea-nymph in fullest enjoyment of her wild
vitality,--sitting, an hour afterwards, on some lonely rock, and
wringing her white hands to heaven in despair, because, being but half
divine, she was less goddess-like than the great goddesses of Olympus.
She could not help it if she grew pale and thin,--she was so wretched
without him; and, without his letters and the sense that he was not so
very far from her after all, she would have gone mad. She would sit for
hours in her room staring at nothing; or she would go through elaborate
processes of toilet before the glass, looking at herself and wondering
if he would find her changed,--perhaps that very day some chance would
offer, and she might see him. Everything was possible. That was the
colour he liked best, and that bit of jewelry,--put it on, in case he
should come. And again, she would change it all, because she would not
wear for her husband the things she wore for her sweet lover; and then
she would change once more, perhaps, and put back the colours and the
ornaments he loved, so that she might the better think of him while she
was with Marcantonio; she had a thousand idle thoughts and fancies which
she strove hard to train into the semblance of a little happiness, the
hollowest image of a little joy.
The days came and went miserably for nearly a fortnight. In all that
time Marcantonio watched her closely, never relaxing in his vigilance.
She might have escaped, perhaps, but she would have been missed in half
an hour, and she had not the courage to do anything so desperate,--the
time must come, she thought, when things should change. But meanwhile
she grew haggard and worn.
Marcantonio had abandoned the idea of sending for a friend to deal with
Batiscombe. What he had to say could, he thought, best be said directly,
and there could then be no difficulty in establishing a pretext for
fighting. But first of all he must keep his wife out of danger. Feeling
that he held her entirely at his mercy, he was willing to take some time
for deliberation. She could not see Julius, and it would be the best
possible test to ascertain how she bore the trial. Marcantonio had grown
hard and calculating in his jealousy, but he ground his teeth as he
watched her and saw that she was falling ill,--and it was not so much
for sympathy with her, as for anger that she should so love another. At
last he determined upon a new course.
"Leonora," he said briefly, one day, "we will leave this place
immediately, since it does not suit you. Will you be so amiable as to
give orders to have your things packed?"
Leonora started a little, and looked at him. It was not often that she
cared to look at him now.
"Why do you wish to go?" she asked at last.
"Because, as I said, this place does not suit you. You are
ill--miserable. Ma foi! do you think I will allow you to stay in a place
where you are always pale and eat nothing?"
"I am not ill," said she, "and I have a very good appetite. I do not
wish to go away. Besides, you have taken the villa for the whole summer.
It would be such a useless waste of money to move again."
"Ah! You become economical. It is very well; but economy does not enter
into this case at all. We will go to Cadenabbia, or to any place in the
lakes, where it is far cooler."
"I do not mind the heat," said Leonora, "as you know. Why not say at
once that you are tired of Sorrento, and wish to go away to please
yourself? It would be much simpler and more honest."
"Pardon me, my dear, I am perfectly well here. I could spend the rest of
my life at Sorrento. But you are not well--whatever the cause may
be--and there is a possibility that you may be better elsewhere. Donc"--
"Oh, of course," interrupted Leonora, "if you have made up your mind I
must submit. If you think you can make me more miserable anywhere else
than you can here, I must let you try. I hardly think you can. You might
be satisfied. Nevertheless, let us go."
"I do not wish to make you miserable, you know perfectly. I wish to make
you happy and free."
"Free?" repeated Leonora. "Indeed, you have a singular fashion of making
me free, to watch me day and night, as though I intended to run away
with your silver. Free, indeed! Free from what?"
She laughed, scornfully enough, in his face. It was the first time they
had approached any subject of this kind since the memorable night after
Marcantonio's discovery. But since he had made up his mind to take her
away he was willing to undergo another scene if it were absolutely
necessary.
"To make you free from the society of Monsieur Batiscombe," answered
Marcantonio boldly. "You can never be well until you are absolutely out
of his reach, and if I must go to the end of the world I will accomplish
that."
"You need not insult me in words," said Leonora, disdainfully. "You have
done it quite enough already by your deeds."
Marcantonio was silent for a moment. The speech hurt him, for he knew
how he believed in her innocence, and how it was his jealousy that now
prompted most of his actions. His voice changed a little as he answered,
and he was more like his old self than he had been for days.
"Leonora," he said, "I would not insult you for anything. But, would you
rather I were not a little jealous, since I really love you?"
Perhaps he spoke foolishly--perhaps he hoped to soften her heart: at all
events he spoke seriously enough, and laid his hand on hers. But she
did not like his touch and drew her fingers away.
"A little jealous!" she cried. "So little that I am kept like a prisoner
and watched like a political suspect! Be jealous--yes--since you say you
love me; but behave like a sensible creature. Moreover, you might make
sure that you had some cause for jealousy before coupling the name of
the first man you chance to dislike with mine. Is not that an insult?"
"Certainly it is--and if I did that you would be quite right," said he;
"but things are a little different. You do not understand Batiscombe--I
do. You have taken a fancy for him--so did I. But you push your fancy
too far. I now understand him, and I do not think him a proper friend
for you. You make difficulties, you insist upon seeing him. I forbid
you, and prevent you. You turn pale and ill, and I am angry that you
should be so foolish. Mon Dieu! I am angry--voilà."
"One must certainly allow," said Leonora, with a sneer, "that you have a
singularly delicate way of stating your own case."
It was the best thing she could find to say, though she knew the sarcasm
was not merited. He wished once for all to put the matter clearly before
her, and he did it honestly and delicately, since he described her
passion as a "fancy," her strategy and secret meetings as "insisting
upon seeing" Mr. Batiscombe. It would be impossible to state such a
case more delicately if it had to be stated at all. A cleverer man, or
a less jealous man than Marcantonio, might have gone about it less
directly; and that is all that can be said. But he was a half-formed
character, as yet, with some good possibilities and hardly any bad ones.
He was naturally good, but good as yet without much experience, and his
teaching in the troubles of life had come upon him very suddenly. It had
never struck him that it could be difficult to manage a woman, and he
did not like the idea now that it was thrust upon him. The woman he had
made his wife would, he had supposed, be like his sister, of the kind
that manage themselves, and do it well; and if he had anticipated
exercising any influence over Leonora, it was influence of a very
different sort from that which he was now driven to exert. He had made
up his mind, however, that she must obey him now, or that he should
perish in the struggle, and a certain family obstinacy of purpose,
inherited from his father and all his race, suddenly made its appearance
and changed him from an easy-going, pleasant-spoken young fellow into a
very determined man, so far as his wife was concerned.
He had said that she should go at once, and go she should, without any
delay whatsoever. Instead of answering her sarcastic remark about his
indelicacy, he went obstinately back to his proposition.
"Let us not talk any more about it," he said, to cut the difficulty
short. "You will doubtless be so amiable as to give the necessary
orders about your things?"
Leonora shrugged her shoulders very slightly, as much as it is possible
for a great lady to do, and as much as would horrify a very strict
duenna.
"If you wish it," she said, "I must."
"Then we will start in two days, if it is agreeable to you."
"It is not agreeable to me," said Leonora, wearied to death by his
civility, "but we will start when you please,--in two days if you say
it."
She was casting about in her mind for some desperate means of seeing
Julius and assuring herself that he would follow her. Of course he would
do that, but she could not go without seeing him once more in Sorrento;
there was so much to be said that she could not write,--so very much!
The conversation with Marcantonio had taken place little more than an
hour before dinner. As he left the room Leonora glanced at the clock.
There was time yet,--if she could only get some conveyance. She might
see Julius and be back before dinner. She could make some excuse for not
dressing--if her husband noticed it, which was unlikely. He had gone to
his room, contrary to his custom, for he generally did not leave her
until she went to dress. His windows were towards the sea, and she could
slip out through the garden. It had rained a little, but that was no
matter. There would be the less dust.
A garden hat she sometimes wore hung in the hall, among her husband's
hats and whips and sticks; she snatched it quickly and went out, walking
leisurely for a few yards, till she was hidden by the orange-trees. Then
she gathered up her skirt a little and ran like a deer over the moist
path, through the gate that stood ajar, and down the narrow lane between
the high damp walls towards Sorrento, never looking behind her nor
pausing to take breath, for she feared that if she stopped to breathe
she might stop to think, and not do what she most wished to.
There are always little open carriages hanging about the lanes during
the height of the season, in the hope of picking up stray fares, and
before she had gone two hundred yards she overtook one of these, moving
lazily along. The man was all grins and alacrity at the mere sight of
her and pulled up, gesticulating wildly and leaning backward over his
box to arrange the cushions with one hand while he held the reins with
the other. The whole conveyance is so small that the driver can touch
every part of the inside with his hands from his seat. She sprang in and
told the man the name of Batiscombe's hotel, promising him anything if
he would drive fast. In six or seven minutes he brought her to the door,
and she told him to wait. She would have dismissed him at once and taken
another to return, but she found herself without money. She could borrow
something from Batiscombe.
He had chanced to tell her the number of his rooms one day, when she was
asking about the hotel, and now she luckily remembered it. Stopping the
first servant she met, she bade him show her the way. One of
Batiscombe's sailors, resplendent in dark-blue serge and a scarlet silk
handkerchief, was seated on a bench outside the door. He was a quick
fellow, and Julius employed him as his body servant. Sailors, he said,
were always cleaner than servants, and much neater.
The man sprang to his feet, saw the anxious expression in Leonora's face
and the general appearance of haste about her, and guessing that he
could not do wrong, opened the door and almost pushed her in, closing it
behind her and confronting the astonished hotel servant with a perfectly
grave face.
Sailors have good memories, especially for people who own boats, and the
man remembered Leonora perfectly well, having helped to row her to
Castellamare, and having raced her crew on the occasion when Batiscombe
had attempted a precipitous flight. In his opinion the Marchesa
Carantoni would not wish to be seen waiting outside his master's door,
whatever might be the errand which brought her in such hot hurry. The
hotel servant grumbled something about the franc he had expected for
bringing the lady up, and the stalwart seaman laughed at him so that he
cursed the whole race of sea-folk, and went away in anger of the
serio-comic, hotel kind.
Leonora found herself in Batiscombe's sitting-room. For Batiscombe was
a luxurious man, excepting when he was roughing it in earnest, and he
had made up his mind of late years that a human being could not exist in
less than two rooms, if he lived in rooms at all.
Leonora had not thought at all, from the moment when she had taken her
resolution in her own drawing-room until she found herself standing
before Julius Batiscombe in the hotel. At such times, women act first
and think afterwards, lest perchance the thinking should interfere with
the doing. But now that the thing was done, she realised at once the
whole importance of the step, and at the same time she understood with
what ease it had been accomplished. She saw how, with one bound, she was
out of her prison, and with the man she loved, and though she was
frightened at the magnitude of the deed, she knew that with him she
should find strength and comfort and happiness. What mattered the past?
She had not seen Julius for a fortnight, and though in that time she
knew that her love had increased tenfold, yet the outline of him had
lost distinctness, and she found him more than ever the man she had
dreamed of, and discovered, and loved. He was one of those men whose
magnificent vitality casts a sort of magnetic influence on their
surroundings, just as Leonora herself sometimes did. When Batiscombe was
away, his faults might be detected and criticised,--his selfishness,
his combativeness, his vanities. But when he was talking to people, and
chose to be agreeable, it was hard not to fall under the spell. He was
so eminently a man of action as well as of thought, that even those who
disliked him most were obliged to confess that he had certain large
qualities,--comforting themselves by describing them as "dangerous," as
perhaps they were, to himself and others.
And now Leonora looked upon him and knew how wholly and truly she loved
him, and how ready she was to sacrifice anything and anybody to her
love, even to herself and her own reputation and honour. With heroic
people that consideration of self might first be thrown to the winds;
but Leonora was not heroic. She was very passionate and sometimes very
foolish, but with all her "higher standard" she believed in the social
regulations and distinctions of life. It was the English part of her
nature, fighting for a show of Philistinism amidst so much that was the
very reverse. It was a strong passion indeed that could make her throw
it all away, or even think such a step possible.
It was not that she had yielded weakly to a first impression of
weariness after her marriage, and had at once begun to amuse herself
with the first man who crossed her path. Weariness alone, the mere
commonplace sensation of being bored, could never have led her to such a
length. A great variety of circumstances had combined to bring about her
destruction. The wild ideas of her girlhood, investing Marcantonio with
just enough romance to make him barely come within the line of her
"standard," but nerved and encouraged by the faculty she possessed for
deceiving herself, had led her into a rash marriage, in which she had
been helped and applauded by all those sensible people who think that
when money and position are combined on both sides, marriage must
necessarily be a good thing. Then followed the bitter disappointment and
collapse of all her theories and hopes, leaving a desperate void and a
certainty of misery, which gathered strength even from the command of
language she had acquired in the study of the imaginary nothingness of
everything. And at the very moment when there seemed nothing before her
but a dreary waste of years, an individual had appeared who realised the
dream she had lost.
And it is indeed a noble quality so long as it is locked close within
the treasury of the soul, and so long as one good woman, and one only,
holds the key. But of all the unutterable baseness in this world, there
is none more despicable than that of the man who makes one woman after
another believe that he loves her to distraction, as he never loved any
one else, well knowing, the while, that if the furies spare him to an
unhonoured old age, it is out of sheer contempt for the blear-eyed
Adonis, shambling weak-kneed to his grave with a flower in his
button-hole and a ghastly leer at the last woman he meets before death
overtakes him.
Leonora was a woman who was probably incapable of a second passion, and
the wholeness of the first might lend it some dignity, some simple
loftiness of disregard for lesser things, making it seem nobler for
being a single sin, sinned bravely for true love's sake. There were such
loves in the world long before Launcelot loved Guinevere, or Héloise was
laid in the grave with Abelard. But the world has no lack of men like
Julius Batiscombe, men in no way worthy of the women who love them, nor
ever able to be worthy.
Leonora had chosen, and she would not have given him up for all the joys
of paradise, any more than she would have believed a word against his
faithfulness and loyalty to herself. He had sworn--how could he deceive
her?
CHAPTER XVII.
When Leonora met her husband at dinner an hour later, her face was set,
for her mind was made up, and every moment hardened her determination.
Julius had said to her "come," and she would go to the very end of the
world if need be. He had stated the case with a show of fairness. She
must fully understand the step, he said, and that there was no return
possible from such an exile as they undertook together. She must abandon
everything, and not only her husband, but her mother, her father, her
position before the world, her whole luxurious, aristocratic existence.
She must rely on his arm alone to support her, and on his love to be her
only comfort and compensation. They must live an isolated life, whether
wandering, or resting in some quiet place where society never came. She
must also take the chance of his being killed by Marcantonio, who would
certainly make an effort to destroy him, and the chance was not small,
considering the provocation. If it happened that he fell, she would
certainly be left alone in the world. This was probably the strongest
argument with her against flight, but it had not weight enough to hold
her back, for she had the pride of a woman who had found a man ready to
fight for her, in these latter days when fighting is so terribly out of
fashion; and she felt in her heart that she should always be able to
prevent an encounter.
The resolution she had made had killed any doubt that might still have
remained as to the ultimate result of her love for Julius. Henceforth it
was her duty to kill doubts in order to be happy; and, indeed, there
were few left, for her love was very sincere and real. But if any should
arise she meant to smother them instantly. And now she remembered every
word her lover had spoken in that brief stolen interview, and she felt
no fear. Her face was set, and she looked defiantly at her husband. A
few hours more, she thought, and she should be free from him, from the
world, from everything--forever.
They would have gone at once, that very minute, but Batiscombe pointed
out that the time was ill chosen. She had been seen to come to the
hotel,--the servant who had shown her up-stairs had noticed her, perhaps
recognised her; in half an hour after the dinner hour she would be
missed at the villa, and they would surely be overtaken on land,
especially as there was no train at that time. Julius said his boat was
moored at the foot of the cliff below the hotel, but it would be
impossible to reach it without being observed by many people, some of
whom might recognise her. There was also no wind, the sea was oily with
a deadly calm, and the full moon, just rising, would make pursuit easy,
for though his boat could beat anything on the coast under canvas, she
was over heavy in the water for his six men to row at any speed.
But at midnight, when the easterly breeze was blowing from the land, he
would be down at the landing of her villa, ready. Marcantonio was always
asleep at that hour, for he rose betimes in the morning and went to bed
early. The dogs? Julius had thought of that, and sending his sailor
servant to the kitchen of the hotel, he obtained in a few minutes a
couple of solid lumps of meat, which he caused to be wrapped in paper
and then tied up in a silk handkerchief for her to carry. She might find
it hard, he said, to get anything of the kind in her own house. She was
fond of animals, and was sure she could manage to quiet the terriers in
a moment if she had something to give them. Besides, they knew her, and
would only bark a very little at first. The moon was full, to be sure,
but that could not be helped. Once on the water, nothing short of steam
could catch them, and that was not available at such short notice. She
should not hamper her flight with unnecessary things, he said, for if
any one were roused she might have to run for her life as far as the
beginning of the descent where he would be in waiting for her. These and
a hundred other little directions he had given her, with the quiet
forethought for details that was part of his remarkable intellect.
And now she sat opposite her husband at their small dinner-table,
looking hard and determined, but listening with more than usual
complacency to his talk, and striving to eat something, as Julius had
instructed her. She made such a good pretence that Marcantonio noticed
it approvingly.
"I am glad to see, my angel," he said, "that you are finding your
appetite again. It is most encouraging."
It was just like his want of tact, thought Leonora. It was just like him
to suppose that she would eat the more because he wanted her to do so,
and watched her! Dieu! What a nuisance to be always watched. It would
soon be over now, however, and she could afford to be indifferent.
"Oddly enough," said she, "I am hungry--I do not know why."
"Does any one know why they are hungry?" said Marcantonio, with a little
laugh. "It happens to me to take much exercise. I rise with the sun, I
walk, I ride, I dispatch my correspondence, I work like a dog--et puis,
at breakfast I eat nothing. No appetite. Good! Another day, I lie in bed
till ten o'clock, rise with a cigarette, read a novel, and--voyez donc,
how droll--I eat, perhaps, for four people. But I have often observed
that, if I eat a mayonnaise at dinner, I have no appetite the next day
at breakfast. It is extremely singular, for the cook makes the
mayonnaise of great delicacy."
What could it possibly matter whether Marcantonio were hungry or not,
or what he ate for dinner? But Leonora was glad to have him say
anything, so that she might be spared the effort of talking.
"It is true," she said, absently, "his mayonnaise is not bad."
She hoped he would go on; it was an easy, neutral subject--of many
ingredients, concerning each of which it would be possible to differ and
to raise a fresh discussion.
"Apropos," said Marcantonio, "the gardener's boy cut his finger very
badly this afternoon"--
"Apropos of mayonnaise?" Leonora could not help asking the question. His
conversation was so absurd.
"Ma foi! mayonnaise--vegetables--gardens--gardeners and the gardener's
boy--all that holds together. As I was saying, he cut his finger, and I
sent your maid to get something to bind it with."
"I hope she did not take one of my lace handkerchiefs," remarked
Leonora. "It would be just like her."
"It was not lace, I am sure," said Marcantonio, with an air of
conviction, as he helped himself to the salad which Temistocle handed
him. "But it looked very new. I hope she made no mistake."
The comic side of the situation suddenly forced itself on Leonora, as it
often will happen with people on the eve of great danger. A lackey in
Paris once danced a jig on the scaffold before he was broken on the
wheel. Leonora laughed aloud.
"Would it amuse you, for instance," inquired Marcantonio with a puzzled
look, "to have a good handkerchief destroyed to tie up the boy's
finger?"
It seemed so funny to Leonora to think that on the morrow her entire
stock of handkerchiefs would be at the disposal of all the gardeners in
Sorrento if they chanced to cut their fingers.
"No--not that," she said. "It is so odd that you should take so much
trouble about it--or care."
"Poor people," said Marcantonio, "one must do what one can for them."
And so their last conversation tottered to its end in a round of
domestic triviality, so that Leonora wondered how she could have borne
it so long. But, in truth, Marcantonio was so much afraid of rousing her
opposition that evening, after the scene that had taken place, that he
purposely avoided every intelligent subject, and did violence to his own
preference for the sake of keeping the peace. He liked to talk politics,
he liked to talk of Rome, of society, of a hundred things, but of late
he had found it very hard to talk peaceably about anything.
After dinner Marcantonio smoked, and Leonora sat beside him, with a
little worsted work which she did with a huge ivory needle. Her heart
beat fast as the hour approached when she must part from her husband.
She glanced at him from time to time, sitting there so unsuspecting of
any surprise, with his cigarette and his "Fanfulla," the witty Roman
paper that amused him so much. His delicate, dark features, a little
weak perhaps, looked handsome enough in the lamplight, and Leonora
thought for a moment that she had never seen him look so well. She was
already so far from him in her thoughts that she regarded him as from a
distance, with a certain abstracted consideration of his merits that was
new to her. Poor Marcantonio! A certain curiosity, which would have been
pity if she had allowed it, came over her. She wondered how he would
look when she was gone. Ten o'clock--two hours to midnight, and he never
saw her before nine in the morning now. Nine and two were eleven. In
eleven hours he must know--unless something happened. Would he rage and
storm, like a wild beast? Or would he break down and shed tears?
Neither, she thought. He did not love her--he was only jealous. Heavens!
thought she, if Julius had been in his position, and he in Julius's,
could things have ever got to this pass without some fearful outbreak?
Ah no! Julius was so hot-tempered and strong. Her thoughts went away
with her, and she heaved a quick short breath, suddenly interrupted in
the recollection of where she was. Marcantonio looked round.
"What is it, my dear?" he asked.
"Nothing--I was going to sneeze," said Leonora with a ready excuse.
"There is too much air," said he, rising and going toward the window.
He looked out for a moment. The first breath of the easterly wind was
coming over the mountains and just stirring a ripple on the moonlit bay.
It had rained early in the afternoon, and they had sat indoors on
account of the dampness. Marcantonio sniffed the breeze, said it was
damp, and closed the window.
"It must be late," said he. "En vérité, it is twenty minutes to eleven!
I should not have thought it."
Leonora's heart beat fast.
"I suppose it is time to go to bed," she said, with enough indifference
to escape notice.
Marcantonio had not enjoyed the evening much, and was sleepy. Leonora
moved slowly about the room, touching a book here and a photograph there
as though to make the room comfortable for the night. Some women always
do it. Her blood was throbbing wildly--the last strong effort of
conscience was upon her. A great pity sprang up in her--a terrible
regret--a horror of great evil. Her resolutions, her love, her
determination to fly, her better self, all struggled and reeled
furiously together. She felt an irresistible impulse to throw herself at
her husband's feet, to confess everything, to implore his protection,
and forgiveness, and help. She turned towards him suddenly. He was in
the act of ringing the bell.
The sharp tinkle, sounding from far away through the open doors of the
house, checked her when she was on the very point of speaking. Almost
instantly, the quick tread of the servant was heard. He came, and the
supreme moment was over. The reality of her situation returned, and with
it the hardness it needed. The man had the candles ready in his hands,
and stood waiting to accompany Leonora to her door.
"Good-night, Marcantoine," said she, holding out her hand.
It was cold and clammy with intense excitement, and her face was pale to
the lips.
"Good-night, my angel," said he, touching his lips to her fingers, and
she passed from him. Just beyond the door she turned and looked back,
with a touch of sadness.
"Good-night," she said once more, faintly--for the last, the very last
time.
When Marcantonio was alone, he took his newspapers, and one or two
letters which had come by the late post, he looked carefully round the
room, to see that he had forgotten nothing, as he had a bad habit of
doing, and he marched gloomily off to his room, which was beyond
Leonora's, and separated from hers by her sitting-room. Her
dressing-room was on the other side of her bedroom, and had a separate
door, opening upon the head of the stairs.
As soon as Leonora had dismissed her maid for the night, she began to
make her preparations. She had a large silk bag, of many colours, made
like an old-fashioned purse, with heavy silver rings. She used it for
carrying her work, her books, or anything she needed when she went into
the garden to spend the morning. It seemed the best thing to take with
her now, for it would hold a good deal and was convenient. She filled it
with handkerchiefs, bottles of eau-de-cologne, and hairpins, and she put
in a tiny looking-glass in a silver case, which she had used all her
life. It was of no use to think of taking anything else, she thought,
since she must carry it all in her hand. Then she went over her jewels
and took her own, carefully setting aside all that her husband had given
her. She tied them up in a handkerchief with two hard knots,--the best
she knew how to make,--and she put them into the bag with the rest of
the things. Then she found her purse, and put into it all the money she
had, for it was her own, and she thought she might as well have it,--and
there was her cheque-book in the drawer of the writing-table. Of course
she could draw her own money just as well when--she did not finish the
sentence to herself.
Presently she went into the sitting-room, and listened at the small side
door which opened into Marcantonio's bedroom. She had taken an hour over
her preparations; it was half past eleven, and he was asleep,--she heard
his regular breathing distinctly. The full moon shone outside upon the
gravel walks, and the orange-trees, and the soft wind was blowing
steadily through the open windows. She paused one moment before she went
back, and she looked out at the scene, so sweet and peaceful in the
ivory moonlight. Far off in the town the clocks struck the half hour.
Julius must be already on the water, perhaps near the landing. She
hastened to her room, treading on tiptoe; her maid had left her in her
loose white peignoir; she must dress again, and dress quickly, or she
would be late.
It did not take long,--though she put the candle before her glass, and
dallied a little with a ribbon and a pin. The dress was soft and dark,
fitting closely to her figure. In reality she had selected it because it
had a pocket,--that would be such a convenient thing on a journey. A
hat--yes, she must have a hat, for of course they must land somewhere,
though a veil would be more convenient in the wind.
There was a great vase of carnations, gathered that day, that stood on a
little table by the window. At the last minute, Leonora stopped and took
one. She went back to the glass with the candle in her hand, and pinned
the flower in her dress, eying the effect critically. They were the
flowers he loved best,--it was an afterthought, and would please him.
She was ready, the bag hung over her arm, the package of meat for the
dogs in one hand, and a candle in the other. She blew out the remaining
lights as the clocks struck midnight, put the one she carried upon a
chair by the door, while she softly turned the latch, looked out
cautiously, and left the room. Once out of the passage and on the
stairs, she had no fear of being heard, and she descended rapidly. One
moment more and she was in the open air. The front door closed behind
her. Something touched her feet, and, looking down, she saw that the
white kitten had followed her out; she had not noticed it, poor thing,
and she could not risk opening the door again to put it back.
She glanced out into the moonlight from beneath the porch, and she was
frightened. It was only a step--a minute's run, if she ran fast, to the
beginning of the passage--but she hesitated and hung back. Oh, if the
last step were not so hard! If Julius had only met her at the door
instead of being down there--but he was even now at the head of the
steps. She realised his presence, and the garden was no longer a
solitude--she was not alone any more. The kitten mewed discontentedly.
She bethought herself of the dogs, picked up the little beast, and moved
quickly down the walk, running faster as she neared the end.
Her running on the path roused the terriers, prowling about among the
shrubbery in the warm night, and they sprang upon her not ten yards from
the mouth of the descent, barking furiously and snapping at her dress.
She dropped the parcel of meat instantly, but they did not see it at
once, and pursued her. In one moment more she was lifted from the ground
and held firmly in the mighty grasp of the strong man who stood ready,
and had run forward to meet her when the dogs sprang out. But, in the
quick act, the kitten fell to the ground almost between the enraged
terriers.
It was over in a minute. One frantic, piteous death-scream and the poor
little white cat lay dead on the gravel path, and the terriers sniffed
her little body disdainfully, as though congratulating each other on
their brave deed.
"Oh, Julius, they have killed my kitten!" cried Leonora in real
distress. They were already under the archway, and Batiscombe was urging
her to descend, but she clung to him, and stared back into the moonlight
at the dogs and her dead pet.
Julius himself was enraged at the thing--it was so wantonly cruel.
"Run on," said he, in a whisper; "I will settle them." He had reflected
quickly that they had only barked for a moment, and that any one who
heard them must have heard the cat also and would have taken no notice
of the noise.
At that very moment Marcantonio turned on his pillow, and, half waking,
swore to himself, as he had done every night of his life for weeks, that
he would send the dogs away in the morning. But all was still, and he
fell asleep again instantly.
Julius went back upon the path, and the terriers growled, still scenting
their vanquished prey. But he moved quickly and softly, speaking gently
to them in a low voice, and holding out his hand to them. He had a sort
of influence over animals, and they let him come close, pricking their
ears and sniffing about his legs. Suddenly, as they smelled at his
boots, he caught them by their necks in an iron grip, one in each hand,
and held them up at arm's length, struggling frantically, but utterly
incapable of making a sound.
"You killed her cat, did you, you brutes?" he muttered, savagely. "I
will kill you."
He broke their necks, one after the other, and threw their quivering
bodies far out under the orange-trees.
Leonora had watched him from the archway. She shuddered.
"They will not bark any more," said Julius, as he came to her.
"What strong hands you have!" she said.
A window opened, up in the house, a hundred yards away. Batiscombe's
quick ear caught the sound.
"Come, sweetheart," he whispered; "some one is stirring."
His arm was round her as he guided her down the first steps, tenderly
and strongly. She stumbled a little.
"Oh, Julius, I am so frightened!" she said piteously.
He stopped and took her off the ground as though she had been a child,
and bore her swiftly and surely through the dark way. She could see his
fiery blue eyes in the gloom, and in the flashes of white light as they
passed the windows and arches where the moon streamed in, and as she
looked she could feel her own grow big and dark; and she was frightened
and very happy. But she thought of that strange thing she had
dreamed--this very flight of hers exactly as it was to happen, so that
she hid her face against his coat and clung to him nervously.
"Put me down," she cried earnestly, as they emerged upon the flat rock
of the landing, "put me down, Julius,--I dreamed you fell here."
He obeyed her, and set her on her feet, still supporting her with his
arm about her waist. One passionate kiss--only one--and then they came
out from the shadow of the high cliff, and saw the boat riding lightly
in the moonlight, two sailors holding her off the rocks, and the rest
busy on board with the sails. The water plashed musically in the little
hollows, and from near by there came a deep, mysterious murmur out of
the many dark caves that lined the shore.
Leonora stepped lightly in, and Julius arranged the cushions about her
carefully. Neither of them spoke. With a few strong strokes of the oars
the boat shot out into the breeze from the lee of the gorge. The
foresail was already set, and jib and mainsail went up in a moment, wing
and wing, the tapering, lateen-yards pointing to right and left, like
the horns of a great, soft, white moth; the water rippled at the stern,
and curled up and lapped the rudder as the sails filled, and ever
swiftly and more swiftly the craft rushed down the bay in the glorious
moonlight, before the steady east wind.
Julius held the tiller with one hand, and the other lovingly supported
Leonora's head against his breast, as she lay along the cushions in the
stern.
"Darling," he said presently, "what was the dream about my falling at
the landing? You never told me."
She did not answer, but lay quite still.
"Dear one," he murmured, bending down, "are you so tired?
Leonora--sweetheart--speak to me!"
But the strain had been too strong, and Leonora lay in his arms, whiter
than death under the white moon, unconscious of Julius or of the sea.
Julius saw that she had fainted.
CHAPTER XVIII.
At half past eight on the following morning Temistocle found Leonora's
maid at the door of her mistress's room with an expression of blank
astonishment on her face that made him laugh. He often laughed, quietly,
without the least noise.
"You look exactly like a lay figure in a milliner's shop," he remarked.
"Except, indeed, that you look much more stupid."
The maid glared at him.
"The signora"--she began, and then trembled and looked round timidly.
"What about her?" inquired Temistocle, pricking up his ears.
The maid let her voice drop to a low whisper.
"She is not there," said she.
"Ebbene," said Temistocle with a grin, "what has happened to you? She is
probably gone out--gone to church. A good place for heretics, too."
"Macchè," whispered the woman, "she has not slept in her bed, and
everything is upside down in the room."
"May the devil carry you off!" said Temistocle, suddenly changing his
voice, and whispering hoarsely. "Let me see--let me pass." He put down
the can of hot water he was taking to his master, and pushed past the
maid, into Leonora's bedroom.
"Bada," said the woman, going after him cautiously, "take care! The
signore might come in and find you."
"What harm is there?" asked the servant. And then he made a careful
survey of the premises, locking all the doors except the one by which
they had entered.
"It is true, what you said," he remarked, pushing the maid out of the
room. "An apoplexy on these foreigners who go away without telling one.
Fuori! Go along with you, my child. Ci penso io--I will look after all
this." And he locked the door behind him, put the key in his pocket, and
took up his water-can.
"What are you doing?" asked the maid. Temistocle had seen a chance, and
took it.
"Look here," said he, rubbing the thumb and forefinger of his hand
together before the girl's eyes,--which means "money" in gesture
language--"look here. The signore accompanied the signora to the early
train from Castellamare this morning at half past four. They had a hired
carriage. She went away and forgot her jewels on the table. She is gone
to Rome on business,--they were talking about it last night. Do you
understand?"
"No," answered the woman looking puzzled, "you said she had gone out"--
"I said so to you," he answered with a sly grin, "but I will not say so
to any one else, nor you either. Remember that she went to Rome this
morning. It will be worth your while to remember that."
The woman smiled a cunning smile. She had hated her mistress, and would
have liked to make a scandal before all the other servants, but
Temistocle's advice would be more profitable. So they arranged the
matter between them and parted.
Marcantonio was seated at his writing-table when Temistocle entered. He
always got up very early, and did a great many things before he dressed.
Temistocle busied himself a moment about the room, and when he was ready
to go he came to the table and laid the key he had taken from Leonora's
door at his master's elbow.
"What is that?" asked Marcantonio, looking up.
"It is the key of the Signora Marchesa's bedroom, eccellenza," answered
Temistocle, edging away toward the door. "Her excellency must have gone
away very early, and she left her room open and all her jewelry strewed
about. So I locked the doors and brought you the key."
He was very near the door and could escape in a moment.
But Marcantonio did not move; his jaw dropped, and his colour changed to
a yellow waxen hue, which terrified the servant. But he did not move.
Temistocle continued.
"I told the servants not to be astonished, as you had accompanied the
Signora Marchesa to the early train for Rome before daybreak," he said,
putting his hand on the latch.
Marcantonio made as though he would rise. Temistocle slipped nimbly
through the door and closed it behind him, running away as though the
police were after him. But he knew that when Carantoni had recovered, he
would be amply rewarded for his wisdom. It often chances that villains
play a good and sensible part in life, which is quite as profitable as
villainy, and is always safer.
Marcantonio struggled to rise, and at last got upon his feet, staggering
like a man stunned by a physical blow. The door to Leonora's
sitting-room was open, but, beyond, the one to her bedroom was locked.
He had to go round by the passage, feeling his way as though he were
blind. At last he found the lock,--the key turned, and he entered.
It was just as she had left it. The white peignoir she had taken off
when she dressed for her flight lay in a heap upon the floor where she
had thrown it in her haste. The dismal, half-burned candles stood on the
dressing-table. The drawer from which she had taken the handkerchiefs
was half open. The windows were thrown back, and the blinds had not been
closed, so that the strong glare of the morning poured rudely in on the
confusion, and the flies buzzed about the scented soap and the bottle of
lavender and the pot of carnations in the corner.
Marcantonio dragged himself from one part of the room to another till he
stumbled against the table on which Leonora had left her scattered
jewelry,--all the things he had given her. He stood staring down at the
glittering gold and precious stones, unconsciously realising that they
were all his presents that she had left behind her. There was a strange
old Maltese cross of diamonds and sapphires among them, mounted in
silver. It had belonged to his mother, and he had given it to Leonora
with other things when he married her. His eyes fastened upon it, and
his hand crept across the table and took it.
He raised it to his white lips and kissed it once--twice; he would have
kissed it again, but the bow of his strength was bent too far and
snapped asunder. With a short, fierce cry he threw up his hands, and
fell prostrate on the smooth tiled floor, as a dead man might have
fallen.
He lay entirely unconscious for hours, so that when he at last came to
himself and struggled to move till he could sit up and stare about him,
the midday sun was pouring in, and the flies angrily tormented his
ghastly face, as though in derision of anything so miserable. For some
minutes he sat upon the floor, dazed and stupid with the oppression of
returning grief, as well as stunned from the physical pain resulting
from his fall. He was not hurt seriously, but he was bruised and weak.
At last he got to his feet, steadying himself by the table. He would
not see what was about him any more, for he knew it all, and the full
consciousness of his misfortune was on him. He regained his own room,
carefully locking Leonora's door behind him, and taking with him his
mother's diamond cross.
But the mere sense of grief could not long hold the mastery with a man
like Marcantonio. He had loved his wife too well not to resent the
injury and scorn, as well as weep over it. As he pondered, lying on his
bed, there arose in his breast a desperate and concentrated anger
against the man who had deprived him of what he best loved in the world,
the anger of a mind that has never reasoned much about anything, and
will carry unreason to any length when it comes. He must find his enemy;
that was the principal thought in his mind. That he would kill him when
he found him was a conclusion that seemed a matter of course.
But, in order to find him, it was necessary to move, to search, and turn
everything over. He turned on his pillow, feeling the first restless
stirrings of the demon that would by and by give him no peace by day or
night till the man was found and the blow struck. He turned over and
rang a bell by his bedside.
"Give me some coffee, and order the carriage," he said to the servant.
At the end of an hour, he found himself in the town, and inquired for
Batiscombe. It seemed as though fate favoured Carantoni at the outset,
for he found his name at once on the register of the hotel, and found
also the man who had waited on Julius. This servant had been told that a
lady had come in great haste soon after seven on the previous evening,
and had stayed more than half an hour. As soon as she was gone, Mr.
Batiscombe had sent for his bill and had ordered his boat to be ready at
eleven,--the servant had heard the order. The man guessed there was
something wrong from Marcantonio's face, but Batiscombe's sudden
departure had excited no remark. He had arrived late at night in his
boat, as many people had done, and as the moon was full it was natural
enough that he should sail away as he had come. People arrive
continually at Sorrento in yachts, and no one takes any notice of them.
His luggage? Yes, he had taken most of his things with him, except one
large box, which he had ordered to be sent to Turin. It had gone to
Castellamare at once. Mr. Batiscombe had been in the hotel before. He
was a very good signore.
At this hint Marcantonio gave the man a heavy fee. Did he happen to know
the address on the box? There was no address, except his name. The box
was to be left at Turin until called for. It was to go by fast train,
and Mr. Batiscombe had left money to pay for its carriage in advance.
Mr. Batiscombe paid his bills by cheques on a banker in Rome.
