was lodged, for he spent the livelong day under the sky, 
on the crest of a slope that looked at the Jungfrau. He 
remembered all this on leaving Florence with his friends, 
and he reflected that, as the midseason was over, accommodations would be more ample and charges more modest. 
He communicated with his old friend the landlord, and 
while September was yet young his companions estab 
lished themselves under his guidance in the grassy valley. 
He had crossed the Saint Gothard Pass with them in 
the same vehicle. During the journey from Florence, 
and especially during this portion of it, the cloud that 
hung over the little party had been almost dissipated, 
and they had looked at each other, in the close intimacy 
of the train and the posting carriage, without either 
retributive or argumentative glances. It was impossible 
not to enjoy the magnificent scenery of the Apennines 
and the Italian Alps, and there was a tacit agreement 
among the travellers to abstain from sombre allusions. 
The effect of this delicate compact seemed excellent ; it 
ensured them a week 's intellectual sunshine. Roderick 
sat and gazed out of the windpw with a fascinated stare, 
and with a perfect docility of attitude. He concerned 
himself not a particle about the itinerary or about any 
of the wayside arrangements ; he took no trouble and 
he gave none. He assented to everything that was pro 
posed, talked very little, and led for a week a perfectly 
contemplative life. His mother rarely removed her eyes 
 
from him ; and if a while before this would greatly have 
irritated him, he now seemed perfectly unconscious of 
her observation, and profoundly indifferent to anything 
that might befall him. They spent a couple of days 
on the Lake of Como, at an hotel with white porticoes 
smothered in oleander and myrtle, and terrace steps lead 
ing down to little boats with striped awnings. They 
agreed it was the earthly paradise, and they passed the 
mornings strolling through the cedarn alleys of classic 
villas, and the evenings floating in the moonlight in a 
circle of outlined mountains, to the music of silver-trickling oars. One day, in the afternoon, the two young 
men took a long stroll together. They followed the 
winding footway that led towards Como, close to the 
lake side, past the gates of villas and the walls of vine 
yards, through little hamlets propped on a dozen arches, 
and bathing their feet and their pendent tatters in the 
gray -green ripple ; past frescoed walls and crumbling 
campaniles and grassy village piazzas and the mouth of 
soft ravines that wound upward through belts of swinging vine and vaporous olive and splendid chestnut, to 
high ledges where white chapels gleamed amid the paler 
boskage, and bare cliff surfaces, with their blistered lips, 
drank in the liquid light. It all was consummately 
picturesque ; it was the Italy that we know from the 
steel engravings in old keepsakes and annuals, from 
the vignettes on music sheets and the drop-curtains at 
theatres ; an Italy that we can never confess ourselves 
in spite of our own changes and of Italy 's that we 
have ceased to believe. Rowland and Roderick turned 
aside from the little paved footway that clambered and 
dipped and wound and doubled beside the lake, and 
stretched themselves idly beneath a fig-tree on a grassy 
promontory. Rowland had never known anything so 
divinely soothing as the dreamy softness of that early 
autumn afternoon. The iridescent mountains shut him 
in ; the little waves beneath him fretted the white pebbles 
 
at the laziest intervals ; the festooned vines above him 
swayed just visibly in the all but motionless air. 
Roderick lay observing it all with his arms thrown 
back and his hands under his head. "This suits me," 
he said ; I could be happy here and forget everything. 
Why not stay here for ever?" He kept his position for 
a long time, and seemed lost in his thoughts. Rowland 
spoke to him, but he made vague answers ; at last he 
closed his eyes. It seemed to Rowland also a place to 
stay in for ever ; a place for perfect oblivion of the 
disagreeable. Suddenly Roderick turned over on his 
face and buried it in his arms. There had been some 
thing passionate in his movement ; but Rowland was 
nevertheless surprised when he at last jerked himself 
back into a sitting posture, to perceive the trace of tears 
in his eyes. Roderick turned to his friend, stretching 
his two hands out towards the lake and mountains, and 
shaking them with an eloquent gesture, as if his heart 
had been too full for utterance. 
" Pity me, my friend ; pity me !" he presently cried. 
Look at this lovely world, and think what it must be 
to be dead to it ! " 
"Dead?" said Rowland. 
" Dead, dead ; dead and buried ! Buried in an open 
grave, where you lie staring up at the sailing clouds, 
smelling the waving flowers, and hearing all nature live 
and grow above you ! That 's the way I feel ! " 
"I am glad to hear it," said Rowland. "Death of 
that sort is very near to resurrection." 
"It 's too horrible," Roderick went on; "it has all 
come over me here ! If I were not ashamed I could 
shed a bushel of tears. For one hour of what I have 
been I would give up anything I may be !" 
"Never mind what you have been; be something 
better ! " 
" I shall never be anything again ; it 's no use talking ! 
But I don 't know what secret spring has been touched 
since I have lain here. Something in my heart seems 
suddenly to open and let in a flood of beauty and desire. 
I know what I have lost, and I think it horrible ! Mind 
you, I know it, I feel it ! Remember that hereafter. 
Don 't say that he was stupefied and senseless ; that his 
perception was dulled, and his aspiration dead. Say that 
he trembled in every nerve with a sense of the beauty 
and sweetness of life ; that he rebelled, and protested, 
and struggled ; that he was buried alive, with his eyes 
open, and his heart beating to madness ; that he clung 
to every blade of grass and every wayside thorn as he 
passed ; that it was the most pitiful spectacle you ever 
beheld ; that it was a scandal, an outrage, a murder ! " 
"Good heavens, man, are you insane?" Rowland 
cried. 
" I have never been saner. I don 't want to be bad 
company, and in this beautiful spot, at this delightful 
hour, it seems an outrage to break the charm. But I 
am bidding farewell to Italy, to beauty, to honour, to 
life I I only want to assure you that I know what I 
lose. I know it in every pulse of my heart ! Here, 
where these things are all loveliest, I take leave of them. 
Good-bye, charming world ! " 
During their passage of the Saint Gothard Roderick 
absented himself much of the time from the carriage, and 
rambled far in advance, along the zigzags of the road. 
He displayed an extraordinary activity ; his light weight 
and slender figure made him an excellent pedestrian, and 
his friends frequently saw him skirting the edge of plunging chasms, loosening the stones on long steep slopes, or 
lifting himself against the sky from the top of rocky 
pinnacles. Mary Garland walked a great deal, but she 
remained near the carriage to be with Mrs. Hudson. 
Rowland remained near it to be with Mrs. Hudson 's 
companion. He trudged by her side up that magnificent 
ascent from Italy, and found himself regretting that the 
Alps were so low, and that their trudging was not to 
 
last a week. She was exhilarated; she liked to walk ; 
in the way of mountains, until within the last few weeks, 
she had seen nothing greater than Mount Holyoke, and 
she found that the Alps amply justified their reputation. 
Rowland knew that she loved natural things, but he was 
struck afresh with the vivacity of her observation of them, 
and with her knowledge of plants and rocks. At that 
season the wild flowers had mostly departed, but a few 
of them lingered, and Mary never failed to espy them in 
their outlying corners. They interested her greatly ; she 
was charmed when they were old friends, and charmed 
even more when they were new. She displayed a very 
light foot in going in quest of them, and had soon covered 
the front seat of the carriage with a tangle of strange 
vegetation. Rowland, of course, was alert in her service, 
and he gathered for her several botanical specimens, which 
at first seemed inaccessible. One of these indeed had at 
first appeared easier of capture than his attempt attested, 
and he had paused a moment at the base of the little 
peak on which it grew, measuring the risk of farther 
pursuit. Suddenly as he stood there he remembered 
Roderick 's defiance of danger and of Christina Light, 
at the Coliseum, and he was seized with a strong desire 
to test the courage of his own companion. She had 
just scrambled up a grassy slope near him, and had seen 
that the flower was out of reach. As he prepared to 
approach it she called to him eagerly to stop ; the thing 
was impossible ! Poor Rowland, whose passion had been 
terribly underfed, enjoyed immensely the thought of 
having her care for three minutes what should become 
of him. He was the least brutal of men, but for a 
moment he was perfectly indifferent to her suffering. 
" I can get the flower," he called to her. " Will you 
trust me?" 
" I don 't want it ; I would rather not have it ! " she 
cried. 
"Will you trust me?" he repeated, looking at her. 
She looked at him, and then at the flower ; he 
wondered whether she would shriek and swoon as Chris 
tina had done. "I wish it were something better!" 
she said, simply ; and then stood watching him while he 
began to clamber. Rowland was not a trained acrobat, 
and his enterprise was difficult ; but he kept his wits 
about him, made the most of narrow footholds and 
coigns of vantage, and at last secured his prize. He 
managed to stick it into his button-hole, and then he 
contrived to descend. There was more than one chance 
for an ugly fall, but he evaded them all. It was doubt 
less not gracefully done, but it was done, and that was 
all he had proposed to himself. He was red in the face 
when he offered Mary the flower, and she was visibly 
pale. She had watched him without moving. All this 
had passed without the knowledge of Mrs. Hudson, who 
was dozing beneath the hood of the carriage. Mary 's 
eyes did not perhaps display that ardent admiratior 
which was formerly conferred by the queen of beauty at 
a tournament ; but they expressed something in which 
Rowland found his reward. "Why did you do that? * 
she asked, gravely. 
He hesitated. He felt that it was physically possible 
to say, " Because I love you ! " but it was not morally 
possible. He lowered his pitch and answered simply, 
" Because I wanted to do something for you." 
" Suppose you had fallen?" 
" I believed I should not fall. And you believed it, I 
think." 
"I believed nothing. I simply trusted you, as you 
asked me." 
" Quod erat demonstrandum /" cried Rowland. "I 
think you know Latin." 
When our four friends were established in what I have 
called their grassy valley, there was a good deal of scrambling over slopes both grassy and stony, a good deal of 
flower-plucking on narrow ledges, a great many long 
 
walks, and, thanks to the tonic mountain air, not a little 
exhilaration. Mrs. Hudson was obliged to intermit her 
suspicions of the deleterious atmosphere of the Old World, 
and to acknowledge the superior purity of the breezes of 
Engelthal. She was certainly more placid than she had 
been in Italy ; having always lived in the country, she 
had missed in Rome and Florence that social solitude, 
mitigated by bushes and rock, which is so dear to the 
true New England temperament. The little unpainted 
inn at Engelthal, with its plank partitions, its milk-pans 
standing in the sun, its "help," in the form of angular 
young women of the country-side, reminded her of places 
of summer sojourn in her native land ; and the beautiful 
historic chambers of the Villa Pandolfini passed from her 
memory without a regret, and without having in the least 
modified her ideal of a satisfactory habitation. Roderick 
had changed his sky, but he had not changed his mind ; 
his humour was still that of which he had given Rowland 
a glimpse in that sharp outbreak on the Lake of Como. 
He kept his despair to himself, and he went doggedly 
about the ordinary business of life ; but it was easy to see 
that his spirit was mortally heavy, and that he lived and 
moved and talked simply from the force of habit. In 
that sad half-hour among the Italian olives there had 
been such a fierce sincerity in his tone that Rowland began 
to abdicate the critical attitude. He began to feel that 
it was perfectly idle to appeal to his comrade 's will ; there 
was no will left ; its place was a mocking vacancy. This 
view of the case indeed was occasionally contravened by 
certain indications on Roderick 's part of the surviving 
faculty of resistance to disagreeable obligation : one might 
still have said, if one had been disposed to be didactic at 
any hazard, that there was a method in his madness, that 
his moral energy had its sleeping and its waking hours, 
and that in an attractive cause it was capable of rising 
with the dawn. But, on the other hand, pleasure in this 
case was quite at one with effort j evidently the greatest 
bliss in life for Roderick would have been an inspiration. 
And then it was impossible not to feel tenderly to a 
despair which had so ceased to be aggressive not to 
forgive much apathy to a temper which had turned its 
rough side inward. Roderick said frankly that Switzer 
land made him less miserable than Italy, and the Alps 
seemed less to mock at his idle hands than the Apennines. 
He indulged in long rambles, generally alone, and was 
very fond of climbing into dizzy places where no sound 
could overtake him, and there, flinging himself on the 
never-trodden moss, of pulling his hat over his eyes and 
lounging away the hours in perfect immobility. Row 
land sometimes walked with him ; though Roderick never 
invited him he seemed properly grateful for his society. 
Rowland now made it a rule to treat him as a perfectly 
sane man, to assume that all things were well with him, 
and never to allude to the prosperity he had parted with 
or to the work he was not doing. He would have still 
said, had you questioned him, that Roderick 's condition 
was only a lugubrious interlude. It might last yet for 
many a weary hour ; but it was a long lane that had no 
turning. Rowland 's interest in Mary 's relations with her 
cousin was still a very lively one, and perplexed as he 
was on all sides he found nothing penetrable here. After 
their arrival at Engelthal, Roderick appeared to care for 
the young girl 's society rather more than he had done 
hitherto, and of this revival of ardour Rowland could not 
fail to make a note. They sat together and strolled 
together, and she often read aloud to him. One day on 
their coming to lunch, after he had been lying half the 
morning at her feet, in the shadow of a rock, Rowland 
asked him what she had been reading. 
"I don 't know," Roderick said, "I don 't heed 
the sense." Mary heard this, and Rowland looked 
at her. She looked at Roderick sharply, and with 
a little blush. "I listen to Mary," Roderick con 
tinued, "for the sake of her voice. It 's stupefyingly 
 
sweet !" At this Mary 's blush deepened, and she 
looked away. 
Rowland, in Florence, as we know, had suffered his 
imagination to wander in the direction of certain con 
jectures which the reader may deem unflattering to her 
constancy. He had asked himself whether her faith in 
Roderick had not languished, and that demand of hers 
which had brought about his own departure for Switzer 
land had seemed almost equivalent to a confession that 
she needed his help to be constant. Rowland was 
essentially a modest man, and he did not risk the supposition that Maiy had contrasted him with Roderick to 
his own advantage ; but he had a certain consciousness 
of duty resolutely done which allowed itself to fancy at 
moments that it might be not unnaturally rewarded by 
the bestowal of such stray grains of enthusiasm as had 
crumbled away from her estimate of his companion. If 
some day she had declared in a sudden burst of passion 
that she was completely disillusioned, and that she gave 
up her recreant lover, Rowland 's expectation would have 
gone half-way to meet her. And certainly, if her passion 
had taken this course, no generous critic would utterly 
condemn her. She had been neglected, ignored, forsaken, 
treated with a contempt which no girl of a fine temper 
could endure. There were girls, indeed, whose fineness, 
like that of Burd Helen in the ballad, lay in clinging to 
the man of their love through thick and thin, and in bowing their head to all hard usage. This attitude had often 
an exquisite beauty of its own, but Rowland thought that 
he had solid reason to believe it never could be Mary 
Garland 's. She was not a passive creature ; she was not 
soft and meek, and grateful for chance bounties. With 
all her reserve of manner she was proud and eager ; she 
asked much and she wanted what she asked ; she be 
lieved in fine things, and she never could long persuade 
herself that fine things missed were as beautiful as fine 
things achieved. Once Rowland passed an angry day. 
 
He had dreamed it was the most unsubstantial of dreams 
that she had given him the right to believe that she 
looked to him to transmute her discontent. And yet, 
here she was, throwing herself back into Roderick 's arms 
at his lightest overture, and betraying his own half fear 
ful, half shameful hopes ! Rowland declared to himself 
that his position was detestable, and that all the philosophy he could bring to bear upon it would make it 
neither honourable nor comfortable. He would go away 
and make an end of it. He did not go away ; he simply 
took a long walk, stayed away from the inn all day, and 
on his return found Mary sitting out in the moonlight 
with Roderick. 
Rowland, communing with himself during the restless 
ramble in question, had determined that he would at last 
cease to observe, to heed, or to care for, what these two 
young persons might do or might not do together. 
Nevertheless some three days afterwards, the opportunity 
presenting itself, he deliberately broached the subject 
with Roderick. He knew this was inconsistent and 
faint-hearted ; it was an indulgence to the fingers that 
itched to handle forbidden fruit. But he said to himself 
that it was really more logical to return to the question 
than to drop it, for they had formerly discussed these 
mysteries very sharply. Was it not perfectly reasonable 
that he should wish to know the sequel of the situation 
which Roderick had then delineated ? Roderick had 
made him promises, and it was to be expected that he 
should wish to ascertain how the promises had been 
kept. Rowland could not say to himself that if the 
promises had been extorted for Maiy 's sake, his present 
attention to them was equally disinterested ; and so he 
had to admit that he was indeed faint-hearted. He 
may perhaps be deemed too rigid a casuist, but I have 
repeated more than once that he was solidly burdened 
with a conscience. 
" I imagine," he said to Roderick, " that you are not 
 
sorry at present to have allowed yourself to be dissuaded 
from putting an end to your affair with your cousin. " 
Roderick eyed him with the vague and absent look 
which had lately become habitual to his face, and repeated 
"Dissuaded?" 
" Don 't you remember that in Rome you wished to 
break off your engagement, and that I urged you to hold 
to it, though it seemed to hang by so slender a thread ? 
I wished you to see what would come of it. If I am not 
mistaken you are now reconciled to it." 
"Oh yes," said Roderick, "I remember what you 
said ; you made it a kind of personal favour to yourself 
that I should remain faithful. I consented, but afterwards, when I thought of it, your attitude greatly amused 
me. Had it ever been seen before? a man asking 
another man to gratify him by not suspending his atten 
tions to a pretty girl !" 
"It was as selfish as anything else," said Rowland. 
"One man puts his selfishness into one thing, and one 
into another. It would have been a great bore to me to 
see your cousin in low spirits." 
" But you liked her you admired her, eh? So you 
intimated." 
" I admire her extremely." 
" It was your originality, then to do you justice you 
have a great deal of a certain sort to wish her happiness 
secured in just that fashion. Many a man would have 
liked better himself to make the woman he admired 
happy, and would have welcomed her low spirits as an 
opening for sympathy. You were very incongruous 
about it." 
" So be it !" said Rowland. "The question is, Are 
you not glad I was incongruous ? Are you not finding 
that you do care for your cousin, after all ? " 
" I don 't pretend to say. When she arrived in Rome 
I found I didn 't care for her, and I honestly proposed 
that we should have no humbug about it. If you, on the 
 
contrary, thought there was something to be gained by 
having a little humbug I was willing to try it ! I don 't 
see that the situation is really changed. Mary is all that 
she ever was more than all. But I don 't care for her ! 
I don 't care for anything, and I don 't find myself inspired 
to make an exception in her favour. The only difference 
is that I don 't care now whether I care for her or not. 
Of course marrying such a useless lout as I am is out of 
the question for any woman, and I should pay Mary a 
poor compliment to assume that she is in a hurry to 
celebrate our nuptials." 
"Oh, you ll do you re in love !" said Rowland, not 
very logically. It must be confessed at any cost that this 
assertion was made for the sole purpose of hearing Roderick deny it. 
But it quite failed of its aim. Roderick gave a liberal 
shrug of his shoulders, and an irresponsible toss of his 
head. " Call it what you please ! I am past caring for 
the names of things. " 
Rowland had not only been illogical, he had also been 
slightly disingenuous. He did not believe that his companion was in love ; he had argued the false to learn the 
true. The truth was that Roderick was again in some 
degree under a charm, and that he found a healing virtue 
in the company of a woman of tact. He had said shortly 
before that her voice was sweet to his ear ; and this was 
a happy sign. If her voice was sweet it was probably 
that her glance was not amiss, that her touch had a quiet 
magic, and that her whole personal presence had learned 
the art of not being irritating. So Rowland reasoned, 
and invested Mary Garland with the subtlest merits. 
It was true that she herself helped him little to definite 
conclusions, and that he remained in puzzled doubt as to 
whether these happy touches were still a matter of the 
heart or had become simply a matter of the conscience. 
He watched for signs that she took a pleasure in Rode 
rick 's favour again ; but it seemed to him that she was on 
 
her guard against interpreting it too largely. It was now 
her turn he fancied that he sometimes gathered from cer 
tain nameless indications of glance and tone and gesture 
it was now her turn to be indifferent, to care for other 
things. Again and again Rowland asked himself what 
these things were that she might be supposed to care for, 
to the injury of ideal constancy ; and again, having 
designated them, he divided them into two portions. 
One was that larger experience in general which had 
come to her with her arrival in Europe ; the vague sense, 
borne in upon her imagination, that there were more 
things one might do with one 's life than youth and ignorance and Northampton had dreamt of; the revision of 
old pledges in the light of new emotions. The other was 
the experience in especial of Rowland 's what ? Here 
Rowland always paused, in perfect sincerity, to measure 
afresh his possible claim to the young girl 's regard. 
What might he call it ? It had been more than civility, 
and yet it had been less than devotion. It had spoken 
of a desire to serve, but it had said nothing of a hope of 
reward. Nevertheless Rowland 's fancy hovered about 
the idea that it was recompensable, and his reflections 
ended in a reverie which perhaps did not define it, but 
at least on each occasion added a little to its volume. 
Since Mary had asked him as a sort of favour to herself 
to come with them to Switzerland, he thought it possible 
she might let him know whether he seemed to have done 
her a service. The days passed without her doing so, 
and at last Rowland walked away to an isolated eminence 
some five miles from the inn and murmured to the silent 
rocks that she was ungrateful. Listening nature appeared 
not to contradict him, so that on the morrow he asked 
the young girl with a touch of melancholy malice whether 
it struck her that his deflection from his other plan had 
been attended with brilliant results. 
" Why, we are delighted that you are with us !" she 
answered. 
 
He was anything but satisfied with this ; it seemed to 
imply that she had forgotten that she had formally asked 
him to come. He reminded her of her request, and re 
called the place and time. "That evening on the 
terrace, late, after Mrs. Hudson had gone to bed, and 
Roderick being absent. " 
She perfectly remembered, but the memory seemed to 
trouble her. -"I am afraid your kindness has been a 
great charge upon you," she said. "You wanted very 
much to do something else." 
I wanted above all things to oblige you, and I 
made no sacrifice. But if I had made an immense 
one it would be more than made up to me by any 
assurance that I have helped Roderick into a better 
condition." 
She was silent a moment, and then, "Why do you 
ask me?" she said. "You are able to judge quite as 
well as I." 
Rowland blushed ; he desired to justify himself in the 
most veracious manner. " The truth is," he said, " that 
I am afraid I care only in the second place for Roderick 's 
holding up his head. What I care for in the first place 
is your happiness." 
"I don 't know why that should be," she answered. 
I have certainly done nothing to make you so much 
my friend. If you were to tell me you intended to leave 
us to-morrow, I am afraid that I should not venture to 
ask you to stay. But whether you go or stay, let us not 
talk of Roderick." 
"But that," said Rowland, "does not answer my 
question. Is he better ?" 
" No ! " she said, and turned away. 
He was careful not to tell her that he intended to 
leave them. 
 
XXIV. 
ONE day shortly after this as the two young men sat 
at the inn door watching the sunset, which on that even 
ing was very rich and clear, Rowland made an attempt 
to sound his companion 's present sentiment touching 
Christina Light. "I wonder where she is," he said, 
" and what sort of a life she is leading her Prince." 
Roderick at first made no response. He was watching 
a figure on the summit of some distant rocks opposite to 
them. The figure was apparently descending into the 
valley, and in relief against the crimson screen of the 
western sky it looked gigantic. "Christina Light?" 
Roderick at last repeated, as if arousing himself from a 
reverie. " Where she is ? It 's extraordinary how little 
I care!" 
" Have you completely got over it?" 
To this Roderick made no direct reply ; he sat brood 
ing a while. " She 's a humbug !" he presently exclaimed. 
"Possibly!" said Rowland. "But I have known 
worse ones." 
"She disappointed me !" Roderick continued, in the 
same tone. 
" Had she really given you up? : 
"Oh, don 't remind me !" Roderick cried. " Why the 
devil should I think of it ? It was only three months 
ago, but it seems like ten years." His friend said 
nothing more, and after a while he went on of his own 
accord. " I believed there was a future in it all ! She 
pleased me pleased me ; and when an artist such as 
I was is pleased, you know ! " And he paused again. 
"You never saw her as I did ; you never heard her in 
her great moments. But there is no use talking about 
that ! At first she wouldn 't regard me seriously ; she 
chaffed me and made light of me. But at last I forced 
 
her to admit I was a great man. Think of that, 
sir ! Christina Light called me a great man. A great 
man was what she was looking for, and we agreed to 
find our happiness for life in each other. To please me 
she promised not to marry till I should give her leave. 
I was not in a marrying way myself, but it was damna 
tion to think of another man possessing her. To spare 
my sensibilities she promised to turn off her Prince, and 
the idea of her doing so made me as happy as to see a 
perfect statue shaping itself in the block. You have 
seen how she kept her promise ! When I learned it, it 
was as if the statue had suddenly cracked and turned 
hideous. She died for me, like that !" And he snapped 
his fingers. Was it wounded vanity, disappointed 
desire, betrayed confidence ? I am sure I don 't know ; 
you will certainly have some good name for it." 
" The poor girl did the best she could," said Rowland. 
" If that was her best, so much the worse for her ! I 
have hardly thought of her these two months, but I have 
not forgiven her." 
"Well, you may believe that you are avenged. I 
can't think of her as happy. " 
" I don 't pity her !" said Roderick. Then he relapsed 
into silence, and the two sat watching the colossal figure 
as it made its way downward along the jagged silhouette 
of the rocks. "Who is this mighty man," cried 
Roderick at last, "and what is he coming down upon us 
for ? We are small people here, and we can't undertake 
to keep company with giants." 
"Wait till we meet him on our own level," said 
Rowland, "and perhaps he will not overtop us." 
" He 's like me," Roderick rejoined ; " for ten minutes 
he will have passed for a great man !" At this moment 
the figure sank beneath the horizon line, and became 
invisible in the uncertain light. Suddenly Roderick 
said, " I should like to see her once more simply to 
look at her." 
 
" I would not advise it," said Rowland. 
" It was her beauty that did it !" Roderick went on. 
" It was all her beauty ; in comparison, the rest was 
nothing. What befooled me was to think of it as my 
own property ! And I had made it mine no one else 
had studied it as I had, no one else understood it. 
What does that stick of a Casamassima know about it at 
this hour ? I should like to see it just once more ; it 's 
the only thing in the world of which I can say so. " 
"I would not advise it," Rowland repeated. 
" That 's right, my dear fellow," said Roderick; "don 't 
advise ! That 's no use now." 
The dusk meanwhile had thickened, and they had not 
perceived a figure approaching them across the open 
space in front of the house. Suddenly it stepped into 
the circle of light projected from the door and windows, 
and they beheld little Sam Singleton stopping to stare 
at them. He was the giant whom they had seen de 
scending along the rocks. When this was made apparent 
Roderick was seized with a fit of intense hilarity it was 
the first time he had laughed in three months. Singleton, 
who carried a knapsack and walking-staff, received from 
Rowland the friendliest welcome. He was in the serenest 
possible humour, and if in the way of luggage his knap 
sack contained nothing but a comb and a second shirt, 
he produced from it a dozen admirable sketches. He 
had been trudging over half Switzerland, and making 
everywhere the most vivid pictorial notes. They were 
mostly in a box at Interlaken, and in gratitude for Row 
land 's appreciation he presently telegraphed for his box, 
which, according to the excellent Swiss method, was 
punctually delivered by post. The nights were cold, 
and our friends, with three or four other chance sojourners, 
sat in-doors over a fire of great logs. Even with Roderick 
sitting moodily in the outer shadow, they made a sym 
pathetic little circle, and they turned over Singleton 's 
drawings, while he perched in the chimney-corner, 
 
blushing and explaining, with his feet on the rounds of 
the chair. He had been pedestrianising for six weeks, 
and he was glad to rest a while at Engelthal. It was 
an economic repose, however, for he sallied forth every 
morning with his sketching tools on his back, in search 
of material for new studies. Roderick 's hilarity, after 
the first evening, had subsided, and he watched the little 
painter 's serene activity with a gravity that was almost 
portentous. Singleton, who was not in the secret of his 
personal misfortunes, still treated him with timid frank 
ness as the rising star of American art. Roderick had 
said to Rowland at first that Singleton reminded him of 
some curious little insect with a remarkable mechanical 
instinct in its antenna ; but as the days went by it was 
apparent that the modest landscapist 's unflagging industry 
grew to have an oppressive meaning for him. It pointed 
a moral, and Roderick used to sit and con the moral as 
he saw it figured in Singleton 's bent back, on the hot 
hillsides, protruding from beneath his white umbrella. 
One day he wandered up a long slope and overtook him 
as he sat at work ; Singleton related the incident after 
wards to Rowland, who, after giving him in Rome a 
hint of Roderick 's aberrations, had strictly kept his own 
counsel. 
"Are you always like this ?" said Roderick, in almost 
sepulchral accents. 
" Like this ?" repeated Singleton, blinking confusedly, 
with an alarmed conscience. 
"You remind me of a watch that never runs down. 
If one listens hard one hears you always tic-tic, tic-tic. " 
"Oh, I see," said Singleton, beaming ingenuously. 
" I am very equable." 
"You are very equable, yes. And do you find it 
pleasant to be equable?" 
Singleton turned and smiled more brightly, while he 
sucked the water from his camel s-hair brush. Then, 
with a quickened sense of his indebtedness to a Providence 
 
that had endowed him with intrinsic facilities, " Oh, de 
lightful !" he exclaimed. 
Roderick stood looking at him a moment. " Dam 
nation !" he said at last, solemnly, and turned his back. 
Later in the week Rowland and Roderick took a long 
walk. They had walked before in a dozen different 
directions, but they had not yet crossed a charming little 
wooded pass which shut in their valley on one side and 
descended into the vale of Engelberg. In coming from 
Lucerne they had approached their inn by this path, and 
feeling that they knew it had hitherto neglected it in 
favour of untrodden ways. But at last the list of these 
was exhausted, and Rowland proposed the walk to 
Engelberg as a novelty. The place is half bleak and 
half pastoral ; a huge white monastery rises abruptly 
from the green floor of the valley and complicates its 
picturesqueness with an element rare in Swiss scenery. 
Hard by is a group of chalets and inns, with the usual 
appurtenances of a prosperous Swiss resort lean brown 
guides in baggy homespun, lounging under carved wooden 
galleries, stacks of alpenstocks in every doorway, sun- 
scorched Englishmen without shirt - collars. Our two 
friends sat a while at the door of an inn, discussing a 
pint of wine, and then Roderick, who was indefatigable, 
announced his intention of climbing to a certain rocky 
pinnacle which overhung the valley, and, according to 
the testimony of one of the guides, commanded a view of 
the Lake of Lucerne. To go and come back was only 
a matter of an hour, but Rowland, vdth the prospect of 
his homeward trudge before him, confessed to a preference 
for lounging on his bench or, at most, strolling a trifle 
farther and taking a look at the monastery. Roderick 
went off alone, and his companion after a while bent his 
steps to the monasterial church. It was remarkable, 
like most of the churches of Catholic Switzerland, for a 
hideous style of devotional ornament ; but it had a certain 
cold and musty picturesqueness, and Rowland lingered 
there with some tenderness for Alpine piety. While he 
was near the high altar some people came in at the west 
door, but he did not notice them, and was presently 
engaged in deciphering a curious old German epitaph 
on one of the mural tablets. At last he turned away, 
wondering whether its syntax or its theology were 
the more uncomfortable, and, tc his infinite surprise, 
found himself confronted with Prince and Princess 
Casamassima. 
The surprise on Christina 's part, for an instant, was 
equal, and at first she seemed disposed to turn away 
without letting it give place to a greeting. The Prince, 
however, saluted gravely, and then Christina in silence 
put out her hand. Rowland immediately asked whether 
they were staying at Engelberg, but Christina only looked 
at him without speaking. The Prince answered his 
questions, and related that they had been making a 
month 's tour in Switzerland, that at Lucerne his wife 
had been somewhat obstinately indisposed, and that the 
physician had recommended a week 's trial of the tonic 
air and goat 's milk of Engelberg. The scenery, said the 
Prince, was stupendous, but the life was terribly sad 
and they had three days more ! It was a blessing, he 
urbanely added, to see a good Roman face. 
Christina 's attitude, her solemn silence and her pene 
trating gaze, seemed to Rowland at first to savour of 
affectation ; but he presently perceived that she was 
deeply agitated, and was afraid of betraying herself. 
" Do let us leave this hideous edifice," she said ; " there 
are things here that set one 's teeth on edge." They 
moved slowly to the door, and when they stood outside, 
in the sunny coolness of the valley, she turned to Row 
land and said, " I am extremely glad to see you." Then 
she glanced about her and observed against the wall of 
the church an old stone seat. She looked at Prince 
Casamassima a moment, and he smiled more intensely, 
Rowland thought than the occasion demanded. "I 
 
wish to sit here," she said, " and speak to this old 
acquaintance alone. " 
"At your pleasure, dear friend," said the Prince. 
The tone of each was measured, to Rowland 's ear ; 
but that of Christina was dry and that of her husband 
was splendidly urbane. Rowland remembered that the 
Cavaliere had told him that Mrs. Light 's candidate was 
a prince indeed, and our friend wondered how he relished 
a peremptory accent. Casamassima was an Italian of 
the undemonstrative type, but Rowland nevertheless 
divined that, like other princes before him, he had made 
the acquaintance of the thing called compromise. "Shall 
I come back?" he asked, with the same smile. 
" In half an hour," said Christina. 
In the clear outer light Rowland 's first impression of 
her was that she was more beautiful than ever. And 
yet in three months she could hardly have changed ; the 
change was in Rowland 's own vision of her, which that 
last interview on the eve of her marriage had made un- 
precedentedly tender. 
" How came you here?" she asked. " Are you stay 
ing in this place?" 
" I am staying at Engelthal, some ten miles away ; I 
walked over." 
"Are you alone?" 
" I am with Roderick Hudson." 
" Is he here with you?" 
"He went half an hour ago to climb a rock for a 
view." 
" And his mother and and the promessa where are 
they?" 
"They also are at Engelthal." 
" What do you do there ?" 
"What Ao you do here?" said Rowland, smiling. 
"I count the minutes till my week is over. I hate 
mountains ; they depress me to death. I am sure Miss 
Garland likes them." 
 
" She is very fond of them, I believe." 
" You believe don 't you know ? But I have given 
up trying to imitate Miss Garland," said Christina. 
" You surely need imitate no one." 
" Don 't say that," she said, gravely. " So you have 
walked ten miles this morning ? And you are to walk 
back again ?" 
" Back again to dinner." 
"And Mr. Hudson too?" 
"Mr. Hudson especially. He is a great walker." 
"You men are happy !" Christina cried. " I believe 
I should enjoy the mountains if I could do such things. 
It is sitting still and having them scowl down at you ! 
Prince Casamassima never walks. He only goes on a 
mule. He was carried up the Faulhorn in a palanquin. " 
" In a palanquin?" said Rowland. 
" In one of those machines a chaise h porteurs like 
a woman." 
Rowland received this information in silence ; it was 
equally unbecoming to be either amused or shocked. 
"Is Mr. Hudson to join you again? Will he come 
here?" Christina asked. 
" I shall soon begin to expect him." 
"What shall you do when you leave Switzerland?" 
Christina continued. " Shall you go back to Rome?" 
" I rather doubt it. My plans are very uncertain." 
"They depend upon Mr. Hudson, eh?" 
" In a great measure." 
" I want you to tell me about him. Is he still in that 
perverse state of mind that afflicted you so much ?" 
Rowland looked at her mistrustfully, without answer 
ing. He was indisposed, instinctively, to tell her that 
Roderick was unhappy ; it was possible she might offer 
to try to cure him. She immediately perceived his 
hesitation. 
" I see no reason why we should not be frank," she 
said. "I should think we were excellently placed for 
 
that sort of thing. You remember that formerly I cared 
very little what I said, don 't you ? Well, I care abso 
lutely not at all now. I say what I please, I do what I 
please ! How did Mr. Hudson receive the news of my 
marriage?" 
"Very badly," said Rowland. 
"With rage and reproaches?" And as Rowland 
hesitated again " With silent contempt?" 
" I can tell you but little. He spoke to me on the 
subject, but I stopped him. I told him it was none of 
his business nor of mine." 
" That was an excellent answer ! " said Christina, softly. 
" Yet it was a little your business, after those sublime 
protestations I treated you to. I was really very fine 
that morning, eh?" 
You do yourself injustice, " said Rowland. " I should 
be at liberty now to believe you were insincere. " 
" What does it matter now whether I was insincere 
or not ? I can't conceive of anything mattering less. I 
was very fine isn 't it true?" 
"You know what I think of you," said Rowland. 
And for fear of being forced to betray his suspicion of 
the cause of her change he took refuge in a commonplace. 
" I hope your mother is well." 
" My mother is in the enjoyment of superb health, and 
may be seen every evening at the Casino at the Baths of 
Lucca confiding to every newcomer that she has married 
her daughter to a pearl of a prince." 
Rowland was anxious for news of Mrs. Light 's com 
panion, and the natural course was frankly to inquire about 
him. "And the Cavaliere Giacosa is well?" he asked. 
Christina hesitated, but she betrayed no other embar 
rassment. " The Cavaliere Giacosa has retired to his 
native city of Ancona, upon a pension, for the rest of 
his natural life. He is a very good old man !" 
"I have a great regard for him," said Rowland, 
gravely, at the same time that he privately wondered 
 
whether the Cavaliere 's pension was paid by Prince 
Casamassima for services rendered in connection with 
his marriage. "And what do you do," he continued, 
"on leaving this place?" 
"We go to Italy we go to Naples." She rose and 
stood silent for a moment, looking down the valley. 
The figure of Prince Casamassima appeared in the dis 
tance, balancing his white umbrella. As her eyes rested 
upon it Rowland imagined that he saw something deeper 
in the strange expression which had lurked in her face 
while he talked to her. At first he had been dazzled by 
her blooming beauty, to which the lapse of weeks had 
only added splendour ; then he had seen a heavier ray 
in the light of her eye a sinister intimation of sadness 
and bitterness. It was the outward mark of her sacrificed 
ideal. Her eyes grew cold as she looked at her husband, 
and when after a moment she turned them upon Row 
land they struck him as intensely tragical. He felt a 
singular mixture of sympathy and dread ; he wished to 
give her a proof of friendship, and yet it seemed to him 
that she had now turned her face in a direction where 
friendship was powerless to interpose. She half read 
his feelings apparently, and she gave a beautiful sad 
smile. " I hope we may never meet again !" she said. 
And as Rowland gave her a protesting look " You have 
seen me at my best. I wish to tell you solemnly, I -was 
sincere ! I know appearances are against me," she went 
on quickly. "There is a great deal I can't tell you. 
Perhaps you have guessed it ; I care very little. You 
know at any rate I did my best. It wouldn 't serve ; I 
was beaten and broken; they were stronger than I. 
Now it 's another affair ! " 
It seems to me you have a large chance for happi 
ness yet," said Rowland, vaguely. 
" Happiness ? I mean to cultivate rapture ; I mean 
to go in for bliss ineffable ! You remember I told you 
that I was in part the world 's and the devil 's. Now 
 
they have taken me all. It was their choice ; may they 
never repent !" 
"I shall hear of you," said Rowland. 
" You will hear of me. And whatever you do hear, 
remember this : I was sincere ! " 
Prince Casamassima had approached, and Rowland 
looked at him with a good deal of simple compassion as 
a part of that "world" against which Christina had 
launched her mysterious menace. It was obvious that 
he was a good fellow, and that he could not in the nature 
of things be a positively bad husband ; but his distin 
guished inoffensiveness only deepened the infelicity of 
Christina 's situation by depriving her defiant attitude of 
the sanction of relative justice. So long as she had been 
free to choose she had esteemed him ; but from the 
moment she was forced to marry him she had detested 
him. Rowland read in the young man 's elastic Italian 
mask a profound consciousness of all this ; and as he 
found there also a record of other curious things of 
pride, of temper, of bigotry, of an immense heritage of 
more or less aggressive traditions he reflected that the 
matrimonial conjunction of his two companions might 
be sufficiently prolific in incident. 
"You are going to Naples?" Rowland said to the 
Prince by way of conversation. 
"We are going to Paris," Christina interposed slowly 
and softly. " We are going to London. We are going 
to Vienna. We are going to St. Petersburg." 
Prince Casamassima dropped his eyes, and fretted the 
earth with the point of his umbrella. While he engaged 
Rowland 's attention Christina turned away. When Row 
land glanced at her again he saw a change pass over her 
face ; she was observing something that was concealed 
from his own eyes by the angle of the church wall. In 
a moment Roderick stepped into sight. 
He stopped short, astonished ; his face and figure 
were jaded, his garments dusty. He looked at Christina 
 
from head to foot, and then, slowly, his cheek flushed 
and his eye expanded. Christina returned his gaze, and 
for some moments there was a singular silence. "You 
don 't look well ! " Christina said at last. 
Roderick answered nothing ; he only looked and 
looked, as if she had been a statue. "You are no less 
beautiful ! " he presently cried. 
She turned away with a smile, and stood a while 
gazing down the valley ; Roderick stared at Prince 
Casamassima. Christina then put out her hand to 
Rowland. "Farewell," she said. "If you are near 
me in future don 't try to see me !" And then after a 
pause, in a lower tone " I was sincere ! " She addressed 
herself again to Roderick, and asked him some common 
place about his walk. But he said nothing ; he only 
looked at her. Rowland at first had expected an out 
break of reproach, but it was evident that the danger 
was every moment diminishing. He was forgetting 
everything but her beauty, and as she stood there and 
let him feast upon it Rowland was sure that she knew it. 
" I won't say farewell to you," she said ; " we shall meet 
again ! " And she moved gravely away. Prince Casamas 
sima took leave courteously of Rowland ; upon Roderick 
he bestowed a bow of exaggerated civility. Roderick 
appeared not to see it ; he was watching Christina as she 
passed over the grass. His eyes followed her until she 
reached the door of her inn. Here she stopped and looked 
back at him. 
XXV. 
ON the homeward walk that evening Roderick preserved 
an ominous silence, and early on the morrow, saying 
nothing of his intentions, he started off alone ; Rowland 
saw him striding with light elastic steps along the rugged 
 
path to Engelberg. He was absent all day, and gave no 
account of himself on his return. He said he was deadly 
tired, and he went to bed early. When he had left the 
room Mary Garland drew near to Rowland. 
"I wish to ask you a question," she said. "What 
happened to Roderick yesterday at Engelberg ?" 
"You have discovered that something happened?" 
" I am sure of it. Was it something painful ?" 
" I don 't know how at the present moment he judges 
it. He met the Princess Casamassima." 
"Thank you !" said Mary, simply, and turned away. 
The conversation had been brief, but like many small 
things it furnished Rowland with food for reflection. 
When one is looking for symptoms one easily finds them. 
This was the first time Mary Garland had asked Rowland 
a question which it was in Roderick 's power to answer, 
the first time she had frankly betrayed Roderick 's reti 
cence. Rowland ventured to think it marked an era. 
The next morning was sultry, and the air, usually so 
fresh at those altitudes, was oppressively heavy. Row 
land lounged on the grass a while, near Singleton, who 
was at work under his white umbrella within view of the 
house ; and then in quest of coolness he wandered away 
to the rocky ridge whence you looked across at the 
Jungfrau. To-day, however, the white summits were 
invisible ; their heads were muffled in sullen clouds, and 
the valleys beneath them curtained in dun-coloured mist. 
Rowland had a book in his pocket, and he took it out 
and opened it. But his page remained unturned ; his 
own thoughts were more absorbing. His interview with 
Christina Light had made a great impression upon him, 
and he was haunted with the memory of her almost 
blameless bitterness, and of all that was tragic and fatal 
in her latest transformation. These things were im 
mensely appealing, and Rowland thought with infinite 
impatience of Roderick 's having again become acquainted 
with them. It required little imagination to apprehend 
 
that the young sculptor 's condition had also appealed to 
Christina. His consummate indifference, his supreme 
defiance, would make him a magnificent trophy, and 
Christina had announced with sufficient distinctness that 
she had said good-bye to scruples. It was her fancy at 
present to treat the world as a garden of pleasure, and 
if hitherto she had played with Roderick 's passion on its 
stem, there was little doubt that now she would pluck it 
with an unfaltering hand and drain it of its acrid sweet 
ness. And why the deuce need Roderick have gone 
