but he seized a great knife with a sharp edge, and cut straight through
a book which was lying on the table. "There!" he cried, throwing the
severed leaves in handfuls about the room, "that is how I will serve
him--Spenser-r-r-r! Let him come on!" And he continued to throw the
papers wildly.
Torres was shocked. Not at the sight of his friend displaying his
vengeance in that childish fashion; he had long considered Manuel
hopelessly undignified. His shock came from the idea of a Señorita Duero
having been spoken to on such a subject, spoken to directly! Of course
she had rejected Manuel (it would always be of course that she should
reject Manuel), but the idea of her having been forced to do so by word
of mouth--being deprived of the delicate privilege of expressing herself
through her proper guardian! As to the story that she was thinking of
some one else, "day and night," he paid no heed to it; that was plainly
Manuel's fiction. No one could for a moment believe that the señorita
thought of any one long after sunset--say half-past seven or eight;
anything else would be clearly improper.
"If you had given the subject a deeper consideration, Manuel--" he
began.
But Manuel was still engaged with the book; he was now slicing the
cover. "Spenser-r-r-r-r!"
Torres went towards him, and put out his forefinger with an impressive
gesture. "I say if you had given the subject a deeper consideration,
Manuel--"
"Scat!" said Manuel.
"What?" said the Cuban.
"Scat! scat! You're no better than an old tabby."
Torres looked at him solemnly. Then he put up his finger again. "It was
not the proper course, Manuel," he began, a third time. "If you had
given--"
"Oh, go to the devil!" cried Manuel, with a sort of howl, leaping
towards him with the knife.
Torres thought he had better go.
He was not in the least afraid of Manuel; Torres had never been afraid
in his life. But Manuel was a little excited (he had the bad habit of
excitement); it was, perhaps, better to leave him to himself for a
while. So he went back to the main-land; and meditated upon the Doctor's
words. They remained mysterious, and the next day he made another
progress up the Espiritu to Gracias, having decided to intrust his
secret to the good rector of St. Philip and St. James', and profit by
his knowledge of both languages.
The Rev. Mr. Moore was not only good, but he had not been troubled by
nature with too large an endowment of humor--often an inconvenient
possession. He listened to his visitor's story and the quoted sentence
with gravity; then, after a moment's meditation, he put his long hands
together, the tip of each delicately finished finger accurately meeting
its mate, and made a discreet translation as follows: "You are still
young; it would be better, perhaps, to remain at home until you are
somewhat older." "Somewhat" was Mr. Moore's favorite word; everything
with him was somewhat so; nothing (save wickedness) entirely so. In this
way he escaped rashness. Certainly Reginald Kirby had put no "somewhat"
of any sort in his answer to the Cuban. But Mr. Moore was of the opinion
that he intended to do so (being prevented, probably, by that same
rashness), and so he gave his guest the benefit of the doubt.
Torres reflected upon the translation; he had accepted a chair this
time, but sat hat in hand, his heels drawn together as before. "With
your favor, sir," he said at last, raising his eyes and making the
clergyman a little bow, "this seems to me hardly an acceptance?"
"Hardly, I think," replied the clergyman, with moderation.
"At the same time, it is not a rejection. As I understand it, I am
advised--for the present at least--simply to wait?" And he looked at the
clergyman inquiringly.
"Exactly--very simple--to wait," assented Mr. Moore.
The Cuban rose; and made ceremonious acknowledgments.
"You return?" asked the clergyman, affably.
"I return."
"There is, no doubt, much to interest you on the plantation," remarked
Mr. Moore, in a general way.
"What there is could be put upon the point of the finest lance known to
history, and balanced there," replied Torres, with a dull glance of his
dull dark eyes.
"I fear that young man has a somewhat gloomy disposition," thought the
clergyman, when left alone.
Torres went down the lagoon again; and began to wait.
CHAPTER XV.
"Man alive! of all the outlandish!" This was the unspoken phrase in
Minerva Poindexter's mind as she watched a little scene which was going
on near by. "I suppose it's peekin', but I don't care. What in the name
of all creation are they at?"
Behind one of the old houses of Gracias there was a broad open space
which had once been a field. On the far edge of this sunny waste stood
some negro cabins, each brilliant with whitewash, and possessing a
shallow little garden of its own, gay with flowers; in almost every
case, above the low roof rose the clear green of a clump of bananas. A
path bordered by high bushes led from the town to this little
settlement, and here it was that Celestine, herself invisible, had
stopped to look through a rift in the foliage. A negro woman was coming
down the dusty track which passed in front of the cabins; on her head
she carried a large bundle tied up in a brightly colored patchwork
counterpane. As she drew near the first house she espied her friend Mrs.
Johnson sitting on her front step enjoying the air, with the last young
Johnson, Nando, on her knee. The first woman (Celestine knew that she
was called Jinny) stopped, put one arm akimbo, and, steadying her bundle
with the other hand, began to sway herself slightly from side to side at
the hips, while her bare feet, which were visible, together with a space
of bare ankle above, coming out below her short cotton skirt, moved
forward in a measured step, the heel of the right being placed
diagonally against the toes of the left, and then the heel of the left
in its turn advanced with a slow level sweep, and placed diagonally
across the toes of the right. There was little elevation of the sole,
the steps, though long, being kept as close as possible to the ground,
but without touching it, until the final down pressure, which was deep
and firm. There seemed to be no liberty allowed, it was a very exact
measure that Jinny was treading; the tracks made by her heel, the broad
spread of her foot, and the five toes in the white dust, followed each
other regularly in even zigzags which described half circles. Thus
swaying herself rhythmically, turning now a little to the right, now a
little to the left, Jinny slowly approached Mrs. Johnson, who regarded
her impassively, continuing to trot Nando without change of expression.
But when Jinny had come within a distance of fifteen feet, suddenly Mrs.
Johnson rose, dropped her offspring (who took it philosophically), and
began in her turn to sway herself gently from side to side, and then,
with arms akimbo, her bare feet performing the same slow, exact
evolutions, she advanced with gravity to meet Jinny, the two now joining
in a crooning song. They met, circled round each other three times with
the same deliberate step and motion, their song growing louder and
louder. Then Mrs. Johnson shook her skirts, flung out her arms with a
wild gesture, and stopped as suddenly as she had begun, walking back to
her door-step and picking up Nando, while Jinny, advancing and taking up
a comfortable position on one broad foot (idly stroking its ankle
meanwhile with the dust-whitened sole of the other), the two fell into
conversation, with no allusion either by word or look to the mystic
exercises of the moment before.
"Howdy, Mis' Johnson?" said Jinny, as though she had just come up.
"How's Mister Johnson dis mawnin'? Speck he's bettah; I year he wuz."
"Yessum, Miss Jinny More, yessum. He's bettah, dat's a fac'; he's mighty
nigh 'bout well agin, Mister Johnson is, tank de Lawd!"
"Save us! what mistering and missussing!" said Celestine to herself. She
watched them a moment longer, the colored people being still a profound
mystery to her. Then she emerged from her bush-bordered path, and making
her way to Mrs. Johnson, hurriedly delivered her message: Mrs. Harold
would like to have her come to the eyrie for a while, to act as nurse
for Mrs. Rutherford.
For that lady had met with an unfortunate accident; while stepping from
her phaeton she had fallen, no one knew how or why, and though the
phaeton was low and the ground soft, she had injured one of her knees so
seriously that it was feared that she would not be able to walk for some
time. Once fairly in bed and obliged to remain there, other symptoms had
developed themselves, so that she appeared to have, as the sympathetic
Betty (who had hurried up from East Angels) expressed it, "a little,
just a little, you know, of pretty much everything under the sun." In
this condition of affairs Katrina Rutherford naturally required a good
deal of waiting upon. And after the time had been divided between
Margaret and Celestine for several days and nights, Dr. Kirby
peremptorily intervened, and told Margaret to send for Looth Johnson,
"the best nurse in Gracias--the best, in fact, south of the city of
Charleston." Looth was Telano's mother: this was in her favor with
Celestine. But when the poor Vermont spinster was actually face to face
with her, it was difficult to believe that a person who danced with bare
black legs in the dusty road in the middle of the day could be either
the mother of the spotlessly attired Telano, or the sort of attendant
required by Mrs. Peter Rutherford. Dr. Kirby's orders, peremptory as
they were, Celestine would have freely disobeyed; but she did not dare
disobey them when they had been repeated by Margaret Harold.
"It's where your son is," she explained, desperately, forcing herself to
think of Telano's snowy jackets as she caught another glimpse of his
mother's toes.
"I knows whar 'tis," replied Looth, who had risen and dropped a
courtesy. And then, as Celestine departed, hurrying away with an almost
agitated step, "Telano 'lows she's a witch," she said to Jinny, in a low
voice, as the two looked after the spare erect figure in its black gown.
"I 'lows, howsumebber, it's juss ribs an' bones an' all knucklely up
de back; nubbuddy 'ain't nebber seed so many knucklelies! I say,
Jinny, 'tain't much honeyin' roun' she's eber been boddered wid, I
reckon." And the two women laughed, though restraining themselves to low
tones, with the innate civility of their race.
Meanwhile it was taking Minerva Poindexter the entire distance of the
walk home to compose herself after that dancing, and more especially
after the unseemly amplitude of the two large, comely black women, an
amplitude which she would have confined immediately, if she had had the
power, in gowns of firm fibre made after a straight fashion she knew, in
which, by means of a system of restrictive seams in unexpectcd places,
the modeller was able to neutralize the effect of even the most
expansive redundancy.
At present Mrs. Rutherford was absorbing the time of Margaret,
Celestine, Evert Winthrop; of Betty Carew, who, sending Garda to stay
with the Moores, remained with dear Katrina; of Dr. Kirby, who paid
three visits a day; of Telano, Cyndy, Maum Jube, and Aunt Dinah-Jim, who
had transferred herself and her disorderly skill to the kitchen of the
eyrie. During the only other serious illness Katrina Rutherford had
known, one of her friends had remarked, "Oh, she's such a
philanthropist!"
"Philanthropist?" said another, inquiringly.
"Yes; she has such a wonderful talent for employing people. That's
philanthropy nowadays, you know, and I think Katrina could employ the
whole town."
Looth arriving, still redundant but spotlessly neat in a loose white
linen short-gown over a brilliant yellow cotton skirt, a red
handkerchief arranged as a turban, white stockings, and broad, low shoes
(which were soundless), supplied an element of color at the eyrie, as
well as abundant tact, a sweet, cooing voice, and soft strong arms for
lifting. She called Mrs. Rutherford "honey," and changed her position
skilfully and sympathetically twenty times a day. Mrs. Rutherford liked
the skill; even better she liked the sympathy; she had often complained
that there was very little true sensibility in either Margaret or
Celestine. To hear and see Looth persuade her patient to eat her dinner
was a daily entertainment to Winthrop. It was the most persuasive
coaxing ever heard, and Mrs. Rutherford, while never once losing her
martyr expression, greatly enjoyed it; there was some different method
of tender urging for each dish. Celestine, who was not a jealous person,
looked on with deep though concealed interest, never failing to be in
the room, apparently engaged with something else, when Looth appeared
with the tray. Though she understood her mistress's foibles perfectly,
she was at heart fond of her (she had dressed her too long not to be),
and would have felt her business in life at an end if separated from
her; yet she could no more have called her "my dove," and cooed over her
with soft enthusiasm when she had eaten a slice of venison, than she
could have danced at noon barelegged in the dusty road.
But in spite of all these helpers, Mrs. Rutherford did not improve; if
she did not grow worse, she did not grow better. At last she declared
that she should never grow better so long as she must hear, day and
night, the wash of the water on the beach; now it was only a teasing
ripple, which still she must listen for, now a long regular swell, to
which she found herself forced mentally to beat time. As they could not
take away the sea--even Looth could not coo it away--there was some
uneasiness at the eyrie as to what the result would be; they decided
that it was but a fancy, and that she would forget it. But Katrina
Rutherford did not forget. At length there came three nights in
succession during which she did not sleep "a moment;" she announced to
Winthrop that she should soon be in need of no more sleep, "save the
last long one." Dr. Kirby, who still profoundly admired her--she
continued to look very handsome after Celestine had attired her for the
day in a dressing-gown of delicate hue, covered with white lace, a
dainty little lace cap lightly resting on her soft hair--Dr. Kirby said
to Winthrop that unstrung nerves were a serious matter; and that though
her idea about the water was a fancy, of course, the loss of three
nights' sleep was anything but fanciful. They could not move the sea;
but they could move her, and they must. The next question was--where?
The Seminole being as near the water as the eyrie, there was nothing to
be gained by going there. Betty promptly offered her house, she was full
of plans for taking in their whole party under her hospitable roof. But
Mrs. Rutherford confided to her nephew that the constant sighing of the
pines round Betty's domicile would be as "maddening" as the water, if
not worse. "I'd much rather they'd howl!" she said.
Then came old Mrs. Kirby in her black silk visite, her parasol held high
above her head, and with mathematical precision directly over it, though
the afternoon sun, slanting from the west, shone steadily into her eyes
underneath, so that she was kept winking and blinking all the way. She
came to offer their residence; the full half of it stood empty, and,
needless to say that she and Reginald would be "right glad" if the
ladies would accept it. But Mrs. Rutherford confided, to Margaret this
time, that nothing would induce her to go there. "She would be sure to
come in every day with cookies hidden somewhere about her, and then
nibble."
"They're wafers, I think," said Margaret, laughing.
"Wafers or cookies, she crunches when she eats them; I've heard her,"
Mrs. Rutherford declared. "It's all very well for you to laugh,
Margaret; you have no sensitiveness. I wish I had a cooky now," she
went on, irrelevantly--"a real one; or else a jumble, or a cruller, or
an oley-koek. But there's no getting anything in this desolate place;
their one idea is plum-cake--plum-cake!"
Mrs. Kirby was followed by Mr. Moore, who brought a note from his wife,
cordially placing at the disposal of the northern party "five pleasant
rooms at the rectory," which could be made ready for them at any time
upon shortest notice.
"They haven't more than six in all," commented Winthrop. "Does this
mean, do you suppose, that they intend to shut themselves up into one,
and give up to us all the rest?"
"Very probably," Margaret answered.
But the Moores were not obliged to make good their generous offer. Mrs.
Rutherford said that she could not possibly live in the house with an
invalid. "Always little messes being carried clinking up-stairs on
waiters, or left standing outside of doors for people to tumble
over;--cups, with dregs of tea in them, set into each other. Horrid!"
"But there are no stairs at the rectory," suggested Winthrop.
"Don't be owlish, Evert; one is even more apt to step into them on a
ground-floor," replied the aunt.
Meanwhile the sea still washed the beach under the eyrie, and now, too,
the nerves of almost everybody in it, for neither Margaret nor Celestine
could sleep when Mrs. Rutherford could not; even Winthrop, at the
Seminole, found himself wakeful, listening to the little soft sound,
and thinking of his suffering aunt. For in spite of her fancies and her
fairly good appetite, in spite of her rich dressing-gowns and carefully
arranged hair, Aunt Katrina undoubtedly did suffer. Already her eyes had
begun to have something of a sunken look; to Margaret and Winthrop she
appeared sometimes to be seeing them through a slight haze, and to be
trying, though ineffectually, to pierce it. "That dreadful water on the
beach! that dreadful water!" was still her constant complaint.
"Do you think she would like to go down to East Angels?" suggested Dr.
Kirby to Margaret one morning. "The motion of a carriage she couldn't
bear at present, but she could go down very well in the Emperadora."
But Margaret thought she would not like it at all.
"How do you know, without asking, what I shouldn't like at all?" Aunt
Katrina demanded when Margaret repeated to her this little conversation.
Aunt Katrina liked to have the little conversations repeated. "Don't
imagine, Margaret, I beg, that you know all my feelings by intuition."
Later in the day came Evert. "Dr. Kirby has a fantastic plan for your
going down to East Angels to stay for a while, Aunt Katrina. But I told
him that you didn't like East Angels."
"Where did you get that idea? But of course from Margaret, who thinks
she knows everything. East Angels is a charming old place."
"Oh!" said her nephew, rather astonished, remembering various adjectives
she had applied to it; "decayed" had been a favorite one.
"I have always thought it charming," pursued the lady. And then she
began to enumerate its good points. It was too far from the lagoon to be
troubled by that tiresome sound of the water; it had no pines near it to
tease people to death with their sighing; there would be no old ladies
to drop in with cookies, and nibble; and there were no invalids, with
teacups being sent clinking up-stairs (Mrs. Rutherford herself drank
chocolate). The one objection was that Dr. Reginald would have a long
ride every morning to get to her. But Dr. Reginald, coming in at this
moment, gallantly volunteered, in case she should go down there, to
spend a week with them by way of beginning; in the evenings they could
play cribbage until she should feel drowsy, for she certainly would feel
drowsy down there among the--he had almost said "pines," but stopped in
time; then he thought of live-oaks, but remembered that she considered
them "dreary." Among the--he had nearly brought out "magnolias," but
recollected that she disliked their perfume. "Among the andromedas," he
concluded at last, pronouncing the word firmly, determined not to
abandon it.
"Oh, andromedas. Aromatic?" inquired the patient, languidly.
"Immensely so," replied the Doctor. "Im--mensely!"
The next day, coming in again and finding that the poor lady had passed
another bad night, and that at half-past nine in the morning she had
burst into tears, and called Looth her "only friend," as that turbaned
handmaid was feeding her with toast and the softest sympathy, he took
Winthrop to the north piazza and seriously advised the change.
"But East Angels is still Garda's," said Winthrop. "I don't see how we
can go there."
"She will be delighted to have you. I don't think Garda is happy at
present when long separated from Mrs. Harold," went on the speaker,
candidly; "Mrs. Harold has had a wonderfully cheering influence over
her, poor child, since her mother's death. Garda has been so unlike
herself--I hardly know what to call it--passive, perhaps; I presume you
have not noticed the change, but ma and I have."
Winthrop thought he had noticed. But all he said was: "We should have to
send down the servants, and--and a good many other things, I'm afraid.
The party would be large, it would be like taking possession--so many of
us."
"Don't let that trouble you," said the Doctor, balancing himself in his
old way. "In the matter of guests, our feeling here has always been that
the more we had under our roof the better; yes, the better."
"It is true that the place is to be mine as soon as I can get a title.
You are the guardian; perhaps you will allow us to rent it until then?"
"Sir," said the Doctor, stopping his balancing, "we will not speak of
rent." (And in truth rent was not a word esteemed in Gracias. Nobody
"rented" there, and nobody "boarded;" each man lived in his own house,
and sat at his own table; the roof might be in need of repairs, and the
table bare, but they were at least his own.) "As you have remarked, I am
Miss Thorne's guardian, and as such I can assure you that she will be
right glad to entertain you all at East Angels, and for as long a time
as it will be agreeable to you to so favor her."
Thus it was arranged; they were all to pay Garda a visit. It was to be
ignored that workmen were to be sent down to the old house, and the
resources of Gracias-á-Dios strained to the utmost to make the rooms
accord with the many requirements of Mrs. Rutherford; it was to be
ignored that six servants and supplies of all kinds were to be added.
Garda appeared at the eyrie and gave her invitation. She seemed to think
of it in the same way that the Doctor did--it was a visit; she had all
the air of a hostess, though rather a listless one.
Nothing in this young girl had Margaret Harold admired more than the
untroubled way in which she had accepted her new friend's assistance.
Mrs. Rutherford, who was industrious in prodding for motive (she
considered it a praiseworthy industry), had long ago announced that
Garda's affection for Margaret was based upon her own pennilessness and
Margaret's fortune. If this were so, there was at least no eagerness
about it; the girl accepted all that Margaret did, simply; sweetly
enough, but as a matter of course. The funeral expenses had been paid by
the Gracias friends, they had claimed this as their privilege; but since
then Margaret had provided for everything, from Garda's new mourning
garb to the money for the daily house-keeping at East Angels--sums which
Betty Carew had disbursed with her nicest care, which was yet a mad
expenditure when compared with the economies of Mrs. Thorne. The lean,
clean larder of East Angels had had a sense of repletion that was almost
profligate, and had felt itself carried wildly back to the days of Old
Madam--who had spent the last of the Duero capital in making herself
comfortable, smiling back wickedly at the blue eyes of Melissa Whiting
when the latter had tried to save some of it.
Margaret could not but contrast Garda's simple way with the scruples,
the inward distress, which she herself should have been a victim to if
she had been placed at that age in such a situation, thrown entirely
upon the care of a comparative stranger, at best a new friend. But here
was a nature which could accept unreservedly; it seemed to her a noble
trait; she said this to Mrs. Rutherford in answer to one of that lady's
attacks.
"If the positions were to be reversed, Aunt Katrina, I am sure she would
be just the same, she would give in the way in which she now accepts;
she would share everything with me with the same unreserve, and without
a second thought."
"Give me the second thoughts, then!" said Aunt Katrina. "I must say I
cannot see the nobility in it that you and Evert see." (This was quite
true; Aunt Katrina never saw nobility.) "The girl has always had what
she wanted, and she's got it now; that's all there is of it. Evert talks
about her being so contented; most of us are contented, I suppose, when
every wish is gratified, and if you would look at it fairly, without all
this decoration you have added to it, you would see that hers have
always been. Evert brings up their poverty--it has all come out, of
course, since the mother's death. But, poor or not poor, Garda at
least always had what she wanted; there were always honey-cakes and
oranges for her, and those old servants would wait upon her when they
would not speak to her mother. She has never lifted her hand to do
anything in her life but swing in her hammock, smell her roses, and play
with that crane. Evert keeps harping--what simple things they were to
give her so much pleasure. But somebody had to work to keep up even
the 'simple things;' and that somebody was her mother. Simple--of course
they were simple, she has been brought up in the country, and she is
only sixteen; she has had no opportunity to see anything else. But it
seems to me that the laziness which is shown by that hammock, and the
epicureanism which comes out in the honey-cakes and oranges, yes, and
the roses too, and the frivolity which makes her find amusement by the
hour in playing with that dreadful crane--all these are a very pretty
development of temperament in a girl of that age."
Over this dark picture Margaret was unable to resist a laugh.
"Laugh on," said Aunt Katrina, ominously. "You will live to come to my
opinion."
But Margaret continued to think Garda's free acceptance the sign of a
generous nature; the girl judged her benefactress by herself; if she had
been the one to bestow the kindness, she would not have liked effusive
thanks; Margaret therefore would not like them either.
But if Garda did not turn the conversation towards Margaret's material
gifts, she did turn it, and warmly, upon the delight it was to her that
her friend was to be at East Angels; upon that point she was effusive
enough. "Now I can live," she said.
"There's something so tiresome in being with Aunt Betty Carew day after
day," she added, meditatively. "Don't you think so?"
"She has been extremely kind to you," Margaret answered.
"Yes, she's very kind, there's nobody kinder. That doesn't make her any
the less wandering in her conversation, does it? or any the less
flushed. Do you remember how pretty my dear little mother was? She had
such a nice straight little nose it was a pleasure to look at her. You
have a lovely nose too, Margaret; I wonder if I should have liked you so
well without it? Oh, won't you stay at East Angels until it is time to
go north? In that way, as I am to go with you, we shouldn't be separated
at all."
"Aunt Katrina may tire of East Angels in two days," Margaret answered.
"We won't allow it We'll amuse her!" Garda declared, with soft energy.
But something else was to amuse poor Aunt Katrina. She made the little
journey comfortably, one beautiful morning, on the Emperadora,
surrounded by her retinue, of which Betty was one; she enjoyed her
installation, and the novelty of the new rooms; she enjoyed the
congratulations of Dr. Kirby, when, later in the day, he came down for
his week's visit; and she played cribbage with him for a little while in
the evening. Her nephew too was there; she had required his presence.
"You must come, of course, Evert," she said; "I couldn't possibly stay
way down in that lonely place without you." So Evert had been obliged to
install himself as well as his aunt; he took up his abode not
unwillingly in the old house which he expected some day to own.
After the cribbage, Aunt Katrina went to bed, and passed a night of
blessed oblivion, unteased by the whining water: that had been her
latest term for it--that it whined. But after a few days of this
delightful rest, a fresh assortment of pains lifted their heads. The
Doctor at first alluded to them as rheumatic. But Aunt Katrina would not
accept that suggestion. He then called them "suppressed gout." This was
better; Aunt Katrina had always had a certain esteem for gout. Besides,
suppressed gout had no fixed habitation; Aunt Katrina, having very
shapely feet, took the opportunity, the very day she accepted the name,
to have herself lifted to the sofa, where these same members, in
delicate slippers, reposed upon a bear-skin, only half concealed by an
India shawl.
But these little vanities could be forgiven, they could even be
encouraged (and were by the quick-witted Looth), if they had the power
to make her forget her pain. This pain was of the kind she herself
described as "wearing." Fortunately it was not constant, there were many
free intervals; but during these intervals she was often tired, and
Katrina Rutherford had lived such an easy, comfortable life that she had
almost never been tired before. This fatigue after pain sometimes
extended to her mind, and made her irritable. On these days no one could
soothe her but Margaret, and it was soon discovered that no one must
try. Margaret must read to her, read her to sleep; Margaret must sit in
a certain place, and sit still; she must not leave the room; nobody must
speak to her but Margaret--the others could say what was necessary
through her. During one of her free intervals she explained to Winthrop
that it was Margaret's voice that soothed her; "it's so hard," she said.
"I shouldn't think that quality would be particularly soothing,"
Winthrop answered.
"On the contrary, it's the very one--that is, for me. I only need her
when I've been reduced to a pulp--like the pulp in the paper mills--by
pain; at such times that hard voice of hers is the first firm thing I
can take hold of; I crystallize round it by degrees, don't you know, and
gradually get back some shape again."
Margaret's voice was not in the least hard; it was low and clear; when
it took on certain intonations, very sweet. But Winthrop did not remind
his aunt of this. She could crystallize round any adjectives that
pleased her in her moments of rest; her nephew's usual championship of
justice was postponed until she should be better.
During this time Celestine and Looth were often obliged to be
companions; there were certain things they each did which no one else
could do as well, and therefore neither one could be spared. To
Celestine it was a weird experience, this sitting up at night in the
large bare room of a strange old Spanish house (a house which had been
inhabited for generations by Papists), opposite a great black woman in a
red turban, who was in the habit of dancing barelegged in the roads in
the middle of the day; and all this on a winter night with roses
blooming outside in the garden, and the perfume of orange blossoms
coming in through the half-closed windows--a winter night which seemed
to have gone astray from some other world. The absence of cold in winter
climates abroad Celestine had accepted without opposition; it was only
part of their general outlandishness. But that such foreign
eccentricities should exist in the United States of America, under the
Stars and Stripes, this she by no means approved; like many other
persons, she could not help believing that frost-tipped noses were an
accompaniment of republican simplicity and virtue, and that a good
conscience and east wind could not be long separated without danger to
morals.
She had never alluded to the dance. But one night Looth herself alluded
to it. "Specks yer seen us, Miss Selsty, dat day you wuz firs' down dar
fur to ax me to come up yer to nuss--specks yer seen me an' Jinny?"
Celestine nodded grimly: a confession was evidently on the way.
"Yessum, Miss Selsty, I reckoned yer seen us. We wuz shoutin'," Looth
went on, with gentle satisfaction. "I's a very rilligeous 'oman, Miss
Selsty, yessum. An' so's Jinny too."
All the Gracias friends came down often to East Angels to inquire after
Mrs. Rutherford; Madam Ruiz and Madam Giron came over from their
respective plantations. Adolfo Torres, however, did not come; he
remained at home, and sent his respectful inquiries by his aunt. Neither
the Doctor nor Mr. Moore had betrayed his secret; these two gentlemen
were not in the habit of betraying anybody. Torres did not altogether
like their reticence upon this particular occasion, he could not see
that it was a subject upon which reticence was required. In the old days
(the only days he cared about) the position of suitor, devoted suppliant
for his lady's hand, was an honorable one, one distinctly recognized; he
should like to be recognized as occupying it now. But if these friends
would not tell, he could not; to tell would not accord with his present
posture. "Posture" was his own word, no one else would have dreamed of
applying it to anything connected with this self-controlled young man.
Gracias, too, was having veritable postures of another kind to look at.
These were the attitudes of Manuel Ruiz, which were very new and
surprising. After that first burst of fury (which Torres had witnessed)
he had taken to riding over the barren at headlong speed on his large,
thin black horse, with several knives stuck in his belt--a belt whose
presence (in itself brigandish) he had further emphasized by tying over
it a crimson sash. Next he had suddenly appeared as a man of
dissipations, a scoffer; he haunted the two small, rather sleepy
bar-rooms of Gracias, smoking large cigars, wearing his sombrero much on
one side, and in public places--the plaza for instance--made cynical
remarks about "the fair sex." This was worse even than the knives and
the galloping, and Gracias was considering what had better be done,
when, lo! Manuel appeared among them playing a third part. He was not
only himself, but more mellifluous even than he had ever been before;
his manner, indeed, when he met any of these ladies, had in it such a
delicate yet keenly personal admiration, such an appreciation of what
they had been as well as of what they were, that all of them, even
stout, honest Betty, and little Mrs. Kirby herself, under her high-held
parasol, were set to blushing a little, without knowing why, and to
vaguely adjusting their front hair with a touch or two, only to become
conscious of it later, and say to themselves, angrily, that that boy
ought to have a good horsewhipping! Manuel called upon all his friends
and all his mother's friends (except Garda at East Angels), and could
hardly sit in a chair. Upon seeing him, the idea was that he had been
accustomed to a divan; he seemed to have come from the sipping of
nectar, and to have touched nothing but rose-leaves. Having thus thrown
dust in the eyes of the town, he took his departure; as he had long
threatened, he was going to see the world. He mentioned to Mrs. Harold
that he should try to "take in" New York; and then he sailed on a
coasting schooner for Key West, with four dollars and twenty five-cents
in his pocket.
Gracias knew nothing of the real cause of all this. Madam Ruiz, Manuel's
broad-shouldered and martial-looking, but in reality sighingly gentle,
sentimental step-mother, was not in his confidence with regard to Garda.
But she would not have credited the story, even if she had been, for she
firmly believed her handsome step-son to be invincible from the
Everglades to the Altamaha. During the long, warm, mid-summer
afternoons, when flat Patricio, low in the blue sea, had not a shadow,
this lady, in her thick white house, the broad rooms darkened by the
closed shutters, was in the habit of amusing herself with many romances
about this; for your warm, still countries are ever the land of the
storyteller. Madam Ruiz now and then told her stories to her husband.
"Yes, yes," said that gentleman; "he inherits it all from me." He was
partially paralyzed, and sat all day in his chair; he did not like to
have Manuel about much, he envied him so. He took more comfort in the
children of this second marriage--a flock of brown-skinned, chattering
little girls, who would be sure to grow up dark, lovely, and gentle,
with serene, affectionate eyes, and the sweetest voices in the world, in
which to call him their "dearest papa."
Adolfo Torres meanwhile kept his friend's secret punctiliously, as it
was not to his credit; it was terribly against his credit to have gone
as he did to Garda herself,--so Adolfo thought.
As for Garda, she said, afterwards, that she did not mention it because
it was so much trouble; she did not like to tell things, she was not a
narrator (one of her mother's phrases); besides it was not interesting.
The girl had a very decided idea about what was and what was not
interesting. But she stopped there, she did not explain her idea to
others; she had the air of not even explaining it to herself.
CHAPTER XVI.
Evert Winthrop was very fond of the pine barrens. They seemed to him to
have a marked character of their own; their green aisles were as unlike
the broad roll of the prairie as they were unlike the usual growth of
the American forest farther north. The pines of the barren stood apart
from each other, they were not even in clusters or pairs. To a
northerner, riding or walking for the first time across the broad
sun-barred spaces under them, the feeling was that this separated growth
was the final outer fringe of some thick forest within, that it would
soon come to an end, widen out, and disappear. But it never did
disappear, the single trees went on rising in the same thin way from the
open ground, they continued to rise for miles; and when the new-comer
had once got rid of the idea that they would soon stop, when he had
become accustomed to the sparse growth, it seemed beautiful in a way of
its own; as slender girls will sometimes seem more exquisite in their
fair meagreness than the maturer women about them with their sumptuous
shoulders and arms.
For one thing, the barrens were the home of all the breezes; winds from
the four quarters of the heavens could sweep through their aisles as
freely as though no trees were there, the foliage was so far above. But
though the winds could blow as they liked, they yet had to take
something of the influences of the place as they passed, and the one
they took oftenest was the aromatic odor, odor sun-warmed through and
through, never chilled by ice or snow. These odors they gathered up and
bore along, so that if it was a breeze from the south, one felt like
sitting still and breathing the soft fragrance forever; and if it was a
north wind, careering down the vistas, the resinous tang it carried gave
a sort of excitement which could find its best expression in the gallop
of a fast horse over the levels. At least so Winthrop thought. And he
had often been guilty of riding for miles at a speed which he would not
have acknowledged at the North; it seemed boyish to ride at that rate
for the mere sake of the glow and the spicy wind in one's face.
The barrens were always green. But it was not the green of the northern
forest; it was the dark, tranquil, unchanging hue of the South. The
ground was covered thickly with herbage and little shrubs. Here and
there flower stalks made their way through, pushing themselves up as
high as they could in order to get their heads out in the sunshine;
there they swung merrily to and fro, and looked about them--violets so
broad and bright that one could recognize their blueness at a distance,
red bells of the calopogon, the yellow and lavender of pinguiculas
rising from their prim little rosettes of leaves down below; near the
pools the pitcher-plants; nearer still, hiding in thickets, the ferns.
These pools were a wonder. How came they there in so dry a land? For the
barrens were pure white sand; each narrow road, where the exterior mat
of green had been worn away, was a dry white track in which the foot
sank warmly. The pools were there, however, and in abundance. Though
shallow, their clear water had a rich hue like that of dark red wine.
Those on horseback or in a cart went through them, the little
silver-white descent on one side to get to them, and the ascent on the
other, forming the only "hills" the barrens knew; for those on foot, a
felled pine-tree sometimes served as a bridge.
The trails, crossing in various directions, were many, they all appeared
to be old. One came upon them unexpectedly, often they were not visible
in the low shrubbery three feet away. Once found, they were definite
enough; they never became merged in the barren, or stopped; they always
went sleepily on and on, they did not appear themselves to know whither.
And certainly no one else knew, as Winthrop found when occasionally, he
being more lost than usual (on the barrens he was always lost to a
certain degree, and liked it), he would stop his horse to ask of a
passing cracker in what direction some diverging trail would take him,
in case he should follow it. The cracker, astride his sorry pony, would
stare at him open-mouthed; but he never knew. Packed into the
two-wheeled cart behind him, all his family, with their strange
clay-colored complexions and sunburnt light hair, would stare also; and
they never knew. They were a gentle, mummy-like people, too indolent
even to wonder why a stranger should wish to know; they stared at him
with apathetic eyes, and then passed on, not once turning their heads,
even the children, for a second look. But as a general thing Winthrop
rode on without paying heed to the direction he was taking; he could
always guide himself back after a fashion by the pocket-compass he
carried.
One afternoon Winthrop, out on the barren, saw in the distance a horse
and phaeton. There was no phaeton in all that country but his aunt's. He
rode across to see who was in it. To his surprise it was Garda; she was
leaning indolently back on the cushioned seat, the reins held idly in
her hand, an immense bunch of roses fastened in her belt. The horse was
one he did not know.
"Garda!--this you!" he said.
"Yes," she answered, laughing at his astonishment. "Everything was so
dull at the house that I thought I must do something. So I did this."
"I wasn't aware that you knew how to drive?"
"This isn't driving."
"No, I hardly think it is," he answered, looking at her reclining figure
and the loose reins. "Where are you going?"
"Oh, I don't know."
"Whose horse have you?--if I may ask another question."
"Madam Giron's; I sent Pablo to borrow it, as I did not like to take
your aunt's."
"Then they know what you are doing?"
"Pablo knows."
"And Margaret?"
"No, Margaret doesn't know. I should have told her, of course, if I
could have seen her, or rather, if I could have seen her, I should not
have come out at all. But that was the trouble--I couldn't see her; she
has been shut up in Mrs. Rutherford's room ever since early this
morning, and there's no prospect, according to Looth, of seeing her
until to-morrow."
"Yes, I feared my aunt was going to have one of her bad days."
"Of course I'm sorry, but that doesn't make the hours any shorter, that
I know of; there was no one to speak to; even you were away. You have
the advantage of being able to leave the house whenever you like, and
staying out forever."
"Well, I've turned up now."
"I don't want you now; I've 'turned up' myself. Where are you going, may
I ask in my turn?"
"Going to drive you home."
"Not if you intend to tie that horse of yours at the back of the
phaeton, where he will nibble my shoulders all the way. But I'm not
going home yet; haven't I told you how dull it was there? I'm going on."
"I don't know about letting you go on; I'm not satisfied with the look
of that horse."
"Yes, he's the wildest one Madam Giron has; but that isn't very wild,"
said Garda, in a tone of regret.
"You are already over four miles from East Angels--"
"Delightful!"
"--and if you won't turn round, I shall have to follow you on horseback;
I shouldn't have a clear conscience otherwise."
"Oh, have a clear conscience, by all means."
But she did not long like this arrangement; the sound of another horse
behind made Madam Giron's horse restless, so that she could not keep the
reins lying idle, as she liked.
"Let your horse go, and come and drive me," she said.
"Let him go? Where?"
"Home, I suppose."
"He wouldn't go; he's an animal of intelligence, and of course has
observed that he could lead a nomadic life here perfectly, with constant
summer, and water, and--but I can't say much for the grass. I think,
however, that I can arrange it so that he shall not trouble you." And
dismounting, he changed and lengthened some straps; then seating
himself in the phaeton beside her, he took the reins, his own horse
trotting along docielly at his side of the phaeton, fastened by a long
line.
"It's caravanish," said Garda. "But I'll allow it because I want you to
drive; it's more amusing than driving myself."
"More lazy, you mean."
"Yes; I ran away to be lazy."
"For a variety?"
She did not take this up, but, leaning back still further, half closed
her eyes.
"Have you often been out in this way on the barrens, driving yourself?"
he went on.
"This is the first time I have ever driven--on the barrens or anywhere
else."
"Yet you come out alone, and with this restless horse! I never knew you
to do such a thing before."
"That only shows how short a time you have known me; I always like to do
things I have never done before."
The phaeton rolled on towards the west--on and on, as she would not let
him turn. But he did not wish to turn now; they had reached a part of
the barren which he had not visited, though he had ridden to much
greater distances both towards the north and the south. Here were wider
pools; and here also was a sluggish narrow stream; far off on the left
rose the long dark line of the great cypresses on the edge of a swamp.
The sluggish stream at length crossed their road, or rather their road
essayed to cross the sluggish stream; but the dark water looked deep,
there were no tracks of wheels on the little descent to show that any
one had tried the ford lately--say within the last twenty years.
Winthrop hesitated.
"Go on," said Garda.
"But I might have to swim with you to the other shore."
"Nothing I should like better."
"To see me soaked?"
"To see you excited."
"That wouldn't excite me; I should only be wet and depressed. In any
case it is time for us to turn back."
"No, I've set my heart upon going at least as far as that ridge." And
she indicated a little rise of land on the other side of the stream,
whose summit was covered thickly with Dr. Kirby's andromedas, and
shining laurel, sprays of yellow jessamine, bright with flowers, pushing
through the darker green and springing into the air. "There's a bridge,"
she added.
Winthrop turned; a felled pine-tree, roughly smoothed, crossed the
stream a short distance below the ford.
"You can tie the horses here, and we will walk over," pursued Garda.
"Then will you come back?" he asked, amused by her taking it as a matter
of course, always, that she was to have her own way.
"Then I will come back."
He tied the horses to two pine-trees, some distance apart from each
other. Then he tried the bridge. It seemed firm. Garda, refusing his
offers of assistance, crossed lightly and fearlessly behind him. Some of
the twigs still remained on the old trunk, and she lifted her skirt so
that they should not catch upon it and cause her to stumble; when they
had gone nearly three-quarters of the distance, Winthrop, turning his
head to speak to her, saw that she wore low slippers, thin-soled papery
little shoes fit only for a carpeted floor. "You must not go among the
bushes in those shoes," he said. "The bushes over there are sure to be
wet; all that ground is wet."
"Don't stop on the bridge," said Garda, laughing.
But he continued to bar the way. "I will bring you the flowers," he
said.
"I don't want the flowers, I want to go myself to the top of that ridge,
and look down on the other side."
"There's nothing to see on the other side."
"That makes no difference. Go on. Go on."
He turned round; cautiously, for the bridge was slippery and narrow.
They were now face to face.
"I shall never yield," Garda declared, gayly. "But I shall make you
yield. Easily."
"How?"
"By telling you that if you do not go on, I shall jump into the water,
and get to the other bank in that way."
He laughed. But as he did so he suddenly felt a conviction come over
him, owing to an expression he saw in her eyes, that she was capable of
carrying out her threat. He seized her hands; but she wrested them from
his grasp; and as she did so he had a vision of her figure in the water
below. He could easily rescue her, of course; but it would be a
situation whose pleasures he should fail to appreciate, both of them wet
through, and many miles from home. She had no sooner freed her hands,
therefore, than he took a firmer hold of her, so that she could not
stir.
But she still openly exulted; her face, close to his, was brilliant with
light and mirth. "That's of no use," she said. "You cannot possibly walk
backward on this narrow tree, even if you could carry me--which I
doubt."
It was true that his back was towards the bank which was near, the one
they had been approaching, and that he could not make his way thither on
that narrow surface without seeing where he was going. He had flushed a
little at her taunt. "I can carry you back to the side we started from,"
he said.
"No, you cannot do that, either. For I could easily blind you with my
hands, and make you stumble."
"Garda!--how absurd!"
"Yes; but it's you who look so," she answered, bursting into a peal of
irrepressible glee.
Winthrop had the feeling that she might be right. He knew that he was
flushed and angry; no man likes to be laughed at, even by a girl of
sixteen. Her eyes, though over-flowing with mirth, had still an
unconquerable look in them. Suddenly he released her. "Your actions are
ridiculous," he said; "I can only leave you to yourself." And turning,
he crossed to the near bank. He had successfully resisted his impulse,
which had been to take her, mocking and mirthful as she was, and carry
her back to the bank from which they had started; he felt sure that he
could have done it in spite of any resistance she might have offered.
Garda ran after him, and put her arm in his. "Are you vexed with me?"
she said, looking up coaxingly in his face.
"Don't you think you are old enough now, Garda, not to act so much like
a child?"
"It isn't a child," she answered, as it seemed to him rather strangely.
"I shall always be like this."
"Do you mean that you never intend to be reasonable?"
"Oh, I don't know what I intend, I don't think I intend anything;
intending's a trouble. But don't be angry with me," she went on; "you
and Margaret are all I have now." And she looked up at him still
coaxingly, but this time through a mist of tears.
"I am not vexed," answered Winthrop, quickly. "Will you have the
kindness to glance at your feet?" he added, by way of diversion into
another channel.
They had been standing among the low bushes on the further shore, and
Garda was again holding her skirt slightly lifted; her thin slippers
were seen to be as completely drenched as though they had been in the
stream. "Yes, they're wet," she assented, lifting first one, and then
the other, so as to get a good view; "they're quite wet through, soles
and all. And, do you know, my feet are already very cold."
"And we have still the long drive home! You must acknowledge that you
are wise."
At this moment they heard a sound, and turned; Madam Giron's horse had
broken his fastenings, and started down the barren, the phaeton gently
rolling along behind him. Winthrop ran across the pine-tree bridge and
after him, as swiftly yet as noiselessly as he could, so that the sound
of pursuit should not increase his speed. But Madam Giron's horse
enjoyed a run on his own account, and after trotting for a while, he
broke into the pace which suited him best, a long-stepped easy gallop;
thus, with the phaeton bounding at his heels, he took his way down the
broad green vista, faster and faster, yet still with a regular motion,
which was doubly exasperating because it seemed so much more like an
easy gait for the saddle (which it was) than a demoralized running away.
At length, when Winthrop himself had run half a mile, in the vain hope
that he would stop or turn, Madam Giron's steed disappeared in the
distance, having reached and gone down, Garda said, the curve of the
earth, as a ship does at sea.
"Isn't it funny? What are we going to do now?" she asked. She had come
back across the bridge while he was vainly pursuing the chase.
"If it were not for your wet feet I should put you on my horse and start
towards home, hoping to meet some one with a cart. As it is, I think you
had better try to walk for a while."
"It would be very uncomfortable in these wet things. No; I couldn't."
"I hardly know what we can do, then, unless you will take off your
stockings and those silly slippers, and wrap your feet up in something
dry. Then I could put you on the horse."
"But there's nothing to wrap them up in."
"Yes; my coat."
Garda laughed. "To think of seeing you without one!"
But at length this was done; the pretty little feet, white and cold, she
dried with her handkerchief, and then wrapped up as well as she could in
his coat, securing the wrapping with the black ribbon which had been her
belt. Thus protected he lifted her, laughing at her own helplessness, on
the horse, where she sat sidewise, holding on; she had fastened all the
roses which had been in her belt on her palmetto hat, so that she looked
like a May-queen. Winthrop walked on in advance, leading the horse by
the bridle, and carrying her slippers dangling from his arm by a string,
in the hope, he said, of at least beginning the drying. For some time
Garda amused herself making jests at their plight. But after a while the
uneasy posture in which she was obliged to sit began to tire her; she
begged him to stop and let her rest.
"We shouldn't reach home then until long after dark," he answered. "As
it is, at this rate, it will be very late before we can get there."
"Never mind that; of what consequence is it? I'm so tired!"
He came back, and walking by her side, guiding the horse by the rein, he
told her to put her hand on his shoulder, and steady herself in that
way; this bettered matters a little, and they got over another long slow
mile. The sun had sunk low in the west; his horizontal rays lit up the
barren with a flood of golden light. "My poor slippers are no drier,"
said Garda, lifting the one that hung near her.
"If we had had time we could have made a fire, and dried them with very
little trouble."
"Oh, let us make a fire now! I love to make a fire in the woods. You
could get plenty of dry cones and twigs and it wouldn't take fifteen
minutes; then, if they were once dry, I could walk, you know."
"Your fifteen minutes would be an hour at least, and that is an hour of
daylight very precious to us just now. Besides, I am afraid I doubt your
walking powers."
"Yes," answered Garda, with frankness; "I hate to walk."
"Yet you can run," he suggested, referring to her escapade on Patricio
beach.
Garda took up this memory, and was merry over it for some time. Then,
growing weary again, she told him despotically that he must stop. "I
cannot bear this position and jolting a moment longer, with my feet
fettered in this way," she said, vehemently. "You couldn't either."
He turned; though she was smiling, he saw that she had grown pale. "I
shall have to humor you. But I give you fifteen minutes only." He lifted
her down, and mounting the horse, rode off to a distance, first in one
direction, then in another, hoping to discover some one whom he could
send in to Gracias for a carriage or wagon. But the wide barren, growing
rapidly dusky, remained empty and still; there was no moving thing in
sight.
When he came back he found that Garda had put on her stockings and
slippers again, wet as they were. She was trying to walk; but the soft
sand of the track clung to each soaked shoe so that she lifted, as she
said, a mountain every time she took a step. In spite of this, "I'm
going on," she announced.
"You must, now that you have put on those wet things again; it's the
only way to keep from taking cold."
So they started, Garda leaning on his arm, while he held the bridle with
his other hand. "I might ride, and carry you behind me," he suggested.
"Like Lochinvar."
"Who's Lochinvar? See; there's somebody!"
He looked towards the point she indicated, and saw the figure of a man
going in another direction, and at a good distance from them. He jumped
on his horse again, and rode across to speak to him. The man proved to
be a tall young negro of eighteen or nineteen; he was ready to do
anything that Winthrop should desire, but he had also the disappointing
tidings to communicate that they were even farther from East Angels and
Gracias than they had supposed; they were still ten miles out.
"Why, it's Bartolo," said Garda, as they came back together. She had
seated herself, and was looking at her clogged feet gravely.
"Yessum," said Bartolo, removing his fragmentary straw hat.
"He's Telano's cousin," pursued Garda, inspecting the wrinkled kid at
the heel of the left slipper. "Do you know, they are beginning to
shrink; and they hurt me."
Winthrop stood still, deliberating. There was no house or cabin of any
kind within a number of miles, Bartolo said; if he should send the boy
in to Gracias on foot for a carriage, and keep on advancing with Garda
in the same direction at their present slow rate, they should not
probably reach East Angels until midnight; to go in himself on
horseback, and leave Garda with only Bartolo as protector--no, he could
not do that. This last would have been the southern way, and Garda
herself suggested it. "Ride in to Gracias as fast as you can, and come
back with a carriage, or something, for me; I shall not be afraid if
Bartolo can stay."
Bartolo showed his white teeth. "I ken stay, sho," he said. He was
blacker and jollier than his cousin Telano, he had not the dignified
manners of a Governor of Vermont; he was attired in a light costume of
blue cotton shirt and butternut trousers, his sleeves rolled up, his
feet bare.
Winthrop still deliberated. "Perhaps it would be better," he said at
last, "if Bartolo should go in, on my horse; I could wait here with
you." And he looked at Garda with eyes which asked the question--was
Bartolo to be trusted so far as that?
She understood. "Bartolo will carry your message as well as any one
could, I know," she answered.
Bartolo gave his head a lurch to one side in acknowledgment of her
compliment. He slapped his leg resoundingly;--"I tell yer!" he said.
It was his way of affirming his capabilities.
There was really nothing else to be done, unless Winthrop should essay
to ride, as he had suggested, with Garda behind him; and Garda had
declined to try this mode of progression. Bartolo offered the statement
that he could reach Gracias, and have a carriage back, before dark.
"That's impossible," said Winthrop, briefly.
"'Twon' be more'n de edge of de ebenin', den, marse," said Bartolo, with
his affable optimism.
"Be off, in any case; the sooner you are back, the more dimes you will
have."
Bartolo flung himself in a heap upon the saddle, disentangling his legs
after the horse was in motion; then, his bare feet dangling and flapping
without use of the stirrup, he galloped across the barren, not by the
road, but taking a shorter cut he knew. Winthrop stood watching him out
of sight; but he could not see far, as the light was nearly gone.
"Now make a fire," said Garda.
"Don't you think you could walk on--if we should go very slowly? We
might shorten the distance by a mile or two."
"I don't think I could take a step. These slippers are tightening every
minute, in the wrong places; they hurt me even as I sit still."
"Try my shoes."
"I couldn't carry them, my feet would slip out at the top."
This was true; her little feet looked uselessly small, now that they
were needed for active service. "You are very inconvenient," he said,
smiling.
"The next thing--you will be asking me to go in to Gracias barefoot,"
continued Garda. "But I never could, never; one step on this sand would
make me all creepy."
"Well," said Winthrop at last, accepting his fate, "I suppose I might as
well make a fire."
"It's what I wanted you to do in the first place," answered Garda,
serenely.
He made a fire that leaped high towards heaven. He made it
systematically, first with twigs and pine cones which he collected and
piled together with precision before applying the match; then he added
dry branches, which he searched for and hauled in with much patience and
energy.
"When I asked you to make a fire, I did not suppose you would be away
all night," remarked Garda, as he returned from one of these
expeditions, dragging another great load behind him.
"All night? Twenty minutes, perhaps."
"At least an hour."
He looked at his watch by the light of the blaze and found that she was
right; he had been at work an hour. As he had now collected a great heap
of branches for further supply, he stood still, watching his handiwork;
Garda was sitting, or rather half reclining, on his coat, her back
against a pine, her slippers extended towards the glow.
"You look sleepy," he said, smiling to see her drowsy eyes. "But I am
glad to add that you also look warm."
"Yes, I am extremely comfortable. But, as you say, I am sleepy; would
you mind it if I should really fall asleep?"
"The best thing you could do."
She put her head down upon her arm, her eyes closed; it was not long
before he could perceive that sleep had come. He took off his soft felt
hat, and, kneeling down, raised her head gently and placed it underneath
