phere, with a chance of knowing some of the best 
things of life, was all she asked ; yet, because her own 
demands were less, was she incapable of understand- 
ing this other longing, which she had read day after 
day, till it seemed a part of her heart, too ? But she 
could not protest without making him still more im- 
patient, and soothing him was worth far more than 
justifying herself. 
" I shall write often," she said, after a pause. " And 
perhaps you'll get time in school to answer, if you 
don't want to do it too often at home. I suppose 
Grandmother would call it silly." 
" Plenty of time," said Philip. "That's the trouble. 
Yes, I'll write, and if you hear of any thing to do to 
earn money, you'll send me word ? Nobody could 
hinder my running away." 
Elizabeth promised, and they immediately grew 
happier. A vague allusion to a possible resource was 
like a new hope, and made the sky grow bright. 
Though the evening was exactly the same as usual, 
with constant knitting and few words, it seemed more 
cheerful than any had been for a long time. Elizabeth 
went to bed with a light heart, knowing, too, that the 
next night would find her at Stowe. 
After he had watched her drive away in the old 
Sea View buggy, Philip dreaded to go into the house 
again, and wandered down to the shore. There, just 
hauling up his boat, was Si. He waited for Philip to 
come up, a tall, gaunt figure, in a rough jacket, with 
his oars over his shoulders. 
" Young sir, I want to settle with you," he began, 
with no sign of amusement about the mouth left 
visible by the grizzled beard. " Who took my boat 
last week, ' thout sayin' 'by your leave ' ? ' The joke 
was very stale for Philip by this time, and certainly 
his present mood was not the most favorable one for 
appreciating it. 
" I did. I wanted to go out in it." 
" I s'pose you're master sorry now ? " with a keen 
 
look to note the amount of hypocrisy in the lad. 
He had had dealings with Stratford boys before this, 
finding them profuse enough in penitence when justice 
overtook them. 
' No, we had a good time. Yes, though, I am sorry 
if you wanted it very much. Did you, Si ? ' v 
'No-o, it ain't no matter now, young man," his 
features relaxing from their enforced magisterial 
frown. ' But don't you never try that game again. 
Mebbe it wouldn't work so well a second time. What 
d'you think o' thet young feller ? " 
' He was splendid ! He knew all sorts of things." 
Thet may be," said Si, taking his way along the 
shore, Philip following. : 'But don't you make up your 
mind in a hurry. It don't pay. When a man knows 
too much, you can't help stoppin' to wonder where he 
got his learnin'. I shouldn't be surprised if thet fel- 
ler'd had thousands o' dollars in his life, an' spent 
'em all on folderols." 
' But he doesn't look as if he'd spent any being 
bad," said Philip, whose ideas of dissipation were best 
illustrated by Job Haddons' bloated face. " Any way, 
he's a right to his own money." 
' Yes, if he's come honestly by it ; but I don't 
believe he's used up much strength earnin' it. He 
looked 's if he knew the ropes pretty well. When 
you're as old as I be, you'll look twice afore you make 
up your mind 'bout folks." 
Si turned up the path to his own house, leaving 
Philip to keep his way on the beach. The mention of 
Oswald was sufficient to send his thoughts dreamily 
along the current that had so often borne them since 
that morning with the stranger. A sudden inspiration 
came to him ; might not Oswald come again, and 
would he not help him ? Philip was young enough to 
trust any one who carried the recommendations of a 
fine manner and beautiful brown eyes. And he was 
led on further than his individual confidence would 
have taken him, by the impetuous faith which belongs 
to youth in general. Your young enthusiast finds it 
hard to believe that the world at large does not take 
his own estimate of his plans. 
He caught Eagerly at hope, and was again happier. 
Grandmother was not the one all-powerful person in 
the world, though her dollars, undiminished by dis- 
tance, bore a more distinct money value than any 
which might flow from a possible, unknown kindness. 
Still, hope of the unseen is vastly more comforting 
than hope connected with some result we partly guess. 
You may plan your tower as high as you please, if you 
are not obliged to stop now and then, and wonder if 
there will be bricks enough to finish it. 
Speak scornfully as Philip might, there was 
some comfort in being at school, even studying the 
too familiar arithmetic and spelling. Stratford 
Academy was, like many others in similar New 
England towns, dignified by a title of very delusive 
importance. The school met in a bare room over 
the Town Hall, a room heated by a stove of 
most impulsive temperament. In the morning, it 
never deigned to make an effort towards preventing 
the girls from muffling themselves in shawls, while 
they held their pencils in stiff fingers, or the boys, sto- 
ical as they might be, from turning up their jacket 
 
collars ; but in the middle of the forenoon, it grew so 
hot with zeal and hemlock wood that the very walls 
and ceiling steamed. There was but one term for the 
year, and that in the winter, when the boys could de- 
vote themselves exclusively to ciphering. For some 
years, the teaching had been done by young men who 
had begun an education at some well-known institu- 
tion, but whose thirst for study had not urged them to 
advance beyond the first conjugation. Having "been 
away to school," it became the duty and pleasure of 
the youth to prove his gratitude for such advantages 
by putting their fruit to use in ways cut off from the 
masses. Consequently, he never allowed himself, at 
least until this temporary pride of life had worn off, 
to think of manual labor ; but in summer, took the 
prettiest girl in town driving in a very smart buggy, 
and in winter, heard the lessons recited in some rural 
Academy. This poverty of instruction was not pecu- 
liar to Stratford, but a misfortune it shared in com- 
mon with dozens of country towns which were more 
open to intercourse with the world ; the wave of edu- 
cational reform and experiment had not, a few years 
ago, touched any of them. It was according to long 
established precedent that boys and girls should, win- 
ter after winter, drone through the explanations of 
tediously complicated ''' sums," acquiring a certain 
dexterity in the use of figures and phraseology, which 
was not without its value. In fact, any innovation on 
that time-worn habit would have been regarded as a 
waste of the town's money. I am not sure that these 
sturdy committee men were wholly wrong. Their 
course of training doubtless gave a less graceful finish 
 
than would three months a year of the oral instruction 
with which certain schools are rife. But there were 
developed the bone and sinew that yeomen need. 
Book and pencil given, with the command to learn this 
paragraph or " do" that problem, there was no idea of 
help in the mind of teacher or scholar until victory 
had been proved improbable by the erasure and pa- 
tient re-making of several thousand figures. 
Let no indignant protest rise to your lips, O educa- 
tional pioneers, who would simplify and sugar-coat 
Sanskrit if you could ! These are heterodox opinions, 
but they are humbly submitted as exponents of the 
truth that a mistaken training may have its advanta- 
ges. These children might not have much versatility 
of mind, but they gained a toughness of mental fiber, 
a habit of self-dependence, which the disciples of your 
school gymnastics will probably lack. 
It was as Philip had said, the classes (and there 
were at least thirty, not more than two or three pupils 
having the same text-books), began with every term 
at the same place and went over familiar ground. 
The older scholars (youths with ambitious collars to 
which their necks were all unaccustomed, the acquain- 
tance being kept up through these winter months, and 
renewed from Sunday to Sunday during the rest of 
the year, and girls with crimped hair and much be- 
ribboned throats), had a general idea that Latin was 
the necessary accompaniment to an academic course. 
Exactly what place it held in the practical work be- 
fore grown men and women, they could not have told. 
It is not even safe to state that many of them knew 
quite what part the language had played in the world's 
 
history. It was, indeed, popularly supposed to be a 
recent invention or compilation for the use of schools. 
Consequently, if the instructor's knowledge went far 
enough the pupils were able, at the end of their 
course, to translate the sentences at the beginning of 
the grammar. 
This term, Felix Kewe, a stranger to every body in 
town, had taken the school. Lawyer Sims had seen 
and strongly recommended him. The district fathers 
had a respect for the lawyer's opinion which led them 
out of their usual distrust of strangers, though they 
did not scruple to say that the young man had "come 
from nobody knows where." But it was generally un- 
derstood that he had finished his college course, and 
would teach some months before choosing a profession. 
CHAPTER VII. 
Felix Kewe had no idea that he was 
charged with a divine revelation, he had implicit 
faith that he was a man with a mission. And the belief 
was relieved from any possible savor of spiritual pride, 
by the equally strong one that all men had missions. 
His own he recognized with ardor. He was a man 
who had had experiences enough to give him some- 
thing more than a one-sided view of life, and conse- 
quently was not likely to be led away into fanatical 
courses. Felix had been very poor ; indeed he was 
still ; but there had been times in his life when he knew 
the vacuity consequent on one meal a day, and the de- 
pression that haunts life in a fireless attic. For several 
years, in his boyhood, the world had left him to his 
own devices. He had a dim recollection of his mother 
as a fragile woman with a sweet voice, and the most 
distinct memories of his father. He had died when 
Felix was a boy of ten, and the child thought of him 
with a kind of passionate worship. All his happiness 
had been connected with his father ; the two lived 
together in a rare and beautiful intimacy. 
Raymond Kewe was a man to inspire devotion in 
any one who was allowed to approach his life closely. 
He had fine tastes, and being peculiarly reserved in 
temperament, would have chosen to live the student's 
life, apart from men. That was not possible ; he was 
 
only a book-keeper at Burbank's, and saw no possibil- 
ity of becoming any thing else. He was deeply in love 
with his wife, and, after her death, life became too hard 
a problem to struggle over longer. 
He had, fortunately, owned a little house at Cam- 
bridge which was sold, and the money, with his small 
life insurance, was invested for Felix. The father's 
provision was that the boy should be sent to school 
as long as the money lasted, and, as the interest might 
not be sufficient for all unforeseen expenses, the princi- 
pal was to be used as it was needed. It was, as Ray- 
mond Kewe said to old Mr. Burbank, only of importance 
that the boy should be fairly started in life. By the 
time the money was gone, he would have found out 
whether he deserved the start. So Mr. Burbank, as 
his guardian, sent him to a boarding school where the 
tuition was what he might have paid for his own son ; 
but it was not adapted to the size of Felix's small for- 
tune, which diminished too fast. Mr. Burbank meant to 
discharge his trust faithfully, but he had only seen the 
boy once, and consequently had no very definite idea 
of him as an individual. He was a busy man, and Fe- 
lix's existence seldom occurred to him except on pay- 
ing the quarterly bills, when he said, perhaps, " That 
boy must be growing fast. I wonder what Kewe 
meant to make of him ! ' 
Professor Mellen, the principal of the school, knew 
the state of the case, and when Felix was fifteen, wrote 
that the boy would only be satisfied with a college 
course. Was that possible with the amount of money 
still left ? The answer never came ; for, in less than a 
week, the elder Burbank died. His affairs proved to 
be in confusion. Professor Mellen was not a rich man. 
The best he could do for Felix was to give him advice, 
and find him a situation as office boy in Boston. He 
hoped it would not be permanent ; that he might be 
able to recommend him to some one in authority, who 
could help him on. But Felix, though he wrote from 
time to time and always mentioned the same desires, 
did not complain, and the Professor had not time to 
remember him very actively. 
Nobody has known the story of those years in the 
office, because nobody could be told the fervor of de- 
sire, and the discouragement that walked hand in hand 
with every day's duties and through the dreams of each 
night. All that could be known was that Felix worked 
from seven till six and, after that, spent two or three 
hours over his books the time varying as did his wea- 
riness, sometimes studying with a glow which seemed 
the prelude of success, and often, with bitter tears, try- 
ing to understand what only a word of explanation 
could have made clear. Money became the slave, the 
possession of which would entail that of all good things. 
He hoarded it jealously ; the smallest sums were mag- 
nified, until he was exultant in finding that, without too 
great discomfort, he could omit his dinner from the 
programme of the day. He did very little wailing over 
his fate, even as a boy ; indeed there was no time. He 
felt, rather than saw, as an older person might, the ne- 
cessity for conserving force toward better ends than 
complaint. 
In two years, the Burbank estate was settled, and 
Felix was notified that the rest of his money would be 
paid him when he chose. With a delight more boyish 
 
than any emotion he had dared indulge for years, he 
gave up his situation, talked with Professor Ryder, and 
so reached that gentleman's favor by showing clear 
common-sense, that he took pains to give him definite 
advice. In pursuance of that, Felix began study at 
Cambridge. The next year he entered college and 
managed to stay there. He heard of Stratford Academy 
through Lawyer Sims, who had chanced to visit Har- 
vard in the way of sight-seeing. 
Felix had carried through his years of hard work a 
growing wish to be of use in the world. He was born 
with that sympathy for suffering and desire to help 
which is inherent in some souls, and it had been fos- 
tered to a passion by his own contact with working 
people. That had trained this natural instinct, which 
was like a delicate sense responsive to suffering, by 
giving him a practical knowledge of what life forces 
people to bear. He nourished and tended theories of 
living ; with his pity, there was an enthusiastic faith 
that life need not be so bitter, if religion could be made 
an intentness on doing, which should leave no time nor 
heart for moaning over what fate had done. So the 
resolve to become a minister had been in his mind for 
years ; he had no theological creed or bias, but made 
his choice simply because a minister was recognized as 
having something to say for the good of the soul, and 
people expected to listen to it. Having a lesson to 
teach the world, or good thing- to share with it, and 
being neither poet nor philosopher, he had no way but 
to stand honestly before it and speak. And he meant 
to do this without prefix of title, without sanction of 
synod or laying on of hands. 
 
When he opened school on Monday morning, Philip 
did not look at him with a great deal of interest, be- 
yond noticing that he had a muscular, rather gaunt 
figure, and a pair of powerful gray eyes. The face 
was made up of prominent, bony features ; and though 
there were hollows under the eyes, they were signs of 
hard work and study rather than ill health. 
School had not been in session more than three days, 
when such a moving of the .dry bones of learning took 
place as sent every young academician home with 
strange and exciting tales of the master's notions. It 
seems that Henry Barrell, who was approaching his 
twenty-first year, and had only come to school because 
he could get no shoes to make, appeared, one morning, 
with a battered copy of a Latin grammar, saying he 
meant to study it. Felix did not object, but the inci- 
dent led to a familiar talk before they went home that 
night. It was clear enough for every pupil to think it 
addressed to him individually. The substance of it 
was, that one who is in school only three or four 
months in the year can not afford to waste his time 
over ornamental flourishes. What Stratford scholars 
needed, was a knowledge of the practical branches nec- 
essary for the making of good citizens, who would 
sometime vote on town improvements and school laws. 
Extra time might well be spent on history, but never 
on the elements of Latin. He owned that if any body 
insisted on an unnecessary sttidy, he should be obliged 
to teach it, but he could not help hoping that every 
pupil would show a solid common-sense, in willingness 
to be guided. This fragment of a speech gave the im- 
pression that at least he knew what he was talking 
 
about. There were various interpretations of it at 
different homes. 
' Sounds well ! ' was the sententious verdict of the 
Sea View, and that was as cordial an agreement as 
could have been expected in Stratford. The conse- 
quence was that a new plan of study was organized, 
from which the superfluous adornments of the Strat- 
ford mind were thrown out altogether. Something of a 
struggle ensued in ridding the programme of a few 
books to which the school was greatly attached, but 
even that was accomplished, and only three boys clung 
to their Latin. One was Henry Barrell, who would 
not be turned out of his course from pure obstinacy, 
the second, a boy who had bought a new grammar and 
wanted his money's worth. Philip was the third. Felix 
put them in a class together, and took the first oppor- 
tunity of seeing them alone to ask their reasons. Philip's 
turn came last. He went to the battered desk, just 
as the last stragglers filed out, tying their comforters 
as they went. Felix looked searchingly at the pale, 
sensitive face, as he asked his question. 
' I wanted to keep on with it because I mean to go 
to college," answered Philip, steadily. 
Then you are not included in what I said to the other 
boys. Have you always had it in mind to fit yourself for 
college, or have your friends made the plan for you ? " 
Philip grew a shade paler ; he half expected to be 
discouraged or smiled at,- when his baseless plan should 
come out. 
They can't help me at home, and I haven't any 
money. Nobody has made any plans for me, except 
myself, but I shall do it ! " 
 
In spite of himself, his eyes filled with tears. Felix 
saw them and understood. His sympathetic nature 
gave him the key to many others ; indeed, he leaned 
so -far on the side of understanding sorrow, that it was 
only common-sense which kept him from exaggerating 
the need of pity. 
" I see," he said, kindly, as he rose to go home. 
" Well, if you need to depend on yourself, the best and 
only thing to do is to fill up this winter with hard 
work." Philip's heart was won. Here was something 
definite to do, and he began earnestly. 
At the end of a week, as they were leaving the 
school-room, Felix called him back and said, " Wouldn't 
you like to come in and see me this evening ? You 
know I board at Mrs. Potter's." 
" Yes, sir, I should. When shall I come?' 
"After tea, if you will, and come up to my room." 
Philip ran home and carried in wood and water with 
an enthusiasm hitherto unknown. Having told his 
mother previously, he took care to mention the mas- 
ter's invitation at the table. Grandmother frequently 
felt injured at having things happen of which she had 
not been warned. She became more silent every day. 
Elizabeth was her favorite, and, strange paradox as 
it may seem, when Elizabeth was at home Madam Nye 
was so much more comfortable that she could afford 
strength for being more actively disagreeable. 
Mrs. Potter's was a small house, about half a mile 
from the Nye farm, and when Philip reached it, there 
was a bright light in the dormer-window above the sit- 
ting-room. Mrs. Potter was a fresh-cheeked, plump 
little housekeeper, with smooth flaxen hair ; a woman 
 
whose feelings lay so near the surface that the slightest 
appeal to them was sufficient to excite a flow of tears. 
She opened the door for Philip, the lamp in her hand 
illuminating the round face, and making it more like a 
winter apple than ever, moreover, a kindly apple that 
would rejoice at being eaten on Thanksgiving evening. 
" Yes, he's just gone up-stairs," she said. " He told 
me he was expecting you. I'll hold the light. There ! 
he's opened his door ; now you can see." 
"Mrs. Potter," came Felix's voice, "Mrs. Potter, 
please don't have any thing to do with the well. I'm 
coming down again." 
"You stay up there with your company," said the 
little woman, beaming at his thought for her. " 'Twont 
hurt me a mite to bring in a little water. I've done it 
before now." And the sitting-room door closed be- 
hind her. 
"Come in," said Felix, waiting for him in the door- 
way. "Sit down a few minutes and make yourself 
comfortable, while I go down-stairs to help Mrs. Pot- 
ter a bit. She thinks she might as well keep on doing 
what she always has done, and I'm trying to entice her 
out of bad habits." While he was talking, he drew 
the only easy-chair near the fire for Philip, who had 
taken rather an uncomfortable straight-backed one. 
" Perhaps you think it would have been more polite 
to do my chores before you came," Felix went on. 
" And so it would, but we staid a little longer at table 
than usual, and then I ran up here to be sure it was 
warm. Here are one or two of the latest papers, and 
some books ; not the latest books, though, which is all 
the better for them. Now excuse me." 
He ran down-stairs, and in a few minutes Philip 
heard the bucket of the old well go down with a 
whirl and rush. He looked about the room before 
taking up a book. It was rather a small chamber with 
a sloping roof, under one side of which it would have 
been possible to assume only a devotional attitude. 
The floor was carpeted in a red and white pattern, and 
the large chair covered with gay chintz, while the bed 
boasted a log-cabin quilt. This was unmistakably the 
"best chamber," though the warmth from the little air- 
tight stove, and the table covered with scattered books, 
gave it a homelike, cosy air, which perhaps no other 
best room in Stratford could boast. Philip took up a 
bulky brown volume from the table, and found it to be 
Mill's Political Economy. The sight of a new book 
gives the young student a certain excitement and 
thrill of curiosity, for may it not contain some truth 
he has been seeking ? Philip was disappointed to find 
only words which bore no more meaning to him than 
a mathematical formula. Before he had time to look 
further, Felix came back. 
' Now I'm ready to be comfortable," he said, put- 
ting on the well-worn slippers again, and seating him- 
self. " No, please, keep that chair. I don't like any 
thing on rockers. They make me slipshod and sea- 
sick. I'm no more used to lounging than a soldier. I 
remember seeing a play some years ago, where a ser- 
geant has to march across the stage, turn, salute, and 
give an order, and he was so like a ramrod that we 
laughed more at him than at the play. Sometimes I 
am afraid of being unpleasantly like him." 
Philip's interest rose at once. 
 
'Did you live where you could go to the theater? 
Did you go often ? " 
' I lived in Cambridge. No, I didn't go often be- 
cause I hadn't much money to spend in that way." 
' Was it because you didn't think it would be right 
to spend it so ? Grandmother wouldn't ! " 
' Oh, I should have been glad enough to do it if I 
had had more," Felix laughed. "But there's always a 
choice for people who are not princes in the Arabian 
Nights. The question was, should I spend the little I 
had on the theater or save it toward my college 
course." 
' But it was a great thing for you to give up so 
much ! " 
'Not at all. Why, how you bubble over with praise 
and blame ! ' said Felix, looking at him with some 
amusement. : There's nothing heroic in a man's de- 
ciding what is worth most to him in life, and then 
giving up less important things for that." 
' Why," said Philip, it striking with the force of a 
new revelation that circumstances could be hard for 
other people as they were for him, and in precisely the 
same way. ' So you had a hard time to do it, too ! 
Do you suppose I ever can ? " 
' I wish you could tell me about it some time," said 
Felix. 'Now, if you are willing. Perhaps I have 
been in the very place where you are." Philip was 
ready to pour forth the whole story. He gave neither 
confidence nor interest piecemeal. The account was 
very full of Elizabeth and how she helped or hindered 
him. 
' Elizabeth is your sister ? Yes, I knew it, though 
I had forgotten for the moment. Mrs. Potter has 
spoken of her. And so you came to think it would be 
necessary for you to know more. Why do you want 
to write plays ? ' 
"Why, that is the only thing I care about, and I 
mean to be famous." 
" I believe you must have a higher object than that 
in your mind," said Felix, gently. : Though perhaps 
you are too young to recognize it if it is there, or feel 
the need of it." 
" What, please ? Isn't it high enough object to want 
to do any thing for the pleasure of it ? ' 
" Not the very highest, I think, though even that 
people can't feel all the time. They must be thankful 
if they keep it somewhere in their minds and can pull 
it out and look at it occasionally, as a pilgrim does his 
relic. What I meant was that the desire to do good 
work ought to be a sort of religion, doing it because it 
is the best way one has of enriching the world. Now 
shall I give you advice ? ' 
"Oh, if you would! I don't even dare talk with 
any body but Elizabeth, and she can't help really, but 
only be sorry." 
" That's a good deal, too. Now you are fifteen, you 
know very little, but have a great deal of ambition." 
Sure as Philip was of his desire to be told the truth, 
and familiar as he thought himself with his own de- 
ficiencies, he was conscious of a momentary resentment 
at this plain statement of his ignorance. 
' It is to be proved whether you have the genius for 
work which is the only possible thing to develop abil- 
ity. If you like, I will give you a start in Greek, be- 
 
sides keeping on with the Latin, and I can tell you, of 
course, what other directions to take. Now this isn't 
helping you to money, but the best thing you could do 
now, if you had a gold-mine, is to begin the course of 
study." 
Philip's eyes were dancing. 
" Do you think I can succeed ? Yes, I know you do, 
or you wouldn't offer to help me ! ' 
" It is best to work for every thing worth having as 
if it were possible," said Felix, equally afraid of giving 
baseless encouragement and failing in practical help. 
" But I am sure it will do you good to work." 
Philip heard only the words which answered his own 
desires, and went home happy. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
THERE were two religious societies in Stratford, 
which were not exactly rivals, neither claiming an 
exclusive knowledge of the path to heaven. There was, 
on the contrary, a most amicable feeling between them, 
though the Methodists were sure the Baptists failed in 
sundry-minor points of doctrine, while the Baptists were 
equally confident that their Methodistical neighbors 
were lax in having but one prayer meeting a week. 
But great events like revivals or praise-meetings were 
sure to unite them, as was the case this winter, when a 
traveling band of Evangelists came from Scone where 
they had made a stay of ten days, with, one of them 
nasally said, " a profit of forty-three souls." They be- 
gan a systematic course of exhortation urging to repent- 
ance, and graphic depicting of the consequences of 
hardness of heart. 
There were meetings held every evening in the week, 
at which Baptists and Methodists mingled their tears, 
prayers, and confessions without a thought of sectarian 
boundaries. 
Philip would not have thought twice of the meetings 
had he not been compelled to take them into consider- 
ation in a manner which roused his ire. Coming 
home, one afternoon, from school, the early twilight 
making the time seem far later than it was, he sat down 
at once to his Latin translation, which he had ambi- 
tiously lengthened, day by day. The other boys had 
long before dropped out of the class, quite satisfied 
with their brief sip of learning. Grandmother was 
standing by the stove, cleaning an old-fashioned brass 
candle-stick, melting the tallow and carefully wiping 
it away. 
' You'll have to get your chores done early to-night, 
Philip," she said, slowly fitting in a long candle. 
" Your mother 'll want to be at the meeting early to 
get a front seat. It's dark enough to carry a lantern, 
too ; I guess I'll clean it for you now." 
O mother," said Philip, putting down his book, 
you don't want me to go with you, do you ? I can't 
spare the time." 
' Can't spare time for the Lord ? " said Grand- 
mother, in her most weighty and lifeless voice. " The 
day may come when you are obliged to. Beware, lest 
you provoke Him to anger." 
Philip was too much absorbed in his own affairs not 
to be irritated by interruption, which seemed particu- 
larly ill-timed. Indeed, it probably seems so at any 
present moment when it occurs. 
' I don't believe the Lord would rather I should go 
to prayer meeting than get my lessons," he said, with 
his head so far over his lexicon that he was ignorant of 
the effect of his words. " If He doesn't want me to go 
right on doing what I ought to do, and not stop to hear 
somebody preach, I haven't " 
' Stop ! " rang through the kitchen. He looked up, 
startled, to see that the old lady had put down her 
work and was standing with her gingham apron 
grasped in one large hand, while the other rested 
heavily on the kitchen table. Her square, bony frame 
was trembling with indignation. 
" You shall never say another word like that, while 
you are in this house ! The next time I hear a 
blasphemy against the Lord, you go. My father would 
turn in his grave, if he knew any of his family could 
fall into such wickedness." 
The habit of obedience is strong, and though Philip 
had, more prominently than any other emotion at the 
moment, the sense that he was unjustly treated, he said 
nothing ; a glance at his mother, too, who was making 
biscuits at the table, her hands trembling too much to 
cut them, was -a powerful restraint. Grandmother 
walked into the sitting-room and did not come out 
until she was called to tea. There was silence through- 
out the meal, one of those silences which, in families, 
are so much harder to bear than storms of words. One 
coming in would have felt that the storm had been there. 
After tea, Mrs. Xye followed Philip into the shed, and 
said, in a trembling undertone, " You will go, Philip ? 
She'll be real put out if you don't." 
"I can't help it, mother; I must get my lessons. 
More depends on that than any body knows, any 
body except Mr. Kewe." 
" But I have to be here alone with her all day," 
said the mother, a tremulous note in her voice, the pre- 
cursor of tears. "You are at school, and Elizabeth, 
I do wish Elizabeth would come home ! ' 
The boy was touched, as much by the homesickness 
in his own heart for Elizabeth, as by hers. 
" Don't cry, mother. I'll go, yes, to a dozen 
 
prayer-meetings, and if Elder Jones isn't there, I'll go 
round and borrow his wig and preside." 
Mrs. Nye's coming tears resolved themselves into 
the accompaniment of a laugh. She was timidly con- 
servative in matters of religion, but she could not 
believe that the powers of heaven would militate 
against her boy's nonsense, much as they might 
concern themselves with other matters quite as 
trivial. 
' That's a good boy, and we'll go early so as to see 
our way." 
In consequence of their zeal they found themselves, 
half an hour afterwards, in the pew directly behind the 
one left vacant for those who would go forward for 
prayers. Every body came. Jim Bolton was there, 
with his wife and four of the six children, the two 
youngest having been left in charge of Granny Eld- 
ridge, who had asthma and dared not venture out. Si 
was there, looming up tall and broad-shouldered in the 
corner ; the Academy boys and girls were out in full 
force ; and it was evident, from the number of men 
rendered miserable by coat and neckerchief, that the 
Sea View sitting-room must have been left unadorned 
by a single lounger. 
There were three Evangelists, one thick-set and 
heavy, who sang hymns with a scowl ; one who wore 
spectacles, and acquired by means of them and the up- 
right fringe of yellow hair surmounting his forehead, 
a peculiarly owl-like expression ; and a wiry, nervous 
man, with a tongue moving so fast that it might rea- 
sonably be supposed to flicker. The meeting was 
like a thousand others held before and since, After 
the vigorous singing of a hymn, Christians were invited 
to rise. It seemed to Philip that the whole body 
of the church was coming to its feet. Being so near 
the front, he could not see that any one was seated 
except himself, and when his mother slowly rose also, 
his heart began to beat so that it sounded loudly in 
his ears. There was an unpleasant excitement in being 
the only sinner in a church full of Christians, the only 
one in danger among the saved. 
" Every one ! every one ! ' said the exhorter, in a 
monotonous chant, fixing his eyes on the boy, who was 
unfortunately in the range of the vacant pew ; the 
singer began sonorously. The time seemed hours be- 
fore the Christians were allowed to reseat themselves ; 
it was probably several seconds. Those who desired 
prayers were then asked to stand, and Philip continued 
sitting. One after another of the young people he knew 
passed, sobbing, into the anxious-seat, while his heart 
beat louder and louder, and his lips grew painfully dry 
and parched. In the eyes of the people his silence 
betokened hardness of heart. In reality, it resulted 
from pure nervousness and lack of any guiding impulse, 
except the one to sit still because that involved least 
trouble. 
He had never thought of religion except incidental- 
ly, as necessitating a great many disagreeable sacri- 
fices and deprivations ; it consisting in taking a 
mournful view of life, and spending perfectly quiet 
Sundays, broken only by reading of the Scriptures. 
He knew, too, that if one were not a member of the 
church, he was inevitably doomed to eternal punish- 
ment. His Grandmother and the other people who 
held the strictest views on the subject must be right ; 
probably he was very wicked to sit there, not even say- 
ing he was willing to be prayed for, but he felt that the 
very effort of standing, and consequently bringing all 
those eyes to a focus on himself, would be unbearable. 
He drew a long breath of relief when the meeting was 
over, and they reached the fresh air. 
Just before going to bed, while the three sat round 
the stove, Grandmother looked searchingly at Philip, 
who, with chin on hand, was thinking of the evening 
with exceeding repugnance, and said, with startling 
distinctness, 
' Philip, are you under conviction of sin." 
' No, Grandmother," said the boy, starting with a 
hunted look, as if he had just caught sight of a new 
pursuer. ' I think it is all dreadful ! I wish people 
would let my sins alone ! ' 
'So a good many people wish," said the Grand- 
mother, wrapping her large freestone in careful folds 
of flannel, and holding the compact bundle in her lap 
while she looked at Philip with the eyes of a physician 
accustomed to the symptoms of the soul. 
Philip's sleep was not a peaceful one ; it was not 
broken by dreams, but before he lost consciousness, 
sins, fears and punishments assumed monstrous shapes 
before which he trembled. He was not conscious of 
great personal depravity, but only of a helpless feeling 
that he had been born into a world full of very dark 
places, into which one might fall if he did not walk in 
certain paths, and that the paths themselves were so 
narrow and unpleasant as to make life a hand in hand 
journey with fear, and in such straight and cramped 
armor that one's breath must always be drawn with dif- 
ficulty through closed visor. 
There were other pale faces at school the next day 
besides his, some of them tear-stained and all very 
solemn. There were, to be sure, a few irreverent souls 
among the boys, who dared speak lightly of the Evan- 
gelists, but they became such a despised minority that 
their worldly spirit died weakly out, and they contented 
themselves with snowballing more vigorously than usual, 
while the opposite party sat about the stove at noon. 
Felix felt the brooding excitement in the air, but did 
not trace it to its source. He had been unusually busy 
with his reading for some evenings, and, so absorbed, 
had no further knowledge of the town affairs than that 
there were to be several prayer-meetings in succession 
at the Baptist, church. He was therefore quite in the 
dark, and only said, as he passed Philip's desk, l Does 
your head ache ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Then I wouldn't try to do any extra translation to- 
day. It will come all the more easily to-morrow." 
Felix had yet much to learn of Stratford ways. At 
recess, Dora Chester, who was of a sentimental cast 
and would probably, with a more facile use of rhymes, 
have written poetry to be estimated only by long 
measure, but who now relieved her over-charged sen- 
sibilities by prose composition on Hope or the Seasons, 
came to the desk to ask, " Mr. Kewe, do you love the 
Saviour ? Are you a Christian?" 
Felix's eyes were opened in an instant to the mean- ' 
ing of the general air of other-worldliness. 
" Not a church-member, if that's what you mean, 
Miss Dora," he said cheerfully, going on with the evolution 
of a long " sum." " Did you mean that ? " 
' Yes, sir. I thought of course you'd have found the 
Saviour before this." 
As the week went on, the gloom deepened. There 
were scoffers in town who still pursued their accustom- 
ed walks of life, yet the majority subordinated secular 
affairs to this annual balancing of their spiritual ac- 
counts. In school, Testaments were secretly substituted 
for text-books. Much as Felix might disapprove of a 
fever of emotion, it was still a religious one, and he had 
too much reverence to attempt killing it violently. 
Philip was besieged on all sides by admonitions and 
urgent requests to go forward for prayers. That at- 
tack on the subject of his sins made him uncomfort- 
able, roused in him an unpleasant fear that such dis- 
comfort proved his guiltiness. Perhaps that enigmatic 
phrase 'under conviction," already applied to him. 
And while repugnance to the whole subject and fear of 
being drawn into the ranks occupied his mind, Grand- 
mother watched him keenly, and read, for the morning 
chapter, fiery Jeremiads and gloomy denunciations, 
until Philip's flesh crept with a horror of the super- 
natural. 
The week passed and the revivalists were gone. 
Everyone breathed a little more freely; even the most 
zealous were glad to feel themselves justified in indulg- 
ing in less intense emotion. The new converts, includ- 
ing three-fourths of the Academy pupils, held prayer- 
meetings on every available occasion, and preserved an 
habitual expression of solemnity. Had Felix been con- 
tent to wait, things would have righted themselves, as 
 
they always do after a strain ; but in his zeal, quite as 
hot, in its way, as that of the Evangelists, he believed 
it his duty to add his influence to that of time. He an- 
nounced to the school that he would hold a meeting 
in the room that evening. The scholars looked at each 
other in astonishment. It had been a growing prej- 
udice among them that the master was not " a profes- 
sor." Felix caught the glance, and, with ready tact, 
went on, " I see no reason why I should not talk to 
you as well as any preacher who has as much in his 
mind that he wants to say. Perhaps you do not all 
know that I intend being a minister myself, within a few 
years." 
In an hour, a wave of strong approval swept over 
the community, and the best coats and gowns were 
donned without delay. As Felix went up to the school- 
house at seven, he overtook Si, who, with stertorous 
breathing, and huge, seven-league strides, was steadily 
pursuing his way. 
" Goin' to convert 'em all over agin ? Wai, I guess 
they need it." 
" Perhaps not," said Felix, " I merely had something 
to say and took this opportunity of saying it." 
" I've nothin' to say agin religion," said Si, as they 
plodded on. " Nothin' ; 'twouldn't become me either, 
thet ain't never been a professor and only knows one 
side on't, but I can't abide the airs o' the new con- 
verts. What did they do but come and hang over me 
at the meetin' till I felt like a great shaggy dog jest 
out o' the water, being pestered by a couple o' little 
black-an'-tans. Says I, No, I've got sins enough, Lord 
knows, but the Lord's goin' to settle his own 'count, I 
 
guess, 'thout my standin' up to be prayed for. You 
know Jim Bolton ? Know he got converted ? ' 
' I know who he is," said Felix, " but I haven't been 
to the meetings, and guess more than I hear about 
them." 
' Wai, Jim, he does it reg'lar every time there's a 
revival. Sort of an obligin' fellar, you know, and can't 
bear to hurt any body's feelin's by sayin' no, an' jest 
as reg'lar he backslides after the revival's over. Makes 
me think of what my mother said about a man that 
done the same thing, and when he'd been converted 
seven times, old Mis' Parsons come in and says, ' Sam 
Gridley's found the Saviour agin, and he's so happy ! ' 
Marm was tryin' out lard, and she went on skimming
away and says, ' Better cut his head right off, then. 
Don't let him have a chance to backslide ! ' 
They were going up the hall stairs at the conclusion 
of the anecdote and Felix was conscious that his face 
wore a broad smile, which ill accorded with the general 
hush and solemnity of the assembly. Old and young 
were there. The stove was almost red-hot, attesting 
the zeal of the scholars who had the room in charge ; 
kerosene lamps were lighted, and well-worn hymn- 
books lying on the desk. Felix perhaps made a mis- 
take in not opening the meeting formally with singing, 
but he was only conscious of the message he had come 
to deliver ; moreover, he was quite unused to the 
orthodox mode of proceeding. 
: You have been excited about your sins, this past 
week," he began, taking his place near the platform ; 
' the excitement was followed by an exhaustion which 
you mistook for peace. One step beyond that lies 
your ordinary and comfortable state of mind. Unless 
you are careful, there is coming a greater danger than 
that of going on sinning the danger of believing you 
are safe forever, and so can drink sacramental wine 
and eat the bread of the communion while you slowly 
drift back into slothful living. Believe me, there is no 
need of spending your strength and your tears in be- 
wailing past sins. The only true conversion takes 
place when a man realizes he has not always been faith- 
ful to the right, and swears that, henceforth, he will 
choose his duty before every earthly good, putting 
aside pleasure and personal comforts for its sake, 
without hope of reward. What hell is there for him if 
he refuse ? The fact that he has made it harder for 
some other soul to live happily and grow strong ; the 
remorse that lies in knowing he is out of harmony with 
the beautiful universe. While rain, and snow, and fire, 
and vapor obey the laws which render their operations 
beneficent, he is every day transgressing the Divine 
mandates. 
" Do you not see, the hell of feeling a personal re- 
morse at having committed sin, is a slight pain com- 
pared with the knowledge that this sin has created 
some misery in the world which was not there before ? 
The first touches you alone ; the second reproaches 
you with having injured all men. 
' You have been sorrowful and cast down. I have seen 
it in school ; even the young people are impressed so 
deeply by this haunting dread of a wrathful God, that 
they cannot give their minds to their every day work. 
I have heard it repeated dolefully, that ' this is a 
dying world." It is not, unless you mean that physical 
death is here. Our bodies change into other elements 
as one tree dies and grows up again into new forms of 
Whether we live again as the same individuals 
do not know, but of this I am sure ; that the world is 
life, instead of a deceitful appearance of life 
wrapped about a ghastly skeleton of death 
" You have all had trouble, except, perhaps, those 
who are too young to have felt it, but to whom it will yet 
ome ; sickness, discouragement and death have crept 
into your houses, and lingered like unwelcome guests 
tat believe and ye shall be made whole. Believe in 
one another, that life is full of hope, and that these 
sad and cloudy days bring nearer a great and general 
good, that they are all needful for working out that 
Rejoice every day, be kind to one another and 
put aside this horrible phantom of an angry God and 
a waiting hell. As well as if I had been shown the 
th in a vision, I know these fears are needless " 
A man fired with an idea can hold and sway his 
audience, though the influence may be but temporary 
Felix believed with all his heart in what he was saying 
-is eyes glowed and grew black with the intensity of 
the emotion behind them ; his voice was full of the 
pathos which, sent warm from the heart, melts the lips 
which are its messengers to softness and eloquence 
ie had the personal magnetism which moves men - a 
growing consciousness that it was so sustained him 
through the words he had to say, and gave him a tri- 
umphant belief in their worth. 
People went out slowly, after he had finished, no one 
venturing to deliver an opinion. After the first crrt- 
ism had been made, others would follow in flocks 
Philip had been deeply moved. The master was his 
oracle of wisdom ; now he had spoken with authority 
and had become a spiritual leader. The boy went 
home with his volatile spirits at the top of the wave. 
Life was simplified ; he had been told for the first 
time, that it might 'be right to be happy. 
CHAPTER IX; 
ThERE there many testimonies ? " asked Madam 
'Nye, the next morning. "Who led in prayer ? " 
' There wasn't any prayer," said Mrs. Nye, as un- 
concernedly as she could. 
' No prayer ! " repeated Grandmother, putting down 
her knitting, which she had taken for a few rounds 
before breakfast. ' What do you mean ? I thought 
it was a meeting. Philip said so." 
' Yes, he did, but it wasn't a common meeting. It 
was like a lecture, you know. He preached a little ser- 
mon about what people ought to do after revivals. 
Pretty good, too, I thought." 
' A lecture on sacred subjects, and not begun by 
asking the blessing of the Lord ? That's something I 
never heard of ! ' 
' He said we needn't be afraid of any hell, either," 
said Philip, mischievously. 
' If that's what he thinks, the town had better get 
rid of him," said Grandmother, slowly. " And the 
children ought to be kept out of school." 
As may well be imagined, Philip realized that further 
pursuit of the subject might not be quite wise. 
Comments on the previous evening were various, 
but nowhere was such a faithful exposition of the real 
popular sentiment as at the Sea View. 
' Seems to know his own mind, any way," said Jim 
Bolton, who took a lenient view of opinions diametri- 
cally opposite. ' I like thet in him, though he don't 
seem to take much stock in savin' grace." 
' I'll tell you what I've been thinkin'," said Sam 
Peters, taking the cautious side of the road. It was 
a constitutional habit ; he was never known to row 
on any but the smoothest sea. ' Air we jestified in 
keepin' a fellar in town thet'll put such ideas into the 
young folks' heads ? Now, I've allers been used to 
hearin' thet there's a hell, an' somehow I shouldn't 
feel easy to give it up. But I take it from what I've 
heerd that he don't deny there is one," waiting for 
confirmation, which was given by two or three nods 
around the circle. ' No, I took it not. He only says 
't aint jest the hell we've been used to. Now, on t'other 
hand, I don't see," taking out his pipe which was to 
serve as an emphatic aid to gesticulation. ' I don't 
see why thet shouldn't be so. There's hunderds of 
things changed sence I was a boy. Why, when we 
kep' bees, Sir never was easy 'thout there was a sprig 
o' tansy near the hive, and now nobody thinks o' usin' 
it. We -allers used to kill our pigs on the full o' the 
moon, but Seth got into the way o' doin' his butcherin' 
any time the weather was fit. So now why shouldn't 
there be some change in religion ? >; 
' Thet's a kind o' dangerous thing to say, an' you a 
professor," said another. "Why don't the Scrip- 
ters change ef it's sootable to say one thing to-day and
another to-morrer ? " 
' Now, I ain't a saying there is such a thing as veer- 
in' an' tackin' in religion," said Sam, deprecatingly, 
