Roast Turkey, Chicken or Duck.

It would not be possible for me to write such directions as would
enable you to prepare a fowl for cooking. Yet I advise you to learn
how to draw and dress poultry. Watch the process closely, if you have
opportunity, or else ask some experienced friend to instruct you.

For the present we will suppose that our fowl is ready for the
roasting pan. Lay it in tenderly, breast uppermost, pour a bountiful
cup of boiling water, slightly salted, over it, if it be a chicken
or duck, two cupfuls, if a turkey, and roast, basting often, about
twelve minutes for each pound. When the breastbone browns, turn the
fowl on one side, and as this colors, on the other, that all may be
done evenly. Dredge once with flour fifteen minutes before taking up
the roast and when this browns, rub all over with a tablespoonful of
butter. Shut up ten minutes longer and it is ready for dishing.

Chop the liver and soft parts of the gizzard—which have been roasted
with the fowl—fine, and stir into the gravy while you are making it.


Fricasseed Chicken.

Cut up a full-grown fowl into joints, dividing the back and breast into
two pieces each. Lay these in cold water, slightly salted, for half
an hour. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. In the bottom of a pot scatter
a handful of chopped fat salt pork, with half a teaspoonful of minced
onion. On this lay the pieces of chicken. Sprinkle a double handful
of pork on the top with another half teaspoonful of onion, pour in
carefully, enough cold water to cover all, fit on a close top, and set
the pot where it will heat slowly. It should not boil under one hour
at least. Increase the heat, then, but keep at a very gentle boil
for another hour, or until the chicken is tender. The time needed for
cooking will depend on the age of the fowl. Fast stewing will harden
and toughen it.

When done, take out the chicken with a fork and arrange on a warm dish,
covering and keeping it hot in the plate warmer or over boiling water.
Add to the gravy left in the pot two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley,
a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut up in the same quantity of flour,
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper.
Stir to a boil. Meanwhile, beat up an egg in a bowl, add a teaspoonful
of cornstarch, and a small cupful of milk, and when these are mixed, a
cupful of the boiling gravy. Beat hard and pour into the pot where is
the rest of the gravy. Bring to a quick boil, take at once from the
fire and pour over the chicken. Cover and let it stand over hot water
three minutes before sending to table.


Smothered Chicken.

The chicken must be split down the back as for broiling, washed well
and wiped dry. Lay it, breast upward, in a baking pan; pour in two cups
of boiling water, in which has been dissolved a heaping tablespoonful
of butter, and cover with another pan turned upside down and fitting
exactly the edges of the lower one. Cook slowly half an hour, lift the
cover and baste plentifully with the butter water in the pan; cover
again and leave for twenty minutes more. Baste again, and yet once more
in another quarter of an hour. Try the chicken with a fork to see if it
is done.

An hour and ten minutes should be enough for a young fowl. Baste the
last time with a tablespoonful of butter; cover and leave in the oven
ten minutes longer before transferring to a hot dish. It should be of a
fine yellow brown all over, but crisped nowhere.

Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of browned flour, wet up in a
little water, salt and pepper to taste, boil up once and pour a cupful
over the chicken, the rest into a gravy boat.

There is no more delightful preparation of chicken than this.


Boiled Corn Beef.

Lay in clean cold water for five or six hours when you have washed off
all the salt. Wipe and put it into a pot and cover deep in cold water.
Boil gently twenty-five minutes per pound. When done, take the pot
from the fire and set in the sink with the meat in it, while you make
the sauce.

Strain a large cupful of the liquor into a saucepan and set it over
the fire. Wet a tablespoonful of flour up with cold water, and when
the liquor boils, stir it in with a great spoonful of butter. Beat it
smooth before adding the juice of a lemon. Serve in a gravy-dish. Take
up the beef, letting all the liquor drain from it, and send in on a hot
platter.

(Save the pot-liquor for bean soup.)


Boiled Mutton.

Sew up the leg of mutton in a stout piece of mosquito net or of “cheese
cloth;” lay it in a pot and cover several inches deep with boiling
water. Throw in a tablespoonful of salt, and cook twelve minutes to the
pound. Take up the cloth with the meat in it and dip in very cold
water. Remove the bag and dish the meat.

Before taking up the mutton, make your sauce, using as a base a cupful
of the liquor dipped from the pot. Proceed with this as you did with
the drawn butter sauce for the corned beef, but instead of the lemon
juice, add two tablespoonfuls of capers if you have them. If not, the
same quantity of chopped green pickle.




11

VEGETABLES.


IN attempting to make out under the above heading, a list of receipts,
I have laid down my pen several times in sheer discouragement.
The number and variety of esculents supplied by the American
market-gardener would need for a just mention of each, a treatise
several times larger than our volume. I have, therefore, selected a few
of the vegetables in general use on our tables, and given the simplest
and most approved methods of preparing them.

As a preface I transcribe from “Common Sense in the Household” “RULES
APPLICABLE TO THE COOKING OF ALL VEGETABLES.”

Have them as fresh as possible.

Pick over, wash well, and cut out all decayed parts.

Lay them when peeled in cold water before cooking.

If you boil them put a little salt in the water.

Cook steadily after you put them on.

Be sure they are thoroughly done.

Drain well.

Serve hot!


Potatoes (boiled).

Pare them thin with a sharp knife. The starch or meal lies, in greatest
quantities, nearest to the skin. Lay in clean cold water for one hour,
if the potatoes are newly gathered. Old potatoes should be left in
the water for several hours. If very old, they will be the better for
soaking all night. New potatoes require half an hour for boiling, and
the skins are rubbed off with a coarse cloth before they are cooked.
Those stored for winter use should be boiled forty-five minutes.

Wipe each dry before dropping them into a kettle of boiling water, in
which has been mixed a heaping tablespoonful of salt.

Boil steadily until a fork will go easily into the largest.

Turn off the water by tipping the pot over on its side in the sink,
holding the top on with a thick cloth wrapped about your hand, and
leaving room at the lowest edge of the cover for the water to escape,
but not for a potato to slip through.

Set the pot uncovered on the range; sprinkle a tablespoonful of salt
over the potatoes, shaking the pot as you do this, and leave it where
they will dry off, but not scorch, for five minutes.


Mashed Potatoes.

Boil as directed in last receipt, and when the potatoes have been dried
off, remove the pot to the sink, or table, break and whip them into
powder with a four-tined fork, or a split spoon. When fine, add a great
spoonful of butter, whipped in thoroughly, salting to taste as you go
on.

Have ready a cup of milk almost boiling, and beat in until the potato
is soft and smooth.

Heap in a deep dish for the table.


Onions (boiled).

Remove the outer layers until you reach the sleek, silvery, crisp
skins. Cook in plenty of boiling, salted water, until tender. Forty
minutes should be sufficient, unless the onions are very old and large.
Turn off all the water; add a cupful from the tea-kettle with one of
warm milk and stew gently ten minutes.

Heat, meanwhile, in a saucepan, half a cupful of milk with a large
tablespoonful of butter.

Drain the onions in a hot clean colander, turn them into a heated
deep dish, salt and pepper lightly, and pour the boiling milk and
butter over them.

Onions cooked thus are not nearly so rank of flavor as when boiled in
but one water.


Tomatoes (stewed).

Put ripe tomatoes into a pan, pour boiling water directly from the
kettle, upon them, and cover closely for five minutes. The skins will
then come off easily.

When all are peeled, cut them up, throwing away the unripe parts and
the cores, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a teaspoonful
of salt.

Stew twenty minutes before adding a heaping tablespoonful of butter,
one teaspoonful of white sugar (for a dozen large tomatoes) and a
little pepper. Stew gently fifteen minutes, and serve.


Scalloped Tomatoes.

Scald, skin, and cut each crosswise, into two or three pieces. Just
melt a teaspoonful of butter in a pie-plate, or pudding-dish, and put
into this a layer of tomatoes. Lay a bit of butter on each slice,
sprinkle lightly with salt, pepper, and white sugar, and cover with
fine dry cracker, or bread crumbs. Fill the dish with alternate layers
of tomato crumbs, having a thick coating of crumbs on the top, and
sticking tiny “dabs” of butter all over it.

Bake, covered, half an hour. Take off the tin pan, or whatever you have
used to keep in the steam, and brown nicely before sending to table.


Beets.

Wash well, taking care not to scratch the skin, as they will “bleed”
while in cooking if this is cut or broken.

Cook in boiling water an hour and a half if young, three, four or five
hours as their age increases.

Drain, scrape off the skins, slice quickly with a sharp knife; put into
a vegetable dish, and pour over them a half a cupful of vinegar, with
two tablespoonfuls of butter, heated to boiling, and a little salt and
pepper.

Let them stand three minutes covered in a warm place before serving.


Green Peas.

Shell and leave in very cold water fifteen minutes. Cook in plenty of
boiling, salted water. They should be done in half an hour.

Shake gently in a hot colander to get rid of the water; turn into a
heated deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir in fast and
lightly with a fork, two tablespoonfuls of butter.

Eat while hot.


String Beans.

Do not cook these at all unless you are willing to take the trouble of
“stringing” them.

With a small sharp knife cut off the stem and blossom-tips, then trim
away the tough fibres from the sides carefully, and cut each bean into
inch-lengths.

Lay in cold water for half an hour. Cook one hour in salted boiling
water, or until the beans are tender.

Drain, butter and season as you would peas.

String beans half-trimmed and cut into slovenly, unequal lengths are a
vulgar-looking, unpopular dish. Prepared as I have directed, they are
comely, palatable and wholesome.


Squash.

Pare, quarter, take out the seeds, and lay in cold water for half an
hour.

Boil in hot salted water thirty minutes for summer squash; twice as
long if the “Hubbard” or other varieties of winter squash are used.
Take up piece by piece, and squeeze gently in a clean cloth, put back
into the empty dried pot, and mash quickly and smoothly with a wooden
spoon.

Stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter for one large squash, or two
small ones.

Season with pepper and salt; heat and stir until smoking hot, then dish
and serve.


Cauliflower.

    Trim off leaves and cut the stalk short.

    Lay in ice-cold water for half an hour.

    Tie it up in a bit of white netting.

    Put into a clean pot, cover deep with salted boiling
      water.

    Boil steadily, not hard, one hour and ten minutes.

Before taking it from the fire, put a cupful of boiling water in a
saucepan.

Wet a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch with cold water, and stir into
the boiling until it thickens. Then add two tablespoonfuls of butter,
and when this is well stirred in, the strained juice of a lemon.

Remove the net from the cauliflower, lay in a deep dish, and pour over
it the drawn butter made by the addition of the lemon juice into sauce
tartare.


Egg Plant.

Slice it crosswise, and about an inch thick; lay in strong salt water
for one hour with a plate on the topmost slice to keep it under the
brine.

This will draw out the bitter taste.

Put a cupful of pounded crackers into a flat dish and season with salt
and pepper.

Beat the yolks of two eggs in a shallow bowl. Wipe each slice of the
egg plant dry, dip it in the egg, and roll it over and over in the
crumbs. Have ready heated in a frying-pan, some sweet lard, and fry the
vegetables in it to a fine brown.

As each slice is done, lay it in a hot colander set in the open oven,
that every drop of grease may be dried off. Serve on a hot platter.


Spinach.

Wash very carefully, leaf by leaf, to get rid of sand and dust. Lay
in very cold water until you are ready to cook it. Boil forty-five
minutes; drain in a colander and chop fine in a wooden tray. Beat
then three great tablespoonfuls of butter (this for a peck of spinach),
a teaspoonful of white sugar, and half as much salt, with a little
pepper. Whip all to a soft green mass and return to the empty pot.

As you stir it over the fire add a cupful of rich milk—cream, if you
have it—whip up hard and turn into a deep dish.

Cut two hard-boiled eggs into thin slices, and lay in order on the
spinach when dished.




12

DESSERTS.


ENGLISH cooks would call this “A Chapter on Sweets.” “Dessert” with
them is usually applied to fruits, nuts, etc. Webster defines the word
thus:

“A service of pastry, fruit or sweetmeats at the close of an
entertainment; the last course at the table after the meat.”

Without dwelling upon the fact that when fruit and coffee are served
they follow pastry or puddings or sweetmeats, we take advantage of the
elastic definition and assume that the dessert of the family dinner is
a single preparation of “sweets.”

The too-universal PIE will not appear on our menu. I am tempted to
wish its manufacture might soon be numbered among the lost arts.

Bayard Taylor once said that “If Rum had slain its thousands in
America, Pork-fat (fried) and Pies had slain their ten thousands.”

The average pastry of our beloved land would drive a Patrick Henry to
self-exile if he were obliged to eat it every day. Nor could one of a
dozen inexperienced cooks manipulate puff-paste as it should be handled
in order to be flaky and tender. Dexterity of motion and strength of
wrist are needed for this operation, such as belong only to the trained
cook.

The more wholesome and daintier jellies, custards and trifles, and
plain puddings we have selected from the vast variety of sweet things
known to our housewives, are adapted to the powers of novices in
cookery, and not unworthy the attention of adepts.


Boiled Custard.

This is the base of so many nice “fancy dishes,” and is itself so
excellent and popular that we may properly lay the knowledge how to
prepare it properly as the foundation-stone of dessert making.

    One quart of fresh, sweet milk.

    Five eggs.

    One cup of sugar.

    One quarter teaspoonful of salt.

    One teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, lemon or bitter
      almond.

Heat the milk to a boil in a farina kettle, or in a tin pail set in a
pot of boiling water.

In warm weather put a bit of soda no larger than a pea in the milk.
While it is heating beat the eggs in a bowl. When the milk is scalding,
add the salt and sugar, and pour the hot liquid upon the eggs, stirring
all the while. Beat up well and return to the inner vessel, keeping the
water in the outer at a hard boil. Stir two or three times in the first
five minutes; afterward, almost constantly.

In a quarter of an hour it ought to be done, but of this you can only
judge by close observation and practice.

The color changes from deep to creamy yellow; the consistency to a soft
richness that makes it drop slowly and heavily from the spoon, and the
mixture tastes like a custard instead of uncooked eggs, sugar and
milk.

When you have done it right once, you recognize these signs ever
afterward.

If underdone, the custard will be crude and watery; if overdone, it
will clot or break.

Take it when quite right—just at the turn—directly from the fire, and
pour into a bowl to cool, before flavoring with the essence.

With a good boiled custard as the beginning we can make scores of
delightful desserts. First among these we may place


Cup Custard.

    Fill small glasses nearly to the top with cold custard.

    Whip the whites of three eggs stiff.

    Beat in three teaspoonfuls of bright-colored
      jelly-currant, if you have it.

    Heap a tablespoon of this méringue on the surface of
      each glassful.

    Set in a cold place until it goes to table.


Floating Island.

Fill a glass bowl almost to the top with cold boiled custard and cover
with a méringue made as in last receipt. Do not whip in the jelly so
thoroughly as to color the frothed whites.

It is a prettier dish when the bright red specks just dot the snowy
mass.


Frosted Custard.

Make a nice custard; let it get perfectly cold, and pile on it, instead
of the whipped egg, a large cupful of grated cocoanut, sprinkling it on
carefully, not to disturb the custard.

Eat with sponge cake.


Blanc-mange.

Like custard, this is the base—the central idea, or fact—of numberless
elegant compounds, and is delightful in its simplest form.

    One package of Cooper’s gelatine.

    Three pints of fresh, sweet milk.

    One even cupful of white sugar.

    One half teaspoonful of salt.

    One teaspoonful of vanilla or other essence.

    Soda as large as a pea, put into the milk.

Soak the gelatine three hours in a cupful of cold water. Then heat the
milk (salted) in a farina kettle.

When it is scalding, stir in without taking the vessel from the fire,
the sugar and soaked gelatine. Stir three minutes after it is boiling
hot, and strain through a coarse cloth into a bowl. Let it get almost
cold before adding the flavoring. Wet a clean mould with cold water;
pour in the blanc-mange and set on ice, or in a cold place until firm.

Dip a cloth in hot water, wring until it will not drip, wrap about the
mould, turn bottom upward on a flat dish, and shake gently to dislodge
the contents.

Eat with powdered sugar and cream.


Chocolate Custard.

Five minutes before taking the custard from the fire, add to it three
heaping tablespoonful of grated Baker’s chocolate rubbed to a paste
with a little cold milk. Stir until the mixture is of a rich coffee
color.

Turn out, and when cold, flavor with vanilla and put into glasses.

Whip the whites of three eggs to a smooth méringue, beat in three
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and heap upon the brown mixture.


Chocolate Blanc-mange.

(Our French scholars will say that this should be termed
“Brun-mange.”)

Mix with the soaked gelatine four heaping tablespoonfuls of Baker’s
chocolate, grated, and stir into the scalding milk, and treat as
above directed. In straining, squeeze the bag hard to extract all the
coloring matter. Flavor with vanilla.


Coffee Blanc-mange.

Soak the gelatine in a cupful of strong, clear black coffee, instead of
the cold water, and proceed as with plain blanc-mange, using no other
flavoring than the coffee.


Tea Blanc-mange

Is made in the same way by substituting for the water very strong,
mixed tea. Eat with powdered sugar and cream.


Pineapple Trifle.

    One package of gelatine.

    Two cups of white sugar.

    One small pineapple, peeled and cut into bits.

    One-half teaspoonful of nutmeg.

    Juice and grated peel of a lemon.

    Three cups of boiling water.

    Whites of four eggs.

    Soak the gelatine four hours in a cup of cold water.

    Put into a bowl with the sugar, nutmeg, lemon-juice,
      and rind and minced pineapple.

Rub the fruit hard into the mixture with a wooden spoon, and let all
stand together, covered, two hours.

Then pour upon it the boiling water and stir until the gelatine is
dissolved.

Line a colander with a double thickness of clean flannel, and strain
the mixture through it, squeezing and wringing the cloth hard, to get
the full flavor of the fruit. Set on ice until cold, but not until it
is hard.

It should be just “jellied” around the edges, when you begin to whip
the whites of the eggs in a bowl set in ice water. When they are quite
stiff, beat in a spoonful at a time the gelatine. Whip a minute after
adding each supply to mix it in perfectly.

Half an hour’s work with the “Dover” will give you a white spongy mass,
pleasing alike to eye and taste.

Wet a mould with cold water, put in the sponge and set on ice until you
are ready to turn it out.

This is a delicious dessert. For pineapple substitute strawberries,
raspberries, or peaches.


A Simple Susan.

    Two cups of fine, dry bread crumbs.

    Three cups of chopped apple.

    One cup of sugar.

    One teaspoonful of mace, and half as much allspice.

    Two teaspoonfuls of butter.

    One tablespoonful of salt.

Butter a pudding-dish and cover the bottom with crumbs. Lay on
these a thick layer of minced apple, sprinkled lightly with salt and
spices—more heavily with sugar. Stick bits of butter over all. Then
more crumbs, going on in this order until all the ingredients are used
up. The top layer should be crumbs. Cover closely, and bake half an
hour. Remove the cover and set on the upper grating of the oven until
nicely browned. Send to table in the dish in which it was baked.


Sauce for the Above.

    Two cupfuls of powdered sugar.

    Two tablespoonfuls of butter.

    Half teaspoonful of mace or nutmeg.

    Juice (strained) of a lemon.

    Two tablespoonfuls of boiling water.

Melt the butter with the hot water and beat in, with egg whisk or
“Dover,” the sugar, a little at a time, until the sauce is like a
cream. Add lemon juice and nutmeg, mould into a mound on a glass dish,
or a deep plate, and set in a cold place until it is firm. This is a
good “hard sauce” for any hot pudding.


Cottage Pudding.

    Two eggs.

    One cup of milk.

    One cup of sugar.

    One tablespoonful of butter.

    Three cups of prepared flour.

    If you have not the prepared, use family flour with two
      tablespoonfuls of baking powder, sifted twice with
      it.

    One tablespoonful of salt.

Put the sugar in a bowl, warm the butter slightly, but do not melt it,
and rub it with a wooden spoon into the sugar until they are thoroughly
mixed together. Beat the eggs light in another bowl, stir in the sugar
and butter, then the milk, the salt, and lastly the flour.

Butter a tin cake mould well, pour in the batter and bake about forty
minutes in a steady oven.

Should it rise very fast, cover the top with white paper as soon as a
crust is formed, to prevent scorching.

When you think it is done stick a clean, dry straw into the thickest
part. If it comes up smooth and not sticky the loaf is ready to be
taken up.

Loosen the edges from the mould with a knife, turn out on a plate, and
send hot to table. Cut with a keen blade into slices, and eat with
pudding sauce.

An easy receipt and one that seldom fails to give general satisfaction.




13

CAKE-MAKING.


NEVER undertake cake unless you are willing to give to the business the
amount of time and labor needed to make it well. Materials tossed
together “anyhow” may, once in a great while, come out right, but the
manufacturer has no right to expect this, or to be mortified when the
product is a failure.

Before breaking an egg, or putting butter and sugar together, collect
all your ingredients. Sift the flour and arrange close to your hand,
the bowls, egg-beater, cake-moulds, ready buttered, etc.

Begin by putting the measured sugar into a bowl, and working the
butter into it with a wooden spoon. Warm the butter slightly in cold
weather. Rub and stir until the mixture is as smooth and light, as
cream. Indeed, this process is called “creaming.”

Now, beat the yolks of your eggs light and thick in another bowl; wash
the egg-beater well, wipe dry and let it get cold before whipping the
whites to a standing heap in a third vessel. Keep the eggs cool before
and while you beat them. Add the yolks to the creamed butter and sugar,
beating hard one minute; put in the milk when milk is used, the spices
and flavoring; whip in the whites, and lastly, the sifted and prepared
flour.

Beat from the bottom of the mixing-bowl with a wooden spoon, bringing
it up full and high with each stroke, and as soon as the ingredients
are fairly and smoothly mixed, stop beating, or your cake will be tough.

Let your first attempt be with cup-cake baked in small tins. Learn to
manage your oven well before risking pound or fruit-cake.

Should the dough or batter rise very fast lay white paper over the top,
that this may not harden into a crust before the middle is done. To
ascertain whether the cake is ready to leave the oven, thrust a clean
straw into the thickest part. If it comes out clean, take out the tins
and set them gently on a table or shelf to cool before turning them
upside down on a clean, dry cloth or dish.


A Good Cup-cake.

    One cup of butter.

    Two cups of sugar—powdered.

    Four eggs.

    One cup of sweet milk.

    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

    One half-teaspoonful of mace.

    Three cups of prepared flour, or the same quantity of
      family-flour with one even teaspoonful of soda and
      two of cream-tartar, sifted twice with it.

Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder will serve the same end. Mix as
directed in “Practical Preliminaries,” and bake in small tins.


Jelly-cake

Is made by mixing the above cup-cake, leaving out the flavoring, and
baking it in “jelly-cake tins,” turning these out when almost cold by
running a knife around the edges, and spreading all but that intended
for the top with a thick coating of fruit-jelly. Sift white sugar over
the upper one or frost it.


Cream-cake.

Mix a cup-cake without spice or other flavoring, bake in jelly-cake
tins, and when cold spread between the layers this filling:

    One egg.

    One cup of milk.

    One half cup of sugar.

    Two rounded teaspoonfuls of corn-starch.

    One teaspoonful of vanilla or other essence.

Scald the milk in a farina-kettle; wet the cornstarch with a little
cold milk and stir into that over the fire until it thickens. Have
the egg ready whipped light into a bowl; beat it in the sugar; pour
the thick hot milk upon this, gradually, stirring fast, return to the
kettle and boil (still stirring,) to a thick custard. Let it cool
before seasoning.

Frost the top-cake, or sift powdered sugar over it.


Cocoanut-cake.

Mix and bake as for jelly-cake, flavoring with rose-water.

Whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth.

Add one cup of powdered sugar, and two thirds of a grated cocoanut.

When the cakes are cold, spread between the layers.

To the remaining third of the cocoanut add four tablespoonfuls of
powdered sugar, and cover the top of the cake with it.


Apple-cake.

Mix and bake as for jelly-cake, flavoring the dough with essence of
bitter almond.

Beat one egg light in a bowl, and into it a cup of sugar. Add to this
the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon.

Peel and grate three fine pippins or other ripe, tart apples directly
into this mixture, stirring each well in before adding another. When
all are in, put into a farina-kettle and stir over the fire until the
apple-custard is boiling hot and quite thick. Cool and spread between
the cakes. A nice and simple cake. Eat the day it is baked.


Chocolate-cake.

Mix and bake as for jelly-cake, flavoring with vanilla. For filling,
whip the whites of three eggs stiff; stir in one cup and a half of
sugar and four tablespoonfuls of Baker’s Vanilla Chocolate, grated.
Beat hard for two minutes and spread between the layers and on the top
of the cake.


White Cup-cake.

    One cup of butter.

    Two cups of powdered sugar.

    Three cups of prepared flour.

    One cup of sweet milk.

    Whites of five eggs.

    One teaspoonful of essence of bitter almond.

Cream butter and sugar; add milk and beat hard before putting in the
whites of the eggs. Stir in flavoring and, lightly and quickly, the
prepared flour. Bake in small tins.


Frosting for Cake.

    Whites of three eggs.

    Three cups of powdered sugar.

    Strained juice of a lemon.

Put the whites into a cold bowl and add the sugar at once, stirring
it in thoroughly. Then whip with your egg-beater until the mixture is
stiff and white, adding lemon-juice as you go on. Spread thickly over
the cake, and set in the sun, or in a warm room to dry.


White Lemon Cake.

Make “white cup-cake,” bake in jelly cake-tins and let it get cold.
Prepare a frosting as above directed, but use the juice of two lemons
and the grated peel of one. Spread this mixture between the cakes and
on the top.


Sponge Cake.

Do not attempt this until you have had some practice in the management
of ovens, and let your first trial be with what are sometimes termed
“snow-balls,”—that is, small sponge cakes, frosted. Put six eggs into
a scale and ascertain their weight exactly. Allow for the sponge
cake the weight of the eggs in sugar, and half their weight in flour.
Grate the yellow peel from a lemon and squeeze the juice upon it. Let
it stand ten minutes, and strain through coarse muslin, pressing out
every drop.

Beat the yolks of the eggs very light and then the sugar into them; the
lemon-juice; the whites, which should have been whipped to a standing
froth;—finally, stir in the sifted flour swiftly and lightly. Bake in
a steady oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes, glancing at them now
and then, to make sure they are not scorching, and covering with white
paper as they harden on top.

This is an easy, and if implicitly obeyed, a sure receipt.


Nice Gingerbread.

    Three eggs.

    One cup of sugar.

    One cup each of molasses, “loppered” or buttermilk, and
      of butter.

    One tablespoonful of ground ginger, a teaspoonful of
      cinnamon, and half as much allspice.

    Four and a half full cups of sifted flour.

    One teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of
      boiling water.

Put butter, molasses, sugar and spice in a bowl, set in a pan of hot
water and stir with a wooden spoon until they are like brown cream.
Take from the water and add the milk. Beat yolks and whites together
until light in another bowl, and turn the brown mixture gradually in
upon them, keeping the egg-beater going briskly.

When well-mixed, add the soda, at last, the flour. Beat hard three
minutes, and bake in well-buttered pans.


Sugar Cookies.

    Two cups of sugar.

    One cup of butter.

    Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten together.

    About three cups of flour sifted with one teaspoonful
      of baking powder.

    One teaspoonful of nutmeg, and half this quantity of
      cloves.

Cream butter and sugar, beat in the whipped eggs and spice; add a
handful at a time the flour, working it in until the dough is stiff
enough to roll out. Flour your hands well and sprinkle flour over a
pastry-board. Make a ball of the dough, and lay it on the board. Rub
your rolling-pin also with flour and roll out the dough into a sheet
about a quarter of an inch thick.

Cut into round cakes; sift granulated sugar over each and bake quickly.


Ginger Snaps.

    Two cups of molasses.

    One cup of sugar.

    One cup of butter.

    Five cups of flour.

    One heaping teaspoonful of ground ginger, and the same
      quantity of allspice.

Stir molasses, sugar and butter together in a bowl set in hot water,
until very light. Mix in spices and flour, and roll out as directed
in last receipt, but in a thinner sheet. Cut into small cakes and bake
quickly.

All cakes in the composition of which molasses is used, are more apt to
burn than others. Watch your ginger snaps well, but opening the oven as
little as may be.

These spicy and toothsome cakes are better the second day than the
first, and keep well for a week or more.




14

JELLIES, CREAMS AND OTHER FANCY DISHES FOR TEA AND LUNCHEON OR
SUPPER-PARTIES.


THE pleasing custom in many families is to make the daughters
responsible for “fancy cookery.” Mamma turns naturally, when company
is expected, to her young allies for the manufacture of cake, jellies,
blanc-mange, etc., and for the arrangement of fruit and flowers, and
seldom cavils at the manner in which they do the work.

The difference in the appointment of feasts in houses where there are
girls growing up and grown, and in those where there are none, is so
marked that I need not call attention to it.


Lemon or Orange Jelly.

    One package of gelatine soaked in two cups of cold
      water.

    Two and a half cups of sugar.

    Juice of four lemons and grated peel of two (same of
      oranges).

    Three cups of boiling water.

    A quarter-teaspoonful powdered cinnamon.

Soak the gelatine two hours; add lemon juice, grated peel, sugar and
spice, and leave for one hour. Pour on the boiling water, stir until
dissolved, and strain through double flannel. Do not shake or squeeze,
but let the jelly filter clearly through it into a bowl or pitcher set
beneath. Wet moulds in cold water and set aside to cool and harden.


Ribbon Jelly.

Take one third currant jelly, one third lemon jelly, and as much plain
blanc-mange. (See Desserts.)

When all are cold and begin to form, wet a mould, pour in about a
fourth of the red jelly and set on the ice to harden; keep the rest
in a warm room, or near the fire. So soon as the jelly is firm in the
bottom of the mould, add carefully some of the white blanc-mange, and
