mark. I have missed at the first trial, and that is no reason why I should
not miss at the second, too."

"You are disappointed and unhappy now," said Joe, gently. "It is very
natural indeed. Anybody would feel like that. But you must not believe in
yourself any less than your friends believe in you."

"I fancy my friends do not all think alike," answered John. "But I am
grateful to you for what you say."

He was indeed grateful, and the soothing sound of her gentle voice was the
best refreshment for his troubled spirit. He thought for a moment how
brave a man could be with such a woman by his side; and the thought
pleased him, the more because he knew that it could not be realized. They
sat in silence for a while, contented to be together, and in sympathy. But
before long the anxiety for the future and the sense of his peculiar
position came over John again.

"Do you know," he said, "there are times when I regret it all very much? I
never told any one so before--perhaps I was never so sure of it as I have
been since this affair."

"What is it that you regret so much?" asked Joe, softly. "It is a noble
life."

"It is, indeed, if only a man knows how to live it," answered John. "But
sometimes I think I do not. You once said a very true thing to me about it
all. Do you remember?"

"No; what was it?"

"You said I should not succeed because I am not enough of a partisan, and
because every one is a partisan here."

"Did I? Yes, I remember saying it," answered Joe, secretly pleased that he
should not have forgotten it. "I do not think it is so very true, after
all. It is true to-day; but it is for men like you to set things right, to
make partisanship a thing of the past. Men ought to make laws because they
are just and necessary, not in order that they may profit by them at the
expense of the rest of the world. And to have such good laws men ought to
choose good men to represent them."

"There is no denying the truth of that," said John. "That is the way to
construct the ideal republic. It would be the way to do a great many ideal
things. You need only persuade humanity to do right, and humanity will do
it. Verily, it is an easy task!" He laughed, a little bitterly.

"It is not like you to laugh in that way," said Joe, gravely.

"No; to tell the truth, I am not overmuch inclined to laugh at anything
to-day, excepting myself, and I dare say there are plenty of people who
will do that for me without the asking. They will have no chance when I am
gone."

Joe started slightly.

"Gone?" she repeated. "Are you going away?"

"It is very likely," said John. "A friend of mine has warned me to be
ready to start at a moment's notice on very important business."

"But it is uncertain, then?" asked Joe, quickly. She had turned very white
in an instant, and she looked straight across the little room and pulled
nervously at her fan. She would not have dared to let her eyes meet John's
at that moment.

"Yes, rather uncertain," answered John. "But he would not have sent me
such a warning unless it were very likely that he would really want me."

Joe was silent; she could not speak.

"So you see," continued Harrington, "I may leave to-morrow, and I cannot
tell when I may come back. That is the reason I was glad to find you here.
I would have called to-day, if it had been possible, after I got the
message." He spoke calmly, not dreaming of the storm of fear and passion
he was rousing in the heart of the fair girl beside him.

"Where--where are you going?" asked Joe in a low voice.

"Probably to England," said John.

Before the words were out of his mouth he turned and looked at her,
suddenly realizing the change in her tones. But she had turned away from
him. He could see the quiver of her lips and the beating throb of her
beautiful throat; and as he watched the outline of her cheek a tear stole
slowly over the delicate skin, and trembled, and fell upon her white neck.
But still she looked away.

Ah, John Harrington, what have you done? You have taken the most precious
and pure thing in this world, the thing men as brave as you have given
their heart's best blood to win and have perished for failing, the thing
which angels guard and Heaven has in its keeping--the love of a good and
noble woman. It has come into your hands and you do not want it. You
hardly know it is yours; and if you fully knew it you would not know what
to do!

You are innocent, indeed; you have done nothing, spoken no word, given no
look that, in your opinion, your cold indifferent opinion, could attract a
woman's love. But the harm is done, nevertheless, and a great harm too.
When you are old and sensible you will look back to this day as one of
sorrow and evil, and you will know then that all greatness and power and
glory of realized ambition are nothing unless a man have a woman's love.
You will know that a man who cannot love is blind to half the world he
seeks to conquer, and that a man who cannot love truly is no true man, for
he who is not true to one cannot be true to many. That is the sum and
reckoning of what love is worth.

But John knew of nothing beyond friendship, and he could not conceive how
friendship could turn into anything else. When he saw the tear on
Josephine Thorn's cheek he was greatly disturbed, and vaguely wondered
what in the world he should do. The idea that any woman could care enough
for him to shed a tear when he left her had never crossed his mind; even
now, with the actual fact before his eyes, he doubted whether it were
possible. She was ill, perhaps, and suffering pain. Pshaw! it was absurd,
it could not be that she cared so much for him.

Seeing she did not move, he sat quite still for a while. His usual tact
had deserted him in the extremity of the situation. He revolved in his
mind what was best to say. It was safest to suppose that Joe was ill, but
he would say something indifferent, in order to see whether she recovered,
before he suggested that he might be of assistance.

"It is cold here," he remarked, trying to speak as naturally as possible.
"Would you not like to take a turn, Miss Thorn?"

Joe moved a little. She was deadly pale, and in the effort she had made to
control her feelings she was unconscious of the tears in her eyes.

"Oh no, thanks," she faltered, "I will not dance just now." She could not
say more.

John made up his mind.

"You are ill, Miss Thorn," he said anxiously. "I am sure you are very far
from well. Let me get you something, or call your aunt. Shall I?"

"Oh no--don't--that is--please, I think so. I will go home."

John rose quickly, but before he reached the door she called him back.

"Mr. Harrington, it is nothing. Please sit down."

John came back and did as he was bid, more and more surprised and
confused.

"I was afraid it was something serious," he said nervously, for he was
greatly disturbed.

Joe laughed, a bitter, harsh little laugh, that was bad to hear. She was
making a great effort, but she was strong, and bravely forced back her
bursting tears.

"Oh no! I was only choking," she said. "I often do. Go on, please, with
what you were saying. Why are you going away so suddenly?"

"Indeed," answered John, "I do not know what the business is. I am going
if I am required, simply because my friend wants me."

"Do you mean to say," asked Joe, speaking more calmly, "that you will pack
up your belongings and go to the end of the world whenever a friend asks
you to? It is most tremendously obliging, you know."

"Not for any friend," John replied. "But I would most certainly do it for
this particular one."

"You must be very fond of him to do that," said Joe.

"I am under great obligations to him, too. He is certainly the most
important man with whom I have any relations. We can trust each other-it
would not do to endanger the certainty of good faith that exists between
us."

"He must be a very wonderful person," said Joe, who had grown quite calm
by this time. "I should like to know him."

"Very possibly you may meet him, some day. He is a very wonderful person
indeed, as you say. He has devoted fifty years of his life and strength to
the unremitting pursuit of the best aim that any man can set before him."

"In other words," said Joe, "he is your ideal. He is what you hope to be
at his age. He must be very old."

"Yes, he is old. As for his representing my ideal, I think he approaches
more nearly to it than any man alive. But you would probably not like
him."

"Why?"

"He belongs to a class of men whom old-world people especially dislike,"
answered John. "He does not believe in any monarchy, aristocracy, or
distinction of birth. He looks upon titles as a decaying institution of
barbarous ages, and he confidently asserts that in two or three
generations the republic will be the only form of social contract known
amongst the inhabitants of the civilized world."

John was watching Joe while he spoke. He was merely talking because it
seemed necessary, and he saw that in spite of her assumed calm she was
still greatly agitated. She seemed anxious, however, to continue the
conversation.

"It is absurd," said she, "to say that all men are born equal."

"Everything depends on what you mean by the word 'equal.' I mean by it
that all men are born with an equal claim to a share in all the essential
rights of free citizenship. When a man demands more than that, he is
infringing on the rights of others; when he is content with less, he is
allowing himself to be robbed."

"But who is to decide just how much belongs to each man?" asked Joe,
leaning back wearily against the cushions. She wished now that she had
allowed him to call her aunt. It was a fearful strain on her faculties to
continue talking upon general subjects and listening to John Harrington's
calm, almost indifferent tones.

"The majority decides that," said John.

"But a majority has just decided that you are not to be senator," said
Joe. "According to you they were right, were they not?"

"It is necessary that the majority should be free," said John, "and that
they should judge of themselves, each man according to his honest belief.
Majorities with us are very frequently produced by a handful of dishonest
men, who can turn the scale on either side, to suit their private ends. It
is the aim we set before us to protect the freedom of majorities. That is
the true doctrine of a republic."

"And for that aim," said Joe, slowly, "you would sacrifice everything?"

"Yes, indeed we would," said John, gravely. "For that end we will
sacrifice all that we have to give--the care for personal satisfaction,
the hope of personal distinction, the peace of a home and the love of a
wife. We seek neither distinction nor satisfaction, and we renounce all
ties that could hamper our strength or interfere with the persevering and
undivided attention we try to give to our work."

"That is a magnificent programme," said Joe, somewhat incredulously. "Do
you not think it is possible sometimes to aim too high? You say 'we seek,'
'we try,' as though there were several of you, or at least, some one
besides yourself. Do you believe that such ideas as you tell me of are
really and seriously held by any body of men?"

Nothing had seemed too high to Josephine an hour earlier, nothing too
exalted, nothing so noble but that John Harrington might do it, then and
there. But a sudden change had come over her, the deadly cold phase of
half melancholy unbelief that often follows close upon an unexpected
disappointment, so that she looked with distaste on anything that seemed
so full of the enthusiasm she had lost. The tears that bad risen so
passionately to her dimmed eyes were suddenly frozen, and seemed to flow
back with chilling force to her heart. She coldly asked herself whether
she were mad, that she could have suffered thus for such a man, even ever
so briefly. He was a man, she said, who loved an unattainable, fanatic
idea in the first place, and who dearly loved himself as well for his own
fanaticism's sake. He was a man in whom the heart was crushed, even
annihilated, by his intellect, which he valued far too highly, and by his
vanity, which he dignified into a philosophy of self-sacrifice. He was
aiming at what no man can reach, and though he knew his object to be
beyond human grasp, he desired all possible credit for having madly
dreamed of anything so high. In the sudden revulsion of her strong
passion, she almost hated him, she almost felt the power to refute his
theories, to destroy his edifice of fantastic morality, and finally to
show him that he was a fool among men, and doubly a fool, because he was
not even happy in his own folly.

Joe vaguely felt all this, and with it she felt a sense of shame at having
so nearly broken down at the news that he was going away. He had thought
she was ill; most assuredly he could not have guessed the cause of what he
had seen; but nevertheless she had suffered a keen pain, and the tears had
come to her eyes. She did not understand it. He might leave her now, if he
pleased, and she would not care; indeed, it would be rather a relief if he
would go. She no longer asked what she was to him, she simply reflected
that, after all was said, he was nothing to her. She felt a quick
antagonism to his ideas, to his words, and to himself, and she was willing
to show it. She asked him incredulously whether his ideas were really held
by others.

"It makes little difference," answered John, "whether they are many or few
who think as I do, and I cannot tell how many there may be. The truth is
not made truth because many people believe it. The world went round, as
Galileo knew, although he alone stood up and said it in the face of
mankind, who scoffed at him for his pains."

"In other words, you occupy the position of Galileo," suggested Joe,
calmly.

"Not I," said John; "but there are men, and there have been men, in our
country who know truths as great as any he discovered, and who have spent
their lives in proclaiming them. I know that they are right, and
that I am right, and that, however we may fail, others will succeed at
last. I know that, come what may, honor and truth and justice will win the
day in the end!" His gray eyes glittered as he spoke, and his broad white
hands clasped nervously together in his enthusiasm. He was depressed and
heartsick at his failure, but it needed only one word of opposition to
rouse the strong main thought of his life into the most active expression.
But Joe sat coldly by, her whole nature seemingly changed in the few
minutes that had passed.

"And all this will be brought about by the measures you advocated the
other day," said she with a little laugh. "A civil service, a little
tariff reform--that is enough to inaugurate the reign of honor, truth, and
justice?"

John turned his keen eyes upon hers. He had begun talking because she had
required it of him, and he had been roused by the subject. He remembered
the sympathy she had given him, and he was annoyed at her caprice.

"Such things are the mere passing needs of a time," he said. "The truth,
justice, and honor, at which you are pleased to be amused, would insure
the execution at all times of what is right and needful. Without a
foundation composed of the said truth, justice, and honor, to get what is
right and needful is often a matter so stupendous that the half of a
nation's blood is drained in accomplishing the task, if even it is
accomplished after all. I see nothing to laugh at."

Indeed, Joe was only smiling faintly, but John was so deeply impressed and
penetrated by the absolute truth of what he was saying, that he had
altogether ceased to make any allowances for Joe's caprice of mood or for
the disturbance in her manner that he had so lately witnessed. He was
beginning to be angry, and she had never seen him in such a mood.

"The world would be a very nice tiresome place to live in," she said, "if
every one always did exactly what is absolutely right. I should not like
to live among people who would be always so entirely padded and lined with
goodness as they must be in your ideal republic."

"It is a favorite and characteristic notion of modern society to associate
goodness with dullness, and consequently, I suppose, to connect badness
with all that is gay, interesting, and diverting. There is nothing more
perverted, absurd, and contemptible than that notion in the whole history
of the world."

John was not gentle with an idea when he despised it, and the adjectives
fell in his clear utterance like the blows of a sledge-hammer. But as the
idea he was abusing had been suggested by Joe, she resented the strong
language.

"I am flattered that you should call anything I say by such bad names,"
she said. "I am not good at arguing and that sort of thing. If I were I
think I could answer you very easily. Will you please take me back to my
aunt?" She rose in a somewhat stately fashion.

John was suddenly aware that he had talked too much and too strongly, and
he was very sorry to have displeased her. She had always let him talk as
he pleased, especially of late, and she had almost invariably agreed with
him in everything he said, so that he had acquired too much confidence. At
all events, that was the way he explained to himself the present
difficulty.

"Please forgive me, Miss Thorn," he said humbly, as he gave her his arm to
leave the room. "I am a very sanguine person, and I often talk great
nonsense. Please do not be angry." Joe paused just as they reached the
door.

"Angry? I am not angry," she said with sudden gentleness. "Besides, you
know, this is--you are really going away?"

"I think so," said John.

"Then, if you do," she said with some hesitation--"if you do, this is
good-by, is it not?"

"Yes, I am afraid it is," said John; "but not for long."

"Not for long, perhaps," she answered; "but I would not like you to think
I was angry the very last time I saw you."

"No, indeed. I should be very sorry if you were. But you are not?"

"No. Well then"--she held out her hand--"Good-by, then." She had almost
hated him a few minutes ago. Half an hour earlier she had loved him. Now
her voice faltered a little, but her face was calm.

John took the proffered hand and grasped it warmly. With all her caprice,
and despite the strange changes of her manner toward him, she had been a
good friend in a bad time during the last days, and he was more sorry to
leave her than he would himself have believed.

"Good-by," he said, "and thank you once more, with all my heart, for your
friendship and kindness." Their hands remained clasped for a moment; then
she took his arm again, and he led her out of the dimly-lighted sitting-room back among the brilliant dancers and the noise and the music and the
whirling crowd.




CHAPTER XIX.



A change has come over Boston in four months, since John Harrington and
Josephine Thorn parted. The breath of the spring has been busy everywhere,
and the haze of the hot summer is ripening the buds that the spring has
brought out. The trees on the Common are thick and heavy with foliage, the
Public Garden is a carpet of bright flowers, and on the walls of Beacon
Street the great creepers have burst into blossom and are stretching long
shoots over the brown stone and the iron balconies. There is a smell of
violets and flowers in the warm air, and down on the little pond the swan-shaped boats are paddling about with their cargoes of merry children and
calico nursery-maids, while the Irish boys look on from the banks and
throw pebbles when the policemen are not looking, wishing they had the
spare coin necessary to embark for a ten minutes' voyage on the mimic sea.
Unfamiliar figures wander through the streets of the West End, and more
than half the houses show by the boarded windows and doors that the owners
are out of town.

The migration of the "tax-dodgers" took place on the last day of April;
they will return on the second day of December, having spent just six
months and one day in their country places, whereby they have shifted the
paying of a large proportion of their taxes to more economical regions. It
is a very equitable arrangement, for it is only the rich man who can save
money in this way, while his poorer neighbor, who has no country-seat to
which he may escape, must pay to the uttermost farthing. The system
stimulates the impecunious to become wealthy and helps the rich to become
richer. It is, therefore, perfectly good and just.

But Boston is more beautiful in the absence of the "tax-dodger" than at
any other season. There is a stillness and a peace over the fair city that
one may long for in vain during the winter. Business indeed goes on
without interruption, but the habitation of the great men of business
knows them not. They come up from their cool bowers by the sea, in special
trains, in steamers, and in yachts, every morning, and early in the
afternoon they go back, so that all day long the broad streets at the west
are quiet and deserted, and seem to be basking in the sunshine to recover
from the combined strain of the bitter winter and the unceasing gayety
that accompanies it.

In the warm June weather Miss Schenectady and Joe still linger in town.
The old lady has no new-fangled notions about taxes, and though she is
rich and has a pretty place near Newport, she will not go there until she
is ready, no, not for all the tax-gatherers in Massachusetts. As for Joe,
she does not want to go away. Urgent letters come by every mail entreating
her to return to England in time for a taste of the season in London, but
they lie unanswered on her table, and often she does not read more than
half of what they contain. The books and the letters accumulate in her
room, and she takes no thought whether she reads them or not, for the time
is weary on her hands and she only wishes it gone, no matter how.
Nevertheless she will not go home, and she even begs her aunt not to leave
Boston yet.

She is paler than she was and her face looks thin. She says she is well
and as strong as ever, but the elasticity is gone from her step, and the
light has faded in her brown eyes, so that one might meet her in the
street and hardly know her. As she sits by the window, behind the closed
blinds, the softened light falls on her face, and it is sad and weary.

It was not until John Harrington was gone that she realized all. He had
received the message he expected early on the morning after that memorable
parting, and before mid-day he was on his way. Since then she had heard no
word of tidings concerning him, save that she knew he had arrived in
England. For anything she knew he might even now be in America again, but
she would not believe it. If he had come back he would surely have come to
see her, she thought. There were times when she would have given all the
world to look on his face again, but for the most part she said to herself
it was far better that she should never see him. Where was the use?

Joe was not of the women who have intimate confidants and can get rid of
much sorrow by much talking about it. She was too proud and too strong to
ask for help or sympathy in any real distress. She had gone to Sybil
Brandon when she was about to tell Ronald of her decision, because she
thought that Sybil would be kind to him and help him to forget the past;
but where she herself was alone concerned, she would rather have died many
deaths than confess what was in her heart.

She had gone bravely through the remainder of the season, until all was
over, and no one had guessed her disappointment. Such perfect physical
strength as hers was not to be broken down by the effort of a few weeks,
and still she smiled and talked and danced and kept her secret. But as the
long months crawled out their tale of dreary days, the passion in her soul
spread out great roots and grew fiercely against the will that strove to
break it down. It was a love against which there was no appeal, which had
taken possession silently and stealthily, with no outward show of wooing
or sweet words; and then, safe within the fortress of her maidenly soul,
it had grown up to a towering strength, feeding upon her whole life, and
ruthlessly dealing with her as it would. But this love sought no
confidence, nor help, nor assistance, being of itself utterly without
hope, strong and despairing.

One satisfaction only she had daily. She rejoiced that she had broken away
from the old ties, from Ronald and from her English life. To have found
herself positively loving one man while she was betrothed to another would
have driven her to terrible extremity; the mere idea of going back to her
mother and to the old life at home with this wild thought forever gnawing
at her heart was intolerable. She might bear it to the end, whatever the
end might be, and in silence, so long as none of her former associations
made the contrast between past and present too strong. Old Miss
Schenectady, with her books and her odd conversation, was as good a
companion as any one, since she could not live alone. Sybil Brandon would
have wearied her by her sympathy, gentle and loving as it would have been;
and besides, Sybil was away from Boston and very happy; it would be
unkind, as well as foolish, to disturb her serenity with useless
confidences. And so the days went by and the hot summer was come, and yet
Joe lingered in Boston, suffering silently and sometimes wondering how it
would all end.

Sybil was staying near Newport with her only surviving relation, an uncle
of her mother. He was an old man, upward of eighty years of age, and he
lived in a strange old place six or seven miles from the town. But Ronald
had been there more than once, and he was always enthusiastic in his
description of what he had seen, and he seemed particularly anxious that
Joe should know how very happy Sybil was in her country surroundings.
Ronald had traveled during the spring, making short journeys in every
direction, and constantly talking of going out to see the West, a feat
which he never accomplished. He would go away for a week at a time and
then suddenly appear again, and at last had gravitated to Newport. Thence
he came to town occasionally and visited Joe, never remaining more than a
day, and sometimes only a few hours. Joe was indifferent to his comings
and goings, but always welcomed him in a friendly way. She saw that he was
amusing himself, and was more glad than ever that the relations formerly
existing between them had been so opportunely broken off. He had never
referred to the past since the final interview when Joe had answered him
by bursting into tears, and he talked about the present cheerfully enough.

One morning he arrived without warning, as usual, to make one of his short
visits. Joe was sitting by the window dressed all in white, and the
uniform absence of color in her dress rather exaggerated the pallor of her
face than masked it. She was reading, apparently with some interest, in a
book of which the dark-lined binding sufficiently declared the sober
contents. As she read, her brows bent in the effort of understanding,
while the warm breeze that blew through the blinds fanned her tired face
and gently stirred the small stray ringlets of her soft brown hair. Ronald
opened the door and entered.

"Oh, Ronald!" exclaimed Joe, starting a little nervously, "have you come
up? You look like the sunshine. Come in, and shut the door." He did as he
was bidden, and came and sat beside her.

"Yes, I nave come up for the day. How are you, Joe dear? You look pale. It
is this beastly heat--you ought to come down to Newport for a month. It is
utterly idiotic, you know, staying in town in this weather."

"I like it," said Joe. "I like the heat so much that I think I should be
cold in Newport. Tell me all about what you have been doing."

"Oh, I hardly know," said Ronald. "Lots of things."

"Tell me what you do in one day--yesterday, for instance. I want to be
amused this morning."

"It is not so very amusing, you know, but it is very jolly," answered
Ronald. "To begin with, I get up at unholy hours and go and bathe in the
surf at the second beach. There are no end of a a lot of people there even
at that hour."

"Yes, I dare say. And then?"

"Oh, then I go home and dress: and later, if I do not ride, I go to the
club--casino, I beg its pardon!--and play tennis. They play very decently,
some of those fellows."

"Are there any nice rides?"

"Just along the roads, you know. But when you get out to Sherwood there
are meadows and things--with a brook. That is very fair."

"Do you still go to Sherwood often? How is Sybil?"

"Yes," said Ronald, and a blush rose quickly to his face, "I often go
there. It is such a queer old place, you know, full of trees and old
summer-houses and graveyards--awfully funny."

"Tell me, Ronald," said Joe, insisting a little, "how is Sybil?"

"She looks very well, so I suppose she is. But she never goes to anything
in Newport; she has not been in the town at all yet, since she went to
stay with her uncle."

"But of course lots of people go out to see her, do they not?"

"Oh, well, not many. In fact I do not remember to have met any one there,"
answered Ronald, as though he were trying to recall some face besides Miss
Brandon's. "Her uncle is such an odd bird, you have no idea."

"I do not imagine you see very much of him when you go out there," said
Joe, with a faint laugh.

"Oh, I always see him, of course," said Ronald, blushing again. "He is
about a hundred years old, and wears all kinds of clothes, and wanders
about the garden perpetually. But I do not talk to him unless I am driven
to it"--

"Which does not occur often," interrupted Joe.

"Oh, well, I suppose not very often. Why should it?"

Ronald was visibly embarrassed. Joe watched him with a look of amusement
on her face; but affectionately, too, as though what he said pleased her
as well as amused her. There was a short pause, during which Ronald rubbed
his hat slowly and gently. Then he looked up suddenly and met Joe's eyes;
but he turned away again instantly, blushing redder than ever.

"Ronald," Joe said presently, "I am so glad."

"Glad? Why? About what?"

"I am glad that you like her, and that she likes you. I think you like her
very much, Ronald."

"Oh yes, very much," repeated Ronald, trying to seem indifferent.

"Do you not feel as though we were much more like brother and sister now?"
asked Joe, after a little while.

"Oh, much!" assented Ronald. "I suppose it is better, too, though I did
not think so at first."

"It is far better," said Joe, laying her small, thin hand across her
cousin's strong fingers and pressing them a little. "You are free now, and
you will probably be very happy before long. Do you not think so?" she
asked, looking affectionately into his eyes.

"I hope so," said Ronald, with a last attempt at indifference. Then
suddenly his face softened, and he added in a gentler tone, "Indeed, Joe,
I think I shall be very happy soon."

"I am so glad," said Joe again, still holding his hand, but leaning her
head back wearily in the deep chair. "There is only one thing that
troubles me."

"What is that?"

"That horrid will," said Joe. "I am sure we could get it altered in some
way."

"We never thought about it before, Joe. Why should we think about it now?
It seems to me it is a very good will as things have turned out."

"But, my dear boy," said Joe, "if you are married to Sybil Brandon, you
will need ever so much money."

Ronald blushed again.

"I have not asked her to marry me," he said quickly.

"That makes no difference at all," replied Joe. "As I was saying, when you
have married her you will need money."

"What an idea!" exclaimed Ronald, indignantly. "As if any one wanted to be
rich in order to be happy. Besides, between what I have of my own, and my
share of the money, there is nearly four thousand a year; and then there
is the place in Lanarkshire for us to live in. As if that were not
enough!"

"It is not so very much, though," said Joe, reflecting. "I do not think
Sybil has anything at all. You will be as poor as two little church mice;
but I will come and stay with you sometimes," Joe added, laughing, "and
help you about the bills."

"The bills would take care of themselves," said Ronald, gravely. "They
always do. But whatever happens, Joe, my home is always yours. You will
always remember that, will you not?"

"Dear Ronald," answered his cousin affectionately, "you are as good as it
is possible to be--you really are."

"Ronald," said Joe, after a pause, "I have an idea."

He looked at her inquiringly, but said nothing.

"I might," she continued, smiling at the thought--"I may go and marry
first, you know, after all, and spoil it."

"But you will not, will you? Promise me you will not."

"I wish I could," said Joe, "and then you could have the money"--

"But I would not let you," interrupted Ronald. "I would go off and get
married by license, and that sort of thing."

"Without asking Miss Brandon?" suggested Joe.

"Nonsense!" ejaculated Ronald, coloring for the twentieth time.

"I think we are talking nonsense altogether," said Joe, seriously. "I do
not think, indeed I am quite sure, I shall never marry."

"How absurd!" cried Ronald. "The idea of your not marrying. It is
perfectly ridiculous."

The name of John Harrington was on his lips, but he checked himself. John
was gone abroad, and with more than usual tact, Ronald reflected that, if
Joe had really cared for the man, an allusion to him would be unkind. But
Joe only shook her head, and let her cousin's words pass unanswered.

She had long suspected, from Ronald's frequent allusions to Sybil, which
were generally accompanied by some change of manner, that he was either
already in love with the fair American girl, or that he soon would be, and
the acknowledgment she had now received from himself gave her infinite
pleasure. In her reflections upon her own conduct she had never blamed
herself, but she had more than once thought that he was greatly to be
pitied. To have married him six months ago, when she was fully conscious
that she did not love him, would have been very wrong; and to have gone
back at a later period, when she realized that her whole life was full of
her love for John Harrington, would have been a crime. But in spite of
that she was often very sorry for Ronald, and feared that she had hurt his
happiness past curing. Now, therefore, when she saw how much he loved
another, she was exceedingly glad, for she knew that the thing she had
done had been wholly good, both for him and for her.

They soon began to talk of other things, but the conversation fell back to
the discussion of Newport, and Joe learned with some surprise that Pocock
Vancouver assiduously cultivated Ronald's acquaintance, and was always
ready to do anything in the world that Ronald desired. It appeared that
Vancouver lent Ronald his horses at all times, and was apparently
delighted when Ronald would take a mount and stay away all day. The young
Englishman, of course, was not loath to accept such offers, having a
radical and undisguised contempt for hired horseflesh, and as Sybil lived
several miles out of town, it was far the most pleasant plan to ride out
to her, and after spending the day there, to ride back in the evening,
more especially as it cost him nothing.

Joe was on the point of making some remark upon Vancouver, which would
very likely have had the effect of cooling the intimacy between him and
Ronald; but she thought better of it, and said nothing. Ronald had had no
part in all the questions connected with John's election, and knew nothing
of what Vancouver had done in the matter. It was better on many grounds
not to stir up fresh trouble, and so long as Vancouver's stables afforded
Ronald an easy and economical means of locomotion from Newport to the
house of the woman he loved, the friendship that had sprung up was a
positive gain. She could not understand the motives that prompted
Vancouver in the least. He had made more than one attempt to regain his
position with her after the direct cut he had sustained on the evening
when she parted with John; but Joe had resolutely set her face against
him. Possibly she thought Vancouver might hope to regain her good opinion
by a regular system of kindness to Ronald; but it hardly seemed to her as
though such a result would reward him for the pains of his diplomacy.
Meanwhile it would be foolish of her to interfere with any intimacy which
was of real use to Ronald in his suit.

As a matter of fact, Vancouver was carrying out a deliberate plan, and one
which was far from ill-conceived. He had not been so blind as not to
suspect Joe's secret attachment for John, when she was willing to go to
such lengths in her indignation against himself for being John's enemy.
But he had disposed of John, as he thought, by assisting, if not actually
causing, his defeat. He imagined that Harrington had gone abroad to
conceal the mortification he felt at having lost the election, and he
rightly argued that for some time Joe would not bestow a glance upon any
one else. In the mean time, however, he was in possession of certain
details concerning Joe's fortune which could be of use, and he accordingly
set about encouraging Ronald's affections in any direction they might
take, so long as they were not set upon his cousin. He was not surprised
that Ronald should fall in love with Sybil, though he almost wished the
choice could have fallen upon some one else, and accordingly he did
everything in his power to make life in Newport agreeable for the young
Englishman. It was convenient in some respects that the wooing should take
place at so central a resort; but had the case been different, Vancouver
would not have hesitated to go to Saratoga, Lenox, or Mount Desert, in the
prosecution of his immediate purpose, which was to help Ronald to marry
any living woman rather than let him return to England a bachelor.

When Ronald should be married, Joe would be in possession of three
quarters of her uncle's money--a very considerable fortune. If she was
human, thought Vancouver, she would be eternally grateful to him for
ridding her of her cousin, whom she evidently did not wish to marry, and
for helping her thereby to so much wealth. He reflected that he had been
unfortunate in the time when he had decided to be a candidate for her
hand; but whatever turn affairs took, no harm was done to his own
prospects by removing Ronald from the list of possible rivals. He was
delighted at the preference Surbiton showed for Sybil Brandon, and in case
Ronald hesitated, he reserved the knowledge he possessed of her private
fortune as a final stimulus to his flagging affections. Hitherto it had
not seemed necessary to acquaint his friend with the fact that Sybil had
an income of some thirty thousand dollars yearly--indeed, no one seemed to
know it, and she was supposed to be in rather straitened circumstances.

As for his own chances with Joe, he had carefully hidden the tracks of his
journalistic doings in the way he had at once proposed to himself when Joe
attacked him on the subject. A gentleman had been found upon whom he had
fastened the authorship of the articles in the public estimation, and the
gentleman would live and die with the reputation for writing he had thus
unexpectedly obtained. He had ascertained beyond a doubt that Joe knew
nothing of his interview with Ballymolloy, and he felt himself in a strong
position.

Pocock Vancouver had for years taken an infinite amount of pains in
planning and furthering his matrimonial schemes. He was fond of money; but
in a slightly less degree he was fond of all that is beautiful and
intelligent in woman; so that his efforts to obtain for himself what he
considered a perfect combination of wit, good looks, and money, although
ineffectual, had occupied a great deal of his spare time very agreeably.




CHAPTER XX.



Sherwood was a very old place. It had been built a hundred years at least
before the Revolution in the days when the States had English governors,
and when its founder had been governor of Rhode Island. His last
descendant in the direct line was Sybil Brandon's great-uncle.

The old country-seat was remarkable chiefly for the extent of the gardens
attached to the house, and for the singularly advanced state of
dilapidation in which everything was allowed to remain. Beyond the gardens
the woods stretched down to the sea, unpruned and thick with a heavy
undergrowth; from the road the gardens were hidden by thick hedges, and by
the forbidding gray front of the building. It was not an attractive place
to look at, and once within the precincts there was a heavy sense of
loneliness and utter desolation, that seemed to fit it for the very home
of melancholy.

The damp sea air had drawn green streaks of mould downwards from each
several jointing of the stones; the long-closed shutters of some of the
windows were more than half hidden by creepers, bushy and straggling by
turns, and the eaves were all green with moss and mould. From the deep-arched porch at the back a weed-grown gravel walk led away through
untrimmed hedges of box and myrtle to an ancient summer-house on the edge
of a steep slope of grass. To right and left of this path, the rose-trees
and box that had once marked the gayest of flower gardens now grew in such
exuberance of wild profusion that it would have needed strong arms and a
sharp axe to cut a way through. Far away on a wooded knoll above the sea
was the old graveyard, where generations of Sherwoods lay dead in their
quiet rest, side by side.

But for a space in every year the desolation was touched with the breath
of life, and the sweet June air blew away the mould and the smell of
death, and the wild flowers and roses sprang up joyfully in the wilderness
to greet the song-birds and the butterflies of summer. And in this copious
year a double spring had come to Sherwood, for Sybil Brandon had arrived
one day, and her soft eyes and golden hair had banished all sadness and
shadow from the old place. Even the thin old man, who lived there among
the ghosts and shadows of the dead and dying past, smoothed the wrinkles
from his forehead, forgetting to long selfishly for his own death, when
Sybil came; and with touching thoughtfulness he strove to amuse her, and
to be younger for her sake. He found old garments of a gayer time, full
thirty years hidden away in the great wardrobes up-stairs, and he put them
on and wore them, though they hung loosely about his shaken and withered
frame, lest he should be too sad a thing for such young eyes to look upon.

Then Ronald came one day, and the old man took kindly to him, and bade him
come often. In the innocence of his old age it seemed good that what youth
and life there was in the world should come together; and Ronald treated
him with a deference and respect to which he had long been unused.
Moreover, Ronald accepted the invitation given him and came as often as he
pleased, which, before long, meant every day. When he came in the morning
he generally stayed until the evening, and when he came in the afternoon
he always stayed as long as Sybil would let him, and rode home late
through the misty June moonlight pondering on the happiness the world had
suddenly brought forth for him who had supposed, but a few months ago,
that all happiness was at an end.

Six months had gone by since Ronald had first seen Sybil, and he had
changed in that time from boy to man. Looking back through the past years
he knew that he was glad Joe had not married him, for the new purpose of
his new life was to love and marry Sybil Brandon. There was no doubt in
his mind as to what he would do; the strong nature in him was at last
roused, and he was capable of anything in reason or without it to get what
he wanted.

Some one has said that an Englishman's idea of happiness is to find
something he can kill and to hunt it. That is a metaphor as well as a
fact. It may take an Englishman half a lifetime to find out what he wants,
but when he is once decided he is very likely to get it, or to die in the
attempt. The American is fond of trying everything until he reaches the
age at which Americans normally become dyspeptic, and during his
comparatively brief career he succeeds in experiencing a surprising
variety of sensations. Both Americans and English are tenacious in their
different ways, and it is certain that between them they have gotten more
things that they have wanted than any other existing nation.

What most surprised Ronald was that, having made up his mind to marry
Sybil, he should not have had the opportunity, or perhaps the courage, to
tell her so. He remembered how easily he had always been able to speak to
Joe about matrimony, and he wondered why it should be so hard to approach
the subject with one whom he loved infinitely more dearly than he had ever
loved his cousin. But love brings tact and the knowledge of fitness,
besides having the effect of partially hiding the past and exaggerating
the future into an eternity of rose-colored happiness; wherefore Ronald
supposed that everything would come right in time, and that the time for
everything to come right could not possibly be very far off.

On the day after he had seen Joe in Boston he rode over to Sherwood in the
morning, as usual, upon one of Vancouver's horses. He was lighter at heart
than ever, for he had somewhat dreaded the revelation of his intentions to
Joe; but she had so led him on and helped him that it had all seemed very
easy. He was not long in reaching his destination, and having put his
horse in the hands of the single man who did duty as gardener, groom, and
dairyman for old Mr. Sherwood, he entered the garden, where he hoped to
meet Sybil alone. He was not disappointed, for as he walked down the path
through the wilderness of shrubbery he caught sight of her near the
summer-house, stooping down in the act of plucking certain flowers that
grew there.

She, too, was dressed all in white, as he had seen his cousin on the
previous day; but the difference struck him forcibly as he came up and
took her outstretched hand. They had changed places and character, one
could almost have thought. Joe had looked so tired and weary, so "wilted,"
as they say in Boston, that it had shocked Ronald to see her. Sybil, who
had formerly been so pale and cold, now was the very incarnation of life;
delicate and exquisitely fine in every movement and expression, but most
thoroughly alive. The fresh soft color seemed to float beneath the
transparent skin, and her deep eyes were full of light and laughter and
sunshine. Ronald's heart leaped in his breast for love and pride as she
greeted him, and his brow turned hot and his hands cold in the confusion
of his happiness.

"You have been away again?" she asked presently, looking down at the wild
white lilies which she had been gathering.

"Yes, I was in Boston yesterday," answered Ronald, who had immediately
begun to help in plucking the flowers. "I went to see Joe. She looks
dreadfully knocked up with the heat, poor child."

And so they talked about Joe and Boston for a little while, and Sybil sat
upon the steps of the summer-house on the side where there was shade from
the hot morning sun, while Ronald brought her handfuls of the white
lilies. At last there were enough, and he came and stood before her. She
was so radiantly lovely as she sat in the warm shade with the still
slanting sunlight just falling over her white dress, he thought her so
super-humanly beautiful that he stood watching her without thinking of
speaking or caring that she should speak to him. She looked up and smiled,
a quick bright smile, for she was woman enough to know his thoughts. But
she busied herself with the lilies and looked down again.

"Let me help you," said Ronald suddenly, kneeling down before her on the
path.

"I don't think you can--very much," said Sybil, demurely. "You are not
very clever about flowers, you know. Oh, take care! You will crush it--give it back to me!"

Ronald had taken one of the lilies and was smelling it, but it looked to
Sybil very much as though he were pressing it to his lips. He would not
give it back, but held it away at arm's length as he knelt. Sybil made as
though she were annoyed.

"Of course," said she, "I cannot take it, if you will not give it to me."
Ronald gently laid the flower in her lap with the others. She pretended to
take no notice of what he did, but went on composing her nosegay.

"Miss Brandon"--began Ronald, and stopped.

"Well?" said Sybil, without looking up.

"May I tell you something?" he asked.

"That depends," said Sybil. "Is it anything very interesting?"

"Yes," said Ronald. There seemed to be something the matter with his
throat all at once, as though he were going to choke. Sybil looked up and
saw that he was very pale. She had never seen him otherwise than ruddy
before, and she was startled; she dropped the lilies on her knees and
looked at him anxiously. Ronald suddenly laid his hands over hers and held
them. Still she faced him.

"I am very unworthy of you--I know I am-but I love you very, very much."
He spoke distinctly enough now, and slowly. He was as white as marble, and
his fingers were cold, and trembled as they held hers.

For an instant after he had spoken, Sybil did not move. Then she quietly
drew back her hands and hid her face in a sudden, convulsive movement.
She, too, trembled, and her heart beat as though it would break; but she
said nothing. Ronald sprang from the ground and kneeled again upon the
step beside her; very gently his arm stole about her and drew her to him.
She took one hand from her face and tried to disentangle his hold, but he
held her strongly, and whispered in her ear,--

"Sybil, I love you--do you love me?"

Sybil made a struggle to rise, but it was not a very brave struggle, and
in another moment she had fallen into his arms and was sobbing out her
whole love passionately.

"Oh, Ronald, you mu--must not!" But Ronald did.

Half an hour later they were still sitting side by side on the steps, but
the storm of uncertainty was passed, and they had plighted their faith for
better and for worse, for this world and the next. Ronald had foreseen the
event, and had hoped for it as he never had hoped for anything in his
life; Sybil had perhaps guessed it; at all events, now that the supreme
moment was over, they both felt that it was the natural climax to all that
had happened during the spring.

"I think," said Sybil, quietly, "that we ought to tell my uncle at once.
He is the only relation I have in the world."

"Oh yes, of course," said Ronald, holding her hand. "That is, you know, I
think we might tell him after lunch. Because I suppose it would not be the
right thing for me to stay all day after he knows. Would it?"

"Why not?" asked Sybil. "He must know it soon, and you will come to-morrow."

"To-morrow, and the next day, and the day after that, and always," said
Ronald, lovingly. "But he will not like it, I suppose."

"Why not?" asked Sybil, again.

"Because I am poor," said Ronald, quietly. "You know I am not rich at all,
Sybil dearest. We shall have to be very economical, and live on the place
in Scotland. But it is a very pretty place," he added, reassuringly.

Sybil flushed a little. He did not know, then, that she had a fortune of
her own. It was a new pleasure. She did not say anything for a moment.

"Do you mind very much, dearest?" asked Ronald, doubtfully. "Do you think
it would bore you dreadfully to live in the country?"

Sybil hesitated before she answered. She hardly knew whether to tell him
or not, but at last she decided it would be better.

"No, Ronald," said she, smiling a little; "I like the country. But, you
know, we can live anywhere we please. I am rich, Ronald--you did not know
it?"
