dress for some weeks; and it was near the end of a 
fair warm day in July that he at last came. The 
table was set for tea, and the master and mistress 
of the house were seated in their places on either 
side the fireplace, where now instead of a fire there 
was a huge jar full of hemlock branches. The slant 
sunbeams were stretching across the village street, 
making that peaceful alternation of broad light 
and still shadows which is so reposeful to the eye 
that looks upon it. Then Mrs. Dallas's eye, which 
was not equally reposeful, saw a buggy drive up 
and stop before the gate, and her worsteds fell 
from her hands and her lap as she rose. 
"Husband, he is come" she said, with the 
quietness of intensity; and the next moment Pitt 
was there. 
Yes, he had grown to be a man ; he was changed ; 
there was the conscious gravity of a man in his 
look and bearing; the cool collectedness that belongs to maturer years; the traces of thought and 
the lines of purpose. It had been all more or 
less to be seen in her boy before, but now the mother confessed to herself the growth and increase 
of every manly and promising trait in the face and 
figure she loved. That is, as soon as the first rush of 
delight had had its due expression and the first broken 
and scattering words were spoken, and the three 
sat down to look at each other. The mother watched 
the broad brow, which was whiter than it used to 
be ; the fine shoulders which were even straighter 
and broader than of old ; and the father noticed that 
his son overtopped him. And Mrs. Dallas's eyes 
shone with an incipient moisture which betrayed a 
soft mood she had to combat with ; for she was not a 
woman who liked sentimental scenes; while in her 
husband's grey orbs there flashed out every now 
and then a fire of satisfied pride, which was touching in one whose face rarely betrayed feeling of 
any kind. Pitt was just the fellow he had hoped 
to see him; and Oxford had been just the right 
place to send him to. He said little; it was the 
other two who did most of the talking. The talk 
ing itself for some time was of that disjointed, in 
significant character which is all that can get out 
when minds are so full, and enough when hearts are 
so happy. Indeed for all that evening they could 
riot advance much farther. Eyes supplemented 
tongues sufficiently. It was not till a night's sleep 
and the light of a new day had brought them in a manner to themselves that anything less fragmentary 
could be entered upon. At breakfast all parties 
 
seemed to have settled down into a sober consciousness of satisfied desire. Then Mr. Dallas asked his 
son how he liked Oxford ? 
Pitt exhausted himself in giving both the how 
and the why. Yet no longer like a boy. 
. " Think you'll end by settling in England, eh ? " 
said his father, with seeming carelessness. 
" I have not thought of it, sir." 
" What's made old Strahan take such a fancy to 
you ? Seems to be a regular love affair." 
" He is a good friend to me," Pitt answered seriously. " He has shewn it in many ways." 
" He'll put you in his will, I expect." 
" I think he will do nothing of the kind. He 
knows I will have enough." 
" Nobody knows it," said the older Dallas dryly. 
" I might lose all my money, for anything you can 
tell." 
The younger man's eyes flashed with a noble 
sparkle in them. ** What I say is still true, sir. 
What is the use of Oxford? " 
" Humph ! " said his father. " The use of Oxford 
is, to teach young men of fortune to spend their 
money elegantly." 
" Or to enable young men who have no fortune 
to do elegantly without it." 
" There is no doing elegantly without money, 
and plenty of it," said the elder man, looking from 
under lowered eyelids, in a peculiar way he had, at 
his son. "Plenty of it, I tell you. You cannot 
have too much." 
"Money is a good dog." 
" A good what ? " 
" A good servant, sir, I should say. You may 
see a case occasionally where it has got to be the 
master," 
" What do you mean by that ? " 
"A man unable to be anything and spoiled for 
doing anything worth while, because he has so 
much of it; a man whose property is so large that 
he has come to look upon money as the first thing." 
"It is the first thing and the last thing, I can 
tell you. Without it, a man has to play second 
fiddle to somebody else all his life." 
" Do you think there is no independence but that 
of the purse, sir ? " 
" Beggarly little use in any other kind. In fact 
there is not any other kind, Pitt. What passes 
for it is just fancy, and struggling to make believe. 
The really independent man is the man who need 
not ask anybody else's leave to do anything." 
Pitt let the question drop, and went on with his 
breakfast, for which he seemed to have a good ap 
petite. "Your muffins are as good as ever, mo 
ther," he remarked. 
Mrs. Dallas, to judge by her face, found nothing 
in this world so pleasant as to see Pitt eat his breakfast, and nothing in the world so important to do 
as to furnish him with satisfactory material. Yet 
she was not a foolish woman, and preserved all the 
time her somewhat stately presence and manner; 
it was in little actions and words now and then 
that this care for her son's indulgence and delight 
in it made itself manifest. It was manifest enough 
to the two who sat at breakfast with her; Mr. 
Dallas observing it with a secret smile, his son 
with a grateful swelling of the heart, which a 
glance and a word sometimes conveyed to his mother. Mrs. Dallas's contentment this morning was 
absolute and unqualified. There could be no doubt 
what Betty Frere would think, she said to herself. 
Every quality that ought to grace a young man, 
she thought she saw embodied before her. The 
broad brow, and the straight eyebrow, and the 
firm lips, expressed what was congenial to Mrs. 
Dallas's soul ; a mingling of intelligence and will, 
well defined, clear and strong; but also sweet. 
There was thoughtfulness but no shadow in the 
fine hazel eyes; no cloud on the brow; and the 
smile when it came was frank and affectionate. 
His manner pleased Mrs. Dallas infinitely ; it had 
all the finish of the best breeding, and she was 
able to recognize this. 
" What are you going to be, Pitt ? " his father 
broke in upon some laughing talk that was going 
on between mother and son. 
" To be, sir ? I beg your pardon ! " 
" After you have done with Oxford, or with 
your college course. You know I intend you to 
study for a profession. Which profession would 
you choose ? " 
Pitt was silent. 
" Have you ever thought about it ? " 
" Yes, sir. I have thought about it." 
" What conclusion did you come to ? " 
" To none, yet," the young man answered slowly. 
" It must depend." 
"On what? 
" Partly, on what conclusion I come to respect 
ing something else," Pitt went on in the same 
manner, which immediately fastened his mother's 
attention. 
" Perhaps you will go on and explain yourself," 
said his father. " It is good that we should under 
stand one another." 
Yet Pitt was silent. 
"Is it anything private and secret?" his father 
asked half laughing, although with a touch of 
sharp curiosity in his look. 
" Private not secret," Pitt answered thought 
fully, too busy with his own thoughts to regard 
his father's manner. " At least the conclusion can 
not be secret." 
"It might do no harm to discuss the subject," 
said his father, still lightly. 
" I cannot see how it would do any good. It is 
my own affair. And I thought it might be better 
to wait till the conclusion was reached. However, 
that may not be in some time ; and if you wish " 
" We wish to share in whatever is interesting 
you, Pitt," his mother said gently. 
" Yes, mother, but at present things are not in 
any order to please you. You had better wait till 
I see daylight." 
 
" Is it a question of marriage^" asked his father 
suddenly. 
"No, sir." 
"A question of uncle Strahan's wishes?" suggested Mrs. Dallas. 
" No, mother."- And then with a little hesitation he weftt on, " I have been thinking merely 
what master I would serve. Upon that would 
depend, in part, what service I would do; of 
course." 
"What master? Mars or Minerva, to wit? or 
possibly Apollo ? Or what was the god who was 
supposed to preside over the administration of 
justice ? I forget." 
" No, sir. My question was broader." 
"Broader!" 
" It was, briefly, the question whether I would 
serve God or Mammon." 
" I profess I do not understand you now ! said 
his father. 
"You are aware, sir, the world is divided on 
that question; making two parties. Before going 
any further, I had a mind .to determine to which 
of them I would belong. How can a navigator 
lay his course, unless he knows his goal ? " 
" But my boy," said his mother now anxiously 
and perplexedly, " what do you mean ? " 
" It amounts to the question, whether I would 
be a Christian, mother." 
Mr. Dallas slewed his chair round, so as to bring 
his face somewhat out of sight; Mrs. Dallas, obeying the same instinctive impulse, kept hers hidden 
behind the screen of her coffee urn, for she would 
not her son should see in it the effect of his words. 
Her answer however was instantaneous 
" But rny dear, you are a Christian." 
" Am I ? Since when, mother ? " 
" Pitt, you were baptized in infancy, you were 
baptized by that good and excellent Bishop Downing, as good a man, and as holy, as ever was 
consecrated, here or anywhere. He baptized you 
before you were two months old. That made you 
a Christian, my boy." 
" What sort of a one, mother ? " 
"Why my dear, you were taught your cate 
chism. Have you forgotten it ? In baptism you 
were made a member of Christ, a child of God, 
and an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven. You 
have learned those words, often enough, and said 
them over." 
"That will do to talk about, mother," said Pitt 
slowly ; " but in what sense is it true ? " 
" My dear ! in every sense. How can you ask ? 
It is part of the Prayer-book." 
"It is not part of my experience. Up to this 
time, my life and conscience know nothing about 
it. Mother, the Bible gives certain marks of the 
people whom it calls disciples and Christians. 
I do not find them in myself." 
Pitt lifted his head and looked at his mother as 
he spoke; a grave, frank, most manly expression 
filling his face. Mrs. Dallas met the look with one 
 
of intense worry and perplexity. "What do you 
mean?" she said helplessly; while a sudden shove 
of her husband's chair spoke for his mood of mind, 
in its irritated restlessness. "Marks?" she repeated. if Christians are not marked from other 
people." 
" As I read the Bible, it seems to me they must 
be." 
"I do not understand you," she said shortly. 
"I hope you will explain yourself." 
"I owe it to you to answer," the young man 
said thoughtfully; " it is better, perhaps, you should 
know where I am, that you may at least be patient 
with me if I do not respond quite as you would 
wish to your expectations. Mother, I have been 
studying this matter a great while; but as to the 
preliminary question, whether I am already what 
the Bible describes Christians to be, I have been 
under no delusion at all. The marks are plain 
enough, and they are not in me." 
" What marks ? " 
" It is a personal matter," Pitt went on a little 
unwillingly; "it must be fought through somehow 
in my own mind ; but some things are plain enough. 
Mother, the servants of Christ follow him; it is 
the test of their service; I never did, nor ever 
thought or cared what the words meant. The 
children of God are known by the fact that they 
love him and keep his commandments. So the 
Bible says. I have not loved him, and have not 
asked about his commandments. I have always 
sought my own pleasure. The heirs of the kingdom of heaven have chosen that world instead of 
this; and between the two is just the choice I have 
yet to make. That is precisely where I am." 
"But my dear Pitt," said Mrs. Dallas, while 
her husband kept an ominous silence, " you have 
always led a most blameless life. I think yom 
judge yourself too hardly. You have been a good 
son, always ! " and her eyes filled, partly with 
affection and partly with chagrin. To what was 
all this tending ? " You have alivays been a good 
son," she repeated. 
" To you, mother. Yes, I hope so." 
" And my dear, you were confirmed. What did 
that mean ? " 
" It meant nothing, mother, so far as I was concerned. It amounted to nothing. I  did not know 
what I was doing. I did not think of the meaning 
the words might bear. It was to me a mere form, 
done because you wished it and because it was said 
to be proper; the right thing to do; I attached 
no weight to it, and lived just the same after as 
before. Except that for a few days I went under 
a little feeling of constraint, I remember, and also 
carried my head higher with a sense of added 
dignity." 
"And what is your idea of a Christian now, 
then?" Mrs. Dallas asked, between trouble and 
indignation. 
" I am merely taking what the Bible says about 
it, mother." 
 
"Which every man interprets for himself," 
added Mr. Dallas dryly. 
" Where words are so plain, there can hardly be 
any question of interpretation. For instance" 
"Let that be," said Mr. Dallas; "and tell us, if 
you can, what is your idea of the * choice you say 
you have to make. A choice between what? " 
"The one thing runs into the other," said Pitt; 
"but it does not signify at which end we begin. 
The question is, I suppose, in short, which world I 
will live for." 
" Live for both ! That is the sensible way." 
But, if you will pardon me, sir, impracticable. 
" How impracticable ? " 
" It has been declared so by the highest authority, 
and it has been found so in practice. I see it to 
be impracticable." 
" I do not. Where's the impracticability ? " Mr. 
Dallas had wheeled round now and was regarding 
his son attentively, with a face of superior, cold, 
rather scornful calm. Mr. Dallas's face was 
rarely anything else but calm, whatever might be 
going on beneath the calm. Pitt's face was not 
exactly so quiet; thought was working in it, and 
lights and shades sometimes passed over it, which 
his father carefully studied. " Where's the impossibility ? " he repeated, as Pitt's answer tarried. 
" The impossibility of walking two ways at once." 
"Will you explain yourself? I do not see the 
application." 
He spoke with clear coldness, perhaps expecting 
that his son would be checked or embarrassed by 
coming against that barrier to enthusiasm, a cold, 
hard intellect. Pitt however was quite as devoid 
of enthusiasm at the moment as his father, and far 
more sure of his ground, while his intellect was 
full as much astir. His steadiness was not shaken, 
rather gained force, as he went on to speak; though 
he did not now lift his eyes, but sat looking down 
at the white damask which covered the breakfast 
table, having pushed his plate and cup away from 
him. 
" Father and mother," he said, " I have been look 
ing at two opposite goals. On one side there is 
what people usually strive for; honour, pleasure, 
a high place in the world's regard. If I seek that, 
I know what I have to do. I suppose it is what 
you want me to do. I should distinguish myself, 
if I can; climb the heights of greatness; make my 
self a name, and a place, and then live there, as 
much above the rest of the world as I  can and enjoying all the advantages of my position. That 
is about what I thought I would do, when I went 
to Oxford. It is a career bounded by this world 
and ended when one quits it. You. ask why it is 
impossible to do this and the other thing too ? Just 
look at if. If I become a servant of Christ, I give 
up seeking earthly honour; I do not live for my 
own pleasure; I apply all I have, of talents or means 
or influence, to doing the will of a master whose 
kingdom is not of this world and whose ways are 
not liked by the world. I see very plainly what 
 
his commands are, and they bid one be unlike the 
world and separate from it. Do you see the impossibility I spoke of?" 
"But my dear," said Mrs. Dallas eagerly, "you 
exaggerate things! " 
" Which things, mother?" 
"It is not necessary for you to be unlike the 
world ; that is extravagance." 
Pitt rose, went to the table where a large family 
Bible and book of Common Prayer lay, and fetched 
the Bible to the breakfast-table. During which 
procedure Mr. Dallas shoved his chair round again, 
to gain his former position, and Mrs. Dallas passed 
her hand over her eyes once or twice; with her a 
gesture of extreme disturbance. Pitt brought his 
book, opened it on the table before him, and after 
a little turning of the leaves stopped and read the 
following. 
" If ye were of the world, the world would love 
his own ; but because ye are not of the world, but 
I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the 
world hateth you. " 
"Yes, at that time said Mrs. Dallas eagerly. 
"At that time. Then the heathen made great 
opposition. All that is past now." 
"Was it only the heathen, mother?" 
"Well, the Jews, of course.  They were as bad." 
"Why were they? Just for this reason, that 
they loved the praise of men more than the praise 
of God. They chose this world. But the apostle 
James, here it is, he wrote, 
" Whosoever will be a friend of the world, is the 
enemy of God. " 
" Wouldn't you then be a friend of the world, 
Pitt? " his mother asked reprovingly. 
"I should say," Mr. Dallas remarked with an 
amused, indifferent tone, " I should say that Pitt 
had been attending a conventicle; only at Oxford 
that is hardly possible." 
The young man made no answer to either 
speaker; he remained with his head bent down 
over the Bible, and a face almost stern in its 
gravity. Mrs. Dallas presently repeated her question. 
" Pitt, would you not be a friend to the world?" 
"That is the question, mother," he said, lifting 
his face to look at her. " I thought it right to tell 
you all this, that you may know just where I stand. 
Of course I have thought of the question of a profession; but this other comes first, and I  feel it 
ought first to be decided." 
With which utterance the young man rose, put 
the big Bible in its place, and left the room. 
CHAPTEK XXIII. 
A DEBATE. 
THE two who were left sat still for a few mo 
ments, without speaking. Mrs. Dallas once 
again made that gesture of her hand across her 
brow. 
"You need not disturb yourself, wife," said her 
husband presently. " Young men must have a 
turn at being fools, once in a way. It is not much 
in Pitt's way; but however, it seems his turn has 
come. There are worse types of the disorder. I 
would rather have this Puritan scruple to deal with 
than some other things. The religious craze passes 
off easier than a fancy for drinking or gambling; 
it is hot while it lasts, but it is easier to cure." 
" But Pitt is so persistent ! " 
" In other things. You will see it will not be so 
with this." 
" He's very persistent," repeated the mother. "He 
always did stick to anything he once resolved upon." 
" He is not resolved upon this yet. Distraction 
is the best thing, not talk. Where's Betty Frere ? 
I thought she was coming." 
" She is coming. She will be here in a few 
days. I cannot imagine what has set Pitt upon 
this strange way of thinking. He has got hold 
of some Methodist, or some other dreadful person ; 
but where? It couldn't be at Oxford; and I am 
certain it was never in uncle Strahan's house; 
where could it be ? " 
" Methodism began at Oxford, my dear." 
"It is one mercy, that the Gainsboroughs are 
gone." 
" Yes," said her husband ; " that was well done. 
Does he know ? " 
" I have never told him. He will be asking 
about them directly." 
" Say as little as you can, and get Betty Frere here." 
Pitt meanwhile had gone to his old room, his 
work room, the scene of many a pleasant hour, 
and where those aforetime lessons to Esther Gains 
borough had been given. He stood and looked 
about him. All was severe order and emptiness, 
telling that the master had been away; his treasures were safe packed up, under lock and key, or 
stowed away upon cupboard shelves; there was no 
pleasant litter on tables and floor, alluring to work 
or play. Was that old life, of work and play which 
mixed and mingled, lighthearted and sweet, gone 
for ever ? Pitt stood in the middle of the floor 
looking about him, gathering up many a broken 
thread of association ; and then, obeying an impulse 
which had been on him all the morning, he turned, 
caught up his hat, and went out. 
 
He loitered down the village street. It was mid- 
morning now, the summer sun beating down on 
the wide space and making every big tree shadow 
grateful. Great over-arching elms, sometimes an 
oak or a maple, ranged along in straight course 
and near neighbourhood, making the village look 
green and bowery, and giving the impression of 
an easy-going thrift and habit of pleasant conditions, which perhaps was not untrue to the char 
acter of the people. The capital order in which 
everything was kept confirmed the impression. 
Pitt however was not thinking of this, though he 
noticed it; the village was familiar to him from his 
childhood and looked just as it had always done, 
only that the elms and maples had grown a little 
more bowery with every year. He walked along, 
not thinking of that, nor seeing the roses and syringa 
blossoms which gave him a sweet breath out of 
some of the gardens. He was not in a hurry. He 
was going back in mind to that which furnished 
the real answer to his mother's wondering query, 
whence Pitt could have got his new ideas? It 
was nobody at Oxford or in London, neither conventicle nor discourse; but a girl's letter. He 
went on and on, thinking of it and of the writer. 
What would she say to his disclosures, which his 
father and mother could do nothing with ? Would 
she be in condition to give him the help he knew 
he must not expect from them? She, a girl? who 
did not know the world? Yet she was the goal 
of Pitt's present thoughts, and her house the point 
his footsteps were seeking, slowly and thought 
fully. 
He was not in a hurry. Indeed he was too absorbedly busy with his own cogitations and ques 
tions to give full place to the thought of Esther 
and the visit he was about to make. Besides, it 
was not as in the old time. He had no image 
before him now of a forlorn, lonely child, awaiting 
his coming as the flowers look for the sun. Things 
were rather turned about; he thought of Esther 
as the one in the sunlight, and himself as in need 
of illumination. He thought of her as needing no 
comfort that he could give; he half hoped to find 
the way to peace through her leading. But yes, 
she would be glad to see him ; she would not have 
forgotten him nor lost her old affection for her old 
playfellow; though the entire cessation of letters 
from either her or her father had certainly been 
inexplicable. Probably it might be explained by 
some crankiness ol the colonel. Esther would certainly be glad to see him. He quickened his steps 
to reach the house. 
He hardly knew it when he came to it, the 
aspect of things was so different from what he 
remembered. Truly it had been always a quiet 
house, with never a rush of company or a crowd 
of voices; but there had been life; and now? Pitt 
stood still at the little gate and looked, with a 
sudden blank of disappointment. There could be 
nobody there. The house was shut up and dead. 
Not a window was open ; not a door. In the little 
 
front garden the flowers had grown up wild and 
were struggling with weeds; the grass of the lawn 
at the side was rank and unmown; the honeysuckle 
vines in places were hanging loose and uncared-for; 
waving in the wind in a way that said eloquently, 
" Nobody is here." There was not much wind that 
summer day, just enough to move the honeysuckle 
sprays. Pitt stood and looked and queried; then 
yielding to some unconscious impulse, he went in 
through the neglected flowers to the deserted verandah, and spent a quarter of an hour in twining 
and securing the loose vines. He was thinking 
hard all the time. -This was the place where he 
remembered sitting with Esther that day when she 
asked help of him about getting comfort. He remembered it well; he recalled the girl's subdued 
manner, and the sorrowful craving in the large 
beautiful eyes. Now. Esther had found what she 
sought, and to-day he was nearly as unable to 
understand her as he had been to help her then. 
He fastened up the honeysuckle vines; and then 
he went and sat down on the step of the verandah 
and took Esther's letter out of his breast pocket, 
and read it over. He had read it many times. He 
did not comprehend it; but this he comprehended, 
that to her at least there was something in religion more heartfelt than a form, and more satisfying than a profession. To her it was a reality. 
The letter had set him thinking, and he had been 
thinking ever since. He had come here this morning, hoping that in talking with her she might 
perhaps give him some more light; and now, she 
had disappeared. Strange, that his mother should 
not have told him ! What could be the explanation of this sudden disappearance ? Disaster or 
death it could not be, for that she certainly would 
have told him. 
Sitting there and musing over many things, his 
own great question ever and again, he heard a 
mower whetting his scythe somewhere in the neighbourhood. Pitt set about searching for the unseen 
labourer, and presently saw the man who was cut 
ting the grass in an adjoining field. Dismissing 
thought for action, in two minutes he had sprung 
over the fence and was beside the man; but the 
mower did not intermit the long sweeps of his 
scythe, until he heard Pitt's civil, " Good morning." Then he stopped, straightened himself up 
and looked at his visiter; looked him all over. 
" Good mornin " he replied. " Guess you're the 
young squoire, aint ye ? " 
If Pitt's appearance had been less supremely neat 
and faultless, I think the honest worker would have 
offered his hand; but the white linen summer suit, 
the polished boots, the delicate gloves, were too 
much of a contrast with his own dusty and rough 
exterior. It was no feeling of inferiority, be it 
well understood, that moved him to this bit of 
self-denial ; only a self-respecting feeling of fitness. 
He himself would not have wanted to touch a dusty 
hand with those gloves on his own. But he spoke 
his welcome. 
 
" Glad to see ye hum, squoire. When did ye 
come? " 
"Last night, thank you. Whom am I talking 
to ? I have been so long away, I have forgotten 
my friends." 
"I guess there's nobody haint forgotten you, 
you'll find," said the man, wiping his scythe blade 
with a wisp of grass; needlessly, for he had just 
whetted it ; but it gave him an opportunity to look 
at the figure beside him. 
" More than I deserve," said Pitt. " But I seem 
not to find some of my old friends. Do you know 
where is the family that used to live here ? " 
"Gone away, I guess." 
"I see they have gone away; but where have 
they gone ? " 
" Dunno, no more'n the dead," said the man, beginning to mow again. 
"You know whom I am speaking of? Colonel 
Gainsborough." 
" I know. He's gone that's all I kin tell ye." 
" Who takes care of the place ? " 
"The place? If you mean the house, nobody 
takes keer of it, I guess. There aint nobody in it. 
The land hez as good keer as it ever hed. The 
Squoire, he sees to that." 
" My father, do you mean ? " 
"Who else? It belongs to the Squoire now, 
and he takes good keer o all he sees to. He 
bought it, ye know, when the cunnel went away," 
said the man, stopping work and resting on his 
scythe to look at Pitt again. "He'd ha let it, I 
guess, if he could ; but you see there aint nobody 
that wants it. The folks in Seaforth all hez their 
own houses, and don't want nobody else's. There 
is folks, they say, as'd like to live in two houses 
to once, if they could manage it; but I never heerd 
o no one that could." 
" Do you know at all why the colonel went 
away?" 
" Haint an idee. Never knowed him particular, 
ye see, and so never. heerd tell. The cunnel he 
warn't a sociable man by no means, and kep him 
self mostly shut up. I think it's a man's loss; but 
there's different opinions, I suppose, on that pint. 
As on every other! Folks du say, the cunnel warn't 
never to hum in Seaforth. Anyway, he ain't now." 
With which utterance he went to mowing again, 
and Pitt after a courteous " Good day," left him. 
Where could they be gone ? And why should 
they have gone? And how was it that his mother 
in her many letters had never said a word about 
it? Nay, had let him go out this very morning 
to look for what she knew he would not find? 
And his father had bought the ground! There 
was something here to be inquired into. Mean 
while, for the present, he must do his thinking 
without Esther. 
He walked on and on, slowly, under the shade 
of the great trees, along the empty, grassy street. 
He had plucked one or two shoots from the honey 
suckles, long shoots full of sweetness; and as he 
 
went on and thought, they seemed to put in a word 
now and then. A word of reminder, not distinct 
nor logical, but with a blended meaning of Esther 
and sweetness and truth. Not her sweetness and 
truth, but that which she testified to, and which 
an inner voice in Pitt's heart kept declaring to be 
genuine. That lured him and beckoned him one 
way ; and the other way sounded voices as if of a 
thousand sirens. Pleasure, pride, distinction, do 
minion, applause, achievement, power, and ease. 
Various forms of them, various colours, started up 
before his mind's eye ; vaguely discerned, as to in 
dividual form, but every one of them, like the 
picadors in a bull fight, shaking its little banner 
of distraction and allurement. Pitt felt the con 
fusion of them, and at the same time was more 
than vaguely conscious on the other side of a certain steady white light which attracted towards 
another goal. He walked on in meditative musing, slowly and carelessly, not knowing where he 
was going nor what he passed on the way; till 
he had walked far. And then he suddenly stopped, 
turned, and set out to go back the road he had 
come, but now with a quick, measured steady foot 
fall which gave no indication of a vacillating mind 
or a laboured question. 
He went into the breakfast room when he got 
home, which was also the common sitting room and 
where he found, as he expected, his mother alone. 
She loqked anxious; which was not a usual thing 
with Mrs. Dallas. 
" Pitt, my dear, out all this time ? Are you 
not very hot ? " 
"I do not know, mother; I think not. I have 
not thought about the heat, I believe." 
He had kept the honeysuckle sprays in his hand 
all this while, and he now went forward to stick them 
in the huge jar which occupied the fireplace and 
which was full of green branches. Turning when 
he had done this, he did not draw up a chair, but 
threw himself down upon the rug at his mother's 
feet, so that he could lay back his head upon her 
knees. Presently he put up his two hands behind 
him and found her hands, which he gently drew 
down and laid on each side of his head, holding 
them there in caressing fashion. Caresses were 
never the order of the day in this family ; rarely 
exchanged even between mother and son, who yet 
were devoted faithfully to each other. The action 
moved Mrs. Dallas greatly; she bent down over 
him and kissed her son's brow, and then loosening 
one of her hands thrust it fondly among the thick 
brown wavy locks of hair that were such a pride 
to her. She admired him unqualifiedly, with that 
blissful delight in him which a good mother gives 
to her son, if his bodily and mental properties will 
anyway allow of it. Mrs. Dallas's pride in this son 
had always been, satisfied and unalloyed; all the 
more now was the chagrin she felt at the first jar to 
this satisfaction. Her face shewed both feelings, 
the pride and the trouble, but for a time she kept 
silence. She was burning to discuss further with 
 
him the subject of the morning; devoured with 
restless curiosity as to how it could ever have got 
such a lodgment in Pitt's mind; at the same time 
she did not know how to touch it and was afraid 
of touching it wrong. Her husband's counsel, not 
to talk, she did not indeed forget; but Mrs. Dallas 
had her own views of things and did not always 
take her husband's advice. She was not minded 
to follow it now, but she was uncertain how best 
to begin. Pitt was busy with his own thoughts. 
lt I have invited somebody to come and make 
your holiday pass pleasantly," Mrs. Dallas said at 
last, beginning far away from the burden of her 
thoughts. 
" Somebody ? whom ? " asked Pitt a little eagerly, but without changing his attitude. 
"Miss Betty Frere." 
" Who is she, that she should put her hand on 
my holiday ? I do not want any hands but yours, 
mother. How often I have wanted them ! " 
" But Miss Frere will make your time pass more 
pleasantly, my boy. Miss Frere is one of the most 
admired women who have appeared in Washington 
this year. She is a sort of cousin of your father's, 
too; distant, but enough to make a connection. 
You will see for yourself what she is." 
" Where did you find her out? " 
"In Washington, last winter." 
"And she is coming?" 
" She said she would come. I asked her to come 
and help me make the time pass pleasantly for you." 
" Which means, that I must help you make the 
time pass pleasantly for her." 
" That will be easy." 
" I don't know ; and you do not know. When is 
she coming ? " 
" In a few days, I expect her." 
"Young, of course. Well, mother, I really do 
not want anybody but you; but we'll do the best 
we can." 
" She is handsome, and quick, and has excellent 
manners. She would have made a good match, 
last winter, at once, if she had not been poor." 
"Are men such cads as that on this side the 
water too ? " 
" Cads, my dear ! " 
" I call that being cads. Don't you ? " 
"My boy, everybody cannot afford to marry a 
poor wife." 
"Anybody that has two hands can. Or a head." 
" It brings trouble, Pitt." 
" Does not the other thing bring trouble ? It 
would with me ! If I knew a woman had married 
me for money, or if I knew I had married her for 
money, there would be no peace in my house." 
Mrs. Dallas laughed a little. "You will have 
no need to do the latter thing," she said. 
"Mother, nobody has any need to do it." 
"You, at any rate, can please yourself. Only " 
"Only what?" said Pitt, now laughing in his turn, 
and twisting his head round to look up into her face. 
"Go on, mother." 
 
"I am sure your father would never object to a 
girl because she was poor, if you liked her. But 
there are other things " 
" Well, what other things ? " 
"Pitt, a woman has great influence over her 
husband, if he loves her, and that you will be sure 
to do to any woman whom you make your wife. I 
should not like to have you marry out of your own 
church." 
Pitt's head went round, and he laughed again. 
" In good time ! " he said. " I assure you, mother, 
you are in no danger yet." 
" I thought this morning," said his mother hesitating, " I was afraid, from what you said, that 
some Methodist, or some other Dissenter, might 
have got hold of you." 
Pitt was silent. The word struck him, and jarred 
a little. Was his mother not grazing the truth ? 
And a vague notion rose in his mind, without act 
ually taking shape, which just now he had not 
time to attend to, but which cast a shadow, like a 
young cloud. He was silent, and his mother after 
a little pause went on. 
"Methodist and Dissenters are not much in Mr. 
Strahan's way, I am sure; and you would hardly be 
troubled by them at Oxford. How was it, Pitt ? 
Where did you get these new notions?" 
" Do they sound like Dissent, mother?" 
" I do not know what they sound like. Not like 
you. I want to know what they mean, and how 
you came by them ? " 
He did not immediately answer. 
" I have been thinking on this subject a good 
while," he said slowly, " a good while. You know, 
Mr. Strahan is a great antiquary, and very full of 
knowledge about London. He has taken pleasure 
in going about with me, and instructing me, and he 
is capital company; but at last I learned enough 
to go by myself sometimes, without him; and I. used 
to ramble about through the places where he had 
taken me, to review and examine and ponder things 
at my leisure. I grew very fond of London. It is 
like an immense illustrated book of history. 
" One day I was wandering in one of the busy 
parts of the city, and turned aside out of the roar 
and the bustle into a little chapel, lying close to 
the roar but separate from it. I had been there be 
fore, and knew there were some fine marbles in 
the place; one especially, that I wanted to see again. 
I was alone that day, and could take my time ; and 
I went in. It is the tomb of some old dignitary who 
lived several centuries ago. I do not know what he 
was in life ; but in death, as this effigy represents him, 
it is something beautiful to look upon. I forget at 
this minute the name of the sculptor ; his work I shall 
never forget. It is wonderfully fine. The gravity, 
and the sweetness, and the ineffable repose of the 
figure, are beyond praise. I stood looking, study 
ing, thinking, I cannot tell for how long or rather 
feeling than thinking, at the moment. When I 
left the chapel and came out again into the glare 
and the rush and the confusion, then I began to 
 
think, mother. I went off to another quiet place, 
by the bank of the river, and sat down and thought. 
I can hardly tell you how. The image of that in 
finite repose I carried with me, and the rush of 
human life filled the streets I had just come through 
behind me, and I looked at the contrast of things. 
There, for ages already, that quiet ; here, for a day 
or two, this driving and struggling. Even suppose 
it be successful struggling, what does it amount to ? " 
" It amounts to a good deal while you live," said 
Mrs. Dallas. 
"And after?" 
"And after too. A man's name, if he has struggled 
successfully, is held in remembrance; in honour." 
" What is that to him after he is gone ? " 
" My dear, you would not advocate a lazy life ? 
a life without effort ? " 
"No, mother. The question is, what shall the 
effort be for ? " 
Mrs. Dallas was in the greatest perplexity how to 
carry on this conversation. She looked down on 
the figure before her, Pitt was still sitting at her 
feet, holding her two hands on either side of his 
head ; and she could admire at her leisure the well 
knit, energetic frame, every line of which shewed 
power and life, and every motion of which indicated 
also the life and vigour of the spirit moving it. He 
was the very man to fight the battle of life with 
distinguished success; she had looked forward to 
his doing it, counted upon it, built her pride upon 
it; what did he mean now? Was all that power 
and energy and ability to be thrown away ? Would 
he decline to fill the place in the world which she 
had hoped to see him fill and which he could so 
well fill ? Young people do have foolish fancies, 
and they pass over ; but a fancy of this sort, just at 
Pitt's age, might be fatal. She was glad it was her 
self and not his father who was his confidant, for 
Pitt she well knew was one neither to be bullied 
nor cajoled; but what should she say to him ? 
" My dear, I think it is duty," she ventured at 
last. " Everybody must be put here to do something." 
"What is he put here to do, mamma? That is 
the very question." 
Pitt was not excited; he shewed no heat; he 
spoke in the quiet, calm tones of a person long familiar with the thoughts to which he gave utter 
ance, indeed alarmingly suggestive that he had 
made up his mind about them. 
" Pitt, why do you not speak to a clergyman ? 
He could set you right better than I can." 
"I have, mamma." 
" To what clergyman ? " 
"To Dr. Calcott, of Oxford; and to Dr. Plympton, 
the rector of the church to which uncle Strahan 
goes." 
" What did they say ? " 
" Dr. Calcott said I had been studying too hard, 
and wanted a little distraction ; he thought I was 
morbid, and warned me against possible listening 
to Methodists. Said I was a good fellow, only it 
 
was a mistake to try to be too good; the consequence 
would be a break-down. Whether physical or 
moral, he did not say; I was left to apprehend 
both." 
" That is very much as I think myself, only not 
the fear of break-downs. I see no signs of that in 
you, my boy. What did the other, Dr. whom did 
you say ? what did he tell you ? " 
" Dr. Plympton. He said he did not understand 
what I would be at." 
" I agree with him too," said Mrs. Dallas, laughing 
a little. Pitt did not laugh. 
" I quoted some words to him out of the Bible, and 
he said he did not know what they meant." 
" I should think he ought to know." 
" So I thought. But he said it was for the Church 
to decide what they meant." 
Mrs. Dallas was greatly at a loss, and growing 
more and more uneasy. Pitt went on in such a 
quiet, meditative way, not asking help of her, and 
she fancied, not intending to ask it of anybody. 
Suddenly however he lifted his head and turned 
himself far enough round to enable him to look in 
her face. 
"Mother," said he, "what do you think those 
words mean in one of the psalms, Thou hast 
made me exceeding glad with thy countenance " ? 
" Are they in the psalms ? I do not know." 
"You have read them a thousand times. In the 
psalter translation the wording is a little different, 
but it comes to the same thing." 
" I never knew what they meant, my boy. There 
are a great many things in the Bible that we cannot understand." 
"But is this one of them? Exceeding glad 
with thy countenance. David knew what he 
meant." 
" The psalmist was inspired. Of course he un 
derstood a great many things which we do not." 
" We ought to understand some things that he 
did not, I should think. But this is a bit of personal experience not abstruse teaching. David 
was  exceeding glad and what made him glad ? 
that I want to know." 
Pitt's thoughts were busy with the innocent let 
ter he had once received, in which a young and 
unlearned girl had given precisely the same testimony as the inspired royal singer. Precisely the 
same. And surely wkat Esther had found, another 
could find, and he might find. But while he was 
musing Mrs. Dallas grew more and more uneasy. 
She knew better than to try the force of persuasion 
upon her son. It would not avail ; and Mrs. Dallas 
was a proud woman, too proud to ask what would 
not be granted, or to resist forcefully what she 
might not resist successfully. She never withstood 
her husband's plans or asked him to change them, 
except in cases when she knew her opposition 
could be made effective ; so it did not at all follow 
that she was pleased where she made no effort to 
hinder. It was the same in the case of her son, 
though rarely proved until now. In the consciousness of her want of power she was tempted to be 
a little vexed. 
" My dear," she said, " what you say sounds to 
me very like Methodist talk ! They say, the Methodists are spreading dreadfully." 
Pitt was silent, and then made a departure. 
" How often I have wanted just the touch of these 
hands ! " he said, giving those he held a little squeeze. 
" Mother, there is nothing in all the world like them. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
DISAPPOINTMENT. 
IT was not till the little family were seated at the 
dinner table, that Pitt alluded to the object of 
his morning ramble. 
" I went to see Col. Gainsborough this morning," 
he began ; " and to my astonishment found the house 
shut up. What has become of him ? " 
"Gone away" said his father shortly. 
"Yes, that is plain; but where is he gone to?" 
"New York." 
" New York ! What took him away ? " 
" I believe a desire to put his daughter at school. 
A very sensible desire." 
"To New York!" Pitt repeated. "Why did 
you never mention it, mamma ? " 
" It never occurred to me to mention it. I did 
not suppose that the matter was of any great interest to you." 
Mrs. Dallas had said just a word too much. Her 
last sentence set Pitt to thinking. 
"How long have they been gone?" he asked 
after a short pause. 
 
"Not long," said Mr. Dallas carelessly. " A few 
months, I believe." 
"A man told me you had bought the place?" 
" Yes; it suited me to have it. The land is good, 
what there is of it." 
" But the house stands empty. What will you 
do with it?" 
" Let it as soon as anybody wants it." 
" Not much prospect of that, is there ? " 
"Not just now, " Mr. Dallas said drily. 
There was a little pause again, and then Pitt 
asked, 
"Have you Col. Gainsborough's address, sir?" 
" No." 
"I suppose they have it at the post office." 
" They have not. Col. Gainsborough was to have 
sent me his address, when he knew himself what 
it would be; but he has never done so." 
" Is he living in the city, or out of it." 
" I have explained to you why I am unable to 
answer that question." 
" Why do you want to know, Pitt ? " his mother 
imprudently asked. 
"Because I have got to look them up, mother; 
and knowing whereabouts they are would be rather 
a help, you see." 
" You have not got to look them up ! " said his 
father gruffly. "What business is it of yours? 
If they were here, it would be all very well for 
you to pay your respects to the colonel ; it would 
be due; but as it is, there is no obligation." 
"No obligation of civility. There is another, 
however." 
" What, then ? " 
" Of friendship, sir." 
"Nonsense. Friendship ought to keep you at 
