puppet show, and he could pay for a seat there if he pleased; but he did
not please, because he was sure that it would not amuse him to go. Why
should Beatrice like the theatre? And she liked the races at Naples,
too, and those at Paris much better. Why? Everybody knew that one horse
could run faster than another, without trying it, but it could not
matter a straw which of two, or twenty, got to the goal first. Horses
were not boats. Now there was sense in a boat race, or a yacht race, or
a steamer race. But a horse! He might be first to-day, and to-morrow if
he had not enough to eat he might be last. Was a horse a Christian? You
could not count upon him. And then they began to talk of love and
Ruggiero's heart stood still, for that, at least, he could understand.
"Love!" laughed Beatrice, repeating the word. "It always makes one
laugh. Were you ever in love, mamma?"
The Marchesa turned her head slowly, and lifted her sleepy eyes to look
at her daughter, before she answered.
"No," she said lazily. "I was never in love. But you are far too young
to talk of such things."
"San Miniato says that love is for the young and friendship for the
old."
"Love," said San Miniato, "is a necessary evil, but it is also the
greatest source of happiness."
"What a fine phrase!" exclaimed Beatrice. "You must be a professor in
disguise."
"A professor of love?" asked the Count with a very well executed look of
tenderness which did not escape Ruggiero.
"Hush, for the love of heaven!" interposed the Marchesa. "This is too
dreadful!"
"We were not talking of the love of heaven," answered Beatrice
mischievously.
"I was thinking at least of a love that could make any place a heaven,"
said San Miniato, again helping his lack of originality with his eyes.
Ruggiero reflected that it would be but the affair of a second to unship
the heavy brass tiller and bring it down once on the top of his master's
skull. Once would be enough.
"Whose love?" asked Beatrice innocently.
San Miniato looked at her again, then turned away his eyes and sighed
audibly.
"Well?" asked Beatrice. "Will you answer. I do not understand that
language. Whose love would make any place--Timbuctoo, for instance--a
heaven for you?"
"Discretion is the only virtue a man ought to exhibit whenever he has a
chance," said San Miniato.
"Perhaps. But even that should be shown without ostentation." Beatrice
laughed. "And you are decidedly ostentatious at the present moment. It
would interest mamma and me very much to know the object of your
affections."
"Beatrice!" exclaimed the Marchesa with affected horror.
"Yes, mamma," answered the young girl. "Here I am. Do you want some more
lemonade?"
"She is quite insufferable," said the Marchesa to San Miniato, with a
languid smile. "But really, San Miniato carissimo, this conversation--a
young girl---"
Ruggiero wondered what she found so obnoxious in the words that had been
spoken. He also wondered how long it would take San Miniato to drown if
he were dropped overboard in the wake of the boat.
"If that is your opinion of your daughter," said the latter, "we shall
hardly agree. Now I maintain that Donna Beatrice is the contrary of
insufferable--the most extreme of contraries. In the first place---"
"She is very pretty," said Beatrice demurely.
"I was not going to say that," laughed San Miniato.
"Ah? Then say something else."
"I will. Donna Beatrice has two gifts, at least, which make it
impossible that she should ever be insufferable, even when her beauty is
gone."
"Dio mio!" ejaculated the young girl. "The compliments are beginning in
good earnest!"
"It was time," said San Miniato, "since your mother---"
"Dear Count," interrupted Beatrice, "do not talk any more about mamma. I
am anxious to get at the compliments. Do pray let your indiscretion be
as ostentatious as possible. I cannot wait another second."
"No need of waiting," answered San Miniato, again addressing himself to
the Marchesa. "Donna Beatrice has two great gifts. She is kind, and she
has charm."
There being no exact equivalent for the word "charm" in the Italian
language, San Miniato used the French. Ruggiero began to puzzle his
brains, asking himself what this foreign virtue could be which his
master estimated so highly. He also thought it very strange that
Beatrice should have said of herself that she was pretty, and still
stranger that San Miniato should not have said it.
"Is that all?" asked Beatrice. "I need not have been in such a hurry to
extract your compliments from you."
"If you had understood what I said," answered San Miniato unmoved, "you
would see that no man could say more of a woman."
"Kind and charming! It is not much," laughed the young girl. "Unless you
mean much more than you say--and I asked you to be indiscreet!"
"Kind hearts are rare enough in this world, Donna Beatrice, and as for
charm--"
"What is charm?"
"It is what the violet has, and the camelia has not--"
"Heavens! Are you going to sigh to me in the language of flowers?"
"Beatrice! Beatrice!" cried the Marchesa, with the same affectation of
horror as before.
"Dear mamma, are you uncomfortable? Oh no! I see now. You are horrified.
Have I said anything dreadful?" she asked, turning to San Miniato.
"Anything dreadful? What an idea! Really, Marchesa carissima, I was just
beginning to explain to Donna Beatrice what charm is, when you cut me
short. I implore you to let me go on with my explanation."
"On condition that Beatrice makes no comments. Give me a cigarette,
Teresina."
"The congregation will not interrupt the preacher before the
benediction," said Beatrice folding her small hands on her knee, and
looking down with a devout expression.
"Charm," began San Miniato, "is the something which some women possess,
and which holds the men who love them--"
"Only those who love them?" interrupted Beatrice, looking up quickly.
"I thought," said the Marchesa, "that you were not to give us any
comments." She dropped the words one or two at a time between the puffs
of her cigarette.
"A question is not a comment, mamma. I ask for instruction."
"Go on, dearest friend," said her mother to the Count. "She is
incorrigible."
"On the contrary, Donna Beatrice fills my empty head with ideas. The
question was to the point. All men feel the charm of such women as all
men smell the orange blossoms here in May--"
"The language of flowers again!" laughed Beatrice.
"You are so like a flower," answered San Miniato softly.
"Am I?" She laughed again, then grew grave and looked away.
Ruggiero's hand shook on the heavy tiller, and San Miniato, who supposed
he was steering all the time, turned suddenly.
"What is the matter?" he asked.
"The rudder is draking, Excellency," answered Ruggiero.
"And what does that mean?" asked Beatrice.
"It means that the rudder trembles as the boat rises and falls with each
sea, when there is a good breeze," answered Ruggiero.
"Is there any danger?" asked Beatrice indifferently.
"What danger could there be, Excellency?" asked the sailor.
"Because you are so pale, Ruggiero. What is the matter with you,
to-day?"
"Nothing, Excellency."
"Ruggiero is in love," laughed San Miniato. "Is it not true, Ruggiero?"
But the sailor did not answer, though the hot blood came quickly to his
face and stayed there a moment and then sank away again. He looked
steadily at the dancing waves to windward, and set his lips tightly
together.
"I would like to ask that sailor what he thinks of love and charm, and
all the rest of it," said Beatrice. "His ideas would be interesting."
Ruggiero's blue eyes turned slowly upon her, with an odd expression.
Then he looked away again.
"I will ask him," said San Miniato in a low voice. "Ruggiero!"
"Excellency!"
"We want to know what you think about love. What is the best quality a
woman can have?"
"To be honest," answered Ruggiero promptly.
"And after that, what next?"
"To be beautiful."
"And then rich, I suppose?"
"It would be enough if she did not waste money."
"Honest, beautiful, and economical!" exclaimed Beatrice. "He does not
say anything about charm, you see. I think his description is extremely
good and to the point. Bravo, Ruggiero!"
His eyes met hers and gleamed rather fiercely for an instant.
"And how about charm, Ruggiero?" asked Beatrice mischievously.
"I do not speak French, Excellency," he answered.
"You should learn, because charm is a word one cannot say in Italian. I
do not know how to say it in our language."
"Let me talk about flowers to him," said San Miniato. "I will make him
understand. Which do you like better, Ruggiero, camelias or violets?"
"The camelia is a more lordly flower, Excellency, but for me I like the
violets."
"Why?"
"Who knows? They make one think of so many things, Excellency. One would
tire of camelias, but one would never be tired of violets. They have
something--who knows?"
"That is it, Ruggiero," said San Miniato, delighted with the result of
his experiment. "And charm is the same thing in a woman. One is never
tired of it, and yet it is not honesty, nor beauty, nor economy."
"I understand, Excellency--è la femmina--it is the womanly."
"Bravo, Ruggiero!" exclaimed Beatrice again. "You are a man of heart.
And if you found a woman who was honest and beautiful and economical and
'femmina,' as you say, would you love her?"
"Yes, Excellency, very much," answered Ruggiero. But his voice almost
failed him.
"How much? Tell us."
Ruggiero was silent a moment. Then his eyes flashed suddenly as he
looked down at her and his voice came ringing and strong.
"So much that I would pray that Christ and the sea would take her,
rather than that another man should get her! Per Dio!"
There was such a vibration of strong passion in the words that Beatrice
started a little and San Miniato looked up in surprise. Even the
Marchesa vouchsafed the sailor a glance of indolent curiosity. Beatrice
bent over to the Count and spoke in a low tone and in French.
"We must not tease him any more. He is in love and very much in
earnest."
"So am I," answered San Miniato with a half successful attempt to seem
emotional, which might have done well enough if it had not come after
Ruggiero's heartfelt speech.
"You!" laughed Beatrice. "You are never really in earnest. You only
think you are, and that pleases you as well."
San Miniato bit his lip, for he was not pleased. Her answer augured ill
for the success of the plan he meant to put into execution that very
evening. He felt strongly incensed against Ruggiero, too, without in the
least understanding the reason.
"You will find out some day, Donna Beatrice, that those who are most in
earnest are not those who make the most passionate speeches."
"Ah! Is that true? How strange! I should have supposed that if a man
said nothing it was because he had nothing to say. But you have such
novel theories!"
"Is this discussion never to end?" asked the Marchesa, wearily lifting
her hand as though in protest, and letting it fall again beside the
other.
"It has only just begun, mamma," answered Beatrice cheerfully. "When San
Miniato jumps into the sea and drowns himself in despair, you will know
that the discussion is over."
"Beatrice! My child! What language!"
"Italian, mamma carissima. Italian with a little Sicilian, such as we
speak."
"I am at your service, Donna Beatrice," said the Count. "Would you like
me to drown myself immediately, or are you inclined for a little more
conversation?"
Ruggiero had now taken the helm altogether. As San Miniato spoke he
nodded to his brother who was forward, intimating that he meant to go
about. He was certainly not in his normal frame of mind, for he had an
evil thought at that moment. Fortunately for every one concerned the
breeze was very light and was indeed dying away as the sun sank lower.
They were already nearing the southernmost point of Capri, commonly
called by sailors the Monaco, for what reason no one knows. To reach
Tragara where the Faraglioni, or needles, rise out of the deep sea close
to the rocky shore under the cliffs, it is necessary to go round the
point. There was soon hardly any breeze at all, so that Bastianello and
the other men shipped half-a-dozen oars and began to row. The operation
of going about involved a change of places in so small a boat and the
slight confusion had interrupted the conversation. A long silence
followed, broken at last by the Marchesa's voice.
"A cigarette, Teresina, and some more lemonade. Are you still there, San
Miniato carissimo? As I heard no more conversation I supposed you had
drowned yourself as you proposed to do."
"Donna Beatrice is so kind as to put off the execution until after
dinner."
"And shall we ever reach this dreadful place, and ever really dine?"
asked the Marchesa.
"Before sunset," answered San Miniato. "And we shall dine at our usual
hour."
"At least it will not be so hot as in the hotel, and after all it has
not been very fatiguing."
"No," said the Count, "I fail to see how your exertions can have tired
you much."
Ruggiero looked down at his master and at the fine lady as she lay
listlessly extended in her cane chair, and he felt that in his heart he
hated them both as much as he loved Beatrice, which was saying much. But
he wondered how it was that less than half an hour earlier he had been
ready to upset the boat and drown every one in it indiscriminately.
Nevertheless he believed that if there had been a stiff breeze just
then, enough for his purpose, he would have stopped the boat's way, and
then put the helm hard up again, without slacking out a single sheet,
and he knew the little craft well enough to be sure of what would have
happened. Murderous intentions enough, as he thought of it all now, in
the calm water under the great cliff from which tradition says that
Tiberius shot delinquents into space from a catapult.
The men pulled hard by the lonely rocks, for the sun had almost set and
they knew how sharp the stones are at Tragara, when one must tread them
barefoot and burdened with hampers and kettles and all the paraphernalia
of a picnic.
Then the light grew rich and deep, and the sea swallows shot from the
misty heights, like arrows, into the calm purple air below, and skimmed
and wheeled, and rose again, startled by the splash of the oars and the
dull knock of them as they swung in the tholes. And the water was like a
mirror in which all manner of rare and lovely things are reflected, with
blots of liquid gold and sheen of soft-hued damask, and great handfuls
of pearls and opals strewn between, and roses and petals of many kinds
of flowers without names. And the air was full of the faint, salt odours
that haunt the lonely places of the sea, sweet and bitter at once as the
last days of a young life fading fast. Then the great needles rose
gigantic from the depths to heaven, and beyond, through the mysterious,
shadowy arch that pierces one of them, was opened the glorious vision of
a distant cloud-lit water, and a single dark sail far away stood still,
as it were, on the very edge of the world.
Beatrice leaned back and gazed at the scene, and her delicate nostrils
expanded as she breathed. There was less colour in her face than there
had been, and the long lashes half veiled her eyes. San Miniato watched
her narrowly.
"How beautiful! How beautiful!" she exclaimed twice, after a long
silence.
"It will be more beautiful still when the moon rises," said San Miniato.
"I am glad you are pleased."
She liked the simple words better, perhaps, than some of his rather
artificial speeches.
"Thank you," she said. "Thank you for bringing us here."
He had certainly taken a great deal of trouble, she thought, and it was
the least she could do, to thank him as she did. But she was really
grateful and for a moment she felt a sort of sympathy for him which she
had not felt before. He, at least, understood that one could like
something better in the world than the eternal terrace of a hotel with
its stiff orange trees, its ugly lanterns and its everlasting gossip and
chatter. He, at least, was a little unlike all those other people,
beginning with her own mother, who think of self first, comfort second,
and of others once a month or so, in the most favourable cases. Yet she
wondered a little about his past life, and whether he had ever spoken to
any woman with that ringing passion she had heard in Ruggiero's voice,
with that flashing look she had seen in the sailor's bright blue eyes.
It would be good to be spoken to like that. It would be good to see the
colour in a man's face change, and come and go, red and white like life
and death. It would be supremely good to be loved once, madly,
passionately, with body, heart and soul, to the very breaking of all
three--to be held in strong arms, to be kissed half to death.
She stopped, conscious that her mother would certainly not approve such
thoughts, and well aware in her girlish heart that she did not approve
them in herself. And then she smiled faintly. The man of her waking
vision was not like San Miniato. He was more like Ruggiero, the poor
sailor, who sat perched on the stern close behind her. She smiled
uneasily at the idea, and then she thought seriously of it for a moment.
If such a man as Ruggiero appeared, not as a sailor, but as a man of her
own world, would he not be a very lovable person, would he not turn the
heads of the languid ladies on the terrace of the hotel at Sorrento? The
thought annoyed her. Ruggiero, poor fellow, would have given his good
right arm to know that such a possibility had even crossed her
reflections. But it was not probable that he ever would know it, and he
sat in his place, silent and unmoved, steering the boat to her
destination, and thinking of her.
It was not dusk when the boat was alongside of the low jagged rocks
which lie between the landward needle and the cliffs, making a sort of
rough platform in which there are here and there smooth flat places worn
by the waves and often full of dry salt for a day or two after a storm.
There, to the Marchesa's inexpressible relief, the numberless objects
inscribed in the catalogue of her comforts were already arranged, and
she suffered herself to be lifted from the boat and carried ashore by
Ruggiero and his brother, without once murmuring or complaining of
fatigue--a truly wonderful triumph for San Miniato's generalship.
There was the table, the screen, and the lamp, the chairs and the
carpet--all the necessary furniture for the Marchesa's dining-room. And
there at her place stood an immaculate individual in an evening coat and
a white tie, ready and anxious to do her bidding. She surveyed the
preparations with more satisfaction than she generally showed at
anything. Then all at once her face fell.
"Good heavens, San Miniato carissimo," she cried, "you have forgotten
the red pepper! It is all over! I shall eat nothing! I shall die in this
place!"
"Pardon me, dearest Marchesa, I know your tastes. There is red pepper
and also Tabasco on the table. Observe--here and here."
The Marchesa's brow cleared.
"Forgive me, dear friend," she said. "I am so dependent on these little
things! You are an angel, a general and a man of heart."
"The man of your heart, I hope you mean to say," answered San Miniato,
looking at Beatrice.
"Of course--anything you like--you are delightful. But I am dropping
with fatigue. Let me sit down."
"You have forgotten nothing--not even the moon you promised me," said
Beatrice, gazing with clasped hands at the great yellow shield as it
slowly rose above the far south-eastern hills.
"I will never forget anything you ask me, Donna Beatrice," replied San
Miniato in a low voice. Something told him that in the face of all
nature's beauty, he must speak very simply, and he was right.
There is but one moment in the revolution of day and night which is more
beautiful than the rising of the full moon at sunset, and that is the
dawn on the water when the full moon is going down. To see the gathering
dusk drink down the purple wine that dyes the air, the sea and the light
clouds, until it is almost dark, and then to feel the darkness growing
light again with the warm, yellow moon--to watch the jewels gathering on
the velvet sea, and the sharp black cliffs turning to chiselled silver
above you--to know that the whole night is to be but a softer day--to
see how the love of the sun for the earth is one, and the love of the
moon another--that is a moment for which one may give much and not be
disappointed.
Beatrice Granmichele saw and felt what she had never seen or felt
before, and the magic of Tragara held sway over her, as it does over the
few who see it as she saw it. She turned slowly and glanced at San
Miniato's face. The moonlight improved it, she thought. There seemed to
be more vigour in the well-drawn lines, more strength in the forehead
than she had noticed until now. She felt that she was in sympathy with
him, and that the sympathy might be a lasting one. Then she turned quite
round and faced the commonplace lamp with its pink shade, which stood
on the dinner-table, and she experienced a disagreeable sensation. The
Marchesa was slowly fanning herself, already seated at her place.
"If you are human beings, and not astronomers," she said, "we might
perhaps dine."
"I am very human, for my part," said San Miniato, holding Beatrice's
chair for her to sit down.
"There was really no use for the lamp, mamma," she said, turning again
to look at the moon. "You see what an illumination we have! San Miniato
has provided us with something better than a lamp."
"San Miniato, my dear child, is a man of the highest genius. I always
said so. But if you begin to talk of eating without a lamp, you may as
well talk of abolishing civilisation."
"I wish we could!" exclaimed Beatrice.
"And so do I, with all my heart," said San Miniato.
"Including baccarat and quinze?" enquired the Marchesa, lazily picking
out the most delicate morsels from the cold fish on her plate.
"Including baccarat, quinze, the world, the flesh and the devil," said
San Miniato.
"Pray remember, dearest friend, that Beatrice is at the table," observed
the Marchesa, with indolent reproach in her voice.
"I do," replied San Miniato. "It is precisely for her sake that I would
like to do away with the things I have named."
"You might just leave a little of each for Sundays!" suggested the young
girl.
"Beatrice!" exclaimed her mother.
CHAPTER VI.
While the little party sat at table, the sailors gathered together at a
distance among the rocks, and presently the strong red light of their
fire shot up through the shadows, lending new contrasts to the scene.
And there they slung their kettle on an oar and patiently waited for the
water to boil, while the man known as the Gull, always cook in every
crew in which he chanced to find himself, sat with the salt on one side
of him and a big bundle of macaroni on the other, prepared to begin
operations at any moment.
Ruggiero stood a little apart, his back against a boulder, his arms
crossed and his eyes fixed on Beatrice's face. His keen sight could
distinguish the changing play of her expression as readily at that
distance as though he had been standing beside her, and he tried to
catch the words she spoke, listening with a sort of hurt envy to the
little silvery laugh that now and then echoed across the open space and
lost itself in the crannies of the rocks. It all hurt him, and yet for
nothing in the world would he have turned away or shut his ears. More
than once, too, the thoughts that had disturbed him while he was
steering in the afternoon, came upon him with renewed and startling
strength. He had in him some of that red old blood that does not stop
for trifles such as life and death when the hour of passion burns, and
the brain reels with overmastering love.
And Bastianello was not in a much better case, though his was less hard
to bear. The pretty Teresina had seated herself on a smooth rock in the
moonlight, not far from the table, and as the dishes came back, the
young sailor waited on her and served her with unrelaxed attention.
Since Ruggiero would not take advantage of the situation, his brother
saw no reason for not at least enjoying the pleasure of seeing the
adorable Teresina eat and drink as it were from his hand. Why Ruggiero
was so cold, and stood there against his rock, silent and glowering,
Bastianello could not at all understand; nor had he any thought of
taking an unfair advantage. Ruggiero was first and no one should
interfere with him, or his love; but Bastianello, judging from what he
felt himself, fancied that she might have given him some good advice.
Teresina's cheeks flushed with pleasure and her eyes sparkled each time
he brought her some dainty from the master's table, and she thanked him
in the prettiest way imaginable, so that her voice reminded him of the
singing of the yellow-beaked blackbird he kept in a cage at home--which
was saying much, for the blackbird sang well and sweetly. But
Bastianello only said each time that "it was nothing," and then stood
silently waiting beside her till she should finish what she was eating
and be ready for more. Teresina would doubtless have enjoyed a little
conversation, and she looked up from time to time at the handsome sailor
beside her, with a look of enquiry in her eyes, as though to ask why he
said nothing. But Bastianello felt that he was on his honour, for he
never doubted that the little maid was the cause of Ruggiero's disease
of the heart and indeed of all that his brother evidently suffered, and
he was too modest by nature to think that Teresina could prefer him to
Ruggiero, who had always been the object of his own unbounded devotion
and admiration. Presently, when there was nothing more to offer her, and
the party at the table were lighting their cigarettes over their coffee,
he went away and going up to Ruggiero drew him a little further aside
from the group of sailors.
"I want to tell you something," he began. "You must not be as you are, a
man like you."
"How may that be?" asked Ruggiero, still looking towards the table, and
not pleased at being dragged from his former post of observation.
"I will tell you. I have been serving her with food. You could have done
that instead if you had wished. You could have talked to her, and she
would have liked it. It is easy when a woman is sitting apart and a man
brings her good food and wine--you could have spoken a word into her
ear."
Ruggiero was silent, but he slowly nodded twice, then shook his head.
"You do not say anything," continued Bastianello, "and you do wrong.
What I tell you is true, and you cannot deny it. After all, we are men
and they are women. Are they to speak first?"
"It is just," answered Ruggiero laconically.
"But then, per Dio, go and talk to her. Are you going to begin giving
her the gold before you have spoken?"
From which question it will be clear to the unsophisticated foreigner
that a regular series of presents in jewelry is the natural
accompaniment of a well-to-do courtship in the south. The trinkets are
called collectively "the gold."
Ruggiero did not find a ready answer to so strong an argument. Little
guessing that his brother was almost as much in love with Teresina as he
himself was with her mistress, he saw no reason for undeceiving him
concerning his own feelings. Since Bastianello had discovered that he,
Ruggiero, was suffering from an acute attack of the affections, it had
become the latter's chief object to conceal the real truth. It was not
so much, that he dreaded the ridicule--he, a poor sailor--of being known
to love a great lady's daughter; ridicule was not among the things he
feared. But something far too subtle for him to define made him keep his
secret to himself--an inborn, chivalrous, manly instinct, inherited
through generations of peasants but surviving still, as the trace of
gold in the ashes of a rich stuff that has had gilded threads in it.
"If I did begin with the gold," he said at last, "and if she would not
have me when I spoke afterwards, she would give the gold back."
"Of course she would. What do you take her for?" Bastianello asked the
question almost angrily, for he loved Teresina and he resented the
slightest imputation upon her fair dealing.
Ruggiero looked at him curiously, but was far too much preoccupied with
his own thoughts to guess what the matter was. He turned away and went
towards the fire where the Gull was already tasting a slippery string of
the macaroni to find out whether it were enough cooked. Bastianello
shrugged his shoulders and followed him in silence. Before long they
were all seated round the huge earthen dish, each armed with an iron
fork in one hand and a ship biscuit in the other, with which to catch
the drippings neatly, according to good manners, in conveying the full
fork from the dish to the wide-opened mouth. By and by there was a sound
of liquid gurgling from a demijohn as it was poured into the big jug,
and the wine went round quickly from hand to hand, while those who
waited for their turn munched their biscuits. Some one has said that
great appetites, like great passions, are silent. Hardly a word was said
until the wine was passed a second time with a ration of hard cheese and
another biscuit. Then the tongues were unloosed and the strange, uncouth
jests of the rough men circulated in an undertone, and now and then one
of them suffered agonies in smothering a huge laugh, lest his mirth
should disturb the "excellencies" at their table. The latter, however,
were otherwise engaged and paid little attention to the sailors.
The Marchesa di Mola, having eaten about six mouthfuls of twice that
number of delicacies and having swallowed half a glass of champagne and
a cup of coffee, was extended in her cane rocking-chair, with her back
to the moon and her face to the lamp, trying to imagine herself in her
comfortable sitting room at the hotel, or even in her own luxurious
boudoir in her Sicilian home. The attempt was fairly successful, and the
result was a passing taste of that self-satisfied beatitude which is
the peculiar and enviable lot of very lazy people after dinner. She
cared for nothing and she cared for nobody. San Miniato and Beatrice
might sit over there by the water's edge, in the moonlight, and talk in
low tones as long as they pleased. There were no tiresome people from
the hotel to watch their proceedings, and nothing better could happen
than that they should fall in love, be engaged and married forthwith.
That was certainly not the way the Marchesa could have wished the
courtship and marriage to develop and come to maturity, if there had
been witnesses of the facts from amongst her near acquaintance. But
since there was nobody to see, and since it was quite impossible that
she should run after the pair when they chose to leave her side,
resignation was the best policy, resignation without effort, without
fatigue and without qualms. Moreover, San Miniato himself had told her
that in some of the best families in the north of Italy it was
considered permissible for a man to offer himself directly to a young
lady, and San Miniato was undoubtedly familiar with the usages of the
very best society. It was quite safe to trust to him.
San Miniato himself would have greatly preferred to leave the
negotiations in the hands of the Marchesa and would have done so had he
not known that she possessed no power whatever over Beatrice. But he saw
that the Marchesa, however much she might desire the marriage, would
never exert herself to influence her daughter. She was far too indolent,
and at heart, perhaps, too indifferent, and she knew the value of money
and especially of her own. San Miniato made up his mind that if he won
at all, it must be upon his own merits and by his own efforts.
He had not found it hard to lead Beatrice away from the lamp when dinner
was over, and after walking about on the rocks for a few minutes he
proposed that they should sit down near the water, facing the moonlit
sea. Beatrice sat upon a smooth projection and San Miniato placed
himself at her feet, in such a position that he could look up into her
face and talk to her without raising his voice.
"So you are glad you came here, Donna Beatrice," he said.
"Very glad," she answered. "It is something I have never seen
before--something I shall never forget, as long as I live."
"Nor I."
"Have you a good memory?"
"For some things, not for others."
"For what, for instance?"
"For those I love---"
"And a bad memory for those whom you have loved," suggested Beatrice
with a smile.
"Have you any reason for saying that?" asked San Miniato gravely. "You
know too little of me and my life to judge of either. I have not loved
many, and I have remembered them well."
"How many? A dozen, more or less? Or twenty? Or a hundred?"
"Two. One is dead, and one has forgotten me."
Beatrice was silent. It was admirably done, and for the first time he
made her believe that he was in earnest. It had not been very hard for
him either, for there was a foundation of truth in what he said. He had
not always been a man without heart.
"It is much to have loved twice," said the young girl at last, in a
dreamy voice. She was thinking of what had passed through her mind that
afternoon.
"It is much--but not enough. What has never been lived out, is never
enough."
"Perhaps--but who could love three times?"
"Any man--and the third might be the best and the strongest, as well as
the last."
"To me it seems impossible."
San Miniato had got his chance and he knew it. He was nervous and not
sure of himself, for he knew very well that she had but a passing
attraction for him, beyond the very solid inducement to marry her
offered by her fortune. But he knew that the opportunity must not be
lost, and he did not waste time. He spoke quietly, not wishing to risk a
dramatic effect until he could count on his own rather slight histrionic
powers.
"So it seems impossible to you, Donna Beatrice," he said, in a musing
tone. "Well, I daresay it does. Many things must seem impossible to you
which are rather startling facts to me. I am older than you, I am a man,
and I have been a soldier. I have lived a life such as you cannot dream
of--not worse perhaps than that of many another man, but certainly not
better. And I am quite sure that if I gave you my history you would not
understand four-fifths of it, and the other fifth would shock you. Of
course it would--how could it be otherwise? How could you and I look at
anything from quite the same point of view?"
"And yet we often agree," said Beatrice, thoughtfully.
"Yes, we do. That is quite true. And that is because a certain sympathy
exists between us. I feel that very much when I am with you, and that is
one reason why I try to be with you as much as possible."
"You say that is one reason. Have you many others?" Beatrice tried to
laugh a little, but she felt somehow that laughter was out of place and
that a serious moment in her life had come at last, in which it would be
wiser to be grave and to think well of what she was doing.
"One chief one, and many little ones," answered San Miniato. "You are
good to me, you are young, you are fresh--you are gifted and unlike the
others, and you have a rare charm such as I never met in any woman. Are
those not all good reasons? Are they not enough?"
"If they were all true, they would be more than enough. Is the chief
reason the last?"
"It is the last of all. I have not given it to you yet. Some things are
better not said at all."
"They must be bad things," answered Beatrice, with an air of innocence.
She was beginning to understand, at last, that he really intended to
make her a declaration of love. It was unheard of, almost inconceivable.
But there he was at her feet, looking very handsome in the moonlight,
his face turned up to hers with an unmistakable look of devotion in its
rather grave lines. His voice, too, had a new sound in it. Indifferent
as he might be by daylight and in ordinary life, the magic of the place
and scene affected him a little at the present moment. Perhaps a memory
of other years, when his pulse had quickened and his voice had trembled
oddly, just touched his heart now and it responded with a faint thrill.
For a moment at least he forgot his sordid plan, and Beatrice's own
personal attraction was upon him.
And she was very lovely as she sat there, looking down at him, with
white folded hands, hatless in the warm night, her eyes full of the
dancing rays that trembled upon the softly rippling water.
"If they are not bad things," she said, speaking again, "why do you not
tell them to me?"
"You would laugh."
"I have laughed enough to-night. Tell me!"
"Tell you! Yes--that is easy to do. But it would be so hard to make you
understand! It is the difference between a word and a thought, between
belief and mere show, between truth and hearsay--more than that--much
more than I can tell you. It means so much to me--it may mean so little
to you, when I have said it!"
"But if you do not say it, how can I guess it, or try to understand it?"
"Would you try? Would you?"
"Yes."
Her voice was soft, gentle, persuasive. She felt something she had never
felt, and it must be love, she thought. She had always liked him a
little better than the rest. But surely, this was more than mere
liking. She had a strange longing to hear him say the words, to start,
as her instinct told her she must, when he spoke them, to be told for
the first time that she was loved. Is it strange, after all? Young,
imaginative and full of life, she had been brought up to believe that
she was to be married to some man she scarcely knew, after a week's
acquaintance, without so much as having talked five minutes with him
alone; she had been taught that love was a legend and matrimony a matter
of interest. And yet here was the man whom her mother undoubtedly wished
her to marry, not only talking with her as they had often talked before,
with no one to hear what was said, but actually on the verge of telling
her that he loved her. Could anything be more delicious, more original,
more in harmony with the place and hour? And as if all this were not
enough, she really felt the touch and thrill of love in her own heart,
and the leaping wonder to know what was to come.
She had told him to speak and she waited for his voice. He, on his part,
knew that much was at stake, for he saw that she was moved, and that
all depended on his words. The fewer the better, he thought, if only
there could be a note of passion in them, if only one of them could ring
as all of poor Ruggiero's had rung when he had spoken that afternoon. He
hesitated and hesitation would be fatal if it lasted another five
seconds. He grew desperate. Where were the words and the tone that had
broken down the will of other women, far harder to please than this mere
child? He felt everything at once, except love. He saw her fortune
slipping from him at the very moment of getting it, he felt a little
contempt for the part he was playing and a sovereign scorn for his own
imbecility, he even anticipated the Marchesa's languid but cutting
comments on his failure. One second more, and all was lost--but not a
word would come. Then, in sheer despair and with a violence that
betrayed it, he seized one of Beatrice's hands in both of his and kissed
it madly a score of times. As she interpreted the action, no eloquence
of words could have told her more of what she wished to hear. It was
unexpected, it was passionate; if it had been premeditated, it would
have been a stroke of genius. As it was, it was a stroke of luck for
San Miniato. With the true gambler's instinct he saw that he was winning
and his hesitation disappeared. His voice trembled passionately now with
excitement, if not with love--but it was the same to Beatrice, who heard
the quick-spoken words that followed, and drank them in as a thirsty man
swallows the first draught of wine he can lay hands on, be it ever so
acid.
At the first moment she had been startled and had almost uttered a short
cry, half of delight and half of fear. But she had no wish to alarm her
mother and the quick thought stifled her voice. She tried to withdraw
her hand, but he held it tightly in his own which were cold as ice, and
she sat still listening to all he said.
"Ah, Beatrice!" he was saying, "you have given me back life itself! Can
you guess what I have lived through in these days? Can you imagine how I
have thought of you and suffered day and night, and said to myself that
I should never have your love? Can you dream what it must be to a man
like me, lonely, friendless, half heart-broken, to find the one jewel
worth living for, the one light worth seeking, the one woman worth
loving--and then to long for her almost without hope, and so long? It is
long, too. Who counts the days or the weeks when he loves? It is as
though we had loved from the beginning of our lives! Can you or I
imagine what it all was like before we met? I cannot remember that past
time. I had no life before it--it is all forgotten, all gone, all buried
and for ever. You have made everything new to me, new and beautiful and
full of light--ah, Beatrice! How I love you!"
Rather a long speech at such a moment, an older woman would have
thought, and not over original in choice of similes and epithets, but
fluent enough and good enough to serve the purpose and to turn the
current of Beatrice's girlish life. Yet not much of a love-speech.
Ruggiero's had been better, as a little true steel is better than much
iron at certain moments in life. It succeeded very well at the moment,
but its ultimate success would have been surer if it had reached no ears
but Beatrice's. Neither she nor San Miniato were aware that a few feet
below them a man was lying on his back, with white face and clenched
hands, staring at the pale moonlit sky above him, and listening in stony
despair to every word that was spoken.
The sight would have disturbed them, had they seen it, though they both
were fearless by nature and not easily startled. Had Beatrice seen
Ruggiero at that moment, she would have learned once and for ever the
difference between real passion and its counterfeit. But Ruggiero knew
where he was and had no intention of betraying himself by voice or
movement. He suffered almost all that a man can suffer by the heart
alone, but he was strong and could bear torture.
The hardest of all was that he understood the real truth, partly by
instinct and partly through what he knew of his master. Those rough
southern sailors sometimes have a wonderful keenness in discovering the
meaning of their masters' doings. Ruggiero held the key to the
situation. He knew that San Miniato was poor and that the Marchesa was
very rich. He knew very well that San Miniato was not at all in love,
for he knew what love really meant, and he could see how the Count
always acted by calculation and never from impulse. Best of all he saw
that Beatrice was a mere child who was being deceived by the coolly
assumed passion of a veteran woman-killer. It was bitterly hard to bear.
And he had felt a foreboding of it all in the afternoon--and he wished
that he had risked all and brought down the brass tiller on San
Miniato's head and submitted to be sent to the galleys for life. He
could never have forgotten Beatrice; but San Miniato could never have
married her, and that satisfaction would have made chains light and hard
labour a pastime.
It was too late to think of such things now. Had he yielded to the first
murderous impulse, it would have been better. But he had never struck a
man from behind and he knew that he could not do it in cold blood. Yet
how much better it would have been! He would not be lying now on the
rock, holding his breath and clenching his fists, listening to his
Excellency the Count of San Miniato's love making. By this time the
Count of San Miniato would be cold, and he, Ruggiero, would be
handcuffed and locked up in the little barrack of the gendarmes at
Sorrento, and Beatrice with her mother would be recovering from their
fright as best they could in the rooms at the hotel, and Teresina would
be crying, and Bastianello would be sitting at the door of his brother's
prison waiting to see what happened and ready to do what he could. Truly
all this would have been much better! But the moment had passed and he
must lie on his rock in silence, bound hand and foot by the necessity of
hiding himself, and giving his heart to be torn to pieces by San
Miniato's aristocratic fine gentleman's hands, and burned through and
through by Beatrice's gentle words.
"And so you really love me?" said San Miniato, sure at last of his
victory.
"Do you doubt it, after what I have done?" asked Beatrice in a very soft
voice. "Did I not leave my hand in yours when you took it so roughly
and--you know---"
"When I kissed it--but I want the words, too--only once, from your
beautiful lips---"
"The words---" Beatrice hesitated. They were too new to her lips, and a
soft blush rose in her cheeks, visible even in the moonlight.
Ruggiero's heart stood still--not for the first time that day. Would she
speak the three syllables or not?
As for San Miniato, his excitement had cooled, and he threw all the
tenderness he could muster into, his last request, with instinctive tact
returning to the more quiet tone he had used at the beginning of the
conversation.
"I ask you, Beatrice mia, to say--" he paused, to give the proper effect
in the right place--"I love you," he said, completing the sentence very
musically and looking up most tenderly into her eyes.
She sighed, blushed again, and turned her head away. Then quite suddenly
she looked at him once more, pressed his hand nervously and spoke.
"I love you, carissimo," she said, and rose at the same moment from her
seat. "Come--it is time. Mamma will be tired," she added, while he held
her hand and pressed it to his lips.
Her confusion had made it easy for him. He would have had difficulty in
ending the scene artistically if she had not unconsciously helped him.
Ruggiero clenched his hands a little tighter and tried not to breathe.
"It is a lie," he said in his heart, but his lips never moved, nor did
he stir a limb as he listened to the departing footsteps on the ledge
above.
Then with the ease of great strength he drew himself along through
cranny and hollow till he was far from where they sat, and had reached
the place where the boats were made fast. It would seem natural to every
one that he should suddenly be standing there to see that all was right,
and that none of the moorings had slipped or chafed against the jagged
rocks. There he stood, gazing at the rippling water, at the tall yards
as they slowly crossed and recrossed the face of the moon, with the
rocking of the boats, at the cliffs to the right and left, at the dim
headland of the Campanella, at all the sights long familiar to
him--seeing none of them and yet feeling that they at least were his own
people, that they understood him and knew what he felt--what he had no
words with which to tell any one, if he had wished to tell it.
For he who loves and is little loved, or not at all, has no friend, be
he of high estate or low, beyond nature, the deep-bosomed, the
bountiful, the true; and on her he may lean, trusting, and know that he
will not be betrayed. And in time her language will be his. But she will
be heard alone when she speaks with him, and without rival, with the
full right of a woman who gives all her love and asks for a man's soul
in return, recking little of all the world besides. But not all know how
kind she is, how merciful and how sweet. For she does not heal broken
hearts. She takes them as they are into her own, with all the memory and
all the sin, perhaps, and all the bitter sorrow which is the reward of
faith and faithlessness alike. She takes them all, and holds them kindly
in her own breast, as she has taken the torn limbs of martyred saints
and tortured sinners and has softly turned them all into a fragrant
dust. And though the ashes of the heart be very bitter, they are after
all but dust, which cannot feel of itself any more. Yet there may be
something left behind, in the place where it lived and was broken and
died, which is not wholly bad, though there be little good in this
earth where there is no heart.
Moreover, nature is a silent mistress to all but those who love her, and
she tells no tales as men and women do, and forgets none of the secrets
which are told to her, for they are our treasures--treasures of love and
of hate, of sweetness and of poison, which we lay up in her keeping when
we are alone with her, sure that we shall find again all we have given
up if we require it of her. But as the years blossom, bloom, and fade in
their quick succession, the day will come when we shall ask of her only
the balm and be glad to leave the poison hidden, and to forget how we
would have used it in old days--when we shall ask her only to give us
the memory of a dear and gentle hand--dear still but no longer kind--of
the voice that was once a harmony, and whose harsh discord is almost
music still--of the hour when love was twofold, stainless and supreme.
Those things we shall ask of her and she, in her wonderful tenderness,
will give them to us again--in dreams, waking or sleeping, in the sunlit
silence of lonely places, in soft nights when the southern sea is still,
in the greater loneliness of the storm, when brave faces are set as
stone and freezing hands grasp frozen ropes, and the shadow of death
rises from the waves and stands between every man and his fellows. We
shall ask, and we shall receive. Out of noon-day shadow, out of the
starlit dusk, out of the driving spray of the midtempest, one face will
rise, one hand will touch our own, one loving, lingering glance will
meet ours from eyes that have no look of love for us in them now. These
things our lady nature will give us of all those we have given her. But
of the others, we shall not ask for them, and she will mercifully forget
for us the bitterness of their birth, and life, and death.
CHAPTER VII.
"I THOUGHT I was never to see you again," observed the Marchesa, as
Beatrice and San Miniato came to her side.
"Judging from your calm, you were bearing the separation with admirable
fortitude," answered the Count.
"Dearest friend, one has to bear so much in this life!"
Beatrice stood beside the table, resting one hand upon it and looking
back towards the place where she had been sitting. San Miniato took the
Marchesa's hand and raised it to his lips, pressed it a little and then
nodded slowly, with a significant look. The Marchesa's sleepy eyes
opened suddenly with an expression of startled satisfaction, and she
returned the pressure of the fingers with more energy than San Miniato
had suspected. She was evidently very much pleased. Perhaps the greatest
satisfaction of all was the certainty that she was to have no more
trouble in the matter, since it had been undertaken, negotiated and
settled by the principals between them. Then she raised her eyebrows
and moved her head a little as though to inquire what had taken place,
but San Miniato made her understand by a sign that he could not speak
before Beatrice.
"Beatrice, my angel," said the Marchesa, with more than usual sweetness,
"you have sat so long upon that rock that you have almost reconciled me
to Tragara. Do you not think that you could go back and sit there five
minutes longer?"
Beatrice glanced quickly at her mother and then at San Miniato and
turned away without a word, leaving the two together.
"And now, San Miniato carissimo," said the Marchesa, "sit down beside me
on that chair, and tell me what has happened, though I think I already
understand. You have spoken to Beatrice?"
"I have spoken--yes--and the result is favourable. I am the happiest of
men."
"Do you mean to say that she answered you at once?" asked the Marchesa,
affecting, as usual, to be scandalised.
"She answered me--yes, dear Marchesa--she told me that she loved me. It
only remains for me to claim the maternal blessing which you so
generously promised in advance."
Somehow it was a relief to him to return to the rather stiff and
over-formal phraseology which he always used on important occasions when
speaking to her, and which, as he well knew, flattered her desire to be
thought a very great lady.
"As for my blessing, you shall have it, and at once. But indeed, I am
most curious to know exactly what she said, and what you said--I, who am
never curious about anything!"
"Two words tell the story. I told her I loved her and she answered that
she loved me."
"Dearest friend, how long it took you to say those two words! You must
have hesitated a good deal."
"To tell the truth, there was more said than that. I will not deny the
grave imputation. I spoke of my past life--"
"Dio mio! To my daughter! How could you--" The Marchesa raised her hands
and let them fall again.
"But why not?" asked San Miniato, suppressing a smile. "Have I been such
an impossibly bad man that the very mention of my past must shock a
young girl--whom I love?" In the last words he found an opportunity to
practise the expression of a little passion, and took advantage of it,
well knowing that it would be useful in the immediate future.
"I never said that!" protested the Marchesa. "But we all know something
about you, dear Don Juan!"
"Calumnies, nothing but calumnies!"
"But such pretty calumnies--you might almost accept them. I should think
none the worse of you if they were all true."
"You are charming, dearest Marchesa. I kiss your generous hand! As a
matter of fact, I only told Donna Beatrice--may I call her Beatrice to
you now, as I have long called her in my heart? I only told her that I
had been unhappy, that I had loved twice--once a woman who is dead, once
another who has long ago forgotten me. That was all. Was it so very bad?
Her heart was softened--she is so gentle! And then I told her that a
greater and stronger passion than those now filled my present life, and
last of all I told her that I loved her."
"And she returned the compliment immediately?" asked the Marchesa,
slowly selecting a sugared chestnut from the plate beside her, turning
it round, examining it and at last putting it into her mouth.
"How lightly you speak of what concerns life and death!" sighed San
Miniato. "No--Beatrice did not answer immediately. I said much more--far
more than I can remember. How can you ask me to repeat word for word the
unpremeditated outpourings of a happy passion? The flood has swept by,
leaving deep traces--but who can remember where the eddies and rapids
were?"
"You are very poetical, caro mio. Your language delights me--it is the
language of the heart. Pray give me one of those little cigarettes you
smoke. Yes--and a light--and now the least drop of champagne. I will
drink your health."
"And I both yours and Beatrice's," answered San Miniato, filling his own
glass.
"You may put Beatrice first, since she is yours."
"But without you there would be no Beatrice, gentilissima," said the
Count gallantly, when he had emptied his glass.
"That is true, and pretty besides. And so," continued the Marchesa in a
tone of languid reflection, "you have actually been making love to my
daughter, beyond my hearing, alone on the rocks--and I gave you my
permission, and now you are engaged to be married! It is too
extraordinary to be believed. That was not the way I was married. There
was more formality in those days."
Indeed, she could not imagine the deceased Granmichele throwing himself
upon his knees at her feet, even upon the softest of carpets.
"Then I thank the fates that those days are over!" returned San Miniato.
"Perhaps I should, too. I am not sure that the conclusion would have
been so satisfactory, if I had undertaken to persuade Beatrice. She is
headstrong and capricious, and so painfully energetic! Every discussion
with her shortens my life by a year."
"She is an angel in her caprice," answered the Count with conviction.
"Indeed, much of her charm lies in her changing moods."
"If she is an angel, what am I?" asked the Marchesa. "Such a contrast!"
"She is the angel of motion--you are the angel of repose."
"You are delightful to-night."
While this conversation was taking place, Beatrice had wandered away
over the rocks alone, not heeding the unevenness of the stones and
taking little notice of the direction of her walk. She only knew that
she would not go back to the place where she had sat, not for all the
world. A change had taken place already and she was angry with herself
for what she had done in all sincerity.
She was hurt and her first illusion had suffered a grave shock almost at
the moment of its birth. She asked herself how it could be possible, if
San Miniato loved her as he had said he did, that he should not feel as
she felt and understand love as she did--as something secret and sacred,
to be kept from other eyes. Her instinct told her easily enough that San
Miniato was at that very moment telling her mother all that had taken
place, and she bitterly resented the thought. It would surely have been
enough, if he had waited until the following day and then formally asked
her hand of the Marchesa. It would have been better, more natural in
every way, just now when they had gone up to the table, if he had said
simply that they loved one another and had asked her mother's blessing.
Anything rather than to feel that he was coolly describing the details
of the first love scene in her life--the thousandth, perhaps, in his
own.
After all, did she love him? Did he really love her? His passionate
manner when he had seized her hand had moved her strangely, and she had
listened with a sort of girlish wonder to his declarations of devotion
afterwards. But now, in the, calm moonlight and quite alone, she could
hear Ruggiero's deep strong voice in her ears, and the few manly words
he had uttered. There was not much in them in the way of eloquence--a
sailor's picturesque phrase--she had heard something like it before. But
there had been strength, and the power to do, and the will to act in
every intonation of his speech. She remembered every word San Miniato
had spoken, far better than he would remember it himself in a day or
two, and she was ready to analyse and criticise now what had charmed and
pleased her a moment earlier. Why was he going over it all to her
mother, like a lesson learnt and repeated? She was so glad to be
alone--she would have been so glad to think alone of what she had taken
for the most delicious moment of her young life. If he were really in
earnest, he would feel as she did and would have said at once that it
was late and time to be going home--he would have invented any excuse to
escape the interview which her mother would try to force upon him. Could
it be love that he felt? And if not, as her heart told her it was not,
what was his object in playing such a comedy? She knew well enough, from
Teresina, that many a young Neapolitan nobleman would have given his
title for her fortune, but Teresina, perhaps for reasons of her own,
never dared to cast such an aspersion upon San Miniato, even in the
intimate conversation which sometimes takes place between an Italian
lady and her maid--and, indeed, if the truth be told, between maids and
their mistresses in most parts of the world.
But the doubt thrust itself forward now. Beatrice was quick to doubt at
all times. She was also capricious and changeable about matters which
did not affect her deeply, and those that did were few enough. It was
certainly possible that San Miniato, after all, only wanted her money
and that her mother was willing to give it in return for a great name
and a great position. She felt that if the case had been stated to her
from the first in its true light she might have accepted the situation
without illusion, but without disgust. Everybody, her mother said, was
married by arrangement, some for one advantage, some for the sake of
another. After all, San Miniato was better than most of the rest. There
was a certain superiority about him which she would like to see in her
husband, a certain simple elegance, a certain outward dignity, which
pleased her. But when her mother had spoken in her languid way of the
marriage, Beatrice had resented the denial of her free will, and had
answered that she would please herself or not marry at all. The
Marchesa, far too lacking in energy to sustain such a contest, had
contented herself with her favourite expression of horror at her
daughter's unfilial conduct. Now, however, Beatrice felt that if it had
all been arranged for her, she would have been satisfied, but that since
San Miniato had played something very like a comedy, she would refuse to
be duped by it. She was very bitter against him in the first revulsion
of feeling and treated him more hardly in her thoughts than he, perhaps,
deserved.
And there he was, up there by the table, telling her mother of his
success. Her blood rose in her cheeks at the thought and she stamped her
foot upon the rock out of sheer anger at herself, at him, at everything
and everybody. Then she moved on.
Ruggiero was standing at the edge of the water looking out to sea. The
moonlight silvered his white face and fair beard and accentuated the
sharp black line where his sailor's cap crossed his forehead. Wild and
angry emotions chased each other from his heart to his brain and back
again, firing his overwrought nerves and heated blood, as the flame runs
along a train of powder. He heard a light step behind him and turned
suddenly. Beatrice was close upon him.
"Is that you, Ruggiero," she asked, for she had seen him with his back
turned and had not recognised him at first.
