amusement, you laugh at me ! If you don't under- 
stand it all, I'm sure J don't.'' 
" Imogene ! " 
" No ! It 's very strange. There 's only one ex- 
planation. You don't care for me." 
"Not care for you!" cried Colville, thinking of 
his sufferings in the past fortnight. 
" And I would have made any — any sacrifice for 
you. At least I wouldn't have made you show your- 
self a mean and grudging person if you had come to 
me for a little sympathy." 
" poor child ! " he cried, ancLhjsheart ached 
with the sense that she really was nothing but an 
unhappy child . " i do sympathise witiryou, and I 
see how hard it is for you to manage with Mrs. 
Bowen's dislike for me. But you mustn't think of 
it. I dare say it will be different ; I 've no doubt 
we can get her to look at me in some brighter light. 
I " He did not know what he should urge next; 
but he goaded his invention, and was able to declare 
that if they loved each other they need not regard 
any one else. This flight, when accomplished, did 
not strike him as of very original effect, and it was 
with a dull surprise that he saw it sufficed for her. 
 
" No ; no one ! " she exclaimed, accepting the 
platitude as if it were now uttered for the first 
time. She dried her eyes and smiled. " I will tell 
Mrs. Bowen how you feel and what you 've said, and 
I know she will appreciate your generosity." 
" Yes," said Colville pensively ; " there 's nothing 
I won't propose doing for people." 
She suddenly clung to him, and would not let him 
go. " Oh, what is the matter ? " she moaned afresh. 
"I show out the worst that is in me, and only the 
worst. Do you think I shall always be so narrow- 
minded with you ? I thought I loved you enough 
to be magnanimous. You are. It seemed to me 
that our lives together would be grand and large ; 
and here I am, grovelling in the lowest selfishness ! 
I am worrying and scolding you because you wish 
to please some one that has been as good as my own 
mother to me. Do you call that noble ? " 
Colville did not venture any reply to a demand 
evidently addressed to her own conscience. 
But when she asked if he really thought he had 
better go away, he said, " Oh no ; that was a mis- 
take." 
"Because, if you do, you shall — to punish 
me." 
" My dearest girl, why should I wish to punish 
you ? " 
" Because I 've been low and mean. Now I want 
you to do something for Mrs. Bowen — something to 
amuse her ; to show that we appreciate her. And I 
don't want you to sympathise with me at all. When 
 
I ask for your sympathy, it 's a sign that I don't 
deserve it." 
" Is that so ? " 
"Oh, be serious with me. I mean it. And I 
want to beg your pardon for something." 
" Yes ; what 's that ? " 
" Can't you guess ? " 
"No." 
"You needn't have your lapels silk-lined. You 
needn't 'wea,rl)outonniires." 
" Oh, but I 've had the coat changed." 
" No matter ! Change it back ! It isn't for me 
to make you over. I must make myself over. It 's 
my right, it 's my sacred privilege to conform to you 
in every way, and I humble myself in the dust for 
having forgotten it at the very start. Oh, do you 
think I can ever be worthy of you ? I will try ; 
indeed I will ! I shall not wear my light dresses 
another time ! From this out, I shall dress more 
in keeping with you. I boasted that I should live 
to comfort and console you, to recompense you for 
the past, and what have I been doing ? Wearying 
and degrading you ! " 
" Oh no," pleaded Colville. " I am very comfort- 
able. I don't need any compensation for the past. 
I need — sleep. I 'm going to bed to-night at eight 
o'clock, and I am going to sleep twenty-four hours. 
Then I shall be fresh for Mrs. Fleming's ball" 
" I 'm not going," said Imogene briefly. 
"Oh yes, you are. I'll come round to-morrow 
evening and see." 
 
" No. There are to be no more parties." 
"Why?" 
" I can't endure them." 
She was looking at him and talking at him, but 
she seemed far aloof in the abstraction of a sublime 
regret ; she seemed puzzled, bewildered at herself.  
Colville got away. He felt the pathos of the con- 
fusion and question to which he left her, but he felt 
himself powerless against it. There was but one 
solution to it all, and that was impossible. He 
could only grieve over her trouble, and wait ; grieve 
for the irrevocable loss which made her trouble re- 
mote and impersonal to him, and submit. 
XVIII. 
The young clergyman whom Colville saw talking 
to Imogene on his first evening at Mrs. Bowen's had 
come back from Rome, where he had been spending 
a month or two, and they began to meet at Palazzo 
Pinti again. If they got on well enough together, 
they did not get on very far. The suave house-priest 
manners of the young clergyman offended Colville ; 
he could hardly keep from sneering at his taste in 
art and books, which in fact was rather conventional; 
and no doubt Mr. Morton had his own reserves, 
under which he was perfectly civil, and only too 
deferential to Colville, as to an older man. Since 
his return, Mrs. Bowen had come back to her salon. 
She looked haggard ; but she did what she could to 
look otherwise. She was always polite to Colville, 
and she was politely cordial with the clergjanan. 
Sometimes Colville saw her driving out with him 
and Effie; they appeared to make excursions, and 
he had an impression, very obscure, that Mrs. 
Bowen lent the young clergyman money ; that he 
was a superstition of hers, and she a patron of his ; 
 
he must have been ~ ten years younger than she ; 
not more than twenty-five. 
The first Sunday after his return, Colville walked 
home with Mr. Waters from hearing a sermon of 
Mr. Morton's, which they agreed was rather well 
judged, and simply and fitly expressed. 
" And he spoke with the authority of the priest," 
said the old minister. " His Church alone of all 
the Protestant Churches has preserved that to its 
ministers. Sometimes I have thought it was a 
great thing." 
" Not always ? " asked Colville, with a smile. 
" These things are matters of mood rather than 
conviction with me," returned Mr. Waters. " Once 
they affected me very deeply ; but now I shall so 
soon know all about it that they don't move me. 
But at times I think that if I were to live my lifei 
over again, I would prefer to be of some formal,, 
some inflexibly ritualised, religion. At solemnities 
— weddings and funerals — I have been impressed 
with the advantage of the Anglican rite : it is the 
Church speaking to and for humanity — or seems 
so," he added, with cheerful indifference. " Some- 
thing in its favour," he continued, after a while, " is 
the influence that every ritualised faith has with 
women. If they apprehend those mysteries more 
subtly than we, such a preference of theirs must 
mean a good deal. Yes; the other Protestant 
systems are men's systems. Women must have 
form. They don't care for freedom." 
"They appear to like. the formalist too, as well as 
u 
 
the form," said Colville, with scorn not obviously 
necessary. 
" Oh yes ; they must have everything in the 
concrete," said the old gentleman cheerfully. 
"I wonder where Mr. Morton met Mrs. Bowen 
first," said Colville. 
" Here, I think. I believe he had letters to her. 
Before you came I used often to meet him at her 
house. I think she has helped him with money at 
times." 
" Isn't that rather an unpleasant idea ? " 
" Yes ; it 's disagreeable. And it places the minis- 
try in a dependent attitude. But under our system 
it 's unavoidable. Youjig men devoting themselves 
to the ministry frequently receive gifts of money." 
" I don't like it," cried Colville. 
" They doh't feel it as others would. I didn't 
myself. Even at present I may be said to be living 
on charity. But sometimes I have fancied, that in 
Mr. Morton's case there might be peculiarly mitigat- 
ing circumstances-." 
" What do you mean ? " 
" When I met him first at Mrs. Bowen's I used to 
think that it was Miss Graham in whom he was 
interested " 
" I can assure you," interrupted Colville, " that 
she was never interested in him." 
" Oh no ; I didn't suppose that," returned the 
old man tranquilly. "And I've since had reason 
to revise my opinion. I think he is interested 
in Mrs. Bowen." 
 
" Mrs. Bowen ! And you think that would be a 
mitigating circumstance in his acceptance of money 
from her ? If he had the spirit of a man at 
all, it would make it all the more revolting." 
" Oh no, oh no," softly pleaded Mr. "Waters. 
" We must not look at these things too romanti- 
cally. He probably reasons that she would give 
him all her money if they were married." 
" But he has no right to reason in that way,'' re- 
torted Colville, with heat. " They are not married ; 
it 's ignoble and unmanly for him to count upon it. 
It 's preposterous. She must be ten years older 
than he." 
" Oh, I don't say that they're to be married," Mr. 
Waters replied. " But these disparities of age fre- 
quently occur in marriage. I don't like them, 
though sometimes I think the evil is less when it is 
the wife who is the elder. We look at youth and 
age in a gross, material way too often. Women re- 
main young longer than men. They keep their 
youthful sympathies ; an old woman understands a 
young girl. Do you — or do I — understand a young 
man ? " 
Colville laughed harshly. " It isn't quite the same 
thing, Mr. Waters. But yes; I'll admit, for the 
sake of argument, that I don't understand young 
men. I 'll go further, and say that I don't like them ; 
I 'm afraid of them. And you wouldn't think," he 
added abruptly, "that it would be well for me to 
marry a girl twenty years younger than myself." 
The old man glanced up at him with innocent sly- 
 
ness. " I prefer always to discuss these things m 
an impersonal way." 
"But you can't discuss them impersonally with 
me ; I 'm engaged to Miss Graham. Ever since you 
first found me here after I told you I was going 
away I have wished to tell you this, and this seems 
as good a time as any — or as bad." The defiance 
faded from his voice, which dropped to a note of 
weary sadness. " yes, we 're engaged — or shall be, 
as soon as she can hear from her family. I wanted 
to tell you because it seemed somehow your due, and 
because I fancied you had a friendly interest in us 
both." 
"Yes, that is true," returned Mr. Waters. "I 
wish you joy." He went through the form of ofTer- 
ing his hand to Colville, who pressed it with anxious 
fervour. 
" I confess," he said, " that I feel the risks of the 
affair. It 's not that I have any dread for my own 
part ; I have lived my life, such as it is. But the 
child is full of fancies about me that can't be fulfilled. 
She dreams of restoring my youth somehow, of re- 
trieving the past for me, of avenging me at her own 
cost for an unlucky love affair that I had here 
twenty years ago. It 's pretty of her, but it 's ter- 
ribly pathetic — it 's tragic. I know very well that 
I'm a middle-aged man, and that there's no more 
youth for me. I 'm getting grey, and I 'm getting 
fat ; I wouldn't be young if I could ; it 's a bore. I 
suppose I could keep up an illusion of youthfulness 
for five or six years more ; and then if I could be 
 
quietly chloroformed out of the way, perhaps it 
wouldn't have been so very bad." 
"I have always thought," said Mr. Waters 
dreamily, "that a good deal might be said for 
abbreviating hopeless suffering. I have known some 
very good people advocate its practice by science." 
"Yes," answered Colville. "Perhaps I've pre- 
sented that point too prominently. What I wished 
you to understand was that I don't care for myself ; 
that I consider only the happiness of this young girl 
that 's somehow — I hardly know how— been put in 
my keeping. I haven't forgotten the talks that 
we 've had heretofore on this subject, and it would 
be affectation and bad taste in me to ignore them. 
Don't be troubled at anything you 've said ; it was 
probably true, and I 'm sure it was sincere. Some- 
times I think that the kindest — the least cruel — 
thing I could do would be to break with her, to leave 
her. But I know that I shall do nothing of the 
kind ; I shall drift. The child is very dear to me. 
She has great and noble qualities ; she 's supremely 
unselfish ; she loves me through her mistaken pity, 
and because she thinks she can sacrifice herself to 
me. But she can't. Everything is against that ; she 
doesn't know how, and there is no reason why. I 
don't express it very well. I think nobody clearly 
understands it but Mrs. Bowen, and I 've somehow 
alienated her." 
He became aware that his self-abnegation was 
taking the character of self-pity, and he stopped. 
Mr. Waters seemed to be giving the subject serious 
 
attention in the silence that ensued. " There is this 
to be remembered," he began, " which we don't con- 
sider in our mere speculations upon any phase of 
human affairs ; and that is the wonderful degree of 
amelioration that any given difficulty finds in the 
realisation. It is the anticipation, not the experi- 
ence, that is the trial. In a case of this kind, facts 
of temperament, of mere association, of union, work 
unexpected mitigations ; they not only alleviate, they 
allay. You say that she cherishes an illusion con- 
cerning you : well, with women, nothing is so inde- 
structible as an illusion. Give them any chance at 
all, and all the forces of their nature combine to pre- 
serve it. And if, as you say, she is so dear to you, 
that in itself is almost sufficient. I can well under- 
stand your misgivings, springing as they do from a 
sensitive conscience ; but we may reasonably hope 
that they are exaggerated. Very probably there will 
not be the rapture for her that there would be if — if 
you were younger ; but the chances of final happi- 
ness are great — yes, very considerable. She will 
learn to appreciate what is really best in you, and 
you already understand her. Your love for her is 
the key to the future. Without that, of course " 
" Oh, of course," interrupted Colville hastily. 
Every touch of this comforter's hand had been a 
sting ; and he parted with him in that feeling of 
utter friendlessness involving a man who has taken 
counsel upon the confession of half his trouble. 
Something in Mrs. Bowen's manner when he met 
her next made him think that perhaps Imogene had 
 
been telling her of the sympathy he had expressed 
for her ill-health. It was in the evening, and 
Imogene and Mr. Morton were looking over a copy 
of The Marble Faun, which he had illustrated with 
photographs at Rome. Imogene asked Colville to 
look at it too, but he said he would examine it 
later ; he had his opinion of people who illustrated 
The Marble Faun with photographs ; it surprised 
him that she seemed to iind something novel and 
brilliant in the idea. 
Effie Bowen looked round where she was kneeling 
on a chair beside the couple with the book, and see- 
ing Colville wandering neglectedly about before he 
placed himself, she jumped down and ran and caught 
his hand. 
" Well, what now ? " he asked, with a dim smile, 
as she began to pull him toward the sofa. When 
he should be expelled from Palazzo Pinti he would 
really miss the worship of that little thing. He 
knew that her impulse had seen to console him for 
his exclusion from the pleasures that Imogene and 
Mr. Morton were enjoying. 
" Nothing. Just talk," she said, making him fast 
in a corner of the sofa by crouching tight against 
him. 
"What about? About which is the pleasantest 
season ? " 
" Oh no-; we 've talked about that so often. Be- 
sides, of course you 'd say spring, now that it 's 
coming on so nicely." 
"Do you think I 'm so changeable as that ? 
 
Haven't I always said winter when tliis question of 
the seasons was up ? And I say it now. Shan't 
you be awfully sorry when you can't have a pleasant 
little fire on the hearth like this any more ? " 
"Yes; I know. But it's very nice having the 
flowers, too. The grass was all full of daisies to-day 
— perfectly powdered with them." 
" To-day ? Where ? " 
" At the Cascine. And in under the trees there 
were millions of violets and crow's-feet. Mr. Morton 
helped me to get them for mamma and Imogene. 
And we stayed so long that when we drove home 
the daisies had all shut up, and the little pink leaves 
outside made it look like a field of red clover. Are 
you never going there any more ? " 
Mr?. Bowen came in. From the fact that there 
was no greeting between her and Mr. Morton, Col- 
ville inferred that she was returning to the room 
after having already been there. She stood a 
moment, with a little uncertainty, when she had 
shaken hands with him, and then dropped upon 
the sofa beyond Effie. The little girl ran one hand 
through Colville's arm, and the other through her 
mother's, and gripped them fast. " Now I have got 
you both," she triumphed, and smiled first into her 
face, and then into his. 
"Be quiet, Effie," said her mother, but she sub- 
mitted. 
" I hope you 're better for your drive to-day, Mrs. 
Bowen. Efi&e has been telling me about it." 
" We stayed out a long time. Yes, I think the 
 
air did me good ; but I 'm not an invalid, you 
know." 
"Oh no." 
"I'm feeling a little fagged. And the weather 
was tempting. I suppose you 've been taking one of 
your loiig walks." 
" No, I 've scarcely stirred out. I usually feel like 
going to meet the spring a little more than half-way; 
but this year I don't, somehow." 
"A good many people are feeling rather languid, 
I believe," said Mrs. Bowen. 
"I hope you'll get away from Florence," said 
Colville. 
"Oh," she returned, with a faint flush, "I'm 
afraid Imogene exaggerated that a little." She 
added, "You are very good." 
She was treating him more kindly than she had 
ever "done since that Sunday afternoon when he came 
in with Imogene to say that he was going to stay. 
It might be merely because she had worn out her 
mood of severity, as people do, returning in good- 
humour to those with whom they were offended, 
merely through the reconciling force of time. She 
did not look at him, but this was better than meet- 
ing his eye with that interceptive glance. A strange 
peace touched his heart. Imogene and the young 
clergyman at the table across the room were intent 
on the book still ; he was explaining and expatiat- 
ing, and she listening. Colville saw that he had a 
fine head, and an intelligent, handsome, gentle face. 
When he turned aE;ain to Mrs. Bowen it was with 
 
the illusion that she had been saying something ; 
but she was, in fact, sitting mute, and her face, 
with its bright colour, showed pathetically thin. 
" I should imagine that Venice would be good for 
you,'' he said. 
"It's still very harsh there, I hear. No; when 
we leave Florence, I think we will go to Switzer- 
land." 
" Oh, not to Madame Schebres's," pleaded the 
child, turning upon her. 
" No, not to Madame Schebres," consented the 
mother. She continued, addressing Colville : "I was 
thinking of Lausanne. Do you know Lausanne 
at all ? " 
" Only from Gibbon's report. It 's hardly up to 
date." 
" I thought of taking a house there for the 
summer," said Mrs. Bowen, playing with Effie's 
fingers. " It 's pleasant by the lake, I suppose." 
" It 's lovely by the lake ! " cried the child. " Oh, 
do go, mamma ! I could get a boat and learn to 
row. Here you can't row, the Arno's so swift." 
"The air would bring you up," said Colville to 
Mrs. Bowen. " Switzerland 's the only country where 
you 're perfectly sure of waking new every morning." 
This idea interested the child. " Waking new ! " 
she repeated. 
" Yes ; perfectly made over. You wake up another 
person. Shouldn't you think that would be nice t " 
"No." 
" Well, I shouldn't, in your place. But in mine, 
 
I much prefer to wake up another person. Only 
it's pretty hard on the other person." 
" How queer you are ! " The child set her teeth 
for fondness of him, and seizing his cheeks between 
her hands, squeezed them hard, admiring the effect 
upon his features, which in some respects was not 
advantageous. 
"EflBe!" cried her mother sternly; and she 
dropped to her place again, and laid hold of Col- 
ville's arm for protection. " You are really very 
rude. I shall send you to bed." 
" Oh no, don't, Mrs. Bowen," he begged. " I 'm 
responsible for these violences. EfBe used to be a 
very well behaved child before she began playing 
with me. It 's all my fault." 
They remained talking on the sofa together, while 
Imogene and Mr. Morton continued to interest 
themselves in the book. From time to time she 
looked over at them, and then turned again to the 
young clergyman, who, when -he had closed the 
book, rested his hands on its top and began to give 
an animated account of something, conjecturably 
his sojourn in Eome. 
In a low voice, and with pauses adjusted to the 
occasional silences of the young people across the 
room, Mrs. Bowen told Colville how Mr. Morton 
was introduced to her by an old friend who was 
greatly interested in him. She said, frankly, that 
she had been able to be of use to him, and that he 
was now going back to America very soon ; it was 
as if she were privy to the conjecture that had come 
 
to the surface in his talk with Mr. Waters, and 
wished him to understand exactly how matters stood 
with the young clergyman and herself. Colville, 
indeed, began to be more tolerant of him ; he suc- 
ceeded in praising the sermon he had heard him 
preach. 
" Oh, he has talent," said Mrs. Bo wen. 
They fell into the old, almost domestic strain, 
from which she broke at times with an effort, but 
returning as if helplessly to it. He had the gift 
of knowing how not to take an advantage with 
women ; that sense of unconstraint in them fought 
in his favour ; when Eifie dropped her head wearily 
against his arm, her mother even laughed in send- 
ing her off to bed; she had hitherto been serious. 
Imogene said she would go to see her tucked in, and 
that sent the clergyman to say good-night to Mrs. 
Bowen, and to put an end to Colville's audience. 
In these days, when Colville came every night to 
Palazzo Pinti, he got back the tone he had lost in 
the past fortnight. He thought that it was the 
complete immunity from his late pleasures, and the 
regular and sufficient sleep, which had set him 
firmly on his feet again, but he did not inquire very 
closely. Imogene went two or three times, after 
she had declared she would go no more, from the 
necessity women feel of blunting the edge of com- 
ment; but Colville profited instantly and fully by 
the release from the parties which she offered him. 
He did not go even to afternoon teadrinkings ; the 
" days " of the different ladies, which he had been 
 
SO diligent to observe, knew him no more. At the 
hours when society assembled in this house or that 
and inquired for him, or wondered about him, he 
was commonly taking a nap, and he was punctually 
in bed every night at eleven, after his return from 
Mrs. Bowen's. 
He believed, of course, that he went there because 
he now no longer met Imogene elsewhere, and he 
found the house pleasanter than it had ever been 
since the veglione. Mrs. Bowen's relenting was not 
continuous, however. There were times that seemed 
to be times of question and of struggle with her, 
when she vacillated between the old cordiality and 
the later alienation ; when she went beyond the 
former, or lapsed into moods colder and more re- 
pellent than the latter. It would have been difficult 
to mark the moment when these struggles ceased 
altogether, and an evening passed in unbroken kind- 
ness between them. But afterwards Colville could 
remember an emotion of grateful surprise at a subtle 
word or action of hers in which she appeared to 
throw all restraint — scruple or rancour, whichever 
it might be — to the winds, and become perfectly his 
friend again. It must have been by compliance with 
some wish or assent to some opinion of his ; what 
he knew was that he was not only permitted, he 
was invited, to feel himself the most favoured guest. 
The charming smile, so small and sweet, so very near 
to bitterness, came back to her lips, the deeply fringed 
eyelids were lifted to let the sunny eyes stream upon 
him. She did, now, whatever he asked her. She 
 
consulted his taste and judgment on many points ; 
she consented to resume, when she should be a little 
stronger, their visits to the churches and galleries : 
it would be a shame to go away from Florence with- 
out knowing them thoroughly. It came to her ask- 
ing him to drive with her and Imogene in the Cas- 
cine ; and when Imogene made some excuse not to 
go, Mrs. Bowen did not postpone the drive, but took 
Colville and Effie. 
They drove quite down to the end of the Cascine, 
and got out there to admire the gay monument, with 
the painted bust, of the poor young Indian prince 
who died in Florence. They strolled all about, talk- 
ing of the old times in the Cascine, twenty years 
before ; and walking up the road beside the canal, 
while the carriage slowly followed, they stopped to 
enjoy the peasants lying asleep in the grass on the 
other bank. Colville and Effie gathered vrild- 
flowers, and piled them in her mother's lap when 
she reriiounted to the carriage and drove along while 
they made excursions into the little dingles beside 
the road. Some people who overtook them in these 
sylvan pleasures reported the fact at a reception to 
which they were going, and Mrs. Amsden, whose 
mind had been gradually clearing under the simul- 
taneous withdrawal of Imogene and Colville from 
society, professed herself again as thickly clouded as 
a weather-glass before a storm. She appealed to the 
sympathy of others against this hardship. 
Mrs. Bowen took Colville home to dinner; Mr. 
Morton was coming, she said, and he must come too. 
 
At table the young clergyman made her his compli- 
ment on her look of health, and she said, Yes ; she 
had been driving, and she believed that she needed 
nothing but to be in the air a little more, as she 
very well could, now the spring weather was really 
coming. She said that they had been talking all 
winter of going to Fiesole, where Imogene had never 
been yet ; and upon comparison it appeared that 
none of them had yet been to Fiesole except her- 
self. Then they must all go together, sbe said ; 
the carriage would hold four very comfortably. 
" Ah ! that leaves me out,'' said Col villa, who had 
caught sight of Effie's fallen countenance. 
" Oh no. How is that ? It leaves EfEe out." 
" It 's the same thing. But I might ride, and Effie 
might give me her hand to hold over the side of 
the carriage ; that would sustain me." 
" We could take her between us, Mrs. Bowen," 
suggested Imogene. " The back seat is wide." 
"Then the party is made up," said Colville, " and 
Effie hasn't demeaned herself by asking to go where 
she wasn't invited." 
The child turned inquiringly toward her mother, 
who met her with an indulgent smile, which became 
a little flush of grateful appreciation when it reached 
Colville; but Mrs. Bowen ignored Imogene in the 
matter altogether. 
The evening passed delightfully. Mr. Morton had 
another book which he had brought to show Imogene, 
and Mrs. Bowen sat a long time at the piano, striking 
this air and that of the songs which she used to 
 
sing when she was a girl : Colville was trying to 
recall them. When he and Imogene were left 
alone for their adieux, they approached each other 
in an estrangement through which each tried to 
break. 
" Why don't you scold me ? " she asked. " I have 
neglected you the whole evening." 
" How have you neglected me t " 
" How ? Ah ! if you don't know " 
" No. I dare say I must he very stupid. I saw 
you talking with Mr. Morton, and you seemed in- 
terested. I thought I 'd better not intrude." 
She seemed uncertain of his intention, and then 
satisfied of its simplicity. 
" Isn't it pleasant to have Mrs. Bowen in the old 
mood again t " he asked. 
" Is she in the old mood ? " 
"Why, yes. Haven't you noticed how cordial 
she is ? 
" I thought she was rather colder than usual." 
" Colder ! " The chill of the idea penetrated even 
through the density of Colville's selfish content. A 
very complex emotion, which took itself for indigna- 
tion, throbbed from his heart. " Is she cold with 
you, Imogene ? " 
" Oh, if you saw nothing -" 
" No ; and I think you must be mistaken. She 
never speaks of you without praising you." 
" Does she speak of me ? " asked the girl, with 
her honest eyes wide open upon him. 
" Why, no," Colville acknowledged. " Come to 
 
reflect, it 's I who speak of you. But how — how is 
she cold with you ? " 
" Oh, I dare say it 's a delusion of mine. Perhaps 
I'm cold with her.'' ' 
"Then don't be so, my dear ! Be sure that she 's 
your friend — true and good. Good night." 
He caught the girl in his arms, and kissed her 
tenderly. She drew away, and stood a moment 
with her repellent fingers on his breast. 
" Is it all for me ? " she asked. 
" For the whole obliging and amiable world," he 
answered gaily. 
XIX. 
The next time Colville came he found himself 
alone with Imogene, who asked him what he had 
been doing all day. 
" Oh, living along till evening. What have 
you ? " 
She did not answer at once, nor praise his speech 
for the devotion implied in it. After a while she 
said: "Do you believe in courses of reading? Mr. 
Morton has taken up a course of reading in Italian 
poetry. He intends to master it." 
"Does he?" 
" Yes. Do you think something of the kind would 
be good for me ? " 
" Oh, if you thirst for conquest. But I should 
prefer to rest on my laurels if I were you.'' 
Imogene did not smile. "Mr. Morton thinks I 
should enjoy a course of Kingsley. He says he 's 
very earnest.'' 
" Oh, immensely. But aren't you earnest enough 
already, my dear ? " 
" Do you think I 'm too earnest ? " 
" No ; I should say you were just right." 
 
" You know better than that. I wish you would 
criticise me sometimes." 
" Oh, I 'd rather not." 
'Whyf Don't you see anything to criticise in 
me ? Are you satisfied with me in every way ? 
You ought to think. You ought to think now. Do 
you think that I am doing right in all respects ? Am 
I "all that I could be to you, and to you alone ? If I 
am wrong in the least thing, criticise me, and I will 
try to be better." 
" Oh, you might criticise back, and I shouldn't 
like that." 
" Then you don't approve of a course of Kingsley ? " 
asked the girl. 
"Does that follow? But if you're going in for 
earnestness, why don't you take up a course of Car- 
lyle?" 
" Do you think that would be better than 
Kingsley ? " 
"Not a bit. But Carlyle's so earnest that he 
can't talk straight." 
" I can't make out what you mean. Wouldn't 
you like me to improve i " 
"Not much," laughed Colville. "If you did, I 
don't know what I should do. I should have to 
begin to improve too, and I 'm very comfortable as 
I am." 
" I should wish to do it to — to be more worthy of 
you," grieved the girl, as if deeply disappointed at 
his frivolous behaviour. 
He could not help laughing, but he was sorry, and 
 
would have taken her hand ; she kept it from him, 
and removed to the farthest corner of the sofa. ' Ap- 
parently, hovrever, her ideal did not admit of open 
pique, and she went on trying to talk seriously with 
him. 
"You think, don't you, that we oughtn't to let a 
day pass without storing away some thought — sug- 
gestion " 
" Oh, there 's no hurry," he said lazily. " Life is 
rather a long affair — if you live. There appears to 
he plenty of time, though people say not, and I 
think it would be rather odious to make every day 
of use. , Let a few of them go by without doing any- 
thing for you ! And as for reading, why not read 
when you 're hungry, just as you eat ? Shouldn't 
you hate to take up a course of roast beef, or a course 
of turkey 'i " 
"Very well, then," said Imogene. "I shall not 
begin Kingsley.'' 
" Yes, do it. I dare say Mr. Morton's quite right. 
He will look at these things more from your own 
point of view. All the Kingsley novels are in the 
Tauchnitz. By all means do what he says." 
" I will do what you say." 
" Oh, but I say nothing." 
" Then I will do nothing." 
Colville laughed at this too, and soon after the 
clergyman appeared. Imogene met him so coldly 
that Colville felt obliged to make him some amends 
by a greater show of cordiality than he felt. But 
he was glad of the effort, for he began to like him 
 
as he talked to him ; it was easy for him. to like 
people ; the young man showed sense and judg- 
ment, and if he was a little academic in his mind 
and manners, Colville tolerantly reflected that some 
people seemed to be born so, and that he was pro- 
bably not artiiicial, as he had once imagined from 
the ecclesiastical scrupulosity of his dress. 
Imogene ebbed away to the piano in the corner of 
the room, and struck some chords on it. At each 
stroke the young clergyman, whose eyes had. wan- 
dered a little toward her from the first, seemed to 
vibrate in response. The conversation became in- 
coherent before Mrs. Bowen joined them. Then, by 
a series of illogical processes, the clergyman was 
standing beside Imogene at the piano, and Mrs. 
Bowen was sitting beside Colville on the sofa. 
" Isn't there to be any Effie, to-night ? " he asked. 
" No. She has been up too much of late. And 
I wished to speak with you — about Imogene." 
" Yes," said Colville, not very eagerly. At that 
moment he could have chosen another topic. 
" It is time that her mother should have got my 
letter. In less than a fortnight we ought to have 
an answer." 
" Well ? " said Colville, with a strange constric- 
tion of the heart. 
"Her mother is a person of very strong char- 
acter ; her husband is absorbed in business, and 
defers to her in everything." 
" It isn't an uncommon American situation," said 
Colville, relieving his tension by this excursion. 
 
Mrs. Bowen ignored it. " I don't know how she 
may look at the affair. She may give her assent at 
once, or she may decide that nothing has taken place 
till — she sees you." 
" I could hardly blame her for that," he answered 
submissively. 
" It isn't a question of that," said Mrs. Bowen. 
" It 's a question of — others. Mr. Morton was here 
before you came, and I know he was interested in 
Imogene — I am certain of it. He has come back, 
and he sees no reason why he should not renew his 
attentions." 
" No— O—O," faltered Colville. 
" I wish you to realise the fact." 
" But what would you " 
" I told you," said Mrs. Bowen, with a full return 
of that severity whose recent absence Colville had 
found so comfortable, " that I can't advise or sug- 
gest anything at all." 
He was long and miserably silent. At last, " Did 
you ever think," he asked, " did you ever suppose- 
that is to say, did you ever suspect that — she — that 
Imogene was — at all interested in him ? " 
"I think she was — at one time," said Mrs. Bowen 
promptly. 
Colville sighed, with a wandering disposition to 
whistle. 
" But that is nothing," she went on. " People 
have many passing fancies. The question is, what 
are you going to do now ? I want to know, as Mr. 
Morton's friend." 
 
" Ah, I wish you wanted to know as my friend, 
Mrs. Bowen ! " A sudden thought flashed upon , 
him. " Why shouldn't I go away from Florence 
till Imogene hears from her mother ? That seemed 
to me right in the first place. There is no tie that 
binds her to me. I hold her to nothing. If she 
finds in my absence that she likes this young man 
better " An expression of Mrs. Bowen's face 
stopped him. He perceived that he had said some- 
thing very shocking to her ; he perceived that the 
thing was shocking in itself, but it was not that 
which he cared for. " I don't mean that I won't 
hold myself true to her as long as she will. I re- 
cognise my responsibility fully. I know that I am 
answerable for all this, and that no one else is ; and 
I am ready to bear any penalty. But what I can't 
bear is that you should misunderstand me, that you 
should I have been so wretched ever since 
you first began to blame me for my part in this, and 
so happy this past fortnight that I can't — I won't — 
go back to that state of things. No ; you have no 
right to relent toward me, and then fling me off as 
you have tried to do to-night ! I have some feeling 
too — some rights. You shall receive me as a friend, 
or not at all ! How can I live if you " 
She had been making little efforts as if to rise ; 
now she forced herself to her feet, and ran jrom 
the room. 
The young people looked up from their music ; 
some wave of the sensation had spread to them, but 
seeing Colville remain seated, they went on with 
 
their playing till he rose. Then Imogene called out, 
" Isn't Mrs. Bowen coming back ? " 
" I don't know ; I think not," answered Colville 
stupidly, standing where he had risen. 
She hastened questioning toward him. "What 
is -the matter ? Isn't she well ? " 
Mr. Morton's face expressed a polite share in 
her anxiety. 
" Oh yes ; quite, I believe," Colville replied. 
" She heard Effie call, I suppose," suggested the 
girl. 
" Yes, yes ; I think so ; that is — yes. I must 
be going. Good night." 
He took her hand and went away, leaving the 
clergyman still there ; but he lingered only for a re- 
port from Mrs. Bowen, which Imogene hurried to get. 
She sent word that she would join them presently. 
But Mr. Morton said that it was late already, and he 
would beg Miss Graham to say good-night for him. 
When Mrs. Bowen returned Imogene was alone. 
She did not seem surprised or concerned at that. 
" Imogene, I have been talldng to Mr. Colville 
about you and Mr. Morton." 
The girl started and turned pale. 
"It is almost time to hear from your mother, and 
she may consent to your engagement. Then you 
must be prepared to act." 
" Actr' 
"To make it known. Matters can't go on as 
they have been going. I told Mr. Colville that Mr. 
Morton ought to know at once." 
 
'' 'Why ought he to know t " asked Imogene, 
doubtless with that impulse to temporise which is 
natural to the human soul in questions of right and 
interest. She sank into the chair beside which she 
had been standing. 
" If your mother consents, you will feel bound to 
Mr. Colville ? " 
" Yes," said the girl. 
" And if she refuses ? " 
" He has my word. I will keep my word to him," 
replied Imogene huskily. " Nothing shall make me 
break it." 
" Very well, then ! " exclaimed Mrs. Bowen. 
"We need not wait for your mother's answer. Mr. 
Morton ought to know, and he ought to know at 
once. Don't try to blind yourself, Imogene, to what 
you see as plainly as I do. He is in love with you." 
" Oh," moaned the girl. 
"Yes; you can't deny it. And it's cruel, it's 
treacherous, to let him go on thinking that you are 
free." 
" I will never see him again.'' 
" Ah ! that isn't enough. He has a claim to know 
why. I will not let him be treated so." 
They were both silent. Then, " What did Mr. 
Colville say ? " asked Imogene. 
" He ? I don't know that he said anything. 
He " Mrs. Bowen stopped. 
Imogene rose from her chair. 
" I will not let him bell Mr. Morton. It would be 
too indelicate." 
 
" And shall you let it go on so ? " 
" No. I will tell him myself." 
" How will you tell him ? " 
" I will tell him if he speaks to me." 
" You will let it come to that ? " 
" There is no other way. I shall suffer more than 
he." 
" But you will deserve to suffer, and your suffer- 
ing will not help him." 
Imogens trembled into her chair again. 
" I see," said Mrs. Bowen bitterly, " how it will be 
at last. It will be as it has been from the first." She 
began to walk up and down the room, mechanically 
putting the chairs in place, and removing the disorder 
in which the occupancy of several people leaves a 
room at the end of an evening. She closed the 
piano, which Imogene had forgot to shut, with a 
clash that jarred the strings from their silence. 
" But I will do it, and I wonder " 
" You will speak to him ?'" faltered the girl. 
" Yes ! " returned Mrs. Bowen vehemently, and 
arresting herself in her rapid movements. " It won't 
do for you to tell him, and you won't let Mr. Col- 
ville." 
" No, I can't," said Imogene, slowly shaking her 
head. " But I will discourage him ; I will not see him 
anymore." Mrs. BoM>en silently confronted her. "I 
will not see any one now till I have heard from home." 
" And how will that help ? He must have some 
explanation, and I will have to make it. What shall 
it be ? " 
Imogene did not answer. She said : " I will not 
have any one know what is between me and Mr. 
Colville till I have heard from home. If they try 
to refuse, then it will be for him to take me against 
their will. Bat if he doesn't choose to do that, then 
he shall be free, and I won't have him humiliated a 
second time before the world. This time he shall be 
the one to reject. And I don't care who suffers. 
The more I prize the person, the gladder I shall be ; 
and if I could suffer before everybody I would. If 
people ever find it out, I will tell them that it was 
he who broke it off." She rose again from her chair, 
and stood flushed and thrilling with the notion of 
her self-sacrifice. Out of the tortuous complexity of 
the situation she had evolved this brief triumph, in 
which she rejoiced as if it were enduring success. 
But she suddenly fell from it in the dust. " Oh, 
what can I do for him ? How can I make him feel 
more and more that I would give up anything, 
everything, for him ! It 's because he asks nothing 
and wants nothing that it 's so hard ! If I could see 
that he was unhappy, as I did once ! If I could see 
that he was at all different since — since Oh, what 
I dread is this smooth tranquillity ! If our lives could 
only be stormy and full of cares and anxieties and 
troubles that I could take on myself, then, then I 
shouldn't be afraid of the future ! But I 'm afraid 
they won't be so — no, I 'm afraid that they will be 
easy and quiet, and then what shall I do ? Mrs. 
Bowen, do you think he cares for me ? " 
Mrs Bowen turned white ; she did not speak. 
 
The girl wrung her hands. " Sometimes it seems 
as if he didn't — as if I had forced myself on him 
through a mistake, and he had taken me to save me 
from the shame of knowing that I had made a mis- 
take. Do you think that is true ? If you can 
only tell me that it isn't Or, no ! If it is true, 
tell me that ! That would be real mercy." 
The other trembled, as if physically beaten upon 
by this appeal. But she gathered herself together 
rigidly. *" How can I answer you such a thing as 
that ? I mustn't listen to you ; you mustn't ask me." 
She turned and left the girl standing still in her 
attitude of imploring. But in her own room, where 
she locked herself in, sobs mingled with the laughter 
which broke crazily from her lips as she removed 
this ribbon and that jewel, and pulled the bracelets 
from her wrists. A man would have plunged from 
the house and walked the night away ; a woman 
must wear it out in her bed. 
XX. 
In the morning Mrs. Bowen received a note from 
her banker covering a despatch by cable from America. 
It was from Imogene's mother ; it acknowledged the 
letters they had written, and announced that she 
sailed that day for Liverpool. It was dated at New 
York, and it was to be inferred that after perhaps 
writing in answer to their letters, she had suddenly 
made up her mind to come out. 
"Yes, that is it," said Imogene, to whom Mrs. 
Bowen hastened with the despatch. " Why should 
she have telegraphed to you ? " she asked coldly, but 
with a latent fire of resentment in her tone. 
"You must ask her when she comes," returned 
Mrs. Bowen, with all her gentleness. "It won't be 
long now." 
They looked as if they had neither of them slept ; 
but the girl's vigil seemed to have made her wild 
and fierce, like some bird that has beat itself all 
night against its cage, and still from time to time 
