gives him the more often he will come, unless we put an end to his coming
altogether."
"You seem to forget," urged Mr. Ambrose, "that there will be a vigorous
search made for him. Why not telegraph to the governor of Portland?"
"I thought you wanted to save Mrs. Goddard from needless scandal; did you
not?" returned the squire. "The governor of Portland would send down a
squad of police who would publish the whole affair. He would have done so
as soon as the man escaped had he known that Mrs. Goddard lived here."
"I wonder how Goddard himself knew it," remarked Mr. Ambrose.
"I don't know. Perhaps she told him she was coming here, at their last
interview. Or perhaps she wrote to him in prison and the governor
overlooked the letter. Anything like that would account for it."
"But if you catch him--alive," hesitated the vicar, "it will all be known
at once. I do not see how you can prevent that."
"If I catch him alive, I will take him out of Billingsfield without any
one's knowledge. I do not mean to hurt him. I only want to get him back
to prison. Believe me, I am much more anxious than you can possibly be to
save Mrs. Goddard from harm."
"Very well. I have done my errand," said Mr. Ambrose, with a sort of sigh
of relief. "I confess, I am in great anxiety of mind, both on your
account and on hers. I never dreamed that such things could happen in
Billingsfield."
"You are certainly not responsible for them," answered Mr. Juxon. "It is
not your fault--"
"Not altogether, perhaps. But I was perhaps wrong in letting her come
here--no, I am sure I was not," he added impulsively, as though ashamed
of having said anything so unkind.
"Certainly not. You were quite right, Mr. Ambrose, quite right, I assure
you."
"Well, I hope all may yet be for the best," said the vicar.
"Let us hope so," replied Mr. Juxon gravely. "By all means, let us hope
that all may be for the best."
Whether the squire doubted the possibility of so happy an issue to events
or not, is uncertain. He felt almost more sorry for the vicar than for
himself; the vicar was such a good man, so unused to the violent deeds of
violent people, of which the squire in his wanderings had seen more than
was necessary to convince him that all was not always for the best in
this best of all possible worlds.
Mr. Ambrose left his friend and as he retraced his steps through the park
was more disturbed than ever. That Goddard should contemplate killing the
squire was bad enough, in all conscience, but that the squire should
deliberately purpose to hunt down Goddard with his bloodhound seemed
somehow even worse. The vicar had indeed promised Mrs. Goddard that he
would not help to capture her husband, but he would have been as glad as
any one to hear that the convict was once more lodged in his prison.
There lurked in his mind, nevertheless, an impression that even a convict
should have a fair chance. The idea was not expressed, but existed in
him. Everybody, he would have said, ought to have a fair chance, and
as the law of nations forbids the use of explosive bullets in warfare,
the laws of humanity seemed to forbid the use of bloodhounds in the
pursuit of criminals. He had a very great respect for the squire's
character and principles, but the cold-blooded way in which Mr. Juxon had
spoken of catching and probably killing Walter Goddard, had shaken the
good vicar's belief in his friend. He doubted whether he were not now
bound to return to Mrs. Goddard and to warn her in his turn of her
husband's danger, whether he ought not to do something to save the
wretched convict from his fate. It seemed hideous to think that in
peaceful Billingsfield, in his own lonely parish, a human being should be
exposed to such peril. But at this point the vicar's continuity forsook
him. He had not the heart to tell the tale of his interview with Mr.
Juxon to the unhappy lady he had left that morning. It was extremely
improbable, he thought, that she should be able to communicate with her
husband during the day, and the squire's language led him to think that
the day would not pass without some attempt to discover Walter Goddard's
hiding-place. Besides, the vicar's mind was altogether more disturbed
than it had been in thirty years, and he was no longer able to account to
himself with absolute accuracy for what he did. At all events, he felt
that it was better not to tell Mrs. Goddard what the squire had said.
When he was gone, Mr. Juxon paced his library alone in the greatest
uncertainty. He had told the vicar in his anger that he would find
Goddard with the help of Stamboul. That the hound was able to accomplish
the feat in the present weather, and if Goddard had actually stood some
time at the cottage window on the previous night, he did not doubt for a
moment. The vicar had mentioned the window to him when he told him that
Mrs. Goddard had seen her husband. He had probably been at the window as
late as midnight, and the scent, renewed by his visit, would not be
twelve hours old. Stamboul could find the man, unless he had got into a
cart, which was improbable. But a new and startling consideration
presented itself to the squire's mind when the vicar was gone and his
anger had subsided; a consideration which made him hesitate what course
to pursue.
That he would be justified in using any means in his power to catch the
criminal seemed certain. It would be for the public good that he should
be delivered up to justice as soon as possible. So long as Goddard was at
large the squire's own life was not safe, and Mrs. Goddard was liable to
all kinds of annoyances at any moment. There was every reason why the
fellow should be captured. But to capture him, safe and sound, was one
thing; to expose him to the jaws of Stamboul was quite another. Mr. Juxon
had a lively recollection of the day in the Belgrade forest when the
great hound had pulled down one of his assailants, making his fangs meet
through flesh and bone. If Stamboul were set upon Goddard's track, the
convict could hardly escape with his life. In the first flush of the
squire's anger this seemed of little importance. But on mature reflection
the thing appeared in a different light.
He loved Mrs. Goddard in his own way, which was a very honourable way, if
not very passionate. He had asked her to marry him. She had expressed a
wish that she were a widow, implying perhaps that if she had been free
she would have accepted him. If the obstacle of her living husband were
removed, it was not improbable that she would look favourably upon the
squire's suit; to bring Goddard to an untimely end would undoubtedly be
to clear the way for the squire. It was not then, a legitimate desire for
justice which made him wish to catch the convict and almost to wish that
Stamboul might worry him to death; it was the secret hope that Goddard
might be killed and that he, Charles James Juxon, might have the chance
to marry his widow. "In other words," he said to himself, "I really want
to murder Goddard and take his wife."
It was not easy to see where legitimate severity ended and unlawful and
murderous selfishness began. The temptation was a terrible one. The very
uncertainty which there was, tempted the squire to disregard the
possibility of Goddard's death as compared with the importance of his
capture. It was quite likely, he unconsciously argued, that the
bloodhound would not kill him after all; it was even possible that he
might not find him; but it would be worth while to make the attempt, for
the results to be obtained by catching the fugitive were very great--Mrs.
Goddard's peace was to be considered before all things. But still before
the squire's eyes arose the picture of Stamboul tearing the throat of the
man he had killed in the Belgrade forest. If he killed the felon, Juxon
would know that to all intents and purposes he had himself done the deed
in order to marry Mrs. Goddard. But still the thought remained with him
and would not leave him.
The fellow had threatened his own life. It was then a fair fight,
for a man cannot be blamed if he tries to get the better of one who is
going about to kill him. On one of his many voyages, he had once shot a
man in order to quell a mutiny; he had not killed him it is true, but
he had disabled him for the time--he had handled many a rough customer
in his day. The case, he thought, was similar, for it was the case of
self-defence. The law, even, would say he was justified. But to slay a
man in self-defence and then to marry his widow, though justifiable in
law, is a very delicate case for the conscience; and in spite of the
wandering life he had led, Mr. Juxon's conscience was sensitive. He was
an honest man and a gentleman, he had tried all his life to do right as
he saw it, and did not mean to turn murderer now, no matter how easy it
would be for him to defend his action.
At the end of an hour he had decided that it would be murder, and no
less, to let Stamboul track Goddard to his hiding-place. The hound might
accompany him in his walks, and if anybody attacked him it would be so
much the worse for his assailant. Murder or no murder, he was entitled to
take any precautions he pleased against an assault. But he would not
willingly put the bloodhound on the scent, and he knew well enough that
the dog would not run upon a strange trail unless he were put to it.
The squire went to his lunch, feeling that he had made a good resolution;
but he ate little and soon afterwards began to feel the need of going
down to see Mrs. Goddard. No day was complete without seeing her, and
considering the circumstances which had occurred on the previous
afternoon, it was natural that he should call to inquire after her state.
In the hall, the gigantic beast which had played such an important part
in his thoughts during the morning, came solemnly up to him, raising his
great red eyes as though asking whether he were to accompany his master.
The squire stood still and looked at him for a moment.
"Come along, Stamboul!" he said suddenly, as he put on his hat. The hound
leaped up and laid his heavy paws on the squire's shoulders, trying to
lick his face in his delight, then, almost upsetting the sturdy man he
sprang back, slipped on the polished floor, recovered himself and with an
enormous stride bounded past Mr. Juxon, out into the park. But Mr. Juxon
quickly called him back, and presently he was following close at heel in
his own stately way, looking neither to the right nor to the left. The
squire felt nervous, and the sensation was new to him. He did not believe
that Goddard would really attack him at all, certainly not that he would
dare to attack him in broad daylight. But the knowledge of the threat the
fellow had uttered made him watchful. He glanced to the right and left as
he walked and gripped his heavy blackthorn stick firmly in his hand. He
wished that if the man were to appear he would come quickly--it might be
hard to hold Stamboul back if he were attacked unawares.
He reached the gate, crossed the road and rang the bell of the cottage.
As he stood waiting, Stamboul smelled the ground, put up his head,
smelled it again and with his nose down trotted slowly to the window on
the left hand of the door. He smelled the ground, the wall and presently
put both his fore paws upon the outer ledge of the window. Then he
dropped again, and looked at his master. Martha was a long time in coming
to the door.
"After him, Stamboul!" said the squire, almost unconsciously. The dog put
his nose down and began to move slowly about. At that moment the door
opened.
"Oh, sir," said Martha, "it's you, sir. I was to say, if you please, that
if you called, Mrs. Goddard was poorly to-day, sir."
"Dear me!" said Mr. Juxon, "I hope she is not ill. Is it anything
serious, Martha?"
"Well, sir, she's been down this mornin', but her head ached terrible bad
and she went back to her room--oh, sir, your dog--he's a runnin' home."
As she spoke a sound rang in the air that made Martha start back. It was
a deep, resounding, bell-like note, fierce and wild, rising and falling,
low but full, with a horror indescribable in its echo--the sound which no
man who has heard it ever forgets--the baying of a bloodhound on the
track of a man.
The squire turned deadly pale, but he shouted with all his might, as he
would have shouted to a man on the topsail yard in a gale at sea.
"Stamboul! Stamboul! Stamboul!" Again and again he yelled the dog's name.
Stamboul had not gone far. The quickset hedge had baffled the scent for a
moment and he was not a dozen yards beyond it in the park when his
master's cry stopped him. Instantly he turned, cleared the six-foot hedge
and double ditch at a bound and came leaping back across the road. The
squire breathed hard, for it had been a terrible moment. If he had not
succeeded in calling the beast back, it might have been all over with
Walter Goddard, wherever he was hidden.
"It is only his play," said Mr. Juxon, still very white and holding
Stamboul by the collar. "Please tell Mrs. Goddard, Martha, that I am very
sorry indeed to hear that she is ill, and that I will inquire this
evening."
"Yes, sir," said Martha, who eyed the panting beast timidly and showed an
evident desire to shut the door as soon as possible.
The squire felt more nervous than ever as he walked slowly along the road
in the direction of the village, his hand still on the bloodhound's
collar. He felt what a narrow escape Goddard had probably had, and the
terrible sound of Stamboul's baying had brought back to him once again
and very vividly the scene in the woods by the Bosphorus. He felt that
for a few minutes at least he would rather not enter the park with the
dog by him, and he naturally turned towards the vicarage, not with any
intention of going in, but from sheer force of custom, as people under
the influence of strong emotions often do things unconsciously which they
are in the habit of doing. He walked slowly along, and had almost reached
Mr. Ambrose's pretty old red brick house, when he found himself face to
face with the vicar's wife. She presented an imposing appearance, as
usual; her grey skirt, drawn up a little from the mud, revealed a bright
red petticoat and those stout shoes which she regarded as so essential
to health; she wore moreover a capacious sealskin jacket and a dark
bonnet with certain jet flowers, which for many years had been regarded
by the inhabitants of Billingsfield as the distinctive badge of a
gentlewoman. Mrs. Ambrose was wont to smile and say that they were
indestructible and would last as long as she did. She greeted Mr. Juxon
cordially.
"How do you, Mr. Juxon--were you going to see us? I was just going for a
walk--perhaps you will come with me?"
Mr. Juxon turned back and prepared to accompany her.
"Such good news this morning, from John Short," she said. "He has
finished his examinations, and it seems almost certain that he will be
senior classic. His tutor at Trinity has written already to congratulate
my husband upon his success."
"I am sure, I am delighted, too," said the squire, who had regained his
composure but kept his hold on Stamboul's collar. "He deserves all he
gets, and more too," he continued. "I think he will be a remarkable man."
"I did not think you liked him so very much," said Mrs. Ambrose rather
doubtfully, as she walked slowly by his side.
"Oh--I liked him very much. Indeed, I was going to ask him to stay with
me for a few days at the Hall."
The inspiration was spontaneous. Mr. Juxon was in a frame of mind in
which he felt that he ought to do something pleasant for somebody, to set
off against the bloodthirsty designs which had passed through his mind in
the morning. He knew that if he had not been over friendly to John, it
had been John's own fault; but since he had found out that it was
impossible to marry Mrs. Goddard, he had forgiven the young scholar his
shortcomings and felt very charitably inclined towards him. It suddenly
struck him that it would give John great pleasure to stop at the Hall for
a few days, and that it would be no inconvenience to himself. The effect
upon Mrs. Ambrose was greater even than he had expected. She was
hospitable, good and kind, but she was also economical, as she had need
to be. The squire was rich. If the squire would put up John during a part
of his visit it would be a kindness to John himself, and an economy to
the vicarage. Mr. Ambrose himself would not have gone to such a length;
but then, as his wife said to herself in self-defence, Augustin did not
pay the butcher's bills, and did not know how the money went. She did not
say that Augustin was precisely what is called reckless, but he of course
did not understand economy as she did. How should he, poor man, with all
his sermons and his funerals and other occupations to take his mind off?
Mrs. Ambrose was delighted at the squire's proposal.
"Really!" she exclaimed. "That would be too good of you, Mr. Juxon. And
you do not know how it would quite delight him! He loves books so much,
and then you know," she added in a confidential manner, "he has never
stayed in a country house in his life, I am quite sure."
"And when is he coming down?" asked Mr. Juxon. "I should be very much
pleased to have him."
"To-morrow, I think," said Mrs. Ambrose.
"Well--would you ask him from me to come up and stop a week? Can you
spare him, Mrs. Ambrose? I know you are very fond of him, of course,
but--"
"Oh very," said she warmly. "But I think it likely he will stay some
time," she added in explanation of her willingness to let him go to the
Hall.
The squire felt vaguely that the presence of a guest in his house would
probably be a restraint upon him, and he felt that some restraint would
be agreeable to him at the present time.
"Besides," added Mrs. Ambrose, "if you would like to have him
first--there is a little repair necessary in his room at the vicarage--we
have put it off too long--"
"By all means." said the squire, following out his own train of thought.
"Send him up to me as soon as he comes. If I can manage it I will be down
here to ask him myself."
"It is so good of you," said Mrs. Ambrose.
"Not at all. Are you going to the cottage?"
"Yes--why?"
"Nothing," said Mr. Juxon. "I did not know whether you would like to walk
on a little farther with me. Good-bye, then. You will tell Short as soon
as he comes, will you not?"
"Certainly," replied Mrs. Ambrose, still beaming upon him. "I will not
let him unpack his things at the vicarage. Good-bye--so many thanks."
CHAPTER XVIII.
Mrs. Goddard's head ached "terrible bad" according to Martha, and when
the vicar left her she went and lay down upon her bed, with a sensation
that if the worst were not yet over she could bear no more. But she had
an elastic temperament, and the fact of having consulted Mr. Ambrose that
morning had been a greater relief than she herself suspected. She felt
that he could be trusted to save Mr. Juxon from harm and Walter from
capture, and having once confided to him the important secret which had
so heavily weighed upon her mind she felt that the burthen of her
troubles was lightened. Mr. Juxon could take any measures he pleased for
his own safety; he would probably choose to stay at home until the danger
was past. As for her husband, Mary Goddard did not believe that he would
return a third time, for she thought that she had thoroughly frightened
him. It was even likely that he had only thrown out his threat for the
sake of terrifying his wife, and was now far beyond the limits of the
parish. So great was the relief she felt after she had talked with the
vicar that she almost ceased to believe there was any danger at all;
looking at it in the light of her present mood, she almost wondered why
she had thought it necessary to tell Mr. Ambrose--until suddenly a vision
of her friend the squire, attacked and perhaps killed, in his own park,
rose to her mental vision, and she remembered what agonies of fear she
had felt for him until she had sent for the vicar. The latter indeed
seemed to have been a sort of deus ex maohinâ by whom she suddenly
obtained peace of mind and a sense of security in the hour of her
greatest distress.
All that afternoon she lay upon her bed, while Nellie sat beside her and
read to her, and stroked her hands; for Nellie was in reality
passionately fond of her mother and suffered almost as much at the sight
of her suffering as she could have done had she been in pain herself.
Both Mrs. Goddard and the child started at the sound of Stamboul's
baying, which was unlike anything they had ever heard before, and Nellie
ran to the window.
"It is only Mr. Juxon and Stamboul having a game," said Nellie. "What a
noise he made, though! Did not he?"
Poor Nellie--had she had any idea of what the "game" was from which the
squire found it so hard to make his hound desist, she must have gone
almost mad with horror. For the game was her own father, poor child. But
she came back and sat beside her mother utterly unconscious of what might
have happened if Stamboul had once got beyond earshot, galloping along
the trail towards the disused vault at the back of the church. Mrs.
Goddard had started at the sounds and had put her hand to her forehead,
but Nellie's explanation was enough to quiet her, and she smiled faintly
and closed her eyes again. Then, half an hour later, Mrs. Ambrose came,
and would not be denied. She wanted to make Mrs. Goddard comfortable, she
said, when she found she was ill, and she did her best, being a kind and
motherly woman when not hardened by the presence of strangers. She told
her that John was coming on the next day, speaking with vast pride of his
success and omitting to look sternly at Mrs. Goddard as she had formerly
been accustomed to do when she spoke of the young scholar. Then at last
she went away, after exacting a promise from Mrs. Goddard to come and
dine, bringing Nellie with her, on the following day, in case she should
have recovered by that time from her headache.
But during all that night Mrs. Goddard lay awake, listening for the sound
she so much dreaded, of a creeping footstep on the slated path outside
and for the tapping at the window. Nothing came, however, and as the grey
dawn began to creep in through the white curtains, she fell peacefully
asleep. Nellie would not let her be waked, and breakfasted without her,
enjoying with childish delight the state of being waited on by Martha
alone.
Meanwhile, at an early hour, John arrived at the vicarage and was
received with open arms by Mr. Ambrose and his wife. The latter seemed to
forget, in the pleasure of seeing him again, that she had even once
spoken doubtfully of him or hinted that he was anything short of
perfection itself. And to prove how much she had done for him she
communicated with great pride the squire's message, to the effect that he
expected John at the Hall that very day.
John's heart leaped with delight at the idea. It was natural. He was
indeed most sincerely attached to the Ambroses, and most heartily glad to
be with them; but he had never in his life had an opportunity of staying
in a "big" house, as he would have described it. It seemed as though he
were already beginning to taste the sweet first-fruits of success after
all his labour and all his privations; it was the first taste of another
world, the first mouthful of the good things of life which had fallen to
his lot. Instantly there rose before him delicious visions of hot-water
cans brought by a real footman, of luxurious meals served by a real
butler, of soft carpets perpetually beneath his feet, of liberty to
lounge in magnificent chairs in the magnificent library; and last, though
not least, there was a boyish feeling of delight in the thought that when
he went to see Mrs. Goddard he would go from the Hall, that she would
perhaps associate him henceforth with a different kind of existence, in a
word, that he was sure to acquire importance in her eyes from the fact of
his visit to the squire. Many a young fellow of one and twenty is as
familiar with all that money can give and as tired of luxury as a
broken-down hard liver of forty years; for this is an age of luxurious
living. But poor John had hardly ever tasted the least of those things
too familiar to the golden youth of the period to be even noticed. He had
felt when he first entered the little drawing-room of the cottage that
Mrs. Goddard herself belonged, or had belonged, to that delicious unknown
world of ease where the question of expense was never considered, much
less mentioned. In her own eyes she was indeed living in a state
approaching to penury, but the spectacle of her pictures, her furniture
and her bibelots had impressed John with a very different idea. The
squire's invitation, asking him to spend a week at the Hall, seemed in a
moment to put him upon the same level as the woman to whom he believed
himself so devotedly attached. To his mind the ideal woman could not but
be surrounded by a luxurious atmosphere of her own. To enter the charmed
precincts of those surroundings seemed to John equivalent to being
transported from the regions of the Theocritan to the level of the
Anacreontic ode, from the pastoral, of which he had had too much, to the
aristocratic, of which he felt that he could not have enough. It was a
natural feeling in a very young man of his limited experience.
He stayed some hours at the vicarage. Both Mr. and Mrs. Ambrose thought
him changed in the short time which had elapsed since they had seen him.
He had grown more grave; he was certainly more of a man. The great
contest he had just sustained with so much honour had left upon his young
face its mark, an air of power which had not formerly been visible there;
even his voice seemed to have grown deeper and rounder, and his words
carried more weight. The good vicar, who had seen several generations
of students, already distinguished in John Short the budding "don," and
rubbed his hands with great satisfaction.
John asked few questions but found himself obliged to answer many
concerning his recent efforts. He would have liked to say something about
Mrs. Goddard, but he remembered with some awe and much aversion the
circumstances in which he had last quitted the vicarage, and he held his
peace; whereby he again rose in Mrs. Ambrose's estimation. He made up for
his silence by speaking effusively of the squire's kindness in asking him
to the Hall; forgetting perhaps the relief he had felt when he escaped
from Billingsfield after Christmas without being again obliged to shake
hands with Mr. Juxon. Things looked very differently now, however. He
felt himself to be somebody in the world, and that distressing sense of
inferiority which had perhaps been at the root of his jealousy against
the squire was gone, swallowed in the sense of triumph. His face was
pale, perhaps, from overwork, but there was a brilliancy in his eyes and
an incisiveness in his speech which came from the confidence of victory.
He now desired nothing more than to meet the squire, feeling sure that he
should receive his congratulations, and though he stayed some hours in
conversation with his old friends, in imagination he was already at the
Hall. The squire had not come down to meet him, as he had proposed, but
he had sent his outlandish American gig with his groom to fetch John.
While he was at the vicarage the latter was probably too much occupied
with conversation to notice that Mr. Ambrose seemed preoccupied and
changed, and the vicar was to some extent recalled to his usual manner by
the presence of his pupil. Mrs. Ambrose had taxed her husband with
concealing something from her ever since the previous day, but the good
man was obstinate and merely said that he felt unaccountably nervous and
irritable, and begged her to excuse his mood. Mrs. Ambrose postponed her
cross-examination until a more favourable opportunity should present
itself.
John got into the gig and drove away. He was to return with the squire to
dinner in the evening, and he fully expected that Mrs. Goddard and Nellie
would be of the party--it seemed hardly likely that they should be
omitted. Indeed, soon after John had left a note arrived at the vicarage
explaining that Mrs. Goddard was much better and would certainly come,
according to Mrs. Ambrose's very kind invitation.
It is unnecessary to dwell upon the meeting which took place between Mr.
Juxon and John Short. The squire was hospitable in the extreme and
expressed his great satisfaction at having John under his own roof at
last. He was perhaps, like the vicar, a little nervous, but the young man
did not notice it, being much absorbed by the enjoyment of his good
fortune and of the mental rest he so greatly needed. Mr. Juxon
congratulated him warmly and expressed a hope, amounting to certainty,
that John might actually be at the head of the Tripos; to which John
modestly replied that he would be quite satisfied to be in the first ten,
knowing in his heart that he should be most bitterly disappointed if he
were second to any one. He sat opposite to his host in a deep chair
beside the fire in the library and revelled in comfort and ease, enjoying
every trifle that fell in his way, feeling only a very slight diffidence
in regard to himself for the present and none at all for the future. The
squire was so cordial that he felt himself thoroughly at home. Indeed Mr.
Juxon already rejoiced at his wisdom in asking John to the Hall. The lad
was strong, hopeful, well-balanced in every respect and his presence was
an admirable tonic to the almost morbid state of anxiety in which the
squire had lived ever since his interview with Policeman Gall, two days
before. In the sunshine of John's young personality, fears grew small and
hope grew big. The ideas which had passed through Mr. Juxon's brain on
the previous evening, just after Mr. Ambrose had warned him of Goddard's
intentions, seemed now like the evil shadows of a nightmare. All
apprehension lest the convict should attempt to execute his threats
disappeared like darkness before daylight, and in the course of an hour
or two the squire found himself laughing and chatting with his guest as
though there were no such things as forgery or convicts in the world. The
afternoon passed very pleasantly between the examination of Mr. Juxon's
treasures and the conversation those objects elicited. For John, who was
an accomplished scholar, had next to no knowledge of bibliology and took
delight in seeing for the first time many a rare edition which he had
heard mentioned or had read of in the course of his studies. He would not
have believed that he could be now talking on such friendly terms with a
man for whom he had once felt the strongest antipathy, and Mr. Juxon on
his part felt that in their former meetings he had not done full justice
to the young man's undoubted talents.
As they drove down to the vicarage that evening Mrs. Goddard's name was
mentioned for the first time. John, with a fine affectation of
indifference, asked how she was.
"She has not been very well lately," answered Mr. Juxon.
"What has been the matter?" inquired John, who could not see his
companion's face in the dark shade of the trees.
"Headache, I believe," returned the squire laconically, and silence
ensued for a few moments. "I should not wonder if it rained again this
evening," he added presently as they passed through the park gate, out
into the road. The sky was black and it was hard to see anything beyond
the yellow streak of light which fell from the lamps and ran along the
road before the gig.
"If it turns out a fine night, don't come for us. We will walk home,"
said the squire to the groom as they descended before the vicarage and
Stamboul, who had sat on the floor between them, sprang down to the
ground.
John was startled when he met Mrs. Goddard. He was amazed at the change
in her appearance for which no one had prepared him. She met him indeed
very cordially but he felt as though she were not the same woman he had
known so short a time before. There was still in her face that delicate
pathetic expression which had at first charmed him, there was still the
same look in her eyes; but what had formerly seemed so attractive seemed
now exaggerated. Her cheeks looked wan and hollow and there were deep
shadows about her eyes and temples; her lips had lost their colour and
the lines about her mouth had suddenly become apparent where John had not
before suspected them. She looked ten years older as she put her thin
hand in his and smiled pleasantly at his greeting. Some trite phrase
about the "ravages of time" crossed John's mind and gave him a
disagreeable sensation, for which it was hard to account. He felt as
though his dream were suddenly dead and a strange reality had taken life
in its place. Could this be she to whom he had written verses by the
score, at whose smile he had swelled with pride, at whose careless laugh
he had trembled with shame? She was terribly changed, she looked
positively old--what John called old. As he sat by her side talking and
wondering whether he would fall back into those same grooves of
conversation he had associated with her formerly, he felt something akin
to pity for her, which he had certainly never expected to feel. She was
not the same as before--even the tone of her voice was different; she was
gentle, pathetic, endowed even now with many charms, but she was not
the woman he had dreamed of and tried to speak to of the love he fancied
was in his heart. She talked--yes; but there were long pauses, and her
eyes wandered strangely from him, often towards the windows of the
vicarage drawing-room, often towards the doors; her answers were not
always to the point and her interest seemed to flag in what was said.
John could not fail to notice too that both Mr. Ambrose and Mr. Juxon
treated her with the kind of attention which is bestowed upon invalids,
and the vicar's wife was constantly doing something to make her
comfortable, offering her a footstool, shading the light from her eyes,
asking if she felt any draught where she sat. These were things no one
had formerly thought of doing for Mrs. Goddard, who in spite of her sad
face had been used to laugh merrily enough with the rest, and whose lithe
figure had seemed to John the embodiment of youthful activity. At last he
ventured to ask her a question.
"Have you been ill, Mrs. Goddard?" he inquired in a voice full of
interest. Her soft eyes glanced uneasily at him. He was now the only one
of the party who was not in some degree acquainted with her troubles.
"Oh no!" she answered nervously. "Only a little headache. It always makes
me quite wretched when I have it."
"Yes. I often have headaches, too," answered John. "The squire told me as
we came down."
"What did he tell you?" asked Mrs. Goddard so quickly as to startle her
companion.
"Oh--only that you had not been very well. Where is it that you suffer?"
he asked sympathetically. "I think it is worst when it seems to be in
the very centre of one's head, like a red-hot nail being driven in with a
hammer--is that like what you feel?"
"I--yes, I daresay. I don't quite know," she answered, her eyes wandering
uneasily about the room. "I suppose you have dreadful headaches over
your work, do you not, Mr. Short?" she added quickly, feeling that she
must say something.
"Oh, it is all over now," said John rather proudly. But as he leaned back
in his chair he said to himself that this meeting was not precisely what
he had anticipated; the subject of headaches might have a fine interest
in its way, but he had expected to have talked of more tender things. To
his own great surprise he felt no desire to do so, however. He had not
recovered from the shock of seeing that Mrs. Goddard had grown old.
"Yes," said she, kindly. "How glad you must be! To have done so
splendidly too--you must feel that you have realised a magnificent
dream."
"No," said John. "I cannot say I do. I have done the thing I meant to do,
or I have good reason to believe that I have; but I have not realised my
dream. I shall never write any more odes, Mrs. Goddard."
"Why not? Oh, you mean to me, Mr. Short?" she added with something of her
old manner. "Well, you know, it is much better that you should not."
"Perhaps so," answered John rather sadly. "I don't know. Frankly, Mrs.
Goddard, did not you sometimes think I was very foolish last Christmas?"
"Very," she said, smiling at him kindly. "But I think you have changed. I
think you are more of a man, now--you have something more serious--"
"I used to think I was very serious, and so I was," said John, with the
air of a man who refers to the follies of his long past youth. "Do you
remember how angry I was when you wanted me to skate with Miss Nellie?"
"Oh, I only said that to teaze you," Mrs. Goddard answered. "I daresay
you would be angry now, if I suggested the same thing."
"No," said John quietly. "I do not believe I should be. As you say, I
feel very much older now than I did then."
"The older we grow the more we like youth," said Mary Goddard,
unconsciously uttering one of the fundamental truths of human nature, and
at the same time so precisely striking the current of John's thoughts
that he started. He was wondering within himself why it was that she now
seemed too old for him, whereas a few short months ago she had seemed to
be of his own age.
"How true that is!" he exclaimed. Mrs. Goddard laughed faintly.
"You are not old enough to have reached that point yet, Mr. Short," she
said. "Really, here we are moralising like a couple of old philosophers!"
"This is a moralising season," answered John. "When we last met, it was
all holly-berries and Christmas and plum-pudding."
"How long ago that seems!" exclaimed the poor lady with a sigh.
"Ages!" echoed John, sighing in his turn, but not so much for sadness, it
may be, as from relief that the great struggle was over. That time of
anxiety and terrible effort seemed indeed very far removed from him, but
its removal was a cause of joy rather than of sadness. He sighed like a
man who, sitting over his supper, remembers the hard fought race he has
won in the afternoon, feeling yet in his limbs the ability to race and
win again but feeling in his heart the delicious consciousness that the
question of his superiority has been decided beyond all dispute.
"And now you will stay here a long time, of course," said Mrs. Goddard
presently.
"I am stopping at the Hall, just now," said John with a distinct sense of
the importance of the fact, "and after a week I shall stay here a few
days. Then I shall go to London to see my father."
"No one will be so glad as he to hear of your success."
"No indeed. I really think it is more for his sake that I want to be
actually first," said John. "Do you know, I have so often thought how he
will look when I meet him and tell him I am the senior classic."
John's voice trembled and as Mrs. Goddard looked at him, she thought she
saw a moisture in his eyes. It pleased her to see it, for it showed that
John Short had more heart than she had imagined.
"I can fancy that," she said, warmly. "I envy you that moment."
Presently the squire came over to where they were sitting and joined
them; and then Mrs. Ambrose spoke to John, and Nellie came and asked him
questions. Strange to say John felt none of that annoyance which he
formerly felt when his conversations with Mrs. Goddard were interrupted,
and he talked with Nellie and Mrs. Ambrose quite as readily as with her.
He felt very calm and happy that night, as though he had done with the
hard labour of life. In half an hour he had realised that he was no more
in love with Mrs. Goddard than he was with Mrs. Ambrose, and he was
trying to explain to himself how it was that he had ever believed in such
a palpable absurdity. Love was doubtless blind, he thought, but he was
surely not so blind as to overlook the evidences of Mrs. Goddard's age.
All the dreams of that morning faded away before the sight of her face,
and so deep is the turpitude of the best of human hearts that John was
almost ashamed of having once thought he loved her. That was probably the
best possible proof that his love had been but a boyish fancy.
What the little party at the vicarage would have been like, if John's
presence had not animated it, would be hard to say. The squire and Mr.
Ambrose treated Mrs. Goddard with the sort of paternal but solemn care
which is usually bestowed either upon great invalids or upon persons
bereaved of some very dear relation. The two elder men occasionally
looked at her and exchanged glances when they were not observed by Mrs.
Ambrose, wondering perhaps what would next befall the unfortunate lady
and whether she could bear much more of the excitement and anxiety to
which she had of late been subjected. On the whole the conversation was
far from being lively, and Mrs. Goddard herself felt that it was a relief
when the hour came for going home.
The vicar had ordered his dog-cart for her and Nellie, but as the night
had turned out better than had been expected Mr. Juxon's groom had not
come down from the Hall. Both he and John would be glad of the walk; it
had not rained for two days and the roads were dry.
"Look here," said the squire, as they rose to take their leave, "Mr.
Short had better go as far as the cottage in the dog-cart, to see Mrs.
Goddard home. I will go ahead on foot--I shall probably be there as soon
as you. There is not room for us all, and somebody must go with her, you
know. Besides," he added, "I have got Stamboul with me."
Mrs. Goddard, who was standing beside the squire, laid her hand
beseechingly upon his arm.
"Oh, pray don't," she said in low voice. "Why have you not got your
carriage?"
"Never mind me," he answered in the same tone. "I am all right, I like to
walk."
Before she could say anything more, he had shaken hands with Mr. and Mrs.
Ambrose and was gone. Perhaps in his general determination to be good to
everybody he fancied that John would enjoy the short drive with Mrs.
Goddard better than the walk with himself.
But when he was gone, Mrs. Goddard grew very nervous. One of her wraps
could not be found, and while search was being made for it the motherly
Mrs. Ambrose insisted upon giving her something hot, in the way of brandy
and water. She looked very ill, but showed the strongest desire to go. It
was no matter about the shawl, she said; Mr. Ambrose could send it in the
morning; but the thing was found and at last Mrs. Goddard and Nellie and
John got into the dog-cart with old Reynolds and drove off. All these
things consumed some time.
The squire on the other hand strode briskly forward towards the cottage,
not wishing to keep John waiting for him. As he walked his mind wandered
back to the consideration of the almost tragic events which were
occurring in the peaceful village. He forgot all about John, as he looked
up at the half moon which struggled to give some light through the
driving clouds; he fell to thinking of Mrs. Goddard and to wondering
where her husband might be lying hidden. The road was lonely and he
walked fast, with Stamboul close at his heel. The dog-cart did not
overtake him before he reached the cottage, and he forgot all about it.
By sheer force of habit he opened the white gate and, closing it behind
him, entered the park alone.
CHAPTER XIX.
John's impression of Mrs. Goddard was strengthened by the scene at the
vicarage at the moment of leaving. The extraordinary nervousness she
betrayed, the anxiety for her welfare shown by Mrs. Ambrose and the grave
face of the vicar all favoured the idea that she had become an invalid
since he had last met her. He himself fell into the manner of those about
him and spoke in low tones and moved delicately as though fearing to
offend her sensitive nerves. The vicar alone understood the situation and
had been very much surprised at the squire's sudden determination to walk
home; he would gladly have seized his hat and run after his friend, but
he feared Mrs. Ambrose's curiosity and moreover on reflection felt sure
that the dog-cart would overtake Mr. Juxon before he was half way to the
cottage. He was very far from suspecting him of the absence of mind which
he actually displayed, but it was a great relief to him to see the little
party safe in the dog-cart and on the way homeward.
Mrs. Goddard was on the front seat with old Reynolds, and John, who would
have preferred to sit by her side a few months ago, was glad to find
himself behind with Nellie. It was a curious instinct, but he felt it
strongly and was almost grateful to the old man for stolidly keeping his
seat. So he sat beside Nellie and talked to her, to the child's intense
delight; she had not enjoyed the evening very much, for she felt the
general sense of oppression as keenly as children always feel such
things, and she had long exhausted the slender stock of illustrated books
which lay upon the table in the vicarage drawing-room.
"There is no more skating now," said John. "What do you do to amuse
yourselves?"
"I am studying history with mamma," answered Nellie, "and that takes ever
so much time, you know. And then--oh, we are beginning to think of the
spring, and we look after the violet plants in the frames."
"It does not feel much like spring," remarked John.
"No--and mamma has not been well lately, so we have not done much of
anything."
"Has she been ill long?" asked John.
"No--oh no! Only the last two or three days, ever since--" Nellie stopped
herself. Her mother had told her not to mention the tramp's visit.
"Ever since when?" asked John, becoming suddenly interested.
"Ever since the last time the Ambroses came to tea," said Nellie with a
readiness beyond her years. "But she looks dreadfully, does not she?"
"Dreadfully," answered John. Then, leaning back and turning his head he
spoke to Mrs. Goddard. "I hope you are quite warm enough?" he said.
"Quite--thanks," answered she, but her voice sounded tremulous in the
night. It might have been the shaking of the dog-cart. In a few minutes
they drew up before the door of the cottage. John sprang to the ground
and almost lifted Mrs. Goddard from the high seat.
"Where is Mr. Juxon?" she asked anxiously.
John looked round, peering into the gloom. A black cloud driven by the
strong east wind was passing over the moon, and for some moments it was
almost impossible to see anything. The squire was nowhere to be seen.
John turned and helped Nellie off the back seat of the dog-cart.
"I am afraid we must have passed him," he said quietly. Formerly Mrs.
Goddard's tone of anxiety as she asked for the squire would have roused
John's resentment; he now thought nothing of it. Reynolds prepared to
move off.
"Won't you please wait a moment, Reynolds?" said Mrs. Goddard, going
close to the old man. She could not have told why she asked him to stay,
it was a nervous impulse.
"Why?" asked John. "You know I am going to the Hall."
"Yes, of course. I only thought, perhaps, you and Mr. Juxon would like to
drive up--it is so dark. I am sure Mr. Ambrose would not mind you taking
the gentlemen up to the Hall, Reynolds?"
"No m'm. I'm quite sure as he wouldn't," exclaimed Reynolds with great
alacrity. He immediately had visions of a pint of beer in the Hall
kitchen.
"You do not think Mr. Juxon may have gone on alone, Mr. Short?" said Mrs.
Goddard, leaning upon the wicket gate. Her face looked very pale in the
gloom.
"No--at would be very odd if he did," replied John, who had his hands in
his greatcoat pockets and slowly stamped one foot after another on the
hard ground, to keep himself warm.
"Then we must have passed him on the road," said Mrs. Goddard. "But I was
so sure I saw nobody--"
"I think he will come presently," answered John in a reassuring tone.
"Why do you wait, Mrs. Goddard? You must be cold, and it is dangerous for
you to be out here. Don't wait, Reynolds," he added; "we will walk up."
"Oh please don't," cried Mrs. Goddard, imploringly.
John looked at her in some surprise. The cloud suddenly passed from
before the moon and he could see her anxious upturned face quite plainly.
He could not in the least understand the cause of her anxiety, but he
supposed her nervousness was connected with her indisposition. Reynolds
on his part, being anxious for beer, showed no disposition to move, but
sat with stolid indifference, loosely holding the reins while Strawberry,
the old mare, hung down her head and stamped from time to time in a
feeble and antiquated fashion. For some minutes there was total silence.
Not a step was to be heard upon the road, not a sound of any kind, save
the strong east wind rushing past the cottage and losing itself among the
withered oaks of the park opposite.
Suddenly a deep and bell-mouthed note resounded through the air.
Strawberry started in the shafts and trembled violently.
"Stamboul! Stamboul!" The squire's ringing voice was heard far up the
park. The bloodhound's distant baying suddenly ceased. John thought he
heard a fainter cry, inarticulate, and full of distress, through the
sighing wind. Then there was silence again. Mrs. Goddard leaned back
against the wicket gate, and Nellie, startled by the noises, pressed
close to her mother's side.
"Why--he has gone up the park!" exclaimed John in great surprise. "He was
calling to his dog--"
"Oh, Mr. Short!" cried Mrs. Goddard in agonised tones, as soon as she
could speak, "I am sure something dreadful has happened--do go. Mr.
Short--do go and see--"
Something of the extreme alarm that sounded in her voice seized upon
John.
"Stay with Mrs. Goddard, Reynolds," he said quickly and darted across the
road towards the park gate. John was strong and active. He laid his
hands upon the highest rails and vaulted lightly over, then ran at the
top of his speed up the dark avenue.
Mr. Juxon, in his absence of mind, had gone through the gate alone,
swinging his blackthorn stick in his hand, Stamboul stalking at his heel
in the gloom. He was a fearless man and the presence of John during the
afternoon had completely dissolved that nervous presentiment of evil he
had felt before his guest's coming. But in the short walk of scarcely
half a mile, from the vicarage to the cottage, his thoughts had become
entirely absorbed in considering Mrs. Goddard's strange position, and for
the moment John was quite forgotten. He entered the park and the long
iron latch of the wooden gate fell into its socket behind him with a
sharp click. Mr. Juxon walked quickly on and Stamboul trod noiselessly
behind him. At about a hundred yards from the gate the avenue turned
sharply to the right, winding about a little elevation in the ground,
where the trees stood thicker than elsewhere. As he came towards this
hillock the strong east wind blew sharply behind him. Had the wind been
in the opposite direction, Stamboul's sharp nostrils would have scented
danger. As it was he gave no sign but stalked solemnly at the squire's
heels. The faint light of the half moon was obscured at that moment, as
has been seen, by a sweeping cloud. The squire turned to the right and
tramped along the hard road.
At the darkest spot in the way a man sprang out suddenly before him and
struck a quick blow at his head with something heavy. But it was very
dark. The blow was aimed at his head, but fell upon the heavy padded
frieze of his ulster greatcoat, grazing the brim of his hat as it passed
and knocking it off his head. Mr. Juxon staggered and reeled to one side.
At the same instant--it all happened in the space of two seconds,
Stamboul sprang past his master and his bulk, striking the squire at the
shoulder just as he was staggering from the blow he had received, sent
him rolling into the ditch; by the same cause the hound's direction as he
leaped was just so changed that he missed his aim and bounded past the
murderer into the darkness. Before the gigantic beast could recover
himself and turn to spring again, Walter Goddard, who had chanced never
to see Stamboul and little suspected his presence, leaped the ditch and
fled rapidly through the dark shadow. But death was at his heels. Before
the squire, who was very little hurt, could get upon his feet, the
bloodhound had found the scent and, uttering his deep-mouthed baying
note, sprang upon the track of the flying man. Mr. Juxon got across the
ditch and followed him into the gloom.
"Stamboul! Stamboul!" he roared as he ran. But before he had gone thirty
yards he heard a heavy fall. The hound's cry ceased and a short scream
broke the silence.
A moment later the squire was dragging the infuriated animal from the
prostrate body of Walter Goddard. Stamboul had tasted blood; it was no
easy matter to make him relinquish his prey. The cloud passed from the
moon, driven before the blast, and a ray of light fell through the trees
upon the scene. Juxon stood wrestling with his hound, holding to his
heavy collar with both hands with all his might. He dared not let go for
an instant, well knowing that the frenzied beast would tear his victim
limb from limb. But Juxon's hands were strong, and though Stamboul
writhed and his throat rattled he could not free himself. The squire
glanced at the body of the fallen man, just visible in the flickering
moonlight. Walter Goddard lay quite still upon his back. If he was badly
wounded it was not possible to say where the wound was.
It was a terrible moment. Mr. Juxon felt that he could not leave the man
thus, not knowing whether he were alive or dead; and yet while all his
strength was exerted to the full in controlling the bloodhound, it was
impossible to approach a step nearer. He was beginning to think that he
should be obliged to take Stamboul to the Hall and return again to the
scene of the disaster.
"Mr. Juxon! Juxon! Juxon!" John was shouting as he ran up the park.
"This way! look sharp!" yelled the squire, foreseeing relief. John's
quick footsteps rang on the hard road. The squire called again and in a
moment the young man had joined him and stood horror-struck at what he
saw.
"Don't touch the dog!" cried the squire. "Don't come near him, I say!" he
added as John came forward. "There--there has been an accident, Mr.
Short," he added in calmer tones. "Would you mind seeing if the fellow is
alive?"
John was too much startled to say anything, but he went and knelt down by
Goddard's body and looked into his face.
"Feel his pulse," said the squire. "Listen at his heart." To him it
seemed a very simple matter to ascertain whether a man were alive or
dead. But John was nervous; he had never seen a dead man in his life and
felt that natural repulsion to approaching death which is common to all
living creatures. There was no help for it, however, and he took Walter
Goddard's limp hand in his and tried to find his pulse; he could not
distinguish any beating. The hand fell nerveless to the ground.
"I think he is dead," said John very softly, and he rose to his feet and
drew back a little way from the body.
"Then just wait five minutes for me, if you do not mind," said Mr. Juxon,
and he turned away dragging the reluctant and still struggling Stamboul
by his side.
John shuddered when he was left alone. It was indeed a dismal scene
enough. At his feet lay Walter Goddard's body, faintly illuminated by the
struggling moonbeams; all around and overhead the east wind was howling
and whistling and sighing in the dry oak branches, whirling hither and
thither the few brown leaves that had clung to their hold throughout the
long winter; the sound of the squire's rapidly retreating footsteps grew
more faint in the distance; John felt that he was alone and was very
uncomfortable. He would have liked to go back to the cottage and tell
Mrs. Goddard of what had happened, and that Mr. Juxon was safe; but he
thought the squire might return and find that he had left his post and
accuse him of cowardice. He drew back from the man's body and sheltered
himself from the wind, leaning against the broad trunk of an old oak
tree. He had not stood thus many minutes when he heard the sound of
wheels upon the hard road. It might be Mrs. Goddard, he thought. With one
more glance at the prostrate body, he turned away and hurried through the
trees towards the avenue. The bright lamps of the dog-cart were almost
close before him. He shouted to Reynolds.
"Whoa, January!" ejaculated that ancient functionary as he pulled up
Strawberry close to John Short. Why the natives of Essex and especially
of Billingsfield habitually address their beasts of burden as "January"
is a matter best left to the discrimination of philologers; obedient to
the familiar words however, Strawberry stood still in the middle of the
road. John could see that Mrs. Goddard was seated by the side of Reynolds
but that Nellie was not in the cart.
"Oh, Mrs. Goddard, is that you?" said John. "Mr. Juxon will be here in a
moment. Don't be frightened--he is not hurt in the least; awfully bad
luck for the tramp, though!"
"The tramp?" repeated Mrs. Goddard with a faint cry of horror.
"Yes," said John, whose spirits rose wonderfully in the light of the
dog-cart lamps. "There was a poor tramp hanging about the park--poaching,
very likely--and Mr. Juxon's dog got after him, somehow, I suppose. I do
not know how it happened, but when I came up--oh! here is Mr. Juxon
himself--he will tell you all about it."
The squire came up in breathless haste, having locked Stamboul into the
house.
"Good Heavens! Mrs. Goddard!" he ejaculated in a tone of profound
surprise. But Mrs. Goddard gave no answer. The squire sprang upon the
step and looked closely at her. She lay back against old Reynolds's
shoulder, very pale, with her eyes shut. It was evident that she had
fainted. The old man seemed not to comprehend what had happened; he
had never experienced the sensation of having a lady leaning upon his
shoulder, and he looked down at her with a half idiotic smile on his
deeply furrowed face.
"She's took wuss, sir," he remarked. "She was all for comin' up the park
as soon as Master John was gone. She warn't feelin' herself o' no account
t' evenin'."
"Look here, Mr. Short," said the squire decisively. "I must ask you to
take Mrs. Goddard home again and call her women to look after her. I
fancy she will come to herself before long. Do you mind?"
"Not in the least," said John cheerfully, mounting at the back of the
dog-cart.
"And--Reynolds--bring Mr. Short back to the Hall immediately, please, and
you shall have some beer."
"All right, sir."
John supported the fainting lady with one arm, turning round upon his
seat at the back. Old Strawberry wheeled quickly in her tracks and
trotted down the avenue under the evident impression that she was going
home. Mr. Juxon dashed across the ditch again to the place where Walter
Goddard had fallen.
The squire knelt down and tried to ascertain the extent of the man's
injuries; as far as he could see there was a bad wound at his throat, and
one hand was much mangled. But there seemed to have been no great flow of
blood. He tore open the smock-frock and shirt and put his ear to the
heart. Faintly, very faintly, he could hear it beat. Walter Goddard was
alive still--alive to live for years perhaps, the squire reflected; to
live in a prison, it was true, but to live. To describe his feelings in
that moment would be impossible. Had he found the convict dead, it would
be useless to deny that he would have felt a very great satisfaction,
tempered perhaps by some pity for the wretched man's miserable end, but
still very great. It would have seemed such a just end, after all; to be
killed in the attempt to kill, and to have died not by the squire's hand
but by the sharp strong jaws of the hound who had once before saved the
squire's life. But he was alive. It would not take much to kill him; a
little pressure on his wounded throat would be enough. Even to leave
him there, uncared for, till morning in the bleak wind, lying upon the
cold ground, would be almost certain to put an end to his life. But to
the honour of Charles James Juxon be it said that such thoughts never
crossed his mind. He pulled off his heavy ulster greatcoat, wrapped it
about the felon's insensible body, then, kneeling, raised up his head and
shoulders, got his strong arms well round him and with some difficulty
rose to his feet. Once upright, it was no hard matter to carry his
burthen through the trees to the road, and up the avenue to his own door.
"Holmes," said Mr. Juxon to his butler, "this man is badly hurt, but he
is alive. Help me to carry him upstairs."
There was that in the squire's voice which brooked neither question nor
delay when he was in earnest. The solemn butler took Walter Goddard by
the feet and the squire took him by the shoulders; so they carried him up
to a bedroom and laid him down, feeling for the bed in the dark as they
moved. Holmes then lit a candle with great calmness.
"Shall I send for the medical man, sir?" he asked quietly.
"Yes. Send the gig as fast as possible. If he is not at home, or cannot
be found, send on to the town. If anybody asks questions say the man is a
tramp who attacked me in the park and Stamboul pulled him down. Send at
once, and bring me some brandy and light the fire here."
"Yes, sir," said Holmes, and left the room.
Mr. Juxon lighted other candles and examined the injured man. There was
now no doubt that he was alive. He breathed faintly but regularly; his
pulse beat less rapidly and more firmly. His face was deadly pale and
very thin, and his half-opened eyes stared unconsciously upwards, but
they were not glazed nor death-like. He seemed to have lost little
blood, comparatively speaking.
"Bah!" ejaculated the squire. "I believe he is only badly frightened,
after all."
Holmes brought brandy and warm water and again left the room. Mr. Juxon
bathed Goddard's face and neck with a sponge, eying him suspiciously all
the while. It would not have surprised him at any moment if he had leaped
from the bed and attempted to escape. To guard against surprise, the
squire locked the door and put the key in his pocket, watching the
convict to see whether he noticed the act or was really unconscious. But
Goddard never moved nor turned his motionless eyeballs. Mr. Juxon
returned to his side, and with infinite care began to remove his clothes.
They were almost in rags. He examined each article, and was surprised to
find money in the pockets, amounting to nearly sixty pounds; then he
smiled to himself, remembering that the convict had visited his wife and
had doubtless got the money from her to aid him in his escape. He put the
notes and gold carefully together in a drawer after counting them, and
returning to his occupation succeeded at last in putting Goddard to bed,
after staunching his wounds as well as he could with handkerchiefs.
He stood long by the bedside, watching the man's regular breathing, and
examining his face attentively. Many strange thoughts passed through his
mind, as he stood there, looking at the man who had caused such misery to
himself, such shame and sorrow to his fair wife, such disappointment to
the honest man who was now trying to save him from the very grasp of
death. So this was Mary Goddard's husband, little Nellie's father--this
grimy wretch, whose foul rags lay heaped there in the corner, whose
miserable head pressed the spotless linen of the pillow, whose
half-closed eyes stared up so senselessly at the squire's face. This was
the man for whose sake Mary Goddard started and turned pale, fainted and
grew sick, languished and suffered so much pain. No wonder she concealed
it from Nellie--no wonder she had feared lest after many years he should
come back and claim her for his wife--no wonder either that a man with
such a face should do bad deeds.
Mr. Juxon was a judge of faces; persons accustomed for many years to
command men usually are. He noted Walter Goddard's narrow jaw and pointed
chin, his eyes set near together, his wicked lips, parted and revealing
sharp jagged teeth, his ill-shaped ears and shallow temples, his flat low
forehead, shown off by his cropped hair. And yet this man had once been
called handsome, he had been admired and courted. But then his hair had
hidden the shape of his head, his long golden moustache had covered his
mouth and disguised all his lower features, he had been arrayed by
tailors of artistic merit, and he had had much gold in his pockets. He
was a very different object now--the escaped convict, close cropped, with
a half-grown beard upon his ill-shaped face, and for all ornament a linen
sheet drawn up under his chin.
The squire was surprised that he did not recover consciousness, seeing
that he breathed regularly and was no longer so pale as at first. A faint
flush seemed to rise to his sunken cheeks, and for a long time Mr. Juxon
stood beside him, expecting every moment that he would speak. Once he
thought his lips moved a little. Then Mr. Juxon took a little brandy in a
spoon and raising his head poured it down his throat. The effect was
immediate. Goddard opened wide his eyes, the blood mounted to his cheeks
with a deep flush, and he uttered an inarticulate sound.
"What did you say?" asked the squire, bending over him.
But there was no answer. The sick man's head fell back upon the pillow,
though his eyes remained wide open and the flush did not leave his
cheeks. His pulse was now very high, and his breathing grew heavy and
stertorous.
"I hope I have not made him any worse," remarked Mr. Juxon aloud, as he
