of the household, neither will he give it to any one 
else." 
" There is no one whom I can trust," answered 
Darius. " Can you not dwell together in peace for a 
month ? " 
" No," answered Atossa, with her winning smile, " it 
is impossible ; the king's wives will never agree among 
themselves. Let the king choose some one and make 
a head over the palace." 
" Whom shall I choose ? " asked Darius, moodily. 
" The king had a faithful servant once," suggested 
Atossa. 
" Have I none now? " 
" Yea, but none so faithful as this man of whom I 
speak, nor so ready to do the king's bidding. He de- 
parted from Shushan when the king took Nehushta 
to wife " 
"Mean you Zoroaster?" asked Darius, bending his 
brows, and eyeing Atossa somewhat fiercely. But she 
met his glance with indifference. 
" The same," she answered. " Why not send for 
him and make him governor of the palace ? He was 
indeed a faithful servant — and a willing one." 
Still the king gazed hard at her face, as though 
trying to fathom the reason of her request, or at least 
to detect some scornful look upon her face to agree 
with her sneering words. But he was no match for 
the unparalleled astuteness of Atossa, though he had a 
vague suspicion that she wished to annoy him by calling 
up a memory which she knew could not be pleasant, 
and he retorted in his own fashion. 
 
" If Zoroaster be yet alive I will have him brought, 
and I will make him governor of the palace. He was 
indeed a faithful servant — he shall rule you all and 
there shall be no more discord among you." 
And forthwith the king issued a proclamation that 
whosoever should bring Zoroaster before him should 
receive a talent of gold and a robe of purple as a 
reward. 
But when Nehushta heard of it she was greatly 
troubled ; for Atossa began to tell her that Zoroaster 
was to return and to be made governor of the palace ; 
but Nehushta rose and left her forthwith, with such a 
look of dire hatred and scorn that even the cold queen 
thought she had, perhaps, gone too far. 
There were other reasons why the king desired 
Zoroaster's return. He had often wondered secretly 
how the man could so have injured Nehushta as to 
turn her love into hate in a few moments ; but he had 
never questioned her. It was a subject neither of 
them could have approached, and Darius was far too 
happy in his marriage to risk endangering that happiness by any untoward discovery. Nehushta's grief 
and anger had been so genuine when she told him of 
Zoroaster's treachery that it had never occurred to 
him that he might be injuring the latter in marrying 
the princess, though his generous heart had told him 
more than once, that Nehushta had married him half 
from gratitude for his kindness, and half out of 
anger with her false lover; but, capricious as she 
was in all other things, towards the king she was 
always the same, gentle and affectionate, though 
there was nothing passionate in her love. And now, 
 
the idea of seeing the man who had betrayed her 
installed in an official position in the palace, was 
terrible to her pride. She could not sleep for think- 
ing how she should meet him, and what she should 
do. She grew pale and hollow-eyed with the antici- 
pation of evil and all her peace went from her. 
Deep down in her heart there was yet a clinging 
affection for the old love, which she smothered and 
choked down bravely ; but it was there nevertheless, 
a sleeping giant, ready to rise and overthrow her 
whole nature in a moment, if only she could wash 
away the stain of faithlessness which sullied his fair 
memory, and lift the load of dishonour which had 
crushed him from the sovereign place he had held in 
the dominion of her soul. 
Darius was himself curious to ascertain the truth 
about Zoroaster's conduct. But another and a weigh- 
tier reason existed for which he wished him to return. 
The king was disturbed about a matter of vital im- 
portance to his kingdom, and he knew that, among 
all his subjects, there was not one more able to give 
him assistance and advice than Zoroaster, the pupil 
of the dead prophet Daniel. 
The religion of the kingdom was of a most uncertain kind. So many changes had passed over the 
various provinces which made up the great empire 
that, for generations, there had been almost a new 
religion for every monarch. Cyrus, inclining to the 
idolatry of the Phoenicians, had worshipped the sun 
and moon, and had built temples and done sacrifice 
to them and to a multitude of deities. Cambyses had 
converted the temples of his father into places of fire- 
 
worship, and had burnt thousands of human victims ; 
rejoicing in the splendour of his ceremonies and in 
the fierce love of blood that grew upon him as his 
vices obtained the mastery over his better sense. But 
under both kings the old Aryan worship of the 
Magians had existed among the people, and the 
Magians themselves had asserted, whenever they 
dared, their right to be considered the priestly caste, 
the children of the Brahmins of the Aryan house. 
Gomata — the false Smerdis — was a Brahmin, at 
least in name, and probably in descent ; and during 
his brief reign the only decrees he issued from his 
retirement in the palace of Shushan, were for the 
destruction of the existing temples and the establishment of the Magian worship throughout the kingdom. 
When Darius had slain Smerdis, he naturally pro- 
ceeded to the destruction of the Magi, and the streets 
of Shushan ran with their blood for many days. He 
then restored the temples and the worship of Aura- 
mazda, as well as he was able ; but it soon became 
evident that the religion was in a disorganised state 
and that it would be no easy matter to enforce a pure 
monotheism upon a nation of men who, in their hearts, 
were Magians, nature-worshippers ; and who, through 
successive reigns, had been driven by force to the 
adoration of strange idols. It followed that the 
people resisted the change and revolted whenever 
they could find a leader. The numerous revolutions, 
which cost Darius no less than nineteen battles, were, 
almost without exception, brought about in the at- 
tempt to restore the Magian worship in various prov- 
inces of the kingdom, and it may well be doubted 
 
whether, at any time in the world's history, an equal 
amount of blood was ever shed in so short a period in 
the defence of religious convictions. 
Darius himself was a man who had the strongest 
belief in the power of Auramazda, the All-Wise God, 
and who did not hesitate to attribute all the evil in 
the world to Ahriman, the devil. He had a bitter 
contempt for all idolatry, nature-worship and superstition generally, and he adhered in his daily life to 
the simple practices of the ancient Mazdayashnians. 
But he was totally unfitted to be the head of a 
religious movement ; and, although he had collected 
such of the priesthood as seemed most worthy, and had 
built them temples and given them privileges of all 
kinds, he was far from satisfied with their mode of 
worship. He could not frame a new doctrine, but he 
had serious doubts whether the ceremonies his priests 
performed were as simple and religious as he wished 
them to be. The chants, long hymns of endless repe- 
tition and monotony, were well enough, perhaps ; the 
fire that was kept burning perpetually was a fitting 
emblem of the sleepless wisdom and activity of the 
Supreme Being in overcoming darkness with light. 
But the boundless intoxication into which the priests 
threw themselves by the excessive drinking of the 
Haoma, the wild and irregular acts of frenzy by 
which they expressed their religious fervour when 
under the influence of the subtle drink, were adjuncts 
to the simple purity of the bloodless sacrifice which 
disgusted the king, and he hesitated long as to some 
reform in these matters. The oldest Mazdayashnians 
declared that the drinking of Haoma was an act, at 
 
unce pleasing to God and necessary to stimulate the 
zeal of the priests in the long and monotonous chanting, which would otherwise soon sink to a mere 
perfunctory performance of a wearisome task. The 
very repetition which the hymns contained seemed to 
prove that they were not intended to be recited by 
men not under some extraordinary influence. Only 
the wild madness of the Haoma drinker could sustain 
such an endless series of repeated prayers with fitting 
devotion and energy. 
All this the king heard and was not satisfied. He 
attended the ceremonies with becoming regularity and 
sat through the performance of the rites with exem- 
plary patience. But he was disgusted, and he desired 
a reform. Then he remembered how Zoroaster himself was a good Mazdayashnian, and how he had occupied himself with religious studies from his youth up, 
and how he had enjoyed the advantage of being the 
companion of Daniel, the Hebrew governor, whose 
grand simplicity of faith had descended, to some 
degree, upon his pupil. The Hebrews, Darius knew, 
were a sober people of the strongest religious convic- 
tions, and he had heard that, although eating formed, 
in some way, a part of their ceremonies, there was no 
intoxication connected with their worship. Zoroaster, 
he thought, would be able to give him advice upon 
this point, which would be good. In sending for the 
man he would fulfil the double purpose of seeming 
to grant the queen's request, and at the same time, of 
providing himself with a sage counsellor in his diffi- 
culties. With his usual impetuosity, he at once ful- 
filled his purpose, assuring himself that Zoroaster 
 
must have forgotten Nehushta by this time, and that 
he, the king, was strong enough to prevent trouble 
if he had not. 
But many days passed, and though the proclama- 
tion was sent to all parts of the kingdom, nothing was 
heard of Zoroaster. His retreat was a sure one and 
there was no possibility of his being found. 
Atossa, who in her heart longed for Zoroaster's 
return, both because by his means she hoped to bring 
trouble upon Nehushta, and because she still felt 
something akin to love for him, began to fear that 
he might be dead, or might have wandered out of the 
kingdom ; but Nehushta herself knew not whether to 
hope that he would return, or to rejoice that she was 
to escape the ordeal of meeting him. She would have 
given anything to see him for a moment, to decide, as 
it were, whether she wished to see him, or not. She 
was deeply disturbed by the anxiety she felt and longed 
to know definitely what she was to expect. 
She began to hate Stakhar with its splendid gardens and gorgeous colonnades, with its soft southern 
air that blew across the valley of roses all day long, 
wafting up a wondrous perfume to the south windows. 
She hated the indolent pomp in which she lived and 
the idle luxury of her days. Something in her hot- 
blooded Hebrew nature craved for the blazing sun 
and the sand-wastes of Syria, for the breath of the 
desert and for the burning heat of the wilderness. 
She had scarcely ever seen these things, for she had 
sojourned during the one-and-twenty years of her 
life, in the most magnificent palaces of the kingdom, 
and amid the fairest gardens the hand of man could 
 
plant. But the love of the sun and of the sand was 
bred in the blood. She began to hate the soft cush- 
ions and the delicate silks and the endless flowers 
scenting the heavy air. 
Stakhar ^ itself was a mighty fortress, in the valley 
of the Araxes, rising dark and forbidding from the 
banks of the little river, crowned with towers and 
turrets and massive battlements, that overlooked the 
fertile extent of gardens, as a stern schoolmaster 
frowning over a crowd of fair young children. But 
Darius had chosen the site of his palace at some distance from the stronghold ; where the river bent suddenly round a spur of the mountain, and watered a 
wider extent of land. The spur of the hill ran down, 
by an easy gradation, into the valley ; and beyond it 
the hills separated into the wide plain of Merodasht 
that stretched southward many farsangs to the south- 
ern pass. Upon this promontory the king had caused 
to be built a huge platform which was ascended by 
the broadest flight of steps in the whole world, so easy 
of gradation that a man might easily have ridden up 
and then down again without danger to his horse. 
Upon the platform was raised the palace, a mighty 
structure resting on the vast columned porticoes and 
halls, built entirely of polished black marble, that 
contrasted strangely with the green slopes of the hills 
above and with the bright colours of the rose-gardens. 
Endless buildings rose behind the palace, and stretched 
far down towards the river below it. Most prominent 
of those above was the great temple of Auramazda, 
where the ceremonies were performed which gave 
1 Istakhar, called since the conquest of Alexander, Persepolis. 
 
Darius so much anxiety. It was a massive, square 
building, lower than the palace, consisting of stone 
walls surrounded by a deep portico of polished col- 
umns. It was not visible from the great staircase, 
being placed immediately behind the palace and hid- 
den by it. 
The walls and the cornices and the capitals of the 
pillars were richly sculptured with sacrificial processions, and long trains of soldiers and captives, with 
great inscriptions of wedge-shaped letters, and with 
animals of all sorts. The work was executed by 
Egyptian captives; and so carefully was the hard 
black marble carved and polished, that a man could 
see his face in the even surfaces, and they sent back 
the light like dark mirrors. 
The valley above Stakhar was grand in its great 
outlines of crags and sharp, dark peaks, and the 
beetling fortress upon its rocky base, far up the 
gorge, seemed only a jutting fragment of the great 
mountain, thrown off and separated from the main 
chain by an earthquake, or some vast accident of 
nature. But from the palace itself the contrast of 
the views was great. On one side, the rugged hills, 
crag-crowned and bristling black against the north- 
western sky; on the other, the great bed of rose- 
gardens and orangeries and cultivated enclosures 
filled the plain, till in the dim distance rose the level 
line of the soft blue southern hills, blending mistily 
in the lazy light of a far-off warmth. It seemed as 
though on one side of the palace were winter, and on 
the other summer ; on the one side cold, and on the 
other heat ; on the one side rough strength, and on 
the other gentle rest. 
 
But Nehushta gazed northward and was weary of 
the cold, and southward, and she wearied of the heat. 
There was nothing — nothing in it all that was worth 
one moment of the old sweet moonlit evenings among 
the myrtles at Ecbatana. When she thought, there 
was nothing of all her royal state and luxury that 
she would not readily give to have had Zoroaster re- 
main faithful to her. She had put him away from 
her heart, driven him out utterly, as she believed; 
but now that he was spoken of again, she knew not 
whether she loved him a little in spite of all his unfaithfulness, or whether it was only the memory of 
the love she had felt before which stirred in her 
breast, and made her unconsciously speak his name 
when she was alone. 
She looked back over the three years that were 
passed, and she knew that she had done her duty by 
the king. She knew also that she had done it will- 
ingly, and that there had been many moments when 
she said to herself that she loved Darius dearly. In- 
deed, it was not hard to find a reason for loving him, 
for he was brave and honest and noble in all his 
thoughts and ways ; and whatever he had been able 
to do to show his love for Nehushta, he had done. 
It was not the least of the things that had made her 
life pass so easily, that she felt daily how she was 
loved before her rival, and how, in her inmost heart, 
Atossa chafed at seeing Darius forsake her society for 
that of the Hebrew princess. If the king had wearied 
of her, Nehushta would very likely have escaped 
from the palace, and gone out to face an}y misfortunes 
the world might hold for her, rather than remain to 
 
bear the scoffing of the fair smiling woman she so 
hated. Or, she would have stolen in by night to 
where Atossa slept, and the wicked-looking Indian 
knife she wore, would have gone down, swift and 
sure, to the very haft, into the queen's heart. She 
would not have borne tamely any slight upon her 
beauty or her claims. But, as it was, she reigned 
supreme. The king was just, and showed no differ- 
ence in the state and attendance of the two queens, 
but it was to Nehushta he turned, when he drank 
deep at the banquet and pledged the loving cup. It 
was to Nehushta that he went when the cares of state 
were heavy and he needed counsel ; and it was upon 
her lap he laid his weary head, when he had ridden 
far and fast for many days, returning from some hard- 
fouofht field. 
But the queens hated each other with a fierce 
hatred, and when Darius was absent, their divisions 
broke out sometimes into something like open strife. 
Their guards buffeted each other in the courts, and 
their slave-women tore out each other's hair upon the 
stairways. Then, when the king returned, there 
reigned an armed peace for a time, which none dared 
break. But rumours of the disturbances that had 
taken place often reached the royal ears, and Darius 
was angry and swore great oaths, but could do noth- 
ing ; being no wiser than many great men who have 
had to choose between the caprices of two women 
who hated each other. 
Now the rumour went abroad that Zoroaster would 
return to the court ; and for a space, the two queens 
kept aloof, for both knew that if he came back, some 
 
mortal conflict would of necessity arise between them ; 
and each watched the other, and was cautious. 
The days passed by, but no one answered the proc- 
lamation. No one had seen or heard of Zoroaster, 
since the night when he left the palace at Shushan. 
He had taken nothing with him, and had left no trace 
behind to guide the search. Many said he had left 
the kingdom; some said he was dead in the wilder- 
ness. But Nehushta sighed and took little rest, for 
do what she would, she had hoped to see him once 
more. 
 
CHAPTER XV. 
The interior of the temple was lighted with innum- 
erable lamps, suspended from the ceiling, of bronze 
and of the simplest workmanship, like everything 
which pertained to the worship of Auramazda. In 
the midst, upon a small altar of black stone, stood a 
bronze brazier, shaped like a goblet, wherein a small 
fire of wood burned quietly, sending up little wreaths 
of smoke, which spread over the flat ceiling and hung 
like a mist about the lamps ; before the altar lay a 
supply of fuel — fine, evenly-cut sticks of white pine- 
wood, piled in regular order in a symmetrical heap. 
At one extremity of the oblong hall stood a huge 
mortar of black marble, having a heavy wooden pestle, 
and standing upon a circular base, in which was cut 
a channel all around, with an opening in the front from 
which the Haoma juice poured out abundantly when 
the fresh milkweed was moistened and pounded to- 
gether in the mortar. A square receptacle of marble 
received the fluid, which remained until it had fer- 
mented during several days, and had acquired the 
intoxicating strength for which it was prized, and to 
which it owed its sacred character. By the side of 
this vessel, upon a low marble table, lay a huge 
wooden ladle ; and two golden cups, short and wide, 
but made smaller in the middle like a sand-glass, stood 
there also. 
 
At the opposite end of the temple, before a marble 
screen which shielded the doorway, was placed a great 
carved chair of ebony and gold and silver, raised upon 
a step above the level of the floor. 
It was already dark when the king entered the 
temple, dressed in his robes of state, with his sword 
by his side, his long sceptre tipped with the royal 
sphere in his right hand, and the many-pointed crown 
upon his head. His heavy black beard had grown 
longer in the three years that had passed, and flowed 
down over his vest of purple and white halfway to 
his belt. His face was stern, and the deep lines of 
his strong features had grown more massive in out- 
line. With the pride of every successive triumph 
had come also something more of repose and con- 
scious power. His step was slower, and his broad 
brown hand grasped the golden sceptre with less of 
nervous energy and more unrelenting force. But his 
brows were bent, and his expression, as he took his 
seat before the screen, over against the altar of the 
fire, was that of a man who was prepared to be dis- 
contented and cared little to conceal what he felt. 
After him came the chief priest, completely robed 
in white, with a thick, white linen sash rolled for a 
girdle about his waist, the fringed ends hanging stiffly 
down upon one side. Upon his head he wore a great 
mitre, also of white linen, and a broad fringed stole 
of the same material fell in two wide bands from each 
side of his neck to his feet. His beard was black and 
glossy, fine as silk, and reached almost to his waist. 
He came and stood with his back to the king and his 
face to the altar, ten paces from the second fire. 
 
Then, from behind the screen and from each side of 
it, the other priests filed out, two and two, all clad in 
white like the chief priest, save that their mitres were 
smaller and they wore no stole. They came out and 
ranged themselves around the walls of the temple, 
threescore and nine men, of holy order, trained in 
the ancient chanting of the Mazdayashnian hymns; 
men in the prime and strength of life, black-bearded 
and broad-shouldered, whose massive brows and 
straight features indicated noble powers of mind 
and body. 
The two who stood nearest to the chief priest came 
forward, and taking from his hands a square linen 
cloth he bore, bound it across his mouth and tied it 
behind his neck in a firm knot by means of strings. 
Then, one of them put into his left hand a fan of 
eagles' feathers, and the other gave him a pair of 
wrought-iron pincers. Then they left him to advance 
alone to the altar. 
He went forward till he was close to the bronze 
brazier, and stooping down, he took from the heap of 
fuel a clean white stick, with the pincers, which he 
carefully laid upon the fire. Then with his left hand 
he gently fanned the flames, and his mouth being 
protected by the linen cloth in such a manner that 
his breath could not defile the sacred fire, he began 
slowly and in a voice muffled by the bandage he wore, 
to recite the beginning of the sacrificial hymn : 
" Best of all goods is purity. 
Glory  glory to him 
Who is best and purest in purity. 
 
For he who ruleth from purity^ he ahideth according 
to the will of the Lord. 
The All- Wise giveth gifts for the works which man, 
doeth in the world for the Lord. 
He who protecteth the poor giveth the kingdom to 
Ahura."  
Then all the priests repeated the verses together 
in chorus, their voices sounding in a unison which, 
though not precisely song, seemed tending to a musical cadence as the tones rose and fell again upon the 
last two syllables of each verse. And then again, the 
chief priest and the other priests together repeated 
the hymn, man}y times, in louder and louder chorus, 
with more and more force of intonation ; till the chief 
priest stepped back from the fire, and delivering up 
the pincers and the fan, allowed the two assistants to 
unbind the cloth from his mouth. 
^ He walked slowly up the temple on the left side, 
and keeping his right hand toward the altar, he 
walked seven times around it, repeating a hymn alone 
in low tones ; till, after the seventh time, he went up 
to the farther end of the hall, and stood before the 
black marble trough in which the fermented Haoma 
stood ready, having been prepared with due cere- 
mony three days before. 
Then, in a loud voice, he intoned the chant in 
praise of Zaothra and Bareshma, holding high in his 
right hand the bundle of sacred stalks ; which he, 
from time to time, moistened a little in the water 
from a vessel which stood ready, and sprinkled to 
1 Probably the oldest hymns in the Avesta language. 
 
the four corners of the temple. The priests again 
took up the strain in chorus, repeating over and over 
the burden of the song. 
" Zaothra I praise thee and desire thee with praise ! 
Bareshma, I praise thee and desire thee with praise 
Zaothra with Bareshma united, I praise you and 
desire you with praise ! 
Bareshma, ivith Zaothra united, I praise you and 
desire you with praise ! " 
Suddenly the chief priest laid down the Bareshma, 
and seizing one of the golden goblets, filled it, with 
the wooden ladle, from the dark receptacle of the 
juice. As he poured it high, the yellow light of the 
lamp caught the transparent greenish fluid, and 
made it sparkle strangely. He put the goblet to his 
lips and drank. 
The king, sitting in silence upon his carved 
throne at the other extremity of the temple, bent his 
brows in a dark frown as he saw the hated ceremony 
begin. He knew how it ended, and grand as the 
words were which they would recite when the sub- 
tle fluid had fired their veins, he loathed to see the 
intoxication that got possession of them; and the 
frenzy with which they howled the sacred strains 
seemed to him to destroy the solemnity and dignity 
of a hymn, in which all that was solemn and liigh 
would otherwise have seemed to be united. 
The chief priest drank and then, filling both goblets, gave them to the priests at his right and left 
hand; who, after drinking, passed each other, and 
made way for those next them ; and so the whole 
 
number filed past the Haoma vessel and drank their 
share till they all had changed places, and those who 
had stood upon the right, now stood upon the left ; 
and those who were fii^st upon the left hand, were 
now upon the right. And when all had drunk, the 
chief priest intoned the great h}ann of praise, and all 
the chorus united with him in high, clear tones : 
" The All-Wise Creator, Ahura Mazda, the greatest, 
the best, the most fair in glory and majesty, 
" The mightiest in his strength, the wisest in his 
wisdom, the holiest in his holiness, whose power is of all 
power the fairest, 
" Who is very wise, who maJceth all things to rejoice 
afar, 
" Who hath made ws and formed us, who hath saved 
us, the holiest among the heavenly ones, 
" Eim I adore and praise, unto him I declare the 
sacrifice, him I invite, 
" / declare the sacrifice to the Protector, the Peace- 
maker, who maketh the fire to burn, who preserveth the 
wealth of the earth ; the whole earth and the wisdom 
thereof, the seas and the waters, the land and all grow- 
hig things, I invite to the sacrifice. 
" Cattle and living things, and the fire of Ahura, the 
sure helper, the lord of the archangels, 
" The nights and the days, I call upon, the purity of 
all created light, 
" The Lord of light, the sun in his glory, glorious in 
name and worthy of honour, 
" Who giveth food unto men, and multiplieth the 
cattle upon the earth, who causeth mankind to increase, 
call upon and invite to the sacrifice, 
 
" Water and the centre of all waters, given and made 
of God, that refresheth all things and maketh all things 
to grow, I call upon and invite. 
" The souls of the righteous and pure, the tuhole 
multitude of living men and women upon earth, I call 
upon and invite. 
" I call upon the triumph and the mighty strength of 
God, 
" I call upon the archangels ivho keep the world, upon 
the months, upon the pure, new moon, the lordship of 
'purity in heaven, 
" I call upon the feasts of the years and the seasons, 
upon the years and the months and days, 
"' I call upon the star Ahura^ and upon the one great 
and eternal in purity, and upon all the stars, the works 
of God, 
" Upon the star Tistrya I call, the far-shining, the 
magnificent — upon the fair moon that shineth upon 
the young cattle, upon the glorious sun swift in the race 
of his flight, the eye of the Lord. 
" / call upon the spirits and souls of the righteous, on 
the fire-hegotten of the Lord, and upon all fires. 
" Mountains and all hills, lightened and full of light 
" Majesty of kingly honour, the Majesty of the king 
which dieth not, is not diminished, 
" All wisdom and blessings and true promises, all 
me7i who are full of strength and power and might, 
" All places and lands and countries beneath the 
heavens, and above the heavens, light ivithout beginning, 
existing, and ivithout end, 
'' A II creatures pure and good, male and female upon 
the earth. 
lAhura, Jupiter. Tistrya, Sirius. 
 
'" All you I invite and call upon to the sacrifice:. 
" ITavani, pure lord of purity ! 
'' Shavanghi pure, lord of purity 
'' BapitJiwina, pure, lord of purity 
" Uzayeirina, pure, lord of purity ! 
" Aiwishruthreina, Aihigaya, pure, lord of purity ! 
" Uslialiina, pure, lord of purity ! 
" To Havani, Shavangli and Vishya, the p)ure, the 
lords of purity most glorious, he hojiour and prayer and 
fulfilment and praise. 
" To the days, and the nights, and the hours, the 
months and the years and the feasts of years, he honour 
and prayer and fulfilment and praise hefore Auramazda, the All-Wise, for ever and ever and ever," 
As the white-robed priests shouted the verses of 
the long hymn, their eyes flashed and their bodies 
moved rhythmically from side to side with an ever- 
increasing motion. From time to time, the golden 
goblets were filled with the sweet Haoma juice, and 
passed rapidly from hand to hand along the line, and 
as each priest drank more freely of the subtle fer- 
mented liquor, his eyes gained a new and more unnat- 
ural light, and his gestures grew more wild, while 
the whole body of voices rose together from an even 
and dignified chant to an indistinguishable discord of 
deafening yells. 
Ever more and more they drank, repeating the 
verses of the hymn without order or sequence. One 
man repeated a verse over and over again in ear- 
1 Partly a translation, partly a close imitation in a condensed 
form of Yashna I. 
 
piercing shrieks, swaying his body to and fro till he 
dropped forward upon the ground, foaming at the 
mouth, his features distorted with a wild convulsion, 
and his limbs as rigid as stone. Here, a band of five 
locked their arms together, and, back to back, whirled 
madly round, screaming out the names of the arch- 
angels, in an indiscriminate rage of sound and broken 
syllables. One, less enduring than the rest, relaxed 
his hold upon his fellow's arm and fell headlong on 
the pavement, while the remaining four were carried 
on by the force of their whirling, and fell together 
against others who steadied themselves against the 
wall, swaying their heads and arms from side to side. 
Overthrown by the fall of their companions, these in 
their turn fell forward upon the others, and in a few 
moments, the whole company of priests lay grovelling 
one upon the other, foaming at the mouth, but still 
howling out detached verses of their hymn — a mass 
of raging, convulsed humanity, tearing each other in 
the frenzy of drunkenness, rolling over and over each 
other in the twisted contortions of frenzied maniacs. 
The air grew thick with the smoke of the fire and of 
the lamps, and the unceasing, indescribable din of 
the hoarsely howling voices seemed to make the very 
roof rock upon the pillars that held it up, as though 
the stones themselves must go mad and shriek in the 
universal fury of sound. The golden goblets rolled 
upon the marble pavement, and the sweet green juice 
ran in slimy streams upon the floor. The high priest 
himself, utterly intoxicated and screaming with a 
voice like a wild beast in agony, fell backwards across 
the marble vase at the foot of the mortar and his 
 
hand and arm plashed into the dregs of the fermented 
Haoma. 
Never had the drunken frenzy reached such a 
point before. The king had sat motionless and 
frowning upon his seat until he saw the high priest 
fall headlong into the receptacle of the sacred Haoma. 
Then, with a groan, he laid his two hands upon the 
drms of his carved chair, and rose to his feet in utter 
disgust and horror. But, as he turned to go, he stood 
still and shook from head to foot, for he saw beside 
him a figure that might, at such a moment, have 
startled the boldest. 
A tall man of unearthly looks stood there, whose 
features he seemed to know, but could not recognise. 
His face was thin to emaciation, and his long, white 
hair fell in tangled masses, with his huge beard, upon 
his half-naked shoulders and bare chest. The torn, 
dark mantle he wore was falling to the ground as he 
faced the drunken herd of howling priests and lifted 
up his thin blanched arms and bony fingers, as though 
in protest at the hideous sight. His deep-set eyes 
were blue and fiery, flashing with a strange light. 
He seemed not to see Darius, but he gazed in deepest 
horror upon the writhing mass of bestial humanity 
below. 
Suddenly his arms shook, and standing there, 
against the dark marble screen, like the very figure 
and incarnation of fate, he spoke in a voice that, 
without effort, seemed to dominate the hideous din of 
yelling voices — a voice that was calm and clear as a 
crystal bell, but having that in it which carried in- 
stantly the words he spoke to the ears of the very 
 
most besotted wretch that lay among the heaps upon 
the floor — a voice that struck like a sharp steel blade 
upon iron. 
"I am the prophet of the Lord. Hold ye your 
peace." 
As a wild beast's howling suddenly diminishes and 
grows less and dies away to silence, when the hunter's arrow has sped close to the heart with a mortal 
wound, so in one moment, the incoherent din sank 
down, and the dead stillness that followed was dreadful by contrast. Darius stood with his hand upon 
the arm of his chair, not understanding the words of 
the fearful stranger; still less the mastering power 
those words had upon the drunken priests. But his 
courage did not desert him, and he feared not to speak. 
" How sayest thou that thou art a prophet? Who 
art thou ? " he asked. 
"Thou knowest me and hast sent for me," an- 
swered the white-haired man, in his calm tones ; but 
his fiery eyes rested on the king's, and Darius almost 
quailed under the glance. " I am Zoroaster ; I am 
come to proclaim the truth to thee and to these mis- 
erable men, thy priests." 
The fear they felt had restored the frenzied men to 
their senses. One by one, they rose and crept back 
towards the high priest himself, who had struggled to 
his feet, and stood upon the basement of the mortar 
above all the rest. 
Then Darius looked, and he knew that it was Zoro- 
aster, but he knew not the strange look upon his face, 
and the light in his eyes was not as the light of other 
days. He turned to the priests. 
 
" Ye are unworthy priests," he cried angrily, " for 
ye are drunk with your own sacrifice, and ye defile 
God's temple with unseemly cries. Behold this man 
— can ye tell me whether he be indeed a prophet?" 
Darius, whose anger was fast taking the place of the 
awe he had felt when he first saw Zoroaster beside 
him, strode a step forward, with his hand upon his 
sword-hilt, as though he would take summary vengeance upon the desecrators of the temple. 
" He is surely a liar ! " cried the high priest from 
his position beyond the altar, as though hurling de- 
fiance at Zoroaster through the flames. 
"He is surely a liar!" repeated all the priests 
together, following their head. 
" He is a Magian, a worshipper of idols, a liar and 
the father of lies I Down with him ! Slay him be- 
fore the altar ; destroy the unbeliever that entereth 
the temple of Ahura Mazda ! " 
" Down with the Magian ! Down with the idol- 
ater ! " cried the priests, and moved forward in a 
body toward the thin white-haired man who stood 
facing them, serene and high. 
Darius drew his short sword and rushed before 
Zoroaster to strike down the foremost of the priests. 
But Zoroaster seized the keen blade in the air as 
though it had been a reed, and wrenched it from the 
king's strong grip, and broke it in pieces like glass, 
and cast the fragments at his feet. Darius staggered 
back in amazement, and the herd of angry men, in 
whose eyes still blazed the drunkenness of the Haoma, 
huddled together for a moment like frightened 
sheep. 
 
" I have no need of swords," said Zoroaster, in his 
cold, clear voice. 
Then the high priest cried aloud, and ran forward 
and seized a brand from the sacred fire. 
" It is Angramainyus, the Power of Evil," he yelled 
fiercely. " He is come to fight with Auramazda in 
his temple ! But the fire of the Lord shall destroy 
him : " 
As the priest rushed upon him, with the blazing 
brand raised high to strike, Zoroaster faced him and 
fixed his eyes upon the angry man. The priest sud- 
denly stood still, his hand in mid-air, and the stout 
piece of burning wood fell to the floor, and lay smoul- 
dering and smoking upon the pavement. 
" Tempt not the All- Wise Lord, lest he destroy 
thee," said Zoroaster solemnly. " Harken, ye priests, 
and obey the word from heaven. Take the brazier 
from your altar, and scatter the embers upon the 
floor, for the fire is defiled." 
Silent and trembling, the priests obeyed, for they 
were afraid; but the high priest stood looking in 
amazement upon Zoroaster. 
When the brazier was gone, and the coals were 
scattered out upon the pavement, and the priests had 
trodden out the fire with their leathern shoes, Zoroaster 
went to the black marble altar, and faced the east, 
looking towards the stone mortar at the end. He laid 
his long, thin hands upon the flat surface and drew 
them slowly together ; and, in the sight of the priests, 
a light sprang up softly between his fingers ; gradually 
at first, then higher and higher, till it stood like a 
blazing spear-head in the midst, emitting a calm, 
 
white effulgence that darkened the lamps overhead, 
and shed an unearthly whiteness on Zoroaster's white 
face. 
He stepped back from the altar, and a low murmur 
of astonishment rose from all the crowd of white- 
robed men. Darius stood in silent wonder, gazing 
alternately upon the figure of Zoroaster, and upon 
the fragments of his good sword that lay scattered 
upon the pavement. 
Zoroaster looked round upon the faces of the priests 
with blazing eyes : 
" If ye be true priests of Ahura Mazda, raise with 
me the hymn of praise," he said. " Let it be heard 
in the heavens, and let it echo beyond the spheres ! " 
Then his voice rose calm and clear above all the 
others, and lifting up his eyes and hands, he intoned 
the solemn chant ; 
"^e, who hy truth ruleth in purity^ ahideth accord- 
ing to the will of the Lord. 
" The Lord All- Wise is the giver of gifts to men for 
the ivorks which men in the world shall do in the truth 
of the Lord, 
" He who protecteth the poor giveth the kingdom to 
aod. 
" Best of all earthly goods is truth. 
" Grlory^ glory on high for ever to him who is best in 
heaven, and truest in truth on earth ! " 
Zoroaster's grand voice rang out, and all the priests 
sang melodiously together; and upon the place which 
had been the scene of such frenzy and fury and 
drunkenness, there descended a peace as holy and 
calm as the quiet flame that burned without fuel upon 
the black stone in the midst. One by one, the priests 
came and fell at Zoroaster's feet; the chief priest 
first of all. 
"Thou art the prophet and priest of the Lord," 
each said, one after another. " I acknowledge thee 
to be the chief priest, and I swear to be a true priest 
with thee." 
And last of all, the king, who had stood silently 
by, came and would have kneeled before Zoroaster. 
But Zoroaster took his hands, and they embraced. 
" Forgive me the wrong I did thee, Zoroaster," said 
Darius. " For thou art a holy man, and I will honour thee as thou wast not honoured before." 
" Thou hast done me no wrong," answered Zoro- 
aster. " Thou hast sent for me, and I am come to be 
thy faithful friend, as I swore to thee, long ago, in 
the tent at Shushan." 
Then they took Zoroaster's torn clothes, and they 
clad him in white robes and set a spotless mitre upon 
his head ; and the king, for the second time, took his 
golden chain from his own neck, and put it about 
Zoroaster's shoulders. And they led him away into 
the palace. 
 
CHAPTER XVI. 
When it was known that Zoroaster had returned, 
there was some stir in the palace. The news that he 
was made high priest soon reached Nehushta's ears, 
and she wondered what change had come over him 
in three years that couhl have made a priest of such 
a man. She remembered him young and marvel- 
lously fair, a warrior at all points, though at the 
same time an accomplished courtier- She could not 
imagine him invested with the robes of priesthood, 
leading a chorus of singers in the chanting of the 
hymns. 
But it was not only as a chief priest that Darius 
had reinstalled Zoroaster in the palace. The king 
needed a counsellor and adviser, and the learned 
priest seemed a person fitted for the post. 
On the following day, Nehushta, as was her wont, 
went out, in the cool of the evening, to walk in the 
gardens, attended by her maidens, her fan-girls and 
the slaves who bore her carpet and cushions in case 
she wished to sit down. She walked languidly, as 
though she hardly cared to lift her delicate slippered 
feet from the smooth walk, and often she paused and 
plucked a flower, and all her train of serving-women 
stopped behind her, not daring even to whisper among 
themselves, for the young queen was in no gentle 
humour of mind. Her face was pale and her eyes 
 
were heavy, for she knew the man she had so loved 
in other days was near, and though he had so bitterly 
deceived her, the sound of his sweet promises was 
yet in her ears ; and sometimes, in her dreams, she 
felt the gentle breath of his mouth upon her sleeping 
lips, and woke with a start of joy that was but the 
forerunner of a new sadness. 
Slowly she paced the walks of the rose-gardens, 
thinking of another place in the far north, where 
there had been roses, and myrtles too, upon a terrace 
where the moonlight was very fair. 
As she turned a sharp corner where the overhang- 
ing shrubbery darkened the declining light to a dusky 
shade, she found herself face to face with the man of 
whom she was thinking. His tall thin figure, clad 
in spotless white robes, seemed like a shadow in the 
gloom, and his snowy beard and hair made a strange 
halo about his young face, that was so thin and worn. 
He walked slowly, his hands folded together, and 
his eyes upon the ground ; while a few paces behind 
him two young priests followed with measured steps, 
conversing in low tones, as though fearing to disturb 
the meditations of their master. 
Nehushta started a little and would have passed 
on, although she recognised the face of him she had 
loved. But Zoroaster lifted his eyes, and looked on 
her with so strange an expression that she stopped 
short in the way. The deep, calm light in his eyes 
awed her, and there was something in his majestic 
presence that seemed of another world. 
" Hail, Nehushta ! " said the high priest quietly. 
But, at the sound of his voice, the spell was broken. 
 
The Hebrew woman lifted her head proudly, and hei 
black eyes flashed again. 
" Greet me not," she answered, " for the greeting 
of a liar is like the sting of the serpent that striketh 
unawares in the dark." 
Zoroaster's face never changed, only his luminous 
eyes gazed on hers intently, and she paused again, as 
though riveted to the spot. 
" I lie not, nor have lied to thee ever," he answered 
calmly. " Go thou hence, ask her whom thou hatest, 
whether I have deceived thee. Farewell." 
He turned his gaze from her and passed slowly on, 
looking down to the ground, his hands folded before 
him. He left her standing in the way, greatly 
troubled and not understanding his saying. 
Had she not seen with her eyes how he held Atossa 
in his arms on that evil morning in Shushan ? Had 
she not seen how, when he was sent away, he had 
written a letter to Atossa and no word to herself? 
Could these things which she had seen and known, 
be untrue? The thought was horrible — that her 
whole life had perhaps been wrecked and ruined by 
a mistake. And yet there was not any mistake, she 
repeated to herself. She had seen ; one must believe 
what one sees. She had heard Atossa's passionate 
words of love, and had seen Zoroaster's arms go 
round her drooping body ; one must believe what one 
sees and hears and knows ! 
But there was a ringing truth in his voice just 
now when he said : " I lie not, nor have lied to thee 
ever." A lie — no, not spoken, but done ; and the 
lie of an action is greater than the lie of a word. 
 
And yet, his voice sounded true just now in the dusk, 
and there was something in it, something like the 
ring of a far regret. " Ask her whom thou liatest," 
he had said. That was Atossa. There was no other 
woman whom she hated — no man save him. 
She had many times asked herself whether or no 
she loved the king. She felt something for him that 
she had not felt for Zoroaster. The passionate en- 
thusiasm of the strong, dark warrior sometimes carried 
her away and raised her with it ; she loved his manli- 
ness, his honesty, his unchanging constancy of pur- 
pose. And yet Zoroaster had had all these, and more 
also, though they had shown themselves in a different 
way. She looked back and remembered how calm he 
had always been, how utterly superior in his wisdom. 
He seemed scarcely mortal, until he had one day 
fallen — and fallen so desperately low in her view, 
that she loathed the memory of that feigned calm- 
ness and wisdom and purity. For it must have been 
feigned. How else could he have put his arms about 
Atossa, and taken her head upon his breast, wliile 
she sobbed out words of love ? 
But if he loved Atossa, she loved him as well. 
She said so, cried it aloud upon the terrace where 
any one might have heard it. Why then had he left 
the court, and hidden himself so long in the wilder- 
ness? Why, before going out on his wanderings, 
had he disguised himself, and gone and stood where 
the procession passed, and hissed out a bitter in- 
sult as Nehushta went by? For her sake he had 
abandoned his brilliant life these three years, to 
dwell in the desert, to grow so thin and miserable of 
 
aspect that he looked like an old man. And his hair 
and beard were white — she had heard that a man 
might turn white from sorrow in a day. Was it 
grief that had so changed him? Grief to see her 
wedded to the king before his eyes ? His voice rang 
so true : " Ask her whom thou hatest," he had said= 
In truth she would ask. It was all too inexpli- 
cable, and the sudden thought that she had perhaps 
wronged him three long years ago — even the possi- 
bility of the thought that seemed so little possible to 
her yesterday — wrought strangely in her breast, and 
terrified her. She would ask Atossa to her face 
whether Zoroaster had loved her. She would tell 
how she had seen them together upon the balcony, 
and heard Atossa's quick, hot words. She would 
threaten to tell the king; and if the elder queen 
refused to answer truth, she would indeed tell him 
and put her rival to a bitter shame. 
She walked more quickly upon the smooth path, 
and her hands wrung each other, and once she felt 
the haft of that wicked Indian knife she ever wore. 
When she turned back and went up the broad steps 
of the palace, the moon was rising above the far 
misty hills to eastward, and there were lights beneath 
the columned portico. She paused and looked back 
across the peaceful valley, and far down below, a 
solitary nightingale called out a few melancholy notes, 
and then burst forth into glorious song. 
Nehushta turned again to go in, and there were 
tears in her dark eyes, that had not stood there for 
many a long day. But she clasped her hands to- 
gether, and went forward between the crouching 
slaves, straight to Atossa's apartment. It was not 
usual for any one to gain access to the elder queen's 
inner chambers without first obtaining permission 
from Atossa herself, and Nehushta had never been 
there. They met rarely in public, and spoke little, 
though each maintained the appearances of courtesy ; 
but Atossa's smile was the sweeter of the two. In 
private they never saw each other ; and the queen's 
