"You struck the first blow; and that's all I want to hear about it,"
added the major sharply. "My son has done quite right to resent a blow
with another blow; and if he is not satisfied with the punishment he has
given you, you vagabond, I will stand by and see fair play till he is
satisfied."
Mr. Walker did not quite approve the ground taken by his father, and
wanted him to do something more than stand by and see fair play. But the
major had spoken, and the son realized that he had nothing to do but to
take the broad hint the patriarch had given him. Clinching his fists
again, he rushed upon Paul for the third time. Paul was indignant at the
decision of the magnate, and felt as though he had been commanded by the
great man to permit his son to insult his sister.
Walk rushed upon him, but Paul's back was up for the first time since he
had relieved his sister from the grasp of her assailant. His paws were
not velvet: they were all fangs. At the first onslaught of Walk, that
young gentleman went over on his back with the blood gushing from his
nostrils. Twice more he renewed the attack, with about the same result.
Mr. Walker was so full of wrath that he could no longer control himself,
and he laid hold of the stick again. Paul picked up the oar once more.
The son of toil knocked the stick out of the hands of his opponent, and
it flew into the lake. Walk could not find another, and Paul dropped the
oar. It was naked fists again, with the same effect as before.
By this time Major Billcord was as full of wrath as his son, and without
regard to fair play, of which he stood as champion, he rushed to the
assistance of his defeated son. Paul picked up the oar and retreated
before the two.
"Stop a moment, if you please, Major Billcord," shouted Paul. "I don't
want to hit you sir, and I won't if I can help it."
"But I am going to flog you within an inch of your life!" yelled the
major.
Paul had gone as far as he could without retreating into the cottage,
and he was unwilling to carry the battle into the presence of his mother
and sister. He halted; the major wrenched the oar from his grasp. He
struck the son of toil with it. Paul's blood was up; he gave the magnate
a blow between the eyes, under which he went down. Walk "pitched in"
again, and was planted by the side of his father.
CHAPTER III.
THE FINAL MANDATE OF MAJOR BILLCORD.
Major Billcord was a short, puffy man, inclined to corpulency. The blow
of the son of toil, and his fall upon the sand, proved to be enough for
him. He was all foam and fury in consequence of his signal defeat.
Possibly he had thought that a poor dependent upon his bounty would not
dare to strike him; and, in truth, Paul felt that it was something like
treading upon the Bible.
He had attempted to take the stalwart youth by the collar, and had
struck him with his riding-whip in a tender place. The pain was nothing,
but the indignity was great; and Paul's impulse had led him farther than
he would have gone if he had considered what he was doing.
The major and his son picked themselves up, and for a moment they gazed
with something like wonder upon the victor in the unequal contest. But
all three of them had been beside themselves for the moment. Paul
realized what he had done; and so did his mother and sister, for they
came out of the cottage while father and son were getting up from the
ground.
"Woman, do you see what your son has done?" demanded Major Billcord, who
was the first to break the impressive silence.
"I am very sorry, sir," pleaded the poor woman, stepping between Paul
and his victims, in order to prevent him from doing them any further
mischief if he should be disposed to renew the combat.
"Sorry for it!" exclaimed the magnate, as if simple regret could atone
for a blow given by a plebeian to a patrician. "Is this the way you
bring up your son?"
"I am very sorry, Major Billcord, but he has been greatly provoked. By
your leave, sir, it was Mr. Walker that began it."
"It is false, marm! Your brute of a son struck the first blow; he has
confessed it to me," puffed the magnate.
"But Mr. Walker had first insulted my daughter; he had seized hold of
her, and was trying to force her into the boat when Paul interfered,"
Mrs. Bristol explained with as much meekness as the subject would
permit.
"Nonsense, woman! Seized hold of your daughter! Don't talk such stuff
to me. Walker did not mean to do her any harm," added Major Billcord
with the utmost contempt.
"I only asked her to let me row her about the bay in the boat," the
young gentleman explained.
"It was impertinent in her to refuse when my son honored her with his
notice," continued the major.
"I thought she had a right to choose her own company," said Mrs. Bristol
with proper humility.
"I have allowed you to live on my land for two years without a penny of
rent, woman; and this is the return I get for it," replied the great
man, in whose heart the poor woman's ingratitude was beginning to make
havoc.
"You have been very kind to us, Major Billcord, and we are very grateful
for all you have done for us. I am so sorry that this sad thing has
happened!" pleaded Mrs. Bristol.
"And still you try to fasten the blame on my son," retorted the
proprietor of Sandy Point and its surroundings.
"I am very sorry he meddled with Lily; if he hadn't done it, there would
have been no trouble, for Paul has always treated Mr. Walker with
respect."
"At it again!" exclaimed the major. "You will insist that my son was to
blame, simply because he was polite enough to invite your daughter to
take a row with him in the boat."
"She was not willing to go; and I didn't know that she was obliged to go
out on the lake with him. She declined his invitation, and Mr. Walker
tried to force her into the boat."
"It was not civil in her to decline the invitation, and I don't wonder
that Walker was a little vexed at her refusal. She is a pert minx, marm,
and has not been well brought up, or she would have known better than to
decline," added the magnate, bestowing a look of severity upon the fair
maiden.
Mrs. Bristol and Paul saw that it was useless to attempt to reason with
such a man, and they were silent. The major took out his handkerchief,
and wiped the perspiration from his face. Then he felt of his nose and
the region about his two eyes, between which the son of toil had planted
his hard fist. Doubtless there was a soreness in those parts, and
perhaps the visual organs of the father would be clothed in sable
wreaths by the next day.
"That boy must be punished, severely punished, for what he has done,"
the major resumed. "He has had the audacity to strike me in the
face,--me, the benefactor of the whole family!"
"Didn't you catch me by the throat, and hit me with your riding-whip,
sir?" asked Paul calmly and meekly.
"What if I did! Do you mean to put yourself on a level with me, you
young reprobate?" demanded the magnate, his wrath beginning to boil
again. "Woman, I say that boy must be severely punished for this," he
continued, turning to Mrs. Bristol again. "He must be whipped till he
can't stand up!"
"Who will whip him, sir?" asked the poor woman innocently.
"I will do it, if you don't, marm," replied the major savagely.
"I could not whip him, sir; he is a great deal stronger than I am; and,
if he is whipped at all, you must do it, sir;" but Mrs. Bristol seemed
to think there was something a little satirical in what she said.
"Then I will do it!" said the magnate, raising his riding-whip.
"Perhaps he will not allow you to whip him, sir," suggested Mrs.
Bristol; and even her anger appeared to be approaching the
boiling-point.
"The boy deserves to be severely punished. If he submits to the
whipping which Walker and I will give him, we may be willing to let the
matter drop where it is."
"You had better arrange it with Paul, sir. I should as soon think of
whipping Colonel Buckmill as my son," replied the poor woman with a
decided touch of satire in her tones and manner.
"If the young villain submits, very well."
"If you should begin to punish him, I have no doubt he will speak or act
for himself," she added.
"Bristol, you hear what has been said. Will you submit to the punishment
you deserve?" demanded the major severely, turning to the culprit.
"No, sir, I will not."
"Do you hear him, marm?"
"I do, sir; and he answers just as I supposed he would."
"Then you uphold him in his treacherous treatment of my son? Then you
countenance him in biting the hand that feeds him?"
Mrs. Bristol made no reply, for she did not wish to irritate the
powerful man unnecessarily. She looked at her son, and she was proud of
him.
"Bristol, you refuse to submit to the whipping you deserve?" demanded
Major Billcord, approaching the stout youth with the riding-whip
upraised.
"If you hit me with that whip, sir, I will knock you as far beyond the
middle of next week as I can," replied Paul firmly and quietly. "Your
son insulted my sister, and I treated him as he deserved, and just as I
would another time if he did the same thing. My sister is a poor girl,
but she is just as good as you are, and just as good as Mr. Walker is.
If she is insulted, sir, I will stand up against five hundred Billcords
as long as there is anything left of me."
"Is this your gratitude for what I have done for the family?" asked the
major, knitting his brow into a knot of wrinkles.
"Yes, sir; this is my gratitude. Do you think, because you allowed my
father to put his cottage on your land, that you and your son have the
right to insult my sister?" demanded Paul with considerable energy.
"No one insulted her, you young reprobate!" interposed the father. "Is a
civil and gentlemanly invitation an insult?"
"If he had stopped there, we should have had no trouble."
"But she refused the invitation."
"She had as much right to decline it as any lady in Westport would
have."
"Was it treating a member of my family properly, after all I have done
for you?" demanded the major more calmly, but with a terrible havoc in
his tender feelings.
"You have had a good deal to say about what you have done for us, Major
Billcord. The land on which that cottage stands," continued Paul,
pointing to it, "is not worth ten dollars. At ten per cent, the ground
rent would be one dollar a year, or two dollars for the two years it has
stood there. I have done work enough for you in the shape of errands,
taking care of your boat, and in other ways, to pay for the land twice
over. I have carried the first black bass of the season to your house,
when I could have sold the fish for a dollar apiece, for two years. As I
look at the question of gratitude, there is a balance of at least twenty
dollars in my favor; but I give it to you with all my heart, and I don't
claim the privilege of insulting your daughter for what I have done."
"You are a glib-talking puppy, and there is no more reason or common
sense in you than there is in a heifer calf. I have had enough of you,
and so has my son," responded the major, choking with wrath over the
unanswerable argument of the poor dependent.
"If you have had enough of me, you and Mr. Walker, I am satisfied to let
the matter drop where it is; but if Mr. Walker, or any other student of
the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, insults my sister, I shall hit
him as hard as I can," replied Paul coolly.
"Woman, you have heard the insulting words of your son, and you uphold
him in his wickedness. I must take the next step. I will not have such a
vile reprobate on my land. I will not have you or your ungrateful
daughter on my territory. You are a tenant at will. That cottage must
not remain another day on my premises. Remove it at once. If it is here
at three o'clock to-morrow afternoon, I will give the students
permission to tumble it into the lake. Do you hear me, woman?" stormed
the major fiercely.
"I hear you, sir," replied Mrs. Bristol, covering her face with her
handkerchief, and beginning to weep bitterly.
"You needn't cry about it, marm. You and that graceless son of yours
have brought it on yourselves; and I think the students will enjoy the
fun of pitching the shanty into the lake."
"It is all the property I have in the world, Major Billcord," pleaded
the poor woman. "Give me a little time to remove the cottage, I implore
you!"
"Don't implore me, marm! Thank your wretch of a son for it. By three
o'clock to-morrow afternoon, if you haven't removed it in the mean time,
the shanty shall be rolled into the lake."
"I cannot get it through the woods to remove it," groaned Mrs. Bristol.
"That's your lookout, marm," said the major as he and Walk departed.
Mrs. Bristol seated herself on the lower step of the cottage, and
continued to weep bitterly.
CHAPTER IV.
THE ABSENCE OF THE TRUANT DRAGON.
The cottage of the Bristols had been framed in Burlington, and brought
down to Sandy Point on a schooner. As it stood, it was estimated to be
worth about three hundred and fifty dollars, which was the cost of it to
the poor woman when she invested her all in what was to be a home for
the family.
It was a small sum the cottage cost, but to the poor woman it was as big
as a million to a millionnaire. She had been well brought up in her
father's house, and she could not exist like a Chinaman or a Hottentot,
and it had cost the family a struggle to live during the absence of the
father.
Now all that she had was to be taken from her. As they had paid no
ground rent for the site, the law could do nothing for her. She was a
tenant on suffrance rather than a tenant at will, and had no rights
whatever. The magnate could tumble the cottage into the lake, and the
wind would carry it where it listed. It would probably be broken up on
the rocks or shoals, and the major might as well set it on fire as turn
it adrift on the lake.
The rich man intended to execute his mandate in the cruelest manner
possible. The students were to have a frolic in tumbling it into the
lake. The humble structure contained all their household goods, all the
little articles they valued far beyond the money they cost. It was
hardly possible to remove them in the time allowed for the purpose, for
everything would have to be carried by hand or transported in the
flatboat.
No team could be driven down to the point, for the major would not allow
a tree to be felled to make a road, and the owner had been compelled to
leave his saddle-horse at a considerable distance from the lake when he
visited it. Of course, the cruel magnate understood all this, and
realized that his final mandate doomed the cottage and all it contained
to certain destruction, for neither he nor his persecuted tenants could
see any means of relief.
Even if they could carry away their goods, they had no place to put
them. The brief period of probation given them was not more than enough
to enable the poor woman to find another tenement. It was two miles to
Westport, and five to Genverres, by water. The situation looked entirely
hopeless to Mrs. Bristol; and the more she thought of it, the more
bitterly she wept.
"I don't know what will become of us," said she when she had vented her
grief for a time.
"Don't cry, mother: we shall get out of the scrape in some way," replied
Paul in as soothing tones as he could command, for the situation was
hardly more hopeful to him than to his mother.
"I don't see that we can do anything but submit to the loss of
everything we have," moaned Mrs. Bristol. "We can't stay here any
longer, and we have no place to go to in the wide world. The students
will take a wicked delight in breaking up everything we have. I cannot
stay here to see them revel in the destruction of our home, which has
been as dear to me as though it had been a palace. But where can I go?"
"We had better go to Westport, mother," said Lily, wiping the tears from
her eyes. "We can take a few things with us in the boat."
"The boat went adrift in the row, and I saw it halfway over to Scotch
Bonnet," interposed Paul as he strained his eyes to discover the truant
craft.
"Then we can walk over to Westport; but we can't carry much of anything
in our hands in a walk of two miles," added Lily gloomily.
"Where shall we go in Westport when we get there?" asked Mrs. Bristol.
"We can't go to a hotel or boarding-house, for we haven't money enough
to pay our way for three days."
"I don't see that we can do a thing, mother," said Paul when he had
carefully looked over the situation. "I would borrow a boat, if there
was one to be had; but I am sure the institute boatman would not lend me
one now. Major Billcord's story will be all over the neighborhood in a
few hours. I could get one in Westport; but it might take me a whole day
to find our flatboat, for it must have been driven ashore on the other
side of the lake. Some vessel may have picked it up, for I saw two or
three going up the lake."
"I saw a sailboat go by while you were talking to the major," said Lily.
"I noticed her; it was one of the Beech Hill boats," added Paul. "One of
these vessels may have picked up the 'Dragon,'" as he had named the
flatboat, "and it may be five miles from here by this time."
"We are in the hands of Providence, and as helpless as babies,"
continued Mrs. Bristol. "I don't see that we can do a single thing for
ourselves, and we must trust in a higher power than man."
"We can stay in the cottage over night, at least, and it will be our
last in our happy home," said Paul. "The students will all be at their
studies in the forenoon, and then you and Lily can walk over to
Westport."
"What are you going to do, Paul?" inquired his mother, bestowing a look
of the deepest interest upon him.
"I shall stay here and save what I can."
"You must not stay here!" protested his mother warmly. "The students
will kill you, under the lead of Walker Billcord."
"I am not afraid of them."
"You must not stay here: if you do, I shall stay with you," replied the
devoted mother.
"There is that sailboat, Paul," said Lily, who had been gazing blankly
out upon the lake. "She looks as though she was headed for the point."
"That's the 'Goldwing,'" added Paul. "I hope Dory Dornwood is on board
of her. He is a good fellow, and he may do something to help us. If she
comes near enough, I will hail her."
"But Dory Dornwood will not do anything for any one on this side of the
lake," replied Mrs. Bristol. "The two schools have waged the fiercest
war upon each other."
"I know Dory Dornwood very well, mother. I had a long talk with him
about the war between the schools, and I know that the Beech-Hillers
have done all they could to keep out of trouble with the Chesterfields.
I am sure he will do anything he can for us. He don't like Major
Billcord any better than I do at this moment, for he had a row with him
when he was a waiter on a steamer."
"I don't see that he can do anything for us, even if he does come near
enough for you to hail him," added Mrs. Bristol, hardly less despondent
than before.
"He can take some of our things on board his boat, and carry them to a
place where they will be safe until we want them again."
Paul was quite hopeful that something would come of the visit of the
"Goldwing" to the point, if she came there. Without stopping to argue
the possibilities with his mother, he hastened to the shore. The
"Goldwing" was headed down the lake, and, with all sail set, she was
dashing over the waves at a tremendous high speed. She was towing a
small boat astern of her, but Paul could not tell whether it was the
"Dragon" or her usual tender.
The wind was exactly west, and the schooner was going free. When Paul
saw her before, she was on the easterly side of the lake, where she got
a better breeze than on the opposite side. He was satisfied that she
headed for the vicinity of the point; for she would have started her
sheets when she came up with Scotch Bonnet, if she had been bound
directly down the lake.
Though she was approaching the point, it was by no means certain that
she intended to make a landing there. The boat she was towing was astern
of her, and Paul could not see it plainly, as the hull of the yacht
obstructed his view. As on all occasions, he determined to do the best
he could. Running back to the house, he borrowed a tablecloth of reddish
hue, and fastened it to the oar. Elevating it as a signal to the
"Goldwing," he held it in position at the very apex of the point.
Lily and her mother were not inclined to join him, for they did not feel
in the mood to meet any young men, however civil they might be. They
remained seated on the steps of the cottage; but they watched the sails
of the yacht with as deep an interest as Paul did, for it was at least
possible that the party on board of her might help them in their
present dire emergency.
"She is headed for the point!" shouted Paul, when he had satisfied
himself of the fact.
"I pray that a kind Providence has sent her to our relief," replied Mrs.
Bristol.
Paul watched her with the most intense interest. When the "Goldwing" was
within a quarter of a mile of the point, the party on board of her waved
their handkerchiefs as a reply to Paul's signal. The hopes of the
watcher on the shore ran high, but he could not yet see whether or not
she had the "Dragon" in tow.
Sandy Point was a kind of double cape. It was shaped like a letter T.
The cottage was on the northeast point, inside of which was Sandy Bay,
where the Beech Hill students sometimes came to bathe. The other arm of
the point extended to the southwest, and inside of it was the station of
the boats belonging to the institute.
"Is that you, Paul Bristol?" shouted some one on board of the
"Goldwing."
"Yes! Is Dory Dornwood on board?" replied Paul.
"He is! Have you lost a flatboat?" called the speaker from the yacht.
"I have!"
The schooner kept well off the point, and appeared now to be headed for
the shore on the opposite side of Sandy Point. As she came abreast of
the shore, Paul saw that she had the "Dragon" and her tender in tow. The
return of the "Dragon" was a godsend, even if nothing else resulted from
the visit of the yacht. The "Goldwing" ran over towards the opposite
shore, and then tacked. The wind was light inside of the bay, and the
schooner circled gracefully about, coming up into the wind off the point
where Paul stood. Down went her jib in the twinkling of an eye, and over
went her anchor. In a moment she had come up to her cable, with her
mainsail fluttering in the breeze.
One of the party hauled up the "Dragon," and, casting off the painter,
sculled her ashore with the single oar that remained on board of her.
"This is your boat, I suppose," said Tucker Prince, one of the new
students of the Beech Hill Industrial School, as he stepped on shore
with the painter in his hand.
"It is my boat, and I owe you a thousand thanks for bringing her back to
me," replied Paul.
"The skipper wants to know if any accident has happened by which she
was turned adrift," continued Tuck Prince, whom the New-Yorkers called a
"Bosting boy."
"No accident; but who is the skipper?"
"Dory Dornwood."
"I would give more to see him than I would to meet my grandmother,"
added Paul.
In a few moments more Paul Bristol had Dory by the hand.
CHAPTER V.
THE "GOLDWING" AT SANDY POINT.
Dory Dornwood had been to the point before, and had met Paul Bristol
there. Of course, the son of toil had never associated with the
Chesterfields on anything like an equality, and he had no especial
interest in them or their affairs. In the quarrels between the two
schools he had been entirely neutral, for the reason that he had not
been called upon to take part in any of the battles, and his opinion of
the merits of either side was of no consequence.
Dory gave the resident of the point his hand, as he came on board of the
"Goldwing," and was glad to see him. Possibly the skipper was willing to
have a friend in this particular locality, though he knew that Paul had
no influence with the gentlemanly students of the institute.
"I picked up your boat over by Scotch Bonnet," said Dory. "It was just
going on the rocks, and I thought it would have a hard time there. I
knew from the direction of the wind that it must have come from this
region, and I was afraid some one had been upset in her, for there was
only one oar in the boat."
"No one was upset in her, though the 'Dragon' is not inclined to stay
right side up when the sea is heavy," replied Paul. "I am more thankful
to you than I can tell for bringing her back at just this time. If you
are willing to hear me, I should like to tell you how she happened to
get adrift, and why I am so glad to get her back."
"I am in no hurry, and I am ready to hear anything you wish to say to
me," replied Dory, as he invited Paul to take a seat in the
standing-room.
There were five other Beech Hill students in the boat, and they seemed
to be as willing to hear the story as the skipper was. All of them
judged by the manner of the Sandy-Pointer that he had something of
interest and importance to tell. Paul gave his account of the trouble
between Lily and Walk Billcord without exaggeration or embellishment,
though he did not do justice, in his modesty, to his own prowess in the
battles with the magnate and his son.
The narrative was exciting enough to secure the closest attention of
his auditors; and, when it was finished, all of them had some questions
to ask, and most of them some comments to make. As they were not
prejudiced in favor of the major or his son, they agreed that the son of
toil had served them right. Dory said he should have been very sorry to
strike a man of the age of Major Billcord, but he did not see how he
could have helped doing so under the circumstances.
"And he has ordered you to remove the cottage at less than a day's
notice?" continued the skipper.
"He has, and at a time when my boat had gone adrift, and I had no way to
move a single thing which we could not carry two miles in our hands.
That is the reason why I was so glad to see the 'Dragon' coming back to
the point," replied Paul, looking at the skipper of the "Goldwing" with
the deepest interest. "But the water is rather rough this afternoon out
on the lake, and I am afraid I can't do much towards moving my mother
and sister and all the furniture in that flatboat."
"Then you mean to leave the cottage to be pitched into the lake?" added
Dory.
"I don't see that we can do anything else," replied Paul blankly. "It is
about a quarter of a mile through the woods to the road, and Major
Billcord will not allow a tree to be cut down. I could not move it if I
had a hundred men to help me. I might take it to pieces, if I had time
enough to do the job; but we have little time, and not much money."
"Suppose we go on shore and take a look at the cottage," suggested Dory,
who seemed to be doing some heavy thinking, though he did not hint that
he knew of any remedy for the misfortunes of the Bristols. The tender
was brought up to the gangway, and Dory went ashore in it, accompanied
by Tuck Prince, while Paul took the "Dragon" back.
The skipper walked up to the cottage, and Paul introduced him to his
mother and sister. Dory had never seen Lily Bristol before, but he was
perfectly willing to agree with the "speech of people," that she was the
prettiest girl in the State of New York, and possibly in the State of
Vermont. But she looked very sad, and so did her mother, and Dory said
nothing to them about the mandate of the magnate.
The visitor looked at the house, and got its approximate dimensions in
his mind. He examined the foundations of the structure, and the land
upon which it lay. He was thinking, but he said nothing.
"Of course, Major Billcord knows very well that we cannot move the
cottage without making a pathway for it through the grove," said Paul,
who had observed the expression on Dory's face with the utmost interest.
But he had not expected that the skipper of the "Goldwing" could do
anything about moving the dwelling: the most he had hoped was that the
visitor would volunteer to assist in the transportation of the
furniture, or a portion of it, to some safe place, if such could be
found. But Dory was provokingly silent, and did not hint at anything.
When he had completed his examination of the premises, he walked towards
the end of the point again.
"I suppose you will agree with me that not a thing can be done," said
Paul as he followed the skipper; and he began to be very much
discouraged at the prospect.
"I don't know whether anything can be done or not," replied Dory,
musing. "I can't do anything myself, for I don't feel at liberty to act
without the knowledge of my uncle, Captain Gildrock," replied Dory. "If
you could move the cottage, have you any other place to put it?"
"Not a place. My mother owns a house, but not a foot of land in the
wide universe," answered Paul gloomily.
"It is not very easy to think of any plan for moving the building when
we haven't any idea of what is to be done with it," added Dory,
surveying with his eye the ground between the cottage and the water of
the lake.
"I didn't suppose you could do anything for us in that way," continued
Paul. "I thought we might save some of our furniture in the 'Dragon.'"
"You couldn't even get a bureau on board of her," replied Dory, glancing
at the flatboat. "If you laid it across the gunwales, it would upset
her. But I have an idea, though it may not amount to much. What are your
mother and sister going to do? I take it they will not stay here to see
the Chesterfields destroy your cottage and its contents?"
"No; they will leave in the morning; but there is no place under the sun
for them to go. We have no relations, and hardly any friends," answered
Paul very sadly.
"As I said before, I can't do anything without orders in a case like
this. I am very sorry for you. If the situation were what my uncle
defines as an emergency, I should be permitted to do what is required
to save life or property. But there is nearly a whole day's leeway in
this case," continued the skipper.
"I didn't know but you might carry some of our things over to the other
side in the 'Goldwing,' Paul hinted very timidly.
"I might be able to take some of them; but the schooner would not hold
one-half of the goods. I hope to do something better than that, though I
can't promise anything. So far as the furniture is concerned, I don't
think you need to worry about that, for there will be time enough to
remove it to-morrow morning," said Dory.
"Plenty of time, if I have any help," added Paul.
Dory hoped he should be able to do something better than this; and the
words had given Paul a strong hope, though he wished the skipper would
speak out plainly, and say what he thought of doing.
"It is now about five o'clock," continued Dory, looking at his watch.
"We have plenty of time, and I have something to propose. I can't do
anything without my uncle's knowledge, but I should like to have your
mother and sister go over to Beech Hill in the 'Goldwing;' and you too,
Paul, if you don't think it necessary to remain here and look out for
the cottage."
"What should they go over there for?" asked the son of toil.
"To tell my uncle your story. If Captain Gildrock decides that nothing
can be done for you, I will bring your mother and sister back before
dark. Then I will take a cargo of your goods to any place you say in
this part of the lake. That is all I feel at liberty to do under the
present circumstances," added Dory. "But I am pretty sure that something
more will be done for you."
"I will speak to my mother about it," replied Paul. "Will you come with
me, Dory?"
The skipper followed him to the cottage, and Paul stated the case to his
mother. She was willing to do anything her son thought best. She did not
think it was necessary for Lily to go if Paul was to remain in charge of
the house; but Dory thought she was a part of the story, and anticipated
some hard questions from his uncle which she could answer better than
any other person. Mrs. Bristol yielded the point, and in a few minutes
they were ready for the trip.
The ladies were seated in the standing-room, and the Beech-Hillers were
as polite as so many dancing-masters, "tinkers" though they were. A
short distance from the shore the wind was still fresh; and in half an
hour the "Goldwing" was in Beechwater, as the principal of the school
generally called the lake.
Without waiting to moor the schooner, which he left in charge of Tuck
Prince, Dory pulled the ladies to the new boat-house in the tender. They
landed at the steps, and the skipper conducted them to Captain
Gildrock's library. They were pleasantly welcomed by the principal,
though they were entire strangers to him.
Dory stated that he had brought Mrs. Bristol and Miss Lily from Sandy
Point, and he wished his uncle to hear the story they had to tell. He
hinted that the visitors had better confine themselves to the facts in
the case, without any comments; and, as Lily had been the principal and
first actor in the drama, he thought she had better open the narrative.
Possibly Dory thought an account of the opening proceedings from the
lips of so pretty a girl as Lily might have more influence with his
bachelor uncle. The captain smiled graciously, and bowed encouragingly
to the fair maiden. She began in a very straightforward way with the
narrative, and Dory was glad the occasion permitted him to gaze at her
without staring.
When she had completed her narrative, there was but little more for her
mother to say. The principal asked a few questions, and then he was in
possession of all the facts. He knew all about Major Billcord, and he
had no difficulty in believing the simple and unadorned statement to
which he had listened. Very likely he was as indignant as any Christian
man would have been at the outrage of the magnate and his son, but he
did not express himself in this direction.
When Mrs. Bristol and Lily had said all they had to say, the captain
looked at Dory to see if he had anything to offer. Dory was not slow to
take a hint, and he made quite an energetic speech of considerable
length, setting forth his views of the situation.
CHAPTER VI.
A CALL FOR ALL HANDS AT BEECH HILL.
"I am very sorry, Mrs. Bristol, that you should have been placed in such
an unpleasant situation," said Captain Gildrock when Dory had brought
his speech to a square conclusion, which some orators find it very
difficult to do. "Your son did no more than I would have done in the
same circumstances. It was highly proper for him to defend his sister
with his fists; and after that he acted only on the defensive."
"I was very well satisfied with Paul, sir," added Mrs. Bristol.
"I think you have reason to be. You have heard what my nephew has said,
and I fully indorse the plan he has outlined. I shall leave it to him to
carry it out in his own way."
"You are very kind, Captain Gildrock, and I shall be grateful to you as
long as I live," replied Mrs. Bristol, with enthusiasm. "Paul says your
students were always much better behaved than those of the institute."
"Unfortunately our relations with the school on the other side of the
lake are not as pleasant as I could wish; but I do not intend that our
young men shall be offensive to their neighbors."
"The Goldwing is all ready to take you back to Sandy Point, Mrs.
Bristol," Dory interposed.
"But why should you return, madam?" said the principal. "I think you had
better remain here. We have plenty of spare rooms, and we will do all we
can to make you comfortable."
"Thank you, sir; but I am afraid Paul will be uneasy in my longer
absence."
"Dory shall run over to Sandy Point, and inform your son what is to be
done, and can bring you anything you may want," suggested Captain
Gildrock.
The principal gave some strong reasons why she and Lily had better
remain at the mansion over night, and she finally consented to do so.
Mrs. Dornwood and Marian, Dory's mother and sister, were called, and
they soon made the visitors feel quite at home. Dory returned to the
Goldwing, and was soon standing out of Beechwater.
In less than half an hour the schooner was at the point. Paul was
greatly astonished, and not a little troubled, when he saw that his
mother and sister were not on board of her. But the skipper soon
explained their absence, and stated what was to be done with the
permission of his uncle. Paul went to the cottage for a few articles
which his mother had desired, in a note, while the skipper looked over
the situation of the cottage again, and arranged his plans for action.
"We shall disappoint the Chesterfields once more, Paul," said Dory, when
the son of toil joined him. "We have spoiled some of their little
arrangements before."
"They will miss the fun the major has promised them, but I think he will
feel the loss of it more than they will. Of course, all he wants is to
punish us," replied Paul, with a cheerful smile.
"You can go over to Beech Hill with me if you like," continued Dory,
when they reached the tender.
"I must stay here and watch the cottage. Some of the students might
think it was fun to set it on fire to-night, though it would not make a
very brilliant light in the moonshine," replied Paul.
"Do you expect any of the Chesterfields at the point to-night, Paul?"
asked Dory with some anxiety, for their presence might interfere with
his plan.
"No; I hardly expect any of them. I don't know that Major Billcord has
told them about the fun in store for them yet, though he was so mad when
he left the point that he could hardly keep it in," answered Paul.
"Well, if they come to-night, we can't help it," added Dory, as he
stepped into the tender. "We shall be here all the same, and we shall do
the work we have laid out."
The Goldwing got up her anchor, and filled away. Paul watched her till
she disappeared in Beaver River. The situation had changed entirely, and
Paul was as happy as though there had been no tempest at the point that
day. His mother and sister were in good quarters, and he did not much
care if the Chesterfields came down upon him in full force. As soon as
the schooner was out of sight he went into the house to get his supper.
As soon as the Goldwing was moored, and her crew had eaten their supper,
there was a call for all hands to assemble at the new boat-house. The
famous structure had been finished nearly a year before, for it was in
the month of May that the trouble at Sandy Point took place. The school
year began in the September preceding.
After considering the subject during the summer, Captain Gildrock had
decided to increase the number of pupils in the Beech Hill Industrial
School. But he was a prudent and practical man, and he had taken only a
dozen additional scholars. Two had left to take good-paying situations,
and the whole number now was thirty-six. There was room in the enlarged
dormitory for a dozen more, and space enough for them at the benches in
the shops.
A third class had been formed of the beginners; and, as they had been
under instruction for eight months, some of them had acquired
considerable skill in the use of tools. Another barge had been procured,
and the "green hands" had all learned to row, to swim, and a few of them
to handle a sailboat. The school was now larger than the one on the
other side of the lake. But the Chesterfields, after having been
defeated several times in their assaults upon the Beech Hillers, had
confined their attention more to their own affairs than formerly. They
were satisfied to give the barges of the "tinkers" a wide berth on the
lake; and the boating season closed without any more serious quarrels on
the water.
The Topovers had never accomplished anything by meddling with the
students on their side of the lake. A little discipline in one of the
courts had kept them at a distance for a time. When the fruit was ripe,
Mr. Brookbine's big dog became a terror to them; for the master
carpenter had built a house for him near the rear fence of the orchard,
and the animal understood his duty perfectly.
The call for the students after supper was unusual, and no one but the
members of the acting crew of the yacht knew what it meant; and even
they knew nothing of the plan they were to assist in carrying out. Since
the former season there had been some changes in the organization of the
students. Captain Gildrock was no longer the actual captain of the
Sylph, the beautiful steam yacht connected with the institution.
The position had been given to Dory Dornwood, and the students generally
sailed her without the interference of the principal or any of the
instructors. Mr. Jepson, the master-machinist, was no longer the chief
engineer, and was therefore at no time under the orders of any of the
juvenile officers. Corny Minkfield, who had served one season as first
assistant-engineer, had been promoted to the highest place, and the
second to the place thus made vacant.
Oscar Chester was the first pilot. He had been a diligent student in
the pilot-house, and knew the lake almost as well as the captain. All
the places had been filled after the first appointments in accordance
with the merits of the students, though of necessity "civil service"
rules prevailed, for the reason that the members of the ship's company
had become more skilful in the departments in which they had been
employed than in any other.
The only violent changes made were those which gave the cooks and
stewards a chance to learn seamanship or the management of the engine
and furnaces. As waiters they learned out in a few months, and even the
rather limited routine of cookery required on board was exhausted in the
same time. Old deck hands and firemen became stewards, while those who
had served in the fireroom and cabins were transferred to the deck.
The increase in the number of students allowed a very large force of
seamen, and the vessel was now heavily manned. Crews for the quarter
boats were appointed for permanent service, and four quartermasters were
added to the organization, who had regular tricks at the wheel in the
pilot-house under the direction of the first or second pilot.
Dory Dornwood had been in command of the steamer for the three months
at the close of the last season of navigation, and every Saturday he
exercised his ship's company in as long cruises us the length of Lake
Champlain would permit. Sometimes the principal was on board, and
sometimes he was not. If he had anything to say, he said it to Captain
Dory Dornwood; and the discipline was as perfect as though the steamer
had been in the navy.
In the beginning of Captain Dornwood's administration there had been
considerable difficulty. Boys from the country, or even from the city,
were not very prompt to see the necessity of obeying orders without
asking any questions. But as this was one of the principal lessons the
steam yacht was to impart to the pupils, there was no relaxation of the
discipline to accommodate those who were dilatory or rebellious.
If an officer was in the slightest degree disobedient to those above him
in rank, he was "broken" as soon as the case was proved to the
satisfaction of the principal. If the delinquent was a seaman,
under-steward, or fireman, he was relieved from further duty on board,
and required to stay on shore under the eye of the instructors, or of
Bates, the old salt, who obeyed orders as though they were all written
down in the constitution of the State.
As this was the severest punishment that could be inflicted upon any of
the students, it soon had its effect. Before the season closed, the
ship's company were as obedient to the new officers as they had ever
been when Captain Gildrock was in command. More than this, Dory was very
popular in the school; he was not unreasonable, snobbish, or tyrannical,
and never did violence to the self-respect of any of his shipmates.
After they had learned the trick of doing it, it was a pleasure to obey
orders.
The students assembled in the boat-house, and all eyes were fixed upon
Captain Dornwood, who was to have command of the expedition to Sandy
Point, for the operations on shore as well as those on board of the
Sylph.
"Perhaps I ought to call for volunteers for the work of to-night, for
some of you may not want to sit up so late as the business in hand may
require," the captain began, with a cheerful smile on his handsome face,
for his good looks had certainly improved in the last two years.
"All night if you like!" shouted Bob Swanton.
"The principal instructed me to say that the early bell will not be
rung to-morrow morning," continued Dory. "There will be a good deal of
hard work to be done, including some lifting, though there are enough of
us to make the task easy. These are the hardships of the trip; and if
any student prefers to stay at the school, he will be permitted to do
so. If there are any such they will please step forward."
Of course, there was not a single one who wished to be excused from
duty. The captain of the Sylph explained that they were to make a trip
up the lake by moonlight in the steamer, and do a smart job on the other
side. This was all he would tell them at that time, and he directed them
to put on their uniform.
CHAPTER VII.
AN EXPEDITION BY MOONLIGHT.
The Sylph lay at the new wharf, and as soon as the students had put on
their uniforms they went on board of her. Chief-engineer Minkfield was
directed to get up steam at once. Captain Dornwood ordered one of the
quarter boats to be lowered into the water and manned. Taking Thad
Glovering, the first officer, with him, he embarked.
At the order of the coxswain the bowman shoved off, and the oars were
dropped into the water. The boat was pulled up the little lake to the
stone quarries. Mr. Miker, the lessee of the quarries, had made good use
of some of the ideas of Bolly Millweed, the architect of the boat-house.
The caisson, on which the stone posts for the foundations of the
structure had been transported, had suggested to him the building of a
huge raft, or scow.
He called the craft a "gundalow," which appears to be a corruption of
gondola, though the affair bore but little resemblance to the airy boat
of the Venetians. It was fifty feet long and sixteen feet wide. It was
decked over and caulked, so that it was as tight as a ship on the ocean.
It had a stow-hole at each end; but these compartments were perfectly
tight, so that if any water flowed into them it could not get into the
large middle chamber upon which the craft depended for its power of
flotation.
When heavily loaded with stone, the deck was only a few inches above the
level of the water outside. Mr. Miker's principal market for the
production of the quarries was at Genverres, though he had sold a large
quantity of stone to be delivered in Burlington. In the centre of the
deck was a derrick, which was used as a mast when the gundalow went out
upon Lake Champlain. She was provided with a large, square sail, but it
could be used only when the wind was fair.
On her trips to Genverres she was poled by four or six men, and made
very slow progress. But Captain Gildrock had offered Mr. Miker the use
of the Sylph to tow her when he wished, for this was nothing but fun to
the ship's company, and, as it looked like business to them, they
enjoyed it more than mere sailing without a purpose.
The principal made no charge for the use of the steamer, and Mr. Miker
was grateful for the service rendered by the yacht and the students. The
gundalow was just the thing Captain Dornwood wanted for the operations
of the night. When the boat reached the quarry, the captain went on
board and measured it. But the derrick was in the way, and unless it
could be removed, the craft would be useless to him.
Returning to the boat, he proceeded farther up the creek, to a point
near Mr. Miker's house. Landing again, he found the quarryman in his
garden. He stated his business. Of course he could have the use of the
gundalow, and the derrick could be taken out of her. The man of stone
was enthusiastic to serve the students, and he did not even ask to what
use the craft was to be applied, though Dory volunteered the information
that the plan he was to carry out was approved by the principal.
Mr. Miker hastened to summon all his men, who lived near the quarries,
and by eight o'clock they were on the deck of the gundalow. But it was
no small undertaking to remove the derrick, for the mast was a very
heavy spar, and was stepped in the bottom of the scow.
The rigging and the long arm were taken from it, and then one of the
movable derricks used in the quarries was brought on deck, and guyed up
for work. With the aid of this machinery the mast was taken out, and
deposited on the shore. The mast-hole was covered with a tight scuttle
made for the purpose, and the gundalow was adapted to the business for
which she was to be used in the expedition to Sandy Point.
By this time it was nine o'clock, and the moon was just beginning to
cast its silvery light upon the still waters of the little lake. Captain
Dornwood promised to return the scow to the quarries before morning; but
Mr. Miker said he should not use her for a week, and the captain could
keep her as long as he wished.
"We shall want a lot of blocks, planks, and timbers, but we have plenty
of them on the school grounds, though we shall have to lug them a
considerable distance to put them on board of the gundalow," said
Captain Dornwood, as he was about to step into the boat.
"Hold on then, Dory! I have everything you can possibly want in that
line," interposed Mr. Miker. "The students have saved my men a vast deal
of hard work in towing the gundalow, and they will be glad to put all
the lumber you need on board of the scow."
"That we will!" exclaimed several of the men in the same breath.
"I don't want to give you and your men, who have been at work all day,
any unnecessary trouble," added Dory.
"No trouble at all!" protested the men, as they began to put the timbers
on board.
Dory was very grateful to them, and pointed out the kind of stuff he
wanted, including a large pile of rollers used in moving heavy blocks of
stone. In half an hour the gundalow was loaded with the materials Dory
had indicated. In the little time at his disposal, the energetic leader
of the enterprise had made a list of the material he was likely to
require. He had been at work, while the men were loading the blocks and
planks, with his pencil and paper, and had thought of several things
that were of prime importance.
"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Miker, and I shall be still more so,
if you will lend us eight jack-screws, for we have not enough of them at
the shops," continued Dory.
"Are you going to move a meeting-house, Dory?" asked the quarryman,
laughing.
"We are going to do something of that sort," replied the leader of the
enterprise. "But I don't let on just yet."
"All right; you know what you are about every time, and it is best to
keep your mouth shut, in ease you should not succeed as well as you
expect. I have a dozen rather small jack-screws, and I will have all of
them put on the deck of the gundalow," added Mr. Miker, as he ordered
his men to bring them from a shanty where they were kept under lock and
key.
"I will see that everything is brought back again before morning," said
Dory, as he stepped into his boat, and gave the order to return to the
Sylph.
It was now nearly ten o'clock on as beautiful an evening as ever
gladdened the heart of any night wanderers. The full moon gave an
abundance of light, and the operations of the students could be as
readily conducted as in the day-time. Everything that would be needed,
with the exception of a few coils of rope, was on board of the gundalow.
A party was sent to the shops for them; and when these necessary
articles were obtained, the fasts were cast off, and the steamer stood
up to the quarries.
The gundalow had been so often towed by the Sylph, that the business was
perfectly understood. In a few moments more she was made fast to the
steamer by the double tow-lines, so that the awkward craft could be
steered even around a corner without any difficulty. Will Orwell, the
second officer, was detailed to take charge of a party of six on board
of the tow. But before the steamer got under way again, Captain Dornwood
called all hands together on the forward deck.
"Now we shall know what sort of a racket this is going to be," said Dick
Halifax, as they hastened to the place of meeting.
"No, you won't," replied Dick Short, to whom the remark was addressed.
"You won't know anything at all about it until we come to the work to be
done."
"Why don't he tell us what we are to do?" asked Dick. "I should like to
know something about it."
"It was a trick of Captain Gildrock to keep his business to himself, and
Dory takes after him. The principal thinks the fellows can obey orders
better when they don't know what is coming than they can when they
understand all about it. Every fellow thinks he knows best how to do
almost anything."
"I don't know but he is right. I never saw a horse tumble down in the
street, but every one of the crowd around him wanted to boss the job of
getting him on his feet again," added Dick.
"I have called you together, fellows, to say that it will be necessary
to keep as still as possible on the expedition of to-night;" said
Captain Dornwood, when the ship's company had all gathered on the
forward deck. "I don't know that a noise would defeat our plans, but I
am very much afraid it would cause us some trouble. I don't believe in
any yelling when we are on duty, but I fear it would make mischief
to-night. Please to observe this request in the strictest possible
manner."
"Where are we going, Captain Dornwood?" asked Bark Duxbury, one of the
new students.
"Going to work now," replied the captain with a smile. "All hands to
their stations."
The ship's company separated, and all the officers and seamen went to
the places where they belonged. Though no meals were to be served during
the night, so far as was known, the cooks went to the galley, and the
stewards to the forward cabin. The second officer, with his gang, went
on board of the gundalow, and at the order from the captain the pilot on
duty rang the bell to back her. By this movement the scow was hauled out
from the wharf, and the bell to go ahead was given.
Mr. Miker and some of his men stood on the shore watching the departure
of the expedition, and wondering what sort of a mission the students
were going upon at that time in the evening. But the Sylph and her tow
soon disappeared beyond the trees at the lower end of Beechwater. Dory
was on the hurricane deck, keeping a sharp lookout upon everything that
was done.
At the V-point the pilot slowed down without any order from the captain,
and the scow was switched around it without touching the mud. There was
now nothing to do outside of the engine-room and pilot-house; and the
crew gathered into companies in various parts of the deck to speculate
upon the nature of the expedition in which they were engaged. They
guessed a hundred things. The crew of the Goldwing were pretty sure they
were going to Sandy Point.
The Sylph was approaching the mouth of the river, and it would soon be
necessary for Captain Dornwood to say something. For, if the expedition
was bound to the northward, she would take that course as soon as she
came up with the point on that side of the river; if she was going to
the southward, she would have to keep her present course half a mile
farther out into the lake to avoid the shoals off Field's Bay.
Oscar Chester and Dick Short, the latter of whom had been promoted from
a deck-hand to the position of second pilot, were in the pilot-house. No
order came to alter the course at the north point, but a few minutes
later the captain entered the pilot-house.
"We are bound to Sandy Point," said he; and the head of the steamer was
turned to the southwest.
In less than half an hour, the Sylph was close in to the end of the
point, and Dory discovered Paul on the shore. The steamer was headed
into the bay, and the gundalow brought up to a point directly in front
of the cottage.
CHAPTER VIII.
A CHANGE OF LOCATION.
Both of the quarter boats of the Sylph were lowered into the water, and
a shore party landed with Captain Dornwood. The steamer was then left in
charge of the first pilot. The hands on board of the gundalow had poled
her up to the beach where she had grounded.
"I am glad to see you, Dory," said Paul Bristol, when the captain went
on shore. "It was so late that I was afraid you were not coming."
"We have plenty of time to do the job, for I don't think it will take us
a great while. Have you seen anything of the Chesterfields this
evening?"
"Not one of them has been near the point, so far as I know, and I don't
expect to see any of them. I suppose they are dreaming of the fun they
will have in pitching the cottage into the lake to-morrow afternoon,"
added Paul, with a cheerful smile. "But I don't see how you are going to
move the building, Dory."
"If you keep your eye on us sharp for an hour or so you will see,"
replied the leader of the enterprise, as he turned his attention to the
business before him.
After half an hour's hard work, the lumber, blocks, and rigging on the
deck of the scow were landed on the beach. With thirty pairs of hands
the work was not very hard, and they tossed the large sticks about as
though they had been nothing but chips. By this time they understood
what was to be done, and the students were full of enthusiasm. They were
required to work in silence; for though the Chesterfield school was all
of half a mile from Sandy Point, Dory was very anxious lest their
operations should be disturbed by the institute people.
Two heavy timbers were placed under the cottage; the jack-screws were
put in position under them, and the building raised from the posts which
supported it. A plankway was laid on the smooth sand, the posts were
removed, and the cottage set on rollers. The plankway was continued to
the water.
There was a considerable descent from the site of the cottage to the
water. Two heavy ropes were attached to the building, and passed around
a couple of large trees in the rear of it. The plankway was an inclined
plane, and it required but little force to start the cottage on its
journey. With a couple of turns around the trees, the hands stationed at
the check-lines easily controlled its movements, and slacked off only as
the captain gave the word.
In a few minutes the building was rolled down almost to the water. The
gundalow was aground on the shore end. Two heavy timbers were extended
from the deck to the beach and supported by blocks so that they would
bear the weight of the structure. These beams lay nearly level when they
were in position, and just reached the end of the plankway on shore. The
check-lines were eased off again when smooth bearings for the rollers
had been prepared.
When the cottage was about half on the timber-ways the force of gravity
was no longer available, and the building refused to budge another inch.
While Captain Dornwood was on the front of the structure, some twenty of
the students in the rear tried to push it toward the gundalow; but they
could not start it.
"Enough of that!" called Dory, as soon as he saw what they were doing.
"You are acting without orders, and wasting your strength for nothing."
"But the building sticks fast where it is," said Ben Ludlow.
"If you think you can push it ahead you are mistaken," added the
captain. "It has gone as far as I expected it to go of itself."
The two check-lines were then carried on board of the scow, and the
Sylph was backed up to her. The lines were made fast at the quarters of
the steamer. Dory stood on the after end of the gundalow, and, with a
boatswain's whistle, made a signal agreed upon with the pilot to go
ahead.
The lines stiffened and strained, and then the cottage began to move
again. The timber ways had been continued on the deck of the scow, and
the building moved very slowly until the captain gave a second signal
with the whistle.
The rollers were instantly blocked by hands under the direction of the
first officer. But the rear of the cottage just reached the stern of the
gundalow. At least half of the weight of the building rested upon the
sand at the bottom. The water deepened very rapidly near the shore on
the outside of the point, and it became necessary to handle the heavy
burden with the greatest care, for the forward end of the craft would
settle down as soon as the structure was moved any further, forming an
inclined plane, on which the cottage might roll overboard.
There were four iron rings at the stern of the scow, and check-lines
were extended from them to the structure. A double turn was taken in
each over a cleat, and hands placed at these ropes. The signal was again
given for the steamer to go ahead. The building moved a few feet
further, and the rollers were promptly chocked when the captain gave the
whistle to "stop her."
The cottage was not yet exactly in the middle of the deck, and another
movement was necessary. The bow of the scow settled down, but the
check-lines held the house firmly in position. The second move was so
well timed that it placed the building in exactly the right place.
The check-lines were belayed under the direction of the first officer,
while the second officer proceeded to fasten the cottage to the rings in
the bow of the scow. It was to remain on the rollers during the trip to
its destination, and Captain Dornwood made sure that it was secured
