of a Sunday afternoon. At Aries and Nimes it has a 
characteristic setting, but in the villages the patrons 
  
of the game make a circle of carts and barrels, on 
which the spectators perch themselves. I was sur 
prised at the prevalence, in mild Provence, of the 
Iberian vice, and hardly know whether it makes the 
custom more respectable that at Nimes and Aries the 
thing is shabbily and imperfectly done. The bulls 
are rarely killed, and indeed often are bulls only in 
the Irish sense of the term, being domestic and 
motherly cows. Such an entertainment of course does 
not supply to the arena that element of the exquisite 
which I spoke of as wanting. The exquisite at Nimes 
is mainly represented by the famous Maison Carree. 
The first impression you receive from this delicate 
little building, as you stand before it, is that you have 
already seen it many times. Photographs, engravings, 
models, medals, have placed it definitely in your eye, 
so that from the sentiment with which you regard it 
curiosity and surprise are almost completely, and per 
haps deplorably, absent. Admiration remains, how 
ever, admiration of a familiar and even slightly 
patronizing kind. The Maison Carree does not over 
whelm you; you can conceive it. It is not one of the 
great sensations of the antique art; but it is perfectly 
felicitous, and, in spite of having been put to all sorts 
of incongruous uses, marvellously preserved. Its slender 
columns, its delicate proportions, its charming com 
pactness, seemed to bring one nearer to the century 
that built it than the great superpositions of arenas 
and bridges, and give it the interest that vibrates from 
one age to another when the note of taste is struck. 
If anything were needed to make this little toy-temple 
a happy production, the service would be rendered by 
the second-rate boulevard that conducts to it, adorned 
with inferior cafes and tobacco-shops. Here, in a 
respectable recess, surrounded by vulgar habitations, 
and with the theatre, of a classic pretension, opposite, 
stands the small "square house," so called because it 
is much longer than it is broad. I saw it first in the 
evening, in the vague moonlight, which made it look 
as if it were cast in bronze. Stendhal says, justly, 
that it has the shape of a playing-card, and he ex 
presses his admiration for it by the singular wish 
that an "exact copy" of it should be erected in Paris. 
He even goes so far as to say that in the year 1880 
this tribute will have been rendered to its charms; 
nothing would be more simple, to his mind, than to 
"have" in that city "le Pantheon de Rome, quelques 
temples de Grece." Stendhal found it amusing to 
write in the character of a commis-voyageur, and some 
times it occurs to his reader that he really was one. 
XXIX. 
ON my way from Nimes to Aries, I spent three 
hours at Tarascon; chiefly for the love of Alphonse 
Daudet, who has written nothing more genial than 
"Les Aventures Prodigieuses de Tartarin," and the 
story of the "siege" of the bright, dead little town 
(a mythic siege by the Prussians) in the "Contes du 
  
Lundi." In the introduction which, for the new 
edition of his works, he has lately supplied to "Tar- 
tarin," the author of this extravagant but kindly 
satire gives some account of the displeasure with 
which he has been visited by the ticklish Tarascon- 
nais. Daudet relates that in his attempt to shed a 
humorous light upon some of the more erratic phases 
of the Provencal character, he selected Tarascon at a 
venture; not because the temperament of its natives 
is more vainglorious than that of their neighbors, or 
their rebellion against the "despotism of fact" more 
marked, but simply because he had to name a par 
ticular Provencal city. Tartarin is a hunter of lions 
and charmer of women, a true "produit du midi  as 
Daudet says, who has the most fantastic and fabulous 
adventures. He is a minimized Don Quixote, with 
much less dignity, but with equal good faith; and the 
story of his exploits is a little masterpiece of the 
light comical. The Tarasconnais, however, declined to 
take the joke, and opened the vials of their wrath 
upon the mocking child of Nimes, who would have 
been better employed, they doubtless thought, in show 
ing up the infirmities of his own family. I am bound 
to add that when I passed through Tarascon they did 
not appear to be in the least out of humor. Nothing 
could have been brighter, softer, more suggestive of 
amiable indifference, than the picture it presented to 
my mind. It lies quietly beside the Rhone, looking 
across at Beaucaire, which seems very distant and in 
dependent, and tacitly consenting to let the castle of 
the good King Rene of Anjou, which projects very 
boldly into the river, pass for its most interesting feature. 
The other features are, primarily, a sort of vivid sleepi 
ness in the aspect of the place, as if the September 
noon (it had lingered on into October) lasted longer 
there than elsewhere; certain low arcades, which make 
the streets look gray and exhibit empty vistas; and a 
very curious and beautiful walk beside the Rhone, 
denominated the Chaussee, a long and narrow cause 
way, densely shaded by two rows of magnificent old 
trees, planted in its embankment, and rendered doubly 
effective, at the moment I passed over it, by a little 
train of collegians, who had been taken out for mild 
exercise by a pair of young priests. Lastly, one may 
say that a striking element of Tarascon, as of any town 
that lies on the Rhone, is simply the Rhone itself: the 
big brown flood, of uncertain temper, which has never 
taken time to forget that it is a child of the mountain 
and the glacier, and that such an origin carries with it 
great privileges. Later, at Avignon, I observed it in 
the exercise of these privileges, chief among which was 
that of frightening the good people of the old papal 
city half out of their wits. 
The chateau of King Rene serves to-day as the 
prison of a district, and the traveller who wishes to 
look into it must obtain his permission at the Mairie 
of Tarascon. If he have had a certain experience of 
French manners, his application will be accompanied 
with the forms of a considerable obsequiosity, and in 
this case his request will be granted as civilly as it 
  
has been made. The castle has more of the air of a 
severely feudal fortress than I should suppose the 
period of its construction (the first half of the fifteenth 
century) would have warranted; being tremendously 
bare and perpendicular, and constructed for comfort 
only in the sense that it was arranged for defence. It 
is a square and simple mass, composed of small yellow 
stones, and perched on a pedestal of rock which easily 
commands the river. The building has the usual cir 
cular towers at the corners, and a heavy cornice at 
the top, and immense stretches of sun-scorched wall, 
relieved at wide intervals by small windows, heavily 
cross-ban ed. It has, above all, an extreme steepness 
of aspect; I cannot express it otherwise. The walls 
are as sheer and inhospitable as precipices. The castle 
has kept its large moat, which is now a hollow filled 
with wild plants. To this tall fortress the good Rene 
retired in the middle of the fifteenth century, finding 
it apparently the most substantial thing left him in a 
dominion which had included Naples and Sicily, 
Lorraine and Anjou. He had been a much-tried 
monarch and the sport of a various fortune, fighting 
half his life for thrones he didn 't care for, and exalted 
only to be quickly cast down. Provence was the 
country of his affection, and the memory of his troubles 
did not prevent him from holding a joyous court at 
Tarascon and at Aix. He finished the castle at 
Tarascon, which had been begun earlier in the century, 
finished it, I suppose, for consistency 's sake, in the 
manner in which it had originally been designed rather 
than in accordance with the artistic tastes that formed 
the consolation of his old age. He was a painter, a 
writer, a dramatist, a modern dilettante, addicted to 
private theatricals. There is something very attractive 
in the image that he has imprinted on the page of 
history. He was both clever and kind, and many 
reverses and much suffering had not imbittered him 
nor quenched his faculty of enjoyment. He was fond 
of his sweet Provence, and his sweet Provence has 
been grateful; it has woven a light tissue of legend 
around the memory of the good King Rene. 
I strolled over his dusky habitation it must have 
taken all his good-humor to light it up at the heels 
of the custodian, who showed me the usual number of 
castle-properties: a deep, well-like court; a collection of 
winding staircases and vaulted chambers, the embra 
sures of whose windows and the recesses of whose 
doorways reveal a tremendous thickness of wall. These 
things constitute the general identity of old castles; 
and when one has wandered through a good many, 
with due discretion of step and protrusion -of head, 
one ceases very much to distinguish and remember, 
and contents one 's self with consigning them to the 
honorable limbo of the romantic. I must add that this 
reflection did not the least deter me from crossing the 
bridge which connects Tarascon with Beaucaire, in 
order to examine the old fortress whose ruins adorn 
the latter city. It stands on a foundation of rock much 
higher than that of Tarascon, and looks over with a 
melancholy expression at its better-conditioned brother. 
  
Its position is magnificent, and its outline very gallant. 
I was well rewarded for my pilgrimage; for if the castle 
of Beaucaire is only a fragment, the whole place, with 
its position and its views, is an ineffaceable picture. It 
was the stronghold of the Montmorencys, and its last 
tenant was that rash Duke Franois, whom Richelieu, 
seizing every occasion to trample on a great noble, 
caused to be beheaded at Toulouse, where we saw, in 
the Capitol, the butcher 's knife with which the cardinal 
pruned the crown of France of its thorns. The castle, 
after the death of this victim, was virtually demolished. 
Its site, which Nature to-day has taken again to herself, 
has an extraordinary charm. The mass of rock that it 
formerly covered rises high above the town, and is as 
precipitous as the side of the Rhone. A tall rusty iron 
gate admits you from a quiet corner of Beaucaire to a 
wild tangled garden, covering the side of the hill, 
for the whole place forms the public promenade of the 
townsfolk, a garden without flowers, with little steep, 
rough paths that wind under a plantation of small, 
scrubby stone-pines. Above this is the grassy platform 
of the castle, enclosed on one side only (toward the 
river) by a large fragment of wall and a very massive 
dungeon. There are benches placed in the lee of the 
wall, and others on the edge of the platform, where 
one may enjoy a view, beyond the river, of certain 
peeled and scorched undulations. A sweet desolation, 
an everlasting peace, seemed to hang in the air. A 
very old man (a fragment, like the castle itself) emerged 
from some crumbling corner to do me the honors, a 
veiy gentle, obsequious, tottering, toothless, grateful old 
man. He beguiled me into an ascent of the solitary 
tower, from which you may look down on the big 
sallow river and glance at diminished Tarascon, and 
the barefaced, bald-headed hills behind it. It may 
appear that I insist too much upon the nudity of the 
Provencal horizon, too much, considering that I have 
spoken of the prospect from the heights of Beaucaire as 
lovely. But it is an exquisite bareness; it seems to 
exist for the purpose of allowing one to follow the de 
licate lines of the hills, and touch with the eyes, as it 
were, the smallest inflections of the landscape. It 
makes the whole thing seem wonderfully bright and 
pure. 
Beaucaire used to be the scene of a famous fair, 
the great fair of the south of France. It has gone the 
way of most fairs, even in France, where these delight 
ful exhibitions hold their own much better than might 
be supposed. It is still held in the month of July; 
but the bourgeoises of Tarascon send to the Magasin 
du Louvre for their smart dresses, and the principal 
glory of the scene is its long tradition. Even now, 
however, it ought to be the prettiest of all fairs, for it 
takes place in a charming wood which lies just beneath 
the castle, beside the Rhone. The booths, the barracks, 
the platforms of the mountebanks, the bright-colored 
crowd, diffused through this midsummer shade, and 
spotted here and there with the rich Provencal sun 
shine must be of the most pictorial effect. It is highly 
probable, too, that it offers a large collection of pretty 
  
faces; for even in the few hours that I spent at 
Tarascon I discovered symptoms of the purity of 
feature for which the women of the pays d* Aries are 
renowned. The Arlesian head-dress was visible in the 
streets; and this delightful coiffure is so associated with 
a charming facial oval, a dark mild eye, a straight 
Greek nose, and a mouth worthy of all the rest, that 
it conveys a presumption of beauty which gives the 
wearer time either to escape or to please you. I have 
read somewhere, however, that Tarascon is supposed 
to produce handsome men, as Aries is known to deal 
in handsome women. It may be that I should have 
found the Tarasconnais very fine fellows, if I had en 
countered enough specimens to justify an induction. 
But there were very few males in the streets, and the 
place presented no appearance of activity. Here and 
there the black coif of an old woman or of a young 
girl was framed by a low doorway; but for the rest, as 
I have said, Tarascon was mostly involved in a siesta. 
There was not a creature in the little church of Saint 
Martha, which I made a point of visiting before I re 
turned to the station, and which, with its fine Romanesque 
sideportal and its pointed and crocketed Gothic spire, 
is as curious as it need be, in view of its tradition. It 
stands in a quiet corner where the grass grows between 
the small cobble-stones, and you pass beneath a deep 
archway to reach it. The tradition relates that Saint 
Martha tamed with her own hands, and attached to 
her girdle, a dreadful dragon, who was known as the 
Tarasque, and is reported to have given his name to 
 
the city on whose site (amid the rocks which form the 
base of the chateau) he had his cavern. The dragon, 
perhaps, is the symbol of a ravening paganism, dis 
pelled by the eloquence of a sweet evangelist. The 
bones of the interesting saint, at all events, were found, 
in the eleventh century, in a cave beneath the spot on 
which her altar now stands. I know not what had be 
come of the bones of the dragon. 
XXX. 
THERE are two shabby old inns at Aries, which 
compete closely for your custom. I mean by this that 
if you elect to go to the Hotel du Forum, the Hotel 
du Nord, which is placed exactly beside it (at a right 
angle) watches your arrival with ill -concealed dis 
approval; and if you take the chances of its neighbor, 
the Hotel du Forum seems to glare at you invidiously 
from all its windows and doors. I forget which of 
these establishments I selected; whichever it was, I 
wished very much that it had been the other. The 
two stand together on the Place des Hommes, a little 
public square of Aries, which somehow quite misses 
its effect. As a city, indeed, Aries quite misses its 
effect in every way; and if it is a charming place, as 
I think it is, I can hardly tell the reason why. The 
straight-nosed Arlesiennes account for it in some degree; 
and the remainder may be charged to the ruins of the 
arena and the theatre. Beyond this, I remember with 
affection the ill-proportioned little Place des Hommes; 
not at all monumental, and given over to puddles and 
to shabby cafes. I recall with tenderness the tortuous 
and featureless streets, which looked like the streets of 
a village, and were paved with villanous little sharp 
stones, making all exercise penitential. Consecrated 
by association is even a tiresome walk that I took the 
evening I arrived, with the purpose of obtaining a 
view of the Rhone. I had been to Aries before, years 
ago, and it seemed to me that I remembered finding 
on the banks of the stream some sort of picture. I 
think that on the evening of which I speak there was 
a watery moon, which it seemed to me would light up 
the past as well as the present. But I found no pic 
ture, and I scarcely found the Rhone at all. I lost 
my way, and there was not a creature in the streets to 
whom I could appeal. Nothing could be more pro 
vincial - than the situation of Aries at ten o clock at 
night. At last I arrived at a kind of embankment, 
where I could see the great mud-colored stream slip 
ping along in the soundless darkness. It had come 
on to rain, I know not what had happened to the 
moon, and the whole place was anything but gay. It 
was not what I had looked for; what I had looked for 
was in the irrecoverable past. I groped my way back 
to the inn over the infernal cailloux, feeling like a dis 
comfited Dogberry. I remember now that this hotel 
was the one (whichever that may be) which has the 
fragment of a Gallo-Roman portico inserted into one 
of its angles. I had chosen it for the sake of this ex- 
ceptional ornament. It was damp and dark, and the 
floors felt gritty to the feet; it was an establishment at 
which the dreadful gras-doulle might have appeared 
at the table d hote, as it had done at Narbonne. Never 
theless, I was glad to get back to it; and nevertheless, 
too, and this is the moral of my simple anecdote, 
my pointless little walk (I don't speak of the pave 
ment) suffuses itself, as I look back upon it, with a 
romantic tone. And in relation to the inn, I suppose 
I had better mention that I am well aware of the in 
consistency of a person who dislikes the modern cara 
vansary, and yet grumbles when he finds a hotel of 
the superannuated sort. One ought to choose, it w r ould 
seem, and make the best of either alternative. The 
two old taverns at Aries are quite unimproved; such 
as they must have been in the infancy of the modern 
world, when Stendhal passed that way, and the lum 
bering diligence deposited him in the Place des 
Hommes, such in every detail they are to-day. Vieilles 
auberges de France, one ought to enjoy their gritty 
floors and greasy w T indow-panes. Let it be put on re 
cord, therefore, that I have been, I won't say less com 
fortable, but at least less happy, at better inns. 
To be really historic, I should have mentioned that 
before going to look for the Rhone I had spent part 
of the evening on the opposite side of the little place, 
and that I indulged in this recreation for two definite 
reasons. One of these was that I had an opportunity 
of conversing at a cafe with an attractive young Eng 
lishman, whom I had met in the afternoon at Tarascon, 
  
and more remotely, in other years, in London; the 
other was that there sat enthroned behind the counter 
a splendid mature Arlesienne, whom my companion 
and I agreed that it was a rare privilege to contem 
plate. There is no rule of good manners or morals 
which makes it improper, at a cafe, to fix one 's eyes 
upon the dame de comptoir ; the lady is, in the nature 
of things, a part of your consommation. We were there 
fore free to admire without restriction the handsomest 
person I had ever seen give change for a five-franc 
piece. She was a large quiet woman, who would never 
see forty again; of an intensely feminine type, yet 
wonderfully rich and robust, and full of a certain phy 
sical nobleness. Though she was not really old, she 
was antique, and she was very grave, even a little sad. 
She had the dignity of a Roman empress, and she 
handled coppers as if they had been stamped with 
the head of Caesar. I have seen washerwomen in the 
Trastevere who were perhaps as handsome as she; but 
even the head-dress of the Reman contadina con 
tributes less to the dignity of the person born to wear 
it than the sweet and stately Arlesian cap, which sits 
at once aloft and on the back of the head; which is 
accompanied with a wide black bow covering a con 
siderable part of the crown; and which, finally, accom 
modates itself indescribably well to the manner in 
which the tresses of the front are pushed behind the 
ears. 
This admirable dispenser of lumps of sugar has 
distracted me a little; for I am still not sufficiently 
historical. Before going to the cafe I had dined, and 
before dining I had found time to go and look at the 
arena. Then it was that I discovered that Aries has 
no general physiognomy, and, except the delightful 
little church of Saint Trophimus, no architecture, and 
that the rugosities of its dirty lanes affect the feet like 
knife-blades. It was not then, on the other hand, that 
I saw the arena best. The second day of my stay at 
Aries I devoted to a pilgrimage to the strange old hill 
town of Les Baux, the mediceval Pompeii, of which I 
shall give myself the pleasure of speaking. The even 
ing of that day, however (my friend and I returned in 
time for a late dinner), I wandered among the Roman 
remains of the place by the light of a magnificent 
moon, and gathered an impression which has lost little 
of its silvery glow. The moon of the evening before 
had been aqueous and erratic; but if on the present 
occasion it was guilty of any irregularity, the worst it 
did was only to linger beyond its time in the heavens, 
in order to let us look at things comfortably. The 
effect was admirable; it brought back the impression 
of the way, in Rome itself, on evenings like that, the 
moonshine rests upon broken shafts and slabs of an 
tique pavement. As we sat in the theatre, looking at 
the two lone columns that survive part of the decora 
tion of the back of the stage and at the fragments 
of ruin around them, we might have been in the 
Roman forum. The arena at Aries, with its great 
magnitude, is less complete than that of Nimes; it has 
suffered even more the assaults of time and of the 
children of time, and it has been less repaired. The 
seats are almost wholly wanting; but the external walls 
minus the topmost tier of arches, are massively, rug 
gedly, complete; and the vaulted corridors seem as 
solid as the day they were built. The whole thing is 
superbly vast, and as monumental, for place of light 
amusement what is called in America a "variety- 
show" as it entered only into the Roman mind to 
make such establishments. The podium is much higher 
than at Nimes, and many of the great white slabs that 
faced it have been recovered and put into their places. 
The proconsular box has been more or less recon 
structed, and the great converging passages of approach 
to it are still majestically distinct: so that, as I sat 
there in the moon-charmed stillness, leaning my elbows 
on the battered parapet of the ring, it was not im 
possible to listen to the murmurs and shudders, the 
thick voice of the circus, that died away fifteen hun 
dred years ago. 
The theatre has a voice as well, but it lingers on 
the ear of time with a different music. The Roman 
theatre at Aries seemed to me one of the most charm 
ing and touching ruins I had ever beheld; I took a 
particular fancy to it. It is less than a skeleton, the 
arena may be called a skeleton; for it consists only of 
half a dozen bones. The traces of the row of columns 
which formed the scene the permanent back-scene 
remain; two marble pillars I just mentioned them 
are upright, with a fragment of their entablature. Be 
fore them is the vacant space which was filled by the 
stage, with the line of the proscenium distinct, marked 
by a deep groove, impressed upon slabs of stone, which 
looks as if the bottom of a high screen had been in 
tended to fit into it. The semicircle formed by the 
seats half a cup rises opposite; some of the rows 
are distinctly marked. The floor, from the bottom of 
the stage, in the shape of an arc of which the chord 
is formed by the line of the orchestra, is covered by 
slabs of colored marble red, yellow, and green 
which, though terribly battered and cracked to-day, 
give one an idea of the elegance of the interior. Every 
thing shows that it was on a great scale: the large 
sweep of its enclosing walls, the massive corridors that 
passed behind the auditorium, and of which we can 
still perfectly take the measure. The way in which 
every seat commanded the stage is a lesson to the 
architects of our epoch, as also the immense size of 
the place is a proof of extraordinary power of voice 
on the part of the Roman actors. It was after we had 
spent half an hour in the moonshine at the arena that 
we came on to this more ghostly and more exquisite 
ruin. The principal entrance was locked, but we 
effected an easy escalade, scaled a low parapet, and 
descended into the place behind the scenes. It was 
as light as day, and the solitude was complete. The 
two slim columns, as we sat on the broken benches, 
stood there like a pair of silent actors. What I called 
touching, just now, was the thought that here the 
human voice, the utterance of a great language, had 
been supreme. The air was full of intonations and 
 
cadences; not of the echo of smashing blows, of riven 
armor, of howling victims and roaring beasts. The 
spot is, in short, one of the sweetest legacies of the 
ancient world; and there seems no profanation in the 
fact that by day it is open to the good people of 
Aries, who use it to pass, by no means in great num 
bers, from one part of the town to the other; treading 
the old marble floor, and brushing, if need be, the 
empty benches. This familiarity does not kill the 
place again; it makes it, on the contrary, live a little, 
makes the present and the past touch each other. 
XXXI. 
THE third lion of Aries has nothing to do with the 
ancient world, but only with the old one. The church 
of Saint Trophimus, whose wonderful Romanesque 
porch is the principal ornament of the principal place, 
a place otherwise distinguished by the presence of 
a slim and tapering obelisk in the middle, as well as 
by that of the Hotel de Ville and the museum the 
interesting church of Saint Trophimus swears a little, 
as the French say, with the peculiar character of 
Aries. It is very remarkable, but I would rather it 
were in another place. Aries is delightfully pagan, 
and Saint Trophimus, with its apostolic sculptures, is 
rather a false note. These sculptures are equally re 
markable for their primitive vigor and for the perfect 
preservation in which they have come down to us. 
  
The deep recess of a round-arched porch of the 
twelfth century is covered with quaint figures, which 
have not lost a nose or a finger. An angular, Byzan 
tine-looking Christ sits in a diamond-shaped frame at 
the summit of the arch, surrounded by little angels, 
by great apostles, by winged beasts, by a hundred 
sacred symbols and grotesque ornaments. It is a 
dense embroidery of sculpture, black with time, but as 
uninjured as if it had been kept under glass. One 
good mark for the French Revolution! Of the in 
terior of the church, which has a nave of the twelfth 
century, and a choir three hundred years more recent, 
I chiefly remember the odd feature that the Romanesque 
aisles are so narrow that you literally or almost 
squeeze through them. You do so with some eager 
ness, for your natural purpose is to pass out to the 
cloister. This cloister, as distinguished and as per 
fect as the porch, has a great deal of charm. Its four 
sides, which are not of the same period (the earliest 
and best are of the twelfth century), have an elaborate 
arcade, supported on delicate pairs of columns, the 
capitals of which show an extraordinary variety of 
device and ornament. At the corners of the quadrangle 
these columns take the form of curious human figures. 
The whole thing is a gem of lightness and preserva 
tion, and is often cited for its beauty; but if it 
doesn 't sound too profane I prefer, especially at 
Aries, the ruins of the Roman theatre. The antique 
element is too precious to be mingled with anything 
less rare. This truth was very present to my mind 
during a ramble of a couple of hours that I took just 
before leaving the place; and the glowing beauty of 
the morning gave the last touch of the impression. I 
spent half an hour at the Museum; then I took an 
other look at the Roman theatre; after which I walked 
a little out of the town to the Aliscamps, the old 
Elysian Fields, the meagre remnant of the old pagan 
place of sepulture, which was afterwards used by the 
Christians, but has been for ages deserted, and now 
consists only of a melancholy avenue of cypresses, 
lined with a succession of ancient sarcophagi, empty, 
mossy, and mutilated. An iron-foundry, or some hor 
rible establishment which is conditioned upon tall 
chimneys and a noise of hammering and banging, has 
been established near at hand; but the cypresses shut 
it out well enough, and this small patch of Elysium is 
a very romantic corner. 
The door of the Museum stands ajar, and a vigilant 
custodian, with the usual batch of photographs on 
his mind, peeps out at you disapprovingly while you 
linger opposite, before the charming portal of Saint 
Trophimus, which you may look at for nothing. 
When you succumb to the silent influence of his eye, 
and go over to visit his collection, you find yourself 
in a desecrated church, in which a variety of ancient 
objects, disinterred in Arlesian soil, have been ar 
ranged without any pomp. The best of these, I be 
lieve, were found in the ruins of the theatre. Some of 
the most curious of them are early Christian sar 
cophagi, exactly on the pagan model, but covered with 
rude yet vigorously wrought images of the apostles, 
and with illustrations of scriptural history. Beauty 
of the highest kind , either of conception or of execu 
tion, is absent from most of the Roman fragments, 
which belong to the taste of a late period and a 
provincial civilization. But a gulf divides them from 
the bristling little imagery of the Christian sarcophagi, 
in which, at the same time, one detects a vague 
emulation of the rich examples by which their authors 
were surrounded. There is a certain element of style 
in all the pagan things; there is not a hint of it in 
the early Christian relics, among which, according to 
M. Joanne, of the Guide, are to be found more fine 
sarcophagi than in any collection but that of St. John 
Lateran. In two or three of the Roman fragments 
there is a noticeable distinction; principally in a 
charming bust of a boy, quite perfect, with those 
salient eyes that one sees in certain antique busts, and 
to which the absence of vision in the marble mask 
gives a look, often very touching, as of a baffled effort 
to see; also in the head of a woman, found- in the 
ruins of the theatre, who, alas! has lost her nose, and 
whose noble, simple contour, barring this deficiency, 
recalls the great manner of the Venus of Milo. There 
are various rich architectural fragments which in 
dicate that that edifice was a very splendid affair. 
This little Museum at Aries, in short, is the most Ro 
man thing I know of, out of Rome. 
  
XXXII. 
I FIND that I declared one evening, in a little 
journal I was keeping at that time, that I was weary 
of writing (I was probably very sleepy), but that it 
was essential I should make some note of my visit to 
Les Baux. I must have gone to sleep as soon as I 
had recorded this necessity, for I search my small diary 
in vain for any account of that enchanting spot. I 
have nothing but my memory to consult, a memory 
which is fairly good in regard to a general impression, 
but is terribly infirm in the matter of details and 
items. We knew in advance, my companion and I, 
that Les Baux was a pearl of picturesqueness; for 
had we not read as much in the handbook of Murray, 
who has the testimony of an English nobleman as to 
its attractions? We also knew that it lay some miles 
from Aries, on the crest of the Alpilles, the craggy 
little mountains which, as I stood on the breezy plat 
form of Beaucaire, formed to my eye a charming, if 
somewhat remote, background to Tarascon; this as 
surance having been given us by the landlady of the 
inn at Aries, of whom we hired a rather lumbering 
conveyance. The weather was not promising, but it 
proved a good day for the mediaeval Pompeii; a gray, 
melancholy, moist, but rainless, or almost rainless 
day, with nothing in the sky to flout, as the poet 
says, the dejected and pulverized past. The drive 
itself was charming; for there is an inexhaustible 
sweetness in the gray-green landscape of Provence. 
It is never absolutely flat, and yet is never really 
ambitious, and is full both of entertainment and re 
pose. It is in constant undulation, and the bareness 
of the soil lends itself easily to outline and profile. 
When I say the bareness, I mean the absence of 
woods and hedges. It blooms with heath and scented 
shrubs and stunted olive; and the white rock shining 
through the scattered herbage has a brightness which 
answers to the brightness of the sky. Of course it 
needs the sunshine, for all southern countries look a 
little false under the ground glass of incipient bad 
weather. This was the case on the day of my pil 
grimage to Les Baux. Nevertheless, I was as glad 
to keep going as I was to arrive; and as I went it 
seemed to me that true happiness would consist in 
wandering through such a land on foot, on September 
afternoons, when one might stretch one 's self on the 
warm ground in some shady hollow, and listen to the 
hum of bees and the whistle of melancholy shepherds; 
for in Provence the shepherds whistle to their flocks. 
I saw two or three of them, in the course of this drive 
to Les Baux, meandering about, looking behind, and 
calling upon the sheep in this way to follow, which 
the sheep always did, very promptly, with ovine 
unanimity. Nothing is more picturesque than to see 
a slow shepherd threading his way down one of the 
winding paths on a hillside, with his flock close be 
hind him, necessarily expanded, yet keeping just at 
  
his heels, bending and twisting as it goes, and looking 
rather like the tail of a dingy comet. 
About four miles from Aries, as you drive north 
ward toward the Alpilles, of which Alphonse Daudet 
has spoken so often, and, as he might say, so in 
timately, stand on a hill that overlooks the road 
the very considerable ruins of the abbey of Mont- 
majour, one of the innumerable remnants of a feudal 
and ecclesiastical (as well as an architectural) past 
that one encounters in the South of France; remnants 
which, it must be confessed, tend to introduce a cer 
tain confusion and satiety into the passive mind of 
the tourist. Montmajour, however, is very impressive 
and interesting; the only trouble with it is that, 
unless you have stopped and returned to Aries, you 
see it in memory over the head of Les Baux, which 
is a much more absorbing picture. A part of the 
mass of buildings (the monastery) dates only from the 
last century; and the stiff architecture of that period 
does not lend itself very gracefully to desolation: it 
looks too much as if it had been burnt down the year 
before. The monastery was demolished during the 
Revolution, and it injures a little the effect of the 
very much more ancient fragments that are connected 
with it. The whole place is on a great scale; it was 
a rich and splendid abbey. The church, a vast 
basilica of the eleventh century, and of the noblest 
proportions, is virtually intact; I mean as regards 
its essentials, for the details have completely vanished. 
The huge solid shell is full of expression; it looks, 
as if it had been hollowed out by the sincerity of 
early faith, and it opens into a cloister as impressive 
as itself. Wherever one goes, in France, one meets, 
looking backward a little, the spectre of the great 
Revolution; and one meets it always in the shape of 
the destruction of something beautiful and precious. 
To make us forgive it at all, how much it must also 
have destroyed that was more hateful than itself! 
Beneath the church of Montmajour is a most extra 
ordinary crypt, almost as big as the edifice above 
it, and making a complete subterranean temple, sur 
rounded with a circular gallery, or deambulatory, 
which expands at intervals into five square chapels. 
There are other things, of which I have but a con 
fused memory: a great fortified keep; a queer little 
primitive chapel, hollowed out of the rock, beneath 
these later structures, and recommended to the 
visitor 's attention as the confessional of Saint Tro- 
phimus, who shares with so many worthies the glory 
of being the first apostle of the Gauls. Then there 
is a strange, small church, of the dimmest antiquity, 
standing at a distance from the other buildings. I 
remember that after we had let ourselves down a 
good many steepish places to visit crypts and con 
fessionals, we walked across a field to this archaic 
cruciform edifice, and went thence to a point further 
down the road, where our carriage was awaiting 
us. The chapel of the Holy Cross, as it is called, 
is classed among the historic monuments of France; 
and I read in a queer, rambling, ill-written book 
  
which I picked up at Avignon, and in which the 
author, M. Louis de Lainbel, has buried a great deal 
of curious information on the subject of Provence, 
under a style inspiring little confidence, that the 
"delicieuse chapelle de Sainte-Croix" is a "veritable 
bijou artistique." He speaks of "a piece of lace in 
stone," which runs from one end of the building to 
the other, but of which I am obliged to confess that 
I have no recollection. I retain, however, a suf 
ficiently clear impression of the little superannuated 
temple, with its four apses and its perceptible odor of 
antiquity, the odor of the eleventh century. 
The ruins of Les Baux remain quite indistinguish 
able, even when you are directly beneath them, at 
the foot of the charming little Alpilles, which mass 
themselves with a kind of delicate ruggedness. Rock 
and ruin have been so welded together by the con 
fusions of time, that as you approach it from behind 
that is, from the direction of Aries the place 
presents simply a general air of cragginess. Nothing 
can be prettier than the crags of Provence; they are 
beautifully modelled, as painters say, and they have 
a delightful silvery color. The road winds round the 
foot of the hills on the top of which Les Baux is 
planted, and passes into another valley, from which 
the approach to the town is many degrees less pre 
cipitous, and may be comfortably made in a carriage. 
Of course the deeply inquiring traveller will alight as 
promptly as possible; for the pleasure of climbing 
into this queerest of cities on foot is not the least 
part of the entertainment of going there. Then you 
appreciate its extraordinary position, its picturesque- 
ness, its steepness, its desolation and decay. It 
hangs that is, what remains of it to the slanting 
summit of the mountain. Nothing would be more 
natural than for the whole place to roll down into 
the valley. A part of it has done so for it is not 
unjust to suppose that in the process of decay the 
crumbled particles have sought the lower level; 
while the remainder still clings to its magnificent 
perch. 
If I called Les Baux a city, just above, it was not 
that I was stretching a point in favor of the small 
spot which to-day contains but a few dozen inhabi 
tants. The history of the place is as extraordinary 
as its situation. It was not only a city, but a state; 
not only a state, but an empire; and on the crest of 
its little mountain called itself sovereign of a territory, 
or at least of scattered towns and counties, with which 
its present aspect is grotesquely out of relation. The 
lords of Les Baux, in a word, were great feudal pro 
prietors; and there was a time during which the island 
of Sardinia, to say nothing of places nearer home, 
such as Aries and Marseilles, paid them homage. The 
chronicle of this old Provencal house has been written, 
in a style somewhat unctuous and flowery, by M. Jules 
Canonge. I purchased the little book a modest 
pamphlet at the establishment of the good sisters, 
just beside the church, in one of the highest parts of 
Les Baux. The sisters have a school for the hardy little 
  
Baussenques, whom I heard piping their lessons, while 
I waited in the cold parloir for one of the ladies to 
come and speak to me. Nothing could have been 
more perfect than the manner of this excellent woman 
when she arrived; yet her small religious house 
seemed a very out-of-the-way corner of the world. It 
was spotlessly neat, and the rooms looked as if they 
had lately been papered and painted: in this respect, 
at the mediaeval Pompeii, they were rather a discord. 
They were, at any rate, the newest, freshest thing at 
Les Baux. I remember going round to the church, 
after I had left the good sisters, and to a little quiet 
terrace, which stands in front of it, ornamented with 
a few small trees and bordered with a wall, breast- 
high, over which you look down steep hillsides, off 
into the air and all about the neighbouring country. 
I remember saying to myself that this little terrace 
was one of those felicitous nooks which the tourist 
of taste keeps in his mind as a picture. The church 
was small and brown and dark, with a certain rustic 
richness. All this, however, is no general description 
of Les Baux. 
I am unable to give any coherent account of the 
place, for the simple reason that it is a mere con 
fusion of ruin. It has not been preserved in lava like 
Pompeii, and its streets and houses, its ramparts and 
castle, have become fragmentary, not through the 
sudden destruction, but through the gradual with 
drawal, of a population. It is not an extinguished, 
but a deserted city; more deserted far than even 
Carcassonne and Aigues-Mortes, where I found so 
much entertainment in the grass-grown element. It 
is of very small extent, and even in the days of its 
greatness, when its lords entitled themselves counts 
of Cephalonia and Neophantis, kings of Aries and 
Vienne, princes of Achaia, and emperors of Constan 
tinople, even at this flourishing period, when, as M. 
Jules Canonge remarks, "they were able to depress 
the balance in which the fate of peoples and kings is 
weighed," the plucky little city contained at the most 
no more than thirty-six hundred souls. Yet its lords 
(who, however, as I have said, were able to present 
a long list of subject towns, most of them, though a 
few are renowned, unknown to fame) were seneschals 
and captains-general of Piedmont and Lombardy, 
grand admirals of the kingdom of Naples, and its 
ladies were sought in marriage by half the first 
princes in Europe. A considerable part of the little 
narrative of M. Canonge is taken up with the great 
alliances of the House of Baux, whose fortunes, ma 
trimonial and other, he traces from the eleventh cen 
tury down to the sixteenth. The empty shells of a 
considerable number of old houses, many of which 
must have been superb, the lines of certain steep 
little streets, the foundations of a castle, and ever so 
many splendid views, are all that remains to-day of 
these great titles. To such a list I may add a dozen 
very polite and sympathetic people, who emerged from 
the interstices of the desultory little town to gaze at 
the two foreigners who had driven over from Aries, 
 
and whose horses were being baited at the modest 
inn. The resources of this establishment we did not 
venture otherwise to test, in spite of the seductive 
fact that the sign over the door was in the Provencal 
tongue. This little group included the baker, a rather 
melancholy young man, in high boots and a cloak, 
with whom and his companions we had a good deal 
of conversation. The Baussenques of to-day struck 
me as a very mild and agreeable race, with a good 
deal of the natural amenity which, on occasions like 
this one, the traveller, who is waiting for his horses 
to be put in or his dinner to be prepared, observes 
in the charming people who lend themselves to con 
versation in the hill-towns of Tuscany. The spot 
where our entertainers at Les Baux congregated was 
naturally the most inhabited portion of the town; as 
I say, there were at least a dozen human figures 
within sight. Presently we wandered away from them, 
scaled the higher places, seated ourselves among the 
ruins of the castle, and looked down from the cliff 
overhanging that portion of the road which I have 
mentioned as approaching Les Baux from behind. I 
was unable to trace the configuration of the castle as 
plainly as the writers who have described it in the 
guide-books, and I am ashamed to say that I did not 
even perceive the three great figures of stone (the 
three Marys, as they are called; the two Marys of 
Scripture, with Martha), which constitute one of the 
curiosities of the place, and of which M. Jules Canonge 
speaks with almost hyperbolical admiration. A brisk 
shower; lasting some ten minutes, led us to take refuge 
in a cavity, of mysterious origin, where the melancholy 
baker presently discovered us, having had the bonne 
pensee of coming up for us with an umbrella which 
certainly belonged, in former ages, to one of the Ste- 
phanettes or Berangeres commemorated by M. Canonge. 
His oven, I am afraid, was cold so long as our visit 
lasted. When the rain was over we wandered down 
to the little disencumbered space before the inn, 
through a small labyrinth of obliterated things. They 
took the form of narrow, precipitous streets, bordered 
by empty houses, with gaping windows and absent 
doors, through which we had glimpses of sculptured 
chimney-pieces and fragments of stately arch and vault. 
Some of the houses are still inhabited; but most of 
them are open to the air and weather. Some of them 
have completely collapsed; others present to the street 
a front which enables one to judge of the physiognomy 
of Les Baux in the days of its importance. This im 
portance had pretty well passed away in the early part 
of the sixteenth century, when the place ceased to be 
an independent principality. It became by bequest 
of one of its lords, Bernardin des Baux, a great cap 
tain of his time part of the appanage of the kings of 
France, by whom it was placed under the protection 
of Aries, which had formerly occupied with regard to 
it a different position. I know not whether the Arle- 
sians neglected their trust; but the extinction of the 
sturdy little stronghold is too complete not to have 
begun long ago. Its memories are buried under its 
  
ponderous stones. As we drove away from it in the 
gloaming, my friend and I agreed that the two or three 
hours we had spent there were among the happiest 
impressions of a pair of tourists very curious in the 
picturesque. We almost forgot that we were bound to 
regret that the shortened day left us no time to drive 
five miles further, above a pass in the little mountains 
it had beckoned to us in the morning, when we 
came in sight of it, almost irresistibly to see the Ro 
man arch and mausoleum of Saint Remy. To compass 
this larger excursion (including the visit to Les Baux) 
you must start from Aries very early in the morning; 
but I can imagine no more delightful day. 
XXXIII. 
I HAD been twice at Avignon before, and yet I was 
not satisfied. I probably am satisfied now; neverthe 
less, I enjoyed my third visit. I shall not soon forget 
the first, on which a particular emotion set indelible 
stamp. I was travelling northward, in 1870, after four 
months spent, for the first time, in Italy. It was the 
middle of January, and I had found myself, unexpect 
edly, forced to return to England for the rest of the 
winter. It was an insufferable disappointment; I was 
wretched and broken-hearted. Italy appeared to me 
at that time so much better than anything else in the 
world, that to rise from table in the middle of the 
feast was a prospect of being hungry for the rest of 
my days. I had heard a great deal of praise of the 
south of France; but the south of France was a poor 
consolation. In this state of mind I arrived at Avignon, 
which under a bright, hard winter sun was tingling 
fairly spinning with the mistral. I find in my journal 
of the other day a reference to the acuteness of my 
reluctance in January, 1870. France, after Italy, ap 
peared, in the language of the latter country, poco sim- 
patica; and I thought it necessary, for reasons now in 
conceivable, to read the "Figaro," which was filled 
with descriptions of the horrible Troppmann, the mur 
derer of the familk Kink. Troppmann, Kink, le crime 
de Pantin, the very names that figured in this episode 
seemed to wave me back. Had I abandoned the so 
norous south to associate with vocables so base? 
It was very cold, the other day, at Avignon; for 
though there was no mistral, it was raining as it rains 
in Provence, and the dampness had a terrible chill in 
it. As I sat by my fire, late at night for in genial 
Avignon, in October, I had to have a fire it came 
back to me that eleven years before I had -at that 
same hour sat by a fire in that same room, and, writ 
ing to a friend to whom I was not afraid to appear 
extravagant, had made a vow that at some happier 
period of the future I would avenge myself on the ci- 
devant city of the Popes by taking it in a contrary 
sense. I suppose that I redeemed my vow on the oc 
casion of my second visit better than on my third; for 
then I was on my way to Italy, and that vengeance, of 
course, was complete. The only drawback was that I 
  
was in such a hurry to get to Ventimiglia (where the 
Italian custom-house was to be the sign of my triumph), 
that I scarcely took time to make it clear to myself at 
Avignon that this was better than reading the "Figaro." 
I hurried on almost too fast to enjoy the consciousness 
of moving southward. On this last occasion I was un 
fortunately destitute of that happy faith. Avignon was 
my southernmost limit; after which I was to turn round 
and proceed back to England. But in the interval I 
had been a great deal in Italy, and that made all the 
difference. 
I had plenty of time to think of this, for the rain 
kept me practically housed for the first twenty-four 
hours. It had been raining in these regions for a 
month, and people had begun to look askance at the 
Rhone, though as yet the volume of the river was not 
exorbitant. The only excursion possible, while the 
torrent descended, was a kind of horizontal dive, ac 
companied with infinite splashing, to the little muste 
of the town, which is within a moderate walk of the 
hotel. I had a memory of it from my first visit; it 
had appeared to me more pictorial than its pictures. 
I found that recollection had flattered it a little, and 
that it is neither better nor worse than most provincial 
museums. It has the usual musty chill in the air, the 
usual grass-grown fore-court, in which a few lumpish 
Roman fragments are disposed, the usual red tiles on 
the floor, and the usual specimens of the more livid 
schools on the walls. I rang up the gardien, who ar 
rived with a bunch of keys, wiping his mouth; he un- 
locked doors for me, opened shutters, and while (to 
my distress, as if the things had been worth lingering 
over) he shuffled about after me, he announced the 
names of the pictures before which I stopped, in a 
voice that reverberated through the melancholy halls, 
and seemed to make the authorship shameful when it 
was obscure, and grotesque when it pretended to be 
great. Then there were intervals of silence, while I 
stared absent-mindedly, at hap-hazard, at some indis 
