be you should be declared incapable of caring properly 
for your child's interests, a guardian must be appointed. 
Come, we are not going to have high-flown sentiment 
rule, but practical common-sense. I haven't lived forty- 
eight years for nothing ! " And Mr. Gilbert nods his head 
importantly. 
"Very well," Doris says ; " I will see him." 
Mr. Gilbert is simply astounded. He stares at her. 
Doris pushes her chair forward to its place at the table, 
and crosses the room with an air she has never before 
assumed. Her delicacy has been outraged, her womanly 
dignity insulted. Why she should love these two people 
who have accidentally come into her life and wrought such 
wrong and devastation is not at all clear to her. She can 
give back love for love, but simply to be made a tool for 
their aggrandizement is too much. 
" At what time will he be here? " she asks, calmly. 
The Gilberts have not yet recovered their surprise. 
" At eleven, precisely," is the rather majestic answer. 
Doris sweeps out of the room in her new-found dignity. 
All her house dresses have been made with trains. Lloyd 
admired them so, and she has gone on as if still consult- 
ing his tastes. The soft swish on the floor seems to add 
a touch of importance. 
Husband and wife look at each other. 
"Anson, you surely cannot do anything," his wife ex- 
claims, with sudden apprehension. " Her mother seemed 
so gentle and yielding, but she was awfully obstinate 
when once she had made up her mind." 
 
 
" We'll see, we 'll see," confidently. 
Mr. Matthewson conies at the appointed hour. Doris 
has had two or three impracticable plans of sending for 
Judge Minturn, l)ut she is really afraid to ask the man to 
go, or even Martha, and her own absence might be made 
impossible. So she nerves herself to meet the crisis. 
" Marie," she says, " do my hair in a fashion that shall 
make me look as tall and womanly as possible. And oh, 
if I could appear ten years older ! " 
"Ten years!" cries Marie, aghast. "Madame is 
charming with youth." 
When she is summoned down, she intercepts an inter- 
change of glances. Her senses seem preternaturally 
sharpened. She is calm, dignified, not a particle flurried 
or confused. 
"We have been discussing this — this most unjust will," 
begins Mr. Matthewson, when he has responded to an 
introduction, and politely placed a chair for Mrs. Went- 
worth. " I do not wonder at all that your relatives feel it 
keenly, when they have stood in the place of parents to 
you these many years. And when you understand the 
facts of the case, that you have been selfishly and unjustly 
deprived of rights that the law gives you, you cannot fail 
to join in these generous efforts of your friends. Of course, 
you knew nothing of the legal aspect, or what you were 
about. Did you really consent to these provisions, or was 
there an ignorance of their true import, — a — a youthful 
incapacity to understand such a thing in all its bearings ? " 
Mr. Matthewson is a rather small, dry-looking man, with 
deep set eyes and stiff grayish hair and beard. She does 
not feel afraid of him, and this is one point gained. 
" It was my husband's estate, and he could do as he 
liked — " 
" But he could not," interrupts the lawyer, eagerly. 
" The law gives you rights which he has traversed." 
Doris really does not understand the point; but she 
 
 
 
abides by Judge Minturn's assurance, that no one save 
herself has any right to force an issue. 
" I agreed to what he meant to do for me. It was all 
I wanted. I had never been rich. Why should I desire 
more than was necessary ? Indeed, he did give me more 
than I needed. I did not wish any one to suppose I 
married him for the money. I did not know at that time 
how large his fortune was ; but it would have been the 
same with me if he had possessed a bare competency. I 
am entirely satisfied. If you think you can force me into 
doing or declaring anything derogatory to Mr. Went- 
worth's plans or purposes, you will be greatly mistaken. 
I never shall." 
She has talked rapidly, but there has been no passion, 
no anger, not even nervousness, in her tones. She is 
wonderfully composed, and there is a quiet air about her 
that predicts, with no superfluous frowns or gestures, that 
on this point she will be adamant. 
Mr. Matthewson stares hard at her. Mr. Gilbert has 
insinuated that his niece is rather weak-minded, easily in- 
fluenced, and that her husband has been something of a 
tyrant to her, though Mr. Matthewson knows well that 
such a charge has never before been brought against 
Lloyd. Basil is the one who carries authority in his eye, 
in every word and gesture, but Lloyd has always been con- 
sidered somewhat soft-hearted ; and just now the charge 
strikes the dry little lawyer as being rather amusing. 
Mrs. Wentworth is so different from the idea that has 
been im{)ressed upon his mind, that he feels a trifle uncer- 
tain as to his course of argument. ' 
"My dear madam," he begins, in a temporizing 
fashion, "it is sometimes necessai-y to invoke the law to 
protect people against themselves-" 
" It' seems to me," Doris goes on, in the same quiet 
tone, " that the law should protect what is right." 
" But this is not right. Any one will tell you that it is 
 
 
yOES OF HER HOUSEHOLD. ' 135 
a monstrons perversion of the law, even. A man can do 
an unjust thing, and iff^ist the law to give it sanction or 
color ; but it is far from right. And this is what we pro- 
pose to redress." 
" I do not complain of any injustice. As I told you, I 
am thoroughly satisfied. I gave you this opportunity to 
see me, to hear that I had no wrongs, that I desired to 
Jiave my husband's wishes respected. In future, I refer 
you and my uncle to Judge Minturn. I do not wish to 
participate in any more controversies. Good morning." 
Before any one is aware, she has risen, and bowed her- 
self out of the apartment. 
" Doris ! " her uncle calls, angrily. 
Like a bird she has flown through the hall, up the 
stairs to her own room, where she bolts the door. Then 
all her strength and composure are gone ; she flings herself 
on the bed, and weeps as if her heart were broken. She 
is so young, so alone, and encompassed on every side 
with diflSculties. What fond, foolish romances she has 
made of Lloyd's descriptions of his cousins ! She has 
even hugged poor, plain Olive to her heart. She has 
been buoyed up with a secret feeling that when they came 
to know of the will, they would not consider her mercenary, 
and might, in time, conquer the prejudice against her. 
But here, on the very threshold, she is to be placed in a 
false light Oh ! what shall she do ? What shall she do ? 
The passion is spent presently. She rises and smooths 
her ruffled hair and attire ; she brings out her little writ- 
ing-desk, inlaid with pearl and sandal- wood, trimmed 
with rich, wine-colored velvet, — a dainty, fanciful thing 
Lloyd had bought for her at Dresden. 
She has never written a business note in her short life, 
— how shall she begin it ? Judge Minturn has promised 
to be her friend ; but she has never seen him, save at the 
two brief interviews yesterday, and so she hesitates at 
using any adjective that may seem to presume. Out of 
 
 
 
all the perplexity she says, with a tremulous earnest- 
ness, — 
'' Will you come to me? I am in great trouble, and need a 
friend. This gives me courage to test your word. 
"Doris Wentworth." 
Finding Martha, she despatches her in great haste, and 
in a short time the girl returns with an answer. Judge 
Minturn will be there at three precisely. 
There is one comfort for Doris : she can have her meals 
sent up to her room ; so she sends Marie for the little 
luncheon she wants. There is a curious feeling of being 
besieged in her own house, — for it is her very own until 
her child comes to manhood. Mr. Matthewson has re- 
mained a long time shut up in the library, but has gone 
now. She hears the Gilberts go up and down ; she smells 
the fragrance of a cigar, — when he can indulge in first- 
class articles, he generally does. 
It seems to Doris as if the moments are leaden-shod, 
they go so slowly. She must have some of these important 
questions settled once for all, and know positively where 
she stands in regard to everybody. It would be so much 
pleasanter to have some one take all the care and perplex- 
ity ; but the some one is in his grave. She has never 
missed him or longed for him as she does to-day. There 
comes a great strangling sensation in her throat, and it 
seems as if she could die gladly, and go to him. 
Judge Minturn is punctual. Mr. Gilbert is wandering 
about the grounds, but Mrs. Gilbert sees the visitor from 
her window, and notes how soon Doris goes down. 
"My poor child!" 
The grave, white-haired man takes both soft hands in his. 
They tremble like prisoned birds, and some touch in the 
clasp brings the tears to her eyes. Her lips quiver in 
a way that might distract a lover; indeed, severe and 
punctilious as he is, he would like nothing so much aa 
 
 
 
to kiss down into the soft, throbbing bloom. He does not 
wonder that Lloyd Wentworth married her ; he feels cer- 
tain there will be more than one heart-ache about her 
before the gold fades from her hair. 
" My poor child ! Will you look upon me as a father? 
I have girls of my own ; and if one of them stood just 
where you do, in such a thorny path, heaven knows I 
should be more than grateful to the one who would be- 
friend her. Tell me all the trouble." 
She is weeping softly now, though she tries hard to 
stifle the sighs that rend her very soul. The long lashes 
glitter with tears like points of dew. He lets her weep 
out that burst of sorrow. 
''You will think me very weak," she begins. "I 
want to tell you just what has happened, and I want to 
know what any one can do." 
He leads her to the sofa, and then seats himself beside 
her. The little hands are folded in her lap ; they look 
pearl-tipped on her black dress. There is such an ex- 
ceeding daintiness about her, that it invests her with 
a sort of sanctity. 
''Has any one threatened you? " There is an ominous 
look in his eye, as if it would not be best for the one who 
endeavored it. " You know I told you no one outside of 
yourself could break the will, or attempt it." 
" Could I be placed under any restraint? " she asks, in 
a soft breath ; but there is an unconf essed terror in her 
eyes, — the terror that has more than once to-day struck a 
chill to her very soul. 
'' You do not surely mean that anybody — " Then he 
laughs, — not exactly a mirthful sound, — rather contemp- 
tuous, indeed. 
"Could I be held as incapable of caring for my house 
or my child, or deciding what I should do ? " 
There is a little fine pride in her voice. 
''Not unless you should show some signs of mental 
 
 
 
aberration." He studies the sweet face that is raised 
for his examination. There is a peculiar strength in it, 
the latent strength that is forced to the surface when the 
hour of need comes, but can never show itself in any 
blatant force. She is one who should be taken care of 
and shielded in some strong man's love. Thorns will go 
deep into her tender soul. 
" No," he rejoins, decisively, after a moment's thought. 
" Do not allow yourself any uneasiness ; I am here to 
fight for you. I don't look like a man who can be easily 
overcome, do I ? " 
He laughs genially. He wants to break her tense mood, 
to restore something like girlish buoyancy, if, haply, it 
may not be quite crushed by her sorrows. 
" I should like to see your little babe," he begins, in a 
tone of friendly interest, — '' Lloyd Wentworth's son, who 
has such a fair heritage awaiting him." 
Doris sighs as she rings the bell and summons Marie. 
Master Lloyd has just awakened from his nap, and has 
the celestial rosiness of good-humored babies at this stage. 
He is indeed a very fair specimen of babyhood, consider- 
ing the many changes that have already come to him, and 
he always awakes in a maze of delight, if he does not go 
to sleep in one. Certainly he has not inherited this robust 
appearance from either parent ; though his father, the 
judge remembers, caused no anxiety until after his first 
long illness. The child has large brown eyes and a fine 
brow ; the rest of the features have the uncertainty of 
very early life ; but for a child not quite three months old, 
he is a sufficiently healthy specimen for hope to build 
upon ; and he praises him generously, as the baby stares 
with wondering eyes. 
" Do you think your relatives would grant me an inter- 
view?" he asks, when the baby has ended his visit. ''I 
am sorry they chanced to fall into the hands of Mr. 
Matthewson, and it seems as if we might come to an 
 
 
 
anderstanding on so simple a matter. They can do 
nothing, so long as you are satisfied ; I doubt if much 
could be done in any event." 
Doris prefers to summon them herself, and taps lightly 
at their door, explaining her errand. 
Anson Gilbert looks up contemptuously. 
" I shall see him on my own account and at my own 
convenience," he answers, with what he intends for severe 
dignity. 
Doris glances inquiringly at her aunt. 
" I surely haven't anything to say to your Judge Min- 
turn," is her lofty answer. 
" I shall offer the will for probaJ;e to-morrow," that 
gentleman says, as he rises to depart. " Basil Went- 
worth has been away, or I should have done it before. 
He, of course, has some interest in it." 
" Can you keep him as guardian for the baby?" she 
inquires, timidly. 
" Well, I shall make a big effort in that direction. You 
must not mind if the Wentworths are a little distant at 
first. It is a great change for them. I have set my heart 
on it all coming out right in the end." And there is 
strength and encouragement in his tone. 
" Oh, I hope it will ! I hope it will ! " Doris Went- 
worth replies, in a manner that is really impassioned. 
''You will come to me with every little trouble," he 
continues, confidently. " You have no brother or father, 
and you are so young to have this great weight on your 
shoulders." 
She looks up at him through tears, and her little hands 
have a clinging clasp. She is too timid and too sore at 
heart to know how important this, her first victory really 
is, but it is so good to have one friend. 
For the rest, the day is very quiet. The Gilberts make 
her feel as if she was indeed a thankless being, but her 
sense of right upholds her. She can see their side, unjust 
 
 
 
as it is ; she can also understand the Wentworth view ; 
and theirs, she feels, has more claim to sympathy. 
Yet it must be confessed, as Doris wanders about the 
beautiful old house, and finds nooks and corners that 
Lloyd has described in stray reminiscences, an intense 
affection springs up, curiously free from jealousy. Here 
was Ms room ; here they all came to comfort him through 
weary days and nights, — the beautiful Agatha, the pas- 
sionate Olive, the gay Louise. Graham, it seems, has not 
made so deep an impression, but Basil — it would be sac- 
rilege to enter his room, and she passes the door with a 
sigh. 
That evening she reads again the " prayer for a person 
in affliction." It is not now for the sick young man in 
the little inn at Novara, but her own self, whose heart is 
heavy with many sorrows, who has been appointed to walk 
in a path that is present martyrdom. 
 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
BASIL. 
The drawing-room in Larch Avenue is small by com- 
parison with that at the Elms, but it is exquisitely 
arranged: so with all the house. The family has 
shrunken as well. Mrs. Stirling has been abroad for 
three months. Graham has a position in a banking house, 
secured by his brother's exertions, since he has evinced 
no desire for professional life, and can, if he chooses, 
spend his Sundays with them. Louise has gone with a 
young party, properly matronized, to Lake George. Olive 
is still confined to her room, and her illness, though not 
severe now, has some alarming brain symptoms. Mrs. 
Wentworth is restless and unhappy. A whirlwind seems 
to have torn them all up by the roots and scattered them 
far and wide. How can she help hating the hand that 
has wrought this devastation ? 
Basil enters the room. It is not quite dark enough for 
lamps, and sufficiently light for his mother to see his worn 
and haggard face. For Basil Wentworth has been doing 
some hard fighting with foes within and without. He will 
conquer them in but one way, and he means to be vic- 
torious. 
'' I have decided," he says to his mother, " I shall 
accept Judge Minturn's offer. It will give me position 
immediately, and you need one son at home. And I shall 
address myself to the business of making a fortune. I 
have hitherto despised mere money-getting, and it is dis- 
tasteful to me now, but one must do something with his 
life." 
 
 
 
There is a dreary hardness in the tone. The rich, mel- 
low content has gone out of it, and there has been an 
infinitely greater loss to his soul. He has been struck a 
hard blow ; he cannot strike back, but he will make blows 
tell somewhere. 
" My poor boy ! " The mother presses his hand sym- 
pathetically. ''Yes, that is the best, and you have been 
fortunate with Graham." 
''He should have gone to business before. The disci- 
pline will come rather hard now." 
"Well, it IS a comfort that Agatha is so prosperously 
married. Louise can find a mate easily when her time of 
loving comes ; but to a refined and intellectual woman, with 
a nervous, delicate temperament and so much pride, the 
alteration in our fortunes would have proved bitter 
indeed." 
It has not been such an utter change to the Went- 
worths. They will keep their position, their friends, and 
they have the sympathy of the "best" people in West- 
water. There will be no occasion for such large and 
elegant receiving, since the "queen of the goodly com- 
panie " has been transplanted to Stirling House. 
Basil is thankful now that Agatha has married so well. 
"You will find matters in a strange mess at Judge 
Minturn's," his mother continues. " Mrs. Wentworth," 
with a peculiarly scornful intonation, " backed by her aunt 
and uncle, mean to contest the will." 
" Contest it ! " in eui-prise. 
" Yes ; Matthewson has the case already. The point 
at issue, I believe, is the disposal of the Elms if the child 
should die. If there were no will, the mother would 
inherit from the child." 
" Yes," Basil replies. 
" And there is some question about her dower, — a weak 
place, I believe, that shows a loophole. Of course, they 
are the kind of people to take advantage of it." 
 
 
 
Basil begins to pace the room. He has said to himself 
a hundred times that the dear old home was gone without 
perad venture, that the child was sure to live, and that he 
had given up any lingering hope. But he feels now as if 
he could fight, not for himself, not for the possible gain, 
but simply to have Lloyd's wishes respected. 
"You are appointed the child's guardian. I did not 
tell you that in my letter." 
Basil stops short. There is a flush of indignation on 
his cheek, an angry light in his eye. 
"Did he dare— " 
' ' Hush, my dear ! Do not blame poor Lloyd too severely. 
Remember, he was away there among grasping strangers 
I have no doubt but that he understood them too well, and 
too late learned what a set of adventuring sharpers they 
were. The Gilberts, it seems, have been given no position 
of trust ; and I dare say Mrs. Lloyd is very angry at the 
disrespect shown to her relatives." 
"Guardian!" he repeats, with haughty scorn. "A 
lovely position truly ! Lloyd must have lost his senses 
quite, to put me in as a marplot, and a target for their 
insults. I shall refuse everything ; I shall wash my hands 
of the whole matter. Let it all go ! " 
If he has felt hurt before, it is now a passion of unrea- 
soning, vehement anger. He despises Lloyd in his grave, 
for his weakness, his injustice, as he terms it, and his 
miserable attempt to gloss it over by a small show of 
respect. Better a hundred times that he had not done 
that! 
"But — it may be wiser," his mother answers, rather 
doubtfully. 
" It will not be at all. I shall decline it the first thing. 
It is a positive insult." 
" Judge Minturn and you are executors. He has been 
waiting for you to come back, and what is it — qualify, or 
some such word." 
 
 
 
'' He can do as he likes ; I will not have part nor ^ot 
in the matter. I have nothing to do with the Elms now 
or at any future time. Lloyd chose to gratify himself, 
and I choose that it shall not cost me more than it has 
done already ; which, Heaven knows, is enough ! To be so 
deceived when one has loved ! But I might have known 
better than to pin my faith to such a weak, unstable reed. 
I have just my own life before me, to make or mar." 
Long afterward he is destined to remember this sentence, 
and it burns in his soul like fire. " I shall be your son 
always," softening a little ; "Louise will marry and go out 
of my life, as Agatha has done ; that is right enough ; so 
there will be nothing left but this chase after fortune, and 
that I despise." 
His tone betrays it. His mother is really troubled at 
this unwonted vehemence, at the change that has come 
over him. He is stern to a resentful hardness. 
"I ought to see Judge Minturn this very night," he 
says, suddenly. '' Yes, I had better go." 
'' Basil, you are too tired," entreats his mother. 
" But I am in the humor," he answers, fiercely. "As 
well have it over. Let them all know that I am counted 
out of all things pertaining to my cousin's estate." 
It is quite dark now in the hall, but he finds his hat and 
strides down the street, in such a state of fiery impatience 
that he hardly knows himself. He must shake it off; 
put a gulf between himself and all pertaining to the Elms. 
It is not his hand that wrought the first trouble. 
" My dear, dear fellow," Judge Minturn exclaims, when 
he enters the cosey study at Roselands, summoned from 
some guests in the drawing-room, "I have been so 
anxious for your return. But you look thoroughly 
knocked up." 
" I have been very steadily occupied, day and night. 
There was some old business in Baltimore to settle for my 
mother, and Graham to look after, as well as some hard 
 
 
 
thinking to do" ; and he smiles rather grimly. '' And the 
result of it all is, that I have, or shall, accept your offer 
of business. I am the head of the family ; I am quite old 
enough to settle in life ; and — I want to make some 
money. Push me into a fortune as rapidly as possi- 
ble." 
" Upon my word, you are in earnest. And I am glad 
to have you, indeed. Since we talked the matter over an 
incident has occurred. Mr. Sherwood is about to retire 
from the firm ; Mrs. Sherwood has just had a large property 
at St. Louis come to her, and they will remove shortly. 
So you see you are absolutely needed." 
" I am very glad of that,'' Basil responds. 
"And there are other reasons. You did not come to 
hear the will read ? You and yours are legatees in a small 
way, and there is a chance of your inheriting.'^ 
" If the Elms should ever come to me, I believe I should 
turn it into a home for old people or incapables. I should 
never go there again." 
'' Basil, my dear fellow, you must not feel this way. It 
is a great disappointment ; we can all realize that. But I 
have so much to say. Things have come about so differ- 
ently — " 
" You mean they are going to contest the will — " 
Judge Minturn gives a pleased little chuckle. 
" It will be the play of ' Hamlet ' with Hamlet himself 
left out. They^" quite as contemptuously as Basil had 
uttered it, " will do no such thing." 
" Yes, let them. Let her break it if she can, and I do 
hope she can. It will be the proudest day of my life when 
Westwater knows I have not even the most indirect inter- 
est in the Elms. It was like a stab to-night when my 
mother first spoke of it, a stab from his hand, but some- 
times an open blow is kindest. And, of course, all that 
about being guardian is the merest bosh. I want the 
Gilberts to have their own way in everything. I only hope 
 
 
 
their reckless extravagance may some time throw the Elms 
into the market again." 
" Wentworth, sit down and talk reasonably," for Basil 
has begun pacing the room. "It is not at all as you 
think. You know nothing about Mrs. Wentworth. One 
look at her would disarm you." 
'I know too much about her." A scornful smile 
wreathes his chiselled lip. "They are a set of adven- 
turers. Poor Lloyd was their victim ; but even that should 
not have led him to treat his own so cavalierly. But I 
simply want nothing to do with them. I will not be 
executor, I will not be guardian, I will not appear in any 
manner. You must see that it is wisest." 
"I see nothing of the kind. You are prejudiced and 
unreasonable. After you have met her — " 
" I decline firmly to see her," he interrupts. 
"Well, she is not the kind of woman to intrude upon 
you or any one," replies the judge, testily. " She came 
to me in the very first of the talk, and expressed her 
desires with the utmost firmness and honesty. She wants 
to abide by her husband's will ; she is desirous that every 
wish of his should be fulfilled to th'e letter. Nay, more ; 
before even this was discussed, she was anxious to find 
some pretence that would restore the Elms to you, and let 
her and her child go quietly away. She would gladly break 
the will in your favor." 
"Did she impose upon you to that extent?" Basil 
Wentworth asks, in a satirical tone ; and studies Judge 
Minturn in a manner that tempts the elder to knock him 
down. 
" She has not imposed upon me," the judge returns, in a 
firm, authoritative tone. "I am not in my dotage yet, 
and I may have quite as good a knowledge of the world, 
quite as much experience, as you." 
" Pardon me," Basil returns, aware that he has touched 
the verge of insolence, that passion has overreached good 
 
 
 
breeding. ' ' But," and he bends forward a little, " I do know 
some things. My mother had a friend abroad who wrote 
to her, not imagining for a moment that the husband of 
this Miss — Miss Hawthorne could be anything to us. They 
had been connected with some other friends we knew." 
Basil Wentworth thinks himself most magnanimous to 
make no further explanation about her. That the matter 
will come out some time through the Conynghams he is 
quite certain ; skeletons in closets invariably do, but he 
will spare her. 
" They could not have known Miss Hawthorne very long. 
She had been only a few weeks from school when she met 
your cousin." 
Basil Wentworth gives a sort of pitying, incredulous 
smile, and retains his listening attitude. So, this is the 
story she has told him ! 
" She is very young, barely eighteen now, very friend- 
less, for her aunt and uncle are not of hpr kind. All this 
fuss they are trying to make comes through the Gilberts' 
jealousy. He is most anxious to be guardian, trustee, 
everything, and I can see she does not trust him at all. 
Basil, can you not be man enough to put aside this wounded 
pride — " 
'' It is not that," Basil interrupts, fiercely. " Think ! 
he had been married a month before he even deigned to 
inform us, and all through that time I had just three little 
notes from him. He knew he had done a discreditable 
thing. It is the lack of confidence, when we had been 
mo^e than brothers. I can't make it clear to you," and a 
strange gentleness quivers in his voice, " but he was more 
than a brother to me ; he had the sensitive, passionate, 
imaginative temperament of a woman. It is that betrayal, 
that loss — " 
" And do you not think he may have missed some cordiality
in you after he had confessed his marriage ? " 
The handsome face glooms over cold and haughty. 
 
 
 
" At least I was not the first in offence. Hearing what 
we did about them, we could not be expected to consider 
it was they who had done us the honor. My mother and 
I pitied him, and kept the story to ourselves,'' he replies, 
in a proud, justifying tone. 
"I can understand and am quite willing to admit that 
the Gilberts may be designing and thoroughly selfish peo- 
ple," Judge Minturn replies ; " but she is as innocent as 
a child. And she desires to be defended from them. She 
is not willing they shall have any control at the Elms. It 
will be very hard for her, unless some one comes to her 
assistance." 
How Judge Minturn can have been so deceived amazes 
Wentworth. How, when his mind has been firmly made 
up for the last six months, a woman's deceitful, pleading 
face can unmake it, is a mystery ; unless Mrs. Wentworth 
is one of the evil, intriguing sort, as he is quite confident 
she must be. ^ 
" I offer the will for probate to-morrow. There need 
be no hurry about anything. Your power of attorney, 
your trusteeship, shall remain the same as before. It is 
his wish. You might, at least, respect that. I ask, as a 
personal favor to me, that you will take no adverse step at 
present. As for the other matter, heaven only knows, 
Basil, how glad I am to make you so much better offer 
than I at first thought possible. I shall do my utmost to 
advance your interests in every direction. In a few days 
the firm will be remodelled." 
Basil Wentworth is not ungrateful. To become a part- 
ner in this splendid law firm is indeed a proud position 
for a man of eight-and-twenty, with so little experience. 
" Of course," the judge goes on, " there is no real 
necessity of your appearing to-morrow. " Matthewson 
has the case for the Gilberts, and he would fight with a 
straw to stand on, but he will not even have that." 
"I cannot thank you for your kindness," the young 
 
man begins, quite ignoring the Gilberts. '' I shall do my 
utmost to deserve your confidence, and I hope you will 
find me satisfactory on all other points. If I should dis- 
agree with this, and have some feelings that you cannot 
comprehend, you must pardon me." 
" I will wait," is the reply ; " and if I am patient with 
you," and the judge smiles in a fatherly manner, "you 
must be patient with me. When you have once seen Mrs. 
Wentworth, you will feel so differently." 
Wentworth controls the desire to sneer, — the wish to 
say that he will never, of his own accord, meet his 
cousin's widow. He feels that he might as well have 
remained at home ; but, at least, he has some good news 
to take to his mother. So he rises, and is now his grace- 
ful, gentlemanly self as they exchange good-nights. 
There is a feeling of elation, he confesses, in his secret 
heart. Instead of spending years working up to this 
position, he has reached it at a bound. It is also through 
a friend of Judge Minturn's that he has been able to 
place Graham advantageously. And as he walks slowly 
along, for he is really tired, he decides not to displease 
his friend by taking any overt step, simply to show in the 
end what an excellent foundation his prejudices, as the 
judge calls them, rest upon. 
He misses the delightful occupation that he has been 
so accustomed to. He is fond of early rising, and 
having slept in a most refreshing manner, is up betimes 
the next morning ; then he looks from his window and 
remembers. There is not much more than an acre of 
ground here at Larch Avenue, and it is in excellent order. 
The barn and stable seems like a play-house compared to 
that at the Elms. He takes down a law book, and reads 
steadily for an hour. This is the kind of work for the 
future. 
There is a great flourish and quite a tempest at the pro- 
bating of the will. Mr. Gilbert blusters ; Mr. Matthew- 
 
 
 
son does his best to unearth some point, to find some flaw^ 
by which he can carry on the case without Mrs. Went- 
worth's assistance. Mrs. Gilbert entreats, upbraids, half 
threatens, but Doris remains firm. Still, it is a most 
unfortunate thing for her in the esteem of Westwater, 
which considers her, after all, the moving spirit, and 
sympathizes warmly with Basil Wentworth, even to 
secretly hoping that in some future time the " king may 
come into his own." 
However, the plan does collapse, much to the chagrin 
of Mr. Gilbert, and the vexation of the lawyer, who fan- 
cied he had seen a long and expensive litigation before 
him. The judge brings Doris all necessary tidings ; per- 
haps he even makes it an excuse for dropping in two or 
three times a week to comfort her. No one else comes 
near them. They are in mourning, and the little intangi- 
ble something rules society. Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert are 
set down as quite beyond the pale. They drive about, 
take small excursions to near-by places ; but she finds it 
horribly dull, and opens a correspondence with some dis- 
tant relatives, proposing a visit, which is accepted. 
"Doris will find she cannot be quite independent of 
us," that lady says, with a toss of her head. " She has 
all her father's obstinacy, and I feel confident he made 
my poor sister's life wretched. When she is left quite 
alone, and learns that the Wentworths and their circle do 
not mean to take her up, she may humble herself a little. 
I am sure I shall die if I remain here. And the Reades 
live quite in style at Albany ; at all events, it will be a 
change ; and I can run down to New York and hunt up 
old friends. Indeed, we might manage to settle our- 
selves in the city for the winter." 
Certainly Mr. Gilbert must have some change, as well 
as his wife. And he must do something to make a little 
money. He can have no part in handling the income of 
the estate; even the very servants are paid by Judge 
 
 
 
Minturn, who scans all expenses with a close eye. Doris 
has been generous ; but Mr. Gilbert, angry as he is, has 
not the hardihood to insist that his wife's niece shall go 
on providing a home for him, and supplying him, through 
his wife, with pocket money. For six months now she 
has cared wholly for these relatives ; and even Mrs. Gil- 
bert has an uneasy misgiving that the account is more 
than balanced, and that, for a while at least, she ought to 
relieve Doris. 
" Though I don't know how you will get along in this 
great house through the winter," she says, " I wouldn't 
stay in it for a mint of money. And Westwater is cer- 
tainly one of the most stupid places I ever saw." 
Doris's heart gives a sudden, tremulous flutter. She 
has found it trying, though her aunt and uncle have been 
no real enjoyment to her. Under any circumstances, she 
could not go into society, but if she had two or three con- 
genial friends ! Is it her fate always to be alone ? 
She consults Judge Minturn as to what she had bet- 
ter do. 
It does seem ridiculous that one little woman and a 
baby should go on living here. After all, would it not be 
wisdpm to rent the place for a few years ? 
"You must have some kind of a companion, — a nice, 
motherly woman " ; and he knits his brows in perplexity. 
" I will see what I can do." 
" There is another matter," says Doris, with a little 
falter. "I should have attended to it before, but — " 
And her eyes droop, while a faint color steals up her 
cheek. "When Mr. Wentworth died, he left a letter for 
me among his papers, and another for his cousin. I was 
to give it to him. Will you be kind enough to fulfil this 
part of the trust? I should not have delayed so long 
though there was no real hurry about it." 
"Yes," he answers. "Anything will be a pleasure 
that I do for you." 
" Confound them all I " he mutters. " Who would 
think really fine people could be so vindictive, so coldly 
cruel ? She has the lovely patience of a saint ; and if I 
don't find some weak spot in Basil Wentworth's armor, I 
shall begin to believe that I have lost my shrewdness." 
She returns in a few moments with a sealed packet, 
and hands it to him. 
The judge is as good as his word. After two or three 
days' hard considering, he remembers a relative of his 
dead wife, a middle-aged widow, in rather straitened cir- 
cumstances, who will be glad of so pleasant a home. 
She is a woman of refinement and education, a thorough 
Christian as well; and then she has spent part of her 
later years in Westwater, and has some friends to whom 
she can talk of young Mrs. Went worth. Yes, that will be 
just the thing. So he sends at once for Mrs. Ashmead, 
and receives a reply that she will be pleased to come after 
the middle of October, if that will answer. 
He also gives Basil the small parcel, that seems like a 
journal. The young man receives it gravely and lays it in 
his desk, takes it home that night, and opens the outer 
envelope. The second has on it, "To be read when I 
have been dead a year. Lloyd Wentworth to his beloved 
cousin." 
Basil crowds down something that seems to strangle him, 
and is glad it does not demand present attention. He is 
throwing himself heart and soul into the business that is 
to be his life work. The new firm is Minturn & Went- 
worth, and already he begins to be paid the deference of 
position. 
" I don't know what we are to do with Olive," his 
mother says one evening, much distressed. " She sits and 
mopes in her room and will see no one, and is so wild and 
excitable when you talk to her. I am afraid sometimes she 
never will wholly recover her mind. I think if I Jiad 
known the state of affairs — " 
 
 
 
'' Mother, you could not have done anything," Basil 
replies, impatiently. 
'' Those other people seemed to do something. I dare 
say they pretended the giil was dying for him." 
She has brooded over this matter a good deal, until she 
thinks a marriage between Lloyd and Olive would have 
been quite possible. If only she had been aware of the 
poor girl's passion ! 
" At least I am glad we have nothing like that on our 
consciences. Mother, do not think of it He never did 
care much for Olive, though she was so devoted to him. 
He would not have married her." 
" She would have been quite as worthy," says the 
mother, tartly. 
"It isn't the worthiness. I wish it could have been, 
for Olive's sake, and yet I can't imagine Lloyd enjoying 
her tempests and jealousies and all her exactions. Don't 
you remember that sometimes she would tyrannize over him 
until he would send her away ? We should have thought 
it unwise even if we had tried to do it for the money's 
sake. But what does the doctor say?" 
"Oh ! that she must go out, have pleasant society, and 
something to interest her. But she will not even drive 
with me, nor tolerate Louise in her room. My poor 
Olive ! We all have to suffer for that one wretched step 
of Lloyd's." 
It was too true, and Basil Wentwortfi sighed. 
 
 
CHAPTER Xn. 
A GHOST OF LOVE. 
The Gilberts have gone, and Mrs. Ashmead has not 
yet come. Cook, contrary to her own positive intentions, 
has stayed ; Martha as well. The Gilberts have not proved 
hard people with servants ; there has been no company, and 
the work light in comparison with the former regime. 
It is October. Mrs. Wentworth has been two months at 
Westwater. Judged from some aspects, it seems half a 
lifetime. She misses the brightness, the stir, the inces- 
sant gayety and music and out-door living of the cities 
abroad. She made no friends there, it is true, but she 
had her husband. She wonders how she could give him 
up so easily — why it must have been heartless ! But she 
longs for him now with a passionate regret that every day 
deepens. It seems quite impossible that she can live any 
length of time without him. 
The only place to which she has gone has been his grave. 
The Wentworth plot is beautifully kept, but she has never 
met any one there. The lettering has already been put on 
the exquisite monument, — Lloyd's own designing. One 
tablet is devoted to his parents, one to him. There is 
space enough for her to lie there beside him, and oh, how 
sweet it would be ! How can she live out a long life, even 
for her child ? 
One clergyman has made a formal call upon her, but 
she has not dared to go to church. She is afraid of the 
cold, hard eyes of the Wentworth family. If there was 
some little quiet chapel that she could attend. She has 
a vague idea that it would be pleasant ta play at being 
Lady Bountiful, to visit some sick or poor. Perhaps there 
 
 
 
are none. Westwater doe8 not look like a place of poor 
people. Her neighbors are elegant, — she watches them 
drive past ; and in her unf requent drives she has seen no 
throngs of beggars or ihalf-naked children lying in the sun. 
Everything seems cold, orderly, cleared up. What can 
people find to do ? 
It grows a little chilly towards night, though the days 
are still lovely. The air is full of fragran3e ; the great 
barn is sweet with hay ; the conservatory is filling up 
with flowers. What can she do with them ? She sends 
fresh ones every day to Lloyd's grave, and two or three 
times there has been a request from some neighbor. The 
beds are still bright with scarlet sage and chrysanthe- 
mums in every color ; great feathery ones that blow 
about in the wind, others not larger than a daisy. The 
Virginia creeper is putting on its scarlet attire, but few 
leaves are turned anywhere, and the grape-vines are 
purple with fruit. 
Doris has shut up the long drawing-room. It is, in- 
deed, partly dismantled, for some of the furniture and 
many of the pretty ornaments belonged to the elder Mrs. 
Wentworth. The organ is voiceless now. Lloyd has 
told her so much about Basil's playing. He never im- 
agined they could all go away and leave her in this great 
castle. In his letter he has spoken of them all, and felt 
confident they would soon come to love his little Doris. 
She would hear their songs and make one of their circle. 
The tears fill her eyes as she thinks how different it is. 
The piano has been moved over to the library. She 
has transformed the sitting-room into a dining-room as 
well, for she does not like to see the long table and the 
empty chairs. She thinks every day, "When Mrs. 
Ashmead comes, we will do this or that " ; and as the 
lady has taught music, and one or two branches in a 
school, she will be companionable. They can take up a 
course of reading, as she did with Lloyd ; but, oh I wiD 
 
 
 
Theocritus seem as sweet? Can she see Cicero and Lucul- 
lus in their villas, and will Ariosto's silver tongue charm 
her? 
But some way life must be lived. Fair and fragile as 
she looks, she has never been ill ; and in spite of the 
dreary lassitude, she feels that she could be roused to 
achieve something. At all events, she might paint a 
picture or two, and practise her music, but oh ! for whom 
shall it be done ? 
Martha has taken her bright little French nurse down 
in the town to do some shopping, and they will stop at a 
dressmaker's. Janet, the cook, who is a tall Scotch-Irish 
woman, is busy about down-stairs. Doris undresses her 
baby, and after a little frolic lays him in his bassiuet 
that Marie has tastefully adorned with blue dotted Suisse 
and blue ribbons. Doris looks idly out of the window on 
a sky where the soft white atmosphere is fast hiding the 
levels of more brilliant coloring. Crickets are chirping ; 
katydids are answering one another lazily, in voices that 
have lost their strident soprano. 
Doris turns back again with a curious impression. The 
room is in a kind of twilight, with shadowy edges If 
Lloyd stood there in the doorway, — oh ! how passionately 
she has prayed that he might come back just once. She 
has gone to his room and breathed his name with the long- 
ing that seems to bring the very soul out of the body, but 
he has never answered. 
Some one stands there now. '' Marie ! " she says, 
" Marie ! " And she knows it is not the nurse, as she crosses 
the room. There is a pallid face with falling hair about 
it, a dusky trailing robe, white hands and arms, and eyes 
that are like half-spent fire in a dull glow. 
For a moment a deathly fear crosses Doris. She can- 
not call ; she cannot even stir to ring the bell. 
'' His door is locked," the voice says, — a sharp human 
one.  Who has dared to lock it? I cannot find him 
 
 
 
anywhere, — he must be there! Give me the key at 
once. I must see him, Lloyd. He went away, but I 
know he has come back. She is hiding him from me, — 
she, that wom^n ! But I love him, and I will have him, — 
come 
She grasps her by the arm, and Doris utters a cry. 
" Give me the key. Let us go. If I could see him and 
tell him all, — I loved him so, you know," and the voice 
sinks to a piteous cadence. " No one loved him as I did. 
If he had not gone away and fallen into her snares ! 
They made him marry her, you know, my dear, dear 
Lloyd. Why, if they had let me, I could have been his 
wife and he would have stayed at home, and now they have 
lost the Elms and everything, and she has hidden him 
away." 
A confused sort of knowledge comes over Doris. She 
has heard the servants talk of Miss Olive's illness, and a 
sort of mysterious malady that affects her. This, then, is 
Olive, and she is out of her right mind. But she seems 
gentle. 
" Let me get a light," Doris exclaims, and strikes a 
match. As she does so, she touches the bell. 
" I don't want a light," Olive replies, pettishly. " Why 
I have run up and down hundreds of times, and I can 
find his room. Come ! come ! " 
She has started through the hall. Doris seems won- 
derfully composed, thoughtful. She feels for the key in 
the corner of the drawer, takes up the small hand-lamp, 
and as she emerges into the hall, locks her own door. 
She will keep her child safe, no matter what happens to 
her ; that is the instinct of the mother. Yet she wonders 
a little why there are no lights in the hall below. 
Olive has sped onward, and again tries the door. 
" Lloyd !" she cries, piercingly, — " Lloyd, my darling, has 
that evil woman hidden you away ? Unlock the door ; un- 
lock it quick ! " she commands. 
 
 
 
Doris has read or heard that in such cases it is best to 
humor a person so astray in mind. In fact, she can do 
nothing else. There is an unearthly stillness through the 
house, as if there was not a soul in it. Sbe unlocks the 
door. 
Olive enters it with such a wild, heart-breaking cry that 
Doris's pulses stand still. It is love, grief, passion, and 
despair. Her eyes (Jistend until they seem to set the face 
in a blaze of white light that rays off all the colors in rings. 
Her thin hands clasp each other as if they would never 
unlock. She glides slowly over to the unused bed ; there 
beside it is his little stand for a night-lamp, with book- 
shelves and a rest thait is made to swing round to any 
position. Nothing has been changed since he went away. 
She drops down at the side of the bed and buries her face. 
Doris hears some long dry sobs that shake the reclining 
frame ; then all is still. 
She speeds down-stairs. "Janet ! " she cries ; " Janet ! " 
There is no answer. Morris comes up the broad stone 
walk. 
"O Morris!" she exclaims, "can you find Janet? 
Can you find anybody ? " 
'' Janet was walking down the street a moment ago with 
Bridget Gavin." 
" Find her ! " Doris cries, breathlessly ; and she stands 
quite still until she hears the two come pacing back. 
" I 'd no idea it was so dark ; I beg your pardon, ma'am, 
but I 'll light up instantly. Oh ! Mrs. Wentworth, what is 
it ? " for now Doris has dropped on a chair and is whiter 
than any ghost. 
" When you have the house lighted, come up-stairs with 
me," she says, in a faint, hysterical way. 
" The baby ! " gasps Janet, with terror. 
'' No, it is not the baby. Morris, remain here." 
A sudden thought of tramp or burglar enters Janet's 
mind. Has Mrs. Wentworth bravely locked him in ? — 
 
 
 
beat no; she would need Morris as well as her assist- 
ance. 
