as if you had always lived in Boston." 
" Is that so ? " asked Lemuel ; and he felt his heart 
suffused with tender pride and joy. He told her of 
the Misfit Parlours and the instalment plan, and she 
said, well, it was just splendid; and she asked him if he 
knew she wasn't in the store any more ; and " No," 
she added delightedly, upon his confession of ignor 
ance, "I' m going to work in the box-factory, after 
this, where Manda Grier works. It 's better pay, 
and you have more control of your hours, and you 
can set down while you work, if you've  a mind to. 
I think it 's going to be splendid. What should you 
say if Manda Grier and me took some rooms and 
went to housekeepin ? " 
" I don't know," said Lemuel ; but in his soul he 
felt jealous of her keeping house with Manda Grier. 
" Well, I don't know as we shall do it," said 
Statira, as if feeling his tacit reluctance. 
Manda Grier came in just then, and cast a glance 
of friendly satire at them. " Well, I declare ! " she 
said, for all recognition of the situation. 
Lemuel made an offer to rise, but Statira would 
not let him. " I guess Manda Grier won't mind it 
much." 
" I guess I can stand it if you can," said Manda 
Grier ; and this seemed such a witty speech that they 
all laughed, till, as Statira said, she thought she 
should die. They laughed the more when Manda 
ferier added dryly, "I presume you won't want your 
boneset now." She set the vessel she had brought it 
up in on the stove, and covered it with a saucer. " I 
do know as I should if I was in your place. It 's 
kind o curious I should bring both remedies home 
with me at once." At this they all laughed a third 
time, till Manda Grier said, " Sh ! sh ! Do you 
want to raise the roof ? " 
She began to bustle about, and to set out a little 
table, and cover it with a napkin, and as she worked 
she talked on. "I guess if you don't want any 
boneset tea, a little of the other kind won't hurt any 
of us, and I kinder want a cup myself." She set it 
to steep on the stove, and it went through Lemuel 's 
mind that she might have steeped the boneset there 
too, if she had thought of it ; but he did not say 
anything, though it seemed a pretty good joke on 
Manda Grier. She ran on in that way of hers so 
that you never could tell whether she really meant 
 
a thing or not. " I guess if I have to manage many 
more cases like yours, S tira Dudley, I shall want 
to lay in a whole chest of it. What do you think, 
Mr. Barker ] " 
" Mr. Barker ! " repeated Statira. 
" Well, I' m afraid to say Lemuel any more, for 
fear he'll fly off the handle, and never come again. 
What do you think, Mr. Barker, of havin to set at 
that window every Sunday for the last three weeks, 
and keep watch of both sidewalks till you get such 
a crick in your neck, and your eyes so set in your 
head, you couldn't move either of em ? " 
" Now, Manda Grier ! " said Statira from Lemuel 's 
shoulder. 
" Well, I don't say I had to do it, and I don't say 
who the young man was that I was put to look 
out for 
" But I do say it 's pretty hard to wait on a sick 
person one side the room, and keep watch for a 
young man the other side, both at once." 
" Manda Grier, you're  too bad ! " pouted Statira. 
" Don't you believe a word she says, Mr. Barker." 
"Mr. Barker /" repeated Manda Grier. 
"Well, I don't care ! " said Statira, " I know who 
I' mean." 
"/ don t," said Manda Grier. "And I didn't 
know w r ho you meant this afternoon when you w r as 
standin watch t the window, and says you, There ! 
there he is ! and I had to run so quick with the 
dipper of water I had in my hand to water the 
 OR, 
plants that I poured it all over the front of my 
dress." 
" Do you believe her ? " asked Statira. 
"And I didn't know who you meant," proceeded 
Manda Grier, busy with the cups and saucers, " when 
you kept hurryin me up to change it ; Oh, quick, 
quick ! How long you are ! I know he'll get away ; 
I know he will ! and I had to just sling on a shawl 
and rush out after this boneset." 
" There ! Now that shows she 's inakin it all up ! " 
cried Statira. " She put on a sack, and I helped her 
on with it myself. So there ! " 
" Well, if it was a sack ! And after all, the young 
man was gone when I got down hit the street," 
concluded Manda Grier solemnly. 
Lemuel had thought she was talking about him ; 
but now a pang of jealousy went through him, and 
showed at the eyes he fixed on her. 
" I don't know what I sh'd a done," she resumed 
demurely, "if I hadn't have found Mr. Barker at 
the apothecary 's and got him to come home th me ; 
but of course, twan't the same as if it was the young 
man ! " 
Lemuel 's arm fell from Statira 's waist in his 
torment. 
" Why, Lemuel ! " she said in tender reproach. 
" Why, you coot ! " cried Manda Grier in utter 
amazement at his single- mindedness ; and burst into 
a scream of laughter. She took the teapot from the 
stove, and set it on the table. "There, young man 
if you are the young man you better pull up to 
 
the table, and have something to start your ideas. 
S tira ! Let him come ! " and Lemuel, blushing for 
shame at his stupidity, did as he was bid. 
"I've  got the greatest mind in the world to set 
next to S tira myself," said Manda Grier, "for fear 
she should miss that young man ! " and now they 
both laughed together at Lemuel ; but the girls let 
him sit between them, and Statira let him keep one 
of her hands under the table, as much as she could. 
" I never saw such a jealous piece ! Why, I shall 
begin to be afraid for myself. What should you 
think of S tira 's going to housekeeping with me ? " 
" I don't believe he likes the idea one bit," Statira 
answered for him. 
"Oh yes, I do !" Lemuel protested. 
" D you tell him ? " Manda Grier demanded of 
her. She nodded with saucy defiance. " Well, you 
have got along ! And about the box-factory ? " 
Statira nodded again, with a look of joyous in 
telligence at Lemuel. " Well, what hain't you told, I 
wonder ! " Manda Grier added seriously to Lemuel, 
"I think it'll be about the best thing in the world 
for S tira. I see for the last six months she 's been 
killin herself in that store. She can't ever get a 
chance to set down a minute ; and she 's on her 
feet from mornin till night ; and I think it 's more n 
half that that 's made her sick ; I don't say what 
the other four-fifths was ! 
"Now, Manda Grier, stop !" 
" Well, that 's over with now, and now we want to 
keep you out that store. I been lookin out for this 
place for S tira a good while. She can go onto the 
small boxes, if she wants to, and she can set down 
all the time ; and she'll have a whole hour for her 
dinner ; and she can work by the piece, and do as 
much or as little as she 's a mind to ; but if she 's a 
mind to work she can make her five and six dollars 
a week, easy. Mr. Stevens 's real nice and kind, and 
he looks out for the girls that ain't exactly strong 
not but what S tira 's as strong as anybody, when 
she 's well and he don't put em on the green paper 
work, because it 's got arsenic in it, and it makes 
your head ache, and you're  liable to blood poisonin . 
One the girls fainted and had spasms, and as soon 
as he found it out he took her right off; and he 's 
just like clockwork to pay. I think it'll do every 
thing for S tira to be along th me there, where I can 
look after her." 
Lemuel said he thought so too ; he did not really 
think at all, he was so flattered at being advised 
with about Statira, as if she were in his keeping and 
it was for him to say what was best for her ; and 
when she seemed uncertain about his real opinion, 
and said she was not going to do anything he did not 
approve of, he could scarcely speak for rapture, but he 
protested that he did approve of the scheme entirely. 
" But you shouldn't want we girls to set up house 
keeping in rooms ? " she suggested ; and he said that 
he should, and that he thought it would be more 
independent and home-like. 
"We're  half doin it now," said Manda Grier, 
"and I know some rooms two of em where we 
 
could get along first rate, and not cost us much 
more n half what it does here." 
After she cleared up the tea-things she made 
another errand downstairs, and Lemuel and Statira 
went back to their rocking-chair. It still amazed 
him that she seemed not even to make it a favour 
to him ; she seemed to think it was favour to her. 
What was stranger yet was that he could not feel 
that there was anything wrong or foolish about it ; 
he thought of his mother 's severity about young 
folks sickishness, as she called it, and he could not 
understand it. He knew that he had never had 
such right and noble thoughts about girls before ; 
perhaps Statira was better than other girls ; she 
must be ; she was just like a child ; and he must be 
very good himself to be anyways fit for her ; if she 
cared so much for him, it must be a sign that he 
was not so bad as he had sometimes thought. A 
great many things went through his mind, the 
silent comment and suggestion of their talk, and all 
the time while he was saying something or listening 
to her, he was aware of the overwhelming wonder 
of her being so frank with him, and not too proud 
or ashamed to have him know how anxious she had 
been, ever since they first met, for fear he did not 
care for her. She had always appeared so stylish 
and reserved, and now she was not proud at all. He 
tried to tell her how it had been w T ith him the last 
three weeks ; all that he could say was that he had 
been afraid to come. She laughed, and said, the 
idea of his being afraid of her ! She said that she 
 
was glad of everything she had gone through. At 
times she lifted herself from his shoulder and 
coughed ; but that was when she had been laughing 
or crying a little. They told each other about their 
families ; Statira said she had not really any folks 
of her own ; she was just brought up by her aunt ; 
and Lemuel had to tell her that his mother wore 
bloomers. Statira said she guessed she should not 
care much for the bloomers ; and in everything she 
tried to make out that he was much better than she 
was, and just exactly right. She already spoke of 
his sister by her first name, and she entered into his 
whole life, as if she had always known him. He 
said she must come with him to hear Mr. Sewell 
preach, sometime ; but she declared that she did not 
think much of a minister who could behave the way 
he had done to Lemuel. He defended Sewell, and 
maintained that if it had not been for him he might 
not have come to Boston, and so might never have 
seen her ; but she held out that she could not bear 
Mr. Sewell, and that she knew he was double-faced, 
and everything. Lemuel said well, he did not know 
that he should ever have anything more to do with 
him ; but he liked to hear him preach, and he guessed 
he tried to do what was about right. Statira made 
him promise that if ever he met Mr. Sewell again, 
he would not make up to him, any way; and she 
would not tolerate the thought of Miss Vane. 
" What you two quar lin about ? " demanded 
Manda Grier, coming suddenly into the room ; and 
that turned their retrospective griefs into joy again. 
 
" I' m scoldin him because he don't think enough 
of himself," cried Statira. 
" Well, he seems to take it pretty meekly," said 
Manda Grier. " I guess you didn't scold very hard. 
Now, young man," she added to Lemuel, " I guess 
you better be goin . It 's five o clock, and if you 
should be out after dark, and the bears should get 
you, I don't know what S tira would do." 
" Tain't five yet ! " pleaded Statira. " That old 
watch of yours is always tryin to beat the town 
clock." 
"Well, it 's the clock that 's ahead this time," 
said Manda Grier. "My watch says quarter of. 
Come, now, S tira, you let him go, or he sha n't come 
back any more." 
They had a parting that Lemuel 's mother would 
have called sickish without question; but it all 
seemed heavenly sweet and right. Statira said now 
he had got to kiss Manda Grier too ; and when he 
insisted, her chin knocked against his, and saved 
her lips, and she gave him a good box on the ear. 
"There, I guess that'll do for one while," she 
said, arranging her tumbled hair ; " but there 's more 
kisses where that came from, for both of you if you 
want em. Coots ! " 
Once, when Lemuel was little, he had a fever, and 
he was always seeming to glide down the school- 
house stairs without touching the steps with his feet. 
He remembered this dream now, when he reached 
the street ; he felt as if he had floated down on the 
air ; and presently he was back in his little den at 
 
the hotel, he did not know how. He ran the elevator 
up and down for the ladies who called him from the 
different floors, and he took note of the Sunday 
difference in their toilet as they passed in to tea ; 
but in the same dreamy way. 
After the boarders had supped, he went in as 
usual with Mrs. Harmon 's nephew, less cindery than 
on week-days, from the cellar, and Mrs. Harmon, 
silken smooth for her evening worship at the shrine 
of a popular preacher from New York. The Sunday 
evening before, she had heard an agnostic lecture in 
the Boston Theatre, and she said she wished to 
compare notes. Her tranquillity was unruffled by the 
fact that the head-waitress had left, just before tea; 
she presumed they could get along just as well 
without her as with her : the boarders had spoiled 
her, anyway. She looked round at Lemuel 's face, 
which beamed with his happiness, and said she 
guessed she should have to get him to open the 
dining-room doors, and seat the transients the next 
few days, till she could get another head-waitress. 
It did not seem to be so much a request as a resolu 
tion ; but Lemuel willingly assented. Mrs. Harmon 's 
nephew said that so long as they did not want him 
to do it he did not care who did it ; and if a few of 
them had his furnace to look after they would not 
be so anxious to kick 
XVI. 
LEMUEL had to be up early in the morning to get 
the bills of fare, which Mrs. Harmon called the 
Meanyous, written in time for the seven o clock 
breakfasters ; and after opening the dining-room 
doors with fit ceremony, he had to run backward 
and forward to answer the rings at the elevator, and 
to pull out the chairs for the ladies at the table, and 
slip them back under them as they sat down. The 
ladies at the St. Albans expected to get their money 's 
worth ; but their exactions in most things were of 
use to Lemuel. He grew constantly nimbler of hand 
and foot under them, and he grew quicker-witted ; 
he ceased to hulk in mind and body. He did not 
employ this new mental agility in devising excuses 
and delays ; he left that to Mrs. Harmon, whose con 
science was easy in it ; but from seven o clock in the 
morning till eleven at night, when the ladies came 
in from the theatre, he was so promptly, so com 
fortingly at their service, that they all said they did 
not see how they had ever got along without him. 
His activities took the form of interruptions 
rather than constant occupation, and he found a good 
deal of broken-up time on his hands, which he 
passed in reading, and in reveries of Statira. At the 
hours when the elevator was mostly in use he kept a 
book in it with him, and at other times he had it 
in the office, as Mrs. Harmon called his little booth. 
He remained there reading every night after the 
house quieted down after dinner, until it was time to 
lock up for the night ; and several times Mr. Evans 
stopped and looked in at him where he sat in the 
bad combustion of the gas that was taking the 
country tan out of his cheeks. One night when he 
came in late, and Lemuel put his book down to take 
him up in the elevator, he said, " Don't disturb 
yourself ; I' m going to walk up," but he lingered at 
the door looking in with the queer smile that always 
roused the ladies fears of tacit ridicule. " I suppose 
you don't find it necessary," he said finally, "to 
chase a horse-car now, when you want to find your 
way to a given point ? " 
Lemuel reddened and dropped his head ; he had 
already recognised in Mr. Evans the gentleman from 
whose kindly curiosity lie had turned, that first day, 
in the suspicion that he might be a beat. " No," he 
said, " I guess I can go pretty near everywhere in 
Boston now." 
"Well," said Mr. Evans, "it was an ingenious 
system. How do you like Boston ? " 
" I like it first-rate, but I've not seen many other 
places," answered Lemuel cautiously. 
" Well, if you live here long enough you won't 
care to see any other places; you'll know they're  
 
not worth seeing." Lemuel looked up as if he did not 
understand exactly, and Mr. Evans stepped in and 
lifted the book he had been reading. It was one he 
had bought at second hand while he was with Miss 
Vane : a tough little epitome of the philosophies in 
all times, the crabbed English version of a dry 
German original. Mr. Evans turned its leaves 
over. " Do you find it a very exciting story ? " he 
asked. 
" Why, it isn't a story," said Lemuel, in simple 
surprise. 
" No ? " asked Mr. Evans. " I thought it must be. 
Most of the young gentlemen who run the elevators 
I travel in read stories. Do you like this kind of 
reading ? " 
Lemuel reflected, and then he said he thought 
you ought to find out about such things if you 
got a chance. 
" Yes," said the editor musingly, " I suppose one 
oughtn't to throw any sort of chance away. But 
you're  sure you don't prefer the novels ? You'll 
excuse my asking you ? " 
"Oh, perfectly excusable," said Lemuel. He 
added that he liked a good novel too, when he 
could get hold of it. 
" You must come to my room some day, and see if 
you can't get hold of one there. Or if you prefer 
metaphysics, I've  got shelves full that you're  
welcome to. I suppose," he added, "you hadn't 
been in Boston a great while when I' met you 
that day ? &gt;; 
 
"No," said Lemuel, dropping his head again, "I 
had just come." 
As if he saw that something painful lurked under 
the remembrance of the time for Lemuel the editor 
desisted. 
The next morning he stopped on his way to 
breakfast with some books which he handed to 
Lemuel. " Don't feel at all obliged to read them," 
he said, " because I lend them to you. They won't 
be of the least use to you, if you do so." 
" ? guess that anything you like will be worth 
reading," said Lemuel, flattered by the trouble so 
chief a boarder as Mr. Evans had taken with him. 
"Not if they supplied a want you didn't feel. 
You seem to be fond of books, and after a while 
you'll be wanting to lend them yourself. I'll give 
you a little hint that I' m too old to profit by : 
remember that you can lend a person more books in 
a day than he can read in a week." 
His laugh kept Lemuel shy of him still, in spite 
of a willingness that the editor showed for their 
.better acquaintance. He seemed to wish to know 
about Lemuel, particularly since he had recognised 
the pursuer of the horse-car in him, and this made 
Lemuel close up the more. He would have liked to 
talk with him about the books Evans had lent him. 
But when the editor stopped at the office door, 
where Lemuel sat reading one of them, and asked 
him what he thought of it, the boy felt that 
somehow it was not exactly his opinion that Mr. 
Evans was getting at; and this sense of being 
 
inspected and arranged in another 's mind, though 
he could not formulate the operation in his own, 
somehow wounded and repelled him. It was not 
that the editor ever said anything that was not 
kind and friendly ; he was always doing kind 
and friendly things, and he appeared to take a 
real interest in Lemuel. At the end of the first 
week after Lemuel had added the head waitership 
to his other duties, Evans stopped in going out of 
the dining-room and put a dollar in his hand. 
" What is it for ? " asked Lemuel. 
" For ? Eeally, I don't know. It must be tribute- 
money," said the editor in surprise, but with a rising 
curiosity. " I never know what it 's for." 
Lemuel turned red, and handed it back. " I don't 
know as I want any money I haven't earned." 
That night, after dinner, when Evans was passing 
the office door on his way out of the hotel, Lemuel 
stopped him and said with embarrassment, " Mr. 
Evans, I don't want you should think I didn't 
appreciate your kindness this morning." 
"Ah, I' m not sure it was kindness," said Evans 
with immediate interest. " Why didn't you take 
the money ? " 
" Well, I told you why," said Lemuel, overcoming 
the obscure reluctance he felt at Evans 's manner as 
best he could. " I've been thinking it over, and I 
guess I was right ; but I didn't know whether I had 
expressed it the best way." 
"The way couldn't be improved. But why did 
you think you hadn't earned my dollar ? " 
 
" I don't do anything but open the doors, and show 
people to their places ; I don't call that anything." 
" But if you were a waiter and served at table ? " 
" I wouldn't be one," said Lemuel, with a touch of 
indignation ; " and I shouldn't take presents, any way." 
Evans leaned against the door-jamb. 
" Have you heard of the college students who wait 
at the mountain hotels in vacation ? They all take 
fees. Do you think yourself better than they are ? " 
" Yes, I do ! " cried Lemuel. 
"Well, I don't know but you are," said the 
editor thoughtfully. "But I think I should dis 
tinguish. Perhaps there 's no shame in waiting at 
table, but there is in taking fees." 
" Yes ; that 's what I' meant," said Lemuel, a little 
sorry for his heat. " I shouldn't be ashamed to do 
any kind of work, and to take my pay for it ; but I 
shouldn't want to have folks giving me money over 
and above, as if I was a beggar." 
The editor stood looking him absently in the face. 
After a moment he asked, " What part of New 
England did you come from, Mr. Barker ? " 
" I came from the middle part of the State from 
Willoughby Pastures." 
"Do those ideas those principles of yours 
prevail there ? " 
"I don't know whether they do or not," said 
Lemuel. 
"If you were sure they did, I should like to 
engage board there for next summer," said the 
editor, going out. 
 
It was Monday night, a leisure time with him, and 
he was going out to see a friend, a minister, with 
whom Monday night was also leisure time. 
After he was gone, some of the other boarders 
began to drop in from the lectures and concerts 
which they frequented in the evening. The ladies 
had all some favour to ask of Lemuel, some real or 
fancied need of his help ; in return for his promise 
or performance, they each gave him advice. What 
they expressed collectively was that they should 
think that he would put his eyes out reading by that 
gas, and that he had better look out, or he would 
ruin his health anyway, reading so much. They 
asked him how much time he got for sleep ; and they 
said that from twelve till six was not enough, and 
that he was just killing himself. They had all offered 
to lend him books ; the least literary among them 
had a sort of house pride in his fondness for books ; 
their sympathy with this taste of his amused their 
husbands, who tolerated it, but in their hearts're  
garded it as a womanish weakness, indicating a want 
of fibre in Lemuel. Mrs. Harmon as a business 
woman, and therefore occupying a middle ground 
between the sexes, did not exactly know herself what 
to make of her clerk 's studiousness ; all that she 
could say was that he kept up with his work. She 
assumed that before Lemuel 's coming she had been 
the sole motive power of the house ; but it was 
really a sort of democracy, and was managed by the 
majority of its inmates. An element of demagoguery 
tampered with the Irish vote in the person of Jerry, 
 
nominally porter, but actually factotum, who had 
hitherto, pending the strikes of the different function 
aries, filled the offices now united in Lemuel. He 
had never been clerk, because his literature went no 
further than the ability to write his name, and to 
read a passage of the constitution in qualifying for 
the suffrage. He did not like the new order of things, 
but he was without a party, and helpless to do more 
than neglect the gong-bell when he had reason to 
think Lemuel had sounded it. 
About eleven o clock the law-student came in with 
the two girl art-students, fresh from the outside air, 
and gay from the opera they had been hearing. The 
young man told Lemuel he ought to go to see it. After 
the girls had opened their door, one of them came 
running back to the elevator, and called down to 
Lemuel that there was no ice-water, and would he 
please send some up. 
Lemuel brought it up himself, and when he 
knocked at the door, the same girl opened it and 
made a pretty outcry over the trouble she had given 
him. " I supposed, of course, Jerry would bring it," 
she said contritely ; and as if for some atonement, 
she added, "Won't you come in, Mr. Barker, and 
see my picture ? " 
Lemuel stood in the gush of the gas-light 
hesitating, and the law-student called out to him, 
jollily, " Come in, Mr. Barker, and help me play art- 
critic." He was standing before the picture, with 
his overcoat on and his hat in his hand. " First 
appearance on any stage," he added ; and as Lemuel 
 
entered, "If I were you," he said, "I'd fire that 
porter out of the hotel. He 's outlived his useful 
ness." 
" It 's a shame, your having to bring the water," 
said Miss Swan ; she was the girl who had spoken 
before. 
The other one came forward and said, "Won't 
you sit down f " 
She spoke to Lemuel ; the law-student answered, 
" Thank you ; I don't care if I do." 
Lemuel did not know whether to stay, nor what 
to say of Miss Swan 's picture, and he thanked the 
young lady and remained standing. 
" Jessie, Jessie, Jessie ! " cried Miss Swan. 
The other went to her, tranquilly, as if used to 
such vehement appeals. 
" Just see how my poor cow looks since I painted 
out that grass ! She hasn't got a leg to stand on ! " 
The law-student did nothing but make jokes about 
the picture. " I think she looks pretty well for a cow 
that you must have had to study from a milk-can 
nearest you could come to a cow in Boston." 
Miss Carver, the other young lady, ignored his 
joking, and after some criticisms on the picture, left 
him and Miss Swan to talk it over. She talked to 
Lemuel, and asked him if he had read a book he 
glanced at on the table, and seemed willing to make 
him feel at ease. But she did not. He thought she 
was very proud, and he believed she wanted him to 
go, but he did not know how to go. Her eyes were 
so still and pure ; but they dwelt very coldly upon 
 
him. Her voice was like that look put into sound ; 
it was rather high-pitched but very sweet and pure, 
and cold. He hardly knew what he said ; he felt 
hot, and he waited for some chance to get away. 
At last he heard Miss Swan saying, " Must you go, 
Mr. Berry ? So soon ! " and saw her giving the 
student her hand, with a bow of burlesque desolation. 
Lemuel prepared to go too. All his rusticity came 
back upon him, and he said, "Well, I wish you 
good evening." 
It seemed to him that Miss Carver 's still eyes 
looked a sort of starry scorn after him. He found 
that -he had brought away the book they had been 
talking about, and he was a long time in question 
whether he had better take it back at once, or give 
it to her when she came to breakfast. 
He went to bed in the same trouble of mind. 
Every night he had fallen asleep with Statira in his 
thoughts, but now it was Miss Carver that he thought 
of, and more and more uncomfortably. He asked 
himself what she would say if she saw his mother 
in the bloomers. She was herself not dressed so 
fashionably as Statira, but very nicely. 
XVII. 
AT Sewell 's house the maid told Evans to walk up 
into the study, without seating him first in the 
reception-room, as if that were needless with so 
intimate a friend of the family. He found Sewell 
at his desk, and he began at once, without the forms 
of greeting : 
" If you don't like that other subject, I've  got a 
new one for you, and you could write a sermon on 
it that would make talk." 
"You look at it from the newspaper point of 
view," returned Sewell, in the same humour. " I' m 
not an * enterprise/ and I don't want to make talk 
in your sense. I don't know that I want to make 
talk at all ; I should prefer to make thought, to make 
feeling." 
"Well," said the editor, "this would do all 
three." 
"Would you come to hear me, if I wrote the 
sermon ] " 
" Ah, that 's asking a good deal." 
" Why don't you develop your idea in an article ? 
You're  always bragging that you preach to a larger 
congregation than I." 
" I propose to let you preach to my congregation 
too, if you'll write this sermon. I've  talked to you 
before about reporting your sermons in Saturday 
Afternoon. They would be a feature ; and if we 
could open with this one, and have a good incisive 
editorial on it, disputing some of your positions, 
and treating certain others with a little satire, at 
the same time maintaining a very respectful atti 
tude towards you on the whole, and calling attention 
to the fact that there was a strong and increasing 
interest in your utterances/ which we were the 
first to recognise, it would be a card. We might 
agree beforehand on the points the editorial was to 
touch, and so make one hand wash another. See ? " 
" I see that journalism has eaten into your soul. 
What is your subject ? " 
" Well, in general terms, and in a single word, 
Complicity. Don't you think that would be rather 
taking ? Mr. Sewell, in his striking sermon on 
Complicity, and so forth. It would be a great hit, 
and it would stand a chance of sticking, like 
Emerson 's Compensation. " 
" Delightful ! The most amusing part is that you've 
really a grain of business in your bushel of chaff." 
Sewell wheeled about in his swivel-chair, and sat 
facing his guest, deeply sunken in the low easy seat 
he always took. " When did this famous idea occur 
to you ? " he pursued, swinging his glasses by their 
cord. 
" About three weeks ago, at the theatre. There 
was one of those pieces on that make you despair 
 
of the stage, and ashamed of writing a play even to 
be rejected by it a farrago of indecently amusing 
innuendoes and laughably vile situations, such as, 
if they were put into a book, would prevent its 
being sent through the mail. The theatre apparently 
can still be as filthy in suggestion as it was at the 
Restoration, and not shock its audiences. There 
were all sorts of people there that night : young girls 
who had come with young men for an evening 's 
polite amusement ; families ; middle-aged husbands 
and wives ; respectable-looking single women ; and 
average bachelors. I don't think the ordinary thea 
trical audience is of a high grade intellectually ; it 's 
third or fourth rate ; but morally it seems quite as 
good as other public assemblages. All the people 
were nicely dressed, and they sat there before that 
nasty mess it was an English comedy where all the 
jokes turn upon the belief of the characters that 
their wives and husbands are the parents of illegi 
timate offspring and listened with as smooth self- 
satisfaction as if they were not responsible for it. 
But all at once it occurred to me that they were 
responsible, every one of them as responsible as 
the players, as the author himself." 
" Did you come out of the theatre at that point ? " 
asked Sewell. 
" Oh, I was responsible too ; but I seemed to be 
the only one ashamed of my share in the business." 
" If you were the only one conscious of it, your 
merit wasn't very great," suggested the minister. 
"Well, I should like the others to be conscious 
 
of it too. That 's why I want you to preach my 
sermon. I want you to tell your people and my 
people that the one who buys sin or shame, or 
corruption of any sort, is as guilty as the one who 
sells it." 
" It isn't a new theory," said Sewell, still refusing 
to give up his ironical tone. "It was discovered 
some time ago that this was so before God." 
" Well, I've  just discovered that it ought to be so 
before man," said Evans. 
" Still you're  not the first," said Sewell. 
" Yes," said the editor, " I think I am, from my 
peculiar standpoint. The other day a friend of 
mine an upright, just, worthy man, no one more 
so was telling me of a shocking instance of our 
national corruption. He had just got home from 
Europe, and he had brought a lot of dutiable things, 
that a customs inspector passed for a trifling sum. 
That was all very well, but the inspector afterwards 
came round with a confidential claim for a hundred 
dollars, and the figures to show that the legal 
duties would have been eight or ten times as much. 
My friend was glad to pay the hundred dollars ; but 
he defied me to name any country in Europe where 
such a piece of official rascality was possible. He 
said it made him ashamed of America ! " Evans 
leaned his head back against his chair and laughed. 
"Yes," said Sewell with a sigh, and no longer 
feigning lightness. "That 's awful." 
"Well, now," said Evans, "don't you think it 
your duty to help people realise that they can't 
 
regard such transactions de haut en bas, if they 
happen to have taken part in them ? I have heard 
of the shameful condition of things down in Maine, 
where I' m told the French Canadians who've  come 
in regularly expect to sell their votes to the highest 
bidder at every election. Since my new system of 
ethics occurred to me, I've  fancied that there must 
have always been a shameful state of things there, 
if Americans could grow up in the willingness to 
buy votes. I want to have people recognise that 
there is no superiority for them in such an affair; 
that there 's nothing but inferiority ; that the man 
who has the money and the wit to corrupt is a far 
baser rascal than the man who has the ignorance 
and the poverty to be corrupted. I would make 
this principle seek out every weak spot, every sore 
spot in the whole social constitution. I' m sick to 
death of the frauds that we practise upon ourselves 
in order to be able to injure others. Just consider 
the infernal ease of mind in which men remain con 
cerning men 's share in the social evil 
"Ah, my dear friend, you can't expect me to 
consider that in my pulpit ! " cried the minister 
" No ; I couldn't consider it in my paper. I 
suppose we must leave that where it is, unless we 
can affect it by analogy, and show that there is 
infamy for both parties to any sin committed in 
common. You must select your instances in other 
directions, but you can find plenty of them enough 
and to spare. It would give the series a tremendous 
send-off," said Evans, relapsing into his habitual 
 
tone, "if you would tackle this subject in your 
first sermon for publication. There would be money 
in it. The thing would make a success in the 
paper, and you could get somebody to reprint it 
in pamphlet form. Come, what do you say ? " 
"I should say that you had just been doing 
something you were ashamed of," answered Sewell. 
" People don't have these tremendous moral awaken 
ings for nothing." 
" And you don't think my present state of mind 
is a gradual outgrowth of my first consciousness of 
the common responsibility of actors and audience in 
the representation of a shameless comedy ? " 
" No, I shouldn't think it was," said the minister 
securely. 
" Well you're  right." Evans twisted himself 
about in his chair, and hung his legs over one of 
the arms. 
" The real reason why I wish you to preach this 
sermon is because I have just been offering a fee to 
the head-waiter at our hotel." 
" And you feel degraded with him by his accept 
ance ? For it is a degradation." 
"No, that 's the strangest thing about it. I have 
a monopoly of the degradation, for he didn't take 
my dollar." 
"Ah, then a sermon won't help you! Why 
wouldn't he take it ? " 
"He said he didn't know as he wanted any 
money he hadn't earned," said Evans, with a touch 
of mimicry. 
 
The minister started up from his lounging attitude. 
" Is his name Barker ? " he asked, with unerring 
prescience. 
"Yes," said Evans with a little surprise. "Do 
you know him ? " 
" Yes," returned the minister, falling back in his 
chair helplessly, not luxuriously. " So well that I 
knew it was he almost as soon as you came into the 
room to-night." 
" What harm have you been doing him ? " demanded 
the editor, in parody of the minister 's acuteness in 
guessing the guilty operation of his own mind. 
" The greatest. I' m the cause of his being in 
Boston." 
" This is very interesting," said Evans. " We are 
companions in crime pals. It 's a great honour. 
But what strikes me as being so interesting is that 
we appear to feel remorse for our misdeeds ; and I 
was almost persuaded the other day by an observer 
of our species, that remorse had gone out, or rather 
had never existed, except in the fancy of innocent 
people ; that real criminals like ourselves were afraid 
of being found out, but weren't in the least sorry. 
Perhaps, if we are sorry, it proves that we needn't 
be. Let 's judge each other. I ;'ve  told you what 
my sin against Barker is, and I know yours in 
general terms. It 's a fearful thing to be the cause 
of a human soul 's presence in Boston ; but what 
did you do to bring it about  ? Who is Barker? 
Where did he come from ? What was his previous 
condition of servitude ? He puzzles me a good deal." 
 
" Oh, I'll tell you," said Sewell ; and he gave his 
personal chapter in Lemuel 's history. 
Evans interrupted him at one point. "And 
what became of the poem he brought down with 
him ? " 
" It was stolen out of his pocket, one night when 
he slept in the common." 
" Ah, then he can't offer it to me ! And he seems 
very far from writing any more. I can still keep 
his acquaintance. Go on." 
Sewell told, in amusing detail, of the Wayfarer 's 
Lodge, where he had found Barker after supposing 
he had gone home. Evans seemed more interested 
in the place than in the minister 's meeting with 
Lemuel there, which Sewell fancied he had painted 
rather well, describing Lemuel 's severity and his 
own anxiety. 
" There ! " said the editor. " There you have it 
a practical illustration ! Our civilisation has had to 
come to it ! " 
" Come to what ? " 
" Complicity." 
Sewell made an impatient gesture. 
"Don't sacrifice the consideration of a great 
principle," cried Evans, "to the petty effect of a 
good story on an appreciative listener. I realise 
your predicament. But don't you see that in estab 
lishing and regulating a place like that the city of 
Boston has instinctively sanctioned my idea ? You 
may say that it is aiding and abetting the tramp-nui 
sance by giving vagrants food and shelter, but other 
 
philosophers will contend that it is blindly per 
haps fulfilling the destiny of the future State, which 
will at once employ and support all its citizens ; 
that it is prophetically recognising my new principle 
of Complicity ? " 
" Your new principle ! " cried Sewell. " You 
have merely given a new name to one of the oldest 
principles in the moral world." 
" And that is a good deal to do, I can tell you," 
said Evans. "All the principles are pretty old now. 
But don't give way to an ignoble resentment of my 
interruption. Go on about Barker." 
After some feints that there was nothing more 
important to tell, Sewell went on to the end ; and 
when he had come to it, Evans shook his head. 
" It looks pretty black for you, but it 's a beautifully 
perfect case of Complicity. What do you propose 
to do, now you've  rediscovered him ? " 
" Oh, I don't know ! I hope no more mischief. 
If I could only get him back on his farm ! " 
"Yes, I suppose that would be the best thing. 
But I dare say he wouldn't go back ! " 
" That 's been my experience with him." 
They talked this aspect of the case over more 
fully, and Evans said : " Well, I wouldn't go back to 
such a place myself after I cl once had a glimpse of 
Boston, but I suppose it 's right to wish that Barker 
would. I hope his mother will come to visit him 
while he 's in the hotel. I would give a good deal 
to see her. Fancy her coming down in her bloomers, 
and the poor fellow being ashamed of her ? It would 
 
be a very good subject for a play. Does she wear a 
hat or a bonnet ? What sort of head-gear goes with 
that sleek odalisque style of dress ? A turban, I 
suppose." 
" Mrs. Barker," said the minister, unable to deny 
himself the fleeting comfort of the editor 's humorous 
view of the situation, " is as far from a sleek 
odalisque as any lady I J've  ever seen, in spite of her 
oriental costume. If I remember, her yashmak was 
not gathered at the ankles, but hung loose like 
occidental trousers ; and the day we met she wore 
simply her own hair. There was not much of it 
on top, and she had it cut short in the neck. She 
was rather a terrible figure. Her having ever been 
married would have been inconceivable, except for 
her son." 
"I should like to have seen her," said Evans, 
laughing back in his chair. 
" She was worth seeing as a survival of the super 
ficial fermentation of the period of our social history 
when it was believed that women could be like men 
if they chose, and ought to be if they ever meant to 
show their natural superiority. But she was not 
picturesque." 
" The son 's very handsome. I can see that the 
lady boarders think him so." 
" Do you find him at all remarkable otherwise ? 
What dismayed me more than his poetry even was 
that when he gave that up he seemed to have no 
particular direction." 
" Oh, he reads a good deal, and pretty serious 
 
books j and he goes to hear all the sermons and 
lectures in town." 
" I thought he came to mine only," sighed the 
minister, with a retrospective suffering. " Well, 
what can be done for him now ? I feel my complicity 
with Barker as poignantly as you could wish." 
" Ah, you see how the principle applies every 
where ! " cried the editor joyously. He added : " But 
I really think that for the present you can't do better 
than let Barker alone. He 's getting on very well at 
Mrs. Harmon s, and although the conditions at the 
St. Albans are more transitory than most sublunary 
things, Barker appears to be a fixture. Our little 
system has begun to revolve round him unconsciously ; 
he keeps us going." 
" Well," said Sewell, consenting to be a little com 
forted. He was about to go more particularly into 
the facts ; but Mrs. Sewell came in just then, and 
he obviously left the subject. 
Evans did not sit down again after rising to greet 
her ; and presently he said good night. 
She turned to her husband : " What were you 
talking about when I came in I " 
" When you came in ? " 
" Yes. You both had that look I can always tell 
it of having suddenly stopped." 
" Oh ! " said Sewell, pretending to arrange the 
tilings on his desk. " Evans had been suggesting 
the subject for a sermon." He paused a moment, and 
then he continued hardily, " And he'd been telling 
me about Barker. He 's turned up again." 
 
"Of course!" said Mrs. Sewell. What 's 
happened to him now ? " 
" Nothing, apparently, but some repeated strokes 
of prosperity. He has become clerk, elevator-boy, 
and head-waiter at the St. Albans." 
" And what are you going to do about him ? " 
"Evans advises me to do nothing." 
"Well, that 's sensible, at any rate," said Mrs. 
Sewell. " I really think you've  done quite enough, 
David, and now he can be left to manage for himself, 
especially as he seems to be doing well." 
" Oh, he 's doing as well as I could hope, and 
better. But I' m not sure that I shouldn't have per 
sonally preferred a continued course of calamity for 
him. I shall never be quite at peace about him till 
I get him back on his farm at Willoughby Pastures." 
" Well, that you will never do ; and you may as 
well rest easy about it." 
" I don't know as to never doing it," said Sewell. 
" All prosperity, especially the prosperity connected 
with Mrs. Harmon 's hotel, is transitory ; and I' may 
succeed yet." 
"Does everything go on there in the old way, 
does Mr. Evans say ? " Mrs. Sewell did not refer to 
any former knowledge of the St. Albans, but to a 
remote acquaintance with the character and methods 
of Mrs. Harmon, with whom the Sewells had once 
boarded. She was then freshly widowed by the loss 
of her first husband, and had launched her earliest 
boarding-house on that sea of disaster, where she 
had buoyantly outridden every storm and had 
 
floated triumphantly on the top of every ingulfing 
wave. They recalled the difficult navigation of that 
primitive craft, in which each of the boarders had 
taken a hand at the helm, and their reminiscences of 
her financial embarrassments were mixed with those 
of the unfailing serenity that seemed not to know 
defeat, and with fond memories of her goodness of 
heart, and her ideal devotion in any case of sickness 
or trouble. 
" I should think the prosperity of Mrs. Harmon 
would convince the most negative of agnostics that 
there was an overruling Providence, if nothing else 
did," said Sewell. "It 's so defiant of all law, so 
delightfully independent of causation/ 
" Well, let Barker alone with her, then," said his 
wife, rising to leave him to the hours of late read 
ing which she had never been able to break up. 
XVIII. 
AFTER agreeing with his wife that he had better 
leave Barker alone, Sewell did not feel easy in doing 
so. He had that ten-dollar note which Miss Vane 
had given him, and though he did not believe, since 
Evans had reported Barker 's refusal of his fee, that 
the boy would take it, he was still constrained to do 
something with it. Before giving it back to her, he 
