Duty should be obvious; one shouldn't hunt round for it.' 
'Was it very obvious when it brought you on here?' 
asked Mrs. Luna, who was distinctly out of humour. 
Olive looked for a moment at the toe of her shoe. ' I 
had an idea that you would have married him by this time,' 
she presently remarked. 
' Marry him yourself, my dear ! What put such an idea 
into your head?' 
'You wrote to me at first so much about him. You 
told me he was tremendously attentive, and that you liked 
him.' 
' His state of mind is one thing and mine is another. 
How can I marry every man that hangs about me that 
dogs my footsteps ? I might as well become a Mormon at 
once !' Mrs. Luna delivered herself of this argument with 
a certain charitable air, as if her sister could not be expected 
to understand such a situation by her own light. 
Olive waived the discussion, and simply said : ' I took 
for granted you had got him the invitation.' 
'  I, my dear ? That would be quite at variance with my 
attitude of discouragement.' 
' Then she simply sent it herself.' 
' Whom do you mean by " she " ?' 
'  Mrs. Burrage, of course.' 
'I thought that you might mean Verena,' said Mrs. 
Luna, casually. 
' Verena to him ? Why in the world ?' And Olive 
gave the cold glare with which her sister was familiar. 
' Why in the world not since she knows him ?' 
 
' She had seen him twice in her life before last night, 
when she met him for the third time and spoke to him.' 
'  Did she tell you that ?' 
' She tells me everything.' 
'Are you very sure?' 
'Adeline Luna, what do you mean?' Miss Chancellor 
murmured. 
' Are you very sure that last night was only the third 
time?' Mrs. Luna went on. 
Olive threw back her head and swept her sister from her 
bonnet to her lowest flounce. ' You have no right to hint 
at such a thing as that unless you know ! ' 
'Oh, I know I know, at any rate, more than you do !' 
And then Mrs. Luna, sitting with her sister, much with-, 
drawn, in one of the windows of the big, hot, faded parlour 
of the boarding-house in Tenth Street, where there was a 
rug before the chimney representing a Newfoundland dog 
saving a child from drowning, and a row of chromo-litho- 
graphs on the walls, imparted to her the impression she had 
received the evening before the impression of Basil 
Ransom's keen curiosity about Verena Tarrant. Verena 
must have asked Mrs. Burrage to send him a card, and 
asked it without mentioning, the fact to Olive for wouldn't 
Olive certainly have remembered it ? It was no use her 
saying that Mrs. Burrage might have sent it of her own 
movement, because she wasn't aware of his existence, and 
why should she be ? Basil Ransom himself had told her 
he didn't know Mrs. Burrage. Mrs. Luna knew whom he 
knew and whom he didn't, or at least the sort of people, 
and they were not the sort that belonged to the Wednesday 
Club. That was one reason why she didn't care about him 
for any intimate relation that he didn't seem to have any 
taste for making nice friends. Olive would know what her 
taste was in this respect, though it wasn't that young 
woman's own any more than his. It was positive that the 
suggestion about the card could only have come from 
Verena. At any rate Olive could easily ask, or if she was 
afraid of her telling a fib she could ask Mrs. Burrage. It 
was true Mrs. Burrage might have been put on her guard 
by Verena, and would perhaps invent some other account 
 
of the matter ; therefore Olive had better just believe what 
she believed, that Verena had secured his presence at the 
party and had had private 'reasons for doing so. It is to 
be feared that Ransom's remark to Mrs. Luna the night 
before about her having lost her head was near to the 
mark ; for if she had not been blinded by her rancour she 
would have guessed the horror with which she inspired her 
sister when she spoke in that off-hand way of Verena's lying 
and Mrs. Burrage's lying. Did people lie like that in Mrs. 
Luna's set? It was Olive's plan of life not to lie, and 
attributing a similar disposition to people she liked, it was 
impossible for her to believe that Verena had had the 
intention of deceiving her. Mrs. Luna, in a calmer hour, 
might also have divined that Olive would make her private 
comments on the strange story of Basil Ransom's having 
made up to Verena out of pique at Adeline's rebuff; for 
this was the account of the matter that she now offered to 
Miss Chancellor. Olive did two things : she listened 
intently and eagerly, judging there was distinct danger in 
the air (which, however, she had not wanted Mrs. Luna to 
tell her, having perceived it for herself the night before) ; 
and she saw that poor Adeline was fabricating fearfully, that 
the 'rebuff' was altogether an invention. Mr. Ransom was 
evidently preoccupied with Verena, but he had not needed 
Mrs. Luna's cruelty to make him so. So Olive maintained 
an attitude of great reserve ; she did not take upon herself 
to announce that her own version was that Adeline, for 
reasons absolutely imperceptible to others, had tried to 
catch Basil Ransom, had failed in her attempt, and, furious 
at seeing Verena preferred to a person of her importance 
(Olive remembered the spreta injuria format), now wished 
to do both him and the girl an ill turn. This would be 
accomplished if she could induce Olive to interfere. Miss 
Chancellor was conscious of an abundant readiness to 
interfere, but it was not because she cared for Adeline's 
mortification. I am not sure, even, that she did not think 
her fiasco but another illustration of her sister's general 
uselessness, and rather despise her for it ; being perfectly 
able at once to hold that nothing is baser than the effort to 
entrap a man, and to think it very ignoble to have to 
 
renounce it because you can't. Olive kept these reflections 
to herself, but she went so far as to say to her sister that 
she didn't see where the ' pique ' came in. How could it 
hurt Adeline that he should turn his attention to Verena ? 
What was Verena to her ? 
'Why, Olive Chancellor, how can you ask?' Mrs. Luna 
boldly responded. 'Isn't Verena everything to you, and 
aren't you everything to me, and wouldn't an attempt a 
successful one to take Verena away from you knock you 
up fearfully, and shouldn't I suffer, as you know I suffer, by 
sympathy?' 
I have said that it was Miss Chancellor's plan of life not 
to lie, but such a plan was compatible with a kind of con- 
sideration for the truth which led her to shrink from 
producing it on poor occasions. So she didn't say, ' Dear 
me, Adeline, what humbug ! you know you hate Verena 
and would be very glad if she were drowned !' She only 
said, ' Well, I see ; but it's very roundabout.' What she did 
see was that Mrs. Luna was eager to help her to stop off 
Basil Ransom from ' making head,' as the phrase was ; and 
the fact that her motive was spite, and not tenderness for 
the Bostonians, would not make her assistance less 
welcome if the danger were real. She herself had a nervous 
dread, but she had that about everything; still, Adeline 
had perhaps seen something, and what in the world did she 
mean by her reference to Verena's having had secret meet- 
ings ? When pressed on this point, Mrs. Luna could only 
say that she didn't pretend to give definite information, and 
she wasn't a spy anyway, but that the night before he had 
positively flaunted in her face his admiration for the girl, 
his enthusiasm for her way of standing up there. Of course 
he hated her ideas, but he was quite conceited enough to 
think she would give them up. Perhaps it was all directed 
at her as if she cared ! It would depend a good deal on 
the girl herself; certainly, if there was any likelihood of 
Verena's being affected, she should advise Olive to look 
out. She knew best what to do; it was only Adeline's 
duty to give her the benefit of her own impression, whether 
she was thanked for it or not. She only wished to put her 
on her guard, and it was just like Olive to receive such 
 
information so coldly; she was the most disappointing 
woman she knew. 
Miss Chancellor's coldness was not diminished by this 
rebuke; for it had come over her that, after all, she had 
never opened herself at that rate to Adeline, had never let 
her see the real intensity of her desire to keep the sort of 
danger there was now a question of away from Verena, 
had given her no warrant for regarding her as her friend's 
keeper ; so that she was taken aback by the flatness of Mrs. 
Luna's assumption that she was ready to enter into a con- 
spiracy to circumvent and frustrate the girl. Olive put 
on all her majesty to dispel this impression, and if she 
could not help being aware that she made Mrs. Luna still 
angrier, on the whole, than at first, she felt that she would 
much rather disappoint her than give herself away to her 
especially as she Was intensely eager to profit by her 
warning ! 
XXX. 
MRS. LUNA would have been still less satisfied with the 
manner in which Olive received her proffered assistance 
had she known how many confidences that reticent young 
woman might have made her in return. Olive's whole life 
now was a matter for whispered communications ; she felt 
this herself, as she sought the privacy of her own apartment 
after her interview with her sister. She had for the moment 
time to think ; Verena having gone out with Mr. Burrage, 
who had made an appointment the night before to call for 
her to drive at that early hour. They had other engage- 
ments in the afternoon the principal of which was to meet 
a group of earnest people at the house of one of the great 
local promoters. Olive would whisk Verena off to these 
appointments directly after lunch ; she flattered herself that 
she could arrange matters so that there would not be half 
an hour in the day during which Basil Ransom, compla- 
cently calling, would find the Bostonians in the house. She 
had had this well in mind when, at Mrs. Burrage's, she was 
driven to give him their address ; and she had had it also 
in mind that she would ask Verena, as a special favour, to 
accompany her back to Boston on the next day but one, 
which was the morning of the morrow. There had been 
considerable talk of her staying a few days with Mrs. 
Burrage staying on after her own departure ; but Verena 
backed out of it spontaneously, seeing how the idea worried 
her friend. Olive had accepted the sacrifice, and their 
visit to New York was now cut down, in intention, to four 
days, one of which, the moment she perceived whither Basil 
Ransom was tending, Miss Chancellor promised herself 
also to suppress. She had not mentioned that to Verena 
yet ; she hesitated a little, having a slightly bad conscience 
about the concessions she had already obtained from her 
friend. Verena made such concessions with a generosity 
which caused one's heart to ache for admiration, even while 
one asked for them ; and never once had Olive known her 
to demand the smallest credit for any virtue she showed in 
this way, or to bargain for an instant about any effort she 
made to oblige. She had been delighted with the idea of 
spending a week under Mrs. Burrage's roof; she had said, 
too, that she believed her mother would die happy (not 
that there was the least prospect of Mrs. Tarrant's dying), if 
she could hear of her having such an experience as that ; 
and yet, perceiving how solemn Olive looked about it, how 
she blanched and brooded at the prospect, she had offered 
to give it up, with a smile sweeter, if possible, than any 
that had ever sat in her eyes. Olive knew what that meant 
for her, knew what a power of enjoyment she still had, in 
spite of the tension of their common purpose, their vital 
work, which had now, as they equally felt, passed into the 
stage of realisation, of fruition ; and that is why her 
conscience rather pricked her for consenting to this further 
act of renunciation, especially as their position seemed really 
so secure, on the part of one who had already given herself 
away so sublimely. 
Secure as their position might be, Olive called herself a 
blind idiot for having, in spite of all her first shrinkings, 
agreed to bring Verena to New York. Verena had jumped 
at the invitation, the very unexpectedness of which on Mrs. 
Burrage's part it was such an odd idea to have come to a 
mere worldling carried a kind of persuasion with it. 
Olive's immediate sentiment had been an instinctive general 
fear; but, later, she had dismissed that as unworthy; she 
had decided (and such a decision was nothing new), that 
where their mission was concerned they ought to face 
everything. Such an opportunity would contribute too 
much to Verena's reputation and authority to justify a 
refusal at the bidding of apprehensions which were after 
all only vague. Olive's specific terrors and dangers had by 
this time very much blown over; Basil Ransom had given 
no sign of life for ages, and Henry Burrage had certainly 
got his quietus before they went to Europe. If it had 
 
occurred to his mother that she might convert Verena into 
the animating principle of a big soire'e, she was at least 
acting in good faith, for it could be no more her wish to-day 
that he should marry Selah Tarrant's daughter than it was 
her wish a year before. And then they should do some 
good to the benighted, the most benighted, the fashionable 
benighted ; they should perhaps make them furious there 
was always some good in that Lastly, Olive was conscious 
of a personal temptation in the matter; she was not in- 
sensible to the pleasure of appearing in a distinguished 
New York circle as a representative woman, an important 
Bostonian, the prompter, colleague, associate of one of the 
most original girls of the time. Basil Ransom was the 
person she had least expected to meet at Mrs. Burrage's ; 
it had been her belief that they might easily spend four 
days in a city of more than a million of inhabitants without 
that disagreeable accident But it had occurred ; nothing 
was wanting to make it seem serious ; and, setting her 
teeth, she shook herself, morally, hard, for having fallen 
into the trap of fate. Well, she would scramble out, with 
only a scare, probably. Henry Burrage was very attentive, 
but somehow she didn't fear him now; and it was only 
natural he should feel that he couldn't be polite enough, 
after they had consented to be exploited in that worldly 
way by his mother. The other danger was the worst ; the 
palpitation of her strange dread, the night of Miss Birdseye's 
party, came back to her. Mr. Burrage seemed, indeed, a 
protection; she reflected, with relief, that it had been 
arranged that after taking Verena to drive in the Park and 
see the Museum of Art in the morning, they should in the 
evening dine with him at Delmonico's (he was to invite 
another gentleman), and go afterwards to the German opera. 
Olive had kept all this to herself, as I have said ; revealing 
to her sister neither the vividness of her prevision that Basil 
Ransom would look blank when he came down to Tenth 
Street and learned they had flitted, nor the eagerness of her 
desire just to find herself once more in the Boston train. 
It had been only this prevision that sustained her when 
she gave Mr. Ransom their number. 
Verena came to her room shortly before luncheon, to let 
 
her know she had returned; and while they sat there, 
waiting to stop their ears when the gong announcing the 
repast was beaten, at the foot of the stairs, by a negro in a 
white jacket, she narrated to her friend her adventures with 
Mr. Burrage expatiated on the beauty of the park, the 
splendour and interest of the Museum, the wonder of the 
young man's acquaintance with everything it contained, the 
swiftness of his horses, the softness of his English cart, the 
pleasure of rolling at that pace over roads as firm as marble, 
the entertainment he promised them for the evening. Olive 
listened in serious silence; she saw Verena was quite 
carried away ; of course she hadn't gone so far with her 
without knowing that phase. 
'  Did Mr. Burrage try to make love to you ? ' Miss 
Chancellor inquired at last, without a smile. 
Verena had taken off her hat to arrange her feather, and 
as she placed it on her head again, her uplifted arms 
making a frame for her face, she said : ' Yes, I suppose it 
was meant for love.' 
Olive waited for her to tell more, to tell how she had 
treated him, kept him in his place, made him feel that that 
question was over long ago ; but as Verena gave her no 
farther information she did not insist, conscious as she 
always was that in such a relation as theirs there should be 
a great respect on either side for the liberty of each. She 
had never yet infringed on Verena's, and of course she 
wouldn't begin now. Moreover, with the request that she 
meant presently to make of her she felt that she must be 
discreet. She wondered whether Henry Burrage were really 
going to begin again ; whether his mother had only been 
acting in his interest in getting them to come on. Certainly, 
the bright spot in such a prospect was that if she listened to 
him she couldn't listen to Basil Ransom ; and he had told 
Olive herself last night, when he put them into their carriage, 
that he hoped to prove to her yet that he had come round 
to her gospel. But the old' sickness stole upon her again, 
the faintness of discouragement, as she asked herself why in 
the name of pity Verena should listen to any one at all but 
Olive Chancellor. Again it came over her, when she saw 
the brightness, the happy look, the girl brought back, as it 
 
had done in the earlier months, that the great trouble was 
that weak spot of Verena's, that sole infirmity and subtle 
flaw, which she had expressed to her very soon after they 
began to live together, in saying (she remembered it through 
the ineffaceable impression made by her friend's avowal), 
' I'll tell you what is the matter with you you don't dislike 
men as a class !' Verena had replied on this occasion, 
'Well, no, I don't dislike them when they are pleasant!' 
As if organised atrociousness could ever be pleasant ! Olive 
disliked them most when they were least unpleasant. After 
a little, at present, she remarked, referring to Henry Burrage : 
{ It is not right of him, not decent, after your making him 
feel how, while he was at Cambridge, he wearied you, 
tormented you.' 
'Oh, I didn't show anything,' said Verena, gaily. 'I 
am learning to dissimulate,' she added in a moment. ' I 
suppose you have to as you go along. I pretend not to 
notice.' 
At this moment the gong sounded for luncheon, and the 
two young women covered up their ears, face to face, 
Verena with her quick smile, Olive with her pale patience. 
When they could hear themselves speak, the latter said 
abruptly : 
' How did Mrs. Burrage come to invite Mr. Ransom to 
her party? He told Adeline he had never seen her before.' 
' Oh, I asked her to send him an invitation after she 
had written to me, to thank me, when it was definitely 
settled we should come on. She asked me in her letter if 
there were any friends of mine in the city to whom I should 
like her to send cards, and I mentioned Mr. Ransom.' 
Verena spoke without a single instant's hesitation, and 
the only sign of embarrassment she gave was that she got 
up from her chair, passing in this manner a little out of 
Olive's scrutiny. It was easy for her not to falter, because 
she was glad of the chance. She wanted to be very simple 
in all her relations with her friend, and of course it was not 
simple so soon as she began to keep things back. She 
could at any rate keep back as little as possible, and she 
felt as if she were making up for a dereliction when she 
answered Olive's inquiry so promptly. 
 
'  You never told me of that,' Miss Chancellor remarked, 
in a low tone. 
'  I didn't want to. I know you don't like him, and I 
thought it would give you pain. Yet I wanted him to be 
there I wanted him to hear.' 
'What does it matter why should you care about 
him?' 
' Well, because he is so awfully opposed ! ' 
' How do you know that, Verena?' 
At this point Verena began to hesitate. It was not, 
after all, so easy to keep back only a little ; it appeared 
rather as if one must either tell everything or hide every- 
thing. The former course had already presented itself to 
her as unduly harsh ; it was because it seemed so that she 
had ended by keeping the incident of Basil Ransom's visit 
to Monadnoc Place buried in unspoken, in unspeakable, 
considerations, the only secret she had in the world the 
only thing that was all her own. She was so glad to say 
what she could without betraying herself that it was only 
after she had spoken that she perceived there was a danger 
of Olive's pushing the inquiry to the point where, to defend 
herself as it were, she should be obliged to practise a posi- 
tive deception ; and she was conscious at the same time 
that the moment her secret was threatened it became 
dearer to her. She began to pray silently that Olive might 
not push ; for it would be odious, it would be impossible, 
to defend herself by a lie. Meanwhile, however, she had to 
answer, and the way she answered was by exclaiming, much 
more quickly than the reflections I note might have 
appeared to permit, ' Well, if you can't tell from his appear- 
ance ! He's the type of the reactionary.' 
Verena went to the toilet-glass to see that she had put 
on her hat properly, and Olive slowly got up, in the manner 
of a person not in the least eager for food. ' Let him react 
as he likes for heaven's sake don't mind him ! ' That was 
Miss Chancellor's rejoinder, and Verena felt that it didn't 
say all that was in her mind. She wished she would come 
down to luncheon, for she, at least, was honestly hungry. 
She even suspected Olive had an idea she was afraid to 
express, such distress it would bring with it. ' Well, you 
 
know, Verena, this isn't our real life it isn't our work,' 
Olive went on. 
' Well, no, it isn't, certainly,' said Verena, not pretending 
at first that she did not know what Olive meant. In a 
moment, however, she added, '  Do you refer to this social 
intercourse with Mr. Burrage?' 
'  Not to that only.' Then Olive asked abruptly, looking 
at her, ' How did you know his address ?' 
'His address?' 
' Mr. Ransom's to enable Mrs. Burrage to invite him ? ' 
They stood for a moment interchanging a gaze. ' It was 
in a letter I got from him.' 
At these words there came into Olive's face an expres- 
sion which made her companion cross over to her directly 
and take her by the hand. But the tone was different from 
what Verena expected when she said, with cold surprise : 
' Oh, you are in correspondence ! ' It showed an immense 
effort of self-control. 
' He wrote to me once I never told you/ Verena re- 
joined, smiling. She felt that her friend's strange, uneasy 
eyes searched very far ; a little more and they would go to 
the very bottom. Well, they might go if they would ; she 
didn't, after all, care so much about her secret as that. 
For the moment, however, Verena did not learn what Olive 
had discovered, inasmuch as she only remarked presently 
that it was really time to go down. As they descended the 
staircase she put her arm into Miss Chancellor's and 
perceived that she was trembling. 
Of course there were plenty of people in New York 
interested in the uprising, and Olive had made appoint- 
ments, in advance, which filled the whole afternoon. 
Everybody wanted to meet them, and wanted everybody 
else to do so, and Verena saw they could easily have quite 
a vogue, if they only chose to stay and work that vein. 
Very likely, as Olive said, it wasn't their real life, and 
people didn't seem to have such a grip of the movement as 
they had in Boston ; but there was something in the air 
that carried one along, and a sense of vastness and variety, 
of the infinite possibilities of a great city, which Verena 
hardly knew whether she ought to confess it to herself 
290   
might in the end make up for the want of the Boston 
earnestness. Certainly, the people seemed very much 
alive, and there was no other place where so many cheering 
reports could flow in, owing to the number of electric 
feelers that stretched away everywhere. The principal 
centre appeared to be Mrs. Croucher's, on Fifty -sixth 
Street, where there was an informal gathering of sym- 
pathisers who didn't seem as if they could forgive her when 
they learned that she had been speaking the night before 
in a circle in which none of them were acquainted. Cer- 
tainly, they were very different from the group she had 
addressed at Mrs. Burrage's, and Verena heaved a thin, 
private sigh, expressive of some helplessness, as she thought 
what a big, complicated world it was, and how it evidently 
contained a little of everything. There was a general 
demand that she should repeat her address in a more 
congenial atmosphere; to which she replied that Olive 
made her engagements for her, and that as the address had 
been intended just to lead people on, perhaps she would 
think Mrs. Croucher's friends had reached a higher point. 
She was as cautious as this because she saw that Olive was 
now just straining to get out of the city ; she didn't want to 
say anything that would tie them. When she felt her 
trembling that way before luncheon it made her quite sick 
to realise how much her friend was wrapped up in her 
how terribly she would suffer from the least deviation. 
After they had started for their round of engagements the 
very first thing Verena spoke of in the carriage (Olive had 
taken one, in her liberal way, for the whole time), was the 
fact that her correspondence with Mr. Ransom, as her 
friend had called it, had consisted on his part of only one 
letter. It was a very short one, too ; it had come to her a 
little more than a month before. Olive knew she got letters 
from gentlemen ; she didn't see why she should attach such 
importance to this one. Miss Chancellor was leaning back 
in the carriage, very still, very grave, with her head against 
the cushioned surface, only turning her eyes towards the 
girl. 
'You attach importance yourself; otherwise you would 
have told me.' 
 
{ I knew you wouldn't like it because you don't like 
him: 
' I don't think of him,' said Olive ; ' he's nothing to me.' 
Then she added, suddenly, ' Have you noticed that I am 
afraid to face what I don't like?' 
Verena could not say that she had, and yet it was not 
just on Olive's part to speak as if she were an easy person 
to tell such a thing to : the way she lay there, white and 
weak, like a wounded creature, sufficiently proved the con- 
trary. ' You have such a fearful power of suffering,' she 
replied in a moment. 
To this at first Miss Chancellor made no rejoinder ; but 
after a little she said, in the same attitude, ' Yes, you could 
make me.' 
Verena took her hand and held it awhile. 'I never 
will, till I have been through everything myself.' 
' You were not made to suffer you were made to enjoy,' 
Olive said, in very much the same tone in which she 
had told her that what was the matter with her was that 
she didn't dislike men as a class a tone which implied 
that the contrary would have been much more natural and 
perhaps rather higher. Perhaps it would ; but Verena was 
unable to rebut the charge ; she felt this, as she looked out 
of the window of the carriage at the bright, amusing city, 
where the elements seemed so numerous, the animation so 
immense, the shops so brilliant, the women so strikingly 
dressed, and knew that these things quickened her curiosity, 
all her pulses. 
' Well, I suppose I mustn't presume on it,' she remarked, 
glancing back at Olive with her natural sweetness, her 
uncontradicting grace. 
That young lady lifted her hand to her lips held it 
there a moment; the movement seemed to say, 'When 
you are so divinely docile, how can I help the dread of 
losing you?' This idea, however, was unspoken, and Olive 
Chancellor's uttered words, as the carriage rolled on, were 
different. 
'Verena, I don't understand why he wrote to you.' 
'  He wrote to me because he likes me. Perhaps you'll 
say you don't understand why he likes me,' the girl con- 
 
tinued, laughing. 'He liked me the first time he saw 
me.' 
' Oh, that time ! ' Olive murmured. 
'And still more the second.' 
'  Did he tell you that in his letter ?' Miss Chancellor 
inquired. 
' Yes, my dear, he told me that. Only he expressed it 
more gracefully.' Verena was very happy to say that; a 
written phrase of Basil Ransom's sufficiently justified her. 
' It was my intuition it was my foreboding !' Olive 
exclaimed, closing her eyes. 
' I thought you said you didn't dislike him.' 
' It isn't dislike it's simple dread. Is that all there is 
between you ? ' 
'Why, Olive Chancellor, what do you think?' Verena 
asked, feeling now distinctly like a coward. Five minutes 
afterwards she said to Olive that if it would give her 
pleasure they would leave New York on the morrow, with- 
out taking a fourth day ; and as soon as she had done so 
she felt better, especially when she saw how gratefully Olive 
looked at her for the concession, how eagerly she rose to 
the offer in saying, 'Well, if you do feel that it isn't our 
own life our very own !' It was with these words, and 
others besides, and with an unusually weak, indefinite kiss, 
as if she wished to protest that, after all, a single day didn't 
matter, and yet accepted the sacrifice and was a little 
ashamed of it it was in this manner that the agreement as 
to an immediate retreat was sealed. Verena could not 
shut her eyes to the fact that for a month she had been less 
frank, and if she wished to do penance this abbreviation of 
their pleasure in New York, even if it made her almost 
completely miss Basil Ransom, was easier than to tell 
Olive just now that the letter was not all, that there had 
been a long visit, a talk, and a walk besides, which she had 
been covering up for ever so many weeks. And of what 
consequence, anyway, was the missing? Was it such a 
pleasure to converse with a gentleman who only wanted to 
let you know and why he should want it so much Verena 
couldn't guess that he thought you quite preposterous? 
Olive took her from place to place, and she ended by for- 
xxx.   % 293 
getting everything but the present hour, and the bigness 
and variety of New York, and the entertainment of rolling 
about in a carriage with silk cushions, and meeting new 
faces, new expressions of curiosity and sympathy, assurances 
that one was watched and followed. Mingled with this 
was a bright consciousness, sufficient for the moment, that 
one was moreover to dine at Delmonico's and go to the 
German opera. There was enough of the epicurean in 
Verena's composition to make it easy for her in certain 
conditions to live only for the hour. 
XXXI. 
WHEN she returned with her companion to the establish- 
ment in Tenth Street she saw two notes lying on the table 
in the hall ; one of which she perceived to be addressed to 
Miss Chancellor, the other to herself. The hand was 
different, but she recognised both. Olive was behind her 
on the steps, talking to the coachman about sending another 
carriage for them in half an hour (they had left themselves 
but just time to dress) ; so that she simply possessed herself 
of her own note and ascended to her room. As she did so 
she felt that all the while she had known it would be there, 
and was conscious of a kind of treachery, an unfriendly 
wilfulness, in not being more prepared for it. If she could 
roll about New York the whole afternoon and forget that 
there might be difficulties ahead, that didn't alter the fact 
that there were difficulties, and that they might even become 
considerable might not be settled by her simply going 
back to Boston. Half an hour later, as she drove up the 
Fifth Avenue with Olive (there seemed to be so much 
crowded into that one day), smoothing her light gloves, 
wishing her fan were a little nicer, and proving by the 
answering, familiar brightness with which she looked out on 
the lamp -lighted streets that, whatever theory might be 
entertained as to the genesis of her talent and her personal 
nature, the blood of the lecture-going, night-walking Tarrants 
did distinctly flow in her veins ; as the pair proceeded, I 
say, to the celebrated restaurant, at the door of which Mr. 
Burrage had promised to be in vigilant expectancy of their 
carriage, Verena found a sufficiently gay and natural tone 
of voice for remarking to her friend that Mr. Ransom had 
called upon her while they were out, and had left a note in 
which there were many compliments for Miss Chancellor. 
 
'  That's wholly your own affair, my dear,' Olive replied, 
with a melancholy sigh, gazing down the vista of Fourteenth 
Street (which they happened just then to be traversing, with 
much agitation), toward the queer barrier of the elevated 
railway. 
It was nothing new to Verena that if the great striving 
of Olive's life was for justice she yet sometimes failed to 
arrive at it in particular cases ; and she reflected that it was 
rather late for her to say, like that, that Basil Ransom's 
letters were only his correspondent's business. Had not 
his kinswoman quite made the subject her own during their 
drive that afternoon? Verena determined now that her 
companion should hear all there was to be heard about the 
letter; asking herself whether, if she told her at present 
more than she cared to know, it wouldn't make up for her 
hitherto having told her less. ' He brought it with him, 
written, in case I should be out. He wants to see me to- 
morrow he says he has ever so much to say to me. He 
proposes an hour says he hopes it won't be inconvenient 
for me to see him about eleven in the morning ; thinks I 
may have no other engagement so early as that. Of course 
our return to Boston settles it,' Verena added, with serenity. 
Miss Chancellor said nothing for a moment ; then she 
replied, ' Yes, unless you invite him to come on with you 
in the train.' 
'  Why, Olive, how bitter you are !' Verena exclaimed, in 
genuine surprise. 
Olive could not justify her bitterness by saying that her 
companion had spoken as if she were disappointed, because 
Verena had not. So she simply remarked, ' I don't see 
what he can have to say to you that would be worth 
your hearing.' 
' Well, of course, it's the other side. He has got it on 
the brain !' said Verena, with a laugh which seemed to 
relegate the whole matter to the category of the unim- 
portant. 
'If we should stay, would you see him at eleven 
o'clock?' Olive inquired. 
'Why do you ask that when I have given it up?' 
'Do you consider it such a tremendous sacrifice?' 
 
' No,' said Verena good-naturedly ; ' but I confess I am 
curious.' 
'  Curious how do you mean?' 
'Well, to hear the other side.' 
' Oh heaven !' Olive Chancellor murmured, turning her 
face upon her. 
'You must remember I have never heard it.' And 
Verena smiled into her friend's wan gaze. 
'Do you want to hear all the infamy that is in the 
world?' 
' No, it isn't that ; but the more he should talk the 
better chance he would give me. I guess I can meet him.' 
' Life is too short. Leave him as he is.' 
' Well,' Verena went on, ' there are many I haven't 
cared to move at all, whom I might have been more 
interested in than in him. But to make him give in just 
at two or three points that I should like better than any- 
thing I have done.' 
' You have no business to enter upon a contest that isn't 
equal ; and it wouldn't be, with Mr. Ransom.' 
' The inequality would be that I have right on my side.' 
' What is that for a man ? For what was their brutality 
given them, but to make that up?' 
' I don't think he's brutal ; I should like to see,' said 
Verena gaily. 
Olive's eyes lingered a little on her own ; then they 
turned away, vaguely, blindly, out of the carriage-window, 
and Verena made the reflection that she looked strangely 
little like a person who was going to dine at Delmonico's. 
How terribly she worried about everything, and how tragical 
was her nature ; how anxious, suspicious, exposed to subtle 
influences ! In their long intimacy Verena had come to 
revere most of her friend's peculiarities they were a proof 
of her depth and devotion, and were so bound up with 
what was noble in her that she was rarely provoked to 
criticise them separately. But at present, suddenly, Olive's 
earnestness began to appear as inharmonious with the 
scheme of the universe as if it had been a broken saw; 
and she was positively glad she had not told her about 
Basil Ransom's appearance in Monadnoc Place. If she 
 
worried so about what she knew, how much would she not 
have worried about the rest! Verena had by this time 
made up her mind that her acquaintance with Mr. Ransom 
was the most episodical, most superficial, most unimportant 
of all possible relations. 
Olive Chancellor watched Henry Burrage very closely 
that evening ; she had a special reason for doing so, and 
her entertainment, during the successive hours, was derived 
much less from the delicate little feast over which this 
insinuating proselyte presided, in the brilliant public room 
of the establishment, where French waiters flitted about on 
deep carpets and parties at neighbouring tables excited 
curiosity and conjecture, or even from the magnificent 
music of ' Lohengrin,' than from a secret process of com- 
parison and verification, which shall presently be explained 
to the reader. As some discredit has possibly been thrown 
upon her impartiality it is a pleasure to be able to say that 
on her return from the opera she took a step dictated by 
an earnest consideration of justice of the promptness with 
which Verena had told her of the note left by Basil Ransom 
in the afternoon. She drew Verena into her room with 
her. The girl, on the way back to Tenth Street, had 
spoken only of Wagner's music, of the singers, the orchestra, 
the immensity of the house, her tremendous pleasure. 
Olive could see how fond she might become of New 
York, where that kind of pleasure was so much more in 
the air. 
'Well, Mr. Burrage was certainly very kind to us no 
one could have been more thoughtful,' Olive said ; and she 
coloured a little at the look with which Verena greeted this 
tribute of appreciation from Miss Chancellor to a single 
gentleman. 
' I am so glad you were struck with that, because I 
do think we have been a little rough to him.' Verena's we 
was angelic. 'He was particularly attentive to you, my 
dear ; he has got over me. He looked at you so sweetly. 
Dearest Olive, if you marry him ! ' And Miss Tarrant, 
who was in high spirits, embraced her companion, to check 
her own silliness. 
' He wants you to stay there, all the same. They 
 
haven't given that up,' Olive remarked, turning to a drawer, 
out of which she took a letter. 
' Did he tell you that, pray ? He said nothing more 
about it to me.' 
'  When we came in this afternoon I found this note from 
Mrs. Burrage. You had better read it.' And she pre- 
sented the document, open, to Verena. 
The purpose of it was to say that Mrs. Burrage could 
really not reconcile herself to the loss of Verena's visit, on 
which both she and her son had counted so much. She 
was sure they would be able to make it as interesting to 
Miss Tarrant as it would be to themselves. She, Mrs. 
Burrage, moreover, felt as if she hadn't heard half she 
wanted about Miss Tarrant's views, and there were so many 
more who were present at the address, who had come to 
her that afternoon (losing not a minute, as Miss Chancellor 
could see), to ask how in the world they too could learn 
more how they could get at the fair speaker and question 
her about certain details. She hoped so much, therefore, 
that even if the young ladies should be unable to alter their 
decision about the visit they might at least see their way to 
staying over long enough to allow her to arrange an informal 
meeting for some of these poor thirsty souls. Might she 
not at least talk over the question with Miss Chancellor ? 
She gave her notice that she would attack her on the subject 
of the visit too. Might she not see her on the morrow, 
and might she ask of her the very great favour that the 
interview should be at Mrs. Burrage's own house ? She had 
something very particular to say to her, as regards which 
perfect privacy was agreat consideration, and Miss Chancellor 
would doubtless recognise that this would be best secured 
under Mrs. Burrage's roof. She would therefore send her 
carriage for Miss Chancellor at any hour that would be 
convenient to the latter. She really thought much good 
might come from their having a satisfactory talk. 
Verena read this epistle with much deliberation; it 
seemed to her mysterious, and confirmed the idea she had 
received the night before the idea that she had not got 
quite a correct impression of this clever, worldly, curious 
woman on the occasion of her visit to Cambridge, when 
 
they met her at her son's rooms. As she gave the letter 
back to Olive she said, 'That's why he didn't seem to 
believe we are really leaving to-morrow. He knows she 
had written that, and he thinks it will keep us/ 
' Well, if I were to say it may should you think me too 
miserably changeful?' 
Verena stared, with all her candour, and it was so very 
queer that Olive should now wish to linger that the sense of 
it, for the moment, almost covered the sense of its being 
pleasant. But that came out after an instant, and she said, 
with great honesty, 'You needn't drag me away for con- 
sistency's sake. It would be absurd for me to pretend that 
I don't like being here.' 
' I think perhaps I ought to see her.' Olive was very 
thoughtful. 
'How lovely it must be to have a secret with Mrs. 
Burrage ! ' Verena exclaimed. 
' It won't be a secret from you.' 
' Dearest, you needn't tell me unless you want,' Verena 
went on, thinking of her own unimparted knowledge. 
' I thought it was our plan to divide everything. It was 
certainly mine.' 
' Ah, don't talk about plans ! ' Verena exclaimed, rather 
ruefully. ' You see, if we are going to stay to-morrow, how 
foolish it was to have any. There is more in her letter than 
is expressed,' she added, as Olive appeared to be studying 
in her face the reasons for and against making this con- 
cession to Mrs. Burrage, and that was rather embarrassing. 
' I thought it over all the evening so that if now you 
will consent we will stay.' 
' Darling what a spirit you have got ! All through 
all those dear little dishes all through " Lohengrin ! " As I 
haven't thought it over at all, you must settle it. You know 
I am not difficult.' 
' And would you go and stay with Mrs. Burrage, after all, 
if she should say anything to me that seems to make it 
desirable ? ' 
Verena broke into a laugh. 'You know it's not our 
real life ! ' 
Olive said nothing for a moment ; then she replied : 
 
' Don't think / can forget that. If I suggest a deviation, 
it's only because it sometimes seems to me that perhaps, after 
all, almost anything is better than the form reality may take 
with us.' This was slightly obscure, as well as very melan- 
choly, and Verena was relieved when her companion 
remarked, in a moment, 'You must think me strangely 
inconsequent;' for this gave her a chance to reply, 
soothingly : 
'  Why, you don't suppose I expect you to keep always 
screwed up ! I will stay a week with Mrs. Burrage, or a 
fortnight, or a month, or anything you like,' she pursued ; 
' anything it may seem to you best to tell her after you have 
seen her.' 
' Do you leave it all to me ? You don't give me much 
help,' Olive said. 
'I Help to what ? ' 
'Help to help you? 
'I  don't want any help ; I am quite strong enough ! ' 
Verena cried, gaily. The next moment she inquired, in 
an appeal half comical, half touching, ' My dear colleague, 
why do you make me say such conceited things ? ' 
' And if you do stay just even to-morrow shall you be 
very much of the time with Mr. Ransom ? ' 
As Verena for the moment appeared ironically-minded, 
she might have found a fresh subject for hilarity in the 
tremulous, tentative tone in which Olive made this inquiry. 
But it had not that effect ; it produced the first manifesta- 
tion of impatience the first, literally, and the first note of 
reproach that had occurred in the course of their remark- 
able intimacy. The colour rose to Verena's cheek, and 
her eye for an instant looked moist. 
' I don't know what you always think, Olive, nor why 
you don't seem able to trust me. You didn't, from the first, 
with gentlemen. Perhaps you were right then I don't say ; 
but surely it is very different now. I don't think I ought 
to be suspected so much. Why have you a manner as if I 
had to be watched, as if I wanted to run away with every 
man that speaks to me ? I should think I had proved how 
little I care. I thought you had discovered by this time 
that I am serious ; that I have dedicated my life ; that there 
 
is something unspeakably dear to me. But you begin again, 
every time you don't do me justice. I must take every- 
thing that comes. I mustn't be afraid. I thought we had 
agreed that we were to do our work in the midst of the world, 
facing everything, keeping straight on, always taking hold. 
And now that it all opens out so magnificently, and victory 
is really sitting on our banners, it is strange of you to doubt 
of me, to suppose I am not more wedded to all our old 
dreams than ever. I told you the first time I saw you that 
I could renounce, and knowing better to-day, perhaps, what 
that means, I am ready to say it again. That I can, that I 
will ! Why, Olive Chancellor,' Verena cried, panting, a 
moment, with her eloquence, and with the rush of a 
culminating idea, ' haven't you discovered by this time that 
I have renounced ? ' 
The habit of public speaking, the training, the practice, 
in which she had been immersed, enabled Verena to unroll 
a coil of propositions dedicated even to a private interest 
with the most touching, most cumulative effect. Olive 
was completely aware of this, and she stilled herself, while 
the girl uttered one soft, pleading sentence after another, 
into the same rapt attention she was in the habit of sending 
up from the benches of an auditorium. She looked at 
Verena fixedly, felt that she was stirred to her depths, that 
she was exquisitely passionate and sincere, that she was a 
quivering, spotless, consecrated maiden, that she really had 
renounced, that they were both safe, and that her own in- 
justice and indelicacy had been great. She came to her 
slowly, took her in her arms and held her long giving her 
a silent kiss. From which Verena knew that she believed 
her. 
XXXII. 
THE hour that Olive proposed to Mrs. Burrage, in a note 
sent early the next morning, for the interview to which she 
consented to lend herself, was the stroke of noon; this 
period of the day being chosen in consequence of a 
prevision of many subsequent calls upon her time. She 
remarked in her note that she did not wish any carriage to 
be sent for her, and she surged and swayed up the Fifth 
Avenue on one of the convulsive, clattering omnibuses 
which circulate in that thoroughfare. One of her reasons 
for mentioning twelve o'clock had been that she knew Basil 
Ransom was to call at Tenth Street at eleven, and (as she 
supposed he didn't intend to stay all day) this would give 
her time to see him come and go. It had been tacitly 
agreed between them, the night before, that Verena was 
quite firm enough in her faith to submit to his visit, and that 
such a course would be much more dignified than dodging it. 
This understanding passed from one to the other during 
that dumb embrace which I have described as taking place 
before they separated for the night. Shortly before noon, 
Olive, passing out of the house, looked into the big, sunny 
double parlour, where, in the morning, with all the husbands 
absent for the day and all the wives and spinsters launched 
upon the town, a young man desiring to hold a debate with 
a young lady might enjoy every advantage in the way of a 
clear field. Basil Ransom was still there ; he and Verena, 
with the place to themselves, were standing in the recess of 
a window, their backs presented to the door. If he had 
got up, perhaps he was going, and Olive, softly closing the 
door again, waited a little in the hall, ready to pass into the 
back part of trie house if she should hear him coming out. 
No sound, however, reached her ear; apparently he did 
 
mean to stay all day, and she should find him there on her 
return. She left the house, knowing they were looking at 
her from the window as she descended the steps, but 
feeling she could not bear to see Basil Ransom's face. As 
she walked, averting her own, towards the Fifth Avenue, on 
the sunny side, she was barely conscious of the loveliness of 
the day, the perfect weather, all suffused and tinted with 
spring, which sometimes descends upon New York when 
the winds of March have been stilled ; she was given up 
only to the remembrance of that moment when she herself 
had stood at a window (the second time he came to see her 
in Boston), and watched Basil Ransom pass out with 
Adeline with Adeline who had seemed capable then of 
getting such a hold on him but had proved as ineffectual 
in this respect as she was in every other. She recalled the 
vision she had allowed to dance before her as she saw the 
pair cross the street together, laughing and talking, and how 
it seemed to interpose itself against the fears which already 
then so strangely haunted her. Now that she saw it so 
fruitless and that Verena, moreover, had turned out really 
so great she was rather ashamed of it ; she felt associated, 
however remotely, in the reasons which had made Mrs. 
Luna tell her so many fibs the day before, and there could 
be nothing elevating in that. As for the other reasons why 
her fidgety sister had failed and Mr. Ransom had held his 
own course, naturally Miss Chancellor didn't like to think 
of them. 
If she had wondered what Mrs. Burrage wished so 
particularly to talk about, she waited some time for the 
clearing-up of the mystery. During this interval she sat in 
a remarkably pretty boudoir, where there were flowers and 
faiences and little French pictures, and watched her hostess 
revolve round the subject in circles the vagueness of which 
she tried to dissimulate. Olive believed she was a person 
who never could enjoy asking a favour, especially of a 
votary of the new ideas ; and that was evidently what was 
coming. She had asked one already, but that had been 
handsomely paid for ; the note from Mrs. Burrage which 
Verena found awaiting her in Tenth Street, on her arrival, 
contained the largest cheque this young woman had ever 
 
received for an address. The request that hung fire had 
reference to Verena too, of course ; and Olive needed no 
prompting to feel that her friend's being a young person 
who took money could not make Mrs. Burrage's present 
effort more agreeable. To this taking of money (for when 
it came to Verena it was as if it came to her as well), she 
herself was now completely inured ; money was a tremen- 
dous force, and when one wanted to assault the wrong with 
every engine one was happy not to lack the sinews of war. 
She liked her hostess better this morning than she had 
liked her before ; she had more than ever the air of taking 
all sorts of sentiments and views for granted between them; 
which could only be flattering to Olive so long as it was 
really Mrs. Burrage who made each advance, while her 
visitor sat watchful and motionless. She had a light, clever, 
familiar way of traversing an immense distance with a very 
few words, as when she remarked, ' Well then, it is settled 
that she will come, and will stay till she is tired.' 
Nothing of the kind had been settled, but Olive helped 
Mrs. Burrage (this time) more than she knew by saying, 
' Why do you want her to visit you, Mrs. Burrage ? why do 
you want her socially ? Are you not aware that your son, 
a year ago, desired to marry her?' 
' My dear Miss Chancellor, that is just what I wish to 
talk to you about. I am aware of everything; I don't 
believe you ever met any one who is aware of more things 
than I.  And Olive had to believe this, as Mrs. Burrage 
held up, smiling, her intelligent, proud, good-natured, 
successful head. ' I knew a year ago that my son was in 
love with your friend, I know that he has been so ever 
since, and that in consequence he would like to marry her 
to-day. I daresay you don't like the idea of her marrying 
at all ; it would break up a friendship which is so full of 
interest ' (Olive wondered for a moment whether she had 
been going to say ' so full of profit '), c for you. This is 
