' count ' with him, it would be in better taste for him not to 
be importunate about a settlement. What he had come to 
fear for him was that he should be precipitated by crude 
agencies, with results in which the deplorable might not 
exclude the ridiculous. It may even be said that Mr. 
Vetch had a secret project of settling a little on his 
behalf. 
Lady Aurora peeped into the room, very noiselessly, 
nearly half an hour after Hyacinth had left it, and let the 
 
fiddler know that she was called to other duties but that the 
nurse had come back and the doctor had promised to look 
in at five o'clock. She herself would return in the evening, 
and meanwhile Hyacinth was with his aunt, who had 
recognised him, without a protest ; indeed seemed intensely 
happy that he should be near her again, and lay there with 
closed eyes, very weak and speechless, with his hand in 
hers. Her restlessness had passed and her fever abated, 
but she had no pulse to speak of and Lady Aurora did not 
disguise the fact that, in her opinion, she was rapidly sink- 
ing. Mr. Vetch had already accepted it, and after her 
ladyship had quitted him he lighted another philosophic 
pipe upon it, lingering on, till the doctor came, in the dress- 
maker's dismal, forsaken bower, where, in past years, he had 
indulged in so many sociable droppings-in and hot tumblers. 
The echo of all her little simple surprises and pointless 
contradictions, her gasping reception of contemplative 
paradox, seemed still to float in the air ; but the place felt 
as relinquished and bereaved as if she were already beneath 
the sod. Pinnie had always been a wonderful hand at 
' putting away' ; the litter that testified to her most elaborate 
efforts was often immense, but the reaction in favour of an 
unspeckled carpet was greater still; and on the present 
occasion, before taking to her bed, she had found strength 
to sweep and set in order as daintily as if she" had been 
sure that the room would never again know her care. Even 
to the old fiddler, who had not Hyacinth's sensibility to 
the scenery of life, it had the cold propriety of a place 
arranged for an interment. After the doctor had seen 
Pinnie, that afternoon, there was no doubt left as to its soon 
being the stage of dismal preliminaries. 
Miss Pynsent, however, resisted her malady for nearly a 
fortnight more, during which Hyacinth was constantly in 
her room. He never went back to Mr. Crookenden's, with 
whose establishment, through violent causes, his relations 
seemed indefinitely suspended ; and in fact, for the rest of 
the time that Pinnie demanded his care he absented himself 
but twice from Lomax Place for more than a few minutes. 
On one of these occasions he travelled over to Audley Court 
and spent an hour there ; on the other he met Millicent 
Henning, by appointment, and took a walk with her on the 
Embankment. He tried to find a moment to go and thank 
Madame Poupin for a sympathetic offering, many times 
repeated, of tisane, concocted after a receipt thought supreme 
by the couple in Lisson Grove (though little appreciated in 
the neighbourhood generally) ; but he was obliged to acknow- 
ledge her kindness only by a respectful letter, which he 
composed with some trouble, though much elation, in the 
French tongue, peculiarly favourable, as he believed, to 
little courtesies of this kind. Lady Aurora came again and 
again to the darkened house, where she diffused her beneficent 
influence in nightly watches, in the most modern sanative sug- 
gestions, in conversations with Hyacinth, directed with more 
ingenuity than her fluttered embarrassments might have led 
one to attribute to her, to the purpose of diverting his mind, 
and in tea-makings (there was a great deal of this liquid con- 
sumed on the premises during Pinnie's illness), after a 
system more enlightened than the usual fashion of Penton- 
ville. She was the bearer of several messages and of a good 
deal of medical advice from Rose Muniment, whose interest 
in the dressmaker's case irritated Hyacinth by its fine 
courage, which even at second-hand was still obtrusive; 
 
she appeared very nearly as resigned to the troubles of 
others as she was to her own. 
Hyacinth had been seized, the day after his return from 
Medley, with a sharp desire to do something enterprising 
and superior on Pinnie's behalf. He felt the pressure of a 
sort of angry sense that she was dying of her poor career, 
of her uneffaced remorse for the trick she had played him 
in his boyhood (as if he hadn't long ago, and indeed at the 
time, forgiven it, judging it to have been the highest 
wisdom !) of something basely helpless in the attitude of 
her little circle. He wanted to do something which should 
prove to himself that he had got the best opinion about 
the invalid that it was possible to have : so he insisted that 
Mr. Buffery should consult with a West End doctor, if the 
West End doctor would consent to meet Mr. Buffery. A 
physician capable of this condescension was discovered 
through Lady Aurora's agency (she had not brought him 
of her own movement, because on the one hand she 
hesitated to impose on the little household in Lomax 
Place the expense of such a visit, and on the other, with 
all her narrow personal economies for the sake of her 
charities, had not the means to meet it herself) ; and in 
prevision of the great man's fee Hyacinth applied to Mr. 
Vetch, as he had applied before, for a loan. The great 
man came, and was wonderfully civil to Mr. Buffery, whose 
conduct of the case he pronounced judicious ; he remained 
several minutes in the house, while he gazed at Hyacinth 
over his spectacles (he seemed rather more occupied with 
him than with the patient), and almost the whole of the 
Place turned out to stare at his chariot. After all, he 
consented to accept no fee. He put the question aside 
with a gesture full of urbanity a course disappointing and 
displeasing to Hyacinth, who felt in a manner cheated of 
the full effect of the fine thing he had wished to do for 
Pinnie ; though when he said as much (or something like 
it) to Mr. Vetch, the caustic fiddler greeted the observation 
with a face of amusement which, considering the situation, 
verged upon the unseemly. 
Hyacinth, at any rate, had done the best he could, and 
the fashionable doctor had left directions which foreshadowed 
relations with an expensive chemist in Bond Street a 
prospect by which our young man was to some extent 
consoled. Poor Pinnie's decline, however, was not arrested, 
and one evening, more than a week after his return from 
Medley, as he sat with her alone, it seemed to Hyacinth 
that her spirit must already have passed away. The nurse 
had gone down to her supper, and from the staircase a 
perceptible odour of fizzling bacon indicated that a more 
cheerful state of things prevailed in the lower regions. 
Hyacinth could not make out whether Miss Pynsent were 
asleep or awake ; he believed she had not lost conscious- 
ness, yet for more than an hour she had given no sign of 
life. At last she put out her hand, as if she knew he was 
near her and wished to feel for his, and murmured, ' Why 
did she come ? I didn't want to see her.' In a moment, 
as she went on, he perceived to whom she was alluding : 
her mind had travelled back, through all the years, to the 
dreadful day (she had described every incident of it to 
him), when Mrs. Bowerbank had invaded her quiet life and 
startled her sensitive conscience with a message from the 
prison. ' She sat there so long so long. She was very 
large, and I was frightened. She moaned, and moaned, 
 
and cried too dreadful. I couldn't help it I couldn't 
help it ! ' Her thought wandered from Mrs. Bowerbank in 
the discomposed show-room, enthroned on the yellow sofa, 
to the tragic creature at Milbank, whose accents again, for 
the hour, lived in her ears; and mixed with this mingled 
vision was still the haunting sense that she herself might 
have acted differently. That had been cleared up in the 
past, so far as Hyacinth's intention was concerned ; but 
what was most alive in Pinnie at the present moment was 
the passion of repentance, of still further expiation. It 
sickened Hyacinth that she should believe these things 
were still necessary, and he leaned over her and talked 
tenderly, with words of comfort and reassurance. He told 
her not to think of that dismal, far-off time, which had 
ceased long ago to have any consequences for either of 
them ; to consider only the future, when she should be 
quite strong again and he would look after her and keep 
her all to himself and take care of her better, far better, 
than he had ever done before. He had thought of many 
things while he sat with Pinnie, watching the shadows made 
by the night-lamp high, imposing shadows of objects low 
and mean and among them he had followed, with an 
imagination that went further in that direction than ever 
before, the probable consequences of his not having been 
adopted in his babyhood by the dressmaker. The work- 
house and the gutter, ignorance and cold, filth and tatters, 
nights of huddling under bridges and in doorways, vermin, 
starvation and blows, possibly even the vigorous efflorescence 
of an inherited disposition to crime these things, which 
he saw with unprecedented vividness, suggested themselves 
as his natural portion. Intimacies with a princess, visits to 
fine old country-houses, intelligent consideration, even, of 
the best means of inflicting a scare on the classes of privi- 
lege, would in that case not have been within his compass ; 
and that Finnic should have rescued him from such a 
destiny and put these luxuries within his reach was an 
amelioration which really amounted to success, if he could 
only have the magnanimity to regard it so. 
Her eyes were open and fixed on him, but the sharp ray 
the little dressmaker used to direct into Lomax Place as she 
plied her needle at the window had completely left them. 
' Not there what should I do there ? ' she inquired, very 
softly. ' Not with the great the great ' and her voice 
failed. 
' The great what ? What do you mean ? ' 
' You know you know,' she went on, making another 
effort. ' Haven't you been with them ? Haven't they 
received you ? ' 
' Ah, they won't separate us, Finnic ; they won't come 
between us as much as that,' said Hyacinth, kneeling by 
her bed. 
' You must be separate that makes me happier. I 
knew they would find you at last.' 
I Poor Finnic, poor Finnic,' murmured the young man. 
' It was only for that now I'm going,' she went on. 
' If you'll stay with me you needn't fear,' said Hyacinth, 
smiling at her. 
' Oh, what would they think ? ' asked the dressmaker. 
'I like you best,' said Hyacinth. 
' You have had me always. Now it's their turn ; they 
have waited.' 
' Yes, indeed, they have waited ! ' Hyacinth exclaimed. 
 
' But they will make it up ; they will make up every- 
thing ! ' the invalid panted. Then she added, ' I couldn't 
couldn't help it ! ' which was the last flicker of her 
strength. She gave no further sign of consciousness, and 
four days later she ceased to breathe. Hyacinth was with 
her, and Lady Aurora, but neither of them could recognise 
the moment. 
Hyacinth and Mr. Vetch carried her bier, with the help 
of Eustache Poupin and Paul Muniment. Lady Aurora 
was at the funeral, and Madame Poupin as well, and twenty 
neighbours from Lomax Place ; but the most distinguished 
person (in appearance at least) in the group of mourners 
was Millicent Henning, the grave yet brilliant beauty of 
whose countenance, the high propriety of whose demeanour, 
and the fine taste and general style of whose black 'costume' 
excited no little attention. Mr. Vetch had his idea ; he had 
been nursing it ever since Hyacinth's return from Medley, 
and three days after Pinnie had been consigned to the 
earth he broached it to his young friend. The funeral had 
been on a Friday, and Hyacinth had mentioned to him 
that he should return to Mr. Crookenden's on the Monday 
morning. This was Sunday night, and Hyacinth had been 
out for a walk, neither with Millicent Henning nor with 
Paul Muniment, but alone, after the manner of old days. 
When he came in he found the fiddler waiting for him, and 
burning a tallow candle, in the blighted show-room. He 
had three or four little papers in his hand, which exhibited 
some jottings of his pencil, and Hyacinth guessed, what 
was the truth but not all the truth, that he had come to 
speak to him about business. Pinnie had left a little will, 
of which she had appointed her old friend executor ; this 
fact had already become known to our hero, who thought 
such an arrangement highly natural. Mr. Vetch informed 
him of the purport of this simple and judicious document, 
and mentioned that he had been looking into the dress- 
maker's ' affairs.' They consisted, poor Pinnie's affairs, of 
the furniture of the house in Lomax Place, of the obliga- 
tion to pay the remainder of a quarter's rent, and of a sum 
of money in the savings-bank. Hyacinth was surprised to 
learn that Pinnie's economies had produced fruit at this 
late day (things had gone so ill with her in recent years, 
and there had been often such a want of money in the 
house), until Mr. Vetch explained to him, with eager 
clearness, that he himself had watched over the little 
hoard, accumulated during the period of her comparative 
prosperity, with the stiff determination that it should be 
sacrificed only in case of desperate necessity. Work had 
become scarce with Pinnie, but she could still do it when 
it came, and the money was to be kept for the very possible 
period when she should be helpless. Mercifully enough, 
she had not lived to see that day, and the sum in the bank 
had survived her, though diminished by more than half. 
She had left no debts but the matter of the house and 
those incurred during her illness. Of course the fiddler 
had known he hastened to give his young friend this 
assurance that Pinnie, had she become infirm, would 
have been able to count absolutely upon him for the 
equivalent, in her old age, of the protection she had given 
him in his youth. But what if an accident had overtaken 
Hyacinth ? What if he had incurred some nasty penalty 
for his revolutionary dabblings, which, little dangerous as 
they might be to society, were quite capable, in a country 
 
where authority, though good-natured, liked occasionally to 
make an example, to put him on the wrong side of a 
prison-wall ? At any rate, for better or worse, by pinching 
and scraping, she had saved a little, and of that little, after 
everything was paid off, a fraction would still be left. 
Everything was bequeathed to Hyacinth everything but a 
couple of plated candlesticks and the old 'cheffonier,' which 
had been so handsome in its day; these Pinnie begged Mr. 
Vetch to accept in recognition of services beyond all price. 
The furniture, everything he didn't want for his own use, 
Hyacinth could sell in a lump, and with the proceeds he 
could wipe out old scores. The sum of money would 
remain to him ; it amounted, in its reduced condition, to 
about thirty-seven pounds. In mentioning this figure Mr. 
Vetch appeared to imply that Hyacinth would be master of 
a very pretty little fortune. Even to the young man him- 
self, in spite of his recent initiations, it seemed far from 
contemptible ; it represented sudden possibilities of still 
not returning to old Crookenden's. It represented them, 
that is, till, presently, he remembered the various advances 
made him by the fiddler, and reflected that by the time 
these had been repaid there would hardly be twenty pounds 
left. That, however, was a far larger sum than he had ever 
had in his pocket at once. He thanked the old man for 
his information, and remarked and there was no hypocrisy 
in the speech that he was very sorry Pinnie had not 
given herself the benefit of the whole of the little fund 
in her lifetime. To this her executor replied that it had 
yielded her an interest far beyond any other investment ; 
for he was persuaded she believed she should never live 
to enjoy it, and this faith was rich in pictures, visions of 
the effect such a windfall would produce in Hyacinth's 
career. 
' What effect did she mean do you mean ? ' Hyacinth 
inquired. As soon as he had spoken he felt that he knew 
what the old man would say (it would be a reference to 
Pinnie's belief in his reunion with his ' relations,' and the 
facilities that thirty-seven pounds would afford him for 
cutting a figure among them) ; and for a moment Mr. Vetch 
looked at him as if exactly that response were on his lips. 
At the end of the moment, however, he replied, quite 
differently 
' She hoped you would go abroad and see the world.' 
The fiddler watched his young friend ; then he added, 
' She had a particular wish that you should go to Paris.' 
Hyacinth had turned pale at this suggestion, and for a 
moment he said nothing. 'Ah, Paris!' he murmured, at 
last. 
' She would have liked you even to take a little run 
down to Italy.' 
' Doubtless that would be pleasant. But there is a limit 
to what one can do with twenty pounds.' 
' How do you mean, with twenty pounds ? ' the old man 
asked, lifting his eyebrows, while the wrinkles in his fore- 
head made deep shadows in the candle-light. 
' That's about what will remain, after I have settled my 
account with you.' 
' How do you mean, your account with me ? I shall 
not take any of your money.' 
Hyacinth's eyes wandered over his interlocutor's sug- 
gestive rustiness. 'I don't want to be ungracious, but 
suppose you should lose your powers.' 
 
' My dear boy, I shall have one of the resources that 
was open to Pinnie. I shall look to you to be the support 
of my old age.' 
'You may do so with perfect safety, except for that 
danger you just mentioned, of my being imprisoned or 
hanged.' 
' It's precisely because I think it will be less if you go 
abroad that I urge you to take this chance. You will see 
the world, and you will like it better. You will think 
society, even as it is, has some good points,' said Mr. 
Vetch. 
' I have never liked it better than the last few months.' 
' Ah well, wait till you see Paris ! ' 
' Oh, Paris Paris,' Hyacinth repeated, vaguely, staring 
into the turbid flame of the candle as if he made out the 
most brilliant scenes there ; an attitude, accent and expres- 
sion which the fiddler interpreted both as the vibration of 
a latent hereditary chord and a symptom of the acute sense 
of opportunity. 
BOOK FOURTH 
XXIX 
THE boulevard was all alive, brilliant with illuminations, 
with the variety and gaiety of the crowd, the dazzle of shops 
and cafes seen through uncovered fronts or immense lucid 
plates, the flamboyant porches of theatres and the flashing 
lamps of carriages, the far-spreading murmur of talkers and 
strollers, the uproar-of pleasure and prosperity, the general 
magnificence of Paris on a perfect evening in June. 
Hyacinth had been walking about all day he had walked 
from rising till bed-time every day of the week that had 
elapsed since his arrival and now an extraordinary fatigue, 
which, however, was not without its delight (there was a 
kind of richness, a sweet satiety, in it), a tremendous las- 
situde had fallen upon him, and he settled himself in a 
chair beside a little table in front of Tortoni's, not so much 
to rest from it as to enjoy it. He had seen so much, felt 
so much, learned so much, thrilled and throbbed and 
laughed and sighed so much, during the past several days, 
that he was conscious at last of the danger of becoming 
incoherent to himself, of the need of balancing his 
accounts. 
To-night he came to a full stop ; he simply sat at the 
door of the most dandified cafe in Paris and felt his pulse 
and took stock of his impressions. He had been intend- 
ing to visit the Varietes theatre, which blazed through 
intermediate lights and through the thin foliage of trees 
not favoured by the asphalt, on the other side of the great 
avenue. But the impression of Chaumont he relinquished 
that, for the present ; it added to the luxury of his situation 
to reflect that he should still have plenty of time to see 
the succes du jour. The same effect proceeded from his 
determination to order a marqiiise, when the waiter, whose 
superior shirt-front and whisker emerged from the long 
white cylinder of an apron, came to take his commands. 
He knew the decoction was expensive he had learnt as 
much at the moment he happened to overhear, for the first 
time, a mention of it ; which had been the night before, in 
his place in a stall, during an entr'acte, at the Comedie 
Frangaise. A gentleman beside him, a young man in 
evening-dress, conversing with an acquaintance in the row 
behind, recommended the latter to refresh himself with the 
article in question after the play : there was nothing like it, 
the speaker remarked, of a hot evening, in the open air, 
when one was thirsty. The waiter brought Hyacinth a tall 
glass of champagne, in which a pine-apple ice was in solu- 
tion, and our hero felt that he had hoped for a sensation 
no less delicate when he looked for an empty table on 
Tortoni's terrace. Very few tables were empty, and it was 
his belief that the others were occupied by high celebrities ; 
at any rate they were just the types he had had a prevision 
of and had wanted most to meet, when the extraordinary 
opportunity to come abroad with his pocket full of money 
(it was more extraordinary, even, than his original meeting 
with the Princess), became real to him in Lomax Place. 
He knew about Tortoni's from his study of the French 
 
novel, and as he sat there he had a vague sense of frater- 
nising with Balzac and Alfred de Musset; there were 
echoes and reminiscences of their works in the air, con- 
founding themselves with the indefinable exhalations, the 
strange composite odour, half agreeable, half impure, of 
the boulevard. 'Splendid Paris, charming Paris' that 
refrain, the fragment of an invocation, a beginning without 
an end, hummed itself perpetually in Hyacinth's ears ; the 
only articulate words that got themselves uttered in the 
hymn of praise which his imagination had been offering 
to the French capital from the first hour of his stay. He 
recognised, he greeted, with a thousand palpitations, the 
seat of his maternal ancestors was proud to be asso- 
ciated with so much of the superb, so many proofs of a 
civilisation that had no visible rough spots. He had his 
perplexities, and he had even now and then a revulsion 
for which he had made no allowance, as when it came 
over him that the most brilliant city in the world was also 
the most blood-stained ; but the great sense that he under- 
stood and sympathised was preponderant, and his compre- 
hension gave him wings appeared to transport him to still 
wider fields of knowledge, still higher sensations. 
In other days, in London, he had thought again and 
again of his mother's father, the revolutionary watch-maker 
who had known the ecstasy of the barricade and had paid 
for it with his life, and his reveries had not been sensibly 
chilled by the fact that he knew next to nothing about him. 
He figured him in his mind, had a conviction that he was 
very short, like himself, and had curly hair, an immense 
talent for his work and an extraordinary natural eloquence, 
together with many of the most attractive qualities of the 
French character. But he was reckless, and a little cracked, 
and probably immoral ; he had difficulties and debts and 
irrepressible passions ; his life had been an incurable fever 
and its tragic termination was a matter of course. None 
the less it would have been a charm to hear him talk, to 
feel the influence of a gaiety which even political madness 
could never quench ; for his grandson had a theory that he 
spoke the French tongue of an earlier time, delightful and 
sociable in accent and phrase, exempt from the common- 
ness of modern slang. This vague yet vivid personage 
became Hyacinth's constant companion, from the day of 
his arrival ; he roamed about with Florentine's boy, hand 
in hand, sat opposite to him at dinner, at the small table in 
the restaurant, finished the bottle with him, made the bill a 
little longer, and treated him to innumerable revelations 
and counsels. He knew the lad's secret without being 
told, and looked at him across the diminutive tablecloth, 
where the great tube of bread, pushed aside a little, left 
room for his elbows (it puzzled Hyacinth that the people 
of Paris should ever have had the fierceness of hunger 
when the loaves were so big), gazed at him with eyes of 
deep, kind, glowing comprehension and with lips which 
seemed to murmur that when one was to die to-morrow 
one was wise to eat and drink to-day. There was nothing 
venerable, no constraint of importance or disapproval, in 
this edifying and impalpable presence; the young man 
considered that Hyacinthe Vivier was of his own time of 
life and could enter into his pleasures as well as his pains. 
Wondering, repeatedly, where the barricade on which his 
grandfather fell had been erected, he at last satisfied him- 
self (but I am unable to trace the process of the induction) 
 
that it had bristled across the Rue Saint-Honore, very near 
to the church of Saint-Roch. The pair had now roamed 
together through all the museums and gardens, through the 
principal churches (the republican martyr was very -good- 
natured about this), through the passages and arcades, up 
and down the great avenues, across all the bridges, and 
above all, again and again, along the river, where the 
quays were an endless entertainment to Hyacinth, who 
lingered by the half-hour beside the boxes of old books on 
the parapets, stuffing his pockets with five-penny volumes, 
while the bright industries of the Seine flashed and glittered 
beneath him, and on the other bank the glorious Louvre 
stretched either way for a league. Our young man took 
almost the same sort of satisfaction in the Louvre as if he 
had erected it ; he haunted the museum during all the first 
days, couldn't look enough at certain pictures, nor sufficiently 
admire the high polish of the great floors in which the 
golden, frescoed ceilings repeated themselves. All Paris 
struck him as tremendously artistic and decorative ; he felt 
as if hitherto he had lived in a dusky, frowsy, Philistine 
world, in which the taste was the taste of Little Peddlington 
and the idea of beautiful arrangement had never had an 
influence. In his ancestral city it had been active from the 
first, and that was why his quick sensibility responded ; and 
he murmured again his constant refrain, when the fairness 
of the great monuments arrested him, in the pearly, silvery 
light, or he saw them take gray-blue, delicate tones at the 
end of stately vistas. It seemed to him that Paris expressed 
herself, and did it in the grand style, while London remained 
vague and blurred, inarticulate, blunt and dim. 
Eustache Poupin had given him letters to three or four 
democratic friends, ardent votaries of the social question, 
who had by a miracle either escaped the cruelty of exile or 
suffered the outrage of pardon, and, in spite of republican 
mouekardS) no less infamous than the imperial, and the 
periodical swoops of a despotism which had only changed 
its buttons and postage-stamps, kept alive the sacred spark 
which would some day become a consuming flame. 
Hyacinth, however, had not had the thought of delivering 
these introductions ; he had accepted them because Poupin 
had had such a solemn glee in writing them, and also 
because he had not the courage to let the couple in Lisson 
Grove know that since that terrible night at Hoffendahl's a 
change had come over the spirit of his dream. He had 
not grown more concentrated, he had grown more relaxed, 
and it was inconsistent with relaxation that he should 
rummage out Poupin's friends one of whom lived in the 
Batignolles and the others in the Faubourg Saint- Antoine 
and pretend that he cared for what they cared for in the 
same way as they cared for it. What was supreme in his 
mind to-day was not the idea of how the society that sur- 
rounded him should be destroyed ; it was, much more, the 
sense of the wonderful, precious things it had produced, of 
the brilliant, impressive fabric it had raised. That destruc- 
tion was waiting for it there was forcible evidence, known 
to himself and others, to show; but since this truth had 
risen before him, in its magnitude he had become conscious 
of a transfer, partial if not complete, of his sympathies ; the 
same revulsion of which he had given a sign to the Princess 
in saying that now he pitied the rich, those who were 
regarded as happy. While the evening passed, therefore, 
as he kept his place at Tortoni's, the emotion that was last 
 
to visit him was a compunction for not having put himself 
in relation with poor Poupin's friends, for having neglected 
to make the acquaintance of earnest people. 
Who in the world, if one should come to that, was as 
earnest as he himself, or had given such signal even though 
secret proofs of it ? He could lay that unction to his soul 
in spite of his having amused himself cynically, spent all his 
time in theatres, galleries, walks of pleasure. The feeling 
had not failed him with which he accepted Mr. Vetch's 
furtherance the sense that since he was destined to perish 
in his flower he was right to make a dash at the beautiful, 
horrible world. That reflection had been natural enough, 
but what was strange was the fiddler's own impulse, his 
desire to do something pleasant for him, to beguile him and 
ship him off. What had been most odd in that was the 
way Mr. Vetch appeared to overlook the fact that his young 
friend had already had, that year, such an episode of 
dissipation as was surely rare in the experience of London 
artisans. This was one of the many things Hyacinth thought 
of; he thought of the others in turn and out of turn; it 
was almost the first time he had sat still long enough 
(except at the theatre), to collect himself. A hundred con- 
fused reverberations of the recent past crowded upon him, 
and he saw that he had lived more intensely in the previous 
six months than in all the rest of his existence. The suc- 
cession of events finally straightened itself, and he tasted 
some of the rarest, strangest moments over again. His last 
week at Medley, in especial, had already become a kind of 
fable, the echo of a song ; he could read it over like a 
story, gaze at it as he would have gazed at some exquisite 
picture. His visit there had been perfect to the end, and 
even the three days that Captain Sholto's sojourn lasted had 
not broken the spell, for the three more that had elapsed 
before his own departure (the Princess herself had given 
him the signal), were the most important of all. It was then 
the Princess had made it clear to him that she was in 
earnest, was prepared for the last sacrifice. She was now 
his standard of comparison, his authority, his measure, his 
perpetual reference ; and in taking possession of his mind 
to this extent she had completely renewed it. She was 
altogether a new term, and now that he was in a foreign 
country he observed how much her conversation, itself so 
foreign, had prepared him to understand it. In Paris he 
saw, of course, a great many women, and he noticed almost 
all of them, especially the actresses ; confronting, mentally, 
their movement, their speech, their manner of dressing, with 
that of his extraordinary friend. He judged that she was 
beyond them in every respect, though there were one or 
two actresses who had the air of trying to copy her. 
The recollection of the last days he had spent with her 
affected him now like the touch of a tear-washed cheek. 
She had shed tears for him, and it was his suspicion that 
her secret idea was to frustrate the redemption of his vow 
to Hoffendahl, to the immeasurable body that Hoffendahl 
represented. She pretended to have accepted it, and what 
she said was simply that when he should have played his 
part she would engage to save him to fling a cloud about 
him, as the goddess-mother of the Trojan hero used, in 
Virgil's poem, to escamoter JEneas. What she meant was, 
in his view, to prevent him from playing his part at all. 
She was in earnest for herself, not for him. The main 
result of his concentrated intimacy with her had been to 
 
make him feel that he was good enough for anything. 
When he had asked her, the last day, if he might write to 
her she had said, Yes, but not for two or three weeks. He 
had written after Pinnie's death, and again just before 
coming abroad, and in doing so had taken account of some- 
thing else she had said in regard to their correspondence 
that she didn't wish vague phrases, protestations or com- 
pliments ; she wanted the realities of his life, the smallest, 
most personal details. Therefore he had treated her to the 
whole business of the break-up in Lomax Place, including 
the sale of the rickety furniture. He had told her what 
that transaction brought a beggarly sum, but sufficient to 
help a little to pay debts ; and he had informed her further- 
more that one of the ways Mr. Vetch had taken to hurry 
him off to Paris was to offer him a present of thirty pounds 
out of his curious little hoard, to add to the sum already 
inherited from Pinnie which, in a manner that none of 
Hyacinth's friends, of course, could possibly regard as frugal, 
or even as respectable, was now consecrated to a mere 
excursion. He even mentioned that he had ended by 
accepting the thirty pounds, adding that he feared there 
was something demoralising in his peculiar situation (she 
would know what he meant by that) : it disposed one to 
take what one could get, made one at least very tolerant of 
whims that happened to be munificent. 
What he did not mention to the Princess was the man- 
ner in which he had been received by Paul Muniment and 
by Millicent Henning on his return from Medley. Milli- 
cent's reception had been the queerest ; it had been quite 
unexpectedly mild. She made him no scene of violence, 
and appeared to have given up the line of throwing a blur 
of recrimination over her own nefarious doings. She treated 
him as if she liked him for having got in with the swells ; 
she had an appreciation of success which would lead her to 
handle him more tenderly now that he was really success- 
ful. She tried to make him describe the style of life that 
was led in a house where people were invited to stay like 
that without having to pay, and she surprised him almost 
as much as she gratified him by not indulging in any of 
her former digs at the Princess. She was lavish of ejacu- 
lations when he answered certain of her questions 
ejaculations that savoured of Pimlico, ' Oh, I say ! ' and 
' Oh, my stars ! ' and he was more than ever struck with 
her detestable habit of saying, ' Aye, that's where it is,' 
when he had made some remark to which she wished 
to give an intelligent and sympathetic assent. But she 
didn't jeer at the Princess's private character ; she stayed 
her satire, in a case where there was such an opening for 
it. Hyacinth reflected that this was lucky for her : he 
couldn't have stood it (nervous and anxious as he was 
about Pinnie), if she had had the bad taste, at such a time 
as that, to be profane and insulting. In that case he 
would have broken with her completely he would have 
been too disgusted. She displeased him enough, as it was, 
by her vulgar tricks of speech. There were two or three 
little recurrent irregularities that aggravated him to a degree 
quite out of proportion to their importance, as when she 
said ' full up ' for full, ' sold out ' for sold, or remarked to 
him that she supposed he was now going to chuck up his 
work at old Crookenden's. These phrases had fallen upon 
his ear many a time before, but now they seemed almost 
unpardonable enough to quarrel about. Not that he had 
 
any wish to quarrel, for if the question had been pushed he 
would have admitted that to-day his intimacy with the 
Princess had caused any rights he might have had upon 
Millicent to lapse. Millicent did not push it, however ; 
she only, it was evident, wished to convey to him that 
it was better for both parties they should respect each 
other's liberty. A genial understanding on this subject was 
what Miss Henning desired, and Hyacinth forbade himself 
to inquire what use she proposed to make of her freedom. 
During the month that elapsed between Pinnie's death 
and his visit to Paris he had seen her several times, for the 
respect for each other's freedom had somehow not implied 
cessation of intercourse, and it was only natural she should 
have been soft to him in his bereaved condition. Hya- 
cinth's sentiment about Pinnie was deep, and Millicent was 
clever enough to guess it ; the consequence of which was 
that on these occasions she was very soft indeed. She 
talked to him almost as if she had been his mother and he 
a convalescent child ; called him her dear, and a young 
rascal, and her old boy ; moralised a good deal, abstained 
from beer (till she learned he had inherited a fortune), and 
when he remarked once (moralising a little, too), that after 
the death of a person we have loved we are haunted by 
the memory of our failures of kindness, of generosity, re- 
joined, with a dignity that made the words almost a con- 
tribution to philosophy, 'Yes, that's where it is !' 
Something in her behaviour at this period had even 
made ' Hyacinth wonder whether there were not some 
mystical sign in his appearance, some subtle betrayal in 
the very expression of his face, of the predicament in 
which he had been placed by Diedrich Hoffendahl ; he 
began to suspect afresh the operation of that ' beastly 
attendrissemenf he had detected of old in people who 
had the benefit of Miss Pynsent's innuendoes. The com- 
passion Millicent felt for him had never been one of the 
reasons why he liked her ; it had fortunately been cor- 
rected, moreover, by his power to make her furious. This 
evening, on the boulevard, as he watched the interminable 
successions, one of the ideas that came to him was that 
it was odd he should like her even yet ; for heaven knew 
he liked the Princess better, and he had hitherto supposed 
that when a sentiment of this kind had the energy of a 
possession it made a clean sweep of all minor predilections. 
But it was clear to him that Millicent still existed for him ; 
that he couldn't feel he had quite done with her, or 
she with him ; and that in spite of his having now so many 
other things to admire there was still a comfort in the recol- 
lection of her robust beauty and her primitive passions. 
Hyacinth thought of her as some clever young barbarian 
who in ancient days should have made a pilgrimage to 
Rome might have thought of a Dacian or Iberian mistress 
awaiting his return on the rough provincial shore. If 
Millicent considered his visit at a ' hall ' a proof of the 
sort of success that was to attend him (how he recon- 
ciled this with the supposition that she perceived, as a 
ghostly irradiation, intermingled with his curly hair, the 
aureola of martyrdom, he would have had some difficulty in 
explaining), if Miss Henning considered, on his return from 
Medley, that he had taken his place on the winning side, 
it was only consistent of her to borrow a grandeur from 
his further travels; and, indeed, by the time he was 
ready to start she spoke of the plan as if she had invented 
 
it herself and had even contributed materially to the funds 
required. It had been her theory, from the first, that she 
only liked people of spirit; and Hyacinth certainly had 
never had so much spirit as when he launched himself into 
Continental adventures. He could say to himself, quite 
without bitterness, that of course she would profit by his 
absence to put her relations with Sholto on a comfortable 
footing; yet,. somehow, at this moment, as her face came 
back to him amid the crowd of faces about him, it had not 
that gentleman's romantic shadow across it. It was the 
brilliancy of Paris, perhaps, that made him see things rosy ; 
at any rate, he remembered with kindness something that 
she had said to him the last time he saw her and that had 
touched him exceedingly at the moment. He had hap- 
pened to observe to her, in a friendly way, that now Miss 
Pynsent had gone she was, with the exception of Mr. 
Vetch, the person in his whole circle who had known him 
longest. To this Millicent had replied that Mr. Vetch 
wouldn't live for ever, and then she should have the satis- 
faction of being his very oldest friend. ' Oh, well, I 
shan't live for ever, either,' said Hyacinth ; which led her 
to inquire whether by chance he had a weakness of the 
chest. ' Not that I know of, but I might get killed in a 
row;' and when she broke out into scorn of his silly notion 
of turning everything up (as if any one wanted to know 
what a costermonger would like, or any of that low sort 
at the East End !) he amused himself with asking her if she 
were satisfied with the condition of society and thought 
nothing ought to be done for people who, at the end of a 
lifetime of Starvation -wages, had only the reward of the 
hideous workhouse and a pauper's grave. 
' I shouldn't be satisfied with anything, if ever you was 
to slip up,' Millicent answered, simply, looking at him with 
her beautiful boldness. Then she added, 'There's one 
thing I can tell you, Mr. Robinson : that if ever any one 
was to do you a turn ' And she paused again, tossing 
back the head she carried as if it were surmounted by a 
tiara, while Hyacinth inquired what would occur in that 
contingency. ' Well, there'd be one left behind who would 
take it up ! ' she announced ; and in the tone of the de- 
claration there was something brave and genuine. It 
struck Hyacinth as a strange fate though not stranger, 
after all, than his native circumstances that one's memory 
should come to be represented by a shop-girl overladen 
with bracelets of imitation silver; but he was reminded 
that Millicent was a fine specimen of a woman of a type 
opposed to the whining, and that in her free temperament 
many disparities were reconciled 
XXX 
ON the other hand the brilliancy of Paris had not much 
power to transfigure the impression made upon him by 
such intercourse with Paul Muniment as he had enjoyed 
during the weeks that followed Pinnie's death an impres- 
sion considerably more severe than any idea of renunciation 
or oblivion that could connect itself with Millicent. Why 
it should have had the taste of sadness was not altogether 
clear, for Muniment's voice was as distinct as any in the 
chorus of approbation excited by the news that Hyacinth 
was about to cultivate the most characteristic of the 
pleasures of gentility a sympathetic unanimity, of which 
the effect was to place his journey to Paris in a light 
almost ridiculous. What had got into them all, and did 
they think he was good for nothing but to amuse himself? 
Mr. Vetch had been the most zealous, but the others 
clapped him on the back in almost exactly the same 
manner as he had seen his mates in Soho bring their 
palms down on one of their number when it was disclosed 
to them that his ' missus ' had made him yet once again 
a father. That had been Poupin's tone, and his wife's as 
well ; and even poor Schinkel, with his everlasting bandage, 
whom he had met in Lisson Grove, appeared to think it 
necessary to remark that a little run across the Rhine, 
while he was about it, would open his eyes to a great many 
wonders. The Poupins shed tears of joy, and the letters 
which have already been mentioned, and which lay day 
after day on the mantel-shelf of the little room our hero 
occupied in a hotel garni, tremendously tall and somewhat 
lopsided, in the Rue Jacob (that recommendation pro- 
ceeded also from Lisson Grove, the garni being kept by 
a second cousin of Madame Eustache), these valuable 
documents had been prepared by the obliging exile many 
days before his young friend was ready to start. It was 
almost refreshing to Hyacinth when old Crookenden, the 
sole outspoken dissentient, told him he was a blockhead 
to waste his money on the bloody French. This worthy 
employer of labour was evidently disgusted at such an 
innovation; if he wanted a little recreation why couldn't 
he take it as it had been taken in Soho from the beginning 
of time, in the shape of a trip to Hampton Court or two 
or three days of alcoholic torpor ? Old Crookenden was 
right. Hyacinth conceded freely that he was a blockhead, 
and was only a little uncomfortable that he couldn't ex- 
plain why he didn't pretend not to be and had a kind of 
right to that compensatory luxury. 
Paul guessed why, of course, and smiled approval with 
a candour which gave Hyacinth a strange, inexpressible 
heartache. He already knew that his friend's view of him 
was that he was ornamental and adapted to the lighter 
kinds of socialistic utility constituted to show that the 
revolution was not necessarily brutal and illiterate ; but in 
the light of the cheerful stoicism with which Muniment 
regarded the sacrifice our hero was committed to, the latter 
had found it necessary to remodel a good deal his original 
 
conception of the young chemist's nature. The result of 
this process was not that he admired it less but that he 
felt almost awe-stricken in the presence of it. There had 
been an element of that sort in his appreciation of Muni- 
ment from the first, but it had been infinitely deepened by 
the spectacle of his sublime consistency. Hyacinth felt 
that he himself could never have risen to that point. He 
was competent to make the promise to Hoffendahl, and 
he was equally competent to keep it; but he could not 
have had the same fortitude for another, could not have 
detached himself from personal prejudice so effectually as 
to put forward, in that way, for the terrible 'job,' a little 
chap he liked. That Muniment liked him it never 
occurred to Hyacinth to doubt, and certainly he had all 
the manner of it to-day : he had never been more good- 
humoured, more placidly talkative ; he was like an elder 
brother who knew that the 'youngster' was clever, and 
was rather proud of it even when there was no one there 
to see. That air of suspending their partnership for the 
moment, which had usually marked him at the 'Sun and 
Moon,' was never visible in other places ; in Audley Court 
he only chaffed Hyacinth occasionally for taking him too 
seriously. To-day his young friend hardly knew just how 
to take him; the episode of which Hoffendahl was the 
central figure had, as far as one could see, made so little 
change in his life. As a conspirator he was so extra- 
ordinarily candid, and bitterness and denunciation so 
rarely sat on his lips. It was as if he had been ashamed 
to complain ; and indeed, for himself, as the months went 
on, he had nothing particular to complain of. He had 
had a rise, at the chemical works, and a plan of getting 
a larger room for Rosy was under serious consideration. 
On behalf of others he never sounded the pathetic note 
he thought that sort of thing unbusiness-like; and the 
most that he did in the way of expatiatiori on the wrongs 
of humanity was occasionally to mention certain statistics, 
certain 'returns,' in regard to the remuneration of in- 
dustries, applications for employment and the discharge 
of hands. In such matters as these he was -deeply versed, 
and he moved in a dry statistical and scientific air in which 
it cost Hyacinth an effort of respiration to accompany him. 
Simple and kindly as he was, and thoughtful of the woes of 
beasts, attentive and merciful to small insects, and addicted 
even to kissing dirty babies in Audley Court, he sometimes 
emitted a short satiric gleam which showed that his esteem 
for the poor was small and that if he had no illusions 
about the people who had got everything into their hands 
he had as few about those who had egregiously failed to 
do so. He was tremendously reasonable, which was largely 
why Hyacinth admired him, having a desire to be so him- 
self but finding it terribly difficult. 
Muniment's absence of passion, his fresh-coloured cool- 
ness, his easy, exact knowledge, the way he kept himself 
clean (except for the chemical stains on his hands), in 
circumstances of foul contact, constituted a group of 
qualities that had always appeared to Hyacinth singularly 
enviable. Most enviable of all was the force that enabled 
him to sink personal sentiment where a great public good 
was to be attempted and yet keep up the form of caring 
for that minor interest. It seemed to Hyacinth that if he 
had introduced a young fellow to Hoffendahl for his pur- 
poses, and Hoffendahl had accepted him on such a re- 
 
commendation, and everything had been settled, he would 
have preferred never to look at the young fellow again. 
That was his weakness, and Muniment carried it off far 
otherwise. It must be added that he had never made an 
allusion to their visit to Hoffendahl; so that Hyacinth 
also, out of pride, held his tongue on the subject. If his 
friend didn't wish to express any sympathy for him he was 
not going to beg for it (especially as he didn't want it), by 
restless references. It had originally been a surprise to 
him that Muniment should be willing to countenance a 
possible assassination ; but after all none of his ideas were 
narrow (Hyacinth had a sense that they ripened all the 
while), and if a pistol-shot would do any good he was not 
the man to raise pedantic objections. It is true that, as 
regards his quiet acceptance of the predicament in which 
Hyacinth might be placed by it, our young man had given 
him the benefit of a certain amount of doubt; it had 
occurred to him that perhaps Muniment had his own 
reasons for believing that the summons from Hoffendahl 
would never really arrive, so that he might only be treating 
himself to the entertainment of judging of a little book- 
binder's nerve. But in this case, why did he take an 
interest in the little bookbinder's going to Paris? That 
was a thing he would not have cared for had he held that 
in fact there was nothing to fear. He despised the sight 
of idleness, and in spite of the indulgence he had more 
than once been good enough to express on the subject of 
Hyacinth's epicurean tendencies what he would have been 
most likely to say at present was, ' Go to Paris ? Go to 
the dickens ! Haven't you been out at grass long enough 
for one while, didn't you lark enough in the country there 
with the noble lady, and hadn't you better take up your 
tools again before you forget how to handle them?' Rosy 
had said something of that sort, in her free, familiar way 
(whatever her intention, she had been, in effect, only a little 
less sarcastic than old Crookenden) : that Mr. Robinson 
was going in for a life of leisure, a life of luxury, like her- 
self; she must congratulate him on having the means and 
the time. Oh, the time that was the great thing! She 
could speak with knowledge, having always enjoyed these 
advantages herself. And she intimated or was she mis- 
taken ? that his good fortune emulated hers also in the 
matter of his having a high-born and beneficent friend 
(such a blessing, now he had lost dear Miss Pynsent), who 
covered him with little attentions. Rose Muniment, in 
short, had been more exasperating than ever. 
The boulevard became even more brilliant as the even- 
ing went on, and Hyacinth wondered whether he had a 
right to occupy the same table for so many hours. The 
theatre on the other side discharged its multitude; the 
crowd thickened on the wide asphalt, on the terrace of the 
cafe ; gentlemen, accompanied by ladies of whom he knew 
already how to characterise the type des femmes tres-chic 
passed into the portals of Tortoni. The nightly ema- 
nation of Paris seemed to rise more richly, to float and 
hang in the air, to mingle with the universal light and the 
many-voiced sound, to resolve itself into a thousand soli- 
citations and opportunities, addressed however mainly to 
those in whose pockets the chink of a little loose gold 
might respond. Hyacinth's retrospections had not made 
him drowsy, but quite the reverse ; he grew restless and 
excited, and a kind of pleasant terror of the place and hour 
 
entered into his blood. But it was nearly midnight, and 
he got up to walk home, taking the line of the boulevard 
toward the Madeleine. He passed down the Rue Royale, 
where comparative stillness reigned ; and when he reached 
the Place de la Concorde, to cross the bridge which faces the 
Corps Le'gislatif, he found himself almost isolated. He 
had left the human swarm and the obstructed pavements 
behind, and the wide spaces of the splendid square lay 
quiet under the summer stars. The plash of the great 
fountains was audible, and he could almost hear the wind- 
stirred murmur of the little wood of the Tuileries on one 
side, and of the vague expanse of the Champs Elysees on 
the other. The place itself the Place Louis Quinze, the 
Place de la Revolution had given him a sensible emotion, 
from the day of his arrival ; he had recognised so quickly 
its tremendously historic character. He had seen, in a 
rapid vision, the guillotine in the middle, on the site of the 
inscrutable obelisk, and the tumbrils, with waiting victims, 
were stationed round the circle now made majestic by the 
monuments of the cities of France. The great legend of the 
French Revolution, sanguinary and heroic, was more real to 
him here than anywhere else ; and, strangely, what was most 
present was not its turpitude and horror, but its magnificent 
energy, the spirit of life that had been in it, not the spirit 
of death. That shadow was effaced by the modern fair- 
ness of fountain and statue, the stately perspective and 
composition ; and as he lingered, before crossing the Seine, 
a sudden sense overtook him, making his heart sink with a 
kind of desolation a sense of everything that might hold 
one to the world, of the sweetness of not dying/ the fasci- 
nation of great cities, the charm of travel and discovery 
the generosity of admiration. The tears rose to his eyes, 
as they had done more than once in the past six months, 
and a question, low but poignant, broke from his lips, end- 
ing in nothing. ' How could he how could he ? ' 
It may be explained that ' he ' was a reference to Paul 
Muniment ; for Hyacinth had dreamed of the religion of 
friendship. 
Three weeks after this he found himself in Venice, 
whence he addressed to the Princess Casamassima a letter 
of which I reproduce the principal passages. 
' This is probably the last time I shall write to you 
before I return to London. Of course you have been in 
this place, and you will easily understand why here, especi- 
ally here, the spirit should move me. Dear Princess, 
what an enchanted city, what ineffable impressions, what a 
revelation of the exquisite ! I have a room in a little campo 
opposite to a small old church, which has cracked marble 
slabs let into the front ; and in the cracks grow little wild 
delicate flowers, of which I don't know the name. Over 
the door of the church hangs an old battered leather curtain, 
polished and tawny, as thick as a mattress, and with buttons 
in it, like a sofa ; and it flops to and fro, laboriously, as 
women and girls, with shawls on their heads and their feet 
