It was on this wise.  On my short summer vacation of that year from
which I date my happiness, and which I used to call The Year of my
Lady, as others say The Year of Our Lord, I tarried for a time in a
mountain village, unfashionable and beautiful, where my city patients
were not likely to hunt me down.  Fifty-three of them had followed me
to the seashore the year before, and I went back to town a
harder-worked man than I left it.  Even a doctor has a right to life,
liberty, and the pursuit of a vacation, and that time I struck out for
my rights.  I cut adrift--denied my addresses even to my partner--and
set forth upon a walking tour alone, among the hills.  Upon one point
my mind was made up: I would not see a sick woman for two weeks.
I arrived at this little town of which I speak upon a Saturday evening.
I remember that it was an extraordinary evening.  Thunder came up, and
clouds of colours such as I found remarkable.  I am not an adept in
describing these things, but I remember that they moved me.  I went out
and followed the trout-brook, which was a graceful little stream, and
watched the pageant in the skies above the tops of the forest.  The
trees on either side of the tiny current had the look of souls
regarding each other across a barrier, so solemn were they.  They stood
with their gaze upon the heavens and their feet rooted to the earth,
and seemed like sentient creatures who knew why this was as it was.
I, walking with my eyes upon them, feet unguarded, and fancy following
a cloud of rose-colour that hung fashioned in the outline of a mighty
wing above me, caught my foot in a gnarled old hickory root and fell
heavily.  When I tried to rise I found that I was considerably hurt.
I was a well, vigorous man, not accustomed to pain, which took a
vigorous form with me; and I was mortified to find myself quite faint,
too much so even to disturb myself over the situation, or to wonder who
would be likely to institute a searching-party for me,--a stranger, but
an hour since, registered at the hotel.
With that ease which I condemned so hotly in my patients I abandoned
myself to the physical pang, got back somehow against the hickory, and
closed my eyes; devoid even of curiosity as to the consequences of the
accident; only "attentive to my sensations," as a great writer of my
day put it.  I had often quoted him to nervous people whom I considered
as exaggerating their sufferings; I did not recall the quotation at
that moment.
"Oh! you are hurt!" a low voice said.
I was a bit fastidious in voices at that time of my life.  To say that
this was the sweetest I had ever heard would not express what I mean.
It was the dearest I had ever heard.  From that first moment,--before
I saw her face,--drowned as I was in that wave of mean physical agony,
given over utterly to myself, I knew, and to myself I said: "It is the
dearest voice in all this world."
A woman on the further side of the trout-brook stood uncertain,
pitifully regarding me.  She was not a girl,--quite a woman; ripe, and
self-possessed in bearing.  She had a beautiful head, and bright dark
hair; her head was bare, and her straw mountain-hat hung across one arm
by the strings.  She had been bathing her face in the water, which was
of a pink tint like the wing above it.  As she stood there, she seemed
to be shut in and guarded by, dripping with, that rose-colour,--to
inhale it, to exhale it, to be a part of it, to be it.  She looked
like a blossom of the live and wonderful evening.
"You are seriously hurt," she repeated.  "I must get to you.  Have
patience; I will find a way.  I will help you."
The bridge was at some distance from us, and the little stream was
brawling and strong.
"But it is not deep," she said.  "Do not feel any concern.  It will do
me no harm."  As she spoke, she swung herself lightly over into the
brook, stepping from stone to stone, till these came to an abrupt end
in the current.  There for an instant poised, but one could not say
uncertain, she hung shining before me--for her dress was white, and it
took and took and took the rose-colour as if she were a white rose,
blushing.  She then plunged directly into the water, which was
knee-deep at least, and waded straight across to me.
As she climbed the bank, her thick wet dress clinging to her lovely
limbs, and her hands outstretched as if in hurrying pity, I closed my
eyes again before her.  I thought, as I did so, how much exquisite
pleasure was like perfect pain.
She climbed the bank and stooped from her tall height to look at me;
knelt upon the moss, and touched me impersonally, like the spirit that
she seemed.
"You are very wet!" I cried.  "The water is cold.  I know these
mountain brooks.  You will be chilled through.  Pray get home and send
me--somebody."
"Where are you hurt?" she answered, with a little authoritative wave of
the hand, as if she waved my words away.  She had firm, fine hands.
"I have injured the patella--I mean the knee-pan," I replied.  She
smiled indulgently.  She did not take the trouble to tell me that my
lesson in elementary anatomy was at all superfluous.  But when I saw
her smile I said:--
"That was unconscious cerebration."
"Why, of course," she answered, nodding pleasantly.
"Go home," I urged.  "Go and get yourself out of these wet things.  No
lady can bear it; it will injure you."  She lifted her head,--I thought
she carried it like a Greek,--and regarded me with her wide, grave
eyes.  I met hers firmly, and for a moment we considered each other.
"It is plain that you are a doctor," she said lightly, with a second
smile.  "I presume you never see a well woman; at least--believe you
see one now.  I shall mind this wetting no more than if I were a trout
or a gray squirrel.  I am perfectly able to give you whatever help you
require.  And by your leave, I shall not go home and get into a dry
dress until I see you properly cared for.  Now!  Can you step?  Or
shall I get a waggon, and a farm-hand?  I think we could back a horse
down almost to this spot.  But it would take time.  So?--Will you try
it?  Gently.  Slowly.  Don't let me hurt you, or blunder.  I see that
you are in great pain.  Don't be afraid to lean on me.  I am quite
strong.  I am able.  If you can crawl a few steps"--
Steps!  I would have crawled a few miles.  For she put her sweet arms
about me as simply and nobly as if I had been a wounded child; and with
such strength of the flesh and unconsciousness of the spirit as I had
never beheld in any woman, she did indeed support me out of the forest
in such wise that my poor pain of the body became a great and glorified
fact, for the joy of soul that I had because of her.
It had begun to be easy, in my day, to make a mock at many dear and
delicate beliefs; not those alone which pertain to the life eternal,
but those belonging to the life below.  The one followed from the
other, perhaps.  That which we have been accustomed to call love was an
angel whose wings had been bruised by our unbelieving clutch.  It was
not the fashion to love greatly.  One of the leading scientists of my
time and of my profession had written: "There is nothing particularly
holy about love."  So far as I had given thought to the subject, I had,
perhaps, agreed with him.  It is easy for a physician to agree to
anything which emphasizes the visible, and erases the invisible fact.
If there were any one form of the universal delusion more than all
others "gone out" in the days of which I speak, it was the dear,
old-fashioned delirium called loving at first sight.  I was never
exactly a scoffer; but I had mocked at this fable as other men of my
sort mock,--a subject for prophylactics, like measles or scarlet fever;
and when you said that, you had said the whole.  Be it, then, recorded,
be it admitted, without let or hindrance, that I, Esmerald Thorne,
physician and surgeon, forty-five years old, and of sane mind, did love
that one woman, and her only, and her always, from the moment that my
unworthy eyes first looked into her own, as she knelt before me on the
moss beside the mountain brook,--from that moment to this hour.
CHAPTER II.
Thus half in perfect poetry, part in simplest prose, opened the first
canto of that long song which has made music in me; which has made
music of me, since that happy night.  Of the countless words which we
have exchanged together in times succeeding, these, the few of our
first meeting are carved upon my brain as salutations are carved in
stone above the doorways of mansions.  He that has loved as I did, may
say why this should be so, if he can.  I cannot.  Time and storm beat
against these inscriptions, and give them other colouring,--the tints
of years and weather; but while the house lasts and the rock holds the
salutation lives.  In most other matters, the force of recurring
experience weakens association.  He who loves cherishes the first words
of the beloved as he cherishes her last.
The situation was simple enough: an injured man and a lovely woman,
guests of the same summer hotel; a slow recovery; a leisurely sweet
acquaintance; the light that never was on hill or shore; and so the
charm was wrought.  My accident held me a prisoner for six weeks.  But
my love put me in chains in six minutes.
Her name was Helen; like hers of old
  "Who fired the topmost towers of Ilium."
I liked the stately name of her, for she was of full
womanhood,--thirty-three years old; the age at which the French
connoisseur said that a charming woman charmed the most.
Upon the evening before we parted, I ventured--for we sat at the
sheltered end of the piazza, away from the patterers and chatterers, a
little by ourselves--to ask her a brave question.  I had learned that
one might ask her anything; she had originality; she was not of the
feminine pattern; she had no paltriness nor pettiness in her thoughts;
she looked out, as men do, upon a subject; not down, as women are
wont.  She was a woman with whom a man could converse.  He need not
adapt himself and conceal himself, and play the part of a gallant at
real matters which were above gallantry.  He could confide in her.  Now
it was new to me to consider that I could confide in any person.  In my
calling, one becomes such a receptacle of human confidence,--one soaks
up other people's lives till one becomes a great sponge, absorptive and
absorbing for ever, as sponges should.  Who notices when the useful
thing gets too full?  That is what it is there for.  Pour on--scalding
hot, or freezing cold, or pure or foul--pour away.  If one day it
refuses to absorb any more, and lies limp and valueless--why, the
Doctor has broken down; or the Doctor is dead.  Who ever thought
anything could happen to the Doctor?  One thing in the natural
history of the sponge is apt to be overlooked.  When the process of
absorption reaches a certain point, let the true hand touch the wearied
thing, and grasp it in the right way, and lo! back rushes the instinct
of confidence, out, not in.
Something of this sort had happened to me.  The novelty of real
acquaintance with a woman who did not need me had an effect upon me
which perhaps few outside of my profession can understand.  This woman
truly needed nothing of me.  She had not so much as a toothache or a
sore throat.  If she had cares or troubles they were her own.  She
leaned upon me no more than the sunrise did upon the mountain.  She was
as radiant, as healthful, as vivid, and as calm; she surrounded me, she
overflowed me like the colour of the air.  Nay, beyond this it was I
who had need; it was she who ministered.  It was I who suffered the
whims and longings of weakness,--the thousand little cravings of the
sick for the well.  It was I who learned to know that I had never known
the meaning of what is called "diversion."  I learned to suspect that I
had yet to learn the true place of sympathy in therapeutics.  I
learned, in short, some serious professional lessons which were the
simplest human ones.
But the question that I spoke of was on this wise.  It did not indeed
wear the form, but she gave it the hospitality, of a question.
"I wish I knew," I said, "why you have not married.  I wish you thought
me worthy to know."
"The whole world might know," she answered, with her sweet
straightforward look.
"And I, then, as the most unworthy part of it?"  For my heart sank at
the terms upon which I was admitted to the answer.
"I have never seen any man whom I wished to marry.  I have no other
reason."
"Nor I," I said, "a woman"--  And there I paused.  Yes, precisely
there, where I had not meant to; for she gave me a large, grave look,
upon which I could no more have intruded than I could have touched her.
This was in September.  The year had made the longest circuit of my
life before I gathered the courage to finish that sentence, broken by
the weight of a delicate look; before I dared to say to her:--
"Nor I a woman--until now."
I hope I was what we call "above" the petty masculine instinct which
values a woman who is hard to win chiefly for that circumstance.
Perhaps I was not as I thought myself.  But it seemed to me that the
anguish of wooing in doubt overcame all paltry sense of pleasure in
pursuit of my delight.  My thoughts of her moved like slow travellers
up the sides of a mountain of snow.  That other feeling would have been
a descent to me.  So wholly did she rule my soul--how could I stoop to
care the more for hers, because she was beyond my reach?
Be this as it may, beyond my reach for yet another year she did remain.
Gently as she inclined toward me, to love she made no haste.  The force
of my feeling was so great at times, it seemed incredible that hers did
not rush to meet me like part of the game incoming wave broken by a
coast island and joining--seemingly two, but in reality one--upon the
shoreward side.  For the first time in my life, in that rising tide of
my great love, I truly knew humility.  My unworthiness of her was more
present with me even than my longing for her.  If I could have scourged
my soul clear of all unfitness for her as our Saviour was said to have
scourged the tradesmen out of the Temple, I should have counted myself
blessed, even though I never won her; though I beat out my last hope of
her with the very blows which I inflicted upon myself.
In the vibrations of my strong emotion it used to surprise me that my
will was such a cripple against the sensibilities of that delicate
creature.  I was a man of as much will as was naturally good for me;
and my training had made it abnormal like a prize-fighter's bicepital
muscle.  People of my profession need some counter-irritant, which they
seldom get, to the habit of command.  To be the ultimate control for a
clientèle of a thousand people, to enforce the personal opinion in
every matter from a broken constitution to a broken heart, deprives a
man of the usual human challenges to an athletic will.  In his case, if
ever, motion follows least resistance.  His will-power grows by a
species of pommelling; not by the higher tactics of wrestling.
But I, who gave the fiat on which life or death hung poised as
unhesitatingly as I controlled the fluctuations of an influenza; and I,
to whom the pliability of the feminine will had long since become an
accepted and somewhat elemental fact, like the nature of milk-toast; I,
Dr. Thorne, who had the habit of success, who expected to make his
point, who was accustomed to receive obedience, who fought death or
hysteria, an opposing school or a tricky patient, with equal fidelity,
as one who pursues the avocation of life,--I stood, conquered before
this slender woman whose eyes, like the sword of flame, turned this way
and that, guarding the barred gates of the only Eden I had ever chosen
to enter.
In short, for the first time in my life I found myself a suppliant; and
I found myself thus and there for the sake of a feeling.
It was not for science' sake, it was not for the sake of personal fame,
or for the glory of an idea, or for the promulgation of a discovery.  I
had not been overcome upon the intellectual side of my nature.  I had
been conquered by an emotion.  I had been beaten by a thing for which,
all my life, I had been prescribing as confidently as I would for a
sprain.  Medical men will understand me, and some others may, when I
say that I experienced surprise to come face to face at last, and in
this unanswerable personal way, with an invisible, intangible power of
the soul and of the body, which could not be treated as "a symptom."
I loved her.  That was enough, and beyond.  I loved her.  That was the
beginning and end.  I loved her.  I found nothing in the Materia Medica
that could cure the fact.  I loved her.  Science gave me no explanation
of the phenomenon.  I did not love her scientifically.  I loved her
terribly.
I was a man of middle age, and had called myself a scientist and
philosopher.  I had thought, if ever, to love soberly and
philosophically.  Instead of that I loved as poets sing, as artists
paint, as the statues look, as the great romances read, as ideals
teach,--as the young love.
As the young do?  Nay.  What young creature ever loved like that?
  They know not love who sip it at the spring.
  Youth is a fragile child that plays at love,
  Tosses a shell, and trims a little sail,
  Mimics the passion of the gathered years,
  And is a loiterer on the shallow bank
  Of the great flood that we have waited for.
I do not think of any other thing which a man cannot do better at
forty, than at twenty.  Why, then, should he not the better love?
My lady had a stately soul; but she gave it sweet graciousness and
little womanly appeals and curves, that were to my heart as the touch
of her hand was to my pulse.  I was so happy in her presence that I
could not believe I had ever been sad; and I longed so for her in
absence that I could scarcely believe I had become happy.  She was to
my thoughts as the light is to the crystal.  She came into my life as
the miracles came to the unbelieving.  She moved through my days and
through my dreams, as the rose-cloud moved upon the mountain sky.  She
floated between me and my sick.  She hovered above me and my dying.
She was a mist between me and my books.  Once when I took the knife for
a dangerous operation, the steel blade caught a sunbeam and flashed;
and I looked at the flash--it seemed to contain a new world--and I
thought: "She is my own.  I am a happy man!"  But I was sorry for my
patient.  I was not rough with him.  And the operation succeeded.
What is to be said?  I loved her.  Love is like faith.  He who has it
understands before you speak.  But to him who has it not, it cannot be
explained.
A year from the time of my most blessed accident beside the
trout-brook,--in one year and two months from that day, upon a warm and
wonderful September afternoon, my lady and I were married, and I
brought her from her mother's house to the mountain village where first
we saw each other.  There we spent the first week of our happiness.  It
was as near to Eden as we could find.  The village was left almost to
its own rare resources; the summer tourists were well-nigh gone; the
peaceful roads gave no stare of intrusion to our joy.  The hills looked
down upon us and made us feel how high love was.  The forest inclosed
us, and made us understand that love was large.  The holiness of beauty
was the hostess of our delight.  Oh, I had won her!  She was my wife.
She was my own.  She loved me.
If I cherished her as my own soul, what could I give her back, who had
given herself to me?
I said, "I will make you the happiest woman who was ever beloved by man
upon this earth."
"But you have," she whispered, lifting her dear face.  "It is worth
being alive for, if it came to an end to-morrow."
"Love has no end," I cried.  "Happiness is life.  It cannot die.  It
has an immortal soul.  If ever I make you sad, if I am untender to
you,--may God strike me"--
"Hush," she cried, clinging to me, and closing my lips with a kiss for
which I would have died; "Hush, love! hush!"
CHAPTER III.
It ought to be said, at this point in my story, that I had never been
what would be called an even-tempered man.  Truth to tell, I was a
spoiled boy.  My mother was a saint, but she was a soft-hearted one.
My father was a scholar.  Like many another boy of decided
individuality, I came up anyhow.  Nobody managed me.  At an early age
my profession made it my duty to manage everybody else.  I had a
nervous temperament to start on; neither my training nor my occupation
had poised it.  I do not think I was malicious nor even ill-natured.
As men go, I was perhaps a kind man.  The thing which I am trying to
say is, that I was an irritable one.
As I look back upon the whole subject I can see, from my present point
of view, that this irritability had seldom struck me as a personal
disadvantage.  I do not think it usually makes that impression upon
temperaments similarly vitiated.  As nearly as I can remember, I
thought of myself rather as the possessor of an eccentricity, than as
the victim of a vice.  My father was an overworked college
professor,--a quick-tempered man; my mother,--so he told me with
streaming tears, upon the day that he buried her,--my mother never
spoke one irritated word to him in all her life: he had chafed and she
had soothed, he had slashed and she had healed, from the beginning to
the end of their days together.  A boy imitates for so many years
before he reflects, that the liberty to say what one felt like saying
appeared to me a mere identification of sex long before it occurred to
me that mine might not be the only sex endowed by nature with this form
of expression.  I regarded it as one regards a beard, or a
waistcoat,--simple signs of the variation of species.
My mother--Heaven rest her sweet soul--did not, that I recall,
obviously oppose me in this view.  After the time of the first
moustache she obeyed her son, as she had obeyed her husband.
As has been already said, the profession to which I fell heir failed to
recommend to me a different personal attitude toward the will of
others.  My sick people were my pawns upon the chess-board of life.  I
played my game with humane intentions, not wholly, I believe, with
selfish ones.  But I suffered the military dangers of character,
without the military apologies for them.  He whose duty to God and men
requires him to command all with whom he comes in contact should pray
God, and not expect men, to have mercy on his soul.
It is possible, I do not deny, that I put this view of the case without
what literary critics call "the light touch."  It is quite possible
that I emphasize it.  Circumstances have made this natural; and if I
need any excuse for it I must seek it in them.  Whether literary or
not, it is not human to cherish a light view of a heavy experience.
I loved my wife.  This, I think, I have sufficiently made plain.  I
loved her as I might have discovered a new world; and I tried to
express this fact, as I should have learned a new, unworldly language.
I could no more have spoken unkindly to her than I could vivisect a
humming-bird.  I obeyed her lightest look as if she had given me an
anaesthetic.  Her love intoxicated me.  I seemed to be the first lover
who had ever used this phrase.  My heart originated it, with a sense of
surprise at my own imaginative quality.  I was chloroformed with joy.
Oh, I loved her!  I return to that.  I find I can say nothing beyond
it.  I loved her as other people loved,--patients, and uninstructed
persons.  I, Esmerald Thorne, President of the State Medical Society,
and Foreign Correspondent of the National Evolutionary Association,
forty-six years old, and a Darwinian,--I loved my wife like any common,
ardent, unscientific fellow.
It is easy to toss words and a smile at it all, now.  There have been
times when either would have been impossible from very heart-break.
There, again, is another of the phrases to which experience has been my
only vocabulary.  My patients used to talk to me about their broken
hearts.  I took the temperature and wrote a prescription.  I added that
she would be better to-morrow; I would call again in a week.  I assured
her that I understood the case.  I was as well fitted to diagnose the
diseases of the Queen of some purple planet which the telescope has not
yet given to astronomy.
I have said that I found it impossible to be irritable to my dear wife.
I cannot tell the precise time when it became possible.  When does the
dawn become the day upon the summer sky?  When does the high tide begin
to turn beneath the August moon?  Rather, I might say, when does the
blue become the violet, within the prism?  Did I love her the less,
because the distance of the worshipper had dwindled to the lover's
clasp?
I could have shot the scoffer who told me so.  What then?  What shall I
call that difference with which the man's love differs when he has won
the woman?  Had the miracle gone out of it?  God forbid.
It was no longer the marvel of the fire come down from heaven to smite
the altar.  It was the comfortable miracle of the daily manna.  Had my
goddess departed from her divinity, my queen from her throne, my star
from her heaven?  Rather, in becoming mine she had become myself, and
if there were a loss, that loss was in my own nature.  I should have
risen by reason of hers.  If I descended, it was by force of my own
gravitation.  Her wing was too light to carry me.
It is easier to philosophize about these things than it is to record
them in cold fact.  With shame and sorrow do I say it, but say it I
must: My love went the way of the love of other men who feel (this was
and remains the truth) far less than I.  I, who had believed myself to
love like no other before me, and none to come after me, and I, who had
won the dearest woman in all the world--I stooped to suffer myself to
grow used to my blessedness, like any low man who was incapable of
winning or of wearing it.
It cannot be said, it shall not be said, that I loved my wife less than
the day I married her.  It must be written that I became accustomed to
my happiness.
That ideal of myself, which my ideal of her created in me, and which no
emergency of fate could have shaken, slipped in the old, fatal
quicksand of use.  Our ideal of ourselves is to our highest life like
the heart to the pulsation.  It is the divinest art of the love of
woman for man that she clasps him to his vision of himself, as breath
and being are held together.
Until the time mentioned at the beginning of my narrative, I had in no
sense appreciated the state of the case, as it lay between my ideal and
my fact.  That I had been more or less impatient of speech in my own
home for some time past, is probably true.  The ungoverned lip is a
terrible master; and I had been a slave too long.  I was in the habit
of finding fault with my patients.  I was accustomed to be what we call
"quick" with servants.  Neither had, I thought, as a rule, seemed to
care the less for me on this account.  If I lost a patient or a
coachman now and then, I could afford to.  The item did not trouble me.
I was inconsiderate at times with personal friends.  They said, It is
his way, and bore with me.  People usually bore with me; they always
had.  I looked upon this as one of the rights of temperament, so far as
I looked upon it at all.  I do not think this indulgence had occurred
to me as other than a tribute.  It is common enough in dealing with men
of my sort.  (And alas, there are enough of my sort; I must be looked
upon rather as a type than a specimen.)  Such indulgence is a movement
of self-defence, or else of philosophy, upon the part of those who come
in contact with us.  To this view of the subject I had given no
attention.
I had lived to be almost fifty years old, and no person had ever said:
"Esmerald Thorne, you trust your attractive qualities too far.  Power
and charm do not give a man a permit to be disagreeable.  Your
temperament does not release you from the common-place human duty of
self-restraint.  A gentleman has no more right to get uncontrollably
angry than he has to get drunk.  The patience with which others receive
you is not a testimony to your strength; it is a concession to your
weakness.  You are living upon concessions like disease, or childhood,
or age."
No one had said this--surely not my wife.  I can recall an expression
of bewilderment at times upon her beautiful face, which for the moment
perplexed me.  After I had gone out, I would remember that I had been
nervous in my manner.  I do not think I had ever spoken with actual
roughness to her, until this day of which I write.  That I had been
sometimes cross enough, is undoubtedly the case.
On that November day I had been overworked.  This was no novelty, and I
offer it as no excuse.  I had been up for two nights with a dangerous
case.  I had another in the suburbs, and a consultation out of town.
There was a quarrel at the hospital, and a panic in Stock Street.  I
had seen sixty patients that day.  I had been attacked in the
"Therapeutic Quarterly" upon my famous theory of Antisepsis.  Perhaps I
may add the circumstance that my baby was teething.
This was, naturally, less important to me than to his mother, who
thought the child was ill.  I knew better, and it annoyed me that my
knowledge did not remove her apprehension.  In point of fact, he had
cried at night for a week or two, more than he ought to have done.  She
could not understand why I denied him a Dover's powder.  I needed
sleep, and could not get it.  We were both worn, and--I might fill my
chapter to the brim with the little reasons for my great error.  Let it
suffice that they were small and that it was large.
We had been married three years, and our boy was a year old.  He was a
fine fellow.  Helen lost her Greek look and took on the Madonna
expression after he was born.  Any woman who is fit to be a mother
gains that expression with her first child.  My wife was a very happy
mother.
She was sitting in the library when I came in that evening.  It was a
warm, red library, with heavy curtains and an open fire--a deep room
that absorbed colour.  I fancied the room, and it was my wife's
pleasure to await me in it with the child each evening at the earliest
hour when I might by any chance be expected home.  She possessed to the
full the terrible power of waiting which women have.  She could do
nothing when she expected me.  Although three years married, she could
not read, or write, or play when she was listening for my step.  I do
not mean that she told me this.  I found it out.  She never called my
attention to such little feminine weaknesses.  She was never over-fond.
My wife had a noble reserve.  I had never seen the hour when I felt
that her tenderness was a treasure to be lightly had, or indifferently
treated.
It should be said that the library opened from the parlours, and was at
that time separated from them by a heavy portière of crimson stuff, the
doors not being drawn.  This drapery she was in the habit of folding
apart at the hours of my probable return, and as I came through the
long parlours my eyes had the first greeting of her, before my voice or
arms.  Upon this evening, as upon others, I entered by the parlour
door, and came--more quickly than usual--toward the library.  I was in
a great hurry; one of the acute attacks of the chronic condition which
besets the busy doctor.  As I crossed the length of the thick carpet,
the rooms shook beneath my tread; I burst into, rather than entered,
the library,--not seeing her, I think, or not pausing to see her, in
the accustomed manner.  When I had come to her I found that the child
was not with her, as usual.  She was sitting alone by the library table
under the drop-light, which held a shade of red lace.  She had a gown
of white wool trimmed with ermine; a costume which gave me pleasure,
and which she wore upon cool evenings, not too often for me to weary of
it.  She regarded my taste in dress as delicately and as delightedly as
she did every other wish or will of mine.
She had been trying to read; but the magazine lay closed upon her knee
below her folded hands.  Her face wore an anxious look as she turned
the fine contours of her head toward me.
"Oh," she cried, "at last!"
She moved to reach me, swiftly, murmuring something which I did not
hear, or to which I did not attend; and under the crimson curtains met
me, warm and dear and white, putting up her sweet arms.
I kissed her carelessly--would to God that I could forget it!  I kissed
her as if it did not matter much, and said:--
"Helen, I must have my dinner this instant!"
"Why, surely," she said, retreating from me with a little shock of
pained surprise, "It is all ready, Esmerald.  I will ring."
She melted from my arms.  Oh, if I had known, if I had known!  She
stirred and slipped and was gone from me, and I stood stupidly looking
at her; her figure, against the tall, full book-cases, shone mistily,
while she touched the old-fashioned bell-rope of gold cord.
"Really, I hadn't time to come home at all," I added testily.  "I am
driven to death.  I've got to go again in ten minutes.  But I supposed
you would worry if I didn't show myself.  It is a foolish waste of
time.  I don't know how I am ever going to get through.  I wish I
hadn't come."
CHAPTER IV.
She changed colour--from fair to flush, from red to white again--and
her hand upon the gold cord trembled.  I remembered it afterward,
though I was not conscious of noticing it at the time.
"You need not," she replied, in her low, controlled voice, "on my
account.  You need never come again."
"It is easier to come," I answered irritably, "than to know that you
sit here making yourself miserable because I don't."
"Have I ever fretted you about coming, Esmerald?  I did not know it."
"It would be easier if you did fret!" I cried crossly.  "I'd rather
you'd say a thing than look it.  Any man would."
Indeed, it would have been a paltry satisfaction to me just then if I
could have found her to blame.  Her blamelessness irritated my
self-complacence as the light irritates defective eyes.
"I am due at the hospital in twenty-two minutes," I went on, excitedly.
"Chirugeon is behaving like Apollyon.  If I'm not there to handle him,
nobody will.  The whole staff are afraid of him--everybody but me.  We
sha'n't get the new ward built these two years if he carries the day
to-night.  I've got a consultation at Decker's--the old lady is dying.
It's no sort of use dragging a tired man out there; I can't do her any
good; but they will have it.  I'm at the beck and call of every whim.
Isn't that dinner ready?  I wish I had time to change my boots!  They
are wet through.  My head aches horribly.  Brake telegraphed me to get
down to Stock Street before two o'clock to save what is left of that
Santa Ma stock.  I couldn't go.  I had an enormous office--forty
people.  I've lost ten thousand dollars in this panic.  I've got to see
Brake on my way to Decker's.  I lost a patient this morning--that
little girl of the Harrowhart's.  She was a poor little scrofulous
thing.  But they are terribly cut up about it....  Chowder?  I wish
you'd had a good clear soup.  I don't feel as if I could touch chowder.
I hope you have some roast beef, better than the last.  You mustn't let
Parsnip cheat you.  Quail?  There's no nourishment in a quail for a man
in my state.  The gas leaks.  Can't you have it attended to?  Hurry up
the coffee.  I must swallow it and go.  I've got more than ten men
could do."
"It is more than one woman can do"--she began gently, when I came to
the end of this outbreak and my breath together.
"What did you say?  Do speak louder!"
"I said it seems to be more than one woman can do, to rest you."
"Yes," I said carelessly, "it is.  You can't do the first thing for me,
except to do me the goodness to ring for a decent cup of coffee.  I
can't drink this."
"Esmerald"--
"Oh, what?  I can't stop to talk.  There, I've burned my tongue, now.
If there's anything I can't stand, it is going to a consultation with a
burned tongue."
"How tired you are, Esmerald!  I was only going to say that I am sorry.
I can't let you go without saying that."
"I can't see that it helps it any.  I am so tired I don't want to be
touched.  Never mind my coat.  I'll put it on myself.  Tell Joe--no.  I
left the horse standing.  I don't want Joe.  I suppose Donna is uneasy
by this time.  She won't stand at night--she's got to.  I'll get that
whim out of her.  Now, don't look that way.  The horse is safe enough.
Don't you suppose I know how to drive?  You're always having opinions
of your own against mine.  There.  I must be off."
"Where's the baby, Helen?"  I turned, with my hand upon the latch of my
heavy oaken door, and jerked the question out, as cross men do.
"The baby isn't just right, somehow, Esmerald.  I bated to bother you,
for you never think it is anything.  I dare say he will be better, but
I thought I wouldn't let him come out of the nursery.  Jane is with
him.  I've been a little troubled about him.  He has cried all the
afternoon."
"He cries because you coddle him!" I exploded.  "It is all nonsense,
Helen.  Nothing ails the child.  I won't encourage this sort of thing.
I'll see him when I come home.  I can't possibly wait--I am driven to
death--for every little whim"--
But at the door I stopped.  If the baby had been a patient he would
have seen no doctor that night.  But the father in me got the better of
me, and without a word further to my wife I ran up to the nursery.
She stayed below; she perceived (Helen was always quick), although I
had not said so, that I did not wish her to follow me.  I examined the
child hastily.  The little fellow stopped crying at the sight of me,
and put up both arms to be taken.  I said:--
"No, Boy.  Papa can't stop now," and put him gently back into his crib.
When I had reached the nursery door I remember that I returned and
kissed him.  I was very angry, but I could not be angry with my baby.
With the touch of his little lips, dewy and sweet, upon mine, I rushed
down to my wife, and tempestuously began again:--
"Helen, I must have an end to this nonsense.  Nothing ails the baby; he
is only a trifle feverish with a new tooth.  It really is very
unpleasant to me that you make such a fuss over him.  If you had
married a greengrocer it might have been pardonable.  Pray remember
that you have married a physician who understands his business, and do
leave me to manage it.  Take the child out of the nursery.  Carry him
downstairs as usual for a few minutes.  He will sleep better.  There!
I'm eight minutes behindhand already, all for this senseless anxiety of
yours.  It is a pity you can't trust me, like other men's wives!  I
wish I'd married a woman with a little wifely spirit!--or else not
married at all."
I shut the door; I am afraid I slammed it.  I cleared the steps at a
bound, and ran fiercely out into the night air.  The wind was rising,
and the weather was growing sharp.  It was frosty and noisy.  Donna, my
chestnut mare, stood pawing the pavement in high temper, and called to
me as she heard my step.  She had dragged at her weight a little; she
was thoroughly displeased with the delay.  It occurred to me that she
felt as I had acted.  It even occurred to me to go back and tell my
wife that I was ashamed of myself.
I turned and looked in through the parlour windows.  The shades were
up, and the gas was low.  Dimly beyond, the bright panel of the lighted
library arose between the crimson curtains.  She stood against it,
midway between the two rooms.  Her hands had dropped closed one into
the other before her.  Her face was toward the street.  She seemed to
be gazing at me, whom she could not see.  Her white dress, which hung
in thick folds, the pallor of her face and her delicate hands, gave her
the look of a statue; its purity, and to my fancy at that moment its
permanence.  She seemed to be carved there, like something that must
stay.
I turned to go back--yes, I would have gone.  It is little enough for a
man to say for himself under circumstances like these; but perhaps I
may be allowed to say it, since to exculpate myself is the last of my
motives.  I had made a stop or two up the flagging between the deep
grass-plots that fronted the house, when the mare, disturbed beyond
endurance at a movement of delay which she too well understood, gave a
shrill whinny, and reared, pulling and dragging at her weight fiercely.
She was a powerful creature, and the weight yielded, hitting at her
heels.  In an instant she had cramped the wheels, and I saw that the
buggy would go over.  To spring back, reach the bit, snatch the reins,
leap over the wheel, and whirl away in the reeling carriage was the
work of some thing less than a thought; it was the elemental instinct
by which a man must manage his horse, come life or death.
Like most doctors, I was something of a horseman, and the idea of being
thwarted by any of Donna's whims had never occurred to me.  I knew that
the horse was pulling hard, but beyond that, I could not be said to
have knowledge, much less fear; the mad conflict between the brute and
the man possessed me to the exclusion of intelligence.
It was some moments before it struck me that my own horse was running
away with me.
My first, perhaps I may say my only emotion at the discovery was one of
overpowering rage.
I did not mean to strike her.  No driver, ever if an angry one, would
have done that.  But I had the whip in my hand, around which the reins
were knotted for the struggle, and when the horse broke into a gallop
the jerk gave her a flick.  I was not in the habit of whipping her.
She felt herself insulted.  It was now her turn to be angry; and an
angry runaway means a bad business.  Donna put down her head, struck
out viciously from behind, and kicked the dasher flat.  From that
moment I lost all control of her.
I thought:--
"She is headed down town.  At this rate, in five minutes she will be in
the thick of travel.  I have so many minutes more."
For how long I cannot tell, I had beyond this no other intelligent
idea.  Then I thought;--
"I should not like to be the man who has got to tell Helen."  This
repeated itself dully: "I should not care to be the fellow who will be
sent to tell Helen."
I had ceased to call to the mare; it only made matters worse; but there
was great hubbub in the streets as we leaped on.  There were several
attempts to head her off, I think.  One man caught at her bridle.  This
frightened her; she threw him off, and threw him down.  I think she
must have hurt him.  We were now well down town.  Window lights and
carriage lights flared by deliriously.  The wind, which was high, at
speed like that seemed something demoniac.  I remember how much it
added to my sense of danger.  I remember that my favourite phrase
occurred to me:--
"I am driven to death."
Suddenly I saw approaching an open landau.  The street was full of
vehicles, some of which I was sure to run down; but none of them seemed
to give me concern except this one carriage.  It contained a lady and a
little boy, patients of mine.  I recognized them forty feet away.  He
was a pretty little fellow, and she was fond of me; sent for me for
everything; trusted me beyond reason; could not live without her
doctor--that kind of patient.  She had been a great sufferer.  It
seemed infernal to me that it should be they.
I shouted to her coachman:--
"Henry!  For God's sake--to the left!  To the left!"
But Henry stared at me like one struck dead.  I thought I heard him
say;--
"Marm, it's the doctor!" and after that I heard no more.
As the crash came, I saw the woman's face.  She had recognized me with
her look of sweet trustfulness; it froze to mortal horror.  She clasped
the child.  I saw his cap come off from his yellow curls, and one
little hand tossed out as the landau went over.  The mare, now mad as
any maniac, ran on.
Something had broken, but it mattered little what.  I think we turned a
corner.  I think she struck a lamp-post or a tree.  At all events, the
buggy went over; and, scooped into the top, and dragged, and blinded,
and stunned, I came to the ground.
As I went down, I uttered the two words of all that are human, most
solemn; perhaps, one may add, most automatic.  Believer or sceptic,
saint or sinner, mortal danger hurls them from us, as it wrests the
soul from out our bodies.
I said, "My God!" precisely as I threw out my arms, to catch at
whatever could hold me when I could no longer hold myself.
CHAPTER V.
How long I had lain stunned upon the pavement I had no means of
knowing; I thought not long.  I was surprised, on coming to myself, to
find that my injuries were not more severe.
My head felt uncomfortable, and I had a certain numbness or stiffness,
as one does from the first trial of long-disused limbs.  I had always
limped a trifle since that accident beside the trout-brook; and, as I
staggered to my feet, I thought:--
"This will play the mischief with that old injury.  I shouldn't wonder
if it came to crutches."
On the contrary, when I had walked some dozen steps I found that an
interesting thing had happened.  The shock had dispersed the limp.
It was with a perfectly even and natural gait, although, as I say,
rather a weak one, that I trod the pavement to try what manner of man
the runaway had left me.  I said:--
"It is one of those cases of nervous rearrangement.  The shock has
acted like a battery upon the nerve-centres.  Instead of a broken neck,
I have a cured leg.  I'm a lucky fellow."
Having already, however, considered myself a lucky fellow for the
greater part of my life, this conclusion did not impress me with the
force which it might some other men; and, laughing lightly, as lucky
people do, at fortune, I turned to examine the condition of my horse
and carriage.
Donna was not to be seen.  She had broken the traces, the breeching,
the shafts, everything, in short, she could, and cleared herself.  I
had been unconscious long enough to give her time to make herself
invisible, and she had made the most of it; in what direction she had
gone, it was impossible for me to tell.  The buggy was a wreck.  No one
was in sight who seemed to have interest or anxiety in the matter.  I
wondered that I did not find myself the victim of a gaping crowd.  But
I reflected that the mishap had taken place in a quiet dwelling street,
not travelled at that hour, and that my fate, therefore, had attracted
no attention.  I remembered, too, my patient, Mrs. Faith, and her boy,
and that dolt of a Henry's helpless face--the whole thing came to mind,
vividly.  It occurred to me that the crowd might be at the scene of an
accident so terrible that no loafer was left to regard my lesser
misfortune.  It was they who had been sacrificed.  It was I who escaped.
My first thought was to go at once and learn the worst; but I found
myself a little out of my way.  I really did not recognize the street
in which I stood.  I had been for so many years accustomed to driving
everywhere that, like other doctors, I hardly knew how to walk; and by
the time I made my way back to the great thoroughfare where I had
collided with Mrs. Faith's carriage, no trace of the tragedy was to be
found; or at least I could not find any.  After looking in vain, for a
while, I stopped a man, and asked him if there had not been a carriage
accident there within half an hour.  He lifted his eyes to me stupidly,
and went on.  I put the same question to some one else--a lazy fellow,
who was leaning against an iron railing and staring at me.  But he
shook his head decidedly.
A young priest passed by, at this moment, saying an Ave with moving
lips and unworldly eyes, and I made inquiries of him whether a lady and
a child had just been injured in that vicinity by a runaway.
"Nay," he said, gazing at me with a luminous look.  "Nay, I see
nothing."
After an instant's hesitation the priest made the sign of the cross
both upon himself and me; and then stretched his hands in blessing over
me, and silently went his way.  I thought this very kind in him; and I
bowed, as we parted, saying aloud:--
"Thank you, Father," for my heart was touched, despite myself, at the
manner of the young devotee.
It had surely been my intention, on failing to find any traces of the
accident in the spot where I supposed that it had taken place, to go at
once to the house of Mrs. Faith, and inquire for her welfare and the
boy's.  It was the least I could do, under the circumstances.
Apparently, however, I myself was more shaken than I had thought; for
after my brief interview with the priest I speedily lost my way, and
could not find my patient's street or number.  I searched for it for
some time confusedly; but the brain was clearly still affected by the
concussion--so much so that it was not long before I forgot what I was
searching for, and went my ways with a dim and idle purpose, such as
must accompany much of the action of those in whom the relation between
mind and body has become, for any cause, disarranged.
After an interval--how long I cannot tell--of this suspended
intelligence, my brain grew more clear and natural, and I remembered
that I was very late at the hospital, at the consultation, at Brake's,
at every appointment of the evening; so late that my accustomed sense
of haste now began to possess me to the exclusion of everything else.
I remembered my wife, indeed, and wondered if I had better go back and
tell her that I was not hurt.  But it did not strike me as necessary.
Donna, if she had not broken her neck somewhere, by this time, would
run straight for the stable; she would not go home.  The buggy was a
wreck, and the police might clear it away.  There was no reason to
suppose that Helen would hear of the accident, that I could see, from
any source.  There would be no scare.  I had better go about my
business, and tell her when I got home.  News like this would keep an
hour or two, and everybody the better for the keeping.
Reasoning in this manner, if it can be said to be reasoning, I took my
way to the hospital as fast as possible.  I did not happen to find a
cab; and I gave myself the unusual experience of hailing a horse-car.
The car did not stop for my signal, and I flung myself aboard as best I
might; for a man so recently shaken up, with creditable ease, I thought.
Trusting to this circumstance, when we reached the hospital I leaped
from the car, which was going at full speed; it was not till I was well
up the avenue that I recalled having forgotten to offer my fare, which
the conductor had forgotten to demand.
"My head is not straight yet," I said.  The little incident annoyed me.
In the hospital I found, as I expected, a professional cyclone raging.
The staff were all there except myself, and so hotly engaged in
discussion that my arrival was treated with indifference.  This was
undoubtedly good for me, but it was not, therefore, agreeable to me;
and I entered at once with some emphasis upon the dispute in hand.
"You are entirely wrong," I began, turning upon my opponents.  "This
institution had seven hundred more applicants than it could accommodate
last year.  We are not chartered to turn away suffering.  We exist to
relieve it.  It is our business to find the means to do so, as much as
it is to find the true remedy for the individual case.  It is"--
"It is an act of financial folly," interrupted my most systematic
professional enemy, a certain Dr. Gazell.  He had a bland voice which
irritated me like sugar sauce put upon horse-radish.  "It cannot be
done without mortgaging ourselves up to our ears--or our eaves.  I
maintain that the hospital can better bear to turn off patients than to
turn on debt."
"And I maintain," I cried, tempestuously, "that this hospital cannot
bear to do either!  If the gentlemen gathered here to-night--the
members of this staff, representing, as they do, the wealthiest and
most influential clientèles in the city--if we cannot among us pledge
from our patients the sum needed to put this thing through, I say it is
a poor show for ourselves.  I, for one, am ready to raise fifteen
thousand dollars within three months.  If the rest of you will do your
share in proportion"--
"Dr. Thorne has always been a little too personal, in this matter,"
said Gazell, reddening; he did not look at me, for embarrassment, but
addressed the chairman of the meeting with a vague air of being in
earnest, if any one could be got to believe it.
"No doubt about that," said one of the staff in an undertone.  "Thorne
is"--I thought I caught the added words, "unreasonable fellow," but I
would not give myself the appearance of having done so.
"But we can't afford to quarrel with him altogether," suggested
Chirugeon, still in a tone not meant for me to overhear.  And with this
they went at it again, till the discussion reached such warmth, and the
motion to leave the subject with the trustees, such favour, that, in
disgust, I seized my hat and strode out of the room.
Smarting, I rushed away from them, and angrily out-of-doors again.  I
was exceedingly angry; but this gave me no more, perhaps (though I
thought, a little), than the usual discomfort.
From the hospital I hurried to the consultation; where I was now well
over-due.  I found the attendant physician about to leave; in fact, I
met him on the stairs, up which I had run rapidly, as soon as my ring
was answered in the familiar house.  This man was followed by old Madam
Decker's daughter, who was weeping.
"She died at six o'clock, Dr. Halt," Miss Decker sobbed, "at six
precisely, for I noticed.  We didn't expect it so soon."
"Nor I, either," said Halt, soothingly, "I did not anticipate"--
"Dead!" I cried.  "Mrs. Decker dead?  I did my best--I have met with an
accident.  I could not come till now.  Did she ask for me?"
"She talked of Dr. Thorne," sobbed Miss Decker, "as long as she could
talk of anything.  She wondered if he knew, she said, how sick she was."
I hastened to explain, to protest, to sympathize, to say the idle words
with which we waste ourselves and weary mourners, at such times; but
the daughter paid little attention to me.  She was evidently hurt at my
delay; and, thinking it best to spare her my presence, I bowed my head
in silence, and left the house.
Halt followed me, and we stood together for a moment outside, where his
carriage and driver awaited him.
"Was she conscious to the end?" I asked.
"Yes," he murmured.  "Yes, yes, yes.  It is a pity.  I'm sorry for that
girl."
Nodding shortly in my direction, he sprang into his coupé, and drove
away.
I had now begun to be very restless to get home.  It seemed suddenly
important to see Helen.  I felt, I knew not why, uneasy and impatient,
and turned my steps toward town.
"But I must stop at Brake's," I thought.  This seemed imperative; so
much so that I went out of my course a little, to reach his house, a
pretty, suburban place.  I remember passing under trees; and the depth
of their shadow; it seemed like a bay of blackness into which the night
flowed.  I looked up through it at the sky; stars showed through the
massed clouds which the wind whipped along like a flock of titanic
celestial creatures.  I had not looked up before, since the accident.
The act gave me strange sensations, as if the sky had lowered, or I had
risen; the sense of having lost the usual scale of measurement.  This
reminded me that I was still not altogether right.
"I have really hurt my head," I thought, "I ought to get home.  I must
hurry this business with Brake.  I must get to Helen."
But Brake was not at home.  As I went up the steps, his servant was
ushering out some one, to whom I heard the man say that Mr. Brake had
left word not to expect him to-night.
"Does he ever stay late at the office?" I asked, thinking that the
panic might render this possibly.
The man turned the expressionless countenance of a well-trained servant
upon me; and repeated:--
"Mr. Brake is not at home.  I know nothing further about Mr. Brake's
movements."
This reply settled the matter in my own mind, and I made my way to
Stock Street as fast as I might.  I could not make it seem unnecessary
to see Brake.  But Helen--Helen--  The sooner this wretched detention
was over, the sooner to see her.  I had begun to be as nervous as a
woman; and, I might add, as unreasonable as a sick one.  I had got
myself under the domination of one of those fixed ideas with which I
had so little patience in the sick.  I could not see Helen till I had
seen Brake: this was the delusion.  I succumbed to it, and knew that I
succumbed to it, and could not help it, and knew that I could not help
it, and did the deed it bade me.  As I hurried on my way, I thought:--
"There has been considerable concussion.  But Helen will take care of
me.  It's a pity I spoke so to Helen."
Stock Street, when I reached it, had a strange look to me.  I was not
used to being there at such an hour; few of us are.  The relative
silence, the few passers, the long empty spaces in the great
thoroughfare, told me that the hour was later than I thought.  This
added to my restlessness, and I sought to look at my watch, for the
first time since the accident; it was gone.  I glanced at the high
clock at the head of the street; but the light was imperfect, and with
the vertigo which I had I did not make out the hour.  It might, indeed,
be really late.  This troubled me, and I hastened my steps till I broke
into a run.
It occurred to me, indeed, that I might be arrested for the suspicions
under which such a pace, at such an hour and in such a street, would
place me.  But as I knew most of the members of the force in that
region more or less well, this did not trouble me.  I ran on,
undisturbed, passing a watchman or two, and came quickly to Brake's
place.  It was locked.
This distressed me.  I think I had confidently expected to find him
there.  It did not seem to me possible to go home without seeing my
broker.  I stood, uncertain, rattling at the heavy door with imbecile
impatience.  This act brought the police to the spot in three minutes.
It was Inspector Drayton who came up, the well-known inspector, so long
on duty in Stock Street; a man famed for his professional shrewdness
and his gentlemanly manner.
"I wish," I said, "Mr. Inspector, that you would be good enough to let
me in.  I want to see Brake.  I have reason to believe he is in his
office.  I must get in."
"It is very important," I added; for the inspector did not answer
immediately, but looked at me searchingly.
"There was certainly some one meddling with this lock," he said, after
a moment's hesitation, looking stealthily up and down and around the
street.
"It was I," I replied, eagerly.  "It was only I, Dr. Thorne.  Come,
Drayton, you know me.  I want to see Brake.  I must see Brake.  It is a
matter brought up by this panic--you know--the Santa Ma.  He sent for
me.  I absolutely must see Brake.  It is a matter of thousands to me.
Let me in, Mr. Inspector."
"Come," for he still delayed and doubted, "let me in somehow.  You
fellows have a way.  Communicate with his watchman--do the proper
thing--anyhow--I don't care--only let me in."
"I will see," murmured the inspector, with a perplexed air; he had not
his usual cordial manner with me, though he was still as polished as
possible, and wore the best of kid gloves.  I think the inspector
touched one of their electric signals--I am not clear about this--but
at any rate, a sleepy watchman came from within, holding a safety
lantern before him, and gingerly opened the huge door an inch or two.
"Let me come in," said the inspector, decidedly.  "It is I--Drayton.  I
have a reason.  I wish to go to Mr. Brake's rooms, if you please."
The inspector slipped in like a ghost, and I followed him.  Neither of
us said anything further to the watchman; we went directly to Brake's
place.  He was not there.
"I will wait a few minutes," I said.  "I think he will be here.  I must
see Brake."
The inspector glanced at me as one does at a fellow who is behaving a
little out of the common course of human conduct; but he did not enter
into conversation with me, seeing me averse to it.  I sank down wearily
upon Brake's biggest brown leather office chair, and put my head down
upon his table.  I was now thoroughly tired and confused.  I wished
with all my heart that I had gone straight home to Helen.  The
inspector and the watchman busied themselves in examining the building,
for some purpose to which I paid no attention.  They conversed in low
tones, "I heard a noise at the door, sir, myself," the watchman said.
"Why don't you tell him it was I?" I called; but I did not lift my
head.  I was too tired to trouble myself.  I must have fallen into a
kind of stupor.
I do not know how long I had remained in this position and condition,
whether minutes or hours; but when at last I roused myself, and looked
about, a singular thing had happened.
The inspector had gone.  The watchman had gone.  I was alone in the
broker's office.  And I was locked in.
CHAPTER VI.
So often and so idly it is our custom to say, I shall never forget!
that the words scarcely cause a ripple of comment in the mind; whereas,
in fact, they are among the most audacious which we ever take upon our
lips.  How know we what law of selection our memories will obey in that
system of mental relations which we call "forever"?
I, who believe myself to have obtained some especial knowledge upon
this point, not possessed by all my readers, and to be more free than
many another to use such language, still retreat before the phrase, and
content myself with saying, "I have never forgotten."  Up to this time
I have never been able to forget the smallest detail of that night
whose history I am now to record.  It seems to me impossible in any set
of conditions that memory could blot that experience from my being; but
of that what know I?  No more than I know of the politics of a meteor.
Upon discovering my predicament I was, of course, greatly disturbed.  I
tried the door, and tried again; I urged the latch violently; I exerted
myself till the mere moral sense of my helplessness overcame my
strength.  I called to the watchman, whose distant steps I heard, or
fancied that I heard, pacing the corridors.  There was a Safe Deposit
in the basement, and the great building was heavily guarded.  I shouted
for my liberty, I pleaded for it, I demanded it; but I did not get it.
No one answered me.  I ran to the barred windows and shook the iron
casement as prisoners and madmen do.  Nobody heard me.  I bethought me
of the private telegraph which stood by Brake's desk, mute and
mysterious, like a thing that waited an order to speak.  I could not
help wondering, with something like superstition, what would be the
next words which would pass the lips of the silent metal.  It occurred
to me, of course, to telegraph for relief; but I did not know how, and
a kind of respect for the intelligence and power of the instrument
deterred me from meddling with it to no visible end.  Suddenly I
remembered the electric signal which so often communicates with
watchman or police in places of this kind.  This, after some search, I
found in a corner, over the desk of Brake's assistant, and this I
