could give him half an hour. I hasten to add 
that, with the turn the occasion presently took, 
the correspondent of the Reverberator renounced 
the effort to put Mr. Probert down. They all went 
out together, and the professional impulse, usually 
so irresistible in George Flack s mind, suffered a 
modification. He wanted to put his fellow- visitor 
down, but in a more human, a more passionate 
sense. Probert talked very little to Francie, but 
though Mr. Flack did not know that on a first 
occasion he would have thought that violent, even 
rather gross, he knew it was for Francie, and 
Francie alone, that the fifth member of the party 
was there. He said to himself suddenly and in 
perfect sincerity that it was a mean class any 
way, the people for whom their own country was 
not good enough. He did not go so far however, 
when they were seated at the admirable establish 
ment of M. Durand, in the Place de la Madeleine, 
as to order a bad dinner to spite his competitor 
nor did he, to spoil this gentleman s amusement, 
take uncomfortable seats at the pretty circus in 
the Champs Elysees to which, at half-past eight 
o clock, the company was conveyed (it was a drive 
of but five minutes) in a couple of cabs. The 
occasion therefore was superficially smooth, and he 
could see that the sense of being disagreeable to an 
American newspaper-man was not needed to make 
his nondescript rival enjoy it. He hated his accent, 
he hated his laugh, and he hated above all the 
lamblike way their companions accepted him. Mr. 
Flack was quite acute enough to make an import 
ant observation : he cherished it and promised 
himself to bring it to the notice of his gullible 
friends. Gaston Probert professed a great desire 
to be of service to the young ladies to do some 
thing which would help them to be happy in Paris ; 
but he gave no hint of an intention to do that 
which would contribute most to such a result 
bring them in contact with the other members, and 
above all with the female members, of his family. 
George Flack knew nothing about the matter, but 
he required for purposes of argument that Mr. 
Probert s family should have female members, and 
it was lucky for him that his assumption was just. 
He thought he foresaw the effect with which he 
should impress it upon Francie and Delia (but 
above all upon Delia, who would then herself im 
press it upon Francie), that it would be time for 
their French friend to talk when he had brought 
his mother round. But he never would they 
might bet their pile on that ! He never did, in the 
sequel, in fact having, poor young man, no mother 
to bring. Moreover he was mum (as Delia phrased 
it to herself) about Mme. de Brecourt and Mme. 
de Cliche : such, Miss Dosson learned from Charles 
Waterlow, were the names of his two sisters who 
had houses in Paris gathering at the same time 
the information that one of these ladies was a 
marquise and the other a comtesse. She was less 
exasperated by their non-appearance than Mr. 
Flack had hoped, and it did not prevent an ex 
cursion to dine at Saint-Germain, a week after the 
evening spent at the circus, which included both of 
the new admirers. It also as a matter of 
course included Mr. Flack, for though the party 
had been proposed in the first instance by Charles 
Waterlow, who wished to multiply opportunities 
for studying his future sitter, Mr. Dosson had 
characteristically constituted himself host and ad 
ministrator, with the young journalist as his deputy. 
He liked to invite people and to pay for them, and 
he disliked to be invited and paid for. He was 
never inwardly content, on any occasion, unless a 
great deal of money was spent, and he could be sure 
enough of the magnitude of the sum only when he 
himself spent it. He was too simple for conceit or 
for pride of purse, but he always felt that any ar 
rangements were a little shabby as to which the 
expenses had not been referred to him. He never 
told any one how he met them. Moreover Delia 
had told him that if they should go to Saint- 
Germain as guests of the artist and his friend Mr. 
Flack would not be of the company : she was sure 
those gentlemen would not invite him. In fact 
she was too acute, for though he liked him little, 
Charles Waterlow would on this occasion have 
made a point of expressing by a hospitable attitude 
his sense of obligation to a man who had brought 
him such a subject. Delia s hint however was all- 
sufficient for her father ; he would have thought it 
a gross breach of friendly loyalty to take part in a 
festival not graced by Mr. Flack s presence. His 
idea of loyalty was that he should scarcely smoke a 
cigar unless his friend was there to take another, 
and he felt rather mean if he went round alone to get 
shaved. As regards Saint-Germain, he took over 
the project and George Flack telegraphed for a 
table on the terrace at the Pavilion Henri Quatre. 
Mr. Dosson had by this time learned to trust the 
European manager of the Reverberator to spend 
his moDey almost as he himself would. 
IV. 
DELIA had broken out the evening they took 
Mr. Probert to the circus ; she had apostrophised 
Francie as they each sat in a red-damask chair 
after ascending to their apartments. They had 
bade their companions farewell at the door of the 
hotel and the two gentlemen had walked off in 
different directions. But up stairs they had 
instinctively not separated ; they dropped into the 
first place and sat looking at each other and at the 
highly-decorated lamps that burned, night after 
night, in their empty saloon. " Well, I want to 
know when you're going to stop Delia said to her 
sister, speaking as if this remark were a continua 
tion, which it was not, of something they had 
lately been saying. 
" Stop what ? " asked Francie, reaching forward 
for a marron. 
"Stop carrying on the way you do with 
Mr. Flack." 
Francie stared, while she consumed her marron; 
then she replied, in her little flat, patient voice, 
" Why, Delia Dosson, how can you be so 
foolish ? " 
" Father, I wish you'd speak to her. Francie, I 
ain 't foolish." 
" What do you want me to say to her ? " 
Mr. Dosson inquired. " I guess I've  said about 
all I know." 
" Well, that s in fun ; I want you to speak to 
her in earnest." 
" I guess there s no one in earnest but you," 
Francie remarked. " These are not so good as 
the last." 
" No, and there won 't be if you don 't look out. 
There s something you can do if you 'll just 
keep quiet. If you can 't tell difference of style, 
well, I can." 
" What s the difference of style ? " asked Mr. 
Dosson. But before this question could be 
answered Francie protested against the charge of 
carrying on. Quiet ? Wasn 't she as quiet as a 
stopped clock ? Delia replied that a girl was not 
quiet so long as she didn 't keep others so; and 
she wanted to know what her sister proposed to 
do about Mr. Flack. " Why don 't you take him and 
let Francie take the other ? " Mr. Dosson continued. 
" That s just what I'm after to make her take 
the other," said his elder daughter. 
" Take him how do you mean ? " Francie 
inquired. 
" Oh, you know how." 
" Yes, I guess you know how ! " Mr. Dosson 
laughed, with an absence of prejudice which 
might have been thought deplorable in a 
parent. 
" Do you want to stay in Europe or not ? that s 
what I want to know," Delia declared to her sister. 
" If you want to go bang home you're taking the 
right way to do it." 
" What has that got to do with it ? " asked 
Mr. Dosson. 
"Should you like so much to reside at that 
place where is it ? where his paper is published ? 
That s where you 'll have to pull up, sooner or 
later," Delia pursued. 
" Do you want to stay in Europe, father ? " 
Francie said, with her small sweet weariness. 
" It depends on what you mean by staying. I 
want to go home some time." 
" Well, then, you've  got to go without Mr. 
Probert," Delia remarked with decision. " If you 
think he wants to live over there " 
"Why, Delia, he wants dreadfully to go he 
told me so himself," Francie argued, with passion 
less pauses. 
"Yes, and when he gets there he 'll want to 
come back. I thought you were so much interested 
in Paris." 
" My poor child, I am interested ! " smiled 
Francie. " Ain 't I interested, father ? " 
"Well, I don 't know how you could act 
differently, to show it." 
" Well, I do then," said Delia. " And if you 
don 't make Mr. Flack understand I will." 
" Oh, I guess he understands he s so bright," 
Francie returned. 
" Yes, I guess he does he is bright," said Mr. 
Dosson. " Good-night, chickens," he added ; and 
wandered off to a couch of untroubled repose. 
His daughters sat up half an hour later, but 
not by the wish of the younger girl. She was 
always passive however, always docile when Delia 
was, as she said, on the war-path, and though she 
had none of her sister s insistence she was very 
courageous in suffering. She thought Delia 
whipped her up too much, but there was that in 
her which would have prevented her from ever 
running away. She could smile and smile for an 
hour without irritation, making even pacific 
answers, though all the while her companion s 
grossness hurt something delicate that was in her. 
She knew that Delia loved her not loving herself 
meanwhile a bit as no one else in the world 
probably ever would ; and there was something 
droll in such plans for her plans of ambition 
which could only involve a loss. The real answer 
to anything, to everything Delia might say in 
her moods of prefigurement was " Oh, if you 
want to make out that people are thinking of me 
or that they ever will, you ought to remember 
that no one can possibly think of me half as much 
as you do. Therefore if there is to be any comfort 
for either of us we had both much better just go 
on as we are." She did not however on this 
occasion, meet her sister with this syllogism, 
because there happened to be a certain fascination 
in the way Delia set forth the great truth that the 
star of matrimony, for the American girl, was now 
shining in the east in England and France and 
Italy. They had only to look round anywhere to 
see it : what did they hear of every day in the 
week but of the engagement of one of their own 
compeers to some count or some lord ? Delia 
insisted on the fact that it was in that vast, vague 
section of the globe to which she never alluded 
save as " over here " that the American girl was 
now called upon to play, under providence, her 
part. When Francie remarked that Mr. Probert 
was not a count nor a lord her sister rejoined that 
she didn 't care whether he was or not. To this 
Francie replied that she herself didn 't care but 
that Delia ought to, to be consistent. 
" Well, he s a prince compared with Mr. Flack," 
Delia declared. 
" He hasn 't the same ability ; not half." 
" He has the ability to have three sisters 
who are just the sort of people I want you to 
know." 
" What good will they do me ? " Francie asked. 
" They 'll hate me. Before they could turn round 
I should do something in perfect innocence 
that they would think monstrous." 
"Well, what would that matter if he liked 
you ? " 
" Oh, but he wouldn t, then ! He would hate 
me too." 
" Then all you've  got to do is not to do it," 
Delia said. 
" Oh, but I should every time," her sister 
went on. 
Delia looked at her a moment. " What are 
you talking about ? " 
" Yes, what am I ? It s disgusting ! " And 
Francie sprang up. 
" I'm sorry you have such thoughts," said Delia, 
sententiously. 
"It s disgusting to talk about a gentleman 
and his sisters aiid his society and everything 
else before he has scarcely looked at you." 
"It s disgusting if he isn 't just dying; but it 
isn 't if he is." 
" Well, I 'll make him skip ! " Francie went on. 
" Oh, you're worse than father ! " her sister 
cried, giving her a push as they went to bed. 
They reached Saint-Germain with their com 
panions nearly an hour before the time that had been 
fixed for dinner ; the purpose of this being to enable 
them to enjoy with what remained of daylight 
a stroll on the celebrated terrace and a study of 
the magnificent view. The evening was splendid 
and the atmosphere favourable to this entertain 
ment; the grass was vivid on the broad walk 
beside the parapet, the park and forest were fresh 
and leafy and the prettiest golden light hung over 
the curving Seine and the far-spreading city. The 
hill which forms the terrace stretched down among 
the vineyards, with the poles delicate yet in their 
bareness, to the river, and the prospect was 
spotted here and there with the red legs of the 
little sauntering soldiers of the garrison. How it 
came, after Delia s warning in regard to her 
carrying on (especially as she had not failed to feel 
the force of her sister s wisdom), Francie could not 
have told herself: certain it is that before ten 
minutes had elapsed she perceived, first, that the 
evening would not pass without Mr. Flack s taking 
in some way, and for a certain time, peculiar 
possession of her ; and then that he was already 
doing so, that he had drawn her away from the 
others, who were stopping behind them to exclaim 
upon the view, that he made her walk faster, and 
that he ended by interposing such a distance that 
she was practically alone with him. This was 
what he wanted, but it was not all ; she felt that 
he wanted a great many other things. The large 
perspective of the terrace stretched away before 
them (Mr. Probert had said it was in the grand 
style), and he was determined to make her walk 
to the end. She felt sorry for his determinations ; 
they were an idle exercise of a force intrinsically 
fine, and she wanted to protest, to let him know 
that it was really a waste of his great cleverness 
to count upon her. She was not to be counted on ; 
she was a vague, soft, negative being who had 
never decided anything and never would, who had 
not even the merit of coquetry and who only 
asked to be let alone. She made him stop at last, 
telling him, while she leaned against the parapet, 
that he walked too fast ; and she looked back at 
their companions, whom she expected to see, under 
pressure from Delia, following at the highest speed. 
But they were not following; they still stood there, 
only looking, attentively enough, at the absent 
members of the party. Delia would wave her 
parasol, beckon her back, seod Mr. Waterlow to 
bring her ; Francie looked from one moment to 
another for some such manifestation as that. But 
no manifestation came ; none at least but the odd 
spectacle, presently, of the group turning round 
and, evidently under Delia s direction, retracing its 
steps. Francie guessed in a moment whatwas meant 
by that : it was the most definite signal her sister 
could have given. It made her feel that Delia 
counted on her, but to such a different end, just as 
poor Mr. Flack did, just as Delia wished to per 
suade her that Mr. Probert did. The girl gave a 
sigh, looking up at her companion with troubled 
eyes, at the idea, of being made the object of con 
verging policies. Such a thankless, bored, evasive 
little object as she felt herself ! What Delia had 
said in turning away was " Yes, I am watching 
you, and I depend upon you to finish him up. 
Stay there with him go off with him (I 'll give 
you half an hour if necessary), only settle him 
once for all. It is very kind of me to give you 
this chance ; and in return for it I expect you 
to be able to tell me this evening that he has got 
his answer. Shut him up ! " 
Francie did not in the least dislike Mr. Flack. 
Interested as I am in presenting her favourably to 
the reader I am yet obliged as a veracious his 
torian to admit that he seemed to her decidedly a 
brilliant being. In many a girl the sort of appre 
ciation she had of him might easily have been 
converted by peremptory treatment from outside 
into something more exalted. I do not misrepre 
sent the perversity of women in saying that our 
young lady might at this moment have replied to 
her sister with : " No, I was not in love with him, 
but somehow since you are so very prohibitive I 
foresee that I shall be if he asks me." It is doubt 
less difficult to say more for Francie s simplicity of 
character than that she felt no need of encourag 
ing Mr. Flack in order to prove to herself that she 
was not bullied. She didn 't care whether she were 
bullied or not ; and she was perfectly capable of 
letting her sister believe that she had carried 
mildness to the point of giving up a man she had 
a secret sentiment for in order to oblige that 
large-brained young lady. She was not clear 
herself as to whether it might not be so ; her 
pride, what she had of it, lay in an undistributed, 
inert form quite at the bottom of her heart and 
she had never yet invented any consoling theory 
to cover her want of a high spirit. She felt, as 
she looked up at Mr. Flack, that she didn 't care 
even if he should think that she sacrificed him to 
a childish subservience. His bright eyes were hard, 
as if he could almost guess how cynical she was, 
and she turned her own again towards her retreat 
ing companions. " They are going to dinner ; we 
oughtn 't to be dawdling here," she said. 
" Well, if they are going to dinner they 'll have 
to eat the napkins. I ordered it and 1 know when 
it will be ready," George Flack replied. " Besides 
they are not going to dinner, they are going to 
walk in the park. Don 't you worry, we sha n 't lose 
them. I wish we could ! " the young man added, 
smiling. 
" You wish we could ? " 
" I should like to feel that you were under my 
particular protection." 
" Well, I don 't know what the dangers are," said 
Francie, setting herself in motion again. She went 
after the others, but at the end of a few steps he 
stopped her again. 
" You won 't have confidence. I wish you would 
believe what I tell you." 
"You haven 't told me anything." And she 
turned her back to him, looking away at the 
GO  
splendid view. " I admire the scenery," she added 
in a moment. 
" Oh, bother the scenery ! I want to tell you 
something about myself, if I could flatter myself 
that you would take any interest in it." He had 
thrust his cane, waist-high, into the low wall of the 
terrace, and he leaned against it, screwing the point 
gently round with both hands. 
" I 'll take an interest if I can understand," said 
Francie. 
" You can understand easy enough, if you 'll try. 
I've  got some news from America to-day that has 
pleased me very much. The Reverberator has 
taken a jump." 
This was not what Francie had expected, but it 
was better. " Taken a jump ? " she repeated. 
" It has gone straight up. It s in the second 
hundred thousand." 
" Hundred thousand dollars ? " said Francie. 
" No, Miss Francie, copies. That s the circula 
tion. But the dollars are footing up, too." 
" And do they all come to you ? " 
" Precious few of them ! I wish they did ; it s a 
pleasant property." 
" Then it isn 't yours ? " she asked, turning round 
to him. It was an impulse of sympathy that made 
her look at him now, for she already knew how 
much he had the success of his newspaper at heart. 
He had once told her he loved the Reverberator 
as he had loved his first jack-knife. 
" Mine ? You don 't mean to say you suppose I 
own it ! " George Flack exclaimed. The light 
projected upon her innocence by these words was 
so strong that the girl blushed, and he went on 
more tenderly " It s a pretty sight, the way you 
and your sister take that sort of thing for granted. 
Do you think property grows on you, like a mous 
tache ? Well, it seems as if it had, on your father. 
If I owned the Reverberator I shouldn 't be stump 
ing round here ; I'd give my attention to another 
branch of the business. That is I would give my 
attention to all, but I wouldn 't go round with the 
cart. But I'm going to get hold of it, and I want 
you to help me," the young man went on ; " that s 
just what I wanted to speak to you about. It s a 
big thing already and I mean to make it bigger : 
the most universal society-paper the world has seen. 
That s where the future lies, and the man who sees 
it first is the man who 'll make his pile. It s a field 
for enlightened enterprise that hasn 't yet begun to 
be worked." He continued, glowing, almost sud 
denly, with his idea, and one of his eyes half closed 
itself knowingly, in a way that was habitual with 
him when he talked consecutively. The effect of 
this would have been droll to a listener, the note 
of the prospectus mingling with the accent of 
passion. But it was not droll to Francie ; she only 
thought it, or supposed it, a proof of the way Mr. 
Flack saw everything in its largest relations. 
" There are ten thousand thins to do that haven 't 
been done, and I am going to do them. The 
society-news of every quarter of the globe, fur 
nished by the prominent members themselves (oh, 
they can be fixed you 'll see !) from day to day and 
from hour to hour and served up at every break 
fast-table in the United States that s what the 
American people want and that s what the Ameri 
can people are going to have. I wouldn 't say it 
to every one, but I don 't mind telling you, that I 
consider I have about as fine a sense as any one of 
what s going to be required in future over there. 
I'm going for the secrets, the chronique intime, as 
they say here ; what the people want is just what 
isn 't told, and I'm going to tell it. .Oh, they're bound 
to have the plums ! That s about played out, any 
way, the idea of sticking up a sign of * private 
and thinking you can keep the place to yourself. 
You can 't do it you can 't keep out the light of 
the Press. Now what I'm going to do is to set up 
the biggest lamp yet made and to make it shine 
all over the place. We 'll see who s private then ! 
I 'll make them crowd in themselves with the in 
formation, and as I tell you, Miss Francie, it s a 
job in which you can give me a lovely push." 
" Well, I don 't see how," said Francie, candidly. 
"I haven 't got any secrets." She spoke gaily, 
because she was relieved ; she thought she had in 
reality a glimpse of what he wanted of her. It 
was something better than she had feared. Since 
he didn 't own the great newspaper (her conception 
of such matters was of the dimmest), he desired to 
possess himself of it, and she sufficiently compre 
hended that money was needed for that. She 
further seemed to perceive that he presented him 
self to her as moneyless and that this brought 
them round by a vague but comfortable transition 
to a pleasant consciousness that her father was not. 
The remaining induction, silently made, was quick 
and happy: she should acquit herself by asking 
her father for the sum required and just passing- 
it over to Mr. Flack. The greatness of his enter 
prise and the magnitude of his conceptions ap 
peared to overshadow her as they stood there. 
This was a delightful simplification and it did not 
for a moment strike her as positively unnatural 
that her companion should have a delicacy about 
appealing to Mr. Dosson directly for pecuniary 
aid, though indeed she was capable of thinking 
that odd if she had meditated upon it. There was 
nothing simpler to Francie than the idea of 
putting her hand into her father s pocket, and she 
felt that even Delia would be glad to satisfy the 
young man by this casual gesture. I must add 
unfortunately that her alarm came back to her 
from the way in which he replied : " Do you 
mean to say you don 't know, after all I've  
done ? " 
" I am sure I don 't know what you've  done." 
"Haven 't I tried all I know to make you 
like me?" 
" Oh dear, I do like you !" cried Francie ; " but 
how will that help you ? " 
" It will help me if you will understand that I 
love you." 
" Well, I won 't understand 1 " replied the girl, 
walking off. 
He followed her; they went on together in 
silence and then he said " Do you mean to say 
you haven 't found that out ? " 
" Oh, I don 't find things out I ain 't an editor ! " 
Francie laughed. 
" You draw me out and then you jibe at me," 
Mr. Flack remarked. 
" I didn 't draw you out. Couldn 't you see me 
just straining to get away ? " 
" Don 't you sympathise with rny ideas ? " 
" Of course I do, Mr. Flack ; I think they're 
splendid," said Francie, who did not in the least 
understand them. 
" Well, then, why won 't you work with me ? 
Your affection, your brightness, your faith would 
be everything to me." 
" I'm very sorry but I can 't I can t," the girl 
declared. 
" You could if you would, quick enough." 
" Well, then, I won 't ! " And as soon as 
these words were spoken, as if to mitigate some 
thing of their asperity, Francie paused a 
moment and said : " You must remember that 
T never said I would nor anything like it. I 
 
thought you just wanted me to speak to my 
father." 
" Of course I supposed you would do that." 
" I mean about your paper." 
" About my paper ? " 
"So as he could give you the money to do 
what you want." 
"Lord, you're too sweet!" George Flack ex 
claimed, staring. "Do you suppose I would ever 
touch a cent of your father s money ? " a speech 
not so hypocritical as it may sound, inasmuch as 
the young man, who had his own refinements, had 
never been guilty, and proposed to himself never 
to be, of the plainness of twitching the purse- 
strings of his potential father-in-law with his own 
hand. He had talked to Mr. Dosson by the hour 
about the interviewing business, but he had never 
dreamed that this amiable man would give him 
money as an interesting straggler. The only 
character in which he could expect it would be 
that of Francie s husband, and then it would come 
to Francie not to him. This reasoning did not 
diminish his desire to assume such a character, and 
his love of his profession and his appreciation of 
the girl at his side ached together in his breast 
with the same disappointment. She saw that her 
words had touched him like a lash; they made 
him blush red for a moment. This caused her 
own colour to rise she could scarcely have said 
w hy and she hurried along again. He kept close 
to her ; he argued with her ; he besought her to 
think it over, assured her he was the best fellow 
in the world. To this she replied that if he didn 't 
leave her alone she would cry and how would he 
like that, to bring her back in such a state to the 
others ? He said, " Damn the others ! " but that 
did not help his case, and at last he broke out : 
" Will you just tell me this, then is it because 
you've  promised Miss Delia ? " Francie answered 
that she had not promised Miss Delia anything, 
and her companion went on : "Of course I know 
what she has got in her head : she wants to get 
you into the high set the grand monde, as they 
call it here ; but I didn 't suppose you'd let her fix 
your life for you. You were very different before 
he turned up. " 
" She never fixed anything for me. I haven 't 
got any life and I don 't want to have," said 
Francie. " And I don 't know who you are talking 
about, either ! " 
" The man without a country. He 'll pass you 
in that s what your sister wants." 
" You oughtn 't to abuse him, because it was you 
that presented him," the girl rejoined. 
" I never presented him ! I'd like to kick him." 
" We should never have seen him if it hadn 't 
been for you." 
" That s a fact, but it doesn 't make me love 
him any the better. He s the poorest kind 
there is." 
"I don 't care anything about his kind." 
" That s a pity, if you're going to marry him. 
How could I know that when I took you up 
there ? " 
" Good-bye, Mr. Flack," said Francie, trying to 
gain ground from him. 
This attempt was of course vain, and after a 
moment he resumed : " Will you keep me as a 
friend ? " 
" Why, Mr. Flack, of course I will ! " cried 
Francie. 
"All right," he replied; and they presently 
rejoined their companions. 
V. 
GASTON PROBERT made his plan, imparting it to 
no one but his friend Waterlow, whose help in 
deed he needed to carry it out. These confidences 
cost him something, for the clever young painter 
found his predicament amusing and made no 
scruple of showing it. Probert was too much in 
love, however, to be discountenanced by sarcasm. 
This fact is the more noteworthy as he knew 
that Waterlow scoffed at him for a purpose 
had a theory that that kind of treatment would 
be salutary. The French taste was in Waterlow s 
" manner," but it had not yet coloured his view 
of the relations of a young man of spirit with 
parents and pastors. He was Gallic to the tip 
of his finest brush, but the humour of his early 
American education could not fail to obtrude itself 
in discussion with a friend in whose life the 
principle of authority played so large a part. He 
accused Probert of being afraid of his sisters, 
which was a crude way (and he knew it) of allud - 
ing to the rigidity of the conception of the family 
among people who had adopted and had even to 
Waterlow s sense, as the phrase is, improved upon 
the usages of France. That did injustice (and 
this the artist also knew), to the delicate nature 
of the bond which united the different members 
of the house of Probert, who were each for all 
and all for each. Family feeling among them was 
not a tyranny but a religion, and in regard to 
Mesdames de Brecourt, de Cliche and de Douves 
what Gaston was most afraid of was seeming to 
them not to love them. None the less Charles 
Waterlow, who thought he had charming parts, 
held that the best way had not been taken to 
make a man of him, and the spirit in which the 
painter sometimes endeavoured to repair this 
mishap was altogether benevolent, though the 
form was frequently rough. Waterlow combined 
in an odd manner many of the forms of the 
Parisian studio with the moral and social ideas 
of Brooklyn, Long Island, where his first seeds 
had been implanted. 
Gaston Probert desired nothing better than to 
be a man ; what bothered him (and it is perhaps 
a proof that his instinct was gravely at fault), 
was a certain vagueness as to the constituents of 
this personage. He should be made more nearly, 
as it seemed to him, a brute were he to sacrifice 
in such an effort the decencies and pieties 
holy things all of them in which he had been 
reared. It was very well for Waterlow to say 
that to be a genuine man it was necessary to 
be a little of a brute ; "his friend was willing, in 
theory, to assent even to that. The difficulty 
was in application, in practice as to which the 
painter declared that all that would be simple 
enough if it only didn 't take so much account 
of the marchioness, the countess and what was 
the other one ? the duchess. These young ameni 
ties were exchanged between the pair (while 
Gaston explained, almost as eagerly as if he were 
scoring a point, that the other one was only a 
laronne), during that brief journey to Spain of 
which mention has already been made, during 
the later weeks of the summer, after their 
return (the young men spent a fortnight together 
on the coast of Brittany), and above all during 
the autumn, when they were settled in Paris 
for the winter, when Mr. Dosson had reappeared, 
according to the engagement with his daughters, 
when the sittings for the portrait had multiplied 
(the painter was unscrupulous as to the number 
he demanded), and the work itself, born under 
a happy star, took on more and more the aspect 
of a masterpiece. It was at Grenada that Gaston 
really broke out; there, one balmy night, he 
communicated to his companion that he would 
marry Francina Dosson or would never marry any 
one. The declaration was the more striking as it 
came after an interval ; many days had elapsed 
since their separation from the young lady and 
many new and beautiful objects had engaged 
their attention. It appeared that poor Probert 
had been thinking of her all the while, and he 
let his friend know that it was that dinner at 
Saint Germain that had finished him. What she 
had been there Waterlow himself had seen : he 
would not controvert the proposition that she 
had been irresistible. 
In November, in Paris (it was months and weeks 
before the artist began to please himself), tho 
enamoured youth came very often to the Avenue 
de Villiers, toward the end of a sitting ; and until 
it was finished, not to disturb the lovely model, 
he cultivated conversation with the elder sister : 
Gaston Probert was capable of that. Delia was 
always there of course, but Mr. Dosson had not 
once turned up and the newspaper man happily 
appeared to have taken himself off. The new 
aspirant learned in fact from Miss Dosson that a 
crisis in the affairs of his journal had recalled him 
to the seat of that publication. When the young 
ladies had gone (and when he did not go with 
them he accompanied them not rarely), the 
visitor was almost lyrical in his appreciation of 
his friend s work ; he had no jealousy of the in 
sight which enabled him to reconstitute the girl 
on canvas with that perfection. He knew that 
Waterlow painted her too well to be in love with 
her and that if he himself could have attacked 
 
her in that fashion he would not have wanted to 
many her. She bloomed there, on the easel, 
as brightly as in life, and the artist had caught 
the sweet essence of her beauty. It was exactly 
the way in which her lover would have chosen 
that she should be represented, and yet it had 
required a perfectly independent hand. Gaston 
Probert mused on this mystery and somehow 
felt proud of the picture and responsible for it, 
though it was as little his property, as yet, as 
the young lady herself. 
When, in December, he told Waterlow of his 
plan of campaign the latter said, " I will do any 
thing in the world you like anything you think 
will help you but it passes me, my dear fellow 
why in the world you don 't go to them and say, 
I've  seen a girl who is as good as cake and pretty 
as fire, she exactly suits me, I've  taken time to 
think of it and I know what I want : therefore I 
propose to make her my wife. If you happen to 
like her so much the better ; if you don 't be so 
good as to keep it to yourselves. That is much 
the most excellent way. Why, gracious heaven, 
all these mysteries and machinations ? " 
" Oh, you don 't understand, you don 't under 
stand ! " sighed Gaston Probert, with many wrinkles 
on his brow. " One can 't break with one s traditions 
in an hour, especially when there is so much in 
them that one likes. I shall not love her more if 
they like her, but I shall love them more, and 
I care about that. You talk as a man who has 
nothing to consider. I have everything to con 
sider and I am glad I have. My pleasure in 
marrying her will be double if my father and my 
sisters accept her, and I shall greatly enjoy work 
ing out the business of bringing them round." 
There were moments when Charles Wateilow 
resented the very terminology of his friend : he 
hated to hear a man talk about the woman he 
loved being " accepted." If one accepted her one s 
self or, rather, were accepted by her, that ended 
the matter, and the effort to bring round those 
who gave her the cold shoulder was scarcely con 
sistent with self-respect. Probert explained that 
of course he knew his relatives would only have 
to know Francina to like her, to delight in her; 
but that to know her they would first have to make 
her acquaintance. This was the delicate point, for 
social commerce with such people as Mr. Dosson 
and Delia was not in the least in their usual line 
and it was impossible to disconnect the poor girl 
from her appendages. Therefore the whole question 
must be approached by an oblique movement; it 
would never do to march straight up to it, The 
wedge should have a narrow end and Gaston was 
ready to declare that he had found it. His sister 
Susan was another name for it; he would break 
her in first and she would help him to break in 
the others. She was his favourite relation, his 
intimate friend the most modern, the most 
Parisian and inflammable member of the family, 
She was not reasonable but she was perceptive; 
she had imagination and humour and was capable 
of generosity and enthusiasm and even of in 
fatuation. She had had her own infatuations and 
ought to allow for those of others. She would not 
like the Dossons superficially any better than his 
father or than Margaret or Jane (he called these 
ladies by their English names, but for themselves, 
their husbands, their friends and each other they 
were Suzanne, Marguerite and Jeanne) ; but there 
was a considerable chance that he might induce 
her to take his point of view. She was as fond of 
beauty and of the arts as he was ; this was one of 
their bonds of union. She appreciated highly 
Charles Waterlow s talent and there had been a 
good deal of talk about his painting her portrait. 
It is true her husband viewed the project with so 
much colder an eye that it had not been carried 
out. 
According to Gaston s plan she was to come 
to the Avenue de Villiers to see what the artist 
had done for Miss Francie ; her brother was to 
have stimulated her curiosity by his rhapsodies, 
in advance, rhapsodies bearing wholly upon the 
work itself, the example of Waterlow s powers, 
and not upon the young lady, whom he was not 
to let her know at first that lie had so much as 
seen. Just at the last, just before her visit, he 
was to tell her that he had met the girl (at the 
studio), and that she was as remarkable in her 
way as the picture. Seeing the picture and hear 
ing this, Mme. de Brecourt, as a disinterested 
lover of charming impressions, would express a 
desire also to enjoy a sight of so rare a creature ; 
upon which Waterlow was to say that that would 
be easy if she would come in some day when Miss 
Francie was sitting. He would give her two or 
three dates and Gaston would see that she didn 't 
let the opportunity pass. She would return alone 
(this time he wouldn 't go with her), and she 
would be as much struck as he hoped. Everything 
depended on that, but it couldn 't fail. The girl 
would have to captivate her, but the girl could 
be trusted, especially if she didn 't know who the 
demonstrative French lady was, with her fine plain, 
face, her hair so flaxen as to be nearly white, her 
vividly red lips and protuberant, light-coloured 
eyes. Waterlow was to do no introducing and 
to reveal the visitor s identity only after she 
had gone. This was a charge he grumbled at; 
he called the whole business an odious comedy, 
but his friend knew that if he undertook it he 
would acquit himself honourably. After Mme. 
de Brecourt had been captivated (the question of 
whether Francie would be so received in advance 
no consideration), her brother would throw off the 
mask and convince her that she must now work 
with him. Another meeting would be arranged 
for her with the girl (in which each would appear 
in her proper character), and in short the plot 
would thicken. 
Gaston Probert s forecast of his difficulties 
revealed a considerable faculty for analysis, but 
that was not rare enough in the French composition 
of things to make his friend stare. He brought 
Suzanne de Brecourt, she was enchanted with 
the portrait of the little American, and the 
rest of the drama began to follow in its order. 
Mme. de Brecourt raved, to Waterlow s face (she 
had no opinions behind people s backs), about 
his mastery of his craft ; she could say nattering 
things to a man with an assurance altogether 
her own. She was the reverse of egotistic 
and never spoke of herself; her success in life 
sprang from a much cleverer selection of her 
pronouns. Waterlow, who liked her and wanted 
to paint her ugliness (it was so charming, as he 
would make it), had two opinions about her 
one of which was that she knew a hundred times 
less than she thought (and even than her brother 
thought), of what she talked about; and the 
other that she was after all not such a humbug 
as she seemed. She passed in her family for a 
rank radical, a bold Bohemian; she picked up 
expressions out of newspapers, but her hands and 
feet were celebrated, and her behaviour was not. 
That of her sisters, as well, had never been 
effectively exposed. 
" But she must be charming, your young lady," 
she said to Gaston, while she turned her head 
this way and that as she stood before Francie s 
image. "She looks like a piece of sculpture 
or something cast in silver of the time of 
Francis the First; something of Jean Goujon 
or Germain Pilon." The young men exchanged 
a glance, for this happened to be a capital com 
parison, and Gaston replied, in a detached way, 
that she was well worth seeing. 
He went in to have a cup of tea with his sister 
on the day he knew she would have paid her 
second visit to the studio, and the first words she 
greeted him with were "But she is admirable 
votre petite admirable, admirable ! " There 
was a lady calling in the Place Beauvau at the 
moment old Mine.'d Outreville, and she naturally 
asked who was the object of such enthusiasm. 
Gaston suffered Susan to answer this question ; 
he wanted to hear what she would say. She 
described the girl almost as well as he would 
have done, from the point of view of the plastic, 
with a hundred technical and critical terms, and 
the old lady listened in silence, solemnly, rather 
coldly, as if she thought such talk a good deal of 
a galimatias: she belonged to the old-fashioned 
school and held that a young lady was sufficiently 
catalogued when it was said that she had a 
dazzling complexion or the finest eyes in the world. 
" Qu cst-ce qua c est que cette merveille ? " she 
inquired ; to which Mme. de Brecourt replied 
that it was a little American whom her brother 
had dug up. "And what do you propose to do 
with her, may one ask ? " Mme.'d Outreville 
demanded, looking at Gaston Probert with an eye 
which seemed to read his secret, so that for half 
a minute he was on the point of breaking out : 
" I propose to marry her there ! " But he con 
tained himself, only mentioning for the present 
that he aspired to ascertain to what uses she was 
adapted ; meanwhile, he added, he expected to 
look at her a good deal, in the measure in which 
she would allow him. " Ah, that may take you 
far ! " the old lady exclaimed, as she got up to 
go ; and Gaston glanced at his sister, to see if this 
idea struck her too. But she appeared almost 
provokingly exempt from alarm : if she had been 
suspicious it would have been easier to make 
his confession. When he came back from ac 
companying Mme.'d Outreville to her carriage 
he asked her if the girl at the studio had known 
who she was and if she had been frightened. 
Mme. de Brecourt stared ; she evidently thought 
that kind of sensibility implied an initiation 
which a little American, accidentally encountered, 
could not possibly have. " Why should she be 
frightened ? She wouldn 't be even if she had 
known who I was; much less therefore when I 
was nothing for her." 
" Oh, you were not nothing for her ! " Gaston 
declared; and when his sister rejoined that he 
was too amiable he brought out his revelation. 
He had seen the young lady more often than he 
had told her ; he had particularly wished that she 
should see her. Now he wanted his father and 
Jane and Margaret to do the same, and above all 
he wanted them to like her, even as she, Susan, 
liked her. He was delighted that she had been 
captivated he had been captivated himself. Mine, 
de Brecourt protested that she had reserved her 
independence of judgment, and he answered that 
if she had thought Miss Dosson repulsive she 
might have expressed it in another way. When 
she inquired what he was talking about and 
what he wanted them all to do with her, he 
said : " I want you to treat her kindly, tenderly, 
for such as you see her I am thinking of making 
her my wife." 
" Mercy on us you haven 't asked her ? " cried 
Mme. de Brecourt. 
" No, but I have asked her sister what she would 
say, and she tells me there would be no difficulty." 
"Her sister? the little woman with the big 
head ? " 
" Her head is rather out of drawing, but it isn 't 
a part of the affair. She is very inoffensive and 
she would be devoted to me." 
" For heaven s sake then keep quiet. She is as 
common as a dressmaker s bill." 
" Not when you know her. Besides, that has 
nothing to do with Francie. You couldn 't find 
words enough a moment ago to say that Francie is 
exquisite, and now you will be so good as to stick 
to that. Come, be intelligent ! " 
" Do you call her by her little name, like that ? " 
Mme. de Brecon rt asked, giving him another cup 
of tea. 
" Only to you. She is perfectly simple. It is 
impossible to imagine anything better. And think 
of the delight of having that charming object 
before one s eyes always, always ! It makes a 
different thing of the future." 
" My poor child," said Mme. de Brecourt, " you 
can 't pick up a wife like that the first little 
American that comes along. You know I hoped 
you wouldn 't marry at all what a pity I think it 
for a man. At any rate, if you expect us to 
like Miss what s her name ? Miss Fancy, all I 
can say is we won t. We can 't ! " 
" I shall marry her then without your approba 
tion." 
" Very good. But if she deprives you of that 
(you have always had it, you are used to it, it s a 
part of your life), you will hate her at the end of 
a month." 
" I don 't care. I shall have had my month." 
" And she poor thing ? " 
" Poor thing, exactly ! You will begin to pity 
her, and that will make you cultivate her, and that 
will make you find how adorable she is. Then 
you 'll like her, then you 'll love her, then you 'll see 
