enough to reason, to the day she died. But I 
tell you. Weir, I have not got it in me. I have 
the ambition and the desire — yes; but no marked 
ability of any sort. Some day, when we are 
ready to settle down, I will write, and publish 
what I write. Men will grant me a certain 
standing as a thinker, I believe, and perhaps they will 
 
also give me credit for a certain nice use of 
words; I have made a study of literary style all 
my life. But that is the most I shall ever attain. 
I am not a man of any genius or originality, and 
you may as well make up your mind to the inev- 
itable at once." 
" Harold," said Weir, without taking the 
slightest notice of his outburst, " do you 
remember that extraordinary experience of yours that 
night in Paris ? I believe you have the soul of 
a poet in you, only as yet your brain hasn't got 
it under control. Did you ever read the life of 
Alfieri ? He experienced the same desire to 
write, over and over again, but could accomplish 
nothing until after he was thirty. Disraeli
illustrated his struggles for speech in ' Contarini 
Fleming' most graphically, you remember." 
" Neither Alfieri nor Contarini Fleming ever 
had any such experience as mine. Their impulse 
to write was not only a mental concept as well as 
a spiritual longing, but it was abiding. I never 
really experienced a desire to write poetry except 
on that night. I have occasionally wished that 
I had the ability, but common-sense withheld 
me from brooding over the impossible. The 
experience of that night is one which can be 
explained by no ordinary methods. I can make 
nothing of it, and for that reason I prefer not to 
speak of it. I abominate mysteries." 
" Well," she said, " some day I believe it will 
 
be explained. I believe it was nothing more 
than an extraordinarily strong impulse to write, 
and that you exaggerate it into the supernatural
as you look back upon it. I did not think 
so when you first told me; you were so dramatic 
that you carried me off my feet, and I was an 
actor in the scene. But that is the way I look 
at it now, and I believe I am correct." 
" It may be," said Dartmouth, moodily, "but I 
hope it won't affect me that way again, that is 
all." He caught her suddenly to him and kissed 
her. "Let us be contented as we are," he said. 
"Ambition is love's worst enemy. Geniuses do 
not make their wives happy." 
" They do when their wives understand and 
are in absolute sympathy with them," she said, 
returning his caress; " and that I should always 
be with you. But do not imagine that I am in 
love with the idea of your being a famous man. 
I eare nothing for fame in itself. It is only that 
I believe you to be capable of great things, and 
that you would be happier if they were devel- 
oped." 
"Well, well," he said, laughing; "have your 
own way, as you will in spite of me. If ever the 
divine fire lays me in ashes, you may triumph in 
your predictions. But I must go and interview 
your father; I have kept him waiting too long 
already." 
They went out into the hall, and Dartmouth left 
her there and went to the library. Sir Iltyd was 
sitting before a large table, reading by the light 
of a student's lamp, which looked like an anach- 
ronism in the lofty, ancient room. He closed his 
book as Dartmouth entered, and rising, waved 
his hand toward a chair on the other side of the 
table. 
" Will you sit down ? " he said; " I should like 
to have a little talk with you." 
Dartmouth obeyed, and waited for the old gentleman 
to introduce the subject. Sir Iltyd con- 
tinued in a moment, taking up a small book and 
bringing it down lengthwise on the desk at
regular intervals while he spoke: 
" Of course, you must know, Harold, that it has 
not taken me two weeks to discover my personal 
feelings toward you. I should have liked or 
disliked you on the first evening we met, and, as a 
matter of fact, my sensations towards you have 
undergone no change since that night. If it had 
happened that I disliked you, I should not have 
allowed the fact to bias my judgment as to 
whether or not you were a suitable husband for 
my daughter, but it would not have taken me 
two weeks to make up my mind. As it is I have 
merely delayed my consent as an unnecessary 
formality; but perhaps the time has come to say 
in so many words that I shall be very glad to 
give my daughter to you." 
" Thank you," said Dartmouth. The words 
sounded rather bald, but it was an unusual
situation, and he did not know exactly what to say. 
Something more was evidently expected of him, 
however, and he plunged in recklessly: " I am 
sure I need not say that I am highly honored by 
your regard and your confidence, nor protest that 
you will never regret it. To tell you that I loved 
Weir with all my heart would be trite, and 
perhaps it is also unnecessary to add that I am not 
a man of ' veering passions ' — that is, of course 
when my heart is engaged as well." 
Sir Iltyd smiled. " I should imagine that the 
last clause was added advisedly. I was a man 
of the world myself in my young days, and I 
recognize one in yon. Judging from your physiognomy 
and general personality I should say that 
you have loved a good many women, and have 
lived in the widest sense of the word." 
"Well — yes," admitted Dartmouth, with a 
laugh. " That sort of thing leaves a man's heart 
untouched, however." 
" It may, and I am willing to believe that you 
have given your heart to Weir for good and all." 
"I think I have," said Dartmouth. 
And then the question of settlements was 
broached, and when it had been satisfactorily 
arranged, Dartmouth lingered a few moments 
longer in conversation with his host, and then 
rose to go. Sir Iltyd rose also and walked with 
him to the door. 
" Do you mind our being married in a month ? " 
asked Dartmouth, as they crossed the room. 
" That will give Weir all the time she wants, and 
we should like to spend the spring in Rome." 
"Very well; let it be in a month. I cannot 
see that the date is of any importance; only do 
not forget me in the summer." 
" Oh, no," said Dartmouth; " we expect you 
to harbor us off and on all the year around." 
And then Sir Iltyd opened the door and bowed 
with his old-time courtier-like dignity, and Dart- 
mouth passed out and into the hall. 
V. 
He found Weir kneeling on the hearth-rug. 
The hall was an immense place with a vaulted 
ceiling upheld by massive beams; the walls were 
wainscotted almost to the top with oak which 
had been polished for many a century; and the 
floor, polished also, was covered with rugs which 
had been very handsome in their day. There 
were several superb suits of armor and a quantity 
of massive, carved oaken furniture, extremely 
uncomfortable but very picturesque. In the open 
fire-place, which would have held many more 
than Harold and Weir within its depths, great 
logs were burning. The lamps had been brought 
in but had not been turned up, and save for the 
firelight the great cathedral apartment was a 
thicket of shadows, out of which the steel 
warriors gleamed, menacing guardians of the girl. 
Weir made a pretty picture kneeling on the 
hearth-rug, with the fire-light playing on her 
dark face and pliant figure, in its closely-fitting 
black gown, throwing golden flickers on her hair, 
and coquetting with the lanterns in her eyes. 
She rose as Dartmouth approached, and he gave 
her one of his brilliant, satisfied smiles. 
" We are to be married a month from to-day,'' 
he said. " A month from to-day and we shall be 
knocking about Europe and pining for English 
civilization." He drew her down on the cush- 
ioned seat that ran along the wall by the chimney- 
piece. "We cannot go out to-night; there is a 
storm coming up. Ah, did I not tell you ? " as a 
gust of wind shrieked and rattled the sash. 
She gave a little shiver and drew closer to him. 
" I hate a storm," she said. " It always brings 
back — " she stopped abruptly. 
" Brings back what ? " 
" Nothing," hastily. " So father has given his 
consent ? But I knew he would. I knew he 
liked you the moment you met; and when he 
alluded that night to your small hands and feet 
I knew that the cause was won. Had they been 
at fault, nothing could have persuaded him that 
you did not have a broad river of red blood in 
you somewhere, and he never would have ap- 
proved of you had you been the monarch of a 
kingdom." 
Dartmouth smiled. " The men at college used 
to laugh at my hands, until I nearly choked one 
of them to death one day, after which they never 
laughed at them again. There is no doubt now 
about my having been destined at birth for a 
Welsh maiden, and equipped accordingly. But 
you know your father pretty thoroughly." 
" I have lived alone with him so long that I 
can almost read his mind, and I certainly know 
his peculiarities." 
" It must have been a terribly lonely life for 
you. How old were you when your mother 
died ? " 
She moved with the nervous motion habitual 
to her whenever her mother's name was mentioned.
" I was about nine," she said. 
" nine ? And yet you remember nothing of 
her ? Weir, it is impossible that you cannot
remember her." 
" I do not remember her," she said. 
" I saw her picture in the library to-night. 
She must have been very beautiful, but like you 
only in being dark. Otherwise, there is not a 
trace of resemblance. But surely you must 
remember her. Weir; you are joking. I can 
remember when I was four years of age perfectly, 
and many things that happened." 
" I remember nothing that happened before I 
was nine years old," she said. 
He bent down suddenly and looked into her 
face. " Weir, what do you mean ? There is 
always an uncomfortable suggestion of mystery 
whenever one speaks of your mother or your 
childhood. What is the reason you cannot 
remember ? Did you have brain fever, and when 
you recovered, find your mind a blank ? Such 
things have happened." 
" No," she said, desperately, as if she had 
nerved herself for an effort. " That was not it. 
I have often wanted to tell you, but I cannot 
bear to speak of it. The old horror always 
comes back when I think of it. But I feel that 
I ought to tell you before we are married, and I 
will do so now since we are speaking of it. I 
did not have brain fever, but when I was nine 
years old — I died." 
" You what ? " 
" Yes, it is true. They called it catalepsy, a 
trance; but it was not; I was really dead. I was 
thrown from a horse a few months after my 
mother's death, and killed instantly. They laid 
me in the family vault, but my father had ice 
put about me and would not have me covered, 
and went every hour to see me, as he told me 
afterward. I remember nothing; and they say that 
when people are in a trance they are conscious 
of everything that passes around them. I knew 
nothing until one night I suddenly opened my 
eyes and looked about me. It was just such a 
night as this, only in mid-winter; the wind was 
howling and shrieking, and the terrible gusts 
shook the vault in which I lay. The ocean 
roared like thunder, and I could hear it hurl itself 
in its fury against the rocks at the foot of the 
castle. A lamp was burning at my feet, and by 
its flickering light I could see in their niches on 
every side of me the long lines of dead who had 
Iain there for centuries. And I was alone with 
them, locked ia with them; no living creature 
within call ! And I was so deathly cold. There 
was a great block of ice on my chest, and slabs 
of it were packed about my limbs so tightly that 
I could not move. I could only feel that horrible, 
glassy cold which I knew had frozen the marrow 
in my bones and turned my blood to jelly; and 
the pain of it was something which I have no 
words to describe. I tried to call out, but the 
ice was on my chest, and I could hardly breathe. 
Then for a moment I lay trying to collect my 
thoughts. I did not know where I was. I did not 
know that I was in the vault of my ancestors. I 
only felt that I had been wandering and wandering 
in some dim, far-off land looking for someone I 
could never find, and that suddenly I had come into 
another world and found rest. But although I did 
not know that I was in the vault at Rhyd-Alwyn, 
and that my name was Weir Penrhyn, I knew 
that I was laid out as a corpse, and that the dead 
were about me. Child as I was, it seemed to me 
that I must go frantic with the horror of the 
thing, stretched out in that ghastly place, a 
storm roaring about me, bound hand and foot, 
unable to cry for help. I think that if I had 
been left there all night I should have died again 
or lost my mind, but in a moment I heard a 
noise at the grating and men's voices. 
" ' I must go in and see her once more,' I heard 
a strange voice say. ' It seems cruelty to leave 
her alone in this storm.' And then a man came 
in and bent over me. In a moment he called 
sharply, ' Madoc ! — bring me the light." And then 
another man came, and I looked up into two 
strange, eager, almost terrified faces. I heard 
incoherent and excited voices, then the ice was 
dashed off my chest and I was caught up in a 
pair of strong arms and borne swiftly to the 
house. They took me to a great blazing fire and 
wrapped me in blankets and poured hot drinks 
down my throat, and soon that terrible chill
began to leave me and the congealed blood in my 
veins to thaw. And in a few days I was as well 
as ever again. But I remembered no one. I had 
to become acquainted with them all as with the 
veriest strangers. I had the natural intelligence 
of my years, but nothing more. Between the hour 
of my soul's flight from its body and that of its re- 
turn it had been robbed of every memory. I remem- 
bered neither my mother nor any incident of my 
childhood. I could not find my way over the 
castle, and the rocks on which I had lived since 
infancy were strangers to me. Everything was 
a blank up to the hour when I opened my eyes 
and found myself between the narrow walls of 
a coffin." 
" Upon my word ! " exclaimed Dartmouth. 
"Why, you are a regular heroine of a sensational 
novel." 
Weir sprang to her feet and struck her hands 
fiercely together, her eyes blazing. " You ought 
to be ashamed of yourself," she cried, passionately. 
" Can you never be serious ? Must you joke 
about everything ? I believe you will find some- 
thing to laugh at in the marriage service. That 
thing I have told you is the most serious and 
horrible experience of my life, and yet you treat 
it as if I were acting a part in a melodrama in a 
third-rate theatre ! Sometimes I think I hate 
you." 
Dartmouth caught her in his arms and forced 
her to sit down again beside him. " My dear 
girl," he said, " why is it that a woman can never 
understand that when a man feels most he chaffs, 
especially if he has cultivated the beastly habit. 
Your story stirred me powerfully; the more so 
because such things do not happen to every-day 
girls " 
" Harold ! " 
" Do not wrong me; I am in dead earnest. As 
a plain matter of fact, I never heard of anything 
so horrible. Thank heaven it happened when 
you were so young! No woman's will and spirit 
 
could rise superior to such a memory if it were 
a recent one. But am I forgiven ? " 
" As you are perfectly incorrigible, I suppose 
there is no use being angry with you," she 
said, still with a little pout on her lips. " But I 
will forgive you on one condition only." 
" Name it." 
"You are never to mention the subject to me 
again after to-night." 
" I never will; but tell me, has the memory of 
your childhood never comeback for a moment ? " 
" Never. All I remember is that sense of 
everlasting wandering and looking for something. 
For a long while I was haunted with the idea 
that there was something I still must find. I 
never could discover what it was, but it has left 
me now. If you had not been so unkind, I 
should have said that it is because I am too 
happy for mysterious and somewhat supernat- 
ural longings." 
" But as it is, you won't. It was an odd feeling 
to have, though. Perhaps it was a quest for the 
memories of your childhood — for a lost existence, 
as it were. If ever it comes again, tell me, and 
we will try and work it out together." 
" Harold! " she exclaimed, smiling outright this 
time, "you will be trying to analyze the cob- 
webs of heaven before long." 
" No," he said, " they are too dense." 
VI. 
It was eleven o'clock when they parted for 
the night. Dartmouth went up to his room 
and sat down at his desk to write a letter to his 
father. In a moment he threw down the pen; 
he was not in a humor for writing. He picked up 
a book (he never went to bed until he felt sleepy), 
and crossed the room and sat down before the 
fire. But he had not read two pages when he 
dropped it with an exclamation of impatience: 
the story Weir had told him was written between 
every line. She had told it so vividly and realis- 
tically that she had carried him with her and 
almost curdled his blood. He had answered her 
with a joke, because, in spite of the fact that he 
had been strongly affected, he was angry as well. 
He hated melodrama, and the idea of Weir hav- 
ing had an experience which read like a sensa- 
tional column in a newspaper was extremely 
distasteful to him. He sympathized with her 
with all his heart, but he had a strong distaste 
for anything which savored of the supernatural. 
Nevertheless, he was obliged to acknowledge that 
this horrible, if commonplace experience of Weir's 
had taken possession of his mind, and refused to 
be evicted. The scene kept presenting itself in 
all its details again and again, and finally he 
jumped to his feet in disgust an^ determined to 
go to the long gallery which overhung the sea, 
and watch the storm. Rhyd-Alwyn was built on 
a steep cliff directly on the coast, and exposed to 
all the fury of the elements. In times of storm. 
and when the waves were high, the spray flew up 
against the lower windows. 
He left his room and went down the wide hall, 
then turned into a corridor, which terminated in 
a gallery that had been built as a sort of 
observatory. The gallery was long and very narrow, 
and the floor was bare. But there were seats 
under the windows, and on a table were a 
number of books; it was a place Dartmouth and 
Weir were very fond of when it was not too 
cold. 
It was a clear, moonlit night, in spite of the 
storm. There was no rain ; it was simply a battle 
of wind and waves. Dartmouth stood at one of 
the windows and looked out over the angry 
waters. The billows were piling one above the 
other, black, foam-crested, raging like wild ani- 
mals beneath the lash of the shrieking wind. 
Moon and stars gazed down calmly, almost 
wonderingly, holding their unperturbed watch over 
the war below. Sublime, forceful, the sight 
suited the somewhat excited condition of Dart- 
mouth's mind. Moreover, he was beginning to 
feel that one of his moods was insidiously 
creeping upon him : not an attack like the last, but a 
general feeling of melancholy. If he could only 
put that wonderful scene before him into verse, 
what a solace and distraction the doing of it 
would be ! He could forget — he pulled himself 
together with something like terror. In another 
 
moment there would be a repetition of that night 
in Paris. The best thing he could do was to go 
back to his room and take an anodyne. 
He turned to leave the gallery, but as he did 
so he paused suddenly. Far down, at the other 
end, something was slowly coming toward him. 
The gallery was very long and ill-lighted by the 
narrow, infrequent windows, and he could not 
distinguish whom it was. He stood, however, 
involuntarily waiting for it to approach him. 
But how slowly it came, as one groping or one 
walking in a dream! Then, as it gradually neared 
him, he saw that it was a woman, dimly out- 
lined, but still unmistakably a woman. He spoke, 
but there was no answer, nothing but the echo of 
his voice through the gallery. Someone trying 
to play a practical joke upon him ! Perhaps it 
was Weir: it would be just like her. He walked 
forward quickly, but before he had taken a dozen 
steps the advancing figure came opposite one of 
the windows, and the moonlight fell about it. 
Dartmouth started back and caught his breath 
as if someone had struck him For a moment 
his pulses stood still, and sense seemed 
suspended. Then he walked quickly forward and 
stood in front of her. 
" Sioned! " he said, in a low voice which thrilled 
through the room. "Sioned! " He put out his 
hand and took hers. It was ice-cold, and its 
contact chilled him to the bone; but his clasp 
grew closer and his eyes gazed into hers with 
passionate longing. 
" I am dead," she said. " I am dead, and I am 
so cold." She drew closer and peered up into 
his face. " I have found you at last,'' she went 
on, "but I wandered so far. There was no nook 
or corner of Eternity in which I did not search. 
But although we went together, we were hurled 
to the opposite poles of space before our
spiritual eyes had met, and an unseen hand directed 
us ever apart. I was alone, alone, in a great, 
gray, boundless land, with but the memory of 
those brief moments of happiness to set at bay 
the shrieking host of regrets and remorse and 
repentance which crowded about me. I floated 
on and on and on for millions and millions of 
miles; but of you, my one thought on earth, my 
one thought in Eternity, I could find no trace, 
not even the whisper of your voice in passing. 
I tossed myself upon a hurrying wind and let it 
carry me whither it would. It gathered strength 
and haste as it flew, and whirled me out into 
the night, nowhere, everywhere. And then it 
slackened — and moaned — and then, with one 
great sob, it died, and once more I was alone in 
space and an awful silence. And then a voice 
came from out the void and said to me, ' Go 
down; he is there; ' and I knew that he meant 
to Earth, and for a moment I rebelled. To go 
back to that terrible — But on Earth there had 
 
been nothing so desolate as this — and if you 
were there! So I came — and I have found you 
at last." 
She put her arms about him and drew him 
down onto the low window-seat. He shivered 
at her touch, but felt no impulse to resist her 
will, and she pressed his head down upon her 
cold breast. Then, suddenly, all things changed; 
the gallery, the moonlight, the white-robed, ice- 
cold woman faded from sense. The storm was 
no longer in his ears nor were the waves at his 
feet. He was standing in a dusky Eastern room, 
familiar and dear to him. Tapestries of rich 
stuffs were about him. and the skins of wild 
animals beneath his feet. Beyond, the twilight 
stole through a window, but did not reach where 
he stood. And in his close embrace was the 
woman he loved, with the stamp on her face of 
suffering, of desperate resolution, and of con- 
scious, welcomed weakness. And in his face was 
the regret for wasted years and possibilities, and 
a present, passionate gladness; that he could see 
in the mirror of the eyes over which the lids were 
slowly falling. . . . And the woman wore a 
clinging, shining yellow gown, and a blaze of 
jewels in her hair. What was said he hardly 
knew. It was enough to feel that a suddenly- 
born, passionate joy was making his pulses leap 
and his head reel; to know that heaven had come 
to him in this soft, quiet Southern night. 
VII. 
Dartmouth opened his eyes and looked 
about him. The storm had died, the waves were 
at rest, and he was alone. He let his head fall 
back against the frame of the window, and his 
eyes closed once more. What a dream ! — so 
vivid! — so realistic! Was it not his actual life? 
Could he take up the threads of another ? He 
felt ten years older; and, retreating down the 
dim, remote corridors of his brain, were trooping 
memories of a long, regretted, troubled, eventful 
past. In a moment they had vanished like 
ghosts and left no trace; he could recall none of 
them. He opened his eyes again and looked 
down the gallery, and gradually his perceptions 
grasped its familiar lines, and he was himself 
once more. He rose to his feet and put his hand 
to his head. That woman whom he had taken 
for the ghost of one dead and gone had been 
Weir, of course. She had arisen in her sleep 
and attired herself like the grandmother whose 
living portrait she was; she had piled up her 
hair and caught her white gown up under her 
bosom; and, in the shadows and mystery of night, 
small wonder that she had looked as if the can- 
vas in the gallery below had yielded her up! But 
what had her words meant ? — her words, and that 
dream ? — but no — they were not what he wanted. 
There had been something else — what was it? 
He felt as if a mist had newly arisen to cloud 
his faculties. There had been something else 
which had made him not quite himself as he had 
stood there with his arms about the woman who 
had been Weir, and yet not Weir. Above the 
pain and joy and passion which had shaken him, 
there had been an unmistakable perception of — 
an attribute — a quality — of another sort — of a 
power, of which he, Harold Dartmouth, had 
never been conscious— of — of — ah, yes ! of the 
power to pour out at the feet of that woman, in 
richest verse, the love she had awakened, and 
make them both immortal. What were the 
words ? They had been written legibly in his 
brain; he remembered now. He had seen and 
read them — yes, at last, at last! " Her face ! her 
form!" No! no! not that again. Oh, why would 
they not come ? They had been there, the words; 
the sense must be there, the inspiration, the bat- 
tling for voice and victory. They were ready to 
pour through his speech in a flood of song, but 
that iron hand forced them back — down, down, 
setting blood and brain on fire. Ah ! what was 
that ? Far off, at the end of some long gallery, 
there was a sweet, dying strain of music, and 
there were words — gathering in volume; they 
were rolling on; they were coming; they were 
thundering through his brain in a mighty chorus! 
There ! he had grasped them — No ! that iron 
hand had grasped them — and was hurling them 
back. In another moment it would have forced 
them down into their cell and turned the key ! 
He must catch and hold one of them ! Yes, he 
had it! Oh ! victory ! — "Her eyes, her hair." 
Dartmouth thrust out his hands as if fighting 
with a physical enemy, and he looked as if he had 
been through the agonies of death. The con- 
flict in his brain had suddenly ceased, but his 
physical strength was exhausted. He turned and 
walked uncertainly to his room; then he collected 
his scattered wits sufficiently to drop some lauda- 
num and take it, that he might ward off, if pos- 
sible, the attack of physical and spiritual prostra- 
tion which had been the result of a former ex, 
perience of a similar kind. Then, dressed as he 
was, he flung himself on the bed and slept. 
VIII. 
When Dartmouth awoke the next day, the sun 
was streaming across the bed and Jones's 
anxious face was bending over him. 
" Oh, Mr. 'Arold," exclaimed Jones, " you've 
got it again." 
Dartmouth laughed aloud. " One would think 
I had delirium tremens," he said. 
He put his hand over his eyes, and struggled 
with the desire to have the room darkened. The 
melancholy had fastened itself upon him, and he 
knew that for three or four days he was to be 
the victim of one of his unhappiest moods. The 
laudanum had lulled his brain and prevented 
violent reaction after its prolonged tension; but 
his spirits were at zero, and his instinct was to 
shut out the light and succumb to his enemy 
without resistance. If he had been anywhere 
but at Rhyd-Alwyn he would not have thought 
twice about it; but if he shut himself up in his 
room, not only would Weir be frightened and un- 
happy, but it was probable that Sir Iltyd would 
question the desirability of a son-in-law who was 
given to prolonged and uncontrollable attacks of 
the blues. He dressed and went down-stairs, 
but Weir was nowhere to be found, and after a 
search through the various rooms and corners of 
the castle which she was in the habit of 
frequenting, he met her maid and was informed that Miss 
Penrhyn was not well and would not come down- 
stairs before dinner. The news was very 
unwelcome to Dartmouth. Weir at least would have 
been a distraction. Now he must get through a 
dismal day, and fight his enemy by himself. To 
make matters worse, it was raining, and he could 
not go out and ride or hunt. He went into Sir 
Iltyd's library and talked to him for the rest of 
the morning. Sir Iltyd was not exciting, at his 
best, and to-day he had a bad cold; so after 
lunch Dartmouth went up to his tower and 
resigned himself to his own company. He sat 
down before the fire, and taking his head 
between his hands allowed the blue devils to 
triumph. He felt dull as well as depressed; but for 
a time he made an attempt to solve the problem 
of the phenomenon to which he had been twice 
subjected. That it was a phenomenon he did not 
see any reason to doubt. If he had spent his life 
in a vain attempt to write poetry and an 
unceasing wish for the necessary inspiration, there 
would be nothing remarkable in his mind 
yielding suddenly to the impetus of accumulated 
pressure, wrenching itself free of the will's 
control, and dashing off on a wild excursion of its 
own. But he had never voluntarily taken a pen 
in his hand to make verse, nor had he even felt 
the desire to possess the gift, except as a part of 
general ambition. He may have acknowledged 
the regret that he could not immortalize himself 
by writing a great poem, but the regret was the 
offspring of personal ambition, not of yearning 
poetical instinct. But the most extraordinary 
phase of the matter was that such a tempest 
could take place in a brain as well regulated as 
his own. He was eminently a practical man, and 
a good deal of a thinker. He had never been 
given to flights of imagination, and even in his 
attacks of melancholy, although his will might be 
somewhat enfeebled, his brain could always work 
clearly and cleverly. The lethargy which had 
occasionally got the best of him had invariably 
been due to violent nervous shock or strain, and 
was as natural as excessive bodily languor after 
violent physical effort. Why, then, should his 
brain twice have acted as if he had sown it with 
eccentric weeds all his life, instead of planting it 
with the choicest seeds he could obtain, and 
watering and cultivating them with a patience 
and an interest which had been untiring ? 
But the explanation of his attempt to put his 
unborn poem into words gave him less thought 
to-day than it had after its first occurrence; 
there were other phases of last night's 
experience weirder and more unexplainable still. 
Paramount, of course, was the vision or dream — 
which would seem to have been induced by some 
magnetic property possessed and exerted by 
Weir. Such things do not occur without cause, 
and he was not the sort of man to yield himself, 
physically and mentally, his will and his 
perceptions, to the unconscious caprice of a somnam- 
bulist. And the scene had cut itself so deeply 
into the tablets of his memory that he found 
himself forgetting more than once that it was not an 
actual episode of his past. He wished he could 
see Weir, and hear her account of her mental 
experiences of those hours. If her dream should 
have been a companion to his, then the 
explanation would suggest itself that the scene might 
have been a vagary of her brain; that in some 
way which he did not pretend to explain, she had 
hypnotized him, and that his brain had received 
a photographic imprint cf what had been in hers. 
It would then be merely a sort of telepathy. But 
why should she have dreamed a dream in which 
they both were so unhappily metamorphosed ? 
and why should it have produced so powerful an 
impression upon his waking sense ? And why, 
strangest of all, had he, without thought or self- 
surprise, gone to her, and with his soul stirred to 
its depths, called her " Sioned " ? True, she had 
almost disguised herself, and had been the living 
counterfeit of Sioned Penrhyn; but that was no 
reason why he should have called a woman who 
had belonged to his grandmother's time by her 
first name. Could Weir, thoroughly imbued with 
the character she was unconsciously representing, 
have exercised her hypnotic power from the 
moment she entered the gallery, and left him 
without power to think or feel except through her 
own altered perceptions ? He thrust out his foot 
against the fender, almost overturning it, and, 
throwing back his head, clasped his hands behind 
it and scowled at the black ceiling above him. 
He was a man who liked things explained, and he 
felt both sullen and angry that he should have 
had an experience which baffled his powers of 
analysis and reason. His partial solution gave 
him no satisfaction, and he had the uncomforta- 
ble sense of actual mystery, and a premonition of 
something more to come. This, however, he was 
willing to attribute to the depressed condition of 
 
his spirits, which threw its gloom over every 
object, abstract and concrete, and which induced 
the tendency to exaggerate any strange or un- 
pleasant experience of which he had been the 
victim. It was useless to try to think of anything 
else; his brain felt as if it had resolved itself into 
a kaleidoscope, through which those three scenes 
shifted eternally. Finally, he fell asleep, and did 
not awaken until it was time to dress for dinner. 
Before he left his room, Weir's maid knocked 
at his door and handed him a note, in which 
the lady of Rhyd-Alwyn apologized for leaving 
him to himself for an entire day, and announced 
that she would not appear at dinner, but would 
meet him in the drawing-room immediately there- 
after. Dartmouth read the note through with a 
puzzled expression: it was formal and stilted, 
even for Weir. She was gone when he came to 
his senses in the gallery the night before. Had 
she awakened and become conscious of the 
situation ? It was not a pleasant reminiscense for a 
girl to have, and he felt honestly sorry for her. 
Then he groaned in spirit at the prospect of an 
hour's tete-a-tete with Sir Iltyd. He liked Sir 
Iltyd very much, and thought him possessed of 
several qualifications valuable in a father-in-law, 
among them his devotion to his library; but 
in his present frame of mind he felt that history 
and politics were topics he would like to relegate 
out of existence. 
 
He put the best face on the situation he could 
muster, however, and managed to conceal from 
Sir Iltyd the fact that his spirits were in other 
than their normal condition. The old baronet's 
eyes were not very sharp, particularly when he 
had a cold, and he was not disposed to notice 
Harold's pallor and occasional fits of abstraction, 
so long as one of his favorite topics was under 
discussion. When Dartmouth found that he had 
got safely through the dinner, he felt that he had 
accomplished a feat which would have rejoiced 
the heart of his grandmother, and he thought that 
his reward could not come a moment too soon. 
Accordingly, for the first time since he had been 
at Rhyd-Alwyn, he declined to sit with Sir Iltyd 
over the wine, and went at once in search of 
Weir. 
As he opened the door of the drawing-room he 
found the room in semi-darkness, lighted only by 
the last rays of the setting sun, which strayed 
through the window. He went in, but did not 
see Weir. She was not in her accustomed seat 
by the fire, and he was about to call her name, 
when he came to a sudden halt, and for the mo- 
ment every faculty but one seemed suspended. 
A woman was standing by the open window 
looking out over the water. She had not heard him, 
and had not turned her head. Dartmouth felt a 
certain languor, as of one who is dreaming, and is 
half-conscious that he is dreaming, and therefore 
 
yields unresistingly to the pranks of his sleeping 
brain. Was it Weir, or was it the woman who 
had been a part of his vision last night ? She wore 
a long, shining yellow dress, and her arms and 
neck were bare. Surely it was the other woman! 
She turned her head a little, and he saw her 
face in profile; there was the same stamp of 
suffering, the same pallor. Weir had never 
looked like that; before he had known her she 
had had, sometimes, a little expression of sadness 
and abstraction which had made her look very 
picturesque, but which had borne no relationship 
to suffering or experience. And the scene! the 
room filled with dying light, the glimpse of water 
beyond, the very attitude of the woman at the 
casement — all were strangely and deeply familiar 
to him, although not the details of the vision of 
last night. The only things that were wanting 
were the Eastern hangings to cover the dark 
wainscotted old walls, and the skins on the black, 
time-stained floor. 
With a sudden effort of will he threw off the 
sense of mystery which had again taken
possession of him, and walked forward quickly. As 
Weir heard him, she turned her head and met 
his eyes, and although a closer look at her face 
startled him afresh, his brain was his own again, 
and he was determined that it should remain so. 
He might yield to supernatural impressions when 
unprepared, but not when both brain and will 
 
were defiantly on the alert. That she was not 
only unaccountably altered, but that she shrank 
from him, was evident; and he was determined to 
hear her version of last night's adventure without 
delay. He believed that she would 
unconsciously say something which would throw a flood 
of light on the whole matter. 
" Where did you get that dress ? " he said, abruptly. 
She started sharply, and the color flew to the 
roots of her hair, then, receding, left her paler 
than before. "Why do you ask me that?" she 
demanded, with unconcealed, almost terrified 
suspicion in her tones. 
"Because," he said, looking straight into her 
eyes, " I had a peculiar dream last night, in which 
you wore a dress exactly like this. It is rather a 
remarkable coincidence that you should put it on 
to-night." 
"Harold!" she cried, springing forward and 
catching his arm convulsively in both her hands, 
"what has happened? What is it? And how 
can you talk so calmly when to me it seems — " 
He put his arm around her. " Seems what ? " 
he said, soothingly. " Did you have a dream, 
too ? " 
" Yes," she said, her face turning a shade 
paler, " I had a dream." 
" And in it you wore this dress ? " 
" Yes." 
 
" Tell me your dream. " 
" No ! " she exclaimed, " I cannot." 
Dartmouth put his hand under her chin and 
pushed her head back against his shoulder, 
upturning her face. " You must tell me," he 
said, quietly; " every word of it ! I am not 
asking you out of curiosity, but because the dream 
I had was too remarkable to be without 
meaning. I cannot reach that meaning unassisted; 
but with your help I believe I can. So tell me 
at once." 
"Oh, Harold ! " she cried, throwing her arms 
suddenly about him and clinging to him, " I have 
no one else to speak to but you: I cannot tell 
my father; he would not understand. No girl 
ever felt so horribly alone as I have felt to-day. 
If it had not been for you I believe I should have 
killed myself; but you are everything to me, only 
— how can I tell you ? " 
He tightened his arms about her and kissed 
her. 
" Don't kiss me," she exclaimed sharply, 
trying to free herself. 
" Why not ? " he demanded, in surprise. " Why 
should I not kiss you ? " 
She let her head drop again to his shoulder. 
"True," she said; "why should you not? It is 
only that I forget that I am not the woman I 
dreamed I was; and for her — it was wrong to 
kiss you." 
 
" Weir, tell me your dream at once. It is for 
your good as well as mine that I insist. You 
will be miserable and terrified until you take 
someone into your confidence. I believe I can 
explain your dream, as well as give you the 
comfort of talking it over with you." 
She slipped suddenly out of his arms and 
walked quickly to the end of the room and 
back, pausing within a few feet of him. The 
room was growing dark, and he could distinguish 
little of her beyond the tall outline of her form 
and the unnatural brilliancy of her eyes, but he 
respected her wish and remained where he was. 
"Very well," she said, rapidly. "I will tell 
you. I went to sleep without much terror, for I 
had told my maid to sleep in my dressing-room. 
But I suppose the storm and the story I had told 
you had unsettled my nerves, for I soon began 
to dream a horrid dream. I thought I was dead 
once more. I could feel the horrible chill and 
pain, the close-packed ice about me. I was 
dead, but yet there was a spirit within me. I 
could feel it whispering to itself, although it had 
not as yet spread its fire through me and 
awakened me into life. It whispered that it was tired, 
and disheartened, and disappointed, and wanted 
rest; that it had been on a long, fruitless journey, 
and was so weary that it would not take up the 
burden of life again just yet. But its rest could 
not be long; there was someone it must find, 
 
and before he had gone again to that boundless 
land, whose haunting spirits were impalpable as 
flecks of mist. And then it moaned and wept, 
and seemed to live over its past, and I went back 
with it, or I was one with it — I cannot define. It 
recalled many scenes, but only one made an 
impression on my memory; I can recall no other." 
She paused abruptly, but Dartmouth made no 
comment; he stood motionless in breathless 
expectancy. She put her hand to her head, and 
after a moment continued haltingly: 
"I — oh — I hardly know how to tell it. I 
seemed to be standing with you in a room more 
familiar to me than any room in this castle; a 
room full of tapestries and skins and cushions 
and couches; a room which if I had seen it in a 
picture I should have recognized as Oriental, 
although I have never seen an Oriental room. I 
have always had an indescribable longing to see 
Constantinople, and it seemed to me in that 
dream as if I had but to walk to the window and 
look down upon it — as if I had looked down upon 
it many times and loved its beauty. But although 
I was with you, and your arms were about me, we 
were not as we are now — as we were before the 
dream: we had suffered all that a man and a 
woman can suffer who love and are held apart. 
And you looked as you do now, yet utterly 
different. You looked years older, and you were 
dressed so strangely. I do not know how I 
 
looked, but I know how I felt. I felt that I had 
made up my mind to commit a deadly sin, and 
that I gloried in it. I had suffered because to 
love you was a sin; but I only loved you the more 
for that reason. Then you slowly drew me 
further into the room and pressed me more 
closely in your arms and kissed me again, and 
then — I — oh — I do not know — it is all so vague 
I don't know what it meant — but it seemed as if 
the very foundations of my life were being swept 
away. And yet — oh, I cannot explain ! I do 
not know, myself." And she would have thrown 
herself headlong on the sofa had not Dartmouth 
sprang forward and caught her. 
"There, never mind," he said, quickly. " Let 
that go. It is of no consequence. A dream like 
that must necessarily end in a climax of 
incoherence and excitement." 
He drew her down on the sofa, and for a 
moment said nothing further. He had to 
acknowledge that she had deepened the mystery, and 
given no key. A silence fell, and neither 
moved. Suddenly she raised her head. " What 
was your dream ? " she demanded. 
" The same. I don't pretend to explain it. 
And I shall not insult your understanding by 
inventing weak excuses. If it means anything 
we will give the problem no rest until we have 
solved it. If we cannot solve it, then we are 
justified in coming to the conclusion that there 
 
is nothing in it. But I believe we shall get to 
the bottom of it yet." 
" Perhaps," she said, wearily; " I do not know. 
I only feel that I shall never be myself again, 
but must go through life with that woman's 
burden of sin and suffering weighing me down." 
She paused a moment, and then continued: " In 
that dream I wore a dress like this, and that is 
the reason I put it on to-night. I was getting 
some things in Paris before I left, and [ bought 
it thinking you would like it; I had heard you 
say that yellow was your favorite color. When 
my maid opened the door of my wardrobe to-night 
to take out a dress, and I saw this hanging there, it 
gave me such a shock that I caught at a chair to 
keep from falling. And then I felt irresistibly 
. impelled to put it on. I felt as if it were a shroud, 
vivid in color as it is; but it had an uncanny 
fascination for me, and I experienced a morbid de- 
light in feeling both spirit and flesh revolt, and 
yet compelling them to do my will. I never 
knew that it was in me to feel so, but I suppose I 
