perpetuation of his race and in a certain dominating inde 
pendence, that injured no one and gave himself immense 
satisfaction. At his age he was not to be blamed for such 
feelings. They proceeded in reality far more from habit than 
from a vain disposition, and it seemed to him that if he 
bore the calamity bravely he had a right to abuse his fate in 
his own language. But he could not always keep himself 
from betraying more emotion than he cared to show. 
' Do not talk of death,' said Corona. ' Giovanni and I 
will make your life happy and worth living.' She sighed as 
she spoke, in spite of herself. 
' Giovanni and you ! ' repeated the prince gloomily. ' But 
for his folly what is the use of talking ? I have much to 
do. If he comes to you this afternoon please tell him that 
I want him.' 
Corona was glad when the meal was ended, and she went 
back to her own room. She had promised to go and see 
Faustina again, but otherwise she did not know bow to 
occupy herself A vague uneasiness beset her as the time 
passed and her husband did not come home. It was unlike 
him to stay away all day without warning her, though she 
was obliged to confess to herself that she had of late shown 
very little interest in his doings, and that it would not be 
very surprising if he began to do as he pleased without 
informing her of his intentions. Nevertheless she wished 
he would show himself before evening. The force of habit 
was still strong, and she missed him without quite knowing 
it. At last she made an effort against her apathy, and went 
out to pay the promised visit. 
The Montevarchi household was subdued under all the 
outward pomp of a ponderous mourning. The gates and 
staircases were hung with black. In the vast antechamber 
the canopy was completely hidden by an enormous hatch 
ment before which the dead prince had lain in state during 
the previous night and a part of the day. According to the 
Roman custom the body had been already removed, the 
regulations of the city requiring that this should be done 
within twenty -four hours. The great black pedestals on 
which the lights had been placed were still standing, and 
lent a ghastly and sepulchral appearance to the whole. 
Numbers of servants in mourning liveries stood around an 
immense copper brazier in a corner, talking together in low 
tones, their voices dying away altogether as the Princess 
Sant' Ilario entered the open door of the hall. The man 
who came forward appeared to be the person in charge 
of the funeral, for Corona had not seen him in the house 
before. 
' Donna Faustina expects me,' she said, continuing to 
walk towards the entrance to the apartments. 
' Your Excellency's name ? ' inquired the man. Corona 
was surprised that he should ask, and wondered whether 
even the people of his class already knew the result of the 
suit. 
' Donna Corona Saracinesca,' she answered in distinct 
tones. The appellation sounded strange and unfamiliar. 
'Donna Corona Saracinesca,' the man repeated in a 
loud voice a second later. He had almost run into San 
Giacinto, who was coming out at that moment. Corona 
found herself face to face with her cousin. 
' You princess ! ' he exclaimed, putting out his hand. 
In spite of the relationship he was not privileged to call her 
by her name. ' You why does the man announce you in 
that way ? ' 
Corona took his hand and looked quietly into his face. 
They had not met since the decision. 
' I told him to do so. I shall be known by that name 
in future. I have come to see Faustina.' She would have 
passed on. 
' Allow me to say,' said San Giacinto, in his deep, calm 
voice, ' that as far as I am concerned you are, and always 
shall be, Princess Sant' Ilario. No one can regret more than 
I the position in which I am placed towards you and yours, 
and I si i all certainly do all in my power to prevent any such 
unnecessary changes.' 
' We cannot discuss that matter here,' answered Corona
speaking more coldly than she meant to do. 
' I trust there need be no discussion. I even hope that 
you will bear me no ill will.' 
' I bear you none. You have acted Jionestly and openly. 
You had right on your side. But neither my husband nor 
I will live under a borrowed name.' 
San Giacinto seemed hurt by her answer. He stood aside 
to allow her to pass, and there was something dignified in 
his demeanour that pleased Corona 
'The settlement is not made yet,' he said gravely. 
' Until then the name is yours.' 
When she was gone he looked after her with an expres 
sion of annoyance upon his face. He understood well 
enough what she felt, but he was very far from wishing to 
let any unpleasantness arise between him and her family. 
Even in the position to which he had now attained he felt 
that there was an element of uncertainty, and he did not feel 
able to dispense with the good -will of his relations, merely 
because he was Prince Saracinesca and master of a great 
fortune. His early life had made him a cautious man, and 
he did not underestimate the value of personal influence. 
Moreover, he had not a bad heart, and preferred if possible 
to be on good terms with everybody. According to his own 
view he had done nothing more than claim what was legiti 
mately his, but he did not want the enmity of those who 
had resigned all into his hands. 
Corona went on her way and found Faustina and Flavia 
together. Their mother was not able to see any one. The 
rest of the family had gone to the country as soon as the 
body had been taken away, yielding without any great resist 
ance to the entreaties of their best friends who, according to 
Roman custom, thought it necessary to ' divert' the mourners. 
That is the consecrated phrase, and people of other countries 
may open their eyes in astonishment at the state of domestic 
relations as revealed by this practice. It is not an uncom 
mon thing for the majority of the family to go away even 
before death has actually taken place. Speaking of a person 
who is dying, it is not unusual to say, ' You may imagine 
how ill he is, for the family has left him ! ' The servants 
attend the Requiem Mass, the empty carriages follow the 
374  CHAP, 
hearse to the gates of the city, but the family is already ID 
the country, trying to 'divert' itself. 
Flavia and Faustina, however, had stayed at home, partly 
because the old princess was really too deeply moved and 
profoundly shocked to go away, and partly because San 
Giacinto refused to leave Rome. Faustina, too, was eccen 
tric enough to think such haste after 'diversion' altogether 
indecent, and she herself had been through such a series of 
emotions during the twenty-four hours that she found rest 
needful. As for Flavia, she took matters very calmly, but 
would have preferred very much to be with her brothers 
and their wives. The calamity had for the time subdued 
her vivacity, though it was easy to see that it had made no 
deep impression upon her nature. If the truth were told, 
she was more unpleasantly affected by thus suddenly meeting 
Corona than by her father's tragic death. She thought it 
necessary to be more than usually affectionate, not out of 
calculation, but rather to get rid of a disagreeable im 
pression. She sprang forward and kissed Corona on both 
cheeks. 
' I was longing to see you ! ' she said enthusiastically. 
'You have been so kind to Faustina. I am sure we can 
never thank you enough. Imagine, if she had been obliged 
to spend the night alone in prison ! Such an abominable 
mistake, too. I hope that dreadful man will be sent to the 
galleys. Poor little Faustina ! How could any one think 
she could do such a thing ! ' 
Corona was not prepared for Flavia's manner, and it 
grated disagreeably on her sensibilities. But she said 
nothing, only returning the salutation with becoming cordi 
ality before sitting down between the two sisters. Faustina 
looked on coldly, disgusted with such indifference. It struck 
her that if Corona had not accompanied her to the Termini, 
it would have been very hard to induce any of her own 
family to do so. 
'And poor papa!' continued Flavia volubly. 'Is it not 
too dreadful, too horrible ? To think of any one daring ! I 
shall never get over the impression it made on me never. 
Without a priest, without any one poor dear ?' 
' Heaven is very merciful,' said Corona, thinking it neces 
sary to make some such remark. 
' Oh, I know,' answered Flavia, with sudden seriousness. 
' I know. But poor papa you see I am afraid ' 
She stopped significantly and shook her head, evidently 
implying that Prince Montevarchi's chances of blessedness 
were but slender. 
'Flavia!' cried Faustina indignantly, 'how can you say 
such things !' 
' Oh, I say nothing, and besides, I daresay you see he 
was sometimes very kind. It was only yesterday, for 
instance, that he actually promised me those earrings you 
know, Faustina, the pearl drops at Civilotti's it is true, 
they were not so very big after all. He really said he would 
give them to me as a souvenir if oh ! I forgot.' 
She stopped with some embarrassment, for she had been 
on the point of saying that the earrings were to be a remem 
brance if the suit were won, when she recollected that shr 
was speaking to Corona. 
' Well it would have been very kind of him if he had,' 
she added. ' Perhaps that is something. Poor papa ! One 
would feel more sure about it, if he had got some kind of 
absolution.' 
' I do not believe you cared for him at all ! ' exclaimed 
Faustina Corona evidently shared this belief, for she looked 
very grave and was silent. 
' Oh, Faustina, how unkind you are ! ' cried Flavia in 
great astonishment and some anger. ' I am sure I loved 
poor papa as much as any of you, and perhaps a great deal 
better. We were always such good friends !' 
Faustina raised her eyebrows a little and looked at Corona 
as though to say that her sister was hopeless, and for some 
minutes no one spoke. 
' You are quite rested now  ?' asked Corona at last, turning 
to the young girl. 'Poor child ! what you must have suffered ! ' 
' It is strange, but I am not tired. I slept, you know, 
for I was worn out.' 
' Faustina's grief did not keep her awake,' observed Flavia, 
willing to say something disagreeable. 
' I only came to see how you were,' said Corona, who did 
not care to prolong the interview. ' I hope to hear that 
your mother is better to-morrow. I met Saracinesca as I 
came in, but I did not ask him.' 
' Your father-in-law ? ' asked Faustina innocently. ' I did 
not know he had been here.' 
' No ; your husband, my dear,' answered Corona, looking 
at Flavia as she spoke. She was curieus to see what effect 
the change had produced upon her. Flavia's cheeks flushed 
quickly, evidently with pleasure, if also with some embar 
rassment. But Corona was calm and unmoved as usual. 
' I did not know you already called him so,' said Flavia. 
' How strange it will be !' 
'We shall soon get used to it,' replied Corona, with a 
smile, as she rose to go. ' I wish you many years of happi 
ness with your new name. Good-bye.' Faustina went with 
her into one of the outer rooms. 
' Tell me,' she said, when they were alone, ' how did your 
husband manage it so quickly ( \ They told me to-day that 
the cardinal had at first refused. I cannot understand it. 
I could not ask you before Flavia she is so inquisitive ! ' 
'I do not know I have not seen Giovanni yet. He 
stayed with the cardinal when the carriage came for us. It 
was managed in some way, and quickly. I shall hear all 
about it this evening. What is it, dear ? ' 
There were tears in Faustina's soft eyes, followed quickly 
by a little sob. 
' I miss him dreadfully ! ' she exclaimed, laying her head 
on her friend's shoulder. ' And I am so unhappy ! We 
parted angrily, and I can never tell him how sorry I am. 
You do not think it could have had anything to do with it, 
do you ?" 
' Your little quarrel ? No, child. What could it have 
changed ? We do not know what happened.' 
' I shall never forget his face. I was dreadfully undutiful oh ! I could almost marry that man if it would do any 
good !' 
Corona smiled sadly. The young girl's sorrow was 
genuine, in strange contrast to Flavia's voluble flippancy. 
She laid her hand affectionately on the thick chestnut 
hair. 
' Perhaps he sees now that you should not marry against 
your heart.' 
' Oh, do you think so ? I wish it were possible. I 
should not feel as though I were so bad if I thought he 
understood now. I could bear it better. I should not feel 
as though it were almost a duty to marry Frangipani.' 
Corona turned quickly with an expression that was almost 
fierce in its intensity. She took Faustina's hands in hers. 
'Never do that, Faustina. Whatever comes to you, do 
not do that ! You do not know what it is to live with a 
man you do not love, even if you do not hate him. It is 
worse than death.' 
Corona kissed her and left her standing by the door. 
Was it possible, Faustina asked, that Corona did not love 
her husband ? Or was she speaking of her former life with 
old Astrardente ? Of course, it must be that. Giovanni and 
Corona were a proverbially happy couple. 
When Corona again entered her own room, there was a 
note lying upon the table, the one her husband had written 
that morning from his place of confinement. She tore the 
envelope open with an anxiety of which she had not believed 
herself capable. She had asked for him when she returned 
and he had not been heard of yet The vague uneasiness 
she had felt at his absence suddenly increased, until she felt 
that unless she saw him at once she must go in search ol 
him. She read the note through again and again, without 
clearly understanding the contents. 
It was evident that he had left Rome suddenly and had 
not cared to tell her whither he was going, since the instruc 
tions as to what she was to say were put in such a manner 
as to make it evident that they were only to serve as an 
excuse for his absence to others, and not as an explanation 
to herself. The note was enigmatical and might mean 
almost anything. At last Corona tossed the bit of paper 
into the fire, and tapped the thick carpet impatiently witb 
her foot. 
' How coldly he writes !' she exclaimed aloud. 
 
The door opened and her maid appeared. 
' Will your Excellency receive Monsieur Gouache t f asked 
the woman from the threshold. 
'No! certainly not !' answered Corona, in a voice that 
frightened the servant. ' I am not at home,' 
' Yes, your Excellency.' 
CHAPTER XXVI 
THE amount of work which Arnoldo Meschini did in the 
twenty-four hours of the day depended almost entirely upon 
his inclinations. The library had always been open to the 
public once a week, on Mondays, and on those occasions the 
librarian was obliged to be present. The rest of his time 
was supposed to be devoted to the incessant labour connected 
with so important a collection of books, and, on the whole, 
he had done far more than was expected of him. Prince 
Montevarchi had never proposed to give him an assistant, 
and he would have rejected any such offer, since the presence 
of another person would have made it almost impossible for 
him to carry on his business of forging ancient manuscripts. 
The manual labour of his illicit craft was of course performed 
in his own room, but a second librarian could not have 
failed to discover that there was something wrong. Night 
after night he carried the precious manuscripts to his chamber, 
bringing them back and restoring them to their places every 
morning. During the day he studied attentively what he 
afterwards executed in the quiet hours when he could be 
alone. Of the household none but the prince himself ever 
came to the library ; no other member of the family cared 
for the books or knew anything about them. His employer 
being dead, Meschini was practically master of all the shelves 
contained. No one disturbed him, no one asked what 
he was doing. His salary would be paid regularly by the 
steward, and he would in all probability be left to vegetate 
unheeded for the rest of his natural lifetime. When he 
died some one else would be engaged in his place. In the 
BANT' ILARIO 379 
ordinary course of events no other future would have been 
open to him. 
He awoke very late in the morning on the day after the 
murder, and lay for some time wondering why he was so 
very uncomfortable, why his head hurt him, why his vision 
was indistinct, why he could remember nothing he had done 
before going to bed. The enormous quantity of liquor he 
had drunk had temporarily destroyed his faculties, which 
were not hardened by the habitual use of alcohol. He 
turned his head uneasily upon the pillow and saw the bottles 
on the table, the candle burnt down in the brass candle 
stick and the general disorder in the room. He glanced 
at his own body and saw that he was lying dressed upon 
his bed. Then the whole truth flashed upon his mind with 
appalling vividness. A shock went through his system as 
though some one had struck him violently on the back of 
the head, while the light in the room was momentarily 
broken into flashes that pained his eyes. He got upon his 
feet with difficulty, and steadied himself by the bed-post, 
hardly able to stand alone. 
He had murdered his master. The first moment in 
which he realised the fact was the most horrible he remem 
bered to have passed. He had killed the prince and could 
recall nothing, or next to nothing, that had occurred since the 
deed. Almost before he knew what he was doing he had 
locked his door with a double turn of the key and was 
pushing the furniture against it, the table, the chairs, every 
thing that he could move. It seemed to him that he could 
already hear upon the winding stair the clank of the gens 
d'armes' sabres as they came to get him. He looked wildly 
round the room to see whether there was anything that 
could lead to discovery. The unwonted exertion, however, 
had restored the circulation of his blood, and with it arose 
an indistinct memory of the sense of triumph he had felt 
when he had last entered the chamber. He asked himself 
how he could have rejoiced over the deed, unless he had un 
consciously taken steps for his own safety. The body must 
have been found long ago. 
Very gradually there rose before him the vision of the 
scene in the study, when he had been summoned thither by 
the two servants, the dead prince stretched on the table, the 
pale faces, the prefect, Donna Faustina's voice, a series of 
questions asked in a metallic, pitiless tone. He had not 
been drunk, therefore, when they had sent for him. And 
yet, he knew that he had not been sober. In what state, 
then, had he found himself  ? With a shudder, he remem 
bered his terror in the library, his fright at the ghost which 
had turned out to be only his own coat, his visit to his room, 
and the first draught he had swallowed. From that point 
onwards his memory grew less and less clear. He found 
that he could not remember at all how he had come upstairs 
the last time. 
One thing was evident, however. He had not been arrested, 
since he found himself in his chamber unmolested. Who, 
then, had been taken in his place ? He was amazed to find 
that he did not know. Surely, at the first inquest, some 
thing must have been said which would have led to the 
arrest of some one. The law never went away empty-handed. 
He racked his aching brain to bring back the incident, but it 
would not be recalled for the excellent reason that he 
really knew nothing about the matter. It was a relief at all 
events to find that he had actually been examined with the 
rest and had not been suspected. Nevertheless, he had 
undoubtedly done the deed, of which the mere thought made 
him tremble in every joint. Or was it all a part of his 
drunken dreams ? No, that, at least, could not be explained 
away. For a long time he moved uneasily from his barri 
cade at the door to the window, from which he tried to see 
the street below. But his room was in the attic, and the 
broad stone cornice of the palace cut off the view effectually. 
At last he began to pull the furniture away from the entrance, 
slowly at first, as he merely thought of its uselessness, then 
with feverish haste, as he realised that the fact of his trying to 
entrench himself in his quarters would seem suspicious. In 
a few seconds he had restored everything to its place. The 
brandy bottles disappeared into the cupboard in the wall ; 
a bit of candle filled the empty candlestick. He tore off 
his clothes and jumped into bed, tossing himself about to 
give it the appearance of having been slept in. Then he 
got up again and proceeded to make his toilet. All his clothes 
were black, and he had but a slender choice. He under 
stood vaguely, however, that there would be a funeral or 
some sort of ceremony in which all the members of the 
household would be expected to join, and he arrayed himself 
in the best he had a decent suit of broadcloth, a clean shirt, 
a black tie. He looked at himself in the cracked mirror. 
His face was ghastly yellow, the whites of his eyes injected 
with blood, the veins at the temples swollen and congested. 
He was afraid that his appearance might excite remark, 
though it was in reality not very much changed. 
Then, as he thought of this, he realised that he was to 
meet a score of persons, some of whom would very probably 
look at him curiously. His nerves were in a shattered con 
dition ; he almost broke down at the mere idea of what he 
must face. What would become of him in the presence of 
the reality ? And yet he had met the whole household 
bravely enough on the very spot where he had done the 
murder on the previous evening. He sat down, overpowered 
by the revival of his fear and horror. The room swam 
around him and he grasped the edge of the table for support. 
But he could not stay there all day. Any reluctance to 
make his appearance at such a time might be fatal. There 
was only one way to get the necessary courage, and that was 
to drink again. He shrank from the thought. He had not 
acquired the habitual drunkard's certainty of finding nerve 
and boldness and steadiness of hand in the morning draught, 
and the idea of tasting the liquor was loathsome to him in his 
disordered state. He rose to his feet and tried to act as 
though he were in the midst of a crowd of persons. Ape 
like, he grinned at the furniture, walked about the room, 
spoke aloud, pretending that he was meeting real people, 
tried to frame sentences expressive of profound grief. He 
opened the door and made a pretence of greeting an 
imaginary individual. It was as though a stream of cold 
water had fallen upon his neck. His knees knocked to 
gether, and he felt sick with fear. There was evidently no use 
in attempting to go down without some stimulant. Almost 
382 SAN^ TLARIO CHAK 
sorrowfully he shut the door again, and took the bottle from 
its place. He took several small doses, patiently testing the 
effect until his hand was steady and warm. 
Ten minutes later he was kneeling with many others 
before the catafalque, beneath the great canopy of black. 
He was dazed by the light of the great branches of candles, 
and confused by the subdued sound of whispering and of 
softly treading feet ; but he knew that his outward demean 
our was calm and collected, and that he exhibited no signs 
of nervousness. San Giacinto was standing near one of the 
doors, having taken his turn with the sons of the dead man 
to remain in the room. He watched the librarian and a 
rough sort of pity made itself felt in his heart. 
' Poor Meschini !' he thought. ' He has lost a friend. I 
daresay he is more genuinely sorry than all the family put 
together, poor fellow ! ' 
Arnoldo Meschini, kneeling before the body of the man he 
had murdered, with a brandy bottle in the pocket of his long 
coat, would have come to an evil end if the giant had guessed 
the truth. But he looked what he was supposed to be, the 
humble, ill -paid, half-starved librarian, mourning the master 
he had faithfully served for thirty years. He knelt a long 
time, his lips moving mechanically with the words of an oft- 
repeated prayer. In reality he was afraid to rise from his knees 
alone, and was waiting until some of the others made the first 
move. But the rows of lacqueys, doubtless believing that 
the amount of their future wages would largely depend upon 
the vigour of their present mourning, did not seem inclined 
to desist from their orisons. To Meschini the time was 
interminable, and his courage was beginning to ooze away 
from him, as the sense of his position acquired a tormenting 
force. He could have borne it well enough in a church, in 
the midst of a vast congregation, he could have fought ofi 
his horror even here for a few minutes, but to sustain such 
a part for a quarter of an hour seemed almost impossible. 
He would have given his soul, which indeed was just then 
of but small value, to take a sip of courage from the bottle, 
and his clasped fingers twitched nervously, longing to find the 
way to his pocket. He glanced along the line, measuring 
his position, to see whether there was a possibility of drink 
ing without being observed, but he saw that it would be 
madness to think of it, and began repeating his prayer with 
redoubled energy, in the hope of distracting his mind. Then 
a horrible delusion began to take possession of him ; he 
fancied that the dead man was beginning to turn his head 
slowly, almost imperceptibly, towards him. Those closed eyes 
would open and look him in the face, a supernatural voice 
would speak his name. As on the previous afternoon the 
cold perspiration began to trickle from his brow. He was 
on the point of crying aloud with terror, when the man next 
to him rose. In an instant he was on his feet Both bent 
again, crossed themselves, and retired. Meschini stumbled 
and caught at his companion's arm, but succeeded in gaining 
the door. As he passed out, his face was so discomposed 
that San Giacinto looked down upon him with increased 
compassion, then followed him a few steps and laid his hand 
on his shoulder. The librarian started violently and stood 
still 
' He was a good friend to you, Signer Meschini,' said the 
big man kindly. ' But take heart, you shall not be forgotten,' 
The dreaded moment had come, and it had been very 
terrible, but San Giacinto's tone was reassuring. He could 
not have suspected anything, though the servants said that 
he was an inscrutable man, profound in his thoughts and 
fearful in his anger. He was the one of all the family whom 
Meschini most feared. 
' God have mercy on him ! ' whined the librarian, tremb- 
ing to his feet. ' He was the best of men, and is no doubt 
in glory ! ' 
' No doubt,' replied San Giacinto drily. He enter 
tained opinions of his own upon the subject, and he did not 
like the man's tone. ' No doubt,' he repeated. ' We will 
try and fulfil his wishes with regard to you.' 
' Grazie, Eccelenza ! ' said Meschini with great humility, 
making horns with his fingers behind his back to ward off 
the evil eye, and edging away in the direction of the grand 
staircase. 
San Giacinto returned to the door and paid no more 
attention to him. Then Meschini almost ran down the stairs 
and did not slacken his speed until he found himself in the 
street. The cold air of the winter's day revived him, and 
he found himself walking rapidly in the direction of the 
Ponte Quattro Capi. He generally took that direction when 
he went out without any especial object, for his friend 
Tiberio Colaisso, the poor apothecary, had his shop upon the 
little island of Saint Bartholomew, which is connected with 
the shores of the river by a double bridge, whence the name, 
' the bridge of four heads.' 
Meschini paused and looked over the parapet at the 
yellow swirling water. The eddies seemed to take queer 
shapes and he watched them for a long time. He had a 
splitting headache, of the kind which is made more painful 
by looking at quickly moving objects, which, at the same 
time, exercise an irresistible fascination over the eye. Almost 
unconsciously he compared his own life to the river turbid, 
winding, destroying. The simile was incoherent, like most 
of his fancies on that day, but it served to express a thought, 
and he began to feel an odd sympathy for the muddy stream, 
such as perhaps no one had ever felt before him. But as he 
looked he grew dizzy, and drew back from the parapet. 
There must have been something strange in his face, for a 
man who was passing looked at him curiously and asked 
whether he were ill He shook his head with a sickly 
smile and passed on. 
The apothecary was standing idly at his door, waiting for 
a custom that rarely came his way. He was a cadaverous 
man, about fifty years of age, with eyes of an uncertain colour 
set deep in his head. An ill-kept, grizzled beard descended 
upon his chest, and gave a certain wildness to his appearance. 
A very shabby green smoking cap, trimmed with tarnished 
silver lace, was set far back upon his head, displaying a 
wrinkled forehead, much heightened by baldness, but of pro 
portions that denoted a large and active brain. That he took 
snuff in great quantities was apparent. Otherwise he was 
neither very dirty nor very clean, but his thumbs had that 
peculiar shape which seems to be the result of constantly 
rolling pills. Meschini stopped before him. 
' Sor Arnoldo, good-day,' said the chemist, scrutinising 
his friend's face curiously. 
' Good-day, Sor Tiberio,' replied the librarian. ' Will 
you let me come in for a little moment V There seemed to 
be an attempt at a jest in the question, for the apothecary 
almost smiled. 
' Padrone,' he said, retiring backwards through the narrow 
door. ' A game of scopa to-day ? ' 
' Have you the time to spare ? ' inquired the other, in a 
serious tone. They always maintained the myth that Tiberio 
Colaisso was a very busy man. 
' To-day,' answered the latter, without a smile, and em 
phasising the word as though it denned an exception, ' to 
day, I have nothing to do. Besides, it is early.' 
' We can play a hand and then we can dine at Cicco's.' 
' Being Friday in Advent, I had intended to fast,' replied 
the apothecary, who had not a penny in his pocket. ' But 
since you are so good as to invite me, I do not say no.' 
Meschini said nothing, for he understood the situation, 
which was by no means a novel one. His friend produced 
a pack of Italian cards, almost black with age. He gave 
Meschini the only chair, and seated himself upon a three- 
legged stool. 
It was a dismal scene. The shop was like many of its 
kind in the poorer quarters of old Rome. There was room 
for the counter and for three people to stand before it when 
the door was shut. The floor was covered with a broken 
pavement of dingy bricks. As the two men began to play 
a fine, drizzling rain wet the silent street outside, and the 
bricks within at once exhibited an unctuous moisture. The 
sky had become cloudy after the fine morning, and there was 
little light in the shop. Three of the walls were hidden by 
cases with glass doors, containing an assortment of majolica 
jars which would delight a modern amateur, but which looked 
dingy and mean in the poor shop. Here and there, between 
them, stood bottles large and small, some broken and dusty, 
others filled with liquids and bearing paper labels, brown 
with age, the ink inscriptions fading into the dirty surface 
that surrounded them. The only things in the place which 
2c 
 
looked tolerably clean were the little brass scales and the 
white marble tablet for compounding solid medicines. 
The two men looked as though they belonged to the little 
room. Meschini's yellow complexion was as much in keep 
ing with the surroundings as the chemist's gray, colourless 
face. His bloodshot eyes wandered from the half-defaced 
cards to the objects in the shop, and he was uncertain in his 
play. His companion looked at him as though he were try 
ing to solve some intricate problem that gave him trouble. 
He himself was a man who, like the librarian, had begun 
life under favourable circumstances, had studied medicine 
and had practised it. But he had been unfortunate, and, 
though talented, did not possess the qualifications most neces 
sary for his profession. He had busied himself with chemistry 
and had invented a universal panacea which had failed, and 
in which he had sunk most of his small capital. Disgusted 
with his reverses he had gravitated slowly to his present 
position. Finding him careless and indifferent to their 
wants, his customers had dropped away, one by one, until he 
earned barely enough to keep body and soul together. Only 
the poorest class of people, emboldened by the mean aspect 
of his shop, came in to get a plaster, an ointment or a black 
draught, at the lowest possible prices. And yet, in certain 
branches, Tiberio Colaisso was a learned man. At all events 
he had proved himself able to do all that Meschini asked of 
him. He was keen, too in an indolent way, and a single 
glance had satisfied him that something very unusual had 
happened to the librarian. He watched him patiently, hoping 
to find out the truth without questions. At the same 
time, the hope of winning a few coppers made him keep an 
eye on the game. To his surprise he won easily, and he was 
further astonished when he saw that the miserly Meschini 
was not inclined to complain of his losses nor to accuse him 
of cheating. 
' You are not lucky to-day,' he remarked at last, when his 
winnings amounted to a couple of pauls a modern franc 
in all. 
Meschini looked at him uneasily and wiped his brow, 
leaning back in the rickety chair. His hands were trembling, 
' No,' he answered. ' I am not quite myself to-day. The 
fact is that a most dreadful tragedy occurred in our house 
last night, the mere thought of which gives me the fever. I 
am even obliged to take a little stimulant from time to 'time.' 
So saying, he drew the bottle from his pocket and applied 
it to his lips. He had hoped that it would not be necessary, 
but he was unable to do without it very long, his nerves 
being broken down by the quantity he had taken on the 
previous night. Colaisso looked on in silence, more puzzled 
than ever. The librarian seemed to be revived by the dose, 
and spoke more cheerfully after it. 
'A most terrible tragedy,' he said. 'The prince was 
murdered yesterday afternoon. I could not speak of it to 
you at once.' 
'Murdered?' exclaimed the apothecary in amazement. 
' And by whom ? ' 
i That is the mystery. He was found dead in his study. 
I will tell you all I know.' 
Meschini communicated the story to his friend in a disjointed fashion, interspersing his narrative with many com 
ments intended to give himself courage to proceed. He told 
the tale with evident reluctance, but he could not avoid the 
necessity. If Tiberio Colaisso read the account in the paper 
that evening, as he undoubtedly would, he would wonder 
why his companion had not been the first to relate the 
catastrophe ; and his wonder might turn into a suspicion. 
It would have been better not to come to the apothecary's, 
but since he found himself there he could not escape from 
informing him of what had happened. 
' It is very strange,' said the chemist, when he had heard 
all Meschini thought he detected a disagreeable look in his 
eyes. 
' It is, indeed,' he answered. ' I am made ill by it See 
how my hand trembles. I am cold and hot.' 
'You have been drinking too much,' said Colaisso suddenly, and with a certain brutality that startled his friend. 
' You are not sober. You must have taken a great deal last 
night. A libation to the dead, I suppose, in the manner of 
the ancients.' 
 
Meschini winced visibly and began to shuffle the cards, 
while he attempted to smile to hide his embarrassment. 
' I was not well yesterday at least I do not know what 
was the matter a headache, I think, nothing more. And 
then, this awful catastrophe horrible ! My nerves are un 
strung. I can scarcely speak.' 
' You need sleep first, and then a tonic,' said the apothe 
cary in a business-like tone. 
' I slept until late this morning. It did me no good. I 
am half dead myself. Yes, if I could sleep again it might 
do me good.' 
' Go home and go to bed. If I were in your place I 
would not drink any more of that liquor. It will only make 
you worse.' 
' Give me something to make me sleep. I will take it.' 
The apothecary looked long at him and seemed to be 
weighing something in his judgment. An evil thought 
crossed his mind. He was very poor. He knew well 
enough, in spite of Meschini's protestations, that he was not 
so poor as he pretended to be. If he were he could not have 
paid so regularly for the chemicals and for the experiments 
necessary to the preparation of his inks. More than once 
the operations had proved to be expensive, but the librarian 
had never complained, though he haggled for a baiocco over 
his dinner at Cicco's wine shop, and was generally angry 
when he lost a paul at cards. He had money somewhere. 
It was evident that he was in a highly nervous state. If he 
could be induced to take opium once or twice it might be 
come a habit To sell opium was very profitable, and Colaisso 
knew well enough the power of the vice and the proportions 
it would soon assume, especially if Meschini thought the 
medicine contained only some harmless drug. 
' Very well,' said the apothecary. 'I will make you a 
draught. But you must be sure that you are ready to sleep 
when you take it. It acts very quickly.' 
The draught which Meschini carried home with him was 
nothing but weak laudanum and water. It looked innocent 
enough in the little glass bottle labelled ' Sleeping potion.' 
But the effect of it, as Colaisso had told him, was very rapid. 
Exhausted by all he had suffered, the librarian closed the 
windows of his room and lay down to rest. In a quarter of 
an hour he was in a heavy sleep. In his dreams he was 
happier than he had ever been before. The whole world 
seemed to be his, to use as he pleased. He was transformed 
into a magnificent being such as he had never imagined in 
his waking hours. He passed from one scene of splendour 
to another, from glory to glory, surrounded by forms of 
beauty, by showers of golden light in a beatitude beyond all 
description. It was as though he had suddenly become 
emperor of the whole universe. He floated through wond 
rous regions of soft colour, and strains of divine music 
sounded in his ears. Gentle hands carried him with an easy 
swaying motion to transcendent heights, where every breath 
he drew was like a draught of sparkling life. His whole 
being was filled with something which he knew was happi 
ness, until he felt as though he could not contain the over 
flowing joy. At one moment he glided beyond the clouds 
through a gorgeous sunset ; at another he was lying on a soft 
invisible couch, looking out to the bright distance distance 
that never ended, never could end, but the contemplation of 
which was rapture, the greater for being inexplicable. An 
exquisite new sense was in him, corresponding to no bodily 
instinct, but rejoicing wildly in something that could not be 
defined, nor understood, nor measured, but only felt. 
At last he began to descend, slowly at first and then with 
increasing speed, till he grew giddy and unconscious in the 
fall. He awoke and uttered a cry of terror. It was night, 
and he was alone in the dark. He was chilled to the bone, 
too, and his head was heavy, but the darkness was unbear 
able, and though he would gladly have slept again he dared 
not remain an instant without a light. He groped about for 
his matches, found them, and lit a candle. A neighbouring 
clock tolled out the hour of midnight, and the sound of the 
bells terrified him beyond measure. Cold, miserable, in an 
agony of fear, his nervousness doubled by the opium and 
by a need of food of which he was not aware, there was but 
one remedy within his reach. The sleeping potion had been 
calculated for one occasion only, and it was all gone. He 
390 SANf ILARIO CHAP, 
tried to drain a few drops from the phial, and a drowsy, half- 
sickening odour rose from it to his nostrils. But there was 
nothing left, nothing but the brandy, and little more than 
half a bottle of that. It was enough for his present need, 
however, and more than enough. He drank greedily, for he 
was parched with thirst, though hardly conscious of the fact. 
Then he slept till morning. But when he opened his eyes 
he was conscious that he was in a worse state than on the 
previous day. He was not only nervous but exhausted} and 
it was with feeble steps that he made his way to his friend's 
shop, in order to procure a double dose of the sleeping mixture. 
If he could sleep through the twenty-four hours, he thought, 
so as not to wake up in the dead of night, he should be better. 
When he made his appearance Tiberio Colaisso knew what 
he wanted, and although he had half repented of what he 
had done, the renewed possibility of selling the precious 
drug was a temptation he could not withstand. 
One day succeeded another, and each morning saw Arnoldo 
Meschini crossing the Ponte Quattro Capi on his way to the 
apothecary's. In the ordinary course of human nature a man 
does not become an opium-eater in a day, nor even, perhaps, 
in a week, but to the librarian the narcotic became a neces 
sity almost from the first. Its action, combined with inces 
sant doses of alcohol, was destructive, but the man's con 
stitution was stronger than would have been believed. He 
possessed, moreover, a great power of controlling his features 
when he was not assailed by supernatural fears, and so it 
came about that, living almost in solitude, no one in the 
Palazzo Montevarchi was aware of his state. It was bad 
enough, indeed, for when he was not under the influence of 
brandy he was sleeping from the effects of opium. In three 
days he was willing to pay anything the apothecary asked, 
and seemed scarcely conscious of the payments he made. He 
kept up a show of playing the accustomed game of cards, 
but he was absent-minded, and was not even angry at his 
daily losses. The apothecary had more money in his pocket 
than he had possessed for many a day. As Arnoldo Mes 
chini sank deeper and deeper, the chemist's spirits rose, and 
he began to assume an air of unwonted prosperity. One of 
the earliest results of the librarian's degraded condition was 
that Tiberio Colaisso procured himself a new green smoking 
cap ornamented profusely with fresh silver lace. 
I had guessed rightly that the place of safety 
and secrecy to which he was to be conveyed was no other 
than the Holy Office, or prison of the Inquisition. He was 
familiar with the interior of the building, and knew that it 
contained none of the horrors generally attributed to it, so 
that, on the whole, he was well satisfied with the cardinal's 
choice. The cell to which he was conveyed after dark was 
a large room on the second story, comfortably furnished 
and bearing no sign of its use but the ornamented iron grat 
ing that filled the window. The walls were not thicker 
than those of most Roman palaces, and the chamber was 
dry and airy, and sufficiently warmed by a huge brazier of 
coals. It was clear from the way in which he was treated 
that the cardinal relied upon his honour more than upon any 
use of force in order to keep him in custody. A silent 
individual in a black coat had brought him in a carriage to 
the great entrance, whence a man of similar discretion and 
of like appearance had conducted him to his cell. This 
person returned soon afterwards, bringing a sufficient meal of 
fish and vegetables it was Friday decently cooked and 
almost luxuriously served. An hour later the man came 
back to carry away what was left. He asked whether the 
prisoner needed anything else for the night. 
' I would like to know,' said Giovanni, l whether any of 
my friends will be allowed to see me, if I ask it.' 
' I am directed to say that any request or complaint you 
have to make will be transmitted to his Eminence by a 
special messenger,' answered the man. 'Anything,' he 
added in explanation, ' beyond what concerns your personal 
comfort. In this respect I am at liberty to give you what 
ever you desire, within reason.' 
 
' Thank you. I will endeavour to be reasonable,' replied 
Giovanni. ' I ain, much obliged to you.' 
The man left the room and closed the door softly, so 
softly that the prisoner wondered whether he had turned the 
key. On examining the panels he saw, however, that they 
were smooth and not broken by any latch or keyhole. The 
spring was on the outside, and there was no means whatever 
of opening the door from within. 
Giovanni wondered why a special messenger was to be 
employed to carry any request he made directly to the 
cardinal. The direction could not have been given idly, nor was 
it without some especial reason that he was at once told of it. 
Assuredly his Eminence was not expecting the prince to 
repent of his bargain and to send word that he wished to 
be released. The idea was absurd. The great man might 
suppose, however, that Giovanni would desire to send some 
communication to his wife, who would naturally be anxious 
about his absence. Against this contingency, however, Sant' 
Ilario had provided by means of the note he had despatched 
to her. Several days would elapse before she began to 
expect him, so that he had plenty of time to reflect upon his 
future course. Meanwhile he resolved to ask for nothing. 
Indeed, he had no requirements. He had money in his 
pockets and could send the attendant to buy any linen he 
needed without getting it from his home. 
He was in a state of mind in which nothing could have 
pleased him better than solitary imprisonment. He felt at 
once a sense of rest and a freedom from all responsibility 
that soothed his nerves and calmed his thoughts. For many 
days he had lived in a condition bordering on madness. 
Every interview with Corona was a disappointment, and 
brought with it a new suffering. Much as he would have 
dreaded the idea of being separated from her for any length 
of time, the temporary impossibility of seeing her was now 
a relief, of which he realised the importance more and more 
as the hours succeeded each other. There are times when 
nothing but a forcible break in the current of our lives can 
restore the mind to its normal balance. Such a break, pain 
ful as it may be at first, brings with it the long lost power 
of rest. Instead of feeling the despair we expect, we are 
amazed at our own indifference, which again is succeeded by 
a renewed capacity for judging facts as they are, and by a 
new energy to mould our lives upon a better plan. 
Giovanni neither reflected upon his position nor brooded 
over the probable result of his actions. On the contrary, he 
went to bed and slept soundly, like a strong man tired out 
with bodily exertion. He slept so long that his attendant 
at last woke him, entering and opening the window. The 
morning was fine, and the sun streamed in through the iron 
grating. Giovanni looked about him, and realised where he 
was. He felt calm and strong, and was inclined to laugh at 
the idea that his rashness would have any dangerous conse 
quences. Corona doubtless was already awake too, and 
supposed that he was in the country shooting wild boar, or 
otherwise amusing himself. Instead of that he was in 
prison. There was no denying the fact, after all, but it was 
strange that he should not care to be at liberty. He had 
heard of the moral sufferings of men who are kept in con 
finement. No matter how well they are treated they grow 
nervous and careworn and haggard, wearing themselves out 
in a perpetual longing for freedom. Giovanni, on the 
contrary, as he looked round the bright, airy room, felt that 
he might inhabit it for a year without once caring to go out 
into the world. A few books to read, the means of writing 
if he pleased he needed nothing else. To be alone was 
happiness enough 
He ate his breakfast slowly, and sat down in an old- 
fashioned chair to smoke a cigarette and bask in the sunshine 
while it lasted. It was not much like prison, and he did 
not feel like a man arrested for murder. He was conscious 
for a long time of nothing but a vague, peaceful content 
ment. He had given a list of things to be bought, including 
a couple of novels, to the man who waited upon him, and 
after a few hours everything was brought. The day passed 
tranquilly, and when he went to bed he smiled as he blew 
out the candle, partly at himself and partly at his situation. 
' My friends will not say that I am absolutely lacking in 
originality,' he reflected as he went to sleep 
 
On the morrow he read less and thought more. In the 
first place he wondered how long he should be left without 
any communication from the outside world. He wondered 
whether any steps had been taken towards bringing him to 
a trial, or whether the cardinal really knew that he was 
innocent, and was merely making him act out the comedy 
he had himself invented and begun. He was not impatient, 
but he was curious to know the truth. It was now the 
third day since he had seen Corona, and he had not pre 
pared her for a long absence. If he heard nothing during 
the next twenty -four hours it would be better to take some 
measures for relieving her anxiety, if she felt any. The 
latter reflection, which presented itself suddenly, startled him 
a little. Was it possible that she would allow a week to 
slip by without expecting to hear from him or asking herself 
where he was ? That was out of the question. He admitted 
the impossibility of such indifference, almost in spite of 
himself. He was willing, perhaps, to think her utterly 
heartless rather than accept the belief in an affection which 
went no farther than to hope that he might be safe ; but 
his vanity or his intuition, it matters little which of the two, 
told him that Corona felt more than that. And yet she did 
not love him. He sat. for many hours, motionless in his 
chair, trying to construct the future out of the past, an effort 
of imagination in which he failed signally. The peace of 
his solitude was less satisfactory to him than at first, and he 
began to suspect that before very long he might even wish 
to return to the world. Possibly Corona might come to see 
him. The cardinal would perhaps think it best to tell her 
what had happened. How would he tell it? Would he 
let her know all ? The light faded from the room, and the 
attendant brought his evening meal and set two candles 
upon the table. 
Hitherto it could not be said that he had suffered. On 
the contrary, his character had regained its tone after weeks 
of depression. Another day was ended, and he went to 
rest, but he slept less soundly than before, and on the 
following morning he awoke early. The monotony of the 
existence struck him all at once in its reality. The fourth 
day would be like the third, and, for all he knew, hundreds 
to come would be like the fourth if it pleased his Eminence 
to keep him a prisoner. Corona would certainly never 
suspect that he was shut up in the Holy Office, and if she 
did, she might not be able to come to him. Even if she 
came, what could he say to her ? That he had committed a 
piece of outrageous folly because he was annoyed at her 
disbelief in him or at her coldness. He had probably made 
himself ridiculous for the first time in his life. The thought 
was the reverse of consoling. NOT did it contribute to his 
peace of mind to know that if he had made himself a 
laughing-stock, the cardinal, who dreaded ridicule, would 
certainly refuse to play a part in his comedy, and would act 
with all the rigour suitable to so grave a situation. He 
might even bring his prisoner to trial Giovanni would 
submit to that, rather than be laughed at, but the alternative 
now seemed an appalling one. In his disgust of life on that 
memorable morning he had cared nothing what became of 
him, and had been in a state which precluded all just 
appreciation of the future. His enforced solitude had 
restored his faculties. He desired nothing less than to be 
tried for murder, because he had taken a short cut to satisfy 
his wife's caprice. But that caprice had for its object the 
liberty of poor Faustina Montevarchi. At all events, if he 
had made himself ridiculous, the ultimate purpose of his 
folly had been good, and had been accomplished. 
All through the afternoon he paced his room, alternately 
in a state of profound dissatisfaction with himself, and in a 
condition of anxious curiosity about coming events. He 
scarcely touched his food or noticed the attendant who 
entered half a dozen times to perform his various offices. 
Again the night closed in, and once more he lay down to 
sleep, dreading the morning, and hoping to lose himself in 
dreams. The fourth day was like the third, indeed, 'as far 
as his surroundings were concerned, but he had not foreseen 
that he would be a prey to such gnawing anxiety as he 
suffered, still less, perhaps, that he should grow almost 
desperate for a sight of Corona. He was not a man who 
made any exhibition of his feelings even when he was alone. 
 
But the man who served him noticed that when he entered 
Giovanni was never reading, as he had always been doing 
at first. He was either walking rapidly up and down 
or sitting idly in the big chair by the window. His face 
was quiet and pale, even solemn at times. The attendant 
was doubtless accustomed to sudden changes of mood in his 
prisoners, for he appeared to take no notice of the alteration 
in Giovanni's manner. 
It seemed as though the day would never end. To a 
man of his active strength to walk about a room is not 
exercise ; it hardly seems like motion at all, and yet 
Giovanni found it harder and harder to sit still as the hours 
wore on. After an interval of comparative peace, his love 
for Corona had overwhelmed him again, and with tenfold 
force. To be shut up in a cell without the possibility of 
seeing her, was torture such as he had never dreamt of in his 
whole life. By a strange revulsion of feeling it appeared 
to him that by taking her so suddenly at her word he had 
again done her an injustice. The process of reasoning by 
which he arrived at this conclusion was not clear to himself, 
and probably could not be made intelligible to any one else. 
He had assuredly sacrificed himself unhesitatingly, and at first 
the action had given him pleasure. But this was destroyed 
by the thought of the possible consequences. He asked 
whether he had the right to satisfy her imperative demand 
for Faustina's freedom by doing that which might possibly 
cause her annoyance, even though it should bring no serious 
injury to any one. The time passed very slowly, and towards 
