Wolverton shuffled out of the room, in impotent rage.
"We have made him our enemy, Robert," said his mother, apprehensively.
"He was our enemy before, mother. He evidently wants to ruin us."
As Wolverton went home, one thought was uppermost in his mind. "How
could he prevent Bob from making the trip to St. Louis?"
CHAPTER XVII.
WOLVERTON'S POOR TENANT.
Bob hired a couple of extra hands, and made haste to finish harvesting
his wheat, for he was anxious to start on the trip down the river as
soon as possible. His anticipations as to the size of the crop were
justified. It footed up fourteen hundred and seventy-five bushels, and
this, at two dollars per bushel, would fetch in market nearly three
thousand dollars.
"That's a pretty good crop for a boy to raise, mother," said Bob, with
pardonable exultation. "You haven't lost anything by allowing me to run
the ranch."
"Quite true, Robert. You have accomplished wonders. I don't know what I
could have done without you. I know very little of farming myself."
"I helped him, missis," said Clip, coveting a share of approval for
himself.
"Yes," said Bob, smiling. "Clip has been my right-hand man. I can't say
he has worked very hard himself, but he has superintended the others."
"Yes, missis; dat's what I done!" said Clip, proudly.
He did not venture to pronounce the word, for it was too much for him,
but he was vaguely conscious that it was something important and
complimentary.
"Then I must buy Clip a new suit," said Mrs. Burton, smiling.
"I'll buy it in St. Louis, mother."
When the grain was all gathered in Bob began to load it on the
ferry-boat. Wolverton sent Sam round every day to report progress, but
did not excite his nephew's suspicions by appearing to take unusual
interest in the matter.
To prepare the reader for a circumstance which happened about this time,
I find it necessary to introduce another character, who was able to do
Bob an important service.
In a small house, about three-quarters of a mile beyond the Burton
ranch, lived Dan Woods, a poor man, with, a large family. He hired the
house which he occupied and a few acres of land from Aaron Wolverton,
who had obtained possession of it by foreclosing a mortgage which he
held. He permitted Woods, the former owner, to remain as a tenant in the
house which once belonged to him, charging him rather more than an
average rent. The poor man raised vegetables and a small crop of wheat,
enough of each for his own family, and hired out to neighbors for the
balance of his time. He obtained more employment on the Burton ranch
than anywhere else, and Mrs. Burton had also sympathized with him in his
difficult struggle to maintain his family. But, in spite of friends and
his own untiring industry, Dan Woods fell behind. There were five
children to support, and they required not only food but clothing, and
Dan found it uphill work.
His monthly rent was ten dollars; a small sum in itself, but large for
this much-burdened man to pay. But, however poorly he might fare in
other respects, Dan knew that it was important to have this sum ready on
the first day of every month. Wolverton was a hard landlord, and
admitted of no excuse. More than once after the rent had been paid there
was not a dollar left in his purse, or a pinch of food in his house.
A week before this time Dan was looking for his landlord's call with
unusual anxiety. He had been sick nearly a week during the previous
month, and this had so curtailed his earnings that he had but six
dollars ready in place of ten. Would his sickness be accepted as an
excuse? He feared not.
Wolverton's call was made on time. He had some expectation that the rent
would not be ready, for he knew Dan had been sick; but he was resolved
to show him no consideration.
"His sickness is nothing to me," he reflected. "It would be a pretty
state of affairs if landlords allowed themselves to be cheated out of
their rent for such a cause."
Dan Woods was at work in the yard when Wolverton approached. He was
splitting some wood for use in the kitchen stove. His heart sank within
him when he saw the keen, sharp features of his landlord.
"Good morning, Dan," said Wolverton, with suavity. His expression was
amiable, as it generally was when he was collecting money, but it
suffered a remarkable change if the money was not forthcoming.
"Good-morning, sir," answered Woods, with a troubled look.
"You've got a nice, snug place here, Dan; it's a fine home for your
family."
"I don't complain of it, sir. As I once owned it myself, probably I set
more store by it than a stranger would."
"Just so, Dan. You get it at a very low rent, too. If it were any one
but yourself I should really feel that I ought to raise the rent to
twenty dollars."
"I hope you won't do that, sir," said Woods, in alarm. "It's all I can
do to raise ten dollars a month, with all my other expenses."
"Oh, well, I'll let it remain at the present figure as long as you pay
me promptly," emphasizing the last words. "Of course I have a right to
expect that."
Dan's heart sank within him. It was clear he could not expect any
consideration from such a man. But the truth must be told.
"No doubt you are right, Mr. Wolverton, and you've found me pretty
prompt so far."
"So I have, Dan. I know you wouldn't be dishonest enough to make me
wait."
Dan's heart sank still lower. It was becoming harder every minute to own
that he was deficient.
"Still, Mr. Wolverton, bad luck will come----"
"What!" exclaimed Wolverton, with a forbidding scowl.
"As I was saying, sir, a man is sometimes unlucky. Now, I have been sick
nearly a week out of the last month, as you may have heard, and it's put
me back."
"What are you driving at, Dan Woods?" demanded Wolverton, severely. "I
hope you're not going to say that you are not ready to pay your rent?"
"I haven't got the whole of it, sir; and that's a fact."
"You haven't got the whole of it? How much have you got?"
"I can pay you six dollars, Mr. Wolverton."
"Six dollars out of ten! Why, this is positively shameful! I wonder you
are not ashamed to tell me."
"There is no shame about it that I can see," answered Dan, plucking up
his spirit. "I didn't fall sick on purpose; and when I was sick I
couldn't work."
"You ought to have one month's rent laid by, so that whatever happens
you could pay it on time."
"That's easy to say, Mr. Wolverton, but it takes every cent of my
earnings to pay my monthly expenses. There's little chance to save."
"Any one can save who chooses," retorted Wolverton, sharply.
"Shall I get you the six dollars, sir?"
"Yes, give it to me."
"And you will wait for the other four?"
"Till to-morrow night."
"But how can I get it by to-morrow night?" asked Dan in dismay.
"That's your lookout, not mine. All I have to say is, unless it is paid
to me to-morrow night you must move the next day."
With these words Wolverton went off. Dan Woods, in his trouble, went to
Bob Burton the next day, and Bob readily lent him the money he needed.
"Thank you!" said Dan, gratefully; "I won't forget this favor."
"Don't make too much of it, Dan; it's a trifle."
"It's no trifle to me. But for you my family would be turned out of
house and home to-morrow. The time may come when I can do you a
service."
"Thank you, Dan."
The time came sooner than either anticipated.
CHAPTER XVIII.
WOLVERTON'S WICKED PLAN.
Wolverton was somewhat puzzled when on his next call Dan Woods paid the
balance due on his rent.
"So you raised the money after all?" he said. "I thought you could if
you made an effort."
"I borrowed the money, sir."
"Of whom?"
"It isn't any secret, Mr. Wolverton. I borrowed it of a neighbor who has
always been kind to me--Bob Burton."
Wolverton shrugged his shoulders.
"I didn't know he had money to lend," he said.
"He always has money for a poor man who needs it."
"All right! I shall know where to go when I need money," responded
Wolverton, with a grin.
"It suits me well enough to have the boy throw away his money,"
Wolverton said to himself. "It will only draw nearer the time when he
will have to sue me for a favor."
That day Wolverton read in a St. Louis paper that wheat was steadily
rising, and had already reached two dollars and six cents per bushel.
"I could make a fine thing of it if I had only received the Barton wheat
at a dollar and a half a bushel," he reflected, regretfully. "If I had
only the widow to deal with, I might have succeeded, for she knows
nothing of business. But that confounded boy is always putting a spoke
in my wheel. If he carries out his plan, and markets the wheat, it will
set him on his feet for the year to come."
This reflection made Wolverton feel gloomy. There are some men who are
cheered by the prosperity of their neighbors, but he was not one of
them. He began to speculate as to whether there was any way of
interfering with Bob's schemes. Generally when a man is seeking a way of
injuring his neighbor he succeeds in finding one. This was the plan that
suggested itself to Wolverton: If he could set the ferry-boat adrift
when the grain was all stored it would float down stream, and the
chances were against its being recovered. It would be mean, and even
criminal, to be sure. For the first, Wolverton did not care; for the
second, he would take care that no one caught him at it. He did not
think of employing any one else in the matter, for he knew of no one he
could trust; and he felt that he could do it more effectually than any
agent, however trustworthy.
Wolverton was so full of the plan, which commended itself to him as both
simple and effective, that he took a walk late in the evening from his
house to the point on the creek where the boat was tethered.
Now, it so happened that Dan Woods, who had been employed all day, had
occasion to go to the village in the evening to procure a few groceries
from the village store. He delayed for a time, having met an old
acquaintance, and it was half-past nine when he set out on his return
homeward.
His way led him not only by the Burton homestead, but by the river bend
where Bob kept his rowboat--the same point also where the ferry-boat was
tied.
As he approached, he caught sight of a man's figure standing on the
bank. Who it was he could not immediately distinguish on account of the
darkness.
"It may be some one bent on mischief," he thought to himself. "I will
watch him and find out, if I can, who it is."
He kept on his way stealthily till he was within a dozen feet, when he
slipped behind a tree. Then it dawned upon him who it was.
"It's Aaron Wolverton, as I'm a living man," he ejaculated, inwardly.
"What can he be doing here?"
It was Wolverton, as we know. The old man stood in silence on the bank,
peering through the darkness at the shadowy form of the ferry-boat,
which already contained half the wheat crop of Burton's Ranch--the
loading having commenced that morning. He had one habit which is
unfortunate with a conspirator--the habit of thinking aloud--so he let
out his secret to the watchful listener.
"Sam tells me they expected to get half the crop on board to-day," he
soliloquized. "I sent him over to get that very information, though he
don't know it. It is too early to do anything yet. To-morrow night the
whole cargo will be stored, and then it will be time to cut the rope and
let it drift. I should be glad to see the boy's face," he chuckled,
"when he comes down to the creek the next morning and finds the boat
gone. That will put him at my mercy, and the widow, too," he added,
after a pause. "He will repent too late that he thwarted me. I will work
in secret, but I get there all the same!"
Wolverton clasped his hands behind his back and, turning, walked
thoughtfully away. He did not see his tenant, who was crouching behind a
tree not over three feet from the path.
Dan Woods had no very favorable opinion of Wolverton, but what he had
heard surprised and shocked him.
"I didn't think the old man was as wicked as that!" he said to himself.
"He is scheming to ruin Bob and his mother. Why should he have such a
spite against them?"
This is a question which we can answer, but Woods became more puzzled
the more he thought about it. One thing was clear, however; he must
apprise Bob of the peril in which he stood. Even if he had not received
the last favor from our hero, he would have felt in duty bound to do his
best to defeat Wolverton's wicked plan.
The next morning, therefore, he made an early call at Burton's Ranch,
and asked for a private interview with Bob. He quickly revealed to him
the secret of which he had become possessed.
"Thank you, Dan," said Bob, warmly. "You have done me a favor of the
greatest importance. I knew Wolverton was my enemy, and the enemy of our
family, but I did not think he would be guilty of such a mean and wicked
action. If he had succeeded, I am afraid we should have lost the farm."
"You won't let him succeed?" said Dan Woods, anxiously.
"No; forewarned is forearmed. I shall be ready for Mr. Wolverton!" And
Bob closed his lips resolutely.
He deliberated whether he should let his mother know of the threatened
danger, but finally decided not to do so. It would only worry her, and
do no good, as whatever measures of precaution were to be taken, he must
take. He did not even tell Clip; for though the young colored boy was
devoted to him, he was lacking in discretion, and might let out the
secret. Bob did not want to prevent the attempt being made. He wished to
catch Wolverton in the act.
He did, however, take into his confidence a faithful man who had worked
for his father ever since the ranch was taken, thinking it prudent to
have assistance near if needed.
That day the rest of the wheat was stored on the ferry-boat. All would
be ready for a start the next morning, and this Bob had decided to make.
He sent Clip to bed early, on the pretext that he must have a good
night's sleep, as he would be called early. If Clip had had the least
idea of what was in the wind he would have insisted on sitting up to see
the fun, but he was absolutely ignorant of it.
Wolverton had learned from Sam, who was surprised that his uncle should
let him spend almost all his time with his friends, Bob and Clip, that
the cargo had been stored.
"When do they start?" he asked, carelessly.
"To-morrow morning, uncle," Sam answered.
"If I had thought of it," said Wolverton, "I would have asked young
Burton to take my wheat along, too."
"I don't think he would have room for it, Uncle Aaron. The boat is about
full now."
"Oh, well; I shall find some other way of sending it," said Wolverton,
carelessly.
About nine o'clock Wolverton stole out in the darkness, and made his way
stealthily to the bend in the creek. He had with him a sharp razor--he
had no knife sharp enough--which he judged would sever the thick rope.
Arrived at the place of his destination, he bent over and drew out the
razor, which he opened and commenced operations. But there was an
unlooked-for interference.
A light, boyish figure sprang from behind a tree, and Bob Barton, laying
his hand on Wolverton's shoulder, demanded, indignantly:
"What are you doing here, Mr. Wolverton?"
Wolverton started, dropped the razor in the river, and, with an
expression of alarm, looked up into Bob's face.
CHAPTER XIX.
MR. WOLVERTON MEETS TWO CONGENIAL SPIRITS.
"What are you doing here, Mr. Wolverton?" repeated Bob, sternly.
"Oh, it's you, Bob, is it?" said Wolverton, with assumed lightness.
"Really, you quite startled me, coming upon me so suddenly in the dark."
"I noticed that you were startled," responded Bob, coolly. "But that
isn't answering my question."
By this time Wolverton was on his feet, and had recovered his
self-possession.
"What right have you to put questions to me, you young whelp?" he
demanded, angrily.
"Because I suspect you of designs on my property."
"What do you mean?" snarled Wolverton.
"I will tell you; I think you meant to cut the rope, and send my boat
adrift."
"How dare you insult me by such a charge?" demanded the agent, working
himself into a rage.
"I have reason to think that you meant to do what I have said."
"Why should I do it?"
"In order to injure me by the loss of my wheat."
"You are a fool, young man! I am inclined to think, also, that you are
out of your head."
"If you had any other purpose, what is it?"
Wolverton bethought himself that in order to avert suspicion, he must
assign some reason for his presence. To do this taxed his ingenuity
considerably.
"I thought I saw something in the water," he said. "There it is; a twig;
I see now."
"And what were you going to do with the razor?"
"None of your business!" said Wolverton, suddenly, finding it
impossible, on the spur of the moment, to think of any reason.
"That is easy to understand," said Bob, significantly. "Now, Mr.
Wolverton, I have a warning to give you. If anything befalls my boat, I
shall hold you responsible."
"Do you know who I am?" blustered Wolverton. "How do you, a boy, dare to
talk in this impudent way to a man who has you in his power?"
"It strikes me, Mr. Wolverton, that I hold you in my power."
"Who would believe your unsupported assertion? sneered the agent."
"It is not unsupported. I brought with me Edward Jones, my faithful
assistant, who has seen your attempt to injure me."
At this, Edward, a stalwart young man of twenty-four, stepped into view.
"I saw it all," he said, briefly.
"You are ready to lie, and he to swear to it," said Wolverton, but his
voice was not firm, for he saw that the testimony against him was too
strong to be easily shaken.
"I don't wonder you deny it, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob.
"I won't remain here any longer to be insulted," said Wolverton, who
was anxious to get away, now that his plan had failed.
Bob did not reply, and the agent slunk away, feeling far from
comfortable.
"What cursed luck sent the boy to the creek to-night?" he said to
himself. "I was on the point of succeeding, and then I would have had
him in my power. Could he have heard anything?"
Wolverton decided, however, that this was not likely. He attributed
Bob's presence to chance, though his words seemed to indicate that he
suspected something. He was obliged to acknowledge his defeat. Yet it
would be possible for him to return in an hour or two, and carry out his
evil plan. But it would be too hazardous. The crime would inevitably be
traced to him, and he would be liable to arrest. No, hard though it was
to bring his mind to it, he must forego his scheme, and devise something
else.
When the agent had left the scene, Bob Burton said: "Edward, you may go
home. I mean to stay here on guard."
"But you will not be in condition to start to-morrow morning. You will
be tired out."
"I can't take any risks this last evening, Edward."
"Then let me take your place. I will stay here."
"But it will be hard on you."
"I will lie later to-morrow morning. You can relieve me, if you like, at
four o'clock."
"Let it be so, then! Too much is at stake for us to leave anything to
chance. I don't think, however, that Wolverton would dare to renew his
attempt."
Meanwhile Wolverton retraced his steps to his own house. There was one
lonely place on the way, but the agent was too much absorbed in his own
reflections to have room for fear. His occupation of mind was rudely
disturbed, when from a clump of bushes two men sprang out, and one,
seizing him by the shoulder, said, roughly: "Your money or your life!"
Wolverton was not a brave man, and it must be confessed that he was
startled by this sudden summons. But he wasn't in the habit of carrying
money with him in the evening, and an old silver watch, which would have
been dear at four dollars, was not an article whose loss would have
seriously disturbed him. So it was with a tolerable degree of composure
that he answered: "You have stopped the wrong man."
"We know who you are. You are Aaron Wolverton, and you are a rich man."
"That may and may not be, but I don't carry my money with me."
"Empty your pockets!"
Wolverton complied, but neither purse nor pocket book was forthcoming.
"Didn't I tell you so?" he said, shrugging his shoulders.
"We won't take your word for it."
The first highwayman plunged his hand into the agent's pockets, but his
search only corroborated Wolverton's statement.
"You, a rich man, go without money!" he exclaimed with rough contempt.
"Perhaps I might have expected such a meeting," Wolverton replied, with
cunning triumph.
"You must have a watch, at any rate!"
"I have one that I will sell you for four dollars."
As he spoke, he voluntarily produced the timeworn watch, which had
served him for twenty years.
The thieves uttered an exclamation of contempt. Their disappointment
made them angry. They hurriedly conferred as to the policy of keeping
Wolverton in their power till he should pay a heavy ransom, but there
were obvious difficulties in the way of carrying out this plan.
Aaron Wolverton listened quietly to the discussion which concerned him
so nearly. He smiled at times, and did not appear particularly alarmed
till one, more bloodthirsty than the other, suggested stringing him up
to the nearest tree.
"My friends," he said, for the first time betraying a slight
nervousness. "I can't see what advantage it would be for you to hang
me."
"You deserve it for fooling us!" replied the second highwayman, with an
oath.
"In what way?"
"By not carrying any money, or article of value."
"I grieve for your disappointment," said Wolverton, with much sympathy.
"If you mock us, you shall swing, any way."
"Don't mistake me! I have no doubt you are very worthy fellows, only a
little unfortunate. What sum would have paid you for your
disappointment?"
"Fifty dollars would have been better than nothing."
"That is considerable money, but I may be able to throw it in your way."
"Now you're talking! If you are on the square, you'll find us gentlemen.
We are ready to hear what you have to say."
"Good! But I expect you to earn the money."
"How?" inquired the first gentleman, suspiciously. The word earn might
mean work, and that was not in his line.
"I'll tell you."
There was an amiable conference for twenty minutes, but this is not the
place to reveal what was said. Enough that it nearly concerned Bob
Burton, and involved a new plot against the success of his enterprise.
CHAPTER XX.
AN UNEXPECTED PASSENGER.
The next morning the boys were up bright and early. It was a glorious
morning, and Bob accepted it as auspicious of a pleasant and prosperous
trip.
Clip was in wild spirits. He was naturally vivacious and fond of change,
and the prospect of the river trip made him very happy. Bob, as a
practical joke, put on a grave face and said: "Clip, I don't know but I
shall have to leave you at home."
"What fo', Massa Bob?" inquired Clip, his face assuming a look of
dismay.
"I am afraid my mother won't be able to get along without you. There are
so many things to attend to on the ranch."
"I can't do no good on the ranch," said Clip, eagerly. "I'm only a lazy,
good-for-nothing nigger."
"Then I don't see how you can help me, Clip," returned Bob, his eyes
twinkling as he listened to this candid confession.
"Dat's different, Massa Bob. I ain't no good on the ranch, but I'm
powerful help on the river. Please take me along, Massa Bob," pleaded
Clip.
"Just as likely as not you'll get lost, Clip. Besides, you might meet
your old master from Arkansas."
"He won't catch dis nigger," said Clip, shaking his head, resolutely.
"Please let me go, Massa Bob."
"Your arguments are so cogent, Clip, that I suppose I shall have to give
in."
Instantly Clip's face was radiant. He didn't know what cogent arguments
were, but as long as they had accomplished his desire he was content to
remain in ignorance.
"But if you give me any trouble, Clip," Bob added, seriously, "I may
have to put you ashore, and let you walk home."
Clip gave the most emphatic assurance of good conduct, and was informed
that he could go.
There was much to do, even on the last morning, and though the boys
were early risers, it was fully ten o'clock before they were ready to
start.
Half an hour before this Bob had a surprise.
Sam Wolverton was seen approaching on a run, breathless and without a
hat. He arrived at the landing, just as Bob was putting off in the
flat-bottomed boat, with a load of provisions for the voyage.
"What on earth is the matter, Sam?" asked Bob, in surprise.
"Let me get on the boat and I will tell you."
The boat was put back and Sam jumped on.
"Now what has happened, Sam?"
"Do you see this," said Sam, pointing to his right cheek, which was
stained with blood.
"What has happened to you? Did you fall and hurt yourself?"
"My uncle knocked me over and I fell against a block of wood."
"What made him attack you?" inquired Bob, indignantly.
"I don't know; he got mad with me for nothing at all. He's been in an
awful temper all the morning. Something must have happened to vex him."
Bob smiled. He could understand what had happened. Wolverton's
disappointment at the failure of his villainous plan had no doubt soured
him, and, like a born bully, he had vented his spite upon the poor boy
who was dependent upon him.
"I wish you'd more spunk, Sam," Bob said. "He wouldn't dare to attack me
in that way."
"You're stronger and braver than I am, Bob. I can't be like you. I wish
I could."
"Your uncle is no more nor less than a bully. He imposes upon you
because he thinks it is safe to do so. He wouldn't dare tackle me,
because he knows it wouldn't be safe."
"Bob," said Sam, solemnly, "I've borne it as long as I'm going to. I am
not going back to my uncle's house."
"Do you mean this, Sam?"
"Yes, I do. It's the only home I have, but I would rather go without a
home than to be beaten and ill-treated by Uncle Aaron."
"I commend your pluck, Sam. I can't say I think you are doing wrong."
"I have a favor to ask of you, Bob. You are my only friend."
"What is it, Sam?"
"Let me go with you to St. Louis. It would make me happy to be with you,
and I should be out of my uncle's way."
Bob paused for consideration, the proposal being unexpected.
"But suppose, Sam, I am charged with abducting you?"
"I'll take all the blame. Let me hide on the ferry-boat, and I won't
show myself until you've got miles away."
"That might do," said Bob, smiling. "Perhaps it isn't exactly square,
but with such a man as your uncle we must make use of his own methods."
"You will take me, then?" asked Sam, eagerly.
By this time they had reached the boat.
"Clip," said Bob, "go with Sam and hide him somewhere on the boat, but
don't tell me where he is concealed. Then, if old Wolverton comes after
him I can say truly that I don't know where he is."
"All right, Massa Bob," said Clip, showing his teeth.
When the contents of the boat had been transferred to the larger craft,
Bob rowed back, leaving Clip and Sam together. The boat was roofed over,
as already stated. Besides the bins there was a corner in which some
bedding had been placed for the accommodation of the young voyagers. But
it seemed difficult to find a suitable hiding-place for Sam.
"Where can you put me?" asked the young runaway, with a troubled look.
Clip looked about him, rolling his eyes in perplexity.
At length his face brightened, for an idea had come to him.
In one corner was an empty barrel. Some stores had been brought aboard
in it, and it had been suffered to remain, with the idea that it might
possibly prove of use. The particular use to which it was to be put
certainly never occurred to Bob or Clip.
"Get in there, Sam!" said Clip. "Old Mass' Wolverton won't look for you
in there."
"But I shall be seen."
"You wait and I'll show you how we'll manage; only get in!"
Thus adjured, Sam got into the barrel, and with some difficulty crouched
so that his head was lower than the top of the barrel.
"Now I'll show you," said Clip.
He took a white cloth--it was apiece of sail-cloth--and spread over the
top of the barrel.
"Now old Mass' Wolverton will have sharp eyes to see you," said Clip,
triumphantly.
"That may do," said Sam. "But it isn't necessary to put it on now. It
will be time if my uncle makes his appearance. I'll keep out of sight in
the center of the boat."
Meanwhile Bob had gone to the house to bid good-bye to his mother.
"I feel anxious about your going off on such a long trip, Robert," said
Mrs. Burton.
"You forget that I am almost a man, mother. It is time for me to assume
some responsibility."
"But you are only a boy, after all, Robert. Think, if anything should
happen to you, what would become of me?"
"My dear mother, you may depend on my taking excellent care of myself. I
don't see what risk or danger there can be in going to St. Louis. It
isn't a long trip. I shall be back in less than a fortnight if all goes
well."
"It will seem a very long fortnight to me, Robert."
"I have no doubt you will miss me, mother, but you forget I have Clip to
look after me."
"Clip is only a poor colored boy, but I am sure he will prove faithful
to you," said Mrs. Burton, seriously. "Even the humble are sometimes of
great service. I am glad he is going with you."
Bob did not mention that Sam Wolverton would also be his companion, as
he foresaw that the agent would not unlikely question his mother on that
point.
Bob returned to the boat, and was just about to cast off, when Wolverton
was seen on the bank, waving his hat and shouting frantically.
"I guess, Massa Sam, you'd better get into the barrel," said Clip with a
grin.
CHAPTER XXI.
HOW WOLVERTON WAS FOOLED.
"What do you want, Mr. Wolverton?" asked Bob, coolly, as he stood at one
end of the boat and surveyed the excited agent.
"Come ashore, or I'll have you arrested," shouted the irate Wolverton.
"You are very kind, Mr. Wolverton; but I am in considerable of a hurry,
and have not time to comply with your request."
"You'd better come ashore, if you know what's best for yourself."
"Please state your business! If it is anything to my advantage, I may
come; but I am just ready to start for St. Louis."
"Is my nephew Sam on your boat?"
"I don't see him. Why should he be on board?"
"I suspect him of running away, the ungrateful young rascal? I thought
he might be scheming to go down the river with you."
"Clip," said Bob, gravely, "has Sam Wolverton engaged passage with us?"
"Not as I knows on, Massa Bob."
"If he should, charge him fifteen dollars."
"Yes, Massa Bob," answered Clip, with a grin.
"If you wish your nephew to go to St. Louis on my boat, Mr. Wolverton,"
said Bob, with ceremonious politeness, "I will take him, being a friend,
for fifteen dollars, excursion ticket. You can't complain of that."
"But I don't want him to go," roared Wolverton. "I tell you he has run
away."
"That's very strange, considering how kindly and liberally you have
always treated him."
Wolverton eyed Bob suspiciously, for he knew well enough that the remark
was ironical.
"None of your gammon, young man!" he said, crabbedly. "Send Sam ashore."
"Really, Mr. Wolverton, you must be joking. What have I got to do with
Sam?"
"I don't believe a word you say. I mean to search your boat."
"You had better do it at once, then, for it is time for me to start."
"But how am I to get aboard," asked the agent, perplexed.
"You might swim," suggested Bob, "or wade. The water is shallow--not
higher than your neck, anywhere."
"That is nonsense. Steer your boat to shore, that I may board her."
"It can't be done, Mr. Wolverton. We can only drift down with the
current."
"Then how am I to get aboard?"
"That is your lookout."
Just then Mr. Wolverton espied the flat-bottomed boat which Bob proposed
to take with him. He had attached it by a line to the stern of the
ferry-boat.
"Row over and take me across."
"I can't spare the time."
Wolverton was about to give vent to his wrath at this refusal, when he
observed a boat approaching, rowed by a German boy named Otto Brandes.
"Come here, boy, and row me out to yonder boat," he said.
Otto paused in his rowing, and, understanding the man with whom he was
dealing, he asked, quietly: "How much will you pay me, Mr. Wolverton?"
"Five cents to take me over and back," answered the agent, with some
hesitation.
Otto laughed.
"I don't work for any such wages," he said.
"I'll give you ten; but be quick about it."
"Give me a quarter and I'll do it."
"Do you think I am made of money?" said Wolverton, in anger. "That is an
outrageous extortion."
"All right! Then hire somebody else," said Otto, coolly.
After a fruitless effort to beat down the price, Wolverton sulkily
agreed to the terms, and Otto rowed to the bank.
"Now, row with all your might," said the agent, as he seated himself in
one end of the boat.
"Your fare, please," said Otto.
"I'll pay you when the trip is over," said Wolverton. "It's a poor
paymaster that pays in advance."
"Then you'd better get out of the boat. Railroad and boat tickets are
always paid in advance."
"I'll give you ten cents now, and the balance when I land."
"It won't do, Mr. Wolverton. I don't care much about the job anyway; I'm
in a hurry to get home."
Otto lived about half a mile further down the creek.
Much against his will, the agent was obliged to deposit the
passage-money in the boy's hand before he would consent to take up the
oars and commence rowing.
"That rascal Sam is putting me to all this expense," he said to himself.
"I'll take my pay out of his skin once I get hold of him."
Clip went up to the barrel in which Sam was concealed.
"Ol' Wolverton is comin', Massa Sam," he said. "Don't you make no noise,
and we'll fool de ol' man."
In spite of this assurance, poor Sam trembled in his narrow place of
concealment. He knew that he would fare badly if his uncle got hold of
him.
"How's he coming?" he asked in a stifled voice.
"Otto Brandes is rowin' him. He's in Otto's boat."
"It's mean of Otto!"
"No; he don't know what de ol' man is after."
It took scarcely two minutes for Wolverton to reach the ferry-boat. He
mounted it with fire in his eye.
"Now, where is Sam?" he demanded in a peremptory tone.
"You can search for him, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob, coolly. "You seem to
know more about where he is than I do."
Wolverton began to peer here and there, looking into bins of wheat and
all sorts of improbable places.
Clip took a broom and began to sweep energetically. Bob could not
explain this sudden fit of industry till he saw Clip slyly slip the
broom between Wolverton's legs as he was hurrying along, thereby
upsetting the unfortunate agent, who tumbled sprawling on the deck.
"Why, you black imp!" he exclaimed, furiously, as he picked himself up,
"what made you do that?"
"Couldn't help it, Massa Wolverton! I 'clare to gracious I couldn't!"
said Clip, rolling his eyes in a most wonderful manner. "Are you hurt,
Massa Wolverton?"
"I most broke my knee!" growled Wolverton, as he rose and limped towards
the other end of the boat. "I may be laid up for a week."
"It was de ol' broom did it," said Clip, innocently. "Never see such a
broom!"
Bob had hard work to keep a straight face, as he heard Clip's odd
accusation against the unoffending broom.
This accident seemed to dampen Wolverton's enthusiasm, and the pain in
his knee increasing made him desirous of getting home as soon as
possible. Besides, he began to suspect that he was on a wrong scent, as
he had thus far found no traces of his runaway nephew. He never once
noticed the barrel, over which the piece of sail-cloth had been thrown
so carelessly.
"Well, did you find Sam?" asked Bob, composedly.
"No!" snapped Wolverton.
"I seed him jest before you came, Massa Wolverton," said Clip.
"Where?" asked the agent, eagerly.
"Runnin' along the bank."
"In what direction?"
Clip pointed up the creek.
"Why didn't you tell me that before?"
"You didn't ask me, Massa Wolverton."
"Take me ashore quick!" said Wolverton to Otto.
"Hurry up, Massa Wolverton, and mebbe you'll catch him!"
Wolverton was already in the boat, and Otto was rowing him to the shore.
Clip went to the barrel and released the prisoner.
"De ol' man's gone, Sam!" he said.
"I'm glad of it, Clip. I'm almost suffocated."
"Golly, didn't we fool him!" and Clip lay down on his back on deck, and
gave way to an explosion of mirth.
A minute later the rope was drawn in, and the ferry-boat started on its
adventurous career down the creek.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE FIRST DAY.
Bob was accustomed to rowing, but navigation with the ferry-boat
presented a new and interesting problem which he was eager to solve. A
steering apparatus had been rigged up at the stern, which was found
strong enough for the purpose required. Bob took his place at the helm
in starting, and managed for the first hour to regulate the direction of
his craft. By that time they came to a place where the creek widened
considerably, and the boat showed a disposition to whirl round in an
eddy. This difficulty, however, was overcome by practice, and Bob began
to acquire confidence in himself as a navigator. But it was evident that
he could not remain at the helm all day.
"Come here, Clip," he said; "I want you to rest me in steering."
Clip took his place, but his first attempts proved discouraging. He was
inclined to steer in just the reverse direction, and twice came near
running the boat ashore.
"What are you about, Clip?" demanded Bob, in excitement. "Don't you see
you are running the boat ashore?"
"I done just like you, Massa Bob," protested Clip. "De boat acts
contrary; never see such an ol' boat."
"It is you that are contrary, Clip. You don't do as I tell you."
"I 'clar to gracious I did, Massa Bob. I can't never learn to steer."
In fact, Clip, who was naturally lazy, found it very irksome to stand at
the helm, and much preferred going here and there on the boat and
surveying the scenery on either bank. He hoped that his incompetence
would save him from the task. But his dream was rudely disturbed.
"If you can't take your turn in steering, Clip," said Bob, "you won't be
of any use to me. I shall have to send you home, and get along with
Sam's assistance."
"Oh, don't send me home, Massa Bob!" exclaimed Clip, in alarm. "I'll
try--'deed I will."
"I'll try you a little longer, Clip," said Bob; "but you must not blame
me for sending you back, if it is necessary."
No better argument could have been used to insure satisfactory work from
Clip, who was naturally careless, and inclined to shirk work.
Nevertheless, Bob felt glad that he had another assistant in Sam
Wolverton, who proved to possess all the qualities which Clip lacked.
When it was one o'clock, Clip began to show signs of distress.
"I'm pow'ful hungry, Massa Bob," he said, in a pleading tone.
"So am I, Clip," returned Bob, with a smile. "I will see if I can't do
something to relieve you."
He had brought from home a basket of sandwiches and a gallon of milk. To
these the boys did ample justice, displaying even more appetite than
usual. This was not surprising, for they had worked hard, and this in
the open air.
"Sam," said Bob, "I can't hope to supply you with all the delicacies you
would get at home, but I hope you'll make it do with our humble fare."
Sam smiled.
"All the delicacies on Uncle Aaron's table wouldn't spoil anybody's
digestion. I like my dinner to-day better than any I've eaten for a long
time. I don't know what uncle and aunt would say if they could see me
here."
"De ol' man would be wild," said Clip, with a guffaw.
"I expect he would, Clip. He isn't fond of me, but he doesn't want to
lose me. He will have to do his own chores now, for I don't believe he
can get a boy to work for him."
About six o'clock in the afternoon, having arrived opposite a town which
I will call Rushford, Bob decided to tie up for the night. He and Clip
went on shore, leaving Sam in charge of the boat. He did not dare to
leave it unguarded, for the cargo, according to his estimate, was worth
not far from three thousand dollars.
He took the opportunity to enter a restaurant, where he bought Clip and
himself cups of coffee, and ordered a fresh supply of sandwiches made
up, which he arranged to have delivered at the boat early the next
morning.
"I don't mean that we shall starve, Clip," he said.
Clip showed his teeth.
"Dat coffee's awful good, Massa Bob," he said.
"Yes, but we can't make it on board the boat. I shall have to depend on
getting it at the villages on the way."
"How far are we from home, Massa Bob?"
"Well thought of, Clip. I will inquire."
He asked the keeper of the restaurant the distance to Carver.
"I don't know, but I think my waiter comes from that neighborhood. Sam,
how far away is Carver?"
"Forty miles," answered Sam promptly.
"I thought it had been more. We have been eight hours coming on the
river."
That is because the river (they had left the creek fifteen miles up) was
winding in its course.
On the whole, however, Bob decided that it was very fair progress for
the first day, and that only about two-thirds of the time.
Rushford was a town of fifteen hundred inhabitants, and presented as
busy an appearance as a town three times the size in the East. Clip, who
was fond of variety, was reluctant to return to the boat, but Bob said:
"We must relieve Sam, and give him a chance to come ashore and get some
coffee. You come with him, and show him the restaurant."
This arrangement suited Clip, who liked as much variety and excitement
as possible.
On returning to the boat Bob was somewhat surprised to find his young
lieutenant in conversation with an old lady dressed in antediluvian
costume. She had a sharp face, with an eager, birdlike look, and seemed
to be preferring a request.
"Here's the captain; you can ask him," said Sam, who seemed much
relieved by the return of Bob.
"Is he the captain?" asked the old lady. "Why, he's nothin' but a
boy!"
"He's all the captain we have," answered Sam.
"Be you in charge of this boat?" asked the old lady.
"Yes, ma'am. What can I do for you?"
"I want to go down to St. Louis," said the old lady, "and I thought
maybe you might find room for me."
"But, ma'am, why don't you take passage on a river steamer?"
"They charge too much," said the old lady. "I hain't got much money, and
I s'pose you wouldn't charge me much. Are you any acquainted in St.
Louis?"
"No, ma'am."
"I thought maybe you might know my darter's husband. He keeps a grocery
store down near the river. His name is Jeremiah Pratt, and my darter's
name is Melinda Ann. I want to give 'em a surprise."
"I never met the gentleman."
"When do you start?"
"To-morrow morning about half-past seven o'clock."
"Can't you put it off till eight? I've got to pack my trunk over night,
and I've got to eat a bit of breakfast to stay my stummik. How much do
you charge? I'd be willing to pay you seventy-five cents."
"How much do the steamboats charge?" asked Bob.
"I think it's six dollars, or it may be seven. That's too much for a
poor woman like me."
"I think you will have to pay it, madam, for we have no accommodation
for passengers on our boat."
"Oh, I ain't a mite particular. You can put me anywhere."
"I suppose you wouldn't be willing to get into a grain bin?"
"Oh, now you're jokin'. Where do you sleep yourself?"
"On a mattress on the floor; that wouldn't be suitable for a lady like
you. Besides, we have no separate rooms."
"Then you can't take me, no way?" asked the old lady, disappointed.
"I am afraid not, madam."
"You're real disobligin'. I don't see how I am to get to St. Louis."
"I am sorry I can't help you."
The old woman hobbled off in evident anger. Bob heard afterwards that
she was a woman of ample means, fully able to afford steamboat fare, but
so miserly that she grudged paying it.
"Now, Sam," said Bob, "Clip will show you the way to a restaurant where
you can get a hot cup of coffee and a plate of meat, if you desire it."
While the boys were gone, Bob received a visitor.
CHAPTER XXIII.
A SUSPICIOUS CHARACTER.
Fifteen minutes after Sam and Clip had left him Bob's attention was
drawn to a man of somewhat flashy appearance, who, while leaning against
a tree on the bank, seemed to be eying him and the boat with attention.
He wore a Prince Albert coat which was no longer fit to appear in good
society, a damaged hat, and a loud neck-tie. His eyes were roving from
one point to another, as if he felt a great deal of interest in Bob or
the boat. Our hero was not favorably impressed with this man's
appearance.
"I wonder what he sees that interests him so much?" he thought.
"I say, young man, is this here boat yours?" he asked.
"Yes," answered Bob, coldly.
"What have you got on board?"
Bob felt under no obligation to answer, but reflecting that there was
no good excuse for refusing, he said, briefly: "Wheat."
"Humph! How much have you got?"
This clearly was none of the questioner's business, and Bob replied by
another question:
"Do you want to buy?"
"I don't know," said the stranger. "What do you ask?"
"I can't say till I get to St. Louis."
"How much do you calc'late to get?"
"Two dollars and a quarter," answered Bob, naming a price beyond his
expectations.
"Ain't that a high figger?"
"Perhaps so."
"Come, young feller, you don't seem social. Can't you invite me aboard?"
"I don't think you would be paid for coming," said Bob, more and more
unfavorably impressed.
"Oh, I don't mind. My time ain't valuable. I guess I'll come."
The stranger stepped across the gang-plank, which Bob had laid from the
boat to the shore, and entered without an invitation. Bob was tempted
to order him off, but the intruder appeared much stronger than himself;
and while he was alone it seemed politic to submit to the disagreeable
necessity of entertaining his unwelcome visitor.
The latter walked from end to end of the boat, examining for himself
without asking permission, or appearing to feel the need of any. He
opened the bins and counted them, while Bob looked on uneasily.
"I say, young feller, you've got a smart lot of wheat here."
"Yes," said Bob, briefly.
"Got a thousand bushels, I reckon?"
"Perhaps so."
"And you expect to get two dollars and a quarter a bushel?"
"Perhaps I shall have to take less."
"At any rate, you must have two thousand dollars' worth on board."
"You can judge for yourself."
"I say, that's a pile of money--for a boy."
"The wheat doesn't belong to me."
"Who owns it, then."
"My mother."
"What's your mother's name?"
"I have answered all the questions I am going to," said Bob,
indignantly.
"Don't get riled, youngster. It ain't no secret, is it?"
"I don't care about answering all the questions a stranger chooses to
put to me."
"I say, young chap, you're gettin' on your high horse."
"What is your object in putting all these questions?"
"What is my object?"
"That is what I asked."
"The fact is, youngster, I've got a ranch round here myself, and I've
got about five hundred bushels of wheat I want to market. Naturally I'm
interested. See?"
Bob did not believe a word of this.
"Where is your ranch?" he asked.
"About two miles back of the town," answered the stranger, glibly. That
lie was an easy one. "I'm thinkin' some of runnin' down to the city to
see if I can't sell my wheat in a lump to some merchant. Mebbe I could
strike a bargain with you to carry me down."
Bob had even more objection to the new passenger than to the old lady,
and he answered stiffly:
"I have no accommodations for passengers."
"Oh, I can bunk anywhere--can lie on deck, on one of the bins. I'm used
to roughin' it."
"You'd better take passage by the next steamer. This is a freight boat."
"There ain't anybody but you aboard, is there?"
"Yes; I have two companions."
The stranger seemed surprised and incredulous.
"Where are they?" he asked.
"Gone into the village."
The visitor seemed thoughtful. He supposed the two companions were
full-grown men, and this would not tally with his plans. This illusion,
however, was soon dissipated, for Sam and Clip at this point crossed the
gang-plank and came aboard.
"Are them your two companions?" asked the stranger, appearing relieved.
"Yes."
Sam and Clip eyed him curiously, expecting Bob to explain who he was,
but our hero was only anxious to get rid of him.
"Then you can't accommodate me?" asked the man.
"No, sir; but if you'll give me your name and address, I can perhaps
sell your crop for you, and leave you to deliver it."
"Never mind, young feller! I reckon I'll go to the city myself next
week."
"Just as you like, sir."
He re-crossed the plank, and when he reached the shore took up his post
again beside the tree, and resumed his scrutiny of the boat.
"What does that man want?" asked Sam.
"I don't know. He asked me to give him passage to St. Louis."
"You might make money by carrying passengers," suggested Sam.
"I wouldn't carry a man like him at any price," said Bob. "I haven't any
faith in his honesty or respectability, though he tells me that he owns
a ranch two miles back of the town. He came on the boat to spy out what
he could steal, in my opinion."
"How many days do you think we shall need for the trip, Bob?" asked Sam.
"It may take us a week; but it depends on the current, and whether we
meet with any obstructions. Are you in a hurry to get back to your
uncle?"
"No," said Sam, his face wearing a troubled look. "The fact is, Bob, I
don't mean to go back at all."
"You mean dat, Massa Sam?" asked Clip, his eyes expanding in his
excitement.
"Yes, I mean it. If I go back I shall have to return to my uncle, and
you know what kind of a reception I shall get. He will treat me worse
than ever."
"I am sure, Sam, my mother will be willing to let you live with us."
"I should like nothing better, but my uncle would come and take me
away."
"Would he have the right?"
"I think he would. He has always told me that my poor father left me to
his charge."
"Do you think he left any property?"
"Yes; I feel sure he did; for on his deathbed he called me to him, and
said: 'I leave you something, Sam; I wish it were more; but, at any
rate, you are not a pauper.'"
"Did you ever mention this to your uncle, Sam?"
"Yes."
"What did he say?"
"It seemed to make him very angry. He said that my father was delirious
or he would never have said such absurd things. But I know he was in his
right mind. He was never more calm and sensible than when he told me
about the property."
"I am afraid Sam, your uncle has swindled you out of your inheritance."
"I think so, too, but I can't prove anything, and it won't do to say
anything, for it makes him furious."
"What does your aunt say?"
"Oh, she sides with Uncle Aaron; she always does that."
"Then I can't say I advise you to return to Carver, although Clip and I
are sure to miss you."
"'Deed I shall, Massa Sam," said Clip.
"I think I can pick up a living somehow in St. Louis. I would rather
black boots than go back to Uncle Aaron."
"I am sure you can. Perhaps some gentleman will feel an interest in you,
and take you into his service."
"I want to tell you, Bob, that Uncle Aaron hates you, and will try to
injure you. You will need to be careful."
"That's no news, Sam. He has shown his dislike for me in many ways; but
I am not afraid of him," the boy added, proudly.
At nine o'clock the boys went to bed. They were all tired, and all slept
well. It was not till seven o'clock that Bob awoke. His two companions
were asleep. He roused them, and they prepared for the second day's
trip.
CHAPTER XXIV.
CLIP MAKES A LITTLE MONEY FOR HIMSELF.
About noon the next day, while Clip was at the helm, there was a sudden
jolt that jarred the boat from stem to stern, if I may so speak of a
double-ender ferry-boat.
Bob and Sam, who had been occupied with re-arranging some of the cargo,
rushed up to the colored pilot.
"What on earth is the matter, Clip asked Bob.
"'Clare to gracious, I dunno, Massa Bob," asseverated Clip.
Bob didn't need to repeat the question. Clip had steered in shore, and
the boat had run against a tree of large size which had fallen over into
the river, extending a distance of a hundred feet into the stream. Of
course the boat came to a standstill.
"What made you do this, Clip?" said Bob, sternly.
"Didn't do it, Massa Bob. Ol' boat run into the tree himself."
"That won't do, Clip. If you had steered right, there would have been no
trouble."
"I steered just as you told me to, Massa Bob."
"No, you didn't. You should have kept the boat at least a hundred and
fifty feet from the shore."
"Didn't I, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, innocently.
"No. Don't you see we are not more than fifty feet away now?"
"I didn't get out and measure, Massa Bob," said Clip, with a grin.
"Now, own up, Clip, were you not looking at something on the bank, so
that you didn't notice where you were steering?"
"Who told you, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, wondering.
"I know it must be so. Do you know you have got us into trouble? How am
I going to get the boat back into the stream?"
Clip scratched his head hopelessly. The problem was too intricate for
him to solve.
"I think, Clip, I shall have to leave you over at the next place we come
to. You are more bother than you are worth."
"Oh, don't, Massa Bob. I won't do so again. 'Deed I won't."
Bob didn't relent for some time. He felt that it was necessary to
impress Clip with the heinousness of his conduct. At length he agreed to
give him one more chance. He had to secure the services of two stout
backwoodsmen to remove the tree, and this occasioned a delay of at least
two hours. Finally the boat got started again, and for the remainder of
the day there was no trouble.
Towards the close of the afternoon they reached a place which we will
call Riverton. It was a smart Western village of about two thousand
inhabitants. Bob and Sam went on shore to get some supper, leaving Clip
in charge.
"Now, Clip, you must keep your eyes open, and take good care of
everything while we are gone," said Bob.
"All right, Massa Bob."
About ten minutes after the boys went away Clip was sitting on a barrel
whistling a plantation melody, when a slender, florid-complexioned young
man stepped aboard.
"Good-evening, sir," he said, removing his hat.
