easy for them to go to the island as to land at the point. Very likely
they will get the Times to bring them off, or some other steamer,"
Christy argued.
"It is certainly very desirable to capture these men, for it will do so
much to weaken the enemy; but I am afraid you are a little too audacious
in some of your movements, Mr. Passford," replied Captain Breaker, with
a softening smile.
"I beg you will not consider that I am asking for the command of the
Teaser, Captain Breaker, if she is sent upon this duty," returned the
lieutenant, somewhat set back at the prudence of the commander.
"I think I had better send Mr. Blowitt in command of the Teaser, and you
shall go as his first officer," added the captain.
"I have no objection, even in my heart, to this arrangement," replied
Christy.
"But I shall have to send the prize to New York, and I will appoint you
prize-master," continued the captain, afraid that he was disappointing
the ambitious young officer. "You have done exceedingly well, Christy,
and I shall not fail to mention you favorably in my report; and you will
write out yours as soon as possible."
Christy would not allow himself to think that he was unappreciated
because an older officer was appointed to conduct the enterprise he
suggested. He was ready to do his whole duty either as principal or
subordinate. Mr. Blowitt was summoned from his stateroom, and forty
men, including all who had taken part in the capture of the prize,
were detailed to man the Teaser. The second lieutenant was one of the
jolliest men on board, but he weighed nearly two hundred pounds, and he
was not as active on this account in boat service as some others. He was
an excellent officer, and had been in command of a steamer, though he
had never before been in the navy.
At three o'clock in the morning the fasts of the Teaser were cast off,
and she backed away from the Bellevite. She was to proceed to a point
about six miles to the eastward, which was beyond the camp of the "Pet
Lambs." Here she was to look out for the Teaser's crew.
She had not made half this distance when all hands heard rapid and
continued firing on Santa Rosa Island.
CHAPTER XXIV
LIEUTENANT PASSFORD ON A MISSION
The officers on board of the Teaser could not explain the occasion of
the firing on the island, though it sounded as though an engagement of
some sort was in progress. It had been foggy during the preceding day,
and if any movement on the part of the enemy had been indicated it could
not have been seen on board of the ships off the entrance to the bay.
"I hope this business we are to do this morning will not take us long,"
said Mr. Blowitt. "We may be wanted on board, and I should not like to
be absent from the Bellevite if she is to take part in an engagement of
any kind."
"And I am sure I should not," added Christy. "I should not be surprised
if the enemy made an attempt to capture Pickens; but even if they storm
it in the darkness, I do not see that the ships can do anything until
they are able to see what they are to do."
"But this affair may keep us away from the ship for a day or two,"
suggested the second lieutenant.
"I don't think so, sir; I believe you will be on board again before
seven bells in the morning watch," replied Christy. "The ship's company
of the Teaser were to be somewhere on the shores of the sound where they
could be taken on board."
"But the men you landed at the point believed that the Teaser was to
get out through the sound," replied Mr. Blowitt. "They took you for the
pilot Gilder, and you did not tell them that you intended to run the
blockade."
"Of course I did not; if I had, they would have remained on board. But
the guard-boat attempted to stop us, and the artillery on the island
fired into it, though it is probable that they did not hit it in the
dense fog," Christy explained. "Our men may have learned from the
guard-boat that we took the steamer out through the main channel."
"If they did they probably learned that the Teaser went out with the
assistance of the garrison at the fort," suggested Mr. Blowitt.
"I am confident that the officer of the guard-boat would have no means
of knowing that fact," argued Christy. "Of course, he heard the firing
in the neighborhood of the fort, and he would naturally conclude that
they were firing upon the steamer to prevent her from running out."
"That may be; but, to tell you the truth, Mr. Passford, I am afraid we
shall not find these men," added the second lieutenant. "From the firing
we hear, I should judge that a movement of some kind is in progress, and
our men may be better informed than you expect."
"Of course, they may be; but I expect to find these men at some point
along the shore," replied Christy, who thought the second lieutenant was
just a little obstinate in not accepting his theory in full.
The steamer continued on her course to the eastward, and nothing more
passed between the two principal officers in regard to the crew from
Pensacola. But Flint was quite as confident as the third lieutenant that
the forty men, more or less, would be captured. The noise of the firing
could no longer be heard, and then Christy suggested that the whistle be
sounded as a signal to the men if they were in the vicinity.
The depth of water was three or four fathoms close up to this part
of the island. The soundings indicated that the steamer was as near
as it was prudent to go in the dense fog. Christy was sure that the
privateer's crew could not have gone any farther to the eastward by this
time, and the screw was stopped, while all hands made an anxious use of
their ears to detect any sounds that came from the shore. But nothing
could be heard at first, and Mr. Blowitt again intimated that they were
engaged in a "wild-goose chase." But he had hardly uttered this cooling
reflection before Beeks came aft to report that a number of pistol
shots, as he thought they were, had been heard in the distance.
"Nobody can tell what they mean," said the sceptical Mr. Blowitt. "They
may be a part of the affair we heard going on soon after we left the
ship."
"In what direction were the shots, Beeks?" asked Christy.
"They sounded as though they were about half a mile or less to the
westward of us," replied the quartermaster.
"Blow the whistle in short blasts, Beeks," added Mr. Blowitt, who seemed
to have gathered a little faith from the report of the quartermaster.
The order was obeyed, and Beeks again reported that pistol shots had
been heard from the westward. The third lieutenant was in a hurry to
have the business finished, for he felt confident that the Bellevite
would soon be engaged in an affair of more importance than picking up
a couple of score of prisoners. He ordered the steamer to come about,
and move to the westward; but after she had been under way about five
minutes, he rang to stop her, and then sounded the whistles again.
Several pistol shots responded to this signal. Again he started the
screw, and pointed the bow of the Teaser squarely to the north.
The steamer moved very slowly, and two men sounded all the time till
they reported "by the mark two," when there could not have been more
than three feet of water under the keel of the vessel. The screw was
stopped and backed so that she might not run upon any shoal place ahead
of her, and the officers waited with interest and anxiety for further
action on the part of the party on shore. By this time no one doubted
that there were men on this part of the island; but whether they were
the crew of the privateer or not was yet to be proved.
"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted some one on the shore.
"On the island!" replied Christy, as he was instructed to do by his
superior.
"What steamer is that?" demanded the speaker on the island.
Whoever he was, he could not help knowing that a steamer was there, for
the engineer had begun to blow off steam as soon as the screw stopped,
though neither party could see the other in the fog and darkness.
"The Teaser," replied Christy. "Who are you?"
"We are the ship's company of the Teaser, and we want to get on board,"
replied the speaker. "Is Captain Folkner on board?"
"He is on board--of the Bellevite," the third lieutenant would have
finished the sentence if he had told the whole truth, for he uttered
only the first part of the sentence.
"All right. The first and second lieutenants are with us. Is Gilder on
board?"
"He is; and he wants to get back to the other side of the inland,"
answered Christy, who considered it his duty to make his replies as
suitable to the occasion as possible. "Who is speaking?"
"Lieutenant Lonley," replied the man; and Christy knew him, though he
did not know his rank before. "He wants to see Gilder before he goes on
board. Tell him to come on shore in his canoe."
"What is that for?" demanded Christy, rather surprised at the unexpected
request.
"I want to see him on particular business; I have a message for him,
which I cannot deliver in presence of any other person," replied Lonley.
"All right; you shall see him soon," answered Christy.
"Get out the boats to take us on board," continued Lonley. "Send them
about a mile to the eastward, where we have left our bags."
"All right," repeated Christy.
But he said what he did not believe, for everything did not look right
to him. He could not understand why the bags of the men should be a mile
to the eastward. He could not imagine what business Lonley could have
with Gilder or his representative; and if he had any, why it should be
necessary to meet him on the island.
"Of course you don't expect me to carry on the programme that fellow has
marked out," said Mr. Blowitt. "I don't quite like the looks of the
things that we can't see, Mr. Passford."
"Neither do I, Mr. Blowitt," replied the third lieutenant frankly.
"I shall not send a boat from the steamer till I understand this matter
a great deal better than I do now, and especially I shall not send the
boats a mile to the eastward," added the second lieutenant.
"Of course it is possible that my plan has miscarried already," added
Christy.
"I shall do everything I can to carry out your plan, as I am instructed
to do by the captain; but I have the feeling, in spite of myself, that
we are crawling into a hornet's nest," added Mr. Blowitt, with some
anxiety in his tones. "You will call all hands quietly, and be ready to
repel boarders. It is well to be prepared for whatever may come. The
firing at the west end of the island indicated that something was going
on, and perhaps these men on the shore know about it."
Christy obeyed the order promptly, and the next minute, every seaman on
board was ready with his cutlass and revolver to meet an attack. But no
sound came from the shore just then, and the officers were in a state of
uncertainty in regard to the situation which allowed them to do nothing.
They waited for half an hour, when the leadsman reported that the water
was shoaling, which indicated that the Teaser was drifting towards the
island.
"On board the Teaser!" shouted Lonley, so distinctly that he could
hardly have been more than three hundred feet from the steamer.
"On shore," replied Christy, prompted by Mr. Blowitt.
"I am waiting for Gilder! Why don't he come on shore?" shouted Lonley,
his impatience apparent in his tones.
"Where are all the men?" demanded Christy, as requested by the second
lieutenant.
"They have gone a mile to the eastward where they left their bags."
"We will run down in the steamer for them," added Mr. Blowitt, talking
through Christy.
"Don't do that!" protested the speaker on shore. "There is a Yankee
steamer off in that direction. We heard her steam an hour ago."
"All right!" replied Christy.
"That settles the matter in my mind," said Mr. Blowitt. "They are trying
to play what they call a Yankee trick upon us. When we send our boats to
the eastward, we shall send them into a trap. If the boats are to bring
off forty men, they will expect them to go with only men enough to pull
the oars; and when they get possession of them, they expect to retake
the Teaser."
"I think you are right, Mr. Blowitt," replied Christy, who began to
believe that his scheme was rapidly approaching a failure, though he did
not give it up just yet.
"This Lonley is still on the shore near us," said Mr. Blowitt. "I should
very much like to know what has been going on to-night on the island,
and it may be that he knows all about it. As you are the representative
of Gilder, Mr. Passford, you may take the canoe that is astern, and have
a talk with Lonley at close quarters, if you don't object."
"I should have proposed it myself if I had not feared that the idea
would be charged to my audacity," replied Christy. "I will take only
Flint with me, as he was with me before."
The canoe was brought up to the gangway, and Flint took his place at the
oars. Mr. Blowitt charged the young officer in the most serious manner
not to run any risks, and the boat was shoved off. It required but a few
strokes of the oars to bring it into shoal water by the beach. Only a
single man could be seen on the shore, and this one must be Lonley.
There seemed to be no risk, and Christy landed.
CHAPTER XXV
CHRISTY BECOMES A VICTIM
Everything was perfectly still on the island, and only a single man
was in sight; but Christy put his hand upon his revolver as he went
on shore. Though he had never been a fighting young man, he had the
impression that he should not tamely submit to the assault of an enemy,
or run away from any single man that stood up in front of him. He had
always been prudent, even while he had been daring, and he hardly needed
the solemn admonition of the second lieutenant to be extremely cautious.
"Is that you, Captain Gilder?" asked the man on the shore, who stood a
little way from the waterside.
"Yes; and I take it for granted that you are Lonley," replied Christy,
advancing towards the other. "You have done all the talking this night,
and I ought to know you."
"All the talking except what you have done, and I ought to know you,"
replied Lonley. "I am Lieutenant Lonley, of the Teaser, and our men are
all ready to go on board."
"And Captain Folkner is all ready to have them go on board," returned
Christy, who had no doubt of the truth of what he said, though he
understood that he was telling a "story" all the same.
"I have no doubt he is. But I don't quite understand how you happen to
be on this side of the island, and so far to the westward at this time
in the morning. We expected to find the Teaser burrowing through the
sound, and we had about made up our minds to take possession of her and
run the blockade, as other Christians do. We did not believe she would
get through the sound in a week, if she ever did."
"I succeeded in persuading Captain Folkner that he had better come out
by the main channel; and that is the way we did come out, and that
explains how we happen to be here at this time in the morning," replied
Christy, very cheerfully.
"You must have very strong powers of persuasion, Captain Gilder," said
Lonley, laughing.
"I have in a case such as this was," added the lieutenant, with a
chuckle, as he thought of the particular kind of persuasion he had
used upon the captain of the privateer.
"I would give a good deal if I had just such powers, for they are
sometimes of very great service to an officer."
"You are quite right, Mr. Lonley. I suppose you are the first lieutenant
of the Teaser."
"No, I am not; kissing goes by favor, and the captain's brother is the
first; and he is no more fit for his position than the captain is for
his duty. I was in hope that the government would take possession of
the steamer, and send her to sea properly officered," added Lonley,
very good-naturedly.
"Good officers are quite necessary in the service," suggested Christy.
"I have no doubt you will fill the bill, and be all that could be
possibly desired."
"Thank you, Captain Gilder. Did you have any trouble in getting out of
the bay?"
"No, none at all. By the way, Mr. Lonley, we have been hearing firing at
the west end of the island to-night. Do you know what it means?"
"The first thing was to clean out that regiment of Zouaves; and I have
no doubt that has been done before now; and our boys may get a hack at
Pickens. A big force was landed in the fog, and the Yankees will not
stay on this island much longer," replied Lonley.
His information was entirely correct, though his prediction was not
equally reliable.
"I was sure there was fighting going on over there," added Christy.
"You seem to be all alone, Mr. Lonley. Where are all your men?"
"I told you before you came ashore that I had sent them all over to the
place where they had left their bags, about a mile to the eastward of
us. I suppose Captain Folkner has sent the boats over there for them
before this time?"
"He was inclined to run over in the steamer," added Christy.
"I hope he did not do that," said the privateersman, with a good deal
more energy than the other thought the occasion warranted. "I warned you
that there was a Yankee gunboat over that way."
"The Teaser has not gone over that way," replied Christy.
"If she has, she will be gobbled up by that gunboat, and all my men with
her."
"I persuaded Captain Folkner not to do it," added the Bellevite's
officer, very quietly.
"He ought to have done just what I asked him to do; and that was to send
his boats over to the place named for the men."
"And I persuaded him to do that also," continued Christy, as
unblushingly as though he had not been strictly in the habit of
telling the truth all his lifetime.
"Good for you, Captain Gilder!" exclaimed Lonley, grasping the hand of
his companion as though he had been his brother. "You beat all the men
I ever knew on power of persuasion; and when I get the command of the
Teaser, as I expect to have before this year ends, I shall want you to
serve as my first lieutenant."
"Thank you, Lieutenant Lonley; you are very kind; and if I ever go into
the privateering service, I shall certainly go in with you," replied
Christy.
"An officer with your power of persuasion will be invaluable to me,"
replied Lonley, still holding the hand of the other. "If I were gifted
in this respect as you are, Captain Gilder, do you know what I would
do?"
"I am sure I have not the least idea, unless it would be to persuade
Jeff Davis to send you a commission as a captain in the regular navy,"
said Christy, laughing at the idea.
"I am afraid I should have too little cheek to attempt to do that, for
the president is a rather obstinate man, and I fear he would not see the
point. Besides, I am a very modest man, though you may not have observed
this shining trait in my character. No; I am too diffident to ask for a
place I have not won by service."
"Then what would you do in the way of persuasion?" asked Christy, though
he wondered why he was prolonging the interview.
"I should use my powers of persuasion upon you, Captain Gilder, in the
first place."
"I don't think it would be of any use, for I am too well posted in that
way of doing it to be influenced," replied Christy, trying to withdraw
his hand from the grasp of the privateersman. "I must go on board of the
Teaser again when you have delivered your message to me, as that was
what you wished to see me for."
"I did say I had a message for you, didn't I? Well, upon my life, I have
quite forgot what it was, but it was from President Jefferson Davis,
and he was particular that I should deliver it to you to-night or this
morning. Isn't it very strange that I should forget a message of so much
importance that it could not be trusted to writing?"
"Passing strange, I should say," answered Christy, who began to
understand that he had fallen into a trap of some sort. "While you are
thinking of it, I will go on board, and persuade Captain Folkner not to
run the Teaser to the eastward if he should take it into his head to do
so. I had no idea there was a Yankee gunboat in that direction, and I
don't believe the captain had. Besides, he don't know where he is in
this fog, and he needs me."
As he spoke, Christy tried to withdraw his hand from the grasp of
Lonley, as he had not succeeded in doing before when he tried. But the
privateersman suddenly fell upon him, and both of them went down. A
tremendous struggle followed, but before it was decided, two men rushed
out of the gloom, and took part in the affair; and they soon settled the
matter in favor of the Confederacy, much to the chagrin of the second
lieutenant of the Bellevite.
  [Illustration: "A tremendous struggle followed."--Page 284.]
Flint had remained in the canoe, which had been partly drawn up on
the beach; but the moment he sprang out upon the sand to go to the
assistance of his officer, he was set upon by two men and secured. Both
of them were deprived of their weapons, and their hands tied behind
them. Beyond a doubt the lieutenant and the master's mate were prisoners
before they had any clear idea of the situation.
"Are you there, Mr. Folkner?" called Lonley, as soon as the prisoners
were secured, speaking now in an energetic tone, as he had not before.
"I am here," replied a man who seemed to be in a boat not far from the
spot. "You have kept me a long time waiting for you!"
"I wanted to give the Yankee boats time to get at least a mile from
the Teaser before anything was done. Shove off now, and make things as
lively as you can," said Lonley. "Go to your places in the boats,"
he continued to four men who had assisted in the capture of the two
officers.
By this time Christy had a chance to see that he was a victim of a trick
which was to eventuate in the recapture of the Teaser; and he was sorry
that he was not the only victim, as he looked at Flint. He realized too
that the scheme had been very well planned, though he was really happy
in the belief that it would be a failure in the end. Lonley seemed to
be the leading spirit in the affair, and managed the details. He had
intended that the boats should be sent from the Teaser to a point at
least a mile off.
He had taken it for granted that the steamer would come to pick them
up, or in other words, to capture the forty prisoners. If he was weak
in accepting as the truth Christy's statement that the boats had
been actually sent away, as desired, he could see no reason why the
Yankee officer should try to deceive him. It appeared now that the
privateersmen had two boats, which had been brought across the island
for the purpose. Lonley had naturally wished that only a few men should
be on board, and concluded that it would be an easy matter to capture
the steamer, and then to secure the men in the boats when they returned
from the eastward.
The four men on shore, who had been put in a place where they could
assist Lonley, hastened to the boats, and they shoved off, pulling as
silently as though the oars had been muffled, as probably they had been.
In a moment more they disappeared in the darkness and fog.
"I think I have improved a great deal in the art of persuasion,"
said Lonley, as the boats disappeared. "I suppose I persuaded you
as effectually as you did Captain Folkner."
"You have done very well, Mr. Lonley," replied Christy, in a patronizing
tone, for he was determined that his companion should derive no
satisfaction from seeing him cast down by his misfortune.
"You informed me a little while ago that Captain Folkner was on board
of the Teaser; and I wish to ask if you are uniformly in the habit of
speaking the truth?" continued Lonley.
"Well, that depends upon circumstances. If I have not done so, you
cannot expect me to contradict myself."
"You claimed that you were Captain Gilder."
"Hardly, my excellent friend: when Captain Folkner addressed me by that
name, I did not object to it."
"That was just as much a lie as though you had claimed it in so many
words," protested Lonley.
"I admit it; and I hardly expect a true patriot to tell the truth to
the enemy. If I remember rightly, you told me yourself that your men
had gone to the eastward where they had left their bags. I don't believe
that your conscience reproached you when they showed themselves in the
boats."
At this moment pistol shots were heard on the water.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE ACTION ON THE DECK OF THE TEASER
As the Teaser was but a short distance from the shore, Christy had no
doubt that the attempt to board her had been made by this time. Mr.
Blowitt had quite as many men on board of the steamer as could have been
contained in the two boats, and he was not much concerned about the
result of the attack, especially as he knew that the second lieutenant
was fully prepared and on the lookout for it. The only thing that
Christy regretted was that he was not on board of the Teaser to take
part in the affair of repelling boarders.
"There seems to be some music in the air," said Lonley, after he had
listened for a few moments to the sounds that came from the direction of
the steamer.
"To return to the subject of the morality of telling stories, your men
do not seem to be a mile to the eastward, where their bags were left,"
added Christy good-naturedly.
"You had a glance at them in the boats, though the darkness and fog were
rather too thick for you to count them," replied Lonley, chuckling over
the deception he had practised upon the lieutenant of the Bellevite.
"Yes, I saw them, and I concluded that they could not be where their
bags were."
"All is fair in war."
"That seems to be the generally received maxim, and he is the smartest
man who the most thoroughly deceives the enemy," added Christy, who
found himself tolerably well satisfied with the situation, though he was
a prisoner.
"That is so, and of course I can find no fault with you for deceiving
me," returned Lonley, chuckling as though he was even better satisfied
with the situation than his companion.
"Thank you, Mr. Lonley; you are magnanimous, and with equal sincerity
I can say that I have no fault to find with you," replied the Union
officer. "But I have my doubts whether, after this, either of us will be
likely to believe what the other says. But, for my part, I wish to say
that I don't believe in telling anything but necessary and patriotic
lies."
"That is my view of the matter exactly; and if there is any man that
despises a liar, I am that man," said Lonley warmly. "But it seems to
me they are making a good deal of a racket off there," he added, as the
noise of pistol shots and the clash of cutlasses came over the smooth
waters of the gulf.
"They seem to be at it quite earnestly," replied Christy.
"By the way, how many men did you leave on board of the Teaser?" asked
the privateersman, whose manner seemed to have suddenly become
considerably changed.
"How many men?" repeated the lieutenant of the Bellevite.
"That is the question I asked," replied the lieutenant of the Teaser.
"I suppose you would not believe me if I should tell you," answered
Christy.
"I judge that you can speak the truth if you try," added Lonley, with
more asperity than the occasion seemed to require.
"I know that I could," said Christy, very decidedly; "and I may add that
I was in the habit of doing so on all occasions before this cruel war
began."
"Then suppose you try to do so just now, and tell me how many men your
people had on board of the Teaser."
"You must excuse me for the present, for I do not like to make
statements to one who will not believe what I say," answered Christy,
rather facetiously.
"You are a prisoner now."
"I am painfully aware of the fact, but I doubt if the government service
will suffer very much in my absence from duty."
"You are too modest by half, Mr.--but I have not even the pleasure of
knowing your name, and conversation is annoying under such
circumstances."
"I am simply Midshipman Passford, at your service."
"Only a midshipman!" exclaimed Lonley. "Upon my word, you ought to be a
commodore. Passford? Possibly you are a cousin of Colonel Passford of
Glenfield."
"Colonel Passford is my uncle. Do you know him?" asked Christy.
"I do know him; and there is not a finer man or a truer patriot in the
South than Colonel Passford. He is loading a schooner with cotton, and
he offered me the command of it. Then you are his nephew, I have heard
of you."
"I hope my uncle is quite well, for I have not heard from him for
several weeks, or since I left New York."
"I saw him ten days ago, and he was very well then. I am very happy
to have made a prisoner of his enterprising nephew, who appears to be
capable of doing our cause a great deal of mischief," replied Lonley,
looking earnestly in the direction of the Teaser.
"Thank you, Mr. Lonley; I certainly intend to do it all the mischief I
can in a legitimate way. I am speaking the truth now," said Christy.
"But you have not answered my question in regard to the number of men on
board of the Teaser when you left her."
"And you will excuse me for the present if I do not answer it," added
the Union lieutenant.
"Very well, Mr. Passford; I cannot compel you to answer it, though doing
so would do no harm to your cause, for I should judge that the question
of the hour is settled."
"What is the question of the hour, Mr. Lonley?"
"The question is which side is in possession of the Teaser, yours or
mine," replied the privateersman, still gazing out into the gloom.
"Is that question settled?" asked Christy, with interest.
"Of course I don't know, but I should think that it was. We hear no
more pistol shots and no more clashing of cutlasses," replied Lonley,
uneasily. "But I expected to hear the triumphal shout of our men when
they had carried the deck of the Teaser."
"I have not heard anything like a triumphal shout," added Christy, very
quietly. "It is barely possible that your men have not carried the deck
of the Teaser."
"Of course, it is possible they have not; but I don't believe they have
failed," replied Lonley.
The privateersman listened for a few minutes in silence. He appeared
to be entirely confident that the victory must be with his men. He
evidently believed that the captors of the Teaser had sent her two boats
off to a distance of a mile, and thus weakened whatever force she had on
board of her. He did not seem to have any idea that the party he had
met in Pensacola Bay had been increased in numbers, or that the officer
in command had reported to the ship to which they belonged. Christy
realized what Lonley was thinking about, and he clearly believed that
the Teaser had been left in charge of not more than a dozen or fifteen
men, reduced by at least six then on boat duty.
"Help! help!" shouted a man in the water at no great distance from the
shore.
"What does that mean?" said Lonley, springing to his feet.
"It is a call for help, and, as my hands are tied behind me, I cannot
respond to it, as I would gladly do, be the man who needs it friend or
enemy," replied Christy. "There is the canoe in which we came ashore,
Lieutenant Lonley, and you can use that."
The privateersman sprang into the boat, shoved it off, and pulled in
the direction from which the appeal came. He disappeared in the fog in a
moment; but a little later was seen again approaching the shore. He had
not taken the sufferer into the boat, but he had clung to it. As he got
upon his feet, Christy saw that there were two of them, for one helped
the other up the beach.
"What does this mean?" demanded Lonley, very much excited. "Have you run
away from the others?"
"No, sir; but we were beaten in the fight, our boats captured, and all
hands taken prisoners except us two," replied the uninjured of the two
men.
Lieutenant Lonley, whatever his views of the morality of lying to the
enemy, uttered an exclamation which grated very harshly on the ears of
Lieutenant Passford. The result, as stated by the man who had swum to
the shore, was as unwelcome as it was unexpected. He had not deemed a
defeat even possible. He learned from the guard-boat that the steamer
had been captured. He had spent the time after he was landed with his
companions at Town Point, and organized his force for the recapture of
the Teaser. The failure of the final attack was as severe upon him as
the loss of his vessel had been upon Captain Folkner.
"Who are you?" demanded Lonley, when he had in some measure recovered
from the shock which the failure gave him.
"I am Levick, the boatswain; and this is Lieutenant Folkner, who was
wounded in the shoulder in the first of it," replied the man. "He was
knocked from the rail into the water when we boarded, and he held on to
an oar. When the fight was over, and we had lost it, I slipped into the
water, and helped the lieutenant along on his oar, till I was about used
up, and then I called for help."
"Are you much hurt, Mr. Folkner?" asked Lonley of the injured officer.
"I don't know; my shoulder feels numb, and I can't use my arm," replied
Folkner. "But I can use my legs, and I think that is what we had better
be doing."
"I don't understand it," protested Lonley, very much dissatisfied with
the result of the action, as may well be supposed. "I was sure you would
carry her deck at once."
"I was as sure as you were, Lonley; but I believe they had fifty men
all ready for us. They let us leap on deck without much opposition, and
then they surrounded us, and took us by surprise, for I did not suppose,
after what you said, that they had a dozen men," replied the wounded
lieutenant.
"I did not suppose they had even a dozen men left on board," Lonley
explained, with humiliation in his tones.
"I staid in the boat till I had seen all my men on deck," continued Mr.
Folkner. "They surrounded our force, and tumbled them into the hold as
though they had been pigs, slashing them with their cutlasses if they
tried to get out. I saw the fat officer in command of the enemy; he was
very active, and I leaped on deck, determined to cross weapons with him.
But he hit me in the shoulder with his cutlass, and I lost my hold on
the rail."
"You ought to have led your men, not followed them," said Lonley
bitterly.
"That is easy enough for you to say; but I wanted to be where I could
see my men," retorted the first lieutenant, of whom the second had a
very mean opinion, perhaps because he got his position on account of
being the captain's brother.
"Whether I did right or not, I can tell you all one thing; and that is,
that we shall be prisoners if we stay here any longer. They have got our
men under the hatches, and they have ordered out a boat to look for an
officer they sent ashore."
"We can do nothing here, and we may as well put ourselves in safer
quarters, for we have two prisoners to lose," said Lonley. "Mr.
Passford, I shall have to trouble you to march to the other side of
the island."
"I am your prisoner, Mr. Lonley, and I must obey your orders, though
I am sorry to be away from my ship in the hour of victory," replied
Christy submissively.
But he felt that his plan had been fully carried out.
CHAPTER XXVII
A VISIT FROM COLONEL HOMER PASSFORD
With his arms securely tied behind him, Christy realized that he could
make no resistance to his captors. Flint was in the same unfortunate
situation, and both of them had been deprived of their revolvers. But
in spite of his unpleasant surroundings, the young lieutenant felt that
the balance of advantage was on the side of the Union. If the government
was deprived of the services of a midshipman and a master's mate, a
dangerous privateer had been captured, and about forty prisoners had
been taken from the employ of the Confederacy. In the face of this
decided gain, Christy felt that he had no right to complain.
By this time the light of day had begun to have some effect on the
darkness and fog, though the gloom seemed to be hardly less. Lonley
directed his two prisoners to walk side by side behind the wounded
lieutenant, while he and Levick took their places in the rear. The
second lieutenant of the Teaser was duly impressed by what the first
had said about a probable visit to the island in search of the missing
midshipman, and he directed Folkner to march as rapidly as he could. He
took the control of the party out of the hands of his superior, and very
likely he wished he had done so sooner.
Folkner, as he had before suggested, still had the use of his legs, and
he certainly used them well, for he travelled like a man who was in a
hurry; but both Christy and Flint were in excellent condition, though
they had been on active duty all night, and they had no difficulty in
keeping up with their leader.
Lonley and Levick were both armed, and they kept their weapons in
readiness for immediate use, for the former recognized the enterprising
character of the young officer in front of him, and knew that he would
escape if he could. But Christy did not feel called to take any
desperate chances in order to restore himself at once to the service of
his country, and he and his companion in captivity marched along very
quietly. The two armed men soon dropped several paces to the rear, so
that the lieutenant could listen to the details of the action on the
deck of the Teaser. The prisoners could not hear what was said, and they
started a conversation on their own account.
"We are in a bad box," said Flint. "I did not expect to come out of the
little end of the horn in this way."
"You must take a broader view of the situation than that," replied
Christy. "The Teaser is certainly a prize of the Bellevite, with as many
as forty prisoners. That is the result of our night's work, though we
are counted out just now in the business of crowing over the success of
our side. That is the way to look at it; and this view makes me quite
satisfied with the night's work."
"I did not see it in that light, and I suppose you are right, Mr.
Passford," replied Flint.
"And you will not lose your share of the prize-money for the Yazoo or
the Teaser," added Christy, though, as the son of a millionnaire, he
felt no interest at all in the spoils of war.
"What do you suppose will be done with us, sir?" asked the master's
mate.
"I have not the least idea, any more than you have; but I have no doubt
we shall be kept in close confinement, and I don't believe we shall live
as well in our prison, wherever it may be, as we do on board of the
Bellevite. But I am rather fond of johnny-cake, and I don't expect to
starve on bacon."
"Don't you think it was a mistake to send us ashore in the canoe on the
part of Mr. Blowitt?" asked Flint, rather timidly.
"If it was, it was as much my mistake as it was his. But I don't think
it was a mistake. I cannot say that we did not succeed in the action on
the deck of the steamer because we were sent ashore," replied Christy.
"I don't see how that can be," replied Flint.
"In the first place, Lonley wanted me to come on shore, and asked that
I should do so. On the strength of what I said to him, he believed that
our boats had been sent to the eastward, and that induced him to make
the advance he did. After he had told us where to find the men, he had
good reason to believe that the boats would be sent for them. We did not
fall into the trap he set for us. I think it is all right as it is; but
whether it is or not, it's no use to grumble about it."
"I did not mean to grumble; and I am willing to believe that everything
has been for the best," replied Flint, apparently resolved to be
satisfied, as his superior officer was, whether he felt so or not.
Folkner led the way in a northwesterly direction, and evidently knew
where he was going. When they had been marching about half an hour,
the party heard the report of fire-arms in the rear of them; but the
discharges were at regular intervals, and did not sound as though they
came from a battle. A little later, they heard loud shouts.
"That is the party who are out in search of us," said Christy.
"That is so, Mr. Passford; the sounds are only signals, and they are
intended to notify you that your friends are in search of you," added
Lonley, hastening up to the advance of the party. "I should be very
sorry to do such a thing, but if you shout, or do anything to inform
that party where you are, it will be my duty to shoot you."
"I am not disposed to be rash, Mr. Lonley. If our friends overtake your
party, it will not be my fault," replied Christy.
"You do not expect me to shoot you in that case, I hope?" added the
privateersman.
"I did not know but that your revolver might go off by accident."
"You may be assured that it will not; I claim to be a gentleman and a
Christian, and I intend to be fair even to my enemies."
"I beg your pardon for my thoughtless remark. I have no occasion to
complain of you. I shall endeavor to be a gentleman and a Christian
also, though I intend to do my best in fighting my country's battles;
and I am not disposed to talk politics with you under present
circumstances."
The march was continued for some time longer, and the signals in
the rear were repeated till increasing light enabled the prisoners to
see that they were approaching Pensacola Bay. Not a little to their
astonishment, the shore seemed to be alive with soldiers, and they
learned that a battle, or something like one, had been fought on the
island. The Confederate forces had been sent to attack Wilson's Zouaves,
in camp to the eastward of the fort. Some very severe fighting had been
done in the darkness and fog, with heavy losses on both sides.
The Zouaves had been re-enforced from the fort, and with marines from
the ships. Though the Confederates claimed the victory, it was clear
enough to the two prisoners from the south side of the island that the
Southern troops were retreating from the field. A soldier who fought
with them wrote to a paper in Georgia: "I scarcely know whether we
achieved a victory, or suffered a defeat." He also said that in the
fog and darkness: "We shot down our friends in numbers."
A few prisoners had been captured by the enemy, including two officers.
But Folkner led the way to a point on the bay not very near the steamers
which had brought over the expedition from the mainland. The Confederate
troops embarked in the steamers and launches by which they had come; but
the Union troops followed them to the end. Their steamers were aground,
and a merciless fire was poured into them by the pursuing companies.
"They are having hot work of it over there," said Lonley, as they came
to a boat on the shore. "But that is not our affair, and it is quite
proper for us to keep out of the way of the flying bullets."
Christy and Flint were directed to take seats in the boat, and the
lieutenant and boatswain manned the oars. They were not out of the
reach of the bullets of the Federal troops, and the oarsmen pulled with
all their might for a time. It was five miles to Pensacola, but the
privateersmen landed their prisoners there. They were committed to a
sort of guard-house; but in the afternoon they were sent to Mobile with
about twenty others, who had been captured in the battle of the night
before.
There was not a great number of prisoners in the city, and it was
intended to remove them to other quarters arranged for their
accommodation.
Christy and Flint were confined in an unoccupied warehouse, and were fed
tolerably well, and they were supplied with some kind of dried grass for
beds. It was not at all like the luxurious stateroom of the lieutenant
on board of the Bellevite, or even the quarters of Flint; but they were
determined to make the best of it. Flint had become reconciled to his
situation, and Christy was even cheerful.
After he had been in the warehouse a few days, Christy was not a little
surprised to receive a visit from his uncle, Colonel Passford. He was
not surprised at the kindness of the planter in making the visit, but
that he should know so soon that he was a prisoner of war, for he had
fully decided not to make any appeal to his uncle; and he could not
imagine how he had discovered his situation.
"I am glad to see you, Christy," said Colonel Passford, extending his
hand, which Christy took without any hesitation.
"And I suppose you are glad to see me here," added the nephew, with a
smile.
"While I am glad to see you deprived of the power to injure the cause I
love, and to which I have pledged all that I have and all that I am, I
am sorry that you should be in trouble, Christy. I hope I have Christian
feeling enough to keep me from rejoicing at the misfortunes of any
person, and especially of my brother's son. I can say sincerely that
I am sorry you are in trouble," said the colonel solemnly.
"Oh, I am not in trouble, Uncle Homer!" exclaimed Christy, laughing.
"I have done my duty to my country, my conscience is clean, and I am
not to be upset by an accident like this. I am really happy in the
consciousness that I have been faithful to the cause of my country."
  [Illustration: "I am glad to see you, Christy."--Page 308.]
"I wish you had been; but we will not talk about that, for I suppose you
and your father have the same views," replied the planter, looking very
sad.
"I don't believe we should agree if we talked about it for a year, and
we had better give the subject the go-by. But how are Aunt Lydia and
Gerty?"
"Both are very well. I hope your father is in good health, as well as
your mother and sister."
"All very well."
"I have not heard a word from any of you for about five months,"
continued Colonel Passford. "In fact, not since you were here in May."
"We got home all right, and the Bellevite is a man-of-war now. She
captured one valuable prize off the coast of Carolina, and another at
Pensacola," replied Christy cheerfully.
"She ought never to have been allowed to leave Mobile Bay," added the
colonel.
"Your people certainly did everything they could to prevent her from
leaving, and I hope you don't blame yourselves for letting her go. What
about Corny, sir?" asked Christy.
"Major Pierson was very much to blame for permitting the Bellevite to
pass the forts when she came in, and he lost his command. But he has
devoted all his life to redeem his fault by her recapture. He took Corny
with him, and a naval officer; I only know that the attempt to recapture
her failed from the fact that the Bellevite is now on the blockade."
Finding that his uncle knew nothing of the events which had transpired
at Bonnydale, Christy told him all about them, informing him at the end
that Corny was a prisoner of war on parole at his father's house,
recovering from his wound.
CHAPTER XXVIII
AN ENTERPRISE FOR A DARK NIGHT
"Corny wounded!" exclaimed Colonel Passford, rising with no little
emotion from the box on which he had seated himself.
"Not seriously, Uncle Homer," added Christy.
"But how was he wounded? I have heard of no battle in the vicinity of
New York till now, though our papers contain some news from outside,"
continued the planter.
"It was hardly a battle," replied Christy. "Captain Carboneer had
brought a crew for a steamer through Canada, I believe, for the purpose
of capturing the Bellevite as she lay at Bonnydale. Major Pierson and
Corny were to assist him; and the major wished Captain Carboneer to take
Florry on board of her, and convey her to the South, when he had taken
possession of the steamer; but the naval officer was too high-toned to
do anything of the kind."
"I did not suppose Major Pierson could do such a thing," added the
planter, biting his lips.
"But the major insisted that he did not mean to take her against her
own will. Captain Carboneer bought an old steamer, put his men on board
of her, and started up the river to make the capture. I knew they were
coming, and was ready for them. We fired only one shot at the old
steamer, which smashed her walking-beam, and disabled her. A piece of
the machinery struck Corny, and injured him in the shoulder. The doctor
says he is not permanently injured, though it will be months before he
is able to use his arm. He was paroled, and mother is taking as good
care of him as though I had been wounded."
"I am thankful it is not worse," added the colonel, with a sigh of
relief. "What became of Major Pierson?"
"I don't know, but I suppose he is a prisoner in Fort Lafayette. He
refused to give his parole when he found he could not be a guest at
Bonnydale. Captain Carboneer obtained the command of a steamer, but it
was captured by the Bellevite, and probably he is with the major in the
fort."
The planter asked a great many questions in regard to the affair on the
Hudson, and Christy answered them. He gave some of the particulars of
the capture of the Teaser, and mentioned the name of Lonley, who had
told him that Colonel Passford had offered him the command of a schooner
he had loaded with cotton to run the blockade; but the planter said
nothing to indicate that he had ever heard of the privateersman.
"The Bellevite has been very fortunate so far, and she seems to have a
charmed existence," added the colonel.
"That is only because she is well handled," replied Christy, laughing.
"And you seem to be equally fortunate, Christy, for you have twice been
the means of saving your father's steamer. Corny has done nothing, is
wounded, and practically a prisoner. But, Christy, the tide will turn,
for Heaven is always on the side of a just cause," added the planter
solemnly.
"I believe it, uncle; and that will be the reason why the Union will
prevail in the end. Besides, Napoleon believed that Heaven was always
on the side of the stronger battalions."
"That was an impious remark; and Heaven, by its own mysterious ways,
will conduct the just cause of the South to a successful ending, and the
Confederate States of America will be an honored member of the family of
nations."
"I think we had better not talk politics, even though we mix in a little
religion," suggested Christy.
"As your father has been kind to my boy, wounded and a prisoner in the
midst of enemies, I ought to do something for you, Christy," continued
Colonel Passford, looking on the floor.
"Not at all, Uncle Homer; I am not wounded as Corny is, and there is
no need of doing anything for me," interposed Christy, laughing in the
serious face of the planter.
"I can get you paroled, and then I shall be glad to have you remain at
Glenfield until you are exchanged," said the planter.
"I shall not accept a parole, Uncle Homer," replied Christy promptly.
"Not accept a parole!" exclaimed the colonel. "Corny did so."
"If I were wounded, as Corny is, I would accept it."
"I hope you don't mean to try to escape, Christy," added his uncle, with
a look of deep concern on his dignified face, as he looked about the
apartment in which his nephew was confined.
"I don't say that I shall; if I did say so, you would have our guard
doubled, and ready to shoot me if they saw my head at a window,"
answered Christy with earnestness.
"You seem to think I am a heathen; but you forget that you are an active
enemy of my country," added the planter, with a pained expression.
"I don't forget it, uncle; but I am not half as active as I hope to be
before this thing ends. I believe you would see me shot or hung by the
neck till I was dead if it were for the benefit of what you call your
country."
"I hope and pray that I may never be placed in a situation to see
anything of that kind."
"I know you are earnest, honest, and sincere, Uncle Homer, and no
partiality to your own kindred would permit you to shirk what you
consider to be your duty. I find no fault with you; and I believe my
father would be equally firm," said Christy warmly.
"I think you understand me, my boy; but do not attempt any rash project.
I cannot prevent the guard from shooting you if you attempt to escape."
"I prefer to keep my own counsels in a matter of this kind, Uncle Homer.
Give my love to Aunt Lydia and Gerty, for I suppose I am not likely to
see them, as I am liable to be sent away any day."
"Oh, yes, you will see them, for they shall call upon you here as soon
as they return from Montgomery, where they have gone for a few days."
"It will be very kind of them to do so," added Christy, though he did
not believe he should be "at home" when they came.
"I do not wish you were wounded, my dear boy, but if you were, we would
do all that your father and mother are doing for poor Corny," replied
Colonel Passford fervently, "Now, promise me, Christy, that you will not
attempt to escape."
"I can't make any promises, uncle."
"I will do the best I can to have your condition improved, and see that
you have a better diet, if I send your food from a hotel."
"You are very kind, uncle, and I know that you will do all that your
duty will permit you to do for me."
"But I shall live in fear and trembling if I leave you without your
promise to refrain from daring exploits. Just consider, my dear boy; you
are in the fourth story of this warehouse, and the guard-room is below
you. You have really no chance at all of success, and a fall or a shot
may kill or disable you for life."
"I do not say that I shall try to escape, uncle."
"And you do not say that you will not try to escape."
For half an hour longer Colonel Passford endeavored to induce his nephew
to give the desired promise; but he remained obstinate to the end;
and his uncle was compelled to leave him, to enter upon the fear and
trembling in which he was to live while his enterprising nephew remained
a prisoner. But he promised to call upon him every day, and to write to
his wife and daughter to return at once.
"I think I shall not wait for him to call," said Christy to Flint,
as soon as he had gone.
"Do you expect to get out of this place, Mr. Passford?" asked the
master's mate, with lively interest.
"This very night!" replied Christy, in an energetic whisper, as he put
his finger on his lips to indicate that nothing more was to be said on
the subject.
The second lieutenant of the Bellevite had not been confined in the
warehouse three days without considering his chances of escape, and
the means of accomplishing such a purpose. He had looked the building
over with the greatest care. The room the prisoners occupied was next
to the roof. The rear windows opened upon a narrow alley, and he had
ascertained by looking out at them that the warehouse was one of a long
block. He had been in Mobile a great deal while the family were visiting
at Glenfield, and he had been careful to notice the location when he was
conducted to it with the others.
At the end of the loft next to the main street were thirty or forty
other prisoners, with whom Christy and Flint had been on good terms,
though they belonged to the army, and seemed to be inclined to keep
by themselves. They had been exhausted by hard service, and they had
nothing to do but eat and sleep, though the former occupation did not
occupy any great amount of their spare time. But as soon as it was
fairly dark, they stretched themselves on their beds of vines and weeds,
and most of them were soon asleep.
The evening that followed the day on which Colonel Passford visited his
nephew was dark, foggy, rainy, and as gloomy as even a blockade runner
might ask. Christy seated himself under one of the rear windows of the
loft, which appeared to have been intended only for storage, and was
only from seven to eight feet between studs. Flint placed himself at the
side of his companion, as he was requested to do.
"This is just the kind of a night we want," said Christy, in a whisper,
for he could hear the tramp of a sentinel outside the door of the loft.
"I should as soon think of getting out if we were buried a hundred feet
under ground as to think of getting out of this place," replied Flint,
who was hardly as enterprising as his officer, though he was always
ready to follow when he was well led. "There is a guard at the door,
Mr. Passford."
"He may stay there; we don't want anything of him," replied Christy.
"I see no other way out of this den, unless we jump down into the
street; but I will follow you, sir, if I fall a hundred feet in doing
it," protested the master's mate.
"You shall not fall six inches, and you will have no opportunity to do
so. But if you are all ready to follow my lead, we may as well begin at
once," added Christy, who had expected that it would require some
persuasion to induce his companion to join him.
The first thing the midshipman did was to take off his shoes, and to
require Flint to do the same. With these in their hands, Christy paced
off twenty steps, which brought him, according to a calculation he
had made in the daylight, under a scuttle that led to the roof of the
warehouse. Stationing the master's mate as a mark, he laid off five
paces at right angles with the first line from the party-wall. It was as
dark as Egypt, and the scuttle could not be seen; but the operator had
located it mathematically, and was confident as to its position. Flint
was planted under the opening, with the shoes of both at his side.
The master's mate was nearly six feet in his stocking feet as he stood,
and Christy whispered to him the next thing in his scheme. With the aid
of his willing assistant, the midshipman was mounted on the shoulders of
the former, where he stood up like an athlete in the gloom, though he
almost instantly obtained a hold above with his hands. He unfastened the
scuttle, and slid it off the aperture with the greatest care. Then he
drew himself up with his strong hands, and was on the roof. Then Flint
passed up the shoes, as he reached down for them. Seating himself on one
side of the frame, he braced his feet against the other side, and
grasped the hands of the mate. It did not work.
CHAPTER XXIX
THE NEW MATE OF THE COTTON SCHOONER
Christy had given himself credit for more physical strength, or Flint
for less weight, than the circumstances warranted, and found that he
could not draw up his companion as he intended. He made several efforts
to accomplish his purpose, but he failed every time. The fear of making
a noise cramped his efforts to some extent.
"Let go, Mr. Passford," whispered Flint, when he realized that his
avoirdupois was too much for the young officer. "I will get that box,
and then I can manage it myself."
"All right; but don't make a particle of noise," added Christy.
It required some time for the mate to find the box in the darkness, but
he had it in position at last, standing upon one end. Mounting it, he
found that his head was on a level with the roof, and he could easily
draw himself up; but he did not do so at once.
"What are you waiting for, Flint?" asked Christy, rather impatiently.
"If I leave the box where it is, the guard will see where we have gone
when they inspect the prison at ten o'clock," replied Flint.
"That's so; I did not have the box in my plan, and that would tell the
guard where to look for us," replied Christy. "We must make a line, and
haul it up after you."
"Here are two big handkerchiefs," added Flint, as he removed his
neck-cloth, and passed up his pocket handkerchief with it.
Christy tied the handkerchiefs together with great care, adding two more
of his own to the length, which he thought would reach the box, Flint
made it fast to the broken end of a board on the side, and then, without
the least difficulty or noise, sprang lightly to the roof of the
warehouse. With the aid of his companion, Christy drew up the box,
careful that it should not strike against the frame of the scuttle. The
door was closed, though of course they were unable to hook it on the
inside, as they had found it; but the guard were not likely to notice
that it was not fastened before morning.
"What next, Mr. Passford?" asked the master's mate, after they had
rested for a few minutes from their labors, though they had not been
very arduous.
"The next thing is to get down into the street, where we shall be as
safe as though we were as patriotic, over the left, as my Uncle Homer.
The burden of the work is done, but I hope we shall be able to kill two
birds with one stone," replied Christy, though his meaning was
mysterious to his companion.
"It don't seem to me that we are much better off than we were in the
loft," suggested the mate.
"I believe we are, though I don't think we had better indulge in any
long speeches just now. We have a favorable night, and we must make the
best of it. I don't intend to be seen in this town in the morning, but
we have the whole night before us."
"There will be a lively time looking for us to-morrow, for I don't think
they will be willing that you should get off, though it won't make much
difference to them about me."
"They would not be willing to part with you, my friend."
"But you made yourself rather noted in helping the Bellevite out last
May, and they will have a history of the loss of the Teaser in the
newspapers in due time, if they have not had it already; and they will
not like it a bit when they find that you have stepped out."
