enjoyed the last week immensely, and sat down to 
 
my own table with the delight of a true house 
holder. We did not envy the bridal couple, nor sigh 
for the delights of palaces. There are times when 
one feels quite content, brief seasons of a lost 
paradise. 
 
CHAPTER III 
OUR SHARE OF THE WORLD'S WEALTH 
As if to try us the next morning, there came an 
offer of a situation in New York with a salary of 
sixty-five dollars a month. 
" If it only had come sooner ! " I cried regretfully. 
" I don't know," said Eve, drawing her brows into 
a wise little frown. " It is true that you can have 
every thing in New York, but it costs a great deal 
of money. Perhaps it is better to be out of tempta 
tion's way. Out of the extra twenty dollars we 
would probably spend fifteen for rent, and five for 
car-fares. And we would have to think about 
company." 
"Do you mean to make a hermit of yourself 
here?" I asked. 
She laughed. " Why, I know half the people in 
town already. They can call on me in the office 
down-stairs. Some of them are very entertaining, 
and a little afraid of me, I think. They can't decide 
just where to class me. My clothes are so fine, and 
I have an air of" 
 
" Of courts," I interpolated. 
"I fancy some of them suspect me to be a princess 
in disguise, especially that young Pryor. I feel that 
I shall not lack for amusement. I might not want 
to live here forever, but I shall enjoy it for a while. 
It is not half so bad as being out on a section, and I 
have even considered the feasibility of that. But 
I never told you what Mrs. Harwood said to me on 
the night of the wadding, did I ? '' and Eve glances 
up hesitatingly. " You remember her, surely, a 
little old lady with very white hair and very black 
eyes. She was quite a visitor at aunt Carry's." 
"I think I do," I answered. 
" She asked me if I was going to Washington ; and 
I told her I expected to spend the winter, at least, 
keeping house for you. Then she said, brothers 
sometimes married ; and when I was out of a situa 
tion, I must come to her, that I would find one 
in readiness. It was very kind of her." 
"O Eve! I wonder "- 
" Cease to wonder, then," said she. " I do think, 
if Mrs. Harwood had offered me a companionship 
last winter when aunt Carry was throwing Mr. 
Longworth at me continually, I should have taken 
it. But now I have cast in my lot with you " 
" And if you should find it a lot of sacrifice and 
privations " 
 
" Then I can get up and go," answered Eve, with 
such adorable candor that I laughed. "You see, 
here we have a great advantage over matrimony. 
If we cannot agree, the world will merely nod tri 
umphantly with an ' I told you so ! ' but we shall 
make no scandal. Still, I never could understand 
why relatives were expected to disagree, while two 
strangers, who have only seen each other in their 
best clothes and finest manners, should live like 
turtle-doves ever thereafter." 
"I do not believe many young wives would be 
content to come and live over a railroad-station." 
" Yes, they would be content, only they would be 
afraid of what the world would say. And I have 
made up my mind to regard it as a picnic." 
" You are a jolly girl, Eve," I said in admiration. 
" And I can be serious too. Now I want to talk 
seriously. Do you know, I was very much inter 
ested in Mr. Corwin's reasons for coming to live 
at Athens? I thought him especially entertaining 
the other evening." 
I remembered it all after a moment or two. Mr. 
Corwin was a jeweller. He had a nice, sensible 
wife, and five children, the eldest a bright lad of 
thirteen. He had been speaking of the irregularity 
of employment for some years back, and this had 
decided him to get a home somewhat in the country. 
 
An insurance company had foreclosed the mortgage 
on this place, and offered it a pretty house of some 
eight or nine rooms, with an acre of ground for 
three thousand dollars. He had paid half down 
four years ago, and been able to reduce the mort 
gage to eight hundred, besides adding some improve 
ments, and cultivating his ground. He had now an 
abundance of fine fruit, not only for summer use, 
but for preserving as well, berries, grapes, and 
space for most of the vegetables the family needed. 
He was quite an enthusiast about country homes. 
"I don't know," he had said on the evening of 
our talk, " as employment will ever be regular again. 
I remember when one could hardly get a two weeks' 
vacation : now I find that for the last three years I 
have averaged two and a half months out of employ 
ment. In the city, there is nothing to do but lounge 
around, or walk the streets. When you have a good 
employer, you do not want to leave him because 
there is a week off now and then : indeed, it might 
be no better in another place. So now I make 
my time useful. Last year I helped to paint the 
outside of my house. I bought the paint, and hired 
an excellent painter, a friend, by the day. I was 
astonished at the difference in the cost. I do odd 
jobs around, and I find that we have more real 
comfort at a less expense." 
 
"But, Eve," I said, "you surely do not think of 
farming?" 
She laughed gayly. 
" And what if I did ? See here, Adam ! there are 
women going out West, the very Far West, I mean, 
who get to own vineyards and orchards and planta 
tions and ranches. Now it seems to me there is a 
good deal of hard work somewhere, if a woman has 
very little money. If one took the little money, and 
did the work here, it is a question with me whether 
one might not have more real pleasure staying 
with friends, and amid civilization. I should like 
to help do something. I am not ambitious to be 
clerk or cashier in a store, or write in a stuffy 
office, half the time by gaslight. What I want 
most is a home. Can I not help make one here 
as well as on the Pacific coast? And I do realize 
that I like the country, but I do not want to be 
very far away from the city. If we could get a 
little place " 
"But you wouldn't want it here at Athens?" 
" I am not so sure. I have studied it as I ' took 
my walks abroad.' It certainly is a lovely place nat 
urally. Cutting it up into streets and blocks has 
spoiled it, but the trees and shrubs are growing up 
again. I wish do you remember any thing of our 
old place, Adam?" 
 
"It was very pretty. Father had a great love 
for beauty and gardening." 
" And I've inherited the taste," she said triumph 
antly. " I wish the place had not been sold, and 
it was too bad to make such a sacrifice. But I 
suppose dear mamma thought it best, and she 
hated the country." 
" And you want to buy a farm ? " I said, rather 
aghast. 
" Well, I should like to, presently. Listen," 
and her fair face is a study, " the wealth of the 
United States, if evenly divided, is supposed now 
to give every person nearly eight hundred dollars 
apiece. Now I propose that we set to work and 
earn ours. After we have our full share, we will 
not worry, but take all the comfort we can. But 
we ought to do our duty by the wealth of the 
world. And we may be able to do it in this pretty 
little place." 
"Sixteen hundred dollars will not buy a farm/' 
" Well, if we can get that together, we might get 
some more presently. I have over three hundred 
dollars, so have you. It is the first step that costs." 
" But, Eve, you never could content yourself to 
stay here for years ! And the people are why, half 
of them do not know whether to accord you any 
social recognition or not " 
 
" Because I have come to live in a railroad-station. 
Well, I can wait," and she gave a piquant nod. " I 
told you I meant to consider it a picnic. Don't you 
know, sometimes before the day is done you have 
met so many nice people, and made some real good 
friends ? You will see by spring." 
A train sounded in the distance. After that had 
been attended to, Pryor came in for a little chat. 
He was a bright young fellow, who kept a real- 
estate and insurance office, a coal-agency, and did 
surveying; also procured loans, and had a little 
of his own that he kept lending in small sums. He 
was about my age, a well-informed person, shrewd 
at bargain-making, and very entertaining. 
I kept revolving Eve's plan in my mind ; but it 
certainly was the wildest of schemes, and utterly 
impracticable, though I did not say so. A pretty 
young girl like Eve would marry, of course. I 
could not help remarking that here she looked a 
very queen. Her walk, the peculiar pliant grace of 
her figure, the inclination of her head, the fit of her 
gloves and boots, and the style of her garments, 
bespoke city ways and familiarities. Yet I had a 
misgiving, when I saw people eye her, that these 
very gifts and graces went against her in their 
estimation. 
But we found so much enjoyment in the lovely 
walks, for October was pure Indian summer. Eve 
sketched and painted a little, she had several 
accomplishments. We went to church after a 
Sunday or two ; and Eve settled herself in a pretty, 
old gray stone church that had stood almost a 
century. Next door was a vine-clad rectory, occu 
pied by one of the church-wardens ; as the rector 
was a young, unmarried man, of rather High-Church 
proclivities, and a tendency to asceticism. Mother 
and aunt Carry were both Episcopalians; though four 
of the denominations were represented at Athens. 
I was somewhat amused at the reception accorded 
us. We were shown to a very comfortable seat, 
and there were curious, surreptitious glances. Per 
haps Eve's stately walk rather impressed these 
good people as being not quite the thing for a young 
woman who lived in two rooms over a railroad- 
station. No one spoke to us. I couldn't help 
thinking that it would have been kindly. The 
Corwins were Methodists, and Mr. Pryor went to 
the old Reformed Church. 
" I wanted so much to sing," said Eve. " There 
are some good voices in the choir, but they incline 
more to volume than to melody. And how do you 
like Mr. Bradford?" 
" I don't like him," I made answer. " He is a 
regular stick." 
 
"Rather formal and precise. I sometimes think 
how odd it is that so few make really good news of 
the gospel." 
" But why did you not sing ? " 
" Because I knew everybody would look at me ; " 
and she laughed a little, with just a touch of 
embarrassment. 
We went down to Northwood one day to do a 
little purchasing, and found a nice library, to which 
I subscribed for six months, as we were both fond of 
reading. We had quite furbished up our two rooms, 
though I must admit they were not pretty to furnish. 
"If it wasn't for the bedstead!" said Eve. "I 
believe I shall shut up the window, after all, though 
it is the only large one in the room, and roll the 
bedstead clear up. It will be more symmetrical." 
"Why didn't we get a lounge or sofa?" I ex 
claimed with sudden regret. 
" Oh, dear ! if you had slept on lounges and sofas 
and every invention of the brain, not a bedstead, 
you would know how good it seems to be the 
possessor of one. And we shall have no company 
but those who can be entertained in your office." 
When the first of November came, along with the 
month's salary, we felt quite elated, as we had nearly 
run aground. Still, Eve insisted that enough was 
enough. 
 
" Not to buy a farm," and I laughed. 
" We have been getting a good many odds and 
ends of housekeeping, and I was afraid we would 
not come out quite as well as this. And I haven't 
pinched you very much in diet, have I?" 
" You had better not try that," I said warningly. 
"I have a bitter remembrance of such an experi 
ment." 
" When some one starved you ? " 
"When I starved myself." 
" Experience meeting," said Eve, with a face full 
of dimples and laughter. " Relate." 
"I kept house once." 
" Oh ! you did ! " 
"I was trying to save money. I wanted to pay 
uncle Marvin. I read in a paper that a man kept 
himself splendidly on a dollar and a half a week, 
besides the rent of his room. I hired a furnished 
room, in which there happened to be a small cooking- 
stove, for six dollars a month. I purchased a few 
articles, and started out bravely. I had to go on 
duty at seven in the morning, and was off at seven in 
the evening. I had to do my shopping on my home 
ward journey, and cook in the evening. Then I had 
to be up by six in the morning, and sometimes I ate 
on the fly at that. The first week it seemed fine, 
but it cost me over three dollars. The next week I 
 
economized rigidly, and it cost me two. I could buy 
the cheap meats the man had written about; and, 
when I had cooked them three hours, they still were 
tough. My bread grew dry, but then I liked toast. 
My room had a wretched smell of cooking ; it pene 
trated the bedclothes and everywhere: and, if I 
opened windows, it was too cool. Then I had to 
hurry so. After a little, nothing seemed to taste 
so good. I would take a morning nap, and just 
snatch a few mouthfuls. The first month I found 
my expenses had averaged two fifty a week, which, 
with the rent and washing, made three seVenty-five ; 
and I had been far from comfortable. Still, a dollar 
a week was worth saving : so I went on. One night 
I brought home a bargain in a cheap piece of beef, 
and put it on to stew. It did have a queer smell. 
The next morning I was late ; so I ate some bread, 
and drank a cup of the broth. Before I reached the 
office I was awfully sick. I did not go home for any 
dinner. At night I made a cup of coffee, and ate a 
little bread and cold beef. It was tough as sole- 
leather, and had a disagreeable taste. That night I 
was sick again, then I threw my bargain in beef over 
the fence to the cats. For several days I could 
retain no food whatever, and one day I dropped off 
my stool with an attack of vertigo. I went to a 
doctor, who lectured me on bad habits and dissipa- 
 
tion. I wanted to knock him down, but I was too 
weak ; so I told him the whole truth. He smiled 
kindly, and softened. 
" ' My lad,' he said, ' you've been trying a poor 
experiment. You have almost starved yourself from 
lack of proper food, illy prepared, and too hastily 
eaten meals, with not enough variety. No one ever 
makes any thing by taking the absolute strength out 
of his own body. A man who is steadily worked 
needs a nourishing diet. The vital question is not, 
How little the man can live upon, but how he can 
best do the work set before him. You have a severe 
attack of dyspepsia, and are very much reduced. 
Take good, wholesome board somewhere, sleep all 
you can, don't worry about saving money ; and in a 
month or so, you will find yourself a new man.' 
"I had kept house two months, and it had cost me 
in all about thirty-two dollars. Then I had to be 
three days off, which was six more. Doctor's bill and 
medicine was seven. So for the seven weeks it had 
cost me five dollars a week besides the discomfort, 
the labor and trouble, and wretched feeling ; while I 
could have boarded for six. I never tried it again." 
Eve was laughing heartily. 
"I sometimes think, when I see this wonderful 
wisdom about very cheap living, if the writers ever 
did try it. And in cooking, you can do many 
 
economical things if you have plenty of time ; and 
if you save your time, you must spend your money. 
A man or a woman employed twelve or thirteen 
hours a day has no time for cooking." 
"Solid truth," I appended. "And to keep in 
good health, body and mind, you want good food." 
" You have not suffered under my reign," and Eve 
looks me all over humorously. 
" I can't see how you learned so much." 
" I think I was born with a genius for housekeep 
ing : then, to get a good deal out of a little money 
does sharpen one's wits." 
" It rather dulled mine." 
" But you did not get a good deal," laughs Eve. 
November came in rainy, then it cleared up, and 
we had the true Indian summer. 
Eve went to New York for a day, and I missed her 
dreadfully. She looked prettier than ever to my 
longing eyes when she returned; and, oh! what 
budgets of news ! 
"Two invitations to theatre parties, one to a 
luncheon, and an afternoon tea, a reception really to 
introduce two young English girls staying with Mrs. 
Brooke. I've had just the gayest time ; and I have 
asked a crowd of girls over, and I know they mean 
to come." 
" But what will you do with company ? " 
 
" Well I have been thinking. I shall get some 
pretty olive and light blue Canton flannel, and cur 
tain off my sleeping apartment ; and we must have 
two more chairs." 
"And I haven't been idle, nor economical. Pryor 
was in here, and wanted to give me a season ticket 
for a series of entertainments at Northwood. Bur- 
dette is to lecture, Carleton to read, and several 
other stars. Six in all. Season-tickets one dollar 
and a half ; and I bought two, because I knew Pryor 
was counting on taking you." 
" You lovely Adam ! '' and Eve threw her arms 
about my neck. " Defend me from young men ! " 
" And Mr. Bradford called." 
Eve had joined the singing in church. Her voice 
was one of those clear sopranos, which, soft rather 
than shrill, was of considerable compass penetra 
tive. 
" Oh ! what did he say ? " and her face was mirth 
fully curious. 
"He stammered something about you. Women, 
young women, are a little outside of his religion, 
which I think is of the Lara or Thebaid type. And 
I said a few things " 
" You were not rude ? " apprehensively. 
"Well " and I reflected a little " no, not rude, 
but I made him understand that one might live over 
 
a railroad-station and be a lady, well informed, and 
used to all the refinements and proprieties of social 
life. And he apologized for not calling sooner, and 
said there were several of the church people who 
were anxious to make your acquaintance." 
"Let them come," said Eve with a dainty little 
nod ; but she held her head straighter than ever. 
The ordinary range of the Athenians was not very 
extensive, I found. The old settlers were the usual 
type, country people, with plenty of pedigree, and 
names that elsewhere carried weight; but these 
degenerate scions had dropped into unambitious 
grooves, content to eat, drink, and sleep, and let the 
world go by. We prate of contentment, and yet we 
secretly despise it as being a virtue practically more 
honored in the breach than the observance. Some 
had sold farms, and seen them cut up into building- 
plots, and continually regretted it : others as perse- 
veringly bewailed their blindness in not selling when 
they might have done so. They all seemed to think* 
there was a fortune in the land still. People from 
the adjacent cities must come, there would not be 
room enough for them ; but I had learned, whether 
wisely or not, that cities could be crowded to reple 
tion, because the business was there, and it was not 
in the country. Property was high enough for a 
prosperous city, but no one ever sold. A few traded; 
now and then a mortgage was foreclosed; or some 
speculator, discouraged, closed out his investments 
cheap. " There was no public spirit," groaned every 
body ; but there was no private spirit either. They 
were waiting for a miracle to come along, and trans 
form them into prosperity. It certainly must have 
been Sleepy Hollow before the railroad was built. 
" People are so queer ! " said Pryor one day as we 
were tramping over the hills, that glowed with a 
dusky red sunset. "If you get a chance to make 
a bargain, the owner claps on five hundred more, and 
the thing falls through. There are a number of 
places standing empty, that are a bill of expense, 
and falling into decay : others do not pay two per 
cent on their fancied value. The ridiculousness of 
asking eight or ten thousand dollars for a place, and 
getting two hundred dollars rent for it ! Now, there 
is a house over yonder, that greenish one with a 
tower. It has all the modern improvements, and 
a tank that freezes up every winter, and deluges the 
house. Some New- York parties foreclosed a mort 
gage of seven thousand dollars five years ago. I 
could have sold it the year after for six thousand 
cash, but they wouldn't look at that. Two years it 
has not been tenanted : once they put it in good 
repair, and the tenant staid six months. Now it is 
rented for eighteen dollars a month, and the tenant 
 
gets all out of it he can. The fences I suspect he 
uses for firewood, also some of the trees. My opin 
ion is, that the interest of six thousand dollars would 
be of more account to them, for in a few years the 
house will be half ruined. Now [pausing as we 
came down the hill], here is a place that I think will 
go cheap some day." 
It was two streets above the railroad. Avenues 
most of the streets running north and south were 
called, and this was Oak Avenue. It stood on the 
corner ; and on Jay Street, a hedge of Norway spruce 
almost shut it from sight ; while at the back, there 
was a grove of chestnut-trees. There was a pictu 
resque house, a small barn, and dilapidated hennery, 
and an acre or so of ground. On Oak Avenue, 
where the house fronted, the prospect was lovely ; 
for the slope went down to the river, broken by the 
intervening streets. The bank on the other side was 
high again. You had Athens at your feet, though 
nearly all of the town lay below Jay Street; and 
at its southern end, there was another station, 
which went by the name of the little place below, 
Rutherford. 
"I have been up here several times," I said. 
Indeed, this was a favorite ramble with Eve as well. 
"I have wondered about this house can it be 
rented ? " 
 
" Well, I am not sure. The last tenant used it 
dreadfully, and then went off owing three months' 
rent. It is for sale." 
" Of course," I said in an amused tone. 
" And it will be a bargain for some one. Come, 
Thurston, buy it yourself." 
" Pray for some one to leave me a fortune. But I 
might rent it in the spring, if the rent was not too 
high." 
" The owner is bound to sell it now. It has quite 
a romantic history. The man who built it some 
twelve years ago was a Mr. Cassel. He was an 
engraver, and something of an artist. The Mont 
gomery farm had just been cut up, and the station 
opened; and people supposed it would soon be a 
great place. A few years afterward his wife was 
killed by being thrown out of a friend's carriage. 
Then he shut up the house, and went away for two 
years, when he came back with a new wife, a gay 
young widow. But the place was too lonely for her, 
and she spent a good deal of her time in New York. 
Gossip said they were very unhappy ; and he grew 
rather queer, became partially deranged, and killed 
himself at a hotel in New York. Every thing had 
been left to her. She offered the place for sale for 
six thousand, then five and four, and two weeks ago 
told me to report any offer to her. It is a good deal 
out of repair, but is well built. That north side is 
filled in with brick. And there were loads of lovely 
fruit and berries, but boys and tramps do so destroy 
things ! I'll bring the key up sometime, and we will 
take a turn through it." 
We entered the dilapidated gate. It was over 
grown with weeds and briers. The barn was in the 
rear of the house: all the rest was, or had been, a 
garden-plot. Trees were in sad need of pruning : the 
grape-arbor had tumbled down at one corner, or per 
haps been broken. The house was two full stories 
with a steep Gothic roof, which gave some rooms up 
stairs. Across the front, which was to the east, ran 
a wide porch, where honeysuckle rioted. On the 
southern side a two-story bay-window, and another 
small porch. 
" I wouldn't mind undertaking some repairs, if I 
could rent it cheaply enough," I said. 
" Mrs. Cassel is bound to sell. I think she would 
make an easy bargain." 
"My dear fellow, forty-five dollars a month will 
not buy many houses, besides taking care of two 
persons ; " and I sighed. 
" I wish I could sell it," and Pryor sighed as well. 
We walked out reluctantly. I wondered if, in the 
whole course of my life, I should save up three or 
four thousand dollars. What art was there, that 
 
could get a good deal out of a very little ? If one 
could stop eating if clothes would never wear out. 
We might go without books, newspapers, evening- 
lamps alas ! what would life be worth with mental 
pleasures taken out of it. 
Two lugubrious fellows meandered down to the 
station. 
 
CHAPTER IV 
TEMPTATION NO. I 
EVE went down to her theatre party, and staid all 
night. The next evening but one, the series of the 
Clayonian Club commenced with Burbank ; and we 
found it quite delightful. Then Sadie and Bertha 
Brooke came over, and we had the gayest kind of a 
lunch. The curtain had been put up, and our 
dining-room looked really tasteful. The girls took it 
as an immense joke. Then the oddest incident 
occurred as they were waiting for the train to return. 
Mr. Bradford came in for a ticket, stared around in 
his near-sighted way, and Sadie, the irrepressible, 
gave a little shriek that was half a giggle. 
" O Mr. Bradford ! " she cried. " So we meet 
again at Athens instead of Philippi ! Classic shades ! 
Of course you know my friend, Miss Thurston ? " 
" I have heard her sing in church, and have met 
her brother." 
"Oh! your church is here, isn't it? I had a 
vague fancy it was somewhere at Western New 
York." 
 
" Train ! " I exclaimed, and helped Bertha in, 
while Mr. Bradford took charge of Sadie. 
Eve's face was one gleam of amusement. 
" Wherever could he have met Sadie Brooke ! " she 
cried. " The greatest flirt I ever knew, only there 
is not a bit of sentiment in any of it. I hope - no, I 
will not be unchristian." 
" You ridiculous girl ! Mr. Bradford is leagues 
and leagues above such pastime." 
" But Sadie flirts with the soberest people. All is 
fish that comes to her net. It would be amusing to 
see him caught." 
Oddly enough, a week later we had quite an 
influx of calls from the Athenians. I gave up my 
office to Eve. She had added some womanly touches, 
and we had flowers blooming in the window. I felt 
proud of my fair sister, who was a lady anywhere. 
Indeed, now we seemed to have a social status. 
We were asked to join a young people's guild ; and I 
took two seats in a partly rented pew at church, 
so that we might feel at home. 
The month passed rapidly, and at its close Eve 
looked over the accounts. 
" We have been extravagant in the way of pleas 
ures," she declared. " Three dollars for club-tickets, 
two dollars for a library-ticket, and three dollars in 
going to and fro." 
 
" But we shall have books five months longer, and 
there are three more entertainments." 
"And Christmas will come next month. Well, 
we have not spent quite all our money." 
" But we need a little pleasure." 
" And the eight hundred dollars " 
" Bother that ! " I interrupted. 
"Getting and saving is likely to be bother 
enough." 
But after a walk the next morning, Eve came in 
radiant. 
" What do you think ? " she began breathlessly. 
" I have three music-scholars, and one in painting. 
Forty dollars a quarter ! " 
"Eve!" 
"Well, it is just nothing at all. Mrs. Morrison 
was very much taken with my playing the other 
evening at the Whartons's, and I said I wished I 
could find some music-scholars, when she offered me 
her two little girls. Annie plays quite well already. 
Then she said she had seen those pretty birthday 
favors at the Corwins's, and asked if I ever gave 
lessons in painting; and I answered that I would 
readily. She wants a quarter's lessons. Mrs. Clark 
happened in just then; and as she was dissatisfied 
with her daughter's teacher, and had given her up, 
she engaged me. Think of it ! Some money all my 
own ! And that it should come to me without any 
trouble ! I do wish tfiere was room for my piano." 
That was at Long Branch. Aunt Carry had 
written Eve two quite lengthy letters, and in the 
second sent the invitation for the month of February. 
Helen was having a splendid time, and no end of ad 
mirers. But Eve decided not to go to Washington. 
"You see, I can be quite gorgeously apparelled 
here," she said laughingly; " and my vanity prompts 
me to stay where I can make the most show. What 
would my old gowns be there ? " 
Eve certainly was very happy. Young people 
began to throng around her, and invitations were 
showered upon us. We had four for a Christinas 
dinner, and three for a party in the evening. Then 
there were Christmas greens and a children's treat. 
Mr. Bradford paid her some especial notice, and 
begged her to take part in the carols. 
" It is so different from last winter, with teas and 
germans, and receptions and crushes, and racking 
your brains about gowns ! But I enjoy the change, 
and it isn't half such hard work." 
We did have a very pleasant time, and then Eve 
went to New York for a week. Sadie Brooke' came 
over for her, and the days were crowded full of 
enjoyment; though she returned home looking rather 
fagged out. 
 
" I do not mean to go out of an evening for the 
next two weeks," she declared. " We will turn over 
a new leaf. Why, I am ever so much more dissipated 
in this benighted little Athens than I was at Great 
Mammoth Beach." 
We both laughed at that. 
There was a week of wintry weather with snow 
and rain and sleet. Business was dull. But, oh! 
how cosey and snug we were in our odd little 
home ! 
I was reading aloud one evening from "My 
Summer in a Garden." Eve had been sewing ; but 
presently she dropped her work, and her eyes 
wandered into vacancy. I paused, but she did not 
appear to remark it. 
" Eve ! " I exclaimed. 
" Oh ! " with a long sigh and a dreamy kind of 
smile as she roused from her revery. "I was not 
asleep." 
" What were you thinking of so intently ? " 
" I had a vision." 
" A vision ! " I repeated, startled. 
" Yes. I saw us both in a garden. Adam, let us 
stay here at Athens. It will be so lovely in the 
spring, and all through the summer. And if you do 
not earn so much, I can make a little. Let us have 
the garden and fruit, and flowers and poultry. Some 
 
people make money at that. And if one could have 
a permanent home " 
Some one came in the waiting-room, stamping the 
snow off his boots. 
" Hillo ! " cried a cheery voice. " You two people 
are the picture of content." 
" We are content," answered Eve. " Could there 
be a more cosey interior ? " and she glanced around 
in triumph. 
I knew very well that Pryor thought it would 
be hard to find a prettier girl. For Eve's eyes 
were so softly bright, and her cheeks a dainty peach- 
pink. 
" Yet you were wishing for something else." 
" Are you quite sure it wasn't some one else the 
lad you left behind you in New York ? " 
" There were so many of them ! " said Eve with a 
graceful little shrug. " And now they are dancing 
with other girls, so why should I bewail them ? In 
sober truth," and a serious expression crossed her 
face, "I was going back to what my brother terms 
first principles." 
Pryor looked puzzled, and glanced from one to the 
other. 
" It is not lovers or husbands, though the world 
insists that is a woman's greatest and most absorbing 
subject of contemplation. Adam and I have formed 
a league of amity and good-fellowship, and we want 
to go back to the garden." 
He laughed doubtfully as if he did not quite see 
the point. Then he said, "Do you want a real 
garden, or is it some figurative " 
" German, with favors. No : what I mean is real 
solid earth, that will raise berries, chickens, and 
flowers." 
" There, Thurston ! " Pryor exclaimed triumph 
antly, "you can't do better than take the Cassel 
place. I had a letter from the owner to-day. She 
offers it for thirty-five hundred. I am almost certain 
three thousand will take it." 
" My dear fellow," I replied, annoyed at his perti 
nacity, " I am in the position of the man, who, when 
corner-lots were selling at a dollar apiece, couldn't 
buy half a one." 
" And she will take five hundred dollars down, with 
good security for the rest." 
" That pretty place on the hill ? " asked Eve. " I 
have looked at that with a longing eye, and the eye 
of faith also. It has possibilities." 
" It is a bargain. She might throw off enough to 
put the place in order." 
"We all looked at each other like guilty conspirators, 
until the silence was positively ridiculous. Then Eve 
drew a long breath, and laughed in a ringing fashion. 
 
" Little does Mrs. Cassel know of the deep plots 
against her interest," said I. 
" See here," began Pryor : " suppose she had sold 
it five years ago for three thousand, and put the 
money out at six per cent. Reckon it up at simple 
interest nine hundred dollars, where it's safe to say 
it hasn't paid her a penny. Why, it would be to her 
best interest to dispose of it as speedily as possible. 
My advice is, when a thing doesn't pay, and isn't 
likely to pay, get rid of it as soon as you can." 
" I should like to go through the house," said Eve 
quietly. 
" The first decent day we will," replied Pryor. 
He talked on about places. The last train came, 
and I began to prepare for the night. A fine sleet 
had set in ; but the young man pulled up his coat- 
collar, and lighted his lantern. 
" Pryor is the most persistent fellow I ever saw," 
I said impatiently. "Heaven help the woman he 
sets out to gain if she doesn't want him ! " 
Eve began to fold up her work. I had a misgiving 
that the serpent had entered Paradise. 
I dreamed that night of processions of chickens, 
and long rows of berry-pickers, while crates were 
piled mountain high. 
It stormed furiously again the next day, but just at 
sundown the air grew wonderfully mild. I shovelled 
 
away the snow. Mr. Bradford came up on the train, 
and stopped in the office to chat with Eve, a small 
matter that amazed me. 
We read again in the evening, then we talked farm 
and garden. 
"You have given the subject a good deal of 
thought, Eve," I said presently. 
" Yes. Now and then I have felt like proposing to 
you that we should go West, and pre-empt a tract of 
land ; but I should not like the grand and awful lone 
liness. I am social, and fond of my kind, even if they 
do flirt and tell fibs occasionally. And it puzzles 
me to know how you live the first year while your 
crops are growing, and you haven't any money. 
Now, if one can keep a situation, and be getting a 
place in order ; if one can save up a little money to 
pay on it all the time, there will come a year when 
you have your own home." 
" But we couldn't buy any thing with six hundred 
dollars. And it might not be wisdom to put our 
little money where we could not get it in case of 
sickness or trouble. And if any thing happened to 
us that we could not meet payments, away would go 
every thing under foreclosure." 
" There wouldn't even a tiny lion's whelp in the 
way miss your apprehensive eyes," said Eve laugh- 
ingty. " I have been used to seeing ventures. Oddly 
 
enough, while I was dancing and junketing around 
in New York, I was studying up some of these sub 
jects. Mrs. Stannard, Mrs. Brooke's sister, who is a 
rather imaginary invalid, I think, has three dozen 
fresh-laid eggs brought in to her every week, for 
which she pays fifty cents a dozen, from the first of 
December until the first of April. There are plenty 
of others I heard of one lady giving sixty cents for 
white Leghorn eggs. And as for flowers well, I 
never realized before how much money was spent in 
flowers." 
" But for flowers, you must have a greenhouse ; 
and no person on a small scale can compete with the 
larger gardeners, who have every appliance. And if 
your hens laid abundantly in winter, so would others, 
and down would go prices." 
" At all events, I would like to try, in a home of 
my own where I could have matters as I desired. I 
wonder these stupid Athenians do not start up and 
do something with their land." 
" There is another thing, Eve," I said gravely: "just 
as you were settled in this paradise of flowers and 
hens, there might come a tempting offer of matri 
mony. You are too young and quite too charming 
to remain a wall-flower. Even here " 
" Yes, there is Gordon Pryor devoted to your inter 
ests, I observe, and Dan Montgomery and two or 
 
three others ; but I am afraid the flowers and hens 
that you mention so disdainfully would be potent 
rivals. Indeed, you might want to marry; but it 
seems to me, that, if we both had money in one house, 
we might settle it amicably." 
" My dear Eve " 
She clasped her arms about my neck. 
" You are not going to get rid of me so easily," she 
said, with something that sounded like a sob. " And 
I am going to help you make your eight hundred 
dollars, for that will be our share at the next 
census, whether you will or not." 
There followed a week of rather cold but beautiful 
weather. Sleigh-riding was perfect, and not a day 
but some one came for Eve. Pryor was away four 
days on business, and the house had a rest. 
So it was almost the last of January before we took 
our peep at it, cast a wistful eye where we had no 
possessions. It was a bright, sunny day, though 
roads and streets were still white with snow. 
There was, as I have said, a porch in front, but it 
ran only half across. The southern end jutted out 
about six feet, and there was a large double window 
that opened on a balcony. Pryor unlocked the 
creaking door, and ushered us into a room, a sort of 
reception-room and hall. It was large ; and quite at 
the end, the stairs went up with two turns, but were 
 
broad and easy. There were two windows on the 
north side, that overlooked Jay Street ; and opposite 
a chimney with a grate set. A door opened on each 
side of this, the nearest into a pretty parlor. Here 
the chimney was across the corner of the room, with 
a quaint hard-wood mantel. On the south side this 
had two windows. Back of this, and opening on the 
hall as well, was the dining-room, with a square bay- 
window at the south, and just such a corner mantel 
as in the parlor. Indeed, one stack of chimneys did 
duty for the three places. Back of this room was a 
wash-room and a kitchen, and another chimney that 
answered for both. From the kitchen a back-stairs 
started up, and we followed these. There was only 
a little sort of loft over the kitchen, but in the main 
house four sleeping-rooms; the hall being divided in 
two, not so large as the others, but nicely furnished 
with closets. Up in the attic were three gable-ends, 
in one of which there was a very fair servant's room. 
The paint and the walls were something dreadful. 
There had been some papering and some very 
wretched kalsomining. Several panes of glass were 
out, and sash-cords were broken. It had a forlorn and 
dilapidated air ; but, as Eve observed, it had possibili 
ties. The ceilings were moderately high, the doors 
and wood-work were good in spite of shabbiness. 
We retraced our steps, and investigated the cellar. 
 
It was under the main house, and had been very nice 
in its day of good order. There was a large closet, 
but the door had been carried away. The coal-bins 
had been partly torn down. There was an ash-shaft 
in the foundation of the chimney. When we went 
up again, we investigated. It connected with the 
grate ; and in the dining-room was set an odd sort of 
thing, a kind of fireplace heater, but different from 
any I had ever seen, more nearly resembling a fur 
nace in fact. There was a register through in the 
parlor, and three in rooms up-stairs. 
"If it heats at all," said Eve, "it must be 
excellent." 
On examination, I did not see why it should not 
heat ; as it was extremely simple, and its manner of 
disposing of the ashes was commendable. 
We had kept up a running fire of comment, fault 
finding, depreciation, and approval. It was oddly 
planned, yet convenient enough, with no waste room, 
\ 
no great useless halls. 
One small bedroom up-stairs had no mode of egress 
save through another, but that might not be much 
detriment. 
Then we went out to the barn. That was not 
large ; but it had a nice loft, and on this sunny day 
was positively warm. The hen-house would have to 
be made over altogether. It would take a good deal 
 
of time and labor, and not a little money, to get it in 
good order. 
It was nearing train-time, and we had to return. 
"I'll drop in this evening," said Piyor. "Miss 
Thurston, it is an excellent chance." 
We discussed it pro and con. I said the house 
was larger than our needs, and that a smaller place 
would cost less. I had come to have a horror of 
indebtedness. 
" A house is not quite like any thing else," per 
sisted Eve. 
"But the interest on three thousand dollars, 
repairs, and taxes," I suggested. 
" I could earn all that, I am sure," said she. 
" But you must have clothes and journeys " 
" Aunt Carry's trunkful is not exhausted yet," 
with a bright smile. " I shall have another music- 
scholar ; and when spring opens, I shall try to get a 
class in flower-painting." 
She had set her heart, on having a house and 
garden, I could plainly see. 
" After all, suppose we do give up a good many 
things for the next five years we can imagine our 
selves out on the ranch ; and when we have almost 
expired from sheer loneliness, we can go into New 
York." 
"But I might do better than forty-five dollars a 
 
month somewhere else. And this is a queer dead- 
and-alive little place." 
A fourth person might have supposed us in some 
heated argument that evening. I am not sure but 
we were. And it ended by Eve having the face to 
make an offer of three thousand dollars for the 
house. 
" Of course, she will not take that," said my young 
bargain-maker serenely. " But she may come down 
a little, and we can go up a little. And perhaps a 
month hence we may strike a bargain. And, Mr. 
Pryor, we shall depend upon you to study our best 
interest, and to warn and counsel if any adversary 
should be lurking around." 
With that, Eve raises her eyes in that half entreat 
ing, wholly bewitching manner, and I can almost 
guess how the young fellow's heart thumps against 
his ribs. 
"You would make a splendid real-estate agent, 
Miss Thurston," he says admiringly. 
" Would I ? " She straightens up, and the small 
face takes on a certain shade of haughtiness. "Well, 
I hate haggling, and cheapening and depreciating 
other people's belongings. If I were rich, even 
moderately wealthy, I never would have a word 
over any thing. If I wanted it, I would pay a fair 
price for it : if any one's charges were unreasonable, 
 
I would walk away without a word. And I hate 
business, because there is so much discussion over 
bargains." 
" Then you would not be so good," and he gives a 
little constrained laugh. " Why, I have known men 
who waited a year over a bargain for the sake of fifty 
or a hundred dollars." 
"I am devoutly thankful that stores have one 
settled price," appends Eve. " I am ashamed of a 
woman who beats down." 
" Eve," I said later on, " do you really think it 
wisdom to undertake such a wild scheme? We 
never can pay for the house, never ! " 
" Adam," she answers with a seraphic smile, " we 
will take up our common every-day lives for a few 
weeks, and not even dream of a return to Paradise. 
We may never go. But I wanted to see how it would 
seem just to talk about having a home of one's very 
own." 
I dare say we both dreamed of it, but she kept her 
word rigidly. She would not even let Mr. Pryor 
discuss it ; and when the word came that Mrs. Cassel 
could not for an instant entertain such an offer, I 
know I allowed myself to think of what I could do 
with the place, and the delight it would be. Is there 
some deep and secret charm in owning a bit of ground 
and the roof that shelters you? I even tolerated 
 
Eve's hens when they scratched up my garden, and 
called myself all manner of names because I had not 
saved up more money. 
February crept along. One day Mr. Pryor came 
up to the station with a very stylish black-eyed 
woman dressed like a princess. Some odd prescience 
told me it was Mrs. Cassel. I was so glad that Eve 
happened to be in ! 
There was a rather funny, wary sort of a discus 
sion. Mrs: Cassel finally offered to split the five 
hundred. That was the best she could do. Eve was 
gentle and polite, listened with the utmost affability 
to a detailed account of all the place had cost, and 
then very sweetly suggested that it was going to cost 
a great deal more for repairs, that a new owner 
could not be expected to pay for what was not there. 
No agreement was reached; and Mrs. Cassel went 
away rather vexed, I thought. She and Mr. Pryor 
