" Lindau ? " 

"Lindau is his name." 

" What does the literary editor expect after 
Lindau's expression of his views last night ? " 

" I don't know what he expected, but the; ground 
he took with the old man was that as Lindau's 
opinions didn't characterise his work on the maga- 
zine he would not be made the instrument of 
punishing him for them : the old man wanted him 
turned oil', as he calls it," 



  

"Seems to be pretty good ground," said Beaton 
impartially, while he speculated, with a dull trouble 
at lieart, on the effect the row would have on his 
own fortunes. His late visit home had made him 
feel that the claim of his family upon him for some 
repayment of help given could not be much longer 
delayed ; with his mother sick and his father grow- 
ing old, he must begin to do something for them, 
but up to this time he had spent his salary even 
faster than he had earned it : when Fulkerson came 
in he was wondering whether ho could get him to 
increase it, if he threatened to give up his work, 
and he wished that he was enough in love with 
Margaret Vance, or even Christine Dryfoos, to 
marry her, only to end in the sorrowful conviction 
that he was really in love with Alma Leighton, who 
had no money, and who had apparently no wish to 
be married for love, even. "And what are you 
going to do about it ] " he asked listlessly. 

"Be dogged if I know what I 'm going to do about 
it," said Fulkerson. " I 've been round all day, trying 
to pick up the pieces — row began right after break- 
fast this morning — and one time I thought I 'd got 
the thing all put together again. I got the old man 
to say that he had spoken to March a little too 
authoritatively about Lindau ; that in fact he ought 
to have communicated his wishcs through me ; and 
that he was willing to have me get rid of Lindau, 
and March needn't have anything to do with it. 
I thought that was pretty white, but March says the 
apologies and regrets are all avcII enough in their 



way, but they leave the main question where tlicy 
found it." 

" What is the main question ? " Beaton asked, 
liouring himself out some Chianti ; as ho set the 
flask down he made the reflection that if he would 
drink water instead of Chianti he could send liis 
father tlirce dollars a week, on his back debts, and 
he r(?solvcd to do it. 

"The main question, as March looks at it, is the 
question of punishing Lindau for his private 
opinions ; he says that if he consents to nvj bounc- 
ing the old fellow it *s the same as if he bounced him." 

" It might have that complexion in some lights," 
said Beaton. He drank ofl" his Chianti, and thought 
he would have it twice a week, or make Maroni 
keep the half-bottles over for him, and send his father 
two dollars. " And what are you going to do now ? " 

"That's what I don't know," said Fulkerson 
ruefully. After a moment he said desperately, 
"Beaton, you've got a pretty good head; why 
don't you suggest something ? " 

"Why don't you let March go ?" Beaton suggested. 

"Ah, I couldn't," said Fulkerson. "I got him to 
break-up in Boston and come here ; I like him ; 
nobody else could get the hang of the thing like he 
has; he 's — a friend." Fulkerson said this with the 
nearest approach he could make to seriousness, 
which was a kind of unhappiness. 

Beaton shrugged. " Oh, if you can afi'ord to have 
deals, I congratulate you. They 're too expensive for 
jne. Then, suppose you get rid of Dryfoos ?" 



  

Fulkerson laughed forlornly. " Go on, Bildad. 
Like to sprinkle a few ashes over nay boils ? Don't 
mind vie ! " 

They both sat silent a little while, and then 
Beaton said, "I suppose you haven't seen Dryfoos 
the second time ?" 

" No. I came in here to gird up my loins with 
a little dinner before I tackled him. But something 
seems to be the matter with Maroni's cook. I don't 
want anything to eat." 

"The cooking's about as bad as usual," said 
Beaton. After a moment, he added ironically, for 
he found Fulkerson's misery a kind of relief from 
his "WTi, and was willing to protract it as long as it 
was amusing : " Why not try an envoy extraordinary 
and minister plenipotentiary ? " 

" What do you mean ? " 

" Get that other old fool to go to Dryfoos for you !" 

"Which other old fool? The old fools seem to 
be as thick as flies." 

"That Southern one." 

"Colonel Woodburn?" 

" Mrammm." 

" He did seem to rather take to the colonel ! " 
Fulkerson mused aloud. 

" Of course he did. Woodburn, with his idiotic 
talk about patriarchal slavery, is the man on horse- 
back to Dryfoos's muddy imagination. He 'd listen 
to him abjectly, and he 'd do whatever Woodburn 
told him to do." Beaton smiled cynically. 

Fulkerson got up and reached for his coat and 




hat. "You've struck it, old man." The waiter 
came up to help him on with his coat ; Fulkerson 
slipped a dollar in his hand. " Never mind the 
coat; you can give the rest of my dinner to the 
poor, Paolo. Beaton, shake ! You 've saved my 
life, little hoy, though I don't think you meant it." 
lie took Beaton's hand and solemnly pressed it, and 
then almost ran out of the door. 

They had just reached coffee at Mrs. Leighton's 
when he arrived, and sat down with them, and 
began to put some of the life of his new hope into 
them. His appetite revived, and after protesting 
that he would not take anything but coffee, he went 
back and ate some of the earlier courses. But with 
the pressure of his purpose driving him forward, he 
did not conceal from Miss Woodburn, at least, that 
he was eager to get her apart from the rest for 
some reason. When he accomplished this, it seemed 
as if he liad contrived it all himself, but perhaps he 
had not wholly contrived it. 

'•I'm so glad to get a chance to speak to you 
alone," he said at once ; and while she waited for 
the next word he made a pause, and then said 
desperately, " I want you to help me ; and if you 
can't help me, there 's no help for me." 

" Mah goodness," she said, " is the case so bad as 
that ? What in the woald is the trouble ? " 

" Yes, it 's a bad case," said Fulkerson. " I want 
your father to help me." 

" Oh, I thoat you said me ! " 

" Yes ; I want you to help me with your father. 



  

I suppose I ought to go to him at once, but I 'm a 
little afraid of him." 

"And you awe not afraid of mel I don't think 
that 's very flattering, Mr. Fulkerson. You ought 
to think Ah 'm twahce as awful as papa." 

" Oh, I do ! You see, I 'm quite paralysed Lc- 
fore you, and so I don't feel anything." 

" Well, it 's a pretty lahvely kyand of paralysis. 
But — go on." 

" I will — I will. If I can only begin." 

" Pohaps Ah maght begin fo' you." 

" No, you can't. Lord knows, I 'd like to let you. 
Well, it 's like this." 

Fulkerson made a clutch at his hair, and then, 
after another hesitation, he abruptly laid the whole 
affair before her. He did not think it necessary to 
state the exact nature of the offence Lindau had 
given Dryfoos, for he doubted if she could grasp it, 
and he was profuse of his excuses for troubling her 
with the matter, and of wonder at himself for having 
done so. In the rapture of his concern at having 
perhaps made a fool of himself, he forgot why he 
had told her ; but she seemed to like having been 
confided in, and she said, " Well, Ah don't see what 
you can do with you' ahdeals of friendship, except 
stand bah' Mr. Maweh." 

" My ideals of friendship ? What do you mean ? " 

" Oh, don't you suppose we know ? Mr. Beaton 
said you we' a pofect Bahyard in friendship, and 
you wovdd sacrifice anything to it." 

"Is that so V said Fulkerson, thinking how easily 



  

he could sacrifice Liiulau in this case. lie had never 
supposed before that he was so cliivah-ous in such 
matters, but he now began to see it in that light, 
and he  wondered that he could ever have entertained 
for a moment the idea of throwing March over. 

" But, Ah most sat," Miss "Woodburn went on, 
" Ah don't envy you you' next interview with Mr. 
Dryfoos. Ah suppose you'll have to sec liirn at 
once aboat it." 

The conjecture recalled Fulkerson to the object 
of his confidences. "Ah, there's M'here your help 
comes in. I 've exhausted all the influence I have 
with Dryfoos " 

" Good gracious, you dou't expect ylh could have 
any!" 

They both laughed at the comic dismay with 
which she conveyed the preposterous notion ; and 
Fulkerson said, " If I judged from myself, I should 
expect you to bring him round instantly." 

" Oh, ihanh you, Mr. Fulkerson," she said, with 
mock-meekness. 

" Not at all. But it isn't Dryfoos I want you to 
help me with ; it 's your father. I want your father 
to intervicw Dryfoos for me, and I — I 'm afraid to 
ask him." 

" Poo' Mr. Fulkerson ! " she said, and she in- 
sinuated something through her burlesque compas- 
sion that lifted him to the skies. He swore in his 
heart that the woman never lived who was so witty, 
so wise, so beautiful, and so good. " Come raght 
with me this minute, if the cyoast's clea'." She 



  

went to the door of the dining-room and looked in 
across its gloom to the little gallery where her father 
sat beside a lamp reading his evening paper ; Mrs. 
Leighton could be heard in colloquy with the cook 
below, and Alma had gone to her room. She bec- 
koned Fulkerson with the hand outstretched behind 
her, and said, " Go and ask him." 

" Alone ! " he palpitated. 

"Oh, what a cyowahd !" she cried, and went with 
him. " Ah suppose you 'll want me to tell him 
aboat it." 

"Well, I wish you'd begin, Miss "Woodburn," he 
said. " The fact is, you know, I 've been over it so 
much I 'm kind of sick of the thing." 

Miss Woodburn advanced, and put her hand on 
her father's shoulder. " Look heah, papa ! Mr. 
Fulkerson wants to ask you something, and he 
wants me to do it fo' him." 

The colonel looked up through his glasses with 
the sort of ferocity elderly men sometimes have to 
put on in order to keep their glasses from falling off. 
His daughter continued : — 

" lie 's got into an awful difficulty with his edito' 
and his proprieto', and he wants you to pacify them." 

" I do not know whethah I understand the case 
exactly," said the colonel, " but Mr. Fulkerson may 
command me to the extent of my ability." 

" You don't understand it aftah what Ah 've said ?" 
cried the girl. " Then Ah don't see but what 
you 'll have to explain it you'self, Mr. Fulkerson." 

"Well, Miss Woodburn has been so luminous 


 

about it, colonel," said Fulkerson, glad of the joking 
shape she had given the affair, "that I can only 
throw in a little side light here and there." 

The colonel listened, as Fidkerson went on, with 
a grave diplomatic satisfaction. He felt gratified, 
honoured, even, he said, by Mr. Fulkerson's appeal 
to him ; and probably it gave him something of the 
high joy that an affair of honour would have 
brought him in the days wlien he had arranged for 
meetings between gentlemen. Next to bearing a 
challenge, this work of composing a difficulty must 
have been grateful. But he gave no outward sign 
of his satisfaction in making a rhum of the case 
so as to get the points clearly in his mind. 

" I was afraid, sir," he said, with the state due to 
the serious nature of the facts, " that Mr. Lindau 
had given Mr. Dryfoos offence by some of his 
questions at the dinner-table last night." 

" Perfect red rag to a bull," Fulkerson put in ; 
and then he wanted to withdraw his words at 
 the  colonel's look of displeasure. 

"I have no reflections to make upon Mr. Lindau," 
Colonel AYoodburn continued, and Fulkerson felt 
grateful to him for going on ; "I do not agree with 
Mr. Lindau ; I totally disagree with him on socio- 
logical points ; but the course of the conversation 
had invited him to the expression of his convictions, 
and he had a right to express them, so far as they 
had no personal bearing." 

"Of course," said Fulkerson, while Miss Wood- 
burn perched on the arm of her father's chair. 



"At the same time, sir, I think that if Mr. 
Dryfoos felt a personal censure in Mr. Lindau's 
questions concerning his suppression of the strike 
among his workmen, he had a right to resent it." 

" Exactly," Fulkerson assented. 

"But it must be evident to you, sir, that a high- 
spirited gentleman like Mr. March — I confess that 
my feelings are with him very warmly in the matter 
— could not submit to dictation of the nature you 
describe." 

" Yes, I see," said Fulkerson ; and with that 
strange duplex action of the human mind, he wished 
that it was his hair, and not her father's, that Miss 
Woudburn was poking apart with the corner of her 
fan. 

"Mr. Lindau," the colonel concluded, "was riglit 
from his point of view, and Mr, Dryfoos was equally 
right. The position of Mr. March is perfectly 
correct " 

His daughter dropped to her feet from his chair 
arm. " Mali goodness ! If nobody 's in the wrong, 
ho' awe you evah going to get the mattah straight ? " 

" Yes, you see," Fulkerson added, " nobody can 
give in." 

"Pardon me," said the colonel, "the case is one 
in which all can give in." 

" I don't know which 'll begin," said Fulkerson. 

The colonel rose. "Mr. Lindau must begin, sir. 
JFe must begin by seeing Mr. Lindau, and securing 
from him the assurance that in the expression of his 
peculiar views he liad no intention of offering any 




personal offence to Mr. Dryfoos. If I have formed a 
correct estimate of Mr. Lindau, this will be perfectly 
simple." 

Fulkerson shook his head. "But it wouldn't 
help. Dryfoos don't care a rap whether Lindau 
meant any personal offence or not. As far as that 
is concerned, he 's got a hide like a hippopotamus. 
But what he liates is Lindau's opinions, and what 
he says is that no man who holds such opinions 
shall have any work from him. And what March 
says is that no man shall be punished through him 
for his oijinions, he don't care what they are." 

The colonel stood a moment in silence. "And 
what do you expect me to do under the circum- 
stances ? " 

" I came to you for advice — I thought you might 



" Do you wish me to see Mr. Dryfoos ? " 
"Well, that's about the size of it," Fulkerson 
admitted. "You see, colonel," he hastened on, "I 
know that you have a great deal of influence with 
him ; that article of yours is about the only thing 
he 's ever read in Every Other week, and he 's proud 
of your acquaintance. "Well, you know," and here 
Fulkerson brought in the figure that struck him so 
much in Beaton's phrase, and had been on his tongue 
ever since, ''you're the man on horseback to him; 
and he 'd be more a])t to do "what you say than if 
anybody else said it." 

" You are very good, sir," said the colonel, trying 
to be proof against the flattery, " but I am afraid 



  

you overrate my influence." Fulkerson let him 
ponder it silently, and his daughter governed her 
impatience by holding her fan against her lips. 
Whatever the process was in the colonel's mind, he 
said at last : "I see no good reason for declining to 
act for you, Mr. Fulkerson, and I shall be very 
happy if I can be of service to you. But" — ho 
stopped Fulkerson from cutting in with precipitate 
thanks — "I think I have a right, sir, to ask what 
your course will be in the event of failure ] " 

" Failure ? " Fulkerson repeated, in dismay. 

" Yes, sir. I will not conceal from you that this 
mission is one not wholly agreeable to my feelings." 

" Oh, I understand that, colonel, and I assure you 
tliat I appreciate, I " 

" There is no use trying to blink the fact, sir, that 
there are certain aspects of Mr. Dryfoos's character 
in which he is not a gentleman. We have alluded 
to this fact before, and I need not dwell upon it now. 
I may say, however, that my misgivings were not 
wholly removed last night." 

" No," Fulkerson assented ; though in his heart he 
thought the old man had behaved very well. 

" What I wish to say now is that I cannot consent 
to act for you, in this matter, merely as an interme- 
diary whose failure would leave the affair in statu 
quo." 

" I see," said Fulkerson. 

" And I should like some intimation, some assur- 
ance, as to which ivarty your own feelings are with 
in the difference." 



The colonel bent his eyes sharply on Fulkcrson ; 
!Miss "Woodburn let hers fall ; Fulkerson felt that he 
was being tested, and he said, to gain time, " As 
between Lindaii and Dryfoos ? " though he knew 
this was not the point. 

" As between Mr. Dryfoos and Mr. March," said 
the colonel. 

Fulkerson drew a long breath, and took his cour- 
age in both hands. " There can't be any choice for 
nie in such a case. I 'ju for March, every time." 

The colonel seized his hand, and Miss woodburn 
said, " If there had been any choice fo' you iu such 
a case, I should never have let papa sti' a step with 

you." Well 

"Why, in regard to that," said the colonel, with 
a literal application of the idea, "was it your inten- 
tion that we should both go ? " 

" Well, I don't know; I suppose it was." 

" I think it will bo better for me to go alone," said 
the colonel ; and, with a colour from his experience 
in affairs of honour, he added : "In these matters a 
principal cannot appear without compromising his 
dignity. I believe I have all the points clearly in 
mind, and I think I should act more freely in 
meeting Mr. Dryfoos alone." 

Fulkerson tried to hide the eagerness with which 
he met these agreeable views. He felt himself ex- 
alted in some sort to the level of the colonel's senti- 
ments, though it would not be easy to say whether 
this was through the desperation bred of having 
committed himself to March's side, or through the 



  

buoyant hope he had that the colonel would succeed 
in his mission. " I 'm not afraid to talk with Dry- 
foos about it," he said. 

" There is no question of courage," said the 
colonel. " It is a question of dignity — of personal 
dignity." 

" Well, don't let that delay you, papa," said his 
daughter, following him to the door, where she 
found him his hat, and Fulkerson helped him on 
with his overcoat. " Ah shall be jost wald to know 
ho' it's toned oat." 

"Won't you let mc go up to the house with you V 
Fulkerson began. " I needn't go in " 

" I prefer to go alone," said the colonel. " I wish 
to turn the points over in my mind, and I am afraid 
you would find me rather dull company." 

He went out, and Fulkerson returned witli Miss 
Woodburn to the drawing-room, where she said the 
Lcightons were. They were not there, but she did 
not seem disappointed. 

"Well, Mr. Fulkerson," she said, "you have got 
an ahdeal of friendship, su' enough." 

" Me ? " said Fulkerson. " Oh, my Lord ! Don't 
you see I couldn't do anything else ? And I 'm 
scared half to death, anyway. If the colonel don't 
bring the old man round, I reckon it 's all up with 
me. But he 'll fetch him. And I 'm just prostrated 
with gratitude to you. Miss Woodburn." 

She waved his thanks aside A\'ith her fan. " What 
do you mean by its being all up with you ? " 

" Why, if the old man sticks to his position, and 



I stick to March, we've both got to go overboard 
together, Dryfoos owns the magazine ; he can stop 
it, or he can stop us, which amounts to the same 
thing, as far as we 're concerned." 

" And then what ? " the girl pursued. 

" And then, nothing — till we pick ourselves up." 

" Do you mean that Mr. Dryfoos will jiut you 
both oat of your places ? " 

" He may." 

" And Mr. Maweh takes the risk of that jost fo' a 
principle ? " 

" I reckon." 

" And you do it, jost fo' an ahdeal ] " 

" It won't do to own it. I must have my little 
axe to grind, somewhere." 

" Well, men aice splendid," sighed the girl. " Ah 
will say it." 

" Oh, they 're not so much better than women," 
said Fulkerson, with a nervous jocosity. " I guess 
March would have backed down if it hadn't been for 
his wife. She was as hot as pepper about it, and 
you could see that she would have sacrificed all her 
husband's relations sooner than let him back down 
an inch from the stand he had taken. It 's pretty 
easy for a man to stick to a principle if he has a 
woman to stand by him. But when you come to 
play it alone " 

"Mr. Fulkerson," said the girl solemnly, '' Ah 
will stand bah you in this, if all the woald tones 
against you." The tears came into her eyes, and 
she put out her hand to him. 



  

" You liill ? " he shouted, in a rapture. " In 
every way — and always — as long as you live ? Do 
you mean it ? " He had caught her hand to his 
breast and was grappling it tight there, and drawing 
her to him. 

The changing emotions chased each other through 
her heart and over her face : dismay, shame, pride, 
tenderness. " You don't believe," she said hoarseh% 
" that I meant that ? " 

" No, but I hope you do mean it ; for if you don't, 
nothing else means anything." 

There was no spacg, there was only a point of 
wavering. " Ah do mean it," 

When- they lifted their eyes from each other again 
it was half-past ten. " No' yon most go," she said. 

"But the colonel— our fate ? " 

" The co'nel is often oat late, and Ah 'm not 
afraid of any fate, no' that we 've taken it into ouah 
own hands." She looked at him with dewy eyes of 
trust, of inspiration. 

" Oh, it 's going to come out all right," he said. 
" It can't come out wrong now, no matter what 
happens. But who 'd have thought it, M'hen I came 
into this house, in such a state of sin and misery, 
half an hour ago " 

"Three houahs and a half ago ! " she said. "No' 
you most jost go. Ah'ra tahed to death. Good 
night. You can come in the mawning to see — papa." 
She opened the door, and pushed him out with 
enrapturing A'iolence, and he ran laughing down the 
steps into her father's arms. 




  

" Why, colonel ! I was just going up to meet you." 
He really thought ho would walk off his exultation 
in that direction. 

"I am very sorry to say, Mr. Fulkerson," the 
colonel began gravely, " that Mr. Dryfoos adheres 
to his position." 

"Oh, all right," said Fulkerson, with unabated 
joy. "It's what I expected. "Well, my course is 
clear ; I shall stand by March, and I guess the world 
won't come to an end if he bounces us both. But 
I 'm everlasting obliged to you, Colonel Woodburn, 
and I don't know what to say to you. I — I won't 
detain you now ; it 's so late. I 'll see you in the 
morning. Good ni " 

Fulkerson did not realise that it takes two to 
part. The culonel laid hold of his arm and turned 
away with him. "I will walk toward your })]ace 
with you. I can understand why you should be 
anxious to know the particulars of my interview 
with Mr. Dryfoos ;" and in the statement which 
followed he did not spare him the smallest. It out- 
lasted their walk, and detained them long on the 
steps of the Every Other Week building. But at the 
end, Fulkerson let himself in with his key as light 
of heart as if he had been listening to the gayest 
promises that fortune could make. 

By the time he met March at the office next 
morning, a little, but only a A'ery little, misgiving 
saddened his golden heaven. He took March's 
hand with high courage, and said, "Well, the old 
man sticks to his point, March." He added, with the 




sense of saying it before Miss Woodburn, "And I 
stick by you. I 've thought it all over, and I 'd 
rather be right with you than wrong with him." 

" "Well, I appreciate your motive, Fulkerson," 
said March. "But perhaps — perhaps we can save 
over our heroics for another occasion. Lindau 
seems to have got in with his, for the present." 

He told hira of Lindau's last visit, and they stood 
a moment looking at each other rather queerly. 
Fulkerson was the first to recover his spirits. 
" well,'"' he said cheerily, " that let 's us out." 

" Does it ? I 'm not sure it lets me out," said 
March; but he said this in tribute to his crippled 
self-respect rather than as a forecast of any action 
in the matter. 

" why, what are you going to do ? " Fulkerson 
asked. " If Lindau won't work for Dryfoos you 
can't make him." 

March sighed. " "What are you going to do with 
this money ? " He glanced at the heap of bills he 
had flung on the table between them. 

Fulkerson scratched his head. "Ah, dogged if 
I know. Can't we give it to the deserving poor, 
somehow, if we can find 'era ? " 

"I suppose we've no right to use it in any way. 
You must give it to Dryfoos." 

" To the deserving rich ] "Well, you can always 
find them. I reckon you don't want to appear in 
the transaction ; I don't, either ; but I guess I 
must." Fulkerson gathered up the money and 
carried it to Conrad. He directed him to account 



  

for it in his books as conscience-money, and he 
enjoyed the joke more than Conrad seemed to do 
when he was told wlierc it came from. 

Fulkerson was aide to wear off the disagreeable 
impression the affair left during the course of the 
forenoon, and he met Miss Woodburn with all a 
lover's buoyancy when he went to lunch. She was 
as happy as he when he told her how fortunately 
the whole thing had ended, and he took her view 
that it was a reward of his courage in having dared 
the worst. They both felt, as the newly ])liglitcd 
always do, that they were in the best relati(jns witli 
the beneficent powers, and that their felicity had 
l)een especially looked to in the disposition of events. 
They were in a glow of rapturous content with 
themselves and radiant worship of each other; she 
was sure that he merited the bright future opening 
to them both, as much as if he owed it directly to 
some noble action of his oavu ; he felt that he was 
indebted for the favour of Heaven entirely to the 
still incredible accident of her preference of him 
over other men. 

Colonel Woodburn, who was not yet in the secret 
of their love, perhaps failed for this reason to share 
their satisfaction with a result so unexpectedly 
brought about. The blessing on their hopes seemed 
to his ignorance to involve certain sacrifices of 
personal feeling at which he hinted in suggesting 
that Dryfoos should now be asked to make some 
abstract concessions and acknowledgments ; his 
daughter hastened to deny that these werc at all 



  

necessary ; and Fulkerson easily explained wlij-. 
The tiling was over ; what was the use of opening 
it up again ? 

" Perhaps none," the colonel admitted. But he 
added, " I should like the opportunity of taking Mr. 
Lindau's hand in the presence of Mr. Dryfoos, and 
assuring him that I considered him a man of principle 
and a man of lionour ; a gentleman, sir, whom I was 
proud and happy to have known." 

" Well, Ah 've no doabt," said his daughter 
demurely, " that you 'll have the chance some day ; 
and we would all lahke to join you. But at the 
same tahme, I think Mr. Fulkerson is well oat of it 
fo' the present." 



PART FIFTH. 



Superficially, the affairs of Every Other Wceh 
settled into their wonted form again, and for Fulker- 
son they seemed thoroughly reinstated. But !March 
liad a feeling of impermanency from wliat had 
happened, mixed witli a fantastic sense of shame 
toward Lindau. lie did not sympathise with 
Lindau's opinions, lie thought his remedy for existing 
evils as wildly impracticable as Colonel woodbnrn's. 
But while he thought this, and while he could justly 
blame Fulkerson for Lindau's presence at Dryfoos's 
dinner, which his zeal had brought about in sjiite of 
March's protests, still he could not rid himself of 
the reproach of uncandour with Lindau. He ought 
to have told him frankly about the ownership of the 
magazine, and what manner of man the man was 
whose money he was taking. But he said that ho 
never could have imagined that he was serious in 
his preposterous attitude in regard to a class of men 
who embody half the prosperity of the country ; 
and he had moments of revolt against his own 
humiliation before Lindau, in which he found it 



  

monstrous tliat lie should return Dryfoos's money as 
if it had been the spoil of a robber. His wife agreed 
with him in these moments, and said it was a great 
relief not to have that tiresome old German coming 
about. They had to account for his absence 
evasively to the children, whom they could not very 
well tell that their father was living on money that 
Lindau disdained to take, even thougli Lindau was 
wrong and their father was right. This heightened 
Mrs. March's resentment toward both Lindau and 
Dryfoos, who between them had placed her husband 
in a false position. If anything, she resented 
Dryfoos's conduct more than Lindau's. He had 
never spoken to March about the affair since Lindau 
had renounced his work, or added to the apologetic 
messages he had sent by Fulkerson, So far as 
March knew, Dryfoos had been left to suppose that 
Lindau had simply stopped for some reason that did 
not personally affect him. They never spoke of him, 
and March was too proud to ask either Fulkerson or 
Conrad whether the old man knew that Lindau had 
returned his money. He avoided talking to Conrad, 
from a feeling that if he did, he should involuntarily 
lead him on to speak of his differences with his 
father. Between himself and Fulkerson, even, he 
was uneasily aware of a want of their old perfect 
friendliness. Fulkerson had finally behaved with 
honour and courage ; but his provisional reluctance 
had given March the measure of Fulkerson's 
character in one direction, and he could not ignore 
the fact that it was smaller than he could have wished. 



  

lie coukl not make out wliether Fulkerson shared 
his discomfort or not. It certainly wore away, even 
with March, as time passed, and with Fulkerson, in 
the bliss of his fortunate love, it was probably far 
more transient, if it existed at all. He advanced 
into the winter as radiantly as if to meet the spring, 
and he said that if there were any pleasanter month 
of the year than November, it was December, 
especially when the weather was good and wet and 
muddy most of the time, so that you had to keej) 
indoors a long while after you called anywhere. 

Colonel Woodburn had the anxiety, in view of his 
daughter's engagement, when she asked his consent 
to it, that such a dreamer must have in regard to 
any reality that threatens to aftcct the course of his 
reveries. lie had not perhaps taken her marriage 
into account, except as a remote contingency ; and 
certainly Fulkerson was not the kind of son-indaw 
that he liad imagined in dealing with that abstrac- 
tion. But because he had nothing of the sort 
definitely in mind, he could not oppose the selection 
of Fulkerson with success ; he really knew nothing 
against him, and lie knew many things in his 
favour; Fulkerson insjjired him with the liking that 
every one felt for him in a measure ; he amused 
him, he cheered him ; and the Colonel had been so 
much used to leaving action of all kinds to his 
daughter that when he came to close quarters with 
the question of a son-indaw, he felt helpless to 
decide it, and he let her decide it, as if it were still 
to be decided when it was submitted to him. She 



  

was competent to treat it in all its phases : not 
merely those of personal interest, but those of duty 
to the broken Southern past, sentimentally dear to 
him, and practically absurd to her. No such South 
as he remembered had ever existed to her know- 
ledge, and no such civilisation as he imagined would 
ever exist, to her belief, anywhere. She took the 
world as she found it, and made the best of it. She 
trusted in Fulkerson ; she had proved his magna- 
nimity in a serious emergency ; and in small things 
she was willing fearlessly to chance it with him. 
She was not a sentimentalist, and there was nothing 
fantastic in her expectations ; she was a girl of 
good sense and right mind, and she liked the im- 
mediate practicality as well as the final honour of 
Fulkerson. She did not idealise him, but in the 
highest effect she realised him ; she did him justice, 
and she would not have believed that she did him 
more than justice if she had sometimes known him 
to do himself less. 

Their engagement was a fact to which the 
Leighton household adjusted itself almost as simply 
as the lovers themselves ; Miss "Woodburn told the 
ladies at once, and it was not a thing that Fulkerson 
could keep from March very long. He sent word 
of it to Mrs. March by her husband ; and his 
engagement perhaps did more than anything else 
to confirm the confidence in him which had been 
shaken by his early behaviour in the Lindau epi- 
sode, and not wholly restored by his tardy fidelity 
to March. But now she felt that a man who 
 

wishcJ to get married so obviously and entirely for 
love was full of all kinds of the best instincts, and 
only needed the guidance of a wife to become very 
noljle. She interested herself intensely in balancing 
the respective merits of the engaged couple, and 
after her call upon Miss woodburn in her new 
character she prided herself upon recognising the 
worth of some strictly Southern qualities in her, 
while maintaining the general average of New 
England superiority. She could not reconcile her- 
self to the Virginian custom illustrated in her 
having been christened with the surname of Madi- 
son J and she said that its pet form of Mad, which 
Fulkerson promptly invented, only made it more 
ridiculous. 

Fulkerson was slower in telling Beaton. He was 
afraid, somehow, of Beaton's taking the matter in 
the cynical way ; Miss Woodburn said she would 
break off the engagement if Beaton was left to guess 
it or find it out by accident, and then Fulkerson 
plucked up his courage. Beaton received the news 
with gravity, and witii a sort of melancholy meek- 
ness that strongly moved Fulkerson's sympathy, and 
made him wish that Beaton was engaged too. 

It made Beaton feel very old; it somehow left 
him behind and forgotten; in a manner, it made 
him feel trifled with. Something of the unfriendli- 
ness of fate seemed to overcast his resentment, and 
he allowed the sadness of his conviction that ho had 
not the means to marry on to tinge his recognition 
of tiic fact that Alma Leighton would not have 



  

wanted him to marry her if he had. He was now 
often in that martyr mood in which he wished to 
help his father ; not only to deny himself Chianti, 
but to forego a fur-lined overcoat which he intended 
to get for the winter. He postponed the moment 
of actual sacrifice as regarded the Chianti, and he 
bought the overcoat in an anguish of self-reproach. 
He wore it the first evening after he got it in going 
to call upon the Leightons, and it seemed to him a 
piece of ghastly irony when Alma complimented his 
picturesqueness in it, and asked him to let her 
sketch him. 

"Oh, you can sketch me," he said, with so much 
gloom that it made her laugh. 

" If you think it 's so serious, I 'd rather not." 

" No, no ! Go ahead ! How do you want me ? " 

" Oh, fling yourself down on a chair in one of 
