masses of ice again, and were obliged to pick our way out of them with
great difficulty; at last we reached the open sea once more, and were
able to continue our voyage until the 25th of June, when we were
obliged to cast anchor again near a field of ice. At the same time a
violent storm arose, and drove our miserable crafts to sea, where they
were tossed about in great danger of being dashed to pieces against an
iceberg, or upset by the wind. Our men now employed what little
strength they had left in striving to get back to the land, but as
this could not be done by simple rowing, we ventured to hoist a small
sail, which we had scarcely done when the foremast of the boat I
commanded suddenly broke in two places, and I found myself obliged, in
order to keep up with the shallop, to raise the mainsail, which,
however, I had to lower again immediately, or my boat would have been
inevitably upset.
"We now deemed our destruction inevitable, as the storm of wind, which
had hitherto blown from the south, suddenly changed to the north-east,
and drove us from the shore. In the meanwhile the shallop had
vanished, and we sought for it in vain for a long time, owing to a
thick fog which covered the sea. At last I ordered some shots to be
fired, and to my great joy they were answered by others from the
shallop. I afterwards employed this means of finding the whereabouts
of our comrades with great success on all such occasions.
"On the 28th of June we were again shut in, and obliged to anchor
alongside of an iceberg. As we were much fatigued by the incessant
tossing about of the boats, we erected a tent on it, and determined to
pass the night there; but that we might sleep in safety, we set a
watch, and it was a happy thing for us that we did so, for at midnight
we received a visit from three immense bears, who, had we not been on
our guard, would most assuredly have made a comfortable meal off of
some of us. At the cry of 'Bears! bears!' we seized our muskets, and
although they were loaded with shot merely, fired them at the animals,
who were so stupefied at the inhospitable reception their friendly
visit met with, that they allowed us time to load with ball. One of
them had fallen at the first fire, and the two others made off in all
haste. Pretty soon, however, they changed their minds, and coming
back, dragged their dead comrade away with them for a short distance,
and then set to work to devour him. As soon as we remarked this, we
let them have another shot, and this time they ran off in earnest.
Four of us now went to look at the carcass of the dead bear, and found
to our no little astonishment that they had devoured half of it. The
wind, on this and the two following days, blowing from the same
quarter, we were obliged to remain where we were.
"The night of the 1st of July, was one of the most fearful and
dangerous that we had as yet experienced. The storm gradually
increased in violence, and at last by hurling the floating masses of
ice against the firm bank on which we were encamped, broke off that
portion of it which held our boats, so that they got loose and were
driven away. Many bundles and casks fell into the sea, and it was with
great difficulty, that by springing from place to place, we succeeded
in securing our boats, in which were the sick. After the storm was
somewhat abated, we endeavored to collect our provisions and tools
together, but alas, missed a great many which were very necessary for
the completion of our voyage. Whilst one half of the men were thus
employed, the others went over the ice to the land, in order to get a
tree that they might mend the broken mast of the shallop. They found
not only what they sought, but also, wedges for splitting wood, and
wood already split, from which we judged that men had been in this
place before.
"About this time we lost two of our men, who had been sick for some
time, having been obliged to be carried from our hut to the boat, when
we started on our voyage. When Barents, who had also been ailing,
heard this, he assured us that his end too was approaching, but as he
at the same time regarded with attention, a chart of that part of the
country which we had seen, which I had prepared, we did not believe he
was so ill, and paid but little attention to his words. Pretty soon,
however, he laid down the chart and asked for water; but hardly had he
drank, when suddenly he bowed his head and died, to the great grief of
all of us. We lost in him a brave comrade and intelligent man, on
whose skill rested most of our hopes of again seeing our native land.
"Sorrowing deeply, we continued on our journey, and at length, on the
4th of August, reached the Russian coast, after having suffered much
from the cold, and also from the scurvy, which on account of the want
of fresh provisions, had broken out among us. We landed to try and
find some signs of life, but could see no habitations, and the ground
produced nothing but wild shrubs. Some of the party proposed that we
should continue our journey by land; but as we could easily lose our
way, and fall into great danger, in a desert, which was very likely
filled with wild animals, the majority decided in favor of continuing
along the coast. But we could not hold out much longer, for our
provisions were reduced to a few mouldy biscuits; the most of us,
tormented as we were by hunger and sickness, would have welcomed death
as a happy release. Happily, however, we discovered a Russian barque
coming towards us under full sail; when she reached us, Heemskirk
went on board, and taking some money in one hand, pointed with the
other to a cask of fish which stood on deck. The Russians understood
him, took the money, and gave him the fish, together with some little
cakes. Half starved as we were, we rejoiced greatly at this purchase,
and hastened to refresh ourselves with the food.
"We now very often met Russian vessels, and they sold or gave us, very
readily, a part of their scanty stock of provisions. By the 20th of
August, we reached the western shore of the White Sea, and by good
luck arrived at a spot where some little houses were standing. We
entered them and were received with great kindness by their owners,
who were poor Russian fishermen. They led us into a warm room, where
we could dry our wet clothes, and gave us a meal of good fish and
soup.
"After continuing our journey for several days more, we were obliged,
by a storm, to land again, and found a hut where three men dwelt. They
cordially welcomed us, and when at their request we had told them our
story, informed us that a vessel from the Netherlands was at anchor at
Kola, a Russian port not many miles distant. We entreated them to go
with one of our party to Kola by land, but as they could not go
themselves they sent a messenger, who in a few days returned without
our comrade, but with a letter, through which we learnt to our joy and
astonishment, that Ryp himself, the commander of the other vessel,
from whom we had separated at Bear's Island, had arrived at Kola in
safety, after seeking for an eastern passage in vain.
"It was not long before he arrived himself, in a boat loaded with
provisions, and after a warm greeting we took, for the first time
since many days, our usual food and drink. Favored by the wind,
Heemskerk soon brought us to Kala, where the Russian governor listened
with great sympathy to the history of our adventures and sufferings,
and ordered our two boats to be preserved as memorials of our wondrous
journey.
"On the 18th of September we set sail, and after a prosperous voyage
entered the Meuse. From there we went to Amsterdam, and doubtless it
is still fresh in your memories, how we were conducted into the town,
dressed in the fox skins we had worn at Nova Zembla, and followed by
the acclamations of the whole population."
Father Gerhard ceased speaking, and for a while the young people kept
silent too, so much had they been astonished by the recital of such
strange adventures. Most did they marvel at the calm resignation of
the voyagers to their sad fate, and they hoped that in the voyages
which they themselves might hereafter make, that they should have as
excellent and brave companions.
They now thanked their patron for the trouble he had taken to gratify
them, and with a hearty squeeze of the hand wished him good night.
The Shipwreck.
A few years ago a company of one of the English regiments of infantry,
consisting of eleven officers and two hundred soldiers embarked in a
large, strongly built ship, to sail from Quebec to Halifax. Besides
the troops, there were forty-eight passengers on board, most of them
women and children, and the whole number of persons, including the
sailors, amounted to upwards of three hundred.
On the evening of the tenth day, when they were clear of the Gulf of
St. Lawrence, and a brisk wind had driven them out many leagues to
seaward, the pilot who, for the greater security of the troops had
been kept on board, directed the course of the vessel to the westward,
hoping on the next day to run her into Halifax. From the windward side
of the otherwise clear heavens a dark cloud showed itself on the
horizon, and in a short time afterwards the ship was enveloped in one
of those dense fogs, which make a voyage along these coasts so
perilous, during the greater part of the year. They had now come
within that space of the ocean in which it was usual to hold a ship's
course in sailing from England to the West Indies; torrents of rain
increased the thickness of the fog, and fearful gusts of wind
increased the danger, and the officers in charge of the troops,
thought it expedient to hold a consultation with the captain, as to
what course was best to be pursued in the present circumstances. The
result of this conference was a determination to keep on the course
deemed expedient by the pilot, but with as little sail set as
possible. For their further safety a watch was stationed on the
foredeck, with the company's drums which they beat from to time, and
taking besides every other precaution against their coming into
collision with another vessel.
Among the officers, was a lieutenant named Stewart, a young man of
uncommon steadiness and bravery, and who in his zeal for the comfort
of the soldiers and the discipline necessary to be observed for
maintaining order in the ship, had during the whole voyage, limited
his own hours of rest to the smallest possible number. One night,
completely worn out, he was about to betake himself to his hammock,
when the colonel requested in view of the danger that every moment
threatened, that he would remain all night upon deck. Stewart rallied
his remaining strength, and conquering the importunate demands of
sleep, he took his station with ten men on the foredeck, whilst the
captain, with eight soldiers, kept watch at the stern. The rain poured
down in streams, squalls of wind and angry waves caused the good ship
to reel and turn like one drunk, and to add to the horrors of their
situation, the night was so dark they could not see half the length of
the ship before them, and the fog enshrouded them in its oppressive
vapor. At ten o'clock, the watch on the bowsprit called out to the
lieutenant on the foredeck, and directed his attention to a clear spot
which he declared to proceed from a light. Stewart at once proceeded
to the stern where he found the pilot seated on the rudder,
apparently watching the same appearance, but when he inquired of him
what it meant, he received a very short uncourteous reply, together
with a command from the captain who was by, to go back to his post. He
did so, and not long after the man on the bowsprit once more called
out, that notwithstanding the thick fog he saw a light distinctly;
Stewart looked in the direction the sailor pointed out, and plainly
saw the glimmer of the friendly beacon, and knew it at once as the
signal placed to warn ships from approaching too near the cliffs which
lined the shore. Notwithstanding his first repulse, he approached the
pilot a second time; but he met with a second repulse;--he was
answered--"Sir, I have been royal pilot on this coast for twenty-five
years, and I ought to know where I am." The captain too, in a sterner
manner then before, commanded Stewart to return to his watch. The
lieutenant dared utter no further remonstrance, but with a heart,
heavy with sad forebodings, busied himself to keep up the failing
spirits of his men who were as apprehensive of the threatened danger
as himself. And his sad foreboding was only too soon fulfilled, for
whilst the pilot imagined his vessel to be sailing on the open sea,
she was already among the rocks that lay but a mile and an half from
the coast, but yet were sixty distant from the roadstead by which they
were to enter Halifax.
By midnight, Stewart felt himself so fairly exhausted by cold and long
watching, that he left the quarter deck, and went below to snatch, if
possible, a few minutes sleep. He had been in his cabin only long
enough to change his damp clothing for dry, when a fearful crash told
him the ship had struck upon the rocks. In a moment he was back on the
quarter deck. He found that a surging billow had struck the hinder
part of the ship, tore off part of the sheathing, and carried away the
watch-house in which two women were sleeping--all efforts to rescue
them were in vain. Whilst the storm-tossed ocean raged and foamed
around the devoted ship, and night shrouded all objects in her veil of
impenetrable darkness, wild shrieks and cries arose from the women and
children, increasing the horrors of the moment, and filled the
stoutest hearted among the mariners and soldiers with dread and
despair. Among the soldiers all discipline was at an end, and in many
families this hour of terrors had loosed the bonds of affection and
dependence, that until now had subsisted for years. The men forsook
their wives in the endeavour to save their own lives; their wives and
children were entreating the help from strangers denied them by
husbands and fathers, and an officer who had heretofore been
considered not only as a most courageous soldier, but had showed
himself a kind and affectionate husband, now turned a deaf ear to the
prayers of his wife, and intent only on his own deliverance, climbed
up into the rigging of the mainmast, left her to her fate below,
whatever it might be. In the meantime, the captain had ordered the
ship to be examined, he found that she had struck upon a hidden rock,
and the waves beating over the quarter deck had already filled all the
rooms with water. Several men had been washed overboard as they rushed
from their hammocks to the deck at the moment of the ship striking,
but the greater number had reached the foredeck where they crowded
closely together, awaiting in painful anxiety for what the morning
would bring.
At length the dappling clouds in the east proclaimed the hour of
dawning--the day struggled into existence, and showed to the great joy
of the shipwrecked, a rock about fifty yards distant, which raising
its dark head above the foaming sea, promised present safety if it
could be reached, although the white waves broke furiously against it.
But how were they to reach it? The only hope--and it was a weak
one--was if they could succeed in passing a rope from the ship to the
rock, and fastening it there so firmly that by its aid all might be
able to leave the wreck. But who was the adventurous one to carry it
thither? The most experienced officers on board, declared it
impossible for any one to brave those angry breakers successfully, and
the best and most resolute of the sailors, who, perhaps, would have
ventured encountering such a risk, had broken into the spirit room and
were now lying drunk, seeking to drown the bitterness of death which
they were so certain of meeting, by steeping their senses in
oblivion.
In the meantime, Lieutenant Stewart with folded arms and thoughtful
mien, stood on the foredeck, measuring with his eyes the distance
between the wreck and the rock. After some minutes spent in deep
consideration, he threw off his coat, fastened a rope round his body,
and plunged into the boiling surf. The soldiers looked on in anxious
silence--for the bold swimmer had almost immediately disappeared from
their view--a wave had buried him deep in its bosom--but again his
head was seen above its foaming crest, and with strong arms he parted
the angry waters as he swam boldly forward, like one determined to
battle with and conquer fate. His strength would not have sufficed to
enable him to accomplish his aim, had not a huge wave borne him
onward, and dashing powerfully against the rocky ledge left him behind
as it retreated. Stunned by the violence with which he was thrown, he
lay for some moments deprived of all consciousness; his senses at
length returning, he rose hastily and mustering all his strength,
essayed to climb the steep and rugged rock, the difficulty of the
assent being increased by the slippery sea-grass with which it was
covered. After many toilsome efforts he reached the top, where he
succeeded in fastening his rope. But as it was impossible for him to
be seen from this height by those on the wreck, on account of the
thick fog, he was obliged to descend to the shore, where, as he was
nearer the ship, he hoped he might be visible, and thus relieve part
of their anxiety. On the side next the ship the breakers dashed so
violently that he dreaded making the attempt, and venturing on the
other, he fell from the steep and slippery path down into the sea.
Benumbed with cold, and sorely wounded by the sharp edges of the
rocks, he was at first scarcely able to move, but still he managed to
keep his head above the water, and after an half hour spent in a
vigorous struggle with death, a rushing wave once more carried him to
the shore, where bruised and bleeding he lay on his back like one
dead. He felt like giving up the contest, but he saw the sinking ship
and his doomed companions--with great effort, therefore, he raised
himself, gave the appointed signal to show that he had succeeded in
fastening the rope, and a gleam of joy shot through his heart as he
heard the loud cheers with which the news was hailed on board.
In less than a minute, the only boat belonging to the ship was let
down, and manned with but one stout sailor. Slipping along by the rope
which Stewart had drawn he guided his frail craft to the rock, to
which he fastened a stronger one, brought with him for that purpose:
this being done, he returned to the wreck in order to bring off the
passengers. It was determined to send away the women and children
first, and accordingly two grown females or a mother with several
children were bound together and sent off, the little boat which was
guided by two sailors being too small to hold any more.
Stewart assured that the slippery surface of the rock where he had
stood when fastening the rope, would not afford sufficient space for
all on board, even to stand upon, was half in despair, but just at the
moment however, that the boat containing the colonel's wife, her two
children, and the surgeon of the regiment, pushed off from the ship,
the fog lifted and parting at the coast, showed another rock of
greater height and broader extent a few yards distant from the one on
which he stood. The boat almost touched the one first reached--he gave
the sailors a sign--it was understood, and they rowed to the second
rock where the surf was much less dangerous, and the breakers small in
comparison with those that beat against the other. A better landing
was to be obtained here, and without the loss of a single life or any
untoward occurrence, the women and children reached this place of
safety if not of comfort Whilst this was being done, they made a
running noose to slip along on the rope that Stewart had fastened to
the rock on which he now stood, which rope as we before have said
reached to the ship. By this contrivance the officers and most of the
soldiers attained the smaller rock, and in the course of two or three
hours all on board were safely rescued. By a merciful Providence the
ship groaning, creaking, tottering, and gradually sinking, just kept
above the water until the last man was taken off; then a surging wave
dashed over her, and she was seen no more--a few circling eddies alone
showed the spot where she went down.
When the men who, as we have said had landed on the smaller rock had
assembled, they found it incapable of holding so many--all could not
stand in the narrow space its surface afforded, and too closely
crowded, they could not resist the pressure of the waves that
sometimes broke over it. The higher rock where the women and children
were landed showed that there was still room for many more of the
shipwrecked; the colonel, therefore, proposed that the officers should
be rowed thither in the boat, but to this the soldiers would not
listen. With death staring them in the face, they declared all
subordination was at an end--that preference on account of rank and
birth was not to be thought of--all were now on an equality, life was
as dear to the meanest soldier as to the highest in command; no! no
preference should be given--it must be decided by lot, who should go,
and who remain. All efforts to still the angry tumult that now arose
among the excited troops was in vain, and the little island whose
rock-covered surface, lifted for ages above that boiling flood, where
wave contended with wave, and had never before been pressed by the
foot of man, now became a scene of strife and confusion.
In the midst of the crowd who could thus strive with each other in the
very presence of death, lay Stewart, senseless and covered with the
blood that flowed plentifully from his wounds. All believed him to be
dying, and only a few cared to trouble themselves about the noble
young officer, to whose disinterested daring the whole crew owed their
lives. His strong constitution, however, soon triumphed over his
temporary exhaustion, and he awoke to consciousness, just when the
oaths and outcries of the striving soldiers was at the loudest. Slowly
and painfully he arose on his stiffened limbs, and supported on the
arm of one of his own men from whom he learned the cause of the
tumult, he approached and commanded silence. This in the presence of
his superior officers was out of place, but distinction was at an end,
and beloved as he was by all the soldiers, the command was obeyed at
once. "My friends," he began, "death, inevitable death awaits us all
alike, both on the other rock and here where the angry waves beat over
us, if we do not soon obtain help. Our only hope for deliverance is by
means of the boat, through which we may, perhaps, obtain it from the
land, which cannot be very distant. Let the officers and sailors then
go over to the other rock, where there is more room than on this, and
the surf being less violent and itself nearer to the coast, they can
better venture to seek the help, without which we must all perish. We
will remain here in peace together, awaiting the issue whatever it
be; I will not leave you, but am ready to share every danger, and as I
was the first to spring into the foaming sea, to try what could be
done for the salvation of all, so I will be the very last to leave
this rock."
His words were answered by a cheer; the true heroic spirit which
breathed from his words--the magnanimity of his whole proceedings
since the first moment of the common danger, flashed upon the memories
of these rude men, and wrought an instant change. The soldiers calmed
and encouraged, no longer objected to the departure of the officers
and sailors for the other rock, and the boat at once began to ply
between. As it would not carry but two persons at once, it took some
time before the specified persons had passed over. At the last voyage
there was but one to go. This officer as he took his place on the seat
beside the rowers, called out to Stewart to "come along, for the flood
was rapidly rising on the rock, and his staying behind would do the
soldiers no good." The lieutenant however refused the invitation, with
the words that as he had promised the soldiers to remain with them, he
was determined to do so, whether the issue was life or death.
So, while the officers with the pilot and sailors were borne to a
place of comparative safety, Stewart stood with his two hundred
soldiers upon that naked rock that gradually grew less from the rising
of the encroaching waters.
Not without good ground for apprehension, had the last departing
officer warned the lieutenant of the danger that threatened from the
advancing tide. The rock on which two hundred human beings were now
crowded, hoping to escape or gain a respite from death, was one which
in nautical phrase is called a sunken reef, that is only above water
at ebb tide, while at flood, except when swayed by a sweeping north
wind, the sea buries it in a depth of ten or fifteen feet.
The pilot knew this well, and having made it known to the colonel,
this knowledge was the occasion of his heartless proposition, that the
officers should be saved, leaving the soldiers to perish.
But when men deal treacherously with the unfortunate, or seek to ruin
the unsuspecting, it is then that a kind Providence watches over
them--it is then that the hand of the Most High is stretched forth for
their protection;--throughout the whole of this day, the only wind
that held the flood tide in check, namely the north-east, swept over
the still angry ocean and restrained its perilous advance.
Soon after the ship went down, the sea became covered with boxes and
barrels, together with many other articles of the stores on board
which had been floated from the hold; the confined air between the
decks had caused an explosion, and burst the vessel in every part.
This was providential, if those casks of provisions would only flock
toward the rock, they might be able to secure enough to support them
until help could be obtained either by a passing vessel, or from the
shore.
In the meantime, the still rising water had encroached so far upon the
rock that but one dry place was left; here the soldiers clustered,
standing close to one another, for the confined space admitted but
little movement. In order to judge of the rapidity with which the tide
was rising, Lieutenant Stewart ordered two large stones to be placed
on a rocky projection, whose surface at this time was just even with
the water. Leaving the spot and returning after a time, they found
them completely hidden. They then placed two others on a spot somewhat
higher, and turning away, scarce daring to hope that they should see
them again. But what was their joy on returning, to find not only the
two last dry, but the first two entirely out of the water; they were
thus assured the tide had reached its highest mark.
But now another trouble arose which threatened every moment to
increase the sufferings of the shipwrecked. As the waves dashed over
them for many hours, they had swallowed a large quantity of sea water,
this created a burning thirst, that was increased by their clothing
being entirely saturated with salt water. Whilst thus suffering, an
object was seen floating on the surface of the water, and approaching
the shore, which promised help in this moment of due necessity. One of
the sergeants was the first to remark it, and hastening to Stewart,
remarked that a cask was being washed by the waves to the edge of the
rock, and that he was sure it contained rum. The lieutenant, who
dreaded the effect of strong drink on the men as the greatest possible
evil, bade the sergeant to sink it as soon as it reached the shore.
The cask came nearer--a huge wave lifted it high and dry upon the
rock. The sergeant could not obey Stewart's order--the soldiers at
once clustered around it, and having been slightly broken as it was
dashed upon the rugged resting place, to their great delight,
discovered that it held--not rum, but pure sweet water, and in such
quantity that all could drink to their satisfaction.
Thus delivered from dread of being washed away and the torment of
thirst, new hope and increased courage sprang up in the breasts of the
shipwrecked, and beginning to think over how they might better their
condition, their first act was to prepare a comfortable place for
their wounded lieutenant, who seemed to be rapidly sinking from loss
of blood and the effect of his severe exertions. One corner of the
rock, the highest above the sea, presented a smoother surface than the
rest; they cleared the slippery sea-grass from the spot, and wrapping
a cloak round him, laid him down. Two soldiers, one on the right hand,
the other on the left, lay down near to screen him from the cutting
sea breeze, some others lay across these, thus forming a pyramid of
bodies that secured to the wounded a shelter from wind and rain. The
rest of the soldiers threw themselves on the rocky surface, whereon
they could find a place, and in a few moments were as sound asleep as
if reposing in the most luxurious chamber.
The day closed in, but the fog still continued; the rain poured down
in torrents on those half naked men, and the piercing north-east wind
made them shiver as it swept over them in their thin and sea-soaked
garments. At last all desire for sleep was banished, and rising from
their uncomfortable lodging places, each one looked out into the
darksome night in hopes of discovering a delivering ship. Sometimes
the silence that brooded over the little island was interrupted by the
joyful cry of "a ship! a ship!" but directly after, some foam-crested
billow rising high above the surrounding waves, showed what had
caused the delusion.
The sufferings of the unhappy men after this one short alleviation
again increased, the tide rose higher than before, for the wind had
now chopped round to the west, there was no restraining influence from
it as at first. The sea, as if claiming the rock as part of his
domain, advanced higher and higher, until at last only one dry spot
remained upon which the soldiers clustered so closely, that those who
stood in the middle could scarcely breathe. All believed that death
was approaching--all hope of deliverance had faded from each heart,
and every one of the seemingly doomed party who could control his
thoughts in that dreadful hour, summoned his last effort to be
expended in prayer.
As they stood there in silence with hearts darkened by the utter
extinction of hope, a red light was seen above the rolling waves--its
ruddy glow as it glanced upon the white-capped billows caused those
sunken hearts to beat with renewed activity--they gazed far out upon
the sea, but no man spoke; in a moment more the form of a ship was
seen, dimly but certainly in the enveloping fog. The loud and joyful
huzza that burst from the shipwrecked soldiers proved to those on
board the vessel sent to their rescue, that the rock was still
unsubmerged, and that life was there, and they returned the cheer with
great good-will. It appeared afterwards that some of the sailors had
attempted to reach the shore in the jolly boat; that they encountered
great toil and danger, but were at last so fortunate as to come up
with two fishing vessels. One of these had already taken the officers
and women from the larger rock and landed them on the coast; the other
turned about to look after the soldiers, although the captain of the
wrecked vessel declared it was folly to expect to find any of them
living, for he was convinced that the "sunken reef" had long ere this
been hidden beneath the foaming waters.
For fear of the ship being injured by the rocks, they could only
approach within a certain distance, and with only one small boat.
Stewart called through a speaking trumpet to the sailors, and inquired
how many they could take at one time in the boat. They answered,
"twelve," at the same time recommending to the shipwrecked to embark
quietly, and not rush in such numbers as to peril their own safety.
Stewart, exhausted as he was, enforced the necessity there was for
this caution, and marshaling his men as well as was possible in the
narrow space, he divided off the first twelve, and his command was
obeyed with promptness and without confusion. In the meantime, the
little boat had reached the rock, and the embarcation began, and
without the least disorder. The night came on, but nineteen times the
boat made its way through the darkness, from the ship to the now
nearly submerged rock, still bearing its living freight in safety, and
it was only at the last voyage that they shipped the two last
soldiers, and the noble hearted, heroic Stewart, whose soul was full
of blissful feelings at the thought that by his courage, obtained
through confidence in God, he had saved the lives of three hundred
men.
Voyage to the East Indies.
Soon after embarking, and wearied by the exertions I had been obliged
to make for the last few days, I betook myself to my cabin and to
rest. When I again ascended to the deck, I looked towards the shore we
had left, but nothing was to be seen, but a long gray stripe that lay
like a dim cloud along the distant horizon. It was the last sight of
my native land, and gradually its faint purple outline faded until it
was lost in the foam-crested waves. On all sides of me was the wild
waste of waters; as far as the eye could reach, it rested upon moving
masses like fields of sea-green. Above us was the blue and vaulted
heavens that were now illumined with the burnished rays of an August
sun, that was even now dipping his broad disk into the waves that
formed the distant horizon.
All around was life and motion; ours had not been the only ship that
had taken advantage of a favorable wind to put out from Cuxhaven to
the open sea. Four or five other ships were sailing along side, and as
they spread their snowy sails, on which the bright rays of the summer
sun was playing, they skimmed like white-winged sea-mews over the dark
green waters.
And now one of the pilot boats that lie here at anchor, yet tossed
year in and year out by the restless waves, sending on board both, to
the homeward and outward bound a skilful guide, to steer the ship
through the perilous shoals and sand banks that lie on this coast,
approached, to take up the pilot that had steered us safely into the
open sea. He took charge of all our letters--from those written to
parent, friend, or lady love left behind, to the tender lines penned
by the least shipboy, taking a long farewell of the mother who
standing on the pier, waved her hand to her child whose home was
henceforward to be on the deep, until long after we sailed. The pilot
thrust them all into his great leathern bag, held out his sea-hardened
hand to bid each one farewell and gave us his sailor-like greeting:
"Farewell, and a lucky voyage to you." He jumped into the boat, four
lusty rowers sat on the benches, and it flew over the glancing waters
with the speed of a bird until it reached the one-sailed craft he
called his pilot ship. This was our final adieu to the homes we had
left, for with the departure of the pilot from on board, the last link
that unites the sailor to his native land is broken, and it is then
the traveller feels how really every rolling wave increases the
distance between him and the fireside joys he has left behind.
Light winds soon drove us into the English channel, where we saw the
chalk cliffs of Dover shimmering in the bright sunshine on one
side--the coast of France like a soft blue cloud dipping into the sea
on the other. We approached so near to the British shore, that we
could distinguish the buildings and light-houses plainly. Near to
Dover, and on a rocky precipice, stands an old fortress of the middle
ages, looking out threateningly with bristling canon on the town and
over the sea that breaks and murmurs at its rocky base.
As it became dark, numerous beacon lights blazed from the watch-towers,
some speedily vanishing, others twinkling and glancing like meteors that
beguile the wanderer from his way, but many with clear and steady
ray, shone brightly over the face of the deep and guided the sailor
on his adventurous course. The first were the so-called fire drakes,
covered partly by metallic plates which turn, and thus is caused the
appearing and vanishing of the light so speedily, the latter is the
steady beacon of the light-house, which distinguishable from all
others by its brilliancy and the color of its flame, enables the
seaman to direct his craft safely through the channel. Hundreds of
other lights were glancing everywhere, like the fire flies of the
tropics upon the face of night, those were the burning lanterns
carried at the prow of the steamboats, warning each other of
approaching too near, and giving the same intelligence to ships.
On the following morning we found ourselves in the neighbourhood of
the Isle of Wight, and vainly looked out for some compassionate fisher
boat, that for a flask of brandy or some salted fish, would carry our
last letters to some port, from whence they might be forwarded to our
homes. A few days later, and we lost sight of the English coast; and
with it the last land in Europe faded from our eyes. We found
ourselves on the open sea, and with lightly swelling sails, steering
for the Cape de Verd Islands. Of the many vessels which we hailed or
passed in the British channel, not one was to be seen; here every ship
held silently on her own monotonous way, without troubling herself
about the fate of another; and here instead of the life and bustle to
be met with on a coasting voyage, nothing was to be seen, but the dark
blue waves of the broad Atlantic and the bright resplendent sky.
To enjoy a sea-voyage one must have entirely overcome the severe
ordeal of sea-sickness, and then with the high health that generally
follows the departure of this disagreeable visitant, life on the ocean
is not without a beauty and variety of its own. In a fortnight one
becomes sufficiently versed in the laws of equilibrium to maintain his
place in his hammock from a sudden lurching of the ship in a squall or
night of tempest, or so skilfully to balance himself and his plate at
table, that neither shall be thrown to the right or left. By degrees,
too, one becomes accustomed to the slovenliness of the cabin servants,
and the dusky appearance of stained and soiled table cloths, and at
last even ceases to miss the newspapers and the absence of cream in
his coffee.
During the first part of our voyage we had most beautiful weather; the
deep blue sea upon which the foam-crested waves chased each other as
if at play, and the bright heavens where thin and transparent clouds
were floating like veils of gossamer, filled the heart with gladness
and disposed it to profitable musings. Light winds filled the sails
that swelled beautifully on their masts and drove the ship, that under
a cloud of white canvass looked like a stately queen, onward.
Sometimes she would lie motionless on the waves for a time, then urged
by the breeze she would glide forth like a capricious beauty, cutting
the water at the rate of more than four miles an hour. So gentle was
the motion, that in the cabin one could scarce hear the murmur of the
waves as the ship kissed them with her bowsprit, or raised a track of
foam as she divided them with her sharp keel or directing rudder.
It may seem strange, but it is nevertheless true, that on the land,
the Sabbath never speaks to man with such solemn voice as it does in
beautiful weather on the deep blue sea. Then it seems as if wind and
wave and sun and sky were all holding sacred festival, and Nature,
such as she appears on that wide and wonderful expanse, invited man,
the favored creature, to worship with her in her grand and sacred
temple. On week days, with the perpetual industry usual on board a
ship, the bustling of the sailors as they pursue their several
avocations, the call of the boatswain, the noise of the carpenters'
hammer that cannot be excluded from the cabin, contrasts vividly with
the calm brought by the solemn stillness of the Sabbath,--its
influence is visible on all. No tar-bucket is seen on deck, no
paint-pot stands in the way, the sailor intermits his weekly task of
mending the sails, and the ropes that are to be repaired are laid
aside. The deck is scoured white and smooth with sand; everything is
clean, even the cabin-boy and the table-cloth, two articles that on
weekdays seem to hold themselves privileged to be dirty.
The sailors indeed, that is only some of them, take advantage of the
time bestowed by the Sabbath, to mend their jackets and stockings, or
patch up old boots and shoes; others lie stretched out on the deck
with a book in their hands or a cigar in their mouths, murmuring
something to which the waves are the only listeners; others are down
in the forecastle looking over their chests and coffers, the sight of
their humble effects, or perhaps some cherished keepsake, recalling
thoughts of loved ones at home. But in whatever business engaged, the
influence of the Sabbath is seen on all, for there is no countenance
but speaks the calm and quiet content, which this blessed day, so
wisely ordered as a respite from toil and care, brings to all, whether
on land or sea.
We were out four weeks without having seen anything but sky and water,
when one day we saw the rugged crest of a high mountain rising above a
pile of thick gray clouds. It was the high hill of the island of St.
Anthony, the most westerly of the Cape de Verd group. Little by little
the low-lying clouds ascend like a drawn up curtain, and the whole
island lay spread out, a living panorama, to our view. But alas! we
passengers were not permitted to leave the ship, and as soon as we had
taken in provisions and water, the anchor was lifted and we held on
our way towards the south.
As in all lands lying in the warm latitudes, the works of nature are
found in greater and more vigorous beauty than beneath our colder and
melancholy skies, so also do the tropical seas present appearances
never seen in the northern waters. If a storm arises, the whole
creation seems to be dissolving. No words can be found adequate to
describe the scene, or in any measure to convey the frightful
experience the sailor has to undergo. But on the other hand, in clear
and calm weather, the tropical sea presents an aspect of gorgeousness
and grandeur, with which the loveliest natural scenery of a northern
climate cannot compare. Here the rising of the sun from his bed of
waves, presents a spectacle that fills the heart with reverence and
awe at the same time that it swells with rapture of the purest kind.
The thick clouds that rested like a veil of darkness upon the
illimitable surface of the sea, at the coming of the god of day,
disperse in their vapors. The twinkling stars grow paler as he
approaches, the dark gray color of the water changes to a cheerful
blue, and streaks of clear purple are seen in the east, increasing
each moment to a varied hue, and as the horizon brightens, darkness
flies far from the bosom of the waters. Suddenly rays of glorious
light break forth from heaven and pour their golden glory on the sea,
the sun rises in his glowing strength above the bank of purple clouds,
and as they disperse themselves over the azure firmament, various are
the shapes, whether beautiful or grotesque, that they assume. One can
imagine he sees towns, hills, castles with tall towers, ships, and a
thousand other objects in their flitting shapes, but yet scarcely
formed ere they lose their evanescent beauty both of form and color,
as the sun mounts above the horizon.
The animal kingdom of the tropical ocean is extraordinarily rich and
varied. The sea birds are distinguished by their size, and beauty of
plumage, and greatly surpass those that belong to the north. Thousands
of flying fish spring above the surface, in order to escape some
lurking enemy below, only to find their death on the deck of the ship,
but oftener to fall an easy prey to some rapacious bird. Nothing can
equal the gay colors of the Bonito and Dorado, a smaller kind of
ravenous fish peculiar to the Southern seas, and which are always
found in close pursuit of their neighbors, the flying fish. With what
enchantment does the astonished spectator fasten his gaze upon the
lightly moving waters. His eye penetrates the depths that lie far
below the crystal surface, and is lost in wonder at beholding the
myriads of living creatures with which the mighty ocean teems! Not a
moment but what presents some new and interesting subject for inquiry
or contemplation, thus breaking in pleasantly on the otherwise
monotonous current of sea life.
So the day passes over, full of interest, if man will only take the
trouble to secure it; and the sun that here regularly measures his
diurnal course in twelve hours, is declining to his setting. Again the
attendant clouds, that at times assume the appearance of burning
volcanoes, gather around him, as though to curtain him as he sinks to
rest, but as his glancing rays reflected on the smooth water are
refracted in gushing vapors, thousands of fireballs seemed to rise as
from a crater, and streams of burning lava to flow into the ocean. At
length the sun is hidden beneath the waves; for a few minutes the
western horizon is like a sea of glowing purple, and then night comes,
shrouding all in her darksome veil. But there is no gloom; thousands
of stars far brighter than those of northern lands glitter in the
firmament, and are mirrored in the chrystal waters; fiery meteors dart
through the heavens, and the whole surface of the ocean is covered
with luminous insects.
Pleasant as is life on shipboard, even in a slow voyage, when with
sufficient wind, which is mostly the case in this latitude, to
keep the vessel moving, bringing refreshing coolness to the
sailor, and spreading life and healthful motion over the sea; not
less uncomfortable is the condition of a vessel when becalmed, as is
not seldom the case for many weeks together. With heavy heart the
mariner sees the breeze that so lately rippled the waves, gradually
die away, and leave the bosom of the ocean calm as a slumbering lake.
The sails hang flapping from the yards, the sea is motionless,
presenting a dull expanse of water as far as the eye can reach, and
no zephyrs float through the atmosphere to give relief from the
burning rays of the sun. The ship lies like a log on the water,
the discontent and murmurs of the crew increase every day, and in vain
do they try to drive the tedium away by practising all sorts of
diversion. But the night brings some relief, not only in her calm
beauty, but cooling dews refresh the heated atmosphere, and the moon
and stars shine forth in unsurpassable glory in the cloudless
heavens.
On the first of October, we passed the equator. Neptune, as is his
custom with all ships, honored us with a visit. With the early
twilight, we heard a deep bass voice that seemed to rise up out of the
waves, hail the ship in true nautical style. The helmsman answered
through his speaking trumpet, to the usual questions of where we were
bound, and from whence we had sailed. Two of the ship boys were
listening with all their ears, and peering curiously but vainly over
the bulwarks in order to get a sight of old Neptune. At length the
voice from the bowsprit made itself more audible, and in the
following manner. "I see that there are a few on board that have never
before been in my territory, and must submit to the regulations I
demand, as it becomes them to do." As the last words were uttered a
gigantic figure, his head covered with a periwig of knotted sea-grass,
with a false nose, and his face painted in various colors, now
ascended the ship's side, and clambered on deck. He carried a speaking
trumpet of three feet long in his right hand, under his left arm was a
few thick books, and from the leg of his boot a huge wooden compass
protruded itself. A masculine woman in whose soot-begrimed lineaments
I, with some trouble, recognized those of our boatswain, personating
Amphitrite, followed the god of the sea, carrying a long lubberly boy
in her arms, wrapped up in an old sail. They were introduced to us by
Neptune as his wife and son. Having advanced to the after deck, where
the sailors were assembled, he opened one of his colossal books and
spread an old sea chart out upon the deck. "Hallo, helmsman," he
inquired, "what is your latitude and longitude?" The answer being
given, he grumbled something as he pulled his huge compass from his
boot, and having carefully measured his old chart, at last struck a
hole in it, as he exclaimed, "Here you are--all right--what course are
you steering?" "South, south-east!" "You must go four degrees to
westward--you will have a better wind," growled Neptune, and therewith
he doubled up the chart, and stuck the compass in his boot again. "I
must see after my new circumnavigators," he added in the same gruff
tone as he turned his eyes on the two before-mentioned boys and one
old sailor who, although he had followed the sea for twelve years, had
never, until now, crossed the equator; "we must make a nearer
acquaintance."
The name, birth, and age of each being inquired into, and duly
registered in one of the large books, each one after having his eyes
blindfolded, was led by the sailors to the forecastle and seated on a
plank, under which was placed a large tub of water. The next operation
was to shave them, and accordingly their faces were smeared over with
a horrible mixture of shoemaker's wax, train oil and soot, most
ungently laid on with a coarse painter's brush. Neptune then performed
the office of barber himself, taking a long piece of iron which had
once served as the hoop of a tun, he scraped their chins in the most
unmerciful manner.
No sooner was this operation ended, then they pulled away the props of
the plank on which the three tyros were seated, so that they fell over
head and ears in the tub of water below, and thus received what the
sailors call a "genuine Neptune's baptism." After all these ceremonies
he turned as if to go, but the young sea-god at this moment set up a
most fearful outcry--he bawled as loud and lustily as any mortal.
"Just listen," said Neptune; "now I cannot go back to my cave in
peace, but that cub will roar and bellow the whole night, so as to
disturb all the waves below,--nothing even quiets him but a stiff
glass of grog, for he likes that far better than sea water."
The captain understood the hint; he laughed and nodded to the steward.
Young Neptune continued his lamentation nearly a quarter of an hour; I
saw one of the cabin servants carrying a smoking bowl of punch to the
foredeck, and the joyful shouts and loud hurrah that attested how
welcome was its reception, reached us who were in the cabin below.
On the following day as the ship, driven by a light wind, moved lazily
through the waters, we observed two large sharks following in her
wake. The sailors were at great pains to take them, but greatly to the
vexation of themselves and the passengers who entered quite as eagerly
into this sport as themselves, the cunning fish disdained the bait and
swam slowly away. To my enquiries of why they had not seized upon the
meat thrown out as lure, sharks having always been represented as
voracious and greedy, one of the passengers answered,
"It all depends on whether or not they are hungry. In some soundings,
where fish abound, I have seen sharks by the hundred, which not only
refused the bait, but did not injure the men who went into the water
to bathe or accidentally fell overboard. Nevertheless, like yourself,
I wonder that these creatures did not bite, for the sharks of the
Atlantic are considered particularly greedy."
"I can tell ye," said the boatswain, who was standing close by, "why
they did not take hold of the bait. It is because we are just in the
track of the Brazilian slave ships; they throw many of the niggers
overboard, for many die, and there's no doubt but the creatures find
richer morsels than a bit of salt beef."
"Are there not several species of sharks?" I inquired of a passenger
who seemed well acquainted with natural history in all its variety.
"A great many," he answered, "and the largest and most rapacious is
the white shark, to which class those that have just left us belong.
He moves through the Atlantic as if it was his own realm, but is
seldom seen beyond the solstitial point, preferring the latitude
within the tropics; he is also found in the Mediterranean sea, and
also in the gulf of Lyons, where he is peculiarly savage. The blue
shark, seen in the English channel, is seldom dangerous; others,
larger but less harmless, infest the northern seas, and are often
pursued by the whalers merely for sport. Then there is the spotted or
tiger shark, not very large but exceedingly rapacious; the hammer
shark, which derives its name from the peculiar shape of its head, and
the ground shark, which is the most to be dreaded of any, since he
lies deep down in the water, and rising suddenly, seizes his prey
without any one suspecting his vicinity."
"Suppose a man is so unfortunate as to fall overboard, and a shark is
in the neighborhood," said I, "what can he do to save himself? Is
there no hope of escaping from his dreadful jaws?"
"The best means I have seen tried," he replied, "and with good effect
is, if a man is a good swimmer, to throw himself on his back, splash
the water with his feet, and shout with all his strength. The shark is
a great coward and easily frightened--noise will always drive him off.
When I was on a voyage to the West Indies, two or three years ago, I
had a Newfoundland dog with me, who was accustomed to spring into the
water from any height, and after anything. I was greatly attached to
the animal, and you may imagine my alarm as, one day we were lying
becalmed off the West India islands, I saw him jump down and with,
loud barkings, as if delighted with the sport, swim after a large
shark that was playing around the ship. I expected nothing else but to
see him devoured in an instant, but to my astonishment the monster
turned and swam vigorously, evidently frightened by the barking of the
dog who continued to follow him, until a boat was let down and himself
brought back by the sailors.
"A singular method," continued my learned fellow-passenger, "is
practised by the divers who collect pearls on the coast of Ceylon.
They often let themselves down an hundred feet in order to reach the
mud banks where the pearl oysters are to be found, and whilst they are
filling their baskets they must watch carefully on all sides lest a
shark fall upon them. If they see one near, they stir up the mud, and
then while the enemy is blinded by the turbid water they rise as
quickly as possible to the surface. Many escape in this manner, but
many also fall victims. Fair ladies as they adorn their persons with
these costly ornaments think little of the suffering by which they are
obtained,--the arduous adventurous life, or of the unfortunates who
are annually swallowed by those savages of the deep. When one
considers how often those poor Indians must dive to the bottom, to say
nothing of the loss of life, before a string of pearls can be
obtained, we may confidently assert that every necklace has been
purchased by at least the life of one human being."
Scudding now before a fresher wind, we steered towards the south and
soon found ourselves in a colder climate. The flying fish played
lively as ever around the ship, and one night so many fell on deck as
to furnish an excellent mess for breakfast. Black dolphins, the
greatest enemy of their flying neighbors, tumbled playfully about in
the rippling water, and at times encircled the ship in great numbers.
Their motion is swift and vigorous,--so much so that it is scarcely
possible to strike them with a harpoon.
On the 20th of October we reached the latitude of the Cape of Good
Hope. Flocks of sea birds fluttered around our masts, for this colder
region is the home of the beautiful sea dove, the great white
albatross and an innumerable multitude of smaller kinds, that on the
approach of stormy weather seem to rise, as by the stroke of a
magician's wand, from the sea. One of the few changes one meets with
on a voyage to Africa is angling for birds, for they are as easily
taken as the finny tribe, by baiting a fish-hook with a piece of fat
meat, and especially so in those rough seas, upon whose surface little
to nourish can be found, they seize greedily upon the hook, which
fastens itself readily in their crooked bills. All these sea birds are
clothed with a coat of feathers so thick and elastic that except in
one or two places they are invulnerable to a bullet.
The fable of the Flying Dutchman is well known--the Demon ship is
still supposed to traverse his unwearied but unprofitable course in
the neighborhood of the Cape. The weather is stormy almost throughout
the year, the skies ever dark and cloudy, but while other ships,
scarcely able to keep themselves steadily afloat, dare show but one or
two storm sails, the phantom ship is scudding before the gale under a
full press of canvass. Our captain assured us with an expression of
countenance which showed that he himself believed what he asserted,
that he had once seen the Dutchman under crowded sail in Table Bay
hardly two English miles distant; that he had altered his course in
order to come up with him, but all at once he vanished, and although
he steered a long time in the same direction, he found no trace of
him. The thing easily explains itself when one considers that the sky
is always dark and foggy, the sea rough and tempestuous, and not
seldom sudden storms of hail and snow prevent the voyager from seeing
a quarter of a mile before him; how easy then to lose sight of a
vessel in an instant.
Much more dangerous than the Flying Dutchman are the floating bodies
of ice, found also in these latitudes; and which often cause great
damage to ships, for owing to the thickness of the atmosphere they are
not seen, until they are driven against them. A few years ago an
English frigate in doubling the Cape, ran foul of an iceberg with such
force that she sprung a leak, and broke the rudder in splinters.
Luckily a puff of wind that streamed from a cleft in the ice and threw
back the sails, freed the ship from her perilous condition since
another stroke upon the iceberg would have dashed her to pieces.
There is no climate where gurnets are found in such numbers as in the
neighborhood of the Cape. In stormy or cloudy nights the sparkle of
these beautiful sea-fish is the brightest. The troubled waves as they
dash their foam-crested waters against the ship, glitter as though
thousands of brilliant stars were seen among them, and as the rushing
keel divides them in her course, the effect is indescribable, and
recalls to the mind of the spectator tales of fairies and sea-nymphs
that come up from their ocean caves to gaze with bright and curious
eyes on the daring mortals that invade their realm.
After doubling the Cape, we had sailed a whole week with a steady and
favorable wind towards the Isle of Bourbon, when on one clear day
whilst all were assembled on the deck, we were startled by a cannon
shot fired at no great distance, and came booming over the waters like
the voice of thunder. The captain was hastily summoned from his cabin,
but ere he made his appearance a second report broke upon the deep
stillness that succeeded the first. At the same moment a sailor on the
lookout called out from above, that he "saw a light over the bows of
the ship, but could not make out what it was." "Is it a ship,"
inquired the captain, as he began hastily to ascend the mainmast. "No,
sir!" was the answer, "the light is too large to come from a ship's
lantern, and it cannot be the Isle of Bourbon." "It must be a vessel
on fire," exclaimed the captain, as many cannon shots broke upon the
silent air, "Bourbon lies much farther to the north. Aloft there!
crowd on sail--in order to carry help to those unfortunates before it
is too late!"
Whilst the sailors were busy in executing the captain's orders, he
bade the gunners fire the cannon so that the crew of the burning ship
might know that help was near. In half an hour from the first alarm,
we could plainly discern the blazing vessel with the naked eye, and
soon after distinguished the whirling columns of flame as they
towered above the masts. The night, too, had come on, and the
impression made by the lurid light that shone far over the quiet
waters, and the booming sound of cannon that from time to time burst
on its stillness, was one too awful to be soon forgotten. "If we only
do not reach them too late!" cried one of the passengers who, like the
sailors, never even turned their eyes away from the burning spectacle.
"I hope the crew have taken to their boats before this," said the
captain, who with his nightglass to his eye was steadfastly regarding
the unfortunate ship.
The breeze springing up more freshly, we sailed with increased speed
towards the distressed vessel, the forepart of which was now one sheet
of flame; we saw the angry fiery element enveloping the foremast from
top to bottom as in a garment, now sweep over to the mainmast, the
sails of which were instantly on fire. How far the conflagration had
proceeded inside we could not ascertain; but we were very certain the
crew had left her and taken to the boats, for our continued cannon
shots were answered by muskets fired from the barge and jolly boat.
As we approached carefully so as to avoid danger to ourselves from the
collision with the burning ship, a wild cry arose from the foredeck of
the latter--piercing yet mournful, and while pained and astonished we
looked about to discover what it meant, a spectacle singular as
fearful met our eyes. The ship had a number of animals on board which
were being taken to England for a menagerie. In their haste to leave,
the crew had either forgotten to unloose them, or feared that by
liberating them, they might meet in their rage a worse enemy than even
the fire. In wild and unavailing efforts, they dashed furiously
against the iron bars that inclosed them, and their fearful cries
almost drowned the hissing and crackling sound of the flames. At
length they reached the mizzenmast, and the falling yards loosened a
plank or two of one of the cages--a noble lion with flowing mane and
glaring eyes burst forth and sprung overboard. At the same instant an
elephant had freed himself from the rope which fettered his hind legs.
Flourishing his long proboscis he rushed into the midst of the fire,
but soon driven back by the heat he retreated to a portion of the
foredeck which had not yet ignited, and his death-cry echoed loud and
mournfully over the dusky ocean.
The falling of the mainmast ended the sad catastrophe. The cages of
the other animals had taken fire, and their wild occupants bursting
through the half burned planks, showed their dark forms here and
there on the deck, and maddened with pain, shrieked aloud in agony
as they plunged into the sea. The elephant drew himself up as for a
last effort, and was about to spring overboard, as one bright,
blinding glare shot athwart our eyes, and the next moment, vessel,
animals, all had vanished as if by magic. The explosion that followed
instantly--the sparkling brands that were hurled in all directions,
explained that the flames had reached the magazine and thus blown up
the luckless ship.
By this time, we had come up close to the boats, when a strange sound
of snorting and moaning caused us to turn our eyes once more to the
spot where the ship disappeared. We saw the huge form of the lion
contending with the waves; attracted by the voices of men he was
making every effort to reach the jolly boat. With consternation, the
crew of the frail craft observed the advance of this dangerous
messmate, for if he laid but one of his paws upon the side, overladen
as she was already, she must inevitably sink by the increased weight.
The sailors plied their oars with renewed force--the little boat shot
over the waters like an arrow, and the poor animal was left far
behind. For a long time, panting and toiling, he continued the
pursuit, battling vigorously with wind and waves; but at last his
strokes grew weaker, his breathing shorter, and we saw him finally
yield quietly to the waves that settled over him even as they had
closed above the devoted ship.
The captain now called the sailors, who silent and motionless were
standing about, regarding the singular and impressive spectacle, to
their several duties. The sails were taken in, ropes were thrown to
the boats, and such a number of dark figures clambered up the deck
that we began to be uneasy, and rather doubtful of the character of
the rescued. We soon, however, became convinced that we had to do with
honorable people, and who, singular as they looked to us in their
oriental garb, took all possible pains to show their gratitude for our
timely succor. From the few Europeans on board, we learned that the
ship was from Sumatra bound to London; we therefore landed them on the
Isle of Bourbon whose port we entered two days after.
With the cold climate that we exchanged for a warmer as we again
approached the equator, we lost sight of the countless flocks of
sea-birds that so long had accompanied us. It is something remarkable
that they only inhabit the colder latitudes, for in a warmer climate
it is a rare thing to find them. Sometimes a few weary land-birds that
have strayed from their homeward way, skim over the ocean, or rest
upon the masts; how they maintain themselves on the wing cannot be
conjectured, but certain it is, they have been seen on the trackless
ocean, when no point of land was within hundreds of miles.
