had seen no reason to lose his own. But presently the small irritations
of enforced economy affected his manners, and his habits as well. He
took to absinthe in the morning, and, as he happened to be in France, he
drank at night that brutal brandy they give you there. Not continuously,
it is true. There were days when the man for whom Justine had forsaken
her home returned so completely she could almost fancy he had never
gone. Then, without a word of warning, at the very moment when Faith was
gaining fresh foothold, the tragi-comedy would be renewed; he was off
again, no one knew whither, returning only when the candle had been
utterly consumed.
Such things are enough to affect any woman's patience, and Justine's
became wholly warped. It was unaccountable to her that he could treat
her as he did. She watched the gradual transformation of the perfect
lover into the perfect beast with a species of sorrow--a dual sorrow in
whose component parts there was pity for herself and for him as well.
The idea that he had married her uniquely because of her father's
wealth, that he was impatient to get it, and that when he got it he
would squander all he could on other women, occurred to her only in the
remotest ways, and then only through some expression which, in his
exasperation of the diminishing bank account and the unreasonable time
which it took her father to forgive her, fell from him now and then by
chance. For Mistrial had indeed counted on that forgiveness. He had even
counted on receiving it by cable, of finding that it had preceded and
awaited them before their ship reached France. And when, to use an idiom
of that land, it made itself expected, he was confident that the longer
it delayed the completer it would be. At the utmost he had not dreamed
that the old man would detain it more than a few months; but when
twenty-four went by, and not only no forgiveness was manifest, but
through his own improvidence the funds ran low,--so low, in fact, that
unless forgiveness were presently forthcoming they would be in straits
indeed,--he dictated a letter, penitent and humble, one in which
impending poverty stood out as clearly as though it had been engraved,
and which it revolted her to send. Its inspiration, however, must have
been patent to Mr. Dunellen, for that gentlemen's reply, expressed in
the third person, was to the effect that if his daughter returned to him
he would provide for her as he had always done, but in no other
circumstances could he assist.
Had Justine been anyone but herself she might have acted on the
invitation: but the tone of it hurt her; she was annoyed at having
permitted herself to send the letter Mistrial had dictated, and to which
this was the reply. Her pride was up--all the more surely because she
knew her father had been right; and there is just this about pride--as a
matter of penitence it forces us to suffer those consequences of our own
wrongdoing which through a simple confession it were easy to escape. To
Justine such confession was impossible. She had left her father in the
full certainty that he was wrong, and when she found he was not, death
to her were preferable to any admission of the grievousness of her own
mistake.
At this juncture Mistrial's aunt assisted at the funeral of a sister
spinster, sat in a draught, caught cold in her throat, and, the glottis
enlarging, strangled one night in her bed. By her will the St. Nicholas
Hospital received the bulk of her property. The rest of her estate was
divided among relatives; to her nephew Roland Mistrial--3d no
longer--was bequeathed the princely sum of ten thousand dollars in cash.
At the news of this munificence Roland swore and grit his teeth. Had his
circumstances been different it is probable that the ten thousand,
together with some enduring insult, he would have flung after her to the
eternal purgatory where he prayed she had gone. As it was, the modicity
of the bequest sobered him. Through some impalpable logic he had counted
but little on any inheritance at all; he had indeed hoped vaguely that
she might die and leave him what she had; and it may even be that, had
he learned that her will was in his favor, and had a suitable
opportunity presented itself, in some perfectly decorous manner he would
have hastened his aunt's demise. But concerning her will he had no
information; moreover, during his visit to the States the old lady saw
as little of him as she could help; and when she did see him, in spite
of gout and the ailments of advancing years there was such a rigidity in
her manner that the nephew told himself she might live long enough to
see him hanged. As a consequence he had expected nothing. But when the
news of her death reached him, together with the intelligence that
instead of the competence he might possibly have had he was mentioned
merely to the tune of ten thousand dollars,--this outrage, in
conjunction with Dunellen's relentlessness, sobered him to that degree,
that for a day and a night he gave himself to a debauch of thought. From
this orgy he issued with clearer mind. It may be--though the idea
advanced is one that can only be hazarded--it may be that had his aunt
disposed of her estate in his favor he would there and then have washed
his hands of the job he had undertaken, and left his wife to her own
devices. As it was, he saw that, to keep his head above water, the only
possible plank was one that Mr. Dunellen might send in his reach; and it
was with the knowledge that before the present scanty windfall
disappeared some conquest of Honest Paul's affection should be attempted
that he determined to return to New York. Once there again, who knew
what might happen? Surely, if the preceding year Mr. Dunellen had
strength for violence, to the naked eye he was even then manifestly
infirm. There was no gainsaying the matter--he at least would not live
very long. As to the disposition of his property after death Mistrial
was still assured. Whatever his attitude might be for the present, in
the end he could not wholly disinherit Justine--at least one-half the
property must come to her. On that fact Mistrial would have staked his
life; after all, it was the one hope he had left; and an ultimate hope,
we all know, is the thing we part with last.
Thereupon he recovered himself. He became amiable and considerate--a
change of demeanor which gave Justine a chill. She consented
nevertheless to the return trip, and the day after arriving called at
her father's house. When she got back to the hotel where they had put up
Mistrial was waiting for her. In answer to his questions she told him
that her father was willing to receive her, but her alone. "You must
take your choice," he had said, she repeated--"You must take your
choice."
"And what is that choice?" Mistrial had asked.
"I have made it," she answered, "and by it I will abide."
But at this he had expostulated; and when, seeing at last what he
meant--understanding that he would have her feign a compliance for the
sake of coin which at her father's death she could come back and share
with him--when, divining the infamy of his thought, she refused, he had
struck her in the face.
Because a man is not Chesterfield, it does not follow he is Sykes.
Mistrial had never struck a woman before, and in this initial assault it
is probable that he was actuated less by a desire to punish than by that
force which overmasters him who has ceased to be master of himself. By
instinct he was not a gentleman; for some time past he had not even
taken the trouble to appear one; yet at that moment, dancing in derision
before him, he saw the letters that form the monosyllable Cad. The sense
of abasement he displayed was so immediate and sincere, that Justine,
who, trembling with anger and disgust, stood staring in his face, read
it there and understood. Instead of separating them forever, the blow
reunited their hands. During the week that followed they were nearer to
each other than they had been for months before. The reconciliation was
seemingly complete. Mistrial made himself the lover again, and Justine
permitted herself to be wooed. They left their hotel and found a
flat--a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Central Park; and
there the storm departing placed a rainbow in its stead.
A rainbow, however, is not a fixture, and this one went its way. While
Justine closed her eyes Mistrial's were alert. He had no intention of
suffering her to be disinherited, and though it was well enough to rely
on the courts it was better still not to be forced to do so. Rather than
run an avoidable risk he would have abandoned his wife, and forced her
through that abandonment to return to her father's house, convinced that
afterwards he could win her together with the estate back again to him.
Meanwhile another interview could not in any way jeopardize the chances
to which he clung. On the contrary, it might be highly serviceable. Mr.
Dunellen, he had learned, was much broken; he had given up his practice,
the the world even, everything in fact save perhaps the devil that was
in him, and sat uncompanioned in the desolate and spacious emptiness of
his house. It was only natural that he should wish to coerce his
daughter into obedience; yet now that he saw she was steadfast, her
pride unhumbled still, it was not improbable that he would yield; it was
presumable even that he was then waiting, weak of heart, prepared at her
next advance to welcome and forgive.
Of these things Mistrial made his wife aware, and it was then that the
rainbow departed. His arguments were as revolting as the cynicism they
exhaled. But she made no attempt to combat them. Since she had seen her
father she had felt a sorrow for him that Mistrial's altered demeanor
had given her time to heed. She knew that his attitude was due to her
defiance of his express commands, but she had no reason to suppose that
he had any other objection to her husband than such as his poverty might
have caused or instinctive antipathy might bring. But now, her own
experience aiding, she knew that he had been right; and, as he seemed
feeble and dispassionate, in answer to Mistrial's arguments she tied her
bonnet-strings and went. It was early in the afternoon when she started,
it was night when she returned.
Mistrial had been waiting for her, and when she entered the room in
which he sat he rose eagerly and aided her with her wrap. He was
impatient, she could see; and she was impatient also.
"Why did you not tell me of Guy's sister?" she began, at once.
And as he answered nothing she continued: "Years ago I knew of what she
died; it was only to-day I learned that it was you who murdered her."
"It is a lie."
"Oh, protest. I knew you would."
"From whom is it you heard this thing? Not from your father, I am sure."
As Mistrial spoke he gazed at her inquisitorially with shrewd,
perplexing eyes.
"What does it matter?" she answered. Her head was thrown back, her lips
compressed. "What does it matter since the charge is true?"
"But it is false," he cried; "it is a wanton lie. Your father never
could have stated it."
"Ah, but he did, though; and Guy was there to substantiate what he
said."
"Guy!" As he pronounced her cousin's name there came into his face an
expression which she knew and which she had learned to dread. "Madam,
you mean your lover, I suppose. And it is his ipse dixit you accept in
preference to mine?"
"Mistrial, you know he is not my lover."
"I know he was in love with you, and you with him."
"So he was; so he is, I think; and it was not until this night I saw my
own mistake."
"Voilà!" said Roland, suddenly calmed. He paused a second, and after
eying the polish of his finger-nails, affected to flick a speck of dust
from his sleeve. "Your cousin is mad," he added.
"He is sane as--" and Justine hesitated for a simile.
"His mother, you mean. Were you never aware that insanity is hereditary?
If his sister--presupposing that the accusation which he formulates
against me was originally advanced by her--if his sister--whom, by the
way, I never saw but once--if his sister accused me of complicity, then
she suffered from the hereditary taint as well. If I was guilty of what
your cousin charges, why was I not arrested, tried, and sentenced? But
are you such a dolt you cannot see that Guy is mad--mad not only by
nature, but crazed by jealousy as well. You say you know he loves you.
You have even the candor to admit that you love him! Now ask yourself
what would any impartial hearer deduce from statements such as yours?"
"My father was an impartial hearer, and he--"
"But how is it possible to be so blind? Can you not see that your cousin
has prejudiced him against me? I said, impartial hearer. But let the
matter drop. I tell you the charge is false; believe it or not, as you
prefer. There is, however, just this in the matter: if the charge is
made again, I will have your cousin under arrest. You forget that there
is such a thing as libel still."
Again he paused, and strove to collect himself; there was a design in
the carpet which appeared to interest him very much, but presently he
looked up again.
"Now tell me," he said, "what did your father say?"
"Nothing, save what he said before."
"Nothing?"
"Nothing that you would care to hear." Her eyes roamed from the
neighbourly ceiling over to him and back again. "He said," she added,
"that if I persisted in living with you his money would go to my child,
if I had one; if I had none, then to Guy."
"Were you alone with him when he said this, or was Guy, as you call him,
there?"
"No, I was alone with him; Guy came later."
"And is he aware of this provision?"
For all response Justine shrugged her shoulders.
"Does he know it, I ask you?"
"He does not," she answered. "Father told me that he never would, until
the will was read."
"H'm." And for a moment Mistrial mused. Then presently he smiled--yet
was it a smile?--a look that an hallucinated monk in a medieval abbey
might have seen on that imaginary demon who, flitting by him, the
forefinger outstretched, whispered as he vanished through the wall,
"Thou art damned, dear friend! thou art damned!" "H'm," he repeated;
"and in view of the provisions of your father's will, will you tell me
why is it that you are without a child?"
As he spoke he had arisen, and, smiling still, though now as were he
questioning her in regard to the state of the weather, he looked into
her eyes. She had drawn yet further back into the chair in which she
sat; a deadly sickness overcame her; to her head there mounted the
nausea of each one of his many misdeeds. The memory of the blow of the
week before, one which, despite her seeming forbearance, had not ceased
to rankle, returned to her; and with it, one after another in swift
succession, she rememorated the offences of the past. But soon she too
was on her feet and fronted him. "Why is it I am without a child?" she
repeated. Her voice was low and clear, and between each word she
permitted a little pause to intervene. "Why is it?"
The subtlety of his reproach battening on nerves already overwrought was
exciting her as nothing had done before. "It is you," she cried, "who
are to blame. What have you done with your youth? What have you done
with your manhood? Look at me, Roland Mistrial! If I have borne you no
child it is because monsters never engender." As she spoke, with one
gesture she tore her bodice down. Her breast, palpitant with health and
anger too, heaving at the sheer injustice of his reproach, confronted
and confuted him. "It is there that women have their strength; tell me,
if you can, what have you done with yours?"
And thereat, with a look a princess might give to a lackey who had dared
to question her, she turned and left him where he stood.
The next day he tried to make his peace with her. In this he succeeded,
or flattered himself he had, for subsequently she consented to accompany
him to the play. And as she sat in the stalls it was of these things
that she thought.
II.
The information which Mistrial gleaned concerning the provisions of his
father-in-law's will was bitter in his mouth. On the morrow he gave some
time to thought--he read too a little. The taunt which Justine had flung
at him, bit; and with the idea of dulling the hurt and of ministering
also to his own refreshment, he consulted a book which treated of
certain conditions of the nervous system, and a work on medical
jurisprudence as well. But literature of that kind is notoriously
unsatisfactory. It may suggest, yet the questions which it prompts
remain unanswered. Roland put the volumes down: they were productions of
genius, no doubt, but to him they were nothing more. From the pursuit of
exact knowledge he turned and looked out into the street.
The hour then was midway in one of those green afternoons which we are
apt to fancy the adjunct of lands we never see, and as he looked he saw
astride a bay hunter a man ambling cautiously over the stones. From the
roofs opposite a breath of lilacs came, and a breeze that was neither
cool nor warm loitered on its way from the river beyond. Mistrial let
the breeze, the fragrance, the fulfilment of spring, pass unnoticed. The
bay hunter had caught his eye: it seemed to him that an argument with an
imperative horse was just the thing he needed most, and a little later
he secured a cob from a stable on the street above.
The cob was docile enough, affecting once only to regard a sewer-grating
in the bridle-path as a strange, unhallowed thing which it was needful
to avoid. But the initial shy was the last. The spur gave him such a nip
that during the remainder of the ride, whatever distasteful object he
may have encountered, he gave no outward evidence of abhorrence. He had
an easy canter, a long and swinging trot; and now on one, now on the
other, they passed through and out of the Park, and on beyond the
brand-new edifices that line Seventh Avenue, to that scantier outlying
district where the Harlem begins and the city ends. And here as he was
about to turn he noticed a gig such as physicians affect. In it was a
negro driving, and at his side sat Justine's cousin, Guy.
"H'm!" mused Mistrial; "judging by the locality, his patients must be
the last people in the city." At the moment the feebleness of the jest
pleasured him; then simultaneously the unforgotten hatred crackled in
his breast. At each one of the important epochs of his life that man had
stood in his way. It was he that had forced him from college at the
moment when honors were within his reach. It was he that had kept him
from his father's side at the time when he might have saved his father's
estate. It was he that had come between Dunellen and himself at the
hour when he could have persuaded Justine's father to give him Justine's
hand. It was he that had forced him to elope with her. It was because of
him that he was now enjoying the small miseries of the shabby genteel.
It was he, unless Providence now intervened, who would inherit the
wealth he had toiled to make his own. And it was he who the day before
had again crossed and halted in his path.
These premises, however colored, were logical enough in this--the
natural deduction sprang out and greeted the eye. And, as they flashed
before him, Mistrial saw himself rinsing out each one in blood squeezed
from Thorold's throat. In the fury which suddenly beset him he could
have found the strength, the courage it may be, to have torn him from
the gig in which he sat, to have trampled on him with horse's hoofs,
bent over and beat him as he writhed on the ground, and exulted and
jubilated in the doing of it. Then indeed, though he swung for it, the
ultimate victory would be his. If he stamped Thorold out of existence,
though his own went with it, he would not have suffered wholly in vain;
in facing the gallows he would have the joy of knowing that even were he
prevented from bathing in the Dunellen millions, so was Thorold too.
But when he looked out from himself his enemy had disappeared. A woman
in an open landau passed and bowed. Mechanically Mistrial raised his
hat. To every intent and purpose he was self-possessed--occupied, if at
all, but with those threads of fancy that float in and out the mind. As
he raised his hat, he smiled; the woman might have thought herself the
one it gave him the greatest pleasure to salute. Her carriage had not
advanced the jump of a cat before he had forgotten that she lived. But
no one can turn his brain into a stage, create for it, and feel a drama
such as he had without some outward manifestation, be it merely a
strangled oath. On the horse he rode his knees had tightened, he gave a
dig with the spur, and went careering down the street. In that part of
New York you are at liberty to cover a mile in two minutes. Roland
covered thirty squares at breakneck speed.
Presently he drew the animal in and suffered him to walk. During the run
he had had no time to think; he had been occupied only in keeping the
horse he rode out of the way of vehicles, and in preventing that
possible cropper which comes when we expect it least. But as the cob
began to walk, the present returned to him with a rush. About the
animal's neck the fretting of the reins had produced a lather; the
breeze had died away. Mistrial felt overheated too, and he drew out a
handkerchief and wiped his face. Even while he drew it from his pocket
an idea came to him, fluttered for a second as ideas will, and before he
got the handkerchief back it had gone, leaving him just a trifled
dazed. But in a moment he called to it, and at his bidding it returned.
It was minute, barely fledged as yet; but as the horse jogged on, little
by little it expanded, and to such an extent that before he reached the
park its pinions stretched from earth to sky. Whoso is visited with
inspirations knows with what diabolical swiftness they can enlarge and
grow. When Mistrial put the horse back in the stable the idea which at
first he had but dimly intercepted possessed him utterly. It succeeded
even in detaining his step: he walked up the street instead of down; at
a crossing he hesitated; night had come, and as he loitered there,
suddenly the whole avenue was bright as day. The vengeance which not an
hour before he could have wreaked on Thorold seemed now remote and
paltry too. There need be no shedding of blood, no scandal, no newspaper
notoriety, no police, no coroner to sit upon a corpse, no jury to bring
a verdict in. There need be nothing of this: a revenge of that order
was in bad taste, ill-judged as well. To make a man really suffer,
sudden death was as a balm in comparison to some subtle torment that
should gnaw at the springs of life, retreat a moment, and then returning
make them ache again, and still again, forever his whole life through.
The French woman is not so ill-advised when she pitches a cup of vitriol
in her betrayer's face. In Spain, in Italy even, they stab; the deed is
done; the culprit has had no chance to experience anger, pain even, or
remorse. He is dead. The curtain falls. But a revenge that blasts and
corrodes, one that leaves the victim living, sound in body and in limb,
and yet consumed by an inextinguishable regret, burning with tortures
from which he can never escape--a thing like that is the work, not of an
apprentice, but of a master in crime. Yet when the victim receives that
cup of vitriol, not from another's hands, but from his own; when he has
been lured into devastating his own self;--it is no longer a question of
either apprentice or of master: it is the artist that has been at work.
To gain the Dunellen millions was to Mistrial a matter of paramount
importance; but to gain them through the instrumentality of the man whom
he hated as no one ever hates to-day, particularly when that man was the
one to whom those millions were provisionally bequeathed, when he was
one whom Mistrial--justly or unjustly, it matters not--fancied and
believed was plotting for them; to gain them, not only through him, but
through his unwitting, unintentional agency, through an act which, so
soon as he learned its purport, all his life through he would regret and
curse;--no, that were indeed a revenge and a reparation too. And as he
thought of it there entered his eyes a look perplexing and
enervating--that look which demons share with sphinxes and the damned.
III.
During the two years which Mistrial had passed in the society of his
wife, opportunities of studying her there had been in plenty. He knew
her to be docile and headstrong; weak, if at all, but with that weakness
that comes of lassitude; violent when provoked, prone to forgive,
sensitive, impulsive, yet obdurate; in brief, the type of woman that may
be entreated, but never coerced. He knew her faults so well he could
have enumerated them one after the other on his finger-tips: her
qualities, however, had impressed him less; it may be that he had
accepted them as a matter of course. He was aware that she was honest;
he had noticed that she was capable of much self-sacrifice; of other
characteristics he had given little heed. It goes without the telling,
that in regard to what is known as jealousy he had not suffered even an
evanescent disquietude. And that night and during the morning that
followed, as he occupied himself in nursing the idea which had visited
him on horseback, that particular fact occurred to him more than once.
But one does not need to be a conspirator to understand that the
steadiest virtue is as susceptible of vice as iron is of rust.
Justine had announced that her cousin was still in love with her; she
had announced with equal distinctness that she recognized her own
mistake; while for himself he was convinced that she no longer cared. To
these things he added certain deductions which his experience of men and
women permitted him to draw; and had the result they presented been made
to order, it could not have fitted more perfectly into the scheme which
he had devised.
It was then high noon. Through the window came the irresistible breath
of a rose in bloom. As he left the house it surrounded him in the
street. He smiled a greeting at it. "I have spring in my favor," he
mused, and presently boarded a car.
The principles of successful enterprise may be summarized as consisting
of a minute regard for details, and an apparent absence of zeal.
Mistrial's many mistakes had taught him the one and trained him in the
other. When the car he had taken reached the Gilsey House, he alighted,
hailed a four-wheeler, stationed it in such a manner that it commanded a
view of the adjacent street, coached the driver in regard to a signal he
might give, entered the cab, lit a cigarette, and prepared to wait.
In that neighborhood there are four or five basement houses of the style
that is affectioned by milliners, dentists, and physicians. One of these
particularly claimed Mistrial's attention. He saw a woman in gray enter
it, and almost simultaneously a woman come out; then a man leading a
child went in; and in a little while the first woman reappeared.
Mistrial glanced at his watch; it lacked a minute of one. "He has a
larger practice than I thought," he reflected. The woman in gray had now
nearly reached the cab in which he sat, and from sheer force of habit he
was preparing to scrutinize her as she passed, when the door of the
house reopened and Thorold appeared on the step. He looked up the
street, then down. He had his hat on, and his every-day air. In a second
Mistrial had drawn the curtain and was peering through the opening at
the side. He saw Thorold leave the step and turn toward Fifth Avenue; he
signalled to the driver, and the cab moved on.
At the corner Thorold turned again, the cab at his heels, and Mistrial
saw that the physician was moving in the direction of Madison Square. It
occurred to him that Thorold might be going to Mr. Dunellen's, and on
the block below, as the latter crossed the asphalt, he made sure of it.
But opposite the Brunswick the cab stopped; Thorold was entering the
restaurant.
Cold chicken looks attractive in print. A minute or two later, as
Mistrial examined the bill of fare, he ordered some for himself; he
ordered also a Demidorf salad,--a compound of artichokes' hearts and
truffles, familiarly known as Half-Mourning,--and until the waiter
returned hid himself behind a paper. Thorold meanwhile, who was seated
at an adjoining table, must have ordered something which required longer
preparation, for Mistrial finished the salad before the physician was
served. But Mistrial was in no hurry; he had a pint of claret brought
him, and sipped it leisurely. Now and then he glanced over at Thorold,
and twice he caught his eye. At last Thorold called for his bill.
Mistrial paid his own, and presently followed him out into the street.
When both reached the sidewalk, Mistrial, who was a trifle in the rear,
touched him on the arm.
"Thorold," he said; and the physician turned, but there was nothing
engaging in his attitude: he held his head to one side, about his lips
was a compression, a contraction in his eyes; one arm was pendent, the
other pressed to his waistcoat, and the shoulder of that arm was
slightly raised. He looked querulous and annoyed--a trifle startled,
too.
"Thorold," Mistrial repeated, "give me a moment, will you?"
The physician raised the arm that he had pressed against his waistcoat,
and, with four fingers straightened and the fifth askew, stroked an
imaginary whisker.
"It is about Justine," Mistrial continued. "She is out of sorts; I want
you to see her."
"Ah!" And Thorold looked down and away.
"Yes, I had intended to speak to Dr. McMasters; but when by the merest
chance I saw you in there I told myself that, whatever our differences
might be, there was no one who would understand the case more readily
than you."
As Mistrial spoke he imitated the discretion of his enemy; he looked
down and away. The next moment, however, both were gazing into each
other's face.
"H'm." Thorold, as he stared, seemed to muse. "I saw her the other day,"
he said, at last; "she looked well enough then."
"But can't a person look well and yet be out of sorts?"
Mistrial was becoming angry, and he showed it. It was evident, however,
that his irritation was caused less by the man to whom he spoke than by
the physician whom he was seeking to consult. This Thorold seemed to
grasp, for he answered perplexedly:
"After what has happened I don't see very well how I can go to your
house."
"Look here, Thorold: the past is over and done with--ill done, you will
say, and I admit it. Be that as it may, it has gone. At the same time
there is no reason why any shadow of it should fall on Justine. She is
really in need of some one's advice. Can you not give it to her?"
"Certainly," Thorold answered, "I can do that;" and he looked very
sturdy as he said it. "Only--"
"Only what? If you can't go as a friend, at least you might go as a
physician."
Thorold's hand had slid from his cheek to his chin, and he nibbled
reflectively at a finger-nail.
"Very good," he said; "I will go to her. Is she to be at home this
afternoon?"
"The evening would be better, I think. Unless, of course--" and Mistrial
made a gesture as though to imply that, if Thorold's evening were
engaged, a visit in the afternoon might be attempted.
But the suggestion presumably was acceptable. Thorold drew out a
note-book, at which he glanced.
"And I say," Mistrial continued, "I wish--you see, it is a delicate
matter; Justine is very sensitive--I wish you wouldn't say you met me.
Just act as though--"
"Give yourself no uneasiness, sir." Thorold had replaced the note-book
and looked up again in Mistrial's face. "I never mention your name." And
thereat, with a toss of the head, he dodged an omnibus and crossed the
street.
For a moment Mistrial gazed after him, then he turned, and presently he
was ordering a glass of brandy at the Brunswick bar.
It was late that night when he reached his home. During the days that
followed he had no fixed hours at all. Several times he entered the
apartment with the smallest amount of noise that was possible, and
listened at the sitting-room door. At last he must have heard something
that pleased him, for as he sought his own room he smiled. "Maintenant,
mon cher, je te tiens."
The next day he surprised Justine by informing her that he intended to
pay a visit to a relative. He was gone a week.
IV.
That night the stars, dim and distant, were scattered like specks of
frost on some wide, blue window-pane. At intervals a shiver of wheels
crunching the resistant snow stirred the lethargy of the street, and at
times a rumble accentuated by the chill of winter mounted gradually, and
passed on in diminishing vibrations. Within, a single light, burning
scantily, diffused through the room the drowsiness of a spell. In the
bed was Justine, her eyes dilated, her face attenuated and pinched. One
hand that lay on the coverlid was clinched so tightly that the nails
must have entered the flesh. Presently she moaned, and a trim little
woman issued from a corner with the noiseless wariness of a rat. As she
passed before the night-light, the silhouette of a giantess, fabulously
obese, jumped out and vanished from the wall. For a moment she
scrutinized her charge, burrowing into her, as it were, with shrewd yet
kindly eyes. Again a moan escaped the sufferer, the wail of one whose
agony is lancinating--one that ascended in crescendos and terminated in
a cry of such utter helplessness, and therewith of such insistent pain,
that the nurse caught the hand that lay on the coverlid, and unlocking
the fingers stroked and held it in her own. "There, dear heart--there, I
know."
Ah, yes, she knew very well. She had not passed ten years of her
existence tending women in travail for the fun of it. And as she took
Justine's hand and stroked it, she knew that in a little while the
agony, acuter still, would lower her charge into that vestibule of death
where Life appears. Whether or not Justine was to cross that silent
threshold, whether happily she would find it barred, whether it would
greet and keep her and hold her there, whether indeed it would let the
child go free, an hour would tell, or two at most.
But there were preparations to be made. The nurse left the bed and moved
out into the hall. In a room near by, Mistrial, occupied with some
advertisements in the Post, sat companioned by a physician who was
reading a book which he had written himself. At the footfall of the
nurse the latter left the room. Presently he returned. "Everything is
going nicely," he announced, and placidly resumed his seat.
It was the fourth time in two hours that he had made that same remark.
Mistrial said nothing. He was gazing through the paper he held at the
wall opposite, and out of it into the future beyond.
Since that day, the previous spring, on which he had set out to visit a
relative, many things had happened, yet but few that were of importance
to him. On his return from the trip, during one fleeting second, for the
first time since he had known Justine, it seemed to him that she avoided
his eyes. To this, in other circumstances, he would have given no
thought whatever; as matters were, it made him feel that his excursion
should not be regarded as time ill-spent. Whether it had been wholly
serviceable to his project, he could not at the time decide. He waited,
however, very patiently, but he seldom waited within the apartment
walls. At that period he developed a curious facility for renewing
relations with former friends. Once he took a run to Chicago with an
Englishman he had known in Japan; and once, with the brother of a lady
who had married into the Baxter branch of the house of Mistrial, he went
on a fishing trip to Canada. These people he did not bring to call on
his wife. He seemed to act as though solitude were grateful to her. Save
Mrs. Metuchen, Thorold at that time was her only visitor, and the visits
of that gentleman Mistrial encouraged in every way that he could devise.
Through meetings that, parenthetically, were more frequent on the stair
or in the hallway than anywhere else, the two men, through sheer force
of circumstances, dropped into an exchange of salutations--remarks about
the weather, reciprocal inquiries on the subject of each other's health,
which, wholly formal on Thorold's part, were from Mistrial always civil
and aptly put. After all, was he not the host? and was it not for him to
show particular courtesy to anyone whom his wife received?
To her, meanwhile, his attitude was little short of perfection itself.
He was considerate, foresighted, and unobtrusive--a course of conduct
which frightened her a little. Two or three months after he had struck
her in the face she made--à propos of nothing at all--an announcement
which brought a trace of color to her cheeks.
The following afternoon he happened to be entering the house as Dr.
Thorold was leaving it. Instead of greeting him in the nice and amiable
fashion which he had adopted, and which Thorold had ended by accepting
as a matter of course, he halted and looked at the physician through
half-closed eyes. Thorold nodded, cavalierly enough it is true, and was
about to pass on; but this Mistrial prevented. He planted himself
squarely in his way, and stuck his hands in his pockets.
"Mrs. Mistrial has no further need of you," he said. "Send your bill to
me."
He spoke from the tips of his lips, with the air and manner of one
dismissing a lackey. At the moment nothing pertinent could have occurred
to Thorold. He stared at Mistrial, dumbly perplexed, and plucked at his
cuff. Mistrial nodded as who should say, "Put that in your pipe;" and
before Thorold recovered his self-possession he had passed up the stairs
and on and out of sight.
It was then that season in which July has come and is going. The city
was hot; torrid at noonday, sultry and enervating at night. Fifth Avenue
and the adjacent precincts were empty. Each one of the brown-stone
houses had a Leah-like air of desertion. The neighborhood of Madison
and of Union Squares was peopled by men with large eyes and small feet,
by women so deftly painted that, like Correggio, they could have
exclaimed, "Anch' io son pittore." In brief, the Southern invasion had
begun, and New York had ceased to be habitable.
But Newport has charms of its own; and to that lovely city by the water
Mistrial induced his wife; and there, until summer had departed, and
autumn too, they rested and waited. During those months he was careful
of her: so pleasantly so, so studious of what she did and of what she
ate, that for the first time since the honeymoon she might have, had she
tried, felt at ease with him again. But there were things that prevented
this--faith destroyed and the regret of it. Oh, indeed she had regrets
in plenty; some even for her father; and, unknown to Mistrial, once or
twice she wrote him such letters as a daughter may write. She had never
been in sympathy with him; as a child he had coerced her needlessly;
when she was older he had preached; later, divining that lack of
sympathy, he had striven through kindlier ways to counteract it. But he
had failed; and Justine, aiding in the endeavor, had failed as well.
When father and child do not stand hand-in-hand a fibre is wanting that
should be there.
In December Mistrial and his wife returned to town. A date was
approaching, and there was the layette to be prepared. Hour after hour
Justine's fingers sped. The apartment became a magazine of
swaddling-clothes. One costume in particular, a worsted sack that was
not much larger than a coachman's glove, duplicated and repeated itself
in varying and tender hues. Occasionally Mistrial would pick one up and
examine it furtively. To his vagabond fancy it suggested a bag in which
gold would be.
But now the hour was reached. And as Mistrial sat staring into the
future, the goal to which he had striven kept looming nearer and ever
nearer yet. Only the day before he had learned that Dunellen was
failing. And what a luxury it would be to him when the old man died and
the will was read! Such a luxury did it appear, that unconsciously he
manifested his contentment by that sound the glutton makes at the
mention of delicious food.
His companion--the physician--turned and nodded. "I know what you are
thinking about," he announced; and with the rapt expression of a seer,
half to Mistrial, half to the ceiling, "It is always the case," he
continued; "I never knew a father yet that did not wonder what the child
would be; and the mothers, oh! the mothers! Some of them know all about
it beforehand: they want a girl, and a girl it will be; or they want a
boy, and a boy they are to have. I remember one dear, good soul who was
so positive she was to have a boy that she had all the linen marked with
the name she had chosen for him. H'm. It turned out to be twins--both
girls. And I remember--"
But Mistrial had ceased to listen. He was off again discounting the
inheritance in advance--discounting, too, the diabolism of his revenge.
The latter, indeed, was unique, and withal so grateful, that now the
consummation was at hand it fluttered his pulse like wine. He had
ravened when first he learned the tenour of the will, and his soul had
been bitter; but no sooner had this thing occurred to him than it
resolved itself into a delight. To his disordered fancy its provisions
held both vitriol and opopanax--the one for Thorold, the other for
himself.
The doctor meanwhile was running on as doctors do. "Yes," Mistrial heard
him say, "she was most unhappy; no woman likes a rival, and when that
rival is her own maid, matters are not improved. For my part, the moment
I saw how delicate she was, I thought, though I didn't dare to say so, I
thought her husband had acted with great forethought. The maid was
strong as an ox, and in putting her in the same condition as his wife he
had simply and solely supplied her with a wet-nurse. But then, at this
time particularly, women are so unreasonable. Not your good lady--a
sweeter disposition--"
Whatever encomium he intended to make remained unfinished. From the room
beyond a cry filtered; he turned hastily and disappeared. The cry
subsided; but presently, as though in the interval the sufferer had
found new strength or new torture, it rose more stridently than before.
And as the rumor of it augmented and increased, a phrase of the
physician's returned to Mistrial. "Everything is going very nicely," he
told himself, and began to pace the floor.
A fraction of an hour passed, a second, and a third. The cry now had
changed singularly; it had lost its penetrating volume, it had sunk into
the rasping moan of one dreaming in a fever. Suddenly that ceased, the
silence was complete, and Mistrial, a trifle puzzled, moved out into the
hall. There he caught again the murmur of her voice. This time she was
talking very rapidly, in a continuous flow of words. From where he stood
Mistrial could not hear what she was saying, and he groped on tip-toe
down the hall. As he reached the door of the room in which she was, the
sweet and heavy odor of chloroform came out and met him there; but still
the flow of words continued uninterruptedly, one after the other, with
the incoherence of a nightmare monologuing in a corpse. Then, without
transition, in the very middle of a word, a cry of the supremest agony
rang out, drowning another, which was but a vague complaint.
"It's a boy," the nurse exclaimed.
And Justine through a rift of consciousness caught and detained the
speech. "So much the better," she moaned; "he will never give birth."
V.
"We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry
nothing out. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: blessed be the
name of the Lord."
To this, Mistrial, garbed in black, responded discreetly, "Amen."
He was standing opposite the bier. At his side was Justine. Before him
Dr. Gonfallon, rector of the Church of Gethsemane,--of which the
deceased had been warden,--was conducting the funeral rites. To the left
was Thorold. Throughout the length and breadth of the drawing-room other
people stood--a sprinkling of remote connections, former constituents,
members of the bar and of the church, a few politicians; these, together
with a handful of the helpless to whom the dead statesman had been
trustee, counsellor too, and guide, had assembled there in honor of his
memory. At the door, sharpening a pencil, was a representative of the
Associated Press.
For the past few days obituaries of the Hon. Paul Dunellen varied from
six inches to a column in length. One journal alone had been
circumspect. No mention of the deceased had appeared in its issues. But
in politics that journal had differed with him--a fact which accounted
sufficiently for its silence. In the others, however, through
biographies more or less exact, fitting tributes had been paid. The
World gave his picture.
Yet now, as Dr. Gonfallon, in words well calculated to impress, dwelt on
the virtues of him that had gone, the tributes of the newspapers seemed
perfunctory and trite. Decorously, as was his custom, he began with a
platitude. Death, that is terrible to the sinner, radiant to the
Christian, imposing to all, was here, he declared, but the dusk of a
beautiful day which in departing disclosed cohorts of the Eternal
beckoning from their glorious realm. Yet soon he warmed to his work, and
eulogies of the deceased fell from him in sonorous periods, round and
empty. He spoke of the nobility of his character, the loyalty he
displayed, not to friends alone, but to foes as well. He spoke of that
integrity in every walk of life which had won for him the title of
Honest Paul--a title an emperor might crave and get not. He spoke too of
the wealth he had acquired, and drew a moral from the unostentatiousness
of his charities, the simplicity of his ways. He dwelt at length on the
fact that, however multiple the duties of his station had been, his duty
to his Maker was ever first. Then, after a momentary digression, in
which he stated how great was the loss of such as he, he alluded to the
daughter he had left, to that daughter's husband, sorely afflicted
himself, yet, with a manliness worthy of his historic name, comforting
the orphan who needed all his comfort now; and immediately from these
things he lured another moral--an appeal to fortitude and courage; and
winding up with the customary exordium, asked of Death where was its
sting.
Where was it indeed? A day or two later Mistrial found time to think of
that question and of other matters as well. It was then six weeks since
the birth of the child, and Justine, fairer than ever before, was
ministering to it in the adjacent room. Now and again he caught the
shrill vociferation of its vague complaints. It was a feeble infant,
lacking in vitality, distressingly hideous; but it lived, and though it
died the next minute, its life had sufficed.
Already the will had been read--a terse document, and to the point;
precisely such an one as you would have expected a jurist to make. By it
the testator devised his property, real and personal, of whatever
nature, kind, and description he died seized, to his former partners in
trust for the eldest child of his daughter Justine, to its heirs,
executors, and assigns forever. In the event of his daughter's demise
without issue, then over, to Guy Thorold, M.D.
No, the sting concerning which Dr. Gonfallon had inquired was to
Mistrial undiscerned. There was indeed a prick of it in the knowledge
that if the old man had lasted much longer it might have been tough work
to settle the bills; but that was gone now: Honest Paul paid all his
debts, and he had not shirked at Nature's due. He was safely and
securely dead, six feet under ground at that, and his millions were
absolute in his grandson. Yes, absolute. At the thought of it Mistrial
laughed. The goal to which for years he had striven was touched and
exceeded. He had thrown the vitriol, the opopanax was his.
We all of us pretend to forgive, to overlook, to condone, we pretend
even to sympathize with, our enemy. Nay, in refraining from an act that
could injure him who has injured us, we are quite apt to consider
ourselves the superior of our foe, and not a little inclined to rise to
the heights of self-laudatory quotation too. It is an antique virtue,
that of forbearance; it is Biblical, nobly Arthurian, and chivalresque.
But when we smile at an injury, it is for policy's sake--because we
fear, rarely because we truly forgive, more rarely yet because of
indifference. Our magnanimity is cowardice. It takes a brave man to
wreak a brave revenge.
Mistrial made few pretensions to the virtues which you and I possess. He
was relentless as a Sioux, and he was treacherous as the savage is; he
had no taste for fair and open fight. However his blood had boiled at
the tableau of imaginary wrongs, however fitting the opportunity might
have been on the afternoon when he met his enemy at the city's fringe,
he had the desire but not the courage to annihilate him there. But
later, when the possibility which he had intercepted came, he fêted, he
coaxed it; and now that the hour of triumph had rung, his heart was
glad. In the disordered closets of his brain he saw Thorold ravening at
the trap into which he had fallen, and into which, in falling, he had
lost the wherewithal to call the world his own. Ten million in exchange
for an embrace! Verily, mused Mistrial, he will account it exceeding
dear. And at the thought of what Thorold's frenzy must be, at the
picture which he drew of him cursing his own imprudence and telling
himself again and again, until the repetition turned into mania, that
that imprudence could never be undone, he exulted and laughed aloud.
Money, said Vespasian, has no odor. To our acuter nostrils it has: so
nauseating even can it be, that we would rather be flung in the
Potter's-field than catch the faintest whiff. But Mistrial, for all the
sensitiveness that ancestry is supposed to bring, must have agreed with
the Roman. To him it was the woof of every hope; whatever its
provenance, it was an Open Sesame to the paradise of the ideal. He
would have drawn it with his teeth from a dung-heap, only he would have
done it at night.
There are men that can steal a fortune, yet can never cheat at cards,
and Mistrial was one of their race; he could not openly dishonor himself
in petty ways. Many a scoundrel has a pride of his own. It is both easy
and difficult to compare a bandit to a sneak-thief, Napoleon to
Cartouche. Mistrial had nothing of the Napoleon about him, and he was
lacking even in the strength which Cartouche possessed. But among carpet
highwaymen commend me to his peer.
And now, as he thought of the will, Gonfallon's query recurred to him,
and he asked himself where was that sting? Not in the present,
surely--for that from a bitterness had changed to a delight; and as for
the future, each instant of it was sentient with invocations, fulfilled
to the tips with the surprises of dream. The day he had claimed but a
share in; the morrow was wholly his. He could have a dwelling in
Mayfair and a marble palace on the Mediterranean Sea. For a scrap of
paper he would never miss there was a haunt of ghosts dozing on the
Grand Canal. In spring, when Paris is at her headiest, there, near that
Triumphal Arch which overlooks the Elysian Fields, stood, entre cour et
jardin, an hotel which he already viewed as his own. And when he
wearied of the Old World, there was the larger and fuller life of the
New. There was Peru, there was Mexico and Ecuador; and in those Italys
of the Occident were girls whose lips said, Drink me; whose eyes were of
chrysoberyl and of jade. Ah, oui, les femmes; tant que le monde
tournera il n'y aura que ça. With blithe anticipation he hummed the air
and snapped his fingers as Capoul was wont to do. At last he saw himself
the Roland Mistrial that should have been, prodigal of gold, sultanesque
of manner, fêted, courted, welcomed, past-master in the lore and art of
love.
There were worlds still to be conquered; and before his hair grizzled
and the furrows came he felt conscious of the possession of a charm that
should make those worlds his own. He had waited indeed; he had toiled
and manoeuvred; but now the great clock we call Opportunity had
struck. Let him but ask, and it would be given. Wishes were spaniels; he
had but a finger to raise, and they fawned at his feet. And then, as
those vistas of which we have all caught a glimpse rose in melting
splendor and swooned again through sheer excesses of their own delights,
suddenly he bethought him of the multiples of one and of two.
Heretofore he had taken it for granted that if Dunellen left the estate
to his grandchild the income accruing therefrom would, until the
grandchild came of age, pass through his own paternal hands. And in
taking this for granted he had recalled the fable that deals not of the
prodigal son, but rather of the prodigal father. That income should
spin. By a simple mathematical process than with which no one was more
familiar, he calculated that, at five per cent, ten million would
represent a rent-roll of five hundred thousand per annum. Of that amount
a fraction would suffice to Justine and to her son. The rest--well, the
rest he knew of what uses he could put it to.
But now, suddenly, with that abruptness with which disaster looms, there
came to him a doubt. He rememorated the provisions of the will, and in
them he discerned unprompted some tenet of law or of custom which,
during the legal infancy of the child, might inhibit the trustees from
paying over any larger amount than was needful for its maintenance and
support. Then at once the fabric of his dreams dissolved. The vitriol
had corroded, but the savor of the opopanax had gone. For a little while
he tormented his mustache and nibbled feverishly at a finger-nail. To
see one's self the dupe of one's own devices is never a pleasant sight.
Again he interrogated what smattering of law he possessed; but the
closer he looked, the clearer it seemed to be that in its entirety the
income of the estate could not pass through his hands. From five hundred
thousand the trustees might in their judgment diminish it to some such
pocket-money as ten; they could even reduce it to five; and, barring an
action, he might be unable to persuade them that the sum was absurd. The
idea, nude and revolting as Truth ever is, raised him to an unaccustomed
height of rage; he would not be balked, he declared to himself; he would
have that money or--
Or what? The contingency which he then interviewed, one which issued
unsummoned from some cavern in his mind, little by little assumed a
definite shape. He needed no knowledge of the law to tell him that he
was that brat's heir. Did it die at that very moment the estate became
absolute in him. There would be no trustees then to dole the income out.
The ten millions would be his own. As for the trustees, they could
deduct their commission and retire with it to New Jersey--to hell if it
pleased them more. But the estate would be his. That there was no
gainsaying. Meanwhile, there was the brat. He was a feeble child; yet
such, Mistrial understood, had Methusaleh been. He might live forever,
or die on the morrow. And why not that night?
As this query came to him, he eyed its advance. It was yet some distance
away, but as it approached he considered it from every side. And of
sides, parenthetically, it had many. And still it advanced: when it
started, its movements were so slow they had been hardly perceptible;
nevertheless it had made some progress; then surer on its feet it tried
to run; it succeeded in the effort; at each step it grew sturdier,
swifter in speed; and now that it reached him it was with such a rush
that he was overpowered by its force.
He rose from his seat. For a moment he hesitated. To his forehead and
about his ears a moisture had come. He drew out a handkerchief; it was
of silk, he noticed--one that he brought from France. Absently he drew
it across his face; its texture had detained his thought. Then on
tip-toe he moved out into the corridor and peered into the room at the
end of the hall.
It was dimly lighted, but soon he accustomed himself to the shadows and
fumbled them with his eyes. On the bed Justine lay; sleep had overtaken
her; her head was aslant on the pillow, her lips half closed; the
fingers of one hand cushioned her neck; the other hand, outstretched,
rested on the edge of a cradle. She had been rocking it, perhaps. From
the floor above sank the sauntering tremolo of a flute, very sweet in
the distance, muffled by the ceiling and wholly subdued. In the street a
dray was passing, belated and clamorous on the cobblestones. But now, as
Mistrial ventured in, these things must have lulled Justine into yet
deeper sleep; her breath came and went with the semibreves a leaf uses
when it whispers to the night; and as he moved nearer and bent over her
the whiteness of her breast rose and fell in unison with that breath.
Yes, surely she slept, but it was with that wary sleep that dogs and
mothers share. A movement of that child's and she might awake, alert at
once, her senses wholly recovered, her mind undazed.
Mistrial, assured of her slumber, turned from the bed to the cradle, and
for a minute, two perhaps, he stood, the eyebrows raised, the
handkerchief pendent in his hand, contemplating the occupant. And it was
this bundle of flesh and blood, this lobster-hued animal, that lacked
the intelligence a sightless kitten has,--it was this that should debar
him! Allons donc!
His face had grown livid, and his hand shook just a little; not with
fear, however, though if it were it must have been the temerity of his
own courage that frightened him. At the handkerchief which he held he
glanced again; one twist of it round that infant's throat, a minute in
which to hold it taut, and it would be back in his pocket, leaving
strangulation and death behind, yet not a mark to tell the tale. One
minute only he needed, two at most; he bent nearer, and as he bent he
looked over at his wife; but still she slept, her breath coming and
going with the same regular cadence as before, the whiteness of her
breast still heaving; then very gently, with fingers that were nervously
assured, he ran the handkerchief under the infant's neck: but however
deftly he had done it, the chill of the silk must have troubled the
child; its under lip quivered, then both compressed, the flesh about the
cheek-bones furrowed, the mouth relaxed, and from it issued the whimper
of unconscious plaint. The call may have stirred the mother in some
dream, for a smile hovered in her features; yet immediately her eyes
opened, she half rose, her hand fell to her side, and, reaching out,
she caught and held the infant to her.
"My darling," she murmured; and as the child, soothed already, drowsed
back again into slumber, she turned to where her husband stood. "What is
it?"
From above, the tremolo of the flute still descended; but the dray long
since had passed, and the street now was quiet.
"What is it?" she repeated. She seemed more surprised than pleased to
see him there.
Mistrial, balked in the attempt, had straightened himself; he looked
annoyed and restless.
"Nothing," he answered, and thrust the handkerchief back in his pocket,
as a bandit sheathes his dirk. "Nothing. I heard that bastard bawling,
and I came in to make him stop."
"Bastard? Is it in that way you speak of your child?"
As she said this she made no visible movement; yet something in her
attitude, the manner in which she held herself, seemed to bid him hold
his peace, and this he noticed, and in noticing resented. "There," he
muttered; "drop the Grand Duchess, will you? The brat is Thorold's; you
know it, and so do I."
For a little space she stared as though uncertain she had heard aright,
but the speech must have re-echoed in her ears; she had been sitting up,
yet now as the echo reached her she drooped on the pillow and let her
head fall back. In her arms the child still drowsed. And presently a
tear rolled down her face, then another.
"Roland Mistrial, you have broken my heart at last."
That was all; the ultimate words even were scarcely audible; but the
tears continued--the first succeeded by others, unstanched and
undetained. Grief had claimed her as its own. She made no effort to
rebel; she lay as though an agony had come from which no surcease can
be. And as one tear after the other passed down and seared her face
there was a silence so deathly, so tangible, and so convincing, that he
needed no further sign from her to tell him that the charge was false.
In all his intercourse with her, whatever cause of complaint there had
been, never had he seen her weep before; and now at this unawaited
evidence of the injustice and ignominy of his reproach he wished she
would be defiant again, that he might argue and confute. But no word
came from her--barely a sob; nothing, in fact, save these tears, which
he had never seen before. And while he stood there, visited by the
perplexity of him to whom the unawaited comes, unconsciously he went
back to the wooing of her: he saw her clear eyes lifted in confidence to
his own, he heard again the sweet confession of her love, he recalled
the marks and tokens of her trust, and when for him she had left her
father's house; he saw her ever, sweet by nature, tender-hearted,
striving at each misdeed of his to show him that in her arms there was
forgiveness still. And he recalled too the affronts he had put upon her,
the baseness of his calculations, the selfishness of his life; he saw
the misery he had inflicted, the affection he had beguiled, the hope he
had tricked, and for climax there was this supreme reproach, of which he
knew now no woman in all the world was less deserving than was she. And
still the tears unstanched and undetained passed down and seared her
cheeks; in the mortal wound he had aimed at her womanhood all else
seemingly was forgot. She did not even move, and lay, her child tight
clasped, the image of Maternity inhabited by Regret.
And such regret! Mistrial, unprompted, could divine it all. The regret
of love misplaced, of illusions spent, the regret of harboring a ruffian
and thinking him a knight. Yes, he could divine it all; and then, as
such things can be, he grieved a moment for himself.
But soon the present returned. Justine still was weeping; he no longer
saw her tears, he heard them. Surely she would forgive again. It could
not be that everything had gone for naught. He would speak to her, plead
if need were, and in the end she would yield. She must do that, he told
himself, and he groped after some falsity that should palliate the
offence. He would tell her that he had been drinking again; he would
deny his own words, or, if necessary, he would insist she had not heard
them aright. Indeed, there was nothing that might have weight with her
which he was not ready and anxious to affirm. If she would but begin, if
in some splendor of indignation such as he had beheld before she would
rise up and upbraid him, his task would be diminished by half. Anything,
indeed, would be better than this, and nothing could be worse; it was
not Justine alone that the tears were carrying from him, it was the
Dunellen millions as well. Oh, abysses of the human heart! As he
queried with himself, at the very moment he was experiencing his first
remorse, the old self returned, and it was less of the injury he had
inflicted that he thought than of the counter-effect that injury might
have on him. In the attempt to throttle the child he had been balked,
yet of that attempt he believed Justine to be suspicionless. Other
opportunities he would have in plenty; and even were it otherwise, the
child was weakly, and croup might do its work. With the future for which
he had striven, there, in the very palm of his hand, how was it possible
that he should have made this misstep? But he could retrieve it, he told
himself; he was a good actor, it was not too late. For a little while
yet he could still support the mask, and, recalling the sentimental
reveries of a moment before, the forerunner of a sneer came and loitered
beneath the fringes of his mustache.
"Justine!" He moved a step or two to where she lay. "Justine--"
His voice was very low and penitent, but at the sound of it she seemed
to shrink. "Could she know?" he wondered.
Then immediately, through the scantness of the apartment, he heard the
outer bell resound. Enervated as he was, the interruption affected him
like a barb. There was some one there whom he could vent his irritation
on. He hurried to the hall, but a servant had preceded him. The door was
open, and on the threshold Thorold stood.
Mistrial nodded--the nod of one who is about to throw his coat aside and
roll his shirt-sleeves up. "Is it for your bill you come?" he asked.
Thorold hesitated, and his face grew very black. He affected, however,
to ignore the taunt. He turned to the servant that still was waiting
there. "Is my cousin at home?" he asked.
"She is," Mistrial announced, "but not to you."
"In that case," Thorold answered, "I must speak to someone in her
