above all there would be the love, the pride, the happiness of 
Hilda herself. He felt that his determination was weakened, 
and he made a final effort not to yield, scarcely knowing why he 
resisted any longer, since the possibilities of the future had grown 
so suddenly bright. Kex saw at a glance that he had made a deep 
impression upon his cousin, and wisely left the remedy he had 
administered to take its effect gradually. He knew human nature 
too well to fear that Greif could ever shut his eyes to the prospect 
unveiled to him. Time must pass, and in passing must heal the 
gaping wound that was yet fresh. Every month would take the 
ghastly tragedy further away and bring more clearly to Greif's 
mind the hope of happiness. As for the rest, it was buried in 
Rex's heart and no power would ever draw from him the secret of 
his brother's birth. Rightly or wrongly, he swore to hold his 
tongue. He did not know to whom the great Greifenstein property 
would go if he told the world that Greif was a nameless orphan 
with no more claim to his father's wealth than Rex himself. It 
seemed strange to be suggesting to Greif the means of discarding a 
name that never was his, but which must in all probability belong 
to some one who coveted it in spite of the associations it would 
soon have for all who heard the tale. 
Rex sat in silence thinking over the almost endless intricacies of 
the situation, and wondering what would have happened if that letter 
had fallen into the hands of the law, and what would have become 
of Greif. He would have been absolutely penniless. Not even 
his mother's heritage, if there were any, would have belonged to 
him, for Rex could have claimed it as his own. He looked at the 
handsome face of his cousin, and tried to imagine what its expres- 
sion would have been, if all things had taken place legally, and if 
Greif had received only what was his due. The sensation of 
preserving so much to any one by merely keeping silence was strange 
to Rex. He did not know whether he himself might not be con- 
sidered a party in a fraud if the matter were tried before a tribunal, 
though he had not spoken one untrue word in the whole affair. 
Verily, silence was gold. To Greif, Rex's silence was almost equi- 
valent to life itself. One word could deprive him of everything, of 
Greifenstein, of his name, of every item and miserable object he 
possessed, as well as of the broad lands and the accumulated money. 
He would lose all, but in whose favour? Rex did not know. 
Perhaps the lawful heir of Greifenstein was a poor officer of foot 
in a third-rate garrison town, eking out his pay with the remains 
of a meagre inheritance, desperately poor, and as desperately 
honourable. Possibly there was a connexion with some great and 
 
powerful family, into his full hands everything would go, if the 
truth were known. Possibly Rex stopped short in his train of 
thought, astonished that he should not have sooner hit upon the 
fact possibly Frau von Sigmundskron and her daughter were the 
only living relations. It seemed almost certain that this must be 
the case, when he thought about it. And if so if he held his 
peace, and if Greif persisted in not marrying Hilda why then he, 
Rex, was keeping that gentle, half-saintly old lady out of her rights. 
The new confusion caused by the idea was so great that even Rex's 
tough brain was disturbed. His instinct told him that the Sig- 
mundskrons were poor perhaps they were in real want. If he 
said nothing, if Greif persisted, if in later years Greif married 
another wife, as was most likely and possible, what sufferings 
might the man who had brought this about be responsible for ! 
And yet, what a prospect, if he should take his letter from his 
pocket-book and hand it to Greif, as they sat side by side in the 
quiet room before the open fire ! He had meant to burn the scrap 
of paper. It would be easy to toss it into the flames before Greif s 
eyes. But if ever all those things should happen of which he had 
been thinking, what proof would remain that the baroness or her 
daughter had a right to what was theirs even now *? If ever that 
time came, Greif would not believe a spoken word. Would it not 
have been best, after all, to give the writing to the men of the law, 
requesting their discretion ? No, for all this might be spared, if 
only Greif married Hilda. Until he had realised what issues were 
at stake, Rex had been satisfied with the suggestion he had made 
to Greif, believing that it would ultimately bear fruit in the desired 
result. Now, however, it seemed insufficient and wholly inadequate 
to the importance of the case. Greif must marry Hilda, and the 
letter must not be destroyed, for it might prove a valuable instru- 
ment with which to hasten or direct the march of events. After 
all were the Sigmundskrons the only relations ? 
The idea that they were the only heirs-at-law had presented 
itself so forcibly that the sudden doubt concerning the fact made 
Rex desperate. There was no difficulty, however, in ascertaining 
the truth from Greif himself and without rousing his suspicions. 
It was even natural that Rex should ask the question, consider- 
ing what had gone before. 
' Have you no other relations, besides the Sigmundskrons, 
Greif?' he asked. 
' None but you yourself.' 
' I am not counted, as the connexion is in the female line,' said 
Rex calmly. 'I mean, if you were to die, the Sigmundskrons 
 
would be the heirs, unless you married and had children, would 
they not ? ' 
' Yes I suppose they would. I had not thought of it.' 
' It seems to me that this constitutes an additional argument 
in favour of the plan I suggested.' 
Greif did not answer at once, for he felt the weight of Rex's 
words, though he did not understand the whole intention of his 
cousin. 
' I cannot argue with you now,' he said at last, as though wish- 
ing to be left to his thoughts. 
Rex was too wise to be annoyed, for he saw that Greif's refusal 
to discuss the matter any further was the result of his inclination 
to yield, rather than of a hardening determination. The only point 
immediately important to Rex was that the marriage should not be 
broken off abruptly at once. He did not know what Hilda's nature 
might be, and this was an uncertain element in his calculations. 
It was certainly most probable that if she loved Greif sincerely 
she would not part with him easily, nor suffer him to sacrifice 
himself without making a desperate effort to hold him back. On 
the other hand, and for all Rex knew, Hilda might be a foolishly 
sentimental, half-frivolous nonentity, who would take offence at the 
first word which spoke of parting and consider herself insulted by 
Greif's chivalrous determination. She might be a suspicious girl, 
who would immediately be attacked with jealousy and would 
imagine that Greif loved another and wished to be free from her- 
self. On the whole, Rex, in his worldly wisdom, thought it im- 
probable that Hilda would turn out to be sincere, simple and loving, 
whereas for her own interest it was important that she should 
possess these qualifications. Lastly, Rex reflected that Hilda 
might very well be a selfish, reticent, scheming young woman, 
who would know how to manage Greif as though he were a child. 
He almost wished that she might have enough worldly guile to 
cling to Greif for his fortune as well as for his love anything, 
rather than that the marriage should be broken off. 
If that disaster occurred, if by Greif's impatient desire to be 
generous to the extreme limit of what honour could demand, or by 
Hilda von Sigmundskron's possible lack of affection or of wisdom, 
the two were to be permanently separated, Rex confessed that he 
should not know what to do. His own position would in that 
case be very far from enviable, for he would certainly have been a 
party in a fraud, of which the practical result had been that the 
Sigmundskrons were kept out of their property. The moral point 
presented to his conscience was an extremely delicate one to decide. 
 
His nature, as well as his education, impelled him to tell the truth 
regardless of all consequences, for its own sake ; but the question 
arose, whether he was bound to tell what he knew, when no one 
asked him for the information. When the consequences might 
be so tremendous, and when the least effect that could be anticipated 
must be the immediate ruin of his brother, he believed that he should 
be justified in his silence, provided that those who would legiti- 
mately profit by the secret he withheld should receive all the ad- 
vantages to which they were entitled. It seemed to him a case in 
which his conscience must gamble upon the probabilities. If it 
turned out well, he might congratulate himself upon having produced 
much happiness ; if he lost the game, he must endure the humilia- 
tion of being obliged to communicate the truth to both parties. It 
would have been far easier, if he had been called upon to induce 
Greif to make an apparent sacrifice for the sake of a good he could 
not understand. The young man's noble disposition was more easily 
led in the direction of chivalrous self-renunciation, than towards an 
end involving personal advantage. Indeed Greif would almost in- 
variably have chosen to give rather than to receive. The present 
difficulty consisted in making him take Hilda, in order that he 
might unconsciously give her what was hers. At first Rex had 
considered only Greif s happiness ; now, he must think before all 
things of Hilda's fortune. He knew Greif well enough to be sure 
that if the marriage were broken off, he would certainly bestow a 
considerable portion upon the Sigmundskrons if they were really 
poor, but this could not be enough. Either Hilda must have all 
that was hers, by marrying Greif, or Rex must tell the story and 
precipitate the catastrophe. The only condition of his concealing 
what he knew, was that every one except himself should gain by 
his reticence. If this could not be accomplished justice must be 
done in spite of the consequences. 
Though Rex's blood was German, his character had suffered a 
certain modification by the manner of his bringing up. His mode 
of thought certainly differed from Greif 's to an extent which could 
not be accounted for upon the ground of temperament alone. Brave, 
manly and sufficiently generous though he was, Rex undeniably had 
a preference for accomplishing his ends mysteriously and by diplo- 
matic means, a characteristic more southern than northern, and 
assuredly not German. He was a man well able to sustain whatever 
part he chose to play, and it was at least to his credit that he never 
employed his remarkable powers of concealment to a bad purpose. 
In his place, Greif would have told everything, and would then 
have offered everything he possessed to compensate the mischief 
o 
done by the truth ; he would not have been able to hide what he 
knew for a week, in such a case, for his extreme love of frankness 
would have tortured him until it was out, but if there were no 
justice to be accomplished, he could have held his peace as well 
as another. Rex saw far and clearly before him. His sceptical 
mind could not accept the conventional traditions of truthfulness 
at any price, of honourable sentiment exaggerated to Quixotism. 
He felt the necessity of weighing results before acting, rather than 
of following moral precepts and letting the results take care of 
themselves. To him ultimate good was everything, and religious 
morality was an empty bubble, unless it could be made to contribute 
directly and clearly to a good result. With Greif 's more simple and 
straightforward nature, truthfulness, and such virtues as go with 
it, were invested with all the superior importance which religion 
gives to each present act of life, and so far as the future was con- 
cerned, a semi-conscious faith in the efficacy of principle supplied 
the place of Rex's well thought-out combinations and philosophical 
disquisitions about relative right and wrong. 
CHAPTER XVII 
THE effect of what Rex had said was to hasten Greifs action. 
After listening to his cousin's arguments, he felt that what was to 
be done must be done quickly, lest his courage should fail him. 
If he had been left to himself he would never have doubted his 
own strength, and would very possibly have waited a day or two 
before going to Sigmundskron to bid Hilda farewell. Now, how- 
ever, he felt that to hesitate or delay would be fatal, and he resolved 
to lose no time in carrying out his intentions. In order to isolate 
himself more completely from all outward influences he would have 
sent Frau von Sigmundskron back alone and would have followed 
her a few hours later ; but his sense of common decency, as well 
as his profound gratitude, forbade such a course. He could not by 
any means avoid the long drive in her company, and he tried to 
harden his heart as he submitted to his destiny. It was certain 
that, unless she had changed her mind, she would talk of the 
matter of his visit, and would repeat in his unwilling ear all those 
arguments which appealed to his heart so strongly, and which so 
grievously shook his chivalrous resolution. 
During the long night that succeeded the day of the funeral 
ceremony, the sorrow of the parting which was before him 
assumed such proportions as made the past seem less horrible, and 
the change from one kind of suffering to another afforded his ex- 
hausted nature a relief of which he was not conscious, but which 
was nevertheless very real. He himself could not understand how 
it had been possible for him to discuss with Rex matters so closely 
connected with his future happiness, scarcely an hour after the 
heavy gates of the mausoleum had closed upon the father he had 
so deeply loved, and upon the mother he so tenderly regretted. 
For he did mourn for her sincerely, in spite of his earlier indif- 
ference. He was yet too near the catastrophe to attempt to 
explain it, but in the confusion of his grief her words came vividly 
 
to his mind. He recalled the expression of her face when she had 
implored him not to forsake her, whatever happened, and he knew 
that in some way she must, even then, have had a forewarning of 
her end. He remembered many strange incongruities in her 
manner, which he had once disliked intensely, but which now 
pointed to the existence of a secret in her quiet life, and which, 
having seemed contemptible when she had been alive, took a tragic 
importance now that she was gone. He recalled very clearly that 
morning when he had felt a thrill of pitying tenderness for the 
lonely woman, and when she had responded so suddenly and 
passionately to his simple words. He had never loved her, and 
had perhaps had little cause for any affection, but the suddenness 
and the horror of her death strengthened in him every kind 
memory, and overshadowed by its dark presence whatever in her 
life had lacked dignity and worth. 
As for his father, he had felt for him a passionate devotion of 
which he dared not think now. And yet he had been able to talk 
with Rex, if not freely, at least with a complete command of his 
faculties. He would have reproached himself with heartlessness, 
but when his thoughts dwelt upon those he had lost, he knew that 
the self-accusation was unmerited. Not comprehending what passed 
in his own mind, and finding himself face to face with a problem 
that seemed to involve his own life or death, it is not altogether 
surprising that he should have persisted in undergoing a self-imposed 
suffering which he almost unconsciously regarded as a test of heroism. 
But as he did his best to fortify himself in his intention another 
power stood before him, not a gloomy presence of evil, not a 
sorrowful but relentless fate, not a thing in itself terrible, grand 
or heroic, and yet stronger and more real than any of those other 
shadows which surrounded his life. He had not known that it was 
with him in such a shape, he had not realised what it would be to 
face that which has conquered all men sooner or later. The love 
of Hilda, which had softened all his youth, but which in its un- 
opposed calm had seemed so gentle and tender that by an effort of 
his strong will he might put it off if he would, the quiet spirit of 
calm which had been with him so long, purifying his thoughts, 
simplifying his hopes for the future, encouraging him ever in each 
present day, the love of untarnished youth for spotless maidenhood 
rose up like the dawn upon a traveller in a strange land, shedding 
its universal light upon the secret places of his soul. It was a 
wonderful revelation of beauty appearing in the midst of his 
sorrow, contrasting the magnificence of its splendour with the 
darkness in which he would have hidden himself. 
 
He groaned as he lay alone in his solitary chamber, and the 
passionate tears burst from his eyes. He had met at last that 
which must vanquish all his resolutions, and turn all his desperate 
efforts into vanity. That sudden flash of radiance in the midst of 
his grief was but a dark shadow compared with the light of Hilda's 
face. If the mere thought of her made all resistance seem im- 
possible, would he be able to go to her to-morrow and tell her that 
they must part ? But it was not a mere thought, as he called it. 
He had thought of her for years, but never in this way ; she had 
dwelt in his heart a long time but he had never felt anything 
like this. It was true that he had never resisted her presence 
before. Could that be the reason ? Could it be that love was a 
companion for the weakest of mankind, if kindly entertained, and 
yet, if resisted, the master of the very strongest? Greif in his 
pride of youth believed himself as strong as any, and the sensation 
of being thus utterly overpowered was crushing and humiliating. 
He would not yield, but he well knew that he was conquered 
beforehand, and must be led away captive in the end. 
He sat up and tried to reason with himself. It was but an 
illusion after all, and it was just such an illusion as should 
strengthen his purpose. If Hilda were indeed, as she doubtless 
was, this exquisitely lovely creature, could anything be more con- 
temptible than to give her a name which must be a reproach, a 
position in which her beautiful life must be made half shameful 
by the memory of hideous crimes ? 
Momentarily satisfied with himself, he once more laid his head 
upon the pillow, but he had hardly closed his eyes when Rex's 
suggestion flashed through his brain, and Hilda's clear voice seemed 
to cry ' Sigmundskron ! ' in his ears. The thought of bearing 
another name, of being no longer Greifenstein, of being the father 
of a new race in a new home, presented itself to him in all its 
attractions. After all, said Rex to his conscience, you are wholly 
innocent, and it is only the sound of the name to which you object 
or which you fear for her. Take hers and be happy under it, since 
you would be miserable under your own. After all, one is as good 
as another, and it would be better to be plain Herr Rex than to 
throw over the joy of a lifetime for the sake of three syllables that 
have a disagreeable ring. Names are nonsense and a man's reputa- 
tion is his own, not to be made or marred by his father's evil deeds. 
The Sigmundskrons know all, and it is for them to judge, not for 
you. If they will make you one of them, what right have you to 
make them unhappy for the sake of your own prejudices ? 
Greif was very young to cope with such difficulties, when even 
 
love itself was against him. Though. Rex said little, that little 
was eloquent and full of practical sense, like many of Rex's sayings. 
Greif shed bitter tears and ground his teeth and wrung his hands. 
' Hilda ! Hilda ! ' he cried aloud in his solitude, l what would you 
have me do, if you knew all, if you knew me, if you knew my heart !' 
When a man appeals against his love to the woman who loves 
him, his resolutions are at their last gasp for existence. Hilda 
answered his heart before the spoken words were out of his mouth. 
' Love me, dear that is all I ask ! ' It was as though her 
voice mingling with his own souMed aloud in the lonely room, 
and Greif started up, his eyes wide open, his breath caught upon 
his lips. 
It was the merest illusion, but its vividness showed him the 
power of what produced it. He was struggling bravely for an 
idea, trying to do what seemed knightly, and noble, and high, and 
vanquished though he was, he would fight to the very end. 
The cold, bright morning rose over the sombre trees and 
suddenly entered his chamber like the broad reflexion of polished 
steel, a chilly glare of snow and cloudless sky seen through a 
window high above the earth in midwinter. Greif awoke from 
the broken slumber that had come to him at last, and looked 
anxiously about him. Somehow the sweet vision that had so much 
disturbed him, when he could see nothing real but the glow of the 
'dying embers on the hearth, was dissipated and gone under the 
cruelty of the icy daylight. "With a heavy heart he rose and 
looked out upon the forest. From the place where he stood he 
could see the tall trees that surrounded the burial-ground of his race, 
and his eyes grew dark and gloomy as he thought of those who 
lay there. He was sadder and stronger than he had been a few 
hours ago. He would sit beside the baroness during the long 
drive to Sigmundskron, and what she might say would make no 
impression upon him, no more than the ringing of the horses' bells 
made upon the frozen snow. He w r ould meet Hilda in the well- 
remembered sitting-room, and Hilda's mother would leave them 
alone. It would be cold there, for there was never much fire. 
She would perhaps be pale a little pale, and her eyes would be 
cast down. She would sit upon one side of the stone chimney- 
piece, and he would stand upon the other. There would be a 
moment's pause, and then he would tell her everything. It could 
not last long, and when it was over he would have conquered in 
the struggle. 
He would drive back alone in the late afternoon through the dismal 
forest. To-morrow he would leave Greifenstein and go to his lawyer 
 
iu the city. Half of his fortune should be Hilda's, and she should 
restore Sigmundskron and marry whomsoever she would. Then 
he would be free, and he would go away with Rex to some distant 
country, not to return for half a lifetime, if he ever returned at 
all. 
The plan was simple, comprehensive and satisfactory. Nothing 
remained but to put it into immediate execution. He had given 
the necessary orders on the previous night and, as soon as Frau von 
Sigmundskron was ready, they would start upon their drive. He 
finished dressing and went in search of Rex. The latter looked 
even more pale and disturbed than Greif himself, though with 
characteristic determination he was attempting to eat his breakfast. 
' I am going to Sigmundskron,' said Greif entering the room. 
' Will you wait for me here ? To-morrow we will go away, or to- 
night, if you like.' 
' I will wait willingly. Where should I go ? ' Rex rose, pushing 
the silver salver away from him. 
' Very good. I shall be back at dusk. Good-bye.' Greif held 
out his hand in evident anxiety to get away, for he did not want 
to hear any more of his cousin's plausible reasoning, and dreaded 
lest Rex should broach the subject of his errand. But the latter 
detained him in spite of himself. 
' Do nothing rash or hasty, Greif,' he said earnestly. c A life's 
happiness is easily thrown away, and hardly found again when you 
have parted with it and more than half of life's happiness is the 
love of woman. Good-bye.' 
Greif made his escape as quickly as he could, but Rex had 
found time and words to touch the strongest cord in his heart. 
As he descended the stairs he felt again something of the influence 
that had visited him in the night, and he wished that he had not 
gone to Rex's room before leaving the house. 
The sight of Frau von Sigmundskron, wrapped in her dark mantle 
for the journey, recalled him to himself. Her kind eyes looked at 
him almost lovingly from beneath the hood that covered her white 
hair, as he bent and kissed her hand. Neither spoke as they gained 
the court and got into the carriage, but while Greif was wrapping 
her in the heavy furs and arranging a cushion behind her, he felt 
that she meant to do all she could to dissuade him from his intention 
on the way, and he knew that the real struggle was yet to come. 
Then Rex appeared again, bareheaded, to bid farewell to the 
baroness and to say a few words of heartfelt thanks. He alone 
knew how much both he and Greif owed to her discretion ; far more 
than she dreamed of, as she answered him and gave him her hand. 
 
The horses plunged forward, their hoofs clashing noisily upon 
the pavement of the court ; out of the bright light the carriage 
disappeared into the darkness of the gateway and as quickly rolled 
out again upon the dazzling snow beyond. After that there would 
be snow and trees and rocks, and rocks and trees and snow, until 
the grey towers of Sigmundskron loomed up above the tops of the firs. 
Greif leaned back in silence, as they spun over the white road. 
Every moment now was a moment gained, provided that nothing 
were said to weaken his"prarpose. He braced himself in his seat, 
with his feet and his back, as though he expected the carriage to 
upset, and closed his lips tightly as if to meet a physical accident. 
Frau von Sigmundskron glanced at him once or twice and 
noticed his expression, and his resolution to look straight before 
him. Had she possessed Rex's penetration, she would have 
guessed what was passing in his mind. As it was, she vaguely 
suspected that he had not altogether given up his plan, and the 
thought made her uneasy. She could see the clearly cut out- 
line of his handsome face without turning her head. He had put 
on a fur coat, and she thought that fur was singularly becoming 
to fair men who had good complexions a frivolous observation, 
apparently, but in reality not so worthless as it appeared. She 
was thinking of the impression Greif would make upon Hilda, and 
wondering whether the girl would find him greatly changed or 
not. She was woman enough to suppose that much would depend 
upon the first moments of the meeting which was about to take 
place, and upon the look Greif should first see in Hilda's eyes. 
If he found her sad, pale, ready to pity him, his nature would 
be hardened, partly because he hated to be pitied by any one, 
partly because that same irritation would help him to execute his 
purpose. But if, on the contrary, Hilda met him with an ill- 
concealed joy, if there were light in her bright eyes and colour in 
her cheeks, if her voice spoke sympathy in his sorrows while her 
face told him of her gladness in the meeting, then things might 
turn out very differently. After all, thought Frau von Sigmund- 
skron, Greif was only a man, and could not be expected to act 
altogether wisely unless a woman helped him. 
She had certainly not always held such beliefs, but in latter 
years they had grown upon her. Sigmundskron was a women's 
establishment and naturally independent. The baroness had grown 
to think that, after all, women, when thrown entirely upon their 
own resources, can manage better than men. She was sure that 
no three men could have lived so decently and fairly well upon as 
little as sufficed for herself, Hilda and Berbel. It is true that the 
 
distance from such daily forethought and hourly prudence as she 
needed in her life, to such wisdom as Rex, for instance, possessed 
so abundantly, was considerable ; but the baroness looked upon 
that as an insignificant argument, if indeed it presented itself to 
her mind at all. She thought little of Greif's determination to 
persist, if only Hilda could seem more glad to see him, than 
sympathising in his misfortunes. With a woman's wholesale faith 
in woman, she believed utterly in the power of one of Hilda's 
glances to keep Greif at Sigmundskron for ever. Especially good 
women believe in all other women, more than those who are 
neither notably good nor notably bad. A man's faith in his fellows 
bears little or no relation to his own moral character, the best men 
being often the most distrustful, and not always the most agree- 
able companions. But the better a woman is, the more she 
believes all other women to be both good and wise, a phenomenon 
not hitherto explained, though very frequently observed. The 
baroness held views of this sort concerning Hilda and old Berbel. 
It was characteristic of her that, as soon as her generosity had got the 
better of her hesitation in regard to the marriage, she began to consider 
Greif in the light of a well-beloved adversary, whom the feminine 
powers of Sigmundskron must vanquish for his own good. It was 
characteristic, too, that in all her uncertainty she had never con- 
sidered for a moment the great worldly advantages to be gained 
or lost. 
'We might have sent word that we were coming,' she said, 
when they had driven more than a mile without speaking. ' Hilda 
would have come to meet us on the road.' 
' It is better so,' answered Greif mournfully. 
' I do not see why it would have given the child such pleasure,' 
remarked his companion, glancing at his face to see whether his 
expression would change or not. 
' Would it, do you think ? ' asked Greif in an indifferent tone, 
though a very slight colour rose in his pale face. 
'Indeed it would. It is wrong in you to doubt it. Poor 
Hilda ! She has not too many pleasures of any sort, and meeting 
you is one of the greatest.' 
The blush in Greif s cheek deepened. Again he set his feet 
firmly before him and braced himself in his seat as though to 
resist a shock. He hated himself for betraying his feeling in his 
face, and wished it were night. The baroness continued to speak 
in gentle tones, determined to obtain an answer from him, and if 
possible to make him engage in argument, for she believed that if 
he argued he was lost. 
 
' Yes,' she said. 'It is a lonely life she leads up there. I am 
too old to be a real companion, and there is only old Berbel besides. 
It is pathetic to see her begin to count the days as soon as you 
are gone, and to watch her face as it gradually turns less grave 
when more than half the score is marked away.' 
' Does she do that ? ' asked Greif, conscious that he was growing 
crimson. 
' Always. She used to do it, when she was a mere child, and 
you were only an overgrown boy. It seems to me that she always 
loved you, long before long ago, I mean. 7 
Greif sighed, and looked away. The half-boyish blush faded 
slowly from his cheeks and left his face paler than before. The 
good lady saw the change with regret, and wondered whether the 
slip of the tongue she had made in her last sentence could have 
anything to do with it. But she did not despair, though she 
allowed a few moments to pass in silence. To her surprise it was 
Greif who renewed the conversation, and in a manner she had not 
in the least expected. 
'I have always loved Hilda,' he said, avoiding her eyes 
resolutely. 'Ever since I first remember your bringing her to 
Greifenstein. We were very small, and it must have been in the 
spring, for we picked mayflowers and found strawberries in the 
woods.' 
' She was not more than six years old then,' observed Frau von 
Sigmundskron. 
' And I was eleven, I think,' replied Greif, forgetting his effort 
to be silent in the childish reminiscence. 'Was that the first 
time you came ? ' 
'I believe so. It was four years after we came to live in 
Sigmundskron.' 
' Why did you not come sooner \ ' Greif asked. It seemed to 
him that it would be wise to keep the conversation upon the doings 
of twelve years ago. Another mile of the road was passed, and 
he was still unshaken. 
' There were many reasons,' answered the baroness. ' We had 
not always been on the best of terms, perhaps because we had 
scarcely ever met, and I did not care to seem to be forcing my 
acquaintance upon my relations, so I stayed away for a while. 
After all, what really brought us together more than anything 
else, was the fondness of you two children for each other, which 
showed itself from the first. They brought you to see Hilda, and 
then we went to your house again and so gradually ' 
' I remember that Hilda wore a blue frock the first time she 
 
came,' remarked Greif quickly, with an attempt to check the 
baroness's advance towards present times. The intention was so 
evident that she could not help smiling a little under her hood, 
and reflecting with some satisfaction that upon this subject, at 
least, she was more than a match for him. 
' Perhaps she did,' she answered. ' I remember that she once 
had a blue frock.' 
The triviality of what they were saying to each other struck 
Greif all at once, as compared with the horror of what they had 
left behind them at Greifenstein. It was but the third day since 
that fearful catastrophe had darkened his life, and he was 
exchanging remarks about the clothes Hilda had worn when she 
was a child. He thought he must be shamefully heartless, unless 
he were going mad, which, considering his words, seemed probable 
to himself. He leaned back again, and stared absently at the 
moving landscape. It seemed to him that his father's spirit was 
gliding along, high in the black trees beside the road, like mighty 
Wodin in the northern forests, watching the son he had left 
behind and listening to the foolish words that fell from his lips. 
The baroness attributed the sudden chill of his manner, and the 
gloomy look on his face to another cause. 
'That was very long ago,' she said, taking advantage of his 
silence. ' Since then, Hilda has grown up, and you have become 
a man, and the love that began when you were children 
' I cannot marry her ! ' exclaimed Greif, so sharply and suddenly 
that his companion started and looked anxiously into his face. 
' Then you will kill her,' answered Frau von Sigmundskron, 
after a short and painful pause. She, too, was roused to abandon 
the harmless attempt at diplomacy which had failed, and to speak 
out what was in her heart. 
She was indignant with Greif, and she forgot altogether that 
she had at first felt precisely as he did himself in regard to the 
marriage. As the trees flew past and every effort of the strong horses 
brought her nearer to her home, she knew Hilda was first, and the 
instinct to defend her child from pain and sorrow gradually began 
to dominate her. Mild and gentle as she was, she was ready to 
attack Greif and to force him to marry her daughter whether he 
would or not. She grew nervous, for the coming meeting between 
the two might decide their fate, and every moment lost might be 
the most important. Greif did not reply at once to what she had 
said, but a shiver passed through his limbs and he drew the furs 
more closely about him. 
 
' You are wrong,' he said at last. ' Hilda will forget me in 
time and will marry a better man and a happier one. I did not 
mean to tell you I may as well I shall make arrangements to 
give her half of what I have in the world. She will be an heiress 
then, and can marry well.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron did not understand him. To her, the 
speech seemed cynical and brutal, an insult to Hilda's love, a 
slight upon her own poverty. The gentle lady's pale and delicate 
face flushed suddenly with righteous anger and her small hands 
were clenched tightly beneath the furs. There was a bright light 
in her soft blue eyes as she answered him. 
' Hilda will neither accept your fortune, nor forget you though 
it would be better, perhaps, if you could pass out of her memory.' 
Greif could not see her face which was hidden by the hood 
she wore, without leaning forward, but her words and her tone 
surprised him. He had been very far from supposing that he 
should offend her by making such a proposal or by hinting that 
Hilda might marry happily at some future time. The emotion 
he had felt had probably made his voice sound harshly, and after 
all, he had perhaps shown little delicacy in speaking of the money, 
but he was quite unprepared for his companion's freezing answer. 
With Greif, however, it was impossible that any misunderstanding 
should last long, for he was too honest and frank to submit to 
being misunderstood himself. 
'I do not know what you thought that I meant,' he said, 
turning towards her. ' But you would not be angry if I had 
explained myself better.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron gave him no assistance, but sat quite 
still in her seat. In her view he had spoken lightly of her child's 
love and had proposed to set matters right by giving her some 
of his money. She was angry, and she believed that she had a 
right to be. 
' I love Hilda,' continued Greif, and his voice trembled a little. 
If there were a phrase which he had not meant to pronounce, or to 
think of during the day, it was that. He found himself in a 
position which obliged him to affirm the strength of his love, and 
the mere sound of the words disturbed him so that he stopped 
short, to collect his thoughts. 
'You do not act as though you loved her,' said Frau von 
Sigmundskron coldly. Two days earlier it had seemed to her that 
in renouncing Hilda he was giving proof of a heroic devotion, and 
yet she was not really an inconsistent woman. 
' I mean to,' answered Greif rather hotly. ' If I refuse to 
 
marry her, it is because I love her too much to do her such an 
irreparable injury. I do not see how I could love her more. As 
for the rest, it has nothing to do with my love or hers. You are 
the only heir to Greifenstein after me, and when I die it will in 
any case be all yours, or Hilda's. I can do nothing with so much, 
and you may as well have the benefit of what will be yours some 
day perhaps very soon. Is that unreasonable  ? Does that 
offend you ? If it does, let us say no more about it, and forgive 
me for having said as much.' 
'It would be better not to speak of the fortune,' said the 
baroness, beginning to relent. 
' And you understand me about Hilda ? ' 
' I cannot say that I do,' replied Frau von Sigmundskron with 
all the obstinacy of a good woman thoroughly roused in what 
she believes to be a good cause. ' You love her, and yet you are 
willing to make her miserably unhappy. The two facts do not 
agree. 7 
Greif suppressed a groan and looked at the trees before he 
answered. If she would only have left him alone, it would have 
been so much easier to do what he knew was right. 
' It is perhaps better that she should be unhappy for a time, 
now, while she is young, than regret her name when she has taken 
mine.' His own words had a sententious sound in his ear and 
he felt that they were utterly inadequate, but he was fighting 
against heavy odds and did not know what to say. 
' I tell you that the child would die of a broken heart ! ' ex- 
claimed the baroness with the greatest conviction. * You say you 
love her, but you do not know her as I do. I suppose you will 
allow that it would be better that she should have moments of 
regret in a lifetime of happiness, than that she should die.' 
She was certainly using strong language, but the time was 
passing rapidly and in the distance she could distinguish already 
the grey towers of Sigmundskron crowning the beetling crag. 
She was to be pardoned if she seemed to exaggerate Hilda's danger, 
but she believed every word she spoke, and she was growing more 
and more nervous at every turn of the road. 
'If I believed that, if I even thought that were better for 
Hilda's happiness 
Greif left the sentence unfinished, for he felt that he was on 
the edge of the precipice, though he was still inwardly convinced 
that he was right and that she was wrong. The baroness thought 
the day was almost won. All her anger melted away in the 
prospect of success and she talked much and earnestly, dilating 
upon the situation and using every argument of persuasion which 
she could devise. But Greif said little, and though he was careful 
not to offend her afresh, he did not again come so near to com- 
mitting himself, as he had done once. 
'And for that matter,' said the baroness, as the carriage 
swung round the curve and began the last ascent that ended at 
the castle gate, ' for that matter, you can call yourself Sigmund- 
skron instead of Greifenstein.' 
Greif moved uneasily in his furs. It seemed as though every- 
thing were conspiring against him. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
HILDA'S quick eyes had discerned the carriage when it was still 
far down upon the road, a mere moving speck in the distance. 
She had thought it probable that her mother would return on that 
day, and she knew that she would be driven over from Greifenstein. 
Moreover, it was very likely that Greif would accompany her, and 
from the moment when she first saw the vehicle, she watched it 
and followed it along the winding road until she could clearly see 
that a man was seated beside her mother. Then the look of 
anxiety disappeared all at once from her fair face, and was 
followed by an expression of satisfied happiness which would have 
been good to see if any one had been there to watch her. 
She was standing upon a high part of the half-ruined building, 
on the northern side, and a person looking up from the road below 
could have seen her tall figure in strong relief against the pale 
winter sky. She had dressed herself all in black, but a wide mantle 
of coarse grey woollen stuff, gathered into a hood at the top and 
drawn tightly round her against the biting wind, concealed all her 
figure, leaving only her face visible. Rough and poor as the 
material was, it became her well, better perhaps than the richest 
furs could have done. Its folds fell gracefully to her feet as she 
held the cloak closely about her, and the unbroken neutral tint 
showed her height more plainly, and set off the marvellous beauty 
of her skin with a better contrast than any brighter colour. 
Sigmundskron had been very desolate and lonely during the 
last two days, since Hilda's mother had ridden away through the 
bitter night to do her duty in the house of death. Of course both 
Hilda and the faithful Berbel had their occupations as usual, and 
talked over them when they were together, but the time had 
passed slowly and heavily. Hilda could form no clear conception 
of what had taken place, from the confused account of the groom 
who had brought the news. The idea that her uncle Greifenstein 
 
and her aunt Clara were both dead, as well as another unknown 
gentleman who had been with them, was very dreadful; but 
Hilda knew so little of death, that the story seemed melancholy and 
weird to her imagination rather than ghastly and vivid with realised 
horror. By no effort of her mind could she fancy how the three 
looked, for she had never seen any one dead in her whole life. 
She had read of violent deeds in history, but they seemed more 
like ugly fairy stories than realities, and the tragedy of Greifenstein 
struck her in a very similar light. It was as though some strange 
evil genius had passed through the forest, scarce twenty miles from 
her home, destroying all that he found in his way. They were 
gone, suddenly, like the light of a candle extinguished, and she 
should never see them again. They had crossed the boundary 
into the wonderful land beyond, and perhaps from where they 
were now they could see her dreaming about them, and asking 
herself what that great change meant which only takes place once 
for each man and each woman in the world. Perhaps Hilda 
trembled at the heresy, but let her thoughts run on nevertheless, 
because after all it was only her imagination that was talking 
perhaps that was the end, and there was nothing beyond it. It 
would be infinitely horrible to be put out of existence altogether, 
without hope of any life at all afterwards. That might be what 
was meant by hell, and outer darkness, but upon this point Hilda 
was not decided. She made up her mind, however, after a little 
more reflexion, that the Greifensteins could not possibly have been 
bad enough to deserve to be put out entirely, though she frankly 
owned to herself that she had never liked her aunt Clara. She 
was sorry for her now, at all events, and she wished that she had 
at least made an effort to be more fond of her. 
Hilda tried to decide what she should say to Greif when she 
met him. She never doubted that he would come to Sigmund- 
skron, and in her ignorance of formalities she almost dared to hope 
that he would stay with her mother for a time. He would 
certainly not care to remain in Greifenstein for the present. If 
indeed he should wish to spend a few days with his relations, 
Hilda foresaw many and great difficulties, but she was surprised 
that such important household questions as those of bed and 
board for a possible guest should seem so insignificant when that 
guest was to be Greif himself. 
The real trouble lay in deciding what she should say. It was 
clear that she could not help looking pleased when he arrived, 
though it would be her duty to look somewhat sad and sorrowful. 
Of course she felt for him and he knew it, but he would perhaps 
 
expect her to show it very clearly in the first minute and would 
be hurt if she even smiled. It was not easy not to smile when 
she saw Greif after a long separation. Perhaps the best way to 
look very mournful would be to think that he could not marry 
her for a long time, now, on account of the mourning. But then, 
Greif had finished his studies and would henceforth be always at 
home, which in Hilda's opinion would be almost the same thing 
as being married, provided she could see him all the time. 
Then she thought of that strange warning she had given him 
when they last parted. She had not understood why she spoke, 
and yet she had not been able to keep silence. Surely this could 
not be what was meant. Besides, it was superstitious to believe 
in such things, and she had been thoughtless in yielding to the 
impulse. Greif was safe, at all events, and she supposed that 
everybody's parents must die some day, though not necessarily in 
such a strange way. Her own father had been killed, too, before 
she could know him if she had known him, she would have loved 
him, as Greif had loved the old gentleman who was now dead. 
Hilda became aware that her reflexions were growing more and 
more heartless and that they did not help her at all, especially as 
she could not communicate them to Berbel. She resolved not to 
reflect any more for the present, and applied herself diligently 
to her household occupations until the morning on which she 
expected her mother to return. And now she was not to be alone 
any longer, for the carriage was advancing up the hill and she could 
plainly see Greif sitting beside the baroness in the big carriage. 
She knew his fur cap, for it was the same he had worn last year. 
She gazed a few moments longer at the pair, regretting that she 
must be thought heartless if she waved her handkerchief as a signal 
of welcome, and then she swiftly descended the broken steps that 
led down into the house, closing as well as she could the crazy door 
of the turret, to keep out at least a little of the strong north wind. 
'Berbel! Berbel! Mamma is coming with Herr Greif!' she 
cried, before she was really within hearing of the room where 
Berbel was at work. 
Her clear voice rang through the stone passages before her as 
she ran on, repeating the news until Berbel answered her at last. 
' Is there anything for dinner ? ' asked Hilda breathlessly, as she 
stood in the doorway. 
The grey-haired woman looked up from her sewing, over her 
horn -rimmed glasses. She had a hard, good face, with rough 
brows, sharp eyes and a large mole upon her chin. She was 
spotlessly clean, and everything about her was supernaturally neat. 
 
She was broad-shouldered, rather bony than otherwise, and she 
moved as though nothing were any trouble which merely required 
exertion. 
' There are potatoes/ she answered laconically, but a strangely 
genial, half comical little smile was twitching at the corners of her 
solid mouth. 
' Nothing else ? Oh, Berbel, there must be something else ! ' 
Hilda's voice was full of a sudden distress, and her face exhibited 
considerable dismay. 
' I shall find something,' replied the other. ' Better see first 
whether they are hungry. Poor Herr Greif will not eat much 
' No but only potatoes, Berbel ! ' 
'Potatoe dumplings are good things,' observed the woman. 
' And fried potatoes with a stewed hare are better,' she added after 
a pause. 
' Is there a hare, then ? Oh, Berbel, you dear old thing, how 
could you frighten me in that way ! Where did you get it ? We 
have not had one for ever so long ! ' 
'Wastei,' answered Berbel. Being interpreted, the name 
signifies Sebastian. 
' And Wastei must have got it by poaching Hilda's face 
fell. 
'No the forester has given him a licence this year, and I 
mended his breeches. There you have the whole history.' 
Hilda's spirits revived immediately and she broke into a merry 
laugh, just as the sound of the horses' bells was heard jingling in 
castle-yard below the window. She ran down the stairs to meet 
her mother and Greif. The story of the hare and Wastei's breeches 
had almost chased away her good intentions to look appropriately 
sad. The hideous tragedy of the Greifensteins was very far from 
her simple young life. 
The great carriage swung round and drew up before the door 
of the hall, and Hilda was already standing upon the low steps. 
She had thrown back her hood when she had descended from the 
battlements, and had not replaced it. Her glorious hair looked 
like bright gold against the darkness of the hall behind her, and 
as the cloak fell from her on each side, the black of her dress 
suddenly threw out by contrast the brilliancy of her face. In 
another moment her mother and she were clasped in each other's 
arms, while Greif stood beside them on the steps. 
He closed his eyes for an instant, just as hers were turning 
toward him. This was the woman he had come to renounce, 
this was she whose love he could put away at a moment's notice 
 
for the sake of an idea his heart beat violently and then stood 
still, so that he turned very pale. Her hand was already in his, 
and he scarcely dared to look at her. 
' Greif are you ill ? ' she asked anxiously. 
He had not seen her smile. He had escaped that, he thought. 
But as he looked up he saw what was harder to bear than any 
look of joy at his coming. She, who never used to change colour, 
was pale to the lips, and in her eyes was a look of terror for him 
which betrayed all her love, and devotion and power of suffering 
for him, in the flash of an instant. She had indeed been terrified, 
for he had turned ashy white as he closed his eyes, and his figure 
had swayed a little unsteadily as though he had been about to 
fall. 
'Are you ill, Greif?' she repeated, unconsciously drawing him 
nearer to her. 
' It is nothing. My head turned for a moment,' he said. 
Hilda was not satisfied, but she saw that whatever had been 
the matter, he had recovered himself for the present, at least, and 
she supposed that he was exhausted with the fatigue and grief 
which had filled the last days. She became silent and preoccupied, 
as they all entered the hall together and ascended the steps to the 
sunny sitting-room over the court. Then Frau von Sigmundskron 
left her alone with Greif, on pretence of taking off her mantle and 
smoothing her hair, but as she went away she gave him a look 
which signified that she would not disturb them for some time. 
There was the great stone chimney-piece, just as Greif had seen 
it in his vision of the meeting, and Hilda sat down beside it, as he 
had fancied that she would. But the room was not cold, as he 
had anticipated, for the fire was clear and big, and the sun streamed 
brightly in through the southern window. He had imagined the 
place chill and dreary, for he knew that he should need the im- 
pression of dreariness to help him. Instead, it was warm and 
sunny, and though Hilda was still a little pale, her pallor did not 
produce the effect he had expected. He tried to begin, for in spite 
of all, his resolution was still unbroken, but the words stuck in his 
throat. 
' Greif,' said Hilda, looking up suddenly into his face. ' I do 
not know how to tell you I am so sorry, so sorry for you, dear. 
I have not the words, but it is all in my heart. You understand, 
do you not ? ' 
She had risen, seeing that he was still standing, and she came 
to him, and clasped both her hands upon his shoulder and looked 
up into his eyes. It would have been easier if she had begun in 
 
any other way than that. With her touch upon him, her eyes on 
his, her breath and soft voice so near, he could not play coldness. 
But he was strong still. 
His arms went round her swiftly and pressed her to him, and 
he kissed her as he had never kissed her before, three times in 
quick succession. Then he gently led her back to her chair and 
returned to his own place, standing as he had meant to do, to give 
himself more courage. She submitted wonderingly, without under- 
standing why he made her sit down, and for a few seconds neither 
spoke. At last he turned away from her and began to talk, look- 
ing at the window to avoid her eyes. 
' Hilda, a very terrible thing has happened, and I must explain 
it to you, in order that you may comprehend what I must do. 
Will you promise me to listen patiently and to forgive me before- 
hand for all I am going to say 2 ' 
'Yes,' answered the young girl rather faintly. The strong 
presentiment of evil had come upon her again, as it had come that 
day when he was leaving Greifenstein. She bent her head and 
covered her eyes with her hand, as though not to see the blow that 
was to descend, though she must feel its weight. It was all 
instinctive, for not the faintest thought of what he was going to 
say could ever have suggested itself to her mind. 
' Yes,' said Greif, ' it is very terrible. But I have come here 
to say it and I must say it all. You know what has happened. 
My poor mother is dead, and those who murdered her, have killed 
themselves my father and his half-brother. You did not know 
that I had an uncle ? ' 
Hilda shook her head, looking up for a moment. 
' He was a bad man, too,' continued Greif. * He had been an 
officer and had betrayed his trust in the times of revolution, 
was sentenced and imprisoned ; he escaped from the fortress, made 
his way to South America, and lived there for forty years in 
exile, until the amnesty was proclaimed. He was not Greifenstein, 
he was Rieseneck, half-brother to my father by the mother's side 
and younger than he. That was bad enough, however. It was 
the reason why my father lived here in the forest so quietly. He 
was afraid that people would remember he was Rieseneck's brother. 
You see, the affair made a great noise at the time. Your mother 
knows all about it. Well, it was hard enough, as I say, to have 
such a disgrace in the family. We did not know that Rieseneck 
had a son I found that my best friend his name is Rex is he.' 
' How strange ! ' exclaimed Hilda. ' Why is his name Rex ? ' 
' It is not, exactly. He and his father called themselves so in 
 
order not to be identified. It was almost necessary for them as 
it may be for me now.' 
' For you ? ' asked Hilda in the utmost astonishment. ' You 
would change your name why ? ' 
Greif stared at her. She seemed not to understand at all, and 
yet he had gone into Rieseneck's story merely to make his own 
seem more terrible by comparison. 
' You must know that, in the world, such calamities as have 
befallen me leave a mark, a stain even upon the innocent,' said 
Greif. ' The world looks askance at the sons of murderers.' 
' And are you afraid of the world, Greif,' asked Hilda. ' That 
is not like you. For the Riesenecks, well, I understand he 
was disgraced, condemned, imprisoned. But you ! It is like a 
dreadful story of the dark ages, but there is no shame in it, 
nothing to be ashamed of. It is terrible, awful, appalling, but 
you can hold your head as high as any one. Do you suppose it is 
the first tragedy that ever occurred in your family or in mine ? 
Did not old Sigmund strangle his own brother with his hands, 
here in this house, seven hundred years ago, and am I ashamed to 
call him my forefather ? ' 
'That is very different from what has happened to me,' 
answered Greif. ' You cannot understand, but the world judges 
according to its light. If I, the son of a man who murdered his 
wife and killed himself, were to present myself to any man of my 
own rank and ask him for his daughter in marriage I should 
receive a refusal, and perhaps an indignant one. I am not considered 
a fit person to marry an innocent girl of my class, I am stamped with 
a stained name, branded with the sign of others' crimes, ruined 
before my life is begun, cut off from happiness, from ambition, 
from you Hilda ! that is what I came to tell you I have 
spoken very badly it is best to say it clearly. My beloved, this 
has taken you from me, and me from you, and has cast me adrift 
from all that remained, from the greatest and best of all. If I 
could dare to marry you now, to give you my miserable name, to 
take you to the home that is darkened by so many deaths I 
should be the last and lowest of men ! It is of no use, for I feel 
it the only honourable thing left for me to do, in so much 
dishonour, is to leave you for ever and at once. If I were willing 
still to make you my wife you ought to despise me, and trample 
the memory of my love under foot as a vile thing. Hilda, 
Hilda ! it is death to me, but it is best for you.' 
The blow had fallen, and Hilda sat quite still in her place, 
covering her eyes with one hand, as she had done at first. All 
 
through his long preamble, she had felt that there was something 
dreadful to come, and now it had come indeed, in the shape she 
least expected, in the shape which of all others she would most 
have feared. She did not move, but the soft, fresh colour faded 
from her face, till it was whiter than the white hand she held 
before it. Greif looked at her, and his head swam. He thought 
neither of her suffering nor of his own, as the words came fast and 
incoherent from his pale lips. He went on, insisting, repeating, 
lamenting with the vehemence of a passionate man who has over- 
come all that is gentlest in himself and takes a savage delight in 
rending his own wounds. 
' It is done, and you know, now/ he cried bitterly. ' I have 
fought against myself, against every one, to do this thing do you 
think it is easy to give up such a love as you have been to me ? 
And yet, I would not take you, no, not if you pursued me across 
the world what right have I to you ? The right of loving better 
than anything God has made was ever loved before ? It is gone, 
that right, gone with my name, gone with all I once was, buried 
with my father and my mother in the old place beyond Greifenstein. 
Right ? I have no rights any longer neither to love, nor to hate, 
nor to be happy in the thought of love, nor of Hilda. And yet, 
in all the years to come, you will be with me. I cannot give up 
the right to remember you, and to think of your dear eyes. Ah, 
if it were but my own fault, how easy it would be to bear ! I 
wish I had wronged you you would thrust me from you it 
would help me at least, if I had done you harm, I could die for 
it, and that would be so easy arid simple, and would end all so well. 
I wish I had done some hideous, nameless deed with my own hands, 
