self with immortality, either as an advantage 
or a disadvantage, when his attention is con- 
centrated exclusively upon the fact that eter- 
nal life involves definite moral conditions. 
That it should imply, also, certain conditions 
of a very different sort is quite another mat- 
ter; that it should touch the intellect, the 
force, the good sense, or even the simple 
pluck of a man — this is to be regarded. We 
may be conquered through our pride, when we 
cannot be won through our conscience. He 
who does not find it any longer exciting to be 
told that he is not good enough to live for- 
ever, will scarcely hear without interest that 
he is not strong enough. Many of us would 
rather be called bad than weak. It is an arrest 
to the thoughtf ulness of any man but an 
inferior one to show him reason why he may be 
in the way of losing an obvious gain through 
inferiority. Precisely that, such a view of 
the struggle for immortality as we have sug- 
gested would undertake to show. 
In proportion to the force and vigor of the 
individual is the love of life, present and to 
come. Eternal life should be at least as 
much a test of power as temporal life. Indi- 
viduality means the acquisition of life; one 
rates one's self accordingly. To love life, to 
strike out for it, to overcome it, to insist on it, 
is strength. To fail of it is weakness. We 
do not stay just now to remind you that a 
pure heart, forgiven sin, consecrated deeds, are 
the conditions of immortality, and that a given 
being may miss of it by missing these ; we say 
only that he misses it because there is not 
enough of him, or because he does not make 
enough of himself to get it. He of the centri- 
fugal nature, w T hose mind works from within 
outward, moving in spirals about moral prob- 
lem s; who finds it easy to doubt accepted 
truths because of what strikes him repeatedly, 
at the same point, as the excess of his own 
originality — he will be reluctant to believe 
that he may be declining immortality simply 
because he is not man enough to have it. Yet, 
metaphysically as physically, the argument 
holds. He is thrust upon a battle-field, enor- 
mous and deadly. As for the bread of the 
body, so for the bread of the soul, he fights. 
As for life, love, success, fame, and the trifles 
of time, so for eternal hope, and its majes- 
tic possibilities, he shall be challenged. Is he 
a man ? Let him show his colors. Is he a sol- 
dier ? Ask for his scars. Does he hold his 
ground ? Does he shirk, desert, surrender, or 
fly ? Let him look to it. By so much as he 
is a force, he will keep the field. 
Retreat from the great effort of being to 
secure its own continuity, may have whatever 
moral aspects ; it is at least true that to re- 
treat is to be beaten ; that to be beaten is to 
be weak ; and that such weakness may be the 
last fate which has presented itself as probable 
to the type of soul most likely to succumb. 
For, let us notice, the struggle for immor- 
tality is not a simple and obvious affair. The 
armor and sabre, the powder and shot, are not, 
in fact, altogether the urgent and the tangible. 
The blood and dust and mortal cries 
may not be the apparent, or the audible ; and 
he who is hurled down 66 unable or to move or 
die," may give no sign. As with the silent 
defeats of life, so with its dumb victories. He 
needs the higher education in the deaf-mute 
language of the soul, who would apply his tac- 
tics to the estimate ; and his is the best mar- 
tial culture of the spirit which is most con- 
scious of its own unfitness to specialize that es- 
timate. But so much as this it is easy to see : 
as civilization refines, the intricacy and deli- 
cacy of the struggle for existence must refine 
with it ; and, that this is likely to be true of 
eternal as well as of temporal existence, the 
course of our argument has already suggested, 
and now finds itself obliged to emphasize. 
The struggle for eternal life is no light 
matter, like ladies' calisthenics, which exercise 
only certain muscles. The athletics of the 
soul are virile ; they are impartial ; they are 
not ornamental and fanciful. Development is 
demanded for use, not for exhibit. Tissue and 
sinew and blood and bone respond ; now this, 
now the other, urgency on one, relief of the 
other, pressure here, repose there, strain to-day, 
rest to-morrow, this faculty aroused, the other 
lulled, this feat to be performed, that danger 
scorned, a boy's medal won to-day, and a 
man's life saved next year ; thus the soul, in 
the hands of the Silent Trainer, grows in 
frame and fibre. Will we play battle-door 
and shuttle-cock for our prizes ? Or close and 
wrestle for them ? 
We have spoken of the evolution of a 
higher than the physical, from the physical 
science which holds so disproportionate, but 
none the less useful, an influence over the 
thought of the instructed world to-day. " We 
are spirits," said one of the coolest of scien- 
tific men, a century ago. " We are spirits. 
That bodies should be lent to us while they 
can afford us pleasure, assist us in acquiring 
knowledge, or in doing good to our fellow- 
creatures, is a kind and benevolent act of 
God." The practical Franklin showed his 
keen good sense in this matter-of-fact way 
of expressing a truth which is too often ap- 
proached upon the mystical and most difficult 
side. We are, indeed, spirit ; and we may, 
without hesitation, dispute so much as this 
with him who begins by saying that we are 
matter. It cannot be denied that we have at 
least as good a right to start with the one asser- 
tion, as he with the other. " I should never," 
says Elizabeth Peabody, " teach a child, " You 
have a soul,' but, ; You have a body.' " 
Let us then call the struggle for immortality 
an advanced form of the lower encounter. 
It is a struggle historic and dramatic, as it is 
involved and unconcluded. A man cannot 
fight this fight with part of his nature. It 
takes the whole of him. A stout fist avails 
him little without sound thought. He cannot 
gain the day by his intellect, lest he lose it on 
the side of his heart. Neither does emotion 
win without reflection, and hysteria is a poor 
weapon to substitute for common sense. We 
find at once, that we have approached herein 
a problem complex to the edge of mystery. 
For, there enters into this struggle a strange 
law of spiritual selection, differing from that 
governing the conflicts in the lower phases of 
organization, as fineness differs from momentum, 
the telephone from a war-cry, or the 
Flower Charity from the Inquisition. 
The conditions of immortality wholly refuse 
to rest upon the piers which hold the conditions 
of conquest in the life of time. Brute 
force ceases now to keep its relative value in 
this larger contest. There is what may be 
called a brute force of the mind, of which this 
is equally and terribly true. Sheer intellect 
has no greater chance at everlasting life than 
sheer muscle. Immortality is not promised by 
their Creator, to great men. Mere mincl holds 
no passport to eternity. There is no limited 
express to Paradise for able people. Goethe, 
for being Goethe, is none the more likely to 
last forever. Frederica, so far as we can see, 
stands quite as good, or a better chance. 
The law of spiritual selection would seem 
to be at once severe and delicate. The obscurest 
mother, transmitting a pure heart to her 
boys, never having heard of protoplasm, and 
knowing no philosophy beyond her prayers, 
may enter into this higher contention with an 
equipment which the discoverer of the missing 
link might envy. It is quite conceivable that 
the soul of a felon might survive the soul of a 
prince or a priest. The tests of the world fail. 
Fine causes, and finer sequences, enter the 
list. Who are we that we should win? What 
is our standard of success ? What the temper 
of our weapons ? We buy and sell, we woo 
and wed, we gain us a friend, or fame; and 
the stranger without our gates, or the servant 
under our feet, may be fighting for a soul's 
life where we are fooling with it, and may, 
therefore, be better worth life, and so the more 
likely to live. For law is but law, and spirit- 
ual law loses nothing of its grip for its gain in 
quality, and holds us none the less robustly be- 
cause of a touch so velvet. 
Suppose that this view be the true one. 
Suppose that he who wishes to live indefi- 
nitely, or always, is the subject of such law. 
Suppose that the complete and complex nature 
— physical, mental, moral, spiritual — be- 
comes, by an ascending scale of strain, the sol- 
dier in such a strife. Suppose that the ulti- 
mate atom of the permanent individual may 
prove to be the vigor or the honor of his con- 
science. Suppose that from this, as, in the 
physical case, from the cell of the embryo, the 
life of what we call a soul evolves. Suppose 
that the development of this spiritual cell-life 
is, to the requisite extent, under the control of 
the human will. Suppose that this development 
is governed by a just, or even a generous 
relativity to the environment which spiritual 
science is not yet advanced enough to formulate. 
Suppose that the grandest work performed 
by the physical science of our times 
should prove to be its contribution to such a 
spiritual science, and that such a spiritual 
seience is yet to become a matter of more or- 
derly, more manly, and more nearly universal 
acceptance, than any form of religious belief 
detached from natural research is now likely to 
command. Suppose that the revelation of fact 
and the revelation of faith are met together. 
Suppose that the progress of fact does not pro- 
ceed, as Spencer would have it, from evolution 
to dissolution, but from evolution through ap- 
parent dissolution to real evolution ; and that 
the splendid blossom of the greatest discovery 
of modern thought has as yet but begun to 
bud. 
We ask for this aloe, precious and perfect, 
in the name of reason, that it may be rooted 
in the hope of everlasting life, for which it is 
our honorable service to contend. 
We ask for this hope in the name of science, 
which has rendered unto nature the 
things that are nature's, but unwittingly unto 
God the things that are God's. The glory of 
the law moves on. The higher science has its 
prophets. Its scholars are to come. In an 
age when we are called upon to study " the 
sagacity and morality of plants," we may be 
justified in demanding an adaptation of sci- 
entific method to the fine fibres and hidden 
seed of the human spirit. 
If these things be so, the mind is dazzled 
by the vision of those future types of which 
both faith and science promise us so much. 
To what refinement and enforcement the high 
organizations of this present life may rise, he 
only can intelligently imagine who has the 
student's lens and the believer's eye. What 
man may be a century or two hence, what the 
average of nature with which he must contend, 
what the ideal by which he shall achieve superiority,
what, in short, the intensification of 
his entire form of strife with his conditions, 
it is only possible for us to guess by some 
conception of the fact of spiritual nature, and 
the nature of a science based upon that fact. 
What the select man, survivor of this or the 
future environment, may become in the life 
beyond, to what unimagined evolution he may 
be liable, through what supreme equilibration 
of power incapable of dissolution the rhythm 
of spiritual motion shall sweep him, who can 
say? 
Once again. We have spoken of the love 
of life as one of the constituent elements of 
life ; and, in this connection, we have observed
that death sets in with the passion for 
death. It is reasonable to suggest that in the 
higher, as in the lower life, the analogy holds. 
In the strife for eternal existence, it may be 
true that the amount of contending desire represents 
the amount of contending power ; that 
the love of eternal life, itself, bespeaks, to an 
extent, the capacity for it ; that the instincts 
or the impulses of belief are not without their 
significance, other things being equal, as salvable
agencies ; in short, that the longing to 
live forever not only carries with it the power 
to conquer the materials of duration, but indicates 
in a measure the force of the life-prin- 
ciple in the soul. A man may live forever 
because he loves his eternal life, and he loves 
his eternal life because he is to live forever. 
If, on the other hand, death sets in with the 
passion for death, may there be a significance 
invisible and invincible as a zymotic disease, 
in the reluctance to conquer immortality which 
is sometimes cultivated either as a conscious 
whim, or a supposed sign of mental strength ? 
Hume speaks, somewhere, of a " decline of 
soul." Side by side with what may be almost 
called devout unbelievers, we find men whose 
skepticism as to spiritual facts is a species of 
new game, a philosophical lawn-tennis, where- 
with to pass life's midsummer; and over against 
these, we find others still, by whom dispute 
with supernaturalism is rated as a synonym 
for force of character, and cultivated as an 
egotism rather than a consecration. May there 
not be among these cases of spiritual suicide ? 
Has he perhaps already begun to die in whom 
the tolerance of death is so indulgently regarded ? 
Is his life-principle already vitiated 
who can so idly court results which a sound 
and sane soul-vigor should abhor ? " Earnest- 
ness is the path of life," says the Dhamma- 
pada, " Thoughtlessness the path of death. 
Those who are in earnest do not die ; those 
who are thoughtless are as if dead already ! " 
Experts will tell us with what firmness, yet 
with what tenderness, the suicidal impulse is 
treated in hospitals for the insane ; how the 
unnatural passion for death is discouraged by 
exposing its unnaturalness, or by fostering 
the feeble love of life, if that be possible ; how 
gently the nature is aroused against itself; 
how surgically the diseased conditions are 
handled, and how, upon the chance of the sufferer's 
recognizing his pathological position, 
and approaching himself as his own patient, 
all his hope of cure may hang. 
It is by no means impossible that the sui- 
cidal nature of unbelief in a life to come, may 
yet find its soul-physicians in some psycholog- 
ical asylum of the future, wherein these dis- 
eases of the spirit shall be treated by a skill 
which must make our present methods of dealing
with them seem, by contrast, like the 
blood-letting and strait - jacket, the dungeons 
and the chains of the Dark Age. 
But once again : If these things be so, the 
familiar thought (even, as we have already 
seen, the familiar language) of the lower sci- 
ence has been the subject of a solemn uncon- 
scious selection in the service of that higher 
science of the soul to which we look. 
In the struggle for immortality, the position 
of the individual holds a curiously interesting 
attitude toward the elevated nature of his en- 
vironment. What is the insistence of individuality 
but the persistence of force ? Or what its 
victory but a conservation of energy ? What 
close economies there may be in spiritual 
agency, or what Law of Variation in spiritual 
inheritance, we know not. What is the 
protoplasm of spirit we can but guess. What 
supernatural selection may be at work upon 
us, we have yet to learn. 
And yet again : Supposing there to be any 
value in these thoughts, they go toward prov- 
ing the doctrine of the survival of the fittest 
a sublime and an inspired thing. If we have 
been thinking in the right direction, that is a 
doctrine which substantiates religious belief 
only less than religious belief substantiates it. 
The revelation of nature and the revelation 
of the Word confirm each other as respects 
this stimulating conception of the human 
problem. The old urgency of faith and the 
new impetus of science move upon the same 
pulley. 
Life is a proof of the power to live. Life 
is a proof of the qualification for life. We 
compete and strive, we yield or conquer, we 
adjust our individuality to our odds, we adjust 
our moral freedom to our individuality, we 
adjust our elemental love of duration to our 
moral freedom, and the lawful result abides. 
The spiritually weakest goes to the wall. The 
spiritually strongest conquers. He is the unfit 
who is beaten to death on the spiritual side of 
his nature. He is the fit survivor who saves 
his soul alive. 
What manner of man may he be who shall 
be found capable of the final survival ? Honest 
perplexity has its visions, and struggles toward 
them with noble discontent. Believing Chris- 
tianity points to her Nazarene and clings to 
the feet of the sweet and solemn ideal which 
he has carved like a statue in the world. 
Whether we have fixed our eyes upon the 
marble or the dream, the complicated nature 
of the struggle in which we are involved re- 
mains at least the one fact about which there 
can be no dispute. The finer we are, the more 
threads to our destinies. The stronger we are, 
the more strain upon our fibre. That first 
flaw of conduct which weakens our resistant 
power may find no steel fingers like those in 
the machinery of woolen-mills, which detect 
the defective threads and stop the weaving on 
the spot. 
Supernatural selection has what may be 
called an artistic task in dealing with human 
character. The materials of duration may be 
 
found in mere morality, or a martyr's fate ; 
they may pause at veracity, or fly to aspira- 
tion ; they may be sought in common human- 
ity, or hide in exalted consecration. 
Who shall say how the chance turns? At 
least, plainly, since law is justice, not against 
the paupers of heredity ; not against the poor 
devils of the world as opposed to their betters. 
Noblesse oblige in the aristocracy of nature as 
in that of accident, and the highly-born may 
run the highest risks. 
The man of many excellent qualities who 
protected himself at the expense of a woman 
— the woman of good intentions whose petty 
exactions defrauded a man of his best possibili- 
ties — might be beating the first retreat in the 
long struggle wherein the power of advance 
grows feeble faster than the consciousness of 
feebleness. The jocund entrance into the for- 
est of worldliness, wherein, before we know it, 
the soul has lost the trail — the thin coating 
of social courage which we take for moral 
armor, when it may be only a species of me- 
tallic paint — the rust of selfishness wrought 
by sorrow or disease, and worn like an orna- 
ment by our unconscious vanity — might be 
 
the sign of the weakness which should defeat 
us in the ultimate struggle for survival, under 
some tremendous moral emergency, or crushing 
spiritual strain. 
Our self-respect arises like a knight, " with- 
out fear and without reproach," to defend such 
a view of the appeal of human life to human 
strength. Magnificent and terrible that chal- 
lenge ! 
Is a man to be the weak, the worsted, the 
defective of nature ? Is he crippled, maimed, 
unable of soul ? Shall he surrender his chance 
at continuance for some inefficiency of tem- 
perament, or flabbiness of purpose, or lack of 
moral gentility ? Shall he yield to that slight 
tendency to be satisfied with an undertone in 
ideals, which may be the first step toward 
spiritual discord that must resist harmonizing 
unless in finer hands than his ? 
Shall he narcotize the nerve, or loll aw r ay 
the muscularity of a soul that had fitness in 
its power and survival at its bid ? 
All that he hath, will he not give for his 
life? 
The special ignorance of the generally edu- 
cated presents a tempting subject for study ; 
it might form the intellectual fad of a wearied 
scholar, with zest to himself and the public. 
There is a certain action of the mind, so swift 
and so easy that it might almost be called the 
toboggan tendency, to slide plump down into 
each recurrent delusion that makes a coasting- 
ground for society ; to pick itself up, find its 
bruises, climb up, and do it all over again with 
undiminished simplicity and ardor. Nowhere 
is this curious inaccuracy of civilized intelli- 
gence more evident than in questions dealing 
with religious interests. We are used to it 
even in the detail of narrative literature. 
When one of the leading authors of America, 
a few years ago, wrote of the " wardens " of 
an orthodox Congregational church, one need 
not care the less for his novels, but one might 
 
remember that lie would have found it diffi- 
cult to make an equivalent blunder upon any 
purely secular topic. So far as I know, only 
one reader, a clergyman, ever observed the 
slip. A brother novelist, of the same school, 
antedated the typewriter the other day, in 
a story, and half the critics in the country 
barked. 
The latest illustration of intellectual tobog- 
ganing lies easily in the history of the Russian 
dreamer, whose peculiarities have become the 
aesthetico-religious play-ground of the literary 
world. Tolstoi must allow himself the priv- 
ilege of many a veiled smile at the species of 
attention with which he has been honored. He 
is himself of far too sincere and strenuous a 
nature to comprehend the intellectual games 
for which he has furnished the open field. 
Shortly said, what is it that we have in the 
story of this interesting person and in his re- 
markable influence upon a certain phase of 
thought ? There is given to us a highly-edu- 
cated man with a consecrated conscience ; the 
world has known such before. He has ex- 
pressed views of truth protestant to a velvet- 
and - sealskin religion ; in this particular he 
 
does not stand alone. He has developed the 
genius of consistency; in this respect he is 
remarkable, but not original. He has tried 
to live the life of a Christian theorist ; in this 
regard he is to be reverenced ; he is not 
unique. 
The attempt to imitate the life of Christ is 
a very old experiment. It began in the del- 
icate nature of that preferred disciple whom 
we are told in literature older than " My Re- 
ligion " that the Founder of our religion 
" loved." A classic which critical culture has 
been accustomed to regard as not inferior to 
" Anna Karenina," some time since familiar- 
ized the world with principles which it might 
have missed, had it waited until such date as 
presented Count Leo Tolstoi's rising genius to 
the approval of American critics. 
Tolstoi is an earnest, intellectual man. He 
has written good books. He has lived a good 
life. He makes it his daily business to live a 
better. He has both the head and the heart 
to appreciate the supreme value of the per- 
sonality of Jesus Christ, and he has the inde- 
pendence to pursue his own interpretation of 
that transcendent life in his own way. For 
 
this he is to be admired and respected — to be 
studied, if you like. He is the latest prom- 
inent specimen of a clean departure from the 
trite in faith. 
But any educated Christian knows that the 
history of his belief presents examples of 
courage as devout, of self-sacrifice as fine, of 
consecration as stimulating, of life as Christ- 
like. We are not sure that it would be im- 
possible to find instances of interpretative 
vigor in the application of Christianity to 
affairs as worthy the attention of the realistic 
school of fiction. Even in flitting from one 
sentence to another, the mind carries flash- 
light pictures of dedicated lives dear to Chris- 
tian memory. We see the soul of Luther dar- 
ing the world — " Here I stand. I cannot 
otherwise. God help me. Amen " ; Frederick 
Robertson, popular preacher of a fashionable 
church in which the undergraduates of Oxford 
stood packed to hear him, walking the streets 
by night, a sick, a dying man, to save the 
fallen women of Brighton ; Dorothea Triidel, 
healing the sick of Switzerland with no ma- 
teria medica but that of a consecrated life and 
awful prayer; Elizabeth Frye, " visiting" her 
Master "in prison," and Christianizing the 
penal system of the world. We recall those 
select spirits who, at any cost, stood pledged 
to protect the fugitive slave of our own coun- 
try, presenting himself with the historic pass- 
word, u I was a stranger, and ye took me in." 
We speak below our breath with reverence 
the name of Father Damien, that Christian 
priest who elected to take up his abode upon 
the leper-island of the Sandwich group, and 
there, a leper, died. We see with blinding 
eyes obscure homes that we have known, in 
which are the saintly sick, the voluntary poor, 
the neighborhood nurse ; men and women who 
do not know worldly ambition when they look 
at it ; who have consumed life in an unre- 
corded passion of self-sacrifice that shames our 
parlors, that shames our libraries, that shames 
our pillows, that shames our literature, and 
that shames our pulpits "for Christ's sake, 
Amen." 
Now this Russian enthusiast, who flits from 
a shoemaker's bench to the manuscripts of 
his novels, may be far above most of us in 
his theory and practice of personal holiness ; 
this does not affect the circumstance that his 
 
standard has been equaled or excelled by bet- 
ter Christians than we are, and that the kind 
of religious deference which he has excited 
upon the part of literary criticism is in fact 
the result of imperfectly-trained vision. It is 
really nothing more than deficient education 
which has put this heavy emphasis upon the 
Sclavic idealist. We are not often reminded, 
but we cannot remember too often, that our 
critics, as a class, are not religious men, and 
that facts familiar to many minds of other- 
wise less general culture than the litterateur 
is supposed to possess, may easily be found 
out of his orbit. At the death of M. Leon 
Gozlan, no member of his family could tell 
whether he had professed the Jewish or the 
Christian religion, although he had written 
twenty volumes and fifteen comedies, and had 
edited ten newspapers. The specific ignorance 
of the irreligious intellect is natural ; it is 
almost inevitable. Our culture follows the 
line of our sympathies. A mistake now and 
then is to be expected. What is called the 
faith of the higher life has not failed to find 
disciples in intellectual circles which have wel- 
comed as " some new thing " the enthusiasm 
older than Madame Guyon, as old as the first 
Oriental dreamer who concentrated his being 
upon the mystic OM, or projected his willing 
soul toward Nirvana. There is something 
very suggestive in the tendency of a certain 
class of educated minds to find religious in- 
spiration anywhere except in the forms ac- 
cepted by the mass of Christian believers. In 
our day, spiritualism has found amazing vic- 
tims — not of the unlearned ; theosophy, in- 
credible adherents — not of the ignorant. It 
has proved more interesting that Koot Hoomi 
should appear in mid-ocean with a letter from 
India, than that Paul should be caught into 
the third heaven. Many a mind has gone rev- 
erently mad over Mozoomdar, which found no 
spiritual impetus in the Gospel of John. A 
man in New York capped the climax by sac- 
rificing an ox to Jupiter in his back-parlor. 
Now, it seems to us that the Tolstoi mania 
is, in part, another form of the same tendency. 
Canon Farrar has so well pointed out, in an 
earlier number of the " Forum," the antiquity 
of the Tolstoian experiment, that nothing re- 
mains to be said by way of historical foot-note 
upon that point. Our Russian noble is a 
 
noble Russian, but he is not the originator 
of the faith. He may be even a little of a 
u crank " in certain particulars, though that 
is an accusation so common to the history of 
an audacious soul that one dare not make it 
flippantly. But this goes for nothing when 
realism turns its microscope upon him. The 
amount of it all seems to be that Tolstoi has 
simply, for the time, made religion fashion- 
able. He has given belief prestige. One 
would suppose that he had discovered the 
Founder of the Christian religion. He has 
bestowed eclat upon the message of God to 
the world. He has revived an ancient and 
neglected publication. He has put the New 
Testament upon editorial tables. He has made 
the Saviour of mankind so " realistic " that 
art can afford to recognize him. He has, in 
short, introduced Jesus Christ to exclusive lit- 
erary circles. 
Some months since, snow fell in Charleston, 
South Carolina. A few faint flakes trembled 
down like falling stars. They were said to be 
the first for twenty years. Alert young eyes 
looked at them for the first time in their lives. 
Men ran out into the streets and caught the 
melting wonder on their coat-sleeves, on their 
hands ; they called to each other and exhibited 
the marvel excitedly. Aged shop-keepers came 
out of their doors and snatched at specimens. 
There may have been fifty flakes. The beauti- 
ful rime was the wonder of the moment and 
melted with it. A literary view of Christ is 
a passing play. It is phenomenal like the 
snow-flake of the South. It drops into grace- 
ful hands outstretched for the last fine fancy ; 
it is overturned in them, and studied, and pret- 
tily discussed — and melts in them to make 
room for the next highly-crystallized wonder. 
When we come to the heart of the matter, 
it is not " Launcelot nor another " that is in 
question. It occurs to us in the course of time 
that Tolstoi is not the Redeemer of the world 
and Mr. Howells his prophet. Show us the 
Greek scholar who takes his Plato in transla- 
tion, and we show you the Christian who takes 
his Christ at second-hand. After all, it is the 
superb directness of Tolstoi which has given 
such passing importance to his views. Some- 
body in the world usually recognizes an honest 
man. It is always interesting to be straight- 
forward. The Russian has gone sharp to the 
 
mark. He read his Christ in the original. 
In our day this practice is out of date. When 
we have done as much, we may be equipped 
so far as to become counselors-at-la\v of the 
Christian faith. Until we have, any fanatic 
who has, may be our superior in the practical 
graces of Christianity. It is possible that the 
Lord would not now require a wealthy fol- 
lower to make shoes, and seclude that amount 
of trade from the shoemaker ; but the disci- 
ple who does it " in his name," is by simple 
virtue of the beautiful logic of self-denial an 
attorney for the truth who goes far to win the 
case. A man may swallow the Nicene Creed, 
and digest the Thirty-nine Articles, but not 
be fit to black the last boot made by the ama- 
teur shoemaker who has swept the " chord of 
self in music out of sight," in the ardent 
struggle to discover what Jesus Christ really 
meant by the world and what it is the world's 
duty to do about it. Making every allowance 
for the proportion of delusion or alienated 
good sense in Tolstoi, he is probably closer 
than most of us to the principles of Chris- 
tianity. His sincerity, his simplicity and 
unselfishness, penetrated by his commanding 
intelligence, have done spiritual service with 
which his renewal of an ancient interpretative 
experiment was in useful harmony. His is a 
consecrated intelligence. The world never fails 
to respond to that. 
Meanwhile, there is no doubt about it, we 
are pitiably muddled about the whole Chris- 
tian idea. The religion of Jesus has devas- 
tated itself with practical blunders enough to 
have destroyed a less robust faith or one of 
lower origin. We may paraphrase the cele- 
brated cry of Madame Roland : " Oh Chris- 
tianity ! Christianity ! How many crimes are 
committed in thy name ! " The central figure 
of human history, the Galilean has founded a 
faith upon which he distinctly urges that the 
survival of the soul depends. Yet, after two 
thousand years of Christian culture, our practi- 
cal results are not unlike the Russian peasant's 
view of the Trinity — " The Saviour, Mother 
of God, and St. Nicholas." Considered as the 
disciples of a religion representing the awful 
claim of Christianity, we are surprisingly dis- 
integrated by those vagaries and weaknesses 
which defeat unity and organization. We are 
corroded by worldliness of heart. We are im- 
 
prisoned in narrowness of intellect. We are 
disgraced by a defective humanity. 
The essential principles of Jesus Christ 
seem to be reduced to three. The first of 
these is the imperious demand for a personal 
consecration to right, so select, so severe, so 
lofty, and so sustained that it is to be com- 
prehended only through achievement. Far 
beyond our brightest fact we see it shining in 
a dazzling mist, as one sees the outline of the 
Celestial City in that old engraving setting 
forth the course of Bunyan's Pilgrim — the 
one supreme ideal of the earth. Who was 
Christ ? A carpenter become a rabbi — what 
we should call a " self - made " itinerant 
preacher. What has he done? Guided the 
conscience and created the hope of the w r orld. 
How did he do it ? By personal holiness noth- 
ing less than awful. To study this highly- 
sensitized nature even as an intellectual ex- 
ercise, for an hour, is to breathe rarefied air. 
We descend from it, panting, as one does from 
a great poem or a mountain. What would be 
the effect of a thorough moral assimilation of 
this delicate atmosphere ? What refinement of 
the sensibility ! What nutrition of the soul ! 
What sacred fire to the brain ! What spiritual 
courtliness to the conduct ! 
What do Christian believers undertake ? 
Simply the imitation of the most intense life 
the world has known. An acute absorption 
in the process would seem to be logically nec- 
essary. Most of us go about it as we go to a 
matinee where the programme is too familiar. 
What does the Founder of our religion de- 
mand ? Absolutely, the surrender of personal 
preference to his theory of life. Yet the last 
thing which we seem likely to do is to agree 
upon his theory. Whatever else it is not, it 
is at least, beyond dispute, a theory of breath- 
less self-sacrifice. One of the greatest Pagans 
of our day has said : " What I look to, is the 
time when the impulse to help our fellows 
shall be as immediate and as irresistible as 
that which I feel to grasp something if I am 
falling." In such a conception of life, call it 
by what name we will, " Jesus of Nazareth 
passeth by." The Christian doctrine is in 
many cases most vividly expressed by an out- 
sider, perhaps because he takes a fresher view 
of it. A sensible religious writer has put it 
in this way : — 
 
" The Christian law is the law of love. Whoever 
puts the rules of art above the law of love is a 
Pagan. He who habitually seeks to gratify his 
own tastes rather than to do good to all men as he 
has opportunity, is not a Christian but a Pagan." 
Now, whatever else he was or was not, and 
whatever he meant or did not mean, Jesus 
Christ was essentially an unworldly man. The 
question is not, Are we all to become evangel- 
ists, and pool our property, and allow our- 
selves to be thrashed by bullies ? Shall Beacon 
Street adopt the table manners of Caper- 
naum ? Shall the talUJi of Palestine be made 
the fashion in the New England climate ? 
The question is, What would the Founder of 
our faith do in our situation ? Have we got at 
the sense of it ? Have we applied Christian- 
ity? Have we made a science of the divine 
art whose principles he impersonated ? Have 
we the genius of self-sacrifice ? Have we the 
passion of unworldliness ? 
There is a fruit-market in Boston which has 
existed for thirty years upon the whims of the 
rich. Hamburg grapes at ten dollars a pound 
are regularly in stock. In the winter, straw- 
berries and asparagus sell easily at three dol- 
lars a box or a bunch. When the first Florida 
berries come, thirteen in a cup, at four dollars 
a cup, parties are supplied. One hundred and 
twenty-five dollars' worth of fruit to a single 
order causes the dealer no surprise. 
A Chinese vase of sang de boeuf finds a 
purchaser comfortably at five thousand dol- 
lars. The famous peach-blow vase was sold 
for fourteen thousand. A mantelpiece costing 
five thousand dollars is no startling feature 
in our homes. The catalogue price of Ivan- 
Romanoff, the Siberian wolf-hound, in the last 
New York dog-show, was ten thousand dol- 
lars. A horse sold the other day for fifty 
thousand, and a distinguished philanthropist 
pronounced him " cheap at that." There is 
a single stone slab valued at forty thousand 
dollars, laid in front of a well-known private 
dwelling in New York. It is no uncommon 
thing to give fifty thousand dollars for a rac- 
ing-yacht ; the average cost of repairs or im- 
provements on such a boat, while in dock be- 
tween regattas, would maintain an economical 
family for a year. One thousand dollars a 
week for the support of a cruising-boat is a 
familiar figure. Twenty thousand dollars for 
 
a woman's dress is not an unknown price. 
The jewelry of our ladies has reached such 
value that they dare not wear their gems ; 
such pricelessness is sewn into invisible seams 
that female fashion on a summer tour is a 
temptation to a train wrecker. It is a well- 
known fact that many families have aban- 
doned the use of their silver, which finds a 
lodging in a safe deposit vault, while the din- 
ner-table is decorated, and the burglar defied, 
with plated ware. It is perfectly understood 
that paste rests upon fair bosoms, while the 
diamond glitters at the banker's. Some years 
since it was found that the expenditure for 
the maintenance of the royal stables exceeded 
the entire sum set apart for public education 
in Great Britain. The Bishop of Manchester 
once read to his congregation the following 
passage, saying that he had received it from 
a young lady who wished to know what time 
there was in her life for Christian work : — 
" We breakfast about ten. Breakfast occupies 
the best part of an hour, during which we read our 
letters and pick up the latest news in the papers. 
After that we have to go and answer our letters, 
and my mother expects me to write her notes of 
invitation or to reply to such. Then I have to go 
into the conservatory and feed the canaries and 
parrots, and cat off the dead leaves and faded 
flowers from the plants. Then it is time to dress 
for lunch, and at two o'clock we lunch. At three 
my mother likes me to go with her when she makes 
her calls, and we then come home to a five-o'clock 
tea, when some friends drop in. After that we get 
ready to take our drive in the park, and then we go 
home to dinner ; and after dinner we go to the 
theatre or the opera ; and then when we get home 
I am so dreadfully tired that I don't know what 
to do." 
" It 's not the rents I look to," said the 
undertaker-landlord of a wretched tenement 
block in London to Octavia Hill; "it's the 
deaths I get out of the houses." Some years 
ago fashionable New York did penance by a 
spurt of charity in the then famous case of 
James Howard, an industrious, sober, honest 
American, who threw a stone into a plumber's 
window, and stole a few brass faucets to buy 
bread for children who were starving, and for 
a wife dying of consumption. For a few 
days the unsavory street where he lived 
glittered with liveried carriages, whose occupants 
 
amused themselves by playing My Lady Bountiful
to that astounded family, and then rolled 
away to the next new scene in the private 
theatricals of gay life. 
In a New England town the other day, a 
newsboy, hardly higher than the platform, was 
run over by a horse - car and fatally hurt. 
What did this self-supporting baby of six 
years, when writhing in the last agonies of a 
terrible death ? He called piteously for his 
mother. To shriek upon her breast ? That she 
might clasp him while the surgeon worked ? 
To give her his day's earnings. " I 've saved 
'em mother," he cried. "I 've saved 'em all. 
Here they are." When his little clenched, 
dirty hand fell rigid, it was found to contain 
four cents. . 
The city of Detroit may yet remember the 
case of " Gertie," which touched the press of 
the country at the time. A passer through 
Clinton Street one day observed a little Irish 
boy hiding in a door-way and crying. A sym- 
pathetic inquiry brought to light one of the 
most exquisite stories ever recorded of the sick 
poor. In a wretched cellar a little girl of ten 
lay very ill. The window-panes were broken 
(it was March, by the way) and variously 
stuffed. For one pane the supply of tenement 
upholstery had given out. The wind and the 
boys looked in easily. Just within range of 
curious eyes the cot of the sick child was 
stretched. The gamins of Clinton Street dis- 
covered her plight. One little fellow dropped 
an orange through the broken glass ; a plain- 
tive voice thanked the unseen giver gratefully. 
This touching mercy became the fashion in 
that poor neighborhood. Every day saw the 
cubs of the street cuddling like cossets outside 
that window. Wisps of evergreen swept out 
of florists' doors, broken flowers thrown away, 
offerings of fruit with the decayed part cut 
out — every delicacy for the sick that the re- 
sources of Clinton Street admitted of, went 
through that broken pane. One little fellow 
begged a bunch of frozen Malaga grapes from 
a dealer, to whom he offered his ragged cap 
in payment. One day the boys said, "Our 
Gertie is dead," and the Christian street-boys 
became the mourners behind the hearse of the 
starved and frozen child. 
Now, can any of us dare to say that a state 
of civilization in which such things are not 
 
only possible, but in which such extremes of 
human ease and misery are tolerated as the 
necessary conditions of society, represents the 
Christianity of Christ ? Says Isaac Taylor : — 
" To insure its large purpose of good - will to 
man, the law of Christ spreads out its claims very 
far beyond the circle of mere pity or natural kind- 
ness, and in absolute and peremptory terms de- 
mands for the use of the poor, the ignorant, the 
wretched — and demands from every one who 
names the name of Christ — the whole residue of 
talents, wealth, time that may remain after primary 
claims have been satisfied." 
I do not forget that we are thought to be 
the most charitable people on the face of the 
earth. I do not forget the vast machinery of 
our public relief and the reputable organiza- 
tion of our church benevolence, nor the dew 
of our private mercies ; but, taking us at our 
highest, and our attempts to live the un- 
worldly life at their strongest, and the entire 
pitiful result at its best, I wonder that the 
Lord of the Christian religion does not whip 
us out of our bric-a-brac lives, and the whole 
temple of humanity that we have degraded, 
with the fine lash of his holy scorn. 
Next to the personal consecration of Christ, 
we come upon the fundamental principle of 
his superb liberality. It would be incredible, 
if it were not so familiar a fact as to give a 
trite thought, that the followers of this gen- 
erous-hearted Leader should have squarely 
turned their backs upon his precept and per- 
formance in this regard. Bigotry may be 
called the ecclesiastical vice, as worldliness is 
the personal one of the Christian cultus. Shel- 
ley and Leigh Hunt, talking together once, 
in their light, literary way, made this mem- 
orable concession to Christianity : " What 
might not this religion do, if it relied on char- 
ity, not on creed ? " The worst of it is, that 
the progress of time, which, after all, does 
something for most of us in most respects, 
does not seem to have advanced us radically 
in this. The Inquisition changes its basis, 
that is all. A child inquired with terror, 
on first hearing of the Andover controversy, 
" Are they heretics, Mamma ? Will they be 
burned ? " For the rack and the molten Vir- 
gin, we have the ordination service and the 
examination before the Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions. The torture by 
 
insomnia has only taken on a finer phase. A 
good man who is not sure that the Bible in- 
sists upon belief in everlasting damnation as a 
condition of reliable character, is pronounced 
unfit to teach to cannibals the elements of 
Christian courtesy. There is no doubt that 
young men of the finest dedication and most 
original disposition of thought are warned out 
of our pulpits to-day by the theological tor- 
ture-chamber through which a virile conscience 
must pass before the authority of the church 
