getting home appeared.

The day was showery, and no party was setting off for the famous drive
along the Cornice road.  Tino was glad of it, and went to lie on a bench
at the café where he had often been with Luigi.  His head ached, and his
cough left him no peace, so he spent some of his money in syrup and
water to quell the trouble, and with the rest paid for a good dinner and
supper.

He told his sad tale to the cook, and was allowed to sleep in the
kitchen after scrubbing saucepans to pay for it.  But no one wanted him;
and in the morning, after a cup of coffee and a roll he found himself
cast upon the world again.  He would not beg, and as dinner time
approached, hunger reminded him of a humble friend whom he had forgotten
in his own days of plenty.

He loved to stroll along the beach, and read the names on the boats
drawn up there, for all were the names of saints; and it was almost as
good as going to church to read the long list of Saint Brunos, Saint
Francises, and Saint Ursulas. Among the fishermen was one who had always
a kind word for the lad, who enjoyed a sail or a chat with Marco
whenever nothing better turned up to amuse his leisure hours.  Now in
his trouble he remembered him, and went to the beach to ask help, for he
felt ill as well as sad and hungry.

Yes, there sat the good fellow eating the bread and macaroni his little
daughter had brought for his dinner, and a smile welcomed poor Tino as
he sat down beside this only friend to tell his story.

Marco growled in his black beard and shook his knife with an awful frown
when he heard how the lad had been deserted.  Then he smiled, patted
Tino’s back, thrust the copper basin of food into one hand and a big
lump of the brown-bread into the other, inviting him to eat in such a
cordial way that the poor meal tasted better than the dainty fare at the
hotel.

A draught of red wine from the gourd cheered Tino up, as did the good
and kind words, and when Marco bade him go home with little Manuela to
the good wife, he gladly went, feeling that he must lie down somewhere,
his head was so giddy and the pain in the breast so sharp.

Buxom Teresa received him kindly, put him straight to bed in her own
boy’s little room, laid a cool cloth on his hot head, a warm one on his
aching chest, and left him to sleep, much comforted by her motherly
care.  It was well the good soul befriended him, for he needed help
sorely, and would have fared ill if those humble folk had not taken him
in.

For a week or two he lay in Beppo’s bed burning with fever, and when he
could sit up again was too feeble to do anything but smile gratefully
and try to help Manuela mend nets. Marco would hear of no thanks,
saying, "Good deeds bring good luck.  Behold my haul of fish each day
thou hast been here, poverino! I am well paid, and Saint Peter will
bless my boat for thy sake."

Tino was very happy in the little dark, shabby house that smelt of
onions, fish, and tar, was full of brown children, and the constant
clack of Teresa’s lively tongue as she gossiped with her neighbors, or
fried polenta for the hungry mouths that never seemed filled.

But the time came when Tino could go about, and then he begged for work,
anxious to be independent and earn a little so that in the spring he
could go home without empty pockets.

"I have taken thought for thee, my son, and work warm and easy is ready
if thou wilt do it. My friend Tommaso Neri, makes the good macaroni near
by.  He needs a boy to mind the fire and see to the donkey who grinds
below there.  Food, shelter, and such wages as thou art able to earn, he
will give thee.  Shall it be?"

Tino gratefully accepted, and with hearty embraces all round went off
one day to see his new place.  It was in the old part of Nice, a narrow,
dirty street, a little shop with one window full of the cheaper sorts of
this favorite food of all Italians, and behind the shop a room where an
old woman sat spinning while two little boys played with pine cones and
pretty bits of marble at her feet.

A fat jolly man, with a shining face and loud voice, greeted Marco and
the lad, saying he "was worn to a thread with much work, since that bad
imp of a donkey-boy had run away leaving the blessed macaroni to spoil,
and poor Carmelita to perish for want of care. Come below at once, and
behold the desolation of the place."

With that he led the way to the cellar, where a small furnace-fire
burned, and an old gray donkey went round and round, turning a wheel
which set some unseen machinery in motion with a dismal creaking sound.
Down through many holes in one part of the wooden floor overhead came
long pipes of macaroni, hardening as they hung quivering in the hot air
till stiff enough to be cut off in handfuls and laid to dry on wire
trays over the furnace.

Tino had never seen the good macaroni made before, and was much
interested in the process, though it was of the rudest kind.  In a room
upstairs a great vat of flour and water was kept stirring round and
round and forced down to the place below by the creaking wheel which
patient Carmelita turned all day.  The cellar was dark but warm; and
Tino felt that it would be comfortable there with the old donkey for a
comrade, jolly Tommaso for a master, and enough to eat,--for it was
evident the family lived well, so plump and shining were all the faces,
so cheery the tempers of the old women and little lads.

There Marco left him, well satisfied that he had done his best for the
poor boy; and there Tino lived for three months, busy, well fed, and
contented, till spring sunshine made him long for the sweet air, the
green fields, and dear faces at Valrose.  Tommaso was lazy but kind, and
if the day’s work was done in time, let Tino out to see Marco’s children
or to run on the beach with little Jacopo and Seppi.  The grandmother
gave him plenty of rye bread, thin wine, and macaroni fried in oil; old
Carmelita learned to love him and to lean her gray head on his shoulder
with joyful waggings of her long ears as he caressed her, and each week
increased the little hoard in an old shoe hidden behind a beam.

But it was a dull life for a boy who loved music, flowers, light, and
freedom; and he soon grew tired of seeing only a procession of legs go
by the low windows level with the street; the creak of the wheel was not
half so welcome as the brisk rattle of the mill at home, and the fat
little lads always climbing over him could not be so dear as sister
Stella and pretty Annina, the wine-maker’s daughter, at Valrose. Even
the kind old woman who often saved an orange for him, and gave him a gay
red cotton handkerchief on his birthday, was less to his taste than
Mariuccia, who adored him in spite of her scolding and stern ways.

So he looked about for travellers going to Genoa; and one happy day as
he returned from church, he saw, sitting under two red umbrellas before
two easels beside the road, the two elderly ladies of the hotel.  Both
wore brown hats like mushrooms; both had gray curls bobbing in the wind;
and both were painting away for dear life, trying to get a good sketch
of the ruined gateway, where passion-flowers climbed, and roses nodded
through the bars.

Tino stopped to look, as many another passer-by had done; and glancing
up to see if he admired their work, the good ladies recognized their
"Saint John," as they called the pretty boy who had vanished before they
could finish the pictures they had begun of him.

They were so glad to see him that he opened his heart to them, and found
to his great joy that in a week they were to drive to Genoa, and would
gladly take him along if he would sit to them meantime.  Of course he
agreed, and ran home to tell his master that he must go. Tommaso
bewailed his loss, but would not keep him; and as Marco’s son Beppo was
willing to take his place till another lad could be found, Tino was free
to sit in a sheepskin for the Misses Blair as often as they liked.

It was a very happy week; and when the long-desired day came at last,
Tino was so gay he danced and sang till the dingy cellar seemed to be
full of birds in high spirits.  Poor Carmelita gratefully ate the
cabbage he gave her as a farewell offering; the old woman found her box
full of her favorite snuff; and each small boy grew more shiny than ever
over a new toy presented by Tino.  Tommaso wept as he held him in his
fat arms, and gave him a bundle of half-baked macaroni as a reward for
his faithful service, while Marco and all his family stood at the hotel
door to see the carriage depart.

"Really quite like a wedding, with all those orange-flowers and roses,"
said Miss Priscilla, as Teresa and Manuela threw great bunches of
flowers into their laps, and kissed their hands to the departing
travellers.

Sitting proudly aloft, Tino waved his old hat to these good friends till
he could see them no more, then having, with some difficulty, bestowed
his long bundle from Tommaso, his basket of fish from Marco, his small
parcel of clothes, and the immense bouquet the children had made for
him, he gave himself up to the rapture of that lovely April day.

The kind ladies had given him a new suit of clothes like the old ones,
and paid him well besides; so he felt quite content with the picturesque
peasant garments he wore, having had enough of fine feathers, and gayly
jingled the money in his pocket, though it was not the fortune he had
foolishly hoped to make so easily.  He was a wiser boy than the one who
went over that road six months before, and decided that even if his
voice did come back in time, he would be in no hurry to leave home till
he was sure it was the wisest thing to do. He had some very serious
thoughts and sensible plans in his young head, and for a time was silent
and sober.  But soon the delicious air, the lovely scenery, and the many
questions of the ladies raised his spirits, and he chattered away till
they stopped for dinner.

All that long bright day they drove along the wonderful road, and as
night fell, saw Valrose lying green and peaceful in the valley as they
paused on the hill-top to enjoy its beauty. Then they went slowly down
to the Falcone, and the moment the luggage was taken in, rooms secured,
and dinner ordered, Tino, who had been quivering with impatience, said
eagerly,--

"Dear signoras, now I go to my own people to embrace them; but in the
morning we come to thank you for your great kindness to me."

Miss Priscilla opened her mouth to send some message; but Tino was off
like an arrow, and never stopped till he burst into the little kitchen
where Mariuccia sat shelling dry beans, and Stella was packing
mandarinas in dainty baskets for market.  Like an affectionate little
bear did the boy fall upon and embrace the two astonished women; while
Stella laughed and cried, and Mariuccia called on all the saints to
behold how tall and fat and beautiful her angel had become, and to thank
them for restoring him to their arms.  The neighbors rushed in; and till
late that night there was the sound of many voices in the stone cottage
under the old fig-tree.

Tino’s adventures were listened to with the deepest interest, and a very
hearty welcome given him.  All were impressed with the splendors he had
seen, afflicted by his trials, and grateful for his return.  No one
laughed or reproached, but regarded him as a very remarkable fellow, and
predicted that whether his voice came back or not, he was born for good
luck and would prosper.  So at last he got to bed in the old loft, and
fell asleep with the same friendly moon looking in at him as it did
before, only now it saw a quiet face, a very happy heart, and a
contented boy, glad to be safe again under the humble roof that was his
home.

Early next morning a little procession of three went to the Falcone
bearing grateful offerings to the dear signoras who sat on the portico
enjoying the balmy air that blew up from the acres of flowers below.
First came Tino, bearing a great basket of the delicious little oranges
which one never tastes in their perfection unless one eats them fresh
from the tree; then Stella with two pretty boxes of perfume; and
bringing up the rear, old Mariuccia with a blue jar of her best honey,
which like all that of Valrose was famous.

The ladies were much delighted with these gifts, and promised to stop
and see the givers of them on their return from Genoa, if they came that
way.  Tino took a grateful farewell of the good souls; Stella kissed
their hands, with her dark eyes full of tender thanks, and Mariuccia
begged the saints to have them in their special keeping by land and by
sea, for their kindness to her boy.

An hour later, as the travellers drove down the steep road from the
village, they were startled by a sudden shower of violets and roses
which rained upon them from a high bank beside the path.  Looking up,
they saw Tino and his sister laughing, waving their hands, and tossing
flowers as they called in their musical language,--

"A rivederla, signoras!  Grazia, grazia!" till the carriage rolled round
the corner looking as if it were Carnival-time, so full was it of
fragrant violets and lovely roses.

"Nice creatures! how prettily they do things! I hope we shall see them
again; and I wonder if the boy will ever be famous.  Such a pity to lose
that sweet voice of his!" said Miss Maria, the younger of the sisters,
as they drove along in a nest of sweet and pretty gifts.

"I hope not, for he will be much safer and happier in this charming
place than wandering about the world and getting into trouble as these
singers always do.  I hope he will be wise enough to be contented with
the place in which his lot is cast," answered Miss Priscilla, who knew
the world and had a good old-fashioned love for home and all it gives
us.

She was right; Tino was wise, and though his voice did come back in
time, it was no longer wonderful; and he was contented to live on at
Valrose, a busy, happy, humble gardener all his life, saying with a
laugh when asked about his runaway adventures,--

"Ah, I have had enough of music and macaroni; I prefer my flowers and my
freedom."




[Illustration: "Fortunately aunty came down in time to see what was
going on, and found Lu busily buttoning the waterproof."--PAGE 152.]



                                  VI.

                         THE LITTLE RED PURSE.


Among the presents which Lu found on her tenth birthday was a pretty red
plush purse with a steel clasp and chain, just like mamma’s, only much
smaller.  In it were ten bright new cents, that being the sum Lu
received each week to spend as she liked.  She enjoyed all her gifts
very much; but this one seemed to please her even more than the French
doll in blue silk, the pearl ring, or "Alice in Wonderland,"--three
things which she had wanted for a long time.

"It is so cunning, and the snap makes such a loud noise, and the chain
is so nice on my arm, and the plush so red and soft, I can’t help loving
my dear little purse.  I shall spend all the money for candy, and eat it
every bit myself, because it is my birthday, and I must celebrate it,"
said Lu, as she hovered like a bee round a honey-pot about the table
where the gifts were spread.

Now she was in a great hurry to go out shopping, with the new purse
proudly carried in her small fat hand.  Aunty was soon ready, and away
they went across the pleasant Park, where the pretty babies were
enjoying the last warm days of autumn as they played among the fallen
leaves.

"You will be ill if you eat ten cents’ worth of candy to-day," said
aunty.

"I ’ll sprinkle it along through the day, and eat each kind seppyrut;
then they won’t intersturb me, I am sure," answered Lu, who still used
funny words, and always got interrupt and disturb rather mixed.

Just then a poor man who had lost his legs came creeping along with a
tray of little flower-pots to sell.

"Only five cents, miss.  Help an unfortnit man, please, mum."

"Let me buy one for my baby-house.  It would be sweet.  Cora Pinky May
would love to have that darling little rose in her best parlor," cried
Lu, thinking of the fine new doll.

Aunty much preferred to help the poor man than to buy candy, so the
flower-pot was soon bought, though the "red, red rose" was unlike any
ever seen in a garden.

"Now I ’ll have five cents for my treat, and no danger of being ill,"
said Lu, as they went on again.

But in a few moments a new beggar appeared, and Lu’s tender heart would
not let her pass the old woman without dropping two of her bright cents
in the tin cup.

"Do come to the candy-place at once, or I never shall get any," begged
Lu, as the red purse grew lighter and lighter every minute.

Three sticks of candy were all she could buy, but she felt that she
could celebrate the birthday on that, and was ready to go home and begin
at once.

As they went on to get some flowers to dress the cake at tea-time, Lu
suddenly stopped short, lifted both hands, and cried out in a tone of
despair,--

"My purse! my purse!  I ’ve lost it.  Oh, I ’ve lost it!"

"Left it in the store probably.  Come and look for it," said aunty; and
back they turned, just in time to meet a shabby little girl running
after them with the precious thing in her hand.

"Ain’t this yours?  I thought you dropped it, and would hate to lose
it," she said, smiling pleasantly.

"Oh, I should.  It’s spandy new, and I love it dearly.  I ’ve got no
more money to pay you, only this candy; do take a stick," and Lu
presented the red barley sugar.

The little girl took it gladly, and ran off.

"Well, two sticks will do.  I ’d rather lose every bit of it than my
darling purse," said Lu, putting it carefully in her pocket.

"I love to give things away and make people happy," began Lu, but
stopped to watch a dog who came up to her, wagging his tail as if he
knew what a kind little girl she was, and wanted to be made happy.  She
put out her hand to pat him, quite forgetting the small parcel in it;
but the dog snapped it up before she could save it.

"Oh, my last stick!  I did n’t mean to give it to him.  You naughty dog,
drop it this minute!" cried poor Lu.

But the beautiful pink cream candy was forever lost, and the ungrateful
thief ran off, after a vain attempt to eat the flower-pot also.  It was
so funny that aunty laughed, and Lu joined her, after shaking her finger
at the dog, who barked and frisked as if he felt that he had done a
clever thing.

"Now I am quite satisfied, and you will have a pleasanter birthday for
having made four people and a dog happy, instead of yourself sick with
too many goodies.  Charity is a nice sort of sweetie; and I hope you
will buy that kind with your pocket-money now and then, my dear," said
aunty, as they walked on again.

"Could I do much with ten cents a week?" asked Lu.

"Yes, indeed; you could buy a little book for lame Sammy, who loves to
read, or a few flowers for my sick girl at the hospital, or a loaf of
bread for some hungry person, or milk for a poor baby, or you could save
up your money till Christmas, and get presents for children who
otherwise would have none."

"Could I do all those things?  I’d like to get presents best, and I
will--I will!" cried Lu, charmed with the idea of playing Santa Claus.
"I did n’t think ten cents would be so useful.  How long to Christmas,
aunty?"

"About ten weeks.  If you save all your pocket-money till then, you will
have a dollar to spend."

"A truly dollar!  How fine!  But all that time I should n’t have any
candy.  I don’t think I could get along without some.  Perhaps if I
was very good some one would give me a bit now and then;" and Lu
looked up with her most engaging smile and a twinkle in her eye.

"We will see about that.  Perhaps ’some one’ will give extra cents for
work you may do, and leave you to decide which kind of sweeties you
would buy."

"What can I do to earn money?" asked Lu.

"Well, you can dry and fold the paper every morning for grandpa.  I will
pay you a cent for that, because nurse is apt to forget it, and he likes
to have it nicely ready for him after breakfast.  Then you might run up
and down for mamma, and hem some towels for me, and take care of Jip and
the parrot.  You will earn a good deal if you do your work regularly and
well."

"I shall have dreadful trials going by the candy-shops and never buying
any.  I do long so to go in that I have to look away when you say No.  I
want to be good and help poor people, but I ’m afraid it will be too
hard for me," sighed Lu, foreseeing the temptations before her.

"We might begin to-day, and try the new plan for a while.  If it is too
hard, you can give it up; but I think you will soon like my way best,
and have the merriest Christmas you ever knew with the money you save."

Lu walked thoughtfully home, and put the empty purse away, resolved to
see how long she could hold out, and how much she could earn. Mamma
smiled when she heard the plan, but at once engaged the little girl to
do errands about the house at a cent a job, privately quite sure that
her pretty express would soon stop running. Grandpapa was pleased to
find his paper ready, and nodded and patted Lu’s curly head when she
told him about her Christmas plans.  Mary, the maid, was glad to get rid
of combing Jip and feeding Polly, and aunty made towel hemming pleasant
by telling stories as the little needle-woman did two hems a day.

Every cent went into the red purse, which Lu hung on one of the gilt
pegs of the easel in the parlor, for she thought it very ornamental, and
hoped contributions might drop in occasionally. None did; but as every
one paid her in bright cents, there was soon a fine display, and the
little bag grew heavy with delightful rapidity.

Only once did Lu yield to temptation, and that was when two weeks of
self-denial made her trials so great that she felt as if she really must
reward herself, as no one else seemed to remember how much little girls
loved candy.

One day she looked pale, and did not want any dinner, saying she felt
sick.  Mamma was away, so aunty put her on the bed and sat by her,
feeling very anxious, as scarlet-fever was about.  By and by Lu took her
handkerchief out, and there, sticking to it, was a large brown
cough-drop.  Lu turned red, and hid her face, saying with a penitent
sob, "I don’t deserve to be cuddled.  I ’ve been selfish and silly, and
spent some of my money for candy.  I had a little cold, and I thought
cough-drops would do me good.  I ate a good many, and they were bitter
and made me sick, and I ’m glad of it."

Aunty wanted to laugh at the dear little sinner and her funny idea of
choosing bitter candy as a sort of self-denial; but she comforted her
kindly, and soon the invalid was skipping about again, declaring that
she never would do so any more.

Next day something happened which helped her very much, and made it
easier to like the new kind of sweeties better than the old.  She was in
the dining-room getting an apple for her lunch, when she saw a little
girl come to the lower door to ask for cold food.  The cook was busy,
and sent her away, telling her begging was forbidden.  Lu, peeping out,
saw the little girl sit down on the steps to eat a cold potato as if she
was very hungry, and while she ate she was trying to tie on a pair of
very old boots some one had given her.  It was a rainy day, and she had
only a shawl over her head; her hands were red with cold; her gown was a
faded cotton one; and her big basket seemed to have very few scraps in
it.  So poor, so sad, and tired did she look, that Lu could not bear to
see it, and she called out in her pitiful child’s voice,--

"Come in and get warm, little girl.  Don’t mind old Sarah.  I ’ll give
you something to eat, and lend you my rubber boots and waterproof to go
home in."

The poor child gladly went to sit by the comfortable fire, while Lu with
hospitable haste got crackers and cheese and cake and apples, and her
own silver mug of milk, for her guest, forgetting, in her zeal, to ask
leave.  Fortunately aunty came down for her own lunch in time to see
what was going on, and found Lu busily buttoning the waterproof, while
the little girl surveyed her rubber boots and small umbrella with pride.

"I ’m only lending my things, and she will return them to-morrow,
aunty.  They are too small for me, and the umbrella is broken; and I ’d
love to give them all to Lucy if I could. She has to go out in the
rain to get food for her family, like a bird, and I don’t."

"Birds don’t need waterproofs and umbrellas," began aunty; and both
children laughed at the idea of sparrows with such things, but looked a
little anxious till aunty went on to say that Lucy could have these
comforts, and to fill the basket with something better than cold
potatoes, while she asked questions and heard the sad little story: how
father was dead, and the baby sick, so mother could not work, and the
boys had to pick up chips and cinders to burn, and Lucy begged food to
eat.  Lu listened with tears in her blue eyes, and a great deal of pity
as well as admiration for poor little Lucy, who was only nine, yet had
so many cares and troubles in her life.  While aunty went to get some
flannel for baby, Lu flew to her red purse and counted out ten cents
from her store, feeling so rich, so glad to have it instead of an empty
bonbon box, and a headache after a candy feast.

"Buy some nice fresh milk for little Totty, and tell her I sent it--all
myself--with my love.  Come again to-morrow, and I will tell mamma all
about you, and you shall be my poor people, and I ’ll help you if I
can," she said, full of interest and good-will, for the sight of this
child made her feel what poverty really was, and long to lighten it if
she could.

Lucy was smiling when she went away, snug and dry in her comfortable
clothes, with the full basket on her arm; and all that day Lu talked and
thought about her "own poor people," and what she hoped to do for them.
Mamma inquired, and finding them worthy of help, let her little girl
send many comforts to the children, and learn how to be wisely
charitable.

"I shall give all my money to my ’Lucy children’ on Christmas,"
announced Lu, as that pleasant time drew near.  "I know what they want,
and though I can’t save money enough to give them half the things they
need, maybe I can help a good deal, and really have a nice bundle to
s’prise them with."

This idea took possession of little Lu, and she worked like a beaver in
all sorts of funny ways to fill her purse by Christmas-time.  One thing
she did which amused her family very much, though they were obliged to
stop it.  Lu danced very prettily, and often had what she called ballets
before she went to bed, when she tripped about the parlor like a fairy
in the gay costumes aunty made for her.  As the purse did not fill as
fast as she hoped, Lu took it into her head one fine day to go round the
square where she lived, with her tambourine, and dance as some of the
girls with the hand-organ men did.  So she dressed herself in her red
skirt and black velvet jacket, and with a fur cap on her head and a blue
cloak over her shoulders, slipped out into the quiet square, and going
to the farther corner, began to dance and beat her tambourine on the
sidewalk before a house where some little children lived.

As she expected, they soon came running to the window, and were charmed
to see the pretty dancer whirling to and fro, with her ribbons flying
and her tambourine bells ringing, till her breath was gone.  Then she
held up the instrument and nodded smilingly at them; and they threw down
cents wrapped in paper, thinking her music much better than any the
organ men made.  Much encouraged, Lu went on from house to house, and
was doing finely, when one of the ladies who looked out recognized the
child, and asked her if her mother knew where she was.  Lu had to say
"No;" and the lady sent a maid to take her home at once.

That spoiled all the fun; and poor Lu did not hear the last of her prank
for a long time.  But she had made forty-two cents, and felt comforted
when she added that handsome sum to her store. As if to console her for
this disappointment, after that day several bright ten-cent pieces got
into the red purse in a most mysterious manner. Lu asked every one in
the house, and all declared that they did not do it.  Grandpa could not
get out of his chair without help, and nurse said she never took the
purse to him; so of course it could not be he who slipped in those
welcome bits of silver.  Lu asked him; but he was very deaf that day,
and did not seem to understand her at all.

"It must be fairies," she said, pondering over the puzzle, as she
counted her treasure and packed it away, for now the little red purse
was full.  "Aunty says there are no fairies; but I like to think so.
Perhaps angels fly around at Christmas-time as they did long ago, and
love to help poor people, and put those beautiful bright things here to
show that they are pleased with me."  She liked that fancy, and aunty
agreed that some good spirit must have done it, and was sure they would
find out the secret some time.

Lucy came regularly; and Lu always tried to see her, and so learned what
she and Totty and Joe and Jimmy wanted, but never dreamed of receiving
Christmas morning.  It did both little girls much good, for poor Lucy
was comforted by the kindness of these friends, and Lu learned about far
harder trials than the want of sugarplums.  The day before Christmas she
went on a grand shopping expedition with aunty, for the purse now held
three dollars and seven cents. She had spent some of it for trifles for
her "Lucy children," and had not earned as much as she once hoped,
various fits of idleness and other more amusing but less profitable work
having lessened her wages.  But she had enough, thanks to the good
spirit, to get toys and books and candy for her family, and went
joyfully away Christmas Eve to carry her little basket of gifts,
accompanied by aunty with a larger store of comforts for the grateful
mother.

When they got back, Lu entertained her mother with an account of the
delight of the children, who never had such a Christmas before.

"They could n’t wait till morning, and I could n’t either, and we opened
the bundles right away; and they screamed, mamma, and jumped for joy
and ate everything and hugged me.  And the mother cried, she was so
pleased; and the boys can go to school all neat now, and so could Lucy,
only she has to take care of Totty while her mother goes to work.  Oh,
it was lovely!  I felt just like Santa Claus, only he does n’t stay to
see people enjoy their things, and I did."

Here Lu stopped for breath, and when she got it, had a fine ballet as
the only way to work off her excitement at the success of her "s’prise."
It was a trial to go to bed, but she went at last, and dreamed that her
"Lucy children" all had wings, and were flying round her bed with
tambourines full of heavenly bonbons, which they showered down upon her;
while aunty in an immense nightcap stood by clapping her hands and
saying, "Eat all you like, dear; this sort won’t hurt you."

Morning came very soon; and she popped up her head to see a long knobby
stocking hanging from the mantel-piece.  Out of bed skipped the little
white figure, and back again, while cries of joy were heard as the
treasures appeared one by one.  There was a tableful beside the
stocking, and Lu was so busy looking at them that she was late to
breakfast.  But aunty waited for her, and they went down together some
time after the bell rang.

"Let me peep and see if grandpa has found the silk handkerchief and
spectacle-case I made for him," whispered Lu, as they passed the parlor
door, which stood half open, leaving a wide crack for the blue eyes to
spy through.

The old gentleman sat in his easy-chair as usual, waiting while nurse
got his breakfast; but what was he doing with his long staff?  Lu
watched eagerly, and to her great surprise saw him lean forward, and
with the hook at the end take the little red purse off the easel, open
it, and slip in a small white parcel, then hang it on the gilt peg
again, put away the cane, and sit rubbing his hands and laughing to
himself at the success of his little trick, quite sure that this was a
safe time to play it.  Lu was about to cry out, and rush in, but aunty
whispered, "Don’t spoil his fun yet.  Go and see what is in the purse,
then thank him in the way he likes best."

So Lu skipped into the parlor, trying to look very innocent, and ran to
open the dear red purse, as she often did, eager to see if the good
fairy had added to the charity fund.

"Why, here ’s a great gold medal, and some queer, shaky writing on the
paper.  Please see what it is," said Lu, very loud, hoping grandpa would
hear her this time, for his face was hidden behind the newspaper he
pretended to read.

"For Lu’s poor’s purse, from Santa Claus," read aunty, glad that at last
the kind old fairy was discovered and ready for his reward.

Lu had never seen a twenty-dollar gold-piece before; but she could not
stop to find out whether the shining medal was money or a locket, and
ran to grandpa, crying as she pulled away the paper and threw her arms
about his neck,--

"I ’ve found you out, I ’ve found you out, my dear old Santa Claus!
Merry Christmas, grandpa, and lots of thanks and kisses!"

It was pretty to see the rosy cheek against the wrinkled one, the golden
and the silver heads close together, as the old man and the little girl
kissed and laughed, and both talked at once for a few minutes.

"Tell me all about it, you sly grandpa. What made you think of doing it
that way, and not let any one know?" cried Lu, as the old gentleman
stopped to rest after a kindly "cuddle," as Lu called these caresses.

"Well, dear, I liked to see you trying to do good with your little
pennies, and I wanted to help.  I ’m a feeble old man, tied to my chair
and of no use now; but I like a bit of fun, and love to feel that it is
not quite too late to make some one happy."

"Why, grandpa, you do heaps of good, and make many, many people happy,"
said Lu, with another hug.  "Mamma told me all about the hospital for
little children you built, and the money you gave to the poor soldiers
in the war, and ever so many more good things you ’ve done.  I won’t
have you say you are of no use now.  We want you to love and take care
of; and we could n’t do without you, could we, aunty?"

Aunty sat on the arm of the chair with her arm round the old man’s
shoulder, and her only answer was a kiss.  But it was enough, and
grandpa went on quite cheerfully, as he held two plump hands in his own,
and watched the blooming face that looked up at him so eagerly:

"When I was younger, I loved money, and wanted a great deal.  I cared
for nothing else, and worked hard to get it, and did get it after years
of worry.  But it cost me my health, and then I saw how foolish I had
been, for all my money could not buy me any strength or pleasure and
very little comfort.  I could not take it with me when I died, and did
not know what to do with it, because there was so much.  So I tried to
see if giving it away would not amuse me, and make me feel better about
having wasted my life instead of using it wisely.  The more I gave away
the better I felt; and now I’m quite jolly, though I’m only a helpless
old baby just fit to play jokes and love little girls.  You have begun
early at this pretty game of give-away, my dear, and aunty will see that
you keep it up; so that when you are old you will have much treasure in
the other world where the blessings of the poor are more precious than
gold and silver."

Nobody spoke for a minute as the feeble old voice stopped; and the
sunshine fell on the white head like a blessing.  Then Lu said very
soberly, as she turned the great coin in her hand, and saw the letters
that told its worth,--

"What shall I do with all this money?  I never had so much, and I ’d
like to spend it in some very good and pleasant way.  Can you think of
something, aunty, so I can begin at once to be like grandpa?"

"How would you like to pay two dollars a month, so that Totty can go to
the Sunnyside Nursery, and be taken care of every day while Lucy goes to
school?  Then she will be safe and happy, and Lucy be learning, as she
longs to do, and the mother free to work," said aunty, glad to have this
dear child early learn to help those less blessed than herself.

"Could I?  How splendid it would be to pay for a real live baby all
myself!  How long would my money do it?" said Lu, charmed with the idea
of a living dolly to care for.

"All winter, and provide clothes besides. You can make them yourself,
and go and see Totty, and call her your baby.  This will be a sweet
charity for you; and to-day is a good day to begin it, for this is the
birthday of the Divine Child, who was born in a poorer place even than
Lucy’s sister.  In His name pity and help this baby, and be sure He will
bless you for it."

Lu looked up at the fine picture of the Good Shepherd hanging over the
sofa with holly-leaves glistening round it, and felt as if she too in
her humble way was about to take a helpless little lamb in her arms and
comfort it.  Her childish face was very sweet and sober as she said
softly,--

"Yes, I will spend my Christmas money so; for, aunty, I do think your
sort of sweetie is better than mine, and making people happy a much
wiser way to spend my pennies than in buying the nicest candy in the
world."

Little Lu remembered that morning long after the dear old grandfather
was gone, and kept her Christmas promise so well that very soon a larger
purse was needed for charity money, which she used so wisely and so
happily.  But all her life in one corner of her desk lay carefully
folded up, with the bit of paper inside, the little red purse.








[Illustration: "Sophie came and sat beside her while she dried her curly
hair."  PAGE 178.]



                                  VII.

                            SOPHIE’S SECRET.


,, class:: center medium

    I.


A party of young girls, in their gay bathing-dresses, were sitting on
the beach waiting for the tide to rise a little higher before they
enjoyed the daily frolic which they called "mermaiding."

"I wish we could have a clam-bake; but we have n’t any clams, and don’t
know how to cook them if we had.  It’s such a pity all the boys have
gone off on that stupid fishing excursion," said one girl, in a
yellow-and-black striped suit which made her look like a wasp.

"What is a clam-bake?  I do not know that kind of fête," asked a pretty
brown-eyed girl, with an accent that betrayed the foreigner.

The girls laughed at such sad ignorance, and Sophie colored, wishing she
had not spoken.

"Poor thing! she has never tasted a clam. What should we do if we went
to Switzerland?" said the wasp, who loved to tease.

"We should give you the best we had, and not laugh at your ignorance, if
you did not know all our dishes.  In my country, we have politeness,
though not the clam-bake," answered Sophie, with a flash of the brown
eyes which warned naughty Di to desist.

"We might row to the light-house, and have a picnic supper.  Our mammas
will let us do that alone," suggested Dora from the roof of the
bath-house, where she perched like a flamingo.

"That’s a good idea," cried Fanny, a slender brown girl who sat dabbling
her feet in the water, with her hair streaming in the wind. "Sophie
should see that, and get some of the shells she likes so much."

"You are kind to think of me.  I shall be glad to have a necklace of the
pretty things, as a souvenir of this so charming place and my good
friend," answered Sophie, with a grateful look at Fanny, whose many
attentions had won the stranger’s heart.

"Those boys have n’t left us a single boat, so we must dive off the
rocks, and that is n’t half so nice," said Di, to change the subject,
being ashamed of her rudeness.

"A boat is just coming round the Point; perhaps we can hire that, and
have some fun," cried Dora, from her perch.  "There is only a girl in
it; I ’ll hail her when she is near enough."

Sophie looked about her to see where the hail was coming from; but the
sky was clear, and she waited to see what new meaning this word might
have, not daring to ask for fear of another laugh.

While the girls watched the boat float around the farther horn of the
crescent-shaped beach, we shall have time to say a few words about our
little heroine.

She was a sixteen-year-old Swiss girl, on a visit to some American
friends, and had come to the seaside for a month with one of them who
was an invalid.  This left Sophie to the tender mercies of the young
people; and they gladly welcomed the pretty creature, with her fine
manners, foreign ways, and many accomplishments.  But she had a quick
temper, a funny little accent, and dressed so very plainly that the
girls could not resist criticising and teasing her in a way that seemed
very ill-bred and unkind to the new-comer.

Their free and easy ways astonished her, their curious language
bewildered her; and their ignorance of many things she had been taught
made her wonder at the American education she had heard so much praised.
All had studied French and German; yet few read or spoke either tongue
correctly, or understood her easily when she tried to talk to them.
Their music did not amount to much, and in the games they played, their
want of useful information amazed Sophie.  One did not know the signs of
the zodiac; another could only say of cotton that "it was stuff that
grew down South;" and a third was not sure whether a frog was an animal
or a reptile, while the handwriting and spelling displayed on these
occasions left much to be desired.  Yet all were fifteen or sixteen, and
would soon leave school "finished," as they expressed it, but not
furnished, as they should have been, with a solid, sensible education.
Dress was an all-absorbing topic, sweetmeats their delight; and in
confidential moments sweethearts were discussed with great freedom.
Fathers were conveniences, mothers comforters, brothers plagues, and
sisters ornaments or playthings according to their ages.  They were not
hard-hearted girls, only frivolous, idle, and fond of fun; and poor
little Sophie amused them immensely till they learned to admire, love,
and respect her.

Coming straight from Paris, they expected to find that her trunks
contained the latest fashions for demoiselles, and begged to see her
dresses with girlish interest.  But when Sophie obligingly showed a few
simple, but pretty and appropriate gowns and hats, they exclaimed with
one voice,--

"Why, you dress like a little girl!  Don’t you have ruffles and lace on
your dresses; and silks and high-heeled boots and long gloves and
bustles and corsets, and things like ours?"

"I am a little girl," laughed Sophie, hardly understanding their
dismay.  "What should I do with fine toilets at school?  My sisters go
to balls in silk and lace; but I--not yet."

"How queer!  Is your father poor?" asked Di, with Yankee bluntness.

"We have enough," answered Sophie, slightly knitting her dark brows.

"How many servants do you keep?"

"But five, now that the little ones are grown up."

"Have you a piano?" continued undaunted Di, while the others affected to
be looking at the books and pictures strewn about by the hasty
unpacking.

"We have two pianos, four violins, three flutes, and an organ.  We love
music, and all play, from papa to little Franz."

"My gracious, how swell!  You must live in a big house to hold all that
and eight brothers and sisters."

"We are not peasants; we do not live in a hut.  Voilà, this is my
home."  And Sophie laid before them a fine photograph of a large and
elegant house on lovely Lake Geneva.

It was droll to see the change in the faces of the girls as they looked,
admired, and slyly nudged one another, enjoying saucy Di’s astonishment,
for she had stoutly insisted that the Swiss girl was a poor relation.

Sophie meanwhile was folding up her plain piqué and muslin frocks, with
a glimmer of mirthful satisfaction in her eyes, and a tender pride in
the work of loving hands now far away.

Kind Fanny saw a little quiver of the lips as she smoothed the blue
corn-flowers in the best hat, and put her arm around Sophie,
whispering,--

"Never mind, dear, they don’t mean to be rude; it’s only our Yankee way
of asking questions.  I like all your things, and that hat is
perfectly lovely."

"Indeed, yes!  Dear mamma arranged it for me.  I was thinking of her and
longing for my morning kiss."

"Do you do that every day?" asked Fanny, forgetting herself in her
sympathetic interest.

"Surely, yes.  Papa and mamma sit always on the sofa, and we all have
the hand-shake and the embrace each day before our morning coffee.  I do
not see that here," answered Sophie, who sorely missed the affectionate
respect foreign children give their parents.

"Have n’t time," said Fanny, smiling too, at the idea of American
parents sitting still for five minutes in the busiest part of the busy
day to kiss their sons and daughters.

"It is what you call old-fashioned, but a sweet fashion to me; and since
I have not the dear warm cheeks to kiss, I embrace my pictures often.
See, I have them all."  And Sophie unfolded a Russia-leather case,
displaying with pride a long row of handsome brothers and sisters with
the parents in the midst.

More exclamations from the girls, and increased interest in "Wilhelmina
Tell," as they christened the loyal Swiss maiden, who was now accepted
as a companion, and soon became a favorite with old and young.

They could not resist teasing her, however,--her mistakes were so
amusing, her little flashes of temper so dramatic, and her tongue so
quick to give a sharp or witty answer when the new language did not
perplex her.  But Fanny always took her part, and helped her in many
ways.  Now they sat together on the rock, a pretty pair of mermaids with
wind-tossed hair, wave-washed feet, and eyes fixed on the approaching
boat.

The girl who sat in it was a great contrast to the gay creatures grouped
so picturesquely on the shore, for the old straw hat shaded a very
anxious face, the brown calico gown covered a heart full of hopes and
fears, and the boat that drifted so slowly with the incoming tide
carried Tilly Reed like a young Columbus toward the new world she longed
for, believed in, and was resolved to discover.

It was a weather-beaten little boat, yet very pretty; for a pile of nets
lay at one end, a creel of red lobsters at the other, and all between
stood baskets of berries and water-lilies, purple marsh rosemary and
orange butterfly-weed, shells and great smooth stones such as artists
like to paint little sea-views on.  A tame gull perched on the prow; and
the morning sunshine glittered from the blue water to the bluer sky.

"Oh, how pretty!  Come on, please, and sell us some lilies," cried Dora,
and roused Tilly from her waking dream.

Pushing back her hat, she saw the girls beckoning, felt that the
critical moment had come, and catching up her oars, rowed bravely on,
though her cheeks reddened and her heart beat, for this venture was her
last hope, and on its success depended the desire of her life.  As the
boat approached, the watchers forgot its cargo to look with surprise and
pleasure at its rower, for she was not the rough country lass they
expected to see, but a really splendid girl of fifteen, tall,
broad-shouldered, bright-eyed, and blooming, with a certain shy dignity
of her own and a very sweet smile, as she nodded and pulled in with
strong, steady strokes.  Before they could offer help, she had risen,
planted an oar in the water, and leaping to the shore, pulled her boat
high up on the beach, offering her wares with wistful eyes and a very
expressive wave of both brown hands.

"Everything is for sale, if you ’ll buy," said she.

Charmed with the novelty of this little adventure, the girls, after
scampering to the bathing-houses for purses and portemonnaies, crowded
around the boat like butterflies about a thistle, all eager to buy, and
to discover who this bonny fisher-maiden might be.

"Oh, see these beauties!"  "A dozen lilies for me!"  "All the yellow
flowers for me, they’ll be so becoming at the dance to-night!" "Ow! that
lob bites awfully!"  "Where do you come from?"  "Why have we never seen
you before?"

These were some of the exclamations and questions showered upon Tilly,
as she filled little birch-bark panniers with berries, dealt out
flowers, or dispensed handfuls of shells.  Her eyes shone, her cheeks
glowed, and her heart danced in her bosom; for this was a better
beginning than she had dared to hope for, and as the dimes tinkled into
the tin pail she used for her till, it was the sweetest music she had
ever heard.  This hearty welcome banished her shyness; and in these
eager, girlish customers she found it easy to confide.

"I ’m from the light-house.  You have never seen me because I never came
before, except with fish for the hotel.  But I mean to come every day,
if folks will buy my things, for I want to make some money, and this is
the only way in which I can do it."

Sophie glanced at the old hat and worn shoes of the speaker, and
dropping a bright half-dollar into the pail, said in her pretty way:

"For me all these lovely shells.  I will make necklaces of them for my
people at home as souvenirs of this charming place.  If you will bring
me more, I shall be much grateful to you."

"Oh, thank you!  I ’ll bring heaps; I know where to find beauties in
places where other folks can’t go.  Please take these; you paid too much
for the shells;" and quick to feel the kindness of the stranger, Tilly
put into her hands a little bark canoe heaped with red raspberries.

Not to be outdone by the foreigner, the other girls emptied their purses
and Tilly’s boat also of all but the lobsters, which were ordered for
the hotel.

"Is that jolly bird for sale?" asked Di, as the last berry vanished,
pointing to the gull who was swimming near them while the chatter went
on.

"If you can catch him," laughed Tilly, whose spirits were now the gayest
of the party.

The girls dashed into the water, and with shrieks of merriment swam away
to capture the gull, who paddled off as if he enjoyed the fun as much as
they.

Leaving them to splash vainly to and fro, Tilly swung the creel to her
shoulder and went off to leave her lobsters, longing to dance and sing
to the music of the silver clinking in her pocket.

When she came back, the bird was far out of reach and the girls diving
from her boat, which they had launched without leave.  Too happy to care
what happened now, Tilly threw herself down on the warm sand to plan a
new and still finer cargo for next day.

Sophie came and sat beside her while she dried her curly hair, and in
five minutes her sympathetic face and sweet ways had won Tilly to tell
all her hopes and cares and dreams.

"I want schooling, and I mean to have it. I ’ve got no folks of my own;
