Board of Trade—a palace, in fact; and other handsome, costly structures
on every hand. There are thirty-five miles of cable road. I am not
sure but these cable roads are the most interesting—certainly the most
exciting—feature of the city to a stranger. They climb such steeps, they
plunge down such grades, they penetrate and whiz through such crowded,
lively thoroughfares, their trains go so rapidly, that the rider is in
a perpetual exhilaration. I know no other locomotion more exciting and
agreeable. Life seems a sort of holiday when one whizzes through the
crowded city, up and down and around amid the tall buildings, and then
launches off in any direction into the suburbs, which are alive with new
buildings. Independence avenue is shown as one of the finest avenues,
and very handsome it and that part of the town are, but I fancied
I could detect a movement of fashion and preference to the hills
southward.
In the midst of such a material expansion one has learned to expect fine
houses, but I was surprised to find three very good book-stores (as I
remember, St. Louis has not one so good), and a very good start for a
public library, consisting of about 16,000 well-arranged and classified
books. Members pay $2 a year, and the library receives only about
$2500 a year from the city. The citizens could make no better-paying
investment than to raise this library to the first rank. There is also
the beginning of an art school in some pretty rooms, furnished with
casts and autotypes, where pupils practise drawing under direction of
local artiste. There are two social clubs—the University, which occupies
pleasant apartments, and the Kansas City Club, which has just erected a
handsome club-house. In these respects, and in a hundred refinements
of living, the town, which has so largely drawn its young, enterprising
population from the extreme East, has little the appearance of a
frontier place; it is the push, the public spirit, the mixture of
fashion and slouching negligence in street attire, the mingling of
Eastern smartness with border emancipation in manner, and the general
restlessness of movement, that proclaim the newness. It seems to me that
the incessant stir, and especially the clatter, whir, and rapidity of
the cable ears, must have a decided effect on the nerves of the whole
population. The appearance is certainly that of an entire population
incessantly in motion.
I have spoken of the public spirit. Besides the Board of Trade there is
a Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Bureau, which works vigorously to bring
to the city and establish mercantile and manufacturing enterprises. The
same spirit is shown in the public schools. The expenditures in 1887
were, for school purposes, $226,923; for interest on bonds, $18,408; for
grounds and buildings, $110,087; in all, $355,418. The total of children
of school age was, white, 31,667; colored, 4204. Of these in
attendance at school were, white, 12,933; colored, 1975. There were
25 school-houses and 212 teachers. The schools which I saw—one large
grammar-school, a colored school, and the High-school of over 600
pupils—were good all through, full of intelligent emulation, the
teachers alert and well equipped, and the attention to literature, to
the science of government, to what, in short, goes to make intelligent
citizens, highly commendable. I find the annual reports, under Prof.
J. M. Greenwood, most interesting reading. Topics are taken up and
investigations made of great public interest. These topics relate to the
even physical and mental development of the young in distinction from
the effort merely to stuff them with information. There is a most
intelligent attempt to remedy defective eyesight. Twenty per cent, of
school children have some anomaly of refraction or accommodation which
should be recognized and corrected early; girls have a larger per cent,
of anomalies than boys. Irish, Swedish, and German children have the
highest percentage of affections of the eyes; English, French, Scotch,
and Americans the lowest. Scientific observations of the eyes are made
in the Kansas City schools, with a view to remedy defects. Another
curious topic is the investigation of the Contents of Children’s
Minds—that is, what very small children know about common things. Prof.
Stanley Hall published recently the result of examinations made of
very little folks in Boston schools. Professor Greenwood made similar
investigations among the lowest grade of pupils in the Kansas City
schools, and a table of comparisons is printed. The per cent, of
children ignorant of common things is astonishingly less in Kansas City
schools than in the Boston; even the colored children of the Western
city made a much better showing. Another subject of investigation is the
alleged physical deterioration in this country. Examinations were made
of hundreds of school children from the age of ten to fifteen,
and comparisons taken with the tables in Mulhal’s “Dictionary of
Statistics,” London, 1884. It turns out that the Kansas City children
are taller, taking sex into account, than the average English child
at the age of either ten or fifteen, weigh a fraction less at ten, but
upwards of four pounds more at fifteen, while the average Belgian boy
and girl compare favorably with American children two years younger.
The tabulated statistics show two facts, that the average Kansas child
stands fully as tall as the tallest, and that in weight he tips the
beam against an older child on the other side of the Atlantic. With this
showing, we trust that our American experiment will be permitted to go
on.
In reaching the necessary limit of a paper too short for its subject, I
can only express my admiration of the indomitable energy and spirit of
that portion of the West which Kansas City represents, and congratulate
it upon so many indications of attention to the higher civilization,
without which its material prosperity will be wonderful but not
attractive.
XV.—KENTUCKY.
All Kentucky, like Gaul, is divided into three parts. This division,
which may not be sustained by the geologists or the geographers, perhaps
not even by the ethnologists, is, in my mind, one of character: the east
and south-east mountainous part, the central blue-grass region, and the
great western portion, thrifty in both agriculture and manufactures.
It is a great self-sustaining empire, lying midway in the Union, and
between the North and the South (never having yet exactly made up its
mind whether it is North or South), extending over more than seven
degrees of longitude. Its greatest length east and west is 410 miles;
its greatest breadth, 178 miles. Its area by latest surveys, and larger
than formerly estimated, is 42,283 square miles. Within this area
prodigal nature has brought together nearly everything that a highly
civilized society needs: the most fertile soil, capable of producing
almost every variety of product for food or for textile fabrics;
mountains of coals and iron ores and limestone; streams and springs
everywhere; almost all sorts of hard-wood timber in abundance. Nearly
half the State is still virgin forest of the noblest trees, oaks,
sugar-maple, ash, poplar, black-walnut, linn, elm, hickory, beech,
chestnut, red cedar. The climate may honestly be called temperate: its
inhabitants do not need to live in cellars in the summer, nor burn up
their fences and furniture in the winter.
Kentucky is loved of its rivers. It can be seen by their excessively
zigzag courses how reluctant they are to leave the State, and if they do
leave it they are certain to return. The Kentucky and the Green wander
about in the most uncertain way before they go to the Ohio, and the
Licking and Big Sandy exhibit only a little less reluctance. The
Cumberland, after a wide detour in Tennessee, returns; and Powell’s
River, joining the Clinch and entering the Tennessee, finally persuades
that river, after it has looked about the State of Tennessee and
gladdened northern Alabama, to return to Kentucky.
Kentucky is an old State, with an old civilization. It was the pioneer
in the great western movement of population after the Revolution.
Although it was first explored in 1770, and the Boone trail through the
wilderness of Cumberland Gap was not marked till 1775, a settlement
had been made in Frankfort in 1774, and in 1790 the Territory had a
population of 79,077. This was a marvellous growth, considering the
isolation by hundreds of miles of wilderness from Eastern communities,
and the savage opposition of the Indians, who selw fifteen hundred whilc
settlers from 1783 to 1790. Kentucky was the home of no Indian tribe,
but it was the favorite hunting and fighting ground of those north of
the Ohio and south of the Cumberland, and they united to resent white
interference. When the State came into the Union in 1792—the second
admitted—it was the equal in population and agricultural wealth of some
of the original States that had been settled a hundred and fifty years,
and in 1800 could boast 220,750 inhabitants, and in 1810, 400,511.
At the time of the settlement, New York west of the Hudson, western
Pennsylvania, and western Virginia were almost unoccupied except by
hostile Indians; there was only chance and dangerous navigation down
the Ohio from Pittsburg, and it was nearly eight hundred miles of a
wilderness road, which was nothing but a bridle-path, from Philadelphia
by way of the Cumberland Gap to central Kentucky. The majority of
emigrants came this toilsome way, which was, after all, preferable to
the river route, and all passengers and produce went that way eastward,
for the steamboat bad not yet made the ascent of the Ohio feasible. In
1779 Virginia resolved to construct a wagon-road through the wilderness,
but no road was made for many years afterwards, and indeed no vehicle of
any sort passed over it till a road was built by action of the Kentucky
Legislature in 1700. I hope it was better then than the portion of it I
travelled from Pineville to the Gap in 1888.
Civilization made a great leap over nearly a thousand miles into the
open garden-spot of central Kentucky, and the exploit is a unique
chapter in our frontier development. Either no other land ever lent
itself so easily to civilization as the blue-grass region, or it was
exceptionally fortunate in its occupants. They formed almost immediately
a society distinguished for its amenities, for its political influence,
prosperous beyond precedent in farming, venturesome and active in trade,
developing large manufactures, especially from hemp, of such articles
as could be transported by river, and sending annually through the
wilderness road to the East and South immense droves of cattle, horses,
and swine. In the first necessity, and the best indication of superior
civilization, good roads for transportation, Kentucky was conspicuous in
comparison with the rest of the country. As early as 1825 macadam roads
were projected, the turnpike from. Lexington to Maysville on the Ohio
was built in 1829, and the work went on by State and county co-operation
until the central region had a system of splendid roads, unexcelled
in any part of the Union. In 1830 one of the earliest railways in the
United States, that from Lexington to Frankfort, was begun; two years
later seven miles were constructed, and in 1835 the first locomotive and
train of cars ran on it to Frankfort, twenty-seven miles, in two hours
and twenty-nine minutes. The structure was composed of stone sills, in
which grooves were cut to receive the iron bars. These stone blocks can
still be seen along the line of the road, now a part of the Louisville
and Nashville system. In all internal improvements the State was very
energetic. The canal around the Falls of the Ohio at Louisville was
opened in 1831, with some aid from the General Government. The State
expended a great deal in improving the navigation of the Kentucky, the
Green, and other rivers in its borders by an expensive system of locks
and dams; in 1837 it paid $19,500 to engineers engaged in turnpike and
river improvement, and in 1839 $31,075 for the same purpose.
The story of early Kentucky reads like a romance. By 1820 it counted
a population of over 510,000, and still it had scarcely wagon-road
communication with the East. Here was a singular phenomenon, a
prosperous community, as one might say a garden in the wilderness,
separated by natural barriers from the great life of the East, which
pushed out north of it a connected, continuous development; a community
almost self-sustaining, having for his centre the loveliest agricultural
region in the Union, and evolving a unique social state so gracious and
attractive that it was thought necessary to call in the effect of the
blue-grass to explain it, unaided human nature being inadequate, it
was thought, to such a result. Almost from the beginning fine houses
attested the taste and prosperity of the settlers; by 1792 the
blue-grass region was dotted with neat and commodious dwellings, fruit
orchards and gardens, sugar groves, and clusters of villages; while,
a little later, rose, in the midst of broad plantations and park-like
forests, lands luxuriant with wheat and clover and corn and hemp and
tobacco, the manorial dwellings of the colonial period, like the stately
homes planted by the Holland Land Company along the Hudson and the
Mohawk and in the fair Genesee, like the pillared structures on the
James and the Staunton, and like the solid square mansions of old New
England. A type of some of them stands in Frankfort now, a house which
was planned by Thomas Jefferson and built in 1796, spacious, permanent,
elegant in the low relief of its chaste ornamentation. For comfort, for
the purposes of hospitality, for the quiet and rest of the mind,
there is still nothing so good as the colonial house, with the slight
modifications required by our changed conditions.
From 1820 onward the State grew by a natural increment of population,
but without much aid from native or foreign emigration. In 1860 its
population was only about 919,000 whites, with some 225,000 slaves and
over 10,000 free colored persons. It had no city of the first class, nor
any villages specially thriving. Louisville numbered only about 68,000,
Lexington less than 15,000, and Frankfort, the capital, a little over
5000. It retained the lead in hemp and a leading position in tobacco;
but it had fallen away behind its much younger rivals in manufactures
and the building of railways, and only feeble efforts had been made in
the development of its extraordinary mineral resources.
How is this arrest of development accounted for? I know that a short
way of accounting for it has been the presence of slavery. I would not
underestimate this. Free labor would not go where it had to compete with
slave labor; white labor now does not like to come into relations with
black labor; and capital also was shy of investment in a State where
both political economy and social life were disturbed by a color line.
But this does not wholly account for the position of Kentucky as to
development at the close of the war. So attractive is the State in most
respects, in climate, soil, and the possibilities of great wealth by
manufactures, that I doubt not the State would have been forced into the
line of Western progress and slavery become an unimportant factor long
ago, but for certain natural obstacles and artificial influences.
Let the reader look on the map, at the ranges of mountains running from
the north-east to the southwest—the Blue Ridge, the Alleghanies, the
Cumberland, and Pine mountains, continuous rocky ridges, with scarcely a
water gap, and only at long intervals a passable mountain gap—and notice
how these would both hinder and deflect the tide of emigration. With
such barriers the early development of Kentucky becomes ten times a
wonder. But about 1825 an event occurred that placed her at a greater
disadvantage in the competition. The Erie Canal was opened. This made
New York, and not Virginia, the great commercial highway. The railway
development followed. It was easy to build roads north of Kentucky, and
the tide of settlement followed the roads, which were mostly aided
by land grants; and in order to utilize the land grants the railways
stimulated emigration by extensive advertising. Capital and population
passed Kentucky by on the north. To the south somewhat similar
conditions prevailed. Comparatively cheap roads could be built along
the eastern slope of the Alleghanies, following the great valley from
Pennsylvania to Alabama; and these south-westwardly roads were also
aided by the General Government. The North and South Railway of Alabama,
and the Alabama and Great Southern, which cross at Birmingham, were
land-grant roads. The roads which left the Atlantic seaboard passed
naturally northward and southward of Kentucky, and left an immense area
in the centre of the Union—all of western and southwestern Virginia and
eastern Kentucky—without transportation facilities. Until 1880 here was
the largest area east of the Mississippi impenetrated by railways.
The war removed one obstacle to the free movement of men desiring work
and seeking agreeable homes, a movement marked in the great increase
of the industrial population of Louisville and the awakening to varied
industries and trade in western Kentucky. The offer of cheap land,
which would reward skilful farming In agreeable climatic conditions,
has attracted foreign settlers to the plateau south of the blue-grass
region; and scientific investigation has made the mountain district in
the south-east the object of the eager competition of both domestic
and foreign capital. Kentucky, therefore, is entering upon a new era of
development. Two phases of it, the Swiss colonies, and the opening
of the coal, iron, and timber resources, present special points of
interest.
This Incoming of the commercial spirit will change Kentucky for the
better and for the worse, will change even the tone of the blue-grass
country, and perhaps take away something of that charm about which so
much has been written. So thoroughly has this region been set forth by
the pen and the pencil and the lens that I am relieved of the necessity
of describing it. But I must confess that all I had read of it, all
the pictures I had seen, gave me an inadequate idea of its beauty and
richness. So far as I know, there is nothing like it in the world.
Comparison of it with England is often made in the use of the words
“garden” and “park.” The landscape is as unlike the finer parts of Old
England as it is unlike the most carefully tended parts of New England.
It has neither the intense green, the subdivisions in hedges, the bosky
lanes, the picturesque cottages, the niceness of minute garden-culture,
of England, nor the broken, mixed lawn gardening and neglected pastures
and highways, with the sweet wild hills, of the Berkshire region. It
is an open, elevated, rolling land, giving the traveller often the most
extended views over wheat and clover, hemp and tobacco fields, forests
and blue-grass pastures. One may drive for a hundred miles north and
south over the splendid macadam turnpikes, behind blooded roadsters,
at an easy ten-mile gait, and see always the same sight—a smiling
agricultural paradise, with scarcely a foot, in fence corners, by the
road-side, or in low grounds, of uncultivated, uncared-for land. The
open country is more pleasing than the small villages, which have not
the tidiness of the New England small villages; the houses are for the
most part plain; here and there is a negro cabin, or a cluster of them,
apt to be unsightly, but always in view somewhere is a plantation-house,
more or less pretentious, generally old-fashioned and with the colonial
charm. These are frequently off the main thoroughfare, approached by a
private road winding through oaks and ash-trees, seated on some gentle
knoll or slope, maybe with a small flower-garden, but probably with the
old sentimental blooms that smell good and have reminiscences, in the
midst of waving fields of grain, blue-grass pastures, and open forest
glades watered by a dear stream. There seems to be infinite peace in
a house so surrounded. The house may have pillars, probably a colonial
porch and door-way with earving in bass-relief, a wide hall, large
square rooms, low studded, and a general air of comfort. What is new in
it in the way of art, furniture, or bric-à-brac may not be in the best
taste, and may “swear” at the old furniture and the delightful old
portraits. For almost always will be found some portraits of the
post-Revolutionary period, having a traditional and family interest, by
Copley or Jouett, perhaps a Stuart, maybe by some artist who evidently
did not paint for fame, which carry the observer back to the colonial
society in Virginia, Philadelphia, and New York. In a country house and
in Lexington I saw portraits, life-size and miniature, of Rebecca Gratz,
whose loveliness of person and character is still a tender recollection
of persons living. She was a great beauty and toast in her day. It
was at her house in Philadelphia, a centre of wit and gayety, that
Washington Irving and Henry Brevoort and Gulian C. Verplanck often
visited. She shone not less in New York society, and was the most
intimate friend of Matilda Hoffman, who was betrothed to Irving; indeed,
it was in her arms that Matilda died, fadeless always to us as she was
to Irving, in the loveliness of her eighteenth year. The well-founded
tradition is that Irving, on his first visit to Abbotsford, told Scott
of his own loss, and made him acquainted with the beauty and grace of
Rebecca Gratz, and that Scott, wanting at the moment to vindicate a race
that was aspersed, used her as a model for Rebecca in “Ivanhoe.”
One distinction of the blue-grass region is the forests, largely of
gigantic oaks, free of all undergrowth, carpeted with the close-set,
luscious, nutritive blue-grass, which remains green all the season when
it is cropped by feeding. The blue-grass thrives elsewhere, notably in
the upper Shenandoah Valley, where somewhat similar limestone conditions
prevail; but this is its natural habitat. On all this elevated rolling
plateau the limestone is near the surface. This grass blooms towards the
middle of June in a bluish, almost a peacock blue, blossom, which gives
to the fields an exquisite hue. By the end of the month the seed ripens
into a yellowish color, and while the grass is still green and lush
underneath, the surface presents much the appearance of a high New
England pasture in August. When it is ripe, the top is cut for the seed.
The limestone and the blue-grass together determine the agricultural
pre-eminence of the region, and account for the fine breeding of the
horses, the excellence of the cattle, the stature of the men, and the
beauty of the women; but they have social and moral influence also. It
could not well be otherwise, considering the relation of the physical
condition to disposition and character. We should be surprised if a
rich agricultural region, healthful at the same time, where there is
abundance of food, and wholesome cooking is the rule, did not affect the
tone of social life. And I am almost prepared to go further, and
think that blue-grass is a specific for physical beauty and a certain
graciousness of life. I have been told that there is a natural relation
between Presbyterianism and blue-grass, and am pointed to the Shenandoah
and to Kentucky as evidence of it. Perhaps Presbyterians naturally seek
a limestone country. But the relation, if it exists, is too subtle and
the facts are too few to build a theory on. Still, I have no doubt there
is a distinct variety of woman known as the blue-grass girl. A geologist
told me that once when he was footing it over the State with a geologist
from another State, as they approached the blue-grass region from the
southward they were carefully examining the rock formation and studying
the surface indications, which are usually marked on the border line,
to determine exactly where the peculiar limestone formation began.
Indications, however, were wanting. Suddenly my geologist looked up the
road and exclaimed:
“We are in the blue-grass region now.”
“How do you know?” asked the other.
“Why, there is a blue-grass girl.”
There was no mistaking the neat dress, the style, the rounded contours,
the gracious personage. A few steps farther on the geologists found the
outcropping of the blue limestone.
Perhaps the people of this region are trying to live up to the
thorough-bred. A pedigree is a necessity. The horse is of the first
consideration, and either has or gives a sort of social distinction;
first, the running horse, the thorough-bred, and now the trotting horse,
which is beginning to have a recognizable descent, and is on the way to
be a thorough-bred. Many of the finest plantations are horse farms;
one might call them the feature of the country. Horse-raising is here
a science, and as we drive from one estate to another, and note the
careful tillage, the trim fences, the neat stables, the pretty paddocks,
and the houses of the favorites, we see how everything is intended
to contribute to the perfection in refinement of fibre, speed, and
endurance of the noble animal. Even persons who are usually indifferent
to horses cannot but admire these beautiful high-bred creatures, either
the famous ones displayed at the stables, or the colts and fillies,
which have yet their reputations to make, at play in the blue-grass
pastures; and the pleasure one experiences is a refined one in harmony
with the landscape. Usually horse-dealing carries with it a lowering of
the moral tone, which we quite understand when we say of a man that he
is “horsy.” I suppose the truth is that man has degraded the idea of the
horse by his own evil passions, using him to gamble and cheat with.
Now, the visitor will find little of these degrading associations in the
blue-grass region. It is an orthodox and a moral region. The best
and most successful horse-breeders have nothing to do with racing or
betting. The yearly product of their farms is sold at auction, without
reserve or favor. The sole business is the production of the best
animals that science and care can breed. Undeniably where the horse is
of such importance he is much in the thought, and the use of “horsy”
phrases in ordinary conversation shows his effect upon the vocabulary.
The recital of pedigree at the stables, as horse after horse is led out,
sounds a little like a chapter from the Book of Genesis, and naturally
this Biblical formula gets into a conversation about people.
And after the horses there is whiskey. There are many distilleries in
this part of the country, and a great deal of whiskey is made. I am not
defending whiskey, at least any that is less than thirty years old and
has attained a medicinal quality. But I want to express my opinion that
this is as temperate as any region in the United States. There is a
wide-spread strict temperance sentiment, and even prohibition prevails
to a considerable degree. Whiskey is made and stored, and mostly shipped
away; rightly or wrongly, it is regarded as a legitimate business, like
wheatraising, and is conducted by honorable men. I believe this to be
the truth, and that drunkenness does not prevail in the neighborhood of
the distilleries, nor did I see anywhere in the country evidence of a
habit of dram drinking, of the traditional matter-of-course offering of
whiskey as a hospitality. It is true that mint grows in Kentucky,
and that there are persons who would win the respect of a tide-water
Virginian in the concoction of a julep. And no doubt in the mind of
the born Kentuckian there is a rooted belief that if a person needed
a stimulant, the best he can take is old hand-made whiskey. Where the
manufacture of whiskey is the source of so much revenue, and is carried
on with decorum, of course the public sentiment about it differs from
that of a community that makes its money in raising potatoes for starch.
Where the horse is so beautiful, fleet, and profitable, of course
there is intense interest in him, and the general public take a
lively pleasure in the races; but if the reader has been accustomed
to associate this part of Kentucky with horse-racing and drinking as
prominent characteristics, he must revise his opinion.
Perhaps certain colonial habits lingered longer in Kentucky than
elsewhere. Travellers have spoken about the habit of profanity and
gambling, especially the game of poker. In the West generally profane
swearing is not as bad form as it is in the East. But whatever
distinction central Kentucky had in profanity or poker, it has evidently
lost it. The duel lingered long, and prompt revenge for insults,
especially to women. The blue-grass region has “histories”—beauty has
been fought about; women have had careers; families have run out through
dissipation. One may hear stories of this sort even in the Berkshire
Hills, in any place where there have been long settlement, wealth, and
time for the development of family and personal eccentricities. And
there is still a flavor left in Kentucky; there is still a subtle
difference in its social tone; the intelligent women are attractive in
another way from the intelligent New England women—they have a charm
of their own. May Heaven long postpone the day when, by the commercial
spirit and trade and education, we shall all be alike in all parts
of the Union! Yet it would be no disadvantage to anybody if the
graciousness, the simplicity of manner, the refined hospitality, of the
blue-grass region should spread beyond the blue limestone of the Lower
Silurian.
In the excellent State Museum at Frankfort, under the charge of Prof.
John R. Procter, * who is State Geologist and also Director of the
Bureau of Immigration, in addition to the admirable exhibit of the
natural resources of Kentucky, are photographs, statistics, and products
showing the condition of the Swiss and other foreign farming colonics
recently established in the State, which were so interesting and
offered so many instructive points that I determined to see some of the
colonies.
* Whatever value this paper has is so largely due to Professor Procter
that I desire to make to him the most explicit acknowledgments. One of
the very best results of the war was keeping him in the Union.
This museum and the geological department, the intelligent management of
which has been of immense service to the commonwealth, is in one of the
detached buildings which make up the present Capitol. The Capitol is
altogether antiquated, and not a credit to the State. The room in which
the Lower House meets is shabby and mean, yet I noticed that it is
fairly well lighted by side windows, and debate can be heard in it
conducted in an ordinary tone of voice. Kentucky will before many years
be accommodated with new State buildings more suited to her wealth and
dignity. But I should like to repeat what was said in relation to the
Capitol of Arkansas. Why cannot our architects devise a capitol suited
to the wants of those who occupy it? Why must we go on making these
huge inconvenient structures, mainly for external display, in which the
legislative Chambers are vast air-tight and water-tight compartments,
commonly completely surrounded by other rooms and lobbies, and lighted
only from the roof, or at best by high windows in one or two sides that
permit no outlook—rooms difficult to speak or hear in, impossible to
ventilate, needing always artificial light? Why should the Senators of
the United States be compelled to occupy a gilded dungeon, unlighted
ever by the sun, unvisited ever by the free wind of heaven, in which the
air is so foul that the Senators sicken? What sort of legislation ought
we to expect from such Chambers? It is perfectly feasible to build a
legislative room cheerful and light, open freely to sun and air on
three sides. In order to do this it may be necessary to build a group
of connected buildings, instead of the parallelogram or square, which is
mostly domed, with gigantic halls and stair-ways, and, considering the
purpose for which it is intended, is a libel on our ingenuity and a
burlesque on our civilization.
Kentucky has gone to work in a very sensible way to induce immigration
and to attract settlers of the right sort. The Bureau of Immigration
was established in 1880. It began to publish facts about the State, in
regard to the geologic formation, the soils, the price of lands, both
the uncleared and the lands injured by slovenly culture, the kind and
amount of products that might be expected by thrifty farming, and the
climate; not exaggerated general proclamations promising sudden wealth
with little labor, but facts such as would attract the attention of men
willing to work in order to obtain for themselves and their children
comfortable homes and modest independence. Invitations were made for
a thorough examination of lands—of the different sorts of soils in
different counties—before purchase and settlement. The leading idea was
to induce industrious farmers who were poor, or had not money enough
to purchase high-priced improved lands, to settle upon lands that the
majority of Kentuckians considered scarcely worth cultivating, and the
belief was that good farming would show that these neglected lands were
capable of becoming very productive. Eight years’ experience has fully
justified all these expectations. Colonies of Swiss, Germans, Austrians,
have come, and Swedes also, and these have attracted many from the
North and North-west. In this period I suppose as many as ten thousand
immigrants of this class, thrifty cultivators of the soil, have come
into the State, many of whom are scattered about the State, unconnected
with the so-called colonies. These colonies are not organized
communities in any way separated from the general inhabitants of the
State. They have merely settled together for companionship and social
reasons, where a sufficiently large tract of cheap land was found
to accommodate them. Each family owns its own farm, and is perfectly
independent. An indiscriminate immigration has not been desired
or encouraged, but the better class of laboring agriculturists,
grape-growers, and stock-raisers. There are several settlements of
these, chiefly Swiss, dairy-farmers, cheese-makers, and vine-growers, in
Laurel County; others in Lincoln County, composed of Swiss, Germans, and
Austrians; a mixed colony in Rock Castle County; a thriving settlement
of Austrians in Boyle County; a temperance colony of Scandinavians in
Edmonson County; another Scandinavian colony in Grayson County; and
scattered settlements of Germans and Scandinavians in Christian County.
These settlements have from one hundred to over a thousand inhabitants
each. The lands in Laurel and Lincoln counties, which I travelled
through, are on a high plateau, with good air and temperate climate, but
with a somewhat thin, loamy, and sandy soil, needing manure, and called
generally in the State poor land—poor certainly compared with the
blue-grass region and other extraordinarily fertile sections. These
farms, which had been more or less run over by Kentucky farming, were
sold at from one to five dollars an acre. They are farms that a man
cannot live on in idleness. But they respond well to thrifty tillage,
and it is a sight worth a long journey to see the beautiful farms these
Swiss have made out of land that the average Kentuckian thought not
worth cultivating. It has not been done without hard work, and as most
of the immigrants were poor, many of them have had a hard struggle in
building comfortable houses, reducing the neglected land to order, and
obtaining stock. A great attraction to the Swiss was that this land
is adapted to vine culture, and a reasonable profit was expected
from selling grapes and making wine. The vineyards are still young;
experiment has not yet settled what kind of grapes flourish best, but
many vine-growers have realized handsome profits in the sale of fruit,
and the trial is sufficient to show that good wine can be produced. The
only interference thus far with the grapes has been the unprecedented
late freeze last spring.
At the recent exposition in Louisville the exhibit of these Swiss
colonies—the photographs showing the appearance of the unkempt land when
they bought it, and the fertile fields of grain and meadow and vineyards
afterwards, and the neat, plain farm cottages, the pretty Swiss chalet
with its attendants of intelligent comely girls in native costumes
offering articles illustrating the taste and the thrift of the
colonies, wood-carving, the products of the dairy, and the fruit of the
vine—attracted great attention.
I cannot better convey to the reader the impression I wish to in regard
to this colonization and its lesson for the country at large than
by speaking more in detail of one of the Swiss settlements in Laurel
County. This is Bernstadt, about six miles from Pittsburg, on the
Louisville and Nashville road, a coal-mining region, and offering a good
market for the produce of the Swiss farmers. We did not need to be told
when we entered the colony lands; neater houses, thrifty farming, and
better roads proclaimed it. It is not a garden-spot; in some respects it
is a poor-looking country; but it has abundant timber, good water, good
air, a soil of light sandy loam, which is productive under good
tillage. There are here, I suppose, some two hundred and fifty families,
scattered about over a large area, each on its farm. There is no
collection of houses; the church (Lutheran), the school-house, the
store, the post-office, the hotel, are widely separated; for the
hotel-keeper, the store-keeper, the postmaster, and, I believe, the
school-master and the parson, are all farmers to a greater or less
extent. It must be understood that it is a primitive settlement,
having as yet very little that is picturesque, a community of simple
working-people. Only one or two of the houses have any pretension to
taste in architecture, but this will come in time—the vine-clad porches,
the quaint gables, the home-likeness. The Kentuckian, however, will
notice the barns for the stock, and a general thriftiness about the
places. And the appearance of the farms is an object-lesson of the
highest value.
The chief interest to me, however, was the character of the settlers.
Most of them were poor, used to hard work and scant returns for it in
Switzerland. What they have accomplished, therefore, is the result of
industry, and not of capital. There are among the colonists
skilled laborers in other things than vine-growing and
cheese-making—watch-makers and wood-carvers and adepts in various
trades. The thrifty young farmer at whose pretty house we spent the
night, and who has saw-mills at Pittsburg, is of one of the best Swiss
families; his father was for many years President of the republic, and
he was a graduate of the university at Lucerne. There were others of
the best blood and breeding and schooling, and men of scientific
attainments. But they are all at work close to the soil. As a rule,
however, the colonists were men and women of small means at home. The
notable thing is that they bring with them a certain old civilization, a
unity of simplicity of life with real refinement, courtesy, politeness,
good-humor. The girls would not be above going out to service, and they
would not lose their self-respect in it. Many of them would be described
as “peasants,” but I saw some, not above the labors of the house and
farm, with real grace and dignity of manner and charm of conversation.
Few of them as yet speak any English, but in most houses are evidences
of some German culture. Uniformly there was courtesy and frank
hospitality. The community amuses itself rationally. It has a very good
brass band, a singing club, and in the evenings and holidays it is apt
to assemble at the hotel and take a little wine and sing the songs of
father-land. The hotel is indeed at present without accommodations for
lodgers—nothing but a Wirthshaus with a German garden where dancing may
take place now and then. With all the hard labor, they have an idea of
the simple comforts and enjoyments of life. And they live very well,
though plainly. At a house where we dined, in the colony Strasburg,
near Bernstadt, we had an excellent dinner, well served, and including
delicious soup. If the colony never did anything else than teach that
part of the State how to make soup, its existence would be justified.
Here, in short, is an element of homely thrift, civilization on a
rational basis, good-citizenship, very desirable in any State. May their
vineyards flourish! When we departed early in the morning—it was not
yet seven—a dozen Switzers, fresh from the dewy fields, in their working
dresses, had assembled at the hotel, where the young landlady also
smiled a welcome, to send us off with a song, which ended, as we drove
away, in a good-bye yodel.
A line drawn from the junction of the Scioto River with the Ohio
south-west to a point in the southern boundary about thirty miles
east of where the Cumberland leaves the State defines the eastern
coal-measures of Kentucky. In area it is about a quarter of the State—a
region of plateaus, mountains, narrow valleys, cut in all directions by
clear, rapid streams, stuffed, one may say, with coals, streaked
with iron, abounding in limestone, and covered with superb forests.
Independent of other States a most remarkable region, but considered
in its relation to the coals and iron ores of West Virginia, western
Virginia, and eastern Tennessee, it becomes one of the most important
and interesting regions in the Union. Looking to the south-eastern
border, I hazard nothing in saying that the country from the Breaks of
Sandy down to Big Creek Gap (in the Cumberland Mountain), in Tennessee,
is on the eve of an astonishing development—one that will revolutionize
eastern Kentucky, and powerfully affect the iron and coal markets of the
country. It is a region that appeals as well to the imagination of the
traveller as to the capitalist. My personal observation of it extends
only to the portion from Cumberland Gap to Big Stone Gap, and the
head-waters of the Cumberland between Cumberland Mountain and Pine
Mountain, but I saw enough to comprehend why eager purchasers are buying
the forests and the mining rights, why great companies, American and
English, are planting themselves there and laying the foundations of
cities, and why the gigantic railway corporations are straining every
nerve to penetrate the mineral and forest heart of the region. A dozen
roads, projected and in progress, are pointed towards this centre. It
is a race for the prize. The Louisville and Nashville, running through
soft-coal fields to Jellico and on to Knoxville, branches from Corbin
to Barboursville (an old and thriving town) and to Pineville. From
Pineville it is under contract, thirteen miles, to Cumberland Gap. This
gap is being tunnelled (work going on at both ends) by an independent
company, the tunnel to be open to all roads. The Louisville and
Nashville may run up the south side of the Cumberland range to Big Stone
Gap, or it may ascend the Cumberland River and its Clover Fork, and pass
over to Big Stone Gap that way, or it may do both. A road is building
from Knoxville to Cumberland Gap, and from Johnson City to Big Stone
Gap. A road is running from Bristol to within twenty miles of Big Stone
Gap; another road nears the same place—the extension of the Norfolk and
Western—from Pocahontas down the Clinch River. From the north-west many
roads are projected to pierce the great deposits of coking and
cannel coals, and find or bore a way through the mountain ridges into
south-western Virginia. One of these, the Kentucky Union, starting from
Lexington (which is becoming a great railroad centre), has reached Clay
City, and will soon be open to the Three Forks of the Kentucky River,
and on to Jackson, in Breathitt County. These valley and transridge
roads will bring within short hauling distance of each other as great
a variety of iron ores of high and low grade, and of coals, coking
and other, as can be found anywhere—according to the official reports,
greater than anywhere else within the same radius. As an item it may be
mentioned that the rich, pure, magnetic iron ore used in the manufacture
of Bessemer steel, found in East Tennessee and North Carolina, and
developed in greatest abundance at Cranberry Forge, is within one
hundred miles of the superior Kentucky coking coal. This contiguity (a
contiguity of coke, ore, and limestone) in this region points to the
manufacture of Bessemer steel here at less cost than it is now elsewhere
made.
It is unnecessary that I should go into details as to the ore and coal
deposits of this region: the official reports are accessible. It may be
said, however, that the reports of the Geological Survey as to both
coal and iron have been recently perfectly confirmed by the digging of
experts. Aside from the coal-measures below the sandstone, there have
been found above the sandstone, north of Pine Mountain, 1650 feet of
coal-measures, containing nine beds of coal of workable thickness, and
between Pine and Cumberland mountains there is a greater thickness of
coal-measures, containing twelve or more workable beds. Some of these
are coking coals of great excellence. Cannel-coals are found in sixteen
of the counties in the eastern coal-fields. Two of them at least are of
unexampled richness and purity. The value of a cannel-coal is determined
by its volatile combustible matter. By this test some of the Kentucky
cannel-coal excels the most celebrated coals of Great Britain. An
analysis of a cannel-coal in Breathitt County gives 66.28 of volatile
combustible matter; the highest in Great Britain is the Boghead,
Scotland, 51.60 per cent. This beautiful cannel-coal has been brought
out in small quantities via the Kentucky River; it will have a market
all over the country when the railways reach it. The first coal
identified as coking was named the Elkhorn, from the stream where it was
found in Pike County. A thick bed of it has been traced over an area of
1600 square miles, covering several counties, but attaining its greatest
thickness in Letcher, Pike, and Harlan. This discovery of coking coal
adds greatly to the value of the iron ores in north-eastern Kentucky,
and in the Red and Kentucky valleys, and also of the great deposits
of ore on the south-east boundary, along the western base of the
Cumberland, along the slope of Powell’s Mountain, and also along
Wallin’s Ridge, three parallel lines, convenient to the coking coal in
Kentucky. This is the Clinton or red fossil ore, stratified, having
from 45 to 54 per cent, of metallic iron. Recently has been found on the
north side of Pine Mountain in Kentucky, a third deposit of rich “brown”
ore, averaging 52 per cent, of metallic iron. This is the same as the
celebrated brown ore used in the furnaces at Clifton Forge; it makes a
very tough iron. I saw a vein of it on Straight Creek, three miles north
of Pineville, just opened, at least eight feet thick.
The railway to Pineville follows the old Wilderness road, the trail of
Boone and the stage-road, along which are seen the ancient tavern
stands where the jolly story-telling travellers of fifty years ago were
entertained and the droves of horses and cattle were fed. The railway
has been stopped a mile west of Pineville by a belligerent property
owner, who sits there with his Winchester rifle, and will not let the
work go on until the courts compel him. The railway will not cross the
Cumberland at Pineville, but higher up, near the great elbow. There
was no bridge over the stream, and we crossed at a very rough and rocky
wagon-ford. Pineville, where there has loner been a backwoods settlement
on the south bend of the river just after it breaks through Pine
Mountain, is now the centre of a good deal of mining excitement and
real-estate speculation. It has about five hundred inhabitants, and a
temporary addition of land buyers, mineral experts, engineers, furnace
projectors, and railway contractors. There is not level ground for a
large city, but what there is is plotted out for sale. The abundant iron
ore, coal, and timber here predict for it a future of some importance.
It has already a smart new hotel, and business buildings, and churches
are in process of erection. The society of the town had gathered for the
evening at the hotel. A wandering one-eyed fiddler was providentially
present who could sing and play “The Arkansas Traveller” and other tunes
that lift the heels of the young, and also accompany the scream of the
violin with the droning bagpipe notes of the mouth-harmonica. The star
of the gay company was a graduate of Annapolis, in full evening dress
uniform, a native boy of the valley, and his vis-à-vis was a heavy man
in a long linen duster and carpet slippers, with a palm-leaf fan, who
crashed through the cotillon with good effect. It was a pleasant party,
and long after it had dispersed, the troubadour, sitting on the piazza,
wiled away sleep by the break-downs, jigs, and songs of the frontier.
Pineville and its vicinity have many attractions; the streams are clear,
rapid, rocky, the foliage abundant, the hills picturesque. Straight
Creek, which comes in along the north base of Pine Mountain, is an
exceedingly picturesque stream, having along its banks fertile little
stretches of level ground, while the gentle bordering hills are
excellent for grass, fruit orchards, and vineyards. The walnut-trees
have been culled out, but there is abundance of oat, beech, poplar,
encumber, and small pines. And there is no doubt about the mineral
wealth.
We drove from Pineville to Cumberland Gap, thirteen miles, over the now
neglected Wilderness road, the two mules of the wagon unable to pull
us faster than two miles an hour. The road had every variety of badness
conceivable—loose stones, ledges of rock, bowlders, sloughs, holes,
mud, sand, deep fords. We crossed and followed up Clear Creek (a muddy
stream) over Log Mountain (full of coal) to Canon Creek. Settlements
were few—only occasional poor shanties. Climbing over another ridge, we
reached the Yellow Creek Valley, through which the Yellow Creek meanders
in sand. This whole valley, lying very prettily among the mountains, has
a bad name for “difficulties.” The hills about, on the sides and tops of
which are ragged little farms, and the valley itself, still contain some
lawless people. We looked with some interest at the Turner house, where
a sheriff was killed a year ago, at a place where a “severe” man fired
into a wagon-load of people and shot a woman, and at other places where
in recent times differences of opinion had been settled by the revolver.
This sort of thing is, however, practically over. This valley, close to
Cumberland Gap, is the site of the great city, already plotted, which
the English company are to build as soon as the tunnel is completed.
It is called Middleborough, and the streets are being graded and
preparations made for building furnaces. The north side of Cumberland
Mountain, like the south side of Pine, is a conglomerate, covered with
superb oak and chestnut trees. We climbed up to the mountain over
a winding road of ledges, bowlders, and deep gullies, rising to an
extended pleasing prospect of mountains and valleys. The pass has a
historic interest, not only as the ancient highway, but as the path of
armies in the Civil War. It is narrow, a deep road between overhanging
rocks. It is easily defended. A light bridge thrown over the road,
leading to rifle-pits and breastworks on the north side, remains to
attest the warlike occupation. Above, on the bald highest rocky head on
the north, guns were planted to command the pass. Two or three houses, a
blacksmith’s shop, a drinking tavern, behind which on the rocks four men
were playing old sledge, made up the sum of its human attractions as we
saw it. Just here in the pass Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia touch
each other. Virginia inserts a narrow wedge between the other two.
On our way down the wild and picturesque road we crossed the State of
Virginia and went to the new English hotel in Tennessee. We passed a
magnificent spring, which sends a torrent of water into the valley, and
turns a great millwheel—a picture in its green setting—saw the opening
of the tunnel with its shops and machinery, noted the few houses and
company stores of the new settlement, climbed the hill to the pretty
hotel, and sat down on the piazza to look at the scene. The view is
a striking one. The valley through which the Powell River runs is
pleasant, and the bold, bare mountain of rock at the right of the
pass is a noble feature in the landscape. With what joy must the early
wilderness pilgrims have hailed this landmark, this gate-way to the
Paradise beyond the mountains! Some miles north in the range are the
White Rocks, gleaming in the sun and conspicuous from afar, the first
signal to the weary travellers from the east of the region they sought.
Cumberland Gap is full of expectation, and only awaits the completion of
the tunnel to enter upon its development. Here railways from the north,
south, and west are expected to meet, and in the Yellow Creek Valley
beyond, the English are to build a great manufacturing city. The valleys
and sides of these mountain ranges (which have a uniform elevation
of not much more than 2000 to 2500 feet) enjoy a delightful climate,
moderate in the winter and temperate in the summer. This whole region,
when it is accessible by rail, will be attractive to tourists.
We pursued our journey up the Powell River Valley, along the base of
the Cumberland, on horseback—one day in a wagon in this country ought
to satisfy anybody. The roads, however, are better on this side of the
mountain; all through Lee County, In Virginia, in spots very good.
This is a very fine valley, with good water, cold and clear, growing in
abundance oats and corn, a constant succession of pretty views. We dined
excellently at a neat farm-house on the river, and slept at the house
of a very prosperous farmer near Boon’s Path post-office. Here we are
abreast the White Rocks, the highest point of the Cumberland (3451
feet), that used to be the beacon of immigration.
The valley grows more and more beautiful as we go up, full fields of
wheat, corn, oats, friendly to fruit of all sorts, with abundance of
walnut, oak, and chestnut timber—a fertile, agreeable valley, settled
with well-to-do farmers. The next morning, beautifully clear and
sparkling, we were off at seven o’clock through a lovely broken
country, following the line of Cumberland (here called Stone) Mountain,
alternately little hills and meadows, cultivated hill-sides, stretches
of rich valley, exquisite views—a land picturesque and thriving.
Continuing for nine miles up Powell Valley, we turned to the left
through a break in the hills into Poor Valley, a narrow, wild, sweet
ravine among the hills, with a swift crystal stream overhung by masses
of rhododendrons in bloom, and shaded by magnificent forest-trees. We
dined at a farm-house by Pennington’s Gap, and had a swim in the north
fork of Powell River, which here, with many a leap, breaks through the
bold scenery in the gap. Farther on, the valley was broader and
more fertile, and along the wide reaches of the river grew enormous
beech-trees, the russet foliage of which took on an exquisite color
towards evening. Indeed, the ride all day was excitingly interesting,
with the great trees, the narrow rich valleys, the frequent sparkling
streams, and lovely mountain views. At sunset we came to the house of an
important farmer who has wide possessions, about thirteen miles from Big
Stone Gap. We have nothing whatever against him except that he routed
us out at five o’clock of a foggy Sunday morning, which promised to
be warm—July 1st—to send us on our way to “the city.” All along we had
heard of “the city.” In a radius of a hundred miles Big Stone Gap is
called nothing but “the city,” and our anticipations were raised.
That morning’s ride I shall not forget. We crossed and followed Powell
River. All along the banks are set the most remarkable beech-trees I
have ever seen—great, wide-spreading, clean-boled trees, overbading the
stream, and giving under their boughs, nearly all the way, ravishingly
lovely views. This was the paradisiacal way to Big Stone Gap, which we
found to be a round broken valley, shut in by wooded mountains, covered
more or less with fine trees, the meeting-place of the Powell River,
which comes through the gap, and its south fork. In the round elevation
between them is the inviting place of the future city. There are two Big
Stone Gaps—the one open fields and forests, a settlement of some thirty
to forty houses, most of them new and many in process of building, a
hotel, and some tents; the other, the city on the map. The latter is
selling in small lots, has wide avenues, parks, one of the finest hotels
in the South, banks, warehouses, and all that can attract the business
man or the summer lounger.
The heavy investments in Big Stone Gap and the region I should say were
fully justified by the natural advantages. It is a country of great
beauty, noble mountain ranges, with the valleys diversified by small
hills, fertile intervales, fine streams, and a splendid forest growth.
If the anticipations of an important city at the gap are half realized,
the slopes of the hills and natural terraces will be dotted with
beautiful residences, agreeable in both summer and winter. It was the
warmest time of the year when we were there, but the air was fresh and
full of vitality. The Big Stone Gap Improvement Company has the city and
its site in charge; it is a consolidation of the various interests of
railway companies and heavy capitalists, who have purchased the land.
The money and the character of the men behind the enterprise insure a
vigorous prosecution of it. On the west side of the river are the depot
and switching-grounds which the several railways have reserved for
their use, and here also are to be the furnaces and shops. When the
city outgrows its present site it can extend up valleys in several
directions. We rode through line forests up the lovely Powell Valley to
Powell Mountain, where a broad and beautiful meadow offers a site for a
suburban village. The city is already planning for suburbs. A few miles
south of the city a powerful stream of clear water falls over precipices
and rocks seven hundred feet in continuous rapids. This is not only
a charming addition to the scenic attractions of the region, but the
stream will supply the town with excellent water and unlimited “power.”
Beyond, ten miles to the north-east, rises High Knob, a very sightly
point, where one gets the sort of view of four States that he sees on an
atlas. It is indeed a delightful region; but however one may be charmed
by its natural beauty, he cannot spend a day at Big Stone Gap without
being infected with the great enterprises brooding there.
We forded Powell River and ascended through the gap on its right bank.
Before entering the gorge we galloped over a beautiful level plateau,
the counterpart of that where the city is laid out, reserved for
railways and furnaces. From this point the valley is seen to be wider
than we suspected, and to have ample room for the manufacturing and
traffic expected. As we turned to see what we shall never see again—the
virgin beauty of nature in this site—the whole attractiveness of this
marvellously picturesque region burst upon us—the great forests, the
clear swift streams, the fertile meadows, the wooded mountains that have
so long secluded this beauty and guarded the treasures of the hills.
The pass itself, which shows from a distance only a dent in the green
foliage, surprised us by its wild beauty. The stony road, rising little
by little above the river, runs through a magnificent forest, gigantic
trees growing in the midst of enormous bowlders, and towering among
rocks that take the form of walls and buttresses, square structures like
the Titanic ruins of castles; below, the river, full and strong, rages
over rocks and dashes down, filling the forest with its roar, which is
echoed by the towering cliffs on either side. The woods were fresh and
glistening from recent rains, but what made the final charm of the
way was the bloom of the rhododendron, which blazed along the road and
illuminated the cool recesses of the forest. The time for the blooming
of the azalea and the kalmia (mountain-laurel) was past, but the pink
and white rhododendron was in full glory, masses of bloom, not small
stalks lurking like underbrush, but on bushes attaining the dignity of
trees, and at least twenty-five feet high. The splendor of the forest
did not lessen as we turned to the left and followed up Pigeon Creek to
a high farming region, rough but fertile, at the base of Black Mountain.
Such a wealth of oak, beech, poplar, chestnut, and ash, and, sprinkled
in, the pretty cucumber-magnolia in bloom! By sunset we found our way,
off the main road, to a lonely farm-house hidden away at the foot of
Morris Pass, secluded behind an orchard of apple and peach trees. A
stream of spring-water from the rocks above ran to the house, and to the
eastward the ravine broadened into pastures. It seemed impossible to
get farther from the world and its active currents. We were still in
Virginia.
Our host, an old man over six feet in height, with spare, straight,
athletic form, a fine head, and large clear gray eyes, lived here alone
with his aged spouse. He had done his duty by his country in raising
twelve children (that is the common and orthodox number in this region),
who had all left him except one son, who lived in a shanty up the
ravine. It was this son’s wife who helped about the house and did the
milking, taking care also of a growing family of her own, and doing her
share of field-work. I had heard that the women in this country were
more industrious than the men. I asked this woman, as she was milking
that evening, if the women did all the work. No, she said; only their
share. Her husband was all the time in the field, and even her boys, one
only eight, had to work with him; there was no time to go to school, and
indeed the school didn’t amount to much anyway—only a little while in
the fall. She had all the care of the cows. “Men,” she added, “never
notice milking;” and the worst of it was that she had to go miles around
in the bush night and morning to find them. After supper we had a call
from a bachelor who occupied a cabin over the pass, on the Kentucky
side, a loquacious philosopher, who squatted on his heels in the
door-yard where we were sitting, and interrogated each of us in turn as
to our names, occupations, residence, ages, and politics, and then gave
us as freely his own history and views of life. His eccentricity in this
mountain region was that he had voted for Cleveland and should do it
again. Mr. Morris couldn’t go with him in this; and when pressed for his
reasons he said that Cleveland had had the salary long enough, and got
rich enough out of it. The philosopher brought the news, had heard it
talked about on Sunday, that a man over Clover Fork way had killed his
wife and brother. It was claimed to be an accident; they were having
a game of cards and some whiskey, and he was trying to kill his
son-in-law. Was there much killing round here? Well, not much lately.
Last year John Cone, over on Clover Fork, shot Mat Harner in a dispute
over cards. Well, what became of John Cone? Oh, he was killed by Jim
Blood, a friend of Harner. And what became of Blood? Well, he got shot
by Elias Travers. And Travers? Oh, he was killed by a man by the name
of Jacobs. That ended it. None of ‘em was of much account. There was a
pleasing naivete in this narrative. And then the philosopher, whom the
milkmaid described to me next morning as “a simlar sort of man,” went on
to give his idea about this killing business. “All this killing in the
mountains is foolish. If you kill a man, that don’t aggravate him; he’s
dead and don’t care, and it all comes on you.”
In the early morning we crossed a narrow pass in the Black Mountain into
“Canetucky,” and followed down the Clover Fork of the Cumberland.
All these mountains are perfectly tree-clad, but they have not the
sombreness of the high regions of the Great Smoky and the Black
Mountains of North Carolina. There are few black balsams, or any sort of
evergreens, and the great variety of deciduous trees, from the shining
green of the oak to the bronze hue of the beech, makes everywhere soft
gradations of color most pleasing to the eye. In the autumn, they say,
the brilliant maples in combination with the soberer bronzes and yellows
of the other forest-trees give an ineffable beauty to these ridges and
graceful slopes. The ride down Clover Fork, all day long, was for the
most part through a virgin world. The winding valley is at all times
narrow, with here and there a tiny meadow, and at long intervals a
lateral opening down which another sparkling brook comes from the
recesses of this wilderness of mountains. Houses are miles apart, and
usually nothing but cabins half concealed in some sheltered nook. There
is, however, hidden on the small streams, on mountain terraces, and high
up on the slopes, a considerable population, cabin dwellers, cultivators
of corn, on the almost perpendicular hills. Many of these cornfields are
so steep that it is impossible to plough them, and all the cultivation
is done with the hoe. I heard that a man was recently killed in this
neighborhood by falling out of his cornfield. The story has as much
foundation as the current belief that the only way to keep a mule in the
field where you wish him to stay is to put him into the adjoining lot.
But it is true that no one would believe that crops could be raised on
such nearly perpendicular slopes as these unless he had seen the planted
fields.
In my limited experience I can recall no day’s ride equal in simple
natural beauty—not magnificence—and splendor of color to that down
Clover Fork. There was scarcely a moment of the day when the scene did
not call forth from us exclamations of surprise and delight. The road
follows and often crosses the swift, clear, rocky stream. The variegated
forest rises on either hand, but all along the banks vast trees without
underbrush dot the little intervales. Now and then, in a level reach,
where the road wound through these monarch stems, and the water spread
in silver pools, the perspective was entrancing. But the color! For
always there were the rhododendrons, either gleaming in masses of white
and pink in the recesses of the forest, or forming for us an allée,
close set, and uninterrupted for miles and miles; shrubs like trees,
from twenty to thirty feet high, solid bouquets of blossoms, more
abundant than any cultivated parterre, more brilliant than the
finest display in a horticultural exhibition. There is an avenue of
rhododendrons half a mile long at Hampton Court, which is world-wide
famous. It needs a day to ride through the rhododendron avenue on Clover
Fork, and the wild and free beauty of it transcends all creations of the
gardener.
The inhabitants of the region are primitive and to a considerable extent
illiterate. But still many strong and distinguished men have come from
these mountain towns. Many families send their children away to school,
and there are fair schools at Barbersville, Harlan Court-house, and in
other places. Long isolated from the moving world, they have retained
the habits of the early settlers, and to some extent the vernacular
speech, though the dialect is not specially marked. They have been until
recently a self-sustaining people, raising and manufacturing nearly
everything required by their limited knowledge and wants. Not long ago
the women spun and wove from cotton and hemp and wool the household
linen, the bed-wear, and the clothes of the family. In many houses the
loom is still at work. The colors used for dyeing were formerly all of
home make except, perhaps, the indigo; now they use what they call the
“brought in” dyes, bought at the stores; and prints and other fabrics
