to avail myself of the privilege your daughter offers me. 
Good-night." 
"Oh, it's a pity; won't you take anything'" asked Mrs. 
Rooth. " When I heard your voice so high I was scared and 
I hung back." But before he could reply she added : " Are 
you really thinking of the stage? " 
" It comes to the same thing." 
" Do you mean you've proposed ? " 
" Oh, unmistakably." 
" And what does she say? " 
" Why, you heard : she says I'm an ass." 
" Ah, the little rascal ! " laughed Mrs. Rooth. " Leave her 
to me. I'll help you. But you are mad. Give up nothing 
least of all your advantages." 
' " I won't give up your daughter," said Peter, reflecting that 
if this was cheap it was at any rate good enough for Mrs. 
Rooth. He mended it a little indeed by adding darkly : " But 
you can't make her take me." 
" I can prevent her taking any one else." 
" Oh, can you ! " Peter ejaculated, with more scepticism 
than ceremony. 
" You'll see you'll see." He passed into the garden, but, 
after she had blown out the candles and drawn the window 
to, Mrs. Rooth went with him. " All you've got to do is to 
be yourself to be true to your fine position," she explained 
as they proceeded. " Trust me with the rest trust me and 
be quiet." 
" How can one be quiet after this magnificent evening ? " 
"Yes, but it's just that!" panted the eager old woman. 
" It has launched her so, on this sea of dangers, that to make 
up for the loss of the old security (don't you know ?) we must 
take a still firmer hold." 
"Ay, of what ? " asked Sherringham, as Mrs.Rooth's comfort 
became vague while she stopped with him at the garden-door. 
" Ah, you know : of the real life, of the true anchor ! " 
Her hansom was waiting for her, and she added : " I kept it, 
you see ; but a little' extravagance, on the night one's fortune 
has come ! " 
Peter stared. Yes, there were people whose fortune had 
come ; but he managed to stammer : " Are you following her 
again? " 
" For you for you ! " And Mrs. Rooth clambered into the 
vehicle. From the seat, enticingly, she offered him the place 
beside her. " Won't you come too? I know he asked you." 
Peter declined with a quick gesture, and as he turned away he 
heard her call after him, to cheer him on his lonely walk : " I 
shall keep this up ; I shall never lose sight of her ! " 
XL VII. 
WHEN Mrs. Dallow returned to London, just before London 
broke up, the fact was immediately known in Calcutta 
Gardens and was promptly communicated to Nick Dormer by 
his sister Bridget. He had learnt it in no other way he 
had had no correspondence with Julia during her absence. 
He gathered that his mother and sisters were not ignorant 
of her whereabouts (he never mentioned her name to them) ; 
but as to this he was not sure whether the source of their 
information was the Morning Post or a casual letter received 
by the inscrutable Biddy. He knew that Biddy had some 
epistolary commerce with Julia, and he had an impression 
that Grace occasionally exchanged letters with Mrs. Gresham. 
Biddy, however, who, as he was well aware, was always 
studying what he would like, forbore to talk to him about the 
absent mistress of Harsh, beyond once dropping the remark 
that she had gone from Florence to Venice and was enjoying 
gondolas and sunsets too much to leave them. Nick's com- 
ment on this was that she was a happy woman to have such a 
go at Titian and Tintoret : as he spoke and for some time 
afterwards the sense of how he himself should enjoy a similar 
"go" made him ache with ineffectual longing. 
He had forbidden himself for the present to think of 
absence, not only because it would be inconvenient and 
expensive, but because it would be a kind of retreat from 
the enemy, a concession to difficulty. The enemy was no 
particular person and no particular body of persons : not his 
mother ; not Mr. Carteret, who, as Nick heard from the 
doctor at Beauclere, lingered on, sinking and sinking till his 
vitality appeared to have the vertical depth of a gold-mine ; 
not his pacified constituents, who had found a healthy diver- 
sion in returning another Liberal, wholly without Mrs. Dallow' s 
aid (she had not participated even to the extent of a responsive 
telegram in the election) ; not his late colleagues in the House, 
nor the biting satirists of the newspapers, nor the brilliant 
women he took down at dinner-parties (there was only one 
sense in which he ever took them down), nor his friends, nor 
his foes, nor his private thoughts, nor the periodical phantom of 
his shocked father : it was simply the general awkwardness of 
his situation. This awkwardness was connected with the sense 
of responsibility that Gabriel Nash so greatly deprecated 
ceasing to roam, of late, on purpose to miss as few scenes as 
possible of the drama, rapidly growing dull, alas, of his 
friend's destiny ; but that compromising relation scarcely 
drew the soreness from it. The public flurry produced by 
Nick's collapse had only been large enough to mark the 
flatness of his position when it was over. To have had a few 
jokes cracked audibly at one's expense was not an ordeal 
worth talking of ; the hardest thing about it was merely that 
there had not been enough of them to yield a proportion of 
good ones. Nick had felt, in short, the benefit of living in 
an age and in a society where number and pressure have, for 
the individual figure, especially when it's a zero, compensations 
almost equal to their cruelties. 
No, the pinch, for our young man's conscience, after a feAV 
weeks had passed, was simply an acute mistrust of the super- 
ficiality of performance into which the desire to justify himself 
might hurry him. That desire was passionate as regards 
Julia Dallow ; it was ardent also as regards his mother ; and, 
to make it absolutely uncomfortable it was complicated with 
the conviction that neither of them would recognize his justi- 
fication even when they should see it. They probably couldn't 
if they would, and very likely they wouldn't if they could. 
He assured himself however that this limitation wouldn't 
matter ; it was their affair his own was simply to have the 
right sort of thing to show. The work he was now attempt- 
ing was not the right sort of thing ; though doubtless Julia 
for instance would dislike it almost as much as if it were. 
The two portraits of Miriam, after the first exhilaration of his 
finding himself at large, filled him with no private glee : they 
were not in the direction in which for the present he wished 
really to move. There were moments when he felt almost 
angry, though of course he held his tongue, when by the few 
persons who saw them they were pronounced wonderfully 
clever. That they were wonderfully clever was just the 
detestable thing in them, so active had that cleverness been in 
making them seem better than they were. There were people 
to whom he would have been ashamed to show them, and 
these were the people whom it would give him most pleasure 
some day to please. Not only had he many an hour of disgust 
with his actual work, but he thought he saw, as in an ugly 
revelation, that nature had cursed him with an odious facility 
and that the lesson of his life, the sternest and wholesomest, 
would be to keep out of the trap it had laid for him. He 
had fallen into this trap on the threshold and he had only 
scrambled out with his honour. He had a talent for appear- 
ance, and that was the fatal thing ; he had a damnable supple- 
ness and a gift of immediate response, a readiness to oblige, 
that made him seem to take up causes which he really left 
lying, enabled him to learn enough about them in an hour to 
have all the air of having made them his own. Many people 
call them their own who had taken them in much less. He 
was too clever by half, since this pernicious overflow had been 
at the bottom of deep disappointments and heart-burnings. 
He had assumed a virtue and enjoyed assuming it, and the 
assumption had cheated his father and his mother and his 
affianced wife and his rich benefactor and the candid burgesses 
of Harsh and the cynical reporters of the newspapers. His 
enthusiasms had been but young curiosity, his speeches had 
been young agility, his professions and adhesions had been 
like postage-stamps without glue : the head was all right, but 
they wouldn't stick. He stood ready now to wring the neck 
of the irrepressible vice which certainly would like nothing 
better than to get him into further trouble. His only real 
justification would be to turn patience (his .own, of course) 
inside ou<; ; yet if there should be a way to misread that recipe 
his humbugging genius could be trusted infallibly to discover 
it. Cheap and easy results would dangle before him, little 
amateurish conspicuities, helped by his history, at exhibitions ; 
putting it in his power to triumph with a quick "What do 
you say to that ? " over those he had wounded. The fear of 
this danger was corrosive ; it poisoned even legitimate joys. 
If he should have a striking picture at the Academy next 
year it wouldn't be a crime : yet he couldn't help suspecting 
any conditions that would enable him to be striking so soon. 
In this way he felt quite enough how Gabriel Nash " had " 
him whenever he railed at his fever for proof, and how 
inferior as a productive force the desire to win over the ill- 
disposed might be to the principle of quiet growth. Nash had 
a foreign manner of lifting up his finger and waving it before 
him, as if to put an end to everything, whenever it became, 
in conversation or discussion, to any extent a question whether 
any one would like anything. 
It was presumably, in some degree at least, a due respect 
for the principle of quiet growth that kept Nick on the spot 
at present, made him stick fast to Rosedale Road and Calcutta 
Gardens and deny himself the simplifications of absence. Do 
what he would he could not despoil himself of the impression 
that the disagreeable was somehow connected with the salu- 
tary and the " quiet " with the disagreeable, when stubbornly 
borne ; so he resisted a hundred impulses to run away to Paris 
or to Florence and the temptation to persuade himself by 
material motion that he was launched. He stayed in London 
because it seemed to him that he was more conscious of what 
he had undertaken, and he had a horror of shirking that con- 
sciousness. One element in it indeed was the perception that 
he would have found no great convenience in a foreign journey, 
even had his judgment approved such a subterfuge. The 
stoppage of his supplies from Beauclere had now become an 
historic fact, with something "of the majesty of its class about 
it : he had had time to see what a difference this would make 
in his life. His means were small and he had several old 
debts, the number of which, as he believed, loomed large to 
his mother's imagination. He could never tell her that she 
exaggerated, because he told her nothing of that sort now : 
they had no intimate talk, for an impenetrable partition, a 
tall bristling hedge of untrimmed misconceptions had sprung 
up between them. Poor Biddy had made a hole in it, through 
which she squeezed, from side to side, to keep up communica- 
tions, at the cost of many rents and scratches ; Jbut Lady 
Agnes walked straight and stiff, never turning her head, never 
stopping to pluck the least little daisy of consolation. It was 
in this manner she wished to signify that she had accepted her 
wrongs. She draped herself in them as in a kind of Roman 
mantle, and she had never looked so proud and wasted and 
handsome as now that her eyes rested only upon ruins. 
Nick was extremely sorry for her, though he thought there 
was a dreadful want of grace in her never setting a foot in 
Rosedale Road (she mentioned his studio no more than if it 
had been a private gambling- house, or something worse) ; sorry 
because he was well aware that for the hour everything must 
appear to her to have crumbled. The luxury of Broad wood 
would have to crumble : his mind was very clear about that. 
Biddy's prospects had withered to the finest, dreariest dust, 
and Biddy indeed, taking a lesson from her brother's per- 
versities, seemed little disposed to better a bad business. She 
professed the most peacemaking sentiments, but when it came 
really to doing something to brighten up the scene she showed 
herself portentously corrupted. After Peter Sherringham's 
heartless flight she had wantonly slighted an excellent oppor- 
tunity to repair her misfortune. Lady Agnes had reason to 
know, about the end of June, that young Mr, Grindon, the 
only son (the other children were girls) of an immensely rich 
industrial and political baronet in the north, was literally wait- 
ing for the faintest sign. This reason she promptly imparted 
to her younger daughter, whose intelligence had to take it in 
but who had shown it no other consideration. Biddy had set 
her charming face as a stone ; she would have nothing to do 
with signs, and she, practically speaking, wilfully, wickedly 
refused a magnificent offer, so that the young man carried his 
noble expectations elsewhere. How much in earnest he had 
been was proved by the fact that before Goodwood had come 
and gone he was captured by Lady Muriel Macpherson. It 
was superfluous to insist on the frantic determination to get 
married revealed by such an accident as that. Nick knew of 
this episode only through Grace, and he deplored its having 
occurred in the midst of other disasters. 
He knew or he suspected something more as well some- 
thing about his brother Percival which, if it should come to 
light, no season would be genial enough to gloss over. It had 
visually been supposed that Percy's store of comfort against 
the ills of life was confined to the infallibility of his rifle. He 
was not sensitive, but he had always the consolation of killing 
something. It had suddenly come to Nick's ears however 
that he had another resource as well, in the person of a robust 
countrywoman, housed in an ivied corner of Warwickshire, in 
whom he had long been interested and whom, without any 
nourish of magnanimity, he had ended by making his wife. 
The situation of the latest born of the pledges of this affection, 
a blooming boy (there had been two or three previously), was 
therefore perfectly regular and of a nature to make a difference 
in the worldly position, as the phrase is, of his moneyless uncle. 
If there be degrees in the absolute and Percy had an heir 
(others, moreover, would supposably come), Nick would have 
to regard himself as still more moneyless than before. His 
brother's last step was doubtless, under the circumstances, to 
be commended ; but such discoveries were enlivening only 
when they were made in other families, and Lady Agnes 
would scarcely enjoy learning to what tune she had become a 
grandmother. 
Nick forbore from delicacy to intimate to Biddy that he 
thought it a pity she couldn't care for Mr. Grindon ; but he 
had a private sense that if she had been capable of such an 
achievement it would have lightened a little the weight he 
himself had to carry. He bore her a slight grudge, which 
lasted until Julia Dallow came back : when the circumstance 
of the girl's being summoned immediately down to Harsh 
created a diversion that was perhaps after all only fanciful. 
Biddy, as we know, entertained a theory, which Nick had 
found occasion to combat, that Mrs. Dallow had not treated 
him perfectly well ; therefore in going to Harsh the very first 
time Julia held out a hand to her, so jealous a little sister must 
have recognized a special inducement. The inducement might 
have been that Julia had comfort for her, that she was acting 
by the direct advice of this acute lady, that they were still in 
close communion on the question of the offers Biddy was not 
to accept, that in short Peter Sherringham's sister had taken 
upon herself to see that Biddy should remain free until the 
day of the fugitive's inevitable return. Once or twice indeed 
Nick wondered whether Mrs. Dallow herself was visited, in a 
larger sense, by the thought of retracing her steps whether 
she wished to draw out her young friend's opinion as to how 
she might do so gracefully. During the few days she was in 
town Nick had seen her twice, ia Great Stanhope Street, but 
not alone. She had said to him on one of these occasions, in 
her odd, explosive way : " I should have thought you'd have 
gone away somewhere it must be such a bore." Of course 
she firmly believed he was staying for Miriam, which he really 
was not ; and probably she had written this false impression 
off to Peter, who still more probably would prefer to regard 
it as just, Nick was staying for Miriam only in the sense that 
he should be very glad of the money he might receive for the 
portrait he was engaged in painting. That money would be a 
great convenience to him, in spite of the obstructive ground 
Miriam had taken in pretending (she had blown half a gale 
about it) that he had had no right to dispose of such a pro- 
duction without her consent. His answer to this was simply 
that the purchaser was so little of a stranger that it didn't go, 
as it were, out of the family, out of hers. It didn't matter 
that Miriam should protest that if Mr. Sherringham had for- 
merly been no stranger he was now utterly one, so that there 
could be nothing less soothing to him than to see her hated 
image on his wall. He would back out of the bargain, and 
Nick would be left with his work on his hands. Nick jeered 
at this shallow theory and, when she came to sit, the question 
served as well as another to sprinkle their famih'ar silences 
with chaff. Nick already knew something, as we have seen, 
of the conditions in which his distracted kinsman had left 
England ; and this connected itself in casual meditation with 
some of the calculations that he attributed to Julia and Biddy. 
There had naturally been a sequel to the queer behaviour in 
which Peter had indulged, at the theatre, on the eve of his 
departure a sequel embodied in a remark dropped by Miriam 
in the course of the first sitting she gave Nick after her great 
night. " Fancy " so this observation ran " fancy the dear 
man finding time, in the press of all his last duties, to ask me 
to marry him ! " 
" He told me you had found time, in the press of all yours, 
to say you would," Nick replied. And this was pretty much 
all that had passed on the subject between them, save, of 
course, that Miriam immediately made it clear that Peter had 
grossly misinformed him. What had happened was that she 
had said she would do nothing of the sort. She professed a 
desire not to be confronted again with this trying theme, and 
Nick easily fell in with it, from a definite preference he now 
had not to handle that kind of subject with her. If Julia 
had false ideas about him, and if Peter had them too, his part 
of the business was to take the simplest course to establish 
that falsity. There were difficulties indeed attached even to 
the simplest course, but there would be a difficulty the less if, 
in conversation, one should forbear to meddle with the general 
suggestive topic of intimate unions. It is certain that in 
these days Nick cultivated the practice of forbearances for 
which he did not receive, for which perhaps he never would 
receive, due credit. 
He had been convinced for some time that one of the next 
things he should hear would be that Mrs. Dallow had arranged 
to marry Mr. Macgeorge or some such leader of multitudes. 
He could think of that now, he found think of it with 
resignation, even when Julia was before his eyes, looking so 
handsomely forgetful that her air had to be taken as referring 
still more to their original intimacy than to his comparatively 
superficial offence. What made this accomplishment of his 
own remarkable was that there was something else he thought 
of quite as much the fact that he had only to see her again 
to feel by how great a charm she had in the old days taken 
possession of him. This charm operated apparently in a very 
direct, primitive way : her presence diffused it and fully 
established it, but her absence left comparatively little of it 
behind. It dwelt in the very facts of her person it was 
something that she happened physically to be ; yet (consider- 
ing that the question was of something very like loveliness) 
its envelope of associations, of memories and recurrences, had 
no great density. She packed it up and took it away with 
her, as if she had been a woman who lad come to sell a set 
of laces. The laces were as wonderful as ever when they were 
taken out of the box, but to get another look at them you had 
to send for the woman. What was above all remarkable was 
that Miriam Rooth was much less irresistible to our young 
man than Mrs. Dallow could be when Mrs. Dallow was on the 
spot. He could paint Miriam, day after day, without any 
agitating blur of vision ; in fact the more he saw of her the 
clearer grew the atmosphere through which she blazed, the 
more her richness became one with that of the flowering 
picture. There are reciprocities and special sympathies in 
such relations ; mysterious affinities they used to be called, 
divinations of private congruity. Nick had an unexpressed 
conviction that if, as he had often wanted and proposed, he 
had embarked with Mrs. Dallow in this particular quest of a 
great prize, disaster would have overtaken them on the deep 
waters. Even with the limited risk, indeed, disaster had 
come ; but it was of a different kind and it had the advantage 
for him that now she couldn't reproach and accuse him as the 
cause of it couldn't do so at least on any ground he was 
obliged to recognize. She would never know how much he 
had cared for her, how much he cared for her still ; inasmuch 
as the conclusive proof, for himself, was his conscious reluct- 
ance to care for another woman, which she positively misread. 
Some day he would doubtless try to do that ; but such a day 
seemed as yet far off, and he had no spite, no vindictive 
impulse to help him. The soreness that was mingled with 
his liberation, the sense of indignity even, as of a full cup 
suddenly dashed by a blundering hand from his lips, demanded 
certainly a balm ; but it found it for a time in another passion, 
not in a rancorous exercise of the same a passion strong 
enough to make him forget what a pity it was that he was 
not made to care for two women at once. 
As soon as Mrs. Dallow returned to England he broke 
ground to his mother on the subject of her making Julia 
understand that she and the girls now regarded their occupancy 
of Broadwood as absolutely terminated. He had already, 
several weeks before, picked a little at this arid tract, but in 
the interval the soil appeared to have formed again. It was 
disagreeable to him to impose such a renunciation on Lady 
Agnes, and it was especially disagreeable to have to phrase it 
and discuss it and perhaps insist upon it. He would have 
liked the whole business to be tacit a little triumph of silent 
delicacy. But he found reasons to suspect that what in fact 
would be most tacit was Julia's certain endurance of any 
chance indelicacy. Lady Agnes had a theory that they had 
virtually " practically," as she said given up the place, so 
that there was no need of making a splash about it ; but Nick 
discovered, in the course of a conversation with Biddy more 
rigorous perhaps than any to which he had ever subjected her, 
that none of their property had been removed from her 
delightful house none of the things (there were ever so many 
things) that Lady Agnes had caused to be conveyed there 
when they took possession. Her ladyship was the proprietor 
of innumerable articles of furniture, relics and survivals of 
her former greatness, and moved about the world with a train 
of heterogeneous baggage ; so that her quiet overflow into the 
spaciousness of Broadwood had had all the luxury of a final 
subsidence. What Nick had to propose to her now was a 
dreadful combination, a relapse into all the things she most 
hated seaside lodgings, bald storehouses in the Marylebone 
Road, little London rooms crammed with things that caught 
the dirt and made them stuffy. He was afraid he should 
really finish her, and he himself was surprised in a degree at 
his insistence. He wouldn't have supposed that he should 
have cared so much, but he found he did care intensely. He 
cared enough it says everything to explain to his mother 
that practically her retention of Broadwood would be the 
violation of an agreement. Julia had given them the place on 
the understanding that he was to marry her, and since he was 
not to marry her they had no right to keep the place.- " Yes, 
you make the mess and we pay the penalty ! " Lady Agnes 
flashed out ; but this was the only overt protest that she 
made, except indeed to contend that their withdrawal would 
be an act ungracious and offensive to Julia. She looked as 
she had looked during the months that succeeded his father's 
death, but she gave a general grim assent to the proposition 
that, let Julia take it as she would, their own duty was 
unmistakably clear. 
It was Grace who was the principal representative of the 
idea that Julia would be outraged by such a step ; she never 
ceased to repeat that she had never heard of anything so 
" nasty." Nick would have expected this of Grace, but he 
felt rather deserted and betrayed when Biddy murmured to 
him that she knew that there was really no need of their 
sacrificing their mother's comfort to a mere fancy. She 
intimated that if Nick would only consent to their going on 
with Broadwood as if nothing had happened (or rather as if 
everything had happened), she would answer for Julia. For 
almost the first time in his life Nick disliked what Biddy said 
to him, and he gave her a sharp rejoinder, embodying the 
general opinion that they all had enough to do to answer for 
themselves. He remembered afterwards the way she looked 
at him, startled, even frightened, with rising tears, before 
turning away. He held that it would be time enough to judge 
how Julia would take it after they had thrown up the place ; 
and he made it his duty to see that his mother should address 
to Mrs. Dallow by letter a formal notification of their retire- 
ment. Mrs. Dallow could protest then if she liked. Nick was 
aware that in general he was not practical ; he could imagine 
why, from his early years, people should have joked him about 
it. But this time he was determined that his behaviour should 
be founded on a rigid view of things as they were. He didn't 
see his mother's letter to Julia, but he knew that it went. 
He thought she would have been more loyal if she had shown 
it to him, though of course there could be but little question 
of loyalty now. That it had really been written however, 
very much on the lines he dictated, was clear to him from the 
subsequent surprise which Lady Agnes's blankness did not 
prevent him from divining. 
Julia answered her letter, but in unexpected terms : she 
had apparently neither resisted nor protested ; she had simply 
been very glad to get her house back again and had not 
accused any of them of nastiness. Nick saw no more of her 
letter than he had seen of his mother's, but he was able to 
say to Grace (to Lady Agnes he was studiously mute) : " My 
poor child, you see, after all, that we haven't kicked up such 
a row." Grace shook her head and looked gloomy and deeply 
wise, replying that he had no cause to triumph they were so 
far from having seen the end of it yet. Then he guessed that 
his mother had complied with his wish on the calculation that 
it would be a mere form, that Julia would entreat them not 
to be so fantastic, and that he would then, in the presence of 
her wounded surprise, consent to a quiet continuance, so much 
in the interest (the air of Broadwood had a purity !) of the 
health of all of them. But since Julia jumped at their relin- 
quishment he had no chance to be mollified : he had only to 
persist in having been right. 
At bottom, probably, he himself was a little surprised at 
her eagerness. Literally speaking, it was not perfectly grace- 
ful. He was sorry his mother had been so deceived, but he 
was sorrier still for Biddy's mistake it showed she might be 
mistaken about other things. Nothing was left now but for 
Lady Agnes to say, as she did, substantially, whenever she 
saw him : " We are to prepare to spend the autumn at 
Worthing then, or some other horrible place  ? I don't know 
their names : it's the only thing we can afford." There was 
an implication in this that if he expected her to drag her girls 
about to country-houses, in a continuance of the fidgety effort 
to work them off, he must understand at once that she was 
now too weary and too sad and too sick. She had done her 
best for them, and it had all been vain and cruel, and now the 
poor creatures must look out for themselves. To the grossness 
of Biddy's misconduct she needn't refer, nor to the golden 
opportunity this young lady had forfeited by her odious treat- 
ment of Mr. Grindon. It was clear that this time Lady Agnes 
was incurably discouraged ; so much so as to fail to glean the 
dimmest light from the fact that the girl was really making a 
long stay at Harsh. Biddy went to and fro two or three 
times and then, in August, fairly settled there ; and what her 
mother mainly saw in her absence was the desire to keep out 
of the way of household reminders of her depravity. In fact, 
as it turned out, Lady Agnes and Grace, in the first days of 
August, gathered themselves together for another visit to the 
old lady who had been Sir Nicholas's godmother ; after which 
they went somewhere else, so that the question of Worthing 
had not to be immediately faced. 
Nick stayed on in London with a passion of work fairly 
humming in his ears ; he was conscious with joy that for 
three or four months, in the empty Babylon, he would have 
generous days. But toward the end of August he got a letter 
from Grace in which she spoke of her situation, and her 
mother's, in a manner that made him feel he ought to do 
something tactful. They were paying a third visit (he knew 
that in Calcutta Gardens lady's-maids had been to and fro 
with boxes, replenishments of wardrobes), and yet somehow 
the outlook for the autumn was dark. Grace didn't say it in 
so many words, but what he read between the lines was that 
they had no more invitations. What therefore was to become 
of them  ? People liked them well enough when Biddy was 
with them, but they didn't care for her mother and her, tout 
pur, and Biddy was cooped up indefinitely with Julia. This 
was not the manner in which Grace used to allude to her 
sister's happy visits to Mrs. Dallow, and the change of tone 
made Nick wince with a sense of all that had collapsed. 
Biddy was a little fish worth landing, in short, scantily as she 
seemed disposed to bite, and Grace's rude probity could admit 
that she herself was not. 
Nick had an inspiration : by way of doing something tactful 
he went down to Brighton and took lodgings for the three 
ladies, for several weeks, the quietest and sunniest he could 
find. This he intended as a kindly surprise, a reminder of 
how he had his mother's comfort at heart, how he could exert 
himself and save her trouble. But he had no sooner concluded 
his bargain (it was a more costly one than he had at first 
calculated) than he was bewildered, as he privately phrased it 
quite "stumped," at learning that the three ladies were to 
pass the autumn at Broadwood with Julia. Mrs. Dallow had 
taken the place into familiar use again and she was now 
correcting their former surprise at her crude concurrence (this 
was infinitely characteristic of Julia) by inviting them to 
share it with her. Nick wondered vaguely what she was " up 
to ; " but when his mother treated herself to the fine irony of 
addressing him an elaborately humble inquiry as to whether 
he would consent to their accepting the merciful refuge (she 
repeated this expression three times), he replied that she 
might do exactly as she liked : he would only mention that he 
should not feel himself at liberty to come and see her at 
Broadwood. This condition proved, apparently, to Lady 
Agnes' s mind, no hindrance, and she and her daughters were 
presently reinstalled in the very apartments they had learned 
to love. This time it was even better than before ; they had 
still fewer expenses. The expenses were Nick's : he had to 
pay a forfeit to the landlady at Brighton for backing out of 
his contract. He said nothing to his mother about this 
bungled business he was literally afraid ; but an event that 
befell at the same moment reminded him afresh that it was 
not the time to choose to squander money. Mr. Carteret drew 
his last breath ; quite painlessly it seemed, as the closing scene 
was described at Beauclere when our young man went down 
to the funeral. Two or three weeks afterwards the contents 
of his will were made public in the Illustrated London News, 
where it definitely appeared that he had left a very large 
fortune, not a penny of which was to go to Nick. The 
provision for Mr. Chayter's declining years was very handsome. 
XLYIII. 
MIRIAM had mounted at a bound, in her new part, several 
steps in the ladder of fame, and at the climax of the London 
season this fact was brought home to her from hour to hour. 
It produced a thousand solicitations and entanglements, so 
that she rapidly learned that to be celebrated takes up almost 
as much of one's own time as of other people's. Even though, 
as she boasted, she had reduced to a science the practice of 
" working " her mother (she made use of the good lady socially 
to the utmost, pushing her perpetually into the breach), there 
were many occasions on which it was represented to her that 
she could not be disobliging without damaging her cause. She 
made almost an income out of the photographers (their 
appreciation of her as a subject knew no bounds), and she 
supplied the newspapers with columns of irreducible copy. To 
the gentlemen who sought speech of her on behalf of these 
organs she poured forth, vindictively, floods of unscrupulous 
romance ; she told them all different tales, and as her mother 
told them others yet more marvellous publicity was cleverly 
caught by rival versions, surpassing each other in authenticity. 
The whole case was remarkable, was unique ; for if the girl 
was advertised by the bewilderment of her readers, she seemed 
to every sceptic, when he went to see her, as fine as if he had 
discovered her for himself. She was still accommodating 
enough however, from time to time, to find an hour to come 
and sit to Nick Dormer, and he helped himself further by 
going to her theatre whenever he could. He was conscious 
that Julia Dallow would probably hear of that and triumph 
with a fresh sense of how right she had been ; but this re- 
flection only made him sigh resignedly, so true it struck him 
as being that there are some things explanation can never 
better, can never touch. 
Miriam brought Basil Dashwood once to see her portrait, 
and Basil, who commended it in general, directed his criticism 
mainly to two points its not yet being finished and its not 
having gone into that year's Academy. The young actor was 
visibly fidgety : he felt the contagion of Miriam's rapid pace, 
the quick beat of her success, and, looking at everything now 
from the standpoint of that speculation, could scarcely contain 
his impatience at the painter's clumsy slowness. He thought 
the second picture much better than the other one, but some- 
how it ought by that time to be before the public. Having 
a great deal of familiar proverbial wisdom, he put forth with 
vehemence the idea that in every great crisis there is nothing 
like striking while the iron is hot. He even betrayed a sort 
of impression that with a little good-will Nick might wind up 
the job and still get the Academy people to take him in. 
Basil knew some of them ; he all but offered to speak to them 
the case was so exceptional ; he had no doubt he could get 
something done. Against the appropriation of the work by 
Peter Sherringham he explicitly and loudly protested, in spite 
of the homeliest recommendations of silence from Miriam ; 
and it was indeed easy to guess how such an arrangement 
would interfere with his own conception of the eventual right 
place for the two portraits the vestibule of the theatre, 
where every one going in and out would see them, suspended 
face to face and surrounded by photographs, artistically dis- 
, posed, of the young actress in a variety of characters. Dash- 
wood showed a largeness of view in the way he jumped to the 
conviction that in this position the pictures would really help 
to draw. Considering the virtue he attributed to Miriam the 
idea was exempt from narrow prejudice. 
Moreover, though a trifle feverish, he was really genial ; he 
repeated more than once : " Yes, my dear sir, you've done it 
this time." This was a favourite formula with him ; when 
some allusion was made to the girl's success he greeted it also 
with a comfortable "This time she has done it." There was 
a hint of knowledge and far calculation in his tone. It 
appeared before he went that this time even he himself had 
done it he had taken up something that would really answer. 
He told Nick more about Miriam, more about her affairs at 
that moment at least, than she herself had communicated, 
contributing strongly to our young man's impression that one 
by one every element of a great destiny was being dropped 
into her cup. Nick himself tasted of success vicariously for 
the hour. Miriam let Dashwood talk only to contradict him, 
and contradicted him only to show how indifferently she could 
do it. She treated him as if she had nothing more to learn 
about his folly, but as if it had taken intimate friendship to 
reveal to her the full extent of it. Nick didn't mind her 
intimate friendships, but he ended by disliking Dashwood, who 
irritated him a circumstance in Avhich poor Julia, if it had 
come to her knowledge, would doubtless have found a damning 
eloquence. Miriam Avas more pleased with herself than ever : 
she now made no scruple of admitting that she enjoyed all her 
advantages. She was beginning to have a fuller vision of 
how successful success could be ; she took everything as it 
came dined out every Sunday, and even went into the 
country till the Monday morning ; she had a hundred distin- 
guished names on her lips and wonderful tales about 'the people 
who were making up to her. She struck Nick as less serious 
than she had been hitherto, as making even an aggressive 
show of frivolity ; but he was conscious of no obligation to 
reprehend her for it the less as he had a dim vision that some 
effect of that sort, some irritation of his curiosity, was what 
she desired to produce. She would perhaps have liked, for 
reasons best known to herself, to look as if she were throwing 
herself away, not being able to do anything else. He couldn't 
talk to her as if he took an immense interest in her career, 
because in fact he didn't ; she remained to him primarily and 
essentially a pictorial subject, with the nature of whose 
vicissitudes he was concerned (putting common charity and 
his personal good-nature of course aside) only so far as they 
had something to say in her face. How could he know in 
advance what twist of her life would say most ? so possible 
was it even that complete failure or some incalculable per- 
version would only make her, for his particular purpose, more 
magnificent. 
After she had left him, at any rate, the day she came with 
Basil Dashwood, and still more on a later occasion, as he 
turned back to his work when he had put her into her 
carriage, the last time, for that year, that he saw her after 
she had left him it occurred to him, in the light of her quick 
distinction, that there were mighty differences in the famous 
artistic life. Miriam was already in the glow of a glory which 
moreover was probably but a faint spark in relation to the 
blaze to come ; and as he closed the door upon her and took 
up his palette to rub it with a dirty cloth the little room in 
which his own battle was practically to be fought looked 
wofully cold and gray and mean. It was lonely, and yet it 
peopled with unfriendly shadows (so thick he saw them 
gathering in winter twilights to come) the duller conditions, 
the longer patiences, the less immediate and less personal joys. 
His late beginning was there, and his wasted youth, the 
mistakes that would still bring forth children after their 
image, the sedentary solitude, the clumsy obscurity, the poor 
explanations, the foolishness that he foresaw in having to ask 
people to wait, and wait longer, and wait again, for a fruition 
which, to their sense at least, would be an anti-climax. He 
cared enough for it, whatever it would be, to feel that his 
pertinacity might enter into comparison even with such a 
productive force as Miriam's. This was, after all, in his bare 
studio, the most collective dim presence, the one that was 
most sociable to him as he sat there and that made it the 
right place however wrong it was the sense that it was to 
the thing in itself ho was attached. This was Miriam's case, 
but the contrast, which she showed him she also felt, was in 
the number of other things that she got with the thing in 
itself. 
I hasten to add that our young man had hours when this 
fine substance struck him as requiring, for a complete appeal, 
no adjunct whatever as being in its own splendour a sum- 
mary of all adjuncts and apologies. I have related that the 
great collections, the National Gallery and the Museum were 
sometimes rather a series of dead surfaces to him ; but the 
sketch I have attempted of him will have been inadequate if 
it fails to suggest that there were other days when, as he 
strolled through them, he plucked right and left perfect nose- 
gays of reassurance. Bent as he was on working in the 
modern, which spoke to him with a thousand voices, he judged 
it better, for long periods, not to haunt the earlier masters, 
whose conditions had been so different (later he came to see 
that it didn't matter much, especially if one didn't go) ; but 
he was liable to accidental deflections from this theory liable 
in particular to want to take a look at one of the r great 
portraits of the past. These were the things that were the 
most inspiring, in the sense that they were the things that, 
while generations, while worlds had come and gone, seemed 
most to survive and testify. As he stood before them some- 
times the perfection of their survival struck him as the 
supreme eloquence, the reason that included all others, thanks 
to the language of art, the richest and most universal. Em- 
pires and systems and conquests had rolled over the globe and 
every kind of greatness had risen and passed away ; but the 
beauty of the great pictures had known nothing of death or 
change, and the ages had only sweetened their freshness. 
The same faces, the same figures looked out at different cen- 
turies, knowing a deal the century didn't, and when they 
joined hands they made the indestructible thread on which 
the pearls of history were strung. 
Miriam notified her artist that her theatre was to close on 
the 10th of August, immediately after which she was to start, 
with the company, on a tremendous tour of the provinces. 
They were to make a lot of money, but they were to have no 
holiday and she didn't want one ; she only wanted to keep at 
it and make the most of her limited opportunities for practice ; 
inasmuch as, at that rate, playing but two parts a year (and 
such parts she despised them !) she shouldn't have mastered 
the rudiments of her trade before decrepitude would compel 
her to lay it by. The first time she came to the studio after 
her visit with Dashwood she sprang up abruptly, at the end 
of half an hour, saying she could sit no more she had had 
enough of it. She was visibly restless and preoccupied, and 
though Nick had not waited till now to discover that she had 
more moods than he had tints on his palette, he had never yet 
seen her fitfulness at this particular angle. It was a trifle 
unbecoming and he was ready to let her go. She looked 
round the place as if she were suddenly tired of it, and then 
she said mechanically, in a heartless London way, while she 
smoothed down her gloves : " So you're just going to stay on ? " 
After he had confessed that this was his dark purpose she 
continued in the same casual, talk-making manner : " I dare 
say it's the best thing for you. You're just going to grind, eh ? " 
" I see before me an eternity of grinding." 
"All alone, by yourself, in this dull little hole? You will 
be conscientious, you will be virtuous." 
" Oh, my solitude will be mitigated I shall have models 
and people." 
"What people what models'?" Miriam asked, before the 
glass, arranging her hat. 
" Well, no one so good as you." 
"That's a prospect ! " the girl laughed ; "for all the good 
you've got out of me ! " 
" You're no judge of that quantity," said Nick, " and even 
I can't measure it just yet. Have I been rather a brute ? I 
can easily believe it ; I haven't talked to you I haven't 
amused you as I might. The truth is, painting people is a 
very absorbing, exclusive occupation. You can't do much to 
them besides." 
" Yes, it's a cruel honour." 
" Cruel that's too much," Nick objected. 
"I mean it's one you shouldn't confer on people you like, 
for when it's over it's over : it kills your interest in them and 
after you've finished them you don't like them any more." 
" Surely I like you," Nick returned, sitting tilted back, 
before his picture, with his hands in his pockets. 
" We've done very well : it's something not to have 
quarrelled," said Miriam, smiling at him now and seeming 
more in it. " I wouldn't have had you slight your work I 
wouldn't have had you do it badly. But there's no fear of 
that for you," she went on. " You're the real thing and the 
rare bird. I haven't lived with you this way without seeing 
that : you're the sincere artist so much more than I. No, no, 
don't protest," she added, with one of her sudden fine tran- 
sitions to a deeper tone. " You'll do things that will hand on 
your name when my screeching is happily over. Only you do 
seem to me, I confess, rather high and dry here I speak from 
the point of view of your comfort and of my personal interest 
in you. You strike me as kind of lonely, as the Americans 
say rather cut off and isolated in your grandeur. Haven't 
you any confreres fellow-artists and people of that sort ? 
Don't they come near you? " 
" I don't know them much, I've always been afraid of them, 
and how can they take me seriously ? " 
" Well, I've got confreres, and sometimes I wish I hadn't ! 
But does your sister never come near you any more, or is it 
only the fear of meeting me ? " 
Nick was aware that his mother had a theory that Biddy 
was constantly bundled home from Rosedale Road at the ap- 
proach of improper persons : she was as angry at this as if 
she wouldn't have been more so if the child had been suffered 
to stay ; but the explanation he gave his present visitor was 
nearer the truth. He reminded Miriam that he had already 
told her (he had been careful to do this, so as not to let it 
appear she was avoided) that her sister was now most of the 
time in the country, staying with an hospitable relation. 
"Oh yes," the girl rejoined to this, "with Mr. Sherringham's 
sister, Mrs. what's her name ? I always forget it." 
And when Nick had pronounced the word with a reluctance he 
doubtless failed sufficiently to conceal (he hated to talk about 
Mrs. Dallow ; he didn't know what business Miriam had with 
her), she exclaimed : " That's the one the beauty, the wonder- 
ful beauty. I shall never forget how handsome she looked 
the day she found me here. I don't in the least resemble 
her, but I should like to have a try at that type, some day, in 
a comedy of manners. But who will write me a comedy of 
manners ] There it is ! The trouble would be, no doubt, 
that I should push her a la, charge." 
Nick listened to these remarks in silence, saying to himself 
that if Miriam should have the bad taste (she seemed trembling 
on the brink of it) to make an allusion to what had passed 
between the lady in question and himself, he should dislike 
her utterly. It would show him she was a coarse creature 
after all. Her good genius interposed however, as against 
this hard penalty, and she quickly, for the moment at least, 
whisked away from the topic, demanding, apropos of comrades 
and visitors, what had become of Gabriel Nash, whom she had 
not encountered for so many days. 
" I think he's tired of me," said Nick ; " he hasn't been 
near me, either. But, after all, it's natural he has seen me 
through." 
" Seen you through ? Why, you've only just begun." 
" Precisely, and at bottom he doesn't like to see me begin. 
He's afraid I'll do something." 
" Do you mean he's jealous ? " 
" Not in the least, for from the moment one does anything 
one ceases to compete with him. It leaves him the field more 
clear. But that's just the discomfort, for him he feels, as you 
said just now, kind of lonely ; he feels rather abandoned and 
even, I think, a little betrayed. So far from being jealous he 
yearns for me and regrets me. The only thing he really -takes 
seriously is to speculate and understand, to talk about the 
reasons and the essence of things : the people who do that are 
the highest. The applications, the consequences, the vulgar 
little effects belong to a lower plane, to which one must doubt- 
less be tolerant and indulgent, but which is after all an affair 
of comparative accidents and trifles. Indeed he'll probably 
tell me frankly, the next time I see him, that he can't but feel 
that to come down to the little questions of action the little 
prudences and compromises and simplifications of practice is 
for the superior person a really fatal descent. One may be 
inoffensive and even commendable after it, but one can scarcely 
pretend to be interesting. II enfant comme qa, but one doesn't 
haunt them. He'll do his best for me ; he'll come back again, 
but he'll come back sad, and finally he'll fade away altogether. 
He'll go off to Granada, or somewhere." 
" The simplifications of practice ? " cried Miriam. " Why, 
they are just precisely the most blessed things on earth. What 
should we do without them ] " 
"What indeed  ?" Nick echoed. "But if we need them 
it's because we're not superior persons. We're awful 
Philistines." 
" I'll be one with you," the girl smiled. " Poor Nash isn't 
worth talking about. What was it but a little question of 
action when he preached to you, as I know he did, to give up 
your seat"? " 
"Yes, he has a weakness for giving up he'll go with you 
as far as that. But I'm not giving up any more, you see. I'm 
pegging away, and that's gross." 
"He's an idiot n'en parlons plus" Miriam dropped, 
gathering up her parasol, but lingering. 
" Ah, never for me ! He helped me at a difficult time." 
" You ought to be ashamed to confess it." 
" Oh, you are a Philistine," said Nick. 
" Certainly I am," Miriam returned going toward the door, 
"if it makes me one to be sorry, awfully sorry and even rather 
angry, that I haven't before me a period of the same sort of 
unsociable pegging away that you have. For want of it I shall 
never really be good. However, if you don't tell people I've 
said so, they'll never know. Your conditions are far better 
than mine and far more respectable : you can do as many 
things as you like, in patient obscurity, while I'm pitchforked 
into the melee, and into the most improbable fame, upon the 
back of a solitary cheval de bataille, a poor broken-winded 
screw. I foresee that I shall be condemned for the greater 
part of the rest of my days (do you see that ?) to play the stuff 
I'm acting now. I'm studying Juliet and I want awfully to 
do her, but really I'm mortally afraid lest, if I should succeed, 
I should find myself in such a box. Perhaps they'd want 
Juliet for ever, instead of my present part. You see amid 
what delightful alternatives one moves. What I want most I 
never shall have had five quiet years of hard, all-round work, 
in a perfect company, with a manager more perfect still, play- 
ing five hundred parts and never being heard of. I may be 
too particular, but that's what I should have liked. I think 
I'm disgusting, with my successful crudities. It's discouraging ; 
it makes one not care much what happens. "What's the use, 
in such an age, of being good ? " 
" Good ? Your haughty claim is that you're bad." 
" I mean good, you know there are other ways. Don't be 
stupid." And Nick's visitor tapped him he was at the door 
with her with her parasol. 
"I scarcely know what to say to you, for certainly it's your 
fault if you get on so fast." 
" I'm too clever I'm a humbug." 
" That's the way I used to be," said Nick. 
Miriam rested her wonderful eyes on him ; then she turned 
them over the room, slowly, after which she attached them 
again, kindly, musingly, on his own. " Ah, the pride of that 
the sense of purification ! He ' used ' to be, forsooth ! Poor 
me ! Of course you'll say : ' Look at the sort of thing I've 
undertaken to produce, compared with what you have.' So it's 
all right. Become great in the proper way and don't expose 
me." She glanced back once more into the studio, as if she 
were leaving it for ever, and gave another last look at the un- 
finished canvas on the easel. She shook her head sadly. " Poor 
Mr. Sherringham with that ! " she murmured. 
"Oh, I'll finish it it will be very decent," said Nick. 
" Finish it by yourself ? " 
" Not necessarily. You'll come back and sit when you 
return to London." 
"Never, never, never again." 
Nick stared. " Why, you've made me the most profuse 
offers and promises." 
" Yes, but they were made in ignorance, and I've backed 
out of them. I'm capricious too -faites la part de $a. I see 
it wouldn't do I didn't know it then. We're too far apart 
I am, as you say, a Philistine." And as Nick protested with 
vehemence against this unscrupulous bad faith, she added : 
" You'll find other models ; paint Gabriel Nash." 
" Gabriel Nash as a substitute for you ? " 
" It will be a good way to get rid of him. Paint Mrs. 
Dallow too," Miriam went on as she passed out of the door 
which Nick had opened for her " paint Mrs. Dallow if you 
wish to eradicate the last possibility of a throb." 
It was strange that since only a moment before Nick had 
been in a state of mind to which the superfluity of this refer- 
ence would have been the clearest thing about it, he should 
now have been moved to receive it, quickly, naturally, irre- 
flectively, with the question : " The last possibility ? Do you 
mean in her or in me ] " 
"Oh, in you. I don't know anything about her." 
" But that wouldn't be the effect," rejoined Nick, with the 
same supervening candour. " I believe that if she were to sit 
to me' the usual law would be reversed." 
"The usual law?" 
"Which you cited awhile since and of which I recognize 
the general truth. In the case you speak of I should probably 
make a frightful picture." 
" And fall in love with her again ? Then, for God's sake, 
risk the daub ! " Miriam laughed out, floating away to her 
victoria. 
XLIX. 
MIRIAM had guessed happily in saying to Nick that to offer 
to paint Gabriel Nash would be the way to get rid of him. 
It was with no such invidious purpose indeed that our young 
man proposed to his intermittent friend to sit ; rather, as 
August was dusty in the London streets, he had too little 
hope that Nash would remain in town at such a time to oblige 
him. Nick had no wish to get rid of his private philosopher ; 
he liked his philosophy, and though of course premeditated 
paradox was the light to read him by, yet he had frequently, 
in detail, an inspired unexpectedness. He remained, in Rose- 
dale Road, the man in the world who had most the quality of 
company. All the other men of Nick's acquaintance, all his 
political friends, represented, often very communicatively, 
their own affairs, and their own affairs alone ; which, when 
they did it well, was the most their host could ask them. 
But Nash had the rare distinction that he seemed somehow to 
stand for his affairs, the said host's, with an interest in them 
unaffected by the ordinary social limitations of capacity. This 
relegated him to the class of high luxuries, and Nick was well 
aware that we hold our luxuries by a fitful and precarious 
tenure. If a friend without personal eagerness was one of the 
greatest of these it would be evident to the simplest mind 
that by the law of distribution of earthly boons such a con- 
venience should be expected to forfeit in duration what it dis- 
played in intensity. He had never been without a suspicion 
that Nash was too good to last, though for that matter 
nothing had happened to confirm a vague apprehension that the 
particular way he would break up, or break down, would be 
by wishing to put Nick in relation with his other disciples. 
That would practically amount to a catastrophe, Nick felt ; 
for it was odd that one could both have a great kindness for 
him and not in the least, when it came to the point, yearn 
for a view of his belongings. His originality had always been 
that he appeared to have none ; and if in the first instance he 
had introduced Nick to Miriam and her mother, that was an 
exception for which Peter Sherringham's interference had 
been in a great measure responsible. All the same however 
it was some time before Nick ceased to think it might eventu- 
ally very well happen that to complete his education, as it 
were, Gabriel would wish him to foregather a little with 
minds formed by the same mystical influence. Nick had an 
