lieutenant, and the after one by the second lieutenant, according to the
custom in the navy. On the port side, the forward berth belonged to the
chief engineer, and the after one to the surgeon. Forward of this was
the steerage, in which the boatswain, gunner, carpenter, the assistant
engineers, and the steward were berthed. Each of these apartments was
provided with a table upon which the meals were served to the officers
occupying it. The etiquette of a man-of-war is even more exacting than
that of a drawing room on shore.
Captain Passford was then conducted to the deck where he found the
officers and seamen engaged in their various duties. Besides his son,
the former owner of the Bellevite was acquainted with only two persons
on board of the Bronx, Sampson, the engineer, and Flint, the acting
first lieutenant, both of whom had served on board of the steam yacht.
Christy's father gave them a hearty greeting, and both were as glad to
see him as he was to greet them. Captain Passford then looked over the
rest of the ship's company with a deeper interest than he cared to
manifest, for they were to some extent bound up with the immediate
future of his son. It was not such a ship's company as that which manned
the Bellevite, though composed of much good material. The captain shook
hands with his son, and went on board of his boat. Two hours later he
came on board again.
CHAPTER II
A DINNER FOR THE CONFEDERACY
Christy Passford was not a little surprised to see his father so soon
after his former visit, and he was confident that he had some good
reason for coming. He conducted him at once to his cabin, where Captain
Passford immediately seated himself at the table, and drew from his
pocket a telegram.
"I found this on my desk when I went to my office," said he, opening a
cable message, and placing it before Christy.
"'Mutton, three veal, four sea chickens,'" Christy read from the paper
placed before him, laughing all the time as he thought it was a joke of
some sort. "Signed 'Warnock.' It looks as though somebody was going to
have a dinner, father. Mutton, veal, and four sea chickens seem to form
the substantial of the feast, though I never ate any sea chickens."
"Perhaps somebody will have a dinner, but I hope it will prove to be
indigestible to those for whom it is provided," added Captain Passford,
amused at the comments of his son.
"The message is signed by Warnock. I don't happen to have the pleasure
of his acquaintance, and I don't see why he has taken the trouble to
send you this bill of fare," chuckled the commander of the Bronx.
"This bill of fare is of more importance to me, and especially to you,
than you seem to understand."
"It is all Greek to me; and I wonder why Warnock, whoever he may be, has
spent his money in sending you such a message, though I suppose you know
who is to eat this dinner."
"The expense of sending the cablegram is charged to me, though the
dinner is prepared for the Confederate States of America. Of course I
understand it, for if I could not, it would not have been sent to me,"
replied Captain Passford, assuming a very serious expression. "You know
Warnock, for he has often been at Bonnydale, though not under the name
he signs to this message. My three agents, one in the north, one in the
south, and one in the west of England, have each an assumed name. They
are Otis, Barnes, and Wilson, and you know them all. They have been
captains or mates in my employ; and they know all about a vessel when
they see it."
"I know them all very well, and they are all good friends of mine,"
added Christy.
"Warnock is Captain Barnes, and this message comes from him. Captain
Otis signs himself Bixwell in his letters and cablegrams, and Mr.
Wilson, who was formerly mate of the Manhattan, uses the name of
Fleetley."
"I begin to see into your system, father; and I suppose the government
will carry out your plan."
"Very likely; for it would hardly be proper to send such information as
these men have to transmit in plain English, for there may be spies or
operators bribed by Confederate agents to suppress such matter."
"I see. I understand the system very well, father," said Christy.
"It is simple enough," added his father, as he took a paper from his
pocket-book.
"If you only understand it, it is simple enough."
"I can interpret the language of this message, and there is not another
person on the western continent that can do so. Now, look at the
cablegram, Christy," continued Captain Passford, as he opened the
paper he held in his hand. "What is the first word?"
"Mutton," replied the commander.
"Mutton means armed; that is to say the Scotian and the Arran took an
armament on board at some point south of England, as indicated by the
fact that the intelligence comes from Warnock. In about a week the mail
will bring me a letter from him in which he will explain how he obtained
this information."
"He must have chartered a steamer and cruised off the Isle of Wight to
pick it up," suggested Christy.
"He is instructed to do that when necessary. What is the next word?"
"'Three,'" replied Christy.
"One means large, two medium, and three small," explained his father.
"Three what, does it say?"
"'Three veal.'"
"Veal means ship's company, or crew."
"Putting the pieces together, then, 'three veal' means that the Scotian
and the Arran have small crews," said Christy, intensely interested in
the information.
"Precisely so. Read the rest of the message," added Captain Passford.
"'Four sea chickens,'" the commander read.
"'Four' means some, a few, no great number; in other words, rather
indefinite. Very likely Warnock could not obtain exact information.
'C' stands for Confederate, and 'sea' is written instead of the letter.
'Chickens' means officers. 'Four sea chickens,' translated means 'some
Confederate officers.'"
Christy had written down on a piece of paper the solution of the enigma,
as interpreted by his father, though not the symbol words of the
cablegram. He continued to write for a little longer time, amplifying
and filling in the wanting parts of the message. Then he read what he
had written, as follows: "'The Scotian and the Arran are armed; there
are some Confederate officers on board, but their ship's companies are
small.' Is that it, father?"
"That is the substance of it," replied Captain Passford, as he restored
the key of the cipher to his pocket-book, and rose from his seat. "Now
you know all that can be known on this side of the Atlantic in regard to
the two steamers. The important information is that they are armed, and
even with small crews they may be able to sink the Bronx, if you should
happen to fall in with them, or if your orders required you to be on the
lookout for them. There is a knock at the door."
Christy opened the door, and found a naval officer waiting to see him.
He handed him a formidable looking envelope, with a great seal upon it.
The young commander looked at its address, and saw that it came from the
Navy Department. With it was a letter, which he opened. It was an order
for the immediate sailing of the Bronx, the sealed orders to be opened
when she reached latitude 38° N. The messenger spoke some pleasant
words, and then took his leave. Christy returned to the cabin, and
showed the ponderous envelope to his father.
"Sealed orders, as I supposed you would have," said Captain Passford.
"And this is my order to sail immediately on receipt of it," added
Christy.
"Then I must leave you, my son; and may the blessing of God go with you
wherever your duty calls you!" exclaimed the father, not a little shaken
by his paternal feelings. "Be brave, be watchful; but be prudent under
all circumstances. Bravery and Prudence ought to be twin sisters, and
I hope you will always have one of them on each side of you. I am not
afraid that you will be a poltroon, a coward; but I do fear that your
enthusiasm may carry you farther than you ought to go."
"I hope not, father; and your last words to me shall be remembered. When
I am about to engage in any important enterprise, I will recall your
admonition, and ask myself if I am heeding it."
"That satisfies me. I wish you had such a ship's company as we had on
board of the Bellevite; but you have a great deal of good material, and
I am confident that you will make the best use of it. Remember that you
are fighting for your country and the best government God ever gave to
the nations of the earth. Be brave, be prudent; but be a Christian, and
let no mean, cruel or unworthy action stain your record."
Captain Passford took the hand of his son, and though neither of them
wept, both of them were under the influence of the strongest emotions.
Christy accompanied his father to the accommodation ladder, and shook
hands with him again as he embarked in his boat. His mother and his
sister had been on board that day, and the young commander had parted
from them with quite as much emotion as on the present occasion. The
members of the family were devotedly attached to each other, and in some
respects the event seemed like a funeral to all of them, and not less to
Christy than to the others, though he was entering upon a very exalted
duty for one of his years.
"Pass the word for Mr. Flint," said Christy, after he had watched the
receding boat that bore away his father for a few minutes.
"On duty, Captain Passford," said the first lieutenant, touching his cap
to him a few minutes later.
"Heave short the anchor, and make ready to get under way," added the
commander.
"Heave short, sir," replied Mr. Flint, as he touched his cap and
retired. "Pass the word for Mr. Giblock."
Mr. Giblock was the boatswain of the ship, though he had only the rank
of a boatswain's mate. He was an old sailor, as salt as a barrel of
pickled pork, and knew his duty from keel to truck. In a few moments his
pipe was heard, and the seamen began to walk around the capstan.
"Cable up and down, sir," said the boatswain, reporting to the second
lieutenant on the forecastle.
Mr. Lillyworth was the acting second lieutenant, though he was not to
be attached to the Bronx after she reached her destination in the Gulf.
He repeated the report from the boatswain to the first lieutenant. The
steamer was rigged as a topsail schooner; but the wind was contrary, and
no sail was set before getting under way. The capstan was manned again,
and as soon as the report came from the second lieutenant that the
anchor was aweigh, the first lieutenant gave the order to strike one
bell, which meant that the steamer was to go "ahead slow."
The Bronx had actually started on her mission, and the heart of Christy
swelled in his bosom as he looked over the vessel, and realized that
he was in command, though not for more than a week or two. All the
courtesies and ceremonies were duly attended to, and the steamer, as
soon as the anchor had been catted and fished, at the stroke of four
bells, went ahead at full speed, though, as the fires had been banked in
the furnaces, the engine was not working up to its capacity. In a couple
of hours more she was outside of Sandy Hook, and on the broad ocean. The
ship's company had been drilled to their duties, and everything worked
to the entire satisfaction of the young commander.
The wind was ahead and light. All hands had been stationed, and at four
in the afternoon, the first dog watch was on duty, and there was not
much that could be called work for any one to do. Mr. Lillyworth, the
second lieutenant, had the deck, and Christy had retired to his cabin
to think over the events of the day, especially those relating to the
Scotian and the Arran. He had not yet read his orders, and he could not
decide what he should do, even if he discovered the two steamers in
his track. He sat in his arm chair with the door of the cabin open,
and when he saw the first lieutenant on his way to the ward room,
he called him in.
"Well, Mr. Flint, what do you think of our crew?" asked the captain,
after he had seated his guest.
"I have hardly seen enough of the men to be able to form an opinion,"
replied Flint. "I am afraid we have some hard material on board, though
there are a good many first-class fellows among them."
"Of course we can not expect to get such a crew as we had in the
Bellevite. How do you like Mr. Lillyworth?" asked the commander, looking
sharply into the eye of his subordinate.
"I don't like him," replied Flint, bluntly. "You and I have been in some
tight places together, and it is best to speak our minds squarely."
"That's right, Mr. Flint. We will talk of him another time. I have
another matter on my mind just now," added Christy.
He proceeded to tell the first lieutenant something about the two
steamers.
CHAPTER III
THE INTRUDER AT THE CABIN DOOR
Before he said anything about the Scotian and the Arran, Christy,
mindful of the injunction of his father, had closed the cabin door,
the portière remaining drawn as it was before. When he had taken this
precaution, he related some of the particulars which had been given to
him earlier in the day.
"It is hardly worth while to talk about the matter yet awhile," added
Christy. "I have my sealed orders, and I can not open the envelope until
we are in latitude 38, and that will be sometime to-morrow forenoon."
"I don't think that Captain Folkner, who expected to be in command
of the Teaser, as she was called before we put our hands upon her,
overestimated her speed," replied Lieutenant Flint, consulting his
watch. "We are making fifteen knots an hour just now, and Mr. Sampson
is not hurrying her. I have been watching her very closely since we left
Sandy Hook, and I really believe she will make eighteen knots with a
little crowding."
"What makes you think so, Flint?" asked Christy, much interested in the
statement of the first lieutenant.
"I suppose it is natural for a sailor to fall in love with his ship,
and that is my condition in regard to the Bronx," replied Flint, with
a smile which was intended as a mild apology for his weakness. "I used
to be in love with the coasting schooner I owned and commanded, and I
almost cried when I had to sell her."
"I don't think you need to be ashamed of this sentiment, or that
an inanimate structure should call it into being," said the young
commander. "I am sure I have not ceased to love the Bellevite; and in
my eyes she is handsomer than any young lady I ever saw. I have not been
able to transfer my affections to the Bronx as yet, and she will have to
do something very remarkable before I do so. But about the speed of our
ship?"
"I have noticed particularly how easily and gracefully she makes her way
through the water when she is going fifteen knots. Why that is faster
than most of the ocean passenger steamers travel."
"Very true; but like many of these blockade runners and other vessels
which the Confederate government and rich men at the South have
purchased in the United Kingdom, she was doubtless built on the Clyde.
Not a few of them have been constructed for private yachts, and I have
no doubt, from what I have seen, that the Bronx is one of the number.
The Scotian and the Arran belonged to wealthy Britishers; and of course
they were built in the very best manner, and were intended to attain the
very highest rate of speed."
"I shall count on eighteen knots at least on the part of the Bronx when
the situation shall require her to do her best. By the way, Captain
Passford, don't you think that a rather queer name has been given to our
steamer? Bronx! I am willing to confess that I don't know what the word
means, or whether it is fish, flesh or fowl," continued Flint.
"It is not fish, flesh or fowl," replied Christy, laughing. "My father
suggested the name to the Department, and it was adopted. He talked with
me about a name, as he thought I had some interest in her, for the
reason that I had done something in picking her up."
"Done something? I should say that you had done it all," added Flint.
"I did my share. The vessels of the navy have generally been named after
a system, though it has often been varied. Besides the names of states
and cities, the names of rivers have been given to vessels. The Bronx is
the name of a small stream, hardly more than a brook, in West Chester
County, New York. When I was a small boy, my father had a country place
on its banks, and I did my first paddling in the water in the Bronx.
I liked the name, and my father recommended it."
"I don't object to the name, though somehow it makes me think of a
walnut cracked in your teeth when I hear it pronounced," added Flint.
"Now that I know what it is and what it means, I shall take more kindly
to it, though I am afraid we shall get to calling her the Bronxy before
we have done with her, especially if she gets to be a pet, for the name
seems to need another syllable."
"Young men fall in love with girls without regard to their names."
"That's so. A friend of mine in our town in Maine fell in love with a
young lady by the name of Leatherbee; but she was a very pretty girl and
her name was all the objection I had to her," said Flint, chuckling.
"But that was an objection which your friend evidently intended to
remove at no very distant day," suggested Christy.
"Very true; and he did remove it some years ago. What was that noise?"
asked the first lieutenant, suddenly rising from his seat.
Christy heard the sounds at the same moment. He and his companion in the
cabin had been talking about the Scotian and the Arran, and what his
father had said to him about prudence in speaking of his movements came
to his mind. The noise was continued, and he hastened to the door of his
state room, and threw it open. In the room he found Dave hard at work on
the furniture; he had taken out the berth sack, and was brushing out the
inside of the berth. The noise had been made by the shaking of the slats
on which the mattress rested. Davis Talbot, the cabin steward of the
Bronx, had been captured in the vessel when she was run out of Pensacola
Bay some months before. As he was a very intelligent colored man, or
rather mulatto, though they were all the same at the South, the young
commander had selected him for his present service; and he never had
occasion to regret the choice. Dave had passed his time since the Teaser
arrived at New York at Bonnydale, and he had become a great favorite,
not only with Christy, but with all the members of the family.
"What are you about, Dave?" demanded Christy, not a little astonished to
find the steward in his room.
"I am putting the room in order for the captain, sir," replied Dave
with a cheerful smile, such as he always wore in the presence of his
superiors. "I found something in this berth I did not like to see about
a bed in which a gentleman is to sleep, and I have been through it with
poison and a feather; and I will give you the whole southern Confederacy
if you find a single redback in the berth after this."
"I am very glad you have attended to this matter at once, Dave."
"Yes, sir; Captain Folkner never let me attend to it properly, for he
was afraid I would read some of his papers on the desk. He was willing
to sleep six in a bed with redbacks," chuckled Dave.
"Well, I am not, or even two in a bed with such companions. How long
have you been in my room, Dave?" added Christy.
"More than two hours, I think; and I have been mighty busy too."
"Did you hear me when I came into the cabin?"
"No, sir, I did not; but I heard you talking with somebody a while ago."
"What did I say to the other person?"
"I don't know, sir; I could not make out a word, and I didn't stop in my
work to listen. I have been very busy, Captain Passford," answered Dave,
beginning to think he had been doing something that was not altogether
regular.
"Don't you know what we were talking about, Dave?"
"No, sir; I did not make out a single word you said," protested the
steward, really troubled to find that he had done something wrong,
though he had not the least idea what it was. "I did not mean to do
anything out of the way, Captain Passford."
"I have no fault to find this time, Dave."
"I should hope not, sir," added Dave, looking as solemn as a sleepy owl.
"I would jump overboard before I would offend you, Massa Christy."
"You need not jump overboard just yet," replied the captain, with a
pleasant smile, intended to remove the fears of the steward. "But I want
to make a new rule for you, Dave."
"Thank you, sir; if you sit up nights to make rules for me, I will obey
all of them; and I would give you the whole State of Florida before I
would break one of them on purpose, Massa Christy."
"Massa Christy!" exclaimed the captain, laughing.
"Massa Captain Passford!" shouted Dave, hastening to correct his
over-familiarity.
"I don't object to your calling me Christy when we are alone, for I look
upon you as my friend, and I have tried to treat you as a gentleman,
though you are a subordinate. But are you going to be a nigger again,
and call white men 'Massa?' I told you not to use that word."
"I done forget it when I got excited because I was afraid I had offended
you," pleaded the steward.
"Your education is vastly superior to most people of your class, and you
should not belittle yourself. This is my cabin; and I shall sometimes
have occasion to talk confidentially with my officers. Do you understand
what I mean, Dave?"
"Perfectly, Captain Passford: I know what it is to talk confidently and
what it is to talk confidentially, and you do both, sir," replied the
steward.
"But I am sometimes more confidential than confident. Now you must do
all your work in my state room when I am not in the cabin, and this is
the new rule," said Christy, as he went out of the room. "I know that I
can trust you, Dave; but when I tell a secret I want to know to how many
persons I am telling it. You may finish your work now;" and he closed
the door.
Christy could not have explained why he did so if it had been required
of him, but he went directly to the door leading out into the companion
way, and suddenly threw it wide open, drawing the portière aside at the
same time. Not a little to his surprise, for he had not expected it,
he found a man there; and the intruder was down on his knees, as if in
position to place his ear at the keyhole. This time the young commander
was indignant, and without stopping to consider as long as the precepts
of his father required, he seized the man by the collar, and dragged him
into the cabin.
"What are you doing there?" demanded Christy in the heat of his
indignation.
The intruder, who was a rather stout man, began to shake his head with
all his might, and to put the fore finger of his right hand on his mouth
and one of his ears. He was big enough to have given the young commander
a deal of trouble if he had chosen to resist the force used upon him;
but he appeared to be tame and submissive. He did not speak, but he
seemed to be exerting himself to the utmost to make himself understood.
Flint had resumed his seat at the table, facing the door, and in spite
of himself, apparently, he began to laugh.
"That is Pink Mulgrum, Captain Passford," said he, evidently to prevent
his superior from misinterpreting the lightness of his conduct. "As you
are aware, he is deaf and dumb."
  [Illustration: Mulgrum at the captain's door.]
"I see who he is now," replied Christy, who had just identified the man.
"He may be deaf and dumb, but he seems to have a great deal of business
at the door of my cabin."
"I have no doubt he is as deaf as the keel of the ship, and I have not
yet heard him speak a word," added the first lieutenant. "But he is a
stout fellow, very patriotic, and willing to work."
"All that may be, but I have found him once before hanging around that
door to-day."
At this moment Mulgrum took from his pocket a tablet of paper and a
pencil, and wrote upon it, "I am a deaf mute, and I don't know what you
are talking about." Christy read it, and then wrote, "What were you
doing at the door?" He replied that he had been sent by Mr. Lillyworth
to clean the brasses on the door. He was then dismissed.
CHAPTER IV
A DEAF AND DUMB MYSTERY
As he dismissed Mulgrum, Christy tore off the leaf from the tablet on
which both of them had written before he handed it back to the owner.
For a few moments, he said nothing, and had his attention fixed on the
paper in his hand, which he seemed to be studying for some reason of his
own.
"That man writes a very good hand for one in his position," said he,
looking at the first lieutenant.
"I had noticed that before," replied Flint, as the commander handed
him the paper, which he looked over with interest. "I had some talk with
him on his tablet the day he came on board. He strikes me as a very
intelligent and well-educated man."
"Was he born a deaf mute?" asked Christy.
"I did not think to ask him that question; but I judged from the
language he used and his rapid writing that he was well educated. There
is character in his handwriting too; and that is hardly to be expected
from a deaf mute," replied Flint.
"Being a deaf mute, he can not have been shipped as a seaman, or even as
an ordinary steward," suggested the captain.
"Of course not; he was employed as a sort of scullion to be worked
wherever he could make himself useful. Mr. Nawood engaged him on the
recommendation of Mr. Lillyworth," added Flint, with something like a
frown on his brow, as though he had just sounded a new idea.
"Have you asked Mr. Lillyworth anything about him?"
"I have not; for somehow Mr. Lillyworth and I don't seem to be very
affectionate towards each other, though we get along very well together.
But Mulgrum wrote out for me that he was born in Cherryfield, Maine, and
obtained his education as a deaf mute in Hartford. I learned the deaf
and dumb alphabet when I was a schoolmaster, as a pastime, and I had
some practice with it in the house where I boarded."
"Then you can talk in that way with Mulgrum."
"Not a bit of it; he knows nothing at all about the deaf and dumb
alphabet, and could not spell out a single word I gave him."
"That is very odd," added the captain musing.
"So I thought; but he explained it by saying that at the school they
were changing this method of communication for that of actually speaking
and understanding what was said by observing the vocal organs. He had
not remained long enough to master this method; in fact he had done all
his talking with his tablets."
"It is a little strange that he should not have learned either method of
communication."
"I thought so myself, and said as much to him; but he told me that he
had inherited considerable property at the death of his father, and he
was not inclined to learn new tricks," said Flint. "He is intensely
patriotic, and said that he was willing to give himself and all his
property for the salvation of his country. He had endeavored to obtain
a position as captain's clerk, or something of that sort, in the navy;
but failing of this, he had been willing to go to the war as a scullion.
He says he shall fight, whatever his situation, when he has the
opportunity; and that is all I know about him."
Christy looked on the floor, and seemed to be considering the facts he
had just learned. He had twice discovered Mulgrum at the door of his
cabin, though his presence there had been satisfactorily explained; or
at least a reason had been given. This man had been brought on board by
the influence of Mr. Lillyworth, who had been ordered to the Gulf for
duty, and was on board as a substitute for Mr. Flint, who was acting in
Christy's place, as the latter was in that of Mr. Blowitt, who outranked
them all. Flint had not been favorably impressed with the acting second
lieutenant, and he had not hesitated to speak his mind in regard to him
to the captain. Though Christy had been more reserved in speech, he had
the feeling that Mr. Lillyworth must establish a reputation for
patriotism and fidelity to the government before he could trust him
as he did the first lieutenant, though he was determined to manifest
nothing like suspicion in regard to him.
At this stage of the war, that is to say in the earlier years of it,
the government was obliged to accept such men as it could obtain for
officers, for the number in demand greatly exceeded the supply of
regularly educated naval officers. There were a great many applicants
for positions, and candidates were examined in regard to their
professional qualifications rather than their motives for entering the
service. If a man desired to enter the army or the navy, the simple wish
was regarded as a sufficient guaranty of his patriotism, especially in
connection with his oath of allegiance. With the deaf mute's leaf in his
hand Christy was thinking over this matter of the motives of officers.
He was not satisfied in regard to either Lillyworth or Mulgrum, and
besides the regular quota of officers and seamen permanently attached
to the Bronx, there were eighteen seamen and petty officers berthed
forward, who were really passengers, though they were doing duty.
"Where did you say this man Mulgrum was born, Mr. Flint?" asked the
captain, after he had mused for quite a time.
"In Cherryfield, Maine," replied the first lieutenant; and he could not
help feeling that the commander had not been silent so long for nothing.
"You are a Maine man, Flint: were you ever in this town?"
"I have been; I taught school there for six months; and it was the last
place I filled before I went to sea."
"I am glad to hear it, for it will save me from looking any further for
the man I want just now. If this deaf mute was born and brought up in
Cherryfield, he must know something about the place," added Christy as
he touched a bell on his table, to which Dave instantly responded.
"Do you know Mulgrum, Dave?" asked the captain.
"No, sir; never heard of him before," replied the steward.
"You don't know him! The man who has been cleaning the brass work on the
doors?" exclaimed Christy.
"Oh! Pink, we all call him," said the steward.
"His name is Pinkney Mulgrum," Flint explained.
"Yes, sir; I know him, though we never had any long talks together,"
added Dave with a rich smile on his face.
"Go on deck, and tell Mulgrum to come into my cabin," said Christy.
"If I tell him that, he won't hear me," suggested Dave.
"Show him this paper," interposed the first lieutenant, handing him a
card on which he had written the order.
Dave left the cabin to deliver the message, and the captain immediately
instructed Flint to question the man in regard to the localities and
other matters in Cherryfield, suggesting that he should conduct his
examination so as not to excite any suspicion. Pink Mulgrum appeared
promptly, and was placed at the table where both of the officers could
observe his expression. Then Flint began to write on a sheet of paper,
and passed his first question to the man. It was: "Don't you remember
me?" Mulgrum wrote that he did not. Then the inquisitor asked when he
had left Cherryfield to attend the school at Hartford; and the date he
gave placed him there at the very time when Flint had been the master of
the school for four months. On the question of locality, he could place
the church, the schoolhouse and the hotel; and he seemed to have no
further knowledge of the town. When asked where his father lived, he
described a white house next to the church; but Flint knew that this had
been owned and occupied by the minister for many years.
"This man is a humbug," was the next sentence the first lieutenant
wrote, but he passed it to the captain. Christy wrote under it: "Tell
him that we are perfectly satisfied with his replies, and thank him for
his attendance;" which was done at once, and the captain smiled upon him
as though he had conducted himself with distinguished ability.
"Mulgrum has been in Cherryfield; but he could not have remained there
more than a day or two," said Flint, when the door had closed behind the
deaf mute.
The captain made a gesture to impose silence upon his companion.
"Mulgrum is all right in every respect," said he in a loud tone, so
that if the subject of the examination had stopped at the keyhole of the
door, he would not be made any the wiser for what he heard there.
"He knows Cherryfield as well as he knows the deck of the Bronx, and as
you say, Captain Passford, he is all right in every respect," added the
first lieutenant in the same loud tone. "Mulgrum is a well educated man,
captain, and you will have a great deal of writing to do: I suggest that
you bring him into your cabin, and make him your clerk."
"That is a capital idea, Mr. Flint, and I shall consider it," returned
the commander, making sure that the man at the door should hear him,
if Mulgrum lingered there. "I have a number of letters sent over from
England relating to blockade runners that I wish to have copied for the
use of any naval officers with whom I may fall in; and I have not the
time to do it myself."
"Mulgrum writes a very handsome hand, and no one could do the work any
better than he."
Christy thought enough had been said to satisfy the curiosity of Mulgrum
if he was still active in seeking information, and both of the officers
were silent. The captain had enough to think of to last him a long
while. The result of the inquiry into the auditory and vocal powers of
the scullion, as Flint called him, had convinced him that the deaf mute
was a fraud. He had no doubt that he could both speak and hear as well
as the rest of the ship's company. But the puzzling question was in
relation to the reason why he pretended to be deaf and dumb. If he was
desirous of serving his country in the navy, and especially in the
Bronx, it was not necessary to pretend to be deaf and dumb in order to
obtain a fighting berth on board of her. It looked like a first class
mystery to the young commander, but he was satisfied that the presence
of Mulgrum meant mischief. He could not determine at once what it was
best to do to solve the mystery; but he decided that the most extreme
watchfulness was required of him and his first lieutenant. This was all
he could do, and he touched his bell again.
"Dave," said he when the cabin steward presented himself before him, "go
on deck and ask Mr. Lillyworth to report to me the log and the weather."
"The log and the weather, sir," replied Dave, as he hastened out of the
cabin.
Christy watched him closely as he went out at the door, and he was
satisfied that Mulgrum was not in the passage, if he had stopped there
at all. His present purpose was to disarm all the suspicions of the
subject of the mystery, but he would have been glad to know whether or
not the man had lingered at the door to hear what was said in regard to
him. He was not anxious in regard to the weather, or even the log, and
he sent Dave on his errand in order to make sure that Mulgrum was not
still doing duty as a listener.
"Wind south south west, log last time fifteen knots and a half,"
reported Dave, as he came in after knocking at the door.
"I can not imagine why that man pretended to be deaf and dumb in order
to get a position on board of the Bronx. He is plainly a fraud," said
the captain when Dave had gone back to his work in the state room.
"I don't believe he pretended to be a deaf mute in order to get a place
on board, for that would ordinarily be enough to prevent him from
getting it. I should put it that he had obtained his place in spite of
being deaf and dumb. But the mystery exists just the same."
The captain went on deck, and the first lieutenant to the ward room.
CHAPTER V
A CONFIDENTIAL STEWARD
The wind still came from the southward, and it was very light. The sea
was comparatively smooth, and the Bronx continued on her course. At the
last bi-hourly heaving of the log, she was making sixteen knots an hour.
The captain went into the engine room, where he found Mr. Gawl, one of
the chief's two assistants, on duty. This officer informed him that no
effort had been made to increase the speed of the steamer, and that she
was under no strain whatever. The engine had been thoroughly overhauled,
as well as every other part of the vessel, and every improvement that
talent and experience suggested had been made. It now appeared that the
engine had been greatly benefited by whatever changes had been made.
These improvements had been explained to the commander by Mr. Sampson
the day before; but Christy had not given much attention to the matter,
for he preferred to let the speed of the vessel speak for itself; and
this was what it appeared to be doing at the present time.
Christy walked the deck for some time, observing everything that
presented itself, and taking especial notice of the working of the
vessel. Though he made no claims to any superior skill, he was really an
expert, and the many days and months he had passed in the companionship
of Paul Vapoor in studying the movements of engines and hulls had made
him wiser and more skilful than it had even been suspected that he was.
He was fully competent for the position he was temporarily filling; but
he had made himself so by years of study and practice.
Christy had not yet obtained all the experience he required as a naval
officer, and he was fully aware that this was what he needed to enable
him to discharge his duty in the best manner. He was in command of a
small steamer, a position of responsibility which he had not coveted in
this early stage of his career, though it was only for a week or less,
as the present speed of the Bronx indicated. He had ambition enough to
hope that he should be able to distinguish himself in this brief period,
for it might be years before he again obtained such an opportunity. His
youth was against him, and he was aware that he had been selected to
take the steamer to the Gulf because there was a scarcity of officers of
the proper grade, and his rank gave him the position.
The motion of the Bronx exactly suited him, and he judged that in a
heavy sea she would behave very well. He had made one voyage in her from
the Gulf to New York, and the steamer had done very well, though she had
been greatly improved at the navy yard. Certainly her motion was better,
and the connection between the engine and the inert material of which
the steamer was constructed, seemed to be made without any straining
or jerking. There was very little shaking and trembling as the powerful
machinery drove her ahead over the quiet sea. There had been no very
severe weather during his first cruise in the Bronx, and she had not
been tested in a storm under his management, though she had doubtless
encountered severe gales in crossing the Atlantic in a breezy season of
the year.
While Christy was planking the deck, four bells were struck on the
ship's great bell on the top-gallant forecastle. It was the beginning
of the second dog watch, or six o'clock in the afternoon, and the watch
which had been on duty since four o'clock was relieved. Mr. Flint
ascended the bridge, and took the place of Mr. Lillyworth, the second
lieutenant. Under this bridge was the pilot-house, and in spite of her
small size, the steamer was steered by steam. The ship had been at sea
but a few hours, and the crew were not inclined to leave the deck. The
number of men on board was nearly doubled by the addition of those sent
down to fill vacancies in other vessels on the blockade. Christy went on
the bridge soon after, more to take a survey inboard than for any other
purpose.
Mr. Lillyworth had gone aft, but when he met Mulgrum coming up from the
galley, he stopped and looked around him. With the exception of himself
nearly the whole ship's company were forward. The commander watched him
with interest when he stopped in the vicinity of the deaf mute, who
also halted in the presence of the second lieutenant. Then they walked
together towards the companion way, and disappeared behind the mainmast.
Christy had not before noticed any intercourse between the lieutenant
and the scullion, though he thought it a little odd that the officer
should set the man at work cleaning the brasses about the door of the
captain's cabin, a matter that belonged to the steward's department. He
had learned from Flint that Mulgrum had been recommended to the chief
steward by Lillyworth, so that it was evident enough that they had been
acquainted before either of them came on board. But he could not see
them behind the mast, and he desired very much to know what they were
doing.
Flint had taken his supper before he went on duty on the bridge, and the
table was waiting for the other ward room officers who had just been
relieved. It was time for Lillyworth to go to the meal, but he did not
go, and he seemed to be otherwise engaged. After a while, Christy looked
at his watch, and found that a quarter of an hour had elapsed since the
second lieutenant had left the bridge, and he had spent nearly all this
time abaft the mainmast with the scullion. The commander had become
absolutely absorbed in his efforts to fathom the deaf and dumb mystery,
and fortunately there was nothing else to occupy his attention, for
Flint had drilled the crew, including the men for other vessels, and
had billeted and stationed them during the several days he had been on
board. Everything was working as though the Bronx had been at sea a
month instead of less than half a day.
Christy was exceedingly anxious to ascertain what, if anything, was
passing between Lillyworth and Mulgrum; but he could see no way to
obtain any information on the subject. He had no doubt he was watched as
closely as he was watching the second lieutenant. If he went aft, that
would at once end the conference, if one was in progress. He could
not call upon a seaman to report on such a delicate question without
betraying himself, and he had not yet learned whom to trust in such a
matter, and it was hardly proper to call upon a foremast hand to watch
one of his officers.
The only person on board besides the first lieutenant in whom he felt
that he could repose entire confidence was Dave. He knew him thoroughly,
and his color was almost enough to guarantee his loyalty to the country
and his officers, and especially to himself, for the steward possessed a
rather extravagant admiration for the one who had "brought him out of
bondage," as he expressed it, and had treated him like a gentleman from
first to last. He could trust Dave even on the most delicate mission;
but Dave was attending to the table in the ward room, and he did not
care to call him from his duty.
At the end of another five minutes, Christy saw Mulgrum come from abaft
the mainmast, and descend the ladder to the galley. He saw no more of
Lillyworth, and he concluded that, keeping himself in the shadow of
the mast, he had gone below. He remained on the bridge a while longer
considering what he should do. He said nothing to Flint, for he did
not like to take up the attention of any officer on duty. The commander
thought that Dave could render him the assistance he required better
than any other person on board, for being only a steward and a colored
man at that, less notice would be taken of him than of one in a higher
position. He was about to descend from the bridge when Flint spoke to
him in regard to the weather, though he could have guessed to a point
what the captain was thinking about, perhaps because the same subject
occupied his own thoughts.
"I think we shall have a change of weather before morning, Captain
Passford. The wind is drawing a little more to the southward, and we are
likely to have wind and rain," said the first lieutenant.
"Wind and rain will not trouble us, and I am more afraid that we shall
be bothered with fog on this cruise," added Christy as he descended the
ladder to the main deck.
He walked about the deck for a few minutes, observing the various
occupations of the men, who were generally engaged in amusing
themselves, or in "reeling off sea yarns." Then he went below. At the
foot of the stairs in the companion way, the door of the ward room was
open, and he saw that Lillyworth was seated at the table. He sat at the
foot of it, the head being the place of the first lieutenant, and the
captain could see only his back. He was slightly bald at the apex of
his head, for he was an older man than either the captain or the first
lieutenant, but inferior to them in rank, though all of them were
masters, and seniority depended upon the date of the commissions;
and even a single day settled the degree in these days of multiplied
appointments. Christy went into his cabin, where the table was set for
his own supper.
The commander looked at his barometer, and his reading of it assured him
that Flint was correct in regard to his prognostics of the weather. But
the young officer had faced the winter gales of the Atlantic, and the
approach of any ordinary storm did not disturb him in the least degree.
On the contrary he rather liked a lively sea, for it was less monotonous
than a calm. He did not brood over a storm, therefore, but continued
to consider the subject which had so deeply interested him since he
discovered Mulgrum on his knees at the door, with a rag and a saucer of
rottenstone in his hands. He had a curiosity to examine the brass knob
of his door at that moment, and it did not appear to have been very
severely rubbed.
"Quarter of seven, sir," said Dave, presenting himself at the door while
Christy was still musing over the incidents already detailed.
"All right, Dave; I will have my supper now," replied Christy,
indifferently, for though he was generally blessed with a good appetite
the mystery was too absorbing to permit the necessary duty of eating to
drive it out of his mind.
Dave retired, and soon brought in a tray from the galley, the dishes
from which he arranged on the table. It was an excellent supper, though
he had not given any especial orders in regard to its preparation. He
seated himself and began to eat in a rather mechanical manner, and no
one who saw him would have mistaken him for an epicure. Dave stationed
himself in front of the commander, so that he was between the table and
the door. He watched Christy, keeping his eyes fixed on him without
intermitting his gaze for a single instant. Once in a while he tendered
a dish to him at the table, but there was but one object in existence
for Christy at that moment.
"Dave," said the captain, after he had disposed of a portion of his
supper.
"Here, sir, on duty," replied the steward.
"Open the door behind you, quick!"
Dave obeyed instantly, and threw the door back so that it was wide open,
though he seemed to be amazed at the strangeness of the order.
"All right, Dave; close it," added Christy, when he saw there was no
one in the passage; and he concluded that Mulgrum was not likely to be
practising his vocation when there was no one in the cabin but himself
and the steward.
Dave obeyed the order like a machine, and then renewed his gaze at the
commander.
"Are you a Freemason, Dave?" asked Christy.
"No, sir," replied the steward with a magnificent smile.
"A Knight of Pythias, of Pythagoras, or anything of that sort?"
"No, sir; nothing of the sort."
"Then you can't keep a secret?"
"Yes, sir, I can. If I have a secret to keep, I will give the whole
Alabama River to any one that can get it out of me."
Christy felt sure of his man without this protestation.
CHAPTER VI
A MISSION UP THE FOREMAST
Christy spent some time in delivering a lecture on naval etiquette to
his single auditor. Probably he was not the highest authority on the
subject of his discourse; but he was sufficiently learned to meet the
requirements of the present occasion.
"You say you can keep a secret, Dave?" continued the commander.
"I don't take any secrets to keep from everybody, Captain Passford; and
I don't much like to carry them about with me," replied the steward,
looking a little more grave than usual, though he still wore a cheerful
smile.
"Then you don't wish me to confide a secret to you?"
"I don't say that, Captain Passford. I don't want any man's secrets,
and I don't run after them, except for the good of the service. I was a
slave once, but I know what I am working for now. If you have a secret I
ought to know, Captain Passford, I will take it in and bury it away down
at the bottom of my bosom; and I will give the whole state of Louisiana
to any one that will dig it out of me."
"That's enough, Dave; and I am willing to trust you without any oath on
the Bible, and without even a Quaker's affirmation. I believe you will
be prudent, discreet, and silent for my sake."
"Certainly I will be all that, Captain Passford, for I think you are a
bigger man than Jeff Davis," protested Dave.
"That is because you do not know the President of the Confederate
States, and you do know me; but Mr. Davis is a man of transcendent
ability, and I am only sorry that he is engaged in a bad cause, though
he believes with all his heart and soul that it is a good cause."
"He never treated me like a gentleman, as you have, sir."
"And he never treated you unkindly, I am very sure."
"He never treated me any way, for I never saw him; and I would not walk
a hundred miles barefooted to see him, either. I am no gentleman or
anything of that sort, Massa-- Captain Passford, but if I ever go back
on you by the breadth of a hair, then the Alabama River will run up
hill."
"I am satisfied with you, Dave; and here is my hand," added Christy,
extending it to the steward, who shook it warmly, displaying a good deal
of emotion as he did so. "Now, Dave, you know Mulgrum, or Pink, as you
call him?"
"Well, sir, I know him as I do the rest of the people on board; but we
are not sworn friends yet," replied Dave, rather puzzled to know what
duty was required of him in connection with the scullion.
"You know him; that is enough. What do you think of him?"
"I haven't had any long talks with him, sir, and I don't know what to
think of him."
"You know that he is dumb?"
"I expect he is, sir; but he never said anything to me about it,"
replied Dave. "He never told me he couldn't speak, and I never heard
him speak to any one on board."
"Did you ever speak to him?"
"Yes, sir; I spoke to him when he first came on board; but he didn't
answer me, or take any notice of me when I spoke to him, and I got tired
of it."
"Open that door quickly, Dave," said the captain suddenly.
The steward promptly obeyed the order, and Christy saw that there was
no one in the passage. He told his companion to close the door, and Dave
was puzzled to know what this movement could mean.
"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford, and I have no right to ask any
question; but I should like to know why you make me open that door two
or three times for nothing," said Dave, in the humblest of tones.
"I told you to open it so that I could see if there was anybody at the
door. This is my secret, Dave. I have twice found Mulgrum at that door
while I was talking to the first lieutenant. He pretended to be cleaning
the brass work."
"What was he there for? When a man is as deaf as the foremast of the
ship what would he be doing at the door?"
"He was down on his knees, and his ear was not a great way from the
keyhole of the door."
"But he could not hear anything."
"I don't know: that is what I want to find out. The mission I have for
you, Dave, is to watch Mulgrum. In a word, I have my doubts in regard to
his deafness and his dumbness."
"You don't believe he is deaf and dumb, Captain Passford!" exclaimed the
steward, opening his eyes very wide, and looking as though an earthquake
had just shaken him up.
"I don't say that, my man. I am in doubt. He may be a deaf mute, as he
represents himself to be. I wish you to ascertain whether or not he can
speak and hear. You are a shrewd fellow, Dave, I discovered some time
ago; in fact the first time I ever saw you. You may do this job in any
manner you please; but remember that your mission is my secret, and you
must not betray it to Mulgrum, or to any other person."
"Be sure I won't do that, Captain Passford."
"If you obtain any satisfactory information, convey it to me
immediately. You must be very careful not to let any one suspect that
you are watching him, and least of all to let Mulgrum know it. Do you
understand me perfectly, Dave?"
"Yes, sir; perfectly. Nobody takes any notice of me but you, and it
won't be a hard job. I think I can manage it without any trouble. I am
nothing but a nigger, and of no account."
"I have chosen you for this mission because you can do it better than
any other person, Dave. Don't call yourself a nigger; I don't like the
word, and you are ninety degrees in the shade above the lower class of
negroes in the South."
"Thank you, sir," replied the steward with an expansive smile.
"There is one thing I wish you to understand particularly, Dave. I have
not set you to watch any officer of the ship," said Christy
impressively.
"No, sir; I reckon Pink Mulgrum is not an officer any more than I am."
"But you may discover, if you find that Mulgrum can speak and hear, that
he is talking to an officer," added the captain in a low tone.
"What officer, Captain Passford?" asked the steward, opening his eyes
to their utmost capacity, and looking as bewildered as an owl in the
gaslight.
"I repeat that I do not set you to watch an officer; and I leave it to
you to ascertain with whom Mulgrum has any talk, if with any one. Now I
warn you that, if you accomplish anything in this mission, you will do
it at night and not in the daytime. That is all that need be said at the
present time, Dave, and you will attend to your duty as usual. If you
lose much sleep, you may make it up in the forenoon watch."
"I don't care for the sleep, Captain Passford, and I can keep awake all
night."
"One thing more, Dave; between eight bells and eight bells to-night,
during the first watch, you may get at something, but you must keep
out of sight as much as you can," added Christy, as he rose from his
armchair, and went into his state room.
Dave busied himself in clearing the table, but he was in a very
thoughtful mood all the time. Loading up his tray with dishes, he
carried them through the steerage to the galley, where he found Mulgrum
engaged in washing those from the ward room, which he had brought out
some time before. The steward looked at the deaf mute with more interest
than he had regarded him before. He was a supernumerary on board, and
any one who had anything to do called Pink to do it. Another waiter was
greatly needed, and Mr. Nawood, the chief steward, had engaged one, but
he had failed to come on board before the steamer sailed. Pink had been
pressed into service for the steerage; but he was of little use, and the
work seemed very distasteful, if not disgusting, to him. He carried in
the food, but that was about all he was good for.
Dave watched him for a few minutes as he washed and wiped the dishes,
and saw that he was very awkward at it; it was plain to him that he was
not an experienced hand at the business. But he was doing the steward's
work, and Dave took hold and helped him. Pink was as solemn as an owl,
and did his work in a very mechanical manner, and without the slightest
interest in it. The cabin steward had a mission, and he was profoundly
interested in its execution.
By the side of the galley, or range, was a sink at which they were at
work. Dave thought he might as well begin then and there to test the
hearing powers of his companion. Picking up one of the large blowers
of the range, he placed himself so that Pink could not see what he was
about, and then banged the sheet iron against the cast iron of the great
stove. He kept his eye fixed all the time on the scullion. The noise was
enough for the big midship gun on deck, or even for a small earthquake.
Pink was evidently startled by the prodigious sound, and turned towards
the steward, who was satisfied that he had heard it; but the fellow was
cunning, and realizing that he had committed himself, he picked up one
of his feet, and began to rub it as though he had been hit by the
falling blower. At the same time, he pretended to be very angry, and
demonstrated very earnestly against his companion.
Dave felt that he had made a point, and he did not carry his
investigation of the auditory capacity of the scullion any farther that
night. He finished his work below, and then went on deck. He lounged
about in a very careless manner till eight bells were struck. Mr. Flint
on the bridge was relieved by Mr. Lillyworth, and the port watch came on
duty for the next four hours, or until midnight. This was the time the
captain had indicated to Dave as a favorable one for the discharge of
his special duty. Taking advantage of the absence of any person from the
vicinity of the foremast, he adroitly curled himself up in the folds of
the foresail, which was brailed up to the mast. He had his head in such
a position that he could see without being seen by any casual passer-by.
He waited in this position over an hour, and during that time Pink went
back and forth several times, and seemed to be looking up at the bridge,
which was just forward of the foremast. On the top-gallant forecastle
were two men on the lookout; in the waist was a quartermaster, who was
doing the duty that belonged to the third lieutenant, if the scarcity of
officers had permitted the Bronx to have one. The body of the port watch
were spinning yarns on the forecastle, and none of them were very near
the foremast. After a while, as Pink was approaching the forecastle,
Dave saw the second lieutenant gesticulating to him very earnestly to
come on the bridge. The supernumerary ascended the ladder, and the
officer set him at work to lace on the sailcloth to the railing of the
bridge, to shelter those on duty there from the force of the sea blast.
Dave listened with all his ears for any sound from the bridge; but he
soon realized that if there was any, he was too far off to hear it. With
the aid of the lashings of the foresail, he succeeded in climbing up on
the mast to a point on a level with the bridge, and at the same time to
make the mast conceal him from the eyes of Mr. Lillyworth and the
scullion. The latter pretended to be at work, and occasionally the
second lieutenant "jawed" at him for his clumsiness in lacing the
sailcloth. Between these growls, they spoke together in a low tone, but
Dave was near enough to hear what they said. Though he had never heard
the voice of Pink Mulgrum before, he knew that of the second lieutenant,
and he was in no danger of confounding the two. Pink used excellent
language, as the steward was capable of judging, and it was plain enough
that he was not what he had appeared to be.
  [Illustration: Lillyworth and Mulgrum on the bridge.]
CHAPTER VII
AN INTERVIEW ON THE BRIDGE
Although Mr. Lillyworth knew very well that Pink Mulgrum was deaf and
dumb, he "jawed" at him as though his hearing was as perfect as his own,
doubtless forgetting for the moment his infirmity.
"Draw up the bight, and lace it tighter," exclaimed the second
lieutenant, intermixing an expletive at each end of the sentence. "Oh,
you can't hear me!" he shouted, as though the fact that the scullion
could not hear him had suddenly come to his mind. "Well, it is a nice
thing to talk to a deaf man!"
Dave could see that Mulgrum also seemed to forget that his ears were
closed to all sounds, for he redoubled his efforts to haul the screen
into its place.
"I could not hear anything that was of any consequence," the steward
heard the deaf mute say in a lower tone than his companion used.
"Couldn't you hear anything?" asked Mr. Lillyworth, making a spring
at the canvas as though he was disgusted with the operations of his
companion on the bridge.
"Only what I have just told you," replied Mulgrum.
"But you were at the door when the captain and the first lieutenant were
talking together in the cabin," continued the officer in a low tone.
"But they were talking about me, as I told you before," answered the
scullion, rather impatiently, as though he too had a mind of his own.
"Wasn't anything said about the operations of the future?" demanded Mr.
Lillyworth.
"Not a word; but you know as well as I do that the captain has sealed
orders which he will not see before to-morrow. I heard him tell his
father that he was to open the envelope in latitude 38," said the
supernumerary.
"You must contrive some way to hear the captain when he reads his
orders," continued the second lieutenant. "He will be likely to have
Mr. Flint with him when he opens the envelope."
"It will be difficult," replied Mulgrum, and Dave could imagine that he
saw him shake his head. "The captain has found me cleaning the brasses
on his door twice, and it will hardly do to be found at the door again."
"Isn't there any place in his cabin where you can conceal yourself?"
inquired Mr. Lillyworth.
"I don't know of any place, unless it is his state room; and the cabin
steward has been at work there almost all the time since we got under
way. Dave seems to be a sort of confidant of the captain," suggested
Mulgrum; and it looked as though the deaf mute had not held his tongue
and kept his ears open for nothing; but the steward could not understand
how he had got this idea into his head, for he had received his
instructions while the commander was at supper, and he was sure, as
he had thrown the door open several times, that the scullion was not
on the other side of it.
"A nigger for his confidant!" exclaimed the second lieutenant, as he
interpolated a little jaw for the benefit of the seamen and petty
officers within earshot of him. "What can we expect when a mere boy
is put in command of a steamer like this one?"
"I think you need not complain, Pawcett, for you are on board of this
vessel, and so am I, because she is under the command of a boy. But he
is a tremendous smart boy, and he is older than many men of double his
age," added Mulgrum.
Dave realized that the supernumerary was well informed in regard to
current history in connection with naval matters, and he was willing to
believe that he was quite as shrewd as the officer at his side.
"The boy is well enough, though he is abominably overrated, as you will
see before I have done with him," said Mr. Lillyworth contemptuously.
"It is galling for one who has seen some service to touch his cap to
this boy and call him captain."
"I hope you are not forgetting yourself, Pawcett--"
"Don't mention my name on board of this vessel, Hungerford," interposed
the officer.
"And you will not mention mine," added the scullion promptly. "We are
