Suiting the action to the word, he suddenly bent down, slipped his arms
round the legs of the two policemen, hurled them simultaneously head over
heels and then charged the crowd, head downwards, upsetting every one who
came in his way, and bursting into the street by sheer superior weight and
impetus. An instant later, his shock head appeared at the window through
which the Cossack had escaped.
"Come along!" he shouted to the Count, in his own language. "I have locked
the street door and they cannot get out. Jump through the window."
"Go, my friend," answered the Count, calmly. "I will not run away."
"You had much better come," insisted Dumnoff, apparently indifferent to
the noise of the crowd as it tried to force open the closed door, and
shaking off two or three men who had made their way out into the street
with him. He held the key in one hand, and his assailants had small chance
of getting it away.
"You will not come?" he repeated. But the Count shook his head, within the
room.
"Then I will not run away either," said Dumnoff, the good side of his dull
nature showing itself at last. With the utmost indifference to
consequences he returned to the door, unlocked it, and strode through the
midst of the people, who made way readily enough before him, after their
late painful experience of his manner of making way for himself.
"I have changed my mind," he said, in German, quietly placing himself
between his late keepers, who were alternately rubbing themselves and
brushing the dust off each other's clothes after their tumble.
In the astonished silence which succeeded Dumnoff's return, the Count's
voice was heard again.
"I am both anxious and ready to explain everything, if you will do me the
civility to listen," he said. "The doll is the property of Herr
Fischelowitz, the well-known tobacconist--"
"We shall see presently what you have to say for yourself," interrupted
the policeman. "We have had enough of these devilish fellows. Come, put
them in handcuffs and off with them. And you three gentlemen," he added,
turning to the three porters, "will have the goodness to accompany us to
the station, in order to give your evidence."
"But my furniture and my beer saucers!" exclaimed the pallid host,
suddenly remembering his losses. "Who is to pay for them?"
The Count answered the question for him.
"You, Master Host, who know us and have had our regular custom for years,
but who have not dared to say a word in our defence throughout this
disgraceful affair, you, I say, deserve to lose all that you have lost.
Nevertheless, I can assure you that I will myself pay for what has been
broken."
The host was not much consoled by this magnanimous promise, which was
received with jeers by the crowd. There was no time, however, to discuss
the question. Dumnoff had quietly submitted his two huge fists to the
handcuffs and a second pair was produced, to fit the Count. At this
indignity he drew himself up proudly.
"Have I resisted the authority, or attempted to run away?" he inquired
with flashing eyes.
The policeman had nothing to say to this very just question.
"Then I advise you to consider what you are doing. In spite of my
appearance, which, I admit, is at present somewhat disorderly, I am a
Russian nobleman, as you will discover so soon as I am submitted to a
properly conducted examination in the presence of your officers. I have
not the least intention of running away, and if this doll was stolen, I
was not connected in any way with the theft. Since I respect the
authorities, I insist upon being respected by them, and if I am treated in
a degrading manner in spite of my protests, there are those in Munich who
will bring the case to proper notice in my own country. I am ready to
accompany you quietly wherever you choose to show me the way."
Something in his manner impressed the officials with the possible truth of
his words. They looked at each other and nodded.
"Very well," said the one who was conducting the arrest.
"Moreover," said the Count, "I crave permission to carry myself the object
of contention, until the other claimant has established his right of
possession."
So saying the Count took the broken Gigerl from the table where it lay,
and carrying it upon his hands before him, like a baby, he solemnly walked
in the direction of the door, thus heading the procession, which was
accompanied into the street by the idlers who had collected inside.
"God be thanked," said the old woman in the corner devoutly, "I have yet
my beer!"
"And to think that only one of them has paid for his supper," moaned the
pale-faced innkeeper, sitting down upon a chair and contemplating the
wreck of his belongings with a haggard eye. The "Gigerl-night" was
remembered for many a long year in the "Green Wreath Inn."
At the police station the arresting party told their own story in their
own way, very much to the disadvantage of the Russians and very much in
favour of the porters and of the officials themselves. The latter, indeed,
enlarged so much upon the atrocities perpetrated by Dumnoff as to weary
the superior officer. The Cossack having escaped, the policemen did not
mention him. The officer glanced at Dumnoff.
"Your name?" he inquired.
"Victor Ivanowitch Dumnoff."
"Occupation?"
"Cigarette-maker in the manufactory of Christian Fischelowitz."
"Lock him up," said the officer. "Resisting the police in the execution of
an arrest," he added, speaking to the scribe at his elbow.
"Your name?" continued he, addressing the Count. "Boris Michaelovitch,
Count Skariatine."
"Count?" repeated the officer. "We shall see. Occupation?"
"I have been occupied in the manufacture of cigarettes," answered the
Count. "But as I was only engaged in this during a period of temporary
embarrassment from which I shall be relieved to-morrow, I may be described
as having no particular occupation."
The officer stared incredulously for a moment and then nodded to the
scribe in token that he was to write down what was said.
"Charged with having stolen a doll, is that it?" He turned to the
policeman in charge.
"Jawohl, Herr Hauptmann."
"May it please you, Herr Hauptmann, I did not say that," put in the
porter, coming forward.
"Who are you?"
"The man from whom the doll was stolen. Jacob Goggelmann, Dienstmann
number 87, formerly private in the Fourth Artillery, lately messenger in
the Thüringer Doll Manufactory."
"When was the doll stolen?"
"Last New Year's eve," answered the porter.
"And you have not seen it until to-day?"
"No, Herr Hauptmann."
"Then how do you know it is the same one? I suppose it is not the only
doll of its kind in Munich."
"I am sure of it. I was a messenger in the shop, Herr Hauptmann, and I
knew everything there, just as though I had been one of the young ladies
who serve the customers. Besides, you will find my name written in pencil
under the pedestal."
"That is another matter," said the officer, taking the Gigerl and holding
it upside down to the gaslight. The reversing of the thing's natural
position produced some mysterious effect upon the musical box, and the
tune which had been so rudely interrupted by Akulina's well-aimed blow,
suddenly began again from the point at which it had stopped, continuing
for a few bars and then coming to an end with a sharp twang and a little
click. The policemen tittered audibly, and even the captain smiled faintly
in his big yellow beard. Then he knit his brows as he deciphered something
which was written on the pinewood under the base.
"You should have said so at once," he observed. "Your name is there, as
you assert."
"It was written to show that I was to take it. I had it in a basket with
other things. I put it down a moment in the yard of the Hofbräuhaus, and
when I came back the basket was gone."
"And what do you know about it?" The question was addressed to the Count.
"Seeing that the porter is evidently right," said the Count, covering with
his hat the point from which the button had been torn, and holding the
other hand rather nervously to his throat, as though trying to keep
himself from falling to pieces, "I have nothing more to say. I will not be
accused of inculpating any one in this disastrous affair. I will only say
that the doll has stood since early in the year in the show window of
Christian Fischelowitz, the tobacconist, who certainly had no knowledge of
the way in which it was obtained by the person who brought it to him."
"He is an extremely respectable person," observed the officer. "If you can
prove what you say, I will not detain you further. Have you any witness
here?"
"There is Herr Dumnoff," said the Count. The officer smiled and
perpetrated an official jest.
"Herr Dumnoff has given evidence of great strength, but owing to his
peculiar situation at the present time, I cannot trust to the strength of
his evidence."
The policemen laughed respectfully.
"Have you no one else?" asked the officer.
"Herr Fischelowitz will willingly vouch for what I say."
"At this hour, Herr Fischelowitz is doubtless asleep, and would certainly
be justified in refusing to come here out of mere complaisance. I am
afraid, Count Skariatine, that I must have the honour of being your host
until morning."
"It is impossible to describe our relative positions with greater
courtesy," answered the Count, gravely, and not taking the least notice of
the officer's ironical tone. The latter looked at the speaker curiously
and then suddenly changed his manner. He was convinced that he was
speaking with a gentleman.
"I regret that I am obliged to put you to such inconvenience," he said,
politely. "Treat the gentleman with every consideration," he added,
addressing the policemen in a tone of authority, "and let me have no
complaints of unnecessary rudeness either."
"I thank you, Herr Hauptmann," said the Count, simply.
Thus was the Count deprived of his liberty on the very eve of his return
to all the brilliant advantages of wealth and social station. It was
certainly a most unfortunate train of circumstances which had led him by
such quick stages from his parting with Vjera to the wooden bench and the
board pillow of the police-station. It looked as though the Gigerl were
possessed of an evil spirit determined to work out the Count's
destruction, as though the wretched adventurer who had first stolen it and
palmed it off upon Fischelowitz had laid a curse upon it, whereby it was
destined to breed dissension and strife wherever it remained and to the
direct injury of whomsoever chanced to possess it for the time being. It
had been the cause of serious disaster to the porter in the first
instance, it had next represented to Fischelowitz a dead loss in money of
fifty marks, it had become a thorn in the side to Akulina, it had led to
one of the most violent quarrels she had ever engaged in with her husband,
its limp and broken form had cost much broken crockery and some broken
furniture to the host of the "Green Wreath Inn," had been the cause of
several ponderous blows dealt and received by Dumnoff, had produced the
violent fall, upon a hard board floor, of a porter and two policemen and
had ultimately brought the Count to prison for the night. Its value had
become very great, for it had been paid for twice over, once by the man
from whom it had been stolen, by the forfeiture of his caution money, and
once by Fischelowitz in the sum of fifty marks lent to an adventurer;
furthermore, the Count had solemnly pledged his word as a gentleman to pay
for it a third time on the morrow, he having in his worldly possession the
sum of one silver mark and two German pennies at the time of entering into
the engagement. The actual sum of money paid and promised to be paid on
the body of the now ruined Gigerl, now amounted, with interest, to more
than four times its original value, thus constituting one of those
interesting problems in real and comparative value so interesting to the
ingenuous political economist, who believes that all value can be traced
to supply and demand. Now, although the Gigerl was but a single doll, the
supply of him, so to speak, had been surprisingly abundant, and the
demand, if represented by the desire of any one person concerned to
possess him, may be represented by the smallest of zeros. The
consideration of so intricate a question belongs neither to the inventor
of fiction nor to the historian of facts, and may therefore be abandoned
to the political economist, who may, perhaps, be said to partake of the
nature of both while possessing the virtues of neither.
The Count was in prison, therefore, on the eve of his return to splendour,
and his companion in captivity was Dumnoff the mujik. They found
themselves in a well-ventilated room, having high grated windows, through
which the stars were visible, and dimly lighted by a small gas flame which
burned in a lantern of white ground glass. The place was abundantly, if
not luxuriously, furnished with flat wooden pallets, each having at the
head a slanting piece of board supposed to do duty for a pillow. Outside
the open door a policeman paced the broad passage, a man taken from the
mounted detachment and whose scabbard and spurs clattered and jingled,
hour after hour, as he walked. The sound produced something half
rhythmical, like a broken tune in search of itself, and the change of
sentinels made no perceptible difference in the regular nature of the
unceasing noise.
Dumnoff, relieved of his handcuffs, stretched himself upon the pallet
assigned to him, clasped his hands under the back of his head, and stared
at the ceiling. The Count sat upon the edge of his board, crossing one
knee over the other and looking at his nails, or trying to look at them in
the insufficient light. In some distant part of the building a door was
occasionally opened and shut, and the slight concussion sent long echoes
down the stone passages. The Count sighed audibly.
"It is not so bad, after all," remarked Dumnoff. "I did not expect to end
the evening so comfortably."
"It is bad enough," said the Count. He produced a crumpled piece of
newspaper which contained a little tobacco, and rolled a cigarette
thoughtfully. "It is bad enough," he repeated as he began to smoke.
"It would have been very easy to get away, if you had done like that brute
of a Schmidt who ran away and left us."
"I do not think Schmidt is a brute," observed the other, blowing a huge
ring of white smoke out into the dusk.
"I did not think so either. But I had arranged it all very well for you to
get away--only you would not. You see, by an accident, the key was outside
the door, so I kicked the people back and locked it. It would have taken a
quarter of an hour for them to open it, and if you had only jumped--"
He turned his head, and glanced at the Count's spare, sinewy figure.
"You are light, too," he continued, "and you could not have hurt yourself.
I cannot understand why you stayed."
"Dumnoff, my friend," said the Count, gravely, "we look at things in a
different way. It is my duty to tell you that I think you behaved in the
most honourable manner, under the circumstances, and I am deeply indebted
to you for the gallant way in which you came back to stand by me, when you
were yourself free. In a nobler warfare, such an action would have been
rewarded with a cross of honour, as it truly deserved. It is true, as
well, that you were not so intimately connected with the main question at
stake, as I was, since it was I who was suspected of being in possession
of unlawfully gotten goods. You were consequently, I think, at liberty to
take your freedom if you could get it, without consulting your conscience
further. Now my position was, and is, very different. I do not speak of
any personal prejudice against the mere act of running away, considered as
an immediate means of escape from disagreeable circumstances, with the
hope of ultimate immunity from all unpleasant consequences. That is a
matter of early education."
"I had very little early education," observed Dumnoff. "And none at all
afterwards."
"My friend, it is not for you and me to enter into the history of our
misfortunes. We have met in the vat of poverty to be seethed alike in the
brew of unhappiness. We have sat at the same daily labour, we have shared
often the same fare, but there is that in each of us which we can keep
sacred from the contamination of confidence, and which will withstand even
the thrusts of poverty. I mean our individual selves, the better part of
us, the nobler element which has suffered, as distinguished from the
grosser, which may yet enjoy. But I am wandering a little. I am afraid I
sometimes do. I return to the point. For me to take advantage of your
generous attempt to free me would have been to act as though I had a moral
cause for flight. In other words, it would have been to acknowledge that I
had committed some dishonourable action."
"It seems to me that to get away would have been the best way out of it.
They would not have caught you if you had trusted to me, and if they did
not catch you they could not prove anything against you."
"The suspicion would have remained, and the disgrace in my own eyes,"
answered the Count. "The question of physical fear is very different. I
have been told that it depends upon the nerves and the action of the
heart, and that courage is greatly increased by the presence of
nourishment in the stomach. The same cannot be said of moral bravery,
which proceeds more from the fear of seeming contemptible in our own eyes
than from the wish to seem honourable in the estimation of others."
"I daresay," said Dumnoff, who was growing sleepy and who understood very
little of his companion's homily.
"Precisely," replied the latter. "And yet even the question of physical
courage is very complicated in the present case. It cannot be said, for
instance, that you ran away from physical fear, after giving proof of such
astonishing physical superiority. Your deeds this evening make the labours
of Hercules dwindle to the proportions of mere mountebank's tricks."
"Was anybody badly injured?" asked Dumnoff, suddenly aroused by the
pleasing recollections of the contest.
"I believe not seriously; I think I saw everybody whom you upset get on
his feet sooner or later."
"Well," said Dumnoff with a sigh, "it cannot be helped. I did my best."
"I should think that you would be glad," suggested the Count. "You showed
your prowess without any fatal result."
"Anything for a change in this dull life," grumbled the peasant with an
air of dissatisfaction.
"With such a prospect of immediate change before me, I suppose I ought not
to blame your longing for excitement. Nevertheless I consider it fortunate
that nothing worse happened."
"You might take me with you to Russia," said Dumnoff, with a short laugh.
"That would be an excitement, at least."
"After the way in which you have stood by me this evening, I will not
refuse you anything. If you wish it, I will take you with me. I take it
for granted that you are not prevented by any especial reason from
entering our country."
"Not that I am aware of," laughed Dumnoff. "Do you know how I got to
Germany? A gentleman from our part of the country brought me with him as
coachman. One day the horses ran away in Baden-Baden, and he turned me out
of the house."
"That was very inconsiderate of him," observed the Count.
"It is true that both the horses were killed," said Dumnoff, thoughtfully.
"And the prince broke his arm, and the carriage was in good condition for
firewood, and possibly I was a little gay--just a little--though I was so
much upset by the accident that I could not remember exactly what happened
before. Still--"
"Your conduct on that particular day seems to have left much to be
desired," remarked the Count with some austerity.
"It has been my bad luck to be in a great many accidents," said the other.
"But that one was remarkable. As far as I can recollect, we drove into the
Grand Duke's four-in-hand on one side and drove out of it on the other. I
never drove through a Grand Duke's equipage on any other occasion. It was
lucky that his Serenity did not happen to be in it just at the time. There
you have my history in a nutshell. As you say you will take me with you, I
thought you ought to know."
"Certainly, certainly," answered the Count, vaguely. "I will take you with
me--but not as coachman, I think, Dumnoff. We may find some more
favourable sphere for your great physical strength."
"Anything you like. It is a good joke to dream of such a journey, is it
not? Especially when one is locked up for the night in the
police-station."
"It is certainly a relief to contemplate the prospect of such a change
to-morrow," said the Count, his expression brightening in the gloom.
For a few moments there was silence between the two men. Dumnoff's small
eyes fixed themselves on the shadowy outlines of his companion's face, as
though trying to solve a problem far too complicated for his dull
intellect.
"I wonder whether you are really mad," he said slowly, after a prolonged
mental effort.
The Count started slightly and stared at the ex-coachman with a frightened
look.
"Mad?" he repeated, nervously. "Who says I am mad? Why do you ask the
question?"
"Most people say so," replied the other, evidently without any intention
of giving pain. "Everybody who works with us thinks so."
"Everybody? Everybody? I think you are dreaming, Dumnoff. What do you
mean?"
"I mean that they think so because you have those queer fits of believing
yourself a rich count every week, from Tuesday night till Thursday
morning. Schmidt was saying only yesterday to poor Vjera--"
"Vjera? Does she believe it too?" asked the Count in an unsteady voice,
not heeding the rest of the speech.
"Of course," said Dumnoff, carelessly. "Schmidt was saying to me only
yesterday that you were going to have a worse attack of it than usual
because you were so silent."
"Vjera, too!" repeated the Count in a low voice. "And no one ever told
me--" He passed his hand over his eyes.
"Tell me"--Dumnoff began in the tone of jocular familiarity which he
considered confidential--"tell me--the whole thing is just a joke of yours
to amuse us all, is it not? You do not really believe that you are a
count, any more than I really believe that you are mad, you know. You do
not act like a madman, except when you let the police catch you and lock
you up for the night, instead of running away like a sensible man."
The Count's face grew bright again all at once. In the present state of
his hopes no form of doubt seemed able to take a permanent hold of him.
"No, I am not mad," he said. "But on the other hand, Dumnoff, it is my
conviction that you are exceedingly drunk. No other hypothesis can account
for your very singular remarks about me."
"Oh, I am drunk, am I?" laughed the peasant. "It is very likely, and in
that case I had better go to sleep. Good-night, and do not forget that you
are to take me with you to Russia."
"I will not forget," said the Count.
Dumnoff stretched his heavy limbs on the wooden pallet, rolled his great
head once or twice from side to side until his fur-like hair made
something like a cushion and then, in the course of three minutes, fell
fast asleep.
The Count sat upright in his place, drumming with his fingers upon one
knee.
"It is a wonder that I am not mad," he said to himself. "But Vjera never
thought it of me--and that fellow is evidently the worse for liquor."
CHAPTER VI.
Johann Schmidt had not fled from the scene of action out of any
consideration for his personal safety. He was, indeed, a braver man than
Dumnoff, in proportion as he was more intelligent, and though of a very
different temper, by no means averse to a fight if it came into his way.
He had foreseen what was sure to happen, and had realised sooner than any
one else that the only person who could set everything straight was
Fischelowitz himself. So soon as he was clear of pursuit, therefore, he
turned in the direction of the tobacconist's dwelling, walking as quickly
as he could where there were many people and running at the top of his
speed through such empty by-streets as lay in the direct line of his
course. He rushed up the three flights of steps and rang sharply at the
door.
Akulina's unmistakable step was heard in the passage a moment later.
Schmidt would have preferred that Fischelowitz should have come himself,
though he managed to live on very good terms with Akulina. Though far from
tactful he guessed that in a matter concerning the Count, the tobacconist
would prove more obliging than his wife.
"What is the matter?" inquired the mistress of the house, opening the door
wide after she had recognised the Cossack in the feeble light of the
staircase, by looking through the little hole in the panel.
"Good-evening, Frau Fischelowitz," said Schmidt, trying to appear as calm
and collected as possible. "I would like to speak to your husband upon a
little matter of business."
"He is not at home yet. I left him in the shop."
Almost before the words were out of her mouth, Schmidt had turned and was
running down the stairs, two at a time. Akulina called him back.
"Wait a minute!" she cried, advancing to the hand-rail on the landing.
"What in the world are you in such a hurry about?"
"Oh--nothing--nothing especial," answered the man, suddenly stopping and
looking up.
Akulina set her fat hands on her hips and held her head a little on one
side. She had plenty of curiosity in her composition.
"Well, I must say," she observed, "for a man who is not in a hurry about
anything, you are uncommonly brisk with your feet. If it is only a matter
of business, I daresay I will do as well as my husband."
"Oh, I daresay," admitted Schmidt, scratching his head. "But this is
rather a personal matter of business, you see."
"And you mean that you want some money, I suppose," suggested Akulina, at
a venture.
"No, no, not at all--no money at all. It is not a question of money." He
hoped to satisfy her by a statement which was never without charm in her
ears. But Akulina was not satisfied; on the contrary, she began to suspect
that something serious might be the matter, for she could see Schmidt's
face better now, as he looked up to her, facing the gaslight that burned
above her own head. Having been violently angry not more than an hour or
two earlier, her nerves were not altogether calmed, and the memory of the
scene in the shop was still vividly present. There was no knowing what the
Count might not have done, in retaliation for the verbal injuries she had
heaped upon him, and her quick instinct connected Schmidt's unusually
anxious appearance and evident haste to be off, with some new event in
which the Count had played a part.
"Have you seen the Count?" she inquired, just as Schmidt was beginning to
move again.
"Yes," answered the latter, trying to assume a doubtful tone of voice. "I
believe--in fact, I did see him--for a moment--"
Akulina smiled to herself, proud of her own acuteness.
"I thought so," she said. "And he has made some trouble about that
wretched doll--"
"How did you guess that?" asked Schmidt, turning and ascending a few
steps. He was very much astonished.
"Oh, I know many things--many interesting things. And now you want to warn
my husband of what the Count has done, do you not? It must be something
serious, since you are in such a hurry. Come in, Herr Schmidt, and have a
glass of tea. Fischelowitz will be at home in a few minutes, and you see I
have guessed half your story, so you may as well tell me the other half
and be done with it. It is of no use for you to go to the shop after him.
He has shut up by this time, and you cannot tell which way he will come
home, can you? Much better come in and have a glass of tea. The samovar is
lighted and everything is ready, so that you need not stay long."
Schmidt lingered doubtfully a moment on the stairs. The closing hour was
certainly past in early-closing Munich, and he might miss the tobacconist
in the street. It seemed wiser to wait for him in his house, and so the
Cossack reluctantly accepted the invitation, which, under ordinary
circumstances, he would have regarded as a great honour. Akulina ushered
him into the little sitting-room and prepared him a large glass of tea
with a slice of lemon in it. She filled another for herself and sat down
opposite to him at the table.
"The poor Count!" she exclaimed. "He is sure to get himself into trouble
some day. I suppose people cannot help behaving oddly when they are mad,
poor things. And the Count is certainly mad, Herr Schmidt."
"Quite mad, poor man. He has had one of his worst attacks to-day."
"Yes," assented the wily Akulina, "and if you could have seen him and
heard him in the shop this evening--" She held up her hands and shook her
head.
"What did he do and say?"
"Oh, such things, such things! Poor man, of course I am very sorry for
him, and I am glad that my husband finds room to employ him, and keep him
from starving. But really, this evening he quite made me lose my temper. I
am afraid I was a little rough, considering that he is sensitive. But to
hear the man talk about his money, and his titles, and his dignities, when
he is only just able to keep body and soul together! It is enough to
irritate the seven archangels, Herr Schmidt, indeed it is! And then at the
same time there was that dreadful Gigerl, and my head was splitting--I am
sure there will be a thunder-storm to-night--altogether, I could not bear
it any longer, and I actually upset the Gigerl out of anger, and it rolled
to the floor and was broken. Of course it is very foolish to lose one's
temper in that way, but after all, I am only a weak woman, and I confess
it was a relief to me when I saw the poor Count take the thing away. I
hope I did not really hurt his feelings, for he is an excellent workman,
in spite of his madness. What did he say, Herr Schmidt? I would so like to
know how he took it. Of course he was very angry. Poor man, so mad, so
completely mad on that one point!"
"To tell the truth," said Schmidt, who had listened attentively, "he did
not like what you said to him at all."
"Well, really, was it my fault, Herr Schmidt? I am only a woman, and I
suppose I may be excused if I lose my temper once in a year or so. It is
very wearing on the nerves. Every Tuesday evening begins the same old song
about the fortune and letters, and the journey to Russia. One gets very
tired of it in the long-run. At first it used to amuse me."
"Do you think that Herr Fischelowitz can have gone anywhere else instead
of coming home?" asked the Cossack, finishing the glass of tea, which he
had swallowed burning hot out of sheer anxiety to get away.
"Oh no, indeed," cried Akulina in a tone of the most sincere conviction.
"He always tells me where he is going. You have no idea what a good
husband he is, and what a good man--though I daresay you know that after
being with us so many years. Now, I am sure that if he had the least idea
that anything had happened to the poor Count, he would run all the way
home in order to hear it as soon as possible."
"No more tea, thank you, Frau Fischelowitz," said Schmidt, but she took
his glass with a quiet smile and shredded a fresh piece of lemon into it
and filled it up again, quite heedless of his protest. Schmidt resigned
himself, and thanked her civilly.
"Of course," she said, presently, as she busied herself with the
arrangements of the samovar, "of course it is nothing so very serious, is
it? I daresay the Count has told you that he would not work any more for
us, and you are anxious to arrange the matter? In that case, you need have
no fear. I am always ready to forgive and forget, as they say, though I am
only a weak woman."
"That is very kind of you," observed Schmidt, with a glitter in his eyes
which Akulina did not observe.
"I guessed the truth, did I not?"
"Not exactly. The trouble is rather more serious than that. The fact is,
as we were at supper, a man at another table saw the Gigerl in our hands
and swore that it had been stolen from him some months ago."
"And what happened then?" asked Akulina with sudden interest.
"I suppose you may as well know," said Schmidt, regretfully. "There was a
row, and the man made a great deal of trouble and at last the police were
called in, and I came to get Herr Fischelowitz himself to come and prove
that the Gigerl was his. You see why I am in such a hurry."
"Do you think they have arrested the Count?"
"I imagine that every one concerned would be taken to the police-station."
"And then?"
"And then, unless the affair is cleared up, they will be kept there all
night."
"All night!" exclaimed Akulina, holding up her hands in real or affected
horror. "Poor Count! He will be quite crazy, now, I fear--especially as
this is Tuesday evening."
"But he must be got out at once!" cried Schmidt in a tone of decision.
"Herr Fischelowitz will surely not allow--"
"No indeed! You have only to wait until he comes home, and then you can go
together. Or better still, if he does not come back in a quarter of an
hour, and if he has really shut up the shop as usual, you might look for
him at the Café Luitpold, and if he is not there, it is just possible that
he may have looked in at the Gärtner Platz Theatre, for which he often has
free tickets, and if the performance is over--I fancy it is, by this
time--he may be in the Café Maximilian, or he may have gone to drink a
glass of beer in the Platzl, for he often goes there, and--well, if you do
not find him in any of those places--"
"But, good Heavens, Frau Fischelowitz, you said you were quite sure he was
coming home at once! Now I have lost all this time!"
Schmidt had risen quickly to his feet, in considerable anxiety and haste.
Akulina smiled good-humouredly.
"You see," she said, "it is just possible that to-night, as he was a
little annoyed with me for being sharp with the Count, he may have gone
somewhere without telling me. But I really could not foresee it, because
he is such a very good--"
"I know," interrupted the Cossack. "If I miss him, you will tell him, will
you not? Thank you, and good-night, Frau Fischelowitz, I cannot afford to
wait a moment longer."
So saying Johann Schmidt made for the door and got out of the house this
time without any attempt on the part of his amiable hostess to detain him
further. She had indeed omitted to tell him that her last speech was not
merely founded on a supposition, since Fischelowitz had really been very
much annoyed and had declared that he would not come home but would spend
the evening with a friend of his who lived in the direction of Schwabing,
one of the suburbs of Munich farthest removed from the places in which she
advised Schmidt to make search.
The stout housewife disliked and even detested the Count for many reasons
all good in her own eyes, among which the chief one was that she did
dislike him. She felt for him one of those strong and invincible
antipathies which trivial and cunning natures often feel for very
honourable and simple ones. To the latter the Count belonged, and Akulina
was a fine specimen of the former. If the Count had been literally
starving and clothed in rags, he would have been incapable of a mean
thought or of a dishonest action. Whatever his origin had been, he had
that, at least, of a nobility undeniable in itself. That his character was
simple in reality, may as yet seem less evident. He was regarded as mad,
as has been seen, but his madness was methodical and did not overstep
certain very narrow bounds. Beyond those limits within which others, at
least, did not consider him responsible, his chief idea seemed to be to
gain his living quietly, owing no man anything, nor refusing anything to
any man who asked it. This last characteristic, more than any other,
seemed to prove the possibility of his having been brought up in wealth
and with the free use of money, for his generosity was not that of the
vulgar spendthrift who throws away his possessions upon himself quite as
freely as upon his companions. He earned enough money at his work to live
decently well, at least, and he spent but the smallest sum upon his own
wants. Nevertheless he never had anything to spare for his own comfort,
for he was as ready to give a beggar in the street the piece of silver
which represented a good part of the value of his day's work as most rich
people are to part with a penny. He never inquired the reason for the
request of help, but to all who asked of him he gave what he had, gravely,
without question, as a matter of course. If Dumnoff's pockets were empty
and his throat dry, he went to the Count and got what he wanted. Dumnoff
might be brutal, rude, coarse; it made no difference. The Count did not
care to know where the money went nor when it would be returned, if ever.
If Schmidt's wife--for he had a wife--was ill, the Count lent all he had,
if the children's shoes were worn out, he lent again, and when Schmidt,
who was himself extremely conscientious in his odd way, brought the money
back, the Count generally gave it to the first poor person whom he met.
Akulina supposed that this habit belonged to his madness. Others, who
understood him better, counted it to him for righteousness, and even
Dumnoff, the rough peasant, showed at times a friendly interest in him,
which is not usually felt by the unpunctual borrower towards the
uncomplaining lender.
But Akulina could understand none of these things. She belongs by nature
to the class of people whose first impulse on all occasions is to say:
"Money is money." There can be no mutual attraction of intellectual
sympathy between these, and those other persons who despise money in their
hearts, and would rather not touch it with their hands. It has been seen
also that the events connected with the Gigerl's first appearance in the
shop had been of a nature to irritate Akulina still more. The dislike
nourished in her stout bosom through long months and years now approached
the completion of its development, and manifested itself as a form of
active hatred. Akulina was delighted to learn that there was a prospect of
the Count's spending the night in the police-station and she determined
that Johann Schmidt should not find her husband before the next day, and
that when the partner of her bliss returned--presumably pacified by the
soothing converse of his friend--she would not disturb his peace of mind
by any reference to the Count's adventures. It was therefore with small
prospect of success that the Cossack began his search for Fischelowitz.
Only a man who has sought anxiously for another, all through the late
evening, in a great city, knows how hopeless the attempt seems after the
first hour. The rapid motion through many dusky streets, the looking in,
from time to time, upon some merry company assembled in a warm room under
a brilliant light, the anxious search among the guests for the familiar
figure, the disappointment, as each fancied resemblance shows, on near
approach, a face unknown to the searcher, the hurried exit and the quick
passage through the dark night air to the next halting-place--all these
impressions, following hurriedly upon each other, confuse the mind and at
last discourage hope.
Schmidt did not realise how late it was, when, abandoning his search for
his employer, he turned towards the police-station in the hope of still
rendering some assistance to his friend. He could not gain admittance to
the presence of the officer in charge, however, and was obliged to content
himself with the assurance that the Count had been treated "with
consideration," as the phrase was, and that there would be plenty of time
for talking in the morning. The policemen in the guard-room were sleepy
and not disposed to enter into conversation. Schmidt turned his steps in
the direction of the tobacconist's house for the second time, in sheer
despair. But he found the street door shut and the whole house was dark.
Nevertheless, he pulled the little handle upon which, by the aid of a
flickering match, he discovered a figure of three, corresponding to the
floor occupied by Fischelowitz. Again and again he tugged vigorously at
the brass knob until he could hear the bell tinkling far above. No other
sound followed, however, in the silence of the night, though he strained
his ears for the faintest echo of a distant footfall and the slightest
noise indicating that a window or a door was about to be opened. He
wondered whether Fischelowitz had come home. If he had, Akulina had surely
told him the story of the evening, and he would have been heard of at the
police-station, for it was incredible that he should let the night pass
without making an effort to liberate the Count. Therefore the tobacconist
had in all probability not yet returned. The night was fairly warm, and
the Cossack sat down upon a doorstep, lighted a cigarette and waited. In
spite of long years spent in the midst of German civilisation, it was
still as natural to him to sit down in the open air at night and to watch
the stars, as though he had never changed his own name for the plain
German appellation of Johann Schmidt, nor laid aside the fur cap and the
sheepskin coat of his tribe for the shabby jacket and the rusty black hat
of higher social development.
There was no truth in Akulina's statement that a thunder-storm was
approaching. The stars shone clear and bright, high above the narrow
street, and the solitary man looked up at them, and remembered other days
and a freer life and a broader horizon; days when he had been younger than
he was now, a life full of a healthier labour, a horizon boundless as that
of the little street was limited. He thought, as he often thought when
alone in the night, of his long journeys on horseback, driving great
flocks of bleating sheep over endless steppes and wolds and expanses of
pasture and meadow; he remembered the reddening of the sheep's woolly
coats in the evening sun, the quick change from gold to grey as the sun
went down, the slow transition from twilight to night, the uncertain gait
of his weary beast as the darkness closed in, the soft sound of the sheep
huddling together, the bark of his dog, the sudden, leaping light of the
camp-fire on the distant rising ground, the voices of greeting, the
bubbling of the soup kettle, the grateful rest, the song of the wandering
Tchumák--the pedlar and roving newsman of the Don. He remembered on
holidays the wild racing and chasing and the sports in the saddle, the
picking up of the tiny ten-kopek bit from the earth at a full gallop, the
startling game in which a row of fearless Cossack girls join hands
together, daring the best rider to break their rank with his plunging
horse if he can, the mad laughter of the maidens, the snorting and rearing
of the animal as he checks himself before the human wall that will not
part to make way for him. All these things he recalled, the change of the
seasons, the iron winter, the scorching summer, the glory of autumn and
the freshness of spring. Born to such a liberty, he had fallen into the
captivity of a common life; bred in the desert, he knew that his declining
years would be spent in the eternal cutting of tobacco in the close air of
a back shop; trained to the saddle, he spent his days seated motionless
upon a wooden chair. The contrast was bitter enough, between the life he
was meant to lead by nature, and the life he was made to lead by
circumstances. And all this was the result in the first instant of a
girl's caprice, of her fancy for another man, so little different from
himself that a Western woman could hardly have told the two apart. For
this, he had left the steppe, had wandered westward to the Dnieper and
southward to Odessa, northward again to Kiew, to Moscow, to
Nizni-Novgorod, back again to Poland, to Krakau, to Prague, to Munich at
last. Who could remember his wanderings, or trace the route of his endless
journeyings? Not he himself, surely, any more than he could explain the
gradual steps by which he had been transformed from a Don Cossack to a
German tobacco-cutter in a cigarette manufactory.
But his past life at least furnished him with memories, varied, changing,
full of light and life and colour, wherewith to while away an hour's
watching in the night. Still he sat upon his doorstep, watching star after
star as it slowly culminated over the narrow street and set, for him,
behind the nearest house-top. He might have sat there till morning had he
not been at last aware that some one was walking upon the opposite
pavement.
His quick ear caught the soft fall of an almost noiseless footstep and he
could distinguish a shadow a little darker than the surrounding shade,
moving quickly along the wall. He rose to his feet and crossed the street,
not believing, indeed, that the newcomer could be the man he wanted, but
anxious to be fully satisfied that he was not mistaken. He found himself
face to face with a young girl, who stopped at the street door of the
tobacconist's house, just as he reached it. Her head was muffled in
something dark and he could not distinguish her features. She started on
seeing him, hesitated and then laid her hand upon the same knob which
Schmidt had pulled so often in vain.
"It is of no use to ring," he said, quietly. "I have given it up."
"Herr Schmidt!" exclaimed the girl in evident delight. It was Vjera.
"Yes--but, in Heaven's name, Vjera, what are you doing here at this hour
of the night? You ought to be at home and asleep."
"Oh, you have not heard the dreadful news," cried poor Vjera in accents of
distress. "Oh, if we cannot get in here, come with me, for the love of
Heaven, and help me to get him out of that horrible place--oh, if you only
knew what has happened!"
"I know all about it, Vjera," answered the Cossack. "That is the reason
why I am here. I was with them when it happened and I ran off to get
Fischelowitz. As ill luck would have it, he was out."
In a few words Schmidt explained the whole affair and told of his own
efforts. Vjera was breathless with excitement and anxiety.
"What is to be done? Dear Herr Schmidt! What is to be done?" She wrung her
hands together and fixed her tearful eyes on his.
"I am afraid that there is nothing to be done until morning--"
"But there must be something, there shall be something done! They will
drive him mad in that dreadful place--he is so proud and so sensitive--you
do not know--the mere idea of being in prison--"
"It is not so bad as that," answered Schmidt, trying to reassure her.
"They assured me that he was treated with every consideration, you know.
Of course that means that he was not locked up like a common prisoner."
"Do you think so?" Vjera's tone expressed no conviction in the matter.
"Certainly. And it shows that he is not really suspected of anything
serious--only, because Fischelowitz could not be found--"
"But he is there--there in his house, asleep!" cried Vjera. "And we can
wake him up--of course we can. He cannot be sleeping so soundly as not to
hear if we ring hard. At least his wife will hear and look out of the
window."
"I am afraid not. I have tried it."
But Vjera would not be discouraged and laid hold of the bell-handle again,
pulling it out as far as it would come and letting it fly back again with
a snap. The same results followed as when Schmidt had made the same
attempt. There was a distant tinkling followed by total silence. Vjera
repeated the operation.
"You cannot do more than I have done," said her companion, leaning his
back against the door and watching her movements.
"I ought to do more."
"Why, Vjera?"
"Because he is more to me than to you or to any of the rest," she answered
in a low voice.
"Do you mean to say that you love the Count?" inquired Schmidt, surprised
beyond measure by the girl's words and rendered thereby even more tactless
than usual.
But Vjera said nothing, having been already led into saying more than she
had wished to say. She pulled the bell again.
"I had never thought of that," remarked the Cossack in a musing tone. "But
he is mad, Vjera, the poor Count is mad. It is a pity that you should love
a madman--"
"O, don't, Herr Schmidt--please don't!" cried Vjera, imploring him to be
silent as much with her eyes as with her voice.
"No, but really," continued the other, as though talking to himself,
"there are things that go beyond all imagination in this world. Now, who
would ever have thought of such a thing?"
This time Vjera did not make any answer, nor repeat her request. But as
she tugged with all her might at the brass handle, the Cossack heard a
quick sob, and then another.
"Poor Vjera!" he exclaimed kindly, and laying his hand on her shoulder.
"Poor child! I am very sorry for you, poor Vjera--I would do anything to
help you, indeed I would--if I only knew what it should be."
"Then help me to wake up Fischelowitz," answered the girl in a shaken
voice. "I am sure he is at home at this time--"
"I have done all I can. If he will not wake, he will not. Or if he is
awake he will not put his head out of the window, which is much the same
thing so far as we are concerned. By the bye, Vjera, you have not told me
how you came to hear of the row. It is queer that you should have heard of
it--"
"Herr Homolka--you know, my landlord--had seen the Count go by with the
Gigerl and the policemen. He asked some one in the crowd and learned the
story. But it was late when he came home, and he told us--I was sitting up
sewing with his wife--and then I ran here. But do please help me--we can
do something, I am sure."
"I do not see what, short of climbing up the flat walls of the house. But
I am not a lizard, you know."
"We might call. Perhaps they would hear our voices if we called together,"
suggested Vjera, drawing back into the middle of the street and looking up
at the closed windows of the third story.
"Herr Fischelowitz!" she cried, in a shrill, weak tone that seemed to find
no echo in the still air.
"Herr Fischelowitz, Fischelowitz, Fischelowitz!" bawled the Cossack,
taking up the idea and putting it into very effective execution. His
brazen voice, harsh and high, almost made the windows rattle.
"Somebody will hear that," he observed and cleared his throat for another
effort.
A number of persons heard it, and at the first repetition of the yell, two
or three windows were angrily opened. A head in a white nightcap looked
out from the first story.
"What do you want at this hour of the night?" asked the owner of the
nightcap, already in a rage.
"I want Herr Fischelowitz, who lives in this house," answered the Cossack,
firmly.
"Do you live here? Are you shut out?"
"No--we only want--"
"Then go to the devil!" roared the infuriated German, shutting his window
again with a vicious slam. A grunt of satisfaction from other directions
was followed by the shutting of other windows, and presently all was
silent again.
"I am afraid they sleep at the back of the house," said Vjera, growing
despondent at last.
"I am afraid so, too," answered Johann Schmidt, proudly conscious that the
noise he had made would have disturbed the slumbers of the Seven Sleepers
of Ephesus.
CHAPTER VII.
"You had better let me take you home," said Schmidt, kindly, after the
total failure of the last effort.
Vjera seemed to be stupefied by the sense of disappointment. She went back
to the door of the tobacconist's house and put out her hand as though to
ring the bell again then, realising how useless the attempt would be, she
let her arms fall by her sides and leaned against the door-post, her
muffled head bent forward and her whole attitude expressing her despair.
"Come, come, Vjera," said the Cossack in an encouraging tone, "it is not
so bad after all. By this time the Count is fast asleep and is dreaming of
his fortune, you know, so that it would be a cruelty to wake him up. In
the morning we will all go with Fischelowitz and have him let out, and he
will be none the worse."
"I am afraid he will be--very much the worse," said Vjera. "It is
Wednesday to-morrow, and if he wakes up there--oh, I do not dare think of
it. It will make him quite, quite mad. Can we do nothing more? Nothing?"
"I think we have done our best to wake up this quarter of the town, and
yet Fischelowitz is still asleep. No one else can be of any use to
us--therefore--" he stopped, for his conclusion seemed self-evident.
"I suppose so," said Vjera, regretfully. "Let us go, then."
She turned and with her noiseless step began to walk slowly away, Schmidt
keeping close by her side. For some minutes neither spoke. The streets
were deserted, dry and still.
"Do you think there is any truth at the bottom of the Count's story?"
asked the Cossack at last.
"I do not know," Vjera answered, shaking her head. "I do not know what to
think," she continued after a little pause. "He tells us all the same
thing, he speaks of his letters, but he never shows them to anyone. I am
afraid--" she sighed and stopped speaking.
"I will tell you this much," said her companion. "That man is honest to
the backbone, honest as the good daylight on the hills, where there are no
houses to darken it and make shadows."
"He is an angel of goodness and kindness," said Vjera softly.
"I know he is. Is he not always helping others when he is starving
himself? Now what I say is this. No man who is as good and as honest as he
is, can have become so mad about a mere piece of fancy--about an invented
lie, to be plain. What there is in his story I do not know, but I am sure
that there was truth in it once. It may have been a long time ago, but
there was a time once, when he had some reason to expect the money and the
titles he talks of every Tuesday evening."
"Do you really think that?" asked Vjera, eagerly. Her own understanding
had never gone so far in its deduction.
"I am sure of it. I know nothing about mad people, but I am sure that no
honest man ever invented a story out of nothing and then became crazy
because it did not turn out true."
"But you, who have travelled so much, Herr Schmidt, have you ever heard
the name before--have you ever heard of such a family?"
"I have a bad memory for names, but I believe I have. I cannot be sure. It
makes no difference. It is a good Russian name, in any case, and a
gentleman's name, I should think. Of course I only mean that I--that you
should not think that because I--in fact," blundered out the good man,
"you must not suppose that you will be a real countess, you know."
"I?" exclaimed Vjera, with a nervous, hysterical laugh, which the Cossack
supposed to be genuine.
"That is all I wanted to say," he continued in a tone of relief, as though
he felt that he had done his duty in warning the poor girl of a possible
disappointment. "It may be true--of course, and I am sure that it once
was, or something like it, but I do not believe he has any chance of
getting his own after so long."
"I cannot think of it--in either way. If it is all an old forgotten tale
which he believes in still-why then, he is mad. Is it not dreadful to see?
So quiet and sensible all the week, and then, on Tuesday night, his
farewell speech to us all--every Tuesday--and his disappointment the next
day, and then a new week begun without any recollection of it all! It is
breaking my heart, Herr Schmidt!"
"Indeed, poor Vjera, you look as though it were."
"And yet, and yet--I do not know. I think that if it were one day to turn
out true--then my heart would be quite broken, for he would go away, and I
should never see him again."
Accustomed as she was to daily association with the man who was walking by
her side, knowing his good heart and feeling his sympathy, it is small
wonder that the lonely girl should have felt impelled to unburden her soul
of some of its bitterness. If her life had gone on as usual, undisturbed
by anything from without, the confessions which now fell from her lips so
easily would never have found words. But she had been unsettled by what
had happened in the early evening, and unstrung by her great anxiety for
the Count's safety. Her own words sounded in her ear before she knew that
she was going to speak them.
"I am sure that something dreadful is going to happen," she continued
after a moment's pause. "He will go mad in that horrible prison, raving
mad, so that they will have to--to hold him--" she sobbed and then
recovered herself by an effort. "Or else--he will fall ill and die, after
it--" Here she broke down completely and stopping in the middle of the
street began crying bitterly, clutching at Schmidt's arm as though to keep
from falling.
"I should not wonder," he said, but she fortunately did not catch the
words.
He was very sorry for the poor girl, and felt inclined to take her in his
arms and carry her to her home, for he saw that she was weak and exhausted
as well as overcome by her anxiety. Before resorting to such a measure,
however, he thought it best to try to encourage her to walk on.
"Nothing that one expects, ever happens," he said confidently, and passing
his arm through hers, as though to lead her away. "Come, you will be at
home presently and then you will go to bed and in the morning, before you
are at the shop, everything will have been set right, and I daresay the
Count will be there before you, and looking as well as ever."
"How can you say that, when you know that he never comes on Wednesdays!"
exclaimed Vjera through her tears. "I am sure something dreadful will
happen to him. No, not that way--not that way!"
Schmidt was trying to guide her round a sharp corner, but she resisted
him.
"But that is the way home," protested the Cossack.
"I know, but I cannot go home, until I have seen where he is. I must
go--you must not prevent me!"
"To the police-station?" inquired Schmidt in considerable astonishment.
"They will not let us go in, you know. You cannot possibly see him. What
good can it do you to go and look at the place?"
"You do not understand, Herr Schmidt! You are good and kind, but you do
not understand me. Pray, pray come with me, or let me go alone. I will go
alone, if you do not want to come. I am not at all afraid--but I must go."
"Well, child," answered Schmidt, good-humouredly. "I will go with you,
since you are so determined."
"Is this the way? Are you not misleading me? Oh, I am sure I shall never
see him again--quick, let us walk quickly, Herr Schmidt! Only think what
he may be suffering at this very moment!"
"I am sure he is asleep, my dear child. And when we are outside of the
police-station we cannot know what is going on inside, whether our friend
is asleep or awake, and it can do no good whatever to go. But since you
really wish it so much, we are going there as fast as we can, and I
promise to take you by the shortest way."
Her step grew more firm as they went on and he felt that there was more
life in the hand that rested on his arm. The prospect of seeing the walls
of the place in which the Count was unwillingly spending the night gave
Vjera fresh strength and courage. The way was long, as distances are
reckoned in Munich, and more than ten minutes elapsed before they reached
the building. A sentry was pacing the pavement under the glare of the
gaslight, his shadow lengthening, shortening, disappearing and lengthening
again on the stone-way as he walked slowly up and down. Vjera and her
companion stopped on the other side of the street. The sentinel paid no
attention to them.
"You are quite sure it is there?" asked the girl, under her breath.
Schmidt nodded instead of answering.
"Then I will pray that all may be well this night," she said.
She dropped the Cossack's arm and slipped away from him; then pausing at a
little distance, in the deep shadow of an archway opposite the station,
she knelt down upon the pavement, and taking some small object, which was
indistinguishable in the darkness, from the bosom of her frock she clasped
her hands together and looked upwards through the gloom at the black walls
of the great building. The Cossack looked at her in a sort of half-stupid,
half-awed surprise, scarcely understanding what she was doing at first,
and feeling his heart singularly touched when he realised that she was
praying out here in the street, kneeling on the common pavement of the
city, as though upon the marble floor of a church, and actually saying
prayers--he could hear low sounds of earnest tone escaping from her
lips--prayers for the man she loved, because he was shut up for the night
in the police-station like an ordinary disturber of the peace. He was
touched, for the action, in its simplicity of faith, set in vibration the
chords of a nature accustomed originally to simple things, simple hopes,
simple beliefs. Instinctively, as he watched her, Johann Schmidt raised
his hat from his round head for a moment, and if he had possessed any
nearer acquaintance with praying in general or with any prayer in
particular it is almost certain that his lips would have moved. As it was,
he felt sorry for Vjera, he hoped that the Count would be none the worse
for his adventure, and he took off his hat. Let it be counted to him for
righteousness.
As for poor Vjera herself, she was so much in earnest that she altogether
forgot where she was. For love, it has been found, is a great suggester of
prayer, if not of meditation, and when the beloved one is in danger a
little faith seems magnified to such dimensions as would certainly accept
unhesitatingly a whole mountain of dogmas. Vjera's ideas were indeed
confused, and she would have found it hard to define the result which she
so confidently expected. But if that result were to be in any proportion
to her earnestness of purpose and sincerity of heart, it could not take a
less imposing shape than a direct intervention of Providence, at the very
least; and as the poor Polish girl rose from her knees she would hardly
have been surprised to see the green-coated sentinel thrust aside by
legions of angelic beings, hastening to restore to her the only treasure
her humble life knew of, or dreamed of, or cared for.
But as the visions which her prayers had called before her faded away into
the night, she saw again the dingy walls of the hated building, the gilt
spike on the helmet of the policeman and the shining blade that caught the
light as he moved on his beat. For one moment Vjera stood quite still.
Then with a passionate gesture she stretched out both arms before her, as
though to draw out to herself, by sheer strength of longing, the man whose
life she felt to be her own--and at last, wearied and exhausted, but no
longer despairing altogether, she covered her face with her hands and
repeated again and again the two words which made up the burden of her
supplication.
"Save him, save him, save him!" she whispered to herself.
When she looked up, at last, Schmidt was by her side. There was something
oddly respectful in his attitude and manner as he stood there awaiting her
pleasure, ready to be guided by her whithersoever she pleased. It seemed
to him that on this evening he had begun to see Vjera in a new light, and
that she was by no means the poor, insignificant little shell-maker he had
always supposed her to be. It seemed to him that she was transformed into
a woman, and into a woman of strong affections and brave heart. And yet he
knew every outline of her plain face, and had known every change of her
expression for years, since she had first come to the shop, a mere girl
not yet thirteen years of age. Nor had it been from lack of observation
that he had misunderstood her, for like most men born and bred in the
wilderness, he watched faces and tried to read them. The change had taken
place in Vjera herself and it must be due, he thought, to her love for the
poor madman. He smiled to himself in the dark, scarcely understanding why.
It was strange to him perhaps that madness on the one side should bring
