“Don’t! There’s just pure heart-break in that tone. It’s just as I say;
you’ve got to get right down to it and amuse your mind, as if it was
salvation.”

“They’re easy words to say, Barrow, but how am I going to amuse,
entertain, divert a mind that finds itself suddenly assaulted and
overwhelmed by disasters of a sort not dreamed of and not provided for?
No--no, the bare idea of amusement is repulsive to my feelings: Let us
talk of death and funerals.”

“No--not yet. That would be giving up the ship. We’ll not give up the
ship yet. I’m going to amuse you; I sent Brady out for the wherewithal
before you finished breakfast.”

“You did? What is it?”

“Come, this is a good sign--curiosity. Oh, there’s hope for you yet.”





CHAPTER XVI.

Brady arrived with a box, and departed, after saying, “They’re finishing
one up, but they’ll be along as soon as it’s done.”

Barrow took a frameless oil portrait a foot square from the box, set it
up in a good light, without comment, and reached for another, taking a
furtive glance at Tracy, meantime. The stony solemnity in Tracy’s face
remained as it was, and gave out no sign of interest. Barrow placed
the second portrait beside the first, and stole another glance while
reaching for a third. The stone image softened, a shade. No. 3 forced
the ghost of a smile, No. 4 swept indifference wholly away, and No. 5
started a laugh which was still in good and hearty condition when No. 14
took its place in the row.

“Oh, you’re all right, yet,” said Barrow. “You see you’re not past
amusement.”

The pictures were fearful, as to color, and atrocious as to drawing
and expression; but the feature which squelched animosity and made them
funny was a feature which could not achieve its full force in a single
picture, but required the wonder-working assistance of repetition. One
loudly dressed mechanic in stately attitude, with his hand on a cannon,
ashore, and a ship riding at anchor in the offing,--this is merely odd;
but when one sees the same cannon and the same ship in fourteen pictures
in a row, and a different mechanic standing watch in each, the thing
gets to be funny.

“Explain--explain these aberrations,” said Tracy.

“Well, they are not the achievement of a single intellect, a single
talent--it takes two to do these miracles. They are collaborations; the
one artist does the figure, the other the accessories. The figure-artist
is a German shoemaker with an untaught passion for art, the other is a
simple hearted old Yankee sailor-man whose possibilities are strictly
limited to his ship, his cannon and his patch of petrified sea. They
work these things up from twenty-five-cent tintypes; they get six
dollars apiece for them, and they can grind out a couple a day when they
strike what they call a boost--that is, an inspiration.”

“People actually pay money for these calumnies?”

“They actually do--and quite willingly, too. And these abortionists
could double their trade and work the women in, if Capt. Saltmarsh could
whirl a horse in, or a piano, or a guitar, in place of his cannon. The
fact is, he fatigues the market with that cannon. Even the male market,
I mean. These fourteen in the procession are not all satisfied. One is
an old ‘independent’ fireman, and he wants an engine in place of the
cannon; another is a mate of a tug, and wants a tug in place of the
ship --and so on, and so on. But the captain can’t make a tug that is
deceptive, and a fire engine is many flights beyond his power.”

“This is a most extraordinary form of robbery, I never have heard of
anything like it. It’s interesting.”

“Yes, and so are the artists. They are perfectly honest men, and
sincere. And the old sailor-man is full of sound religion, and is as
devoted a student of the Bible and misquoter of it as you can find
anywhere. I don’t know a better man or kinder hearted old soul than
Saltmarsh, although he does swear a little, sometimes.”

“He seems to be perfect. I want to know him, Barrow.”

“You’ll have the chance. I guess I hear them coming, now. We’ll draw
them out on their art, if you like.”

The artists arrived and shook hands with great heartiness. The German
was forty and a little fleshy, with a shiny bald head and a kindly
face and deferential manner. Capt. Saltmarsh was sixty, tall, erect,
powerfully built, with coal-black hair and whiskers, and he had a well
tanned complexion, and a gait and countenance that were full of command,
confidence and decision. His horny hands and wrists were covered with
tattoo-marks, and when his lips parted, his teeth showed up white and
blemishless. His voice was the effortless deep bass of a church organ,
and would disturb the tranquility of a gas flame fifty yards away.

“They’re wonderful pictures,” said Barrow. “We’ve been examining them.”

“It is very bleasant dot you like dem,” said Handel, the German,
greatly pleased. “Und you, Herr Tracy, you haf peen bleased mit dem too,
alretty?”

“I can honestly say I have never seen anything just like them before.”

“Schon!” cried the German, delighted. “You hear, Gaptain? Here is a
chentleman, yes, vot abbreviate unser aart.”

The captain was charmed, and said:

“Well, sir, we’re thankful for a compliment yet, though they’re not as
scarce now as they used to be before we made a reputation.”

“Getting the reputation is the up-hill time in most things, captain.”

“It’s so. It ain’t enough to know how to reef a gasket, you got to make
the mate know you know it. That’s reputation. The good word, said at the
right time, that’s the word that makes us; and evil be to him that evil
thinks, as Isaiah says.”

“It’s very relevant, and hits the point exactly,” said Tracy.

“Where did you study art, Captain?”

“I haven’t studied; it’s a natural gift.”

“He is born mit dose cannon in him. He tondt haf to do noding, his
chenius do all de vork. Of he is asleep, and take a pencil in his hand,
out come a cannon. Py crashus, of he could do a clavier, of he could do
a guitar, of he could do a vashtub, it is a fortune, heiliger Yohanniss
it is yoost a fortune!”

“Well, it is an immense pity that the business is hindered and limited
in this unfortunate way.”

The captain grew a trifle excited, himself, now:

“You’ve said it, Mr. Tracy!--Hindered? well, I should say so. Why, look
here. This fellow here, No. 11, he’s a hackman,--a flourishing hackman,
I may say. He wants his hack in this picture. Wants it where the cannon
is. I got around that difficulty, by telling him the cannon’s our
trademark, so to speak--proves that the picture’s our work, and I was
afraid if we left it out people wouldn’t know for certain if it was a
Saltmarsh--Handel--now you wouldn’t yourself--”

“What, Captain? You wrong yourself, indeed you do. Anyone who has once
seen a genuine Saltmarsh-Handel is safe from imposture forever.
Strip it, flay it, skin it out of every detail but the bare color
and expression, and that man will still recognize it--still stop to
worship--”

“Oh, how it makes me feel to hear dose oxpressions!--”

--“still say to himself again as he had, said a hundred times before,
the art of the Saltmarsh-Handel is an art apart, there is nothing in the
heavens above or in the earth beneath that resembles it,--”

“Py chiminy, nur horen Sie einmal! In my life day haf I never heard so
brecious worts.”

“So I talked him out of the hack, Mr. Tracy, and he let up on that,
and said put in a hearse, then--because he’s chief mate of a hearse
but don’t own it--stands a watch for wages, you know. But I can’t do a
hearse any more than I can a hack; so here we are--becalmed, you see.
And it’s the same with women and such. They come and they want a little
johnry picture--”

“It’s the accessories that make it a ‘genre?’”

“Yes--cannon, or cat, or any little thing like that, that you heave in
to whoop up the effect. We could do a prodigious trade with the women if
we could foreground the things they like, but they don’t give a damn for
artillery. Mine’s the lack,” continued the captain with a sigh, “Andy’s
end of the business is all right I tell you he’s an artist from way
back!”

“Yoost hear dot old man! He always talk ‘poud me like dot,” purred the
pleased German.

“Look at his work yourself! Fourteen portraits in a row. And no two of
them alike.”

“Now that you speak of it, it is true; I hadn’t noticed it before. It is
very remarkable. Unique, I suppose.”

“I should say so. That’s the very thing about Andy--he discriminates.
Discrimination’s the thief of time--forty-ninth Psalm; but that ain’t
any matter, it’s the honest thing, and it pays in the end.”

“Yes, he certainly is great in that feature, one is obliged to admit it;
but--now mind, I’m not really criticising--don’t you think he is just a
trifle overstrong in technique?”

The captain’s face was knocked expressionless by this remark.
It remained quite vacant while he muttered to himself--
“Technique--technique--polytechnique--pyro-technique; that’s it,
likely--fireworks too much color.” Then he spoke up with serenity and
confidence, and said:

“Well, yes, he does pile it on pretty loud; but they all like it, you
know--fact is, it’s the life of the business. Take that No. 9, there,
Evans the butcher. He drops into the stoodio as sober-colored as
anything you ever see: now look at him. You can’t tell him from scarlet
fever. Well, it pleases that butcher to death. I’m making a study of a
sausage-wreath to hang on the cannon, and I don’t really reckon I can do
it right, but if I can, we can break the butcher.”

“Unquestionably your confederate--I mean your--your fellow-craftsman--is
a great colorist--”

“Oh, danke schon!--”

--“in fact a quite extraordinary colorist; a colorist, I make bold to
say, without imitator here or abroad--and with a most bold and effective
touch, a touch like a battering ram; and a manner so peculiar and
romantic, and extraneous, and ad libitum, and heart-searching,
that--that--he--he is an impressionist, I presume?”

“No,” said the captain simply, “he is a Presbyterian.”

“It accounts for it all--all--there’s something divine about his
art,--soulful, unsatisfactory, yearning, dim hearkening on the void
horizon, vague--murmuring to the spirit out of ultra-marine distances
and far-sounding cataclysms of uncreated space--oh, if he--if, he--has
he ever tried distemper?”

The captain answered up with energy:

“Not if he knows himself! But his dog has, and--”

“Oh, no, it vas not my dog.”

“Why, you said it was your dog.”

“Oh, no, gaptain, I--”

“It was a white dog, wasn’t it, with his tail docked, and one ear gone,
and--”

“Dot’s him, dot’s him!--der fery dog. Wy, py Chorge, dot dog he would
eat baint yoost de same like--”

“Well, never mind that, now--‘vast heaving--I never saw such a man. You
start him on that dog and he’ll dispute a year. Blamed if I haven’t seen
him keep it up a level two hours and a half.”

“Why captain!” said Barrow. “I guess that must be hearsay.”

“No, sir, no hearsay about it--he disputed with me.”

“I don’t see how you stood it.”

“Oh, you’ve got to--if you run with Andy. But it’s the only fault he’s
got.”

“Ain’t you afraid of acquiring it?”

“Oh, no,” said the captain, tranquilly, “no danger of that, I reckon.”

The artists presently took their leave. Then Barrow put his hands on
Tracy’s shoulders and said:

“Look me in the eye, my boy. Steady, steady. There--it’s just as I
thought--hoped, anyway; you’re all right, thank goodness. Nothing the
matter with your mind. But don’t do that again--even for fun. It isn’t
wise. They wouldn’t have believed you if you’d been an earl’s son. Why,
they couldn’t--don’t you know that? What ever possessed you to take
such a freak? But never mind about that; let’s not talk of it. It was a
mistake; you see that yourself.”

“Yes--it was a mistake.”

“Well, just drop it out of your mind; it’s no harm; we all make them.
Pull your courage together, and don’t brood, and don’t give up. I’m at
your back, and we’ll pull through, don’t you be afraid.”

When he was gone, Barrow walked the floor a good while, uneasy in his
mind. He said to himself, “I’m troubled about him. He never would have
made a break like that if he hadn’t been a little off his balance. But
I know what being out of work and no prospect ahead can do for a man.
First it knocks the pluck out of him and drags his pride in the dirt;
worry does the rest, and his mind gets shaky. I must talk to these
people. No--if there’s any humanity in them--and there is, at
bottom--they’ll be easier on him if they think his troubles have
disturbed his reason. But I’ve got to find him some work; work’s the
only medicine for his disease. Poor devil! away off here, and not a
friend.”





CHAPTER XVII.

The moment Tracy was alone his spirits vanished away, and all the misery
of his situation was manifest to him. To be moneyless and an object
of the chairmaker’s charity--this was bad enough, but his folly in
proclaiming himself an earl’s son to that scoffing and unbelieving crew,
and, on top of that, the humiliating result--the recollection of these
things was a sharper torture still. He made up his mind that he would
never play earl’s son again before a doubtful audience.

His father’s answer was a blow he could not understand. At times he
thought his father imagined he could get work to do in America without
any trouble, and was minded to let him try it and cure himself of his
radicalism by hard, cold, disenchanting experience. That seemed the most
plausible theory, yet he could not content himself with it. A theory
that pleased him better was, that this cablegram would be followed by
another, of a gentler sort, requiring him to come home. Should he write
and strike his flag, and ask for a ticket home? Oh, no, that he couldn’t
ever do. At least, not yet. That cablegram would come, it certainly
would. So he went from one telegraph office to another every day for
nearly a week, and asked if there was a cablegram for Howard Tracy. No,
there wasn’t any. So they answered him at first. Later, they said it
before he had a chance to ask. Later still they merely shook their heads
impatiently as soon as he came in sight. After that he was ashamed to go
any more.

He was down in the lowest depths of despair, now; for the harder Barrow
tried to find work for him the more hopeless the possibilities seemed to
grow. At last he said to Barrow:

“Look here. I want to make a confession. I have got down, now, to
where I am not only willing to acknowledge to myself that I am a shabby
creature and full of false pride, but am willing to acknowledge it to
you. Well, I’ve been allowing you to wear yourself out hunting for work
for me when there’s been a chance open to me all the time. Forgive
my pride--what was left of it. It is all gone, now, and I’ve come to
confess that if those ghastly artists want another confederate, I’m
their man--for at last I am dead to shame.”

“No? Really, can you paint?”

“Not as badly as they. No, I don’t claim that, for I am not a genius;
in fact, I am a very indifferent amateur, a slouchy dabster, a mere
artistic sarcasm; but drunk or asleep I can beat those buccaneers.”

“Shake! I want to shout! Oh, I tell you, I am immensely delighted
and relieved. Oh, just to work--that is life! No matter what the work
is--that’s of no consequence. Just work itself is bliss when a man’s
been starving for it. I’ve been there! Come right along; we’ll hunt the
old boys up. Don’t you feel good? I tell you I do.”

The freebooters were not at home. But their “works” were, displayed
in profusion all about the little ratty studio. Cannon to the right of
them, cannon to the left of them, cannon in front--it was Balaclava come
again.

“Here’s the uncontented hackman, Tracy. Buckle to--deepen the sea-green
to turf, turn the ship into a hearse. Let the boys have a taste of your
quality.”

The artists arrived just as the last touch was put on. They stood
transfixed with admiration.

“My souls but she’s a stunner, that hearse! The hackman will just go all
to pieces when he sees that won’t he Andy?”

“Oh, it is sphlennid, sphlennid! Herr Tracy, why haf you not said you
vas a so sublime aartist? Lob’ Gott, of you had lif’d in Paris you would
be a Pree de Rome, dot’s votes de matter!”

The arrangements were soon made. Tracy was taken into full and equal
partnership, and he went straight to work, with dash and energy, to
reconstructing gems of art whose accessories had failed to satisfy.
Under his hand, on that and succeeding days, artillery disappeared and
the emblems of peace and commerce took its place--cats, hacks, sausages,
tugs, fire engines, pianos, guitars, rocks, gardens, flower-pots,
landscapes--whatever was wanted, he flung it in; and the more out of
place and absurd the required object was, the more joy he got out of
fabricating it. The pirates were delighted, the customers applauded, the
sex began to flock in, great was the prosperity of the firm. Tracy was
obliged to confess to himself that there was something about work,--even
such grotesque and humble work as this--which most pleasantly satisfied
a something in his nature which had never been satisfied before, and
also gave him a strange new dignity in his own private view of himself.

.......................

The Unqualified Member from Cherokee Strip was in a state of deep
dejection. For a good while, now, he had been leading a sort of
life which was calculated to kill; for it had consisted in regularly
alternating days of brilliant hope and black disappointment. The
brilliant hopes were created by the magician Sellers, and they always
promised that now he had got the trick, sure, and would effectively
influence that materialized cowboy to call at the Towers before night.
The black disappointments consisted in the persistent and monotonous
failure of these prophecies.

At the date which this history has now reached, Sellers was appalled
to find that the usual remedy was inoperative, and that Hawkins’s
low spirits refused absolutely to lift. Something must be done, he
reflected; it was heart-breaking, this woe, this smileless misery, this
dull despair that looked out from his poor friend’s face. Yes, he must
be cheered up. He mused a while, then he saw his way. He said in his
most conspicuously casual vein:

“Er--uh--by the way, Hawkins, we are feeling disappointed about this
thing--the way the materializee is acting, I mean--we are disappointed;
you concede that?”

“Concede it? Why, yes, if you like the term.”

“Very well; so far, so good. Now for the basis of the feeling. It is not
that your heart, your affections are concerned; that is to say, it is
not that you want the materializee Itself. You concede that?”

“Yes, I concede that, too--cordially.”

“Very well, again; we are making progress. To sum up: The feeling, it is
conceded, is not engendered by the mere conduct of the materializee; it
is conceded that it does not arise from any pang which the personality
of the materializee could assuage. Now then,” said the earl, with the
light of triumph in his eye, “the inexorable logic of the situation
narrows us down to this: our feeling has its source in the money-loss
involved. Come--isn’t that so?”

“Goodness knows I concede that, with all my heart.”

“Very well. When you’ve found out the source of a disease, you’ve also
found out what remedy is required--just as in this case. In this case
money is required. And only money.”

The old, old seduction was in that airy, confident tone and those
significant words--usually called pregnant words in books. The old
answering signs of faith and hope showed up in Hawkins’s countenance,
and he said:

“Only money? Do you mean that you know a way to--”

“Washington, have you the impression that I have no resources but those
I allow the public and my intimate friends to know about?”

“Well, I--er--”

“Is it likely, do you think, that a man moved by nature and taught by
experience to keep his affairs to himself and a cautious and reluctant
tongue in his head, wouldn’t be thoughtful enough to keep a few
resources in reserve for a rainy day, when he’s got as many as I have to
select from?”

“Oh, you make me feel so much better already, Colonel!”

“Have you ever been in my laboratory?”

“Why, no.”

“That’s it. You see you didn’t even know that I had one. Come along.
I’ve got a little trick there that I want to show you. I’ve kept it
perfectly quiet, not fifty people know anything about it. But that’s my
way, always been my way. Wait till you’re ready, that’s the idea; and
when you’re ready, zzip!--let her go!”

“Well, Colonel, I’ve never seen a man that I’ve had such unbounded
confidence in as you. When you say a thing right out, I always feel
as if that ends it; as if that is evidence, and proof, and everything
else.”

The old earl was profoundly pleased and touched.

“I’m glad you believe in me, Washington; not everybody is so just.”

“I always have believed in you; and I always shall as long as I live.”

“Thank you, my boy. You shan’t repent it. And you can’t.” Arrived in
the “laboratory,” the earl continued, “Now, cast your eye around this
room--what do you see? Apparently a junk-shop; apparently a hospital
connected with a patent office--in reality, the mines of Golconda in
disguise! Look at that thing there. Now what would you take that thing
to be?”

“I don’t believe I could ever imagine.”

“Of course you couldn’t. It’s my grand adaptation of the phonograph to
the marine service. You store up profanity in it for use at sea. You
know that sailors don’t fly around worth a cent unless you swear at
them--so the mate that can do the best job of swearing is the most
valuable man. In great emergencies his talent saves the ship. But a ship
is a large thing, and he can’t be everywhere at once; so there have been
times when one mate has lost a ship which could have been saved if
they had had a hundred. Prodigious storms, you know. Well, a ship
can’t afford a hundred mates; but she can afford a hundred Cursing
Phonographs, and distribute them all over the vessel--and there, you
see, she’s armed at every point. Imagine a big storm, and a hundred of
my machines all cursing away at once--splendid spectacle, splendid!--you
couldn’t hear yourself think. Ship goes through that storm perfectly
serene--she’s just as safe as she’d be on shore.”

“It’s a wonderful idea. How do you prepare the thing?”

“Load it--simply load it.”

“How?”

“Why you just stand over it and swear into it.”

“That loads it, does it?”

“Yes--because every word it collars, it keeps--keeps it forever. Never
wears out. Any time you turn the crank, out it’ll come. In times of
great peril, you can reverse it, and it’ll swear backwards. That makes a
sailor hump himself!”

“O, I see. Who loads them?--the mate?”

“Yes, if he chooses. Or I’ll furnish them already loaded. I can hire an
expert for $75 a month who will load a hundred and fifty phonographs in
150 hours, and do it easy. And an expert can furnish a stronger article,
of course, than the mere average uncultivated mate could. Then you see,
all the ships of the world will buy them ready loaded--for I shall have
them loaded in any language a customer wants. Hawkins, it will work the
grandest moral reform of the 19th century. Five years from now, all the
swearing will be done by machinery--you won’t ever hear a profane word
come from human lips on a ship. Millions of dollars have been spent
by the churches, in the effort to abolish profanity in the commercial
marine. Think of it--my name will live forever in the affections of good
men as the man, who, solitary and alone, accomplished this noble and
elevating reform.”

“O, it is grand and beneficent and beautiful. How did you ever come to
think of it? You have a wonderful mind. How did you say you loaded the
machine?”

“O, it’s no trouble--perfectly simple. If you want to load it up loud
and strong, you stand right over it and shout. But if you leave it open
and all set, it’ll eavesdrop, so to speak--that is to say, it will load
itself up with any sounds that are made within six feet of it. Now
I’ll show you how it works. I had an expert come and load this one up
yesterday. Hello, it’s been left open--it’s too bad--still I reckon it
hasn’t had much chance to collect irrelevant stuff. All you do is to
press this button in the floor--so.”

The phonograph began to sing in a plaintive voice:


There is a boarding-house, far far away, Where they have ham and eggs,
3 times a day. “Hang it, that ain’t it. Somebody’s been singing around
here.”

The plaintive song began again, mingled with a low, gradually rising
wail of cats slowly warming up toward a fight;


O, how the boarders yell, When they hear that dinner bell They give that
landlord-- (momentary outburst of terrific catfight which drowns out one
word.)


Three times a day. (Renewal of furious catfight for a moment. The
plaintive voice on a high fierce key, “Scat, you devils”--and a racket
as of flying missiles.)

“Well, never mind--let it go. I’ve got some sailor-profanity down in
there somewhere, if I could get to it. But it isn’t any matter; you see
how the machine works.”

Hawkins responded with enthusiasm:

“O, it works admirably! I know there’s a hundred fortunes in it.”

“And mind, the Hawkins family get their share, Washington.”

“O, thanks, thanks; you are just as generous as ever. Ah, it’s the
grandest invention of the age!”

“Ah, well; we live in wonderful times. The elements are crowded full of
beneficent forces--always have been--and ours is the first generation to
turn them to account and make them work for us. Why Hawkins, everything
is useful--nothing ought ever to be wasted. Now look at sewer gas, for
instance. Sewer gas has always been wasted, heretofore; nobody tried
to save up sewer-gas--you can’t name me a man. Ain’t that so? you know
perfectly well it’s so.”

“Yes it is so--but I never--er--I don’t quite see why a body--”

“Should want to save it up? Well, I’ll tell you. Do you see this little
invention here?--it’s a decomposer--I call it a decomposer. I give
you my word of honor that if you show me a house that produces a given
quantity of sewer-gas in a day, I’ll engage to set up my decomposer
there and make that house produce a hundred times that quantity of
sewer-gas in less than half an hour.”

“Dear me, but why should you want to?”

“Want to? Listen, and you’ll see. My boy, for illuminating purposes
and economy combined, there’s nothing in the world that begins with
sewer-gas. And really, it don’t cost a cent. You put in a good
inferior article of plumbing,--such as you find everywhere--and add
my decomposer, and there you are. Just use the ordinary gas pipes--and
there your expense ends. Think of it. Why, Major, in five years from
now you won’t see a house lighted with anything but sewer-gas. Every
physician I talk to, recommends it; and every plumber.”

“But isn’t it dangerous?”

“O, yes, more or less, but everything is--coal gas, candles, electricity
--there isn’t anything that ain’t.”

“It lights up well, does it?”

“O, magnificently.”

“Have you given it a good trial?”

“Well, no, not a first rate one. Polly’s prejudiced, and she won’t let
me put it in here; but I’m playing my cards to get it adopted in the
President’s house, and then it’ll go--don’t you doubt it. I shall not
need this one for the present, Washington; you may take it down to some
boarding-house and give it a trial if you like.”





CHAPTER XVIII.

Washington shuddered slightly at the suggestion, then his face took on
a dreamy look and he dropped into a trance of thought. After a little,
Sellers asked him what he was grinding in his mental mill.

“Well, this. Have you got some secret project in your head which
requires a Bank of England back of it to make it succeed?”

The Colonel showed lively astonishment, and said:

“Why, Hawkins, are you a mind-reader?”

“I? I never thought of such a thing.”

“Well, then how did you happen to drop onto that idea in this curious
fashion? It’s just mind-reading, that’s what it is, though you may not
know it. Because I have got a private project that requires a Bank of
England at its back. How could you divine that? What was the process?
This is interesting.”

“There wasn’t any process. A thought like this happened to slip through
my head by accident: How much would make you or me comfortable?
A hundred thousand. Yet you are expecting two or three of--these
inventions of yours to turn out some billions of money--and you are
wanting them to do that. If you wanted ten millions, I could understand
that--it’s inside the human limits. But billions! That’s clear outside
the limits. There must be a definite project back of that somewhere.”

The earl’s interest and surprise augmented with every word, and when
Hawkins finished, he said with strong admiration:

“It’s wonderfully reasoned out, Washington, it certainly is. It shows
what I think is quite extraordinary penetration. For you’ve hit it;
you’ve driven the centre, you’ve plugged the bulls-eye of my dream. Now
I’ll tell you the whole thing, and you’ll understand it. I don’t need to
ask you to keep it to yourself, because you’ll see that the project will
prosper all the better for being kept in the background till the right
time. Have you noticed how many pamphlets and books I’ve got lying
around relating to Russia?”

“Yes, I think most anybody would notice that--anybody who wasn’t dead.”

“Well, I’ve been posting myself a good while. That’s a great and,
splendid nation, and deserves to be set free.” He paused, then added in
a quite matter-of-fact way, “When I get this money I’m going to set it
free.”

“Great guns!”

“Why, what makes you jump like that?”

“Dear me, when you are going to drop a remark under a man’s chair that
is likely to blow him out through the roof, why don’t you put some
expression, some force, some noise into it that will prepare him? You
shouldn’t flip out such a gigantic thing as this in that colorless kind
of a way. You do jolt a person up, so. Go on, now, I am all right again.
Tell me all about it. I’m all interest--yes, and sympathy, too.”

“Well, I’ve looked the ground over, and concluded that the methods of
the Russian patriots, while good enough considering the way the boys are
hampered, are not the best; at least not the quickest. They are trying
to revolutionize Russia from within; that’s pretty slow, you know,
and liable to interruption all the time, and is full of perils for the
workers. Do you know how Peter the Great started his army? He didn’t
start it on the family premises under the noses of the Strelitzes; no,
he started it away off yonder, privately,--only just one regiment, you
know, and he built to that. The first thing the Strelitzes knew, the
regiment was an army, their position was turned, and they had to take
a walk. Just that little idea made the biggest and worst of all the
despotisms the world has seen. The same idea can unmake it. I’m going
to prove it. I’m going to get out to one side and work my scheme the way
Peter did.”

“This is mighty interesting, Rossmore. What is it you are going to do?”

“I am going to buy Siberia and start a republic.”

“There,--bang you go again, without giving any notice! Going to buy it?”

“Yes, as soon as I get the money. I don’t care what the price is, I
shall take it. I can afford it, and I will. Now then, consider this--and
you’ve never thought of it, I’ll warrant. Where is the place where there
is twenty-five times more manhood, pluck, true heroism, unselfishness,
devotion to high and noble ideals, adoration of liberty, wide education,
and brains, per thousand of population, than any other domain in the
whole world can show?”

“Siberia!”

“Right.”

“It is true; it certainly is true, but I never thought of it before.”

“Nobody ever thinks of it. But it’s so, just the same. In those mines
and prisons are gathered together the very finest and noblest and
capablest multitude of human beings that God is able to create. Now
if you had that kind of a population to sell, would you offer it to a
despotism? No, the despotism has no use for it; you would lose money. A
despotism has no use for anything but human cattle. But suppose you want
to start a republic?”

“Yes, I see. It’s just the material for it.”

“Well, I should say so! There’s Siberia with just the very finest and
choicest material on the globe for a republic, and more coming--more
coming all the time, don’t you see! It is being daily, weekly, monthly
recruited by the most perfectly devised system that has ever been
invented, perhaps. By this system the whole of the hundred millions of
Russia are being constantly and patiently sifted, sifted, sifted, by
myriads of trained experts, spies appointed by the Emperor personally;
and whenever they catch a man, woman or child that has got any brains or
education or character, they ship that person straight to Siberia. It is
admirable, it is wonderful. It is so searching and so effective that it
keeps the general level of Russian intellect and education down to that
of the Czar.”

“Come, that sounds like exaggeration.”

“Well, it’s what they say anyway. But I think, myself, it’s a lie. And
it doesn’t seem right to slander a whole nation that way, anyhow. Now,
then, you see what the material is, there in Siberia, for a republic.”
 He paused, and his breast began to heave and his eye to burn, under the
impulse of strong emotion. Then his words began to stream forth, with
constantly increasing energy and fire, and he rose to his feet as if to
give himself larger freedom. “The minute I organize that republic, the
light of liberty, intelligence, justice, humanity, bursting from it,
flooding from it, flaming from it, will concentrate the gaze of the
whole astonished world as upon the miracle of a new sun; Russia’s
countless multitudes of slaves will rise up and march, march!--eastward,
with that great light transfiguring their faces as they come, and far
back of them you will see-what will you see?--a vacant throne in an
empty land! It can be done, and by God I will do it!”

He stood a moment bereft of earthly consciousness by his exaltation;
then consciousness returned, bringing him a slight shock, and he said
with grave earnestness:

“I must ask you to pardon me, Major Hawkins. I have never used that
expression before, and I beg you will forgive it this time.”

Hawkins was quite willing.

“You see, Washington, it is an error which I am by nature not liable
to. Only excitable people, impulsive people, are exposed to it. But
the circumstances of the present case--I being a democrat by birth and
preference, and an aristocrat by inheritance and relish--”

The earl stopped suddenly, his frame stiffened, and he began to stare
speechless through the curtainless window. Then he pointed, and gasped
out a single rapturous word:

“Look!”

“What is it, Colonel?”

“IT!”

“No!”

“Sure as you’re born. Keep perfectly still. I’ll apply the
influence--I’ll turn on all my force. I’ve brought It thus far--I’ll
fetch It right into the house. You’ll see.”

He was making all sorts of passes in the air with his hands.

“There! Look at that. I’ve made It smile! See?”

Quite true. Tracy, out for an afternoon stroll, had come unexpectantly
upon his family arms displayed upon this shabby house-front. The
hatchments made him smile; which was nothing, they had made the
neighborhood cats do that.

“Look, Hawkins, look! I’m drawing It over!”

“You’re drawing it sure, Rossmore. If I ever had any doubts about
materialization, they’re gone, now, and gone for good. Oh, this is a
joyful day!”

Tracy was sauntering over to read the door-plate. Before he was half way
over he was saying to himself, “Why, manifestly these are the American
Claimant’s quarters.”

“It’s coming--coming right along. I’ll slide, down and pull It in. You
follow after me.”

Sellers, pale and a good deal agitated, opened the door and confronted
Tracy. The old man could not at once get his voice: then he pumped out a
scattering and hardly coherent salutation, and followed it with--

“Walk in, walk right in, Mr.--er--”

“Tracy--Howard Tracy.”

“Tracy--thanks--walk right in, you’re expected.”

Tracy entered, considerably puzzled, and said:

“Expected? I think there must be some mistake.”

“Oh, I judge not,” said Sellers, who--noticing that Hawkins had arrived,
gave him a sidewise glance intended to call his close attention to a
dramatic effect which he was proposing to produce by his next remark.
Then he said, slowly and impressively--“I am--YOU KNOW WHO.”

To the astonishment of both conspirators the remark produced no dramatic
effect at all; for the new-comer responded with a quite innocent and
unembarrassed air--

“No, pardon me. I don’t know who you are. I only suppose--but no doubt
correctly--that you are the gentleman whose title is on the doorplate.”

“Right, quite right--sit down, pray sit down.” The earl was rattled,
thrown off his bearings, his head was in a whirl. Then he noticed
Hawkins standing apart and staring idiotically at what to him was the
apparition of a defunct man, and a new idea was born to him. He said to
Tracy briskly:

“But a thousand pardons, dear sir, I am forgetting courtesies due to a
guest and stranger. Let me introduce my friend General Hawkins--General
Hawkins, our new Senator--Senator from the latest and grandest addition
to the radiant galaxy of sovereign States, Cherokee Strip”--(to himself,
“that name will shrivel him up!”--but it didn’t, in the least, and
the Colonel resumed the introduction piteously disheartened and
amazed),--“Senator Hawkins, Mr. Howard Tracy, of--er--”

“England.”

“England!--Why that’s im--”

“England, yes, native of England.”

“Recently from there?”

“Yes, quite recently.”

Said the Colonel to himself, “This phantom lies like an expert.
Purifying this kind by fire don’t work. I’ll sound him a little further,
give him another chance or two to work his gift.” Then aloud--with deep
irony--

“Visiting our great country for recreation and amusement, no doubt. I
suppose you find that traveling in the majestic expanses of our Far West
is--”

“I haven’t been West, and haven’t been devoting myself to amusement with
any sort of exclusiveness, I assure you. In fact, to merely live, an
artist has got to work, not play.”

“Artist!” said Hawkins to himself, thinking of the rifled bank; “that is
a name for it!”

“Are you an artist?” asked the colonel; and added to himself, “now I’m
going to catch him.”

“In a humble way, yes.”

“What line?” pursued the sly veteran.

“Oils.”

“I’ve got him!” said Sellers to himself. Then aloud, “This is fortunate.
Could I engage you to restore some of my paintings that need that
attention?”

“I shall be very glad. Pray let me see them.”

No shuffling, no evasion, no embarrassment, even under this crucial
test. The Colonel was nonplussed. He led Tracy to a chromo which had
suffered damage in a former owner’s hands through being used as a lamp
mat, and said, with a flourish of his hand toward the picture--

“This del Sarto--”

“Is that a del Sarto?”

The colonel bent a look of reproach upon Tracy, allowed it to sink home,
then resumed as if there had been no interruption--

“This del Sarto is perhaps the only original of that sublime master
in our country. You see, yourself, that the work is of such exceeding
delicacy that the risk--could--er--would you mind giving me a little
example of what you can do before we--”

“Cheerfully, cheerfully. I will copy one of these marvels.”

Water-color materials--relics of Miss Sally’s college life--were
brought. Tracy said he was better in oils, but would take a chance with
these. So he was left alone. He began his work, but the attractions
of the place were too strong for him, and he got up and went drifting
about, fascinated; also amazed.





CHAPTER XIX.

Meantime the earl and Hawkins were holding a troubled and anxious
private consultation. The earl said:

“The mystery that bothers me, is, where did It get its other arm?”

“Yes--it worries me, too. And another thing troubles me--the apparition
is English. How do you account for that, Colonel?”

“Honestly, I don’t know, Hawkins, I don’t really know. It is very
confusing and awful.”

“Don’t you think maybe we’ve waked up the wrong one?”

“The wrong one? How do you account for the clothes?”

“The clothes are right, there’s no getting around it. What are we
going to do? We can’t collect, as I see. The reward is for a one-armed
American. This is a two-armed Englishman.”

“Well, it may be that that is not objectionable. You see it isn’t less
than is called for, it is more, and so,--”

But he saw that this argument was weak, and dropped it. The friends
sat brooding over their perplexities some time in silence. Finally
the earl’s face began to glow with an inspiration, and he said,
impressively:

“Hawkins, this materialization is a grander and nobler science than we
have dreamed of. We have little imagined what a solemn and stupendous
thing we have done. The whole secret is perfectly clear to me, now,
clear as day. Every man is made up of heredities, long-descended
atoms and particles of his ancestors. This present materialization is
incomplete. We have only brought it down to perhaps the beginning of
this century.”

“What do you mean, Colonel!” cried Hawkins, filled with vague alarms by
the old man’s awe-compelling words and manner.

“This. We’ve materialized this burglar’s ancestor!”

“Oh, don’t--don’t say that. It’s hideous.”

“But it’s true, Hawkins, I know it. Look at the facts. This apparition
is distinctly English--note that. It uses good grammar--note that. It
is an Artist--note that. It has the manners and carriage of a
gentleman--note that. Where’s your cow-boy? Answer me that.”

“Rossmore, this is dreadful--it’s too dreadful to think of!”

“Never resurrected a rag of that burglar but the clothes, not a solitary
rag of him but the clothes.”

“Colonel, do you really mean--”

The Colonel brought his fist down with emphasis and said:

“I mean exactly this. This materialization was immature, the burglar has
evaded us, this is nothing but a damned ancestor!”

He rose and walked the floor in great excitement.

Hawkins said plaintively:

“It’s a bitter disappointment--bitter.”

“I know it. I know it, Senator; I feel it as deeply as anybody could.
But we’ve got to submit--on moral grounds. I need money, but God knows I
am not poor enough or shabby enough to be an accessory to the punishing
of a man’s ancestor for crimes committed by that ancestor’s posterity.”

“But Colonel!” implored Hawkins; “stop and think; don’t be rash; you
know it’s the only chance we’ve got to get the money; and besides, the
Bible itself says posterity to the fourth generation shall be punished
for the sins and crimes committed by ancestors four generations back
that hadn’t anything to do with them; and so it’s only fair to turn the
rule around and make it work both ways.”

The Colonel was struck with the strong logic of this position. He strode
up and down, and thought it painfully over. Finally he said:

“There’s reason in it; yes, there’s reason in it. And so, although it
seems a piteous thing to sweat this poor ancient devil for a burglary he
hadn’t the least hand in, still if duty commands I suppose we must give
him up to the authorities.”

“I would,” said Hawkins, cheered and relieved, “I’d give him up if he
was a thousand ancestors compacted into one.”
