luxury for her. A warm and fragrant atmosphere, trailing 
gowns of soft, flowing white, beautiful furniture, pictures, 
music, the little stir of going and coming, of receiving 
friends graciously, as she could, of sitting in the twilight 
by a grate fire, the soft shadows playing all about her, of 
some one coming — yes, there must be a lover or a husband, 
a woman's existence was incomplete without love, and hers 
must be blissfully happy. He was not jealous of this tall, 
strong, imperious but generous lover at first. When it 
came that the room grew smaller, the appointments less 
sumptuous, her gowns more simple, he hardljj remembered. 
The poems read were the ones he was so fond of. The 
books — how did he know she would be fond of scientific 
things, of social problems that were stirring up the world ? 
Does a man dream himself in love when on the other side 
is the hard, steady effort of his own ambitions ? Hilliard 
did. Then he waited for the intangible sign, — not that 
she loved, but that he might draw nearer, might share her 
cares and assume some of her burdens. 
He had not paid any especial attention to the fact that 
there was some property left them, — an old country house 
somewhere. Just at this time he was studying at a great 
problem that was to advance his own fortunes. There was 
a vague idea in his mind that they would sell the place — 
a few delicate women could not manage a farm. And the 
certain knowledge that they were going away, that she 
would not be here in the same city, that he could not drop 
in and spend an hour watching her, suddenly shaped and 
crystallized his desires, brought so strange a knowledge 
that at first it seemed almost pain, a delicious throe of that 
divine agony when love is born after long waiting and 
watching. 
He had stumbled on the occasion while his pulses were 
still seething in ardent tumult; he had blundered too. 
True, he had not meant to ask for her love, only to confess 
his, and wait in generous loyalty. The utter surprise 
stunned him. Of course he did not mean to give up his 
hopes, only to settle upon some better way. Presently he 
understood that the change in her life was to be greateir 
than anything he could give her at this period. He must 
not only wait but work. When he recovered himself a 
little, he went at both bravely. 
And now, if this share of the fortune could go directly to 
her, he would not take a step in the matter, though it is an 
absolute factor in his advancement. It will bring to him 
the very prosperity he dreamed of for her sake. It can- 
not fail to draw them together in a friendly way, to put 
them on a footing where all the sequences will come in 
naturally. 
He pauses suddenly. The Hardins' cottage is in sight, 
and here is the winding avenue. He does not mean to go 
up boldly and storm the fortress to-day, so he makes a little 
detour, and finds himself in a grassj' orchard, where the 
soft winds shake about a shower of blossom leaves. Ah, 
how fragrant, how beautiful ! A thrill speeds through his 
pulses as- he remembers that he, too, has some rights in 
this old gray stone house, that his ancestors as well as 
hers lived here. He hears the sounds of music throbbing 
on the air ; he sees one figure sitting on the porch, and he 
knows at another glance who it is. And the easel — yes, 
she is drifting into the life of leisurely delight he dreamed 
for her, but he has not brought it to her. Ah, what can he 
give her now ? He is as helpless in his love as he was 
more than a year agone. 
The sound of the piano ceases. Kegina Halford comes 
to the doorway in some soft, light, clinging attire, tall, 
lithesome as a young nymph. Did he think her beautiful 
before ? He cannot clearly remember, but she is beauti- 
ful now in her slim stateliness. What a picture she 
makes in that dark old frame with the dim background. 
Ah, what shall he do to win her in this changed atmos- 
phere ? 
He turns away and steals over the slope, down to the 
load. The buttevoups dazzle in the sunshine as the wind 
blows them about. Everything seems tremulous with a 
 
wonderful sense of loveliness. Hfe has seen her again. 
He will always love her, come what may. He is too 
sturdy, too determined to look long on the-dark side, and he 
has an abiding faith that fortune holds a good deal for him 
in her golden hand. It is the persistent who win. 
CHAETEK. VI 
FATHER AND SON 
Having given your mind p)ay with subtlety, revolve your affairs little by 
little. — Abistofhanes. 
Norman Hilliard finds that by a slight intervention of 
fate he has not lost his train. There has been a deten- 
tion further up the road. He paces the i)latform slowly, 
his eyes taking in the picture opposite, the lazy river flow- 
ing between. Here it broadens out, up a distance it nar- 
rows again, and he can hear a dim rush of some rapids. 
There is a covered bridge with the quaintness of thirty 
years agone. Opposite the rocky ridge rises higher and 
higher, the narrow ledges jjause as' if they had stopped to 
take breath in their ascent, and the green arms of Nature 
had prisoned them for an instant, long enough to start a bit 
of vegetation, a hazy bluish green strip of bushes and 
stunted cedars and straggling young trees that at a later 
growth must lose their slender hold and go toppling over. 
The soft purples are slashed by openings of silvery gray ; 
there are touches of vivid greens still in their spring glory ; 
there are browns of every hue ; the granite rocks sparkle as 
if set with gems, which, after all, are mostly deceptive 
mica. What a picture it is ! 
The up-train winds around a bend in the river that one 
can see distinctly here. It is lost to sight a moment, but 
not to sound. There is a little stir, the freight truck is 
run out, and a breath of expectation seems to pervade the 
stragglers. The train slows up, stops. There is one pas- 
senger to get on, three or four huddle out of one end of the 
car, then a young man who turns and puts out his hand to 
steady an elderly companion, who may be his father. The 
act has such a kindly, every-day grace that Hilliard notes 
 
them both. They come up the platform and watch till a 
trunk and a box is taken off. 
The younger man is in a certain way handsome. He 
would be effeminate but for his size, which is fully up to 
the average. There is a wonderful litheness of contour that 
shows in every movement, makes liim look slenderer than 
he really is. His figure is perfect enough for a model. 
The hands are slim enough for a woman, white, soft, of 
course,-with long fingers and pink nails. There is a luxu- 
rious air about him that at once removes him from any sus- 
picion of manual labor. A fine, fair skin, a straight nose 
with quivering nostrils, a golden-brown mustache, silky and 
curling at the long ends, and a bit of light-brown hair 
showing the same tendency to gold perceptible in it, but it 
has none of the reddish tints. There is a curious quality 
in the face that attracts Hilliard, that repels him also, or 
at least gives him a touch of distrust, a kind of mystery 
rather than reticence, not strong enough indeed for the 
latter. 
The elder man is as tall but slightly bent, is pale and 
fragile, and glances about in a questioning manner, as if 
fearful everything was not quite right. His hair is silvery, 
his beard somewhat long and straggling, and of a silky 
whiteness. The nose is straight as the other's, and has the 
same flexibility, the eyes are furtive, the skin full of fine 
wrinkles, and he looks like quite an old man. As they 
stand talking, Hilliard studies them. He is fond of watch- 
ing people, and formulates theories about them when he 
has a leisure moment like this. How true his theories may 
be he seldom has an opportunity of knowing. Oddly 
enough he rarely sets out to analyze the people he likes. 
Before these two have finished their consultation his 
train comes along, and he is whirled away with the picture 
still in his mind. They are unusual people, and they haunt 
him in a baffling, elusive way. Later ou he feels like call- 
ing it a presentiment. 
"We want our dinner. The hotel will be best," says 
the young man to his companion. 
"Dinner — oh, yes," with a thin little laugh. "There 
would be small chance of dinner at Bradley House, I sup- 
pose. I wonder whether it is closed? But we'll soon 
change all that. It should have been mine twenty years 
ago. No one else has any real right. We will walk in 
and take possession, the last of our name, my son. For 
the women couldn't carry that. And they were paid their 
part," rubbing his thin, wrinkled hands. 
The younger makes some inquiries of the station agent. 
A hotel is near. There are people living in Bradley 
House, some of the heirs. 
The brows knit on hearing this last. He rejoins his 
father, and the two walk a short distance to the hotel, 
which has a rural but inviting appearance. They take a 
room and free themselves from the defilements of travel, 
then find a very appetizing dinner set before them, with a 
clean cloth and napkins. The elder man has a capricious 
appetite. When he has eaten all that his son can gently 
•force upon him, and emptied his glass of wine, the younger 
glances around cautiously. 
"Bradley House is tenanted," he says in a low, soft 
voice as if his purpose was to disarm. " Some of the heirs 
are there. There may have been a will, you know." 
" I don't believe it ! " He doubles up his thin, wrinkled 
hapd, and would bring it down on the table, but the son's 
eye, ever on the alert, catches it. "Jasper, no one has 
any right, do you hear ? I have told you a hundred times 
that every one of them was paid her portion and went her 
way. Aunt Joanna did not like any of the marriages. 
They weren't the marrying kind, those old folks," and the 
vacant laugh is a little slirill, perhaps weakly vindictive. 
" You see, then, they have no right to a share " — 
" Unless there is a will," says the son impatiently. He 
has used this caution so many times. " According to the 
wording of the advertisement I should think not, but we 
cannot be sure until we know the facts. I have been con- 
sidering. It will be the wisest move to go at once to 
Bradley House." 
 
" Wisest — of course. I have been telling you so all the 
time. -Possession is nine points of the law, and it will be 
a difficult thing to dislodge its ; " and again his thin laugh 
ends his sentence rather triumphantly. 
Jasper Bradley looks out of the window into the quiet 
street. Through a space in the trees he sees the mountains 
over opposite with their nooks and innumerable tints. A 
sensation of restfulness has stolen over him — it may be 
possible his anxieties are at an end, but he hardly dare 
believe it so. He is tired, tired ; more weary and worn out 
than his twenty-six years give him. any right to be. 
" Well, let us go," insists the father, rising. 
"Wait." Jasper Bradley walks to the desk and pays 
his bill with a kind of elegant deliberation. Then he orders 
a hack sent to the station for the luggage, pacifying his 
father meanwhile, who betrays the impatience of a child. 
They are taken up presently and go leisurely through 
the pleasant streets. Morton Bradley's eyes are kindled to 
a glow of pleasurable interest as he recognizes familiar 
places and enumerates them. His face seems to gather a 
certain strength and reliance ; he holds his shoulders more 
erect. 
"Yes, yes," as they turn into the winding drive, the 
" lane " of old. " How nice it all looks ! It must have been 
freshened up a bit. Ninety years and more Uncle Silas 
lived here — and if I live to be that old — " 
They have reached the level, the clear open space, and 
the driver halt at the porch where the family are congre- 
gated. Jasper from the window takes in the picture. Two 
girls sit on the steps with some embroidery and bright- 
hued silks spread about in pretty confusion. The easel is 
there, but Regina is not painting. She has been reading 
aloud to her small audience. Mrs. Halford is in the ham- 
mock, almost buried in cushions. 
These, no doubt, are the people who have the nine points 
his father so strenuously insists upon. Jasper springs out, 
this time leaving the man to assist his father, and advances 
a few steps with an imperious grace that summons the tall 
girl forward to meet him. He looks his very best. He is a 
handsome young man with the impress of good breeding 
and a certain air of the world that is unmistakable. 
" We heard some one was here before us," he begins in a 
mellifluous tone, and with a gracious smile as if he would 
excuse them for trespass. " We are the Bradleys : this," 
now he takes his father's arm, " is Mr. Morton Bradley, my 
father. I believe we are the sole owners of the family 
name, and we have been advertised for as heirs." 
" Yes," answers Eegina with a stateliness that would not 
discredit the family name. " Have you seen Mr. Sayre — 
but of course you come from him. Will you not accept our 
hospitality and be seated ? " 
With this she draws her mother's big splint rocker for- 
ward, and a smaller one for the young man. 
"No," he answers; " we have not seen any one. This 
being my father's home in all his early years, still seems 
home to him, and he was impatient to come at once. We 
merely stopped at the hotel for our dinner. I hope we 
are not intruding ? We have our luggage " — 
" Bradley House ought to welcome you ; it has been 
awaiting your coming for so long," she returns calmly but 
with a little embarrassment. " These are my sisters ; " both 
girls nod courteously. Mrs. Halford has deftly, extricated 
herself from the hammock, and the daughter, turning to 
her, continues, " and this is my mother, Mrs. Halford." 
Both gentlemen bow politely. 
The trunk comes do\yn with a crunch on the gravelled 
path and the man looks uncertain as to its destination. 
"I am afraid we have intruded." Jasper rises with a 
fine sort of deprecation in, his gesture. " My father thought 
we might find a tenant here, or some sort of keeper " — 
" We are merely tenatnts at will." Eegina smiles in a 
manner that stirs the young man to interest. It is such a 
friendly smile, yet so self-contained. She is very different 
from anything he has imagined of these aunts who were 
said to have made poor marriages. And although she has 
come to love the old house well, they all know Mr. Sayre 
 
has reserved the first chance for Mr. Bradley. " As I said, 
if you will accept our hospitality until matters are some- 
what arranged — mother." 
Regina has a misgiving that she is exceeding the duties 
of her position. 
" We are only using part of the house, since our family 
is so small," begins Mrs. Halford. 
" My father's was the new part ; it was built for him," 
announces the elder gentleman in a somewhat grandiose 
manner. " I was born here, — the only one of the old name. 
It was my home " — 
" You will pardon him, I am sure," persuasively. " And 
we are in some degree relatives," says the son with an 
intentness far from displeasing. He does not mean to go 
away, and they must recognize his father's claim. But 
there need be no dispute in the beginning. He wants to 
see more of this regal girl. 
"We have two spare rooms," says Mrs. Halford with 
practical cordiality. " If they will answer until your part 
can be made comfortable, you will be most welcome. Shall 
the trunks be carried in ? " 
"You are very kind. Are you quite sure we are not 
making a disagreeable intrusion ? We might return to the 
hotel. I am such a stranger here, — I never was in the house 
but once." 
" Oh, no, no," protests Mrs. Halford. Then the trunks 
are brought in and carried up-stairs, and the hackman goes 
his way. 
Mr. Bradley meanwhile rises and strolls around to the 
end of the house. It is just as it was nearly fifty years 
ago. The old memories of youth come crowding back 
upon him. He wa,s the heir to all this, and no one has the 
right to dispute him now. 
" You mentioned some one that I suppose I ought to 
see," begins Jasper. " Is there — was there a will ? " 
" No ; none has ever been found. And now it is going on 
two years. Mr. Sayre is the administrator. The estate 
was divided in four equal parts. There was a great deal of 
personal property." 
Mrs. Halford feels that it is her duty to communicate 
the facts thus far. 
" Are we the last claimants ? " 
"There is one more." She briefly explains her own 
family connection with Perdita Cope, who usually goes by 
their name. " The heirs of the eldest married sister, Mrs. 
Wiuterburne, are still to be traced. We can send, for Mr. 
Sayre if you prefer. He is quite a frequent visitor," she 
says. 
Even as she speaks, the figure of an equestrian comes in 
sight. Cynthia springs up and hurries down a few paces. 
" Let me be the first fo tell the news," she cries gayly. 
" Oh, have you seen him ? " Mr. Sayre smiles good- 
naturedly down upon her. "I had-half a mind to ask him 
up, but I thought I would wait for him to present his cre- 
dentials. Several of them have never put in any second 
appearance." 
" He ! Who ? " Cynthia looks mystified. 
" The Wiuterburne claimant." 
"Oh! She laughs amusedly. "And the Bradleys are 
here, a father and son." 
Mr. Sayre's gravest business expression settles in every 
line of his face. He looks at the handsome young man 
on the porch — there is a great contrast between him and 
Winterburne, and he inclines to the latter, for some inex- 
plicable reason. 
"That is Mr. Sayre," announces Mrs. Halford. "He 
has come most opportunely. You can have the parlor to 
yourselves and talk business as comfortably as in Mr. 
Sayre's office." 
" You certainly are very- kind." Jasper has decided to 
like the Halfords. The old house will be the pleasanter for 
their society. He has been running it over in his mind — 
he and his father will take the new part and have a house- 
keeper ; it is best that they should be by themselves. 
Mr. Sayre dismounts and fastens his sleek bay, whose 
bright eyes follow him. Then he comes up the two steps 
with the utmost dignity, and is presented to Jasper Bradley. 
 
" And what do you think ? " cries Cynthia to Regina 
and her mother. "The last of the happy quartet has 
come to light. We are now a united family until we quar- 
rel. People always do sooner or later over money. The 
other one is a Mr. Winter — something." 
" An odd appellation," comments liegina, half listening 
to the greeting between the two gentlemen. 
He is explaining that his father has been very much out 
of health, that they have been travelling for years, been 
abroad and all that, and have only recently seen the notice. 
His father had a fancy that he would be the heir to Bradley 
House, " and, my dear sir," the son says, " if you will dis- 
possess hini gently of all erroneous ideas, I shall be much 
obliged. His illness has left hiin in a rather peculiar 
state. I will go and find him. He has started ofE to see 
everything at once." 
Jasper rises and hastens down the path, around the cor- 
ner of the house with a light sinuous movement that is 
fascinating, though in his inmost soul Mr. Sayre likens it 
to tight rope posturing, which he has not seen for years. 
" What was the other one's name ? " asks Cynthia. 
" How odd he should come to-day ! " 
" He is over at Warwick, has been there some time. 
Winterburne. He lias his grandmother's name, and as it 
is rather unusual, I have no cause to doubt the j'oung man. 
He was extremely straightforward, business-like." 
" Handsome ? " demands Cynthia. 
"I can't say that he was. But he is a fine, stalwart 
fellow, quite different from this one." 
" Who ii handsome," says Regina. The tone of disap- 
probation she considers unjust, since he can know nothing 
about young Bradley. 
" He must have taken it elsewhere. The Bradleys were 
rather rugged looking." 
He is coming back, his arm locked in his father's. 
There is a certain similitude between them. It is a 
picture of filial devotion, and touches Regina keenly with 
its grace and harmonious effect. 
Mrs. Halford proposes that they shall take one of the 
rooms for their necessary consultation. Cynthia and Per- 
dita are full of wonders and unanswerable questions, and 
presently gather up their Work and retire up-stairs. There 
will be some errands down in town, the mail to get, and 
two or three calls Ferdita has promised. They know 
Eegina will prefer to keep their mother company in this 
unlooked-for emergency. 
Mrs. Halford and her daughter gossip in a fragmentary 
manner about the outcome of all this. 
" They will not need to disturb us — two men only," 
says Mrs. Halford. " I have come to feel so at home here, 
though at first it was lonely. And I would much rather 
have some one in the other part. How odd if this Mr. 
Wiuterburne should want to come here, too ! " 
She laughs softly at her conceit. 
" Some of them may be married," suggests Eegina. "Mr. 
Bradley is not, evidently. And how devoted to his father! 
You seldom see such attention in a young man." 
Then they are quiet, not because they are curious to 
listen, as they could not distinguish words at this distance, 
but they do hear a shrill, querulous voice, rising higher, 
almost to anger. Perhaps both wonder a little if this 
delicate, invalided gentleman will prove a pleasant com- 
panion. Of course they are not compelled to remain. 
Eegina feels that they have established their standing, an'd 
do not need the prestige of the old house. Yet she has 
learned to love it in a peculiar manner. The many beau- 
tiful haunts that enchant her, the great trees that I've
come to have a confidential aspect as she lingers in their 
shade, as if the wind rustling among the leaves were in- 
stinct with old remembrances, if one had the key to trans- 
late it all. 
The gentlemen are in consultation an hour or more. 
Tlipy have proved their claim beyond any question. Mr. 
Bradley has childishly insisted that every dollar going to 
other heirs defrauds him, that there must have been a will, 
either destroyed or not yet found. 
 
"It would have been no object to me," replies Mr. Sayre 
decisively. " The house was searched over and over, before 
the heirs were advertised for. It makes no difference to a 
soul in Beverly whether the property goes to one person 
or to four. And though I have come to hold the Halford 
family in high esteem, there was a time when they were 
utter strangers to me, when I could have had no sort of pref- 
erence. If you desired to have things different you should 
have come years before, while your uncle and aunt were 
alive. Remember it is the law of the State, and not /, that 
is answerable for the division." 
"I did come," Morton Bradley says with a kind of 
white passion in his face that makes it quiver. " I can't 
remember" — he glances piteously at his son. 
"You will pardon hiiu," the low voice entreats. "He 
has been ill so long. He has not yet regained his usual 
strength, and the death of my mother was a great blow. 
He goes back to the old times and expectations, but he will 
presently accustom himself to the new order of things. 
And indeed he had almost forgotten there was anything — 
I did not suppose there was much beside the house and 
farm " — 
Something in the son's manner goes far toward weaken- 
ing the lawyer's first prejudice. He feels there is soirie 
mystery, and perhaps Morton Bradley's past will not bear 
strict scrutiny. That, however, has nothing to do with the 
present matter, and it would be unjust to punish the son 
for his father's misdeeds. 
"You will have the first chance to purchase Bradley 
House," the lawyer says. '-'Two heirs have already agreed 
to this, and the other will not require much persuasion. 
So that can be settled at your own pleasure." 
" There is no need of an immediate decision," returns 
the young man. " As my father's health improves he will 
doubtless see things in their proper light. Coming back 
to the old plane may be of great benefit to him. We were 
talking of the other part — could we inspect it under your 
guidance ? " 
" Certainly, certainly. I will ask Mrs. Halford for the 
keys ; " and he goes on his errand. 
From these rooms they emerge on a short cross hall the 
door of which is securely bolted. It opens on the larger 
one, and admits them to the rooms, which are spacious, 
with a kitchen at the end. Up-stairs there are four, the 
back room being divided. There is an odd little nest in 
the tower, from which one has a magnificent view. Cer- 
tainly Bradley House is not to be despised. 
The furniture has been mostly taken out. Much of it 
belonged to young Mrs. Bradley, who removed it at her 
second marriage. But the sun shines in with softened 
lights, the trees glint and gleam where it touches them, and 
it can be restored to a very homelike place. The wide 
chimneys with their high mantels look odd to the young 
man. Down-stairs in the best room there is some tiling 
and a Franklin set in the fireplace. There are quaint cor- 
ner seats, one carved cupboard in oak that is almost black 
with age. In the other "room there is one not unlike an 
immense sideboard with tiers of shelves above the closet 
part. This is of mahogany and elaborately ornamented. 
For all the May warmth and sunshine it is chilly, and 
they are glad to go out on the end porch. When the 
Halfords first came this part had grown up almost to a 
wilderness, but it has felt the renovating hand of order 
and neatness. 
"Yes," the young man says — he has been rather silent, 
revolving several points, " yes, one can make it very pleas- 
ant and comfortable. Then if one could find a good, trusty 
woman for housekeeper " — 
" That will not be difficult." 
"And you believe Mrs. Halford will not object to neigh- 
bors ? I think I can promise that we will not trouble her 
greatly, after we are once settled." 
" You must consult with her." 
Jasper nods, with a soft half smile. They decide to fol- 
low the path around to the porch, and Mr. Sayre retraces 
his steps to bar and bolt. Then they rejoin Mrs. Halford 
 
and her daughter, and the matter undergoes a friendly dis- 
cussion. Mr. Bradley has fallen into au absent mood. His 
eyes wander out into the far distance. Is he recalling his 
wilful boyhood, .his wasted manhood, and all the years be- 
tween ? He agrees to his son's plans. It does not seem 
as if he could have been so fierce but a brief while ago. 
They decide to accept Mrs. Halford's hospitality while 
their part is being made habitable, and Jasper will come 
down to the lawyer's office in the morning. 
After he is gone, the conversation starts quite briskly on 
the subject of relationship. The elder Mr. Bradley rouses 
himself and recalls many entertaining incidents he has 
heard from Aunt Joanna concerning the early years of 
her sisters, and her regrets at their apparently unwise 
marriages. 
"But my own mother's life and Aunt Margaret's were 
very happy, I am sure," says Mrs. Halford, with a little 
protest. " They were not rich, but they took great comfort 
in their husbands and their children. There are so few of 
us left now," and she sighs gently. " I think we ought to 
cling together, since fate, or fortune, has so befriended us." 
Then they speculate upon what the other cousin will be 
like ; Cynthia and Perdita in their merry, audacious fasliion, 
until something like jealousy stirs in Jasper Bradley's blood. 
He is quite sure he shall dislike him. 
CHAPTER VII 
A FAMILY CIKCLE 
He who has hope has everything. — Arabian Proverb. 
Eegina Halfoed is curiously, deeply interested in her 
new-found second cousin. He is so different from any per- 
son she has ever met. If there is a drawback to Beverly it 
is the similarity of its people, especially the young men 
who are in a regretted minority. Tliey stray off to busier 
towns, or they are on the wing pleasure seeking. This 
young man is a continual study. He must have travelled, 
he seems to know so much about other cities. He has been 
abroad — he speaks several languages. At times, he seems 
like a foreigner himself, with his air of mystery, his puz- 
zling ways and beliefs. He is certainly fascinating in his 
grace and ease and harmonious beauty. But he makes her 
think of the myth of Ganymede, or the story of Antinous. 
Then he drops these semblances, and is a busy workman, a 
painter, a gardener, almost a housekeeper. 
The work goes on as if by magic. He has spent one day 
in the city selecting materials, and arranges them with a 
deftness and rapidity that is surprising. He has also ex- 
humed from the " rubbish " numberless articles that are 
transformed out of likeness with their former selves, or 
polished up to some new beauty of their own. Tlie parlor 
and dining-room may be somewhat bizarre, but they have 
fine artistic points. Up-stairs he has two of the smaller 
rooms, one a sleeping chamber, the other a " den." His 
father is to have the large one. 
" There will be books and pictures by and by," he says 
airily. " They are things one cannot select in a hurry." 
It seems very odd at first to have these strangers around, 
 
relafives though they are. At times the elder Mr. Bradley 
is captious aud unreasonable. 
" A little of hiiii goes a good ways on such an occasion," 
declares Cynthia. " He is like a wasp, insisting that the 
ceiling must jawn somewhere for his escape, when there is 
a window open. And how patient his son is at these trying 
moments ! It makes me quite adore him." 
Jasper is very good-natured about assisting them in small 
matters. He has re-hung pictures, and suggested some 
changes that really are an improvement to the rooms. He 
has taken strolls with them ; he has a wonderful eye for 
beauty. The housekeeper, a tidy, middle-aged, stolid sort 
of woman, a stranger to Beverly, keeps them clean and 
luxuriously fed, and does not object to watch Mr. Bradley 
when his son is away on brief excursions. He has explained 
that his father was so crushed by his mother's death, nearly 
four years ago, that he has been more or less ailing since, 
and in a sad, nervous state. They are all extremely 
sympathetic. It hardly seems possible that in ten days or 
so oiie could become interested in strangers. Of course, 
there is something in the relationship that paves the way 
for friendliness. 
One evening he brings out his violin. His playing is 
simply marvellous. Certainly it does not sound the touch 
of an amateur, it stirs one to the innermost depths, and 
seems to waft her to some country seen vaguely in dreams, 
and recurring with inexplicable persistency. Those bright, 
tremulous, mysterious sounds, rising importunately, swell- 
ing, melting, falling into a slow, tender, persuasive move- 
ment, flooding the soft evening air with so wondrous a 
melody that her soul surges and throbs, makes her feel 
capable of the keenest suffering, the most exquisite joy, 
and then trailing off into dim, unknown spaces that she is 
almost afraid to J)enetrate. 
"Oh," cries Perdita with a long, long sigh, "do not 
stop ! I could listen forever ! " 
This is the state matters have reached when Mr. Say re 
comes up again late one afternoon with another visitor, the 
last of the group of relatives. They are all out on the 
porch except Mr. Bradley, who is still louugiug on his sofa 
in the quiet of his own room. 
" This is Mr. Winterburne," announces the lawyer. " He 
proposed to wait for your permission to pay his respects to 
you under a different name, but I knew that would not be 
at all to his detriment." 
" Oh," and Cynthia springs forward with an exclamation 
of delight. " Mr. Hilliard ! Of course we are glad to see 
you ! Wonders will never cease. The Bradley fortune is 
as good as a play, or a serial story. In every chapter 
another myctery is unfolded. But why did you never tell 
us" — 
" How could I guess ? " He is shaking hands with Mrs. 
Halford, who shows her pleasure in her friendly smiles. 
Regina is last — she stands up, taller than ever, it seems, 
and with an indescribable expression hovering about her 
face, which certainly is not delight. There is a rising color, 
too, not the fascinating tint of unalloyed joy. 
He feels it at once. One would hardly expect so much 
sensitiveness in this great, hearty fellow. Still — their 
last meeting — their parting. 
" Why, I never dreamed of such a thing. We had not 
kept up with my grandmother's relatives — I don't think any 
of them ever made any overtures. When Mr. Hilliard mar- 
ried my mother, he insisted on my having his name. And 
to think we should have know each other half a year or 
more, and never even had a presentiment ! Mrs. Halford, 
don't I carry any of the family marks ? " 
He turns his face to her that Eegina may recover — is it 
awkwardness, or that sense of embarrassment at the old 
remembrance ? For now, though his love is still intact in 
his soul, and leaps up in a flame at the sight of her, all the 
man's instincts are generous. She may study him in a new 
light, and he — just the mere sight of her again fills him 
with happiness. 
It is not at all as he thinks. The love he hopes to win 
has not yet been awakened in her soul. He brings back to 
 
her, without a moment's warning, the old life she has buried, 
put out of sight, that she desires to forget utterly, that strait 
of poverty and anxiety, when she even descended to a 
thought of marriage, that will always be an abhorrence to 
her ! And how can she forget with him here ? It is an 
unreasonable sense of anger against him, that she feels is 
unjust, and yet she desires to cling to it. 
He and his cousin Bradley shake hands. He seldom 
thinks of personal attractiveness in a man, but he feels 
instantly at a disadvantage. There is a strange beauty 
about this man that affects him, and then he remembers 
the incident at the station. He pays him an involun- 
tary respect, as he feels that he ought to make amends for 
a little prejudice that had its birth then, that even now 
protests against the almost feminine softness. He would 
not be here,- rounding out the family circle, if they had not 
discerned some virtue in him. The curious desire to ap- 
prove of what Miss Halford may approve, to make no jar- 
ring or discord in the beginning, is strong upon him, and 
stirs the generous side of his nature. He really knows 
nothing about this new relative save that he treated his 
father with a most tender respect. 
" Are we all together now ? " inquires Cynthia with her 
pretty audacity. " Mr. Sayre, are you quite sure the fam- 
ily circle will not be increased and the fortune divided and 
subdivided ? Because it would be cruel to let us dream in 
our fancied security, and then announce the disheartening 
fact." 
" The family records are reliable, I believe," he returns 
gravely. "We have accouuted for every member of the 
older family." 
" Have you any brothers or sisters, Mr. , are we to 
say Mr. Winterburne ? " 
" Since I have to come back to my true name for legal 
purposes, I shall use it, without dropping the other. No, 
Miss Cynthia, as to relatives, except in this way, — my 
mother married a second time, and I have a half-sister." 
" Then you and Cousin Jasper and Perdita are the sole 
heirs of your father's or mother's houses ? It's rather con- 
fusing, you see. But I believe I woiilJ rather have Eegina 
and half a share." 
Wiuterburne smiles softly. He vrould relinquish all his 
share, and his dreams so dear to him, for liegina, hut he 
cannot say so, and therein fate mocks hiui. 
Mrs. Halford is much interested in learning his story, 
and plies him with questions in her gentle, amiable way. 
It is like the return of an old friend who is never to go 
very far away again. She has a sudden accession of safety 
that the Bradleys have not afforded her, though she feels 
motherly toward Jasper. He brings up his wanderings at 
Warwick. Cynthia exclaims in her irrepressible fashion, — 
" Why, that is only a short distance ! Aud you have 
been there three months ! " upbraidingly. 
" I came first in January. My friend there has an inter- 
est in some iron works, and after a little consideration I 
resolved to embark with him. There was an experiment 
that I wanted to try, and now I shall be in circumstances 
to do it. So you may consider me a fixture at Warwick for 
years to come, mayhap until I am a million naire," and he 
laughs lightly. 
Mr. Sayre shakes his head. "There is more money lost 
than made in iron in this part of the world." 
" But we have — some new ideas. And now let us discuss 
the iron property," he goes on with a sudden change of 
tone, a kind of business briskness. " Mr. Sayre tells me 
there is some land for sale, — that proved vexatious to Mr. 
Bradley years ago. If we can make the right arrangement, I 
should like to purchase it." 
Jasper Bradley bends slightly forward, and gives a glance 
of quick scrutiny toward Winterburne. The magic word 
millionnaire has been surging in his brain. 
" There are only the two pieces of real estate, as you all 
know," begins Mr. Sayre. "We have decided that Mr. 
Bradley is to have the first choice of this," indicating the 
house with a slight inclination of the head. "There is the 
tract at Hazens " — 
 
" What sort of mines are there on it ? " asks Jasper 
quietly. 
" Two that were worked at one time with considerable 
profit. Then they gave out. Mr. Bradley, meanwhile, had 
sold them, but the company became discouraged, and lapsed 
in payments. About the first business I did for him was 
to foreclose. There were several contested points, I remem- 
ber, but it was finally settled. Then he put it in a broker's 
hands, and we had it nearly disposed of, when the parties 
backed out. I should advise you all to sell." 
Mr. Sayre utters this in a tone of decision. 
" Where is it situated ? " 
" Some miles below , Warwick, off the railroad, to the 
ease. It belonged once to a large tract of mineral land 
that for the last fifty years has been known as Hazens. 
It is good for nothing as farming land, never will be." 
" You must know best," Jasper replies modestly. " All 
of us are strangers, and then I am ignorant of the value of 
such property. You wished to purchase it outright ? " to 
Winterburne. "Perhaps you have had some expert's 
opinion ? " 
The tone has in it a suavity that seems innocent enough, 
but it somehow touches Winterburne. 
"No," almost bluntly. " The company are purchasing 
mining property. They have a new process of treating 
ores which may be a success. They have a smelting-fur- 
nace at Warwick. And the property adjoining has been 
taken at a valuation satisfactory to the former owners." 
He has explained all this to Mr. Sayre, and does not go 
into particulars. 
"How long a time have we for consideration ? You 
know, I suppose, that it is my father, and dot I alone who 
is to consent ? " 
" They would like an answer as soon as convenient ; the 
sooner the better for them." 
" And the ladies " — 
" I shall take Mr. Sayre's advice," says Mrs. Halford in 
her usual gentle tone. 
" Well, it is best to get this settled. The other matter 
there need be no hurry about. And now, having done my 
duty, and established amicable relations, I shall have to 
wish you a good-evening. As soon as you have reached a 
decision, will you let me know ? " 
This seems more particularly addressed to Jasper Brad- 
ley. 
Winterburne rises as well as the lawyer. 
" Oh," cries Cynthia, " there is no need of your going. 
. Why, we have not half talked over old times, nor our sur- 
prise at finding ourselves related. And have you no curi- 
osity to see the home of your ancestors ? " . 
She glances at him with such a piquant sense of astonish- 
ment that he smiles. 
Mrs. Halford comes forward. 
" Yes, stay," she pleads with a soft persuasiveness. 
" Stay and have a cup of tea with us. And there will be 
time for a walk about the grounds. There are some very 
fine views." 
He glances toward Regina, but she has turned her face 
a trifle aside, and now answers some remark of Bradley's. 
" Of course he will remain," says Mr. Sayre, who again 
wishes them good-evening. 
" When can I get back to Warwick ? There is a train 
at seven " — 
" And one at nine. Surely that will be early enough." 
He resumes his seat, and now the conversation takes a 
lighter turn. They are all giving him a friendly welcome 
but Regina. Is she afraid he will presume ? She has 
changed mysteriously. She certainly is beautiful in tliis 
soft white gown that falls around her feet in a billoWy man- 
ner, and defines her lithesome form. Her hands lie idly in 
her lap, her whole air is one of repose. Nothing in this 
meeting has touched her, touched any chord of finer sym- 
pathy. 
How it comes, he cannot tell, but something intangible in- 
fluences him in spite of himself, deprives him of his usual 
easy demeanor, and gives him a very slight feeling of suifer- 
 
ing by contrast with Jasper Bradley ; a sense of awkward- 
ness, as if he was not quite of the same world with that young 
man and Miss Halford. After all, is he ? Has she not 
gone beyond the girl he has known and watched in her 
plaiu gown, and with her anxious face ? She need not be 
anxious now, thank Heaven ! and he is glad, even if she 
has drifted away from him. Oh, was she near ? Was it 
anything more than a reflection of his own love, his ardent 
wishes, making a rose-tinted atmosphere of hope ! 
ilrs. Halford begins to excuse herself, pleading house- 
hold cares. 
"No," exclaims Regina rising. "I will see to the sup- 
per. Sit still and enjoy the talk." 
She presses her hand lightly on her mother's shoulder, 
smiles down into the placid face, and goes gently, the white 
train following her like a meandering stream. Jasper 
draws his chair nearer. The devotion of these three women 
to Winterburne rather piques him, since he has been used 
to all the attention. He begins to feel a little jealous, and 
these are the only relatives he has ever known, the only 
people on whom he has a sympathetic claim. 
Mrs. Halford has an old-fashioned, womanly charm. 
There is a delicacy about her that one associates with high 
breeding, and a desire to have things pleasant for every one. 
She has been so accustomed to smoothing down the thorns 
•she could not take out of her children's path, that it has 
given her a fine tact in certain lines, or what would appear 
so to others, but it is simply a love of harmonious adjust- 
ment. In her gentle way she seems to uphold the securi- 
ties of household life, and give them a sacredness. You could 
never think of her as being anything but the centre of a 
cheerful living. She has none of the dissatisfactions that 
create reforms, or the ambitions that evolve new paths. 
Her soft lavender gray gown seems a part of her. Even 
the new accession of wealth and comfort are toned to the 
every-day using, as if it had always been so. 
Winterburne seems in a sort of haze, as if he had dreamed 
that old life and was not yet clearly awake. The money is 
likely to make such a great difference with him that he 
feels like a boy who throws up his cap and shouts for very 
delight. It certainly has made very little difference with 
them, unless it is Kegina, who always was reticent and 
stately. And Jasper Bradley — he cannot place him at 
once. He too has an air of luxury as if life had been of 
the holiday sort. He tries to gauge him by his conversa- 
tion, which has a wide range, and the air of being at home 
on all the subjects he touches. That it is a subtile, elusive 
flavor he cannot tell at present, his own experience is not 
wide enough for such discrimination. He has learned, too, 
that it is only extremely shallow natures that can be 
weighed and measured at a first interview. 
Cynthia questions him about Warwick. They have not 
yet visited that place in their journeyings about, which have 
been largely governed by Eegina's tastes, and she is not 
interested in fields of labor at present. It is an ugly, sooty, 
noisy town with swarms of children and men who are con- 
tinually making disturbances of some sort. They have 
been to inspect the great smelting-furnace at Staunton, the 
railroad shops, the steel processes, the big machine works, 
and that has satisfied their slight interest in such matters. 
" And you are really going to live there ? " Cynthia asks 
with bright eyed interest. 
" Yes ; I have a pretty cottage in view. My sister is 
anxious to rejoin me ; it is two years since we have really 
lived together, though I go home as often as I can. There 
are only the two of us " — 
" There will be more now. You cannot throw us over if 
the old adage holds true, that blood is thicker than water. 
And what is your sister like ? " 
" Cynthia," murmurs the mother in tender reproof. 
" mother dear ! Mr. Hilliard need not tell us of her 
faults. Hjow pretty the old name sounds," and she gives a 
short laugh, thinking of the winter when they first met 
him. "Is she tall or short, fair or dark, and has she a: 
mission ? So many Eastern women have, you know, and I 
think a hobby must be interesting, if you believe in it with' 
all your soul." 
 
"Have you not taken up one?" and he smiles rather 
amusedly. 
"No; life has been too smooth. There must be some 
angles, some salient points, or a woman must have a strong 
desire for a career. And I haven't any genius." 
She utters this very simply. Honesty is a part of her 
nature. 
" I do not know as my sister has what you would call 
genius," he says tentatively. 
" Oh, then she has something. Come, that is interesting." 
Cynthia raises her eyes in expectation. Such a little 
more would make them languishing, but her frank face 
interferes with much sentiment. 
" She has a talent for designing, illustrating ; she can 
make the most expressive faces; she has a vein of broad 
comicality, which she hates, for she is a rather intense 
person, and life has been sad enough to her. I cannot 
understand how you oome by qualities and aptitudes that 
you cannot approve of even to yourself — I do not mean 
faults, ia this instance." 
' Why has life been so sad to her ? It seems to me 
that you would not let circumstances jar and grind any one 
in your care." 
" Thank you." The kindly estimate touches him keenly, 
though she has not intended it for compliment. 
" It was something that no one could help after it once 
happened. She slipped down-stairs one day at school. 
There was an eager crowd behind her, all were hurrying. 
She was picked up with a broken leg, and in due course of 
time recovered. Afterward there came some trouble in 
her hip. Perhaps if it had been looked after early enough 
— but when it was taken in hand it was too late to do any- 
thing beyond causing months of intense suffering. She 
accepted her misfortune with a good deal of bravery," and 
his tone drops to a sympathetic sweetness, " By the time 
she was eighteen her lot was decided, and she set about 
making the best of it. Her father died. There was a 
little money, and after a while, in trying to amuse herself, 
she found out her gift. She had a teacher and perfected 
herself in the technicalities of the art, and illustrated a 
child's story so acceptably, that it was taken, and with 
it a most kindly proffer for future work. We kept house 
together; but business has taken me away, though she 
is in good hands and friends come at intervals to stay 
with her. And now there is a prospect of our being settled 
again." 
" What a pathetic story ! " cries Perdita, whose fancy 
responds quickly to the unusual, and her sympathies go 
ou* to misfortune. With a little shiver she gives thanks 
that she is sound, that no evil has befallen her. 
" Is she very " — how shall she frame her inquiry. 
He understands. 
" She is very lame occasionally. The joint was weakened 
by an operation, which, after all, was for the best. She 
never feels quite safe without her crutch. But she goes 
about the house, and sometimes one would hardly remark 
it. She is as tall as your sister, and is not ungraceful. 
She is very fair, with light hair, — flaxen, I think it would 
be called." 
" I want to see her," exclaimed Cynthia with interest. 
" You will not forget when yon are settled ? " 
" Mr. Winterburne can bring her here," says Mrs. Hal- 
ford, her motherly heart in a tender glow. " We shall be 
glad to meet her, and will make her comfortable." 
" The house is capacious, the out-of-doors boundless, and 
it is all delightful," subjoins Perdita enthusiastically. 
" How good you all are ! " he replies warmly. 
At that juncture Regina appears with the announcement 
that supper is ready. The Beverly people eschew tea-bells 
as savoring too much of boarding-houses. Kegina's in- 
stincts incline to invitations as well. 
She has heard the last, and there is a slight crease of 
dissatisfaction on her fair brow. Does fate mean to bring 
him nearer all the time ? 
Jasper quietly excuses himself. He must look after his 
father. 
 
" Yes," says Regina ; " let iis have the family all together. 
We will wait until you go for him." 
Jasper runs lightly up the stairs. His father still lies 
on the sofa, his wrinkled face pallid, his lips a bluish pur- 
ple, his eyes not quite closed. He breathes regularly, but 
the son knows it is not the normal sleep of health. 
"Poor father," he murmurs, "one' cannot altogether blame 
him. And it comes in opportunely now. He and Winter- 
burne would be sure to stumble upon some point of dissen- 
sion. I want to learn more about the young man." 
He gently excuses him as not feeling very well, and they 
all go in to supper. But when they are seated, and the 
repast begins, the atmosphere has changed again. Winter- 
burue has at first a rather smothered sensation, as if the 
room were too warm; he is quite sure his face is flushed, 
and he knows it has been sun aud wind burned. He 
glances over at Bradley, who is so delicately fair and 
refined, who is slim and graceful as Eegina herself, and he 
feels overgrown, bulky, and at a disadvantage, as before. 
Jasper seems to have started into a vein of light badinage 
with the girls that somehow shuts him out, since, no matter 
how ridiculous the argument jnay be, he appeals to both 
Mrs. Halford and Regina, as if he had long ago established 
his claim. Winterburne has had so little call for the airy 
nothings that make conversation brilliant, that he is utterly 
at loss. As the ball is tossed to and fro, he misses it, aud 
finally makes no attempt to snatch at its sparkling edge. 
Regina is watching him carelessly. She can formulate 
objections now that she felt but vaguely before, 'i'he man 
does not come up to her standard. She has a right to raise 
it now, but it is not in reality any higher than it was then. 
She is just the same self. She was simply out of her 
normal sphere ; she is in it at present, and that is all the 
difference. 
Winterburne glances at her occasionally, when, by some 
sure instinct, he feels that her eyes are turned a little 
away. The honest gentleman is sadly puzzled. Where 
has he made the mistake ? Not in fancying her the guard- 
ian angel of a few rooms or a simple cottage — from the 
first, he has placed her on a pedestal, and desired wealth 
for her sake, for his own he is quite indifferent. His few 
straits and pinches have been rather amusing, since his 
strong hands could soon extricate himself. He has never 
thought of wanting her to share them. He has quite as an 
unorthodox opinion of thB uses of adversity as Cynthia. 
One man has the will and the courage to buffet across the 
adverse torrent, and the world is never weary of shouting 
over his success ; but of the hundreds whose weak hands 
are dashed down, who hears, except in pity or derision ! 
When the supper is ended they all go out of doors and 
stroll around. Jasper draws Mrs. Halford's hand within 
his arm, cutting off that refuge, for he feels now that 
Reginawill be merely polite. In a certain way he reads 
the stately young girl, who would passionately protest at 
the rendering if she knew it. The tall trees cast long 
twilight shadows about. The sun has dropped down 
behind the farther mountain. The more vivid tints have 
