"I don't believe you will ever be forty again," thought Morris. "By the
way, Josephine, have you thought of that investment I spoke to you
about? I can get a hundred shares of mining stock for you, at five
dollars a share--the inside price--while to the general public it is
only sold at ten."
"It may be as you say, Ferdinand, but my aunt lost money in mining
stocks, and I shall hardly dare to venture."
"Confound your aunt!" said Morris to himself. "I assure you, Josephine,
this is a chance to double your money in three months."
"Have you invested in it yourself, Ferdinand?"
"Oh, yes," answered Morris, glibly, "I have a hundred and fifty
shares."
Suspicious as she was, Miss Morris believed her suitor to be a man of
means, and did not doubt his statement.
"Then I hope for your sake it will prove a good investment."
"Confound her!" thought Morris, "there seems no chance to make her open
her purse strings. She has got to come down liberally, or I won't marry
her."
It was at Miss Marden's door that Ferdinand Morris rang on the evening
after the loss of the ring. He would have kept away, but he had
promised to call, and Miss Morris was very strict in requiring him to
keep his engagements.
He had hardly entered the room when she discovered the loss of the
ring.
"What has become of the ring, Ferdinand?" she asked quickly.
"I thought you would miss it," he replied in some confusion.
"Where is it?" I asked Miss Harden peremptorily.
"Plague take the old cat," thought Morris. "I suppose I may as well
tell the truth."
"The fact is," he stammered, "it was stolen from me on an Erie train
to-day by a pickpocket."
"And you let him do it? What could you be thinking of, Ferdinand?"
"You have no idea how expert these fellows are, Josephine," said
Morris, who certainly ought to know.
"I think a man must be inexcusably careless or simple," returned the
spinster, "to allow a man to steal a ring from his finger. Do you
suspect anybody?"
"Yes; I sat beside a young man dressed up as a countryman. He was such
a good imitation, that I was positively taken in. He looked as if he
had been driving the plow all his life."
"And he stole the ring?"
"He must have done it. There was no one else near who had the chance."
"But how could he slip it off your finger without your knowing it?"
"The fact is, I fell into a doze, and when I was half asleep the ring
was taken. After he had got it he got out at some station, and I am
afraid I never shall see him again."
"I am not satisfied with your explanation, Ferdinand."
"You don't mean to say you doubt my word, Josephine?"
"I paid fifty dollars for that ring at a jeweler's on Sixth Avenue, and
I don't feel like losing so much money."
"But it is my loss, as you gave it to me."
"You forget that in case our engagement was broken, it was to be
returned."
"But you really don't think of breaking the engagement? You don't want
to drive me to despair?"
"Do you really love me so much, Ferdinand?" said the spinster, smiling
complacently.
"Can you doubt it? It makes me very unhappy to have you find fault with
me."
"But you must admit that you were very careless."
"I confess it, but the man looked so innocent."
"Do you think you shall ever meet him again?"
"I think so. He may be in another disguise."
"I will give you four weeks to do so, Ferdinand. If you don't succeed I
shall require you to buy another in its place."
"I will do my best," said Morris.
"I really thought you were sharper, Ferdinand. No pickpocket could rob
me."
"I may try it some time," thought Morris. "It would be rather a
satisfaction to do it too."
"I wonder if I shall meet that country fellow again," thought Morris as
he left the house. "If I do I'll see if I can't frighten him into
returning my ring."
The very next evening, in passing the Standard Theater, near the corner
of Thirty-Third Street Morris saw and instantly recognized the tall,
rustic figure and slouching walk of Joshua Bascom. He paused a moment
in indecision, then summoning up all his native bravado, he stepped
forward, and laid his hand on Joshua's shoulder.
"Look here, my friend," he said in tone of authority, "I have some
business with you."
CHAPTER VIII.
MR. BASCOM'S SAD PLIGHT.
Joshua turned in alarm, fearing that he was in the hands of a
policeman.
"What have I done?" he began. Then recognizing Morris, he said, "Why,
it's the man who stole my wallet."
"You must be crazy," rejoined Morris. "I charge you with theft."
"Well, that beats all!" ejaculated Joshua. "Just give me back my ten
dollars."
"I admire your cheek, my friend," said Morris, "but it won't go down.
Where is that ring you stole from my finger?"
"You left it in my pocket when you put in your hand and stole my
wallet."
"Ha, you confess that you have got it. Where is it?"
"Give me back my wallet and I may tell you."
"My rural friend, you are in great danger. Do you see that policeman
coming up the street? Well, I propose to give you in charge unless you
give me back my ring."
"I haven't got it," said Joshua, beginning to feel uneasy.
"Then give me fifty dollars, the sum I paid for it."
"Gosh all hemlock!" exclaimed Joshua impatiently. "You talk as if I was
a thief instead of you."
"So you are."
"It's a lie."
"Of course you say so. If you haven't fifty dollars, give me all you
have, and I'll let you off."
"I won't do it."
"Then you must take the consequences. Here, policeman, I give this man
in charge for stealing a valuable ring from me."
"When did he do it--just now?"
"Yes," answered Morris, with unexpected audacity. "He looks like a
countryman but he is a crook in disguise."
"Come along, my man!" said the policeman, taking Joshua in tow. "You
must come with me."
"I hain't done nothing," said Joshua. "Please let me go, Mr.
Policeman."
"That's what they all say," remarked Morris, shrugging his shoulders.
"I see, he's an old offender," said the intelligent policeman, who had
only been on the force three months.
"He's one of the most artful crooks I ever met," said Morris. "You'd
swear he was a countryman."
"So I be," insisted Joshua. "I came from Barton, up Elmira way, and
I've never been in the city before."
"Hear him!" said Morris, laughing heartily. "Ask him his name."
"My name's Joshua Bascom, and I go to the Baptist church reg'lar--just
write and ask Parson Peabody, and he'll tell you I'm perfectly
respectable."
"My friend," said Morris, "you can't fool an experienced officer by any
such rigmarole. He can read you like a book."
"Of course I can," said the policeman, who felt the more flattered by
this tribute because he was really a novice. "As this gentleman says, I
knew you to be a crook the moment I set eyes on you."
They turned the corner of Thirtieth Street on their way to the station
house. Poor Joshua felt keenly the humiliation and disgrace of his
position. It would be in all the papers, he had no doubt, for all such
items got into the home papers, and he would not dare show his face in
Barton again.
"Am I going to jail?" he asked with keen anguish.
"You'll land there shortly," said Morris.
"But I hain't done a thing."
"Is it necessary for me to go in?" asked Ferdinand Morris, with
considerable uneasiness, for he feared to be recognized by some older
member of the force.
"Certainly." replied the policeman, "you must enter a complaint against
this man."
Morris peered into the station house, but saw no officer likely to
remember him, so he summoned up all his audacity and followed the
policeman and his prisoner inside. There happened to be no other case
ahead, so Joshua was brought forward.
"What has this man done?" asked the sergeant.
"Stolen a ring from this gentleman here," answered the policeman.
"Was the ring found on his person?"
"No, sergeant. He has not been searched."
"Search me if you want to. You won't find anything," said Joshua.
"He has probably thrown it away," said Ferdinand Morris, sotto voce.
"No, I hain't."
"What is your name, sir?" asked the sergeant, addressing Morris.
"My name is Clarence Hale," answered Morris, boldly, taking the name of
a young man of respectable family whom he had met casually.
"Where do you live?"
"On Fourth Avenue, sir, near Eleventh Street."
"Do you swear that this man stole your ring?"
"Yes, sir."
"Where?"
"In front of the Standard Theater."
"How could he do it?" continued the sergeant. "He could not take it
from your hand?"
"It was in my pocket. I found him with his hand in my pocket," answered
Morris, glibly.
"By gracious!" ejaculated Joshua, his eyes distended with amazement, "I
never heard a fellow lie so slick before, in all my life."
"Silence!" said the sergeant. "Mr. Hale, will you appear to-morrow
morning at Jefferson Market, and testify against this man?"
"Yes, sir."
"Officer, have you ever arrested this man before?" went on the
sergeant.
"I'm not quite sure, sir. You see he's in disguise now. I think he's
wan of the gang."
Things began to look bad for poor Joshua, who was in a fair way to be
railroaded to the penitentiary, as no doubt more than one innocent man
has been before now, through an unfortunate complication.
"I wish I had some friend to speak up for me," he said, almost sobbing.
"This is awful!"
"So you have!" said an unexpected voice.
Joshua turned, and to his inexpressible relief saw Fred standing on the
threshold.
"It's the train boy!" he exclaimed joyfully.
Fred had set out to call upon Joshua that evening, and had chanced to
see him going into the station house with the confidence man. He had
followed to find out what it meant.
There was one who was not so well pleased to see him. Ferdinand Morris
turned pale, and tried to make his escape.
"Excuse me," he said. "I am faint, and must get out into the air."
But Fred stood in his way.
"Not so fast, Mr. Ferdinand Morris," he said. "What trick are you up to
now?"
"Do you know this man, Fred?" asked the sergeant, who had known the
train boy for three years, for he lived only one block away on the same
street.
"Yes, sir, he stole the wallet of this young man on my train on the
Erie less than a week since."
"But he said the prisoner stole his ring."
"He left the ring in Mr. Bascom's pocket, when he was feeling for the
wallet."
"This is a great mistake," said Morris, hurriedly. "I never saw this
train boy before, and haven't traveled on the Erie road for a year."
"This man is telling a falsehood," said Fred.
"Will you swear that he was on your train and robbed this countryman?"
asked the sergeant.
"Yes, sir."
"Is there any officer who recognizes him?" the sergeant inquired,
looking round the room.
"I do," answered a stout policeman, who just then entered the station
house. "I arrested him six months since, but he managed to slip away."
"The prisoner is discharged," said the sergeant. "Hold the complainant
instead."
To his great joy Joshua was set free, and Mr. Morris, alias Hale, was
collared by a policeman, though he made a desperate struggle to escape.
"I'll get even with you, boy!" said Morris savagely, addressing Fred.
"Come along, Mr. Bascom," said Fred. "I presume you don't care to stay
here any longer."
"Not if I know it," said Joshua, fervently. "If I live till to-morrow
morning, I'll start back to Barton. I've seen all I want to of York. I
won't feel safe till I get home, in sight of the old meetin' house. I
wouldn't have dad know I'd been arrested for a load of pumpkins."
CHAPTER IX.
A LONG TRIP.
Fred appeared at the depot the next morning the superintendent said to
him, "I shall have to change your train to-day. You will wait for the
nine o'clock train for Suspension Bridge."
"When shall I get there?"
The superintendent, referring to his schedule of trains, answered, "At
11.44 to-night. The boy who usually goes on this train is sick."
"When shall I return?"
"Let me see, it is Saturday. If you would like to stay over a day and
see Niagara Falls, you can do so, and start on your return Monday
morning at 8.35. How do you like the arrangement?"
"Very much. I was only thinking how I could get word to my mother. She
will feel anxious if I am not back at the usual time."
"You might send her a note by a telegraph messenger."
At this moment Fred espied a boy of his acquaintance in the street
outside.
"Here, Charlie Schaeffer," he called, "do you want to earn a quarter?"
"Yes," answered the boy quickly. "What do you want me to do?"
"Take a note to my mother."
"It'll cost me almost a quarter for expenses."
"I will pay that besides."
"All right! Give me the letter."
Fred scribbled these few lines:
DEAR MOTHER,
I am sent to Suspension Bridge and shall not probably be back till late
Monday evening, or perhaps Tuesday morning. Don't worry.
                                            FRED.
Charlie Schaeffer, a stout German boy, who was temporarily out of work,
was glad of the chance of earning a quarter for himself, and started at
once on his errand. Fred, quite elated at the prospect of seeing
Niagara Falls, prepared for his trip. He had to carry a larger supply
of stock on account of the length of the journey, and was instructed to
lay in a fresh supply at Buffalo for the home trip.
He was about to enter the car at ten minutes of nine when Joshua Bascom
appeared on the platform with a well-worn carpet-bag in his hand.
"Are you going back, Mr. Bascom?" asked the train boy.
"Yes," answered Joshua. "I don't want to go to no more station houses.
I shan't rest easy til I'm back in Barton. You hain't seen any
policeman lookin' for me, have you?"
"No; you haven't done anything wrong, have you?"
"Not as I know of, but them cops is very meddlesome. I thought that
pickpocket might have set 'em on my track."
"You are safe here. This is New Jersey, and a New York policeman can't
arrest you here."
"That's good," said Joshua with an air of relief. "Where are you going
to-day?"
"I'm going all the way with you."
"You ain't goin' as far as Barton?"
"Yes, I am, and farther too. I'm going to Niagara."
"You don't say? And you don't have to pay a cent either?"
"No, I get paid for going."
"I wish I was goin' to Niagara with you. By hokey, wouldn't the folks
stare if I was to come home and tell 'em I'd seen the Falls!"
"Can't you go?"
"No, I've spent all the money I can afford. I must wait till next
year."
"Did you spend all of your money, Mr. Bascom?"
"No," chuckled Joshua. "I've only spent the fifteen dollars I got for
that ring, and shall carry home the ten dollars."
"You are an able financier, Mr. Bascom. You've made your expenses, and
can afford to go again. You must tell your father how you got the best
of a pickpocket."
"So I will. I guess he'll think I'm smarter than he reckoned for."
At about half-past four in the afternoon, Fred was called upon to bid
his country friend good-by. Looking from the door of the car, he saw
Joshua climb into a hay wagon driven by an elderly man whose appearance
led him to conclude that he was the "dad" to whom Joshua had frequently
referred.
The sun sank, the darkness came on, but still the train sped swiftly
over its iron pathway. The passengers settled back in their seats, some
fell asleep, and the hum of conversation ceased. Fred too gave up his
trips through the cars, and stretching himself out on a seat, closed
his eyes. Presently the train came to a stop, and the conductor,
putting in his head at the door, called out "Niagara Falls."
Fred rose hastily, for he had made up his mind to get out at this
point. He descended from the train, and found himself on the platform
of the station.
He had already selected the hotel, a small one where the rate was very
moderate, and as there was no carriage representing it at the train he
set out to walk. It was a small, plain-looking inn, of perhaps thirty
rooms, named after the proprietor:
THE LYNCH HOUSE.
On the road thither he was overtaken by a stranger, whom he remembered
as one of the passengers on the second car. He appeared to be about
forty years of age, and though it was a warm summer evening he was
muffled up about the neck.
"Are you going to stop here over night?" he asked.
"Yes, sir."
"You are the train boy, are you not?"
"Yes, sir."
"What hotel shall you put up at?"
"One recommended to me by the conductor--the Lynch House."
"I think I will stop there too."
"You may not like it. It is a small, cheap house."
"It doesn't matter. I am well provided with money, but I don't care for
style or fashion. I am an invalid, and I prefer the quiet of a small
hotel. There will be less noise and confusion."
"Very well, sir. I think that is the hotel yonder."
Such proved to be the case. It was large on the ground, but only three
stories in height. Over the portico was a sign, bearing the name. It
was by no means fashionable in its appearance, but looked comfortable.
Fred and the stranger entered. A sleepy-looking clerk sat behind the
desk. He opened his eyes, and surveyed the late comers.
"Can you give me a room?" asked Fred.
"I would like one too," said the other.
"We've only got one room left," said the clerk. "That's a back room on
the second story. Are you gentlemen in company?"
"No," answered Fred. "We are strangers to each other."
"Then I can't give but one of you a room. If you don't mind rooming
together, you can both be accommodated."
"Are there two beds in a room?" asked the stranger.
"Yes."
"Then I don't object to occupying it with this young man. He is a
stranger to me, but I watched him on board the train, and I am sure he
is all right."
"Thank you, sir," said Fred.
"Well," said the clerk, "what does the boy say?"
Fred looked curiously at his companion. He was so muffled up that he
could only see a pair of black eyes, a long sallow nose, and cheeks
covered with dark whiskers. The train boy did not fancy his looks much,
but could think of no good reason for declining him as a room
companion. He felt that the gentleman had paid him a compliment in
offering to room with him, particularly when, as he stated, he had a
considerable amount of money about him. He paused a moment only, before
he said, "Perhaps we may as well room together, then."
"All right! I will go up with you, as the hall boy has gone to bed. I
hardly expected any guests by this late train."
The clerk took the stranger's valise--Fred had only a small paper
parcel in his hand, containing a clean shirt and a collar which he had
bought in Jersey City before taking passage on the train. Up one flight
of stairs the clerk preceded them and paused in front of No. 21, the
back room referred to. He unlocked the door, and entering, lighted the
gas.
It was a room about twelve feet wide by twenty in depth. At each end
was a single bedstead.
"I think you will be comfortable," said the clerk. "Is there anything
you want before retiring?"
"No," answered both.
CHAPTER X.
WHAT TOOK PLACE IN NO. 21.
The clerk closed the door, leaving Fred alone with the stranger.
The latter sat down in one of the two chairs with which the room was
provided.
"I am not sleepy," he said. "Are you?"
"Yes," answered Fred, gaping. "I am not used to late hours. Besides, I
was up early this morning."
"That makes a difference. I didn't get up till eleven. I was about to
propose a game of cards."
"I don't care for playing cards," said Fred. "Besides, I am sleepy."
"All right! You won't object to my sitting up awhile and reading?"
Fred would have preferred to have his companion go to bed, as he was
not used to sleep with a light burning. He did not wish to be
disobliging, however, and answered that he didn't mind.
The stranger took from his hand-bag a paper-covered novel, and seating
himself near the gas jet, began to read.
Fred undressed himself and lay down. He remembered with a little
uneasiness that he had with him the hundred dollars in gold which had
been intrusted to him by the miner. He had had no opportunity as yet to
deposit it in the Union Dime Savings Bank, as he had decided to do, and
had not thought to leave it with his mother. He wished now that he had
done so, for he was about to pass several hours in the company of a man
whom he knew nothing about. Still, the man had plenty of money of his
own, or at least he had said so, and was not likely therefore to be
tempted to steal.
Fred took his place in bed, and looked over toward the stranger with
some uneasiness.
"Are you a good sleeper?" asked his companion carelessly.
"Yes," answered Fred.
"So am I. I don't feel sleepy just at present, but presume I shall
within twenty minutes. I hope I don't inconvenience you by sitting up."
"No," answered Fred slowly.
"I've got my book nearly finished--I began to read it on the train.
When do you expect to go back?"
"Monday morning," Fred answered.
"That's good! We will go and see the Falls together to-morrow. Ever
seen them?"
"No, sir; this is my first visit to Niagara."
"I have been here several times, so I know the ropes. I shall be glad
to show you just where to go. But pardon me. I see you are sleepy. I
won't say another word. Good night, and pleasant dreams!"
"Good night."
The stranger continued to read for twenty minutes. At any rate he
appeared to do so. Occasionally he glanced over toward Fred's bed. The
train boy meant to keep awake till his companion got ready to go to
bed, but he was naturally a good sleeper, and his eyes would close in
spite of him; and finally he gave up all hope of resistance, and
yielded to the inevitable.
Soon his deep, regular breathing showed that he was unconscious of what
was passing around him.
The stranger rose, walked cautiously to the bed, and surveyed the
sleeping boy.
"How peacefully he sleeps!" he said. "He has nothing on his conscience.
At his age it was the same with me. I started right, but--circumstances
have been too much for me. There won't be much sleep for me to-night,
for the detectives are doubtless on my track. I must get rid of one
damaging piece of evidence."
He opened his valise, and, after searching a little, drew therefrom a
massive gold watch rather old-fashioned in appearance, attached to a
solid gold chain. Neither was new, and both had evidently been used for
a considerable number of years.
"I was a fool to take these," said the stranger. "They are more likely
to fasten suspicion on me than anything else. However, I have a good
chance now to get rid of them."
Fred had laid his newspaper parcel on a small table near his bed. The
other carefully untied the twine with which he had fastened it, and,
putting the watch and chain inside the shirt, he carefully wrapped it
up again, and tied it with the same cord.
"The boy will be considerably surprised he opens his bundle and
discovers these," he reflected, with a smile. "He will be a little
puzzled to know how they came there. Well, that is none of my business.
Self-preservation is the first law of nature, and it is important I
should get rid of such tell-tale clews."
This piece of business over, the stranger stretched himself and took
off his coat. He was proceeding to undress when a sudden thought
deterred him.
"On the whole," he said to himself, "I will go to bed as I am. I may
have occasion for a sudden start. It is best to be on the safe side."
He laid his coat on the back of a chair, and putting out the gas,
stretched himself on the bed. He had not thought himself sleepy, but a
recumbent position brought on a drowsy feeling, and before he was well
aware of it he had sunk to sleep. But his slumber was not as sound or
restful as the train boy's. From time to time he uttered ejaculations,
as if he were terror-stricken, and once he waked up with a cold
perspiration on his brow. It took a minute for him to realize his
position.
"What a fool I am!" he muttered in disgust. "I thought the police had
nabbed me, but all's safe so far. If I could only get a little more
sleep--as sound and peaceful as that boy is enjoying--I should wake
revived in the morning. There is no reason why I shouldn't. They can't
have got on my track so soon."
He closed his eyes, and succeeded in dispelling the uneasy feeling
which sprang from the consciousness of having exposed himself to the
danger of arrest. It was now three o'clock. In fifteen minutes he was
sleeping again, and this time his slumbers were less disturbed and
uneasy. He awoke suddenly to find the sun streaming into the room.
"It must be late!" he thought, a little nervously.
But on examining his watch he found that it was only six o'clock.
"I may as well get up," he said to himself. "I shall be safer on the
Canada side. I don't want to wake the boy, for he might be tempted to
get up with me. Besides, if he opened his bundle, the sight of the
watch might arouse his suspicions, and get me into trouble. Fortunately
I did not undress, and can be up and away in two minutes."
He put on his coat, and descended to the office.
"You are down early," said the clerk in some surprise.
"Yes. I want to see the Falls and take an early train West. How much is
my bill?"
He was told, and laid the money on the desk.
"The boy with you remains?"
"Yes, I suppose so. The boy is no acquaintance of mine. I only met him
on the train. There is something about that boy that excites my
curiosity," he added thoughtfully.
"Such as what?" asked the clerk, his curiosity aroused.
"He seems to have something on his mind. His sleep was very much
disturbed. He moved about a good deal, and muttered frequently, but I
could not make out any words."
"Perhaps he has run away from home," suggested the clerk.
The stranger shrugged his shoulders.
"He may have had good reasons for running away," he said. "However,
that is none of my business. I suppose you missed nothing during the
night."
"No. Good morning."
The stranger went out, directing his steps toward the Falls.
An hour later a quiet-looking man entered the office.
"Good morning, Mr. Ferguson," said the clerk. "What brings you here so
early?"
"Business," answered the other briefly. "Did you have any late arrivals
last evening?"
"Yes; two."
"Who were they?"
"A man and boy."
"Are they here still?"
"The boy is up-stairs. The man left at six o'clock. He wanted to see
the Falls before taking an early train. He said the boy seemed very
nervous, and had a troubled sleep."
The detective nodded. "I think he must be the party I want."
"Why, what has happened?"
"The house of a wealthy old gentleman in Elmira was entered yesterday
afternoon, and articles of value taken. I received a telegram this
morning which should have reached me last night, asking me to be on the
watch for any suspicious parties."
"And you think the boy committed the burglary?" asked the clerk in
excitement.
"It looks like it. With your permission I will go up-stairs and take a
look at him."
CHAPTER XI.
FRED FALLS UNDER A TERRIBLE SUSPICION.
About ten minutes before the arrival of the detective Fred woke up. He
generally awoke earlier, but his long ride of the day before had
fatigued him more than usual. It was natural for him to glance over to
the opposite bed, occupied by his traveling companion. He was surprised
to find it empty.
"He must have got up early," thought Fred. "I wonder if he has gone for
good."
This seemed likely, for the stranger's valise had disappeared also.
"I wonder he didn't wake me up and bid me good-by," thought the train
boy.
Then a momentary suspicion led him to search for the hundred dollars in
gold which he had carefully concealed in his inside vest pocket. If
that were taken, he would be in a quandary, for there would be little
chance of his being able to make up the loss to his friend, the Western
miner.
He found, to his relief, that the gold had not been touched, and he
reproached himself for the injustice he had in his thoughts, done his
late room-mate.
"Well," soliloquized Fred, as he lazily got out of bed and drew on his
clothes, "I am not sorry to have the room alone. If I could have a
friend from home with me I should like it, but I don't care for the
company of a stranger."
Fred reflected that he had all the day to himself. He could hear the
roar of the famous cataract, which he had not yet seen on account of
his late arrival the night before, and he determined to go there
immediately after breakfast, or even before breakfast if he found that
it was quite near. He went to the window and looked out, but it was not
in sight.
"I may as well put on a clean shirt," thought Fred, and he went to the
table to open the bundle which he had brought from Jersey City. He had
just unfastened the string when a quick, imperative knock was heard at
the door of his room.
"Come in!" said Fred, with some surprise.
He turned his face to the door, and his wonder increased as it opened
and he saw the clerk and a stranger standing on the threshold. They
entered the room and closed the door behind them.
"What is the matter?" asked the train boy. "Has anything happened?"
"When did your room-mate leave?" asked the detective, not answering his
question.
"I don't know; I only just woke up."
"Did you rest well?"
"That's a very queer question to ask me," thought Fred. "Yes," he
answered, "I rested very well."
The detective and the clerk exchanged glances. This statement did not
accord with what Fred's room-mate had said down-stairs.
"The bed was very comfortable," added Fred by way of compliment to the
house.
"I am glad you found it so," said the detective dryly.
"Did you come upstairs to ask how I rested?' asked Fred, with a smile.
"You are sharp, my young friend," said the detective, "and I think I
may say wonderfully cool under the circumstances."
"Under what circumstances?" asked Fred, his attention drawn to the last
part of the detective's speech.
"There was a burglary committed yesterday afternoon in Elmira," said
the detective, fastening his eyes keenly on the face of the train boy.
"Was there?" asked Fred, not seeing in what way this information was
likely to affect him. "I thought most burglaries were committed in the
night."
"They are, generally, but this was an exception. There was no one in
the house except old Mr. Carver, who is quite hard of hearing. The
burglary probably took place about five o'clock, and the burglar is
supposed to have taken the 5:51 train from Elmira."
"Why, that is the train I was on," said Fred in surprise.
"By a curious coincidence," said the detective with a queer smile, "it
was by your train that the burglar probably traveled."
His tone was so significant that Fred asked quickly, "What do you
mean?"
"I mean, my young friend," said the detective, "that you are suspected
to know something of this affair."
"If you are a detective," retorted Fred, "I don think much of your
sharpness. I have never been in Elmira in my life."
"Probably not," said Ferguson, the detective, with a provoking smile.
"I passed through there yesterday on my way from New York. With that
exception, I never saw the place."
"That may be true," said the detective cautiously, "or it may not. I
will take the liberty of examining your luggage to see if I can find
any of the stolen articles."
"You are welcome to do it," said Fred.
"Bring it out then. Where have you put it--under the bed?"
"All the luggage I have is in this bundle," said the train boy. "You
can open that if you think it will do you any good."
"You are sure you have no valise?"
Ferguson, who, like most of his class, was suspicious, peeped under
each bed, but found nothing to reward his search. Somewhat
disappointed, he went to the table and opened the newspaper bundle. He
did so listlessly, not really expecting to find anything, but as he
unrolled Fred's shirt there was a triumphant look in his eyes when he
uncovered the gold watch and chain.
"Just as I thought," he said, with a nod to the clerk.
"What is that?' gasped Fred.
"It appears to be a watch and chain," answered Ferguson coolly.
"Possibly you can tell me how it came there."
"I know nothing about it," said Fred in dire amazement.
"You do not claim it as yours, then?"
"Certainly not. I never saw it before in my life."
"Is this shirt yours?"
"Yes."
"You brought it with you?"
"Yes."
"Let me open the watch. Do you see this inscription?"
Fred and the clerk approached, and on the inside of the case read the
name, "Philo Carver, Elmira, 1865."
"You see? This is one of the articles stolen from Mr. Carver's house
yesterday afternoon. It is a little odd that this young man in whose
bundle I find it cannot explain its presence."
"You may believe me or not," said Fred desperately, "but it is true all
the same. I know nothing of this watch or chain, and I never saw either
before. Can you tell me what other articles were taken by the burglar?"
"Some government bonds, and a small sum of bank bills."
"Then you had better search for them also here: I will help you all I
can."
"Well, you are a cool hand."
"No; I am innocent, that is all."
"It is pretty clear you have nothing else with you, or you wouldn't be
so willing. However, I consider it my duty to do as you suggest."
He hunted under the mattresses, and finally examined Fred's pockets. At
last he felt in the inside vest pocket and drew out the gold coins.
"Ha, we have something here!" he exclaimed.
"Yes," answered Fred, "but those happen to belong to me."
"Where did you get them?"
"From a friend in New York. He intrusted them to me to use if I needed.
Meanwhile I was to put them in the savings bank."
"Not a very likely story," said the detective suspiciously.
"Likely or not, it is a true story. Does this man Carver claim to have
lost any gold coins?"
"No."
"I thought not."
"However, we come back to the inquiry--where did you get the watch?"
"The man who slept in the room with me must have left it here to throw
suspicion on me," said Fred, with sudden inspiration.
"That is possible," said the clerk, who was favorably impressed by
Fred's manner.
"We must not jump at conclusions," said the detective warily. "I shall
feel justified in detaining the boy after what I have found."
"You won't take me to the station house?" said Fred nervously.
"No; it will answer the purpose if you are locked up in this room--for
the present."
"Then," said Fred, turning to the clerk, "I shall be much obliged if
you will send me up some breakfast."
"It shall be done."
Within half an hour Fred was discussing a beefsteak and fried potatoes
with hearty enjoyment. It takes a good deal to spoil the appetite of a
healthy boy of seventeen.
CHAPTER XII.
FRED AS A PRISONER.
After breakfast Fred became restless. It was tantalizing to be so near
the Falls, and yet to be locked up, and prevented from seeing them. Of
course it would all come right in time, but it was hard to bear the
suspense and confinement. Hunting round the room he found a juvenile
book, and sitting down at the window read it. It helped to while away
the time till twelve o'clock. He had scarcely read the last page when
he heard the key turning in the lock outside. The door opened and two
persons appeared at the entrance. One was the clerk the other a boy,
rather short, with a bright, attractive face.
"I thought you might like company," said the clerk in a friendly
manner. "This is my young cousin, Frank Hamblin, who will remain with
yon for a while."
"I am glad to see you, Frank," said Fred offering his hand. "You are
very kind to come and see a bold, bad burglar."
"You don't look much like it," said Frank, laughing. "Still appearances
are deceitful."
"I don't think I look wicked," said Fred meditatively, as he glanced at
his reflection in a small mirror that hung over the washstand. "Yet it
appears that I have broken into a gentleman's house in Elmira, and
stolen a gold watch and chain and some government bonds."
"How could you do it?" asked Frank with much seriousness. "So young and
yet so wicked!"
"That's the question that puzzles me," said Fred. "How could I do it
when at the time the burglary was committed I was speeding over the
Erie road at the rate of thirty miles an hour?"
"Can you prove this?" asked Frank eagerly.
"Certainly I could, if the conductor or brakeman of my car were here."
"Where are they?"
"Probably on their way back to New York."
"Do you live there?"
"Yes."
"I have always wanted to see the city of New York. It must be a gay
place."
"You are right there, Frank. Whenever you do come, just inquire for
Fred Fenton, and I will show you round. There is my address."
"Thank you! I should like it ever so much. Have you ever been here
before?"
"No. I wanted very much to see the Falls, but here I am locked up in a
hotel chamber. I wish the Falls were visible from the window."
"They are on the other side of the house."
"Do you know this detective--the one that searched me?"
"Yes, I have seen him. I heard him tell my cousin that he did not
believe you guilty, but that finding the watch and chain in your bundle
was a suspicious circumstance."
"I suppose it is. Now I can understand how innocent people get into
trouble. Do you live here?"
"No, I am only visiting some friends here. I live in Auburn."
"That's where the State's prison is, isn't it?"
"Yes."
"Then I hope I shan't go to Auburn to live. Have you any idea how long
I shall have to stay here?"
"Till evening, I suppose. You will probably be brought before a justice
in the morning," was Frank's reply.
Fred sighed.
"How differently things have turned out from what I anticipated," he
said. "I expected to be walking round, and looking at the Falls to-day."
"Hold on a minute!" said Frank. "Mr. Ferguson boards here, and he may
be down-stairs now. I'll ask him if you can't go out under my charge if
you'll promise not to run away.
"I'll promise that fast enough. You can knock me down if I attempt to
escape."
"I am afraid I might find that difficult, as you are at least two
inches taller than I."
"I will be very gentle and submissive. I wouldn't be willing to run
away with such a suspicion hanging over me."
"Excuse me a minute! I'll do what I can for you."
Frank went to the door and attempted to open it, but it was locked on
the outside and resisted his efforts.
"I forgot," he said, laughing, "that I am a prisoner too. Really it
makes a fellow feel queer to be locked up."
"That's the way I feel. You can ring the bell, can't you?"
"A good thought!"
Frank rang the bell, and presently a hall boy opened the door about an
inch, and looked in.
"Is anything wanted?" he asked.
"Is Mr. Ferguson down-stairs?" said Frank.
"He has just come in."
"Won't you ask him to step up here a minute?"
"All right, sir."
The door was relocked, but two minutes later it was opened and the
detective walked in.
"Ha!" he said. "So we have two burglars instead of one."
"I am just as much a burglar as Fred is," said Frank.
"Then," said the detective with a smile, "I may feel it my duty to
search you. You do have rather a hardened expression."
"Do you think I have?" asked Fred smiling.
"Well, no. I wouldn't pick you out for a professional criminal, and to
be honest with you, I doubt whether you know anything of the burglary."
"Thank you! I am glad you have a better opinion of me than that."
"But what is it you want of me, Frank?"
"I want Fred to have a chance to see the Falls. He has never been here
before, and it will be a great disappointment to him if he has to go
away without seeing them."
"To be sure, to be sure!" said the detective thoughtfully.
"I thought you might let him go out under my escort."
Mr. Ferguson smiled.
"What could you do if he took it into his head to escape?"
"You couldn't lend me a club, could you?"
"I don't carry any. That is for policemen, and I have never acted in
that capacity."
"But he won't run away, will you, Fred?"
"No, I prefer to stay here till I am cleared of suspicion."
"You see, Mr. Ferguson," said Frank, eagerly, "there will be no risk
about it. He can give you his parole--that's the word, isn't it?"
"Yes; but this privilege is never accorded to those who are arrested
for burglary."
"It is certainly inconvenient to be a burglar," said Fred, smiling in
spite of his secret anxiety.
"Then you can't let him go?" questioned Frank, regretfully.
"Well, there is one way. I should not consider it safe to let him go
with you, but I might accompany you."
"That will be capital! You will, won't you?"
"Yes, I will," said Ferguson, after a momentary pause. "I have a boy of
my own about the age of--the young burglar--and that perhaps inclines
me to be more indulgent. But you must wait till after dinner."
"Will dinner be sent up here?" asked Frank.
"Yes, for him; but you are not staying at the house."
"I forgot; and I haven't got money enough to pay for a hotel dinner."
"That's all right, Frank," said Fred. "I invite you to dine with me,
and it shall be charged on my bill. I shall enjoy dinner better if I
have company."
"Thank you. I accept the invitation, but I don't like to be an expense
to you."
"Never mind."
Dinner was sent up in the course of half an hour, and the two boys
enjoyed it.
"Are you still attending school, Frank?" asked Fred.
"Yes."
"I should like to, but poor boys like me have to work for a living."
"If you won't tell I will let you into a secret."
"What is it?"
"I am writing a long story. I want to be an author some time. I've
written twenty chapters already."
"You must be smart," said Fred in surprise. "Why, I couldn't write as
much in a whole year."
"Of course I can't tell whether it is good for anything, but some time
I mean to write well."
"Well, Frank, I wish you success, I am sure. Some day I may be proud to
know you."
"Now I might write a story about you, and call it 'The Boy Burglar.'"
"Don't! I have no wish to figure in that character."
Half an hour later the door opened, and the detective entered, dressed
for a walk.
"Now, if you two burglars are ready," he said, "we will take a stroll."
CHAPTER XIII.
THE HOTEL CLERK'S MISTAKE.
"What was the name of your room-mate, Fred?" asked Frank Hamblin, as
they went down-stairs.
"I didn't notice. He registered before me."
"Suppose we look and see. It may be well to know."
They opened the hotel register, and saw written in a bold, free hand:
"F. GRANT PALMER, CHICAGO."
"It may be another Fred," suggested Frank.
"Or Frank. Either name would do for a burglar," said Mr. Ferguson,
smiling. "But it is hardly consistent with professional etiquette to
joke on such a subject. I will endeavor to forget while we are walking
together that one of the party is an offender against the laws, or
under suspicion as such."
"I want to forget it myself," said Fred, "or it will spoil my enjoyment
of Niagara."
"I wonder where Mr. F. Grant Palmer is now," said Frank. "I feel sure
he is the real burglar."
"Then he has probably gone over into Canada," returned Fred. "It is
unlucky for me that he left the watch and chain, but lucky for Mr.
Carver, who will now recover them."
Meanwhile let us follow Mr. Palmer, whose movements are of interest to
us in connection with the suspicion he has managed to throw on Fred.
When he left the Lynch House he proposed, as a measure of safety, to go
over to the Canada side, and indeed he did so. He made his way to the
Clifton House, and registered there, depositing his valise at the
office while he went in to breakfast.
"We have no room at present," said the clerk, politely, "but by the
middle of the forenoon we shall undoubtedly have a few vacancies. Will
that answer?"
"Oh, yes," said Palmer easily. "I am in no special hurry for a room,
but will take breakfast and go out for a walk."
It did occur to Mr. Palmer that the valise, containing as it did the
bonds stolen from Mr. Carver in Elmira, should be carefully guarded.
However, it would surely be as safe in the care of the hotel clerk of
the Clifton as in any hotel room, and probably even safer. So he ate
breakfast with an easy mind, and then, purchasing a cigar, took a walk
along the road which presents the best views of the Falls.
Mr. Palmer felt very complacent.
"It is a blessing to gentlemen in my profession," he soliloquized,
"that Canada is so conveniently near. Here the minions of the law
cannot touch us for any little indiscretion committed under the stars
and stripes. I hear people talking of annexing Canada to the States,
but to that I am unalterably opposed. I should have to retire from
business, and I am not able to do that at present."
He was standing at a convenient point surveying the Falls, when he felt
a light touch on his shoulder. Such was the force of habit that Mr.
Palmer started violently, and turned round nervously.
It was a stout man with a smiling face that confronted him.
"Ha, Palmer!" said the new arrival. "Did you mistake me for----"
"How are you, Wellington? I am glad to see you."
"Instead of----"
"Oh, pshaw! A man naturally starts when he is tapped on the shoulder
unexpectedly."
"I see. You were admiring the Falls."
"Yes."
"There is a good deal of romance in your composition, my dear Palmer,"
said his friend banteringly. "Anything new?"
"Well, yes," said Palmer, glancing around him cautiously.
"Made a strike, eh?"
"Well, something of the sort."
"What is it?"
"I managed to have a stroke of luck at Elmira, yesterday afternoon."
"How much did you get away with?"
"Hush! don't speak so plainly. Suppose any one should hear you?"
"My dear fellow, there is no one within two hundred yards."
"Well, there must be five thousand dollars in bonds and money."
"Very neat, upon my word! You are in luck!"
"How about you?"
"I made a small raise at Buffalo--a paltry three hundred dollars'
worth. It was hardly worth the trouble of taking. Still, a man must
live."
"To be sure!"
"Now with what you picked up you can live a year or two in comfort.
Upon my soul, I envy you. Are you suspected?"
"I have managed to divert suspicion, I think;" and Palmer told his
friend the story of his secreting the gold watch and chain in Fred's
luggage.
"Very shrewd!" said his friend approvingly. "Palmer, you are a credit
to our profession. I shall be content to take lessons of you."
"Oh, you are only joking," said Palmer, his expression showing,
however, that he felt proud of the compliment.
They took a long and leisurely walk together, talking over their mutual
experiences. They had known each other for ten years, having been
fellow boarders together as far back as that at Sing Sing, since then
neither had been caught, though both had been engaged in violating the
laws. Their similar professions had given them a common bond of
sympathy, and they found so much satisfaction in each other's company
that the time slipped by insensibly, and it was half-past twelve before
they found their way back to the Clifton.
Mr. Palmer stepped up to the desk.
"Have you a room for me yet?" he inquired.
"Yes, sir; I can give you No. 67. Here, front!"
A hall boy answered the summons.
"Take the gentleman up to 67," said the clerk.
"Any luggage, sir?"
"You may hand me my valise, if you please."
"Beg pardon; here it is."
"Come up with me, Wellington. We'll continue our talk up stairs."
Palmer merely glanced at the valise, and continued talking with his
friend. The hall boy unlocked the door of No. 67 and led the way
inside.
It was a pleasant room, and Palmer looked about him approvingly.
"I shall be very comfortable here," he said.
"Is everything right?" asked the hall boy, lingering.
Palmer smiled, drew a quarter from his pocket and put it into the ready
hand of the young man.
"You take American coins, don't you?" he asked with a smile.
"Oh, dear, yes, sir. Thank you!"
"That is all for the present. If I want anything I will ring."
Wellington scanned the valise with an eye of interest.
"So that holds the swag, does it?" he asked.
"My dear friend, don't use such vulgar terms!" said Palmer
reproachfully. "It's not only inelegant, but it's imprudent. Suppose
anybody heard you?"
"Your reproof is just, Palmer. I am rather a blunderer, I admit. I see
you are traveling under a false name."
"What do you mean?"
Wellington pointed to a small card attached to the valise. It bore the
name of Edmund Lawrence.
When Palmer's glance fell on this card, a quick glance of dismay swept
over his face.
"That isn't my valise!" he said.
"Not your valise!"
"No. The clerk has made a mistake. I must see him at once!" continued
Palmer, in an agitated voice. "He may have given my valise to this man
Lawrence, and in that case I am ruined. Stay here till I return."
Palmer seized the satchel, opened the door, and descended to the office
in breathless haste. As he dashed up to the desk the clerk eyed him in
mild surprise.
"What is the matter?" he asked.
"Matter enough! You have given me the wrong valise."
"Is it possible?"
"See here; this belongs to a party named Lawrence--Edmund Lawrence.
Give me mine at once."
The clerk looked troubled.
"I am afraid I can't," he faltered apologetically. "I gave Mr. Lawrence
your valise--you will observe that they are very much alike--and he
carried it away two hours since."
Palmer felt ready to drop. To think that after all his careful planning
everything should be jeopardized by a hotel clerk's error.
"Do you know what you have done?" he said, in a hollow voice. "My
valise contained two thousand dollars' worth of securities."
"I am terribly sorry, Mr. Palmer, but I don't think you will suffer any
loss. This Mr. Lawrence looks like a high-toned gentleman. You can see
him within an hour. He went from here to the International Hotel on the
American side of the Falls. I advise you to go over at once, take his
bag with you, and exchange."
CHAPTER XIV.
THE MISSING VALISE.
That he was imprudent in trusting himself on the American side Mr.
Grant Palmer was well aware, but he felt that he was in danger of
losing the entire proceeds of his skilful burglary, and to this he
could not make up his mind. Besides the danger was not very great. Why
should any one suppose that an ordinary valise contained stolen
property? There was nothing remarkable about the appearance of his
hand-bag. Hundreds of them are carried every day. If it were opened by
a dishonest person, of course it would be doubtful if he ever got it
back, but the clerk at the Clifton had said that this Mr. Lawrence
seemed like a high-toned gentleman, who would of course scorn to avail
himself of property not his own.
"Risk or no risk!" decided Palmer, "I must go over and reclaim my
property."
Leaving him to cross to the American side, we will follow Mr. Lawrence,
who, not at all suspecting that the valise he had received from the
clerk was not his own, repaired to the International Hotel and engaged
one of the best rooms in the house, for he was a man of ample means. He
laid his valise on the bed and went down-stairs. Later in the day he
went out to take his customary walk.
Meanwhile Fred and his two companions walked about in a leisurely
manner, surveying the Falls from different points, and finally went to
Goat Island. Here they sat down on a bench and surrendered themselves
to the fascinations of the scene.
"Well, what do you think of Niagara, Fred?" asked Frank.
"It is even finer than I had supposed," replied the train boy.
"Some people are disappointed," said Mr. Ferguson, "because they expect
too much. The Falls of Montmorency are considerably higher but not
nearly as wide. There are some cascades in the Yosemite Valley of over
a thousand feet descent, but they are only a few feet wide. For
grandeur Niagara excels them all."
"I shouldn't like to be swept over the Falls," said Fred.
"It must be terrible!" said Frank, with a shudder.
"The reality is worse than any picture drawn by the imagination. Ten
years since it happened to me to see a poor wretch drawn down to
destruction over the cataract."
The boys looked eager for the story, and he proceeded.
"I may state," continued the detective, "that I was indirectly the
cause of the tragedy. A defaulting bank cashier had got as far as this
point on his way to Canada, which as now was a haven of refuge to
gentlemen of his character. I was close upon his track, and he was in
imminent danger of capture. There seemed to be only one way of
escape--crossing the river above the Falls. By some means he obtained
a row-boat, and being a fair rower set out on his dangerous trip,
exulting in having outwitted me and made his escape. I remember very
well how he stood up in the boat, and with a smile on his face waved
me a mock adieu, as he impelled the little craft out toward the middle
of the river.
"He was a strong, sturdy rower, but he had no conception of the
strength and rapidity of the current. He battled manfully, but the boat
