and had intended to embrace the faith outwardly, having evil in his
heart, Allah did not destroy me immediately, but commanded that the
angel Asrael should write my name in the book of life, that I might
become a man. But Allah gave me no soul, promising only that if I could
win your love, whose suitor I had killed, I should receive an immortal
spirit, which should then be judged according to my deeds. This is
truth. I swear it in the name of Allah, the merciful, the compassionate.
Then an angel gave me garments such as men wear, and a sword, and a good
mare, and I travelled hither to Riad, eating locusts for food. And
though no man knew me, you married me at once, for it was the will of
Allah, whose will shall also be done to the end. The rest you know. If,
therefore, you will love me before I die, I shall receive a soul and it
may be that I shall inherit paradise, for I am a true believer and have
shed blood for the faith. But if you do not love me, when I die I shall
perish as the flame of a lamp that is blown out at dawn. This is the
truth.'

He ceased from speaking and looked again at Zehowah. At first he
supposed from her face that she believed him, and his heart was
comforted, but presently she smiled, and he understood that she was not
convinced. For the story had interested her greatly and she had almost
forgotten not to believe it, but when she no longer heard his voice, it
seemed too hard for her.

'This is a strange tale,' she said, 'and it will probably not satisfy
the people.'

'I do not care whether they are satisfied or not,' Khaled answered. 'All
I desire is to be believed by you, for I cannot bear that you should
think me what I am not.'

'What can I do? I cannot say to my intelligence, take this and reject
that, any more than I can say to my heart, love or love not. It would
indeed have been easier if you had said, "I am a certain Persian, a
fugitive, protect me, for my enemies are upon me." I could perhaps give
you protection if you require it, as you may. But you come to me with a
monstrous tale, and you ask me to love, not a man, but a Jinn or an
Afrit, or whatever it pleases you to call yourself. Assuredly this is
too hard for me.'

And again Zehowah smiled scornfully, for she was really beginning to
think that he might be a Persian disguised as the people said.

'I need no protection from man or woman,' said Khaled, 'for I fear
neither the one nor the other. For I am strong, and if I am able to give
out of charity I am also able to take by force. My fate is ever with me.
I cannot escape it. But neither can others escape theirs. I will fight
alone if need be, for if you will not love me I care little how I may
end. Moreover, in battle, it is not good to stand in the way of a man
who seeks death.'

But Zehowah thought this might be the speech of a desperate man such as
Ali Hassan, the robber, as well as of Khaled, the Jinn, and she was not
convinced, though she no longer smiled. For she knew little of
supernatural beings, and a devil might easily call himself a good
spirit, so that she was convinced that she was married either to a demon
or to a dangerous robber, and she could not even decide which of the two
she would have preferred, for either was bad enough, and as for love
there could no longer be any question of that.

Khaled understood well enough and rose from his seat and went away,
desiring to be alone. He knew that he was now surrounded by danger on
every side and that he could not even look to his wife for comfort,
since she also believed him to be an impostor.

'Truly,' he said to himself, 'this is a task beyond accomplishment,
which Allah has laid upon me. It is harder to get a woman's love than to
win kingdoms, and it is easier to destroy a whole army with one stroke
of a sword than to make a woman believe that which she does not desire.
And now the end is at hand. For she will never love me and I shall
certainly perish in this fight, being alone against so many. Allah
assuredly did not intend me to run away, and moreover there is no reason
left for remaining alive.'

On that day Khaled again called the chief men together in his kahwah,
and addressed them briefly.

'Men of Riad,' he said, 'I am aware that there is a conspiracy to
overthrow and destroy me, and I daresay that you yourselves are among
the plotters. I will not tell you who I am, but I swear by Allah that I
am neither a Persian nor a robber, nor yet a Shiyah. You will doubtless
attack me unawares, but you will not find me sleeping. I will kill as
many of you as I can, and afterwards I also shall undoubtedly be killed,
for I am alone and you have many thousands on your side. Min Allah--it
is in Allah's hands. Go in peace.'

So they departed, shaking their heads, but saying nothing.




CHAPTER X


The Sheikh of the beggars was an old man, blind from his childhood, but
otherwise strong and full of health, delighting in quarrels and swift to
handle his staff. He had at first become a beggar, being still a young
man, for his father and mother had died without making provision for
him, and he had no brothers. As he boasted that he was of the pure blood
of the desert on both sides, the other beggars jeered at him in the
beginning, calling him Ibn el Sheikh in derision and sometimes stealing
his food from him. But he beat them mightily, the just and the unjust
together, since he could not see, and acquired great consideration
amongst them, after which he behaved generously, giving his share with
the rest for the common good, and something more. His companions learned
also that his story was true and that his blood was as good as any from
Ajman to El Kara, for a Bedouin of the same tribe as Abdullah, the
husband of Almasta, came to see him not less than once every year, and
called him brother and filled his sack with barley. This Bedouin was a
person of consideration, also, as the beggars saw from his having a mare
of his own, provided with a good saddle, and from his weapons. In the
course of time therefore the blind man grew great in the eyes of his
fellows, until they called him Sheikh respectfully, and waited on him
when he performed his ablutions, and he obtained over them a supremacy
as great as was Khaled's over the kingdom he governed. He was very wise
also, acquainted with the interpretation of dreams, and able to recite
various chapters of the Koran. It was even said that he was able to
distinguish a good man from a bad by the sound of his tread, though some
thought that he only heard the jingling of coins in the girdle, and
judged by this, having a finer hearing than other men. At all events he
was often aware that a person able to give alms was approaching, while
his companions were talking among themselves and noticed nothing, though
they had eyes to see, being mostly only cripples and lepers.

On a certain day in the spring, when the sun was beginning to be hot and
not long after Khaled had told Zehowah his story, many of the beggars
were sitting in the eastern gate, by which the great road issues out of
the city towards Hasa. They expected the coming of the first pilgrims
every day, for the season was advancing. And now they sat talking
together of the good prospects before them, and rejoicing that the
winter was over so that they would not suffer any more from the cold.

'There is a horseman on the road,' said the Sheikh of the beggars,
interrupting the conversation. 'O you to whom Allah has preserved the
light of day, look forth and tell me who the rider is.'

'It is undoubtedly a pilgrim,' answered a young beggar, who was a
stranger but had found his way to Riad without legs, no man knew how.

'Ass of Egypt,' replied the Sheikh reprovingly, 'do pilgrims ride at a
full gallop upon steeds of pure blood? But though your eyes are open
your ears are deaf with the sleep of stupidity from which there is no
awakening. That is a good horse, ridden by a light rider. Truly a man
must itch to be called Haji who gallops thus on the road to Mecca.'

Then the others looked, and at last one of them spoke, a hunchback
having but one eye, but that one was keen.

'O Sheikh,' he said, 'rejoice and praise Allah, for I think it is he
whom you call your brother, who comes in from the desert to visit you.'

'If that is the case, I will indeed give thanks,' answered the blind
man, 'for there is little in my barley-sack, less in my wallet and
nothing at all in my stomach. Allah is gracious and compassionate!'

The hunchback's eye had not deceived him, and before long the Bedouin
dismounted at the gate and looked about until he saw the Sheikh of the
beggars, who indeed had already risen to welcome him. When they had
embraced the Bedouin led the blind man along in the shadow of the
eastern wall until they were so far from the rest that they might freely
talk without being overheard. Then they sat down together, and the mare
stood waiting before them.

'O my brother,' the Bedouin began, 'was not my mother the adopted
daughter of your uncle, upon whom be peace? And have I not called you
brother and filled your barley-sack from time to time these many years?'

'This is true,' answered the Sheikh of the beggars. 'Allah will requite
you with seventy thousand days of unspeakable bliss for every grain of
barley you have caused to pass my teeth. "Be constant in prayer and in
giving alms," says the holy book, "and you shall find with Allah all the
good which you have sent before you, for your souls." And it is also
said, "Give alms to your kindred, and to the poor and to orphans." I am
also grateful for all you have done, and my gratitude grows as a palm
tree in the garden of my soul which is irrigated by your charity.'

'It is well, my brother, it is well. I know the uprightness of your
heart, and I have not ridden hither from the desert to count the
treasure which may be in store for me in paradise. Allah knows the
good, as well as the evil. I have come for another purpose. But tell me
first, what is the news in the city? Are there no strange rumours afloat
of late concerning Khaled the Sultan?'

'In each man's soul there are two wells,' said the blind man. 'The one
is the spring of truth, the other is the fountain of lies.'

'You are wise and full of years,' said the Bedouin, 'and I understand
your caution, for I also am not very young. But here we must speak
plainly, for the time is short in which to act. A sand-storm has
darkened the eyes of the men of the desert and they are saying that
Khaled is a Shiyah, a Persian and a robber, and that he must be
overthrown and a man of our own people made king in his stead.'

'I have indeed heard such a rumour.'

'It is more than a rumour. The tribes are even now assembling towards
Riad, and before many days are past the end will come. Abdullah is the
chief mover in this. But with your help, my brother, we will make his
plotting empty and his scheming fruitless as a twig of ghada stuck into
the sand, which will neither strike root nor bear leaves.'

When the Sheikh of the beggars heard that he was expected to give help
in frustrating Abdullah's plans he was troubled and much astonished.

'Shall the blind sheep go out and fight the lion?' he inquired
tremulously.

'Even so,' replied the Bedouin unmoved, 'and, moreover, without danger
to himself. Hear me first. Abdullah and his tribe will encamp in the low
hills, in a few days, as usual, but somewhat earlier than in other
years, and a great number of other Bedouins will be in the neighbouring
valleys at the same time. Then Abdullah will come into the city openly
and go to his house with his wife and slaves, and during several days he
will receive the visits of his friends and return them, and go to the
palace and salute Khaled, as though nothing were about to happen. But in
the meantime he will make everything ready, for it is his intention to
go into the palace at night, disguised in a woman's garment, with his
wife, and they will slay Khaled in his sleep, and bind Zehowah, and
distribute much treasure among the guards and slaves, and before morning
the city will be full of Bedouins all ready to proclaim Abdullah Sultan.
And you alone can prevent all this.'

But the blind man laughed in his beard.

'This is a good jest!' he cried. 'You have sought out a valiant warrior
to stand between the Sultan and death! I am blind and old, and a beggar,
and you would have me stand in the path of Abdullah and a thousand armed
men. They would certainly laugh, as I do. Let me take with me a few
lepers and the Egyptian jackass without legs, who has flown among us
lately like a locust out of the clear air. Verily, their strength shall
avail against the lances of the desert.'

'This is no jest, my brother,' answered the Bedouin, gravely. 'Neither
I, nor a hundred armed horsemen with me could do what you will do
unhurt. But I will save Khaled. For in the battle of the pass before we
came to Haïl last summer when I had an arrow in my right arm and a spear
thrust in my side, certain dogs of Shammars encompassed me, and darkness
was already descending upon my eyes when Khaled rode in like a whirlwind
of scythes, and sent four of them to hell, where they are now drinking
molten brass like thirsty camels. Then I swore by Allah that I would
defend him in the hour of need.'

'Why do you not then lie in wait for Abdullah yourself and slay him as
he passes you in the dark?'

'Is he not the sheikh of my tribe? How then can I lay a hand on him? But
I have thought of this during many nights in my tent, and you alone can
do what is needed.'

'Surely this is folly,' said the Sheikh of the beggars. 'You have met a
hot wind in the desert and your mind is unsettled by it. I pray you come
with me into the city to my dwelling, and take some refreshment, or at
least let me send to the well for a drink of water.'

'My head is cool and I am not thirsty, nor is the hot wind blowing at
this time of year. Hear me. I will tell you how to save Khaled from
destruction, and you shall receive more gold than you have dreamed of,
and a house, and rich garments, and a young wife of a good family to
comfort your old age. For the deed is easy and safe, but the reward will
be great, and you alone can do the one and earn the other.'

'I perceive,' said the blind man, 'that you are indeed in earnest, but I
cannot understand what I can do. We know that Khaled is forewarned, for
it is not many days since he summoned the chief men in Riad, with the
Kadi, to the palace, and refused to tell them the name of his father,
but said that if they attacked him he would kill as many of them as he
could.'

'I did not know this,' answered the Bedouin. 'But the knowledge does not
change my plan. Now hear me. You are the Sheikh of all the beggars in
Riad--may Allah send you long life and much gain--they are an army and
you are a captain. Moreover the beggars are doubtless attached to Khaled
by his generosity, and all of you say in your hearts that under Abdullah
there may be more sticks and less barley for you.'

'This is true. But then, my brother, it is otherwise with you, for you
are of Abdullah's tribe and will have honour and riches if he is made
Sultan. How then is my advantage also yours?'

'And did not this Abdullah in the first place divorce with ignominy his
second wife, who is my kinswoman, being the daughter of my father's
sister? And has he restored the dowry as the law commands? Truly his new
wife is even now sitting upon my cousin's carpet. And secondly Abdullah
made himself sheikh unjustly, for our sheikh should be Abdul Kerim's
son.'

'Yet you accepted Abdullah and promised him allegiance.'

'Does the camel say to his driver: "I do not like to carry a load of
barley, I would rather bear a basket of dates"? "Eat what you please in
your tent, but dress as other men," says the proverb. Hear me, for I
speak wisdom. Abdullah will come into the city and go to his house,
intending to prepare the way for evil. And he will walk about the
streets as usual, without attendants, both because he knows that the
people are mostly with him, and also in order not to attract notice. Now
Abdullah is the spring from which all this wickedness flows, he is the
chief camel whom the others follow, the coal in the ashes by which the
fire is kept alive, the head without which the body cannot live. Dry up
the spring, therefore, let the chief camel fall into a pit suddenly,
extinguish the coal, strike off the head. Let them ask in the morning:
"Where is he?" And let him not be found anywhere. Then the people will
be amazed and will not know what to do, having no leader. This is for
you to do, and it can easily be done.'

'What folly is this?' asked the blind man, shaking his head. 'And how
can I do what you wish?'

'It is very easy, for I know that you and your companions are as one
man, living together for the common good. Go to the beggars therefore
and tell them what I have told you, and be not afraid, for they will not
betray you. And when Abdullah walks about the city alone lie in wait for
him, for you will easily catch him in a narrow street, and two or three
score of you can run after him begging for alms, until he is surrounded
on all sides. Then fall upon him, and bind him, and take him secretly to
one of your dwellings and keep him there, so that none find him, until
the storm is past. In this way you will save Khaled and the kingdom, and
when all is quiet you can deliver him up to be a laughing-stock at the
palace and to all who believed in him. For there is nothing to fear, and
I, for my part, am sure that Abdul Kerim's son will immediately be made
sheikh of our tribe so that Abdullah will not return to us.'

'You are subtle, my brother,' said the Sheikh of the beggars, smiling
and stroking his beard. 'This is a good plan, being very simple, and
Khaled will be grateful to us, and honour us beggars exceedingly. Said I
not well that the jest was good? Surely it is better than I had thought,
and more profitable.'

'I have thought of it long in the nights of winter, both by the camp
fire and in my tent and on the march. But I have told no one, nor will
tell any one until all is done. But so soon as you have taken Abdullah
and hidden him, let me know of it. To this end, when we are encamped
outside the city I will come every evening to prayers in the great
mosque and afterwards will wait for you near the door. As soon as I know
that Abdullah is out of finding I will spread the report that he is
lost, and before long all our tribe will give up the search, being
indeed glad to get rid of him. And the rest is in the hand of Allah. I
have done what I can, you must now do your share.'

'By Allah! You shall not complain of me,' answered the blind man, 'nor
of my people, for the jest is surpassingly good, and shall be well
carried out.'

'I will therefore go into the city, where I have business,' said the
Bedouin. 'For I gave a reason for coming alone to Riad, and must needs
show myself there to those who know me.'

So the Bedouin filled the blind beggar's sack with barley and dates from
his own supply and embraced him and went into the city, but the Sheikh
of the beggars remained sitting in the same place for some time, at a
distance from the rest, in an attitude of inward contemplation, though
he was in reality listening to what the hunchback was telling the new
cripple from Egypt. The Sheikh's ears were sharper than those of other
men and he heard very clearly what was said.

'This Bedouin,' said the hunchback, 'is a near relation of our Sheikh,
and holds him in great veneration, coming frequently to see him even
from a considerable distance, and always bringing him a present of food.
And you may see by his mare and by his weapons that he is a person of
consideration in his tribe. For our Sheikh is not a negro, nor the son
of a Syrian camel-driver, but an Arab of the best blood in the desert,
and wise enough to sit in the council in the Sultan's palace. You, who
are but lately arrived, being transported into our midst by the mercy of
Allah, must learn all these things, and you will also find out that our
Sheikh has eyes in his ears, and in his fingers and in his staff, though
he is counted blind, and you cannot deceive him easily as you might
suppose.'

The Sheikh of the beggars was pleased when he heard this and listened
attentively to hear the answer made by the Egyptian, whom he did not yet
trust because he was a newcomer and a stranger.

'Truly,' replied the cripple, 'Allah has been merciful and
compassionate to me, for he has brought me into the society of the wise
and the good, which is better than much feasting in the company of the
ignorant and the ill-mannered. And as for the Sheikh, he is evidently a
very holy man, to whom eyes are not in any way necessary, his inward
sight being constantly fixed upon heavenly things.'

This answer did not altogether please the blind man, for it savoured
somewhat of flattery. But the other beggars approved of the speech,
deeming that it showed a submissive spirit, and readiness to obey and
respect their chief.

'O you of Egypt!' cried the Sheikh, calling to him. 'Come here and sit
beside me, for I have heard what you said and desire your company.'

The cripple immediately began to crawl along by the wall, dragging
himself upon his hands and body, for he had no legs.

'He is obedient,' thought the blind man, 'though it costs him much
labour to move.'

When the man was beside him, the Sheikh took an onion and a date from
his wallet and set them down upon the ground.

'Eat,' he said, 'and give thanks.'

The cripple thanked him and taking the food, began to eat the onion.

'You have taken the onion in your right hand and the date in your
left,' said the Sheikh. 'And you are eating the onion first.'

'This is true,' answered the Egyptian. 'I see that my lord has indeed
eyes in his fingers.'

'I have,' said the Sheikh. 'But that is not all, for this is an
allegory. All men like to eat the onion first and the date afterwards,
for though the onion be ever so sweet and tender, its taste is bitter
when a man has eaten sugar-dates before it. But you have begun by giving
us the mellow fruit of flattery, and when you give us the wholesome
vegetable of truth it will be too sharp for our palates. Ponder this in
your heart, chew it as the camel does her cud, and the well-digested
food of wisdom shall nourish your understanding.'

The cripple listened in astonishment at the depth of the Sheikh's
thought, and he would have spoken out his admiration, but it is not
possible to eat an onion and to be eloquent at the same time. The blind
man knew this and continued to give him instruction.

'The onion has saved you,' he said, 'for your mouth being full you could
say nothing flattering, and now you will think before you speak.
Consider how I have treated you. Have I at once rendered thanks to Allah
for sending into our midst a young man whose gifts of eloquence are at
least equal to those of the Kadi himself? I have said nothing so
foolish. I have called you an ass of Egypt and otherwise rebuked you,
for the good of your understanding, though I begin to think that you are
indeed a very estimable young man, and it is possible that your wit may
ripen in our society. But now I perceive by my hearing that you are
eating the date. I pray you now, eat another onion after it.'

'I cannot,' answered the cripple, 'for my lips are puckered at the
thought of it.'

'Neither is truth sweet after flattery,' said the Sheikh, who then began
to eat the other onion himself.

'I will endeavour to profit by your precepts, my lord,' replied the
Egyptian.

'Allah will then certainly enlighten you, my son. Remember also another
thing. We are ourselves here a community, distinct from the citizens of
Riad, and what we do, we do for the common good. Remember therefore to
share what you receive with the rest, as they will share what they have
with you, and take part with them in whatsoever is done by common
consent. In this way it will be well with you and you shall grow fat;
but if you are against us you will find evil in every man's hand, for
since it has pleased Allah to give you no legs, you cannot possibly run
away.'

Having said this much the Sheikh of the beggars was silent. But
afterwards on the same day he gathered about him the strongest of his
companions, being mostly men who had the use of both arms and both
legs, though some of them were lepers and some had but one eye, and some
were deaf and dumb, according to the affliction which it had pleased
Allah to send upon each. These were the most trusty and faithful of his
people, and to them he communicated openly what the Bedouin had proposed
to him in secret. All of them approved the plan, for they greatly feared
the overthrow of Khaled.

'But,' said one, 'we cannot keep this Abdullah for ever, and we can
surely not kill him, for we should bring upon ourselves a grievous
punishment.'

'Allah forbid that we should shed blood,' replied the Sheikh. 'But when
Abdul Kerim's son is made Sheikh of the tribe, Abdullah will probably
not wish to go back to his people. Moreover it shall be for Khaled to
judge what shall be done to the man, and he will probably cut off his
head. But in the meantime it is necessary to choose amongst us spies,
two for each gate of the city, to the number of twenty-two men, to watch
for Abdullah. For we do not know when he will come, and of the two spies
who see him enter, both must follow him and see whither he goes, and
then the one will immediately inform all the rest while the other waits
for him. From the time he enters the city he will not be able to go
anywhere without our knowledge, and we shall certainly catch him one day
towards dusk in some narrow street of the city.'

The beggars saw that this plan was wise and safe for themselves, and
they did as the Sheikh advised, posting men at all the gates to wait for
Abdullah. He was, indeed, not far distant, and before many days he rode
into the city towards evening, attended by a few slaves and two
Bedouins, his wife Almasta riding in the midst of them upon a camel. His
face was not hidden and the two beggars who were watching recognised him
immediately. They both followed him, until he entered his own house, and
then the one sat down in the street to watch until he should come out,
asking alms of those who accompanied him, until they also went in, with
the beasts. But the other made haste to find the Sheikh and to inform
him that Abdullah had come and was now in his own dwelling.

'It is well,' said the blind man. 'The cat is now asleep, and dreams of
mice, but he shall wake in the midst of dogs. Abdullah will not leave
his house to-night, for it is late, and though he is not afraid in the
daytime, he will not go out much at night, lest a secret messenger from
Khaled, bearing evil in his hand, should meet him by the way. But
to-morrow before dawn, some of us will wait in the neighbourhood of his
house, and two or three score of others feigning to be all blind, as I
am, must always be near at hand, watching us. We will then begin to
importune him for alms, flattering him with fine language, as though we
knew his plans. And this we will do continually, when he is abroad,
until one day to escape from us he will turn quickly into a narrow
street, supposing that we cannot see him. For he will not wish to be
pursued by our cries in the bazar lest he be obliged for shame to give
something to each. Then those who can see will open their eyes and we
will catch him in the lane, and bind rags over his head so that he
cannot cry out, and lead him away to my dwelling by the Yemamah gate.
And if any meet us by the way and inquire whom we are taking with us, we
will say that he is one of ourselves, who is an epileptic and has fallen
down in a fit, and that we are taking him to the farrier's by the gate,
to be burned with red-hot irons for his recovery, as the physicians
recommend in such cases. Surely we have now foreseen most things, but if
we have forgotten anything, Allah will doubtless provide.'

All the beggars in council approved this plan, for they saw that it
could be easily carried out, if they could only catch Abdullah in a
lonely street at the hour of prayer when few persons are passing.

But Abdullah himself was ignorant of the evil in store for him, and
feared nothing, having been secretly informed that most of the better
sort of people were ready to support him if he would strike the blow;
for they suspected Khaled of being a traitor, especially since he had
last addressed the chief men and refused to tell the name of his father.
Abdullah therefore came and went openly in the city.

In the meantime, however, Khaled was informed of his presence and was
warned of the danger. The aged Kadi came secretly by night to the palace
and desired to be received by the Sultan in order to communicate to him
news of great importance, as he said. Khaled immediately received him,
and the Kadi proceeded to give a full account of Abdullah's designs; but
the Sultan expressed no astonishment.

'Let him do what he will,' he answered, 'for I care little and, after
all, what must be will be.'

'But I beseech you to consider,' said the Kadi, 'that by acting promptly
you could easily quell this revolution, in which I, by Allah, have no
part and will have none. For though many persons may just now desire
your overthrow, because they expect to get a share of the treasure in
the confusion, yet few are disposed to accept such a man as Abdullah ibn
Mohammed el Herir in your place. Even his own tribe are not all faithful
to him, and I am credibly informed that many look upon him as an
intruder, and would prefer the son of Abdul Kerim for sheikh, as would
be just, if the rights of birth were considered. And it would be an easy
matter to remove this Abdullah. I implore you to think of the matter.'

'Would this not be a murder?' asked Khaled, looking curiously at the
venerable preacher.

'Allah is merciful and forgiving,' replied the old man, looking down and
stroking his beard. 'And moreover, if you suffer Abdullah to go about a
few days longer he will certainly destroy you, whereas it is an easy
matter to give him a cup of such good drink as will save him from thirst
ever afterwards, and you would obtain quiet and the kingdom would be at
peace.'

'They shall not find me sleeping,' said Khaled, 'and so that I may only
slay a score of them first, I care not how soon I perish.'

'This is indeed a new kind of madness!' exclaimed the Kadi. 'I cannot
understand it. But I have done what I could, and I can do nothing more.'

'Nor is there anything more to be done,' said Khaled. 'But I thank you,
for it is clear that you have spoken from a good intention.'

So the Kadi went away again, and Khaled returned to Zehowah, caring not
at all whether he lived or died. But Zehowah began to watch him
narrowly.

'If this man were a Persian, an enemy and a traitor,' she thought, 'he
would now begin to take measures for his own safety, seeing that he is
threatened on every side. Yet he does not lift a hand to defend himself.
This can proceed only from one of two causes. Either he is a Jinn, as
he has told me, and they cannot kill him, and so he does not fear them;
or else he desires death, out of a sort of madness which has grown up in
him through this love of which he is always speaking.'




CHAPTER XI


In these days many of the Bedouin tribes came near the city and encamped
in great numbers within half a day's journey and less. Abdullah was
exceedingly busy with his preparations, and spent much time in talking
with other sheikhs, hardly making any concealment of his movements or
plans. For by this time it seemed clear to him that the greater part of
the people were with him, and every one spoke of the coming overthrow of
Khaled as an open matter. Khaled himself, too, was reported to be in
fear of his life, and he was no longer seen in the streets as formerly,
nor in the courts of the palace, nor even every day in the hall, but
remained shut up in the harem, and none saw him except the women and a
few slaves. Men said aloud that he was in great fear and distress, and
as this story gained credence, so Abdullah's importance increased, since
it was he who had brought such terror upon Khaled. All this was open
talk in the bazar, but Abdullah was himself somewhat suspicious,
supposing that Khaled must have a plan in reserve for defending his
possession of the throne. Abdullah, however, kept secret the manner in
which he intended to enter the palace, though he promised his adherents
to open to them the gates of the castle, and the doors of the treasure
chambers on a certain day, which he named, at the time of the first call
to prayer in the morning, warning all those who were with him to come
together in the great square before that hour in order to be ready to
help him, if necessary, and to overwhelm the guards of the palace if
they should make any resistance. But he did not know that the man of his
tribe who was kinsman to the chief of the beggars had overheard his talk
with his wife.

Meanwhile the beggars seemed to be multiplied exceedingly in Riad, for
whenever Abdullah went out of his house they came upon him, sometimes by
twos and threes and sometimes in scores, pressing close to him and
begging alms. They also cried out a great deal, praising his generosity
and praying for blessings upon him.

'Behold the sheikh of sheikhs!' they exclaimed. 'He bears gold in his
right hand and silver in his left. Yallah! Send him a long life and
prosperity, for he loves the poor and his name is the Alms-giver. He is
not El Herir but Er Rahman and his heart over-flows with mercy as his
purse does with small coins. Come, O brothers, and taste of his
charity, which is a perpetual spring of good water beside a palm tree
full of sugar-dates! Ya Abdullah, Servant of Allah, we love you! You are
our father and mother. Your kefiyeh is the banner which goes before our
pilgrimage. Come, O brothers, and taste of his charity.'

Abdullah was not dissatisfied with these words, and the beggars said
much more to the same effect, which he regarded as signs of his
popularity, so that he opened his purse from time to time and threw
handfuls of money into the crowd, not counting the cost since he
expected to be master of all the treasure in Riad within a few days. But
the beggars were disappointed, for they had hoped that he would turn out
to be avaricious, and endeavour to elude them by walking through narrow
and lonely streets, where they might catch him. So they pressed more and
more upon him every day, trying to exhaust his patience and his charity.
In this however they failed, not understanding that the vanity of such a
man is inexhaustible and knows no price. Abdullah, too, chose rather to
be abroad during the daytime than in the evening or the early morning,
for he desired to be seen by the multitude and spoken of as he went
through the market-place. Yet on the last evening of all he fell into
the hands of the Sheikh of the beggars, and evil befell him.

The hour of prayer was passed and it was almost the time when lights are
extinguished. Then Abdullah took his sword under his aba, and also a
good knife, which he had proved in battle, and which in his hand would
pierce a coat of mail as though it were silk. Almasta, his wife, also
made a bundle of woman's clothing and carried it in her arms. For they
intended to go to a lonely place by the city wall, that Abdullah might
there put on female garments, before entering the palace. He feared,
indeed, lest if it were afterwards known by what disguise he had
accomplished his purpose, he might receive some name in derision, from
which he should never escape so long as he lived. Yet he had no choice
but to dress as a woman, since he could not otherwise by any means have
gone into the harem.

As he came out of his house, accompanied only by Almasta he was seen at
once by the two beggars who were always on the watch. And then, wishing
to warn their companions, of whom many were lying asleep upon doorsteps
in the same street and in others close by, these two made haste to get
up, pretending to be lame and making a great clatter with their staves,
as they limped after Abdullah. Then he, who loved to exercise charity in
the market-place, but not in the dark where none could applaud him, made
a pretence of not seeing the poor men, and went swiftly on with Almasta
running by his side. But as he walked fast, the two beggars although
apparently lame increased their speed with his, and their clatter also.

'Does a sound man need a horse to escape from cripples?' asked Abdullah.
And he turned quickly into a narrow lane.

'It will be wiser to scatter a few coins to them,' said Almasta. 'They
will then stop and search for them in the dark. For these men are very
importunate and will certainly hinder us.'

But Abdullah was confident in his legs as a strong man and only walked
the faster, so that Almasta could with great difficulty keep beside him.
Then they heard the beggars running after them in the dark and calling
upon them.

'O Abdullah!' they cried. 'The light of your charitable countenance goes
before us like a lantern, and illuminates the whole street! Be merciful
and give us a small coin, and Allah will reward you!'

Then Abdullah stopped in the darkest part of the narrow lane, seeing
that they had recognised him, and conceiving that it would be a reproach
for a sheikh of pure blood to run from beggars; and he feared also that
it would be remembered against him on the morrow. He therefore made a
pretence of being diverted, and laughed.

'Surely,' he said, 'the lame men of Riad could outrun in a race the
sound men of any other city. And, by Allah, I have little money with me,
for I was going to a friend's house to receive a sum due to me for
certain mares; yet I will give you what I have, and I pray you, go in
peace.'

Thereupon he sought in his wallet for something to give them, and while
he was seeking they began to praise him after their manner.

'See this Abdullah!' they said. 'He is the father of the poor and
distressed, and is ever ready to divide all he has with us. Yallah!
Bless him exceedingly! Yallah! Increase his family!'

But when Abdullah had found the money and was putting it into their
hands, he was suddenly aware that instead of two beggars there were now
ten or more, and these again multiplied in an extraordinary manner, so
that he felt himself hemmed in on every side in a close press.

'O Allah!' he exclaimed. 'Thou art witness that unless these small coins
are multiplied a hundredfold, as the basket of dates by the Prophet at
the trench before Medina, I shall have nothing to give these worthy
persons.'

By this time the blind Sheikh of the beggars was present, and he pushed
forward, pretending to rebuke his companions.

'O you greedy ones!' he cried. 'How often have I told you not to be so
importunate? Yet you crowd upon him like wasps upon a date, presuming
upon the goodness of his heart, and when there is no more room you crowd
upon each other. Forgive them, O Abdullah!' he said, addressing him
directly, 'for they have the appetites of jackals together with the
understanding of little children. They would thrust into the dish a hand
as small as a crow's foot and withdraw it looking as big as a camel's
hoof. Their manners are also----'

'My friend,' said Abdullah, 'I have given what I can. Let me therefore
pass on, for my business is of importance, yet the throng is so great
that I cannot move a step. To-morrow I will distribute much alms to you
all.'

'The radiance of your merciful countenance is enough for us,' replied
the Sheikh of the beggars, 'and even I who am blind am comforted by its
rays as by those of the sun in spring, and my hunger is appeased by the
honey of your incomparable eloquence----'

'My friend,' said Abdullah, interrupting him again, 'I pray you to let
me go forward now, for I have a very important matter in hand, though it
is with difficulty that I tear myself away from your society and I would
willingly listen much longer to the words of the wise.'

Then the blind man turned to the other beggars, and his hearing told him
that by this time there were at least threescore in the street.

'Come, my brothers!' he cried. 'Let us accompany our benefactor to the
house of his friend, and afterwards we will wait for him and see that he
reaches his own dwelling in safety. Surely it is not fitting that a
sheikh of such great consideration should go about the streets at night
without so much as an attendant carrying a lantern. Let us go with him.'

Now these last words were the signal agreed upon, and even as Abdullah
began to protest that he desired no such honourable escort as the
beggars offered him, one came from behind and suddenly drew a thick
barley-sack over his head, so that his voice was heard no more, and he
was dragged down by the throat, while the one-eyed hunchback caught him
by the legs and bound his feet and four others laid hold of his hands
and tied them firmly behind him. Nor had Almasta time to utter a single
cry before she was bound hand and foot with her head in a sack, like her
husband. Then at a signal the beggars took up the two as though they had
been bales packed ready for a camel's back, and carried them away
swiftly into the darkness, towards the eastern gate where the blind man
lived in a ruined house together with three or four of his most trusted
companions. He also sent a messenger to his relation, the Bedouin, as
had been agreed. It was already quite dark in the streets and the few
persons who met the beggars did not see what they were carrying, nor ask
questions of them, merely supposing that they had lingered long in the
public square after evening prayers and were now returning in a body to
their own quarter.

The blind man's house was built of three rooms and a wall, standing in a
square around a small court. But only one of the rooms had a roof of its
own, though there was a sort of cellar under the floor of one of the
others which served at once as a lodging for beggars in winter, as a
storehouse for food when there was any in supply and as a place of
deposit for the ancient iron chest in which the common fund of money was
kept. To this vault the Sheikh of the beggars made his companions bring
the two prisoners, and having set them on the floor, side by side, he
proceeded to hold a council, in which the captives themselves had no
part, since their heads were tied up in dusty barley-sacks and they
could not speak so as to be heard.

'O my brothers!' said the blind man. 'Allah has delivered the enemies of
the kingdom into our hand, and it is necessary to decide what we will do
with them. Let the oldest and the wisest give their opinions first, and
after them the others, even to the youngest, and last of all I will
speak, and let us see whether we can agree.'

'Let us kill the man and bury him, and then cast lots among us for the
woman,' said one.

'No,' said the next, a man who had twice made the pilgrimage, and was
much respected, 'we cannot do this, for the man is a true believer, and
evil will befall us if we shed his blood. Let us rather keep him here,
and purify his hide every day with our staves, until Khaled is in no
more danger, and then we will take him to the palace and deliver him
up.'

'It is to be feared,' said the Sheikh of the beggars, 'that the man
might chance to die of this sort of purification, though indeed it be
very wholesome for him, and I am not altogether against it.'

'Let us make him our slave,' said a third who had himself been the slave
of a poor man who had died without heirs. 'The fellow is strong. Let us
buy millstones and make him grind barley for us in this cellar. In this
way he will not eat our food for nothing.'

After this many others gave advice of the same kind. But while they were
talking there was a great clattering and noise upon the stone steps
which led down into the cellar, and a man fell over the last step and
rolled over and over into the very midst of the council, railing and
lamenting.

'It is that ass of Egypt,' said the Sheikh of the beggars. 'I know him
by the clattering of the wooden hoofs he wears on his hands, and also by
his braying. Let him also give his opinion when he is recovered from his
fall.'

'It is strange and marvellous,' said one, 'that he who has no legs
should suffer so many falls, being, by the will of Allah, always upon
the earth. For when we first saw him we found him fainting upon the
ground, having fallen from the wall of a garden, though no man could
tell how he had climbed upon it.'

'I had been transported to the top of the wall as in a dream,' replied
the cripple, 'for there were dates in that garden. But having eaten too
greedily of them I fell asleep on the top and I dreamed that my body was
torn by hyænas; and waking suddenly I fell down. For the dates were yet
green.'

'This may or may not be true,' said the blind man. 'For you are an
Egyptian. Let us, however, hear what you have to advise in the matter of
Abdullah and his wife, whom we have taken prisoners.'

'I fear that you mock me, O my lord,' answered the man. 'But if I am
mocked, I will advise that this Abdullah be also made a sport of, for us
first, and for the people of Riad afterwards.'

'Tell us how this may be done, for a good jest is better than salt for
roasting, and the sheep lie here bound before us.'

'Take this man, then,' said the cripple, 'and uncover his face, and hold
him fast. Then let one of us get the razor and shave off all his beard
and his eyebrows, and the hair of his head even to the nape of his neck.
Then if he came suddenly before her who bore him and cried, "Mother,"
she would cover her face and answer, "Begone, thou ostrich's egg!" For
she would not know him. And to-morrow we will take his excellent clothes
from him and put them upon our Sheikh. But we will dress Abdullah in
rags such as would not serve to wipe the mud from a slave's shoes in the
time of the subsiding waters, and we will tie his hands under his
arm-pits and put a halter over his head and lead him about the city.
Then he will cry out against us to the people, saying that he is
Abdullah, but we will also cry out in answer: "See this madman, who
believes himself to be a sheikh of Bedouins though Allah has given him
no beard! O people of Riad, you may know that the spring is come, by the
braying of this ass."'

'Yet I see now that there may be wisdom in brayings,' said the Sheikh of
the beggars, 'though Balaam ibn Beor shut his ears against it, and was
punished for his cursing so that his tongue hung down to his breast, all
his days, like that of a thirsty dog. This is good counsel, for in this
way we shall not shed the man's blood, nor render ourselves guilty of
his death; but I think we shall earn a great reward from Khaled, and his
kingdom will be saved in laughter.'

During all this time Abdullah had not moved, knowing that he was in the
power of many enemies and beyond all reach of help, but when he heard
the decision of the Sheikh of the beggars he was filled with shame and
rolled himself from side to side upon the floor, as though trying to
escape from the bonds that held him. Almasta, for her part, lay quietly
where they had put her, for she saw that all chance of success was gone
and was pondering how she might take advantage of what happened, to save
herself.

Then the beggars laid hold of Abdullah and held him, while others took
the sack from his head. He was indeed half smothered with dust, so that
at first he could not speak aloud, but coughed and sneezed like a dog
that has thrust its nose into a dust-heap to find the bone which is
hidden underneath. But presently he recovered his breath and began to
rail at them and curse them. To this they paid no attention, but brought
the oil lamp near him, and one began to rub soap upon his face and head
while another got the razor with which the beggars shaved their heads
and began to whet it upon his leathern girdle.

'Do not waste the precious stones of your eloquence upon a barber,'
said the Sheikh of the beggars, 'but reserve your breath and the rich
treasures of your speech until you are brought as a plucked bird before
the people of Riad. Moreover we only wish to shave off your beard, but
if you are restless some of your hide will certainly be removed also,
whereby you will be hurt and it will be still harder for your friends to
recognise you to-morrow. It is also useless to shout and scream as
though you were driving camels, for you are in the cellar of my house
which is at a good distance from other habitations, on the borders of
the city.'

So Abdullah saw that there was no escape, and that his fate was about
his neck, and he sat still as they had placed him, while the one-eyed
hunchback shaved off his beard and the hair on his upper lip and his
eyebrows, and the lock at the back of his head.

When this was done the blind man put out his hand and felt Abdullah's
face.

'Surely,' he said, 'this is not a man's head, but the round end of a
walking-staff, rubbed smooth by much use.'

They also tied his hands under his arm-pits and put upon him a ragged
shirt with sleeves so that he seemed to have lost both arms at the
elbow.

'This is very well done,' said the hunchback turning his head from side
to side in order to see all with his one eye. 'But what shall we do
with the woman? Let us cast lots for her, and he who wins her shall
marry her, and we will hold the feast immediately, for we have not yet
supped and there is some of the camel's meat which we received to-day at
the palace.'

'O my brothers,' answered the Sheikh of the beggars, 'let us do nothing
unlawful in our haste. For this woman is certainly one of Abdullah's
wives, as you may see by her clothes, and unless he divorces her none of
us can take her for ourselves, seeing that she is the wife of a
believer. Take the sack from her head, however, and if she deafens us
with her screaming we can put it on again. But you must by no means put
her to shame by taking the veil from her face, for she may be an honest
wife, though her husband be a dog. If she has done well, we shall find
it out, and no harm will have come to her; but if she is a sharer in
this fellow's plans, her punishment will be grievous, since she will be
the wife of an outcast, having neither beard nor eyebrows and rejected
by all men.'

Some of the beggars murmured at this, but most of them praised their
Sheikh's wisdom, and would indeed have feared greatly to break the holy
law, being chiefly devout men who prayed daily in the mosque and
listened to the Khotbah on Friday. They therefore placed Almasta in one
corner of the cellar and Abdullah in another, so that the two could not
converse together, and then they took out such food as they had and
began to eat their supper, laughing and talking over the jest and
anticipating the reward which awaited them for saving Khaled.

In the meanwhile the night was advancing and many of Abdullah's friends
left their houses secretly and gathered in the neighbourhood of the
palace to wait for the first signal from within. By threes and by twos
and singly they came out of their dwellings, looking to the right and
left to see whether they were not the first, as men do who are not sure
of being in the right. All had their swords with them, and some their
bows also, and some few carried their spears, and they made no secret of
their bearing weapons; but under each man's aba was concealed the
largest barley-sack he could find in his house, and concerning this no
one of the multitude said anything to his neighbour, for each hoped to
get a greater share than the others of the gold and precious stones from
the fabulous treasure stored in the palace. Then most of these men sat
down to wait, as vultures do before the camel is quite dead. But not
long after the middle of the night they were joined by a great throng of
Bedouins from Abdullah's tribe. These had been admitted into the city by
the watchman according to the agreement, and passed up the great street
from the Hasa gate, in a close body, not speaking and making but little
noise with their feet as they walked; yet all of them together could be
heard from a distance, because they were so many, and the sound was like
the night wind among the branches of dry palm trees. After them, other
Bedouins came in from camps both near and far, some of them having made
half a day's journey since sunset; and they surrounded the palace on all
sides, and filled the great street, and the street which passes by the
mosque towards the Dereyiyah gate and all the other approaches to the
open square, sitting down wherever there was room, or leaning against
the closed shops of the bazar, or standing up in a thick crowd when they
were too closely pressed to be at ease. They talked together from time
to time in low tones, but when their voices rose above a whisper some
man in authority hushed them saying that the hour was not yet come.

'By this time Abdullah has slain Khaled,' said some, 'and the daughter
of the old Sultan is a prisoner.'

'And by this time,' said others, 'Abdullah is surely unlocking the
treasure chamber and filling a barley-sack with pearls and rubies. It is
certain that he who slays the lion deserves his bride, but we hope that
something will be left for us.'

'Hush!' said the voice of one moving in the darkness. 'Be patient. It is
not yet time.'

Then, for a space, a deep silence fell on the speakers and they crouched
in their places watching the high black walls of the palace and marking
the motion of the stars by the highest point of the tower. Before long
whispered words were heard again.

'It would have been more just if Abdullah had opened the gate to us as
soon as he had slain Khaled, for then we could have seen what he took.
But now, who shall tell us what share of the riches he is hiding away in
the more secret vaults?'

'This is true,' answered others. 'And besides, what need have we of
Abdullah to help us into the palace? Surely we could have broken down
the gates and slain the guards and Khaled himself without Abdullah's
help. Yet we, for our part, would not shed the blood of a man who has
always dealt very generously with us, nor do we believe the story of the
camels laden secretly in Haïl. However, what is ordained will take
place, and we shall undoubtedly receive plentiful gold merely for
sitting here to watch the stars through the night.'

'The story of the camels is not true,' said a certain man, speaking
alone. 'For I was of the drivers sent with them, and being hungry, we
opened one of the bales on the way. By Allah! There was nothing but
wheat in it, and it was white and good; but there was nothing else, not
so much as a few small coins----'

Then there was the sound of a blow, and the man who was speaking was
struck on the mouth, so that his speech was interrupted.

