No more was said at the time. But something happened soon which involved
both Benton and his associate.
Mr. Smithson, the proprietor, began to find that his receipts fell off.
This puzzled him, for it appeared to him that the restaurant was doing
as good a business as ever. He mentioned the matter to the senior
waiter.
“Benton,” said he, “last week I took in fifty dollars less than usual.”
“Is that so?” asked Benton indifferently.
“Yes; I can’t understand it. Has the trade fallen off any, do you
think?”
“Really, I can’t say. It seemed about the same as usual—that is, the
number of customers did.”
“So it seemed to me.”
“Perhaps they ordered less. Now I think of it, I feel sure that they
did.”
“That might explain it partially, but not so large a falling off.”
“I suppose you haven’t thought of any other solution of the question?”
said Benton, slowly scrutinizing the face of his employer.
“Have you?”
“Well, sir, I have, but I don’t like to mention it.”
“Out with it!”
“I don’t know anything, sir.”
“If you suspect anything, it’s your duty to tell me.”
“Well, perhaps it is, but I might be doing injustice to Grant.”
“Ha! what has Grant to do with it?”
“Nothing that I know of.”
“Good Heavens, man, don’t tantalize me in this way. What do you
suspect?”
“Well, sir, the boy always appears to have money.”
“He seems to be economical, and I pay him well. That counts for
nothing.”
“No, sir, but—some one told me that he had seen him entering a
gambling-house on the street.”
“Ha! that would account for his needing a good deal of money. By the
way, do you ever enter such places?”
“I have entered out of curiosity, sir,” answered Benton, with a burst of
candor. “I wanted to see what they were like.”
“Better keep out of them altogether.”
“No doubt you are right, sir.”
“But about the boy—have you ever seen him take anything from the
drawer?”
“I couldn’t be sure of it, but once when he was alone I entered
suddenly, and saw him near the drawer. He flushed up and came away in a
hurry. I couldn’t swear that he took anything.”
However, Benton’s tone implied that he felt sure of it all the same, and
so it impressed Mr. Smithson.
“Did you have any recommendations with Grant?” inquired Benton, in an
insinuating tone.
“No; but, then, I had none with you, either.”
“That is true. Still, I hope you have confidence in me.”
“I know of no reason why I should not. Do you know if Grant drinks?”
“I don’t think he drinks much.”
“Does he drink at all?” asked Smithson curtly.
“One evening I saw him coming out of a drinking saloon pretty well
loaded. That is the only time, however.”
“It was once too often. Benton, I have been greatly deceived in that
fellow. I thought him a model boy.”
“So did I, sir, and I don’t think he is very bad now. Perhaps he has
been a little indiscreet.”
“It is very kind of you to excuse him; but if what you say is true, I
shall not be able to retain him in my employment.”
“Give him a little more time. Remember that I know nothing positive to
his discredit. He may not have taken the money.”
This half-hearted defence of Grant led Mr. Smithson to think that Benton
was his friend and spoke against him unwillingly. It never occurred to
him that his senior waiter was only seeking to divert suspicion from
himself.
“Very well,” he said. “I’ll keep him on a week longer. Perhaps something
may occur in that time to confirm my suspicions or discredit them.”
The result of this conversation was that the restaurant keeper was all
but convinced that Grant was a sly young villain and was secretly
robbing him. He had a friend, however, who had once been a detective in
St. Louis, though now engaged in a different business in Sacramento.
He sought him out and told him the story.
Vincent listened attentively.
“It looks bad for the boy; don’t you think so?” Smithson asked.
“Yes, if all is true that is said against him. But who says it?”
“Albert Benton.”
“The old waiter?”
“Yes.”
“You have never yourself seen the boy drunk, or coming out of a
gambling-house?”
“No.”
“Then all the testimony to that effect is that of the man Benton?”
“Yes.”
“May not Benton have an object in slandering the boy?”
“He seemed very reluctant to say anything against him.”
“That may be all artfulness, and to divert suspicion from himself.”
“You surely don’t think he would rob me?”
“Why not?”
“He has been in my employ for a year.”
“Then he ought by this time to have a good deal of money saved up—that
is, if his habits are good.”
“I am sure he has not.”
“What evidence have you on the subject?”
“At one time, three months since, I thought of selling out the
restaurant, and asked Benton if he didn’t want to buy it.”
“Well, what did he say?”
“That he hadn’t got fifty dollars in the world.”
“How much do you pay him?”
“Five dollars a day and his board.”
“Whew! and he spends all that?”
“He seems to.”
“Look here, Smithson, you are on the wrong tack. He is the thief, and
not the boy.”
“I can’t believe it.”
“Leave the matter in my hands, and I will prove it to you.”
“How!”
“I shall follow Benton in the evening, and see how he spends his time
and money. But you must be careful not to let him know that he is
suspected. If anything is said of the disappearance of money, tell him
that you attribute it to decrease in trade.”
“All right; I will do as you suggest.”
“He doesn’t know me, and will not imagine that I am watching him.”
Two days later Albert Benton, a little anxious to know whether he had
himself eluded suspicion, asked his employer: “Have you found out
anything about the lost money?”
“I am not sure that any has been lost,” answered Smithson carelessly.
“Have you watched the boy?”
“Yes, but he doesn’t look to me like a thief. It may be, after all, that
we are doing less business.”
“Yes, sir; that’s very likely,” responded Benton, glad that his employer
was disposed to regard the matter from this point of view.
“I don’t like to think that any one in my employ would rob me.”
“Very true, sir. It would be a great shame.”
“It’s all right!” thought Benton complacently. “It is better so. I don’t
care to have the boy discharged. Some one might succeed him whom I
couldn’t hoodwink so easily.”
                              CHAPTER XX.
                           BENTON IS TRAPPED.
Judging that his employer’s suspicions were allayed, Benton ventured to
take two five-dollar bills from the till before he went out in the
evening. Currency was at that time mixed, and bills, as well as gold and
silver, were in circulation.
He left the restaurant at the usual time. It so happened that Grant had
something to do and did not go out with him. Benton, therefore, went at
once to the gambling-house which he was in the habit of frequenting.
“I’m getting tired of being cooped up in the restaurant day after day,”
he said impatiently. “Why can’t I make a strike? If I could scoop in
four hundred dollars to-night I would leave Sacramento and go to the
mines. Then I might strike it rich and carry home ten thousand dollars,
as Grant’s friend did.”
Grant had told him the story of John Heywood’s good fortune, and it had
impressed him.
“If a clodhopper like that can make a fortune, why shouldn’t I?” he
asked himself.
So his purpose to go to the mines and try his luck was strengthened. If
he had begun six months before to save money, he would have had enough
to start before this, but Albert Benton was one of those who despised
small and steady savings, and are always on the lookout to “make a
strike,” as he termed it.
“That boy won’t spy on me to-night,” he said to himself. “I must be
careful. If the old man knew where I spent my evenings he would smell a
rat. I wonder how much I’ve taken from the drawer in the last three
months. Fully as much as my wages, I expect. Well, he can stand it. He’s
making plenty of money, anyhow.”
It was in this way that he excused his thefts. Yet he felt that he would
like to leave the restaurant and put himself in the way of making that
fortune for which he yearned.
Though Grant was not in the street to see where he went, there was
another who quietly noticed his movements and followed his steps. This
was John Vincent, the ex-detective. From the first he had suspected
Benton and doubted Grant’s guilt. He was a man skilled in physiognomy,
and he had studied Benton’s face and formed a pretty accurate estimation
of his real character.
“If Benton hasn’t robbed my friend Smithson’s till, then I lose my
guess,” he said to himself.
He did not, however, say much of his suspicions to the keeper of the
restaurant, who, he saw, was disposed to consider Grant the guilty
party. He waited till he had some evidence to offer in confirmation of
his theory.
When Benton entered the gambling-house Vincent followed close behind
him. Benton saw him, but did not know that he was a special friend of
Mr. Smithson.
Vincent placed himself at a neighboring table in such a position that he
could watch Benton. He saw him take out one of the bills which he had
abstracted from the till, and stake it.
“What do you put down paper for?” asked a man beside him. “Gold is
better.”
“Bills are just as good,” said Benton.
“I will give you gold for bills,” said Vincent. “I want to send some
money to the East.”
“All right, and thank you,” said Benton. “Here are two fives.”
“And here are two gold pieces,” said Vincent.
There was a secret look of elation on his face as he received the bills,
and furtively noticed a red cross on the back of each. They had been
secretly marked by himself as a trap to catch the thief, whoever he
might be.
“Now I have you, my man,” he thought. “This is the evidence I have been
looking for. It settles the question of Benton’s guilt and Grant’s
innocence.”
Vincent played two or three times for slight stakes, and rose from the
table after a while neither a loser nor a winner.
He did not go immediately, but stayed, like many others, simply as a
looker on.
“Won’t you join us?” asked Benton.
“No; I must go away soon. I want to write a letter. I only dropped in
for a few minutes.”
Albert Benton played with unusual good fortune. He had been in the habit
of bewailing his poor luck, but to-night the fates seemed to favor him.
The little pile of gold before him gradually increased, until he had
four hundred and seventy-five dollars.
“Twenty-five dollars more, and then I will stop,” he said. “To-morrow I
will give notice to Smithson and get ready to leave Sacramento.”
But instead of winning the sum desired, he began to lose. He lost
twenty-five dollars, and in desperation staked fifty. Should he win he
would still have five hundred dollars, and then he would leave off. Upon
that he was quite determined. But again he lost. He bit his lips, his
face flushed, his hands trembled, and there was a gleam of excitement in
his eye. He had no thought of leaving off now. It must be five hundred
dollars or nothing!
There is no need to follow him through his mutations of luck. At the end
of an hour he rose from the table without a dollar. He had enough,
however, to buy a glass of whiskey, which he gulped down, and then
staggered out of the gambling-house.
“I was so near, and yet I lost!” he said to himself bitterly. “Why
didn’t I keep the four hundred and seventy-five dollars when I had it,
and get the other from the restaurant? I have been a fool—a besotted
fool!”
He pulled down his hat over his eyes and bent his steps homeward, where
he tossed all night, unable to sleep.
But in the morning his courage returned.
“After all,” he reflected, “I am only ten dollars worse off than when I
entered the gambling house, and that was money I took from Smithson.
I’ve had a pretty good lesson. The next time fortune smiles upon me I’ll
make sure of what I have won, and leave off in time.”
Vincent went straight from the gambling-house to the house of his friend
Smithson. The latter came down stairs half dressed and let him in.
“What brought you here so late?” he asked, rubbing his eyes.
“Because I have some news for you.”
“What is it? Nothing bad, I hope.”
“Oh, no; it is only that I have found the thief who has been robbing
you.”
“It is the boy, then, as I thought,” said Smithson eagerly.
“No, it isn’t the boy.”
“Who, then?”
“Who else is there? It is Albert Benton.”
“Are you sure of this?” asked Smithson, dumfounded.
“Yes; there is no doubt of it.”
“Come in and tell me how you found out.” Vincent entered and sat down on
a chair in the front room.
“I will tell you,” he answered. “I took the liberty to go to your money
drawer and mark four bills this afternoon. I marked them with a red
cross on the right-hand corner of the reverse side. Well, Benton took
two of those bills with him this evening when he stopped work.”
“How do you know?”
“I was near by when he left the restaurant. I followed him at a
distance, and saw him enter Poole’s gambling-house.”
“Well?”
“I entered too, and took my place at a neighboring table. He produced a
five-dollar bill, when some one suggested that gold was preferable. Upon
that I offered to give him gold for bills. He produced two fives, and I
gave him two gold pieces for them.”
“Well?”
“Here they are.”
The detective drew from his wallet two bank-notes, and showed Smithson
the red cross on the reverse side of each.
                              CHAPTER XXI.
                       ALBERT BENTON IS UNMASKED.
“That’s pretty conclusive evidence, isn’t it?” said John Vincent,
tapping the marked bills.
“I didn’t dream of it,” said the restaurant keeper.
“I did. I suspected him as soon as you told me he was trying to fasten
suspicion upon Grant Colburn.”
“You don’t think the boy had anything to do with the theft?”
“I feel sure of it. The boy is an honest boy. You have only to look in
his face to see that. I haven’t been a detective for nothing. I may be
mistaken at times, but I can generally judge a man or boy by his face.”
“Does Benton know that you suspect him?”
“No. I wasn’t going to give myself away. By the way, he had quite a
stroke of luck tonight.”
“At the gambling-house?”
“Yes. At one time he was a winner of nearly or quite five hundred
dollars.”
“Then he will be able to make up to me the amount he has taken.”
“Don’t flatter yourself! I said he was a winner of that amount at one
time. I didn’t say he went out with that sum. As a matter of fact, he
lost it all, and left the place probably without a dollar.”
Smithson looked disappointed.
“Then,” he said, “I shan’t get my money back.”
“I am afraid not.”
“He must have taken hundreds of dollars.”
“Quite likely.”
“The villain!” exclaimed the restaurant keeper. “And I have paid him so
liberally, too!”
“Well, Smithson, it might have been worse. I suspect you have a pretty
tidy sum laid by.”
Smithson’s face changed, and he looked complacent.
“Yes, Vincent,” he said. “I’m worth a little money.”
“Good! Look upon this as a little set-back that won’t materially affect
you, and put it down to the account of profit and loss.”
“Very, good! I will do so. But to-morrow I will give Mr. Benton his
walking ticket.”
Albert Benton came to work as usual in the morning. His employer came in
half an hour late. By this time the waiter had become resigned to his
disappointment of the night previous. He recognized his folly in not
making sure of the large sum he had at one time won, and determined to
act more wisely in future.
Presently, when he chanced to be unemployed, Smithson beckoned to him.
“Benton,” he said, “you remember my speaking to you about missing money
from the till?”
“Yes, sir; but I thought you decided that it was only a falling off in
receipts.”
“Yes, I said that; but it seems to me that the deficiency is too great
to be accounted for in that way.”
“You may be right, sir. You remember what I told you about the boy?”
“You think he took the money?”
“I feel about sure of it.”
“And you think he gambles it away?”
“Such is my impression.”
“How am I to find out the truth of the matter?”
“I would suggest that you have the boy searched. I feel sure that you
will find that he has a considerable sum of money in his pocket.”
“That may be, but he will say that he has saved it from his wages.”
“Oh, yes; I have no doubt he will say so,” said Benton, nodding his head
significantly.
“And it may be true. He doesn’t seem to spend much.”
“He has bought some clothes.”
“True; but he was quite able to do so out of what I pay him and have
money left over.”
“Well, I hope it is so. I don’t want to harm the boy, but I thought it
only due to you to tell you what I know.”
“You don’t appear to know much. You only suspect. However, I will call
Grant and see what he has to say.”
Grant, being summoned, came up to where they were standing.
“Do you want to speak to me, Mr. Smithson?” he asked.
“Yes, Grant; about an unpleasant matter.”
“Have I done anything wrong? Are you dissatisfied with me?”
“I can’t say. The fact is, for some time past I have been missing money
from the drawer.”
Grant’s look of surprise was genuine.
“I am very sorry to hear it,” he said.
“Of course the money could not have disappeared of itself. Some one must
have taken it.”
“I hope you don’t suspect me,” said Grant quickly.
“I have always regarded you as honest, but Benton here tells me that you
have formed some bad habits.”
“I should be glad to know what Mr. Benton has to say about me,” said
Grant, regarding his fellow waiter with indignation. Benton, in spite of
his assurance, could not help looking confused and ill at ease.
“He tells me that you are in the habit of visiting gambling saloons.”
“He has told you a falsehood,” said Grant boldly.
“I told you he would deny it, Mr. Smithson,” said Benton, determined to
face it through.
“Has he seen me in a gambling-house?” demanded Grant.
“I have seen you coming out of one.”
“That’s false. If he can find any one to confirm his false charge, I
will not object to your believing it.”
“I have no doubt a good many have seen you there.”
“Is there any other charge he brings against me, Mr. Smithson?”
“He says he has seen you under the influence of liquor.”
“That also is false. He has invited me to go into a saloon and take a
drink, but I always refused.”
“Oh, you are an angel!” sneered Benton.
“I don’t pretend to be an angel, but I am honest and temperate, and I
never drink.”
“I think, Mr. Smithson, if you will search the boy you will find a good
sum of money in his pocket.”
“Is that true, Grant?” asked the restaurant keeper.
“Yes, sir. I have about a hundred dollars in my pocket.”
“I told you so,” said Benton triumphantly.
“I never knew there was anything wrong in saving money,” retorted Grant.
“I am anxious to get together money enough to warrant me in going to the
mines.”
“There is nothing wrong in that,” said Smithson kindly. “And now, Grant,
that we have had Benton’s testimony against you, I want to ask you what
you know against him.”
“I would rather not tell,” answered Grant.
“That is very creditable to you; but you must remember that you have a
duty to me, your employer. Have you seen him enter a gambling-house?”
“Yes, sir,” answered Grant reluctantly.
“I told you, sir, that I had looked in once or twice,” said Benton, ill
at ease.
“Only once or twice?”
“Well, I won’t be precise as to the number of times.”
“Were you in a gambling-house last night?”
“Yes; I looked on.”
“How long did you stay?”
“A few minutes.”
“Did you play?”
“No,” answered Benton hesitatingly.
“I wish I knew how much he knows,” thought Benton. “Somebody must have
been telling him about me.”
“What, then, was your object in going in?”
“I was wakeful, and thought I would while away a few minutes there. When
I felt sleepy, I withdrew.”
Just then Vincent entered, as previously arranged between him and
Smithson.
“Mr. Vincent,” said the proprietor, “did you see either of my waiters in
a gambling house last evening?”
“I saw him,” pointing to Benton.
“He admits that he went in, but says he did not play.”
“He seems to be forgetful,” said Vincent coolly. “He played for a
considerable time, and had a great run of luck.”
Benton said nothing. He looked very much discomposed, but waited to see
how much Vincent could tell.
“So he was a winner?”
“He won nearly five hundred dollars.”
“That doesn’t look as if he were the novice he claims to be.”
“But he didn’t keep his winnings. He kept on playing till he lost all he
had won.”
“You must remember, sir,” interrupted Benton, “that a green hand is
often luckier than a practiced gambler.”
“So I have heard.”
“And if I did play, that doesn’t convict me of having stolen money from
your till.”
“That is true.”
“I was foolish, I admit, and I mean to give up the practice.”
“You said you didn’t play.”
“Because I thought it would make you think I was guilty of theft.”
“On that point I have other evidence.”
“What is it? If Grant says he saw me take anything he lies.”
“I have not said it, Mr. Benton.”
“Then I should like to know what evidence you can bring against me.”
“Do you remember these two bills?” asked Vincent, taking out his wallet
and producing two five-dollar notes.
“Well, what about them?” asked Benton doggedly.
“I gave you two gold pieces for them last evening.”
“Yes; I believe you did.”
“You took them from the money drawer before you left the restaurant.”
“That is false!”
“Do you see the cross, in red ink, on the reverse side of the bills?”
“Well, what of it?”
“I marked the bills in that way, so as to be able to trace them.”
“Well,” said Benton faintly.
“They were put into the drawer at three o’clock yesterday afternoon.
They must have been taken out some time between that hour and the time
when you produced them in the gambling-house.”
“I am the victim of a conspiracy,” said Benton, turning pale.
“If it is a conspiracy to put my friend here on your track,” said
Smithson, “then you have some color for your statement. Mr. Vincent is
an old detective.”
Albert Benton was silenced. Ingenious as he was, there was nothing left
for him to say.
“Now, Benton,” said Mr. Smithson, “how much have you taken from me
during the time you have been in my employment?”
“Perhaps a hundred dollars,” answered Benton sullenly.
“I am very much mistaken if the amount is not four or five times as
great. Are you prepared to make restitution?”
“I have no money.”
“Then I shall feel justified in ordering your arrest. Your guilt is
aggravated by your seeking to throw the blame on Grant.”
“I have a valuable diamond at home. I will turn that over to you,” said
Benton, with a sudden thought.
“How much is it worth?”
“I paid three hundred dollars for it.”
“You can go and get it.”
Benton took off his apron, put on his hat, and left the restaurant.
Half an hour—an hour—passed, and he did not return.
“Mr. Smithson,” said Vincent, “the fellow has given us the slip. He
won’t come back, nor will you ever see anything of his diamond. I don’t
believe, for my part, that he had any.”
The detective was right. Benton managed to borrow fifteen dollars of a
friend, and within an hour he had left Sacramento for good.
                             CHAPTER XXII.
                           PULLING UP STAKES.
Mr. Smithson supplied the place vacated by Benton without delay. He
engaged a man of middle age who had come back from the mines with a fair
sum of money. Before the first week was up, he made his employer an
offer for the restaurant, and after some negotiation the transfer was
made.
“I should like to have you continue Grant Colburn in your employment,”
said Smithson, with a kindly consideration for his young waiter.
“I am sorry to say that I cannot do it,” answered his successor. “I have
a young townsman at the mines who has not been very successful. I have
promised to send for him in case I went into business.”
“It is of no consequence,” said Grant. “I have always wanted to go to
the mines, and now I have money enough to make the venture.”
The same day, by a lucky coincidence, Grant received the following
letter from Tom Cooper:
                                            HOWE’S GULCH, October 5.
DEAR GRANT:
I have been meaning to write you for some time, but waited till I could
tell whether I was likely to succeed or not. For the first month I was
here I only got out enough gold-dust to pay my expenses, and envied
father and you, who have a sure thing. The fact is, nothing is more
uncertain than mining. You may strike it rich, or may fail entirely.
Till last week it looked as if it would be the last in my case. But all
at once I struck a pocket, and have thus far got two hundred and
seventy-five dollars out of it, with more in prospect. That will make up
for lost time. I tell you, Grant, it is a very exciting life. You are
likely any day to make a strike. Further down the creek there is a long,
lank Vermonter, who in a single week realized a thousand dollars from
his claim. He took it pretty coolly, but was pleased all the same. “If
this sort of thing continues a little longer,” he told me, “I’ll become
a bloated bondholder, and go home and marry Sal Stebbins. She’s waitin’
for me, but the old man, her father, told her she’d have to wait till I
could show him two thousand dollars, all my own. Well I don’t think I’ll
have to wait long before that time comes,” and I guess he’s right.
But I haven’t said what I set out to say. That is I wish you would pull
up stakes and come out here. I feel awful lonely, and would like your
company. There’s a claim about a hundred feet from mine that I have
bought for twenty-five dollars, and I will give it to you. The man
that’s been workin’ it is a lazy, shiftless creeter, and although he’s
got discouraged, I think it’s his fault that it hasn’t paid better. Half
the time he’s been sittin’ down by his claim, readin’ a novel. If a man
wants to succeed here, he’s got to have a good share of “get there”
about him. I think you’ll fill the bill. Now, just pack up your things,
and come right out. Go and see father and mother, but don’t show ’em
this letter. I don’t want them to know how I am getting along. I mean
some day to surprise ’em. Just tell them that I’m gettin’ fair pay, and
hope to do better.
There’s a stage that leaves Sacramento Hotel for “these diggin’s.” You
won’t have any trouble in findin’ it. Hopin’ soon to see you, I am,
                            Your friend,
                                                         TOM COOPER.
This letter quite cheered up Grant. He was anxious to find out how it
seemed to be digging for gold. He counted over his savings and found he
had a little over a hundred dollars. But lack of money need not have
interfered with his plans. On the same day he received a letter from
Giles Crosmont, from which we extract a paragraph:
Remember, Grant, that when you get ready to go to the mines, you can
draw upon me for any sum of money you want. Or, should you lose your
place, or get short of money, let me know, and I will see that you are
not inconvenienced for lack of funds. I am thinking of making a little
investment in your name, which I think will be of advantage to you.
“That’s a friend worth having,” said Grant to himself. “If I had a
father, I should like to have him like Mr. Crosmont. He certainly could
not be any kinder.”
He wrote back that he was intending to start on the following day for
Howe’s Gulch, and would write again from there. He concluded thus: “I
thank you very much for your kind offer of a loan, but I have enough to
start me at the mines, and will wait till I stand in need. When I do
need money, I won’t hesitate to call upon you, for I know that you are a
true friend.”
He went round to see the blacksmith the next forenoon.
“How do you happen to be off work at this hour?” asked Mr. Cooper.
“I’m a gentleman of leisure, Mr. Cooper.”
“How is that, Grant? You haven’t been discharged, have you?”
“Well, I’ve lost my place. Mr. Smithson has sold out his restaurant, and
the new man has a friend of his whom he is going to put in my place.”
“I’m sorry, Grant,” said the blacksmith in a tone of concern. “It
doesn’t seem hardly fair.”
“Oh, it’s all right, Mr. Cooper. I am going out to the mines, as I
always intended to do. I shall start to-morrow morning.”
“I wish you luck. I don’t know how Tom is getting along.”
“Then I can tell you, for I’ve had a letter from him. He writes that he
is doing fairly well.”
Jerry Cooper shook his head.
“I guess he ain’t doing as well as he did on the old farm at home,” he
said.
“He writes very cheerfully and wants me to come out.”
“He’s too proud to own up that he’s disappointed. Just tell him that if
he wants to come back to Sacramento and help me in the shop, I can give
him two dollars a day and his living.”
“I’ll tell him, sir. I hope you are doing well.”
“I never did so well in my life,” answered the blacksmith complacently.
“Why, Grant, I’ve averaged ten dollars a day over and above all expenses
ever since I took the shop. How is that for high?”
“Why, father, I never knew you to use slang before,” said Mrs. Cooper
reprovingly.
“Can’t help it, old lady. It’s my good luck that makes me a bit frisky.
If we were only to home, I’d give you money to buy a new bonnet and a
silk dress.”
“Thank you, father, but they wouldn’t do me any good here. Just fancy me
walking through the town dressed up in that style. How folks would
stare! When I get home I won’t mind accepting your offer.”
“Well, folks don’t dress much here, that’s a fact. Why, they don’t dress
as much as they did in Crestville. I never looked so shabby there, but
nobody takes any notice of it. There’s one comfort, if I don’t wear fine
clothes it isn’t because I can’t afford it.”
“If you’re going away to-morrow, Grant,” said Mrs. Cooper hospitably,
“you must come and take supper with us to-night. I don’t know as I can
give you any brown bread, but I’ll give you some baked beans, in Eastern
style.”
“I shall be glad to get them, Mrs. Cooper. I haven’t tasted any since I
left home.”
“I wish I could send some to Tom,” said his mother. “Poor fellow, I
don’t suppose he gets many of the comforts of home where he is.”
“I’m afraid I couldn’t carry the beans very conveniently,” said Grant,
with a laugh.
On his way back to the restaurant, to make some preparations for his
coming departure, he was accosted by a tall, thin man, who looked like a
lay preacher.
“My young friend,” he said, with an apologetic cough, “excuse me for
addressing you, but I am in great need of assistance. I——Why, it’s
Grant!” he exclaimed in amazement.
“Mr. Silverthorn!”
“Yes, my young friend, it is your old friend Silverthorn, who counts
himself fortunate in meeting you once more,” and he grasped Grant’s
reluctant hand and shook it vigorously.
“You may be my old friend, Mr. Silverthorn,” returned Grant, “but it
strikes me you didn’t treat me as such when you took the money from my
pocket.”
“I acknowledge it, Grant, I acknowledge it,” said Silverthorn, as he
took the same old red silk handkerchief from his pocket and wiped his
eyes, “but I was driven to it by want and dire necessity.”
“Well, let it pass! When did you reach Sacramento?”
“Only yesterday. Ah, Grant, I have had sad vicissitudes! I wandered in
the wilderness, nearly starving, till I came across a party of
Pennsylvania Quakers, who aided me and brought me with them to this
place.”
“I hope you did not repay their hospitality as you did ours.”
“No, no. I obeyed the promptings of my better nature. And now, how have
you prospered? Have you been to the mines?”
“No, I have been employed in a restaurant.”
“In a restaurant! Oh, how the word moves me! Ah, Grant, I have not
tasted food for twenty-four hours.”
“Come with me, then, and I will see that you have a dinner.”
He took Silverthorn to the restaurant and authorized him to order what
he liked. Mr. Silverthorn was by no means backward in accepting the
invitation, and Grant had a dollar to pay.
“I feel better!” sighed Silverthorn. “Do you think I could get
employment here?”
“No; my place is taken.”
“And how are my old friends, the Coopers?”
“Mr. Cooper is running a blacksmith shop, and Tom is at Howe’s Gulch,
where I am going.”
“Could you—you are so kind—pay my expenses to the mines? I should so
like to see my friend Tom.”
“No, I couldn’t,” answered Grant bluntly.
“I thought I would ask,” said Silverthorn, by no means abashed. “Tell
Mr. Cooper that I will soon call at his shop.”
“I don’t think he will care to see you,” thought Grant.
                             CHAPTER XXIII.
                      THE FIRST DAY AT THE MINES.
About three o’clock in the afternoon the stage from Sacramento arrived
at Howe’s Gulch.
Among the other passengers Grant descended, his limbs sore from rattling
over the roughest kind of roads, and stretching himself, he looked
around him.
The stage had drawn up in front of the hotel, but it was not such a
hotel as the reader is accustomed to see. It was a long, low frame
building, with what might be called an attic overhead, which was used as
a general dormitory, with loose beds of straw spread over the floor.
Here twenty-five persons slept in a single room. Down below rude meals
were supplied for those who could afford to pay the price.
But Grant felt little interest in the hotel. He expected to meet Tom
Cooper, and looked out for him.
He had not long to wait.
“How are you, Grant? Delighted to see you. How’s the folks?”
Grant turned, and in the bearded, roughly dressed miner found it
difficult to recognize his friend of the plains—Tom Cooper.
His face lighted up as he grasped Tom’s hand cordially.
“Your father and mother are well,” he said, “and so is Mr. Silverthorn.”
“What! have you seen that scoundrel?”
“I left him at Sacramento. He wanted me to pay his fare out here.”
“You declined?”
“Yes; I thought he would be company for your father. He may adopt
Silverthorn in your place.”
“He’s welcome to him, if he likes. It’s good for sore eyes to see you,
Grant. How do you feel?”
“Sore enough. I thought I should be shaken to pieces over the rough
road.”
“You are hungry, I reckon. Come into the hotel, and we’ll have dinner.”
Nothing loath, Grant followed Tom into the dining-room, where dinner was
laid in readiness for the stage passengers. It was not such a meal as an
epicure would enjoy, but Grant ate with great relish.
“So you have been doing well, Tom?” said Grant, between two mouthfuls.
“Yes; you didn’t tell father what I wrote you?”
“No; you told me not to.”
“What did he say about me?”
“He said that he didn’t believe you were doing much; he thought you had
better come back to Sacramento and help him in the shop.”
Tom laughed.
“I think I’ll stay here a little longer,” he replied. “How is dad
doing?”
“Finely. He is making ten dollars a day.”
“Good for him! He wouldn’t do for mining. Besides, there’s mother. He’s
better off where he is.”
“Where do you sleep, Tom?”
“Upstairs. I have a pair of blankets up there, and a pillow, and I don’t
need anybody to make my bed.”
“I suppose I ought to have a pair of blankets.”
“I’ll buy you a pair. There’s a chap going to leave to-day, and we can
buy his. Now come out and see the mines.”
Leaving the hotel, Tom led the way to the mining claims. There was a
deep gulch half a mile distant, at the base of which ran a creek, and it
was along this that the claims were staked out. They were about twenty
feet wide, in some cases more. Tom led the way to his, and showed Grant
the way he worked. He used a rocker, or cradle. A sieve was fitted in at
the top, and into this the miner shoveled the dirt. Tom rocked the
cradle with one hand, after it was filled, and poured water on the dirt
from a dipper. Gradually the dirt was washed out, and if there was any
gold it would remain in small gleaming particles mixed with black sand.
“Isn’t that rather a rough way of working, Tom?” asked Grant, after his
tour of inspection.
“Yes; I have been thinking of getting what the miners call a ‘long
tom’—no pun intended.”
“What is that?”
I won’t give Tom’s answer, but quote a more accurate description from an
English book published in 1857: “A ‘long tom’ is nothing more than a
wooden trough from twelve to twenty-five feet long, and about a foot
wide. At the lower end it widens considerably, and the floor of it is a
sheet of iron, pierced with holes half an inch in diameter, under which
is placed a flat box a couple of inches deep. The long tom is set at a
slight inclination over the place which is to be worked, and a stream of
water is kept running through it by means of a hose. While some of the
party shovel the dirt into the tom as fast as they can dig it up, one
man stands at the lower end, stirring up the dirt as it is washed down,
separating the stones and throwing them out, while the earth and small
gravel fall with the water through the sieve into the ripple box. This
box is about five feet long, and is crossed by two partitions. It is
also placed at an inclination, so that the water falling into it keeps
the dirt loose, allowing the gold and heavy particles to settle to the
bottom, while all the lighter stuff washes over the end of the box along
with the water.”
The dirt taken out of the ripple box has to be washed out afterward, so
as to leave the gold particles.
“Where is the claim you have bought for me, Tom?” asked Grant.
“A little farther down the creek. I will show you.”
“Lend me your cradle, and, see if I can work it.”
Grant took the cradle and, under Tom’s direction, shoveled in some dirt,
and proceeded to rock it. He was quite delighted when, as the result of
his labors, a few specks of gold appeared at the bottom.
“How much does it amount to, Tom?” he asked, gathering it into his hand.
“Perhaps a dime.”
Grant looked rather disappointed.
“It would take some time to get rich at that rate,” he said rather
ruefully.
“Yes; but there is always a chance of ‘striking it rich.’ That is what
keeps our spirits up. By the way, Grant, I have a proposal to make to
you.”
“What is it, Tom?”
“Suppose we work together. We can take turns in digging, shovelling in
the dirt, and rocking the cradle. That will be more sociable, and we can
divide equally whatever gold we obtain.”
“That will suit me exactly, Tom; but as you are more experienced than I,
you ought to have more than half.”
“No, Grant. It shall be share and share alike. There is another
advantage. It will save getting an extra rocker.”
“I am ready to begin at once.”
“Are you not too tired?”
“No, Tom. I want to feel that I have begun to work. If I get tired I can
sleep better to-night.”
They worked for two hours, when they knocked off for the day. The work
was done on Grant’s claim. Tom estimated the result at a dollar.
“That is fifty cents apiece,” he said. “To-morrow we’ll do better.”
“I don’t mind, Tom. I have made a beginning. Now I feel that I am a
miner.”
At six o’clock they went to the hotel, which was a general
lounging-place for the miners.
                             CHAPTER XXIV.
                        GRANT HAS AN ADVENTURE.
“Shall we take supper at the hotel?” asked Grant. “How much do they
charge?”
“Two dollars a day for meals and lodging.”
“Isn’t that considerable?” asked Grant, rather dismayed.
“Yes, if one only earns fifty cents,” answered Tom, smiling.
“Do you like sleeping in such a crowd, Tom?”
“No; but there seems no other way, unless I bought a cabin, and I should
feel too lonely.”
“But now there are two of us together. Why can’t we hire a cabin, and
lodge and eat independently? We can take turns in doing the cooking, and
it will be a good deal cheaper.”
“Do you know anything about cooking, Grant? I don’t.”
“Yes; I took some lessons at the restaurant. I can teach you all I know
myself.”
“Then we can establish ourselves to-morrow. There is a deserted cabin a
little way up the gulch, which no one seems to care to occupy. It is in
fair condition, and the last occupant kept house, so that there are
dishes and cooking utensils. We can take possession, and then, if any
one disputes our right, we can agree to pay rent.”
“That will be capital,” said Grant, in a tone of satisfaction.
For a month Grant and Tom Cooper worked assiduously, sometimes at one
claim, sometimes at the other. The life of a miner is full of
excitement. Even when he meets with poor luck, there is the prospect
every day of making a rich find. But in the case of the two friends it
was always hope deferred. At the end of the month they sat down to
consider the situation.
“Well, Grant, we don’t seem to get much richer,” said Tom, taking a
whiff from a clay pipe, which was his evening luxury after a hard day’s
work.
“We made fifty cents yesterday,” responded Grant soberly.
“Between us. That is twenty-five cents each.”
“On the whole, we have been losing ground during the last month. I am
twenty dollars poorer than when I came here.”
“And I have fallen behind as much, or more than that.”
“Digging for gold isn’t what I thought it to be,” said Grant. “I was
doing a good deal better in Sacramento.”
“That maybe; but we mustn’t forget that a man does strike luck once in a
while.”
“It won’t do us any good to have some other man strike luck.”
“I see you are getting down-hearted, Grant.”
“Well, not exactly; but I think I’ve made a mistake. Neither of our
claims amounts to much.”
“What do you propose, then?”
“I have nothing to propose,” said Grant modestly. “You are older and
more experienced than I. I will follow your plan.”
“Then let us work three days longer. If, at the end of that time,
nothing turns up, we will pull up stakes, and go elsewhere. We can’t
afford to go on working and falling behind all the time.”
“Three days then, Tom.”
“You haven’t had any luck yet, Grant. I had a share before you came.”
“I am afraid my coming brought you bad luck.”
“Bad luck or not, I am glad to have you here. After a hard day’s work it
seems pleasant to have some one to talk to.”
“If I should leave you, how would Silverthorn do?” asked Grant, smiling.
“Poor company is worse than none. I’d rather hustle by myself than have
that man ’round.”
The next morning the two partners went to work as usual. They always
started hopeful of good results, but, as the day wore away and results
were meager, their hopes began to sink. That day they cleared between
them a dollar and a half, while their expenses, at a modest calculation,
so high were provisions, were nearly double this sum.
“Another day lost!” commented Tom as they sat over their evening fire,
for it was beginning to grow cold at the close of the day.
“We won’t say anything about it,” said Grant. “Let the three days pass,
and then we will consult.”
About the middle of the next afternoon Grant was attacked by a violent
headache.
“I shall have to close up work for the day, Tom,” he said.
“Go to the cabin and lie down,” suggested Tom.
“I would rather go on a walk. The fresh air may do me good.”
Grant dipped his handkerchief in the stream, bathed his forehead, and
then set out on a stroll to the south of the claims. Finding relief, he
pushed on till he had probably walked a couple of miles.
It was a lonely stretch of country, and, with the exception of a boy, he
met no one. His surprise was the greater, therefore, when at one point
he heard a groan, evidently proceeding from some one in pain. He looked
about him, and finally discovered an old man lying under a tree, doubled
up with pain. It was hard to tell his age, for his appearance was
neglected, and he had the air of one who lived apart from his fellow
men.
“What is the matter?” asked Grant, in a tone of sympathy. “Can I help
you?”
“I am suffering from an attack of rheumatism,” answered the old man. “It
came upon me suddenly, and has disabled me, as you see.”
“What can I do for you?”
“If you can help me to my cabin it will be a great service.”
“Where is your cabin?”
“In the edge of yonder woods.”
He pointed feebly, and Grant, following the direction, espied a small
hut, brown and discolored with age, standing under the shadow of a rock
about a quarter of a mile away.
He helped the old man to his feet, and half supported him as he walked
toward the cabin.
“Are you often seized in this way?” he asked.
“Not often so suddenly and violently, though I have been in the grip of
my enemy for years.”
                              CHAPTER XXV.
                         ANOTHER LONELY CABIN.
They reached the cabin at last, and then a question which Grant was
about to ask was answered. The old man lived alone.
The furniture was of the simplest: a bed, a couple of chairs, a table,
and a few dishes.
“Is there no one to take care of you?” asked Grant.
“No, I need no one,” was the quick reply. “I have remedies that will
soon quiet the pain.”
“I should think you would feel lonely.”
“I prefer solitude to the society of mean, selfish, and designing men,”
answered the old man bitterly.
“All men are not mean or selfish.”
“No doubt you are right, but those whom I trusted most have proved so.”
“How long have you lived here?”
“Six years.”
“Are you—poor? If so, perhaps I can help you.”
“No, no; poverty is the smallest of my troubles. Look there!” and the
old man drew from his pocket a handful of gold pieces. “I have enough to
see me through the few years I have yet to live.”
“But you have no occupation—no way to fill up your time?”
“I have a few books and my own thoughts. I will tell you what little is
to be told. I came here six years ago, and for a time devoted myself to
gold-digging. I was fortunate, and secured all I needed for my modest
wants. Then I stopped, for I had no object in accumulating more. But you
tell me about yourself. You are young to be in California.”
“Yes, I came to seek my fortune. I was a poor boy, and my mother is
unhappily situated. I came to see if I could not improve her lot and my
own.”
“What are you doing?”
“I am digging for gold.”
“Where?”
“At Howe’s Gulch.”
“Have you succeeded?”
“So poorly that I am thinking of giving it up and going elsewhere. In
Sacramento I worked in a restaurant, and made a good deal more money
than I have made at the mines. I am twenty dollars poorer than when I
came here.”
“Are you alone?”
“No, I have a friend with me—a young man whose acquaintance I made in
crossing the plains.”
“Is he a true friend—a loyal friend?”
“Yes.”
“Then there are such in the world. Those I have met have been of a
different kind. Has he been any more fortunate than yourself?”
“Not since I arrived. He did something before I came, but I must have
brought him bad luck, for he has been running behind ever since. We have
not been making expenses for the last month.”
“I never thought much of Howe’s Gulch, though some have been fortunate
there.”
“Then it was not there that you found your gold?”
“No.”
Grant wanted to ask the old man where it was that his claim was located,
but hesitated, not knowing how the question would be received.
“I can direct you to a rich spot,” said the old man, after a pause. “I
had intended to let the secret die with me, but you have done me a
service——”
“A very slight one,” said Grant modestly.
“Not slight, for without your help I should have been unable to get
home.”
“I was glad to serve you, and do not need compensation. You may wish to
work the claim yourself.”
“No; my days of labor are over. I am sixty-five, and might easily be
taken for ten years older. I shall be glad to contribute to your
happiness and success, and that of your friend.”
“Perhaps some one may have discovered and worked the claim.”
“No; it is an out-of-the-way place, and has not attracted attention.”
“How, then, did you discover it?”
“By accident. As to the richness, let this convince you: in less than
six months I took out ten thousand dollars, and having no need of more,
stopped working, and carefully removed all traces likely to betray the
mine’s entrance to a casual observer.”
“It will be a great favor to Tom and myself. We ought to give you a
share of the proceeds.”
The old man shook his head.
“I shall not live long enough to spend the money I have,” he answered.
“You are welcome to all it will yield you. Come here with your friend
to-morrow morning, and I will give you the directions that will enable
you to find the claim.”
“Can I do anything more for you before I go?”
“Yes; you may go to the stream behind the cabin and bring me some fresh
water.”
Grant did as requested, and, elated by his unexpected good luck, started
on his return to Howe’s Gulch.
When Grant reached the cabin jointly occupied by himself and Tom Cooper,
he found Tom sitting outside, smoking his pipe.
He looked very thoughtful.
“Have you got rid of your headache, Grant?” he asked.
“Yes; I feel as lively as a cricket.”
“Then your walk has done you good?”
“A great deal of good,” answered Grant; but Tom did not detect the
significance hidden in the reply. “How long have you been at home?”
“An hour.”
“Then you knocked off work earlier than usual.”
“Yes,” answered Tom soberly. “To tell the truth, Grant, I’m discouraged.
How much do you think our day’s work amounts to?”
“Yours and mine?”
“Yes.”
“How much?”
“A dollar and seventy-five cents! I think, Grant, we had better inquire
the location of the nearest poor house. We may want to ask admission.”
“There’s an old saying, Tom: ‘The darkest hour is just before the day.’”
“How does that apply here?”
“I will tell you. I have secured a claim from which ten thousand dollars
was obtained within six months.”
“And then it petered out?”
“No; the owner stopped working it because he had money enough, and was
satisfied.”
“Hasn’t it been worked since?”
“No.”
“How much did you agree to pay for it?” asked Tom, in excitement.
“Nothing. It was given me for a service I rendered the owner.”
“This seems like a fairy tale, Grant. What does it mean?”
“I will tell you;” and Grant related his afternoon’s adventure.
“Hurrah! we’re in luck!” exclaimed Tom, rising to his feet and swinging
his hat in excitement. “If what you say is true, we’re made men.”
“I am glad you look upon me as a man,” said Grant, smiling.
“I’m only anticipating a little. I hope,” he added anxiously, “the old
man won’t reconsider the matter.”
“Not much chance of it. I haven’t known him long, but I am quite sure
that he isn’t that kind of a man.”
                             CHAPTER XXVI.
                            NAHUM STOCKTON.
“What shall we do with our old claims?” Before Grant could answer that
question a step was heard, and looking up, the two friends saw
approaching a tall, gaunt man of thirty-five—a typical Yankee—whose
shabby attire indicated that he was “down on his luck.”
“Good-evenin’, friends,” he said.
“Good-evening,” responded Tom cordially. “Sit down with us, won’t you?
I’ve got an extra pipe, if you would like a smoke.”
“Thank you; I’m just pinin’ for a smoke. Is this your tenement?”
“Well, we found it vacant, and squatted here. The owner hasn’t called on
us for any rent yet.”
“You’re in luck.”
“Have you just arrived?”
“Yes, I have. I’m a rollin’ stone, and I haven’t gathered any moss.”
“There’s a good many in that fix.”
“Do you see that coin?” and the stranger took from his pocket a silver
quarter and flipped it up in the air.
“Yes. Is there anything strange about it?”
“Well, there’s this—it’s the last and only piece of property now
belonging to Nahum Stockton. If you are acquainted with the
tax-collector, don’t mention it, for I wouldn’t like to be assessed on
it.”
“I will respect your wishes, Mr. Stockton,” said Tom, laughing. “May I
ask what are your plans?”
“If I can buy a claim for a quarter, I will settle down here and dig for
gold.”
Tom looked at Grant, and Grant nodded, for he read his friend’s thought.
“Having so much money,” said Tom soberly, “you’d better buy a couple of
claims.”
“That’s a good joke,” returned Stockton, with a grim smile.
“No joke at all! My friend and I own a couple of claims, and we leave
Howe’s Gulch to-morrow. We will make them over to you without money and
without price. As to a cradle, you can buy one on instalments.”
“Do you mean it?” asked Stockton eagerly.
“Yes; but I don’t want to deceive you in the matter. They haven’t been
paying very well lately, and Grant and I are going elsewhere to
prospect.”
“If they are paying anything, I’ll accept them with pleasure.”
“They are paying something, and of course there’s a possibility of
striking it rich in either one of them.”
“Gentlemen,” said Stockton earnestly, “you don’t know what you’ve done
for me. I was at the end of my resources, and felt kind o’ reckless.
You’ve made a new man of me.”
“We are glad to do you a service. Grant, can’t you get us some supper?
After eating, we’ll go and show Mr. Stockton the claims, for we shall
want to make an early start to-morrow morning. Mr. Stockton, our supper
will be a plain one, but we shall be glad to have you join us in eating
it.”
