longed for the night and the soothing influence of the chloral, as she
had formerly longed for daylight to end the misery of the dark hours.
The days were now made almost intolerable for her by the certainty that
her maid knew her secret, and by the necessity for treating the woman
with consideration. Yet she could do nothing, and she knew that she
never could do anything to lessen her own anxiety, as long as she lived.
She was much alone, too, during the day. She walked or drove with her
husband during two or three hours in the afternoon, but the rest of the
time hung idly on her hands. It is true that his society was not very
congenial, and under ordinary conditions she would rather have been
left alone than have been obliged to talk with him. At present, however,
she thought less when she was with him, and that was a gain not to be
despised. She had quite forgotten that she had asked Ghisleri to come
out and spend a day or two, when his note came, reminding her of the
invitation, and asking if he still might accept it. Francesco liked him,
as most men did, and was glad that any one should appear to vary the
monotony of the dull country life with a little city talk. He bade her
write to Pietro to come and stay as long as he pleased, if she herself
cared to have him. She concealed her satisfaction well enough to make
Francesco suppose that she wished the guest to come for his sake rather
than her own.
Ghisleri started early, taking his servant with him, and reached Gerano
in time for the midday breakfast. Francesco Savelli received him with
considerable enthusiasm, and Adele's habitually rather forced smile
became more natural. Both felt in different ways that the presence of a
third person was a relief, and would have been delighted to receive a
far less agreeable man than their present guest. They overwhelmed him
with questions about Rome and their friends.
"Of course you have seen everybody and heard everything, now that you
are so much better," said Adele, as they sat down to breakfast in the
vaulted dining-room. "You must tell us everything you know. We are
buried alive out here, and only know a little of what happens through
the papers. How are they all? Have you seen Laura again, and how is the
baby? My step-mother writes that she is going to spend the summer with
them in some place or places unknown. I never thought of her as a
grandmother when my own children were born--of course she is not my
mother, but it used to seem just the same. What is Bompierre doing? And
Maria Boccapaduli? I am dying to hear all about it."
Ghisleri laughed at the multitude of questions which followed each other
almost without a breathing-space between them.
"Donna Maria would have sent you her love if she had known that I was
coming to Gerano," he answered. "As for Bompierre, he is an inscrutable
mixture of devotion and fickleness. He attaches himself to the new
without detaching himself from the old. He worships both the earthly and
the Olympian Venus. He is a good fellow, little Bompierre, and I like
him, but it is impossible for any man to adore women at the rate of six
at a time. I begin to think that he must be a very deep character."
"That is the last thing I should say of him," observed Savelli, who was
deficient in the sense of humour.
"How literal you are, Francesco," laughed his wife. "And yourself,
Ghisleri--tell us about yourself. Are you quite well again? You still
look dreadfully thin, but you look better than when I saw you last. What
does your doctor say?"
"He says that if I do not happen to catch cold, or have a choking fit,
or a cough, or any of fifty things he names, and if I do not chance to
get shot in the same place again, in the course of a year or two I may
be as good a man as ever. It appears that I have a good constitution. I
always supposed so, because I never had anything the matter with me, so
far as I knew."
"No one will ever forgive Gianforte!" exclaimed Adele. "If you had died,
he would have had to go away for ever. Everybody says he was utterly in
the wrong."
"The matter is settled," said Ghisleri, "and I do not think either of us
need have anything to say about the other's conduct in the affair. I
suppose you have heard that the ministry has fallen," he continued,
turning to Savelli. "Yesterday afternoon--the old story, of
course--finance."
"For Heaven's sake do not begin to talk politics at this hour,"
protested Adele. "To-night, when I am asleep, you can smoke all the
cigars in the house, and reconstitute a dozen ministries if you like. I
want to hear all about my friends. You have not told me half enough
yet."
"Where shall I begin? Ah, by the bye, there is an engagement, I hear. I
have not left cards because it is not official. Pietrasanta and Donna
Guendalina Frangipani--rather an odd match, is it not?"
"Pietrasanta!" exclaimed Adele. "Who would have thought that! And
Guendalina, of all people! But they will starve, my dear Ghisleri; they
will positively not have twenty thousand francs a year between them."
"No," said Savelli, "you are quite right, my
dear--twelve--seventeen--eighteen thousand five hundred, almost
exactly."
Savelli was intimately acquainted with the affairs of his friends, and
both parties were related to him in the present case. He prided himself
upon his extreme exactness about all questions of money.
So they talked and gossiped throughout the meal. Ghisleri knew just what
sort of news most amused his hostess, and as usual he succeeded in
telling her the truth about things and people without saying anything
spiteful of any one. He had resolved, too, that he would make himself
especially agreeable to the couple in their voluntary exile. He had come
with a set purpose, and he meant to execute it if possible. As he was
evidently not yet strong, Savelli proposed that they should drive
instead of walking. Ghisleri acceded readily, though he would have
preferred to stay at home after having travelled nearly thirty miles in
a jolting carriage during the morning. The sensation of physical fatigue
which he constantly experienced since he had been wounded was new to him
and not at all pleasant.
Nothing of any importance occurred during the afternoon. The
conversation continued in much the same way as it had begun at
breakfast, interspersed with remarks about agriculture and the
probabilities of crops. Savelli understood the financial side of farming
better than Ghisleri, but the latter had a much more practical
acquaintance with the capabilities of different sorts of land.
After they had returned to the castle, Francesco left Ghisleri with his
wife in the drawing-room, and went off to his own quarters to talk with
the steward of the estate. Tea was brought, but Pietro noticed that
Adele did not take any.
"I suppose you are afraid that it would keep you awake at night," he
remarked. "How is your insomnia? Do you sleep at all?"
"I am getting quite well again," Adele answered. "You know I always told
you that I needed something really strong to make me sleep. The doctor
has given me chloral, and I never wake up before eight or nine o'clock.
It is a wonderful medicine."
"Insomnia is one of the most unaccountable things," said Ghisleri, in a
meditative tone. "I knew a man in Constantinople who told me that at one
time he never slept at all. For three months he literally could not lose
consciousness for a moment. I believe he suffered horribly. But then, he
had something on his mind at the time which accounted for it to a
certain extent."
"I suppose he had lost money or something of that kind," conjectured
Adele, stirring two lumps of sugar in a glass of water.
"No, it was much worse than that. He had accidentally killed his most
intimate friend on a shooting expedition in the Belgrad forest."
Ghisleri heard the spoon rattle sharply against the glass, as Adele's
hand shook, and he saw that she bent down her head quickly, pretending
to watch the lumps of sugar as they slowly dissolved.
"How terrible!" she exclaimed, in a low voice.
"Yes," answered Ghisleri, in the same indifferent tone. "But if you will
believe it, he had the courage to refuse chloral, or any sort of
sleeping-draught, though he often sat up reading all night. He had been
told, you see, that the habit of such things was much more dangerous
than insomnia itself, and he was ultimately cured by taking a great deal
of exercise. He had an extraordinary force of will. I believe he has
never felt any bad effect from what he endured. You know one can get
used to anything. Look at the people who starve in public for forty days
and do not die."
"We shall see Pietrasanta and his wife doing that for the next forty
years," said Adele, with a tolerably natural laugh. "They ought to go
into training as soon as possible if they mean to be happy. They say
nothing spoils the temper like hunger. Were you ever near being starved
to death on any of your travels, Ghisleri?"
"No; I never got further than being obliged to live on nothing but beans
and bad water for nine days. That was quite far enough, though. I got
thin, and I have never eaten beans since."
"I do not wonder. Fancy eating beans for nearly a fortnight. I should
have died. And where was it? Were you imprisoned for a spy in South
America? One never knows what may or may not have happened to you--you
are such an unaccountable man!"
"That never happened to me. It was at sea. I took it into my head to go
to Sardinia in a small vessel that was sailing from Amalfi with a cargo
of beans to bring back Sardinian wine. We were becalmed, and got short
of provisions, so that we fell back on the beans. They kept us alive,
but I would rather not try it again."
"What endless adventures you have had! How tame this society life of
ours must seem to you after what you have been accustomed to! How can
you endure it?"
"It is never very hard to put up with what one likes," answered
Ghisleri, "nor even to endure what one dislikes for the sake of somebody
to whom one is attached."
"If any one else said that, it would sound like a platitude. But with
you, it is quite different. One feels that you mean all you say."
Adele was evidently determined to be complimentary, and even more than
complimentary, to-day. She was never cold or at all unfriendly with
Ghisleri, whom she liked and admired, and whom she always hoped to see
ultimately established as a permanent member of her own immediate
circle, but he did not remember that she had ever talked exactly as she
was talking now, and he attributed her manner to her nervousness. He
laughed carelessly at her last remark.
"I am not used to such good treatment," he said, "though I never can
understand why people take the trouble to doubt one's word. It is so
much easier to believe everything--so much less trouble."
"I should not have thought that you were a very credulous person,"
answered Adele. "You have had too much experience for that."
"Experience does not always mean disillusionment. One may find out that
there are honest people as well as dishonest in the world."
If Laura Arden had been present she would have been more than ever
inclined to distrust Ghisleri just then. She would have wondered what
possessed him to make him say things so very different from those he
generally said to her. As a matter of fact, he wished Adele to trust
him, for especial reasons, and he knew her well enough to judge how his
speeches would affect her. She had betrayed herself to him a few minutes
earlier and he desired to efface the impression in her mind before
leading her into another trap.
"Do you think the world is such a very good place?" she asked. "Have you
found it so?"
"It is often very unjustly abused by those who live in it--as they are
themselves by their friends. Belief on the one side must mean disbelief
on the other."
This time Adele gave no sign of being touched by the thrust. She was too
much accustomed to whatever sensations she experienced when accidental
or intentional reference was made to her astonishing talent for gossip.
"As for that," she said quite naturally, "every one talks about every
one else, and some things are true just as some are not. If we did not
talk of people how should we make conversation? It would be quite
impossible, I am sure!"
"Oh, of course. But if there is to be that sort of conversation, it can
always take the form of a discussion, and one can put oneself on the
right side from the beginning just as easily as not. It saves so much
trouble afterwards. The person who is always on the wrong side is
generally the one about whom the others are talking. If we could hear a
tenth of what is said about ourselves I fancy we should be very
uncomfortable."
"Yes, indeed. Even our servants--think how they must abuse us!"
"No doubt. But they have a practical advantage over us in that way. When
they really know anything particularly scandalous about us they can
convert it into ready money."
Ghisleri had not the least intention of conveying any hidden meaning by
his words, for he was of course completely ignorant of the occurrence
which had disturbed Adele's whole life more than any other hitherto. But
he noticed that she again bent over her glass and looked into it, though
the sugar was by this time quite dissolved. Her hand shook a little as
she moved the spoon about in the sweetened water. Then she drank a
little, and drew a long breath.
"That is always a most disagreeable position," she said boldly. "We were
talking about it the other day. I wish you had been there. Gouache was
telling a foreigner--Prince Durakoff, I think it was--the old story of
how Prince Montevarchi was murdered by his own librarian because he
would not pay the man a sum of money in the way of blackmail. You know
it, of course. The two families, the Montevarchi and the Saracinesca,
kept it very quiet and no one ever knew all the details. Some people say
that San Giacinto killed the librarian, and some say that the librarian
killed himself. That is no matter. What would you have done? That is the
question. Would you have paid the money in the hope of silencing the
man? Or would you have refused as the old Prince did? Gouache said that
it was always a mistake to yield, and that Montevarchi did quite
right."
Ghisleri considered the matter a few moments before he gave an answer.
He was almost sure by this time that she actually found herself in some
such position as she described, and that she really needed advice. It
was characteristic of the man who had been trying to make her betray
herself and had succeeded beyond his expectation, that he was unwilling
to give her such counsel as might lead to her own destruction. In his
complicated code, that would have savoured of treachery. He suddenly
withdrew into himself as it were, and tried to look at the matter
objectively, as an outsider.
"It is a most difficult question to answer," he said at last. "I have
often heard it discussed. If you care for my own personal opinion, I
will give it to you. It seems to me that in such cases one should be
guided by circumstances as they arise, but that one can follow very
safely a sort of general rule. If the blackmailer, as I call the person
in possession of the secret, has any positive proof, such as a written
document, or any other object of the kind, without which he or she could
not prove the accusation, and if the accusation is really of a serious
nature, then I think it would be wiser to buy the thing, whatever it is,
at any price, and destroy it at once. But if, as in most of such
affairs, the secret is merely one of words which the blackmailers may
speak or not at will, and at any time, I believe it is a mistake to
bribe him or her, because the demand for hush-money can be renewed
indefinitely so long as the person concerned lives, or has any money
left with which to pay."
Adele had listened with the greatest attention throughout, and the
direct good sense of his answer disarmed any suspicion she might have
entertained in regard to the remark which had led to her asking his
advice. She reasoned naturally enough that if he knew anything of her
position, and had come to Gerano to gather information, he would have
suggested some course of action which would throw the advantage into his
own hands. But she did not know the man. Moreover, in her extreme fear
of discovery, she had for a moment been willing to admit that he might
know far more than was in any way possible, if he knew anything at all;
whereas in truth he was but making the most vague guesses at the actual
facts. It was startling to realise how nearly she had taken him for an
enemy, after inviting him as a friend, and in perfectly good faith, but
as she thought over the conversation she saw how naturally the remarks
which had frightened her had presented themselves. There was her own
insomnia--he had an instance of a man who had suffered in the same way.
A remark about unjust abuse of other people--that was quite natural, and
meant nothing. Blackmail extorted by servants--she had herself led
directly to it, by speculating upon what servants said of their masters.
It was all very natural. She made up her mind that she had been wrong in
mistrusting his sincerity. Besides, she liked him, and her judgment
instinctively inclined to favour him.
"I think you are quite right," she said, after a few moments' thought.
"I never heard it put so directly before, and your view seems to be the
only sensible one. If the secret can be kept by buying an object and
destroying it, then buy it. If not, deny it boldly, and refuse to pay.
Yes, that is the wisest solution I have ever heard offered."
Ghisleri saw that he had produced a good effect and was well-satisfied.
He turned back to a former point in order to change the subject of the
conversation.
"That old story of the Montevarchi has interested me," he said. "I wish
I knew it all. Without being at all of an historical genius, I am fond
of all sorts of family histories. Lady Herbert was saying yesterday that
there are many strange legends and stories connected with this old
place, and that your father knows them all. You must know a great deal
about Gerano yourself, I should think."
"Oh, of course I do," answered Adele, with alacrity. "I will show you
all over the castle to-morrow morning. It is an enormous building, and
bigger than you would ever suppose from the outside. I will show you
where they used to cut off heads--it is delightful! The head fell
through a hole in the floor into a heap of sawdust, they say. And then
there is another place, where they threw criminals out of the window,
with four seats in it, two for the executioners, one for the confessor,
and one in the middle for the condemned man. They did those things so
coolly and systematically in those good old days. You shall see it all;
there are the dungeons, and the trap-doors through which people were
made to tumble into them; there is every sort of appliance--belonging to
family life in the middle ages."
"I shall be very glad to see it all if you will be my guide," said
Ghisleri.
They continued to talk upon indifferent subjects. At dinner Pietro took
much pains to be agreeable, and succeeded admirably, for he was well
able to converse pleasantly when he chose. Though extremely tired, he
sat up till nearly midnight talking politics with Savelli, as Adele had
foreseen, and when he was at last shown to his distant room by
Bonifazio, who had spent most of his day in studying the topography of
the castle, he was very nearly exhausted.
CHAPTER XIX.
Pietro Ghisleri slept soundly that night. Of late, indeed, he had become
less restless than he had formerly been, and he attributed the change to
the weakness which was the consequence of his wound. There were probably
other causes at work at that time of which he was hardly conscious
himself, but which ultimately produced a change in him, and in his way
of looking at the world.
He stood at his open window early in the morning, and gazed out at the
fresh, bright country. The delicate hand of spring had already touched
the world with colour, and the breath of the coming warmth had waked the
life in all those things which die yearly, and are yearly raised again.
Ghisleri felt the morning sun upon his thin, pale face, and he realised
that he also had been very near to death during the dark months, and he
remembered how he had wished that he might be not near only to dying,
but dead altogether, never to take up again the play that had grown so
wearisome and empty in his eyes.
But now a change had come. For the first time in years, he knew that if
the choice were suddenly offered him at the present moment he would
choose to live out all the days allotted to him, and would wish that
they might be many rather than few. There was, indeed, a dark spot on
the page last turned, of which he could never efface the memory, nor, in
his own estimation, outlive the shame. In his day-dreams Maddalena dell'
Armi's coldly perfect face was often before him with an expression upon
it which he feared to see, knowing too well why it was there--and out of
a deeper depth of memory dead Bianca Corleone's eyes looked at him with
reproach and sometimes with scorn. There was much pain in store for him
yet, of the kind at which the world never guessed, nor ever could. But
he would not try to escape from it. He would not again so act or think
as to call himself coward in his own heart's tribunal.
He looked out at the distant hills, and down at the broad battlements
and massive outworks of the ancient fortress, and fell to thinking
rather idly about the people who had lived, and fought, and quarrelled,
and slain each other, within and around those enormous walls, and then
he thought all at once of Adele Savelli, and of his suspicions regarding
her. He was in a particularly charitable frame of mind on that morning,
and he suddenly felt that what he had almost believed on the previous
night was utterly beyond the bounds of probability. It seemed to him
that he had no manner of right to accuse any one of the crime he had
imputed to her, on the most shadowy grounds, and absolutely without
proof, unless the coincidence of her uneasy behaviour, with certain
vague remarks of his own, could be taken as evidence. He sat down to
think it all over, drinking his coffee by the open window, and enjoying
the sunshine and the sweet morning air. The whole world looked so good
and innocent and fresh as he gazed out upon it, that the possibilities
of evil seemed to shrink away into nothing.
But as he systematically reviewed the events of the past months, his
suspicion returned almost with the force of conviction. The coincidences
were too numerous to be attributed to chance alone. Adele's distress of
mind was too evident to be denied. Altogether there was no escaping from
the conclusion that willingly or unwillingly she had been consciously
instrumental in bringing about Arden's illness and death. Her questions
about the wisest course to pursue in cases of blackmail, pointed to the
probability if not the certainty that some third person was acquainted
with what had happened, and this person was in all likelihood the maid
Lucia. So far his reasoning took him quickly and plausibly enough, but
no further. How the scarlet fever had been communicated from Lucia to
Herbert Arden was more than Ghisleri could guess, but if Adele was
really in the serving woman's power, it must have been done in such a
way as to make what had happened quite clear to the latter. After
thinking over all the possibilities, and vainly attempting to solve the
hard problem, Ghisleri found himself as much at sea as ever, and was
driven to acknowledge that he must trust to chance for obtaining any
further evidence in the matter.
Meanwhile Adele had determined to follow his advice. Her anxiety was
becoming unbearable, and she felt that she could not endure such
suspense much longer. To accuse Lucia directly of having opened the
letter and committed the theft would be rash and dangerous. There was a
bare possibility that some one else might have done the deed. She must
in any case be cautious.
"Lucia," she said that morning, while the woman was doing her hair, "do
you remember that some days ago I gave you a letter to be registered,
and that you brought back the receipt for it from the post-office?"
"Yes, Excellency, I remember very well." Lucia had been expecting for a
long time that her mistress would question her and she was quite
prepared. She had good nerves, and the certainty that the great lady was
altogether in her power made her cool and collected.
"A very extraordinary thing happened to that letter," said Adele,
looking up at her own face in the glass, to give herself courage. "It
was rather important. I had written to Padre Bonaventura, asking
spiritual guidance, and I particularly desired an answer. But he wrote
to me by return of post, saying that when he opened the envelope he
found only four sheets of blank paper without a word written on them.
You see somebody must have thought there was money in the letter."
"They are such thieves at the post-office!" exclaimed Lucia. "But this
is a terrible affair, Excellency! What is to be done? The post-master
must be sent to the galleys immediately!"
In Lucia's conception of the law such a summary course seemed quite
practicable.
"I am afraid that would be very unjust, and could do no good at all,"
said Adele. "I am quite sure that the post-master would not have dared
to open a letter already registered, and for which he had given a
receipt. As for any one in the house having done it, I cannot believe it
either. I gave it into your hands myself and you brought me back the
stamped bit of paper--it is there in my jewel case. I only wish you to
find out for me, very quietly and without exciting suspicion, who took
that letter to the post. If I could get it back I would give the person
who brought it to me a handsome reward. You understand, Lucia, how
disagreeable it is to feel that a letter concerning one's most sacred
feelings is lost, and has perhaps been read by more than one person."
"I cannot imagine anything more dreadful! But be easy, Excellency. I
will do all I can, and none of the servants shall suspect that I am
questioning them."
"I shall be very much obliged to you, Lucia," said Adele. "Very much
obliged," she repeated, with some emphasis.
"It is only my duty to serve your Excellency, who has always been so
good to me," answered Lucia, humbly.
Adele knew that there was nothing more to be said for the present, and
she congratulated herself on having been diplomatic in her way of
offering the bribe. Lucia would now in all likelihood take some time to
decide, but for the present she would certainly not part with the
precious document. Adele felt sure that it had neither been destroyed
nor sent out of the castle. Lucia probably kept it concealed in a safe
corner of her own room, under lock and key, and to attempt to get
possession of it by force would be out of the question. As in most
Italian houses, the servants all locked their own rooms and carried the
keys about with them. Lucia, of course, did like the rest.
But Lucia, on her side, distrusted her mistress. Knowing what she now
knew of Adele, she believed her capable of almost anything, including
the picking of a lock and the skilful abstraction of the letter from its
secret hiding-place. As soon as she was at liberty she went and got the
paper and concealed it in her bosom, intending to keep it there until
she could select some safe spot in a remote part of the castle, where
she might put it away in greater safety. To carry it about with her
until Adele took her back to Rome would be rash, she thought. Adele
might suspect where it was at any moment, and force her to give it up.
Or it might be lost, which would be even worse.
Adele herself felt singularly relieved. She had very little doubt but
that Lucia would come to terms. She might, indeed, ask a very large sum,
and it might be very inconvenient to be obliged to find it at short
notice. But the sole heiress to an enormous estate would certainly be
able to get money in some way or other. In the meantime Lucia would not
offer it to any one else, since of all people her mistress would be
willing to make the greatest sacrifice to obtain possession of it. On
the whole, therefore, Adele's anxiety diminished on that day, and she
seemed better when she met her husband and Ghisleri in the great
court-yard where they were sunning themselves and continuing their talk
about politics.
"I promised that I would show you the castle," she said to Pietro.
"Would it amuse you to go with me now? Francesco does not care to come,
of course, and he always has his business with the steward to attend to
before breakfast."
Pietro expressed his readiness to follow her from the deepest dungeon to
the topmost turret of the castle.
"Have you slept well?" he asked, as they moved away together. "You are
looking much better this morning."
"Yes. I feel better," she answered. "Do you know I think your coming has
had something to do with it. You have cheered us with your talk and your
news. We were fast falling into the vegetable stage, Francesco and I."
Ghisleri smiled, partly out of politeness and partly at his own
thoughts.
"I am glad to have been of any use," he said. "I will do my best to be
amusing as long as you will have me."
"You need not take it as such an enormous compliment," Adele laughed.
"Of course, you are very agreeable,--at least, you can be when you
choose,--but the great thing is to have somebody, anybody one knows and
likes a little, in this dreary place. Shall we begin at the top or the
bottom? The prisons or the towers? Which shall it be?"
"If there is a choice, let us begin in the lower regions," answered
Ghisleri. "Do you like me a little, Donna Adele?" he asked, as she led
the way along the curved and smoothly paved descent which led downwards
to the subterranean part of the fortress.
She laughed lightly, and glanced at him. She had always wished to make a
conquest of Pietro Ghisleri, but she had found few opportunities of
being alone with him, for he had never been among the assiduous at her
shrine. She knew also how much he admired Laura Arden, and she suspected
him of being incipiently in love. It would be delightful to detach him
from that allegiance.
"Yes," she said, "I like you a little. Did you expect me to like you
very much? You have never done anything to deserve it."
"I wish I could," answered Ghisleri, with complete insincerity. "But I
am afraid I should never get so far as that."
"Why not?"
"When a woman loves her husband--" He did not finish the sentence, for
it seemed unnecessary.
"I do not want you to make love to me," Adele answered, "though I
believe you know how to do it to perfection. It is often a very long way
from liking very much to loving a very little. This is the place where
old Gianluca kept his brother Paolo in prison for eighteen years. Then
Gianluca died suddenly one fine morning, and Paolo was let out by the
soldiers and immediately threw Gianluca's wife out of the window of the
east tower, and cut off the heads of his two sons on the same afternoon.
I will show you where that was done when we go up stairs. Paolo was an
extremely energetic person."
"Decidedly so, I should say," assented Ghisleri. "You are all descended
from him, I suppose."
"Yes, he took care that we should be, by killing all the other branches
of the family. Those hollows in the stone are supposed to have been made
by his footsteps. Think what a walk! It lasted eighteen years. But it is
an airy place and not damp. Those windows were there then, they say. Do
you see that deep channel in the wall? It leads straight up through the
castle to the floor of the little passage between the old guard-room
and one of the towers. There used to be a trap-door--it was still there
when I was a little girl, but my father has had a slab of stone put down
instead. They used to entice their dearest and most familiar enemies up
there, and just as the man set foot on the board a soldier in the tower
pulled a bolt in the wall and the trap-door fell. It is two hundred
feet, they say. It was so cleverly managed! They say that the last
person who came to grief there was a Monsignor Boccapaduli in the year
sixteen hundred and something, but no one ever knew what had become of
him until the next generation."
Familiar from her childhood with every corner of the vast building, she
led Ghisleri through one portion after another, telling such of the
tales of horror as she remembered. Little by little they worked their
way to the upper regions. In the guard-room, a vast hall which would
have made a good-sized church, she showed him the great slab of stone
the Prince had substituted for the wooden trap-door of former days, and
which had merely been placed over the yawning chasm without plaster or
cement, its own weight being enough to keep it in position. They passed
over it and ascended the stairs in the tower, emerging at last into the
bright sunshine upon one of the highest battlements. They sat down side
by side on a stone bench.
"It is pleasanter here," said Adele. "There is a sort of attraction
about those dreadful old places down below, because one never quite
realises all the things that happened there, and it is rather like an
old-fashioned novel, all full of murder and sudden death. But the
sunshine is much nicer, is it not? Shall we stay up here till it is time
for breakfast?"
"By all means. It is a delightful place for a good talk." Ghisleri was
tired, and glad to sit down.
"Then you must talk to me," continued his companion. "Between the stairs
and playing guide, I have no voice left. What will you talk about? Tell
me all about your own castle. They say it is very interesting. I wish I
could see it!"
"After Gerano it would seem very tame to you. It is mostly in ruins, and
what there is left of it is very much the worse for wear. I would not
advise you to take the trouble to stop, even if you should ever pass
near it."
"That is a way you have of depreciating everything connected with
yourself," said Adele. "Why do you do it?"
"Do I?" asked Ghisleri, carelessly. "I suppose I have the idea that it
is better to let people be agreeably surprised, if there is to be any
surprise at all. When you have heard that a man is insufferable, if he
turns out barely tolerable you think him nice."
"Then it is mere pose on your part, with the deliberate intention of
producing an effect?"
"Probably--mere pose." Ghisleri laughed; he looked at the woman at his
side and wondered whether he could ever find out the truth about Arden's
death, and the connexion with it which, as he believed, she must have
had.
She, on her part, did not even guess that he suspected her. The thought
had crossed her mind on the previous afternoon, but she had very soon
dismissed it. She found relief and change from the monotonous suffering
of the past days in talking to him, and she tried to enjoy what she
could without allowing her mind to wander back to its chief
preoccupation. Ghisleri was very careful not to rouse her suspicion by
any accidental reference to what filled his thoughts as much as it did
her own, and they spent more than half an hour in aimless and more or
less amusing conversation.
Gerano did not offer any very great variety of amusement. After
breakfast, there was the usual interval for smoking and coffee, and
after that the usual drive of two or three hours in the hills. Then, tea
and small talk, the dressing hour, the arrival of the post with the
morning papers from Rome, dinner, more smoking, and more conversation,
and bed-time was reached. It was not gay, and when he retired for the
night Ghisleri was beginning to wonder how long he could endure the
ordeal with equanimity. He was not generally a man very easily bored,
and the reasons which had brought him to Gerano were strong enough in
themselves to make him ready to sacrifice a good deal, but he realised
that he was not making any advance in the direction of discovering the
secret. He had learned more in the first few hours of his stay than he
had learned since, and so far as he could see, he was not likely to find
out anything more. He had noticed, too, the improvement in Adele's
appearance on that day. It was possible that she had already acted upon
the general advice he had given her, and that she had insured the
silence of the person she dreaded, if any such person existed. But it
was equally possible that no one knew what she had done, and that she
had not meant anything by the question.
The third day passed like the second, and the fourth began without
promising any change. Adele appeared as usual at eleven o'clock and
spent an hour with Ghisleri. They were becoming more intimate by this
time than they had ever been before during their long acquaintance, and
Adele flattered herself that she had made an impression. Ghisleri would
not forget the hospitality she had offered him, and next year would be
more often seen in the circle of her admirers. She even imagined that he
might fall into a sort of mild and harmless flirtation, if she knew how
to manage him.
A little before the hour for breakfast she went to her room. Lucia was
there, as usual, waiting in case she should be needed. As she retouched
Adele's hair, and gave a final twist with the curling tongs to the
ringlets at the back of her mistress's neck, she began to speak in a low
voice and in a somewhat hurried manner.
"I have found out who took the letter, Excellency," she said. "It is in
a safe place and no one else has seen it. The person will give it to me
at once if the reward is large enough."
Adele's eyes sparkled, and a little colour rose in her cheeks. Lucia
watched the reflection of her face in the mirror.
"How much does she ask?" she inquired, without hesitation, and with a
certain business-like sharpness in her tone.
There was a moment's pause, as Lucia withdrew the tongs from the little
curl.
"She asks five thousand francs," she said, in some trepidation, for she
had hardly ever in her life even spoken of so large a sum.
"That is a great deal," answered Adele, pretending to be surprised,
while doing her best to conceal her satisfaction. "I have not so much
money out here; indeed, Don Francesco has not either. She must wait
until we go to Rome."
"A year, if your Excellency pleases," said the maid, blowing scent upon
a transparent handkerchief from an atomizer.
"In the meanwhile I should like to have the letter. I suppose she would
accept my promise--written, if she requires it?"
"Of course she would, and she would give me the papers at once--or
instead of a promise, I have no doubt she would be perfectly satisfied
with a bit of jewelry as a pledge."
"That would be simpler," said Adele, coldly. She could not but be
astonished at the woman's cool effrontery, though it was impossible to
refuse anything she asked. "I will give you a diamond for her to keep as
a pledge," she added, "but I want the letter this afternoon."
"Yes, Excellency."
During the midday meal Adele was by turns absent and then very gay. She
seemed restless and uneasy during the coffee and cigarette stage of the
afternoon. Ghisleri watched her with curiosity. Fully half an hour
earlier than usual she went to her room to get ready for the regulation
drive.
Lucia was waiting for her, pale as death and evidently in a state of the
greatest agitation. Without a word Adele unlocked her jewel case, took
out a little morocco covered box, opened it, and glanced at a pair of
diamond ear-rings it contained, shut it again and held it out to Lucia.
To her surprise the woman drew back, clearly in great terror, and trying
to get behind the long toilet table as though in fear of bodily harm.
"What is the matter?" asked Adele, in surprise. "Where is the letter?
Why do you not give it to me?"
"A great misfortune has happened," gasped Lucia, hardly able to speak.
"I cannot get it from the person."
"What!" Adele's voice rang through the room. "Do you want more money
now? What is this comedy?"
"The letter is not there--I--she does not know where it is. It is
lost--Excellency--"
"Lost? Where did you hide it?"
Lucia was almost too frightened by this time to tell connectedly what
had happened, but Adele understood before long that the maid had looked
about for a safe place in which to hide the precious document, and had
at last decided to slip it under the great slab of stone which has been
already mentioned as covering the opening of the oubliette between the
guard-room and the tower. Lucia had found that on one side, owing to the
irregularity of the old pavement, there was room to lay the folded
papers, and that she could just slip her hand in so as to withdraw them
again. She was, of course, quite ignorant that the stone covered a well
of which the shaft penetrated to the lowest foundation of the castle,
and that one touch of her hand, or a gust of wind, was enough to send
the light sheets over the edge close to which she had unwittingly placed
them. Adele still pretended to be angry, but she drew a long breath of
relief. She knew the exact spot at which to look for what she wanted.
She locked up her diamonds again, scolding Lucia for her carelessness
all the time, and doing her best to be very severe. Lucia bore all that
was said to her very meekly, for she had expected far worse. In her
opinion some one had accidentally discovered the letter, and taken it,
and would make capital out of it as she had meant to do. Her
disappointment was as great, as the sum of five thousand francs had
seemed to her enormous, but her fear soon vanished when she saw that
Adele had no intention of doing her any bodily injury, nor, apparently,
of dismissing her again. That the papers were really gone from the place
of concealment she knew beyond a doubt. She had lit a taper in her
effort to find them, and had thrust it under the slab, bending low and
looking into the crevice. Nothing white of any sort had been visible.
Adele dressed herself for going out and left the room. But instead of
joining her husband and Ghisleri at once, she turned out of the main
passage by the cross corridor which led to the court-yard, went out and
walked quickly down the inclined road by which she had led Ghisleri to
Paolo Braccio's dungeon. There, where the shaft of the oubliette came
down, she was quite sure of finding the little package of sheets which
meant so much to her and which had almost meant a fortune to Lucia. She
crossed the worn pavement rapidly. There was plenty of light from the
grated windows high up under the vault, and she could have seen the
paper almost as soon as she entered the place. She stopped short as she
reached the foot of the channel in the wall. There was nothing there.
She stared up into the blackness above in the hope of seeing a white
thing caught and sticking to the stones, but she could not distinguish
the faintest reflection of anything. Yet she was convinced that the
thing must have fallen all the way. The shaft, as she well knew, was
quite perpendicular and the masonry compact and well finished. The
object of those who had built it had been precisely to prevent the
possibility of the victim catching on a projection of any sort while
falling.
Adele turned pale and leaned against the wall, breathing hard. If Lucia
had acted differently she might have been suspected of having told a
falsehood, and of keeping the letter back in order to extort a larger
sum for it at some future time. But Lucia had evidently been frightened.
Moreover, the woman was undoubtedly ignorant of the existence of the
well under the stone, or, she would never have been so foolish as to
choose such a place for hiding anything so valuable, and it was clear
that she had no idea of the manner in which the package had disappeared.
That it must have reached the bottom, Adele was quite sure. In that case
some one had been in the dungeon before her and had picked it up, but
who the some one might be she had no means of conjecturing.
She hardly knew how she reached the court-yard again. It cost her a
superhuman effort to walk. In the passage she met her husband.
"What is the matter?" he asked, as soon as he saw her face.
"I feel very ill--I wanted to breathe the air." She seemed to be gasping
for breath.
Francesco drew her arm through his and walked with her to her room. She
was clearly not in a state in which she could think of going out.
Savelli went back and explained to Ghisleri, who, if anything, was glad
to escape from the monotonous drive. He got a book and shut himself up
in his room to read. That evening Savelli told him that Adele was worse,
and was in a state of indescribable nervous agitation. It was clearly
his duty to go away, if Adele were about to be seriously ill, and he
told Bonifazio to pack his things that night. If matters did not
improve, he would leave on the following morning.
Though Francesco was not much affected by his wife's sufferings, the
dinner was anything but brilliant, for he anticipated a renewal of all
the annoyance of the first few days. Moreover, if Adele was liable to
sudden relapses of this kind at any moment, and without the smallest
reason or warning, his life would, before long, be made a burden to him.
As the husband of a permanent invalid he could hope for very little
liberty or amusement. A wife may go into the world without her husband,
because he is supposed to be occupied with more important affairs, but a
husband who frequents parties when his wife is constantly suffering, is
considered heartless in the extreme. That, at least, is society's view
of the mutual obligation, and if it is not the just one, it is at least
founded upon the theory of woman's convenience, as most of society's
views are.
Francesco was easily prevailed upon to give Adele an increased dose of
chloral, in the hope that she might sleep, and consequently give him
less trouble on the next day. But in this conclusion he was mistaken.
She awoke in great pain, suffering, she said, from a violent headache,
and so nervous that her hand trembled violently and she was hardly able
to lift a cup to her lips when the nurse brought her tea. Savelli did
not attempt to keep Ghisleri when the latter announced his intention of
returning to town, though he pressed him to come out again, as soon as
Adele should be better. The man who drove Pietro back was instructed to
bring the doctor out to Gerano, with fresh horses, and especially not to
forget five hundred cigarettes which Francesco wanted for himself.
Ghisleri left many messages for Adele, and departed with Bonifazio, very
little wiser than when he had arrived, but considerably more curious.
CHAPTER XX.
It was a relief to be with Laura Arden again for an hour on the day
after his return, as Ghisleri felt when he was installed beside her in
the chair which had come to be regarded as his. She received him just as
usual, and he saw at once that if she had at all resented his visit to
Adele, she was not by any means inclined to let him know it. There was a
freshness and purity in the atmosphere that surrounded her which
especially appealed to him after his visit to Gerano. Whatever she said
she meant, and if she meant anything she took no trouble to hide it. He
compared her face with her step-sister's, and the jaded, prematurely
world-worn look of the one threw the calm beauty of the other into
strong relief. He felt no pity for Adele. What she was, she had made
herself, and if she suffered, it was as the direct and inevitable
consequence of the life she had led and of the things she had done. So,
at least, it seemed to him, and if he could have known the whole truth
at that time, he would have seen how right he was. The ruthless logic of
cause and effect had got Adele into its will and was slowly grinding her
whole existence to dust.
"It is strange," he said to Laura, "that you and your step-sister should
be so unlike in every way. It is true that you are not related, but you
were brought up in the same house, by the same people, and yet I do not
believe you have a single idea in common."
"No," answered Laura, "we have not. We do not like the same persons, nor
the same things, nor the same thoughts. We were made to be enemies--and
I suppose we are."
It was the first time she had ever said so much to him, and even now
there was no rancour in her tone.
"If all enemies were like you, at least, this would be a very peaceful
world."
"You do not know me," answered Laura, with a smile. "I have a bad
temper. I could tell you something about it. I once felt as though I
would like to strangle a certain person, and as though I could do it. Do
not imagine that I am all saint and no sinner."
"I like to imagine all sorts of nice things about you," said Ghisleri.
"But I could never make them nice enough."
"That is just it. It would need an enormous imagination."
"But I am not sure that I should like to think of you as being on very
good terms with Donna Adele, and I am almost glad to hear you admit that
you are enemies. There is a satisfaction in knowing that you are human,
as well as in believing you to be good."
"How is Adele?" Laura asked.
"The last I heard was that she was much worse. She behaves in the most
unaccountable way. She has the look of a woman in some very great mental
distress--pursued and haunted by something very painful from which she
cannot escape."
"I had the same feeling about her the last time I saw her. I know that
look very well. I have seen it in your face, sometimes, as well as in
hers."
"In mine?" Ghisleri looked keenly at her, as though to ascertain whether
she meant more than she said, for the first time in his acquaintance
with her. "When did I ever show you that I was in trouble?" he asked.
"That was some time ago. You have changed since your illness. You used
to look harassed sometimes, like a man who has a wound in the heart.
Perhaps it is only something which depends on the way your eyes are
made. The first time I ever noticed it was--yes, I remember very
well--it was more than a year ago, that night when you spoke your poem
in the Shrove Tuesday masquerade. It was not when you were talking to
me. You looked perfectly diabolical then. It was later. I saw you
standing alone in a doorway after a dance."
"What a memory you have! I was probably in a bad humour. I generally am,
even now."
"Why do you say even now?" asked Laura, watching his face.
"Oh, I hardly know," he answered. "All sorts of things have happened to
me since then, to simplify my existence. At that time it was very
particularly complicated."
"And how have you simplified it?" She put the question innocently
enough, and quite thoughtlessly, not even guessing at the truth.
"It has been simplified for me. It came near being simplified into being
no existence at all. A few inches made the difference."
"Yes," said Laura, thoughtfully, "the greatest of all differences to
you."
"And none at all to any one else," added Ghisleri, with a dry laugh.
She turned her great dark eyes upon him. The lids drooped a little as
she scrutinised his face somewhat coldly, but with an odd interest.
"I suppose that might be quite true," she said at last. "Perhaps it is.
But I do not like you any the better for saying it in that way."
Ghisleri was silent, but he met her gaze quietly and without flinching,
until she looked away. She sighed a little as she took up a bit of
embroidery she was doing for some garment of little Herbert's.
"Why do you sigh?" he asked, not expecting that she would answer the
question.
"For some one," she said simply, and she began to make a few stitches.
He knew that she was thinking of Maddalena dell' Armi, and his heart
smote him.
"I was wrong to say it," he answered, in a more gentle tone. "There was
perhaps one exception to the rule."
Ghisleri grew even more careful of his speech after that. But he did not
see Laura often before she went away northward for the summer. The
spring was going fast, and the time was coming when Rome would be its
quiet old-fashioned self again for those few who loved it well enough to
face the heat of July and August. Almost every one was thinking of going
away. The Prince and Princess of Gerano were going out to the castle
earlier than usual, for the news of Adele grew steadily worse. Francesco
now had the doctor out regularly three times a week, and was forced to
lead an existence he detested. His wife was by this time quite unable to
get rest without taking very large quantities of chloral, and at times
her sufferings were such that it seemed almost advisable to give her
morphia. Every one, however, who brought intelligence from Gerano agreed
in saying that she did her best to keep up, and seemed to dread the idea
of an illness which might keep her permanently in her room. Whenever
she felt able she insisted on driving out and on going through the
regular round of monotonous country occupations. Her father and
step-mother therefore determined to go out and help Francesco to take
care of her, and make her existence as bearable as possible. Amongst all
her friends she was spoken of with the utmost compassion, and no one
ever suggested that her illness could proceed from any such cause as
Ghisleri believed to be at the root of it.
A few days before Laura Arden was to go away Donald came to Pietro's
room in the morning, with a very grave face. Lady Herbert, he said,
thought that Ghisleri would understand why she did not write, but sent
Donald in person with a verbal message. She was going away, and was
about to give up the apartment in which she had spent the winter,
without any intention of taking it again in the following year. There
were certain things that had belonged to Lord Herbert--Lady Herbert had
no home and did not like to send them to Lord Lulworth--would Ghisleri
take charge of them in her absence? Pietro, of course, assented, and two
hours later Donald arrived with a large carriage load of boxes. Ghisleri
looked on with a very unpleasant sensation in his throat as his old
friend's effects were brought up stairs and deposited in a room where he
kept such things of his own. When they were all piled together in a
corner, he took an old green curtain and covered them with it, spreading
it carefully over them with his own hands. Then he locked the door and
went away. Some men and women when they die seem to leave something of
life behind them, which the mere sight of anything that has belonged to
them has power to recall most vividly to the perceptions of those who
have known them and loved them. Ghisleri understood Laura Arden's
feeling about her husband's belongings. He knew, or thought he knew,
that from the moment her child had been given to her, she had desired
that no material object should revive the sorrow she had felt so deeply.
The memory she cherished was wholly spiritual, and upon its remaining
so her peace of mind largely depended. The one Herbert was to live in
the other--and there must not be two. Not every one, perhaps, would have
understood her so readily.
The day came for bidding her good-bye. It was with a somewhat heavy
heart that he went up the stairs of her house for the last time. Much of
the little happiness he had known during the past months was associated
with the place and with her, and not a little of the sorrow as well. The
drawing-room was bare, and had lost the comfortable, inhabited look
which even a furnished lodging takes from all the little objects a woman
brings to it, and which she alone knows how to dispose and arrange as
though they were in constant use, thereby at once producing the
impression that the habitation she has chosen has been lived in long.
Once more Ghisleri sat in the familiar chair near the open window, and
once more Laura took her place in the corner of the great sofa.
"I have come to say good-bye," he began. "You are still decided to go
to-morrow, I suppose."
"Yes. I have not changed my plans. Please do not come to the station to
see me off, nor send flowers, nor do any of the things which are
generally done. I would rather not see any one I know after leaving this
house."
"May I write to you?" asked Ghisleri.
"Of course. Why not?"
"I do not know, I am sure. I thought it better to ask you. Some women
hate correspondence except with their nearest and dearest. I will give
you the news of Rome during the wild gaiety of July and August."
"Are you not going away at all?" asked Laura, in some surprise. "You
ought to; it will do you good."
"I hardly know. I like to be alone in summer. It gives one time to
think. One has a chance of leading a sensible life when nobody is here
to see. The days pass pleasantly--plenty of reading, a diet of
watermelon and sherbet, and a little repentance--it is magnificent
treatment for the liver."
Laura looked at him and then laughed very softly.
"You seem amused," said Ghisleri, gravely. "What I say is quite
true--the result of long experience."
"I was not laughing at what you said, but at the idea that you should
still think it worth while to make such speeches to me."
"If I can make you laugh at all it is worth while."
"At all events, it is good of you to say so. Which of the three subjects
do you mean to take for your letters to me--your reading, your food, or
your repentance?"
"The food would be the simplest and safest topic. You can read for
yourself what you please. Repentance, when it is not a habit, is rarely
well done. But one can say the most charming things about strawberries,
peaches, and figs, without ever offending any one's taste."
"I think you grow worse as you grow older," said Laura, still smiling.
"But if you would take your programme seriously, it would not be a bad
thing, I fancy. Seriously, however, you ought to get away from Rome."
"I should be tempted to go and stay a week near you, if I went away at
all," said Ghisleri.
Laura did not answer at once. She glanced at him with a vague suspicion
in her eyes which disappeared almost instantly, and then took two or
three stitches in her embroidery before she spoke.
"I would rather you should not do that," she said at last. "I may as
well tell you what I think about it. To me, and to you, it seems
thoroughly absurd that you should not see me whenever we choose to meet.
There are many reasons why I should look upon you as a friend, and why
you should come more often than any other man I know. But the world
thinks differently. My mother has spoken to me about it more than once,
and in one way she is right. You know what a place this is, and how
every one talks about everybody. Unfortunately, I believe that you are
one of the men about whose private affairs society is most busy. I
cannot help it now. I have no right to say anything about your life,
past or present, but you have told me enough about yourself to make me
understand why there is always gossip about you, and why there always
will be. Then, too, you will never make people believe that you did not
fight that duel about me, for you cannot tell any one what you told me.
The consequence is, that you and I look at it all from one point of
view, and the world sees it from quite another. I think it is better to
say all this once, and to be done with it. As we shall not meet for
several months, people will forget to talk. Am I right to speak to you?"
"Perfectly right," answered Ghisleri. An expression of pain had settled
on his lean face while she had been talking, and did not disappear at
once. Laura saw it and was silent for a moment.
"I am sorry if I have hurt you," she said presently. "Perhaps I was
wrong."
"No, you were quite right," Ghisleri replied. "You would have been very
wrong indeed not to tell me. If you did not, who would? But I had no
suspicion of all this. I believed that for once they might let me alone,
considering what you are--and what I am. The contrast might protect you
in the eyes of some persons. Lady Herbert Arden--and Pietro Ghisleri."
He pronounced his own name with the utmost bitterness.
"Please do not speak of yourself in that way," said Laura, with
something like entreaty in her voice.
"It is true enough," he answered. "An intelligent being might understand
that I could be useful to you, but not that you--" He stopped short, and
his tone changed. "I am talking nonsense," he said briefly, by way of
explaining the truth.
"I think you are, in a way," said Laura, quietly. "It is your old habit
of exaggeration. You make me an impossible creature between an archangel
and the good mamma in children's story books, and you refer to yourself
as to a satanic monster whom no honest woman could call her friend. You
are quite right. It is sheer nonsense. If you stay in Rome to repent,
as you suggest in fun, do it in earnest. I am not talking of your sins,
which are not half so bad as you pretend, but of this silly view you
insist upon taking of your own life. If you must think perpetually of
yourself, judge yourself by some reasonable standard. You live in the
world and you have no right to expect to find that you are a saint. If
that is what you wish, take vows, turn monk, and starve yourself up to
heaven if you can. And if you chance to think of me, do not set me on a
pedestal, and build a church over me, and pray at me. I do not like that
sort of thing--it is all unnatural and absurd. I am a woman and nothing
else, better than some by force of circumstances, and not so good as
some others, perhaps for the same reason. All the rest that you imagine
is sentimental trash, and not worth the time it takes you to think it.
You will not be wasting your summer if you can get rid of it all by the
time we meet in the autumn."
For once in his life, Ghisleri was taken by surprise. He had not had any
idea that Laura could express herself so strongly on any point, still
less that she could talk so plainly about himself. He was far too manly,
however, not to be pleased, and his expression changed as he listened to
her. She smiled as she finished, and began to make stitches again.
"No one ever gave me so much good advice in so short a time," he said,
with a laugh. "You have a wonderful power of condensing your meaning. Do
you often talk in that way?"
"Not often. I think I never did before. Do you not think there is some
sense in what I say?"
"Indeed, I begin to believe that there is a great deal," Ghisleri
answered. "At all events, I shall not forget it. Perhaps you will find
me partially reformed when you come back. You must promise to tell me."
"It will take me some time to find out. But if I succeed I will tell
you."
His mood had changed for the better, and he talked of Laura's plans
during nearly half an hour. At last he rose to go.
"Good-bye," he said, rather abruptly.
She looked up quietly as she took his hand, and pressed it without
affectation.
"Good-bye. I wish you a very pleasant summer--and--since we are
parting--I thank you with all my heart for the many kind and friendly
things you have done for me."
"I have done nothing. Good-bye, again."
He turned and she stood looking at his retreating figure until he had
disappeared through the door.
"I believe there is more good in that man than any one knows," she said
to herself. Then she also left the room and went to see whether little
Herbert were awake, and to busy herself with the last arrangements for
his comfort during the journey.
Ghisleri knew that another parting was before him in the near future. As
usual, Maddalena dell' Armi was going to spend a considerable part of
the summer with her father in Tuscany. He went to see her tolerably
often, and their relations had of late been to all appearances friendly
