he flattered himself he had appeased, and was a fatal consequence of his
guilt. It was a terrible suggestion of the possibility that, after all,
Providence might not have been a party to the understanding between
them, and that his good-will toward those he had wronged had gone for
nothing. He had blamed himself for not having tried to retrieve himself
and make their losses good. It was no small part of his misery now to
perceive that anything he might have done would have gone for nothing in
this one-sided understanding. He fetched a long, unconscious sigh.
"Why, it's all over, now, Mr. Northwick," said Pinney, with a certain
amusement at the simple-heartedness of this sigh, whose cause he did not
misinterpret. "The question is now about your getting back to them."
"Getting back? You know I can't go back," said Northwick, with bitter
despair, and an openness that he had not shown before.
Far beneath and within the senses that apprehend the obvious things,
Pinney felt the unhappy man beginning to cling to him. He returned,
joyously, "I don't know about that. Now, see here, Mr. Northwick, you
believe that I'm here as your friend, don't you? That I want to deal in
good faith with you?" Northwick hesitated, and Pinney pursued, "Your
daughter's letter ought to be a guaranty of that!"
"Yes," Northwick admitted, after another hesitation.
"Well, then, what I'm going to say is in your interest, and you've got
to believe that I have some authority for saying it. I can't tell you
just how much, for I don't know as I know myself exactly. But I think
you can get back if you work it right. Of course, you can't get back for
nothing. It's going to cost you something. It's going to cost you all
you've brought with you,"--Pinney watched Northwick's impassive face for
the next change that should pass upon it; he caught it, and added--"and
more. But I happen to know that the balance will be forthcoming when
it's needed. I can't say how I know it, for I don't exactly know how
I know it. But I do know it; and you know that it's for you to take
the first step. You must say how much money you brought with you, and
where it is, and how it can be got at. I should think," said Pinney,
with a drop in his earnestness, and as if the notion had just occurred
to him, "you would want to see that place of yours again."
Northwick gave a gasp in the anguish of homesickness the words brought
upon him. In a flash of what was like a luminous pang, he saw it all as
it looked the night he left it in the white landscape under the high,
bare wintry sky. "You don't know what you're talking about," he said,
with a kind of severity.
"No," Pinney admitted, "I don't suppose any one can begin to appreciate
it as you do. But I was there, just after you skipped--"
"Then I was the kind of man who would skip," Northwick swiftly
reflected--
"And I must say I would take almost any chance of getting back to a
place like that. Why," he said, with an easy, caressing cordiality, "you
can't have any idea how completely the thing's blown over. Why, sir,
I'll bet you could go back to Hatboro' now, and be there twenty-four
hours before anybody would wake up enough to make trouble for you. Mind,
I don't say that's what we want you to do. We couldn't make terms for
you half as well, with you on the ground. We want you to keep your
distance for the present, and let your friends work for you. Like a
candidate for the presidency," Pinney added, with a smile. "Hello! Who's
this?"
A little French maid, barefooted, black-eyed, curly-headed, shyly
approached Northwick, and said, "Diner, Monsieur."
"That means dinner," Northwick gravely interpreted. "I will ask you to
join me."
"Oh, thank you, I shall be very glad," said Pinney rising with him. They
had been sitting on the steps of a structure that Pinney now noticed was
an oddity among the bark-sheathed cabins of the little hamlet. "Why,
what's this?"
"It's the studio of an American painter who used to come here. He hasn't
been here for several years."
"I suppose you expect to light out if he comes," Pinney suggested, in
the spirit of good fellowship towards Northwick now thoroughly
established in him.
"He couldn't do me any harm, if he wanted to," answered Northwick, with
unresentful dignity.
"No," Pinney readily acquiesced, "and I presume you'd be glad to hear a
little English, after all the French you have around."
"The landlord speaks a little; and the priest. He is a friend of Father
Étienne."
"Oh, I see," said Pinney. He noticed that Northwick walked slowly and
weakly; he ventured to put his hand under his elbow, and Northwick did
not resent the help offered him.
"I had a very severe sickness during the latter part of the winter," he
explained, "and it pulled me down a good deal."
"At Rimouski, I presume?" said Pinney.
"No," said Northwick, briefly.
IV.
Over the simple dinner, which Pinney praised for the delicacy of the
local lamb, and Northwick ate of so sparingly, Northwick talked more
freely. He told Pinney all about his flight, and his winter journey up
toward the northern verge of the civilized world. The picturesque
details of this narrative, and their capability of distribution under
attractive catch-heads almost maddened the reporter's soul in Pinney
with longing to make newspaper material of Northwick on the spot. But he
took his honor in both hands, and held fast to it; only he promised him
that if the time ever came when that story could be told, it should be
both fortune and fame to him.
They sat long over their dinner. At last Pinney pulled out his watch.
"What time did you say the boat for Quebec got along here?"
Northwick had not said, of course, but he now told Pinney. He knew the
time well in the homesickness which mounted to a paroxysm as that hour
each day came and went.
"We must get there some time in the night then," said Pinney, still
looking at his watch. "Then let's understand each other about this: Am I
to tell your family where you are? Or what? Look here!" he broke off
suddenly, "why don't you come up to Quebec with me? You'll be just as
safe there as you are here; you know that; and now that your whereabouts
are bound to be known to your friends, you might as well be where they
can get at you by telegraph in case of emergency. Come! What do you
say?"
Northwick said simply, "Yes, I will go with you."
"Well, now you're shouting," said Pinney. "Can't I help you to put your
traps together? I want to introduce you to my wife. She takes as much
interest in this thing as I do; and she'll know how to look after you a
great deal better,--get you to Quebec once. She's the greatest little
nurse in this world; and, as you say, you don't seem over and above
strong. I hope you don't object to children. We've got a baby, but it's
the best baby! I've heard that child cry just once since it was
born, and that was when it first realized that it was in this vale of
tears; I believe we all do that; but our baby finished up the whole
crying-business on that occasion."
With Pinney these statements led to others until he had possessed
Northwick of his whole autobiography. He was in high content with
himself, and his joy overflowed in all manner of affectionate services
to Northwick, which Northwick accepted as the mourner entrusts his
helplessness to the ghastly kindness of the undertaker, and finds in it
a sort of human sympathy. If Northwick had been his own father, Pinney
could not have looked after him with tenderer care, in putting his
things together for him, and getting on board the boat, and making
interest with the clerk for the best stateroom. He did not hesitate to
describe him as an American financier; he enjoyed saying that he was in
Canada for his health; and that he must have an extra room. The clerk
gave up the captain's, as all the others were taken, and Pinney occupied
it with Northwick. It was larger and pleasanter than the other rooms,
and after Pinney got Northwick to bed, he sat beside him and talked.
Northwick said that he slept badly, and liked to have Pinney talk;
Pinney could see that he was uneasy when he left the room, and glad when
he got back; he made up his mind that Northwick was somehow a very sick
man. He lay quite motionless in the lower berth, where Pinney made him
comfortable; his hands were folded on his breast, and his eyes were
closed. Sometimes Pinney, as he talked on, thought the man was dead; and
there were times when he invented questions that Northwick had to answer
yes or no, before he felt sure that he was still alive; his breath went
and came so softly Pinney could not hear it.
Pinney told him all about his courtship and married life, and what a
prize he had drawn in Mrs. Pinney. He said she had been the making of
him, and if he ever did amount to anything, he should owe it to her.
They had their eye on a little place out of town, out Wollaston way, and
Pinney was going to try to get hold of it. He was tired of being mewed
up in a flat, and he wanted the baby to get its feet on the ground, when
it began to walk. He wanted to make his rent pay part of his purchase.
He considered that it was every man's duty to provide a permanent home
for his family, as soon as he began to have a family; and he asked
Northwick if he did not think a permanent home was the thing.
Northwick said he thought it was, and after he said that, he sighed so
deeply that Pinney said, "Oh, I beg your pardon." He had, in fact, lost
the sense of Northwick's situation, and now he recurred to it with a
fresh impulse of compassion. If his compassion was mixed with interest,
with business, as he would have said, it was none the less a genuine
emotion, and Pinney was sincere enough in saying he wished it could be
fixed so that Northwick could get back to his home; at his time of life
he needed it.
"And I don't believe but what it could be fixed," he said. "I don't
know much about the points of the case; but I should say that with the
friends you've got, you wouldn't have a great deal of trouble. I presume
there are some legal forms you would have to go through with; but those
things can always be appealed and continued and nolle prossed, and all
that, till there isn't anything of them, in the end. Of course, it would
have been different if they could have got hold of you in the beginning.
But now," said Pinney, forgetting what he had already said of it, "the
whole thing has blown over, so that that letter of yours from Rimouski
hardly started a ripple in Boston; I can't say how it was in Hatboro'.
No, sir, I don't believe that if you went back now, and your friends
stood by you as they ought to,--I don't believe you'd get more than a
mere nominal sentence, if you got that."
Northwick made no reply, but Pinney fancied that his words were having
weight with him, and he went on: "I don't know whether you've ever kept
the run of these kind of things; but a friend of mine has, and he says
there isn't one case in ten where the law carries straight. You see,
public feeling has got a good deal to do with it, and when the people
get to feeling that a man has suffered enough, the courts are not going
to be hard on him. No, sir. I've seen it time and again, in my newspaper
experience. The public respects a man's sufferings, and if public
opinion can't work the courts, it can work the Governor's council. Fact
is, I looked into that business of yours a little, after you left, Mr.
Northwick, and I couldn't see, exactly, why you didn't stay, and try to
fix it up with the company. I believe you could have done it, and that
was the impression of a good many other newspaper men; and they're
pretty good judges; they've seen a lot of life. It's exciting, and it's
pleasant, newspaper work is," said Pinney, straying back again into the
paths of autobiography, "but I've got about enough of it, myself. The
worst of it is, there ain't any outcome to it. The chances of promotion
are about as good as they are in the U. S. Army when the Reservations
are quiet. So I'm going into something else. I'd like to tell you about
it, if you ain't too sleepy?"
"I am rather tired," said Northwick, with affecting patience.
"Oh, well, then, I guess we'll postpone it till to-morrow. It'll keep.
My! It don't seem as I was going back to my wife and baby. It seems
too good to be true. Every time I leave 'em, I just bet myself I sha'n't
get back alive; or if I do that I sha'n't find 'em safe and sound; and
I'm just as sure I'll win every time, as if I'd never lost the bet yet."
Pinney undressed rapidly, and before he climbed into the berth over
Northwick's, he locked the door, and put the key under his pillow.
Northwick did not seem to notice him, but a feeling of compunction made
him put the key back in the door. "I guess I'd better leave it there,
after all," he said. "It'll stop a key from the outside. Well, sir,
good-night," he added to Northwick, and climbed to his berth with a
light heart. Toward morning he was wakened by a groaning from the lower
berth, and he found Northwick in great pain. He wished to call for help;
but Northwick said the pain would pass, and asked him to get him some
medicine he had in his hand-bag; and when he had taken that he was
easier. But he held fast to Pinney's hand, which he had gripped in one
of his spasms, and he did not loose it till Pinney heard him drawing his
breath in the long respirations of sleep. Then Pinney got back to his
berth, and fell heavily asleep.
He knew it was late when he woke. The boat was at rest, and must be
lying at her landing in Quebec. He heard the passengers outside hurrying
down the cabin to go ashore. When he had collected himself, and recalled
the events of the night, he was almost afraid to look down at Northwick
lest he should find him lying dead in his berth; when he summoned
courage to look, he found the berth empty.
He leaped out upon the floor, and began to throw himself into his
clothes. He was reassured, for a moment, by seeing Northwick's
travelling-bag in the corner with his own; but the hand-bag was gone. He
rushed out, as soon as he could make himself decent, and searched every
part of the boat where Northwick might probably be; but he was not to be
seen.
He asked a steward how long the boat had been in; and the steward said
since six o'clock. It was then eight.
Northwick was not waiting for Pinney on the wharf, and he climbed
disconsolately to his hotel in the Upper Town. He bet, as a last
resource, that Northwick would not be waiting there for him, to give him
a pleasant surprise, and he won his disastrous wager.
It did not take his wife so long to understand what had happened, as
Pinney thought it would. She went straight to the heart of the mystery.
"Did you say anything about his going back?"
"Why--in a general way," Pinney admitted, ruefully.
"Then, of course, that made him afraid of you. You broke your word, Ren,
and it's served you right."
His wife was walking to and fro with the baby in her arms; and she said
it was sick, and she had been up all night with it. She told Pinney he
had better go out and get a doctor.
It was all as different from the return Pinney had planned as it could
be.
"I believe the old fool is crazy," he said, and he felt that this was
putting the mildest possible construction upon Northwick's behavior.
"He seems to have known what he was about, anyway," said Mrs. Pinney,
coldly. The baby began to cry. "Oh, do go for the doctor!"
V.
The day was still far from dawning when Northwick crept up the silent
avenue, in the dark of its firs, toward his empty house, and stealthily
began to seek for that home in it which had haunted his sleeping and
waking dreams so long. He had a kind of ecstacy in the risk he ran; a
wild pleasure mixed with the terror he felt in being what and where he
was. He wanted to laugh when he thought of the perfect ease and safety
of his return. At the same time a thrilling anxiety pierced him through
and through, and made him take all the precautions of a thief in the
night.
A thief in the night: that was the phrase which kept repeating itself to
him, till he said it over under his breath, as he put off his shoes, and
stole up the piazza-steps, and began to peer into the long windows, at
the blackness within. He did not at once notice that the shutters were
open, with an effect of reckless security or indifference, which struck
a pang to his heart when he realized it. He felt the evil omen of this
faltering in the vigilance which had once guarded his home, and which he
had been the first to break down, and lay it open to spoil and waste. He
tried the windows; he must get in, somehow, and he did not dare to ring
at the door, or to call out. He must steal into his house, as he had
stolen out of it.
One of the windows yielded; the long glass door gave inward, and he
stepped on the carpetless floor of the library. Then the fact of the
change that must have passed upon the whole house enforced itself, and
he felt a passionate desire to face and appropriate the change in every
detail. He lit one of the little taper matches that he had with him,
and, hollowing his hands around it, let its glimmer show him the
desolation of the dismantled and abandoned rooms. He passed through the
doors set wide between library and drawing-room and dining-room and
hall; and then from his dying taper he lit another, and mounted the
stairs. He had no need to seek his daughter's rooms to satisfy himself
that the whole place was empty; they were gone; but he had a fantastic
expectation that in his own room he might find himself. There was
nothing there, either; it was as if he were a ghost come back in search
of the body it had left behind; any one that met him, he thought, might
well be more frightened than he; and yet he did not lose the sense of
risk to himself.
He had an expectation, born of long custom, and persisting in spite of
the nakedness of the place otherwise, that he should see the pictured
face of his wife, where it had looked so mercifully at him that last
night from the portrait above the mantel. He sighed lightly to find it
gone; her chair was gone from the bay-window, where he had stood to gaze
his last over the possessions he was abandoning. He let his little taper
die out by the hearth, and then crept toward the glimmer of the window,
and looked out again. The conservatories and the dairies and the barns
showed plain in the gray of the moonless, starless night; in the
coachman's quarters a little point of light appeared for a moment
through the window, and then vanished.
Northwick knew from this that the place was inhabited; unless some
homeless tramp like himself was haunting it, and it went through his
confusion that he must speak to Newton, and caution him about tramps
sleeping in the barns anywhere; they might set them on fire. His mind
reverted to his actual condition, and he wondered how long he could come
and go as a vagrant without being detected. If it were not for the
action against vagrants which he had urged upon the selectmen the summer
before, he might now come and go indefinitely. But he was not to blame;
it was because Mrs. Morrell had encouraged the tramps by her reckless
charity that something had to be done; and now it was working against
him. It was hard: he remembered reading of a man who had left his family
one day, and taken a room across the street, and lived there in sight of
them unknown till he died: and now he could not have passed his own door
without danger of arrest as a vagrant. He struck another match, and
looked at himself in the mirror framed as a window at one side of the
bay; he believed that with the long white beard he wore, and his hair
which he had let grow, his own children would not have known him.
It was bitter; but his mind suddenly turned from the thought, with a
lightness it had, and he remembered that now he did not know where his
children lived. He must find out, somehow; he had come to see them; and
he could not go back without. He must hurry to find them, and be gone
again before daylight. He crept out to the stairs, and struck a match to
light himself down, and he carried it still burning, toward the window
he had left open behind him in the library. As soon as he stepped out on
the piazza he found himself gripped fast in the arms of a man.
"I've got you! What you doing in here, I'd like to know? Who are you,
anyway, you thief? Just hold that lantern up to his face, a minute,
'Lectra."
Northwick had not tried to resist; he had not struggled; he had known
Elbridge Newton's voice at the first word. He saw the figure of a woman
beside him, stooping over the lantern, and he knew that it was Mrs.
Newton; but he made no sort of appeal to either. He did not make the
least sound or movement. The habit of his whole life was reticence,
especially in emergencies; and this habit had been strengthened and
deepened by the solitude in which he had passed the last half-year. If a
knife had been put to his throat, he would not have uttered a cry for
mercy; but his silence was so involuntary that it seemed to him he did
not breathe while Mrs. Newton was turning up the wick of the lantern for
a good look at him. When the light was lifted to his face, Northwick
felt that they both knew him through the disguise of his white beard.
Elbridge's grip fell from him and let him stand free. "Well, I'll be
dumned," said Elbridge.
His wife remained holding the lantern to Northwick's face. "What are you
going to do with him?" she asked at last, as if Northwick were not
present; he stood so dumb and impassive.
"I d' know as I know," said Newton, overpowered by the peculiar
complications of the case. He escaped from them for the moment in the
probable inference: "I presume he was lookin' for his daughters. Didn't
you know," he turned to Northwick, with a sort of apologetic reproach,
"lightin' matches that way in the house, here, you might set it on fire,
and you'd be sure to make people think there was somebody there,
anyhow?"
Northwick made no answer to this question, and Newton looked him
carefully over in the light of the lantern. "I swear, he's in his
stockin' feet. You look round and see if you can find his shoes,
anywhere, 'Lectra. You got the light." Newton seemed to insist upon this
because it relieved him to delegate any step in this difficult matter to
another.
His wife cast the light of her lantern about, and found the shoes by the
piazza-steps, and as Northwick appeared no more able to move than to
speak, Elbridge stooped down, and put on his shoes for him where he
stood. When he lifted himself, he stared again at Northwick, as if to
make perfectly sure of him, and then he said, with a sigh of perplexity,
"You go ahead, a little ways, 'Lectra, with the lantern. I presume we've
got to take him to 'em," and his wife, usually voluble and wilful,
silently obeyed.
"Want to see your daughters?" he asked Northwick, and at the silence
which was his only response, Newton said, "Well, I don't know as I
blame him any, for not wantin' to commit himself. You don't want to be
afraid," he added, to Northwick, "that anybody's goin' to keep you
against your will, you know."
"Well, I guess not," said Mrs. Newton, finding her tongue, at last.
"If they was to double and treble the reward, I'd slap 'em in the face
first. Bring him along, Elbridge."
As Northwick no more moved than spoke, Newton took him by the arm, and
helped him down the piazza-steps and into the dark of the avenue,
tunnelled about their feet by the light of the lantern, as they led and
pushed their helpless capture toward the lodge at the avenue gate.
Northwick had heard and understood them; he did not know what secret
purpose their pretence of taking him to his children might not cover;
but he was not capable of offering any resistance, and when he reached
the cottage he sank passively on the steps. He shook in every nerve,
while Elbridge pounded on the door, till a window above was lifted, and
Adeline's frightened voice quavered out, "Who is it? What is it?"
Mrs. Newton took the words out of her husband's mouth. "It's us, Miss
Northwick. If you're sure you're awake--"
"Oh, yes. I haven't been asleep!"
"Then listen!" said Mr. Newton, in a lowered tone. "And don't be scared.
Don't call out--don't speak loud. There's somebody here--Come down, and
let him in."
Northwick stood up. He heard the fluttered rush of steps on the stairs
inside. The door opened, and Adeline caught him in her arms, with
choking, joyful sobs. "Oh, father! Oh, father! Oh, I knew it! I knew it!
Oh, oh, oh! Where was he? How did you find him?"
She did not heed their answers. She did not realize that she was
shutting them out when she shut herself in with her father; but they
understood.
VI.
Northwick stared round him in the light of the lamp which Adeline turned
up. He held fast by one of her hands. "What's he going to do? Has he
gone for the officer? Is he going to give me up?"
"Who? Elbridge Newton? Well, I guess his wife hasn't forgot what you did
for them when their little boy died, if he has, and I guess he
hasn't gone for any officer! Where did you see him?"
"In the house. I was there."
"But how did he know it?"
"I had to have a light to see by."
"Oh, my goodness! If anybody else had caught you I don't know what I
should have done. I don't see how you could be so venturesome!"
"I thought you were there. I had to come back. I couldn't stand it any
longer, when that fellow came with your letter."
"Oh, he found you," she cried, joyfully. "I knew he would find you,
and I said so--Sit down, father; do." She pushed him gently into a
cushioned rocking-chair. "It's mother's chair; don't you remember, it
always stood in the bay-window in your room, where she put it? Louise
Hilary bought it at the sale--I know she bought it--and gave it to me.
It was because the place was mother's that I wouldn't let Suzette give
it up to the company."
He did not seem to understand what she was saying. He stared at her
piteously, and he said with an effort: "Adeline, I didn't know about
that accident. I didn't know you thought I was dead, or I--"
"No! Of course you didn't! I always told Suzette you didn't. Don't you
suppose I always believed in you, father? We both believed in you,
through it all; and when that letter of yours came out in the paper I
knew you were just overwrought."
Northwick rose and looked fearfully round him again, and then came
closer to her, with his hand in his breast. He drew it out with the roll
of bank-notes in it. "Here's that money I took away with me. I always
kept it in my belt: but it hurt me there. I want you should take care of
it for me, and we can make terms with them to let me stay."
"Oh, they won't let you stay. We've tried it over and over; and the
court won't let you. They say you will have to be tried, and they will
put you in prison."
Northwick mechanically put the money back.
"Well, let them," said the broken man. "I can't stand it any longer. I
have got to stay." He sank into the chair, and Adeline broke into tears.
"Oh, I can't let you! You must go back! Think of your good name, that
there's never been any disgrace on!"
"What--what's that?" Northwick quavered, at the sound of footsteps
overhead.
"Why, it's Suzette, of course! And I hadn't called her," said Adeline,
breaking off from her weeping. She ran to the foot of the stairs, and
called, huskily, "Suzette, Suzette! Come down this instant! Come down,
come down, come down!" She bustled back to her father. "You must be
hungry, ain't you, father? I'll get you a cup of tea over my lamp here;
the water heats as quick! And you'll feel stronger after that. Don't you
be afraid of anything; there's nobody here but Suzette; Mrs. Newton
comes to do the work in the morning; they used to stay with us, but we
don't mind it a bit, being alone here. I did want to go into the
farmhouse, when we left our own, but Suzette couldn't bear to live right
in sight of our home, all the time; she said it would be worse than
being afraid; but we haven't been afraid; and the Newtons come all the
time to see if we want anything. And now that you've got back--" She
stopped, and stared at him in a daze, and then turned to her lamp again,
as if unable to cope with the situation. "I haven't been very well,
lately, but I'm getting better; and if only we could get the court to
let you come back I should be as well as ever. I don't believe but what
Mr. Hilary will make it out yet. Father!" She dropped her voice, and
glanced round; "Suzette's engaged to young Mr. Hilary--oh, he's the
best young man!--and I guess they're going to be married just as soon
as we can arrange it about you. I thought I'd tell you before she came
down."
Northwick did not seem to have taken the fact in, or else he could not
appreciate it rightly. "Do you suppose," he whispered back, "that she'll
speak to me?"
"Speak to you!"
"I didn't know. She was always so proud. But now I've brought back the
money, all but the little I've had to use--"
There was a rustle of skirts on the stairs. Suzette stood a moment in
the doorway, looking at her father, as if not sure he was real; then she
flung herself upon him, and buried her face in his white beard, and
kissed him with a passion of grief and love. She sank into his lap, with
a long sigh, and let her head fall on his shoulder. All that was not
simply father and daughter was for the moment annulled between them.
Adeline looked on admiring, while she kept about heating the water over
her lamp; and they all took up fitfully the broken threads of their
lives, and tried to piece them again into some sort of unity.
Adeline did most of the talking. She told her father how friends seemed
to have been raised up for them in their need, when it was greatest. She
praised herself for the inspiration she had in going to Putney for
advice, because she remembered how her father had spoken of him that
last night, and for refusing to give up the property to the company. She
praised Putney for justifying and confirming her at every step, and for
doing everything that could be done about the court. She praised the
Hilarys, all of them, for their constancy to her father throughout, and
she said she believed that if Mr. Hilary could have had his way, there
never would have been any trouble at all about the accounts, and she
wanted her father to understand just how the best people felt about him.
He listened vaguely to it all. A clock in the next room struck four, and
Northwick started to his feet. "I must go!"
"Go?" Adeline echoed.
"Why must you go?" said Suzette, clinging about him.
They were all silent in view of the necessity that stared them in the
face.
Then Adeline roused herself from the false dream of safety in which her
words had lulled her. She wailed out, "He's got to go! Oh, Suzette,
let him go! He's got to go to prison if he stays!"
"It's prison there" said Northwick. "Let me stay!"
"No, no! I can't let you stay! Oh, how hard I am to make you go! What
makes you leave it all to me, Suzette? It's for you, as much as
anything, I do it."
"Then don't do it! If father wants to stay; if he thinks he had better,
or if he will feel easier, he shall stay; and you needn't think of me. I
won't let you think of me!"
"But what would they say--Mr. Hilary say--if they sent father to
prison?"
Suzette's eyes glowed. "Let them say what they will. I know I can trust
him, but if he wants to give me up for that, he may. If father wishes
to stay, he shall, and nothing that they can do to him will ever make
him different to us. If he tells us that he didn't mean anything wrong,
that will be enough; and people may say what they please, and think what
they please."
Northwick listened with a confused air. He looked from one to the other,
as if beaten back and forth between them; he started violently, when
Adeline almost screamed out: "Oh, you don't know what you're talking
about! Father, tell her you don't wish to stay!"
"I must go, Suzette; I had better go--"
"Here, drink this tea, now, and it will give you a little strength."
Adeline pressed the cup on him that she had been getting ready through
all, and made him drain it. "Now, then, hurry, hurry, hurry, father! Say
good-by! You've got to go, now--yes, you've got to!--but it won't be
for long. You've seen us, and you've found out we're alive and well, and
now we can write--be sure you write, father, when you get back there;
or, you'd better telegraph--and we can arrange--I know we can--for you
to come home, and stay home."
"Home! Home!" Northwick murmured.
"It seems as if he wanted to kill me!" Adeline sobbed into her hands.
She took them away. "Well, stay, then!" she said.
"No, no! I'll go," said Northwick. "You're not to blame, Adeline. It's
all right--all for the best. I'll go--"
"And let us know where you are, when you get there, this time, father!"
said Adeline.
"Yes, I will."
"And we will come to you, there," Suzette put in. "We can live together
in Canada, as well as here."
Northwick shook his head. "It's not the same. I can't get used to it;
their business methods are different. I couldn't put my capital into any
of their enterprises. I've looked the whole ground over. And--and I want
to get back into our place."
He said these things vaguely, almost dryly, but with an air of final
conviction, as after much sober reflection. He sat down, but Adeline
would not let him be. "Well, then, we'll help you to think out some way
of getting back, after we're all there together. Go; it'll soon begin to
be light, and I'm afraid somebody'll see you, and stop you! But oh, my
goodness! How are you going? You can't walk! And if you try to start
from our depot, they'll know you, some one, and they'll arrest you. What
shall we do?"
"I came over from East Hatboro' to-night," said Northwick. "I am going
back there to get the morning train." This was the way he had planned,
and he felt the strength of a fixed purpose in returning to his plan in
words.
"But it's three miles!" Adeline shrieked. "You can never get there in
the world in time for the train. Oh, why didn't I tell Elbridge to come
for you! I must go and tell him to get ready right away."
"No, I'll go!" said Suzette. "Adeline!"
Adeline flung the door open, and started back, with a cry, from the
dark, van-like vehicle before the door, which looked like the Black
Maria, or an undertaker's wagon, in the pale light.
"It's me," said Elbridge's voice from the front of it, and Elbridge's
head dimly showed itself. "I got to thinkin' maybe you'd want the
carryall, and I didn't know but what I'd better go and hitch up,
anyway."
"Oh, well, we did!" cried Adeline, with an hysterical laugh. "Here,
now, father, get right in! Don't lose a second. Kiss Suzette; good-by!
Be sure you get him to East Hatboro' in time for the four-forty,
Elbridge!" She helped her father, shaking and stumbling, into the
shelter of the curtained carryall. "If anybody tries to stop you--"
"I'd like to see anybody try to stop me," said Elbridge, and he whipped
up his horse. Then he leaned back toward Northwick, and said, "I'm going
to get the black colt's time out of the old mare."
"Which mare is it?" Northwick asked.
VII.
On his way home from the station, Elbridge Newton began to have some
anxieties. He had no longer occasion for any about Northwick, he was
safe on his way back to Canada; and Elbridge's anxieties were for
himself. He was in the cold fit after his act of ardent generosity. He
had no desire to entangle himself with the law by his act of incivism in
helping Northwick to escape, and he thought it might be well to put
himself on the safe side by seeing Putney about it, and locking the
stable after the horse was stolen.
He drove round by the lawyer's house, and stopped at his gate just as
Putney pushed his lawn-mower up to it, in his exercise of the instrument
before breakfast.
Elbridge leaned out of the carryall, and asked, in a low confidential
voice, "If J. Milton Northwick was to come back here, on the sly, say,
to see his family, and I was to help him git off again, would I be
li'ble?"
"Why?" asked Putney.
"Because I just done it," said Elbridge, desperately.
"Just done it?" shouted Putney. "Why, confound you!" He suddenly brought
his voice down. "Do you mean to tell me the fellow's been back here, and
you didn't let me know?"
"I hadn't any orders to do it," Elbridge weakly urged.
"Orders, the devil!" Putney retorted. "I'd 'a' given a hundred dollars
to see that man and talk with him. Come, now; tell me all you know about
it! Don't miss a thing!" After a few words from Newton, he broke out:
"Found him in the house! And I was down there prowling round the place
myself not three hours before! Go on! Great Scott! Just think of it!"
Putney was at one of those crises of his life when his drink-devil was
besetting him with sore temptation, and for the last twenty-four hours
he had been fighting it with the ruses and pretences which he had
learned to employ against it, but he felt that he was losing the game,
though he was playing for much greater stakes than usual. He had held
out so long since his last spree, that if he lost now he would defeat
hopes that were singularly precious and sacred to him: the hopes that
those who loved him best, and distrusted him most, and forgave him
soonest, had begun to cherish. It would not break his wife's heart; she
was used to his lapses; but it would wring it more cruelly than usual if
he gave way now.
When the fiend thrust him out of his house the night before, he knew
that she knew of it, though she let him go in that fearful company, and
made no effort to keep him. He was so strait an agnostic that, as he
boasted, he had no superstitions even; but his relation to the
Northwicks covered the period of his longest resistance of temptation,
and by a sort of instinctive, brute impulse, he turned his step towards
the place where they lived, as if there might be rescue for him in the
mere vicinity of those women who had appealed to him in their distress,
as to a faithful enemy. His professional pride, his personal honor, were
both involved in the feeling that he must not fail them; their implicit
reliance had been a source of strength to him. He was always hoping for
some turn of affairs which would enable him to serve them, or rather to
serve Adeline; for he cared little for Suzette, or only secondarily; and
since Pinney had gone upon his mission to Canada he was daily looking
for this chance to happen. He must keep himself for that, and not
because of them alone, but because those dearest to him had come tacitly
to connect his resistance of the tempter with his zeal for the interests
of his clients. With no more reasoned motives than these he had walked
over the Northwick place, calling himself a fool for supposing that some
virtue should enter into him out of the ground there, and yet finding a
sort of relief, in the mere mechanical exercise, the novelty of
exploring by night the property grown so familiar to him by day, and so
strangely mixed up with the great trial and problem of his own
usefulness.
He listened by turns, with a sinking and a rising heart, as Newton now
dug the particulars of his adventure out of himself. At the end, he
turned to go into the house.
"Well, what do you say, Squire Putney?" Elbridge called softly after
him.
"Say?"
"You know: about what I done."
"Keep your mouth shut about what you 'done.' I should like to see you
sent to jail, though, for what you didn't do."
Elbridge felt a consolatory quality in Putney's resentment, and Putney,
already busy with the potentialities of the future, was buoyed up by the
strong excitement of what had actually happened rather than finally cast
down by what he had missed. He took three cups of the blackest coffee at
breakfast, and he said to the mute, anxious face of his wife, "Well,
Ellen, I seem to be pulling through, somehow."
VIII.
Adeline was in a flutter of voluble foreboding till Elbridge came back.
She asked Suzette whether she believed their father would get away; she
said she knew that Elbridge would miss the train, with that slow, old
mare, and their father would be arrested. Weak as she was from the
sick-bed she had left to welcome him, she dressed herself carefully, so
as to be ready for the worst; she was going to jail with him if they
brought him back; she had made up her mind to that. From time to time
she went out and looked up the road, to see if Elbridge was coming back
alone, or whether the officers were bringing her father; she expected
they would bring him first to his family; she did not know why. Suzette
tried to keep her indoors; to make her lie down. She refused, with wild
upbraidings. She declared that Suzette had never cared anything for her
father; she had wanted to give their mother's property away, to please
the Hilarys; and now that she was going to marry Matt Hilary, she was
perfectly indifferent to everything else. She asked Suzette what had
come over her.
Elbridge drove first to the stable and put up his horse, when he came
back. Then he walked to the lodge to report.
"Is he safe? Did he get away? Where is he?" Adeline shrieked at him
before he could get a word out.
"He's all right, Miss Northwick," Elbridge answered soothingly. "He's on
his way back to Canady, again."
"Then I've driven him away!" she lamented. "I've hunted him out of his
home, and I shall never see him any more. Send for him! Send for him!
Bring him back, I tell you! Go right straight after him, and tell him
I said to come back! What are you standing there for?"
She fell fainting. Elbridge helped Suzette carry her upstairs to her
bed, and then ran to get his wife, to stay with them while he went for
the doctor.
Matt Hilary had been spending the night at the rectory with Wade, and he
walked out to take leave of Suzette once more before he went home. He
found the doctor just driving away. "Miss Northwick seems not so well,"
said the doctor. "I'm very glad you happen to be here, on all accounts.
I shall come again later in the day."
Matt turned from the shadow of mystery the doctor's manner left, and
knocked at the door. It was opened by Suzette almost before he touched
it.
"Come in," she said, in a low voice, whose quality fended him from her
almost as much as the conditional look she gave him. The excited babble
of the sick woman overhead, mixed with Mrs. Newton's nasal attempts to
quiet her, broke in upon their talk.
"Mr. Hilary," said Suzette, formally, "are you willing my father should
come back, no matter what happens?"
"If he wishes to come back. You know what I have always said."
"And you would not care if they put him in prison?"
"I should care very much."
"You would be ashamed of me!"
"No! Never! What has it to do with you?"
"Then," she pursued, "he has come back. He has been here." She flashed
all the fact upon him in vivid, rapid phrases, and he listened with an
intelligent silence that stayed and comforted her as no words could have
done. Before she had finished, his arms were round her, and she felt how
inalienably faithful he was. "And now Adeline is raving to have him come
back again, and stay. She thinks she drove him away; she will die if
something can't be done. She says she would not let him stay
because--because you would be ashamed of us. She says I would be
ashamed--"
"Suzette! Sue!" Adeline called down from the chamber above, "don't you
let Mr. Hilary go before I get there. I want to speak to him," and while
they stared helplessly at each other, they heard her saying to Mrs.
Newton, "Yes, I shall, too! I'm perfectly rested, now; and I shall go
down. I should think I knew how I felt. I don't care what the doctor
said; and if you try to stop me--" She came clattering down the stairs
in the boots which she had pulled loosely on, and as soon as she showed
her excited face at the door, she began; "I've thought out a plan, Mr.
Hilary, and I want you should go and see Mr. Putney about it. You ask
him if it won't do. They can get father let out on bail, when he comes
back, and I can be his bail, and then, when there's a trial, they can
take me instead of him. It won't matter to the court which they have, as
long as they have somebody. Now, you go and ask Mr. Putney. I know he'll
say so, for he's thought just as I have about father's case, all along.
Will you go?"
"Will you go up and lie down again, Adeline, if Mr. Hilary will go?"
Suzette asked, like one dealing with a capricious child.
"What do you all want me to lie down for?" Adeline turned upon her. "I'm
perfectly well. And do you suppose I can rest, with such a thing on my
mind? If you want me to rest, you'd better let him go and find out what
Mr. Putney says. I think we'd better all go to Canada and bring father
back with us. He isn't fit to travel alone or with strangers; he needs
some one that understands his ways; and I'm going to him, just as soon
as Mr. Putney approves of my plan, and I know he will. But I don't want
Mr. Hilary to lose any time, now. I want to be in Quebec about as soon
as father is. Will you go?"
"Yes, Miss Northwick," said Matt, taking her tremulous hand. "I'll go to
Mr. Putney; and I'll see my father again; and whatever can be done to
save your father any further suffering, or yourself--"
"I don't care for myself," she said, plucking her hand away. "I'm young
and strong, and I can bear it. But it's father I'm so anxious about."
She began to cry, and at a look from Suzette, Matt left them. As he
walked along up toward the village in mechanical compliance with
Adeline's crazy wish, he felt more and more the deepening tragedy of the
case, and the inadequacy of all compromises and palliatives. There
seemed indeed but one remedy for the trouble, and that was for Northwick
to surrender himself, and for them all to meet the consequences
together. He realized how desperately homesick the man must have been to
take the risks he had run in stealing back for a look upon the places
and the faces so dear to him; his heart was heavy with pity for him. One
might call him coward and egotist all one would; at the end remained the
fact of a love which, if it could not endure heroically, was still a
deep and strong affection, doubtless the deepest and strongest thing in
the man's weak and shallow nature. It might be his truest inspiration,
and if it prompted him to venture everything, and to abide by whatever
might befall him, for the sake of being near those he loved, and
enjoying the convict's wretched privilege of looking on them now and
then, who should gainsay him?
Matt took Wade in on his way to Putney's office, to lay this question
before him, and he answered it for him in the same breath: "Certainly no
one less deeply concerned than the man's own flesh and blood could
forbid him."
"I'm not sure," said Wade, "that even his own flesh and blood would have
a supreme right there. It may be that love, and not duty, is the highest
thing in life. Oh, I know how we reason it away, and say that true
love is unselfish and can find its fruition in the very sacrifice of our
impulses; and we are fond of calling our impulses blind, but God alone
knows whether they are blind. The reasoned sacrifice may satisfy the
higher soul, but what about the simple and primitive natures which it
won't satisfy?"
For answer, Matt told how Northwick had come back, at the risk of
arrest, for an hour with his children, and was found in the empty house
that had been their home, and brought to them: how he had besought them
to let him stay, but they had driven him back to his exile. Matt
explained how he was on his way to the lawyer, at Adeline's frantic
demand, to go all over the case again, and see if something could not be
done to bring Northwick safely home. He had himself no hope of finding
any loophole in the law, through which the fugitive could come and go;
if he returned, Matt felt sure that he would be arrested and convicted,
but he was not sure that this might not be the best thing for all. "You
know," he said, "I've always believed that if he could voluntarily
submit himself to the penalty of his offence, the penalty would be the
greatest blessing for him on earth; the only blessing for his ruined
life."
"Yes," Wade answered, "we have always thought alike about that, and
perhaps this torment of longing for his home and children, may be the
divine means of leading him to accept the only mercy possible with God
for such a sufferer. If there were no one but him concerned, we could
not hesitate in urging him to return. But the innocent who must endure
the shame of his penalty with him--"
"They are ready for that. Would it be worse than what they have learned
to endure?"
"Perhaps not. But I was not thinking of his children alone. You,
yourself, Matt; your family--"
Matt threw up his arms impatiently, and made for the door. "There's no
question of me. And if they could not endure their portion,--the
mere annoyance of knowing the slight for them in the minds of vulgar
people,--I should be ashamed of them."
"Well, you are right, Matt," said his friend. "God bless you and guide
you!" added the priest.
The lawyer had not yet come to his office, and Matt went to find him at
his house. Putney had just finished his breakfast, and they met at his
gate, and he turned back indoors with Matt. "Well, you know what's
happened, I see," he said, after the first glance at Matt's face.
"Yes, I know; and now what can be done? Are you sure we've considered
every point? Isn't there some chance--"
Putney shook his head, and then bit off a piece of tobacco before he
began to talk. "I've been over the whole case in my mind this morning,
and I'm perfectly certain there isn't the shadow of a chance of his
escaping trial if he gives himself up. That's what you mean, I suppose?"
"Yes; that's what I mean," said Matt, with a certain disappointment. He
supposed he had nerved himself for the worst, but he found he had been
willing to accept something short of it.
"At times I'm almost sorry he got off," said Putney. "If we could have
kept him, and surrendered him to the law, I believe we could have staved
off the trial, though we couldn't have prevented it, and I believe we
could have kept him out of State's prison on the ground of insanity."
Matt started impatiently. "Oh, I don't mean that it could be shown that
he was of unsound mind when he used the company's funds and tampered
with their books, though I have my own opinion about that. But I feel
sure that he's of unsound mind at present: and I believe we could show
it so clearly in court that the prosecution would find it impossible to
convict. We could have him sent to the insane asylum, and that would be
a creditable exit from the affair in the public eye; it would have a
retroactive effect that would popularly acquit him of the charges
against him."
Putney could not forego a mischievous enjoyment of Matt's obvious
discomfort at this suggestion. His fierce eyes blazed; but he added
seriously, "Why shouldn't he have the advantage of the truth, if that is
the truth about him? And I believe it is. I think it could be honestly
and satisfactorily proved from his history, ever since the defalcation
came out, that his reason is affected. His whole conduct, so far as I
know it, shows it; and I should like a chance to argue the case in
court. And I feel pretty sure I shall, yet. I'm just as certain as I sit
here that he will come back again. He can't keep away, and another time
he may not fall into the hands of friends. It will be a good while
before any rumor of last night's visit gets out; but it will get out at
last, and then the detectives will be on the watch for him. Perhaps it
will be just as well for us if he falls into their hands. If we produced
him in court it might be more difficult to work the plea of insanity.
But I do think the man's insane, and I should go into the case with a
full and thorough persuasion on that point. Did he tell them where to
find him in Canada?"
"He promised to let them know."
"I doubt if he does," said Putney. "He means to try coming back again.
The secrecy he's kept as to his whereabouts--the perfectly needless and
motiveless secrecy, as far as his children are concerned--would be a
strong point in favor of the theory of insanity. Yes, sir; I believe the
thing could be done; and I should like to do it. If the pressure of our
life produces insanity of the homicidal and suicidal type, there's no
reason why it shouldn't produce insanity of the defalcational type. The
conditions tend to produce it in a proportion that is simply
incalculable, and I think it's time that jurisprudence recognized the
fact of such a mental disease, say, as defalcomania. If the fight for
money and material success goes on, with the opportunities that the
accumulation of vast sums in a few hands afford, what is to be the end?"
Matt had no heart for the question of metaphysics or of economics,
whichever it was, that would have attracted him in another mood. He went
back to Suzette and addressed himself with her to the task of quieting
her sister. Adeline would be satisfied with nothing less than the
assurance that Putney agreed with her that her father would be acquitted
if he merely came back and gave himself up; she had changed to this
notion in Matt's absence, and with the mental reservation which he
permitted himself he was able to give the assurance she asked. Then at
last she consented to go to bed, and wait for the doctor's coming,
before she began her preparations for joining her father in Canada. She
did not relinquish that purpose; she felt sure that he never could get
home without her; and Suzette must come, too.
IX.
The fourth morning, when Pinney went down into the hotel office at
Quebec, after a trying night with his sick child and its anxious mother,
he found Northwick sitting there. He seemed to Pinney a part of the
troubled dream he had waked from.
"Well, where under the sun, moon and stars have you been?" he
demanded, taking the chance that this phantasm might be flesh and blood.
A gleam of gratified slyness lit up the haggardness of Northwick's face.
"I've been at home--at Hatboro'."
"Come off!" said Pinney, astounded out of the last remnant of deference
he had tried to keep for Northwick. He stood looking incredulously at
him a moment. "Come in to breakfast, and tell me about it. If I could
only have it for a scoop--"
Northwick ate with wolfish greed, and as the victuals refreshed and
fortified him, he came out with his story, slowly, bit by bit. Pinney
listened with mute admiration. "Well, sir," he said, "it's the biggest
thing I ever heard of." But his face darkened. "I suppose you know it
leaves me out in the cold. I came up here," he explained, "as the agent
of your friends, to find you, and I did find you. But if you've gone and
given the whole thing away, I can't ask anything for my services."
Northwick seemed interested, and even touched, by the hardship he had
worked to Pinney. "They don't know where I am, now," he suggested.
"Are you willing I should take charge of the case from this on?" asked
Pinney.
"Yes. Only--don't leave me," said Northwick, with tremulous dependence.
"You may be sure I won't let you out of my sight again," said Pinney. He
took a telegraphic blank from his breast pocket, and addressed it to
Matt Hilary: "Our friend here all right with me at Murdock's Hotel." He
counted the words to see that there were no more than ten; then he
called a waiter, and sent the despatch to the office. "Tell 'em to pay
it, and set it down against me. Tell 'em to rush it."
Pinney showed himself only less devoted to Northwick than to his own
wife and child. His walks and talks were all with him; and as the baby
got better he gave himself more and more to the intimacy established
with him; and Northwick seemed to grow more and more reliant on Pinney's
filial cares. Mrs. Pinney shared these, as far as the baby would permit;
and she made the silent refugee at home with her. She had her opinion of
his daughters, who did not come to him, now that they knew where he was;
but she concealed it from him, and helped him answer Suzette's letters
when he said he was not feeling quite well enough to write himself.
Adeline did not write; Suzette always said she was not quite well, but
was getting better. Then in one of Suzette's letters there came a tardy
confession that Adeline was confined to her bed. She was tormented with
the thought of having driven him away, and Suzette said she wished her
to write and tell him to come back, or to let them come to him. She
asked him to express some wish in the matter, so that she could show his
answer to Adeline. Suzette wrote that Mr. Hilary had come over from his
farm, and was staying at Elbridge Newton's, to be constantly near them;
and in fact, Matt was with them when Adeline suddenly died; they had not
thought her dangerously sick, till the very day of her death, when she
began to sink rapidly.
In the letter that brought this news, Suzette said that if they had
dreamed of present danger they would have sent for their father to come
back at any hazard, and she lamented that they had all been so blind.
The Newtons would stay with her, till she could join him in Quebec; or,
if he wished to return, she and Matt were both of the same mind about
it. They were ready for any event; but Matt felt that he ought to know
there was no hope of his escaping a trial if he returned, and that he
ought to be left perfectly free to decide. Adeline would be laid beside
her mother.
The old man broke into a feeble whimper as Mrs. Pinney read him the last
words. Pinney, walking softly up and down with the baby in his arms,
whimpered too.
"I believe he could be got off, if he went back," he said to his wife,
in a burst of sympathy, when Northwick had taken his letter away to his
own room.
The belief, generous in itself, began to mix with self-interest in
Pinney's soul. He conscientiously forbore to urge Northwick to return,
but he could not help portraying the flattering possibilities of such a
course. Before they parted for Pinney's own return, he confided his
ambition for the future to Northwick, and as delicately as he could he
suggested that if Northwick ever did make up his mind to go back, he
could not find a more interested and attentive travelling-companion.
Northwick seemed to take the right view of the matter, the business
view, and Pinney thought he had arranged a difficult point with great
tact; but he modestly concealed his success from his wife. They both
took leave of the exile with affection; and Mrs. Pinney put her arms
round his neck and kissed him; he promised her that he would take good
care of himself in her absence. Pinney put a business address in his
hand at the last moment.
Northwick seemed to have got back something of his moral force after
these people, who had so strangely become his friends, left him to his
own resources. Once more he began to dream of employing the money he had
with him for making more, and paying back the Ponkwasset company's
forced loans. He positively forbade Suzette's coming to him, as she
proposed, after Adeline's funeral. He telegraphed to prevent her
undertaking the journey, and he wrote, saying he wished to be alone for
a while, and to decide for himself the question of his fate. He approved
of Matt's wish that they should be married at once, and he replied to
Matt with a letter decently observant of the peculiar circumstances,
recognizing the reluctance his father and mother might well feel, and
expressing the hope that he was acting with their full and free consent.
If this letter could have been produced in court, it would have told
heavily against Putney's theory of a defence on the ground of insanity,
it was so clear, and just, and reasonable; though perhaps an expert
might have recognized a mental obliquity in its affirmation of
Northwick's belief that Matt's father would yet come to see his conduct
in its true light, and to regard him as the victim of circumstances
which he really was.
Among the friends of the Hilarys there was misgiving on this point of
their approval of Matt's marriage. Some of them thought that the
parents' hands had been forced in the blessing they gave it. Old
Bromfield Corey expressed a general feeling to Hilary with senile
frankness. "Hilary, you seem to have disappointed the expectation of the
admirers of your iron firmness. I tell 'em that's what you keep for your
enemies. But they seem to think that in Matt's case you ought to have
been more of a Roman father."
"I'm just going to become one," said Hilary, with the good temper proper
to that moment of the dinner. "Mrs. Hilary and Louise are taking me over
to Rome for the winter."
"You don't say so, you don't say!" said Corey, "I wish my family would
take me. Boston is gradually making an old man of me. I'm afraid it will
end by killing me."
X.
Northwick, after the Pinneys went home, lapsed into a solitude relieved
only by the daily letters that Suzette sent him. He shrank from the
offers of friendly kindness on the part of people at the hotel, who
pitied his loneliness; and he began to live in a dream of his home
again. He had relinquished that notion of attempting a new business
life, which had briefly revived in his mind; the same causes that had
operated against it in the beginning, controlled and defeated it now. He
felt himself too old to begin life over; his energies were spent. Such
as he had been, he had made himself very slowly and cautiously, in
familiar conditions; he had never been a man of business dash, and he
could not pick himself up and launch himself in a new career, as a man
of different make might have done, even at his age. Perhaps there had
been some lesion of the will in that fever of his at Haha Bay, which
disabled him from forming any distinct purpose, or from trying to carry
out any such purpose as he did form. Perhaps he was, in his
helplessness, merely of that refugee-type which exile moulds men to: a
thing of memories and hopes, without definite aims or plans.
As the days passed, he dwelt in an outward inertness, while his dreams
and longings incessantly rehabilitated the home whose desolation he had
seen with his own eyes. It would be better to go back and suffer the
sentence of the law, and then go to live again in the place which, in
spite of his senses, he could only imagine clothed in the comfort and
state that had been stripped from it. Elbridge's talk, on the way to
West Hatboro', about the sale, and what had become of the horses and
cattle, and the plants, went for no more than the evidence of his own
eyes that they were all gone. He did not realize, except in the shocks
that the fact imparted at times, that death as well as disaster had
invaded his home. Adeline was, for the most part, still alive: in his
fond reveries she was present, and part of that home as she had always
been.
He began to flatter himself that if he went back he could contrive that
compromise with the court which his friends had failed to bring about;
he persuaded himself that if it came to a trial he could offer evidence
