smaller men had. A little here and a little there would of course give
pleasure and might even make happiness. But how much would it need to
make them all rich, compared with their present position? Robert
Lauderdale did not laugh as he answered the question to himself. One
year’s income alone, divided amongst them, would give each a fortune.
The income of two years would give them wealth. And the capital would
remain--the vast possession which in a few years he must lay down
forever, which at any moment might be masterless, for he was an old man,
over seventy years of age. If he had a son, it would be different.
Things would follow their natural course for good or evil, and he would
not himself be to blame for what happened. But he had no one, and the
thing he must leave to some one was great power in its most serviceable
form--money.
He had been face to face with the problem for years and had not solved
it. It is a great one in America, at the present day, and Robert
Lauderdale knew it. He was well aware that he and a score of others,
some richer, some less rich than himself, were execrated by a certain
proportion of the community and pointed out as the disturbers of the
equal distribution of wealth. He was made personally sure of the fact by
hundreds of letters, anonymous and signed, warning him of the
approaching destruction of himself and his property. People who did not
even know that he was a bachelor, threatened to kidnap his children and
keep them from him until he should give up his wealth. He was
threatened, entreated, admonished, preached at and held up to ridicule
by every species of fanatic which the age produces. He was not afraid of
any of them. He did not have himself guarded by detectives in plain
clothes and athletes in fashionable coats, when he chose to walk in the
streets, and he did not yield to the entreaties of women who wrote to
him from Texas that they should be perfectly happy if he would send them
grand pianos to the addresses they gave. He was discriminating, he was
just according to his light and he tried to do good, while he took no
notice of those who raved and abused him. But he knew that there was a
reason for the storm, and was much more keenly alive to the difficulties
of the situation than any of his anonymous correspondents.
He had in his own hands and at his absolute disposal the wealth which,
under a proper administration, would perpetually supply between seven
and eight thousand families with the necessaries of life. He had made
that calculation one day, not idly, but in the endeavour to realize what
could really be done with so much money. He was not a visionary
philanthropist like his brother, though he helped him in many of his
schemes. He was not a saint, though he was a good man, as men go. He
had not the smallest intention of devoting a gigantic fortune
exclusively to the bettering of mankind, for he was human. But he felt
that in his lonely wealth he was in a measure under an obligation to all
humanity--that he had created for himself a responsibility greater than
one man could bear, and that he and others like him had raised a
question, and proposed a problem which had not before been dreamt of in
the history of the world. He, an individual with no especial gifts
besides his keen judgment in a certain class of affairs, with nothing
but his wealth to distinguish him from any other individual, possessed
the equivalent of a sum of money which would have seemed very large in
the treasury of a great nation, or which would have been considered
sufficient as a reserve wherewith to enter upon a great war. And there
were others in an exactly similar position. He knew several of them. He
could count half a dozen men who, together with himself, could upset the
finances of the world if they chose. It needed no tortuous reasoning and
but little vanity to show him that he and they did not stand towards
mankind as other men stood. And the thought brought with it the
certainty that there was a right course for him to pursue in the
disposal of his money, if he could but see it in the right light.
This was the man whom all the Lauderdale tribe called uncle Robert, and
to whom Katharine intended to appeal as soon as she had been secretly
married to John Ralston, and from whom she felt sure of obtaining what
she meant to ask. He was capable of surprising her.
‘You have a good house, good food, good clothes--and so has your
husband. What right have you, Katharine Lauderdale, or Mrs. John
Ralston, to claim more than any member of each of the seven or eight
thousand families whom I could support would get in the distribution?’
That was the answer she might receive--in the form of a rather
unanswerable question.
CHAPTER XII.
The afternoon which followed the first sitting in Crowdie’s studio
seemed very long to Katharine. She did all sorts of things to make the
time pass, but it would not. She even set in order a whole drawer full
of ribbons and gloves and veils and other trifles, which is generally
the very last thing a woman does to get rid of the hours.
And all the time she was thinking, and not sure whether it would not be
better to fight against her thoughts. For though she was not afraid of
changing her mind she had a vague consciousness that the whole question
might raise its head again and face her like a thing in a dream, and
insist that she should argue with it. And then, there was the plain and
unmistakable fact that she was on the eve of doing something which was
hardly ever done by the people amongst whom she lived.
It was not that she was timid, or dreaded the remarks which might be
made. Any timidity of that sort would have checked her at the very
outset. If the man she loved had been any one but Jack Ralston, whom she
had known all her life, she could never have thought of proposing such
a thing. Oddly enough, she felt that she should blush, as she had
blushed that morning at the studio, at the mere idea of a secret
marriage, if Ralston were any one else. But not from any fear of what
other people might say. Not only had the two been intimate from
childhood--they had discussed during the last year their marriage, and
all the possibilities of it, from every point of view. It was a subject
familiar to them, the difficulties to be overcome were clear to them
both, they had proposed all manner of schemes for overcoming them, they
had talked for hours about running away together and had been sensible
enough to see the folly of such a thing. The mere matter of saying
certain words and of giving and receiving a ring had gradually sunk into
insignificance as an event. It was an inevitable formality in Ralston’s
eyes, to be gone through with scrupulous exactness indeed, and to be
carefully recorded and witnessed, but there was not a particle of
romance connected with it, any more than with the signing and witnessing
of a title-deed or any other legal document.
Katharine had a somewhat different opinion of it, for it had a real
religious value in her eyes. That was one reason why she preferred a
secret wedding. Of course, the moment would come, sooner or later, for
they were sure to be married in the end, publicly or privately. But in
any case it would be a solemn moment. The obligations, as she viewed
them, were for life. The very words of the promise had an imposing
simplicity. In the church to which she strongly inclined, marriage was
called a sacrament, and believed to be one, in which the presence of the
Divine personally sanctified the bond of the human. Katharine was quite
willing to believe that, too. And the more she believed it, the more she
hated the idea of a great fashionable wedding, such as Charlotte
Slayback had endured with much equanimity. She could imagine nothing
more disagreeable, even painful, than to be the central figure of such
an exhibition.
That holy hour, when it came at last, should be holy indeed. There
should be nothing, ever thereafter, to disturb the pure memory of its
sanctity. A quiet church, the man she loved, herself and the interpreter
of God. That was all she wanted--not to be disturbed in the greatest
event of her life by all the rustling, glittering, flower-scented,
grinning, gossiping crowd of critics, whose ridiculous presence is
considered to lend marriage a dignity beyond what God or nature could
bestow upon it.
This was Katharine’s view, and as she had no intention of keeping her
marriage to Ralston a secret during even so much as twenty-four hours,
it was neither unnatural nor unjustifiable. But in spite of all the real
importance which she gave to the ceremony as a fact, it seemed so much a
matter of course, and she had thought of it so long and under so many
aspects, that in the chain of future events it was merely a link to be
reached and passed as soon as possible. It was not the ring, nor the
promise nor the blessing, by which her life was to be changed. She knew
that she loved John Ralston, and she could not love him better still
from the instant in which he became her lawful husband. The difficulties
began beyond that, with her intended attack upon uncle Robert. She told
herself that she was sure of success, but she was not, since she could
not see into the future one hour beyond the moment of her meeting with
the old gentleman. That seeing into the future is the test of
confidence, and the only one.
It struck her suddenly that everything which was to happen after the
all-important interview was a blank to her. She paused in what she was
doing--she was winding a yellow ribbon round her finger--and she looked
out of the window. It was raining, for the weather had changed quickly
during the afternoon. Rain in Clinton Place is particularly dreary.
Katharine sat down upon the chair that stood before her little writing
table in the corner by the window, and watched the grey lace veil which
the falling raindrops wove between her and the red brick houses
opposite.
A feeling of despair came over her. Uncle Robert would refuse to do
anything. What would happen then? What could she do? She was brave
enough to face her father’s anger and her mother’s distress, for she
loved Ralston with all her heart. But what would happen? If uncle Robert
failed her, the future was no longer blank but black. No one else could
do anything. Of what use would the family battle be? Her father could
not, and would not, do anything for her or her husband. He was the sort
of man who would take a stern delight in seeing her bear the
consequences of her mistake--it could not be called a fault, even by
him. To impose herself on Mrs. Ralston was more than Katharine’s pride
could endure to contemplate. Of course, it would be possible to
live--barely to live--on the charity of her husband’s mother. Mrs.
Ralston would do anything for her son, and would sacrifice herself
cheerfully. But to accept any such sacrifice was out of the question.
And then, too, Katharine knew what extreme economy meant, for she had
suffered from it long under her father’s roof, and it was not pleasant.
Yet they would be poorer still at the Ralstons, and she would be the
cause of it.
If uncle Robert refused to help them, the position would be desperate.
She watched the rain and tried to think it all over. She supposed that
her father would insist upon--what? Not upon keeping the secret, for
that would not be like him. He was a horribly virtuous man, Charlotte
used to say. Oh, no! he would not act a lie on any account, not he!
Katharine wondered why she hated this scrupulous truthfulness in her
father and admired it above all things in Ralston. Jack would not act a
lie either. But then, if there were to be no secret, and if the marriage
were to be announced, what would happen? Would her father insist upon
her living at home until her husband should be able to support her? What
a situation! She cared less than most girls about social opinion, but
she really wondered what society would say. Her father would say
nothing. He would smile that electric smile of his, and hold his head
higher than ever. ‘This is what happens to daughters who disobey their
parents,’ he would seem to tell the world. She had always thought that
he might be like the first Brutus, and she felt sure of it now.
It seemed like weakness to think of going to uncle Robert that very
afternoon, before the inevitable moment was past. Yet it would be such
an immense satisfaction to have had the interview and to have his
promise to do something for Ralston. The thought seemed cowardly and yet
she dwelt on it. Of course, her chief weapon with the old gentleman was
to be the fact that the thing was done and could not be undone, so that
he could have no good advice to give. And, yet, perhaps she might move
him by saying that she had made up her mind and was to be married
to-morrow. He might not believe her, and might laugh and send her
away--with one of his hearty avuncular kisses--she could see his dear
old face in her imagination. But if he did that, she could still return
to-morrow, and show him the certificate of her marriage. He would not
then be able to say that she had not given him fair warning. She wished
it would not rain. She would have walked in the direction of his house,
and when she was near it she knew in her heart that she would
yield--since it seemed like a temptation--and perhaps it would be
better.
But it was raining, and uncle Robert lived far away from Clinton Place
in a house he had built for himself at the corner of a new block facing
the Central Park. He had built the whole block and had kept possession
of it afterwards. It was almost three miles from Alexander Lauderdale’s
house in unfashionable Clinton Place--three miles of elevated road, or
of horse-car or of walking--and in any case it meant getting wet in such
a rain storm. Moreover, Katharine rarely went alone by the elevated
road. She wished it would stop raining. If it would only stop for half
an hour she would go. Perhaps it was as well to let fate decide the
matter in that way.
Just then a carriage drove up to the door. She flattened her face
against the window, but could not see who got out of it. It was a cab,
however, and the driver had a waterproof hat and coat. In all
probability it came from one of the hotels. Any one might have taken it.
Katharine drew back a little and looked idly at the little mottled mist
her breath had made upon the window pane. The door of her room opened
suddenly.
“Kitty, are you there?” asked a woman’s voice.
Katharine knew as the handle of the latch was turned that her sister
Charlotte had come. No one else ever entered her room without knocking,
and no one else ever called her ‘Kitty.’ She hated the abbreviation of
her name and she resented the familiarity of the unbidden entrance. She
turned rather sharply.
“Oh--is that you? I thought you were in Washington.” She came forward,
and the two exchanged kisses mechanically.
“Benjamin Slayback of Nevada had business in New York, so I came up to
get a breath of my native microbes,” said Charlotte, going to the mirror
and beginning to take off her hat very carefully so as not to disturb
her hair. “We are at a hotel, of course--but it’s nice, all the same. I
suppose mamma’s at work and I know papa’s down town, and the ancestor is
probably studying some new kind of fool--so I came to your room.”
“Will you have some tea?” asked Katharine.
“Tea? What wild extravagance! I suppose you offer it to me as ‘Mrs.
Slayback.’ I wonder if papa would. I can see him smile--just like
this--isn’t it just like him?”
She smiled before the mirror and then turned suddenly on Katharine. The
mimicry was certainly good. Mrs. Slayback, however, was fair, like her
mother, with a radiant complexion, golden hair and good
features,--larger and bolder than Mrs. Lauderdale’s, but not nearly so
classically perfect. There was something hard in her face, especially
about the eyes.
“It’s just the same as ever,” she said, seating herself in the
small arm-chair--the only one in the room. “The same dear,
delightful, dreary, comfortless, furnace-heated, gas-lighted,
‘put-on-your-best-hat-to-go-to-church’ sort of existence that it always
was! I wonder how you all stand it--how I stood it so long myself!”
Katharine laughed and turned her head. She had been looking out of the
window again and wondering whether the rain would stop after all. She
and her sister had never lived very harmoniously together. Their pitched
battles had begun in the nursery with any weapons they could lay hands
on, pillows, moribund dolls, soapy sponges, and the nurse’s shoes.
Though Katharine was the younger, she had soon been the stronger at
close quarters. But Charlotte had the sharper tongue and was by far the
better shot with any projectile when safely entrenched behind the bed.
At the first show of hostilities she made for both sponges--a rag-doll
was not a bad thing, if she got a chance to dip it into the basin, but
there was nothing like a sponge, when it was ‘just gooey with soap,’ as
the youthful Charlotte expressed it. She carried the art of throwing to
a high degree of perfection, and on very rare occasions, after she was
grown up, she surprised her adorers by throwing pebbles at a mark with
an unerring accuracy which would have done credit to a poacher’s
apprentice.
Since the nursery days the warfare had been carried on by words and the
encounters had been less frequent, but the contrast was always apparent
between Katharine’s strength and Charlotte’s quickness. Katharine
waited, collected her strength, chose her language and delivered a heavy
blow, so to say. Charlotte, as Frank Miner put it, ‘slung English all
over the lot.’ Both were effective in their way. But they had the good
taste to quarrel in private and, moreover, in many things they were
allies. With regard to their father, Katharine took an evil and silent
delight in her sister’s sarcasms, and Charlotte could not help admiring
Katharine’s solid, unyielding opposition on certain points.
“Oh, yes!” said Katharine, answering Charlotte’s last remark. “There’ll
be less change than ever now that you’re married.”
“I suppose so. Poor Kitty! We used to fight now and then, but I know
you enjoyed looking on when I made a row at dinner. Didn’t you?”
“Of course I did. I’m a human being.” Katharine laughed again. “Won’t
you really have tea? I always have it when I want it.”
“You brave little thing! Do you? Well--if you like. You quiet people
always have your own way in the end,” added Mrs. Slayback, rather
thoughtfully. “I suppose it’s the steady push that does it.”
“Don’t you have your way, too?” asked Katharine, in some surprise at her
sister’s tone of voice.
“No. I’m ashamed to say that I don’t. No--” She seemed to be
recapitulating events. “No--I don’t have my way at all--not the least
little bit. I have the way of Benjamin Slayback of Nevada.”
“Why do you talk of your husband in that way?” enquired Katharine.
“Shall I call him Mr. Slayback?” asked Charlotte, “or Benjamin--dear
little Benjamin! or Ben--the ‘soldier bold’? How does ‘Ben’ strike you,
Kitty? I know--I’ve thought of calling him Minnie--last syllable of
Benjamin, you see. There was a moment when I hesitated at
‘Benjy’--‘Benjy, darling, another cup of coffee?’--it would sound so
quiet and home-like at breakfast, wouldn’t it? It’s fortunate that papa
made us get up early all our lives. My dream of married happiness--a
nice little French maid smiling at me with a beautiful little tea-tray
just as I was opening my eyes--I had thought about it for years! Well,
it’s all over. Benjamin Slayback of Nevada takes his breakfast like a
man--a regular Benjamin’s portion of breakfast, and wants to feast his
eyes on my loveliness, and his understanding on my wit, and his inner
man on the flesh of kine--and all that together at eight o’clock in the
morning--Benjamin Slayback of Nevada--there’s no other name for him!”
“The name irritates me--you repeat it so often!”
“Does it, dear? The man irritates me, and that’s infinitely worse. I
wish you knew!”
“But he’s awfully good to you, Charlie. You can’t deny that, at all
events.”
“Yes--and he calls me Lottie,” answered Charlotte, with much disgust.
“You know how I hate it. But if you are going to lecture me on my
husband’s goodness--Kitty, I tell you frankly, I won’t stand it. I’ll
say something to you that’ll make you--just frizzle up! Remember the
soapy sponge of old, my child, and be nice to your sister. I came here
hoping to see you. I want to talk seriously to you. At least--I’m not
sure. I want to talk seriously to somebody, and you’re the most serious
person I know.”
“More so than your husband?”
“He’s grave enough sometimes, but not generally. It’s almost always
about his constituents. They are to him what the liver is to some
people--only that they are beyond the reach of mineral waters.
Besides--it’s about him that I want to talk. You look surprised, though
I’m sure I don’t know why. I suppose--because I’ve never said anything
before.”
“But I don’t even know what you’re going to say--”
Mrs. Slayback looked at her younger sister steadily for a moment, and
then looked at the window. The rain was still falling fast and steadily;
and the room had a dreary, dingy air about it as the afternoon advanced.
It had been Charlotte’s before her marriage, and Katharine had moved
into it since because it was better than her own. The elder girl had
filled it with little worthless trifles which had brightened it to a
certain extent; but Katharine cared little for that sort of thing, and
was far more indifferent to the aspect of the place in which she lived.
There were a couple of dark engravings of sacred subjects on the
walls,--one over the narrow bed in the corner, and the other above the
chest of drawers, and there was nothing more which could be said to be
intended for ornament. Yet Charlotte Slayback’s hard face softened a
little as her eyes wandered from the window to the familiar, faded wall
paper and the old-fashioned furniture. The silence lasted some time.
Then she turned to her sister again.
[Illustration: “‘Kitty--don’t do what I’ve done,’ she said
earnestly.”--Vol. I., p. 257.]
“Kitty--don’t do what I’ve done,” she said, earnestly.
She watched the girl’s face for a change of expression, but Katharine’s
impassive features were not quick to express any small feeling beyond
passing annoyance.
“Aren’t you happy, Charlie?” Katharine asked, gravely.
“Happy!”
The elder woman only repeated the single word, but it told her story
plainly enough. She would have given much to have come back to the old
room, dreary as it looked.
“I’m very sorry,” said Katharine, in a lower voice and beginning to
understand. “Isn’t he kind to you?”
“Oh, it’s not that! He’s kind--in his way--it makes it worse--far
worse,” she repeated, after a moment’s pause. “I hadn’t been much used
to that sort of kindness before I was married, you know--except from
mamma, and that was different--and to have it from--” She stopped.
Katharine had never seen her sister in this mood before. Charlotte was
generally the last person to make confidences, or to complain softly of
anything she did not like. Katharine thought she must be very much
changed.
“You say you’re unhappy,” said the young girl. “But you don’t tell me
why. Has there been any trouble--anything especial?”
“No. You don’t understand. How should you? We never did understand each
other very well, you and I. I don’t know why I come to you with my
troubles, either. You can’t help me. Nobody can--unless it were--a
lawyer.”
“A lawyer?” Katharine was taken by surprise now, and her eyes showed it.
“Yes,” answered Charlotte, her voice growing cold and hard again.
“People can be divorced for incompatibility of temper.”
“Charlotte!” The young girl started a little, and leaned forward, laying
her hand upon her sister’s knee.
“Oh, yes! I mean it. I’m sorry to horrify you so, my dear, and I suppose
papa would say that divorce was not a proper subject for conversation.
Perhaps he’s right--but he’s not here to tell us so.”
“But, Charlie--” Katharine stopped short, unable to say the first word
of the many that rushed to her lips.
“I know,” said Charlotte, paying no attention. “I know exactly what
you’re going to say. You are going to argue the question, and tell me in
the first place that I’m bad, and then that I’m mad, and then that I’m a
mother,--and all sorts of things. I’ve thought of them all, my dear; and
they’re very terrible, of course. But I’m quite willing to be them all
at once, if I can only get my freedom again. I don’t expect much
sympathy, and I don’t want any good advice--and I haven’t seen a lawyer
yet. But I must talk--I must say it out--I must hear it! Kitty--I’m
desperate! I never knew what it meant before.”
She rose suddenly from her seat, walked twice up and down the room, and
then stood still before Katharine, and looked down into her face.
“Of course you can’t understand,” she said, as she had said before. “How
should you?” She seemed to be waiting for an answer.
“I think I could, if you would tell me more about yourself,” Katharine
replied. “I’m trying to understand. I’d help you if I knew how.”
“That’s impossible.” Mrs. Slayback seated herself again. “But it’s this.
You must have wondered why I married him, didn’t you?”
“Well--not exactly. But it seemed to me--there were other men, if you
meant to marry a man you didn’t love.”
“I don’t believe in love,” said Charlotte. “But I wanted to be married
for many reasons--most of all, because I couldn’t bear the life here.”
“Yes--I know. You’re not like me. But why didn’t you choose somebody
else? I can’t understand marrying without love; but it seems to me, as I
said, that if one is going to do such a thing one had better make a
careful choice.”
“I did. I chose my husband for many reasons. He is richer than any of
the men who proposed to me, and that’s a great thing. And he’s very
good-natured, and what they call ‘an able man.’ There were lots of good
reasons. There were things I didn’t like, of course; but I thought I
could make him change. I did--in little things. He never wears a green
tie now, for instance--”
“As if such things could make a difference in life’s happiness!” cried
Katharine, contemptuously.
“My dear--they do. But never mind that. I thought I could--what shall I
say?--develop his latent social talent. And I have. In that way he’s
changed a good deal. You’ve not seen him this year, have you? No, of
course not. Well, he’s not the same man. But it’s in the big things. I
thought I could manage him, by sheer force of superior will, and make
him do just what I wanted--oh, I made such a mistake!”
“And because you’ve married a man whom you can’t order about like a
servant, you want to be divorced,” said Katharine, coldly.
“I knew you couldn’t understand,” Charlotte answered, with unusual
gentleness. “I suppose you won’t believe me if I tell you that I suffer
all the time, and--very, very much.”
Katharine did not understand, but her sister’s tone told her plainly
enough that there was real trouble of some sort.
“Charlie,” she said, “there’s something on your mind--something else.
How can I know what it is, unless you tell me, dear?”
Mrs. Slayback turned her head away, and bit her lip, as though the kind
words had touched her.
“It’s my pride,” she said suddenly and very quickly. “He hurts it so!”
“But how? Merely because he does things in his own way? He probably
knows best--they all say he’s very clever in politics.”
“Clever! I should think so! He’s a great, rough, good-natured,
ill-mannered--no, he’s not a brute. He’s painfully kind. But with that
exterior--there’s no other word. He has the quickness of a woman in some
ways. I believe he can be anything he chooses.”
“But all you say is rather in his favour.”
“I know it is. I wish it were not. If I loved him--the mere idea is
ridiculous! But if I did, I would trot by his side and carry the basket
through life, like his poodle. But I don’t love him--and he expects me
to do it all the same. I’m curled, and scented, and fed delicately, and
put to sleep on a silk cushion, and have a beautiful new ribbon tied
round my neck every morning, just like a poodle-dog--and I must trot
quietly and carry the basket. That’s all I am in his life--it wasn’t
exactly my dream,” she added bitterly.
“I see. And you thought that it was to be the other way, and that he was
to trot beside you.”
“You put it honestly, at all events. Yes. I suppose I thought that. I
did not expect this, anyhow--and I simply can’t bear it any longer! So
long as there’s any question of social matters, of course, everything is
left to me. He can’t leave a card himself, he won’t make visits--he
won’t lift a finger, though he wants it all properly and perfectly done.
Lottie must trot--with the card-basket. But if I venture to have an
opinion about anything, I have no more influence over him than the
furniture. I mustn’t say this, because it will be repeated that his wife
said it; and I mustn’t say that, because those are not his political
opinions; and I mustn’t say something else, because it might get back to
Nevada and offend his constituents--and as for doing anything, it’s
simply out of the question. When I’m bored to death with it all, he
tells me that his constituents expect him to stay in Washington during
the session, and he advises me to go away for a few days, and offers to
draw me a cheque. He would probably give me a thousand dollars for my
expenses if I wanted to stay a week with you. I don’t know whether he
wants to seem magnificent, or whether he thinks I expect it, or if he
really imagines that I should spend it. But it isn’t that I want,
Kitty--it isn’t that! I didn’t marry for money, though it was very nice
to have so much--it wasn’t for that, it really, really wasn’t! I suppose
it’s absurd--perfectly wild--but I wanted to be somebody, to have some
influence in the world, to have just a little of what people call real
power. And I haven’t got it, and I can’t have it; and I’m nothing but
his poodle-dog, and I’m perfectly miserable!”
Katharine could find nothing to say when her sister paused after her
long speech. It was not easy for her to sympathize with any one so
totally unlike herself, nor to understand the state of mind of a woman
who wanted the sort of power which few women covet, who had practically
given her life in exchange for the hope of it, and who had pitiably
failed to obtain it. She stared out of the window at the falling rain,
and it all seemed very dreary to her.
“It’s my pride!” exclaimed Charlotte, suddenly, after a pause. “I never
knew what it meant before--and you never can. It’s intolerable to feel
that I’m beaten at the very beginning of life. Can’t you understand
that, at least?”
“Yes--but, Charlie dear,--it’s a long way from a bit of wounded pride to
a divorce--isn’t it?”
“Yes,” answered Charlotte, disconsolately. “I suppose it is. But if you
knew the horrible sensation! It grows worse and worse--and the less I
can find fault with him for other things, the worse it seems to grow.
And it’s quite useless to fight. You know I’m good at fighting, don’t
you? I used to think I was, until I tried to fight my husband. My
dear--I’m not in it with him!”
Katharine rose and turned her back, feeling that she could hardly
control herself if she sat still. There was an incredible frivolity
about her sister at certain moments which was almost revolting to the
young girl.
“What is it?” asked Charlotte, observing her movement.
“Oh--nothing,” answered Katharine. “The shade isn’t quite up and it’s
growing dark, that’s all.”
“I thought you were angry,” said Mrs. Slayback.
“I? Why should I be angry? What business is it of mine?” Katharine
turned and faced her, having adjusted the shade to her liking. “Of
course, if you must say that sort of thing, you had better say it to me
than to any one else. It doesn’t sound well in the world--and it’s not
pleasant to hear.”
“Why not?” asked Charlotte, her voice growing hard and cold again. “But
that’s a foolish question. Well--I’ve had my talk out--and I feel
better. One must sometimes, you know.” Her tone softened again,
unexpectedly. “Don’t be too hard on me, Kitty dear--just because you’re
a better woman than I am.” There was a tremor in her last words.
Katharine did not understand. She understood, however, and for the
first time in her life, that a frivolous woman can suffer quite as much
as a serious one--which is a truth not generally recognized. She put her
arm round her sister’s neck very gently, and pressed the fair head to
her bosom, as she stood beside her.
“I’m not better than you, Charlie--I’m different, that’s all. Poor dear!
Of course you suffer!”
“Dear!” And Charlotte rubbed her smooth cheek affectionately against the
rough grey woollen of her sister’s frock.
CHAPTER XIII.
The rain continued to fall, and even if the weather had changed it would
have been too late for Katharine to go and see Robert Lauderdale after
her sister had left her. On the whole, she thought, it would probably
have been a mistake to speak to him beforehand. She had felt a strong
temptation to do so, but it had not been the part of wisdom. She waited
for Ralston’s note.
At last it came. It was short and clear. He had, with great difficulty,
found a clergyman who was willing to marry them, and who would perform
the ceremony on the following morning at half-past nine o’clock. The
clergyman had only consented on Ralston’s strong representations, and on
the distinct understanding that there was to be no unnecessary secrecy
after the fact, and that the couple should solemnly promise to inform
their parents of what they had done at the earliest moment consistent
with their welfare. Ralston had written out his very words in regard to
that matter, for he liked them, and felt that Katharine should.
John had been fortunate in his search, for he had accidentally come
upon a man whose own life had been marred by the opposition of a young
girl’s family to her marriage with him. He himself had in consequence
never married; the young girl had taken a husband and had been a most
unhappy woman. He sympathized with Ralston, liked his face, and agreed
to marry Ralston and Katharine immediately. His church lay in a distant
part of the city, and he had nothing to do with society, and therefore
nothing to fear from it. If trouble arose he was justified beforehand by
the fact that no clergyman has an absolute right to refuse marriage to
those who ask it, and by the thought that he was contributing to
happiness of the kind which he himself had most desired, but which had
been withheld from him under just such circumstances as those in which
Ralston and Katharine were placed. The good man admired, too, the wisdom
of the course they were taking. When he had said that he would consider
the matter favourably, provided that there was no legal obstacle,
Ralston had told him the whole truth, and had explained exactly what
Katharine and he intended to do. Of course, he had to explain the
relationship which existed between them and old Robert Lauderdale, and
the clergyman, to Ralston’s considerable surprise, took Katharine’s view
of the possibilities. He only insisted that the plan should be
conscientiously carried out as soon as might be, and that Katharine
should therefore go, in the course of the same day, and tell her story
to Mr. Robert Lauderdale. Ralston made no difficulty about that, and
agreed to be at the door of the clergyman’s house on the following
morning at half-past nine. The latter would open the church himself. It
was very improbable that any one should see them at that hour, and in
that distant part of the city.
There is no necessity for entering upon a defence of the clergyman’s
action in the affair. It was a case, not of right or wrong, nor of doing
anything irregular, but possibly excusable. Theoretically, it was his
duty to comply with Ralston’s request. In practice, it was a matter of
judgment and of choice, since if he had flatly refused, as several
others had done without so much as knowing the names of the parties,
Ralston would certainly have found it out of the question to force his
consent. He believed that he was doing right, he wished to do what was
kind, and he knew that he was acting legally and that the law must
support him. He ran the risk of offending his own congregation if the
story got abroad, but he remembered his own youth and he cheerfully took
that risk. He would not have done as much for any two who might have
chanced to present themselves, however. But Ralston impressed him as a
man of honour, a gentleman and very truthful, and there was just enough
of socialistic tendency in the good man, as the pastor of a very poor
congregation, to enjoy the idea that the rich man should be forced, as a
matter of common decency, to do something for his less fortunate
relation. With his own life and experience behind him, he could not
possibly have seen things as Robert Lauderdale saw them.
So the matter was settled, and Katharine had Ralston’s note. He added
that he would be in Clinton Place at half-past eight o’clock in the
morning, on foot. They might be seen walking together at almost any
hour, by right of cousinship, but to appear together in a carriage,
especially at such an hour, was out of the question.
It would have been unlike her to hesitate now. She had made up her mind
long before she had spoken to Ralston on Monday evening, and there was
nothing new to her in the idea. But she could not help wondering about
the future, as she had been doing when Charlotte Slayback had
unexpectedly appeared in the afternoon. Meanwhile the evening was before
her. She was going to a dinner-party of young people and afterwards to
the dance at the Thirlwalls’, of which she had spoken to Ralston. He
would be there, but would not be at the dinner, as she knew. At the
latter there were to be two young married women who were to chaperon the
young girls to the other house afterwards.
At eight o’clock Katharine sat down to table between two typical,
fashion-struck youths, one of whom took more champagne than was good for
him, and talked to her of college sports and football matches in which
he had not taken part, but which excited his enthusiasm, while the other
drank water, and asked if she preferred Schopenhauer or Hegel. Of the
two, she preferred the critic of athletics. But the dinner seemed a very
long one to Katharine, though it was really of the short and fashionable
type.
Then came another girls’ talk while the young men smoked furiously
together in another room. The two married women managed to get into a
corner, and told each other long stories in whispers, while the young
girls, who were afraid of romping and playing games because they were in
their ball-dresses, amused themselves as they could, with a good deal of
highly slangy but perfectly harmless chaff, and an occasional attempt at
a little music. As all the young men smoked the very longest and
strongest cigars, because they had all been told that cigarettes were
deadly, it was nearly ten o’clock when they came into the drawing-room.
They were all extremely well behaved young fellows, and the one who had
talked about athletics to Katharine was the only one who was a little
too pink. The dance was an early affair, and in a few moments the whole
party began to get ready to go. They transferred themselves from one
house to another in big carriages, and all arrived within a short time
of one another.
Ralston was in the room when Katharine entered, and she saw instantly
that he had been waiting for her and expected a sign at once. She smiled
and nodded to him from a distance, for he had far too much tact to make
a rush at her as soon as she appeared. It was not until half an hour
later that they found themselves together in the crowded entrance hall,
and Ralston assured himself more particularly that everything was as she
wished it to be.
“So to-morrow is our wedding day,” he said, looking at her face. Like
most dark beauties, she looked her best in the evening.
“Yes--it’s to-morrow, Jack. You are glad, aren’t you?” she asked,
repeating almost exactly the last words she had spoken that morning as
he had left her at the door of the Crowdies’ house.
“Do you doubt that I’m as glad as you are?” asked Ralston, earnestly.
“I’ve waited for you a long time--all my life, it seems to me.”
“Have you?”
Her grey eyes turned full upon him as she put the question, which
evidently meant more to her than the mere words implied. He paused
before answering her, with an over-scrupulous caution, the result of her
own earnestness.
“Why do you hesitate?” she asked, suddenly. “Didn’t you mean exactly
what you said?”
“I said it seemed to me as though I had waited all my life,” he
answered. “I wanted to be--well--accurate!” He laughed a little. “I am
trying to remember whether I had ever cared in the least for any one
else.”
Katharine laughed too. He sometimes had an almost boyish simplicity
about him which pleased her immensely.
“If it takes such an effort of memory, it can’t have been very serious,”
she said. “I’m not jealous. I only wish to know that you are.”
“I love you with all my heart,” he answered, with emphasis.
“I know you do, Jack dear,” said Katharine, and a short silence
followed.
She was thinking that this was the third time they had met since Monday
evening, and that she had not heard again that deep vibration, that
heart-stirring quaver, in his words, which had touched her that first
time as she had never been touched before. She did not analyze her own
desire for it in the least, any more than she doubted the sincerity of
his words because they were spoken quietly. She had heard it once and
she wanted to hear it again, for the mere momentary satisfaction of the
impression.
But Ralston was very calm that evening. He had been extremely careful
of what he did since Monday afternoon, for he had suffered acutely when
his mother had first met him on the landing, and he was determined that
nothing of the sort should happen again. The excitement, too, of
arranging his sudden marriage had taken the place of all artificial
emotions during the last forty-eight hours. His nerves were young and
could bear the strain of sudden excess and equally sudden abstention
without troubling him with any physical distress. And this fact easily
made him too sure of himself. To a certain extent he was cynical about
his taste for strong drink. He said to himself quite frankly that he
wanted excitement and cared very little for the form in which he got it.
He should have preferred a life of adventure and danger. He would have
made a good soldier in war and a bad one in peace--a safe sailor in
stormy weather and a dangerous one in a calm. That, at least, was what
he believed, and there was a foundation of truth in it, for he was
sensible enough to tell himself the truth about himself so far as he was
able.
On the evening of the dance at which he met Katharine he had dined at
home again. His mother was far too wise to ask many questions about his
comings and goings when he was with her, and it was quite natural that
he should not tell her how he had spent his day. He wished that he were
free to tell her everything, however, and to ask her advice. She was
eminently a woman of the world, though of the more serious type, and he
knew that her wisdom was great in matters social. For the rest, she had
always approved of his attachment for Katharine, whom she liked best of
all the family, and she intended that, if possible, her son should marry
the young girl before very long. With her temper and inherited impulses
it was not likely that she should blame Ralston for any honourable piece
of rashness. Having once been convinced that there was nothing underhand
or in the least unfair to anybody in what he was doing, Ralston had not
the slightest fear of the consequences. The only men of the family whom
he considered men were Katharine’s father and Hamilton Bright. The
latter could have nothing to say in the matter, and Ralston knew that
his friendship could be counted on. As for Alexander Junior, John looked
forward with delight to the scene which must take place, for he was a
born fighter, and quarrelsome besides. He would be in a position to tell
Mr. Lauderdale that neither righteous wrath nor violent words could undo
what had been done properly, decently and in order, under legal
authority, and by religious ceremony. Alexander Junior’s face would be a
study at that moment, and Ralston hoped that the hour of triumph might
not be far distant.
“I wonder whether it seems sudden to you,” said Katharine, presently.
“It doesn’t to me. You and I had thought about it ever so long.”
“Long before you spoke to me on Monday?” asked John. “I thought it had
just struck you then.”
“No, indeed! I began to think of it last year--soon after you had seen
papa. One doesn’t come to such conclusions suddenly, you know.”
“Some people do. Of course, I might have seen that you had thought it
all out, from the way you spoke. But you took me by surprise.”
“I know I did. But I had gone over it again and again. It’s not a light
matter, Jack. I’m putting my whole life into your hands because I love
you. I shan’t regret it--I know that. No--you needn’t protest, dear. I
know what I’m doing very well, but I don’t mean to magnify it into
anything heroic. I’m not the sort of girl to make a heroine, for I’m far
too sensible and practical. But it’s practical to run risks sometimes.”
“It depends on the risk, I suppose,” said Ralston. “Many people would
tell you that I’m not a safe person to--”
“Nonsense! I didn’t mean that,” interrupted the young girl. “If you were
a milksop, trotting along at your mother’s apron strings, I wouldn’t
look at you. Indeed, I wouldn’t! I know you’re rather fast, and I like
it in you. There was a little boy next to me at dinner this evening--a
dear little pale-faced thing, who talked to me about Schopenhauer and
Hegel, and drank five glasses of Apollinaris--I counted them. There are
lots of them about nowadays--all the fittest having survived, it’s the
turn of the unfit, I suppose. But I wouldn’t have you one little tiny
bit better than you are. You don’t gamble, and you don’t drink, and
you’re merely supposed to be fast because you’re not a bore.”
Ralston was silent, and his face turned a little pale. A violent
struggle arose in his thoughts, all at once, without the slightest
warning nor even the previous suspicion that it could ever arise at all.
“That’s not the risk,” continued Katharine. “Oh, no! And perhaps what I
mean isn’t such a very great risk after all. I don’t believe there is
any, myself--but I suppose other people might. It’s that uncle Robert
might not, after all--oh, well! We won’t talk about such things. If one
only takes enough for granted, one is sure to get something in the end.
That isn’t exactly Schopenhauer, is it? But it’s good philosophy.”
Katharine laughed happily and looked at him. But his face was unusually
grave, and he would not laugh.
“It’s too absurd that I should be telling you to take courage and be
cheerful, Jack!” she said, a moment later. “I feel as though you were
reproaching me with not being serious enough for the occasion. That
isn’t fair. And it is serious--it is, indeed.” Her tone changed. “I’m
putting my very life into your hands, dear, as I told you, because I
trust you. What’s the matter, Jack? You seem to be thinking--”
“I am,” answered Ralston, rather gloomily. “I was thinking about
something very, very important.”
“May I know?” asked Katharine, gently. “Is it anything you should like
me to know--or to ask me about, before to-morrow?”
“To-morrow!” Ralston repeated the word in a low voice, as though he were
meditating upon its meaning.
They were seated on a narrow little sofa against the lower woodwork of
the carved staircase. The hall was crowded with young people coming and
going between the other rooms. Katharine was leaning back, her head
supported against the dark panel, her eyes apparently half closed--for
she was looking down at him as he bent forward. He held one elbow on his
knee and his chin rested in his hand, as he looked up sideways at her.
“Katharine”--he began, and then stopped suddenly, and she saw now that
he was turning very pale, as though in fear or pain.
“Yes?” She paused. “What is it, Jack dear? There’s something on your
mind--are you afraid to tell me? Or aren’t you sure that you should?”
“I’m afraid,” said Ralston. “And so I’m going to do it,” he added a
moment later. “Did you ever hear that I was what they call dissipated?”
“Is that it?” Katharine laughed, almost carelessly. “No, I never heard
that said of you. People say you’re fast, and rather wild--and all that.
I told you what I thought of that--I like it in you. Perhaps it isn’t
right, exactly, to like a dash of naughtiness--is it?”
“I don’t know,” answered Ralston, evidently not comprehending the
question, but intent upon his own thoughts. In the short pause which
followed he did not change his position, but the veins swelled in his
temples, and his eyelids drooped a little when he spoke again.
“Katharine--I sometimes drink too much.”
Katharine trembled a little, but he did not see it. For some seconds she
did not move, and did not take her eyes from him. Then she very slowly
raised her hand and passed it over her brow, as though she were
confused, and presently she bent forward, as he was bending, resting one
elbow on her knee and looking earnestly into his face.
“Why do you do it, Jack? Don’t you love me?” She asked the two questions
slowly and distinctly, but in the one there was all her pity--in the
other all her love.
Again, as more than once lately, Ralston was almost irresistibly
impelled to make a promise, simple and decisive, which should change
his life, and which at all costs and risks he would keep. The impulse
was stronger now, with Katharine’s eyes upon his, and her happiness on
his soul, than it had been before. But the arguments for resisting it
were also stronger. He was calm enough to know the magnitude of his
temptations and his habitual weakness in resisting them. He said
nothing.
“Why don’t you answer me, dear?” Katharine asked softly. “They were not
hard questions, were they?”
“You know that I love you,” he answered--then hesitated, and then went
on. “If I did not love you, I should not have told you. Do you believe
that?”
He guessed that she only half realized and half understood all the
meaning of what he had said. He had no thought of gaining credit in her
opinion for having done what very few men would have risked in his
position. The wish to speak had come from the heart, not from the head.
But he had not foreseen that it must appear very easy to her for him to
overcome a temptation which seemed insignificant in her eyes, compared
with a life’s happiness.
“Yes--I know that,” she answered. “But, Jack dear--yes, it was brave and
honest of you--but you don’t think I expected a confession, do you? I
daresay you have done many things that weren’t exactly wrong and that
were not at all dishonourable, but which you shouldn’t like to tell me.
Haven’t you?”
“Of course I have. Every man has, by the time he’s five and twenty--lots
of things.”
“Well--but now, Jack--now, when we are married, you won’t do such
things--whatever they may be--any more--will you?”
“That’s it--I don’t know,” answered Ralston, determined to be honest to
the very end, with all his might, in spite of everything.
“You don’t know?” As Katharine repeated the words her face changed in a
way that shocked him, and he almost started as he saw her expression.
“No,” he answered, steadily enough. “I don’t--in regard to what I spoke
of. For other things, for anything else in the world that you ask me, I
can promise, and feel sure. But that one thing--it comes on me
sometimes, and it gets the better of me. I know--it’s weak--it’s
contemptible, it’s brutal, if you like. But I can’t help it, every time.
Of course you can’t understand. Nobody can, who hasn’t felt it.”
“But, Jack--if you promised me that you wouldn’t?”
Her face changed again, and softened, and her voice expressed the
absolute conviction that he would and could do anything which he had
given his word that he would do. That perfect belief is more flattering
than almost anything else to some men.
“Katharine--I can’t!” Ralston shook his head. “I won’t give you a
promise which I might break. If I broke it, I should--you wouldn’t see
me any more after that. I’ll promise that I’ll try, and perhaps I shall
succeed. I can’t do more--indeed, I can’t.”
“Not for me, Jack dear?” Her whole heart was in her voice, pleading,
pathetic, maidenly.
“Don’t ask me like that. You don’t know what you’re asking. You’ll make
me--no, I won’t say that. But please don’t--”
Once more Katharine’s expression changed. Her face was quite white, and
her grey eyes were light and had a cold flash in them. The small, angry
frown that came and went quickly when she was annoyed, seemed chiselled
upon the smooth forehead. Ralston’s head was bent down and his hand
shaded his eyes.
“And you made me think you loved me,” said Katharine, slowly, in a very
low voice.
“I do--”
“Don’t say it again. I don’t want to hear it. It means nothing, now that
I know--it never can mean anything again. No--you needn’t come with me.
I’ll go alone.”
She rose suddenly to her feet, overcome by one of those sudden
revulsions of the deepest feelings in her nature, to which strong people
are subject at very critical moments, and which generally determine
their lives for them, and sometimes the lives of others. She rose to
leave him with a woman’s magnificent indifference when her heart speaks
out, casting all considerations, all details, all questions of future
relation to the winds, or to the accident of a chance meeting at some
indefinite date.
There were many people in the hall just then. A dance was beginning, and
the crowd was pouring in so swiftly that for a moment the young girl
stood still, close to Ralston, unable to move. He did not rise, but
remained seated, hidden by her and by the throng. He seized her hand
suddenly, as it hung by her side. No one could have noticed the action
in the press.
“Katharine--” he cried, in a low, imploring tone.
She drew her hand away instantly. He remembered afterwards that it had
felt cold through her glove. He heard her voice, and, looking past her,
saw Crowdie’s pale face and red mouth--and met Crowdie’s languorous
eyes, gazing at him.
“I want to go somewhere else, Mr. Crowdie,” Katharine was saying. “I’ve
been in a draught, and I’m cold.”
Crowdie gave her his arm, and they moved on with the rest. Ralston had
risen to his feet as soon as he saw that Crowdie had caught sight of
him, and stood looking at the pair. His face was drawn and tired, and
his eyes were rather wild.
His first impulse was to get out of the house, and be alone, as soon as
he could, and he began to make his way through the crowd to a small room
by the door, where the men had left their coats. But, before he had
succeeded in reaching the place, he changed his mind. It looked too much
like running away. He allowed himself to be wedged into a corner, and
stood still, watching the people absently, and thinking over what had
occurred.
In the first place, he wondered whether Katharine had meant as much as
her speech and action implied--in other words, whether she intended to
let him know that everything was altogether at an end between them. It
seemed almost out of the question. After all, he had spoken because he
felt that it was a duty to her. He was, indeed, profoundly hurt by her
behaviour. If she meant to break off everything so suddenly, she might
have done it more kindly. She had been furiously angry because he would
not promise an impossibility. It was true that she could not understand.
He loved her so much, even then, that he made excuses for her conduct,
and set up arguments in her favour.
Was it an impossibility, after all? He stood still in his corner, and
thought the matter over. As he considered it, he deliberately called the
temptation to him to examine it. And it came, in its full force. Men who
have not felt it no more know what it means than Katharine Lauderdale
knew, when she accused John Ralston of not loving her, and left him,
apparently forever, because he would not promise never to yield to it
again.
During forty-eight hours he had scarcely tasted anything stronger than a
cup of coffee, for the occurrence of Monday had produced a deep
impression on him--and this was Wednesday night. For several years he
had been used to drinking whatever he pleased, during the day, merely
exercising enough self-control to keep out of women’s society when he
had taken more than was good for him, and enough discretion in the
matter of hours to avoid meeting his mother when he was not quite
himself. There are not so many men in polite society who regulate their
lives on such principles as there used to be, but there are many still.
Men know, and keep the matter to themselves. Insensibly, of course, John
Ralston had grown more or less dependent on a certain amount of
something to drink every day, and he had very rarely been really
abstemious for so long a time as during the last two days. He had lived,
too, in a state of considerable anxiety, and had scarcely noticed the
absence of artificial excitement. But now, with the scene of the last
quarter of an hour, the reaction had come. He had received a violent
shock, and his head clamoured for its accustomed remedy against all
nervous disturbances. Then, too, he was very thirsty. He honestly
disliked the taste of water--as his father had hated it before him--and
he had not really drunk enough of it. He was more thirsty than he had
been when he had swallowed a pint of champagne at a draught on Monday
afternoon. That, to tell the truth, was the precise form in which the
temptation presented itself to him at the present moment. It was
painfully distinct. He knew that the Thirlwalls, in whose house he was,
always had Irroy Brut, which chanced to be the best dry wine that year,
and he knew that he had only to follow the crowd to the supper room and
swallow as much of it as he desired. Everybody was drinking it. He could
hear the glasses faintly ringing in the distance, as he stood in his
corner. He let the temptation come to see how strong it would be.
It was frightfully vivid, as he let the picture rise before his eyes. He
was now actually in physical pain from thirst. He could see clearly the
tall pint-glass, foaming and sparkling with the ice-cold, pale wine. He
could hear the delicious little hiss of the tiny bubbles as thousands
of them shot to the surface. He could smell the aromatic essence of the
lemon peel as the brim seemed to come beneath his nostrils. He could
feel the exquisite sharp tingle, the inexpressible stinging delight of
the perfect liquid, all through his mouth, to his very throat--just as
he had seen and smelt and tasted it all on Monday afternoon, and a
thousand times before that--but not since then.
It became intolerable, or almost intolerable, but still he bore it, with
that curious pleasure in the pain of it which some people are able to
feel in self-imposed suffering. Then he opened his eyes wide, and tried
to drive it away.
But that was not so easy. That diabolical clinking and ringing of
distant glasses, away, far away, as it seemed, but high and distinct
above the hum of voices, tortured him, and drew him towards it. His
mouth and throat were actually parched now. It was no longer
imagination. And now, too, the crowd had thinned, and as he looked he
saw that it would be very easy for him to get to the supper room.
After all, he thought, it was a perfectly legitimate craving. He was
excessively thirsty, and he wanted a glass of champagne. He knew very
well that in such a place he should not take more than one glass, and
that could not hurt him. Did he ever drink when there were women
present, in the sense of drinking too much? On Monday the accident had
made a difference. Surely, as he had often heard, the manly course was
to limit himself to what he needed, and not go beyond it. All those
other people did that--why should not he? What was the difference
between them and him? How the thirst burned him, and the ring of the
glasses tortured him!
He moved a step from the corner, in the direction of the door, fully
intending to have his glass of wine. Then something seemed to snap
suddenly over his heart, with a sharp little pain.
“I’ll be damned if I do,” said Ralston, almost audibly.
And he went back to his corner, and tried to think of something else.
CHAPTER XIV.
Crowdie’s artistic temperament was as quick as a child’s to understand
the moods of others, and he saw at a glance that something serious had
happened to Katharine. He had not the amateur’s persistent desire to
feel himself an artist at every moment. On the contrary, he had far more
of the genuine artist’s wish to feel himself a man of the world when he
was not at his work. What he saw impressed itself upon his accurate and
retentive memory for form and colour, but he was not always studying
every face he met, and thinking of painting it. He was fond of trying to
read character, and prided himself upon his penetration, which was by no
means great. It is a common peculiarity of highly gifted persons to
delight in exhibiting a small talent which seems to them to be their
greatest, though unappreciated by the world. Goethe thought himself a
painter. Michelangelo believed himself a poet. Crowdie, a modern artist
of reputation, was undoubtedly a good musician as well, but in his own
estimation his greatest gift was his knowledge of men. Yet in this he
was profoundly mistaken. Though his reasoning was often as clear as his
deductions were astute, he placed the centre of human impulses too low,
for he judged others by himself, which is an unsafe standard for men who
differ much from the average of their fellow-men. He mistook his
quickness of perception for penetration, and the heart of men and things
escaped him.
He looked at Katharine and saw that she was very angry. He had caught
sight of Ralston’s face, and he supposed that the latter had been
drinking. He concluded that Ralston had offended Katharine, and that
there was to be a serious quarrel. Katharine, too, had evidently been in
the greatest haste to get away, and had spoken to Crowdie and taken his
arm merely because of the men she knew he had been nearest to her in the
crowd. The painter congratulated himself upon his good fortune in
appearing at that moment.
“Will you have some supper?” he asked, guiding his companion toward the
door.
“It’s too early--thanks,” answered the young girl, almost absently. “I’d
rather dance, if you don’t mind,” she added, after a moment.
“Of course!” And he directed his course towards the dancing room.
In spite of his bad figure, Crowdie danced very well. He was very light
on his feet, very skilful and careful of his partner, and, strange to
say, very enduring. Katharine let herself go on his arm, and they
glided and swayed and backed and turned to the right and left to the
soft music. For a time she had altogether forgotten her strong antipathy
for him. Indeed, she had almost forgotten his existence. Momentarily, he
was a nonentity, except as a means of motion.
As she moved the colour slowly came back to her pale face, the frown
disappeared and the cold fire in her eyes died away. She also danced
well and was proud of it, though she was far from being equal to her
mother, even now. With Katharine it was an amusement; with Mrs.
Lauderdale it was still a passion. But now she did not care to stop, and
went on and on, till Crowdie began to wonder whether she were not
falling into a dreamy and half-conscious state, like that of the Eastern
dervishes.
“Aren’t you tired?” he asked.
“No--go on!” she answered, without hesitation.
He obeyed, and they continued to dance till many couples stopped to look
