clothes, and soon became very much interested in the lessons. He had a
quick ear, a good figure, and a natural grace of movement, which soon
made him noticeable in the class, and he was quite in demand among the
young ladies as a partner.
He was no less a favorite socially, being agreeable as well as
good-looking.
"Mr. Mordaunt," said the professor, "I wish all my scholars did me as
much credit as you do. You dance beautifully."
"Thank you, sir," said Dan, modestly, but he felt gratified.
By the time the invitation came Dan had no fears as to acquitting
himself creditably.
"I hope Tom Carver will be there," he said to his mother, as he was
dressing for the party.
CHAPTER XXVII.
IN THE DRESSING-ROOM.
Mr. Rogers lived in a handsome brown-stone-front house up town.
As Dan approached, he saw the entire house brilliantly lighted. He
passed beneath a canopy, over carpeted steps, to the front door, and
rang the bell.
The door was opened by a stylish-looking colored man, whose grand air
showed that he felt the importance and dignity of his position.
As Dan passed in he said:
"Gentlemen's dressing-room third floor back."
With a single glance through the open door at the lighted parlors, where
several guests were already assembled, Dan followed directions, and went
up stairs.
Entering the dressing-room, he saw a boy carefully arranging his hair
before the glass.
"That's my friend, Tom Carver," said Dan to himself.
Tom was so busily engaged at his toilet that he didn't at once look at
the new guest. When he had leisure to look up, he seemed surprised, and
remarked, superciliously:
"I didn't expect to see you here."
"Why not?" demanded Dan, who understood his meaning.
"Are you engaged to look after this room? If so, just brush me."
"With all my heart, if you'll brush me," answered Dan, partly offended
and partly amused.
"What do you mean?" demanded Tom, haughtily.
"Just what I say. One good turn deserves another."
"Our positions are rather different, I think."
"How so? You are a guest of Miss Rogers, and so am I."
"You don't mean to say that you are going down into the parlor?"
"Why not?"
"A boy who sells papers in front of the Astor House is not a suitable
guest at a fashionable party."
"That is not your affair," said Dan, coldly. "But it is not true that I
sell papers anywhere."
"Oh, I forgot. You're a shop-boy now. You used to sell papers, though."
"And I will again, if necessary," answered Dan, as he took Tom's place
in front of the glass and began to arrange his toilet.
Then, for the first time, Tom took notice that Dan was dressed as well
as himself, in a style with which the most captious critic could not
find fault. Tom was both surprised and disappointed. He would have liked
to see Dan in awkward, ill-fitting, or shabby clothes. It seemed to him
that an ex-newsboy had no right to dress so well, and he was greatly
puzzled to understand how he could afford it.
"Where did you borrow those clothes?" he asked, impudently.
"Where did you borrow yours?" retorted Dan.
"Don't be saucy."
"You set me the example."
"It is not remarkable that I should be well dressed. I can afford it."
"So can I," answered Dan, laconically.
"Do you mean to say that you bought that suit and paid for it?"
"I do."
"It must have taken all your money."
"You are very kind to take so much interest in me. It may relieve your
mind to see this."
Dan took a roll of bills from his pocket, and displayed them to the
astonished Tom.
"I don't see where you got so much money," said Tom, mystified.
"I've got more in the bank," said Dan. "I mention it to you that you
needn't feel bad about my extravagance in buying a party suit."
"I wouldn't have come to this party if I had been you," said Tom,
changing his tone.
"Why not?"
"You'll be so awkward, you know. You don't know any one except Miss
Rogers, who, of course, invited you out of pity, not expecting you would
accept."
"Did she tell you so?" asked Dan, smiling.
"No, but it stands to reason."
"You forget I know you," said Dan, smiling again.
"I beg you won't presume upon our former slight acquaintance," said Tom,
hastily. "I shall be so busily occupied that I really can't give you any
attention."
"Then I must shift for myself, I suppose," said Dan, good-humoredly.
"Shall we go down?"
"Go first, if you like," said Tom, superciliously. "I will follow
directly."
"He doesn't want to go down with me," thought Dan. "Perhaps I shall
surprise him a little;" and he made his way down stairs.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
DAN AT THE PARTY.
As Dan entered the parlors he saw the young lady in whose honor the
party was given only a few feet distant.
He advanced with perfect ease, and paid his respects.
"I am very glad to see you here this evening, Mr. Mordaunt," said Julia,
cordially.
"What a handsome boy he is!" she thought. "I had no idea he would look
so well."
Mentally she pronounced him the handsomest young gentleman present.
"Take your partners for a quadrille, young gentlemen," announced the
master of ceremonies.
"Are you engaged, Miss Rogers?" asked Dan.
"Not as yet," answered the young lady, smiling.
"Then may I have the honor?"
"Certainly."
So it happened that as Tom Carver entered the room, he beheld, to his
intense surprise and disgust, Dan leading the young hostess to her place
in the quadrille.
"What a cheek that fellow has!" said Tom to himself. "I suppose he
never attempted to dance in his life. It will be fun to watch his
awkwardness. I am very much surprised that Julia should condescend to
dance with him--a common newsboy."
At first Tom thought he wouldn't dance, but Mrs. Rogers approaching
said:
"Tom, there's Jane Sheldon. She has no partner."
Accordingly Tom found himself leading up a little girl of eight.
There was no place except in the quadrille in which Dan and Julia Rogers
were to dance. Tom found himself one of the "sides."
"Good-evening, Julia," he said, catching the eye of Miss Rogers.
"Good-evening, Tom. You are late."
"I am too late to be your partner."
"Yes, but you see I am not left a wall-flower," said the young lady,
smiling. "Mr. Mordaunt kindly relieved me of that apprehension."
"You are fortunate," said Tom, sneering.
"I leave my partner to thank you for that compliment," said Julia,
determined not to gratify Tom by appearing to understand the sneer.
"There's no occasion," said Tom, rudely.
"I am glad of it," said Dan, "for I am so unused to compliments that I
am afraid I should answer awkwardly."
"I can very well believe that," returned Tom, significantly.
Julia did not smile. She looked offended rather for she felt that
rudeness to her partner reflected upon herself.
But here the music struck up, and the quadrille began.
"Now for awkwardness," said Tom to himself, and he watched Dan closely.
But, to his surprise, nothing could be neater or better modulated than
Dan's movements. Instead of hopping about, as Tom thought he would, he
was thoroughly graceful.
"Where could the fellow have learned to dance?" he asked himself, in
disappointment.
Julia was gratified; for, to tell the truth, she too had not been
altogether without misgivings on the subject of Dan's dancing, and,
being herself an excellent dancer, she would have found it a little
disagreeable if Dan had proved awkward.
The quadrille proceeded, and Tom was chagrined that the newsboy, as he
mentally termed Dan, had proved a better dancer than himself.
"Oh, well, it's easy to dance in a quadrille," he said to himself, by
way of consolation. "He won't venture on any of the round dances."
But as Dan was leading Julia to her seat he asked her hand in the next
polka, and was graciously accepted.
He then bowed and left her, knowing that he ought not to monopolize the
young hostess.
Although Tom had told Dan not to expect any attentions from him, he was
led by curiosity to accost our hero.
"It seems that newsboys dance," said he.
"Does it?" asked Dan, indifferently.
"But it was not in very good taste for you to engage Miss Rogers for the
first dance."
"Why not?"
"It was making yourself too prominent."
"Somebody had to be prominent, or Miss Rogers would have been left to
dance by herself."
"There are others who would have made more suitable partners for her."
"Yourself, for instance."
"Yes."
"I am sorry to have stood in your way."
"Oh, you needn't mind. I shall have plenty of opportunities of dancing
with her, and you won't. I suppose she took pity on you, as you know no
other young lady here."
Just then a pretty girl, beautifully dressed, approached Dan.
"Good-evening, Mr. Mordaunt," she said, offering her hand with a beaming
smile.
"Good-evening, Miss Carroll," said Dan. "Are you engaged for the galop?"
Miss Carroll shook her head.
"Then will you give me the pleasure?"
In a minute Dan was whirling round the room with the young lady, greatly
to Tom's amazement, for Edith Carroll was from a family of high social
standing, living on Murray Hill.
"How in the duse does Dan Mordaunt know that girl?" Tom asked himself,
with a frown. "They spoke as if they were acquainted."
To Tom's further disappointment Dan danced as gracefully in the galop as
in the quadrille.
When the galop was over, Dan promenaded with another young lady, whose
acquaintance he had made at dancing-school, and altogether seemed as
much at his ease as if he had been attending parties all his life.
Tom managed to obtain Edith Carroll as a partner.
"I didn't know you were acquainted with Dan Mordaunt," he said.
"Oh, yes, I know him very well. Doesn't he dance charmingly?"
"Humph!" said Tom, not very well pleased. "I thought him rather
awkward."
"How can you say so, Mr. Carver? Why I think he dances beautifully,
and so do all the girls."
"How do the girls know how he dances?"
"Why he goes to our dancing-school. The professor says he is his best
pupil. We all like to dance with him."
"That's fortunate for him," said Tom, with a sneer. "Perhaps he may
become a dancing-master in time."
"He would make a good one, but I don't think he's very likely to do
that."
"It would be a good thing for him. He is poor, you know."
"No, I don't. I am sure he dresses well. He is as well-dressed as any
young gentleman here."
This was true, and Tom resented it. He felt that Dan had no right to
dress well.
"He ought not to spend so much money on dress when he has his mother to
support," he said, provoked.
"It seems to me you take a great deal of interest in Mr. Mordaunt," said
the young beauty, pointedly.
"Oh, no; he can do as he likes for all me, but, of course, when a boy
in his position dresses as if he were rich one can't help noticing it."
"I am sure he can't be very poor, or he could not attend Dodworth's
dancing-school. At any rate I like to dance with him, and I don't care
whether he's poor or rich."
Presently Tom saw Dan dancing the polka with Julia Rogers, and with the
same grace that he had exhibited in the other dances.
He felt jealous, for he fancied himself a favorite with Julia, because
their families being intimate, he saw a good deal of her.
On the whole Tom was not enjoying the party. He did succeed, however, in
obtaining the privilege of escorting Julia to supper.
Just in front of him was Dan, escorting a young lady from Fifth avenue.
"Mr. Mordaunt appears to be enjoying himself," said Julia Rogers.
"Yes, he has plenty of cheek," muttered Tom.
"Excuse me, Tom, but do you think such expressions suitable for such an
occasion as this?"
"I am sorry you don't like it, but I never saw a more forward or
presuming fellow than this Dan Mordaunt."
"I beg you to keep your opinion to yourself," said Julia Rogers, with
dignity. "I find he is a great favorite with all the young ladies here.
I had no idea he knew so many of them."
Tom gave it up. It seemed to him that all the girls were infatuated with
a common newsboy, while his vanity was hurt by finding himself quite
distanced in the race.
About twelve o'clock the two boys met in the dressing-room.
"You seemed to enjoy yourself," said Tom, coldly.
"Yes, thanks to your kind attentions," answered Dan, with a smile. "It
is pleasant to meet old friends, you know. By the way, I suppose we
shall meet at Miss Carroll's party."
"Are you to be invited?" asked Tom, in astonishment.
"So the young lady tells me," answered Dan, smiling.
"I suppose you'll be giving a fashionable party next," said Tom, with
a sneer.
"Consider yourself invited if I do. Good-night, and pleasant dreams."
But Dan's dreams were by no means sweet that night.
When he reached home, it was to hear of a great and startling
misfortune.
CHAPTER XXIX.
A NE'ER DO WELL.
At half-past twelve Dan ascended the stairs to his mother's room. He had
promised to come in and tell her how he had enjoyed himself at the
party. He was in excellent spirits on account of the flattering
attentions he had received. It was in this frame of mind that he opened
the door. What was his surprise, even consternation, when his mother
advanced to meet him with tearful eyes and an expression of distress.
"Oh, Dan, I am so glad you have got home!" she ejaculated.
"What is the matter, mother? Are you sick?" asked Dan.
"I am quite well, Dan; but Althea----"
And Mrs. Mordaunt burst into tears.
"What has happened to Althea? Is she sick?" asked Dan, alarmed.
"We have lost her, Dan."
"Lost her! You don't mean she is----"
He couldn't finish the sentence, but his mother divined what he meant.
"Not dead, thank God!" she said, "but she has disappeared--she has been
stolen."
"You don't mean it, mother!" exclaimed Dan, startled and grieved. "Tell
me about it."
Mrs. Mordaunt told what she knew, but that related only to the
particulars of the abduction. We are in a position to tell the reader
more, but it will be necessary to go back for a month, and transfer the
scene to another continent.
In a spacious and handsomely furnished apartment at the West End of
London sat the lady who had placed Althea in charge of the Mordaunts.
She was deep in thought, and that not of an agreeable nature.
"I fear," she said to herself, "that trouble awaits me. John Hartley,
whom I supposed to be in California, is certainly in London. I cannot be
mistaken in his face, and I certainly saw him in Hyde Park to-day. Did
he see me? I don't know, but I fear he did. If so, he will not long
delay in making his appearance. Then I shall be persecuted, but I must
be firm. He shall not learn through me where Althea is. He is her
father, it is true, but he has forfeited all claim to her guardianship.
A confirmed gambler and drunkard, he would soon waste her fortune,
bequeathed her by her poor mother. He can have no possible claim to it;
for, apart from his having had no hand in leaving it to her, he was
divorced from my poor sister before her death."
At this point there was a knock at the door of the room.
"Come in," said the lady.
There entered a young servant-maid, who courtesied, and said:
"Mrs. Vernon, there is a gentleman who wishes to see you."
"Can it be Hartley?" thought the lady, with quick suspicion.
"Did he give his name?" she asked.
"Yes, mum; he said his name was Bancroft."
"Bancroft! I know no one of that name," mused the lady. "Well, Margaret,
you may show him up, and you may remain in the anteroom within call."
Her eyes were fixed upon the door with natural curiosity, when her
visitor entered.
Instantly her face flushed, and her eyes sparkled with anger.
"John Hartley!" she exclaimed.
The visitor smiled mockingly.
"I see you know me, Harriet Vernon," he said. "It is some time since we
met, is it not? I am charmed, I am sure, to see my sister-in-law looking
so well."
He sank into a chair without waiting for an invitation.
"When did you change your name to Bancroft?" demanded the lady,
abruptly.
"Oh," he said, showing his teeth, "that was a little ruse. I feared you
would have no welcome for John Hartley, notwithstanding our near
relationship, and I was forced to sail under false colors."
"It was quite in character," said Mrs. Vernon, coldly; "you were always
false. But you need not claim relationship. The slender tie that
connected us was broken when my sister obtained a divorce from you."
"You think so, my lady," said the visitor, dropping his tone of mocking
badinage, and regarding her in a menacing manner, "but you were never
more mistaken. You may flatter yourself that you are rid of me, but you
flatter yourself in vain."
"Do you come here to threaten me, John Hartley?"
"I come here to ask for my child. Where is Althea?"
"Where you cannot get at her," answered Mrs. Vernon, coldly.
"Don't think to put me off in that way," he said, fiercely. "I will know
where she is."
"Don't think to terrify me, John Hartley," said the lady,
contemptuously. "I am not so easily alarmed as your poor wife."
Hartley looked at her as if he would have assaulted her had he dared,
but she knew very well that he did not dare. He was a bully, but he was
a coward.
"You refuse, then, to tell me what you have done with my child?" he
demanded, at length.
"I do."
"Take care, madam! A father has some rights, and the law will not permit
his child to be kept from him."
"Does your anxiety to see Althea arise from parental affection?" she
asked, in a sarcastic tone.
"Never mind what it springs from. I have a right to the custody of my
child."
"I suppose you have a right to waste her fortune also at the
gaming-table."
"I have a right to act as my child's guardian," he retorted.
"A fine guardian you would make!" she said, contemptuously.
"Why should I not?" he asked, sulkily.
"Why should you not, John Hartley? Do I need to answer the question? You
ill-treated and abused her mother. You wasted half her fortune.
Fortunately, she escaped from you before it was all gone. But you
shortened her life, and she did not long survive the separation. It was
her last request that I should care for her child--that I should, above
all, keep her out of your clutches. I made that promise, and I mean to
keep it."
"You poisoned my wife's mind against me," he said. "But for your cursed
interference we should never have separated."
"You are right, perhaps, in your last statement. I certainly did urge my
sister to leave you. I obtained her consent to the application for a
divorce, but as to poisoning her mind against you, there was no need of
that. By your conduct and your treatment you destroyed her love and
forfeited her respect, and she saw the propriety of the course which I
recommended."
"I didn't come here to be lectured. You can spare your invectives,
Harriet Vernon. What is past is past. I was not a model husband,
perhaps, but I was as good as the average."
"If that is the case, Heaven help the woman who marries!"
"Or the man that marries a woman like you!"
"You are welcome to your opinion of me. I am entirely indifferent to
your good or bad opinion. Have you any more to say?"
"Any more to say! I have hardly begun. Is my daughter Althea with you?"
"I don't recognize your right to question me on this subject, but I
will answer you. She is not with me."
"Is she in London?"
"I will even answer that question. She is not in London."
"Is she in England?"
"That I will not tell you. You have learned enough."
John Hartley did not answer immediately. He appeared to be occupied with
some thought. When he spoke it was in a more conciliatory tone.
"I don't doubt that she is in good hands," he said. "I am sure you will
treat her kindly. Perhaps you are a better guardian than I. I am willing
to leave her in your hands, but I ought to have some compensation."
"What do you mean?"
"Althea has a hundred thousand dollars, yielding at least five thousand
dollars income. Probably her expenses are little more than one-tenth of
this sum. While my child is rich I am poor. Give me half her income--say
three thousand dollars annually--and I will give you and her no further
trouble."
"I thought that was the object of your visit," said Mrs. Vernon, coldly.
"I was right in giving you no credit for parental affection. In regard
to your proposition, I cannot entertain it. You had one half of my
sister's fortune, and you spent it. You have no further claim on her
money."
"Is this your final answer?" he demanded, angrily.
"It is."
"Then I swear to you that I will be even with you. I will find the
child, and when I do you shall never see her again."
Mrs. Vernon rang the bell.
Margaret entered.
"Margaret," she said, coldly, "will you show this gentleman out?"
John Hartley rose and bowed ironically.
"You are certainly very polite, Harriet Vernon," he said. "You are bold,
too, for you are defying me, and that is dangerous. You had better
reconsider your determination, before it is too late."
"It will never be too late; I can at any time buy you off," she said,
contemptuously. "All you want is money."
"We shall see," he hissed, eying her malignantly.
"Margaret," said Mrs. Vernon, when her visitor had been shown out,
"never admit that person again; I am always out to him."
"Yes, mum," said the girl. "I wonder who 'twas," she thought, curiously.
CHAPTER XXX.
HOW HARTLEY GOT A CLEW.
John Hartley, when a young man, had wooed and won Althea's mother. Julia
Belmont was a beautiful and accomplished girl, an heiress in her own
right, and might have made her choice among at least a dozen suitors.
That she should have accepted the hand of John Hartley, a banker's
clerk, reputed "fast," was surprising, but a woman's taste in such a
case is often hard to explain or justify. Her sister--now Mrs.
Vernon--strenuously objected to the match, and by so doing gained the
hatred of her future brother-in-law. Opposition proved ineffectual, and
Julia Belmont became Mrs. Hartley. Her fortune amounted to two hundred
thousand dollars. The trustee and her sister succeeded in obtaining her
consent that half of this sum should be settled on herself, and her
issue, should she have any.
This proved to be a wise precaution. John Hartley resigned his position
immediately after marriage, and declined to enter upon any business.
"Why should I?" he said. "Julia and I have enough to live upon. If I am
out of business I can devote myself more entirely to her."
This reasoning satisfied his young wife, and for a time all went well.
But Hartley joined a fashionable club, formed a taste for gambling,
indulged in copious libations, not unfrequently staggering home drunk,
to the acute sorrow of his wife, and then excesses soon led to
ill-treatment. The money, which he could spend in a few years, melted
away, and he tried to gain possession of the remainder of his wife's
property. But, meanwhile, Althea was born, and a consideration for her
child's welfare strengthened the wife in her firm refusal to accede to
this unreasonable demand.
"You shall have the income, John," she said--"I will keep none back; but
the principal must be kept for Althea."
"You care more for the brat than you do for me," he muttered.
"I care for you both," she answered. "You know how the money would go,
John. We should all be left destitute."
"That meddling sister of yours has put you up to this," he said,
angrily.
"There was no need of that. It is right, and I have decided for myself."
"Your first duty is to your husband."
"I feel that in refusing I am doing my duty by you."
"It is a strange way--to oppose your husband's wishes. Women ought never
to be trusted with money--they don't know how to take care of it."
"You are not the person to say this, John. In five years you have wasted
one hundred thousand dollars."
"It was bad luck in investments," he replied.
"I am afraid you are right. Investing money at the gaming-table is not
very profitable."
"Do you mean to insult me, madam?" exclaimed Hartley, furiously.
"I am only telling the sad truth, John."
He forgot himself and struck her.
She withdrew, flushed and indignant, for she had spirit enough to resent
this outrage, and he left the house in a furious rage.
When Hartley found that there was no hope of carrying his point, all
restraint seemed removed. He plunged into worse excesses, and his
treatment became so bad that Mrs. Hartley consented to institute
proceedings for divorce. It was granted, and the child was given to her.
Hartley disappeared for a time. When he returned his wife had died of
pneumonia, and her sister--Mrs. Vernon, now a widow--had assumed the
care of Althea. An attempt to gain possession of the child induced her
to find another guardian for the child. This was the way Althea had
come into the family of our young hero.
Thus much, that the reader may understand the position of affairs, and
follow intelligently the future course of the story.
When John Hartley left the presence of his sister-in-law, he muttered
maledictions upon her.
"I'll have the child yet, if only to spite her," he muttered, between
his teeth. "I won't allow a jade to stand between me and my own flesh
and blood. I must think of some plan to circumvent her."
This was not easy. He had absolutely no clew, and little money to assist
him in his quest. But Fortune, which does not always favor the brave,
but often helps the undeserving, came unexpectedly to his help.
At an American banker's he ran across an old acquaintance--one who had
belonged to the same club as himself in years past.
"What are you doing here, Hartley?" he asked.
"Not much. Luck is against me."
"Sorry to hear it. By the way, I was reminded of you not long since."
"How is that?"
"I saw your child in Union Square, in New York."
"Are you sure of it?" asked Hartley, eagerly. "Are you sure it was my
child?"
"Of course; I used to see it often, you know. She is a bright little
thing."
"Do you know where she lives?" asked Hartley. "Did you follow her?"
"Don't you know where she lives?"
"No; her aunt is keeping the child from me. I am very anxious to find
her."
"That accounts for it. She was with a middle-aged lady, who evidently
was suspicious of me, for she did not bring out the child but once more,
and was clearly anxious when I took notice of her."
"She was acting according to instructions, no doubt."
"Very probably."
"I wish you had learned more."
"So do I. Why do they keep you away from her?"
"Because she has money, and they wish to keep it in their hands," said
Hartley, plausibly. "The aunt is a very mercenary woman. She is living
here in London, doubtless on my little girl's fortune."
John Hartley knew that this was not true, for Mrs. Vernon was a rich
woman; but it suited his purpose to say so, and the statement was
believed by his acquaintance.
"This is bad treatment, Hartley," he said, in a tone of sympathy.
"Isn't it?"
"What are you going to do about it?"
"Try to find out where the child is placed, and get possession of her."
"I wish you success."
This information John Hartley felt to be of value. It narrowed his
search, and made success much less difficult.
In order to obtain more definite information, he lay in wait for Mrs.
Vernon's servant.
Margaret at first repulsed him, but a sovereign judiciously slipped into
her hand convinced her that Hartley was quite the gentleman, and he had
no difficulty, by the promise of a future douceur, in obtaining her
co-operation.
"What is it you want, sir?" she asked. "If it's no harm you mean my
missus----"
"Certainly not, but she is keeping my child from me. You can understand
a father's wish to see his child, my dear girl."
"Indeed, I think it's cruel to keep her from you, sir."
"Then look over your mistress' papers and try to obtain the street and
number where she is boarding in New York. I have a right to know that."
"Of course you have, sir," said the girl, readily.
So it came about that the girl obtained Dan's address, and communicated
it to John Hartley.
As soon as possible afterward Hartley sailed for New York.
"I'll secure the child," he said to himself, exultingly, "and then my
sweet sister-in-law must pay roundly for her if she wants her back."
All which attested the devoted love of John Hartley for his child.
CHAPTER XXXI.
ALTHEA'S ABDUCTION.
Arrived in New York, John Hartley lost no time in ascertaining where Dan
and his mother lived. In order the better to watch without incurring
suspicion, he engaged by the week a room in a house opposite, which,
luckily for his purpose, happened to be for rent. It was a front window,
and furnished him with a post of observation from which he could see who
went in and out of the house opposite.
Hartley soon learned that it would not be so easy as he had anticipated
to gain possession of the little girl. She never went out alone, but
always accompanied either by Dan or his mother.
Hartley was disappointed. If, now, Althea were attending school, there
would be an opportunity to kidnap her. As it was, he was at his wits'
end.
At last, however, opportunity favored him.
On the evening of the party Mrs. Mordaunt chanced to need some small
article necessary to the work upon which she was engaged. She might
indeed wait until the next day, but she was repairing a vest of Dan's,
which he would need to wear in the morning, and she did not like to
disappoint him.
"My child," she said, "I find I must go out a little while."
"What for, mamma?"
"I want to buy some braid to bind Dan's vest. He will want to wear it in
the morning."
"May I go with you, mamma?"
"No, my child. You can be reading your picture-book till I come back. I
won't be long."
So Mrs. Mordaunt put on her street dress, and left the house in the
direction of Eighth avenue, where there was a cheap store at which she
often traded.
No sooner did Hartley see her leave the house, as he could readily do,
for the night was light, than he hurried to Union Square, scarcely five
minutes distant, and hailed a cab-driver.
"Do you want a job, my man?" he asked.
"Yes, sir."
"Can you hold your tongue?"
"Yes, sir, if necessary."
"It is necessary."
"There is nothing wrong, sir, I hope."
"Certainly not. My child has been kidnapped during my absence in Europe.
With your help I mean to recover her."
"All right, sir."
"She is in the custody of some designing persons, who keep possession
of her on account of a fortune which she is to inherit. She does not
know me to be her father, we have been so long separated; but I feel
anxious to take her away from her treacherous guardians."
"You are right, sir. I've got a little girl of my own, and I understand
your feelings. Where shall we go?"
Hartley gave the proper address. Fifteen minutes afterward the cab drew
up before Mrs. Brown's door, and Hartley, springing from it, rang the
bell. It so happened that Mrs. Brown was out, and a servant answered the
bell. She looked inquiringly at the visitor.
"A lady lives here with a little girl," he said, quickly.
"Yes, sir; Mrs. Mordaunt."
"Precisely; and the little girl is named Althea."
"You are right, sir."
"Mrs. Mordaunt has been run over by a street-car, and been carried into
my house. She wishes the little girl to come at once to her."
"Is she much hurt?" asked Nancy, anxiously.
"I am afraid her leg is broken; but I can't wait. Will you bring the
little girl down at once?"
"Oh, yes, sir. I'll lose no time."
Nancy went up stairs two steps at a time, and broke into Mrs.
Mordaunt's room breathless.
"Put on your hat at once, Miss Althea," she said.
"What for?" asked the child, in surprise.
"Your ma has sent for you."
"But she said she was coming right back."
"She's hurt, and she can't come, and she has sent for you. Don't cry, my
dear."
"But how shall I know where to go, Nancy?"
"There's a kind gentleman at the door with a carriage. Your ma has been
taken to his home."
The little girl began to cry once more.
"Oh! I'm afraid mamma's been killed," she said.
"No, she hasn't, or how could she send for you?"
This argument tended to reassure Althea, and she put on her little shawl
and hat, and hurried down stairs.
Hartley was waiting for her impatiently, fearing that Mrs. Mordaunt
would come back sooner than was anticipated, and so interfere with the
fulfillment of his plans.
"Is mamma very much hurt?" asked Althea, anxiously.
"So she calls this woman mamma," said Hartley to himself.
"Not very badly, but she cannot come home to-night. Get into the
carriage, and I will tell you about it as we are riding to her."
He hurried the little girl into the carriage, and taking a seat beside
her, ordered the cabman to drive on.
He had before directed him to drive to the South Ferry.
"How did mamma get hurt?" asked the child.
"She was crossing the street," said Hartley, "when she got in the way of
a carriage and was thrown down and run over."
The child began to cry.
"Oh, she will die!" she exclaimed, sobbing.
"No, she will not die. The carriage was not a heavy one, luckily, and
she is only badly bruised. She will be all right in a few days."
John Hartley was a trifle inconsistent in his stories, having told the
servant that Mrs. Mordaunt had been run over by a street-car; but in
truth he had forgotten the details of his first narrative, and had
modified it in the second telling. However, Nancy had failed to tell the
child precisely how Mrs. Mordaunt had been hurt, and she was not old
enough to be suspicious.
"Where is mamma?" was the little girl's next question.
"She is at my house."
"Where is your house?"
"Not far from here," answered Hartley, evasively.
"Then I shall soon see mamma."
"Is she your mamma?" asked Hartley.
"No, not my own mamma, but I call her so. I love her dearly."
"Where is your own mamma?"
"She is dead."
"Do you remember her?"
"A little."
"Have you a papa?"
"My papa is a very bad man. He treated poor mamma very badly."
"Who told you this?" demanded Hartley, frowning. "Was it Mrs. Mordaunt?"
"No; it was auntie."
"I thought this was some of Harriet Vernon's work," said Hartley to
himself. "It seems like my amiable sister-in-law. She might have been in
better business than poisoning my child's mind against me."
"Who else lives with you?" he asked, partly out of curiosity, but mainly
to occupy the child's mind, so that she might not be fully conscious of
the lapse of time.
"My brother Dan."
"How old is Dan?"
"I don't know. He is a good deal bigger than me."
"Do you like Dan?"
"Oh, yes; Dan is a nice boy. He buys me candy. He has gone to a party
to-night."
"Has he?"
"And he won't be home till late. He told mamma so."
"I am glad of that," thought Hartley. "It is the better for my purpose."
"Dan is a smart boy. He earns lots of money."
"What does he do?"
"I don't know. He goes down town every morning, and he doesn't come home
till supper time."
Hartley managed to continue his inquiries about Dan, but at last Althea
became restless.
"Are we most there?" she asked.
"Yes, we are almost there."
"I don't see how mamma could have gone so far."
John Hartley looked out.
"I see how it is," he said. "The cab-driver lost the way, and that has
delayed us."
This satisfied the child for a time. Meanwhile they reached the South
Ferry, and Hartley began to consider in what way he could explain their
crossing the water.
CHAPTER XXXII.
DONOVAN'S.
After a moment's thought Hartley took a flask from his pocket, into
which he had dropped a sleeping potion, and offered it to the child.
"Drink, my dear," he said; "it will do you good."
It was a sweet wine and pleasant to the taste. Althea drank
considerable.
"What is it? It tastes good," she said.
"It is a cordial," answered Hartley.
"I like it. I will ask mamma to get some. How long is it? Are we most
there?"
"Almost."
"I feel very sleepy," said Althea, drowsily, the potion having already
begun to attack her.
"Lean back and shut your eyes. I will tell you when we have arrived."
The innocent and unsuspecting child did as she was directed. Her little
head nodded. She struggled against the increasing drowsiness, but in
vain. In five minutes she was fast asleep.
"There will be no further trouble," thought Hartley. "When she wakes up
it will be morning. My plan has been a complete success."
It might have been supposed that some instinct of parental affection
would have made it disagreeable to this man to kidnap his own child by
such means, but John Hartley had never been troubled with a heart or
natural affections. He was supremely selfish, and surveyed the sleeping
child as coolly and indifferently as if he had never before set eyes
upon her.
Two miles and a half beyond the South Ferry, in a thinly settled
outlying district of Brooklyn, stood a three-story brick house, shabby
and neglected in appearance, bearing upon a sign over the door the name
         DONOVAN'S
     WINES AND LIQUORS.
It was the nightly resort of a set of rough and lawless men, many of
them thieves and social outlaws, who drank and smoked as they sat at
small tables in the sand-strewn bar-room.
Hugh Donovan himself had served a term at Sing Sing for burglary, and
was suspected to be indirectly interested in the ventures of others
engaged in similar offenses, though he managed to avoid arrest.
John Hartley ordered the hackman to stop. He sprang from the carriage,
and unceremoniously entered the bar-room. Donovan, a short, thickset man
with reddish whiskers, a beard of a week's growth, and but one
serviceable eye, sat in a wooden arm-chair, smoking a clay pipe. There
were two other men in the room, and a newsboy sat dozing on a settee.
Donovan looked up, and his face assumed a look of surprise as he met the
glance of the visitor, whom he appeared to know.
"Where did you come from, Mr. Hartley?" he asked, taking the pipe from
his mouth.
"Hist! Come out here," said Hartley.
Donovan obeyed directions.
"Is your wife at home, Hugh?" asked Hartley.
"Yes, Mr. Hartley. She's up stairs."
"I have a job for her and for you."
"What is it now?"
"I have a child in that carriage. I want her taken care of for a few
days or weeks."
"Shure, the old woman isn't a very good protector for a gal. She's drunk
half the time."
"I can't help it. There are reasons--imperative reasons--why the girl
should be concealed for a time, and I can think of no other place than
this."
"Who is the girl?"
"It is my own child."
Donovan whistled.
"I see you are surprised. I have little time for explanation, but I may
tell you that she has been kept from me by my enemies, who wanted to get
hold of her money."
"Has she got money?" asked Donovan, with curiosity.
"She will have, sometime. She is her mother's heiress."
"Did the old lady leave it all away from you, then? Shure, it's hard."
"Of course it is. The least I can expect is to be made guardian of my
own child. But we are wasting time. Is there no way of getting up stairs
except by passing through the bar-room?"
"Yes, Mr. Hartley, we can go up the back way. Just take the child and
follow me."
Hartley did so. At the rear of the house was a stair-way, up which he
clambered, bearing the sleeping child in his arms.
Donovan pushed the door open, and disclosed a dirty room, with his
better-half--a tall, gaunt woman--reclining in a rocking-chair,
evidently partially under the influence of liquor, as might be guessed
from a black bottle on a wooden table near by.
She stared in astonishment at her husband's companions.
"Shure, Hugh, who is it you're bringin' here?"
"It's a child, old woman, that you're to have the care of."
"Divil a bit do I want a child to worrit me."
"You'll be well paid, Mrs. Donovan," said John Hartley.
"Will I get the money, or Hugh?" asked the Celtic lady.
"You shall have half, Bridget," said her husband.
"Will you shwar it?" asked the lady, cautiously.
"Yes, I'll swear it."
"And how much will it be?"
"I will pay ten dollars a week--half to you, and half to your husband,"
said Hartley. "Here's a week's pay in advance," and he took out two
five-dollar bills, one of which was eagerly clutched by Mrs. Donovan.
"I'll take care of her," said she, readily. "What's her name?"
"Althea."
"Shure that's a quare name. I niver heard the like."
"You needn't call her that. You can call her any name you like," said
Hartley, indifferently. "Perhaps you had better call her Katy, as there
may be a hue and cry after her, and that may divert suspicion."
"How old is the crathur?"
"Five or six--I forget which. Where shall I put her?"
"Put her in here," said Mrs. Donovan, and she opened the door of a small
room, in which was a single untidy bed.
"She won't wake up till morning. I gave her a sleeping potion--otherwise
she might have made a fuss, for she doesn't know me to be her father."
"Shure ye knew what to do."
"Now, Mrs. Donovan, I depend upon your keeping her safe. It will not do
to let her escape, for she might find her way back to the people from
whom I have taken her."
"I'll see to that, Mr. Hartley," said Donovan.
"Say nothing about me in connection with the matter, Donovan. I will
communicate with you from time to time. If the police are put on the
track, I depend on your sending her away to some other place of
security."
"All right, sir."
"And now good-night. I shall go back to New York at once. I must leave
you to pacify her as well as you can when she awakes. She is sure to
make a fuss."
"I'll trate her like my own child," said Mrs. Donovan.
Had Hartley been a devoted father, this assurance from the coarse,
red-faced woman would have been satisfactory, but he cared only for the
child as a means of replenishing his pockets, and gave himself no
trouble.
The hackman was still waiting at the door.
"It's a queer place to leave a child," thought he, as his experienced
eye took in the features of the place. "It appears to be a liquor
saloon. The gentleman can't be very particular. However, it is none of
my business. I suppose it is all right."
"Driver, I am ready," said Hartley. "I'll go back with you."
"All right, sir."
"Go over Fulton Ferry, and leave me at your stand in Union Square."
The ride was a long one. Hartley threw himself back on the seat, and
gave himself up to pleasant self-congratulation.
"I think this will bring Harriet Vernon to terms," he said. "She will
find that she can't stand between me and my child. If she will make it
worth my while, she shall have the child back, but I propose to see that
my interests are secured."
The next morning Hartley stepped into an up-town hotel, and wrote a
letter to his sister-in-law in London, demanding that four thousand
dollars be sent him yearly, in quarterly payments, in consideration of
which he agreed to give up the child, and abstain from further
molestation.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
ALTHEA BECOMES KATY DONOVAN.
The sleeping potion which had been administered to Althea kept her in
sound sleep till eight o'clock the next morning. When her eyes opened,
and she became conscious of her surroundings, she looked about her in
surprise. Then she sat up in bed and gazed wildly at the torn wall paper
and dirty and shabby furniture.
"Where am I?" she asked herself, in alarm. "Mamma, mamma!"
The door opened, and the red and inflamed face of Mrs. Hugh Donovan
peered in.
"What is it yer want?" she asked.
"I want mamma," answered the child, still more frightened.
"Shure I'm your ma, child."
"No, you are not," said Althea. "I never saw you before."
"Didn't you, now? Maybe you've forgotten. I sent you away to board, but
you've come home to live with your ma."
"You are telling stories. You are a bad woman," returned the child,
ready to cry.
"It's a purty thing for a child to tell her ma she's lyin'."
"You're not my ma. You're an ugly woman. My ma hasn't got a red face."
"Hear till her now!" exclaimed Mrs. Donovan, indignantly. "Don't you go
on talkin' that way, but get right up, or you sha'n't have any
breakfast."
"Oh, send me back to my mother and Dan!" implored Althea.
"Dress yourself, and I'll see about it," said Mrs. Donovan.
Althea looked for her clothes, but could not find them. In their place
she found a faded calico dress and some ragged undergarments, which had
once belonged to a daughter of Mrs. Donovan, now at service.
"Those clothes are not mine," said Althea.
"Shure they are. What are yer talkin' about?"
"I had a pretty pink dress and a nice new skirt. Oh, where are they?"
"Shure you're dramin'. These was the clothes you took off last night,"
said Mrs. Donovan, with unblushing falsehood.
"I won't put this dress on," said the child, indignantly.
"Then you'll have to lay abed all day, and won't get nothing to eat,"
said the woman. "Maybe you'll like that now."
"What is your name?" asked Althea.
"Shure you're a quare child to ask your own mother's name. I'm Mrs.
Donovan, and you're my Katy."
"I am not Katy. My name is Althea."
"That's a quare name intirely. Who put it into your head. I'm afraid
you're gone crazy, Katy."
Althea was bewildered. Was it possible that she could be Katy Donovan,
and that this red-faced woman was her mother? She began to doubt her own
identity. She could not remember this woman, but was it possible that
there was any connection between them?
"Are we in New York?" she asked, timidly.
"No, we are in Brooklyn."
"I used to live in New York with Mamma Mordaunt."
"Well, you're livin' in Brooklyn now with Mamma Donovan."
"I never saw you before."
"Shure I shouldn't have sent you away from me to have you come home and
deny your own mother."
"Will you let me go to New York and see Mamma Mordaunt?" asked Althea,
after a pause.
"If you're a good girl, perhaps I will. Now get up, and I'll give you
some breakfast."
With a shudder of dislike Althea arrayed herself in the dirty garments
of the real Katy Donovan, and looked at her image in the cracked mirror
with a disgust which she could not repress.
Hartley had suggested that her own garments should be taken away in
order to make her escape less feasible.
She opened the door, and entered the room in which Mrs. Donovan had set
the table for breakfast.
As she came in at one door, Hugh Donovan entered at another.
"Come here, little gal," he said, with a grin.
Althea looked at him with real terror. Certainly Hugh Donovan was not a
man to attract a child.
Althea at once thought of an ogre whom Dan had described to her in a
fairy story, and half fancied that she was in the power of such a
creature.
"I don't want to," said the child, trembling.
"Go to your father, Katy," said Mrs. Donovan. "He won't hurt you."
This her father! Althea shuddered at the idea, and she gazed as if
fascinated at his one eye.
"Yes, come to your pa," said Donovan, jeeringly. "I like little
gals--'specially when they're my own."
"I am not your child!" said Althea, alarmed.
"Yes, you be, and don't you deny it. Come and give your father a kiss."
The little girl began to cry in nervous terror, and Donovan laughed,
thinking it a good joke.
"Well, it'll do after breakfast," he said. "Sit up, child, and we'll see
what the ould woman has got for us."
Mrs. Donovan did not excel as a cook, but Althea managed to eat a little
bread and butter, for neither of which articles the lady of the house
was responsible. When the meal was over she said:
"Now, will you take me back to New York?"
"You are not going back at all," said Hugh. "You are our little girl,
and you are going to live with us."
Althea looked from one to the other in terror. Was it possible they
could be in earnest? She was forced to believe it, and was overwhelmed
at the prospect. She burst into a tempest of sobs.
Men are less tolerant of tears than women.
Hugh Donovan's face darkened, and his anger was kindled.
"Stop that howlin' now!" he said.
Althea continued to cry hysterically.
"Stop it now, if you know what's best for yourself!"
Althea was terrified, but she could not at once control her emotion.
"Old woman, get the whip!" said Hugh, hoarsely.
From a drawer Mrs. Donovan drew out a riding whip. Her husband took it,
and brandished it menacingly.
"Do you see that, now?" he said.
"Yes," said Althea, trembling, stopping short, as if fascinated.
"Then you'll feel it if you don't stop your howlin'."
Althea gazed at him horror-stricken.
"I thought you'd come to your senses," he said, in a tone of
satisfaction. "Kape her safe, old woman, till she knows how to behave."
In silent misery the little girl sat down and watched Mrs. Donovan as
she cleared away the table, and washed the dishes. It was dull and
hopeless work for her. She thought sorrowfully of Mrs. Mordaunt and Dan,
and wished she could be with them again. Should she never, never see
them? The thought so saddened her that she burst into a low moan, which
at once drew the attention of Mrs. Donovan.
"Are you at it again?" she said.
"I can't help it," moaned Althea.
"Ye can't, can't ye? See here, now," and the woman displayed the whip
with which her husband had threatened the child. "I'll give ye something
to cry for."
"Oh, don't--don't beat me!" entreated Althea.
"Then kape quiet!"
"May I go out into the street?" asked the little girl.
"Ye want to run away," said Mrs. Donovan, suspiciously.
"No, I don't. I mean I won't unless you let me."
"I won't trust ye."
"Must I stay here all the time?" asked Althea, with her little heart
sinking at the thought.
"No, Katy, you may go wid me when I go to the market," answered Mrs.
Donovan. "Shure, if you'll be a good gal, I'll give you all the pleasure
I can."
Althea waited half an hour, and then was provided with a ragged
sun-bonnet, with which, concealing her sad face, she emerged from the
house, and walked to a small market, where Mrs. Donovan obtained her
supplies for dinner.
Troubled as she was, Althea looked about her with a child's curiosity on
her way through the strange streets. It served to divert her from her
sorrow.
"Who's that little girl, Mrs. Donovan?" asked an acquaintance.
"Shure it's my little Katy," said the woman, with a significant wink
which prevented further questioning.
Althea wished to deny this, but she did not dare to. She had become
afraid of her new guardians. Oh, if she could only see Dan! She felt
sure that he would take her away from these wicked people, but how was
Dan to know where she was. The poor child's lips quivered, and she could
hardly refrain from crying.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
ANOTHER LITTLE GAME.
It was so late when Dan heard of Althea's disappearance that he felt it
necessary to wait till morning before taking any steps toward her
recovery.
"I'll find her, mother," he said, confidently. "Do not lie awake
thinking of her, for it won't do any good."
"How can I help it, Dan? I didn't know how much I loved the dear child
till I lost her."
"You have not lost her, mother."
"I am not so hopeful as you, Dan. I fear that I shall never see her
again."
"I am sure we shall. Now, mother, I am going to bed, but I shall be up
bright and early in the morning, and then to work."
"You won't have any time, Dan. You must go to the store."
"I shall take a week's vacation. I will write a note to Mr. Rogers,
telling him my reasons, and he will be sure not to object. If Althea is
to be found, I will find her within a week."
Dan's confidence gave Mrs. Mordaunt some courage, but she could not
feel as sanguine of success as Dan.
In the morning Dan sought out Nancy, and took down her account of how
the little girl had been spirited away.
"So she went away in a carriage, Nancy?"
"Yes, Master Dan."
"Can you tell me what sort of a looking man it was that took her away?"
"Shure I couldn't. I was struck dumb, you see, wid hearing how your
mother broke her leg, and I didn't think to look at him sharp."
"You can tell if he was an old man or a young one."
"He was naythur. He was betwixt and betwane."
"Very tall or very short?"
"Naythur. He was jist middlin'."
"Well, that's something. Now, what kind of a carriage was it?"
"Jist a hack like them at the square."
"You wouldn't remember the driver?"
"No; shure they all look alike to me."
Dan made more inquiries, but elicited nothing further that was likely to
be of service to him.
After a little reflection he decided to go to Union Square and
interview some of the drivers waiting for passengers there.
He did so, but the driver who had actually been employed by Hartley was
absent, and he learned nothing. One driver, however, remembered carrying
a gentleman and child to a house on Twenty-seventh street, between
Eighth and Ninth avenues.
Dan thought the clew of sufficient importance to be followed up. His
courage rose when, on inquiring at the house mentioned, he learned that
a child had actually been brought there.
"May I see the child, madam?" he asked.
