new to me. But — you surely are no stranger in 
it ? " and she paused with a delicate hesitation. 
" Let me see,' he said. " I need not ask if you 
remember one morning — so fresh in my mind 
that it might have been yesterday. How charm- 
ing it was at Lady Morley's ! We do not seem 
to have much of that kind here. How they all 
talked of everything ! One and another aired his 
ideas, and no one really took offence. I was sorry 
not to go again." His voice dropped, while his 
thoughts seemed wandering back. 
" You were going on to Egypt. And I suppose 
you had resolved " — She was a little curious to 
know if his plans had been definitely arranged. 
" No, I had not resolved upon anything. I had 
graduated and gone abroad, settling myself at a 
German University after a summer oji the Conti- 
nent. So you see I had come from the hotbed of 
discussions on all manner of social and religious 
questions. How to raise human souls and bodies 
to a higher level — we sneer gently at ideals, but 
we have a great fashion of idealizing theories. 
This or that will most benefit the coming man, — 
the appeal to his finer moral sense, — but if he 
grovels like the brute beast, and there is nothing 
to him but so much brute strength, that can till 
a field, guide some machine, or delve in a mine, 
where is the nobler aspiration to which we can 
appeal ? And it is the man of to-day who is to be 
helped, that he may aid the generations to come. 
Whether we shall preach to him that all existence 
is essentially evil, and that there is no hope of 
anything better ; whether we shall preach the one 
absorption of all in an endless Nirvana, or that 
Christianity is the hope for the race ? No other 
contains the inspiration of ultimate victory in the 
struggle ; no other holds out the hand of firm fel- 
lowship to man. And when I became convinced 
of this, I went to work in good earnest. On my 
return I entered a divinity school. Last winter I 
was in New York. I have taken a friend's place 
now, who has had an opportunity of a rare holiday 
after a dozen or so years of steady work. I had 
many holidays at first, thanks to the generosity of 
a kind old uncle. There, have I bored you about 
myself ? It is not very much when all is said." 
How much had these years been to her ? A 
search for pleasure, and secret dissatisfaction. 
" You remember they were talking religion 
when I saw you the last time,"and a smile 
crossed his face. " It is odd to take up the ac- 
quaintance just where it broke off, to find you 
have gone half around the world, and reached the 
same conclusion." 
" I don't know that I have," she interposed hur- 
riedly, flushing the most delicate, wavering pink, 
that made her lovelier than ever. Perhaps, too, 
the endeavor of the day, the putting aside of self 
even for a few hours, had left its peculiar impress 
on every expression. " I asked Miss Disbrowe to 
let me come into this new country with her, and 
she consented. I do not seem to be doing any 
real work. I think I have been playing at it. All 
these things appeal to the generous and heroic 
side of one's nature. We get quite in love with 
the idea of doing good, but I wonder " — 
"Well.? "he rejoined. 
" I did not know a soul to bring into this lovely 
country. So, you see, I haven't gone into the 
wayside places. Yes, all the credit is due to Miss 
Disbrowe." 
She would establish the matter on the founda- 
tions of utter truth. She would not give Pearl 
short measure in any respect. 
Olmstead smiled. " A great many hands are 
needed in this work, Miss Eastwood. Not the 
least little thing will ever go to waste. For if the 
deed fails of its high purpose, the grace of the ef- 
fort is left. And you see it might not have been 
possible for Miss Disbrowe to materialize her 
thought but for your assistance. When you give 
of the best you have " — 
" Is it the best you have, when it costs nothing ? 
It would have been a pity for the house to stand 
empty " — 
"Yes, it is a delightful old place." He thought 
of Winchester's protest. Why could not these 
two come to some amicable arrangement ? 
"Ask me to take a walk with you around the 
old garden. I didn't have half 'a ramble the other 
morning." He stepped down and gave a slight 
turn to his shoulder. " You see it will take them 
some time to talk over the day's events," and he 
made a gentle inclination toward Miss Barclay. 
" And I have a favor to ask, a candidate to propose 
for this delightful corner of the ' King's Country.'" 
The paths were all shady now. Sabrina East- 
wood followed the manly figure, whose very step 
had a certainty in it. Why had she taken a sud- 
den liking to him four years ago ? Why had 
people seemed different to her afterward ? She 
always remembered the brave, upright fearless- 
ness with which he had made his stand. 
"Miss Disbrowe was enlightening me about the 
'between people,' as she calls them. And one as 
quaintly charming as this Mrs. Duane could have 
been the heroine of an old-fashioned book, or 
stepped out of a picture in some old Colonial 
house. I am doubly glad to have been the bearer 
of good news to her. And this, you see, has 
brought me to the 'King's Country.' Now that 
I understand its beneficence, I can't help wishing 
another poor soul could have a share in it." 
" Yes ? " she answered half inquiringly. 
Olmstead had not been especially impressed 
with her beauty in that past episode, there were 
so many lovely women. Perhaps it had increased, 
maturied, since then. It seemed to-day the sort 
of beauty one could feel, as if it carried with it a 
kind of atmosphere that penetrated other pulses. 
She was in a curiously fascinating mood. 
" And your pilgrim ? " she said. " Tell me 
about her ! " 
"Do you like people's stories ? That is the 
only way to get at the real heart of the matter. 
Mine is one of the 'between' cases, — a pitiful 
one, without being tragic ; and I have been casting 
about for some pleasant place where there might 
be wells of water and trees of palm. Did it ever 
occur to you how many pleasant resting-places 
the Israelites found in the wilderness ? My poor 
pilgrim has had a rather sad life. She gave up 
the man she loved because her mother objected ; 
also a sister, who had married very well, that is, 
with plenty of money. Perhaps her lover was not 
worthy of her. Anyway, he went to the bad after- 
ward. Her mother was an invalid many years. 
She was nurse, governess, seamstress, house- 
keeper, for presently misfortunes fell upon her 
sister. She is worn out and something of an in- 
valid now herself. The family are to go out to 
Lake Superior, where the husband expects to re- 
trieve his fortunes. They do not need her ser- 
vices, and the physician has said she could not 
stand the climate. She desires to earn her own 
support, and applied to a friend of mine, who 
could find a place for her if she were in ordinary 
health ; but it will take weeks of rest to restore 
her. I suppose there are kindly women who 
would take such a person for a small compen- 
sation, but so far we have not found the right place. 
You see, it ought to be where all things would con- 
tribute toward her recovery. I can just understand 
how it would be here with Miss Disbrowe " — 
" Yes, yes," Sabrina cried eagerly. " Oh, how 
do you find these people } " 
"This particular one I have known of for the 
last ten years, but I never realized all the dreari- 
ness of life among the poor until recently. I may 
have been looking more closely into these mat- 
ters. I am coming to believe that people need, 
and perhaps deserve, more happiness than their 
fellow-creatures are willing to allow them. We 
seem to pile up a great deal of duty and sacrifice 
for them, while we sun ourselves on the delight- 
ful side of life. And when one finds two young 
women, with so many gifts, willing to cross over, 
to take some of their poorer sisters by the hand 
and lead them to pleasant places " — 
He was pulling the long sprays of southern- 
wood through his hand, and it gave the air a pun- 
gent fragrance. It was a hand with a good deal 
of character, rather long, with vigor in every one 
of the firm fingers. 
" But this girl's sister," Sabrina said, with a 
nervous flush under the implied praise. ''One 
would naturally look for her to care. Not but 
that Miss Disbrowe will be glad to add her to the 
family, and yesterday I was beginning to feel 
anxious lest our experiment should fall through." 
He laughed softly. Then, as his face settled 
into graver lines, he returned to the subject. 
" I am afraid relationship doesn't always count. 
The Wise One said: 'Whosoever shall do the will 
of God, the same is my brother and my sister and 
mother.' Still, that does not excuse the tie of 
nature. There ought to be more absolute kindli- 
ness in it. Children allow their parents to spend 
an old age in charitable institutions, perhaps the 
almshouse. Not that old age is always lovely; 
indeed, it is often trying. I know of a household 
that an old mother makes miserable. The son, 
an only child, by the way, and the daughter-in-law, 
are quite too conscientious to shift the burden. 
She was a good mother in her earlier years, and 
he is a good son. I often think how happy they 
might be. Perhaps some grace is being perfected ; 
we cannot see all," and he paused. 
" But we were talking of Miss Searle. I ought 
to explain that a year or so ago she had an oppor- 
tunity to marry that her sister felt she ought to 
accept. Relations have been strained since then. 
The children are nearly grown, so they do not 
require her services. When women have passed 
their youth and have no regular business training, 
it is hard to find places in which to put them. 
This girl would make an excellent housekeeper, 
but the first requisite is health. She is ambitious 
to earn her own living. She goes to my friend 
some time this week, but she needs a long, rest- 
ful change. We were planning how to bring it 
about." 
"It is a pathetic story," Miss Eastwood said, 
much moved. " And you will send her here at 
once.?" 
"We shall be only too glad. My friend is a 
very busy woman. She and Miss Disbrowe ought 
to know each other ; but eager as she is for good 
work, she can only devote the odds and ends of 
time to it. And the fields of labor are so large ! " 
Miss Eastwood glanced up and met the eyes 
that had been studying her. Something in them, 
more of admiration than disfavor, stirred her 
strangely, and brought a wandering tint to her 
cheek. 
" I was walking around here yesterday morning 
with Miss Disbrowe," he began, and there was a 
suggestion of a change in his voice that she noted, 
yet was not displeased with. " It is so beautiful! 
It ought never to be disturbed. But the ruthless 
procession of business will begin to tramp over it 
presently. I heard something in the city to-day — 
it may touch you. Up here — out beyond, there's 
a small settlement called Long Meadows." 
" Yes ; we drove over there a few days ago. A 
farming section. A great, beautiful, level stretch 
of country, orchards and fields ; then, to the east, 
a small river. The creek empties into that. You 
see, I have been making myself acquainted with 
my surroundings. It is lovely and quiet. I sup- 
pose people have lived there for generations. 
Don't you imagine they must get tired sometimes, 
and long for a change ? I am afraid I should hold 
out both hands of welcome to an earthquake." 
"The earthquake is coming, I think." He 
wondered how Winchester would take this news. 
What would Miss Eastwood do ? " I dropped into 
a friend's office to-day on a matter of business. A 
large property syndicate had their maps out, and 
were talking to a party of manufacturers. When 
I heard one of them say, ' The next considerable 
tract is Greenfields,' I was interested at once. I 
learned from my friend the plan on foot is to start 
a factory town. Already some of the farms have 
been purchased. Property is extremely low. The 
railroad is convenient ; the river and the sound 
are factors. They are very much in earnest I 
believe." 
" The township line reaches this estate." She 
indicated the north-easterly direction with an in- 
clination of her head. "And there is all the old 
farm ; but it would be years before they could 
stretch out to us." 
" Business takes rapid strides." They had gone 
outside of the flower garden. The path now was 
a narrow one, made by the regular tread of one 
person. She was a little in advance, her shoulder 
half turned, her side face in direct range of his 
glance. The exquisite contour, the proud sweep 
of the neck and throat, the softly rounded chin, 
the curves of the lips, strangely tender to-day, the 
long lashes falling over the brown eyes, the stray 
ends of soft light hair that clung about brow and 
neck in suggestive tendrils, the subtle sensibility 
of complexion, the curious sense and presence of 
repose that veiled the currents underneath, moved 
Parke Olmstead powerfully. Yet he seemed look- 
ing at her with the eyes of another ; and he won- 
dered again why Hollis Winchester had not bought 
back his birthright with love. 
They came out to a rustic bench fastened at the 
ends to two great elms. She waved him to a seat. 
At their feet lay the old garden — the old house, 
spreading out low and quaintly, its roof moss-grown 
in patches. How dear it was to Winchester ! 
" Yes," he resumed, " business takes rapid 
strides; and if it threatens to ingulf you, what 
then ? " 
Sabrina Eastwood drew her brows a little, in 
sudden thought. Why had her mother cared for 
the place ? She was a Hollis, to be sure, but her 
parents had not lived here. There could be no 
special association. Of course she felt bitterly to- 
ward the Winchesters, because she held that they 
had defrauded her out of her rights for many 
years, and she thought of the young man who 
could not be many miles distant. How had he 
prospered these two years ? She turned her eyes 
to the wide stretch of land reaching out to Long 
Meadows. 
" It is a quiet, restful old place," she said 
softly, "and yet I have no especial association 
with it. My grandmother in her old age came 
here with her second husband, a man a dozen or 
so years younger than she. There was a good 
deal of bitterness in my mother's time, several 
lawsuits, as the property naturally reverted to 
the heirs. It had been unlawfully willed away, 
and this is the first time I have ever stayed at 
Chester House. I offered it to Miss Disbrowe 
for her good work. Perhaps I haven't the kind 
of reverence for old places that people feel who 
are born in them. I might be interested in the 
new city. I am afraid I am hopelessly modem ; 
but if they build a town of work out yonder, 
why not build a town of leisure here ? " 
" A ' King's Country ' ! A refuge for the 
weary, a breathing place where the air comes 
fresh from the hills, and the sky broods over 
all with infinite love." 
His voice was grave and sweet. He was 
thinking of choosing between her and HoUis 
Winchester. 
CHAPTER VII 
THE SHADOW OF WANT HAS WIDTH AND DEPTH 
Swinging slowly there in the hammock, Rhea 
Vasilis listened again to the story that she had 
set down in her incredulous fashion as a great 
mistake on some one's part. All day swift shud- 
ders had crept over her, as she pictured Mrs. 
Duane's disappointment. Such blessed things 
happened in books, but in the life she had lived 
there were only misfortunes. One might come 
up a little, a very little indeed, — she had. But 
something always thrust them back. There was 
sickness, or one was out of employment. Some 
girl married full of happy dreams, and the man 
turned out a drunkard, or he was lazy ; perhaps 
was proved to have another wife, or deserted the 
woman to whom he had promised life-long care 
and tenderness. Among the workers in the art 
rooms, there were two young women who had 
babies dependent on them, through mistakes of 
this kind. There were other sad stories. One 
went down, down. There were terrible things hap- 
pening, but never any real, substantial joys. She 
had experienced a deep, intense sympathy with 
these two women, who seemed to have come out 
of another world than hers. But so many paths 
tended to the same end, — that wide kingdom 
of sorrow, sacrifice, hopelessness ! 
She had come to Chester House with a vague 
impression that there was something for her to 
do. She could wash dishes, dust rooms, set 
tables, sew : she was very handy with children's 
clothes ; and when Miss Disbrowe said with a 
smile, " You will find something to do," she had 
come with an unhesitating faith that a full return 
would be exacted from her. All her life long, no 
one had ever offered her something for nothing. 
When she had been out of work, she had sewed 
for poor women who hardly knew how to handle 
a needle, or had taken care of babies for her 
meals. And when she reached this lovely place 
in her life, where the work was beautiful, the 
room comfortably large, the wages really more 
than she needed to spend, so that she could lay 
by a trifle each week ; when for the first time she 
dared to indulge in a bit of exultation, and believe 
truly that her feet were on firm ground instead of 
shifting sand, the shadow had followed her with a 
stealthy step. 
First it had been a dull, aching pain in her side, 
then a cough, a rise of fever and headache in the 
afternoons, until her eyes were almost blinded. 
She could eat no supper, but crawled into her 
bed, and lay there alternately shivering and burn- 
ing, sleepless until almost morning. The cunning 
of her hand deserted her. Sometimes she almost 
spoiled her work, often wasted her time, and be- 
gan to earn less. Her little hoard had to be 
doled out for medicine. The cough grew worse, 
and the dispensary doctor recommended country, 
and a change of employment. One day she had 
fainted. Miss Disbrowe had come in to see if it 
was possible to change part of the design in some 
unfinished work. And Rhea Vasilis, bolstered up 
in an arm-chair by the open window, had taken 
courage from the inspiration of the sweet, sym- 
pathetic voice, and put her few questions. For 
death did not look inviting. And the doctor had 
said, — perhaps he meant to startle her into the 
necessity of change ; he was rather gruff about it, 
— " If you go on in this way, you will be dead in 
less than a year ! " Dead and buried in some out- 
of-the-way place, — she knew well enough where it 
would be. She would a hundred times rather die 
in the country, and have some grass and daisies 
growing over her. She had hungered for it, de- 
sired it as she had never desired anything before. 
. Still, she did not long to die, and she had come 
gladly to this place of refuge, giving up her room, 
selling the few pieces of furniture she had stinted 
herself to pay for, packing up her scanty belong- 
ings, and bringing her precious hoard of money, 
much reduced now. 
There was Desire AVhite in the kitchen, a capa- 
ble Yankee woman, tall and strong, who had never 
been ailing a whole week in her life, and who, 
when Rhea timidly offered her services, said in 
her brisk but not unkindly fashion : — 
" Land sakes, child ! you don't look strong 
enough to shoo out flies ! Miss Disbrowe just 
brought you here for a restin' spell ; and the Lord 
knows you need it bad as anybody I ever see ! 
'N' as for work, there ain't half enough to keep 
me busy ! Seems to me this ' King's Country ' 
is mighty near to heaven, 'n' you just enjoy it all 
you can." 
Pearl had bought her a portfolio and some 
paper and pencils for designing. She crept up 
and down like a shy little mouse; she rambled 
about the garden; she swung in the hammock; 
she watched the two beautiful girls and the two 
elderly ladies. Sometimes she wondered if she 
really was alive; if in an hour's time she could 
get back to New York; or if she had "fallen on 
sleep," and awakened in some other land. It was 
so quiet, the air was so fragrant. There were 
songs of birds, the hum of bees, the chirp and 
drone of insects, — the whole wide world, it 
seemed to her. Only there was the same sky, 
with its sun by day and its stars at night. 
There had been so many things for Pearl to do, 
so much going about and planning, that Rhea had 
been left a good deal to her own devices. All 
these people were so different from any she had 
ever known. Miss Eastwood was like the elegant 
ladies who came into the art workrooms at inter- 
vals, often to stroll through the handsome estab- 
lishment below. Between her and all these there 
was fixed a great gulf. On her side they never 
expected to overpass it. Miss Eastwood had not 
learned the language that translates between the 
two. She praised Rhea's pretty designing: she 
even recommended some books ; but reading was 
tiresome work for the poor girl. She went almost 
wild with delight when, from her dark corner, she 
listened to such music as she had rarely heard; 
but she hid all the rapture and the tears. 
Miss Barclay had been quite ill for the first 
week, unable to leave her room. Mrs. Duane had 
devoted all her time to her sister. They were 
still strange studies to Miss Vasilis. She had 
seen old women, generally of the hard, unlovely 
kind, many of them addicted to beer. The sur- 
prise of it gave her a curious nervous sense of 
hesitation, as if she were groping in some blind 
way out of the hard, ugly prose of her own bald 
living; but all was blurred and confused. She 
could make nothing plain, except that on the 
other side there were many delights she had 
never even dreamed about. 
To-day the reading had moved her immeasura- 
bly. She did not understand it, but it had pene- 
trated every fibre of her being. Yet with the 
side of prosaic experience, narrow enough, poor 
girl, she had thought of the two who had gone for 
the "fortune." Something would happen. The 
things one longed for and dared to count on 
never came to pass. Her few little flashes of 
comforting fire had always burned to ashes before 
she had been fairly warmed. 
"You see," Miss Disbrowe was saying, "you 
will be quite a rich woman." 
Then it was absolute certainty ! The girl raised 
her head, and peered out of dark, passionate eyes. 
Miss Barclay was very pale. Her eyes had the 
slight redness in their rims of soft crying, but 
they were tears of great joy, great penitence also. 
For there had been hard, desperate hours, when 
she had quite lost faith in God. In the depths 
of despair he had sent his angel to comfort her, 
to prepare the way. She had been brought out 
to the high places. She was not denied a sight of 
the promised land. For she had realized in this 
brief while that it was not very far off. Now she 
could go contentedly, for the little sister — Esther 
had always been that to her — would have no more 
pinches and hardships. 
"Five thousand of it is in some excellent stock 
that pays ten per cent ; quite an income itself, you 
see. The rest is in government bonds. Mr. 
instead advised that we should make no change. 
And it has been such a lovely day! Are you 
quite sure I have kept my senses, Miss Disbrowe, 
and not acted like a foolish young girl.?" 
Pearl Disbrowe kissed her, and said: "There 
has so much dropped out of your life, that you 
ought to go back and have it over again, and I 
rejoice in your joy." 
Then she slipped away for a little rest and 
refreshment. Mrs. Duane bent over her sister. 
"I couldn't help but think of Daisy to-day," 
she said in an almost breathless tone. " So many 
times I have given thanks that she was not here, 
sharing our hardships and privations, and having 
to live out of reach of the beautiful things of the 
world. But to-day she's haunted me. I have seen 
her in every pretty young girl. She would have 
been just twenty." 
"Yes, if you could have her," Margaret Bar- 
clay said to her childless sister. 
Rhea Vasilis had lived with no one to care 
about her, no one to want her. She had known a 
child's terror and suffering in a hospital ward ; she 
had gone cold and hungry ; she had worked early 
and late. All the money she possessed in the 
world was in an old pocket-book up-stairs, hidden 
in the corner of the drawer. Why had not some- 
thing happened to her as well ? If God sent this 
to Mrs. Duane, why had not something been sent 
to her.? Money coming in, whether one worked 
or not! .Why were these young girls straight 
and strong and beautiful, while she needed 
strength so much ? Why were some people blest 
and happy, and she solitary and alone.? If God 
were all-wise and all-powerful, and loved people, 
why did he not do these wonderful things for all 
of them, instead of a very few ? 
There was an awful, uncomprehended sense of 
loss. She had thought little about it before. All 
day her mind had to be on her work, and at night 
she was too tired, even if she could not sleep. It 
was very good in Miss Disbrowe to ask her here, 
but she did not belong in this beautiful place. It 
seemed to her vague unreason the longer she 
stayed the harder it would be to go back to the 
old life, the long, wearing hours, the tired fingers 
and aching head. Had she eaten of the tree of 
knowledge to her sorrow ? 
Miss Eastwood and the clergyman came around 
the path presently. She had a great cluster of 
flowers in her belt that he had gathered. She sat 
down on the step with an easy grace, and he de- 
clined the chair Mrs. Duane proffered, leaning his 
compact figure against the square column, just 
where Rhea could see his face through the meshes 
of the hammock. It was strong and pleasant, and 
his voice had a curious effect upon her. If he 
could tell her — but the ministers always sent you 
to church. Rich people could give away money 
and visit the sick ; but what part of religion came 
to the poor ? Some of the girls she knew went 
to mass, and paid in some curious way to have 
their sins forgiven. She had tried not to sin, to 
be rigorously honest in the workroom, to tell the 
truth — what else was there she could do ? 
Desire's supper-bell rang. Pearl, in her capa- 
city of hostess, invited Mr. Olmstead, who did 
not need much persuasion. He and Miss East- 
wood assisted Miss Barclay, and the others walked 
together. 
"Where is Miss Vasilis.?" asked Pearl. "Will 
you please find her. Desire.?" 
Rhea would not come. She had a headache, 
and did not want any supper. 
"She's a queer little thing," said Sabrina. 
"Sometimes she seems an ignorant, wondering 
child, then there comes such a wild, eerie look in 
her face as makes you almost believe in transmi- 
gration. What will you do with her, Pearl?" 
"I've hardly had time to think. She is one of 
the lonely little waifs, the driftwood of which 
there is so much in cities. It is very hard to be 
anchored to no one." 
The waif raised up her slight figure and looked 
down the grayish road, crossed by long, quivering 
shadows of branching trees. There w^s a sudden 
revolt of the Ishmaelitish blood. She longed to 
get away somewhere else, among her own kind; 
for this would come to an end presently. It filled 
her with such strange thoughts of unattainable 
things. She must go where there was work she 
could do; she must get back to her own life. 
Not in the crowded city and the small, dingy 
room, perhaps — 
She crept softly up-stairs, and flung herself on 
the bed. Her temples throbbed and her eyeballs 
seemed on fire. A light step came across tlie 
hall, and Miss Disbrowe's voice broke the silence 
as she laid her cool hand on the hot brow. 
"My dear child!" she exclaimed, "you are ill 
and feverish. I have hardly had time to look 
after you. Desire will make you a cooling drink. 
Do your eyes hurt ? I will come up again and sit 
with you, and bathe your head " — 
" I want to be alone," Rhea said sharply. Her 
face was turned to the wall. Then, after a mo- 
ment's silence, she added, " You have been very 
good to me. But you don't understand " — 
"You have been too much alone. I think I 
could understand." 
There was no answer or sign of confidence. 
Miss Disbrowe bent and kissed the throbbing 
brow, smoothed the dark, tumbled hair, soft as 
silk. Then, not knowing what better to do, she 
left her, and sent Desire up with iced lemonade ; 
but even Desire's ministrations were repulsed. 
The twilight filled the sky, and made dense 
shadows, sent wafts of fragrance up and down. 
Oh, what was that ? They were singing. She 
heard the rich, penetrating voice of Mr. Olmstead, 
the clear, swelling tones of Miss Eastwood, 
the strange sweetness of Miss Disbrowe's pure 
contralto. It seemed almost as if she could arise 
and join them — her very lips trembled. But no 
— she was not of their kind ; she was so far out- 
side ; and yet it moved her immeasurably. Oh, 
she must get away somewhere ; she could not 
stay and listen, and break her heart over it all. 
She rose as if in a spell, and picked up a few 
of her belongiugs, her precious hoard of money, 
and stole wearily down-stairs. They were all in 
the lighted parlor, but she did not need to pass 
the door. She could go out of the side entrance. 
Bose came and snuffed her, then looked after her 
doubtfully, as if not quite sure of the propriety 
of this nocturnal journey. She hurried on with 
her short step and slight limp, walked so fast, in- 
deed, that now and then she was compelled to 
halt for breath. The old pain came back in her 
side. 
Where she should go, she had not thought. 
Her brain was in a whirl. Did they take this 
road to reach the station.? Was she forgetting 
everything ? It grew darker. The stars came out 
in great throngs, but the moon would be late to- 
night. The trees loomed up ghostly. How aw- 
fully still it was ! She had never been out in the 
wide country at night, though she had threaded 
city streets. She hurried on, frightened, breath- 
less, tired with a kind of deadly fatigue she had 
never known before. Then she dropped down, 
and the rest was sweet. 
When Parke Olmstead went striding along with 
just time to catch the train at Sandon, he saw an 
odd pile of something in the path before him, 
some weary animal doubtless, and he turned 
aside. Then he stepped back, struck a match, and 
glanced sharply. One thin white hand clutched 
a bundle. Why ! surely he had seen the face. 
Could it be Miss Disbrowe's pensioner.? At all 
events they would take her in, and he could think 
of no other place of refuge. 
He lifted her in his arms ; and though she 
seemed light enough at first, he had to pause a 
time or two for breath. Bose came down the 
path and gave a low growl. There were lights 
moving about up-stairs. He spoke cheerfully to 
the dog ; then the hall door was opened. 
" Sakes alive ! " said Desire, " is that you, Mr. 
Olmstead ? Miss Disbrowe's e'en a'most wild ! 
Oh, have you found that child.? She was sick 
or something, and we've been hunting every- 
where " — 
Pearl came flying down, with terrified eyes. 
" Oh, is it Rhea Vasilis ? What can have hap- 
pened ? It must have been the fever. Where 
did you find her ? " 
" Down the road a short distance. She is un- 
conscious, I think. Where shall I take her ? " 
" Bring her up to her rodm, if you will be so 
good. My poor little Rhea ! She has been 
strange these few days back, — homesick, I should 
say, if there had been anything to really long 
for." 
Sabrina was still in her soft, floating gown of 
white, with pale green ribbons. Olmstead always 
remembered the picture she made. 
" What could have possessed the child ! " cried 
Desire. " And here's her bundle tied up — just's 
if she was going to run away ! " 
The helpless hand had unclosed and dropped it. 
Olmstead laid her on the bed. 
" You do not think " — a terror came in Miss 
Eastwood's face. 
" Try rubbing with alcohol. She is not dead. 
She has some pulse, and her heart beats slowly. 
Give her a stimulant. I will wait and see if a 
doctor is needed." 
He led Miss Eastwood down-stairs again. She 
shivered a little. What if there should be some- 
thing serious — of contagion she did not want to 
think. 
Desire rubbed vigorously. What a pinched little 
face, with the wide lids drawn over the large eyes, 
and fringed with long black lashes. The nostrils 
were almost transparent, the chin sharpened, the 
lips thin and colorless. But presently a long, sigh- 
ing breath moved the small frame. 
" Desire — nothing has been said to her ? She 
can't have thought " — 
" Well, she's kinder moped about. I guess I'd 
better let her wiped dishes and such. She wanted 
to. Mebbe she's felt out of place. But every- 
body's been good to her, if that is what you mean. 
There's lots of queer cattle in big cities. Miss 
Pearl, and it isn't to be looked for that they'd fall 
into different ways all in a minute. There ! she's 
come all around." 
Rhea Vasilis opened her eyes wide. 
"What was it ? " she asked. " I thought — I 
meant — I do not belong here, you know." 
" Yes, you do." Pearl pressed the soft hand. 
Then she summoned Mr. Olmstead again. 
" There is a little fever rising, but her pulse is 
stronger. I have one or two remedies with me — 
I have so much occasion for them. If you like to 
trust her to me and your good Mrs. White for the 
night — I do not think there is any real danger. 
In the morning you can summon a physician." 
" Yes," Desire White answered, settling the 
matter with a certain authority. 
Presently the house quieted down. Desire ar- 
ranged a comfortable and pillow on the floor for 
herself ; a high-backed easy-chair,, a table, and a 
lamp in the hall for Mr. Olmstead. Pearl made 
another journey down-stairs, to relieve the fears 
of the ladies. 
Mrs. Duane came out in the hall with her, and 
laid her hand on Pearl's arm. " Poor thing ! " she 
said ; " poor little thing ! What a hard fight it 
must have been with no mother or sister ! She 
seems like some strange flower, grown among 
weeds, that's never had the right kind of soil or 
nourishment. It is harder for the young. My 
dear, God has been so good to us, to me, that I 
want to help do a little work in your garden in 
the ' King's Country. " 
Then she kissed Miss Disbrowe, and slipped 
away. 
Sabrina was waiting up-stairs. " Pearl," she 
began, " I don't want you to run any risk. Are 
you never afraid when you go round in those dens 
and holes ? And I hope she will not turn out an 
ingrate on your hands. Do you suppose she was 
really going away, with that queer little bundle ? 
She's a curious little thing — I shouldn't know 
what to make of her, what to do with her. There 
is such a general complaint among people who 
do charity work " — 
Pearl smiled. " ' We love Him because He first 
loved us.' And maybe that is a part of the great 
gladness that is to transfigure the world — they 
may love us after a while, because we have first 
gone to them and loved them." 
They had gone to well-bred and appreciative 
Miss Barclay. But — down in the very depths — 
and to hope and work for all ! Ah, that was a 
higher grace. Could she — did she care to attain 
unto it } 
The night was in the main quiet. Towards 
morning the fever increased, and Rhea Vasilis 
grew restless and wandering ; but Olm stead saw 
nothing to call for alarm. Soon after daylight 
Amos Pike harnessed up the horse and drove 
Olmstead in to the station,, and brought out the 
village doctor. The fragrance of the morning 
floated about as incense offered from every tree 
and shrub, from the long reaches of dew-gemmed 
grass, and the birds were at their matins. Ah, 
why had man brought woe and want and sorrpw 
into this beautiful world ! Why had he bound 
burdens grievous to be borne on his fellow-man! 
Ah, thank God, there were some hands willing to 
take hold and lighten them a little ! 
CHAPTER VIII 
WHETHER IT IS BETTER TO TURN AND FIGHT 
Olmstead had thrown himself on his own bed 
and taken a late morning nap, and then had a 
solitary breakfast. Calista Spence was of the old 
lady's opinion that " nothing was too good for the 
minister," so he found some unwonted indul- 
gences. After that it had been a busy and per- 
plexing day. Work was slacking up in many of 
the factories. A new scale of wages was being 
considered. Then there was the usual sickness 
in the crowded tenements. For crowded they 
were, even with all the outlying country, — waste 
places that were no longer profitable for farms, 
but too valuable their owners thought for gardens 
for the poorer classes. 
Brentford was not a pretty town, or a town 
reared on the grand foundation of good will to 
men. Some large factories had been established, 
for the economical reason that land and labor were 
cheap. The young men from the adjacent farms 
had rushed in ; then the foreign element crowded 
them hard. Most of the owners and the superin- 
tendents lived elsewhere, communication by rail 
being easy. There were no pretty suburbs ; and 
though there might be families with century-old 
pedigrees, they had not assumed the divine right 
of grandeur. 
Winchester had been away all day. Olmstead 
had taken supper without him. He had gone up- 
stairs now, and stretched himself out by the open 
window for a rest. Late in the afternoon Amos 
Pike had driven in for a few articles, and brought 
him a note from Miss Disbrowe. Miss Vasilis 
had a nervous fever, with some brain trouble, due 
mostly to overwork and an impoverished condition 
of the system. At present there was no danger. 
He could send for his friend at once. 
Yet it was not so much of Pearl Disbrowe he 
was thinking now. The tall, shadowy figure had 
a more seductive grace, the brown eyes an inde- 
scribable light, the lips set in curves so sweet that 
the radiance of her smile was like a subtle, half- 
hidden sunshine. He had fancied out there in the 
old garden that Hollis Winchester might marry 
Miss Eastwood, and round out the suggestive 
romance. He knew now it would be an impossi- 
bility. No alchemy in the whole repertory of na- 
ture could fuse these two souls A certain high 
delicacy in her would forever keep such a man at 
a distance. In spite of his -friendliness, for he 
had come to like Winchester in many respects, he 
was exultantly glad. 
He was dozing off, his mental vision taking in 
Chester House, when a firm step came up the 
stairs. In another moment Winchester had 
marched through, rather flushed and excited, with 
a paper in his hand. 
" See here ! " he began brusquely, pointing to a 
paragraph. " Read this ! "
"Yes," Olmstead returned, as his eye caught 
the headlines, "I stumbled over that in New 
York yesterday, at the office of a friend." 
"They have kept wonderfully close about it. 
Why, they have bought up nearly all Long 
Meadow! Some one, it seems, found a bed of 
clay, and there is a plan for brickmaking. The 
Trenfords are to take their big establishment 
out of the city. The town will be built up in a 
night." He gave a harsh laugh. "A spur of 
the road is planned for their accommodation." 
" It doesn't take long to accomplish such things 
when men take hold in earnest." 
"Long Meadow joins Chester House Farm." 
There was a desperate sort of bitterness in Win- 
chester's tone. 
" Yes," answered Olmstead briefly. 
" They will make a bid for it. She will take it, 
of course." 
"Why 'of course'?" 
" They will offer a big price, and money always 
tempts a woman." 
"As it never does a man," said Olmstead, with 
the good-nature in his voice that one could tell 
was born of a half-smile. 
"Well, a man looks farther on, considers the 
future. I don't mind telling you, Olmstead, that 
I have had some curious dreams about the place. 
I should have begun quite differently years ago. 
When my great-uncle married, he begged my 
grandfather to bring his mill here, and my father 
thought it a good thing. It was supposed Brent- 
ford might rival some of the greater cities, I be- 
lieve. Well, it hasn't. It has filled up with the 
dregs of emigration. Every year it gets worse. 
I think now that my father was crazy to buy the 
old factory and give twice what it was worth ; but 
he was established here, and just then it was 
swell times, and he had a belief that the other 
claim would turn out to be a fraud. Then business 
dropped down, and he had hard work to weather 
the storm, but he did. If he had merely leased 
the factory for a term of years, I should have 
thrown it up and gone off to some wholesomer, 
cleaner place. I have driven over that tract time 
and again, and thought of the fine site, gloated 
over it ! If I could have bought Chester House 
when this girl came of age, Fd have moved heaven 
and earth, formed a syndicate, done anything to 
compass my dream. So Fve kept it to myself. 
But no man seems to have a monopoly of ideas. 
And now the thing is done, and I am not in it 
at all." 
The lingering undercurrent in his voice would 
have been a tremble had he held himself less rig- 
orously in hand. The repressed emotion touched 
Olmstead keenly. 
"Why don't you make her another offer for 
it, Winchester ? " 
He laughed contemptuously, with a touch of 
cruel discordance. 
" You have been there," he resumed, after a 
long pause ; " what kind of a fad is it ? She 
may donate a Home for Incapables to the new 
town. The Eastwood Home. Has she taken 
orders ? " 
" She has very little to do with it. I wish you 
really knew Miss Disbrowe. Many of her ideas 
would suit you to a dot. She isn't weakly or 
sentimentally charitable. She believes in help- 
ing people to help themselves, and thinks the 
truest kindness one can do a fellow-creature, 
man or woman, is to put them in a way of self- 
support. This is the kind of home to which 
any lady might invite a friend, rich or poor." 
" No, Miss Eastwood isn't the kind to shoulder 
such an enterprise. She might give the house 
away ; she wouldn't go round in the slums to 
find people to fill it. She must have taken her 
style from the Eastwood side. You have seen 
her playing at charity. I haven't any doubt 
but that she was superlatively graceful! Well, 
I have seen her as one of the stars of society. 
She has the Vere-de-Vere manner. Do they all 
fall on their knees when she raises her hand ? " 
"Winchester, you are positively cantankerous! 
You gibe alike at her, whether she affects society 
or the chosen gray of some sisterhood. You have 
managed to carry away a distorted idea of her, 
quite unfair. Both are charming young women. 
They have a man and a maid, a horse and a dog. 
The house and the garden still hold their quaint, 
beautiful seclusion. Why shouldn't these girls of 
leisure try to do a little uplifting in the world ? 
Heaven knows there is need enough of it ! " 
" There is a deal of viciousness in this fashion- 
able benevolence. The schemers come to depend 
on it, to demand it. Let them take their own 
money. Why, see here, instead, I have not had 
a pleasure journey in years ! I have had other 
things to take my time. Yet I am in a fair condi- 
tion," with a sarcastic intonation. 
" Maybe, if you lived in some of the filthy dens 
where Tve found even your people, Winchester, 
you would like a day or a week out, to see the real 
sky, where it isn't obscured by smoke, and long 
reaches of meadows, shady, fragrant woodlands, 
or a bit of the ocean. You have a roomy, com- 
fortable home, good food, luxuries, reading, and 
some leisure ; a day off, now and then, even if 
it is business journeys, variety, aims, and ambi- 
tions " — 
"And I wonder how many of the men down 
yonder would have kept at it as I did ! You have 
never had a big business on your hands, Olmstead, 
— orders to fill, and men turning sulky and go- 
ing out on strikes ; payments to meet, and some 
of the men you depended on giving you notice 
at the last moment they could not come to time. 
I have run things very light-handed now and 
then. I have spent whole nights down at the mill. 
And they grudge me success ! "
"Did you ever think these people are largely 
what the methods of the past and to-day make 
them } When the conditions of life are not quite 
so hard, there is a general improvement, better 
health, less overcrowding. When you come to 
give a man a decent share of prosperity, you 
rouse ambition in him. Then you can appeal 
to him ; but what appeal can you make to the 
denizens of saloons.^ And you employers have 
not made much effort to provide better things. 
When you think of it, Winchester, isn't it a lit- 
tle unreasonable for you to expect a man to use 
his most eager and earnest efforts to help you 
to acquire a fortune?" 
"But do you not see it is to his interest ? The 
more employment there is, the less likely he is to 
be out of work. If I were content to make a bare 
living, fifty of my men would be idle to-morrow." 
" But if depression in business sweeps over the 
land, are you going to spend your money to give 
work and bread ? " 
"Oh, men have done this," said Winchester in 
a tone of lofty indifference. 
" All honor to them, then ! " 
" You clergymen theorize a good deal. If you 
had the hard, practical part on your hands " — 
"We see the results. I do not think, Winches- 
ter, that we take upon ourselves any vow or duty 
to preach to men the advisability of laying, up 
treasures here on earth. The Golden Rule may 
be visionary, but the eternal laws of justice are 
founded on it. The great question is how thor- 
oughly or truly one believes in another life. He 
cannot take it for himself and be indifferent 
to his neighbor's welfare. He is his brother's 
keeper, whether he likes it or not. Even in 
this world his selfish indifference often reacts, 
and he suffers from it. But if you think the 
piling up of money is the greatest good, if you 
are willing to concentrate every faculty of soul 
and body in that one pursuit, then grant us the 
