One sweltering afternoon--it was the first day of July, 1830--he was at
work over a set of tangled account-books in his work-room, which looked
westward over a stretch of vacant lots, when a conversation outside
disturbed him. It was carried on in yells, which showed that the people
engaged in it were not close together:
"Say, Roxy, how does yo' baby come on?" This from the distant voice.
"Fust-rate; how does you come on, Jasper?" This yell was from close by.
"Oh, I's middlin'; hain't got noth'n' to complain of. I's gwine to come
a-court'n' you bimeby, Roxy."
"You is, you black mud-cat! Yah--yah--yah! I got somep'n' better to do
den 'sociat'n' wid niggers as black as you is. Is ole Miss Cooper's
Nancy done give you de mitten?" Roxy followed this sally with another
discharge of care-free laughter.
"You's jealous, Roxy, dat's what's de matter wid you, you
hussy--yah--yah--yah! Dat's de time I got you!"
"Oh, yes, you got me, hain't you. 'Clah to goodness if dat conceit o'
yo'n strikes in, Jasper, it gwine to kill you sho'. If you b'longed to
me I'd sell you down de river 'fo' you git too fur gone. Fust time I
runs acrost yo' marster, I's gwine to tell him so."
This idle and aimless jabber went on and on, both parties enjoying the
friendly duel and each well satisfied with his own share of the wit
exchanged--for wit they considered it.
Wilson stepped to the window to observe the combatants; he could not
work while their chatter continued. Over in the vacant lots was Jasper,
young, coal-black and of magnificent build, sitting on a wheelbarrow in
the pelting sun--at work, supposably, whereas he was in fact only
preparing for it by taking an hour's rest before beginning. In front of
Wilson's porch stood Roxy, with a local hand-made baby-wagon, in which
sat her two charges--one at each end and facing each other. From Roxy's
manner of speech, a stranger would have expected her to be black, but
she was not. Only one sixteenth of her was black, and that sixteenth did
not show. She was of majestic form and stature, her attitudes were
imposing and statuesque, and her gestures and movements distinguished by
a noble and stately grace. Her complexion was very fair, with the rosy
glow of vigorous health in the cheeks, her face was full of character
and expression, her eyes were brown and liquid, and she had a heavy suit
of fine soft hair which was also brown, but the fact was not apparent
because her head was bound about with a checkered handkerchief and the
hair was concealed under it. Her face was shapely, intelligent and
comely--even beautiful. She had an easy, independent carriage--when she
was among her own caste--and a high and "sassy" way, withal; but of
course she was meek and humble enough where white people were.
To all intents and purposes Roxy was as white as anybody, but the one
sixteenth of her which was black outvoted the other fifteen parts and
made her a negro. She was a slave, and salable as such. Her child was
thirty-one parts white, and he, too, was a slave, and by a fiction of
law and custom a negro. He had blue eyes and flaxen curls like his white
comrade, but even the father of the white child was able to tell the
children apart--little as he had commerce with them--by their clothes:
for the white babe wore ruffled soft muslin and a coral necklace, while
the other wore merely a coarse tow-linen shirt which barely reached to
its knees, and no jewelry.
The white child's name was Thomas à Becket Driscoll, the other's name
was Valet de Chambre: no surname--slaves hadn't the privilege. Roxana
had heard that phrase somewhere, the fine sound of it had pleased her
ear, and as she had supposed it was a name, she loaded it on to her
darling. It soon got shorted to "Chambers," of course.
Wilson knew Roxy by sight, and when the duel of wit began to play out,
he stepped outside to gather in a record or two. Jasper went to work
energetically, at once, perceiving that his leisure was observed. Wilson
inspected the children and asked--
"How old are they, Roxy?"
"Bofe de same age, sir--five months. Bawn de fust o' Feb'uary."
"They're handsome little chaps. One's just as handsome as the other,
too."
A delighted smile exposed the girl's white teeth, and she said:
"Bless yo' soul, Misto Wilson, it's pow'ful nice o' you to say dat,
'ca'se one of 'em ain't on'y a nigger. Mighty prime little nigger, I
al'ays says, but dat's 'ca'se it's mine, o' course."
"How do you tell them apart, Roxy, when they haven't any clothes on?"
Roxy laughed a laugh proportioned to her size, and said:
"Oh, I kin tell 'em 'part, Misto Wilson, but I bet Marse Percy couldn't,
not to save his life."
Wilson chatted along for awhile, and presently got Roxy's finger-prints
for his collection--right hand and left--on a couple of his glass
strips; then labeled and dated them, and took the "records" of both
children, and labeled and dated them also.
Two months later, on the 3d of September, he took this trio of
finger-marks again. He liked to have a "series," two or three "takings"
at intervals during the period of childhood, these to be followed by
others at intervals of several years.
The next day--that is to say, on the 4th of September--something
occurred which profoundly impressed Roxana. Mr. Driscoll missed another
small sum of money--which is a way of saying that this was not a new
thing, but had happened before. In truth it had happened three times
before. Driscoll's patience was exhausted. He was a fairly humane man
toward slaves and other animals; he was an exceedingly humane man toward
the erring of his own race. Theft he could not abide, and plainly there
was a thief in his house. Necessarily the thief must be one of his
negroes. Sharp measures must be taken. He called his servants before
him. There were three of these, besides Roxy: a man, a woman, and a boy
twelve years old. They were not related. Mr. Driscoll said:
"You have all been warned before. It has done no good. This time I will
teach you a lesson. I will sell the thief. Which of you is the guilty
one?"
They all shuddered at the threat, for here they had a good home, and a
new one was likely to be a change for the worse. The denial was general.
None had stolen anything--not money, anyway--a little sugar, or cake, or
honey, or something like that, that "Marse Percy wouldn't mind or miss,"
but not money--never a cent of money. They were eloquent in their
protestations, but Mr. Driscoll was not moved by them. He answered each
in turn with a stern "Name the thief!"
The truth was, all were guilty but Roxana; she suspected that the others
were guilty, but she did not know them to be so. She was horrified to
think how near she had come to being guilty herself; she had been saved
in the nick of time by a revival in the colored Methodist Church, a
fortnight before, at which time and place she "got religion." The very
next day after that gracious experience, while her change of style was
fresh upon her and she was vain of her purified condition, her master
left a couple dollars lying unprotected on his desk, and she happened
upon that temptation when she was polishing around with a dust-rag. She
looked at the money awhile with a steady rising resentment, then she
burst out with--
"Dad blame dat revival, I wisht it had 'a' be'n put off till to-morrow!"
Then she covered the tempter with a book, and another member of the
kitchen cabinet got it. She made this sacrifice as a matter of religious
etiquette; as a thing necessary just now, but by no means to be wrested
into a precedent; no, a week or two would limber up her piety, then she
would be rational again, and the next two dollars that got left out in
the cold would find a comforter--and she could name the comforter.
Was she bad? Was she worse than the general run of her race? No. They
had an unfair show in the battle of life, and they held it no sin to
take military advantage of the enemy--in a small way; in a small way,
but not in a large one. They would smouch provisions from the pantry
whenever they got a chance; or a brass thimble, or a cake of wax, or an
emery-bag, or a paper of needles, or a silver spoon, or a dollar bill,
or small articles of clothing, or any other property of light value; and
so far were they from considering such reprisals sinful, that they would
go to church and shout and pray the loudest and sincerest with their
plunder in their pockets. A farm smoke-house had to be kept heavily
padlocked, for even the colored deacon himself could not resist a ham
when Providence showed him in a dream, or otherwise, where such a thing
hung lonesome and longed for some one to love. But with a hundred
hanging before him the deacon would not take two--that is, on the same
night. On frosty nights the humane negro prowler would warm the end of a
plank and put it up under the cold claws of chickens roosting in a tree;
a drowsy hen would step on to the comfortable board, softly clucking her
gratitude, and the prowler would dump her into his bag, and later into
his stomach, perfectly sure that in taking this trifle from the man who
daily robbed him of an inestimable treasure--his liberty--he was not
committing any sin that God would remember against him in the Last Great
Day.
"Name the thief!"
For the fourth time Mr. Driscoll had said it, and always in the same
hard tone. And now he added these words of awful import:
"I give you one minute"--he took out his watch. "If at the end of that
time you have not confessed, I will not only sell all four of you,
but--I will sell you down the river!"
It was equivalent to condemning them to hell! No Missouri negro doubted
this. Roxy reeled in her tracks and the color vanished out of her face;
the others dropped to their knees as if they had been shot; tears gushed
from their eyes, their supplicating hands went up, and three answers
came in the one instant:
"I done it!"
"I done it!"
"I done it!--have mercy, marster--Lord have mercy on us po' niggers!"
"Very good," said the master, putting up his watch, "I will sell you
here though you don't deserve it. You ought to be sold down the river."
The culprits flung themselves prone, in an ecstasy of gratitude, and
kissed his feet, declaring that they would never forget his goodness and
never cease to pray for him as long as they lived. They were sincere,
for like a god he had stretched forth his mighty hand and closed the
gates of hell against them. He knew, himself, that he had done a noble
and gracious thing, and was privately well pleased with his magnanimity;
and that night he set the incident down in his diary, so that his son
might read it in after years, and be thereby moved to deeds of
gentleness and humanity himself.
CHAPTER III.
Roxy Plays a Shrewd Trick.
Whoever has lived long enough to find out what life is, knows how deep a
debt of gratitude we owe to Adam, the first great benefactor of our
race. He brought death into the world.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Percy Driscoll slept well the night he saved his house-minions from
going down the river, but no wink of sleep visited Roxy's eyes. A
profound terror had taken possession of her. Her child could grow up and
be sold down the river! The thought crazed her with horror. If she dozed
and lost herself for a moment, the next moment she was on her feet
flying to her child's cradle to see if it was still there. Then she
would gather it to her heart and pour out her love upon it in a frenzy
of kisses, moaning, crying, and saying, "Dey sha'n't, oh, dey
sha'n't!--yo' po' mammy will kill you fust!"
Once, when she was tucking it back in its cradle again, the other child
nestled in its sleep and attracted her attention. She went and stood
over it a long time communing with herself:
"What has my po' baby done, dat he couldn't have yo' luck? He hain't
done noth'n'. God was good to you; why warn't he good to him? Dey can't
sell you down de river. I hates yo' pappy; he hain't got no heart--for
niggers he hain't, anyways. I hates him, en I could kill him!" She
paused awhile, thinking; then she burst into wild sobbings again, and
turned away, saying, "Oh, I got to kill my chile, dey ain't no yuther
way,--killin' him wouldn't save de chile fum goin' down de river. Oh, I
got to do it, yo' po' mammy's got to kill you to save you, honey"--she
gathered her baby to her bosom, now, and began to smother it with
caresses--"Mammy's got to kill you--how kin I do it! But yo' mammy ain't
gwine to desert you--no, no; dah, don't cry--she gwine wid you, she
gwine to kill herself too. Come along, honey, come along wid mammy; we
gwine to jump in de river, den de troubles o' dis worl' is all over--dey
don't sell po' niggers down the river over yonder."
She started toward the door, crooning to the child and hushing it;
midway she stopped, suddenly. She had caught sight of her new Sunday
gown--a cheap curtain-calico thing, a conflagration of gaudy colors and
fantastic figures. She surveyed it wistfully, longingly.
"Hain't ever wore it yet," she said, "en it's jist lovely." Then she
nodded her head in response to a pleasant idea, and added, "No, I ain't
gwine to be fished out, wid everybody lookin' at me, in dis mis'able ole
linsey-woolsey."
She put down the child and made the change. She looked in the glass and
was astonished at her beauty. She resolved to make her death-toilet
perfect. She took off her handkerchief-turban and dressed her glossy
wealth of hair "like white folks"; she added some odds and ends of
rather lurid ribbon and a spray of atrocious artificial flowers; finally
she threw over her shoulders a fluffy thing called a "cloud" in that
day, which was of a blazing red complexion. Then she was ready for the
tomb.
She gathered up her baby once more; but when her eye fell upon its
miserably short little gray tow-linen shirt and noted the contrast
between its pauper shabbiness and her own volcanic irruption of infernal
splendors, her mother-heart was touched, and she was ashamed.
"No, dolling, mammy ain't gwine to treat you so. De angels is gwine to
'mire you jist as much as dey does yo' mammy. Ain't gwine to have 'em
putt'n' dey han's up 'fo' dey eyes en sayin' to David en Goliah en dem
yuther prophets, 'Dat chile is dress' too indelicate fo' dis place.'"
By this time she had stripped off the shirt. Now she clothed the naked
little creature in one of Thomas à Becket's snowy long baby-gowns, with
its bright blue bows and dainty flummery of ruffles.
"Dah--now you's fixed." She propped the child in a chair and stood off
to inspect it. Straightway her eyes began to widen with astonishment and
admiration, and she clapped her hands and cried out, "Why, it do beat
all!--I never knowed you was so lovely. Marse Tommy ain't a bit
puttier--not a single bit."
She stepped over and glanced at the other infant; she flung a glance
back at her own; then one more at the heir of the house. Now a strange
light dawned in her eyes, and in a moment she was lost in thought. She
seemed in a trance; when she came out of it she muttered, "When I 'uz
a-washin' 'em in de tub, yistiddy, his own pappy asked me which of 'em
was his'n."
She began to move about like one in a dream. She undressed Thomas à
Becket, stripping him of everything, and put the tow-linen shirt on him.
She put his coral necklace on her own child's neck. Then she placed the
children side by side, and after earnest inspection she muttered--
"Now who would b'lieve clo'es could do de like o' dat? Dog my cats if it
ain't all I kin do to tell t'other fum which, let alone his pappy."
She put her cub in Tommy's elegant cradle and said--
"You's young Marse Tom fum dis out, en I got to practise and git used to
'memberin' to call you dat, honey, or I's gwine to make a mistake some
time en git us bofe into trouble. Dah--now you lay still en don't fret
no mo', Marse Tom--oh, thank de good Lord in heaven, you's saved, you's
saved!--dey ain't no man kin ever sell mammy's po' little honey down de
river now!"
She put the heir of the house in her own child's unpainted pine cradle,
and said, contemplating its slumbering form uneasily--
"I's sorry for you, honey; I's sorry, God knows I is,--but what kin I
do, what could I do? Yo' pappy would sell him to somebody, some time, en
den he'd go down de river, sho', en I couldn't, couldn't, couldn't stan'
it."
She flung herself on her bed and began to think and toss, toss and
think. By and by she sat suddenly upright, for a comforting thought had
flown through her worried mind--
"'Tain't no sin--white folks has done it! It ain't no sin, glory to
goodness it ain't no sin! Dey's done it--yes, en dey was de biggest
quality in de whole bilin', too--kings!"
She began to muse; she was trying to gather out of her memory the dim
particulars of some tale she had heard some time or other. At last she
said--
"Now I's got it; now I 'member. It was dat ole nigger preacher dat tole
it, de time he come over here fum Illinois en preached in de nigger
church. He said dey ain't nobody kin save his own self--can't do it by
faith, can't do it by works, can't do it no way at all. Free grace is de
on'y way, en dat don't come fum nobody but jis' de Lord; en he kin give
it to anybody he please, saint or sinner--he don't kyer. He do jis' as
he's a mineter. He s'lect out anybody dat suit him, en put another one
in his place, and make de fust one happy forever en leave t'other one to
burn wid Satan. De preacher said it was jist like dey done in Englan'
one time, long time ago. De queen she lef' her baby layin' aroun' one
day, en went out callin'; en one o' de niggers roun'-'bout de place dat
was 'mos' white, she come in en see de chile layin' aroun', en tuck en
put her own chile's clo'es on de queen's chile, en put de queen's
chile's clo'es on her own chile, en den lef' her own chile layin' aroun'
en tuck en toted de queen's chile home to de nigger-quarter, en nobody
ever foun' it out, en her chile was de king bimeby, en sole de queen's
chile down de river one time when dey had to settle up de estate. Dah,
now--de preacher said it his own self, en it ain't no sin, 'ca'se white
folks done it. Dey done it--yes, dey done it; en not on'y jis' common
white folks nuther, but de biggest quality dey is in de whole bilin'.
Oh, I's so glad I 'member 'bout dat!"
She got up light-hearted and happy, and went to the cradles and spent
what was left of the night "practising." She would give her own child a
light pat and say humbly, "Lay still, Marse Tom," then give the real Tom
a pat and say with severity, "Lay still, Chambers!--does you want me to
take somep'n' to you?"
As she progressed with her practice, she was surprised to see how
steadily and surely the awe which had kept her tongue reverent and her
manner humble toward her young master was transferring itself to her
speech and manner toward the usurper, and how similarly handy she was
becoming in transferring her motherly curtness of speech and
peremptoriness of manner to the unlucky heir of the ancient house of
Driscoll.
She took occasional rests from practising, and absorbed herself in
calculating her chances.
"Dey'll sell dese niggers to-day fo' stealin' de money, den dey'll buy
some mo' dat don't know de chillen--so dat's all right. When I takes de
chillen out to git de air, de minute I's roun' de corner I's gwine to
gaum dey mouths all roun' wid jam, den dey can't nobody notice dey's
changed. Yes, I gwineter do dat till I's safe, if it's a year.
"Dey ain't but one man dat I's afeard of, en dat's dat Pudd'nhead
Wilson. Dey calls him a pudd'nhead, en says he's a fool. My lan', dat
man ain't no mo' fool den I is! He's de smartes' man in dis town, less'n
it's Jedge Driscoll or maybe Pem Howard. Blame dat man, he worries me
wid dem ornery glasses o' hisn; I b'lieve he's a witch. But nemmine, I's
gwine to happen aroun' dah one o' dese days en let on dat I reckon he
wants to print de chillen's fingers ag'in; en if he don't notice dey's
changed, I bound dey ain't nobody gwine to notice it, en den I's safe,
sho'. But I reckon I'll tote along a hoss-shoe to keep off de
witch-work."
The new negroes gave Roxy no trouble, of course. The master gave her
none, for one of his speculations was in jeopardy, and his mind was so
occupied that he hardly saw the children when he looked at them, and all
Roxy had to do was to get them both into a gale of laughter when he came
about; then their faces were mainly cavities exposing gums, and he was
gone again before the spasm passed and the little creatures resumed a
human aspect.
Within a few days the fate of the speculation became so dubious that Mr.
Percy went away with his brother the Judge, to see what could be done
with it. It was a land speculation as usual, and it had gotten
complicated with a lawsuit. The men were gone seven weeks. Before they
got back Roxy had paid her visit to Wilson, and was satisfied. Wilson
took the finger-prints, labeled them with the names and with the
date--October the first--put them carefully away and continued his chat
with Roxy, who seemed very anxious that he should admire the great
advance in flesh and beauty which the babies had made since he took
their finger-prints a month before. He complimented their improvement to
her contentment; and as they were without any disguise of jam or other
stain, she trembled all the while and was miserably frightened lest at
any moment he--
But he didn't. He discovered nothing; and she went home jubilant, and
dropped all concern about the matter permanently out of her mind.
CHAPTER IV.
The Ways of the Changelings.
Adam and Eve had many advantages, but the principal one was, that they
escaped teething.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
There is this trouble about special providences--namely, there is so
often a doubt as to which party was intended to be the beneficiary. In
the case of the children, the bears and the prophet, the bears got more
real satisfaction out of the episode than the prophet did, because they
got the children.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
This history must henceforth accommodate itself to the change which
Roxana has consummated, and call the real heir "Chambers" and the
usurping little slave "Thomas à Becket"--shortening this latter name to
"Tom," for daily use, as the people about him did.
"Tom" was a bad baby, from the very beginning of his usurpation. He
would cry for nothing; he would burst into storms of devilish temper
without notice, and let go scream after scream and squall after squall,
then climax the thing with "holding his breath"--that frightful
specialty of the teething nursling, in the throes of which the creature
exhausts its lungs, then is convulsed with noiseless squirmings and
twistings and kickings in the effort to get its breath, while the lips
turn blue and the mouth stands wide and rigid, offering for inspection
one wee tooth set in the lower rim of a hoop of red gums; and when the
appalling stillness has endured until one is sure the lost breath will
never return, a nurse comes flying, and dashes water in the child's
face, and--presto! the lungs fill, and instantly discharge a shriek, or
a yell, or a howl which bursts the listening ear and surprises the owner
of it into saying words which would not go well with a halo if he had
one. The baby Tom would claw anybody who came within reach of his nails,
and pound anybody he could reach with his rattle. He would scream for
water until he got it, and then throw cup and all on the floor and
scream for more. He was indulged in all his caprices, howsoever
troublesome and exasperating they might be; he was allowed to eat
anything he wanted, particularly things that would give him the
stomach-ache.
When he got to be old enough to begin to toddle about and say broken
words and get an idea of what his hands were for, he was a more
consummate pest than ever. Roxy got no rest while he was awake. He would
call for anything and everything he saw, simply saying "Awnt it!" (want
it), which was a command. When it was brought, he said in a frenzy, and
motioning it away with his hands, "Don't awnt it! don't awnt it!" and
the moment it was gone he set up frantic yells of "Awnt it! awnt it!
awnt it!" and Roxy had to give wings to her heels to get that thing back
to him again before he could get time to carry out his intention of
going into convulsions about it.
What he preferred above all other things was the tongs. This was because
his "father" had forbidden him to have them lest he break windows and
furniture with them. The moment Roxy's back was turned he would toddle
to the presence of the tongs and say "Like it!" and cock his eye to one
side to see if Roxy was observing; then, "Awnt it!" and cock his eye
again; then, "Hab it!" with another furtive glance; and finally, "Take
it!"--and the prize was his. The next moment the heavy implement was
raised aloft; the next, there was a crash and a squall, and the cat was
off on three legs to meet an engagement; Roxy would arrive just as the
lamp or a window went to irremediable smash.
Tom got all the petting, Chambers got none. Tom got all the delicacies,
Chambers got mush and milk, and clabber without sugar. In consequence
Tom was a sickly child and Chambers wasn't. Tom was "fractious," as Roxy
called it, and overbearing; Chambers was meek and docile.
With all her splendid common sense and practical every-day ability, Roxy
was a doting fool of a mother. She was this toward her child--and she
was also more than this: by the fiction created by herself, he was
become her master; the necessity of recognizing this relation outwardly
and of perfecting herself in the forms required to express the
recognition, had moved her to such diligence and faithfulness in
practicing these forms that this exercise soon concreted itself into
habit; it became automatic and unconscious; then a natural result
followed: deceptions intended solely for others gradually grew
practically into self-deceptions as well; the mock reverence became real
reverence, the mock obsequiousness real obsequiousness, the mock homage
real homage; the little counterfeit rift of separation between
imitation-slave and imitation-master widened and widened, and became an
abyss, and a very real one--and on one side of it stood Roxy, the dupe
of her own deceptions, and on the other stood her child, no longer a
usurper to her, but her accepted and recognized master. He was her
darling, her master, and her deity all in one, and in her worship of him
she forgot who she was and what he had been.
In babyhood Tom cuffed and banged and scratched Chambers unrebuked, and
Chambers early learned that between meekly bearing it and resenting it,
the advantage all lay with the former policy. The few times that his
persecutions had moved him beyond control and made him fight back had
cost him very dear at headquarters; not at the hands of Roxy, for if she
ever went beyond scolding him sharply for "forgitt'n' who his young
marster was," she at least never extended her punishment beyond a box on
the ear. No, Percy Driscoll was the person. He told Chambers that under
no provocation whatever was he privileged to lift his hand against his
little master. Chambers overstepped the line three times, and got three
such convincing canings from the man who was his father and didn't know
it, that he took Tom's cruelties in all humility after that, and made no
more experiments.
Outside of the house the two boys were together all through their
boyhood. Chambers was strong beyond his years, and a good fighter;
strong because he was coarsely fed and hard worked about the house, and
a good fighter because Tom furnished him plenty of practice--on white
boys whom he hated and was afraid of. Chambers was his constant
body-guard, to and from school; he was present on the playground at
recess to protect his charge. He fought himself into such a formidable
reputation, by and by, that Tom could have changed clothes with him, and
"ridden in peace," like Sir Kay in Launcelot's armor.
He was good at games of skill, too. Tom staked him with marbles to play
"keeps" with, and then took all the winnings away from him. In the
winter season Chambers was on hand, in Tom's worn-out clothes, with
"holy" red mittens, and "holy" shoes, and pants "holy" at the knees and
seat, to drag a sled up the hill for Tom, warmly clad, to ride down on;
but he never got a ride himself. He built snow men and snow
fortifications under Tom's directions. He was Tom's patient target when
Tom wanted to do some snowballing, but the target couldn't fire back.
Chambers carried Tom's skates to the river and strapped them on him,
then trotted around after him on the ice, so as to be on hand when
wanted; but he wasn't ever asked to try the skates himself.
In summer the pet pastime of the boys of Dawson's Landing was to steal
apples, peaches, and melons from the farmers' fruit-wagons,--mainly on
account of the risk they ran of getting their heads laid open with the
butt of the farmer's whip. Tom was a distinguished adept at these
thefts--by proxy. Chambers did his stealing, and got the peach-stones,
apple-cores, and melon-rinds for his share.
Tom always made Chambers go in swimming with him, and stay by him as a
protection. When Tom had had enough, he would slip out and tie knots in
Chambers's shirt, dip the knots in the water and make them hard to undo,
then dress himself and sit by and laugh while the naked shiverer tugged
at the stubborn knots with his teeth.
Tom did his humble comrade these various ill turns partly out of native
viciousness, and partly because he hated him for his superiorities of
physique and pluck, and for his manifold cleverness. Tom couldn't dive,
for it gave him splitting headaches. Chambers could dive without
inconvenience, and was fond of doing it. He excited so much admiration,
one day, among a crowd of white boys, by throwing back somersaults from
the stern of a canoe, that it wearied Tom's spirit, and at last he
shoved the canoe underneath Chambers while he was in the air--so he came
down on his head in the canoe-bottom; and while he lay unconscious,
several of Tom's ancient adversaries saw that their long-desired
opportunity was come, and they gave the false heir such a drubbing that
with Chambers's best help he was hardly able to drag himself home
afterward.
When the boys were fifteen and upward, Tom was "showing off" in the
river one day, when he was taken with a cramp, and shouted for help. It
was a common trick with the boys--particularly if a stranger was
present--to pretend a cramp and howl for help; then when the stranger
came tearing hand over hand to the rescue, the howler would go on
struggling and howling till he was close at hand, then replace the howl
with a sarcastic smile and swim blandly away, while the town boys
assailed the dupe with a volley of jeers and laughter. Tom had never
tried this joke as yet, but was supposed to be trying it now, so the
boys held warily back; but Chambers believed his master was in earnest,
therefore he swam out, and arrived in time, unfortunately, and saved his
life.
This was the last feather. Tom had managed to endure everything else,
but to have to remain publicly and permanently under such an obligation
as this to a nigger, and to this nigger of all niggers--this was too
much. He heaped insults upon Chambers for "pretending" to think he was
in earnest in calling for help, and said that anybody but a block-headed
nigger would have known he was funning and left him alone.
Tom's enemies were in strong force here, so they came out with their
opinions quite freely. They laughed at him, and called him coward, liar,
sneak, and other sorts of pet names, and told him they meant to call
Chambers by a new name after this, and make it common in the town--"Tom
Driscoll's niggerpappy,"--to signify that he had had a second birth into
this life, and that Chambers was the author of his new being. Tom grew
frantic under these taunts, and shouted--
"Knock their heads off, Chambers! knock their heads off! What do you
stand there with your hands in your pockets for?"
Chambers expostulated, and said, "But, Marse Tom, dey's too many of
'em--dey's--"
"Do you hear me?"
"Please, Marse Tom, don't make me! Dey's so many of 'em dat--"
Tom sprang at him and drove his pocket-knife into him two or three times
before the boys could snatch him away and give the wounded lad a chance
to escape. He was considerably hurt, but not seriously. If the blade had
been a little longer his career would have ended there.
Tom had long ago taught Roxy "her place." It had been many a day now
since she had ventured a caress or a fondling epithet in his quarter.
Such things, from a "nigger," were repulsive to him, and she had been
warned to keep her distance and remember who she was. She saw her
darling gradually cease from being her son, she saw that detail perish
utterly; all that was left was master--master, pure and simple, and it
was not a gentle mastership, either. She saw herself sink from the
sublime height of motherhood to the somber depths of unmodified slavery.
The abyss of separation between her and her boy was complete. She was
merely his chattel, now, his convenience, his dog, his cringing and
helpless slave, the humble and unresisting victim of his capricious
temper and vicious nature.
Sometimes she could not go to sleep, even when worn out with fatigue,
because her rage boiled so high over the day's experiences with her boy.
She would mumble and mutter to herself--
"He struck me, en I warn't no way to blame--struck me in de face, right
before folks. En he's al'ays callin' me nigger-wench, en hussy, en all
dem mean names, when I's doin' de very bes' I kin. Oh, Lord, I done so
much for him--I lift' him away up to what he is--en dis is what I git
for it."
Sometimes when some outrage of peculiar offensiveness stung her to the
heart, she would plan schemes of vengeance and revel in the fancied
spectacle of his exposure to the world as an imposter and a slave; but
in the midst of these joys fear would strike her: she had made him too
strong; she could prove nothing, and--heavens, she might get sold down
the river for her pains! So her schemes always went for nothing, and she
laid them aside in impotent rage against the fates, and against herself
for playing the fool on that fatal September day in not providing
herself with a witness for use in the day when such a thing might be
needed for the appeasing of her vengeance-hungry heart.
And yet the moment Tom happened to be good to her, and kind,--and this
occurred every now and then,--all her sore places were healed, and she
was happy; happy and proud, for this was her son, her nigger son,
lording it among the whites and securely avenging their crimes against
her race.
There were two grand funerals in Dawson's Landing that fall--the fall of
1845. One was that of Colonel Cecil Burleigh Essex, the other that of
Percy Driscoll.
On his death-bed Driscoll set Roxy free and delivered his idolized
ostensible son solemnly into the keeping of his brother, the Judge and
his wife. Those childless people were glad to get him. Childless people
are not difficult to please.
Judge Driscoll had gone privately to his brother, a month before, and
bought Chambers. He had heard that Tom had been trying to get his father
to sell the boy down the river, and he wanted to prevent the
scandal--for public sentiment did not approve of that way of treating
family servants for light cause or for no cause.
Percy Driscoll had worn himself out in trying to save his great
speculative landed estate, and had died without succeeding. He was
hardly in his grave before the boom collapsed and left his hitherto
envied young devil of an heir a pauper. But that was nothing; his uncle
told him he should be his heir and have all his fortune when he died; so
Tom was comforted.
Roxy had no home, now; so she resolved to go around and say good-by to
her friends and then clear out and see the world--that is to say, she
would go chambermaiding on a steamboat, the darling ambition of her race
and sex.
Her last call was on the black giant, Jasper. She found him chopping
Pudd'nhead Wilson's winter provision of wood.
Wilson was chatting with him when Roxy arrived. He asked her how she
could bear to go off chambermaiding and leave her boys; and chaffingly
offered to copy off a series of their finger-prints, reaching up to
their twelfth year, for her to remember them by; but she sobered in a
moment, wondering if he suspected anything; then she said she believed
she didn't want them. Wilson said to himself, "The drop of black blood
in her is superstitious; she thinks there's some devilry, some
witch-business about my glass mystery somewhere; she used to come here
with an old horseshoe in her hand; it could have been an accident, but I
doubt it."
CHAPTER V.
The Twins Thrill Dawson's Landing.
Training is everything. The peach was once a bitter almond; cauliflower
is nothing but cabbage with a college education.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's
Calendar.
Remark of Dr. Baldwin's, concerning upstarts: We don't care to eat
toadstools that think they are truffles.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Mrs. York Driscoll enjoyed two years of bliss with that prize,
Tom--bliss that was troubled a little at times, it is true, but bliss
nevertheless; then she died, and her husband and his childless sister,
Mrs. Pratt, continued the bliss-business at the old stand. Tom was
petted and indulged and spoiled to his entire content--or nearly that.
This went on till he was nineteen, then he was sent to Yale. He went
handsomely equipped with "conditions," but otherwise he was not an
object of distinction there. He remained at Yale two years, and then
threw up the struggle. He came home with his manners a good deal
improved; he had lost his surliness and brusqueness, and was rather
pleasantly soft and smooth, now; he was furtively, and sometimes openly,
ironical of speech, and given to gently touching people on the raw, but
he did it with a good-natured semiconscious air that carried it off
safely, and kept him from getting into trouble. He was as indolent as
ever and showed no very strenuous desire to hunt up an occupation.
People argued from this that he preferred to be supported by his uncle
until his uncle's shoes should become vacant. He brought back one or two
new habits with him, one of which he rather openly
practised--tippling--but concealed another which was gambling. It would
not do to gamble where his uncle could hear of it; he knew that quite
well.
Tom's Eastern polish was not popular among the young people. They could
have endured it, perhaps, if Tom had stopped there; but he wore gloves,
and that they couldn't stand, and wouldn't; so he was mainly without
society. He brought home with him a suit of clothes of such exquisite
style and cut and fashion,--Eastern fashion, city fashion,--that it
filled everybody with anguish and was regarded as a peculiarly wanton
affront. He enjoyed the feeling which he was exciting, and paraded the
town serene and happy all day; but the young fellows set a tailor to
work that night, and when Tom started out on his parade next morning he
found the old deformed negro bell-ringer straddling along in his wake
tricked out in a flamboyant curtain-calico exaggeration of his finery,
and imitating his fancy Eastern graces as well as he could.
Tom surrendered, and after that clothed himself in the local fashion.
But the dull country town was tiresome to him, since his
acquaintanceship with livelier regions, and it grew daily more and more
so. He began to make little trips to St. Louis for refreshment. There he
found companionship to suit him, and pleasures to his taste, along with
more freedom, in some particulars, than he could have at home. So,
during the next two years his visits to the city grew in frequency and
his tarryings there grew steadily longer in duration.
He was getting into deep waters. He was taking chances, privately, which
might get him into trouble some day--in fact, did.
Judge Driscoll had retired from the bench and from all business
activities in 1850, and had now been comfortably idle three years. He
was president of the Free-thinkers' Society, and Pudd'nhead Wilson was
the other member. The society's weekly discussions were now the old
lawyer's main interest in life. Pudd'nhead was still toiling in
obscurity at the bottom of the ladder, under the blight of that unlucky
remark which he had let fall twenty-three years before about the dog.
Judge Driscoll was his friend, and claimed that he had a mind above the
average, but that was regarded as one of the Judge's whims, and it
failed to modify the public opinion. Or rather, that was one of the
reasons why it failed, but there was another and better one. If the
Judge had stopped with bare assertion, it would have had a good deal of
effect; but he made the mistake of trying to prove his position. For
some years Wilson had been privately at work on a whimsical almanac, for
his amusement--a calendar, with a little dab of ostensible philosophy,
usually in ironical form, appended to each date; and the Judge thought
that these quips and fancies of Wilson's were neatly turned and cute; so
he carried a handful of them around, one day, and read them to some of
the chief citizens. But irony was not for those people; their mental
vision was not focussed for it. They read those playful trifles in the
solidest earnest, and decided without hesitancy that if there had ever
been any doubt that Dave Wilson was a pudd'nhead--which there
hadn't--this revelation removed that doubt for good and all. That is
just the way in this world; an enemy can partly ruin a man, but it takes
a good-natured injudicious friend to complete the thing and make it
perfect. After this the Judge felt tenderer than ever toward Wilson, and
surer than ever that his calendar had merit.
Judge Driscoll could be a free-thinker and still hold his place in
society because he was the person of most consequence in the community,
and therefore could venture to go his own way and follow out his own
notions. The other member of his pet organization was allowed the like
liberty because he was a cipher in the estimation of the public, and
nobody attached any importance to what he thought or did. He was liked,
he was welcome enough all around, but he simply didn't count for
anything.
The widow Cooper--affectionately called "aunt Patsy" by everybody--lived
in a snug and comely cottage with her daughter Rowena, who was nineteen,
romantic, amiable, and very pretty, but otherwise of no consequence.
Rowena had a couple of young brothers--also of no consequence.
The widow had a large spare room which she let to a lodger, with board,
when she could find one, but this room had been empty for a year now, to
her sorrow. Her income was only sufficient for the family support, and
she needed the lodging-money for trifling luxuries. But now, at last, on
a flaming June day, she found herself happy; her tedious wait was ended;
her year-worn advertisement had been answered; and not by a village
applicant, oh, no!--this letter was from away off yonder in the dim
great world to the North: it was from St. Louis. She sat on her porch
gazing out with unseeing eyes upon the shining reaches of the mighty
Mississippi, her thoughts steeped in her good fortune. Indeed, it was
specially good fortune, for she was to have two lodgers instead of one.
She had read the letter to the family, and Rowena had danced away to see
to the cleaning and airing of the room by the slave woman Nancy, and the
boys had rushed abroad in the town to spread the great news, for it was
matter of public interest, and the public would wonder and not be
pleased if not informed. Presently Rowena returned, all ablush with
joyous excitement, and begged for a re-reading of the letter. It was
framed thus:
Honored Madam: My brother and I have seen your advertisement, by chance,
and beg leave to take the room you offer. We are twenty-four years of
age and twins. We are Italians by birth, but have lived long in the
various countries of Europe, and several years in the United States. Our
names are Luigi and Angelo Capello. You desire but one guest; but dear
Madam, if you will allow us to pay for two, we will not incommode you.
We shall be down Thursday.
"Italians! How romantic! Just think, ma--there's never been one in this
town, and everybody will be dying to see them, and they're all ours!
Think of that!"
"Yes, I reckon they'll make a grand stir."
"Oh, indeed they will. The whole town will be on its head!
Think--they've been in Europe and everywhere! There's never been a
traveler in this town before. Ma, I shouldn't wonder if they've seen
kings!"
"Well, a body can't tell, but they'll make stir enough, without that."
"Yes, that's of course. Luigi--Angelo. They're lovely names; and so
grand and foreign--not like Jones and Robinson and such. Thursday they
are coming, and this is only Tuesday; it's a cruel long time to wait.
Here comes Judge Driscoll in at the gate. He's heard about it. I'll go
and open the door."
The Judge was full of congratulations and curiosity. The letter was read
and discussed. Soon Justice Robinson arrived with more congratulations,
and there was a new reading and a new discussion. This was the
beginning. Neighbor after neighbor, of both sexes, followed, and the
procession drifted in and out all day and evening and all Wednesday and
Thursday. The letter was read and re-read until it was nearly worn out;
everybody admired its courtly and gracious tone, and smooth and
practised style, everybody was sympathetic and excited, and the Coopers
were steeped in happiness all the while.
The boats were very uncertain in low water, in these primitive times.
This time the Thursday boat had not arrived at ten at night--so the
people had waited at the landing all day for nothing; they were driven
to their homes by a heavy storm without having had a view of the
illustrious foreigners.
Eleven o'clock came; and the Cooper house was the only one in the town
that still had lights burning. The rain and thunder were booming yet,
and the anxious family were still waiting, still hoping. At last there
was a knock at the door and the family jumped to open it. Two negro men
entered, each carrying a trunk, and proceeded up-stairs toward the
guest-room. Then entered the twins--the handsomest, the best dressed,
the most distinguished-looking pair of young fellows the West had ever
seen. One was a little fairer than the other, but otherwise they were
exact duplicates.
CHAPTER VI.
Swimming in Glory.
Let us endeavor so to live that when we come to die even the undertaker
will be sorry.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Habit is habit, and not to be flung out of the window by any man, but
coaxed down-stairs a step at a time.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
At breakfast in the morning the twins' charm of manner and easy and
polished bearing made speedy conquest of the family's good graces. All
constraint and formality quickly disappeared, and the friendliest
feeling succeeded. Aunt Patsy called them by their Christian names
almost from the beginning. She was full of the keenest curiosity about
them, and showed it; they responded by talking about themselves, which
pleased her greatly. It presently appeared that in their early youth
they had known poverty and hardship. As the talk wandered along the old
lady watched for the right place to drop in a question or two concerning
that matter, and when she found it she said to the blond twin who was
now doing the biographies in his turn while the brunette one rested--
"If it ain't asking what I ought not to ask, Mr. Angelo, how did you
come to be so friendless and in such trouble when you were little? Do
you mind telling? But don't if you do."
"Oh, we don't mind it at all, madam; in our case it was merely
misfortune, and nobody's fault. Our parents were well to do, there in
Italy, and we were their only child. We were of the old Florentine
nobility"--Rowena's heart gave a great bound, her nostrils expanded, and
a fine light played in her eyes--"and when the war broke out my father
was on the losing side and had to fly for his life. His estates were
confiscated, his personal property seized, and there we were, in
Germany, strangers, friendless, and in fact paupers. My brother and I
were ten years old, and well educated for that age, very studious, very
fond of our books, and well grounded in the German, French, Spanish, and
English languages. Also, we were marvelous musical prodigies--if you
will allow me to say it, it being only the truth.
"Our father survived his misfortunes only a month, our mother soon
followed him, and we were alone in the world. Our parents could have
made themselves comfortable by exhibiting us as a show, and they had
many and large offers; but the thought revolted their pride, and they
said they would starve and die first. But what they wouldn't consent to
do we had to do without the formality of consent. We were seized for the
debts occasioned by their illness and their funerals, and placed among
the attractions of a cheap museum in Berlin to earn the liquidation
money. It took us two years to get out of that slavery. We traveled all
about Germany receiving no wages, and not even our keep. We had to be
exhibited for nothing, and beg our bread.
"Well, madam, the rest is not of much consequence. When we escaped from
that slavery at twelve years of age, we were in some respects men.
Experience had taught us some valuable things; among others, how to take
care of ourselves, how to avoid and defeat sharks and sharpers, and how
to conduct our own business for our own profit and without other
people's help. We traveled everywhere--years and years--picking up
smatterings of strange tongues, familiarizing ourselves with strange
sights and strange customs, accumulating an education of a wide and
varied and curious sort. It was a pleasant life. We went to Venice--to
London, Paris, Russia, India, China, Japan--"
At this point Nancy the slave woman thrust her head in at the door and
exclaimed:
"Ole Missus, de house is plum' jam full o' people, en dey's jes
a-spi'lin' to see de gen'lmen!" She indicated the twins with a nod of
her head, and tucked it back out of sight again.
It was a proud occasion for the widow, and she promised herself high
satisfaction in showing off her fine foreign birds before her neighbors
and friends--simple folk who had hardly ever seen a foreigner of any
kind, and never one of any distinction or style. Yet her feeling was
moderate indeed when contrasted with Rowena's. Rowena was in the clouds,
she walked on air; this was to be the greatest day, the most romantic
episode, in the colorless history of that dull country town. She was to
be familiarly near the source of its glory and feel the full flood of it
pour over her and about her; the other girls could only gaze and envy,
not partake.
The widow was ready, Rowena was ready, so also were the foreigners.
The party moved along the hall, the twins in advance, and entered the
open parlor door, whence issued a low hum of conversation. The twins
took a position near the door, the widow stood at Luigi's side, Rowena
stood beside Angelo, and the march-past and the introductions began. The
widow was all smiles and contentment. She received the procession and
passed it on to Rowena.
"Good mornin', Sister Cooper"--hand-shake.
"Good morning, Brother Higgins--Count Luigi Capello, Mr. 
Higgins"--hand-shake, followed by a devouring stare and "I'm glad to see
ye," on the part of Higgins, and a courteous inclination of the head and
a pleasant "Most happy!" on the part of Count Luigi.
"Good mornin', Roweny"--hand-shake.
"Good morning, Mr. Higgins--present you to Count Angelo Capello."
Hand-shake, admiring stare, "Glad to see ye,"--courteous nod, smily
"Most happy!" and Higgins passes on.
None of these visitors was at ease, but, being honest people, they
didn't pretend to be. None of them had ever seen a person bearing a
title of nobility before, and none had been expecting to see one now,
consequently the title came upon them as a kind of pile-driving surprise
and caught them unprepared. A few tried to rise to the emergency, and
got out an awkward "My lord," or "Your lordship," or something of that
sort, but the great majority were overwhelmed by the unaccustomed word
and its dim and awful associations with gilded courts and stately
ceremony and anointed kingship, so they only fumbled through the
hand-shake and passed on, speechless. Now and then, as happens at all
receptions everywhere, a more than ordinary friendly soul blocked the
procession and kept it waiting while he inquired how the brothers liked
the village, and how long they were going to stay, and if their families
were well, and dragged in the weather, and hoped it would get cooler
soon, and all that sort of thing, so as to be able to say, when they got
home, "I had quite a long talk with them"; but nobody did or said
anything of a regrettable kind, and so the great affair went through to
the end in a creditable and satisfactory fashion.
General conversation followed, and the twins drifted about from group to
group, talking easily and fluently and winning approval, compelling
admiration and achieving favor from all. The widow followed their
conquering march with a proud eye, and every now and then Rowena said to
herself with deep satisfaction, "And to think they are ours--all ours!"
There were no idle moments for mother or daughter. Eager inquiries
concerning the twins were pouring into their enchanted ears all the
time; each was the constant center of a group of breathless listeners;
each recognized that she knew now for the first time the real meaning of
that great word Glory, and perceived the stupendous value of it, and
understood why men in all ages had been willing to throw away meaner
happinesses, treasure, life itself, to get a taste of its sublime and
supreme joy. Napoleon and all his kind stood accounted for--and
justified.
When Rowena had at last done all her duty by the people in the parlor,
she went up-stairs to satisfy the longings of an overflow-meeting there,
for the parlor was not big enough to hold all the comers. Again she was
besieged by eager questioners and again she swam in sunset seas of
glory. When the forenoon was nearly gone, she recognized with a pang
that this most splendid episode of her life was almost over, that
nothing could prolong it, that nothing quite its equal could ever fall
to her fortune again. But never mind, it was sufficient unto itself, the
grand occasion had moved on an ascending scale from the start, and was a
noble and memorable success. If the twins could but do some crowning
act, now, to climax it, something unusual, something startling,
something to concentrate upon themselves the company's loftiest
admiration, something in the nature of an electric surprise--
Here a prodigious slam-banging broke out below, and everybody rushed
down to see. It was the twins knocking out a classic four-handed piece
on the piano, in great style. Rowena was satisfied--satisfied down to
the bottom of her heart.
The young strangers were kept long at the piano. The villagers were
astonished and enchanted with the magnificence of their performance, and
could not bear to have them stop. All the music that they had ever heard
before seemed spiritless prentice-work and barren of grace or charm when
compared with these intoxicating floods of melodious sound. They
realized that for once in their lives they were hearing masters.
CHAPTER VII.
The Unknown Nymph
One of the most striking differences between a cat and a lie is that a
cat has only nine lives.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
The company broke up reluctantly, and drifted toward their several
homes, chatting with vivacity, and all agreeing that it would be many a
long day before Dawson's Landing would see the equal of this one again.
The twins had accepted several invitations while the reception was in
progress, and had also volunteered to play some duets at an amateur
entertainment for the benefit of a local charity. Society was eager to
receive them to its bosom. Judge Driscoll had the good fortune to secure
them for an immediate drive, and to be the first to display them in
public. They entered his buggy with him, and were paraded down the main
street, everybody flocking to the windows and sidewalks to see.
The Judge showed the strangers the new graveyard, and the jail, and
where the richest man lived, and the Freemasons' hall, and the Methodist
church, and the Presbyterian church, and where the Baptist church was
going to be when they got some money to build it with, and showed them
the town hall and the slaughter-house, and got out the independent fire
company in uniform and had them put out an imaginary fire; then he let
them inspect the muskets of the militia company, and poured out an
exhaustless stream of enthusiasm over all these splendors, and seemed
very well satisfied with the responses he got, for the twins admired his
admiration, and paid him back the best they could, though they could
have done better if some fifteen or sixteen hundred thousand previous
experiences of this sort in various countries had not already rubbed off
a considerable part of the novelty of it.
The Judge laid himself out hospitably to make them have a good time, and
if there was a defect anywhere it was not his fault. He told them a good
many humorous anecdotes, and always forgot the nub, but they were always
able to furnish it, for these yarns were of a pretty early vintage, and
they had had many a rejuvenating pull at them before. And he told them
all about his several dignities, and how he had held this and that and
the other place of honor or profit, and had once been to the
legislature, and was now president of the Society of Free-thinkers. He
said the society had been in existence four years, and already had two
members, and was firmly established. He would call for the brothers in
the evening if they would like to attend a meeting of it.
Accordingly he called for them, and on the way he told them all about
Pudd'nhead Wilson, in order that they might get a favorable impression
of him in advance and be prepared to like him. This scheme
succeeded--the favorable impression was achieved. Later it was confirmed
and solidified when Wilson proposed that out of courtesy to the
strangers the usual topics be put aside and the hour be devoted to
conversation upon ordinary subjects and the cultivation of friendly
relations and good-fellowship,--a proposition which was put to vote and
carried.
The hour passed quickly away in lively talk, and when it was ended the
lonesome and neglected Wilson was richer by two friends than he had been
when it began. He invited the twins to look in at his lodgings,
presently, after disposing of an intervening engagement, and they
accepted with pleasure.
Toward the middle of the evening they found themselves on the road to
his house. Pudd'nhead was at home waiting for them and putting in his
time puzzling over a thing which had come under his notice that morning.
The matter was this: He happened to be up very early--at dawn, in fact;
and he crossed the hall which divided his cottage through the center,
and entered a room to get something there. The window of the room had no
curtains, for that side of the house had long been unoccupied, and
through this window he caught sight of something which surprised and
interested him. It was a young woman--a young woman where properly no
young woman belonged; for she was in Judge Driscoll's house, and in the
bedroom over the Judge's private study or sitting-room. This was young
Tom Driscoll's bedroom. He and the Judge, the Judge's widowed sister
Mrs. Pratt and three negro servants were the only people who belonged in
the house. Who, then, might this young lady be? The two houses were
separated by an ordinary yard, with a low fence running back through its
middle from the street in front to the lane in the rear. The distance
was not great, and Wilson was able to see the girl very well, the
window-shades of the room she was in being up, and the window also. The
girl had on a neat and trim summer dress, patterned in broad stripes of
pink and white, and her bonnet was equipped with a pink veil. She was
practising steps, gaits and attitudes, apparently; she was doing the
thing gracefully, and was very much absorbed in her work. Who could she
be, and how came she to be in young Tom Driscoll's room?
Wilson had quickly chosen a position from which he could watch the girl
without running much risk of being seen by her, and he remained there
hoping she would raise her veil and betray her face. But she
disappointed him. After a matter of twenty minutes she disappeared, and
although he stayed at his post half an hour longer, she came no more.
Toward noon he dropped in at the Judge's and talked with Mrs. Pratt
about the great event of the day, the levee of the distinguished
foreigners at Aunt Patsy Cooper's. He asked after her nephew Tom, and
she said he was on his way home, and that she was expecting him to
arrive a little before night; and added that she and the Judge were
gratified to gather from his letters that he was conducting himself very
nicely and creditably--at which Wilson winked to himself privately.
Wilson did not ask if there was a newcomer in the house, but he asked
questions that would have brought light-throwing answers as to that
matter if Mrs. Pratt had had any light to throw; so he went away
satisfied that he knew of things that were going on in her house of
which she herself was not aware.
He was now waiting for the twins, and still puzzling over the problem of
who that girl might be, and how she happened to be in that young
fellow's room at daybreak in the morning.
CHAPTER VIII.
Marse Tom Tramples His Chance.
The holy passion of Friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and
enduring a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not
asked to lend money.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Consider well the proportions of things. It is better to be a young
June-bug than an old bird of paradise.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
It is necessary now, to hunt up Roxy.
At the time she was set free and went away chambermaiding, she was
thirty-five. She got a berth as second chambermaid on a Cincinnati boat
in the New Orleans trade, the Grand Mogul. A couple of trips made her
wonted and easy-going at the work, and infatuated her with the stir and
adventure and independence of steamboat life. Then she was promoted and
became head chambermaid. She was a favorite with the officers, and
exceedingly proud of their joking and friendly way with her.
During eight years she served three parts of the year on that boat, and
the winters on a Vicksburg packet. But now for two months she had had
rheumatism in her arms, and was obliged to let the wash-tub alone. So
she resigned. But she was well fixed--rich, as she would have described
it; for she had lived a steady life, and had banked four dollars every
month in New Orleans as a provision for her old age. She said in the
start that she had "put shoes on one bar'footed nigger to tromple on her
with," and that one mistake like that was enough; she would be
independent of the human race thenceforth forevermore if hard work and
economy could accomplish it. When the boat touched the levee at New
Orleans she bade good-by to her comrades on the Grand Mogul and moved
her kit ashore.
But she was back in a hour. The bank had gone to smash and carried her
four hundred dollars with it. She was a pauper, and homeless. Also
disabled bodily, at least for the present. The officers were full of
sympathy for her in her trouble, and made up a little purse for her. She
resolved to go to her birthplace; she had friends there among the
negroes, and the unfortunate always help the unfortunate, she was well
aware of that; those lowly comrades of her youth would not let her
starve.
She took the little local packet at Cairo, and now she was on the
home-stretch. Time had worn away her bitterness against her son, and she
was able to think of him with serenity. She put the vile side of him out
of her mind, and dwelt only on recollections of his occasional acts of
kindness to her. She gilded and otherwise decorated these, and made them
very pleasant to contemplate. She began to long to see him. She would go
and fawn upon him, slave-like--for this would have to be her attitude,
