Just then, after a little pause in the conversation, Mrs. Bright
suddenly asked her son whether he meant to go out in the evening.

“No,” he answered, promptly. “Not to-night. I wouldn’t go anywhere
except to the club, and even there--well, everybody would be talking and
asking questions, and that sort of thing. Besides,” he added, “cousin
Katharine’s here.”

The change of tone as he spoke of Katharine was so apparent that Mrs.
Bright smiled a little sadly. Her woman’s instinct had told her long ago
that her son had very little chance.

The three had not been long in the library when a servant brought a card
to Mrs. Bright. She glanced at it, somewhat surprised by the coming of
an unexpected visitor, in these days when evening visits have
disappeared from New York’s changeable civilization.

“It’s Archie Wingfield,” she said. “Funny!” she exclaimed. “Show Mr.
Wingfield in,” she said to the servant.

A moment later Archibald Wingfield entered the room. In spite of
himself, he paused a moment as he caught sight of Katharine.

“Oh!” he ejaculated, awkwardly, in a low voice.

Then he came forward, resolutely keeping his bold black eyes on Mrs.
Bright’s face as he went up to her and shook hands. Katharine had
understood the exclamation of astonishment, and felt the awkwardness of
the situation. But as she had given up all hope of seeing Ralston alone
that evening, she thought it was as well, on the whole, that some one
else should have come to help the general conversation. Nevertheless,
she would have chosen almost any one rather than her last rejected
suitor.

Both she and Hamilton Bright watched the young fellow with involuntary
admiration as he crossed the room and stood exchanging first words with
Mrs. Bright. There is a fascination about physical superiority when it
far outdoes all its surroundings and is altogether beyond competition
which, perhaps, no other attraction exercises in the same degree at
first sight.

Wingfield came to Katharine next. The rich blood rose in his brown
cheeks.

“I didn’t know you were here,” he said, simply.

“Excuse my left hand,” she answered, quietly, as she extended it. “I’ve
had a little accident.”

Wingfield started perceptibly. The expression in his black eyes changed
to one of the deepest anxiety, and the blush slowly ebbed from his face.

“An accident?” he stammered.

“Oh--nothing serious,” she answered, touched by the evident strength of
his feeling. “It’s only the small bone of my right arm. I fell down
yesterday and broke it. It’s in splints, of course, so I have to use my
left.”

“And you’re--you’re not taking care of yourself? With a broken arm?” He
seemed amazed, not having had much experience of broken limbs--his own
were solid. “But you ought to be at home--”

Katharine laughed a little.

“I’m staying here with aunt Maggie,” she answered. “I could scarcely
have any better care, could I?”

“Oh--I see. Yes.” But he did not seem satisfied.

He turned to Bright, shook hands, and then sat down.

“You must think it awfully funny--my dropping in, in this way,” he said,
recovering the self-possession which naturally belonged to his
character. “The fact is, I was going to dine out, and at the last minute
the people sent to tell me not to come, because they’ve had a little
fire in the dining-room, and everything’s flooded and uncomfortable, and
they were going to picnic somewhere--or something. So I dined at the
club, and I’m going to see the last act of that play with the horses in
it, you know--so I thought you wouldn’t mind if I asked leave to spend
half an hour with you on the way.”

“Why, of course not!” cried Mrs. Bright. “I’m delighted. You must help
us to amuse Katharine. She’s rather gloomy, poor child--with her arm,
and all she’s been through. She was staying with poor Mr. Lauderdale
when he died so suddenly.”

“Yes--it’s awfully sad,” answered Wingfield, with appropriate solemnity,
and wondering whether he should congratulate the Brights upon the
inheritance. “As for amusing Miss Lauderdale,” he continued, “I wish I
could. But I’m not a very amusing person--not a bit.”

“Perhaps we can amuse you, instead,” suggested Katharine, by way of
saying something.

“Oh, no--thanks--you’re very kind,” answered the young man, confusedly.
“You know my brothers always call me the family idiot. They’re always
chaffing me because I don’t know languages and things. I say,
Bright--you’re clever--do you know a lot of languages?”

“I? No, indeed!” answered Bright, with a short laugh. “I don’t know
anything particular--except about cattle and horses, and something about
banking. I’ve had a modern education! How should I know anything?”

“Oh, hang it all--I mean--I beg your pardon--but what a thing to say!”

“It’s mere nonsense,” observed Mrs. Bright. “Ham knows everything in a
useful way. But he’s always railing at modern education, and telling me
that it’s ruined his mind. He’s not sensible about that. Really you’re
not, Ham,” she added, with emphasis.

“Education’s meant for the common herd, mother,” answered Bright. “Fools
are better without it, bankers don’t need it, and geniuses can do
better.”

“That’s rather good,” said Katharine, thoughtfully. “With which do you
class yourself?” she asked, with a laugh.

“Well--being neither a genius nor a fool, I have to be content with
being a banker.”

“I say--are lawyers part of the common herd, Bright?” enquired
Wingfield.

“Not if you’re going to be one, my dear boy,” answered the elder man.
“But I hope you’re not going to nail me out on my statement like an owl
over a stable door. It’s not kind. It’s much nicer to be misunderstood
in a friendly way than to have all one’s friends up on their hind legs
trying to understand one, when one hasn’t meant anything particular. By
Jove! There goes the bell again! I wonder who it is?”

“What ears you have!” exclaimed Mrs. Bright. “I didn’t hear anything.
But it must be Jack Ralston. He’d come early, you know.”

Katharine glanced surreptitiously at the two men, leaning back in her
chair with half-closed eyes. Bright’s expression became a little more
set, and he moved one foot uneasily. Wingfield looked at Mrs. Bright as
she spoke, and then straight at Katharine. Ralston entered in a dead
silence, glanced quickly at Wingfield, greeted every one in turn, in the
quiet, easy way peculiar to him, which was quite different from Bright’s
slow and rather heavy manner, and from Archibald Wingfield’s physical
style, so to say, which showed itself in long, swift, powerful
movements, like the great stride of a magnificent hunter going along in
the open.

“You’ll be tired of the sight of me to-day,” said Ralston, smiling as he
sat down near Mrs. Bright.

“No fear of that, Jack,” answered Bright, anxious to show Katharine that
he was not displeased at Ralston’s coming. “My mother always looks upon
you as a sort of second son.”

“The prodigal son,” suggested John.

“Is that a hint to produce the fatted calf?” asked Bright. “Or have you
dined? You don’t look as though you had.”

“Why? What’s the matter with me? I’ve just come from dinner. I dined at
home with my mother.”

“You’re rather lean for a man who dines every day,” laughed Bright.
“That’s all. I believe you starve in secret. You’re afraid of getting
fat, Jack--that’s the truth. Confess it! You think it wouldn’t be
romantic.”

“I wish you would get a little fatter, Jack,” said Katharine. “You’d be
much nicer, I’m sure.”

The remark might have been natural enough between two cousins, both
young. But there was a subtle suggestion of proprietorship, or at least
of belonging to one another, in the tone of her voice, which jarred on
Wingfield’s ear. He was by no means dull nor slow of perception, in
spite of what he had said of himself. As an athlete, however, he took up
the question.

“You’d be stronger if you were a little heavier, Ralston,” he said. “Do
you go in for oatmeal when you train?”

“Oh--I haven’t trained since I was at college. I never bothered much.
But I don’t like stodgy things like porridge. I was a running man, you
know. I don’t believe it makes a particle of difference what one eats.”

“Oh, I do!” Katharine exclaimed, anxious to make the conversation move.
“I like some things and I don’t like others.”

“What, for instance?” asked Bright. “What do you like best to eat--and
then afterwards, what other things do you like best in the world? That’s
interesting. If you’ll tell us, we’ll get them for you right off.”

“I should think you could, between you,” said Mrs. Bright, glancing
round at the three goodly men, and wondering whether Wingfield was as
much in love with Katharine as the other two.

“What I like?--let me see,” said Katharine. “I like simple things to
eat. I hate peppermints, for instance. My mother lives on them. I like
plain things, generally--fish and game. Truffles--that’s another thing I
detest. Aunt Maggie never can understand why. She says there’s something
mysterious in a truffle, that appeals to her.”

“They’re so good!” exclaimed Mrs. Bright. “Big black ones in a napkin
with fresh butter. But it’s quite true. There’s a sort of mystery in a
truffle. It’s like love, you know.”

Everybody laughed at what seemed the fantastic irrelevancy of the
comparison--Bright laughing louder than the rest.

“How do you make that out?” he asked. “It would be rather a grimy,
earthy sort of love, I should think.”

“Explain, aunt Maggie!” laughed Katharine.

“A truffle’s a cryptogam,” said Bright. “Nobody has ever explained about
cryptogams.”

“What is a cryptogam?” asked Katharine. “I’ve always wanted to know.”

“Cryptogam means secret marriage, or something of the sort,” said
Wingfield.

Katharine started a little and glanced at John Ralston.

“Yes,” said the latter. “It’s equivalent to saying that nobody knows how
they grow. But that doesn’t at all explain what aunt Maggie means by
what she said. Come, aunt Maggie, we’re all waiting for you to tell us.”

“Oh--I’m getting so sleepy, my dears, don’t ask me to explain things!
You know I’m always sleepy in the evening. It’s taking an unfair
advantage of me! Why is love like a truffle? Why, exactly for that
reason--because nobody can possibly tell when it begins, or how, or
why--or anything about it. Only, when you find it, you’ve found
something worth having. As for secret marriages--wasn’t it you who
mentioned them just now, Mr. Wingfield? Yes--well, they’re very romantic
and unpractical and pretty, but I should think the people would find it
a great nuisance. It’s much better to run away, and be done with it.”

Ralston’s eyes met Katharine’s, and he suppressed a smile, but in her
pale face the colour was rising slowly. Again the door opened, and two
men entered the room unannounced. The servant had taken it for granted
that as two visitors had been admitted, he might admit as many more as
came. Paul Griggs, the author, and Walter Crowdie, the artist, came
forward into the bright light. Crowdie has been already described.
Griggs was a lean, strong, grey-haired, plain-featured man of fifty, a
gaunt, bony, weather-beaten man, who had lived in many countries and
had seen many interesting sights--but none so interesting, people had
been saying lately, as Katharine Lauderdale’s face. It was commonly said
that he was in love with the girl, and people added that at his age it
was ridiculous, and that he was making a fool of himself.

Crowdie, as the son-in-law of the house, and one of the numerous persons
who called Mrs. Bright ‘aunt,’ came forward first, to shake hands and
explain the visit.

“I was going to make an apology for coming in without warning, aunt
Maggie,” he said. “Griggs dined with us, and we’re going to see the last
act of that play with the horses in it--you know--and as it’s too early,
we thought we’d ring the bell and call. But as you’ve got a party, I
suppose you accept the apology. At least, I hope you will.”

“You’re very welcome, Walter--glad to see you, Mr. Griggs.” Mrs. Bright
beamed. “It is a party--isn’t it? Why, there are five men in the room.
Let’s all go and see the last act of the play with the horses, and come
back to supper! Oh--I forgot--and Katharine, too, with her broken arm.
But Mr. Wingfield’s going to it by and by.”

“Yes,” said Wingfield. “I’m going. We’ll walk up together.”

Both Griggs and Crowdie had already heard of Katharine’s accident and
were asking her about it, before Mrs. Bright had finished speaking.
Presently the new-comers got seats, and the circle widened to admit them
as they sat down.

“I’m sure we interrupted some delightful conversation,” said Griggs,
breaking the momentary silence. “Won’t you go on?”

“My mother was explaining her views upon secret marriages,” said Bright.
“She’d just been comparing love to a truffle.”

“Truffle--cryptogam--secret marriage--love,” said Griggs, gravely. “Very
natural sequence of ideas. The interesting link is the secret marriage.”

“Yes, isn’t it?” assented young Wingfield. “What do you think about it,
Mr. Griggs?”

“What were you saying about it?” asked the man of letters, cautiously.

“No--what do you think about it?” insisted Mrs. Bright. “We hadn’t said
anything especial.”

“Is anybody present secretly married?” enquired Griggs, with a pleasant
laugh. “No--exactly--then I shouldn’t advise any of you to try it. I did
once--”

“You!” exclaimed two or three voices at once, and in surprise.

“Yes--on paper, in a book, with my paper dolls. I never want to do it
again. It had awful consequences.”

“Why, what do you mean?” asked Mrs. Bright.

“Oh--nothing! I fell in love with the heroine myself from writing about
her, killed the hero out of jealousy, and blew out my brains in the end
because she wouldn’t have me. I suppose it was natural, considering what
I’d done, but I took my revenge. I put her into a convent of Carmelite
nuns. It was so awkward afterwards. I wanted her in another
book--because I was in love with her--but as she was a Carmelite, she
couldn’t get out respectably, so she’s there still. It’s an awful bore.”

Even Katharine, who had felt the blood rising again in her cheeks,
laughed at the simple, natural regret expressed in Griggs’ face as he
spoke.

“Yes,” said Bright. “That’s all very well in a novel. But in real life
it’s quite different. I think a man who does that kind of thing is a
cad, myself.”

“So do I,” said Archibald Wingfield, impetuously. “A howling cad, you
know.”

“It’s an unnecessary piece of presumption to suppose that the world
cares what one does,” said Crowdie, who had not spoken yet. “And it
complicates things abominably to be married and not married at the same
time. Shouldn’t you think so, Miss Lauderdale?” he asked, turning his
head towards Katharine as he spoke.

“I? Oh--I’ve no opinion in the matter,” answered Katharine, looking
away, and feeling very uncomfortable.

“I don’t agree with either of you,” said Ralston, slowly. “It depends
entirely on circumstances. There are cases where it’s the only thing to
do, if people really love each other. I don’t think any one has a right
to say that a man’s a cad simply because he’s married his wife secretly.
A man’s a much worse cad who marries a girl for her money, and doesn’t
care for her, than any man who gets secretly married for real love--and
you all know it.”

Ralston could not help speaking rather aggressively.

“Look out for the family temper!” laughed Walter Crowdie, in his
exquisitely musical voice.

“We’re all more or less of the family here,” answered Ralston, “except
Mr. Griggs and Wingfield. Not that we’re likely to get angry about such
a question,” he added, with an attempt at indifference. “What I say is
that it’s a monstrous injustice to call a man a cad on such grounds.”

“Oh--all right, Jack!” cried Bright. “If ever you get secretly married,
we won’t say you’re a cad. But in most cases--well, I’d rather hear
Griggs talk about it than talk myself. He’s an expert in love
affairs--on paper, as he says. Say what you really think, Griggs.
Wingfield and I can hold Ralston between us if he shows signs of being
dangerous.”

“I think I could help myself, in a modest way,” said Mr. Griggs, with a
quiet smile. “I used to be pretty strong once.”

He made the remark merely in the hope of turning the conversation.
Wingfield, as an athlete and a young Hercules, could not hear any
allusion made to physical strength without taking it up and discussing
it.

“Were you a boating man, Mr. Griggs?” he enquired, with sudden interest.

“No. I never pulled in a race.”

“I suppose you went in for long distance running, then. You’re made for
it,” he added, rather patronizingly and glancing at the man’s sinewy
figure.

“No. I never ran in a race,” answered the literary man.

“Oh--I supposed, when you spoke, that you’d gone in for
athletics--formerly,” said Wingfield, disappointed.

“No--I wasn’t educated in places where athletics were the fashion at
that time. I was strong--that’s all. I could do things with my hands
that other people couldn’t.”

“Could you?” Katharine saw that the original subject was dropping, and
encouraged the dull conversation which had taken its place. “What could
you do with your hands?” she asked, with an air of interest. “They look
strong. Could you roll up silver plates into holders for bouquets, like
Count Orloff?”

“I think I could do it,” Griggs answered, quietly. “But nobody ever
wanted to waste a silver plate on me.”

“It’s not easy, I should think,” said young Wingfield. “I know I
couldn’t do it.”

“I’m sure you could,” said Katharine, turning to him. “You must be
tremendously strong. But can’t you do something else with your hands,
Mr. Griggs? I like to see those things. They amuse me.”

Griggs was the last man in the world to wish to show off his qualities,
physical or mental, but on the present occasion he could not resist the
temptation. He never knew afterwards why he had yielded, and attributed
his weakness to the inborn desire to excel in the eyes of women, which
is in every man.

“Have you a pack of cards?” he asked, turning to Bright. “If you have,
I’ll show you something that may amuse you.”

Bright was a whist player, and immediately brought a pack from a remote
corner of the room and put it into Griggs’ hands.

“Now--there’s no deception, as the conjurers say,” he began, with a
laugh, looking first at Katharine, and then at Wingfield, as the strong
man of the party. “Perhaps you can do it, Mr. Wingfield?” he added.

“What? Tricks with cards? No--I’m not good at that sort of thing.”

“Well--it isn’t exactly a trick. I’m going to tear the pack in two. Did
you ever see it done?”

“No,” answered Wingfield, incredulously. “I’ve heard of it--but I don’t
believe it’s possible, if you tear it fairly.”

“Is this fair? Have I got a fair hold on them?”

“Yes--that’s all right. I don’t believe anybody can do it that way.”

“Well--look.”

Griggs set his teeth a little as he made the effort, and the furrows in
the weather-beaten face deepened a little, but that was all. The sinews
stood out on the backs of his hands for a few seconds, and his hands
moved, the one downwards, the other up. The pack was torn clean in two.

“By Jove!” exclaimed Bright. “I never saw that done.”

“I wouldn’t have believed it,” said Wingfield. “I’ve often tried. It’s
perfectly magnificent!”

“I’ll avoid you in a fight,” observed Ralston, laughing.

Crowdie had looked on with curiosity, but he had watched Griggs’ face
rather than his hands, comparing it with a picture of Samson pulling
down the pillars, which rose in his memory. He came to the conclusion
that the man who had painted the picture had never seen a great feat of
strength.

“It looks so easy,” said Katharine. “But it must be awfully hard.”

“There’s a good story the peasants tell in Russia about Peter the
Great,” said Griggs. “He was hunting. His horse lost a shoe, and he
stopped at a wayside smith’s. The smith made a shoe while Peter waited.
Peter took it, tried it in his hands, broke it and threw it into a
corner, saying it was bad. The smith made another, and the Czar broke it
again, and so on. But he could not break the tenth. The blacksmith asked
a rouble for the shoe. Peter gave him one. He broke it in two and threw
it into a corner, saying it was bad--and so he broke as many roubles as
the Czar had broken shoes, and said that the tenth was good. Peter was
so much pleased that he made the man a general--or something.”

“I suppose you could do that, too, couldn’t you?” asked Katharine,
looking at the gaunt, grey man with a strong admiration.

“Oh, yes--I’ve done it. But it’s a strange thing, isn’t it, when you
think that it’s all an illusion?”

“An illusion!” cried Wingfield, in disappointment. “What do you mean? It
isn’t a trick, surely!”

“Oh, no! I don’t mean that. But all matter is an illusion, isn’t it?
Nothing’s real that isn’t permanent.”

“But if matter isn’t permanent, what is?” asked Bright. “But I know--you
have the most extraordinary ideas about those things.”

“I don’t think they’re extraordinary. If matter were permanent in the
sense you mean, then life would be permanent in the same sense, because
we’re matter, and we shouldn’t die.”




CHAPTER XVIII.


Young Wingfield looked at Katharine with an air of entreaty, as though
hoping that she, at least, might understand what Mr. Griggs meant. She
smiled as she saw his expression, and understood what was passing in his
mind. She was supposed to have seen far more of Griggs during the
preceding month than she really had, and she got credit for
comprehending, at least, the general drift of his ideas, beyond what she
deserved. Wingfield looked at her in vain, and then broke the silence
which had followed Griggs’ last speech.

“I wish one knew what to believe,” he said, formulating the nineteenth
century’s dying question. “It’s not easy, you know, with all these
theories about.”

Of the seven persons present there was not one whose convictions really
coincided, even approximately, with any established form of belief. Yet
all belonged to some one of the few principal Christian churches, by
birth, early associations and youthful teaching.

Wingfield’s question was received in silence. His bold black eyes
glanced from one to another of his companions, and the blood mounted
slowly in his healthy brown cheeks, for he was young enough to fancy
that some of these might have thought his remark futile or trivial and
he did not wish to seem dull before Katharine.

She found herself in a strange position. By a very natural train of
circumstances she was accidentally set up as a sort of idol that evening
before the five men who, of all others, each in his own way, most
sincerely loved and admired her. Secretly married to the one of them she
loved, two of the others--Hamilton Bright and Wingfield--wished to marry
her. Of the other two, Crowdie, the painter, admired her more than any
woman he had ever seen, though he was undoubtedly in love with his wife.
Had she been able to understand his admiration, it would have repelled
her. Fortunately it was beneath her understanding. And to Griggs,
weather-beaten, overworked, disenchanted of all that the world held, by
reason of having had much of it either too early or too late, with his
hard head and his dreamy mind and his almost supernaturally strong
hands--to Griggs she represented something he would not have told then,
but something which Katharine need not have been ashamed to hear of, nor
her husband to tolerate. Ralston might even have found sympathy for him.

They all worshipped her in one way or another, though she was a very
human girl of her time and place in the world. And somehow, in the
silence which followed Griggs’ speech, broken only by Wingfield’s
questioning remark, they all turned to her as he had done, as though in
her face they sought the lost faith. Hard-headed men, some of them, too,
and hard-fisted. The three eldest had each accomplished something. The
two younger ones were perhaps on the way. They were rather typical men.

Katharine was vaguely conscious of their glances, and was the first to
speak, after Wingfield.

“It’s what we all feel--what half the people we know feel, though they
haven’t the courage to say it.”

Wingfield looked at her gratefully, conscious that she had justified
what he had feared had been a foolish observation.

“Katharine,” said Mrs. Bright, who had not spoken for a long time, “if
you’re going to talk theology, I shall go to bed--like the baron in the
Ingoldsby legends. ‘There are no windows to break, and they can’t get
in’--do you remember? So he went to bed and slept soundly through the
siege. It’s exactly the same with theology, my dear. It’s all been
discussed a hundred thousand times, and yet nobody ever gets in. There’s
only one religion the whole world over, and that is, to do the best one
can and help other people--because no one can do better than the best
he can, according to what he thinks right. And there’s a great deal in
soap, my dear. I’m sure people feel like better people when they’re
clean, and as people do what they feel, why, they really are better
people. I’d like to try free soap in the State of New York for a year,
and see whether it didn’t improve the criminal statistics.”

“It’s a splendid election cry, mother,” said Bright.
“&nbsp;‘Soap--Something--and Stability.’ We’ll try it some day.”

“No, but there’s truth in it,” protested Mrs. Bright. “Isn’t there, Mr.
Griggs?”

“Of course,” answered Griggs, gravely. “Every religion that ever existed
has some rules of ablution. And there’s a lot of truth in the other
things you said, Mrs. Bright. Only the trouble is, a code of
action--what you call doing the best one can--doesn’t satisfy humanity.
The average human being won’t do anything for its own sake. He must do
it for his own advantage here--or hereafter, since people will insist on
using that idiotic word.”

“Why idiotic?” asked Wingfield, very naturally.

“Hereafter means a future, and there isn’t any such thing, except in a
small way, for matter-worlds and such little trifles, which go to pieces
every two or three thousand million years.”

“Yes, but the soul--if we’ve got one.”

Wingfield added the last conditional expression rather sheepishly, as
though he suspected that the highly intellectual beings amongst whom he
found himself might have done away with such old-fashioned nonsense as
the soul.

“Of course you’ve got a soul,” said Griggs, rather impatiently. “But if
it’s a real soul, it has no weight and no size, and no shape and no
colour, nor anything resembling matter--nor anything with which to
resemble anything, except other souls. Well, of course you know that
time is only conceivable in relation to matter in motion, so that where
there isn’t any matter, there isn’t any time. And where there’s no time
there can’t be portions of time, which are past, present, and future. So
the soul has no time, doesn’t exist in relation to time, and
consequently can’t be said to have a hereafter. The body has a
hereafter--oh, yes--it’s absorbed into the elements and lives over again
thousands of millions of times. But the soul hasn’t. It’s eternal. If it
always is to be, as we say, comparing it to matter, why, then, it always
was, by the same comparison. But the fact is, that ‘it is’--and there’s
no more to be said. ‘It is,’ and as it’s indestructible, not being
matter, by the hypothesis, nothing can be said of it in that respect
except that ‘it is.’ You can’t say that an axiom, for instance, has a
past, present, and future, can you? Well--if the soul’s anything, it’s
axiomatic. There, I’ve bored you to death--shall I tear another pack of
cards for you, or break silver dollars to amuse you? I’ll do anything
I’m told, now that I’ve had my say.”

Griggs laughed quietly and crossed one leg over the other, as he looked
at Katharine.

“You’re not a comforting person when one feels religious,” she said.

“No--by Jove!” exclaimed Bright. “You wouldn’t have converted the
cowboys in the Nacimiento Valley, Griggs. They’d have tried their own
idea of a hereafter on you--quick. That’s the trouble with all that
metaphysical stuff, or whatever you call it--it doesn’t say anything to
mankind--it only talks to professorkind. Unless a fellow’s passed a sort
of higher standard in terminations, he hasn’t the ghost of a chance of
spiritual comfort. He couldn’t understand the first word of what you
talk about.”

“Did I use long words?” asked Griggs, blandly. “I thought I didn’t.”

“Well, not exactly long words. I don’t mean literally terminations. But
you talk another language, somehow. I know I’m what they call an
educated man, because I once learned some Latin and Greek at a sinful
expense of time. But I can’t half follow you, even when you use good
plain English. The policeman at the corner would march you off and clap
you in the jug like a shot if you talked to him that way for five
minutes. That is, unless you tied him up in a hard knot with those hands
of yours, and set him down by the railings to cool. I wouldn’t try it,
though. I suppose there’s a limit to the number of policemen you could
strangle with each finger. No--joking apart--that sort of thing isn’t
going to take the place of Christianity, you know--even as people like
us look at what we call Christianity. You’ve got to have something to
pray for and somebody to pray to, you know, after all.”

“Well,” answered Griggs, “there’s God to pray to and salvation to pray
for.”

“Not in your system--without any future,” retorted Bright.

“Oh, yes, there is,” replied the other. “You seem to think I’m an
atheist, or a freethinker, at least--though I can’t see why, I’m sure.”

“Why--because--” Bright stopped, trying to formulate his accusation.

Katharine laughed a little, and Wingfield looked from one to the other
with a puzzled expression, as though he should have liked to understand
better. Griggs proceeded to defend himself.

“Did I say that there was no soul?” he enquired. “On the contrary, I
said that the soul was eternal. Did I say that there was no God? I said
nothing about it. The soul is a part of God, and, therefore, since the
part exists, the Whole, of which it is a part, exists also. It’s my
belief, and, therefore, so far as I’m concerned, it’s fact. Belief is
knowledge--the ultimate possible knowledge of every man at the moment of
asking him what he believes. Did I deny that the soul is happy or
unhappy according to its rule of itself? Not at all, though I didn’t try
to explain the way in which it strikes me. You might not understand it.
But I believe that its happiness or unhappiness is exactly inversely
relative to the amount of alloy it gets from the things of which it is
conscious. As I see them all in my own way, I believe all the articles
of faith of my church, and I’m a Roman Catholic.”

“Well--I don’t see how you can,” said Bright, discontentedly.

“You’re our dear Buddhist!” put in Mrs. Bright, with a breadth of
toleration peculiar to her, and becoming. “You’ve often told me the most
delightful things about Buddhism, and I shall never think of you as
anything but a Buddhist.”

“That’s a thoroughly logical position, mother!” laughed Bright. “Stick
to it!”

“I can’t help it if my Christianity seems like Buddhism to you,”
answered Griggs. “If you knew more about Buddhism, you’d see the
difference very soon. But religion’s like love. It affects different
people differently. It isn’t often that any two people see it in
precisely the same light. When they do--”

He paused, interrupting himself. His tired eyes became suddenly dreamy,
as he stared at the Persian embroidery that hung before the disused
fireplace around which they were all sitting.

“What happens when they do?” asked Katharine.

“What happens, Miss Lauderdale? How should I know what happens when
people who are in love see love in the same light? I’m an old bachelor,
you know.” He laughed drily, being roused again.

“You’re right about one thing at all events,” said Crowdie. “It’s not
often that two people love in the same way. There are five of us men
here, about as radically different from each other as five men could be,
I should think. It’s quite possible that we may all be more or less in
love at the present moment. I’m willing to confess that I am. Don’t
jump, Ham! I’m in love with my wife, and as we’re in the family I
suppose I may say so, mayn’t I?”

“You needn’t be ashamed of loving Hester, my dear Walter!” cried Mrs.
Bright.

Bright himself said nothing, but looked curiously at his brother-in-law,
whom he disliked in an unaccountable way. He had never been able to
understand Griggs’ apparent attachment to the man. He had heard that
when Crowdie had been a young art student in Paris, twelve or fourteen
years earlier, Griggs had nursed him through an illness, and had
otherwise taken care of him. There was a mystery about it which Hamilton
Bright had always wished to solve. According to him, the best thing
about Crowdie was his friendship for the literary man. Bright could not
fathom its mystery, any more than he could understand his sister’s
passionate, all-devouring love for Crowdie. The husband and wife were
almost inseparable. Such a state of things should have seemed admirable
to the wife’s brother, but for some mysterious reason it did not. Bright
had almost resented his sister’s ardent devotion to a man who seemed to
him so unmanly. He always thought that Crowdie, with his soft, pale face
and vividly red lips, was like a poisonous tropical flower that would
ultimately harm Hester in some unimaginable way.

“No--I’m not ashamed of it,” said the painter, in answer to his
mother-in-law’s remark. “But that isn’t the question. What I mean is,
that we all love, or should love, in different ways--all five of us.
Look at us--how different we are! There’s Griggs, now. I’ve known him
half my life and a good bit of his. If he’s in love, he’s picked out a
soul, and then a face, and then a set of ideas out of his extensive
collection, and he’s sublimated the whole in that old retort of a brain
of his, and he’s living on the perfume of the essence. Poor old
Griggs!”

“Don’t pity me, and don’t patronize me, Crowdie!” laughed Griggs. “If
you offend me, I’ll pay you off, you know.”

“I’m not frightened--but I’ve done with you. I’ll go on. There’s
Ralston--he’s dangerous. He’d love like Othello, and lose his temper
like Hotspur. As for Bright, he has permanent qualities. When he’s once
made up his mind, it makes up him for the rest of his life. Faithful
Johnnie, don’t you know? He’s a do or die sort of man--and with his
constitution it means doing and not dying. Wingfield--oh, Wingfield’s
Achilles. An Achilles with black hair--only rather more so. With his
size, it’s lucky for the Trojans that he hasn’t got your Lauderdale
temper that you’re always talking about. Schliemann wouldn’t even find
the foundations of Troy. Wingfield would pulverize the whole place and
use it up for polishing his weapons. Briseis, or nothing--while the mood
lasts. I don’t mean to say that you’re fickle, Wingfield, but you’re
much too human for an undying passion, you know.”

“How about yourself?” enquired young Wingfield. “We’ve each had our
turn. Don’t forget yourself.”

“Oh--as for myself--I don’t know. I’ll leave that to you. You can all
take your revenge, and define me, if you like. I’ll be patient. I’m not
aggressive by nature. Besides, I’m quite different--I mustn’t be judged
like you other men.”

“And why not?” enquired Katharine.

“Why--I’m an artist. The foundations of my nature are different from
yours. I’m a skilled workman. It’s your business to be more or less
skilled thinkers. I do things with my hands, you do things with your
brains. The beginning of art is manual, mechanical skill. Any one who’s
got it enough to be an artist must be something of a materialist. He
can’t help it, any more than a surgeon can. What’s subject to you is
object to me--so we can’t possibly look at the same things in the same
way.”

“That’s why you’re such a confounded materialist!” exclaimed Griggs.

“Nonsense!” retorted Crowdie. “You’re always saying that matter’s an
illusion and an idea. I’m the real idealist because I go in for matter,
which is nothing but a dream, according to you.”

“Of all the consummately impertinent arguments!” laughed the man of
letters. “You’re an arrant humbug, my dear Crowdie.”

“Since matter’s only humbug, I don’t mind,” rejoined the painter.
“That’s unanswerable unless you throw up your theory--which you won’t,
for I know you. So you’d better leave me and my art to do the best they
can together.”

“It seems to me that Crowdie’s got rather the better of you,” observed
Bright.

“Oh--he has. I always admit that the children of light haven’t a chance
against the children of darkness.”

“That’s an argument ‘ad hominem,’&nbsp;” observed Crowdie. “It’s your way of
throwing up the sponge.”

“Hit him again!” laughed Bright. “Turn the other theoretical cheek to
the smiter, Griggs!”

“He’s afraid of me, all the same,” retorted Griggs. “These materialists
are the most superstitious people alive. He believes that I learned all
sorts of queer things in the East, and that I could roll up his shadow,
like Peter Schlemil’s, and destroy his Totem, and generally make his
life a burden to him by translating ‘The Owl and the Pussy Cat’ into
Arabic, and pouring ink into my hand, and all that. You know you do.”

“Yes,” answered Crowdie. “I confess that I’m what you call
superstitious. I’m inclined to believe in things like magic and
spells--like John Wellington Wells. Since your matter’s all a dream, it
can’t take much to blur it, and make it move about and change and behave
oddly. Oh, yes--I believe in the spirits of the four elements, and all
that--or if I don’t, I’d like to.”

“What good would it do you?” asked Wingfield, bluntly.

“Good? It isn’t a question of good, it’s a question of beauty. I want to
believe that beautiful things have a consciousness and a sort of power
of their own, a special perishable soul--the sort of soul that Lucretius
talks about. I’m quite willing to think that they may have an immortal
soul, too, but what concerns me is the perishable one, that suffers and
enjoys and speaks in the eyes and sighs in the voice.”

Crowdie knew what he was talking about. In painting, his talent lay
chiefly in expressing that perishable, passionate animation which is in
every human face. And so far as the voice was concerned, his own was
remarkable, and the few who ever heard him sing were almost inclined to
ask whether he had not mistaken his vocation and erred in not becoming a
public singer. It is not an uncommon thing to find painters who have
beautiful voices. Gustave Doré, for instance, might have earned both
reputation and fortune as a tenor.

“I’m afraid you’re an incorrigible heathen, Walter,” said Mrs. Bright.
“I wonder you haven’t set up gods and goddesses all over your house--you
and Hester--with little tripods before them, and garlands and
perfumes--like Tadema’s pictures, you know.”

“You can’t symbolize matter, aunt Maggie,” laughed Crowdie. “If you do,
you get entangled with the ideal again, and your symbol turns into an
idol. The Greek statues were meant for portraits of gods and goddesses,
not for symbols. So were the pictures and the images of the early
church--portraits of divine and holy personages. The moment such things
become symbols, there’s a revulsion, and they turn into idols.”

“That’s a profound thought, Crowdie,” said Griggs. “I don’t believe you
ever hit on it by yourself.”

“Well--it’s in my consciousness, anyhow, and I don’t know where it comes
from,” answered the painter. “I suppose it’s part of my set of ideas
about matter.”

“It all seems to me very abstruse,” said Wingfield, who was considerably
bored by the discussion, to Katharine, who was listening.

“No,” she answered, quickly. “I like it. It interests me.”

She had only glanced at him, but she had realized at once that he was
still wholly occupied with herself. There was a wistful, longing regret
in his black eyes just then which she understood well enough. She was
sincerely sorry for him, and would have done anything reasonable in her
power to comfort him. As he turned from her she looked at him again with
an expression which might have been interpreted to mean an affectionate
pity, though she had certainly never got so far as to feel anything
approaching to affection for the magnificent youth. Almost immediately
she was conscious that both Ralston and Bright were watching her during
the momentary pause in the conversation.

“Why are you both looking at me like that?” she asked, innocently
glancing from one to the other.

“Oh--nothing!” answered Bright, colouring suddenly and turning his eyes
away. “I didn’t know I was staring.”

Ralston said nothing in reply to her question, but transferred his gaze
from her to Wingfield, with something not unlike envy in his look. Few
men could look at Wingfield without feeling a little envious of his
outward being, and Ralston was a man singularly devoid of personal
vanity, like his mother.

“I wish I could paint you all!” exclaimed Crowdie, suddenly.

“That’s a large order,” observed Bright, with a smile.

“You’ve all got such lots in your faces to-night,” continued the artist,
with an odd enthusiasm. “There must be something in the air--well, that
doesn’t mean anything, of course--but it’s very strange.”

“What’s strange?” asked Katharine.

“Oh--I can’t exactly explain. There’s an unusual air about us all, as
though we were under pressure and rather inclined to do eccentric
things. I could paint it, but I can’t possibly put it in words.”

“I suppose I’m not sensitive,” said Wingfield to Katharine. “I don’t
notice anything particular, do you? At least--not outside, you know,” he
added, quickly, being all at once conscious of something he had not been
aware of a moment earlier.

“I know what he means,” answered Katharine. “I feel it myself. But
then--I’m tired and I suppose I’m nervous.”

“There’s a queer, mythological atmosphere about,” Crowdie was saying.

“It’s what we’ve been talking about,” said Mrs. Bright. “We’re all so
completely mixed on the subject of time and space and things like that,
that we’re just ready to believe in ghosts, and turn tables, and make
idiots of ourselves.”

“What a barbarian you are, aunt Maggie!” cried Crowdie, looking round at
his mother-in-law. “You’d take the poetry out of the Nine Muses. Not
that I meant anything poetical. It’s much more a sort of creepy, dreamy,
undefinable sensation. Yes--perhaps you’re right after all. I shouldn’t
be surprised if one of us saw a ghost to-night.”

“What will you bet?” enquired Ham, with the slow, western emphasis he
could assume when he chose.

“You’re insufferable!” exclaimed Crowdie. “Fancy betting on seeing
ghosts! You’re worse than aunt Maggie. The only man who understands me
is Griggs. Griggs, you do understand, don’t you?”

There was something petulant and almost womanish in his tone, which
struck all four men disagreeably, though perhaps none of them could or
would have told why.

“Don’t talk!” answered Griggs. “When you want people to understand you,
paint or sing. You only make a mess of it when you try to explain what
you feel in English. You’re a good painter and you sing like an angel,
but you’re a bad talker.”

“That’s said because I got the better of you in talking just now,”
retorted Crowdie, who did not seem in the least annoyed.

“Oh, don’t begin sparring again, for heaven’s sake!” exclaimed Bright.
“Cousin Katharine’s tired to death of hearing you two fighting. Sing
something, Walter. It’s much better.”

“Oh, no!” answered Crowdie. “Oh, no! I can’t sing, thank you. I never
sing at parties--as they call it.”

“You don’t call this a party, do you?” enquired Bright. “Don’t be silly.
We all want to hear you. You’re not the common amateur who has to be
begged and flattered and cajoled, and praised afterwards. You can sing
when you choose, and we all want you to.”

“No. I’d rather not,” said the painter, with a change of tone, as
though he were very much in earnest.

“I wish you would!” Katharine, for the moment, really longed to hear the
wonderful voice.

“Do you?” asked Crowdie.

There was a hesitation in his tone which suggested the idea that he had
perhaps been waiting for Katharine to ask him, in order to yield to the
request. Instantly the young girl was aware that the eyes of Ralston and
Bright were upon her. Griggs had turned his head and was watching
Crowdie curiously. Mrs. Bright looked at him, too, hesitated, and then
spoke.

“I really think that promise you made Hester was too absurd, Walter!”
she said.

“What promise?” asked Katharine, quickly.

“Not to sing for any one but her,” said Mrs. Bright, before Crowdie
could interrupt her. “Hester told me.”

Everybody looked at Crowdie and smiled at the sentimentality. His soft
eyes glanced disagreeably at his mother-in-law for a moment, and the
smile on his red lips did not conceal his annoyance.

“Besides,” continued Mrs. Bright, “if Katharine asks you, I think you
might--really, it’s too silly of Hester.”

“Oh!” exclaimed Katharine, “I don’t want you to break any promise, Mr.
Crowdie--especially one you’ve made to Hester. She’d never forgive me.
Please don’t sing--some time when she’s here--perhaps--”

But at once she again felt Ralston’s glance and Bright’s. She wondered
why they looked at her so often.

“Well then, it isn’t Katharine who asks you,” said Mrs. Bright. “I do.
I’ll be responsible to Hester. I know she won’t mind, if it’s for me.
Now, Walter, do! Just to please me!”

Crowdie said nothing. He turned his eyes upon her and then to
Katharine’s face. But, feeling uncomfortably as though she were being
watched for some reason which she could not understand, Katharine was
looking down, nervously pulling at a thread in the lace which covered
her right arm.

Wingfield was sitting on one side of her, in one of those naturally
graceful attitudes which athletes assume without thought or care, one
elbow on his knee as he bent forward, supporting his chin upon his
in-turned hand, his resolute young face turned towards Crowdie, his
black eyes somewhat sad and shadowy. On Katharine’s other side sat
Ralston, nervous, moody, ready to spring, as it were, for he had not yet
recovered from his anger at what had been said about secret marriages.
Next to him was Bright, upright in his straight-backed chair, his heavy
arms folded on his full chest, his round head thrown back, his clear
blue eyes fixed on Katharine’s face.

As she looked up again, she had a strong impression of being surrounded
by splendid wild animals. Wingfield was the tiger, colossally lithe,
brown, black, and golden; Ralston the panther, less in strength, but
lighter to spring, quicker to see, perhaps more cruel; Bright the lion,
fair, massive, dominant, silent in his strength. Griggs was a wolf,
grey, old, tough, destined to die hard some day without a cry. And
Crowdie--with his woman’s eyes, his soft, clear voice, his delicate
white hands, his repellent pallor, and wound-like lips--Katharine
thought of neither man nor beast. Even in the midst of her dream of wild
animals, he was Crowdie still, with a mysterious, indescribable,
poisonous something in all his being which made it a suffering for her
to touch his hand. To this something, whatever it might be, she
preferred her father’s cruel avarice, her mother’s envy, heartless as it
had been while it lasted. To it she would have preferred a drunkard’s
trembling hand and lip. John Ralston’s ungovernable temper was
