forgiven, Father!
Ber. Nay, what wild dream is this? Listen, child! I tell thee he must
suffer the captivity he merits as thy country's foe. He hath borne arms
against thy king, slain thy kindred, brought woe and desolation thro'
the land our fathers gave us. And thou wouldst plead for him! Shame on
thee! Thou art no true daughter of thy suffering country if thou canst
waste one tear on those who were well lodged in our most dreary
dungeons. Call thy pride to aid thee, Zara, and be worthy of thy noble
name.
Zara. Father, thou hast often told me woman's lot was 'mid the quiet
scenes of home, and that no thoughts of fame or glory should lie within
a heart where only gentleness and love should dwell; but I have learned
to honor bravery and noble deeds, and I would pledge my troth for the
noble stranger. See the English knight, and if he win thee not to
gratitude, thou art not the tender father who, through long years, hath
so loved and cherished thy motherless child.
Ber. Nay, Zara, nay; honor is a sterner master than a father's love. I
cannot free the captive till the king who hath sealed his doom shall
pardon also. The prisoners are men of rank, and for thy country's sake
must die. Forget thy foolish fancy, child, and set thy young heart on
some fairer toys than these false English lords. Adieu, love; I must to
the council.
                                                       [Exit Bernardo.
Zara. Ah, there was a time when Zara's lightest wish was gladly granted.
This cruel war hath sadly changed my father; he hath forgotten all his
generous pity for suffering and sorrow. But my work is yet undone, and
the stranger is a captive. He shall be free, and I will pay the debt
of gratitude I owe him. I will brave my father's anger; but whom can I
trust to aid me? Ha! Selim! He is old and faithful, and will obey
[claps her hands].
                                                         [Enter Selim.
Selim. Your bidding, lady.
Zara. Selim, thou hast known me from my birth, and served me well. I
have done thee many a kindness. Wilt thou grant me one that shalt repay
all that I have ever shown to thee?
Selim. Lady, thou hast made a slave's life happy by thy care, and
through the long years I have served thee, hast never bid me do aught
that was not right. If my poor services can aid thee now, they are most
gladly thine.
Zara. Listen, Selim, while I tell thee what I seek. Thou knowest an
English soldier saved and led me from the forest yonder, and thou
knowest how my father thanked and blessed the unknown friend who had so
aided me. Yet now, when it is in his power to show the gratitude he
felt, he will not, and has doomed the man he once longed to honor to a
lonely cell to pine away a brave heart's life in sorrow and captivity. I
would show that gentle stranger that a woman never can forget. I would
free him. Thou hast the keys. This is the service I now crave of thee.
Selim. Lady, canst thou ask me to betray the trust my lord, thy father,
hath been pleased to place in me? Ask anything but this, and gladly will
I obey thee.
Zara. Ah, must I ever ask and be refused? Selim, listen! Thou hast a
daughter; she is fair and young, and thou hast often sighed that she
should be a slave. If thou wilt aid me now, the hour the chains fall
from the English captive's limbs, that hour shalt see thy daughter free,
and never more a slave. If thou wilt win this joy for her, then grant my
prayer, and she is free.
Selim. Oh, lady, lady, tempt me not! much as I love my child, I love
mine honor more. I cannot aid thee to deceive thy father.
Zara. Nay, Selim, I do not ask it of thee. The proud name my father
bears shall ne'er be stained by one false deed of mine. I ask thee but
to lead me to the prisoner's cell, that I may offer freedom, and tell
him woman's gratitude can never fail, nor woman's heart forget. And if
my father ask thee aught of this, thou shalt answer freely. Tell him
all, and trust his kindness to forgive; and if evil come I will bear
it bravely,--thou shalt not suffer. Thou shalt win thy fair child's
freedom, and my fadeless thanks.
Selim. Thou hast conquered, lady; and for the blessed gift that is my
reward, I will brave all but treachery and dishonor. Thou shalt find thy
truest slaves in the old man and his daughter [kneels and gives the
keys].
Zara. Thanks, good Selim, thanks; thou shalt find a grateful friend in
her thou hast served so well. I will disguise me as a female slave, and
thou shalt lead me to the cell. Now go; I will join thee anon. [Exit
Selim.] Oh, Ernest, Ernest! thy brave heart shall pine no longer.
Another hour, and thou art free. Chains cannot bind, nor dungeons hold
when woman's love and gratitude are thine.
                                                               [Exit.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE THIRD.
                [Dungeon in the castle of Bernardo.
                   Ernest L'Estrange, chained.]
Ernest. So end my dreams of fame and honor! A life-long captive, or a
sultan's slave are all that fate has left me now. Yet, 'mid disgrace and
sorrow, one thought can cheer me yet, and one sweet vision brighten e'en
my dreary lot. I have served my country well, and won the thanks of
Spain's most lovely daughter. Sweet lady, little does she dream amid her
happiness that memories of her are all now left to cheer a captive's
heart. But hist!--a footstep on the stair. Perchance they come to lead
me forth to new captivity or death. [Enter Zara, disguised as a
slave] Ah, who comes here to cheer the cell of the poor captive?
Zara. Captive no longer, if life and liberty be dear to thee. Say but
the word, and ere the sun sets thou shalt be free amid the hills of
Spain.
Ernest. Who art thou, coming like a spirit to my lonely cell, bringing
hopes of freedom? Tell me, what hath moved thee to such pity for an
unknown stranger?
Zara. Not unknown to her I serve. She hath not forgot thee, noble
stranger. When thou didst lead her from the dim wood, she said a day
might come when she, so weak and helpless then, might find some fit
reward for one who risked his life for her. That hour hath come, and she
hath sent her poor slave hither, and with her thanks and blessing to
speed thee on thy way.
Ernest. And is she near, and did she send thee to repay my simple deed
with one like this? Ah, tell her name! Where doth she dwell, and whence
the power to set me free?
Zara. I may not tell thee more than this. Her father is Bernardo of
Castile. She heard thy name among the captives doomed, and seeks to save
thee; for if thou dost not fly, a most cruel death awaits thee. Listen
to her prayer, and cast these chains away.
Ernest. It cannot be. Much as I love my freedom, I love my honor more;
and I am bound until my conqueror shall give back my plighted word, to
seek no freedom till he shall bid me go. Nay, do not sigh, kind friend;
I am no longer sad. From this day forth captivity is sweet. Tell thy
fair mistress all my thanks are hers; but I may not take the gift she
offers, for with freedom comes dishonor, and I cannot break my word to
her stern father. Tell her she hath made my fetters light, this cell a
happy home, by the sweet thought that she is near and still remembers
one who looks upon the hour when first we met as the happiest he hath
known.
Zara. If there be power in woman's gratitude, thou shalt yet be free,
and with thine honor yet unstained. She will not rest till all the debt
she owes thee is repaid. Farewell, and think not Zara will forget
[turns to go; her veil falls].
Ernest [starting]. Lady!--and is it thou? Ah, leave me not! Let me
thank thee for the generous kindness which has made a lone heart happy
by the thought that even in this wild land there is still one to
remember the poor stranger.
Zara. Pardon what may seem to thee unmaidenly and bold; but thou wert in
danger; there were none whom I could trust. Gratitude hath bid me come,
and I am here. Again I ask, nay, I implore thee, let me have the joy of
giving freedom to one brave English heart. England is thy home: wouldst
thou not tread its green shores once again? Are there no fond hearts
awaiting thy return? Ah, can I not tempt thee by all that man most
loves, to fly?
Ernest. Lady, my own heart pleads more earnestly than even thy sweet
voice; but those kind eyes were better dimmed with tears for my sad
death than be turned coldly from me as one who had stained the high name
he bore. And liberty were dearly purchased if I left mine honor here
behind. Ask me no more; for till thy father sets me free, I am his
prisoner here. Ah, dearest lady, thou hast made this lone cell bright,
and other chains than these now hold me here.
Zara. Then it must be. Much as I grieve for thy captivity, I shall honor
thee the more for thy unfailing truth, more prized than freedom, home,
or friends. And though I cannot save thee now, thou shalt find a Moorish
maiden true and fearless as thyself. Farewell! May happy thoughts of
home cheer this dark cell till I have won the power to set thee free.
                                                           [Exit Zara.
Ernest. Liberty hath lost its charms since thou art near me, lovely
Zara. These chains are nothing now, for the fetters that thy beauty,
tenderness, and grace have cast about my heart are stronger far.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE FOURTH.
                           [Zara's chamber.
                           Enter Bernardo.]
Ber. [unfolding a scroll]. At length 't is done, and here I hold the
doom of those proud lords who have so scorned my race. The hour has
come, and Bernardo is revenged. What, ho! Zara, where art thou?
                                                          [Enter Zara.
Zara. Dear father, what hath troubled thee, and how can Zara cheer and
comfort thee?
Ber. 'Tis joy, not sorrow, Zara, gives this fierce light to mine eye. I
have hated, and am avenged. This one frail scroll is dearer far to me
than all the wealth of Spain, for 'tis the death-knell of the English
lords.
Zara. Must they all die, my father?
Ber. Ay, Zara,--all; ere to-morrow's sun shall set they will sleep
forever, and a good deed will be well done. I hate them, and their
paltry lives can ill repay the sorrow they have wrought.
Zara. Let me see the fatal paper. [Takes the scroll; aside.] Yes,
his name is here. Ah, how strange that these few lines can doom brave
hearts to such a death! [Aloud.] Father, 'tis a fearful thing to hold
such power over human life. Ah, bid me tear the scroll, and win for thee
the thanks of those thy generous pity saves.
Ber. [seizing the paper]. Not for thy life, child! Revenge is sweet,
and I have waited long for mine. The king hath granted this; were it
destroyed, the captives might escape ere I could win another. Nay, Zara,
this is dearer to me than thy most priceless gems. To-night it shall be
well guarded 'neath my pillow. Go to thy flowers, child. These things
are not for thee,--thou art growing pale and sad. Remember, Zara, thou
art nobly born, and let no foolish pity win thee to forget it.
                                                       [Exit Bernardo.
Zara. Oh, Father, Father, whom I have so loved and honored, now so cold,
so pitiless. The spirit of revenge hath entered thy kind heart, and
spread an evil blight o'er all the flowers that blossomed there. I
cannot win him back to tenderness, and Ernest, thou must perish. I
cannot save thee,--perhaps 'tis better so; but oh, 'twill be a bitter
parting! [Weeps.] Nay, nay, it shall not be! When this wild hate
hath passed, my father will repent. Alas! 't will be too late. I will
save him from that sorrow when he shall find he hath wronged a noble
heart, and slain the friend he should have saved. But stay! how shall I
best weave my plot? That fatal paper, once destroyed, I will implore and
plead so tenderly, my father will repent; and ere another scroll can
reach his hands, I will have won thy freedom, Ernest! This night
beneath his pillow it will be; and I, like a midnight thief, must steal
to that couch, and take it hence. Yet, it shall be done, for it will
save thee, Father, from a cruel deed, and gain a brave heart's freedom.
Ernest, 'tis for thee! for thee!
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE FIFTH.
                       [Chamber in the castle.
                  Bernardo sleeping. Enter Zara.]
Zara. He sleeps calmly as a child. Why do I tremble? 'T is a deed of
mercy I would do, and thou wilt thank me that I dared to disobey, and
spare thee from life-long regret. The paper,--yes, 'tis here! Forgive
me, Father; 'tis to save thee from an evil deed thy child comes stealing
thus at dead of night to take what thou hast toiled so long to win.
Sleep on! no dark dream can break thy slumber now; the spirit of revenge
shall pass away, and I will win thee back to pity and to love once more.
Now, Ernest, thou art saved, and ere to-morrow's sun shall rise this
warrant for thy death shall be but ashes, and my task be done.
                                                           [Exit Zara.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE SIXTH.
                           [Zara's chamber.
                             Zara alone].
Zara. The long, sleepless night at length hath passed. The paper is
destroyed, and now nought remains but to confess the deed, and brave my
father's anger.
                                                      [Enter Bernardo.
Ber. Zara!
Zara [starts]. Why so stern, my father? Hath thy poor Zara angered
thee?
Ber. I have trusted thee as few would trust a child. Thou art fair and
gentle, and I had thought true. Never, Zara, till now hast thou deceived
me; and if thou wouldst keep thy father's love and trust, I bid thee
answer truly. Didst thou, in the dead of night steal to my pillow, and
bear hence the paper I had told thee would be there? Thy slave girl,
Zillah, missed thee from thy couch, and saw thee enter there. She
feared to follow, but none other came within my chamber, and this morn
the scroll is gone. Now answer, Zara! Didst thou take the warrant, and
where is it now?
Zara. Burnt to ashes, and scattered to the winds. I have never stained
my soul with falsehood, and I will not now. Oh, Father! I have loved and
honored thee through the long years thou hast watched above me. How
could I love on when thou hadst stained with blood that hand that
blessed me when a child, how honor when thou hadst repaid noble deeds
with death? Forgive me that I plead for those thou hast doomed! I alone
am guilty,--let thine anger fall on me; but, Father, I implore thee,
leave this evil deed undone. [Kneels.]
Ber. Thou canst plead well for thy father's and thy country's foe. What
strange fancy hath possessed thee, Zara? Thou hast never wept, tho' many
a Christian knight hath pined and died within these walls; and even
now, methinks, thou speakest more of gratitude than mercy, and seem
strangely earnest for the English lord who did thee some small service
long ago. Speak, Zara! wouldst thou save them all? Were I to grant
thee all their lives save his, wouldst thou be content to let him die?
Zara. Nay, Father; but for his tender care thou wouldst have no daughter
now to stand before thee, pleading for the life he bravely risked in
saving mine. Oh, would I had died amid the forest leaves ere I had
brought such woe to him, and lived to lose my father's love! [Weeps.]
Ber. Listen, Zara! Little as I know of woman's heart, I have learned to
read thine own; and if I err not, thou hast dared to love this stranger.
Ha! is it so? Girl, I command thee to forget that love, and leave him to
his fate!
Zara. Never! I will not forget the love that like a bright star hath
come to cheer my lonely heart. I will not forget the noble friend
who, 'mid his fiercest foes, could brave all dangers to restore an
unknown maiden to her home. And when I offered liberty (for I have
disobeyed and dared to seek his cell), he would not break the word he
had plighted, Father, unto thee. He bade me tempt him not, for death
were better than dishonor. Ah, canst thou doom him to a felon's death?
Then do it; and the hour that sees that true heart cease to beat, that
hour thou hast lost the child who would have loved and clung to thee
through life.
Ber. Child, thou hast moved me strangely. I would grant thy prayer, but
thou shalt never wed one of that accursed race. I bear no hate to the
young lord, save that he is thy country's foe; and if he gains his
freedom, he will win thee too. By Allah! it shall never be. Yet, listen,
Zara! If I grant his life wilt thou ask no more?
Zara. 'T is all I ask; grant me but this, and I will give thee all the
gratitude and love this poor heart can bestow.
Ber. Then 'tis done. Yet hold! the price that thou must pay for this
dear boon is large. Thou must swear never to see him more; must banish
love, nay, even memory of that fatal hour when first he saw and saved
thee. If thou wilt vow to wed none but one of thine own race, his life
and liberty are thine to give. Speak, Zara! Wilt thou do all this?
Zara. Oh, Father, Father, anything but this! Pity, gratitude, and love
have bound me to him, and the fetters thou hast cast around him are not
stronger than the deep affection he hath wakened in my heart. Ah, why
wilt thou not give life and liberty to him, and joy to thy child? I will
not take the vow.
Ber. Then his fate is sealed. Thy girl's heart is too selfish to forego
its own joy for his sake. Thou dost not love enough to sacrifice thy
happiness to win his freedom. I had thought more nobly of thee, Zara.
Zara. I will be worthy all thou mayst have thought me; but thou canst
little know the desolation thou hast brought me. Thou shalt see how
deeply thou hast wronged me, and my love. I will bear all, suffer all,
if it will win the life and liberty of him I love so deeply and so well.
Ber. Would to Heaven thou hadst never seen this English stranger! Again,
and for the last time, Zara, I ask thee, Wilt thou leave the captive to
his fate, and seek another heart to love?
Zara. Never! I could mourn his death with bitter tears; but oh, my love
is worthy a deeper sacrifice! He shall never suffer one sad hour if I
may spare him, and never know that liberty to him will bring such
life-long sorrow unto me.
Ber. Then thou wilt take the vow I bid thee?
Zara. I will.
Ber. Then swear by all thou dost hold most dear, and by thy mother's
spirit, to wed one only of thy father's race; and through joy and
sorrow, thro' youth and age, to keep thy vow unbroken until death.
Zara. I swear; and may the spirit of that mother look in pity on the
child whose love hath made her life so dark a path to tread.
Ber. May thou find comfort, Zara! I would have spared thee this, but now
it cannot be. Yet thy reward shall well repay thee for thy sacrifice.
The English knight is free, and thou shalt restore him unto life and
liberty. May Allah bless thee, child!
                                                       [Exit Bernardo.
Zara. 'Tis over! The bright dream is past. Oh, Ernest! few will love
thee as I have done; few suffer for thee all that I so gladly bear; and
none can honor thy true, noble heart more tenderly than she whose hard
lot it is to part from thee forever. Still amid my blighted hopes one
thought can brighten my deep sorrow,--this sacrifice but renders me
more worthy of thee, Ernest. Now farewell, love; my poor heart may
grieve for its lost joy, and look for comfort but in Heaven.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE SEVENTH.
                              [The cell.
                    Ernest chained. Enter Zara.]
Zara. My lord, I seek thee with glad tidings.
Ernest. Why so pale, dear lady? Let no care for me dim thine eye, or
chase the roses from thy cheek. I would not barter this dark cell while
thou art here for a monarch's fairest home.
Zara. Thou wilt gladly leave it when I tell thee thy captivity is o'er,
and I am here to set thee free. I have won thy liberty, and thou mayst
fly with honor all unstained; for here my father grants thy pardon, and
now bids thee go.
Ernest. How can I thank thee for thy tenderness and pity; how may I best
show the gratitude I owe thee for the priceless boon of freedom thou
hast this day given?
Zara. Nay, spare thy thanks! I have but paid the debt I owed thee, and
'tis but life for life. Now haste; for ere the sunset hour thou must be
beyond the city gates, and on thy way to home and happiness [takes off
his chains]. And now, brave heart, thou art free, and Zara's task is
done [turns to go].
Ernest. Stay, lady! thou hast loosed the chains that bound these hands,
but oh, thou hast cast a stronger one around my heart; and with my
liberty comes love, and thoughts of thee, thy beauty, tenderness, and
all thou hast done for me. Lady, thou hast cast away my fetters, but I
am captive still [he kneels]. Ah, listen, Zara, while I tell thee of
the love that like a sweet flower hath blossomed in this dreary cell,
and made e'en liberty less precious than one word, one smile from thee.
Zara. I may not listen,--'tis too late, and 'tis a sin for me to hear
thee. Ah, ask me not why, but hasten hence, and leave me to the fate
thou canst not lighten.
Ernest. Never! I will not leave thee till I have won the right to cheer
and comfort her who has watched so fearlessly o'er me. Tell me all, and
let me share thy sorrow, Zara.
Zara. Ah, no! It cannot be! Thou canst not break my solemn vow. Go!
leave me! Heaven bless thee, and farewell!
Ernest. A solemn vow! Hast thou bound thyself to win my freedom? Then
never will I leave this cell till thou hast told me all. I swear it, and
I will keep the oath.
Zara. Ernest, I implore thee, fly, or it may be too late. Thou canst not
help me, and I will not tell thee. Ah, leave me! I cannot save thee if
thou tarry now.
Ernest. Never, till thou hast told me by what noble sacrifice thou hast
saved this worthless life of mine. Let me free thee from thy sorrow,
Zara, or help thee bear it. Thou hast won my pardon, and I will not go
till thou hast told me how.
Zara. And wilt thou promise to go hence when I have told thee all, and
let me have the joy of knowing thou art safe?
Ernest. I will leave thee, Zara, if thou canst bid me go. Now tell me
all thy sorrow, love, and let me share it with thee.
Zara. Ernest, I sought to save thee; for I had learned to love the noble
stranger who had done so kind a deed for me. I sought to win my father
back to gratitude. I wept and sued in vain,--he would not grant thy
life, the boon for which I prayed. Alone I watched above thee, and when
the warrant for thy death was sent, I took it from his pillow and
destroyed it. Thou wast safe. My father charged me with the deed; and
when I told him all, he bid me love no more, and leave thee to thy fate.
He bid me show how strong my woman's heart could be, and told me if I
yet desired thy freedom, I might win it if I took a solemn vow to wed
none but of my father's race. I took the vow, and thou art free. Ah, no
more!--and let us part while yet I have the strength to say farewell.
Ernest. And is it yet too late? Canst thou not take back the vow, and
yet be mine? I cannot leave thee,--rather be a captive here till thou
shalt set me free. Come, Zara, fly with me, and leave the father who
would blight thy life to satisfy a fierce revenge. Ah, come and let me
win thee back to love and happiness.
Zara. Ernest, tempt me not. By that sad vow I swore by all my future
hopes, and by my dead mother's spirit, I would never listen to thy words
of love. And stern and cruel tho' my father be, I cannot leave him now.
Deep and bitter though this sorrow be, 'tis nobler far to bear the
burden than to cast it down and seek in idle joys to banish penitence;
for thorns would lie amid the flowers. Farewell! Forget me, and in happy
England find some other heart to gladden with thy love. Oh, may she
prove as fond and faithful as thy Moorish Zara.
Ernest. I will plead no more, nor add to that sad heart another sorrow.
I will be worthy such true love, and though we meet no more on earth, in
all my wanderings sweet tender thoughts of thee shall dwell within my
heart. I will bear my sorrow as a brave man should. The life thou hast
saved and brightened by thy love shall yet be worthy thee. Farewell! May
all the blessings a devoted heart can give rest on thee, dearest. Heaven
bless thee, and grant that we shall meet again.
                                                                [Exit.
Zara. Gone, gone, forever! Oh, Father, couldst thou know the deep grief
and despair thy cruelty has brought two loving hearts, thou wouldst
relent, and call them back to happiness. Where can I look for comfort
now? [Weeps.] I will seek the good priest who hath so long watched
above the motherless child. I must find rest in some kind heart, and he
will cheer, and teach me how to suffer silently. I will seek old
Hernando's cell.
                                                           [Exit Zara.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE EIGHTH.
                         [Cell of the priest.
                   Hernando reading. Enter Zara.]
Zara. Father, I have come for help and counsel. Wilt thou give it now as
thou hast ever done to her who comes to learn of thee how best to bear a
sorrow cheerfully and well?
Her. Speak on, dear child. I know thy sorrow. Thou hast loved, and
sacrificed thy own life's joy to win a brave heart's freedom. Thou hast
done nobly and well; thy sorrow will but render thee more worthy of the
happiness thou hast so truly won.
Zara. No, no; we shall never meet again on earth. Ah, holy father, they
who told thee of my love for one who well might win the noblest heart,
have told thee but the lightest part of the deep grief that bears me
down. Listen to me, Father, and then give me comfort if thou canst. To
win my lover's freedom, I have sworn a solemn oath to wed none but of my
father's race. Ernest came from sunny England, and I am the daughter of
a Moorish lord. Alas, 'tis vain to hope! The vow is given, and must be
kept.
Her. Ay, Zara, and it may be kept; but these sad tears will change to
sighs of joy when I have told thee all. Then thou wilt bless the vow
which brings thee sorrow now.
Zara. Oh, speak! Tell me what joy canst thou give to lighten grief like
mine! Give me not too much hope; for if it fail, despair thou canst not
banish will cast a deeper gloom o'er this poor heart. Now, tell me all.
Her. Calm thyself, poor child; it will be well with thee, and thou shalt
yet blossom in thy loveliness beside the heart thou hast won. I will
tell thee the true tale of thy fair mother's life. She loved and wed a
stranger, and thus won the hatred of her Moorish kindred, who sought to
win her for their prince's bride. And when she fled away with him to
whom her true heart's love was given, they vowed a fierce revenge. Years
passed away; she drooped and died. Thy father perished bravely on the
field of battle, and left his child to me. I stood beside thy mother's
dying bed, and vowed to guard her babe till thou wert safe among thy
Moorish kindred. I have watched thee well, and thou art worthy all the
happiness thy true heart hath won. Bernardo of Castile is but thy
mother's friend; thy father was an English lord, and thou canst keep thy
vow, and yet wed the brave young Englishman who hath won thy love.
Zara. Heaven pardon this wild, wilful heart that should mourn the sorrow
sent, when such deep joy as this is given. Ah, Father, how can I best
thank thee for the blessed comfort thou hast given?
Her. Thy joy, dear child, is my reward. When thou art safe with him
thou lovest, my task on earth is done, and I shall pass away with happy
thoughts of the sweet flower that bloomed beside the old man's path
through life, and cheered it with her love. Bless thee, my Zara, and may
the spirit of thy mother watch above thee in the happy home thou hast
gained by thy noble sacrifice.
Zara. Oh, Father, may the joy thy words have brought me brighten thine
own life as they have mine. The blessings of a happy heart be on thee.
Farewell, Father!
                                       [Kneels, kisses his hand. Exit.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE NINTH.
                         [Hall in the castle.
                             Enter Zara.]
Zara. Selim said the packet would be here [takes the paper]. Ah, 'tis
from Ernest! He is near me,--we may meet again [opens letter and
reads].
    Lady,--Thy father will this night betray the city to the
    Spanish king, who hath promised his life and liberty for this
    treachery. He will not keep his oath, and thy father will be
    slain. Then bid him fly, and save all he most loves, for no
    mercy will be shown to those within the walls when once the
    Spanish army enters there. Save thyself. Heaven bless thee.
                                                            Ernest.
Brave and true unto the last! O heart! thou mayst well beat proudly, for
thou hast won a noble prize in the love of Ernest L'Estrange. Time
flies; this night the city is betrayed, and we must fly. Bernardo, lord
of fair Castile, is a traitor. Ah, thank Heaven he is not my father!
Yet for the love I bore him as a child, he shall be saved; and I will
cheer and comfort him now that the dark hour of his life has come.
                                                      [Enter Bernardo.
Ber. Zara, why dost thou look thus on me? I come to bid thee gather all
thou dost most prize, for the army is before the city, and we may be
conquered ere to-morrow's sun shall set.
Zara. Seek not to deceive me. I know all; and the love I bore thee as my
father is now turned to pity and contempt for the traitor who will this
night betray Castile.
Ber. Girl, beware, lest thy wild folly anger me too far! What meanest
thou? Who has dared to tell thee this?
Zara. Thou wouldst betray, and art thyself betrayed; and were it not for
him whom thou hast wronged and hunted, ere to-morrow's dawn thou wouldst
be no more, and I a homeless wanderer. Here! read the scroll, and see
how well the false king keeps his word he plighted thee for thy deed of
treachery.
Ber. [reads, and drops the paper]. Lost! lost! Fool that I was to
trust the promise of a king! Disgraced, dishonored, and betrayed! Where
find a friend to help me now? [Weeps.]
Zara. Here,--in the child who clings to thee through danger, treachery,
and death. Trust to the love of one whom once thou loved, and who still
longs to win thee back to happiness and honor.
Ber. Nay, child, I trust thee not. I have deceived thee and blighted all
thy hopes of love. Thou canst not care for the dishonored traitor. Go!
tell my guilt to those I would this night deliver up to death, and win a
deep revenge for all the wrong I have done thee. I am in thy power now.
Zara [tearing the paper]. And thus do I use it! No eye shall ever read
these words that do betray thee; no tongue call down dishonor on thy
head. Thy plot is not yet known, and ere to-night the gates may be well
guarded. Thou mayst fly in safety, and none ever know the stain upon thy
name. Thou whom I once called father, this is my revenge. I know all the
wrong thou hast done me,--the false vow I made to save the life of him I
loved. Zara's pity and forgiveness are thine, freely given; and her
prayer is that thou mayst find happiness in some fair land where only
gentle thoughts and loving memories may be thine.
Ber. Thou hast conquered, Zara; my proud heart is won by thy tender pity
and most generous pardon to one who hath so deeply wronged thee. But I
will repay the debt I owe thee. Thou shalt find again the loving father
and the faithful friend of thy young life. Thou shalt know how well
Bernardo can atone for all the sorrow he hath brought thee.
Zara. And I will be again thy faithful child.
Ber. 'Tis well; and now, my Zara, ere the dawn of another day we must
be far beyond the city gates. Selim shall guide us, and once free,
together we will seek another and a happier home. Courage, my child, and
haste thee. I will prepare all for our flight. Remember, when the turret
bell strikes seven, we meet again.
                                           [Embraces Zara, and exit.
Zara. Farewell! I will not fail thee. Love, joy, and hope may fade, but
duty still remains. Oh, Ernest, couldst thou but see thy own true Zara
now! Wouldst thou could aid me! [Enter Ernest disguised.] Ah, who
comes? A stranger. Speak! thine errand!
Ernest [kneeling, presents a scroll]. An English knight without the
gates did bid me seek thee with this scroll. May it please thee, read.
Zara [opens and reads].
    Lady,--Thou mayst trust the messenger. He will lead thee in
    safety to one who waits for thee. Delay not; danger is around
    thee.
        Thine,                                           Ernest.
Ah, here! so near me! Hope springs anew within my heart. Yes, I will go.
Homeless, friendless no more! Happy Zara! joy now awaits thee. Yet
stay!--my promise to Bernardo! I cannot leave him thus in danger, and
alone. What shall I do? Oh, Ernest, where art thou now?
Ernest [throwing off disguise, and kneeling before her]. Here, dearest
Zara! here at thy feet, to offer thee a true heart's fond devotion. To
thee I owe life, liberty, and happiness. Ah, let me thus repay the debt
of gratitude. Thy love shalt be my bright reward; my heart thy refuge
from all danger now. Wilt thou not trust me?
Zara. Ernest, thou knowest my heart is thine, and that to thee I trust
with joy my life and happiness. No vow stands now between us. I am
thine.
Ernest. Then let us hence. All is prepared; thy father shall be saved.
This night shall see us on our way to liberty; and in a fairer land we
may forget the danger, sorrow, and captivity that have been ours. Come,
dearest, let me lead thee.
Zara. I come; and, Ernest, 'mid the joy and bright hopes of the future,
let us not forget the sorrow and the sacrifice that hath won for us this
happiness; and mayst thou ne'er regret the hour that gave to thee the
love of the Moorish maiden, Zara.
                                CURTAIN.
                            THE GREEK SLAVE.
                              CHARACTERS.
    Constantine    .   .   .   .   .    Prince betrothed to Irene.
    Queen Zelneth  .   .   .   .   .    His Mother.
    Irene  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    The Greek Princess.
    Ione   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    The Greek Slave.
    Helon  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Priest.
    Rienzi .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Traitor.
                            THE GREEK SLAVE.
                              SCENE FIRST.
                  [Apartment in the palace of Irene.
                   Irene, reclining upon a divan.]
Irene. How strange a fate is mine! Young, fair, and highborn, I may not
choose on whom I will bestow my love! Betrothed to a prince whom I have
never seen; compelled to honor and obey one whom my heart perchance can
never love, alas! alas!
And yet, they tell me that Constantine is noble, brave, and good. What
more can I desire? Ah, if he do but love me I shall be content [noise
without; she rises]. Hark! 'tis his messenger approaching with letters
from the queen, his mother. I will question this ambassador, and learn
yet more of this young prince, my future husband [seats herself with
dignity].
                         [Enter Rienzi. Kneels, presenting a letter.
Rienzi. The queen, my mistress, sends thee greeting, lady, and this
scroll. May it please thee, read. I await your pleasure.
Irene [takes the letter and reads]. My lord, with a woman's curiosity,
I fain would ask thee of thy prince, whose fate the gods have linked
with mine. Tell me, is he tender, true, and noble? Answer truly, I do
command thee.
Rienzi. Lady, he is tender as a woman, gentle as thy heart could wish,
just and brave as a king should ever be. The proudest lady in all Greece
were well matched with our noble Constantine.
Irene. And is he fair to look upon? Paint me his likeness, if thou
canst.
Rienzi. I can but ill perform that office. Thou must see if thou wouldst
rightly know him. The gods have blessed him with a fair and stately
form, a noble face, dark locks, and a king-like brow that well befits
the crown that rests upon it. This is he, our brave young prince; one to
honor, lady; one to trust and--love.
Irene. 'Tis a noble man thou hast painted. One more question and thou
mayst retire. Hath he ever spoken of her who is to be his wife? Nay, why
do I fear to ask thee? Does he love her?
Rienzi. Lady, I beg thee ask me not. Who could fail to love when once he
had looked upon thee?
Irene. Thou canst not thus deceive me. Answer truly: What doth he think
of this betrothal and approaching marriage?
Rienzi. He hath not seen thee, princess, knows of thee nothing save that
thou art beautiful, and one day to become his wife. But he is young, and
hath no wish to wed, and even his mother's prayers have failed to win
his free consent to this most cherished plan, that by uniting thy fair
kingdom unto his, he can gain power over other lands and beautify our
own.
Irene. Perchance his heart is given to another. Has no fair Grecian
maiden won the love he cannot offer me?
Rienzi. Nay, lady. He loves nought but his mother, his subjects, and his
native land. But soon we trust, when thou art by his side, a deeper love
will wake within him, and thou wilt be dearer than country, home, or
friends.
Irene. 'Tis well; thou mayst retire. I will send answer by thee to thy
queen, and seek some gift that may be worthy her acceptance. And now,
adieu! [Rienzi bows and retires.] He does not love me, then, and I
must wed a cold and careless lord. And yet--so tender to all others, he
could not be unkind to me alone.
Oh, that I could win his love unknown, and then when truly mine, to cast
away the mask, and be myself again. Stay! let me think. Ah, yes; I see a
way. Surely the gods have sent the thought! I will disguise me as a
slave, and as a gift sent to his mother, I can see and learn to know
him well. I will return with the ambassador, Rienzi. I spake to him of a
gift. He little thinks in the veiled slave he shall bear away, the
princess is concealed. Yes, Constantine, as a nameless girl will Irene
win thy heart; and when as a wife she stands beside thee, thou shalt
love her for herself alone.
                                                             [Tableau.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE SECOND.
                 [A room in the palace of The Queen.
                          The Queen alone.]
Queen. Why comes he not? They told me that our ambassador to the
Princess Irene had returned, and bore a gift for me. Would that it were
a picture of herself! They say she is wondrous fair; and could my
wayward son but gaze upon her, his heart might yet be won. [Enter
Irene, disguised as the slave, Ione.] Ah, a stranger! Who art thou?
                                   [Ione kneels and presents a letter.
Queen [reads the letter]. Ah, welcome! Thy mistress tells me she hath
chosen from among her train the fairest and most faithful of her slaves,
as a gift for me. With thanks do I accept thee. Lift thy veil, child,
that I may see how our maidens do compare with thee. [Ione lifts her
veil. The Queen gazes in surprise at her beauty.] Thou art too
beautiful to be a slave. What is thy name?
Ione. Ione; may it please thee, lady.
Queen. 'Tis a fit name for one so fair; and thy country, maiden?
Ione. With the princess, my kind mistress, have I dwelt for many happy
years; and honored by her choice now offer my poor services to thee.
Queen. What canst thou do, Ione? Thou art too fair and delicate to bear
the heavy water-urn or gather fruit.
Ione. I can weave garlands, lady; touch the harp, and sing sweet songs;
can bear thee wine, and tend thy flowers. I can be true and faithful,
and no task will be too hard for thy grateful slave, Ione.
Queen. Thou shalt find a happy home with me, and never grieve for thy
kind mistress. And now, listen while I tell thee what thy hardest task
shall be. I will confide in thee, Ione, for thou art no common slave,
but a true and gentle woman whom I can trust and love. Thou hath heard
thy lady is betrothed to my most noble son; and yet, I grieve to say, he
loves her not. Nay, in the struggle 'gainst his heart, hath lost all
gayety and strength, and even the name Irene will chase the smile away.
He loves no other, yet will not offer her his hand when the heart that
should go with it feels no love for her who is to be his wife. I honor
this most noble feeling; yet could he know the beauty and the worth of
thy fair lady, he yet might love. Thou shalt tell him this: all the kind
deeds she hath done, the gentle words she hath spoken; all her
loveliness and truth thou shalt repeat; sing thou the songs she loved;
weave round his cups the flowers she wears; and strive most steadfastly
to gain a place within his heart for love and Lady Irene. Canst thou,
wilt thou do this, Ione?
Ione. Dear lady, all that my poor skill can do shall yet be tried. I
will not rest till he shall love my mistress as she longs to be
beloved.
Queen. If thou canst win my son to health and happiness again, thou
shalt be forever my most loved, most trusted friend. The gods bless
thee, child, and give thy work success! Now rest thee here. I will come
ere long to lead thee to the prince.
                                                      [Exit The Queen.
Ione. All goes well; and what an easy task is mine! To minister to him
whom I already love; to sing to him, weave garlands for his brow, and
tell him of the thoughts stirring within my heart. Yes, I most truly
long to see him whom all love and honor. The gods be with me, and my
task will soon be done.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE THIRD.
                     [Another room in the palace.
                     Constantine, sad and alone.]
Con. Another day is well-nigh passed, and nearer draws the fate I dread.
Why must I give up all the bright dreams of my youth, and wed a woman
whom I cannot love?
They tell me she is young and fair, but I seek more than that in her who
is to pass her life beside me. Youth and beauty fade, but a noble
woman's love can never die. Oh, Irene, if thou couldst know how hard a
thing it is to take thee, princess though thou art! [Enter Ione.] Ah,
lady, thou hast mistaken thy way! Let me lead thee to the queen's
apartments.
Ione. Nay, my lord; I have come from her. She bid me say it was her will
that I, her slave, should strive with my poor skill to while away the
time till she could join thee.
Con. Thou, a slave? By the gods! methought it was some highborn
lady,--nay, even the Princess Irene herself, seeking the queen, my
mother.
Ione. She was my mistress, and bestowed me as a gift upon the queen.
This scroll is from her hand. May it please thee, read it [kneels and
presents letter].
Con. Rise, fair maiden! I would rather listen to thy voice. May I ask
thee to touch yon harp? I am weary, and a gentle strain will sooth my
troubled spirit. Stay! let me place it for thee.
    [Prince moves the harp and gazes upon Ione as she sings and
        plays.
    The wild birds sing in the orange groves,
      And brightly bloom the flowers;
    The fair earth smiles 'neath a summer sky
      Through the joyous fleeting hours.
    But oh! in the slave girl's lonely heart,
      Sad thoughts and memories dwell,
    And tears fall fast as she mournfully sings,
      Home, dear home, farewell!
    Though the chains they bind be all of flowers,
      Where no hidden thorn may be,
    Still the free heart sighs 'neath its fragrant bonds,
      And pines for its liberty.
    And sweet, sad thoughts of the joy now gone,
      In the slave girl's heart shall dwell,
    As she mournfully sings to her sighing harp,
      Native land, native land, farewell!
Con. 'Tis a plaintive song. Is it thine own lot thou art mourning? If
so, thou art a slave no longer.
Ione. Nay, my lord. It was one my Lady Irene loved, and thus I thought
would please thee.
Con. Then never sing it more,--speak not her name! Nay, forgive me if I
pain thee. She was thy mistress, and thou didst love her. Was she kind
to thee? By what name shall I call thee?
Ione. Ione, your Highness. Ah, yes; she was too kind. She never spake a
cruel word, nor chid me for my many faults. Never can I love another as
I loved my gentle mistress.
Con. And is she very fair? Has she no pride, no passion or disdain to
mar her loveliness? She is a princess; is she a true and tender woman
too?
Ione. Though a princess, 'neath her royal robes there beats a warm, true
heart, faithful and fond, longing to be beloved and seeking to be worthy
such great joy when it shall come. Thou ask'st me of her beauty.
Painters place her face among their fairest works, and sculptors carve
her form in marble. Yes, she is beautiful; but 'tis not that thou
wouldst most care for. Couldst thou only know her!--pardon, but I think
thou couldst not bear so cold a heart within thy breast as now.
Con. Ah, do not cease! say on! There is that in the music of thy voice
that soothes and comforts me. Come, sit beside me, fair Ione, and I will
tell thee why I do not love thy princess.
Ione. You do forget, my lord, I am a slave; I will kneel here.
    [Prince reclines upon a couch. Ione kneels beside him.
Con. Listen! From a boy I have been alone; no loving sister had I, no
gentle friend,--only cold councillors or humble slaves. My mother was a
queen, and 'mid the cares of State, tho' fondly loving me, her only son,
could find no time to win me from my lonely life.
Thus, tho' dwelling 'neath a palace roof with every wish supplied, I
longed most fondly for a friend. And now, ere long, a crown will rest
upon my head, a nation bend before me as their king. And now more
earnestly than ever do I seek one who can share with me the joys and
cares of my high lot,--a woman true and noble, to bless me with her
love.
Ione. And could not the Princess Irene be to thee all thou hast dreamed?
Con. I fear I cannot love her. They told me she was beautiful and
highborn; and when I sought to learn yet more, 'twas but to find she
was a cold, proud woman, fit to be a queen, but not a loving wife. Thus
I learned to dread the hour when I must wed. Yet 'tis my mother's will;
my country's welfare calls for the sacrifice, and I must yield myself.
Ione. They who told thee she was proud and cold do all speak falsely.
Proud she is to those who bow before her but to gain some honor for
themselves, and cold to such as love her for her royalty alone. But if a
fond and faithful heart, and a soul that finds its happiness in noble
deeds can make a queen, Irene is worthy of the crown she will wear. And
now, if it please thee, I will seek the garden; for thy mother bid me
gather flowers for the feast. Adieu, my lord! [She bows, her veil
falls; Constantine hands it to her.] Nay, kings should not bend to
serve a slave, my lord.
Con. I do forget myself most strangely. There, take thy veil, and leave
me [turns aside]. Nay, forgive me if I seem unkind, but I cannot
treat thee as a slave. Come, I will go with thee to the garden; thou art
too fair to wander unprotected and alone. Come, Ione [leads her out].
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE FOURTH.
                      [The gardens of the palace.
                       Ione weaving a garland.]
Ione. The rose is Love's own flower, and I will place it in the wreath I
weave for thee, O Constantine! Would I could bring it to thy heart as
easily! And yet, methinks, if all goes on as now, the slave Ione will
ere long win a prince's love. He smiles when I approach, and sighs when
I would leave him; listens to my songs, and saves the withered flowers I
gave him days ago. How gentle and how kind! Ah, noble Constantine, thou
little thinkest the slave thou art smiling on is the "proud, cold"
Princess Irene, who will one day show thee what a fond, true wife she
will be to thee [sings].
                                       [Enter Helon; kneels to Ione.
Ione. Helon, my father's friend! thou here! Ah, hush! Betray me not! I
am no princess now. Rise, I do beseech thee! Kneel not to me.
Helon. Dear lady, why this secrecy? What dost thou here, disguised, in
the palace where thou art soon to reign a queen?
Ione. Hark! is all still? Yes; none are nigh! Speak low. I'll tell thee
all. Thou knowest the young prince loves me not,--nay, do not sigh; I
mean the princess, not the slave Ione, as I now call myself. Well, I
learned this, and vowed to win the heart he could not give; and so in
this slave's dress I journeyed hither with Rienzi, the ambassador, as a
gift unto the queen.
Thus, as a poor and nameless slave, I seek to win the noble Constantine
to life and love. Dost understand my plot, and wilt thou aid me, Father
Helon?
Helon. 'Tis a strange thought! None but a woman would have planned it.
Yes, my child, I will aid thee, and thou yet shall gain the happiness
thy true heart well deserves. We will talk of this yet more anon. I
came hither to see the prince. They told me he was pale and ill, in
sorrow for his hated lot. Say, is this so?
Ione. Ah, yes, most true; and I am cause of all this sorrow. Father,
tell me, cannot I by some great deed give back his health, and never
have the grief of knowing that he suffered because I was his bride? How
can I avert this fate? I will do all, bear all, if he may be saved.
Helon. Grieve not, my child; he will live, and learn to love thee
fondly. The cares of a kingdom are too much for one so young; but he
would have happiness throughout his native land, and toiling for the
good of others he hath hidden his sorrow in his own heart, and pined for
tenderness and love. Thou hast asked if thou couldst save him. There is
one hope, if thou canst find a brave friend that fears no danger when a
good work leads him on. Listen, my daughter! In a deep and lonely glen,
far beyond the palace gates, there grows an herb whose magic power 'tis
said brings new life and strength to those who wreathe it round their
head in slumber. Yet none dare seek the spot, for spirits are said to
haunt the glen, and not a slave in all the palace but grows pale at
mention of the place. I am old and feeble, or I had been there long ere
this. And now, my child, who canst thou send?
Ione. I will send one who fears not spirit or demon; one who will gladly
risk e'en life itself for the brave young prince.
Helon. Blessed be the hand that gathers, thrice blessed be he who dares
the dangers of the way. Bring hither him thou speakest of. I would see
him.
Ione. She stands before thee. Nay, start not, Father. I will seek the
dreaded glen and gather there the magic flowers that may bring health to
Constantine and happiness to me. I will away; bless, and let me go.
Helon. Thou, a woman delicate and fair! Nay, nay, it must not be, my
child! Better he should die than thou shouldst come to harm. I cannot
let thee go.
Ione. Thou canst not keep me now. Thou hast forgot I am a slave, and
none may guess beneath this veil a princess is concealed. I will take my
water-urn, and with the other slaves pass to the spring beyond the city
gates; then glide unseen into the haunted glen. Now, tell me how looks
the herb, that I may know it.
Helon. 'Tis a small, green plant that blossoms only by the broad, dark
stream, dashing among the rocks that fill the glen. But let me once
again implore thee not to go. Ah, fatal hour when first I told thee!
'Tis sending thee to thy death! Stay, stay, my child, or let me go with
thee.
Ione. It cannot be; do thou remain, and if I come not back ere set of
sun, do thou come forth to seek me. Tell Constantine I loved him, and so
farewell. I return successful, or I return no more.
                                                     [Ione rushes out.
Helon. Thou brave and noble one to dare so much for one who loves thee
not! I'll go and pray the gods to watch above thee, and bring thee
safely back.
                                                          [Exit Helon.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE FIFTH.
                     [A terrace beside the palace.
                          Enter Constantine.]
Con. Why comes she not? I watched her slender form when with the other
slaves she went forth to the fountain yonder. I knew her by the rosy
veil and snow-white arm that bore the water-urn. The morning sun shone
brightly on the golden hair, and seemed more beautiful for resting
there; and now 'tis nearly set, and yet she comes not. Why should I
grieve because my mother's slave forgets me? Shame on thee, Constantine!
How weak and childish have I grown! This fever gives no rest when Ione
is not here to sing sweet songs, and cheer the weary hours. Ah, she
comes! [Enter Ione with basket of flowers.] Where hast thou been,
Ione? The long day passed so slowly, and I missed thee sadly from my
side. But thou art pale; thy locks are damp! What has chanced to thee?
Speak, I beseech thee!
Ione. 'Tis nothing; calm thyself, my lord. I am well, and bring thee
from the haunted glen the magic flowers whose power I trust will win
thee health and happiness. May it please thee to accept them [kneels,
and gives the flowers].
Con. Thou, thou, Ione? Hast thou been to that fearful spot, where mortal
foot hath feared to tread? The gods be blessed, thou art safe again! How
can I thank thee? Ah, why didst thou risk so much for my poor life? It
were not worth the saving if thine were lost.
Ione. My lord, a loving nation looks to thee for safety and protection.
I am but a feeble woman, and none would grieve if I were gone; none weep
for the friendless slave, Ione.
Con. Oh, say not thus! Tears would be shed for thee, and one heart
would grieve for her who risked so much for him. Speak not of death or
separation, for I cannot let thee go.
Ione. I will not leave thee yet, till I have won thy lost health back.
The old priest, Helon, bid me seek the herbs, and bind them in a garland
for thy brow. If thou wilt place it there, and rest awhile, I am repaid.
Con. If thy hand gave it, were it deadly poison I would place it there.
Now sing, Ione; thy low sweet voice will bring me pleasant dreams, and
the healing sleep will be the deeper with thy music sounding in mine
ears.
    [The prince reclines upon the terrace. Ione weaves a garland
        and sings.
    Flowers, sweet flowers, I charge thee well,
    O'er the brow where ye bloom cast a healing spell;
    From the shadowy glen where spirits dwell,
    I have borne thee here, thy power to tell.
    Flowers, pale flowers, o'er the brow where ye lie,
    Cast thy sweetest breath ere ye fade and die.
    [Ione places the garland on the head of the prince, who falls
        asleep. She sits beside him softly singing.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE SIXTH.
                       [The Queen's apartment.
                          The Queen alone.]
Queen. 'Tis strange what power this slave hath gained o'er Constantine.
She hath won him back to health again, and never have I seen so gay a
smile upon his lips as when she stood beside him in the moonlight
singing to her harp. And yet, tho' well and strong again, he takes no
interest in his native land. He comes no more to council hall or feast,
but wanders 'mong his flowers with Ione. How can I rouse him to the
danger that is near! The Turkish sultan and his troops are on their way
to conquer Greece, and he, my Constantine, who should be arming for the
fight, sits weaving garlands with the lovely slave girl! Ah, a thought
hath seized me! Why cannot she who hath such power o'er him rouse up
with noble words the brave heart slumbering in his breast? I hear her
light step in the hall. Ione, Ione,--come hither! I would speak with
thee.
                                                          [Enter Ione.
Ione. Your pleasure, dearest lady.
Queen. Ione, thou knowest how I love thee for the brave deeds thou hast
done. Thou hast given health unto my son, hath won him back to
happiness. Thou hast conquered his aversion to the princess, and he will
gladly wed her when the hour shall come. Is it not so?
Ione. Dear lady, that I cannot tell thee. He never breathes her name,
and if I speak of her as thou hast bid me, he but sighs, and grows more
sad; and yet I trust, nay, I well know that when he sees her he will
gladly give his hand to one who loves him as the princess will. Then do
not grieve, but tell thy slave how she may serve thee.
Queen. Oh, Ione, if thou couldst wake him from the quiet dream that
seems to lie upon his heart. His country is in danger, and he should be
here to counsel and command. Go, tell him this in thine own gentle
words; rouse him to his duty, and thou shalt see how brave a heart is
there. Thou hast a wondrous power to sadden or to cheer. Oh, use it
well, and win me back my noble Constantine! Canst thou do this, Ione?
Ione. I will; and strive most earnestly to do thy bidding. But of what
danger didst thou speak? No harm to him, I trust?
Queen. The Turkish troops are now on their way to carry woe and
desolation into Greece, and he, the prince, hath taken no part in the
councils. His nobles mourn at his strange indifference, and yet he heeds
them not.
I know not why, but some new happiness hath come to him, and all else is
forgot. But time is passing. I will leave thee to thy work, and if thou
art successful, thou wilt have won a queen's most fervent gratitude.
Adieu, my child!
                                                      [Exit The Queen.
Ione. Yes, Constantine, thy brave heart shall awake; and when thy
country is once safe again, I'll come to claim the love that now I feel
is mine.
                                                           [Exit Ione.
                                CURTAIN.
                            SCENE SEVENTH.
                       [Apartment in the palace.
                 Enter Ione with sword and banner.]
Ione. Now may the gods bless and watch above thee, Constantine; give
strength to thine arm, courage to thy heart, and victory to the cause
for which thou wilt venture all. Ah, could I but go with thee, thy
shield would then be useless, for with mine own breast would I shelter
thee, and welcome there the arrows meant for thee.
He comes; now let me rouse him from this dream, and try my power o'er
his heart.
                                                   [Enter Constantine.
Con. What high thoughts stirring in thy heart hath brought the clear
light to thine eye, Ione, the bright glow to thy cheek? What mean these
arms? Wouldst thou go forth to meet the Turks? Thy beauty would subdue
them sooner than the sword thou art gazing on so earnestly.
Ione. Thou hast bade me speak, my lord, and I obey; but pardon thy slave
if in her wish to serve she seem too bold. Thy mother and thy subjects
wonder at thy seeming indifference when enemies are nigh. Thine army
waits for thee to lead them forth; thy councillors sit silent, for their
prince is gone. While grief and terror reign around, he is wandering
'mong his flowers, or listening to the music of his harp. Ah, why is
this? What hath befallen thee? Thou art no longer pale and feeble, yet
there seems a spell set on thee. Ah, cast it off, and show them that
thou hast no fear.
Con. I am no coward, Ione; but there is a spell upon me. 'Tis a holy
one, and the chain that holds me here I cannot break,--for it is love.
I have lost the joy I once took in my subjects and my native land, and
am content to sit beside thee, and listen to the music of thy voice.
Ione. Then let that voice arouse thee. Oh, fling away the chain that
keeps thee from thy duty, and be again the noble prince who thought but
of his people. Oh, let me plead for those who sorrow for thy care, and
here let me implore thee to awaken from thy dream and be thyself again
[she kneels].
Con. Oh, not to me! Rise, I beseech thee, rise! Thou hast led me to my
duty; I will obey thee.
Ione. I would have thee gird on thy sword, and with shield upon thine
arm, and banner in thy hand, go forth and conquer like a king. Show
those who doubt thee that their fears are false,--that thou art worthy
of their love. Lead forth thy troops, and save thy country from the woe
that now draws nigh. Victory surely will be theirs when thou shalt lead
them on.
Con. Give me my sword, unfurl my banner, and say farewell. I will return
victorious, or no more. Thy voice hath roused me from my idle but most
lovely dream, and thy brave words shall cheer me on till I have won the
honor of my people back. Pity and forgive my fault; and ah, remember in
thy prayers one who so passionately loves thee. Farewell! farewell!
    [Kisses her robe and rushes out. Ione sinks down.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE EIGHTH.
                         [On the battlements.
