evening 's hazing, and " a little fun." 
Perhaps this is the place to say that such 
" fun " as this has been long since 
abandoned at Harle College. Calhoun 's case 
came into the rude and now outgrown days 
of hazing history. 
The students of Harle College were sober 
enough that morning. It was quite 
unnecessary for the hazors to assume any of 
those expressions of hilarity or indifference 
by which the college boy is accustomed to 
hide his head in the sand of his offenses. 
Such idle pretense would only have identi 
fied them in the general gloom and anxiety. 
Donald Marcy, if not the most guilty, was, 
perhaps, the most sensitive of the culprits ; 
and his distress was greater than the sunny, 
easy, happy - go - lucky fellow knew how to 
bear. Life had gone lightly with Don ; it 
had been one long play-day ; the events of 
his young history had been so many games 
to be won on holiday afternoons. He had 
always come off on the winning side. His 
father had supplied him freely with money 
for the asking ; his mother was an invalid 
who was disabled from interfering with his 
wishes, and quite unfit to do so if she could. 
From the restraints of a home which Don 
did not love very much, he had easily freed 
himself since he came to college, by vacation 
stays too short to interfere with his freedom 
as a rare and flying guest. He had traveled, 
visited, yachted, flirted, sung, joked, . and 
laughed his way through his irresponsible 
youth so merrily and so charmingly, that it 
seldom occurred to anybody to find more 
fault with him than with a bumble-bee. He 
had never been a bad boy. Vice was vulgar, 
and Don had the tastes of a gentleman. On 
the whole, too, he had meant to study - 
some time ; he would take rank when he 
got round to it. The primary object of a 
collegiate education, of course, was to have 
a good time, and form pleasant acquaint 
ances ; that achieved, he really preferred to 
come singing to the upper end of the upper 
 
division of his large class; in fact, lie 
pictured himself as waltzing in among the 
honors at the turn of the dance, when it 
suited him, as some day it assuredly would. 
For Don was no dunce ; in his solitary mo 
ments, he had but few such moments ; he 
was too popular, there was always a fellow 
around, or a girl to take somewhere, in 
his attacks of occasional solitude, he went so 
far, sometimes, as to dream of scholarship, 
and intellectual power and the world of 
thought, and the glory thereof. But he 
supposed that kind of thing would come to 
him, somehow, without too much trouble. 
Everything else had. 
Then he had been such a likable fellow ; 
it had occupied most of his time to see that 
people loved him ; they always did. It was 
a matter of course. Popularity is an 
occupation, if not a trade. Don had accepted 
his sincerely enough, he was no trickster, 
but it had kept him quite busy. Matters 
had always gone pleasantly with the lova 
ble fellow. His classmates liked him ; his 
young lady friends fell in love with him ; 
his " sweep " and his laundress adored him ; 
the society of whatever place he might 
happen to bestow his easy young presence upon 
invited him ; even the faculty had never 
been hard on him ; he called on the 
Professor 's daughters, and was on pleasant per 
sonal terms with the President, and, up to 
this time, had successfully evaded the black 
list of college discipline. Don had seen no 
reason why this sort of thing t should not go 
on forever. When he came face to face 
with the full horror and the full danger of 
the Calhoun affair, into whose consequences 
he had suffered himself to slip so jauntily, 
the shock was something inconceivable by a 
more thoughtful or a worse boy. 
Don was almost too miserable to keep 
about, and play the little part necessary to 
his own self-preservation. He sat most of 
the day in his own room, with Jamie Fleet. 
Don 's room was less gorgeous than it used 
to be in Freshman year; he had learned 
simplicity of living, and the healthy pleasure 
of adapting one 's self to the circumstances 
of one 's comrades ; it was a pretty, comfort 
able room, handsomely appointed, but of a 
little more studious cast. The Axminster 
carpet remained ; but there was less bric-a- 
brac, the upholstery was shabbier, and there 
were more books. 
Don sat in his pleasant room with his 
 
sympathetic chum, and faced his first serious 
scrape as well as he could. Jamie was grave ; 
it was a grave business. Jamie never went 
in for that sort of thing. But he did not 
preach to Don, or exasperate him by one 
" I-told-you-so." Jamie 's quiet " Didn't 
pay, Don, did it ? " meant more to Don 
than any keener moral rebuke that ever 
visited him. 
" Jamie," said Don wretchedly, " if I ever 
get out of this, I 'll try a new track." 
" Oh, I know you will ! " cried Jamie 
Fleet lovingly. He looked up from his 
Tacitus with sad, adoring eyes, that followed 
Don with something finer than reproach. 
" But he 'll die," groaned Don. " Calhoun 
will die, I know he will. I expect some of 
us will be hung, J. It 's just as likely to be 
I. I don't know," added Don desperately, 
" but I should rather be hung. I think I 
should enjoy it. If Calhoun dies, I don't 
see but it would be the only thing left for 
a fellow to do, to give himself up to the 
authorities. I 'll do it, if you say so, J. 
You're about right, every time." 
" I'd wait awhile," said Jamie Fleet en 
couragingly. "Don't plan for the gallows 
to-day. Learn your Latin, and keep in your 
room, and stay by me. You can't do better. 
It will steady your head." 
" Bless you, J," said Don forlornly, 
taking up his books, " I know how a boat feels 
tugging at her anchor, when I sit here with 
you. I want to get up and go, and be into 
something, but I'm happier here. I really 
am, Jamie. But Lee will die. I am a 
murderer. Lee Calhoun will die. He 's just such 
a flat," added Don, with a spurt of his nat 
ural spirit. " Why, I could have made my 
way out of that coffin in no time. What 
are a few screws ? It only needed a little 
gumption and muscle. Just like Lee ! " 
Lee did not die that day. He lived till 
morning, and despair blunted into acute 
anxiety. He held on two days, and the 
more sanguine students began easily to hope. 
On the third day, he showed signs of 
consciousness, and fifteen hundred faces in 
Harle College brightened. The next morning 
his physician pronounced him in for a 
clear case of brain fever, and fifteen hundred 
faces fell. 
Now the bitterest lesson of life the tor 
ment of prolonged suspense set in for the 
hazing party. 
CHAPTER VII. 
A MANLY ACT. 
THE students all bore the suspense of 
Calhoun 's illness better, in a way, than 
Don, whose athletic strength shook beneath 
the strain. lie paled and weakened and 
worried, till Jamie Fleet warned him that 
the faculty would need no evidence against 
him ; his own honest face would be his un 
answerable accuser. Don replied that he 
didn't care if it did. If he'd got to be a 
murderer, he needn't be a cheat ; and if 
this lasted many weeks more he should die 
before Lee did, and glad of it. 
" Oh, brace up ! " said Trouncey O Grian. 
" Brace up, and square off ! " 
But that same day Trouncey came into 
the rhetoric class looking almost as pale as 
Don. He tossed over six settees a paper 
ball, which Don, snatching, unfolded, and 
read : 
" Faculty swooped like a wolf on the fold. 
Braggs and me hit for ringleaders. Shall 
be sat on to-night." 
And, indeed, that night, at half-past 
eleven, Trouncey tumbled into Donald 's 
room, and flinging himself into Fleet 's empty 
revolving study-chair (Jamie had gone to 
bed), put his feet on the table, wheeled 
around slowly, and heavily said : 
" It 's all up, Marey. I'm expelled from 
Harle College." 
" What for ? " asked Don sharply, wheel 
ing too. 
" Oh, for the graveyard business." 
" Nothing else ? " 
" They didn't mention anything else. 
That was the point. Buried alive ; brutal 
ity, and that sort of thing." 
"Did you deny it?" 
" Oh, yes, yes. I said I never hit foul. 
I said I wasn't there. Middleton said I 
was. Prexy advised me to own up. Said 
it would be better for me. I said I'd be 
blanked first, for I wasn't there. So I was 
expelled. That 's all." 
" Anything said about me ? " asked Don 
ald thoughtfully ; his handsome face, refined 
by the suffering of the last few weeks, 
showed sensitive agitation while Trouncey 
spoke. 
" Not a word. Didn't seem to spot you. 
 
Impression out that you were cramming for 
Peeker Prizes that night. Friends of yours 
circulated it. I'm glad of it," added Trouncey 
generously. " I don't want you floored." 
There was a silence between the two boys, 
which neither seemed inclined to break. 
Don did not even offer Trouncey a cigar, 
the occasion seemed above smoking, some 
how. Donald looked haggardly at Troun- 
cey 's big, good-natured, lumbering face. Its 
distress was the more striking because he 
could not remember ever to have seen 
Trouncey look sad before. 
" My father," added the prize-fighter 's 
son stoutly, " will knock me down. I ex 
pect he 'll kill me, he 'll be so mad. He 
thought I'd make a scholar, turn out a're 
spectable fellow, and that sort of thing ; he 
said he didn't want a son of his in the ring. 
He promised my mother he'd make a su 
perior citizen of me, he did really. She 
died five years ago. My father liked my 
mother. She was a good woman. Hard 
hit to father that I'm such a dunce, any 
how. T is, really. He thought I'd win for 
a purse of a thousand on rank, and that. I 
can't, you know, Marcy. T isn't in me. I 
expect to come out as I sailed in, last 
division, and a good way down, too. But I 
never thought I'd be expelled from Harle," 
said Trouncey, with a broken voice. " My 
mother would have been disappointed, 
wouldn't she ? Well, I can stand the lick 
ing, I guess. He can pommel me, if he 
wants to. But I'm sort o glad she ain't 
around." 
" Trouncey," said Donald, in a firm voice, 
"you just wait here a few minutes, will 
you ? I've got a little errand to attend to. 
I 'll be back directly, and we 'll get up some 
thing hot, and talk it over. I 'll run over 
and get a few lemons ; and I believe I'm 
out of sugar." 
Donald Marcy did not go for lemons and 
sugar ; at least not just then. On the con 
trary, he went to the President 's house ; he 
went as straight as he could go ; he ran all 
the way, and came panting up to the door 
of the official mansion, a very short-winded 
and heavy-hearted young man. 
Yet there was a curious, delicate lightness 
in his soul, too, as if rudiments of wings 
were there, ready to fly, if they had a 
chance. It was an odd sensation, to which 
the boy was not used. 
The sombre house of the President was 
 
dark ; only one light burned in it ; that was 
in the study, and the study was an ell. The 
President sat in the room, hard at work. 
The ell had an outer door of its own, 
expressly for the use of the students, and Don 
ald, without a moment 's hesitation, loudly 
rang the bell of the study door. 
The President opened it directly, with 
some nervousness ; and, seeing who it was, 
he said, with the irritation of a man who 
feels that he has been needlessly alarmed : 
" Marcy ? Why, come in ! What can 
you want at this hour ? " 
Donald stepped into the bright, warm 
room, and stood among the books, which 
reached from floor to ceiling all about the 
study. At that moment nothing seemed so 
vivid to him as the educated life which this 
spot represented ; the honor and the 
preciousness of all those intangible values which 
come to a man from the self-denial of 
thought, and toil, and gravity of purpose, 
and simplicity of life. His own vague 
young dreams of the some time when he, too, 
would belong to that high world which 
scholars know, swam before his brain 
dizzily. He had to collect himself, he tried 
to control himself, not to think of what 
he was about to surrender forever ; he found 
it difficult to articulate. He looked at the 
President appealingly. 
"Speak out, man ! " cried President Bax 
ter, a little crossly. " What is your 
errand ? " 
A woman 's figure seemed, to Donald 's 
excited vision, to float between his faltering 
purpose and the stern face of the college 
officer. Odd ! But the thing which stead 
ied the boy, and gave him the grace and 
strength of his emergency at that moment, 
the only thing that calmed his tumultuous 
thoughts into words, and his words into the 
prompt and manly ring that the President 
spoke of afterward, was the image of 
Trouncey 's mother. A pity to " disappoint 
" a woman, and a dead one, too ! 
" Sir," said Donald simply, " I've come 
to own up. Don't expel O Grian. He 
wasn't in that graveyard scrape. I was." 
When Donald got back to his room, he 
had lemons and sugar, and proceeded 
quietly to make his lemonade. Trouncey was 
asleep on the lounge, looking as miserable 
as a boy, when misery could not keep him 
awake, might be expected to look. 
 
Donald waited till the lemonade was hot, 
and then brought some (in his toilet mug), 
and waked the sleeper with a little push. 
" Come, Trouncey," he said gently, 
" here 's your lemonade. It 's piping hot. 
And you're not expelled, Trouncey. I've 
seen the President. It 's all right." 
Trouncey O Grian sat up sleepily and 
stared at Donald 's excited face. 
" The dickens you have ! Say ! Marcy ? 
well. Yes. Seen the President ! Good 
heavens ! But what in time did he say to 
you ? " 
" Oh, he didn't say very much," said 
Don quietly. "He told me the faculty 
would consider my case and let me know in 
a few days." 
CHAPTER VIII. 
THE FACULTY S VIEW OF IT. 
HARLE COLLEGE grew no calmer when 
the latest developments in the hazing scrape 
became widely known. Calhoun was be 
ginning to improve ; the fever had abated, 
and signs of intelligence in the sick boy 
returned. His doctor ventured to give a 
favorable prognosis for the outcome of the 
illness ; and the easy hope of the sanguine 
students bobbed to the surface gayly. 
College sympathy, now that the Freshman 's 
danger had decreased, lurched over to the 
popular Sophomore. 
Ben Braggs was expelled in good ear 
nest; and there was no more than the usual 
amount of college growling at this 
exhibition of discipline. But Braggs was not pop 
ular. He was a rough, fast, surly fellow, 
who had disgraced the university in other 
ways than heavy hazing, before this ; and 
he retired from the catalogue of the 
institution without any warmer regret than that 
 
vague amount of class feeling which the 
boys thought it proper to expend upon their 
departed comrade. 
With Donald it was another matter. 
Everybody liked Don Marcy too much to 
accept his disgrace. It was fought like a 
general injustice. Then he had done such 
a manly, honorable deed in sacrificing him 
self to save the prize-fighter 's son ; in the 
language of the boys, it was " such a square 
deal" that his immediate popularity was 
amazing. Instead of being the culprit of 
the faculty, Don was likely to become the 
hero of the college. This would have spoiled 
a vainer boy, or one with less basis of real 
sense in his nature. It might have hurt 
Don more than it did but for the sturdy, 
steady power of his chum, to which, in that 
hour of his humiliation and misery, Donald 
affectionately yielded. 
Jamie Fleet loved Don more than all 
Harle College put together did or could, 
and Don knew it ; but Jamie never flattered 
nor fooled him. 
In this case, he told him, frankly enough, 
that he had gone too far ; that he had done 
a cruel deed : " not manly," Jamie called it 
once ; and Don, who had never heard those 
iron words from anybody 's lips before, 
winced before his gentle friend. 
"Don't let the fellows gull you, Don," 
said Jamie Fleet. " It 's a bad business. I 
wouldn't forget that. It 's awfully nice of 
you to let up on Trouncey. But I don't 
see how you could have done less ; do you, 
Don?" 
" No," said Don mournfully. " I'm a 
gentleman and a man of honor. I had to 
let up on Trouncey." 
" I guess they 'll be easy on you," urged 
Jamie hopefully. It was impossible for 
him to scold Don. In his heart he felt that 
he would be expelled himself, if he could 
save his chum ; he had a passionate sort of 
unselfish, almost feminine adoration for the 
gayer, more brilliant, more polished boy, 
who had all the qualities that he himself 
lacked, and who, it must be owned, lacked 
the best of the qualities possessed by the 
shy, scholarly, silent fellow who " studied 
for rank" and got it. But he did not tell 
Don his little, yearning, sensitive feeling 
about wanting to bear the punishment for 
him. Jamie hid it in his heart. Boys don't 
say such things. It would have embarrassed 
them both. He only turned his soft, dark 
 
eyes, burning like a lamp behind a delicate 
shade, mutely upon his chum, and patted 
him upon the shoulder once or twice, and 
said, " Those fish-balls at breakfast must 
have been made of sculpins," and changed 
the subject to the landlady 's daughter. 
In the course of the week, Donald 's 
suspense came to an official end. The Pres 
ident sent for him to come to the ell study, 
and there he was examined by Mr. Middleton. 
Don told a straight, true story, excusing 
nothing, and accusing nobody, withholding 
all names but his own, of course, as in 
college honor bound, but otherwise giving the 
history of the hazing scrape simply, honestly, 
and gloomily. He was very unhappy. He 
was prepared for the worst, and had writ 
ten to his father to expect it. 
" The faculty will hold another meeting 
to-night," observed the President, when the 
hearing was over. He said nothing more. 
He and the tutor exchanged grave and in 
scrutable looks. Don felt that all hope for 
him was over. He had a sort of scorn of 
pleading his own case. He asked no favor 
or clemency from the authorities, but sadly 
and silently bowed himself out of the study, 
and went to his room by back streets, avoid 
ing all the fellows. 
The next morning he received the offi 
cial verdict of the faculty : " Not 
expelled. Suspended, and rusticated for two 
months" 
This was so much better than was to be 
feared that Don was generally congratulated 
by the fellows. His class proposed to 
treat him to a canvas-back duck supper, 
which he declined, on the ground that he 
preferred roast peacock ; and the hazing 
party came to his room and gave his health 
in cider and peanuts ; which he accepted, 
at the cost of a headache. 
Now the line of demarcation between 
headache and heartache is always extremely 
vague ; and in this case it was hard to find 
title-deeds for the boundaries. Don was mis 
erable in soul. Don was uncomfortable in 
body. He did not know which was the 
other. Life took on one of those fogs of 
heavy coloring which made it seem, for the 
time, unworthy of the attention of a very 
young person. Donald felt that his career 
was ended. He told Jamie Fleet that no 
thing remained for him to live for. 
 
" There 's one thing ; you've forgotten it, 
may be," said Jamie Fleet. 
" Some fellows have homes yes," replied 
Don moodily. " Mine bores me. Father 's 
off at Wall Street. He 's as much ab 
sorbed as a fellow in love, don't you know, 
doesn't notice, and that. Mother 's shut 
up with her nurse and her doctor. I'm 
noisy. I plague the life out of her." 
" I thought you had a nice home, when I 
went there," suggested Jamie, whose 
imagination or tact failed him a little just here ; 
it was not easy for the struggling lad, reared 
in privations of which Donald had no 
intellectual comprehension, to estimate the value 
of mere luxury. 
" Oh, there are things enough at our 
house," said Don nonchalantly ; " but  isn't 
things that make a home." 
" I wasn't thinking of houses, though," 
added his chum. 
"What, then?" demanded Don, rather 
shortly, for him. " Let on." 
" Oh, never mind," answered Jamie, 
shrinking, a little hurt. " Only a notion 
I had about people recovering themselves. 
Seemed to me there was something in it, 
but it doesn't matter. Pluck up, Don, 
do ! I'm off, now, to my old gentleman. 
I 'll see you later." 
Jamie Fleet was working his own way 
through college as best he might. What 
ever came up he managed to do ; he tutored 
a Frenchman, or took care of a professor 's 
horse, or "ran" a landlady 's furnace, with 
equal simplicity and fidelity. It never oc 
curred to the minister 's boy that he was 
less of a gentleman for doing all sorts of 
straight, sturdy, manly work. It was 
characteristic of the American college that he 
was seldom, if ever, made to feel uncomfort 
able for this cause by the more fortunate 
fellows. Just then he was reading the even 
ing paper to a rich, old man up town. So 
he went away to his client, and Don and 
his gloom were left together. 
There is a point where depression turns 
into desperation so easily that one must be 
older than the college boy to anticipate it ; 
and Don, before he knew it, was seized with 
one of those fits of immature recklessness 
which have about the same relation to real 
despair that the chicken-pox has to the 
small-pox. 
It occurred to him that his future was 
blasted, that his misery was complete, and 
 
that he must be amused directly, on peril of 
his reason, or something of that kind, he 
was not clear what. He only had the wild, 
young impulse to hide thought in distraction, 
and so plunged in. 
Feminine distraction seemed to be the 
natural thing. He did not care for the 
fellows in his discomfort and disgrace. For 
similar reasons, he did not feel like seeing 
any of what are called " very nice girls." 
He knew girls of various kinds. Don 
usually had invitations enough to spoil any 
young man who was less accustomed to 
them. There were several cards on his table 
that night, and he looked them over after 
Jamie had gone. 
" Here ! " he said aloud ; " there 's a dance 
at Merry Gorond s. Just the thing. I 'll go. 
No Prof 's daughter for me this night ! " 
CHAPTER IX. 
MERRY GOROND. 
Miss MERRY GOROND assuredly was no 
Professor 's daughter. If a social critic had 
observed that she belonged to the "gay set," 
Miss Gorond could hardly have brought a 
case of slander against him. Neither would 
she have cared to ; the term would not have 
troubled her ; perhaps, indeed, she took a 
certain pride in it ; such girls do. 
Merry Gorond welcomed Marcy with 
expressive hospitality at her little dance, that 
night. 
Her mother 's parlors were full of young 
people ; but Mrs. Gorond was not visible. 
Miss Merry said she had a headache, and 
added : " What 's the odds ? Better time 
without old folks, don't we, Marcy? So 
glad to see you ! Haven't seen you at a 
hop for a perfect age. How low you look ! 
You need something lively. I 'll put you 
clown for a waltz and two polkas, directly. 
Won't that chirk you up ? " 
 
" I am honored, I'm sure." Donald, a 
graceful fellow in his evening suit, bowed 
low, but looked at Miss Gorond with eyes 
that did not smile. But his lips did. His 
laugh rang out heavily if not heartily. He 
had come to have a good time at Merry 
Gorond 's gay house, and he meant to get it. 
He was surprised that it came so hard. 
Merry Gorond called herself a young 
lady, and she meant in a careless, 
good-natured way, to deserve the name. But she was 
the kind of girl whom a fellow smokes a 
cigarette with, or takes too long drives with, 
too late, alone, on dark nights ; the sort of 
girl whose hand a man would feel at liberty 
to hold without asking ; and when he had 
got home would wish he hadn't. 
Miss Gorond was a handsome girl; a 
very handsome girl. Don remembered that 
he had forgotten how striking she was. She 
was a brilliant, blazing beauty, black of hair 
and eye, solid of figure, large and imposing 
at sight. On acquaintance, she did not 
seem so imposing ; dignity she had none ; 
her manners frothed over in that pert viva 
city which a certain kind of girl takes for 
cleverness. She wore a red satin dress (a 
scarlet red), much a-glitter with white bead 
trimmings. The music went to Donald 's 
head like light wine ; there was always good 
music at Merry Gorond s. He began to 
feel in better spirits. What a jolly place 
it was ! Don was glad to forget everything 
outside of it. 
She talked to him in merry snatches as 
they waltzed : 
" So sorry Heard of your scrape 
Mean of the faculty  said it was. 
Oh ! Do you think that 's too tall a word ? 
But when a girl is worked up about a 
friend Suspended ? Why, you poor 
fellow! You don't deserve it. Handsome, 
gentlemanly boy like you, and such a 
dancer ! So glad you came straight here to 
be comforted ! I'll cheer you up, Marcy ! 
Awfully good friends, ain't we ? Always 
depend on Merry Gorond ! She 's your girl 
every time ! Come into the reception- 
room, do. Let 's elope out of the 
madding crowd. Bring me an ice and cham 
pagne, Don, that 's a good fellow." 
When Donald had brought the ices, and 
they had eaten, and cooled, and played with 
the champagne, and chatted confidentially, 
he was a little troubled to find how 
confidential he was becoming with Merry ; he 
 
didn't mean to ; he had never confided in 
Merry, the young lady suggested another 
glass ; " she had danced too hard," she said. 
So they had another glass ; and so they had 
another. And Donald told her all about 
the hazing scrape, for she asked, and she 
was very much interested in the affair ; and 
why had he never known she was such a 
sympathetic girl ? 
It was very pleasant to be told that he was 
an abused fellow ; that he was the victim of 
some sort of jealousy. Who could suspend 
him for a little college fun like that, without 
a motive ? Miss Gorond was sure there was 
a motive. So mean of them ! 
" And I'm so sorry ! " added Merry ten 
derly. " I'm the best friend you have, Don. 
I'd do more for you than any other fellow 
I know." 
She turned her handsome face, uplifted 
like a large flower ; her dark eyes swam with 
something that looked like tears. His own 
head turned light and strange. Why had 
he never realized what a wonderful girl she 
was? 
Somebody came into the reception-room 
just then and called Merry Gorond away. 
Don sat on, alone, for a few minutes. He felt 
strangely. What had he done ? He was not 
in the habit of kissing young ladies. The 
girls he liked were well-bred, and no man 
ever thought of taking a liberty with them. 
His head swam. He was giddy and be 
wildered. 
" I'd better go home," thought Donald, 
in a confused way. He glided out into the 
hall, found his hat, and got away without 
making his adieus. There was no hostess 
but Merry. How could he go up and shake 
hands with Merry ? A sudden sick distaste 
of her filled his whole nature. 
He dashed out into the cold night air, mis 
erably, and got home as fast as he could. 
When he reached his room, he heard 
voices. Jamie Fleet was talking to some 
one, not one of the fellows. Don looked 
in, reluctant to be seen, he felt so unlike 
himself. 
His father sat there before the fire, with 
Jamie. 
CHAPTER X. 
A MISERABLE BOY. 
"WHY, father! " said Donald, with the 
accent which expresses so much surprise 
that it is not easy to determine how much 
pleasure it contains. 
" Well, Donald, I thought I'd come on. 
What have you been up to now, anyhow ? I 
thought it was about time I looked into 
it. I've got let me see " Mr. Marcy 
pulled out a three-hundred-dollar watch, at 
which he glanced with the nervous motion of 
a man who lives on a time schedule. 
"Time?" asked the English gentleman 
who carried no watch ; " what has a 
gentleman to do with time ? " 
But this was an American capitalist. " I 
have forty-five minutes and a half," said 
Mr. Marcy ; "I must get the night express 
home. I've got the main facts from Fleet, 
here. I have saved so much time. Now 
speak for yourself, Donald, no waste 
words, sir, and let me understand how you 
expect to get out of this. I don't like it. It 
isn't what I sent you to Harle for. It isn't 
a gentlemanly business, sir, and it isn't 
business, anyhow you fix it. It 's a bad 
investment. I didn't send you to college to fall 
short this way." 
Mr. Marcy. was a tall man, graceful of 
figure, and, excepting when under 
displeasure, gracious of manner. He had an alert, 
anxious face, care - beaten into premature 
wrinkles ; he was not an old man, but his 
hair was quite gray. He shook hands with 
his son while he spoke, glanced at him 
keenly, and then stood off , with his back to 
the fire, and his hands under his coat-tails, 
moodily looking about the room. He had 
the manner of being already bored with the 
gravity of the case which had brought him 
away from the stock-market for twenty-four 
hours. 
" You have a nice sort of place here," he 
said carelessly. " Ground-floor room, I see. 
There 's comfort in that. Some good prints ; 
and you've kept that carpet, haven't you ? 
By the bye, your mother wished to be 
remembered to you." 
"How is mother?" asked Don, thankful 
for the variation of topic. He sat down, not 
 
too near his father, over by the window, 
which he opened an inch or two. He was 
flushed and fevered ; his head blazed like a 
light-wood fire. He drew the curtain over 
the slightly opened window, and sat in the 
draught, drinking it in. 
" Oh ! she 's as usual," answered his fa 
ther lightly. " Doctor there three times 
yesterday. It 's the same old story. See 
here, you won't let me lose that train ? I've 
very important business on hand, and must 
be in Wall Street at nine o clock to-morrow 
morning " 
" Even if I am expelled ? " laughed Don, 
trying to be a little jocose. He felt the 
situation to be very awkward. His father had 
never done such a thing as this before. 
" If the whole of Harle University were 
expelled ! " replied Mr. Marcy, with a 
promptness which was almost startling. An 
expression of acute, almost ferocious anxiety 
settled between his brows and in his deep- 
set, iron-gray eyes. For the moment he 
seemed to have forgotten his son and his 
son 's disgrace. 
" It 's bad enough," said Don gloomily ; 
" but it might be worse. They've let me off 
pretty well, considering that Calhoun had 
just a dickens of a time. I didn't mean 
any harm, father. I'm awfully sorry for the 
whole affair." 
" Oh, of course ; that goes without say 
ing. Thank you, yes. Very good cigars, 
Don. I'm glad to see you don't use cigar 
ettes ; there 's opium in them. But, as I 
was saying to Fleet, here, if you've got 
to go into rustication, I'm going to speak to 
the President about it. I want you to go to 
Fleet s, Dr. Fleet s, Jamie 's father. I 
know Fleet. He won't starve you, and he 'll 
treat you like a gentleman ; he 'll be good 
for you, anyhow. Isn't it a little cold here, 
Donald ? I in older than I was, Don. I 
begin to feel draughts. It 's a sure sign, 
when a man feels draughts. Heigh-ho ! I'm 
tired with the trip. Close car ; chilly, too. 
As I was saying, at Fleet s. Vermont is 
a deuced hole, of course ; but that 's the 
point, I take it. It 's only a choice of holes 
they 'll give you. Fleet is a good fellow. 
You'd have done well, Donald, if you'd have 
bespoken him for a father. He'd have 
taken more pains with you than I have, 
had more time, you know, not always on 
the go, paid you more attention. I'm 
going to speak to Baxter about this ; I 'll 
 
stop there on my way to the train, and put it 
through. You've made a fool of yourself, 
but it isn't so bad as it might be, Donald. 
You shall go to Fleet s. Come over here, 
nearer, and let me look at you. Upon my 
soul, you've grown tall since I saw you. I 
say, Donald, there 's too much champagne 
in your breath. Where have you been ? " 
" Calling on a young lady," replied Don 
uncomfortably enough. 
" A young lady ? " repeated his father, 
with a short, sarcastic laugh. " The ladies 
of a college town didn't give wines to the 
students in my day. I must look into this, 
sir ! " At this uneasy moment, Jamie Fleet 
quietly took his books and slipped out. It 
was too evident that things had reached a 
point where father and son must be left 
alone. 
When Jamie came back, he found that 
Mr. Marcy had gone. 
Don was alone in the room, sitting by the 
table, his arm upon it, his face hidden on 
his elbow. He did not change his position 
when his chum entered. Fleet came and sat 
down by him, with that unfailing, almost 
feminine tenderness which made him so dear 
to Don. 
" Well, Don ! " lie said pleasantly. 
The wretched boy acknowledged his pres 
ence by a slight kick beneath the table ; 
nothing more affectionate or articulate 
followed, but Jamie persisted, with that con 
tented power to ignore rebuff which belongs 
to real love alone. 
" Father gone ? Did he get off in time ? " 
Donald 's curly head, prone upon his fine 
coat-sleeve, nodded. 
" Did you go to the station with him ? " 
Don shook his head ; vigorously this time. 
Jamie perceived that this point was painful. 
" Wouldn't let you, would he ? I thought 
perhaps not. He was a good deal cut up." 
" He told me to go to the deuce," cried 
Don, suddenly jerking his head up. 
There were traces of tears on his flushed 
and worried face. 
" He told me to go to the deuce, and be 
done with it. My father never spoke like 
that to me before. He was awfully cut up, 
J. ! He was mortified. He felt ashamed of 
me. He'd taken lots of trouble to come on." 
" Couldn't you make your father under 
stand ? " asked Jamie anxiously. 
" Oh, I don't know," replied Don wearily. 
" He wouldn't shake hands with me when 
 
he went away. I hated to see father off 
so. It went against me awfully. He didn't 
look well, J., seemed to me. Did you 
notice ? I wish I could go home and see him 
again. But there 's this confounded 
rustication business." 
" Don't be too down," pleaded Jamie. 
" Oh, I am," said Don, with the cheerful 
ness of reviving expression. " I'm blue as 
they make em ! Why, J., I wasn't drunk, 
you know I wasn't ! " 
" No, indeed," said Jamie sympathetically. 
" I never got drunk in my life ! " urged 
Don. " I wouldn't be such a flat ! " 
" Of course you wouldn't," echoed Jamie. 
" But, Don, you did take something, you 
know. It isn't a good plan. It makes a 
fellow misunderstood. It 's best left alone." 
" That 's a fact ! " cried Don. " And so 
is a girl that will give it to you best left 
alone ! But I won't lay the blame on Merry. 
I never got into such a mess. I'm ashamed 
of it, too ; that 's the rub. If I could play 
aggrieved innocent, and that But it 's no 
use. I deserve it, and I'm ashamed of my 
self. I never was before," added Don can 
didly. " I always thought I was a pretty 
nice sort of fellow." 
CHAPTER XL 
RUSTICATED. 
IT was a cold December day in northerly 
Vermont. This is saying a cold thing. 
Donald Marcy was an out-of-doors boy, used 
to weather and able to stand it, but he had 
never known what cold was before. When 
he woke that morning, in the spare room of 
Dr. Fleet 's parsonage, and looked about him, 
and took in the details that presented them 
selves to his shivering senses, he said : 
" The dickens ! " and took a dive under 
the bed-clothes, where he buried his curly 
head and tried to collect his congealing 
courage. He had been at Dr. Fleet 's some 
weeks now, but there had never been any 
thing as cold as this. The frost on his win 
dows lay as thick as blue- white plush ; the 
paper shades stirred and crackled in the 
wind that pierced the loose, old-fashioned 
casements. The straw matting, covered here 
and there by home-made rugs, looked glazed 
to his eyes, like a thin sheet of ice. 
 
His breath froze in the bitter air when 
ever he dared to breathe. His pitcher, which 
he had been in Vermont long enough to learn 
to remove from the wash-stand by the win 
dow (why are wash-stands always set by win 
dows in cold climates ?), stood upon the straw 
matting, in full view, filled to the brim with 
ice. His fire was out. Beside the air-tight 
stove the wood-box stood, half full. He 
filled that wood - box himself ; it was 
expected of him ; Don had never done such a 
thing in his life, before. He was expected 
to build the fire, too ; there was no " sweep " 
at the parsonage ; one little maid-of -all-work 
was the only visible servant. 
It was a great surprise to Don that Mrs. 
Fleet, who was quite a lady, worked hard in 
her own kitchen, harder, he sometimes 
thought, than the very little maid ; and that 
the clergyman himself took care of Old Wil 
liam, the horse, and carried the wood and 
coal. Jamie did these things when he was 
at home. Don felt ashamed the tough 
fellow ! to back out of anything that J. 
could do ; delicate J., with his thin, studious 
face and untrained muscles. So, although 
a boarder in the minister 's family, he had 
adopted the fashions of it without protest. 
Indeed, he had a distant suspicion that the 
system of rustication sometimes involved 
little deviations of this sort from the habits 
of elegant young gentlemen ; and it pleased 
Don 's plucky spirit not to exhibit any as 
tonishment or displeasure. In fact, he had 
accepted Vermont thoroughly ; and the self- 
denials of the parsonage had begun to be 
come a familiar drama in his gay, luxurious, 
young life. 
He had found it rather " slow," it must be 
owned, so far, in the village of East Tipton ; 
the parsonage was by all odds the best part 
of that thin old town, which lay shivering at 
the feet of the awful, snow-clad mountains, 
like a freezing creature overtaken by the 
winter, and trying to warm its poor life at a 
heart of ice. East Tipton was a place in 
which nothing happened. Even Jamie was 
not coming home for the holiday recess. 
Jamie had a chance to tutor his old 
gentleman 's son, at two dollars an hour, through 
vacation ; and a fellow must be better off 
than Jamie to throw away two dollars an 
hour. He had written home a very manly 
letter (he was terribly disappointed, Don 
could see, but he would not show it), simply 
saying that he must stay in Harle, and that 
he was lucky to get the chance. 
 
Fay was coming home, it is true, at the 
holidays ; but Don had never seen Fay ; he 
did not feel an absorbing interest in the fact. 
He fancied her something of a blue-stocking, 
and not at all stylish. Don knew a plenty of 
what are called society girls in New York, 
and, of course, all sorts in Harle ; but the 
Professor 's daughters belonged to another 
class, as much so, in their way, as Merry 
Gorond herself in hers. Don had never 
happened to know any college girls very well ; 
he had notions about them, as gay fellows 
and good dancers are apt to. He thought 
Fay Fleet would probably matronize him, 
and wear spectacles, and a " cloud," like the 
girls in East Tipton whom he met at the 
post-office giggling over the advertising board 
for letters that they never received, and 
nudging each other when the handsome boy 
asked for the minister 's box. 
Still, on the whole, Donald was not sorry 
that the minister 's daughter was coming- 
home that day. It would be some sort of 
change. Don had taken sensibly to the quiet 
life of the parsonage, but there was no de 
nying that it was dull for a lively lad. Dr. 
Fleet put him at once hard at work, that he 
might keep up with his class. This was new 
business for Don ; six hours a day of close 
study, rain or shine, gay or stupid, happy 
or dismal, and not a scrape, not a freak, 
not a frolic, not a fellow to break the pull ! 
Donald had never done any such studying as 
that in all his light, young life. He was 
surprised to find it really interesting at times. 
Dr. Fleet had a " way " with books which 
was to a lazy lad like the Vermont 
mountain wind to a case of swamp malaria. 
For the rest of his days Don will 
