been trying to since Monday. You’ve said nothing, and I’ve not watched
you, but I’ve been conscious of it. But it’s not your fault if you have
the tendency to it. Your father drank very hard sometimes, but he had a
different constitution. It shortened his life, but it never seemed to
affect him outwardly. I’m conscious--to my shame--that I didn’t
discourage him, and that when I was young and foolish I was proud of him
because he could take more than all the other officers and never show
it. Men drank more in those days. It was not so long after the war. But
you’re a nervous man, and your father wasn’t, and you have his taste for
it without that sort of quiet, phlegmatic, strong, sailor’s nature that
he had. So it’s not your fault. Perhaps I should have frightened you
about it when you were a boy. I don’t know. I’ve made mistakes in my
life.”
“Not many, mother dear.”
“Well--I’ve made a great one now, at all events. I’m not going back over
anything I’ve said already. It’s the future I’m thinking of. I can’t do
much, but I can manage a ‘modus vivendi’ for us--”
“But why--”
“Don’t interrupt me, dear! I’ve made up my mind what to do. All I want
of you now, is your advice as a man, about the way of doing it. Listen
to me, Jack. After what has happened between us--no matter how it turns
out afterwards, for we can’t foresee that--it’s impossible that we
should go on living as we’ve lived since your father died. I don’t mean
that we must part, unless you want to leave me, as you would have a
perfect right to do.”
“Mother!”
“Jack--if I were your brother, instead of your mother--still more, if I
were any other relation--would you be willing to depend for the rest of
your life on him, or on any one who had treated you as I treated you
last night?”
She paused for an answer, but John Ralston was silent. With his
character, he knew that she was quite right, and that nothing in the
world could have induced him to accept such a situation.
“Answer me, please, dear,” she said, and waited again.
“Mother--you know! Why should I say it?”
“You would refuse to be dependent any longer on such a person?”
“Well--yes--since you insist upon my saying it,” answered John,
reluctantly. “But with you, it’s--”
“With me, it’s just the same--more so. I have had a longer experience of
you than any one else could have had, and you’ve never deceived me.
Consequently, it was more unpardonable to doubt you. I don’t wish you to
be dependent on me any longer, Jack. It’s an undignified position for
you, after this.”
“Mother--I’ve tried--”
“Hush, dear! I’m not talking about that. If there had been any
necessity, if you had ever had reason to suppose that it wasn’t my
greatest happiness to have you with me--or that there wasn’t quite
enough for us both--you’d have just gone to sea before the mast, or done
something of the same kind, as all brave boys do who feel that they’re a
burden on their mothers. But there’s always been enough for us both, and
there is now. I mean to give you your share, and keep what I need
myself. That will be yours some day, too, when I’m dead and gone.”
“Please don’t speak of that,” said John, quickly and earnestly. “And as
for this idea of your--”
“Oh, I’m in no danger of dying young,” interrupted Mrs. Ralston, with a
little dry laugh. “I’m very strong. All the Lauderdales are, you
know--we live forever. My father would have been seventy-one this year
if he hadn’t been killed. And as long as I live, of course, I must have
something to live on. I don’t mean to go begging to uncle Robert for
myself, and I shouldn’t care to do it for you, though I would if it were
necessary. Now, we’ve got just twelve thousand dollars a year between
us, and the house, which is mine, you know. That will give us each six
thousand dollars a year. I shall see my lawyer this morning and it can
be settled at once. Whenever the house is let, if we’re both abroad, you
shall have half of the rent. When we’re both here, half of it is yours
to live in--or pull down, if you like. If you marry, you can bring your
wife here, and I’ll go away. Now, I think that’s fair. If it isn’t, say
so before it’s too late.”
“I won’t listen to anything of the kind,” answered John, calmly.
“You must,” answered his mother.
“I don’t think so, mother.”
“I do. You can’t prevent me from making over half the estate to you, if
I choose, and when that’s done, it’s yours. If you don’t like to draw
the rents, you needn’t. The money will accumulate, for I won’t touch it.
You shall not be in this position of dependence on me--and at your
age--after what has happened.”
“It seems to me, mother dear, that it’s very much the same, whether you
give me a part of your income, or whether you make over to me the
capital it represents. It’s the same transaction in another shape,
that’s all.”
“No, it’s not, Jack! I’ve thought of that, because I knew you’d say it.
It’s so like you. It’s not at all the same. You might as well say that
it was originally intended that you should never have the money at all,
even after I died. It was and is mine, for me and my children. As I have
only one child, it’s yours and mine jointly. As long as you were a boy,
it was my business to look after your share of it for you. As soon as
you were a man, I should have given you your share of it. It would have
been much better, though there was no provision in either of the wills.
If it had been a fortune, I should have done it anyhow, but as it was
only enough for us two to live on, I kept it together and was as careful
of it as I could be.”
“Mother--I don’t want you to do this,” said John. “I don’t like this
sordid financial way of looking at it--I tell you so quite frankly.”
Mrs. Ralston was silent for a few moments, and seemed to be thinking the
matter over.
“I don’t like it either, Jack,” she said at last. “It isn’t like us. So
I won’t say anything more about it. I’ll just go and do it, and then it
will be off my mind.”
“Please don’t!” cried Ralston, bending forward, for she made as though
she would rise from her seat.
“I must,” she answered. “It’s the only possible basis of any future
existence for us. You shall live with me from choice, if you like. It
will--well, never mind--my happiness is not the question! But you shall
not live with me as a matter of necessity in a position of dependence.
The money is just as much yours as it’s mine. You shall have your share,
and--”
“I’d rather go to sea--as you said,” interrupted John.
“And let your income accumulate. Very well. But I--I hope you won’t,
dear. It would be lonely. It wouldn’t make any difference so far as this
is concerned. I should do it, whatever you did. As long as you like,
live here, and pay your half of the expenses. I shall get on very well
on my share if I’m all alone. Now I’m going, because there’s nothing
more to be said.”
Mrs. Ralston rose this time. John got up and stood beside her, and they
both looked at the fire thoughtfully.
“Mother--please--I entreat you not to do this thing!” said John,
suddenly. “I’m a brute even to have thought twice of that silly affair
last night--and to have said what I said just now, that I couldn’t
exactly feel as though anything could undo what had been done.
Indeed--if there’s anything to forgive, it’s forgiven with all my heart,
and we’ll forget it and live just as we always have. We can, if we
choose. How could you help it--the way I looked! I saw myself in the
glass. Upon my word, if I’d drunk ever so little, I should have been
quite ready to believe that I was tipsy, from my own appearance--it was
natural, I’m sure, and--”
“Hush, Jack!” exclaimed Mrs. Ralston. “I don’t want you to find excuses
for me. I was blind with anger, if that’s an excuse--but it’s not. And
most of all--I don’t want you to imagine for one moment that I’m going
to make this settlement of our affairs with the least idea that it is a
reparation to you, or anything at all of that sort. Not that you’d ever
misunderstand me to that extent. Would you?”
“No. Certainly not. You’re too much like me.”
“Yes. There’s no reparation about it, because that’s more possible. As
it is, no particular result will follow unless you wish it. You’ll be
free to go away, if you please, that’s all. And if you choose to marry
Katharine, and if she is willing to marry you on six thousand a year,
you’ll feel that you can, though it’s not much. And for the matter of
that, Jack dear--you know, don’t you? If it would make you happy, and if
she would--I don’t think I should be any worse than most
mothers-in-law--and all I have is yours, Jack, besides your share. But
those are your secrets--no, it’s quite natural.”
John had taken her hand gently and kissed it.
“I don’t want any gratitude for that,” she continued. “It’s perfectly
natural. Besides, there’s no question of gratitude between you and me.
It’s always been share and share alike--of everything that was good. Now
I’m going. You’ll be in for luncheon? Do take care of yourself to-day.
See what weather we’re having! And--well--it’s not for me to lecture you
about your health, dear. But what Doctor Routh said is true. You’ve
grown thinner again, Jack--you grow thinner every year, though you are
so strong.”
“Don’t worry about me, mother dear. I’m all right. And I shan’t go out
to-day. But I have a dinner-party this evening, and I shall go to it. I
think I told you--the Van De Waters’--didn’t I? Yes. I shall go to that
and show myself. I’m sure people have been talking about me, and it was
probably in the papers this morning. Wasn’t it?”
“Dear--to tell you the truth, I wouldn’t look to see. It wasn’t very
brave of me--but--you understand.”
“I certainly shan’t look for the report of my encounter with the
prize-fighter. I’m sure he was one. I shall probably be stared at
to-night, and some of them will be rather cold. But I’ll face it
out--since I’m in the right for once.”
“Yes. I wouldn’t have you stay at home. People would say you were afraid
and were waiting for it to blow over. Is it a big dinner?”
“I don’t know. I got the invitation a week ago, at least, so it isn’t an
informal affair. It’s probably to announce Ruth Van De Water’s
engagement to that foreigner--you know--I’ve forgotten his name. I know
Bright’s going--because they said he wanted to marry her last year--it
isn’t true. And there’ll probably be some of the Thirlwalls, and the
young Trehearns, and Vanbrugh and his wife--you know, all the Van De
Water young set. Katharine’s going, too. She told me when she got the
invitation, some time last week. There’ll be sixteen or eighteen at
table, and I suppose they’ll amuse themselves somehow or other
afterwards. Nobody wants to dance to-night, I fancy--at least none of
our set, after the Thirlwalls’, and the Assembly, and I don’t know how
many others last week.”
“They’ll probably put you next to Katharine,” said Mrs. Ralston.
“Probably--especially there, for they always do--with Frank Miner on her
other side to relieve my gloom. Second cousins don’t count as relations
at a dinner-party, and can be put together. Half of the others are own
cousins, too.”
“Well, if it’s a big dinner it won’t be so disagreeable for you. But if
you’d take my advice, Jack--however--” She stopped.
“What is it, mother?” he asked. “Say it.”
“Well--I was going to say that if any one made any disagreeable
remarks, or asked you why you weren’t at the Assembly last night, I
should just tell the whole story as it happened. And you can end by
saying that I was anxious about you and sent for Doctor Routh, and refer
them to him. That ought to silence everybody.”
“Yes.” John paused a moment. “Yes,” he repeated. “I think you’re right.
I wish old Routh were going to be there himself.”
“He’d go in a minute if he were asked,” said Mrs. Ralston.
“Would he? With all those young people?”
“Of course he would--only too delighted! Dear old man, it’s just the
sort of thing he’d like. But I’m going, Jack, or I shall stay here
chattering with you all the morning.”
“That other thing, mother--about the money--don’t do it!” Jack held her
a moment by the hand.
“Don’t try to hinder me, dear,” she answered. “It’s the only thing I can
do--to please my own conscience a little. Good-bye. I’ll see you at
luncheon.”
She left the room quickly, and John found himself alone with his own
thoughts again.
“It’s just like her,” he said to himself, as he lighted a cigar and sat
down to think over the situation. “She’s just like a man about those
things.”
He had perhaps never admired and loved his mother as he did then; not
for what she was going to do, but for the spirit in which she was doing
it. He was honest in trying to hinder her, because he vaguely feared
that the step might cause her some inconvenience hereafter--he did not
exactly know how, and he was firmly resolved that he would not under any
circumstances take advantage of the arrangement to change his mode of
life. Everything was to go on just as before. As a matter of theory, he
was to have a fixed, settled income of his own; but as a matter of fact,
he would not regard it as his. What he liked about it, and what really
appealed to him in it all, was his mother’s man-like respect for his
honour, and her frank admission that nothing she could do could possibly
wipe out the slight she had put upon him. Then, too, the fact and the
theory were at variance and in direct opposition to one another. As a
matter of theory, nothing could ever give him back the sensation he had
always felt since he had been a boy--that his mother would believe him
on his word in the face of any evidence whatsoever which there might be
against him. But as a matter of fact, the evil was not only completely
undone, but there was a stronger bond between them than there had ever
been before.
That certainly was the first good thing which had come to him during the
last four and twenty hours, and it had an effect upon his spirits.
He thought over what his mother had said about the evening, too, and was
convinced that she was right in advising him to tell the story frankly
as it had happened. But he was conscious all the time that his anxiety
about Katharine’s silence was increasing. He had roused himself at dawn,
in spite of his fatigue, and had sent a servant out to post the letter
with the special delivery stamp on it. Katharine must have received it
long ago, and her answer might have been in his hands before now.
Nevertheless, he told himself that he should not be impatient, that she
had doubtless slept late after the ball, and that she would send him an
answer as soon as she could. By no process of reasoning or exaggeration
of doubting could he have reached the conclusion that she had never
received his letter. She had always got everything he sent her, and
there had never been any difficulty about their correspondence in all
the years during which they had exchanged little notes. He took up the
magazine again, and turned over the pages idly. Suddenly Frank Miner’s
name caught his eye. The little man had really got a story into one of
the great magazines, a genuine novel, it seemed, for this was only a
part, and there were the little words at the end of it, in italics and
in parenthesis, ‘to be continued,’ which promised at least two more
numbers, for as John reflected, when the succeeding number was to be the
last, the words were ‘to be concluded.’ He was glad, for Miner’s sake,
of this first sign of something like success, and began to read the
story with interest.
It began well, in a dashing, amusing style, as fresh as Miner’s
conversation, but with more in it, and John was beginning to
congratulate himself upon having found something to distract his
attention from his bodily ills and his mental embarrassments, when the
door opened, and Miner himself appeared.
“May I come in, Ralston?” he enquired, speaking softly, as though he
believed that his friend had a headache.
“Oh--hello, Frank! Is that you? Come in! I’m reading your novel. I’d
just found it.”
Little Frank Miner beamed with pleasure as he saw that the magazine was
really open at his own story, for he recognized that this, at least,
could not be a case of premeditated appreciation.
“Why--Jack--” he stammered a moment later, in evident surprise. “You
don’t look badly at all!”
“Did they say I was dead?” enquired Ralston, with a grim smile. “Take a
cigar. Sit down. Tell me all about my funeral.”
Miner laughed as he carefully cut off the end of the cigar and lit it--a
sort of continuous little gurgling laugh, like the purling of a brook.
“My dear boy,” he said, blowing out a quantity of smoke, and curling
himself up in the easy chair, “you’re the special edition of the day.
The papers are full of you--they’re selling like hot cakes
everywhere--your fight with Tom Shelton, the champion light weight--and
your turning up in the arms of two policemen--talk of a ‘jag!’ Lord!”
CHAPTER XXVIII.
John looked at Miner quietly for a few seconds, without saying anything.
The little man was evidently lost in admiration of the magnitude of his
friend’s ‘jag,’ as he called it.
“I say, Frank,” said Ralston, at last, “it’s all a mistake, you know. It
was a series of accidents from beginning to end.”
“Oh--yes--I suppose so. You managed to accumulate quite a number of
accidents, as you say.”
Ralston was silent again. He was well aware of the weight of the
evidence against him, and he wished to enter upon his explanation by
degrees, in order that it might be quite clear to Miner.
“Look here,” he began, after a while. “I’m not the sort of man who tries
to wriggle out of things, when he’s done them, am I? Heaven knows--I’ve
been in scrapes enough! But you never knew me to deny it, nor to try and
make out that I was steady when I wasn’t. Did you, Frank?”
“No,” answered Miner, thoughtfully. “I never did. That’s a fact. It’s
quite true.”
The threefold assent seemed to satisfy Ralston.
“All right,” he said. “Now I want you to listen to me, because this is
rather an extraordinary tale. I’ll tell it all, as nearly as I can, but
there are one or two gaps, and there’s a matter connected with it about
which I don’t want to talk to you.”
“Go ahead,” answered Miner. “I’ve got some perfectly new faith out--and
I’m just waiting for you. Produce the mountain, and I’ll take its
measure and remove it at a valuation.”
Ralston laughed a little and then began to tell his story. It was, of
course, easy for him to omit all mention of Katharine, and he spoke of
his interview with Robert Lauderdale as having taken place in connection
with an idea he had of trying to get something to do in the West, which
was quite true. He omitted also to mention the old gentleman’s amazing
manifestation of eccentricity--or folly--in writing the cheque which
John had destroyed. For the rest, he gave Miner every detail as well as
he could remember it. Miner listened thoughtfully and never interrupted
him once.
“This isn’t a joke, is it, Jack?” he asked, when John had finished with
a description of Doctor Routh’s midnight visit.
“No,” answered Ralston, emphatically. “It’s the truth. I should be glad
if you would tell any one who cares to know.”
“They wouldn’t believe me,” answered Miner, quietly.
“I say, Frank--” John’s quick temper was stirred already, but he checked
himself.
“It’s all right, Jack,” answered Miner. “I believe every word you’ve
told me, because I know you don’t invent--except about leaving cards on
stray acquaintances at the Imperial, when you happen to be thirsty.”
He laughed good-naturedly.
“That’s another of your mistakes,” said Ralston. “I know--you mean last
Monday. I did leave cards at the hotel. I also had a cocktail. I didn’t
say I wasn’t going to, and I wasn’t obliged to say so, was I? It wasn’t
your business, my dear boy, nor Ham Bright’s, either.”
“Well--I’m glad you did, then. I’m glad the cards were real, though it
struck me as thin at the time. I apologize, and eat humble pie. You know
you’re one of my illusions, Jack. There are two or three to which I
cling. You’re a truthful beggar, somehow. You ought to have a little
hatchet, like George Washington--but I daresay you’d rather have a
little cocktail. It illustrates your nature just as well. Bury the
hatchet and pour the cocktail over it as a libation--where was I?
Oh--this is what I meant, Jack. Other people won’t believe the story, if
I tell it, you know.”
“Well--but there’s old Routh, after all. People will believe him.”
“Yes--if he takes the trouble to write a letter to the papers, over his
name, degrees and qualifications. Of course they’ll believe him. And the
editors will do something handsome. They won’t apologize, but they’ll
say that a zebra got loose in the office and upset the type while they
were in Albany attending to the affairs of the Empire State--and that’s
just the same as an apology, you know, which is all you care for. You
can’t storm Park Row with the gallant Four Hundred at your back. In the
first place, Park Row’s insured, and secondly, the Four Hundred would
see you--further--before they’d lift one of their four thousand fingers
to help you out of a scrape which doesn’t concern them. You’d have to be
a parson or a pianist, before they’d do anything for you. It’s ‘meat,
drink and pantaloons’ to be one of them, anyhow--and you needn’t expect
anything more.”
“Where do you get your similes from, Frank!” laughed Ralston.
“I don’t know. But they’re good ones, anyway. Why don’t you get Routh to
write a letter, before the thing cools down? It could be in the evening
edition, you know. There have been horrid things this
morning--allusions--that sort of thing.”
“Allusions to what?” asked Ralston, quickly and sharply.
“To you, of course--what did you suppose?”
“Oh--to me! As though I cared! All the same, if old Routh would write,
it would be a good thing. I wish he were going to be at the Van De
Waters’ dinner to-night.”
“Why? Are you going there? So am I.”
“It seems to be a sort of family tea-party,” said Ralston. “Bright’s
going, and cousin Katharine, and you and I. It only needs the Crowdies
and a few others to make it complete.”
“Well--you see, they’re cousins of mine, and so are you, and that sort
of makes us all cousins,” observed Miner, absently. “I say, Jack--tell
the story at table, just as you’ve told it to me. Will you? I’ll set you
on by asking you questions. Stunning effect--especially if we can get
Routh to write the letter. I’ll cut it out of a paper and bring it with
me.”
“You know him, don’t you?” asked Ralston.
“Know him? I should think so. Ever since I was a baby. Why?”
“I wish you’d go to him this morning, Frank, and get him to write the
letter. Then you could take it to one of the evening papers and get them
to put it in. You know all those men in Park Row, don’t you?”
“Much better than some of them want to know me,” sighed the little man.
“However,” he added, his bright smile coming back at once, “I ought not
to complain. I’m getting on, now. Let me see. You want me to go to Routh
and get him to write a formal letter over his name, denying all the
statements made about you this morning. Isn’t that taking too much
notice of the thing, after all, Jack?”
“It’s going to make a good deal of difference to me in the end,”
answered Ralston. “It’s worth taking some trouble for.”
“I’m quite willing,” said Miner. “But--I say! What an extraordinary
story it is!”
“Oh, no. It’s only real life. I told you--I only had one accident, which
was quite an accident--when I tumbled down in that dark street.
Everything else happened just as naturally as unnatural things always
do. As for upsetting Ham Bright at the club, I was awfully sorry about
that. It seemed such a low thing to do. But then--just remember that I’d
been making a point of drinking nothing for several days, just by way of
an experiment, and it was irritating, to say the least of it, to be
grabbed by the arm and told that I was screwed. Wasn’t it, Frank? And
just at that moment, uncle Robert had telephoned for me to come up, and
I was in a tremendous hurry. Just look at in that way, and you’ll
understand why I did it. It doesn’t excuse it--I shall tell Ham that
I’m sorry--but it explains it. Doesn’t it?”
“Rather!” exclaimed Miner, heartily.
“By the bye,” said Ralston, “I wanted to ask you something. Did that
fellow Crowdie hold his tongue? I suppose he was at the Assembly last
night.”
“Well--since you ask me--” Miner hesitated. “No--he didn’t. Bright gave
it to him, though, for telling cousin Emma.”
“Brute! How I hate that man! So he told cousin Emma, did he? And the
rest of the family, too, I suppose.”
“I suppose so,” answered Miner, knowing that Ralston meant Katharine.
“Everybody knew about the row at the club, before the evening was half
over. Teddy Van De Water said he supposed you’d back out of the dinner
to-night and keep quiet till this blew over. I told Teddy that perhaps
he’d better come round and suggest that to you himself this morning, if
he wanted to understand things quickly. He grinned--you know how he
grins--like an organ pipe in a white tie. But he said he’d heard Bright
leathering into Crowdie--that’s one of Teddy’s expressions--so he
supposed that things weren’t as bad as people said--and that Crowdie was
only a ‘painter chap,’ anyhow. I didn’t know what that meant, but feebly
pointed out that Crowdie was a great man, and that his wife was a sort
of cousin of mine, and that she, at least, had a good chance of having
some of cousin Robert’s money one of these days. Not that I wanted to
defend Crowdie, or that I don’t like Teddy much better--but then, you
know what I mean! He’ll be calling me ‘one of those literary chaps,’
next, with just the same air. One’s bound to stand up for art and
literature when one’s a professional, you know, Jack. Wasn’t I right?”
“Oh, perfectly!” answered Ralston, with a smile. “But will you do that
for me, Frank?”
“Of course I will. You’re one of my illusions, as I told you. I’m
willing to do lots of things for my illusions. I’ll go now, and then
I’ll come back and tell you what the old chap says. If by any chance he
gets into a rage, I’ll tell him that I didn’t come so much to talk about
you as to consult him about certain symptoms of nervous prostration I’m
beginning to feel. He’s death on nervous prostration--he’s a perfect
terror at it--he’ll hypnotise me, and put me into a jar of spirits, and
paint my nose with nervine and pickled electricity and things, and sort
of wake me up generally.”
“All right--if you can stand it, I can,” said Ralston. “I’d go
myself--only only--”
“You’re pretty badly used up,” interrupted Miner, completing the
sentence in his own way. “I know. I remember trying to play football
once. Those little games aren’t much in my line. Nature meant me for
higher things. I tried football, though, and then I said, like
Napoleon--you remember?--‘Ces balles ne sont pas pour moi.’ I couldn’t
tell where I began and the football ended--I felt that I was a safe
under-study for a shuttlecock afterwards. That’s just the way you feel,
isn’t it? As though it were Sunday, and you were the frog--and the boys
had gone back to afternoon church? I know! Well--I’ll come back as soon
as I’ve seen Routh. Good-bye, old man--don’t smoke too much. I do--but
that’s no reason.”
The little man nodded cheerfully, knocked the ashes carefully from the
end of his cigar--he was neat in everything he did--and returned it to
his lips as he left the room. Ralston leaned back in his arm-chair again
and rested his feet on the fender. The fire his mother had made so
carefully was burning in broad, smoking flames. He felt cold and
underfed and weary, so that the warmth was very pleasant; and with all
that came to his heart now, as he thought of his mother, there mingled
also a little simple, childlike gratitude to her for having made up such
a good fire.
The time passed, and still no word came from Katharine. He was willing
to find reasons or, at least, excuses, for her silence, but he was
conscious that they were of little value. He knew, now, that there had
really been paragraphs in the papers about him, as he had expected, and
that they had been of a very disagreeable nature. Katharine had probably
seen them, or one of them, besides having heard the stories that had
been circulated by Crowdie and others during the previous evening. He
fancied that he could feel her unbelief, hurting him from a distance, as
it were. Her face, cold and contemptuous, rose before him out of the
fire, and he took up the magazine again, and tried to hide it. But it
could not be hidden.
Surely by this time she must have got his letter. There could be no
reasonable doubt of that. He looked at his watch again, as he had done
once in every quarter of an hour for some time. It was twelve o’clock.
Miner had not stayed long.
John went over the scene on Wednesday evening, at the Thirlwalls’.
Katharine had been very sure of herself, at the last--sure that,
whatever he did, she should always stand by him. Events had put her to
the test soon enough, and this was the result. They had been married
twenty-four hours, and she would not even answer his note, because
appearances were against him.
And the great, strong sense of real innocence rose in him and defied and
despised the woman who could not trust him even a little. If the very
least of the accusations had been true, he would have humbled himself
honestly and said that she was right, and that she had promised too
much, in saying all she had said. At all times he was a man ready to
take the full blame of all he had done, to make himself out worse than
he really was, to assume at once that he was a failure and could do
nothing right. On the slightest ground, he was ready to admit everything
that people brought against him. Katharine, if he had even been living
as usual, would have been at liberty to reproach him as bitterly as she
pleased with his weakness, to turn her back on him and condemn him
unheard, if she chose. He would have been patient and would have
admitted that he deserved it all, and more also. He was melancholy, he
was discouraged with himself, and he was neither vain nor untruthful.
But he had made an effort, and a great one. There was in him something
of the ascetic, with all his faults, and something of the enthusiasm
which is capable of sudden and great self-denial if once roused. He knew
what he had done, for he knew what it had cost him, mentally and
physically. Lean as he had been before, he had grown perceptibly thinner
since Monday. He knew that, so far, he had succeeded. For the first
time, perhaps, he had every point of justice on his side. If he had
been inclined to be merciful and humble and submissive towards those who
doubted him now, he would not have been human. The two beings whom he
loved in the world, his mother and Katharine, were the very two who had
doubted him most. As for his mother, he had not persuaded her, for she
had persuaded herself--by means of such demonstration as no sane being
could have rejected, namely, the authoritative statement of a great
doctor, personally known to her. What had followed had produced a
strange result, for he felt that he was more closely bound to her than
ever before, a fact which showed, at least, that he did not bear malice,
however deeply he had been hurt. But he could not go about everywhere
for a week with Doctor Routh at his heels to swear to his sobriety. He
told himself so with some contempt, and then he thought of Katharine,
and his face grew harder as the minutes went by and no answer came to
his letter.
It was far more cruel of her than it had been in his mother’s case.
Katharine had only heard stories and reports of his doings, and she
should be willing to accept his denial of them on her faith in him. He
had never lied to her. On Wednesday night, he had gratuitously told her
the truth about himself--a truth which she had never suspected--and had
insisted upon making it out to be even worse than it was. His wisdom
told him that he had made a mistake then, in wilfully lowering himself
in her estimation, and that this was the consequence of that; if he had
not forced upon her an unnecessary confession of his weakness, she would
now have believed in his strength. But his sense of honour rose and
shamed his wisdom, and told him that he had done right. It would have
been a cowardly thing to accept what Katharine had then been forcing
upon him, and had actually made him accept, without telling her all the
truth about himself.
He had done wrong to yield at all. That he admitted, and repeated,
readily enough. He made no pretence of having a strong character, and he
had been wretchedly weak in allowing her to persuade him to the secret
marriage. He should have folded his arms and refused, from the first. He
had foreseen trouble, though not of the kind which had actually
overtaken him, and he should have been firm. Unfortunately, he was not
firm, by nature, as he told himself, with a sneer. Not that Katharine
had been to blame, either. She had made her reasons seem good, and he
should not have blamed her had she been ever so much in the wrong. There
his honour spoke again, and loudly.
But for what she was doing now, in keeping silence, leaving him without
a word when she must know that he was most in need of her faith and
belief--for abandoning him when it seemed as though every man’s hand
were turned against him--he could not help despising her. It was so
cowardly. Had it all been ten times true, she should have stood by him
when every one was abusing him.
It was far more cruel of her than of his mother, for all she knew of the
story had reached her by hearsay, whereas his mother had seen him, as he
had seen himself, and his appearance might well have deceived any one
but Doctor Routh. He did not ask himself whether he could ever forgive
her, for he did not wish to hear in his heart the answer which seemed
inevitable. As for loving her, or not loving her, he thought nothing
about it at that moment. With him, too, as with her, love was in a state
of suspended animation. It would have been sufficiently clear to any
outsider acquainted with the circumstances that when the two met that
evening, something unusual would probably occur. Katharine, indeed,
believed that John would not appear at the dinner-party; but John, who
firmly intended to be present, knew that Katharine was going, and he
expected to be placed beside her. It was perfectly well known that they
were in love with one another, and the least their greatest friends
could do was to let them enjoy one another’s society. This may have
been done partly as a matter of policy, for both were young enough and
tactless enough to show their annoyance if they were separated when they
chanced to be asked to sit at the same table. John looked forward to the
coming evening with some curiosity, and without any timidity, but also
without any anticipation of enjoyment.
He was trying to imagine what the conversation would be like, when Frank
Miner returned, beaming with enthusiasm, and glowing from his walk in
the cold, wet air. He had been gone a long time.
“Well?” asked John, as his friend came up to the fire, and held out his
hands to it.
“Very well--very well, indeed, thank you,” answered the latter, with a
cheerful laugh. “I’ll bet you twenty-five cents to a gold watch that you
can’t guess what’s happened--at Routh’s.”
“Twenty-five cents--to a gold watch? Oh--I see. Thank you--the odds
don’t tempt me. What did happen?”
“I say--those were awfully good cigars of yours, Jack!” exclaimed Miner,
by way of answer. “Haven’t you got another?”
“There’s the box. Take them all. What happened?”
“No--I’ll only take one--it would look like borrowing if I took two, and
I can’t return them. Jack, there’s a lot of good blood knocking about
in this family, do you know? I don’t mean about the cigars--I’m
naturally a generous man when it comes to taking things I like. But the
other thing. Do you know that somebody had been to Routh about making
him write the letter, before I got there?”
“What? To make him write it? Not Ham Bright? It would be like him--but
how should he have known about Routh?”
“No. It wasn’t Bright. Want to guess? Well--I’ll tell you. It was your
mother, Jack. Nice of her, wasn’t it?”
“My mother!”
Ralston leaned forward and began to poke the logs about. He felt a
curious sensation of gladness in the eyes, and weakness in the throat.
“Tell me about it, Frank,” he added, in a rather thick voice.
“There’s not much to tell. I marched in and stated my case. He’s between
seven and eight feet high, I believe, and he stood up all the time--felt
as though I were talking to scaffold poles. He listened in the calmest
way till I’d finished, and then took up a letter from his desk and
handed it to me to read and to see whether I thought it would do. I
asked what it meant, and he said he’d just written it at the request of
Mrs. Ralston, who had left him a quarter of an hour ago, and that if I
would take it to the proper quarter--as he expressed it--he should be
much obliged. He’s a brick--a tower of strength--a tower of bricks--a
perfect Babel of a man. You’ll see, when the evening papers come out--”
“Did you take it down town?”
“Of course. And I got hold of one of the big editors. I sent in word
that I had a letter from Doctor Routh which must be published in the
front page this evening unless the paper wanted Mr. Robert Lauderdale to
bring an action against them for libel to-morrow morning. You should
have seen things move. What a power cousin Robert is! I suppose I took
his name in vain--but I don’t care. Old Routh is not to be sneezed at,
either. You’ll see the letter. There’s some good old English in it. Oh,
it’s just prickly with epithets--‘unwarrantable liberty,’ ‘impertinent
scurrility’--I don’t know what the old doctor had for breakfast. It’s
not like him to come out like that, not a bit. He’s a cautious old bird,
as a rule, and not given to slinging English all over the ten-acre lot,
like that. You see, he takes the ground that you’re his patient, that
you had some sort of confustication of the back of your head, and that
to say that you were screwed when you were ill was a libel, that the
terms in which the editor had allowed the thing to appear proved that it
was malicious, and that as the editor was supposed to exercise some
control, and to use his own will in the matter of what he published and
circulated, it was wilfully published, since the city paid for places in
which people who had no control over their wills were kept for the
public safety, and that therefore the paragraph in question was a
wilfully malicious libel evidently published with the intention of doing
harm--and much more of the same kind of thing--all of which the editor
would have put into the waste paper basket if it had not been signed,
Martin Routh, M.D., with the old gentleman’s address. Moreover, the
editor asked me why, in sending in a message, I had made use of
threatening language purporting to come from Mr. Robert Lauderdale. But
as you had told me the whole story, I knew what to say. I just told him
that you had left the house of your uncle, Mr. Robert Lauderdale, after
spending some time with him, when you met with the accident in the
street which led to all your subsequent adventures. That seemed to
settle him. He said the whole thing had been a mistake, and that he
should be very sorry to have given Mr. Lauderdale any annoyance,
especially at this time. I don’t know what he meant by that, I’m
sure--unless uncle Robert is going to buy the paper for a day or two to
see what it’s like--you know the proprietor’s dead, and they say the
heirs are going to sell. Well--that’s all. Confound it, my cigar’s out.
I’m a great deal too good to you, Jack!”
Ralston had listened without comment while the little man told his
story, satisfied, as he proceeded from point to point, that everything
was going well for him, at last, and mentally reducing Miner’s strong
expressions to the lowest key of probability.
“So it was my mother who went first to Doctor Routh,” he said, as though
talking with himself, while Miner relighted his cigar.
“Yes,” answered Miner, between two puffs. “I confess to having been
impressed.”
“It’s like her,” said John. “It’s just like her. You didn’t happen to
see any note for me lying on the hall table, did you?” he asked, rather
irrelevantly.
“No--but I’ll go and look, if you like.”
“Oh--it’s no matter. Besides, they know I haven’t been out this morning,
and they’d bring anything up. I’m very much obliged to you, Frank, for
all this. And I know that you’ll tell anybody who talks about it just
what I’ve told you. I should like to feel that there’s a chance of some
one’s knowing the truth when I come into the room this evening.”
“Oh, they’ll all know it by that time. Routh’s letter will run along the
ground like fire mingled with hail. As for Teddy Van De Water, he lives
on the papers. Of course they won’t fly at you and congratulate you all
over, and that sort of thing. They’ll just behave as though nothing at
all had happened, and afterwards, when we men are by ourselves, smoking,
they’ll all begin to ask you how it happened. That is, unless you want
to tell the story yourself at table, and in that case I’ll set you on,
as I said.”
“I don’t care to talk about it,” answered John. “But--look here,
Frank--listen! You’re as quick as anybody to see things. If you notice
that a number of the set don’t know about Routh’s letter--that there’s a
sort of hostile feeling against me at table--why, then just set me on,
as you call it, and I’ll defend myself. You see, I’ve such a bad temper,
and my bones ache, and I’m altogether so generally knocked out, that it
will be much better to give me my head with for a clear run, than to let
people look as though they should like to turn their backs on me, but
didn’t dare to. Do you understand?”
“All right, Jack. I won’t make any mistake about it.”
“Very well, then. It’s a bargain. We won’t say anything more about it.”
Miner presently took his departure, and John was left alone again. In
the course of time he gave up looking at his watch, and relinquished all
hope of hearing from Katharine. Little by little, the certainty formed
itself in his mind that the meeting that evening was to be a hostile
one.
Not very long after Miner had gone, another hand opened the door, and
John sprang to his feet, for even in the slight sound he recognized the
touch. Mrs. Ralston entered the room. With more impulsiveness than was
usual in him he went quickly to meet her, and threw his arms round her,
kissing her through her veil, damp and cold from the snowy air.
“Mother, darling--how good you are!” he exclaimed softly. “There isn’t
anybody like you--really.”
“Why--Jack? What is it?” asked Mrs. Ralston, happy, but not
understanding.
“Miner was here--he told me about your having been to old Routh to make
him write--”
“That? Oh--that’s nothing. Of course I went--the first thing. Didn’t he
say last night that he’d give his evidence in a court of law? I thought
he might just as well do it. The business is all settled, dear boy. I’ve
seen the lawyer, and he’s making out the deed. He’ll bring it here for
me to sign when he comes up from his office, and the transfers of the
titles will be registered to-morrow morning--just in time before
Sunday.”
“Don’t talk about that, mother!” answered John. “I didn’t want you to do
it, and it’s never going to make the slightest difference between us.”
“Well--perhaps not. But it makes all the difference to me. Promise me
one thing, Jack.”
“Yes, mother--anything you like.”
“Promise me to remember that if you and Katharine choose to get married,
in spite of her father and all the Lauderdales, this is your house, and
that you have a right to it. You won’t have much to live on, but you
won’t starve. Promise me to remember that, Jack. Will you?”
“I’ll promise to remember it, mother. But I’ll not promise to act on
it.”
“Well--that’s a matter for your judgment. Go and get ready for luncheon.
It must be time.”
Once more John put his arms round her neck, and drew her close to him.
“You’re very good to me, mother--thank you!”
CHAPTER XXIX.
Katharine spent more time than necessary over dressing for dinner on
that evening, not because she bestowed more attention than usual upon
her appearance, but because there were long pauses of which she was
scarcely conscious, although the maid reminded her from time to time
that it was growing late. The result, however, was satisfactory in the
opinion of her assistant, a sober-minded Scotch person of severe tastes,
who preferred black and white to any colours whatsoever, and thought
that the trees showed decided frivolity in being green, and that the
woods in autumn were positively improper.
It was undoubtedly true that the simple black gown, without ornament and
with very little to break its sweeping line, was as becoming to
Katharine’s strong beauty as it was appropriate to her frame of mind. It
made her look older than she was, perhaps, but being so young, the loss
was almost gain. It gave her dignity a background and a reason, as it
were. Her face was pale still, but not noticeably so, and her eyes were
quiet if not soft. Only a person who knew her very well would have
observed the slight but steady contraction of the broad eyebrows, which
was unusual. As a rule, if it came at all, it disappeared almost
instantly again. She remembered afterwards--as one remembers the absurd
details of one’s own thoughts--that when she had looked into the mirror
for the last time, she had been glad that her front hair did not curl,
and that she had never yielded to the temptation to make it curl, as
most girls did. She had been pleased by the simplicity of the two thick,
black waves which lay across the clear paleness of her forehead, like
dark velvet on cream-white silk. She forgot the thought instantly, but,
later, she remembered how severe and straight it had looked, and the
consciousness was of some value to her--as the least vain man, taken
unexpectedly to meet and address a great assembly, may be momentarily
glad if he chances to be wearing a particularly good coat. The gravest
of us have some consciousness of our own appearance, and be our strength
what it may, when it is appropriate to appear in the wedding garment, it
is good for us to be wearing one.
Katharine stopped at her mother’s door as she descended the stairs. Mrs.
Lauderdale was dining at home, and the Lauderdales dined at eight
o’clock, so that she was still in her room at ten minutes before the
hour. Katharine knocked and entered. Her mother was standing before the
mirror. The door which led to her father’s dressing-room, by a short
passage between two wardrobes built into the house, was wide open.
Katharine heard him moving some small objects on his dressing-table.
“You’re late, child,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, not turning, for as
Katharine entered, she could see her reflection in the mirror. “Are you
going to take Jane with you? If not, I wish you’d tell her to come here,
as you go down--I let you have her because I knew you’d be late.”
“No,” answered Katharine, “I don’t want her--she’s only in the way. It’s
the Van De Waters’, you know. Good night, mother.”
“Good night, darling--enjoy yourself--you’ll be late, of course--they’ll
dance, or something.”
“Yes--but I shan’t stay. I’m tired. Good night again.”
Katharine was going to the door, when her father appeared from his
dressing-room, serenely correct, as usual, but wearing his black tie
because no one was coming to dinner.
“I want to speak to you, Katharine,” he said.
She turned and stood still in the middle of the room, facing him. He had
a letter in his hand.
“Yes, papa,” she answered quietly, not anticipating trouble.
“I’m sorry I could not see you earlier,” said Alexander Junior, coming
forward and fixing his steely eyes on his daughter’s face. “But I
hadn’t an opportunity, because I was told that you were asleep when I
came home. This morning, as I was leaving the house as usual, a
messenger put this letter into my hands. It has a special delivery stamp
on it, and you will see that the mark on the dial edge stands at eight
forty-five A.M. Consequently, the boy who brought it was dilatory in
doing his duty. It is addressed to you in John Ralston’s handwriting.”
“Why didn’t you send it up to me, instead of keeping it all day?”
enquired Katharine, with cold surprise.
“Because I do not intend that you shall read it,” answered her father,
his lips opening and shutting on the words like the shears of a
cutting-machine.
Mrs. Lauderdale turned round from the mirror and looked at her husband
and daughter. It would have been impossible to tell from her face
whether she had been warned of what was to be done or not, but there was
an odd little gleam in her eyes, of something which might have been
annoyance or satisfaction.
“Why don’t you intend me to read my letters?” asked Katharine in a lower
tone.
“I don’t wish you to correspond with John Ralston,” answered Alexander
Junior. “You shall never marry him with my consent, especially since he
has disgraced himself publicly as he did yesterday. There was an account
of his doings in the morning papers. I daresay you’ve not seen it. He
was taken home last night in a state of beastly intoxication by two
policemen, having been picked up by them out of a drunken brawl with a
prize-fighter. To judge from the handwriting of the address on this
letter, it appears to have been written while he was still under the
influence of liquor. I don’t mean that my daughter shall receive letters
written by drunken men, if I can help it.”
“Show me the letter,” said Katharine, quietly.
“I’ll show it to you because, though you’ve never had any reason to
doubt my statements, I wish you to have actually seen that it has not
been opened by me, nor by any one. My judgment is formed from the
handwriting solely, but I may add that it is impossible that a man who
was admittedly in a state of unconsciousness from liquor at one o’clock
in the morning, should be fit to write a letter to Katharine Lauderdale,
or to any lady, within six hours. The postmark on the envelope is
seven-thirty. Am I right?” He turned deliberately to Mrs. Lauderdale.
“Perfectly,” she answered, with sincere conviction.
And it must be allowed that, from his point of view, he was not wrong.
He beckoned Katharine to the gas-light beside the mirror and held up
the letter, holding it at the two sides of the square envelope in the
firm grip of his big, thin fingers, as though he feared lest she should
try to take it. But Katharine did not raise her hands, as she bent
forward and inspected the address. It was assuredly not written in
John’s ordinary hand, though the writing was recognizable as his, beyond
doubt. There was an evident attempt at regularity, but a too evident
failure. It looked a little as though he had attempted to write with his
left hand. At one corner there was a very small stain of blood, which,
as every one knows, retains its colour on writing paper, even under
gas-light, for a considerable time. It will be remembered that John had
hurt his right hand.
Katharine’s brows contracted more heavily. She was disgusted, but she
was also pained. She looked long and steadily at the writing, and her
lips curled slightly. Alexander Lauderdale turned the letter over to
show her that it was sealed. Again, where the finger had hurriedly
pressed the gummed edge of the envelope, there was a little mark of
blood. Katharine drew back very proudly, as from something at once
repulsive and beneath her woman’s dignity. Her father looked at her
keenly and coldly.
“Have you satisfied yourself?” he enquired. “You see that it has not
been opened, do you?”
“Yes.”
“I will burn it,” said Alexander Lauderdale, still watching her.
“Yes.”
He seemed surprised, for he had expected resistance, and perhaps some
attempt on her part to get possession of the letter and read it. But she
stood upright, silent, and evidently disgusted. He lifted his hand and
held the letter over the flame of the gas-light until it had caught fire
thoroughly. Then he laid it in the fireless grate--the room, like all
the rest of the house, was heated by the furnace,--and with his usual
precise interpretation of his own conscience’s promptings, he turned his
back on it, lest by any chance he should see and accidentally read any
word of the contents as the paper curled and flared and blackened and
fell to ashes. Katharine, however, was well aware that a folded letter
within its envelope will rarely burn through and through if left to
itself. She went to the hearth and watched it. It had fallen flat upon
the tiles, and one thickness after another flamed, rose from one end and
curled away as the one beneath it took fire. She would not attempt to
read one of the indistinct words, but she could not help seeing that it
had been a long letter, scrawled in a handwriting even more irregular
than that on the envelope. The leaves turned black, one by one, rising
and remaining upright like black funeral feathers, till at last there
was only a little blue light far down in the heart of them. That, too,
went out, and a small, final puff of smoke rose and vanished. Katharine
turned the heap over with the tongs. Only one little yellow bit of paper
remained unconsumed at the bottom. It was almost round, and as she
turned it over, she read on it the number of the house. That was all
that had not been burned.
“I’m glad to see that you look at the matter in its true light,” said
her father, as she stood up again.
“How should I look at it?” asked Katharine, coldly. “Good night,
mother--good night,” she repeated, nodding to her father.
She turned and left the room. A moment later she was on her way to the
Van De Waters’ house, leaning back in the dark, comfortable brougham,
her feet toasting on the foot-warmer, and the furs drawn up closely
round her. It was a bitterly cold night, for a sharp frost had succeeded
the snow-storm after sunset. Even inside the carriage Katharine could
feel that there was something hard and ringing in the quality of the air
which was in harmony with her own temper. She had plenty of time to go
over the scene which had taken place in her mother’s room, but she felt
no inclination to analyze her feelings. She only knew that this letter
of John’s, written when he was still half senseless with drink, was
another insult, and one deeper than any she had felt before. It was a
direct insult--a sin of commission, and not merely of omission, like his
absence from the ball on the previous night.
She supposed, naturally enough, that he would not appear at the
dinner-party, but at that moment she was almost indifferent as to
whether he should come or not. She was certainly not afraid to meet him.
It would be far more probable, she thought, that he should be afraid to
meet her.
It was a quarter past eight when she reached the Van De Waters’, and she
was the last to arrive. It was a party of sixteen, almost all very
young, and most of them unmarried--a party very carefully selected with
a view to enjoyment--an intimate party, because many out of the number
were more or less closely connected and related, and it was indicative
of the popularity of the Lauderdales, that amongst sixteen young persons
there should be four who belonged more or less to the Lauderdale tribe.
There was Katharine, there was Hamilton Bright,--the Crowdies had been
omitted because so many disliked Crowdie himself,--there was little
Frank Miner, who was a near relation of the Van De Waters, and there
stood John Ralston, talking to Ruth Van De Water, before Crowdie’s new
portrait of her, as though nothing had happened.
Katharine saw him the moment she entered the room, and he knew, as he
heard the door opened, that she must be the last comer, since every one
else had arrived. Without interrupting his conversation with Miss Van De
Water, he turned his head a little and met Katharine’s eyes. He bowed
just perceptibly, but she gave him no sign of recognition, which was
pardonable, however, as he knew, since there were people between them,
and she had not yet spoken to Ruth herself, who, with her brother, had
invited the party. The elder Van De Waters had left the house to the
young people, and had betaken themselves elsewhere for the evening.
John continued to talk quietly, as Katharine came forward. As he had
expected, he had found her name on the card in the little envelope which
had been handed to him when he arrived, and he was to take her in to
dinner. Until late in the afternoon the brother and sister had hoped
that John would not come, and had already decided to ask in his place
that excellent man, Mr. Brown, who was always so kind about coming when
asked at the last minute. Then Frank Miner had appeared, with an evening
paper containing Doctor Routh’s letter, and had explained the whole
matter, so that they felt sympathy for John rather than otherwise,
though no one had as yet broached to him the subject of his adventures.
Naturally enough, the Van De Waters both supposed that Katharine should
have been among the first to hear the true version of the story, and
they would not disarrange their table in order to separate two young
people who were generally thought to be engaged to be married. There
were, of course, a few present who had not heard of Doctor Routh’s
justification of John.
Katharine came across directly, towards Ruth Van De Water, and greeted
her affectionately. John came forward a little, waiting to be noticed
and to shake hands in his turn. Katharine prolonged the first exchange
of words with her young hostess rather unnecessarily, and then, since
she could not avoid the meeting, held out her hand to John, looking
straight and coldly into his eyes.
“You’re to take Miss Lauderdale in, you know, Mr. Ralston,” said Miss
Van De Water, who knew that dinner would be announced almost
immediately, and that Katharine would wish to speak to the other guests
before sitting down.
“Yes--I found my card,” answered John, as Katharine withdrew her hand
without having given his the slightest pressure.
It was a strange meeting, considering that they had been man and wife
since the previous morning, and could hardly be said to have met since
they had parted after the wedding. Katharine, who was cold and angry,
wondered what all those young people would say if she suddenly announced
to them, at table, that John Ralston was her husband. But just then she
had no definite intention of ever announcing the fact at all.
John only partly understood, for he was sure that she must have received
his letter. But what he saw was enough to convince him that she had not
in the least believed what he had written, and had not meant to answer
him. He was pale and haggard already, but during the few minutes that
followed, while Katharine moved about the room, greeting her friends,
the strong lines deepened about his mouth and the shadows under his eyes
grew perceptibly darker.
A few minutes later the wide doors were thrown back and dinner was
announced. Without hesitation he went to Katharine’s side, and waited
while she finished speaking with young Mrs. Vanbrugh, his right arm
slightly raised as he silently offered it.
Katharine deliberately finished her sentence, nodded and smiled to Dolly
Vanbrugh, who was a friend of hers, and had been in some way concerned
in the famous Darche affair three or four years ago, as Mrs. Darche’s
intimate and confidante. Then she allowed her expression to harden
again, and she laid her hand on John’s arm and they all moved in to
dinner.
“I’m sorry,” said John, in a low, cold voice. “I suppose they couldn’t
upset their table.”
Katharine said nothing, but looked straight before her as they traversed
one beautiful room after another, going through the great house to the
dining-room at the back.
“You got my letter, I suppose,” said John, speaking again as they
crossed the threshold of the last door but one, and came in sight of the
table, gleaming in the distance under soft lights.
Katharine made a slight inclination of the head by way of answer, but
still said nothing. John thought that she moved her hand, as though she
would have liked to withdraw it from his arm, and he, for his part,
would gladly have let it go at that moment.
It was a very brilliant party, of the sort which could hardly be
gathered anywhere except in America, where young people are not
unfrequently allowed to amuse themselves together in their own way
without the interference or even the presence of elders--young people
born to the possession, in abundance, of most things which the world
thinks good, and as often as anywhere, too, to the inheritance of things
good in themselves, besides great wealth--such as beauty, health, a fair
share of wit, and the cheerful heart, without which all else is as
ashes.
Near one end of the table sat Frank Miner, who had taken in Mrs.
Vanbrugh, and who was amusing every one with absurd stories and
jokes--the small change of wit, but small change that was bright and
new, ringing from his busy little mint.
At the other end sat Teddy Van De Water, a good fellow at heart in spite
of his eyeglass and his affectations, discussing yachts and centreboards
and fin-keels with Fanny Trehearne, a girl who sailed her own boats at
Newport and Bar Harbor, and who cared for little else except music,
strange to say. Nearly opposite to Katharine and John was Hamilton
Bright, between two young girls, talking steadily and quietly about
society, but evidently much preoccupied, and far more inclined to look
at Katharine than at his pretty neighbours. He had seen Routh’s letter,
and had, moreover, exchanged a few words with Ralston in the hall,
having arrived almost at the same instant, and he saw that Katharine did
not understand the truth. Ralston had begun by apologizing to his friend
for what had happened at the club, but Bright, who bore no malice, had
stopped him with a hearty shake of the hand, and a challenge to wrestle
with him any day, for the honour of the thing, in the hall of the club
or anywhere else.
Frank Miner, too, from a distance, watched John and Katharine, and saw
that the trouble was great, though he laughed and chatted and told
stories, as though he were thoroughly enjoying himself. In reality he
was debating whether he should not bring up the subject which must be
near to every one’s thoughts, and give John a chance of telling his own
story. Seeing how the rest of the people were taking the affair, he
would not have done so, since all was pleasant and easy, but he saw also
that John could not possibly have an explanation with Katharine at
table, and that both were suffering. His kindly heart decided the
question. It would be a very easy matter to accomplish, and he waited
for a convenient opportunity of attracting attention to himself, so as
to obtain the ear of the whole large table, before he began. He was
perfectly conscious of his own extreme popularity, and knew that, for
once, he could presume upon it, though he was quite unspoiled by a long
career of little social successes.
John and Katharine exchanged a few words from time to time, for the sake
