ing my hand gallantly, "thou hast given me 
pleasure so often, most charming and clever of 
women, thou hast but added one new art to 
thy overflowing store. '' 
We mounted almost immediately upon 
returning, and I was alone with Chonita for a 
moment. ' ' Do you realize that you are 
playing with fire ? " I said, warningly. " Estenega 
is a dangerous man ; the most successful man 
with women I have ever known." 
'* I do not deny his power," she said. " But 
I am safe, for the many reasons thou knowest 
of. And, being safe, why should I deny my- 
self the pleasure of talking to him ? I shall 
never meet his like again. Let me live for a 
little while." 
"Ay, but do not live too hard! It hurts 
down into the core and marrow."
XX. 
While we were eating supper, a dozen Indian 
girls were gathered about a table in one of the 
large rooms behind the house, busily engaged 
in blowing out the contents of several hundred 
eggs and filling the hollowed shells with 
cologne, flour, tinsel, bright scraps of paper. Each 
cggr was then sealed with white wax, and ready 
for the cascaron frolic of the evening. 
We had been dancing, singing, and talking 
for an hour after rosario, when the eggs were 
brought in. In an instant every girl's hair was 
unbound, a wild dive was made for the great 
trays, and eggs flew in every direction. 
Dancing was forgotten. The girls and men chased 
each other about the room, the air was filled 
with perfume and glittering particles, the latter 
looking very pretty on black floating hair. 
Etiquette demanded that only one I should 
be thrown by the same hand at a time, but 
quick turns of supple wrists followed each other 
very rapidly. To really accomplish a feat the 
eg'g must crash on the back of the head, and 
each occupied in attack was easy prey. 
Chonita was like a child. Two priests were 
of our party, and she made a target of their 
shaven crowns, shrieking with delight. They 
vowed revenge, and chased her all over the 
house ; but not an ^^'g had broken on that 
golden mane. She was surrounded at one 
time by caballeros, but she whirled and 
doubled so swiftly that every cascaron flew 
afield. 
The pelting grew faster and more furious ; 
every room was invaded ; we chased each 
other up and down the corridors. The people 
in the court had their cascarones also, and the 
noise must have been heard at the Mission. 
Don Guillermo hobbled about delightedly, 
covered with tinsel and flour. Estenega had tried 
a dozen times to hit Chonita, but as if by in- 
stinct she faced him each time before the ^g% 
could leave his hand. Finally he pursued her 
down the corridor to her library, where I, for- 
tunately, happened to be resting, and both threw 
themselves into chairs, breathless. 
" Let us stay here, " he said. " We have 
had enough of this. " 
" Very well, " she said. She bent her head to 
lift a book which had fallen from a shelf, and 
felt the soft blow of the cascaron. 
" At last ! '' said Estenega, contentedly, " I 
was determined to conquer, if I waited until 
morning. " 
Chonita looked vexed for a moment, — she 
did not like to be vanquished, — then shrugged 
her shoulders and leaned back in her chair. 
The little room was plainly furnished. Shelves 
covered three sides, and the window-seat and 
the table were littered with books. There 
were no curtains, no ornaments ; but Chonita's 
hair, billowing to the floor, her slender 
voluptuous form, her white skin and green 
irradiating eyes, the candlelight half revealing, half 
concealing, made a picture requiring no back- 
ground. I caught the expression of Estenega's 
face, and determined to remain if he murdered 
me. 
Peals of laughter, joyous shrieks, screams of 
mock terror, floated in to us. I broke a silence 
which was growing awkward : 
"How happy they are! Creatures of air 
and sunshine ! Life in this Arcadia is an idyl." 
"They are not happy," said Estenega, con- 
temptuously : " they are gay. They are light 
of heart through absence of material cares 
and endless sources of enjoyment, which in 
turn have bred a careless order of mind. But 
did each pause long enough to look into his 
own heart, would he not find a stone somewhere 
in its. depths? — perhaps a skull graven 
on the stone, — who knows ?" 
"0h, Diego!" I exclaimed, impatiently, 
"this is a party, not a funeral." 
"Then is no one happy?" asked Chonita, 
wistfully. 
" How can he be, when in each moment of 
attainment he is pricked by the knowledge that 
it must soon be over ? The youth is not happy, 
because the shadow of the future is on him. 
The man is not happy, because the knowledge 
of life's incompleteness is with him:" 
"Then of what use to live at all? " 
" No use. It is no use to die, neither, so we 
live. I will grant that there may be ten com- 
pletely happy moments in life, — the ten con- 
scious moments preceding certain death — and 
oblivion." 
" I will not discuss the beautiful hope of our 
religion with you, because you do not believe, 
and I should only get angry. But what are 
we to do with this life ? You say nothing is 
wrong nor right. What would you have the 
stumbling and unanchored do w^ith what has 
been thrust upon him ? " 
"Man, in his gropings down through the 
centuries, has concocted, shivered, and patched 
pertain social conditions well enough calgulated
to develop the best and the worst that is 
in us, making it easier for us to be bad than 
gfood, that good might be the standard. We 
feel a deeper satisfaction if we have conquered 
an evil impulse and done what is accepted as 
right, because we have groaned and stumbled 
in the doing, — that is all. Temptation is sweet 
only because the impulse comes from the 
depths of our being, not because it is difficult to 
be tempted. If we overcome, the satisfaction is 
deep and enduring, — which only goes to show 
that man is but a petty egotist, always drawing 
pictures of himself on a pedestal. The man 
who emancipates himself from traditions and 
yields to his impulses is debarred from happi- 
ness by the blunders of the blindfolded genera- 
tions preceding him, which arranged that to 
yield was easy and to resist difficult. Had they 
reversed the conditions and conclusions, the 
majority of the human race would have fought 
each other to death, but the selected remnant 
would have had a better time of it. 
' ' Let us suppose a case as conditions now 
exist. Assume, for the sake of argument, 
that you loved me and that you plucked from 
your nature your religion, your fidelity to your 
house, your love for your brother, and gave 
yourself to me. You would stand appalled at 
the sacrifice until you realized that you had 
come to me only because it would have been 
more difficult to stay away. You conquer the 
passionate cry of love, — the strongest the 
human compound has ever voiced, — and you 
are miserably happy for the rest of your life, 
no attitude being so pleasing to the soul as the 
attitude of martyrdom. Many a man and 
woman looks with some impatience for the 
last go6d-bye to be said, so sweet is the pros- 
pect of sadness, of suffering, of resignation. " 
I was aghast at his audacity, but I saw that 
Chonita was fascinated. Her egotism was 
caressed, and her womanhood thrilled. '* Are 
we all such shams as that ? " was what she 
said. '*You make me despise myself." 
" Not yourself, but a great structure — of 
which you are but a grain — with a faulty 
foundation. Don't despise yourself. Curse 
the builders who shoveled those stones to- 
gether." 
He left her then, and she told me to go to 
bed ; she wanted to sit a while and think. 
"He makes you think too much," I said. 
'' Better forget what he says as soon as you < 
can. He is a very disturbing influence." 
But she made me no reply, and sat there 
staring at the floor. She began to feel a sense 
of helplessness, like a creature caught in a net. 
It was more the man's personality than his 
words which made her feel as if he were pour- 
ing himself throughout her, taking possession 
of brain and every sense, as though he were a 
sort of intellectual drug. 
"I believe I was made from his rib," she 
thought, angrily, " else why can he have this 
extraordinary power over me ? I do not love 
him. I have read somewhat of love, and seen 
more. This is different, quite. I only feel 
that there is something in him that I want. 
Sometimes I feel that I must dig my nail$ into 
him and tear him apart until I find what I 
want, — something that belongs to me. Some- 
times it is as if he promised it, at others as if 
if he were unconscious of its existence; 
always it is evanescent. Is he going to make 
my mind his own ? — and yet he always seems 
to leave mine free. He has never snubbed me. 
He makes me think : there is the danger." 
An hour later there was a tap on her door. 
Casa Grande was asleep. She sat upright, her 
heart beating rapidly. Estenega was audacious 
enough for anything. But it was her brother 
who entered. 
"Reinaldo ! " she exclaimed, horrified to feel 
an unmistakable stab of disappointment 
"Yes, it is I. Art thou alone ? " 
"Sure." 
' ' I have something to say to thee. " 
He drew a chair close to her and sat down. 
'* Thou kno west, my sister," he began, 
haltingly, "how I hate the house of Estenega. 
My hatred is as loyal as thine : every drop of 
blood in my veins is true to the honor of the 
house of Iturbi y Moncada. But, my sister, 
is it not so that one can sacrifice himself, his 
mere personal feelings, upon the altar of his 
country ? Is it not so, my sister ? " 
'* What is it thou wishest me to understand, 
Reinaldo?" 
" Do not look so stem, my Chonita. Thou 
hast not yet heard me ; and, although thou 
mayest be angry then, thou wilt reason later. 
Thou art devoted to thy house, no ? " 
" Thou hast come here in the night to ask 
me such a question as that ? " 
" And thou lovest thy brother ? " 
" Reinaldo, thou hast drunken more mescal 
than Angelica. Go back to thy bride." But, 
although she spoke lightly, she was uneasy. 
"My sister, I never drank a drop of mescal 
in my life ! Listen. It is our father's wish, 
thy wish, my wish, that I become a great and 
distinguished man, an ornament to the house 
of Iturbi y Moncada, a star on the brow of Cal- 
ifornia. How can I accomplish this great and 
desirable end ? By the medium of politics 
only ; our wars are so insignificant. I have 
been debarred from the Departmental Junta by 
the enemy of our house, else would it have 
rung with my eloquence, and Mexico have 
known me to-day. Yet I care little for the 
Junta. I wish to go as diputado to Mexico; it 
is a grander arena. Moreover, in that great 
capital I shall become a man of the world, — 
which is necessary to control men. That is his 
power, — curse him ! And he — he will not let 
me go there. Even Alvarado listens to him. 
The Departmental Junta is under his thumb. I 
will never be anything but a caballero of Santa 
Barbara — I, an Iturbi y Moncada, the last scion 
of a line illustrious in war, in diplomacy, in 
politics — until he is either dead — do not jump, 
my sister ; it is not my intention to murder him 
and ruin my career — or becomes my friend." 
" Canst thou not put thy meaning in fewer 
words ? " 
'* My sister, he loves thee, and thou lovest 
thy brother and thy house." 
Chonita rose to her full height, and although 
he rose too, and was taller, she seemed to look 
down upon him. 
"Thou wouldst have me many him? Is 
that thy meaning ? " 
"Ay." His voice trembled. Under his 
swagger he was always a little afraid of the 
Doomswoman. 
''Thou askest perjury and disloyalty and 
dishonor of an Iturbi y Moncada? " 
" An Iturbi y Moncada asks it of an Iturbi y 
Moncada. If the man is ready to bend his 
neck in sacrifice to the glory of his house, is it 
for the woman to think ? " 
Chonita stood grasping the back of her chair 
convulsively ; it was the only sign of emotion 
she betrayed. She knew that what he said 
was true : that Estenega, for public and per- 
sonal reasons, never would let him go to 
Mexico ; he would permit no enemy at court. 
But this knowledge drifted through her mind 
and out of it at the moment ; she was strug- 
gling to hold down a hot wave of contempt rush- 
ing upward within her. She clung to her tradi- 
I tions as frantically as she clung to her religion. 
"Go," she said, after a moment. 
" Thou wilt think of what I have said ? " 
" I shall pray to forget it." 
"Chonita ! " his voice rang out so loud that 
she placed her hand on his mouth. He dashed 
it away. " Thou wilt ! " he cried, like a spoilt 
child " Thou wilt I I shall go to the city of 
Mexico, and only thou canst send me there. 
All my father's gold and leagues will not buy 
me a seat in the Mexican Congress, unless this 
accursed Estenega lifts his hand and says, 
'Thou shalt.' Holy God! how I hate him! 
Would that I had the chance to murder him ! I 
would cut his heart out to-morrow. And my 
father likes him, and has outlived rancor. And 
thou — thou art not indifferent. " 
''Go!" 
He threw his arms about her, kissing and 
caressing her. "My sister ! My sister ! Thou 
wilt ! Say that thou wilt ! " But she flung him 
off as if he were a snake. 
" Wilt thou go ? " she asked. 
"Ay ! I go. But he shall suffer. I swear it ! 
I swear it ! " And he rushed from the room. 
Chonita sat there, staring more fixedly at the 
floor than when Estenega had left her. 
XXI. 
Reinaldo did not go to his Prudencia. He 
went down to the booths in the town and joined 
the late revelers. Don Guillermo, rising before 
dawn, and walking up and down the corridor 
to conquer the pangs of Dona Trinidad's dulces, 
noticed that the door of his son's room was ajar. 
He paused before it and heard slow, regular, 
patient sobs. He opened the door and went 
in. Prudencia, alone, curled up in a far corner 
of her bed, the clothes over her head, was 
bemoaning many things incidental to matrimony. 
As she heard the sound of heavy steps she gave 
a little shriek. 
" It is I, Prudencia, " said her un cle. ' ' Where 
is Reinaldo? " 
'* I — do — not — know." 
" Did he not come from the ball-room with 
thee ? " 
"N-o-o-o-o." 
" Dost thou know where he has gone ? " 
'*N-o-o-o, sefior." 
"Art thou afraid?" 
 
''Ky I God— of— my— life ! " 
" Never mind, " said the old gentleman. " Go 
to sleep. Thy uncle will protect thee, and 
this will not happen again." 
He seated himself by the bedside. Pruden- 
cia's sobs ceased gradually, and she fell asleep. 
An hour later the door opened softly, andRein- 
aldo entered. In spite of the mescal in him, his 
knees shook as he saw the indulgent but stern 
arbiter of the Iturbi y Moncada destinies sitting 
in judgment at the bedside of his wife. 
" Where have you been, sir ? " 
" To take a walk, — to see to 
" No lying! It makes no difference where 
you have been. What I want to know is this : 
Is it your duty to gallivant about town ? or is 
your place at this hour beside your wife ? " 
" Here, senor." 
The old man rose, and, seizing the bride- 
groom by the shoulders, shook him until his 
teeth clattered together. "Then see that you 
stay here with her hereafter, or you shall no 
longer be a married man." And he stamped 
out and slammed the door behind him. 
XXII. 
We spent the next day at the race-field. Many 
of the caballeros had brought their finest horses, 
and Reinaldo's were famous. The vaqueros 
threw off their black glazed sombreros and 
black velvet jackets, wearing only the short 
black trousers laced with silver, a shirt of 
dazzling whiteness, a silk handkerchief twisted 
about the head, and huge spurs on their bare 
brown heels. Some of us stood on a platform, 
others remained on their horses ; all were wild 
with excitement and screamed themselves 
hoarse. The great dark eyes of the girls flashed, 
their red mouths trembled with the flood of eager 
exclamations ; the lace mantilla or flowered 
reboso fluttered against hot cheeks, to be torn 
off, perhaps, and waved in the enthusiasm of 
the moment. They forgot the men, and the 
men forgot them. Even Chonita was oblivious 
to all else for the hour. She was a famous 
horsewoman, and keenly alive to the enchantment 
of the race-field. The men bet their 
ranchos, whole caponeras of their finest horses. 
herds of cattle, their saddles and their jewels. 
Estenega won largely, and, as it happened, 
from Reinaldo particularly. Don Guillermo 
was rather pleased than otherwise, holding his 
son to be in need of further punishment ; but 
Reinaldo was obliged to call upon all the cour- 
tesy of the Spaniard and all the falseness of his 
nature to help him remember that his enemy 
was his guest. 
We went home to siesta and long gay supper, 
where the races were the only topic of con- 
versation ; then to dance and sing and flirt until 
midnight, the people in the booths as tireless 
as ourselves. Valencia's attentions to Estenega 
were as conspicuous as usual, but he managed 
to devote most of his time to Chonita. 
That night Chonita had a dream. She 
dreamed that she awoke without a soul. The 
sense of vacancy was awful, yet there was a 
singular undercurrent consciousness that no 
soul ever had been within her, — that it existed, 
but was yet to be found. 
She aros6, trembling, and opened her door. 
Santa Barbara was as quiet as all the world is 
in the chill last hours of night. She half
expected to see something hover before her, a 
will-o'-the-wisp, alluring her over the rocky 
valleys and towering mountains until death 
gave her weary feet rest. She remembered 
vaguely that she had read legends of that pur- 
port. 
But there was nothing, — not even the glow 
of a late cigarito or the flash of a falling star. 
Still she seemed to know where the soul awaited 
her. She closed her door softly and walked 
swiftly down the corridor, her bare feet making 
no sound on the boards. At a door on the opposite
side she paused, shaking violently, but 
unable to pass it. She opened the door and 
went in. The room, like all the others in that 
time of festivity, had more occupants than was 
its wont ; abed was in each corner. The shut- 
ters and windows were open, the moonlight 
streamed in, and she saw that all were asleep. 
She crossed the room and looked down upon 
Diego Estenega. His night garment, low 
about the throat, made his head, with its sharply- 
cut profile, look like the heads on old Roman 
medallions. The pallor of night, the extreme 
refinement of his face, the deep repose, gave 
him an unmortal appearance. Chonita bent 
over him fearfully. Was he dead ? His breath- 
ing was regular, but very quiet. She stood 
gazing down upon him, the instinct of seeking 
vapished. What did it mean ? Was this her 
soul ! A man ? How could it be ? Even in 
poetry she had never read of a man being a 
woman's soul, — a man with all his frailties and 
sins, for the most part unrepented. She felt, 
rather than knew, that Estenega had trampled 
many laws, and that he cared too little for any 
law but his own will to repent. And yet, there 
he lay, looking, in the gray light and the im- 
personality of sleep, as sinless as if he had been 
created within the hour. He looked not like a 
man but a spirit, — a soul ; and the soul was hers. 
Again she asked herself, what did it mean ? 
Was the soul but brain ? She and he were so 
alike in rudiments, yet he so immeasurably 
beyond her in experience and knowledge and 
the stronger fiber of a man's mind 
He awoke suddenly and saw her. For a mo- 
ment he stared incredulously, then raised him- 
self on his hand. 
" Chonita I " he whispered. 
But Chonita, with the long glide of the Cali- 
fomian woman, faded from the room. 
When she awoke the next morning she was 
assailed by a distressing fear. Had she been 
to Estenega's room the night before ? The 
memory was too vivid, the details too practical, 
for a sleep-vagary. At breakfast she 
hardly dared to raise her eyes, She felt that 
he was watching her ; but he often watched 
her. After breakfast they were alone at one 
end of the corridor for a moment, and she com- 
pelled herself to raise her eyes and look at him 
steadily. He was regarding her searchingly. 
She was not a woman to endure uncertainty. 
" Tell me,'* she cried, trembling from head 
to foot, the blood rushing over her face, " did 
I go to your room last night ? " 
" Dona Chonita ! " he exclaimed. " What 
an extraordinary question ! You have been 
dreaming." 
XXIIL 
We went to a bull-fight that day, danced that 
night, meriendaed and danced again ; a siesta 
in the afternoon, a few hours' sleep in the night, 
refreshing us all. Chonita, alone, looked pale, 
but I knew that her pallor was not due to 
weariness. And I knew that she was begin- 
ning to fear Estenega ; the time was almost 
come when she would fear herself more. Es- 
tenega had several talks apart with her. He 
managed it without any apparent maneuvering; 
but he always had the devil's methods. Va- 
lencia avenged herself by flirting desperately 
with Reinaldo, and Prudencia's honeymoon 
was seasoned with gall. 
On Saturday night Chonita stole from her 
guests, donned a black gown and reboso, and, 
attended by two Indian servants, went up to the 
Mission to confession. As she left the church 
a half-hour later, and came down the steps, 
Estenega rose from a bench beneath the arches 
of the corridor and joined her. 
" How did you know that I came ? " she 
asked ; and it was not the stars that lit her 
face. 
''You do little that I do not know. Have 
you been to confession ? " 
-Yes." 
They walked slowly down the valley. 
'* And you forgave and were forgiven .?" 
'' Yes. Ay ! but my penance is heavy ! " 
'' But when it is done you will be at rest, I 
suppose." 
''Oh, I hope! I hope! " 
" Have you begun to realize that yourQiurch 
cannot satisfy you ? " 
" No ! I will not say that. " 
"But you know it. Your intelligence "has 
opened a window somewhere and the truth has 
crept in. " 
" Do not take my religion from me, seiior ! " 
Her eyes and voice appealed to him, and he 
accepted her first confession of weakness with 
a throb of exulting tenderness. 
"My love!" he said, "I would give you 
more than I took from you. " 
" No ! never ! — Even if we were not enemies, 
and I had not made that terrible vow, my re- 
ligion has been all in all to me. Just now I 
have many things that torment me ; and I have 
asked so little of religion before — my life has 
been so calm — that now I hardly know how to 
ask for so much more. I shall learn. Leave 
me in peace." 
" Do you want me to go.^ " he asked. " If 
you did, — if I troubled you by staying here, 
— I believe I would go. Only I know it 
would do no good : I should come back. " 
'* No ! no ! I do not want you to go. I 
should feel — I will admit to you — like a house 
without its foundation. And yet sometimes, I 
pray that you will go. Ay ! I do not like life. 
I used to have pride in my intelligence. Where 
is my pride now ? What good has the wisdom 
in my books done me, when I confess my de- 
pendence upon a man, and that man my enemy
— and the acquaintance of a few weeks ? " 
She was speaking incoherently, and Estenega 
chafed at the restraint of the servants so close 
behind them. '*Tell me," she exclaimed, 
''what is it in you that I want ? — that I need  
It is something that belongs to me. Give it to 
me, and go away." 
" Chonita, I give it to you gladly, God 
Knows. But you must take me, too. You 
want in me what is akin to you and what you 
will find nowhere else. But I cannot tear my 
soul out of my body. You must take both or 
neither. " 
'* Ay ! I cannot ! You know that I cannot I 
" I ignore your reasons." 
''But I do not." 
'* You shall, my beloved. Or if you do not 
ignore you shall forget them." 
'* When I am dead — would that I were ! " 
She was excited and trembling. The confes- 
sion had been an ordeal, and Esteneg^ was 
never trari^uillizing. She wished to cling to 
him, but was still mistress of herself. He 
divined her impulse, and drew her arm through 
his and across his breast. He opened her hand 
and pressed his lips to the palm. Then he 
bent his face above hers. She was trembling 
violently ; her face was wild and white. His 
own was ashen, and the heart beneath her 
arm beat rapidly. 
" I love you devotedly," he said. '* You 
believe that, Chonita ? " 
" Ah ! Mother of God ! do not ! I cannot 
listen." 
" But you shall listen. Throw off your su- 
perstitions and come to me. Keep the part of 
your religion that is not superstition ; I would 
be the last to take it from you ; but I will not 
permit its petty dogmas to stand between us. 
As for your traditions, you have not even the 
excuse of filial duty; your father would not 
forbid you to become my wife. And I love 
you very earnestly and passionately. Just 
how much, I might convey to you if we were 
alone. " 
He was obliged to exercise great self-re- 
straint, but there was no mistaking his serious- 
ness. When such scientific triflers do find a 
woman worth loving, they are too deeply sen- 
sible of the fact not to be stirred to their depths ; 
and their depths are apt to be in large dispro- 
portion to the lightness of their ordinary mood. 
" Come to me," he continued. " 1 need you ; 
and I will be as tender and thoughtful a hus- 
band as I will be ardent as a lover. You love 
me : don't blind yourself any longer. Do you 
picture, in a life of solitude and cold devotion 
to phantoms, any happiness equal to what you 
would find here in my arms ? " 
'* Oh, hush ! hush ! You could make me do 
what you wished. I have no will. I feel no 
longer myself. What is this terrible power ? " 
" It is the magnetism of love ; that is all. I 
am not exercising any diabolical power over 
you. Listen : I will not trouble you any more 
now. I am obliged to go to Los Angeles the 
day after to-morrow, and on my way back to 
Monterey — in about two weeks — I shall come 
here again. Then we will talk together ; but 
I warn you, I will accept only one answer. 
You are mine, and I shall have you." 
They reached Casa Grande a moment later, 
and she escaped from him and ran to her room. 
But she dared not remain alone. Hastily 
changing her black gown for the first her hand 
touched, — it happened to be vivid red and 
made her look as white as wax, — she returned 
to the sala ; not to dance even the square con- 
tradanza, but to stand surrounded by worship- 
ing caballeros with curling hair tied with gay 
ribbons, and jewels in their laces. Valencia 
regarded her with a bitter jealousy that was 
rising from red heat to white. How dared a 
woman with hair of gold wear the color of the 
brunette? It was a theft. It was the last 
indignity. And once more she chained Rei- 
naldo, in default of Estenega, to her side. And 
deep in Prudencia's heart wove a scheme of 
vengeance ; the loom and warp had been pre- 
sented unwittingly by her chivalrous father-in- 
law. 
Estenega remained in the sala a few mo- 
ments after Chonita's reappearance, then left 
the house and wandered through the booth in 
the court, where the people were dancing and 
singing and eating and gambling as if with the 
morrow an eternal Lent would come, and 
Hence through the silent town to the pleasure- 
grounds of Casa Grande, which lay about half 
a mile from the house. He had been there 
but a short while when he heard a rustle, a 
light footfall ; and, turning, he saw Chonita, 
unattended, her bare neck and gold hair gleam- 
ing against the dark, her train dragging. She 
was advancing swiftly toward him. His pulses 
bounded, and he sprang toward hef, his arms 
outstretched ; but she waved him back. 
" Have mercy," she said. "I am alone. I 
brought no one, because I have that to tell you 
which no one else must hear." 
He stepped back and looked at the ground. 
'* Listen," she said. '* I could not wait un- 
til to-morrow, because a moment lost might 
mean — might mean the ruin of your career, and 
you say your envoy has not gone yet. Just 
now — I will tell you the other first. Mother of 
God ! that I should betray my brother to my 
enemy ! But it seems to me right, because 
you placed your confidence in me, and I should 
feel that I betrayed you if I did not warn you. 
I do not know — oh, Mary ! — I do not know — 
but this seems to me right. The other night 
my brother came to me and asked me — ay ! 
do not look at me — to marry you, that you 
would balk his ambition no further. He 
wishes to go as diputado to Mexico, and he 
knows that you will not let him. I thought my 
brain would crack, — an Iturbi y Moncada ! — 
I made him no answer, — there was no answer 
to a demand like that, — and he went from me 
in a fury, vowing vengeance upon you. To- 
night, a few moments ago, he whispered to 
me that he knew of your plans, your intentions 
regarding the Americans : he had overheard a 
conversation between you and Alvarado. He 
says that he will send letters to Mexico to-mor- 
row, warning the government against you. 
Then their suspicions will be roused, and they 
will inquire — Ay, Mary ! " 
Estenega brought his teeth together. 
" God ! " he exclaimed. 
She saw that he had forgotten her. She 
turned and went back more swiftly than she 
had come. 
Estenega was a man whose resources never 
failed him. He returned to the house and 
asked Reinaldo to smoke a cigarito and drink 
a bottle of wine in his room. Then, without a 
promise or a compromising word, he so flattered 
that shallow youth, so allured his ambition and 
pampered his vanity and watered his hopes, 
that fear and hatred wondered at their exist- 
ence, closed their eyes, and went to sleep. 
Reinaldo poured forth his aspirations, which 
under the influence of the truth-provoking vine 
proved to be an honest yearning for the pleas- 
ures of Mexico. As he rose to go he threw his 
arm about Estenega's neck. 
"Ay ! my friend! my friend! "he cried, 
"thou art all-powerful. Thou alone canst 
give me what I want." 
"Whydidyou never ask me for what you 
wanted ? " asked Estenega. And he thought, 
" If it were not for Her, you would be on your 
way to Los Angeles to-night under charge of 
high treason. I would not have taken this 
much trouble with you." 
XXIV. 
A RODEO was held the next day, — the last of 
the festivities ; — Don Guillermo taking 
advantage of the gathering of the rancheros. It was 
to take place on the Cerros Rancho, which 
adjoined the Rancho de las Rocas. We went 
early, most of us dismounting and taking to 
the platform on one side of the circular rodeo- 
ground. The vaqueroswere already galloping 
over the hills, shouting and screaming to the 
cattle, who ran to them like dogs ; soon a herd 
came rushing down into the circle, where they 
were thrown down and branded, the stray
cattle belonging to neighbors separated and 
corralled. This happened again and again, the 
interest and excitement growing with each 
round-up. 
Once a bull, seeing his chance, darted from 
his herd and down the valley. A vaquero 
started after him ; but Reinaldo, anxious to 
display his skill in horsemanship, and being 
still mounted, called to the vaquero to stop, 
dashed after the animal, caught it by its tail, 
spurred his horse ahead, let go the tail at the 
right moment, and, amidst shouts of '*Coliar ! " 
"Coliar ! " the bull was ignominiously rolled in 
the dust, then meekly preceded Reinaldo back 
to the rodeo-ground. 
After the dinner under the trees most of the 
party returned to the platform, but Estenega, 
Adan, Chonita, Valencia, and myself strolled 
about the rancho. Adan walked at Chonita's 
side, more faithful than her shadow. Valencia's 
black eyes flashed their language so plainly to 
Estenega's that he could not have deserted her 
without rudeness ; and Estenega never was 
rude. 
''Adan," said Chonita, abruptly, "I am tired 
of thee. Sit down under that tree until I come 
back. I wish to walk alone with Eustaquia for 
a while." 
Adan sighed and did as he was bidden, con- 
soling himself with a cigarito. Taking a differ- 
ent path from the one the others followed, we 
walked some distance, talking of ordinary mat- 
ters, both avoiding the subject of Diego Este- 
nega by common consent. And yet I was 
convinced that she carried on a substratum of 
thought of which he was the subject, even 
while she talked coherently to me. On our 
way back the conversation died for want of 
bone and muscle, and, as it happened, we were
both silent as we approached a small adobe 
hut. As we turned the corner we came upon 
Estenega and Valencia. He had just bent his 
head and kissed her. 
Valencia fled like a hare. Estenega turned 
the hue of chalk, and I knew that blue light- 
ning was flashing in his disconcerted brain. I 
felt the chill of Chonita as she lifted herself to 
the rigidity of a statue and swept slowly down 
the path. 
" Diego, you are a fool ! " I exclaimed, when 
she was out of hearing. 
"You need not tell me that," he said, 
savagely. "But what in heaven's name 
Well, never mind. For God's sake straighten 
it out with her. Tell her — explain to her — 
what men are. Tell her that the present 
woman is omnipotently present — no, don't tell 
her that. Tell her that history is full of 
instances of men who have given one woman the 
devoted love of a lifetime and been unfaithful 
to her every week in the year. Explain to her 
that a man to love one woman must love all 
women. And she has sufficient proof that I 
love her and no other woman : I want to 
marry her, not Valencia Menendez. Heaven 
knows I will be true to her when I have her. 
I could not be otherwise. But I need not 
explain to you. Set it right with her. She has 
brain, and can be made to understand." 
I shook my head. " You cannot reason with' 
inexperience ; and when it is allied to jealousy 
— God of my soul ! Her ideal, of course, is 
perfection, and does not take human weakness 
into account. You have fallen short of it to- 
day. I fear your cause is lost. " 
* It is not I Do you think I will give her up 
for a trifle like that ? " 
" But why not accept this break ? You can- 
not marry her '' 
"0h, do not refer to that nonsense!" he 
exclaimed, harshly. " I shall peel off her tra- 
ditions when the time comes, as I would strip 
off the outer hulls of a nut. Go ! Go, Eusta- 
quia ! " 
Of course I went. Chonita was not at the 
rodeo-ground, but, escorted by her father, had 
gone home. I followed immediately, and when 
I reached Casa Grande I found her sitting in 
her library. I never saw a statue look more 
like marble. Her face was locked : only the 
eyes betrayed the soul in torment. But she 
looked as immutable as a fate. 
" Chonita," I exclaimed, hardly knowing 
where to begin, "be reasonable. Men of 
Estenega's brain and passionate affectionate 
nature are always weak with women, but it 
means nothing. He cares nothing for Valencia 
Menendez. He is madly in love with you. 
And his weakness, my dear, springs from the 
same source as his charm. He would not 
be the man he is without it. His heart would 
be less kindly, his impulses less generous, his 
brain less virile, his sympathies less instinctive 
and true. The strong impregnable man, the 
man whom no vice tempts, no weakness assails, 
who is loyal without effort, — such a man lacks 
breadth and magnetism and the power to read 
the human heart and sympathize with both its 
noble impulses and its terrible weaknesses. Such 
men — I never have known it to fail — are full of 
petty vanities and egoisms and contemptible 
weaknesses, the like of which Estenega could 
not be capable of. No man can be perfect, 
and it is the man of great strength and great 
weakness who alone understands and sympa- 
thizes with human nature, who is lovable and 
magnetic, and who has the power to rouse the 
highest as well as the most passionate love of 
a woman. Such men cause infinite suffering, 
but they can give a happiness that makes the 
suffering worth while. You never will meet 
another man like Diego Estenega. Do not cast 
him lightly aside." 
"Do I understand,' said Chonita, in a 
perfectly unmoved voice, "that you are counsel- 
ing me to marry an Estenega and the man who 
would send me to Hell hereafter ? Do you 
forget my vow ? " 
I came to myself with a shock. In the 
enthusiasm of my defense I had forgotten the 
situation. 
"At least forgive him," I said, lamely. 
" I have nothing to forgive,'* she said. " He 
is nothing to me." 
I knew that it was useless to argue with her. 
"I have a favor to ask of you," she said. 
'* Most of our guests leave this afternoon : will 
you let me sleep alone to-night ? " 
I should have liked to put my arm about her 
and give her a woman's sympathy, but I did 
not dare. All I could do was to leave her 
alone. 
XXV. 
Casa Grande held three jealous women. The 
situation had its comic aspect, but was tragic 
enough to the actors. 
In the evening the lingering guests of the 
house and the neighbors of the town assembled 
as usual for the dance. Only Estenega ab- 
sented himself. Valencia stood her ground : 
she would not go while Estenega remained. 
Chonita moved proudly among her guests, and 
never had been more gracious. Valencia dared 
not meet her eyes nor mine, but, seeing that 
Prudencia was watching her, avenged her 
own disquiet by enhancing that of the bride. 
Never did she flirt so imperiously with Reinaldo 
as she did that fateful night ; and Reinaldo, 
who was man's vanity collected and com- 
pounded, devoted himself to the dashing beauty. 
Her cheeks burned with excitement, her eyes 
were restless and flashing. 
The music stopped. The women were 
eating the dulces passed by the Indian servants. 
The men had not yet gone into the dining-
room. Valencia dropped her handkerchief; 
Reinaldo, stooping to recover it, kissed her 
hand behind its flimsy shelter. 
Then Prudencia arose. She trailed her long 
gown down the room between the two rows of 
people staring at her grim eyes and pressed lips ; 
her little head, with its high comb, stiffly erect. 
She walked straight up to Reinaldo and boxed 
his ears before the assembled company. 
" Thou wilt flirt no more with other women," 
she said, in a loud, clear voice. "Thou art 
my husband, and thou wilt not forget it again. 
Come with me." 
And, amidst the silence of mountain-tops in 
a snow-storm,, he stumbled to his feet and fol- 
lowed her from the room. 
I could not sleep that night In spite of the 
amusement I had felt at Prudencia's coup-d'etat, 
I was oppressed by the chill and foreboding 
which seemed to emanate from Chonita and 
pervade the house. I knew that terrible calm 
was like the menacing stillness of the hours 
before an earthquake. What would she do in 
the coming convulsion ? I shuddered and 
tormented myself with many imaginings. 
I became so nervous that I rose and dressed 
and went out upon the corridor and walked up 
and down. It was very late, and the moon was 
risen, but the corners were dark. Figures 
seemed to start from them, but my nerves were 
strong ; I never had given way to fear. 
My thoughts wandered to Estenega. Who 
shall judge the complex heart of a man? the 
deep, intense, lasting devotion he may have for 
the one woman he recognizes as his soul's 
own, and yet the strange wayward wanderings 
of his fancy, — the nomadic assertion of the 
animal ; the passionate love he may feel for 
this woman of all women, yet the reserve in 
which he always holds her, never knowing her 
quite as well as he has known other women ; 
the last test of highest love, passion without 
sensuality? And yet the regret that she does 
not gratify every side of his nature, even while 
he would not have her ; regret for the terrible 
incongruity of human nature, the mingling of 
the beast and the divine, which cannot find 
satisfaction in the same woman ; whatever the 
fire in her, she cannot gratify the instincts 
which rage below passion in man, without 
losing the purity of mind which he adores in 
her. She, too, feels a vague regret that some 
portion of his nature is a sealed book to her, 
forever beyond her ken. But her regret is 
nothing to his ; he knows, and she does not. 
My meditations were interrupted suddenly. 
I heard a door stealthily opened. I knew be- 
fore turning that the door was that of Chonita's 
room, the last at the end of the right wing. It 
opened, and she came out. It was as if a face 
alone came out. She was shrouded from head 
to foot in black, and her face was as white as 
the moon. Possessed by a nameless but over- 
whelming fear, I turned the knob of the door 
nearest me and almost fell into the room. I 
closed the door behind me, but there was no 
key. By the strip of white light which entered 
through the crevice between the half-open 
shutters I saw that I was in the room of Valen- 
cia Menendez ; but she slept soundly and had 
not heard me. 
I stood still, listening, for many minutes. 
At first there was no sound ; I evidently had 
startled her, and she was waiting for the house 
to be still again. At last I heard some one 
gliding down the corridor. Then, suddenly, I 
knew that she was coming to this room, and, 
possessed by a horrible curiosity and growing 
terror, I sank on my knees in a corner. 
The door opened noiselessly, and Chonita 
entered. Again I saw only her white face, 
rigid as death, but the eyes flamed with the 
terrible passions that her soul had flung up 
from its depths at last. Then I saw another 
white object, — her hand. But there was no 
knife in it. Had there been, I think I should 
have shaken off the spell which controlled me : 
I never would see murder done. It was the 
awe of the unknown that paralyzed my muscles. 
She bent over Valencia, who moved uneasily 
and cast her arms above her head. I saw her 
touch her finger to the sleeping woman's mouth, 
inserting it between the lips. Then she moved 
backward and stood by the head of the bed, 
facing the window. She raised herself to her 
full height and extended her arms horizontally. 
The position gave her the form of a cross — a 
black cross, topped and pointed with malevolent 
white ; one hand was spread above Valencia's 
face. She was the most awful sight I ever 
beheld. She uttered no sound ; she scarcely 
breathed. Suddenly, with the curve of a pan- 
ther, her figure glided above the unconscious 
woman, her open hand describing a strange 
motion ; then she melted from the room. 
Valencia awoke, shrieking. 
"Some one has cursed me!" she cried. 
" Mother of God ! Some one has cursed me ! " 
I fled from the room, to faint upon my own 
