"Did you see him?"
"Not till he was just getting out of the window."
Harry recounted briefly his sudden awakening, and the sight that greeted
him as he opened his eyes.
"I wish I'd been awake. I'd have boosted him out of that window," said
Obed grimly.
"I have no doubt you would, Obed," said Harry, laughing, "but I think we
needn't feel much of a grudge against the poor fellow. When he comes to
examine his booty by daylight, it's my impression he'll feel sick
enough."
Obed laughed too. "I'd like to be looking on when he makes the
discovery," he said. "He'll look green enough, I guess."
"How could the fellow have found out that we had found it?" said Harry,
with a puzzled expression.
"He must have been out late and seen us coming from the mine."
"It is lucky we thought of hiding it, and leaving the rock in its place,
Obed."
"That's so. The rock came in handy for once."
"Do you think there is any danger of another visit to-night?"
"No; he probably won't discover how he has been tricked till morning."
"And even if he does he may suppose that this rock is what we brought
with us."
"Possibly. Still, Harry, I think we'd better keep awake and watch
to-night. It will only be for one night, as to-morrow we can make
arrangements to send the nugget by express to Melbourne."
"I thought we should be carrying it there ourselves."
"No, it would not be safe. To-morrow everybody will know that we have
found a nugget, and if we attempted to carry it ourselves we should not
get ten miles away without being attacked, and perhaps killed."
"Then we can send it by express?" queried Harry.
"Yes, I have inquired into this--not that I thought we would be lucky
enough to need the information. The government escorts charge one per
cent., and besides the Crown exacts a royalty of ten per cent."
"That's pretty steep, isn't it, Obed?"
"I will cheerfully bear my part of it," said Obed. "I remember there was
an old fellow in our place who owned considerable property--at any rate
he was taxed for fifteen thousand dollars. Whenever taxes became due he
was always groanin' and predictin' that he'd end his days in the
poorhouse. My father, who was only taxed for fifteen hundred, said to
him one day, 'Mr. Higgins, if you'll give me half of your property, I'll
agree to pay taxes on the whole, so that you'll have nothing to pay.'"
"Did he accept?" asked Harry, with a smile.
"Not much, but he stopped growlin'. It may have given him a new idea of
the matter."
"How soon do you think of getting away, Obed?"
"As soon as we have sold the claim," answered the Yankee. "When it gets
reported round the camp what we've found there'll be plenty that'll want
to buy it on speculation, you may be sure of that."
"I didn't think of that," said Harry, his eyes brightening. "We're
luckier than I thought."
"Yes," answered Obed jocularly, "we're men of property now. I'm afraid
we'll have to pay taxes ourselves when we get home."
CHAPTER XXVI.
A THIEF'S EMBARRASSMENT.
When the thief left Obed Stackpole's cabin with his booty his heart was
filled with exultation. He had been drifting about for years, the
football of fortune, oftener down than up, and had more than once known
what it was to pass an entire day without food. And all this because he
had never been willing to settle down to steady work or honest industry.
He had set out in life with a dislike for each, and a decided preference
for living by his wits. Theft was no new thing for him. Once he had
barely escaped with his life in one of the Western States of America for
stealing a horse. He had drifted to Australia, with no idea of working
at the mines or anywhere else, but with the intention of robbing some
lucky miner and making off with the proceeds of his industry.
Well, he had succeeded, and his heart was light.
"No more hard work for me," he said to himself joyfully, "no more
privation and suffering. Now I can live like a gentleman."
It never seemed to occur to him that a thief could by no possibility
live like a gentleman. To be a gentleman, in his opinion, meant having a
pocketful of money.
He would like to have examined the nugget, but there was no time, nor
was there light enough to form an opinion of it. Besides, Obed and the
two boys might at any moment discover their loss, and then there would
be pursuers on his track. He could not hide it, for it was too large,
and anyone seeing what he carried would suspect its nature and
character.
The responsibility of property was upon him now. It was an unaccustomed
sensation. This thief began now to dread an encounter with other
thieves. There were other men, as well as himself, who had little
respect for the rights of property, and this he well knew.
"Where shall I go?" he asked himself in perplexity.
It would not do to stay in the neighborhood of the mining camp. By dawn,
or as soon as tidings of the robbery should spread, there would be an
organized pursuit. In any mining settlement a thief fares hard. In the
absence of any established code of laws, the relentless laws of Judge
Lynch are executed with merciless severity. Beads of perspiration began
to form on the brow of the thief as he realized the terrible danger he
had incurred. What good would it do him after all to get away with the
nugget if it should cost him his life, and that was a contingency, as
his experience assured him, by no means improbable.
"If I were only in Melbourne," he said to himself, "I would lose no time
in disposing of the nugget, and then would take the first ship for
England--or anywhere else. Any place would be better than Australia, for
that will soon be too hot to hold me."
It was one thing to wish, and another to realize the wish. He was still
in the immediate vicinity of the mining camp, and there were almost
insuperable difficulties in the way of getting far from it with his
treasure safe.
The thief kept on his way, however, and after a while reached a piece of
woods.
"This will be a good place to hide," he bethought himself. "I may be
able to conceal the nugget somewhere."
His first feeling of exultation had given place to one of deep anxiety
and perplexity. After, he was not as happy as he anticipated. Only
yesterday he had been poor--almost destitute--but at any rate free from
anxiety and alarm. Now he was rich, or thought he was, and his heart was
filled with nervous apprehension.
He wandered about for two or three hours, weary and feeling great need
of sleep, but afraid to yield to the impulse. Suppose he should lose
consciousness, and sleep till morning: the first man who found him
asleep would rob him of the precious nugget, and then he would be back
again where he had been the day before, and for years back. The dream of
his life had been fulfilled, and he was in no position to enjoy it.
Oftentimes God grants our wishes only to show us how little they add to
our happiness.
It was no light burden--this heavy nugget which he was forced to carry
with him, and, drowsy as he was, more than once he stumbled with it and
came near falling. But at last he saw before him a cabin--deserted,
apparently--and his heart was filled with joy. It would afford him a
place to obtain needed repose, and there would be some means of hiding
his rich treasure.
He peered timidly into the cabin and found it empty. On the floor in the
corner was a pallet. He put the nugget under the upper part, thus
raising it and supplying the place of a pillow. It was hard enough, as
the reader will imagine, but it was better than nothing; and appeared to
combine safety with a chance to rest.
The thief fell asleep, and slept soundly. When he awoke it was bright,
and the morning was evidently well advanced. In an instant consciousness
came, and with anxious thought he felt for the nugget. It was still
there, as he realized joyfully. He was on the point of examining it,
when a step was heard. He looked up startled, and saw a man entering the
cabin. This man was such another as himself--an adventurer--and the
tramp remembered to have seen him about the camp. He was an ill-favored
man, poorly dressed, and might have passed for a brother of the first
comer so far as his moral qualities and general appearance were
concerned.
"Halloa!" the new arrival said, gazing with a little surprise at the
prostrate man.
"Halloa," returned the other, surveying the new arrival with
apprehension.
"Is this your crib?"
"No, I'm only passing the night here."
"Haven't I seen you at the mines?"
"Yes, I have been there."
"And now you are leaving, are you?"
"I don't know exactly. I haven't made up my mind."
"Well I am. I'm out of luck."
"So am I."
"There's nothing to be done at the mines."
"Just my idea!"
"Humph! what do you think of doing?"
"I don't know. I want to get away for one thing."
"So do I. Suppose we keep company, friend. Two are more social than one,
eh?"
This proposal gave the first man anxious thought. If he had a companion,
he could not hide for any length of time the fact that he was in
possession of the nugget. Yet he did not know how to refuse without
exciting suspicion. The new arrival noticed it, and it stirred up anger
in him.
"Perhaps I aint good enough for you?" he said, frowning.
"No, no, it isn't that," said the first eagerly.
"Don't you want me to go with you?" demanded the new arrival bluntly.
"Yes or no."
"Have you got any money?" asked the thief, "because I haven't."
"No more have I. We'll be equal partners."
"Then I'm afraid we won't get very far."
"You'll get as far as I will. But I say, what is that under your head,
pard?"
The question had come at last. The thief trembled, and answered
nervously:
"It's--it's--I am using it for a pillow," he faltered.
"Let us see your pillow," said the new arrival suspiciously.
The thief came to a sudden determination, suggested by necessity. Two
would make a stronger guard than one, and, though this man was not the
one he would have selected, accident had thrown them together, and he
would risk it.
"Look here, my friend," he said, "it's a great secret."
"Oh, a secret, is it?"
"Yes, but I am going to make you my confidant. I am greatly in need of a
friend and partner, and I'll make it worth your while to stand by me.
I'll give you a quarter of--what I have here--if you'll see me safe to
Melbourne."
"What is it, pard? Out with it, quick!"
"It's--a nugget, and the biggest one that's been found at Bendigo since
they commenced mining."
"A nugget! Great Jehoshaphat! Let me see it!"
The thief drew the bundle--still wrapped in Obed's red bandanna--from
underneath the pallet, while his companion in intense excitement bent
over to catch a glimpse of the treasure.
CHAPTER XXVII.
BAFFLED CUPIDITY.
An expression of surprise and dismay, almost ludicrous, appeared on the
faces of the two adventurers as the contents of the handkerchief were
revealed.
"Why, it's nothing but a rock!" exclaimed the new-comer, with an oath.
The thief stared at him in helpless consternation, and was unable to
utter a word.
"What does all this mean?" asked the new-comer sternly. "If you are
humbugging me, I'll----" and he finished the sentence with an oath.
"I don't know what it means," answered the thief in a disconsolate tone.
"I'm just as much surprised as you are."
"Where did you get it? How came you to make such a fool of yourself?"
demanded the new-comer, frowning heavily.
"You know that Yankee and the two boys who have a claim next to
Pickett's?"
"Well?"
"Last night I was coming from the Hut"--that was the local name of the
cabin devoted to gambling purposes--"when I saw them coming from their
claim. The Yankee had this ---- rock tied up in yonder handkerchief. Of
course, I supposed it was a nugget. No one would suppose he was taking
all that pains with a common rock."
"Go on! Did you follow them?"
"Yes; that is, I kept them in sight. They entered their cabin, and I
waited, perhaps three-quarters of an hour, till they had time to fall
asleep."
"Were you near the cabin all the time?"
"No; I didn't dare to be too near for fear I should be observed. I
wanted the nugget, but I didn't want to run any risk."
"I have no doubt you were very prudent," said the second, with an
unpleasant sneer. Doubtless he would have done the same, but his
disappointment was so great that he could not resist the temptation of
indulging in this fling at the man who had unintentionally contributed
to it.
"Of course I was," said the first, with some indignation. "Would you
have had me enter the cabin while they were all awake, and carry it off
under their very eyes? That would be mighty sensible."
"At any rate, then you would have got the genuine nugget."
"What do you mean? Do you think there was a nugget?"
"Of course I do. It's as plain as the nose on your face, and that's
plain enough, in all conscience. They've played a trick on you."
"What trick?"
"It appears to me you are mighty stupid, my friend. They hid away the
real nugget, and put this in its place. That Yankee is a good deal
sharper than you are, and he wasn't going to run no risks."
"Do you believe this?" asked the thief, his jaw falling.
"There's no doubt of it. They've had a fine laugh at your expense before
this, I'll be bound."
"Just my luck!" ejaculated the thief dolefully. "After all the pains
I've taken, too."
"Yes, it is hard lines on a poor industrious man like you!" said the
new-comer cynically. "You're not smart enough to be a successful
thief."
"I suppose you are," retorted the other resentfully.
"Yes, I flatter myself I am," returned the other composedly. "When I
take anything, at any rate I have the sense to take something worth
carrying away--not a worthless rock like this. You must have had a fine
time lugging it from the mines."
"It nearly broke my back," said the thief gloomily.
"And now you don't know what to do with it? Take my advice, my friend,
and carry it back to the original owner. He may find it handy another
time."
"I'll be blessed if I do," growled the unhappy thief.
"I doubt that," said his companion dryly. "However, do as you please. It
don't interest me. I don't think on the whole I will accept your offer
of a partnership. When I take a partner I want a man with some small
supply of brains."
The first looked at him resentfully. He did not like these taunts, and
would have assaulted him had he dared, but the new-comer was powerfully
built, and evidently an unsafe man to take liberties with. He threw
himself back on the pallet and groaned.
"Well," said the second after a pause, "when you've got through crying
over spilt milk, will you kindly tell me where I can get something to
eat?"
"I don't know."
"Humph! that's short and to the point. It is something I would like very
much to know, for my part. I feel decidedly hungry."
"I have no appetite," said the luckless thief mournfully.
"You will have, after a while. Then you can't think of any cabin near by
where we could get a breakfast?"
"There's Joe's.'"
"Where's Joe's?"
"About a mile from here on the road to the camp."
"Are you acquainted with Joe?"
"Yes."
"Is your credit good with him?"
"I think he would trust me for a breakfast."
"And me? You can introduce me as a friend of yours."
"You haven't been talking like a friend of mine," said the first
resentfully.
"Perhaps not. However, you must make allowances for my natural
disappointment. You led me into it, you know."
"If it comes to that, I have done you no harm. Even if the nugget wasn't
real, you had no claim to it."
"You excited my hopes, and that's enough to rile any man--that is, when
disappointment follows. However, there's no use crying over spilt milk.
I have an idea that may lead to something."
"What is it?" asked the thief with some eagerness.
"I will tell you--after breakfast. My ideas don't flow freely when I am
hungry. Come, my friend, get up, and lead the way to Joe's. I have an
aching void within, which needs filling up. Your appetite may come
too--after a walk."
Somehow this man, cool and cynical as he was, impressed his fellow
adventurer, and he rose obediently, and led the way out of the cabin.
"I wish I knew what was your idea," he said.
"Well, I don't mind telling you. I believe the Yankee did find a
nugget."
"Well?"
"You haven't got it, but you may get it--that is, we may get it."
"I don't see how. He will be on his guard now."
"Of course he will. I don't mean that we should repeat the blunder of
last night. You may be sure he won't keep it in his cabin another
night."
"Then how are we to get it?"
"Follow him to Melbourne. He'll carry it there, and on the way we can
relieve him of it."
"There's something in that."
"We shall be together, and he won't take me in as readily as he did you.
After breakfast, if we are lucky enough to get any, we must go back to
the camp, and find out what we can about his plans. Do you think anyone
saw you last night when you were in the cabin?"
"No."
"That is well. Then you won't be suspected. But I can't say a word more
till I have had breakfast."
After half an hour's walking--it was only half a mile, but the soil was
boggy, rendering locomotion difficult--they reached a humble wayside
cabin, which was in some sort a restaurant, and by dint of diplomacy and
a promise of speedy payment, they secured a meal to which, despite their
disappointment, they did ample justice.
Breakfast over, they resumed their fatiguing walk, and reached the
mining camp about ten o'clock.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE NUGGET IN SAFETY.
Fatigued by their exertions of the previous days and the late hours they
had kept, Obed and the boys rose at a later hour than usual. About eight
o'clock Obed opened his eyes, and noticed that his two young companions
were fast asleep.
"It's time to get up, boys," he said, giving them a gentle shake.
The boys opened their eyes, and realized, by the bright sunshine
entering the cabin, that the day was already well advanced.
"What time is it, Obed?" asked Harry.
"Past eight o'clock. We shall be late at our work."
He smiled, and his smile was reflected on the faces of the boys. Their
success of the day before made it a matter of indifference whether they
accomplished a good day's work or not.
"What are we going to do about the nugget, Obed?" asked Harry.
"After breakfast we will carry it to the office of the commissioner, and
get his receipt for it."
"I shall be glad to get it out of our hands," said Jack.
"If that is the case, Jack, suppose you give your share to me," said
Harry, in joke.
"I didn't mean to get rid of it in that way," said the young sailor.
"You would be as ready to give it as I to accept it," said Harry. "No,
Jack, I want you to have your share. I am sure you will have a use for
it."
After breakfast the three emerged from the cabin, bearing the precious
nugget with them. They did not meet anyone on their way to the office of
the commissioner, for all the miners had gone to their work. This suited
them, for until they had disposed of the nugget, they did not care to
have their good luck made public.
The royal commissioner was a stout Englishman with a red face and
abundant whiskers of the same color. He chanced to be at the door of the
office as the party appeared.
"Well, can I do anything for you?" he asked.
"Yes, sir; you can give us a receipt for this nugget."
"Nugget!" ejaculated the commissioner, fixing his eyes for the first
time on the burden which Mr. Stackpole carried. "Bless my soul! you
don't mean to say that you have found a nugget of that size!"
"That's just what we've done," answered Obed.
"When did you find it?"
"Well, we took it from the mine about midnight. We found it in the
afternoon, but calculated we'd better take possession when there wasn't
so many lookin' on. I say, Mr. Commissioner, I don't think it would
agree with me to be a rich man. I got broken of my rest last night, from
havin' the nugget in the cabin."
"You ran very little risk. No one could have found out that you had it
in your possession," remarked the commissioner.
"That's where you are mistaken, commissioner. We came near being robbed
of it only an hour after we brought it home."
"Bless my soul! How did that happen?"
"A pesky thief sneaked in, and carried it off, as he thought."
"How could he think he carried it off when he did not?"
Upon this Obed explained the trick to which he had resorted, and the
commissioner laughed heartily.
"Do you know the man--the thief, I mean?" he asked.
"Yes, it is, a man that has been prowlin' round the camp for some weeks,
not doin' anything, but watchin' for a chance to appropriate the
property of some lucky miner. I'd like to see the fellow's face when he
opens the handkerchief this morning, and finds the rock."
"It appears you have lost a handkerchief, at any rate," said the
commissioner, with a smile.
"He's welcome to it," answered Obed, "if it will comfort him any. I
brought it away from home two years ago, and now I can afford to buy
another."
By this time the nugget had been carried into the office and exposed to
view.
"It is a splendid specimen," said the commissioner admiringly. "It is
certainly the largest that has ever been found in this camp."
"Has any been found before?" asked Harry.
"Yes; six months ago a Scotch miner, named Lindsay, found one weighing
twenty-two pounds and some ounces."
"Is he here now?"
"Yes, and without a shilling."
"Didn't his nugget benefit him any then?" asked Harry.
"It became a curse to him. He obtained some thousands of dollars for it,
and all went in three months."
"How did he get rid of it?"
"In drinking and gambling. Two months since he drifted back to the camp
in rags. He did not have money enough to buy a claim, but being a good
practical miner he got a chance to work a claim on shares for another
man, who had just come out from Melbourne, and who knew very little of
mining. I hope you will make better use of your money. Are these boys
your partners?"
"Yes, Mr. Commissioner, they are equal partners. What's one's luck, is
the luck of all."
Meanwhile the commissioner was weighing the nugget on a pair of scales.
The three awaited the result with great interest.
"It weighs seventy-four pounds and four ounces," he announced. "My
friend, it will be famous in the annals of Australia. If I am not
mistaken, when it is known it will create a stampede to our mines."
"About how much do you think it will realize?" asked Obed.
"At a rough guess, I should say fifteen thousand dollars. It may be more
and it may be less."
Obed Stackpole's rough face was fairly radiant.
"I say, boys," he remarked, turning to Harry and Jack, "that's a pretty
good day's work, isn't it?"
"I should say so, Obed."
The commissioner made out a receipt, which Obed put away carefully in
his pocket.
"That's better than carrying the nugget round," he said.
"I suppose you will go to Melbourne," said the commissioner.
"Yes, we shall start in a day or two."
Here Obed paused, for it occurred to him that there were practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out his plan.
"That is," he added slowly, "if we can raise the money. I suppose we
can't borrow on the nugget?"
"No, but I can suggest a way out of your difficulties. You can sell your
claim. It will realize a good round sum, as the one from which the
nugget has been taken."
"That's so, Mr. Commissioner. Thank you for the suggestion. Boys, there
is still some business before us. We'll realize something extra, it
seems. I don't care how much, if it's only enough to take us to
Melbourne."
Just then a miner entered the office, and seeing the nugget instantly
made it his purpose to report the lucky find throughout the camp. The
effect was instant and electrical. Every miner stopped work, and there
was a rush to the commissioner's office to see the nugget. All were
cheered up. If there was one nugget, there must be more. Confidence was
restored to many who had been desponding. Obed and the two boys were the
heroes of the hour, and the crowd came near lifting them on their
shoulders, and bearing them off in triumph.
Obed felt that this was a good time to sell the claim.
"Boys," he said, "we struck it rich and no mistake. How rich I don't
know. There may be other nuggets where this came from. But I and my
partners want to go back to America. The claim's for sale. Who wants
it?"
CHAPTER XXIX.
SELLING THE CLAIM.
"Let's adjourn to the mine," said Tom Lewis, a short, sturdy
Englishman.
"Yes, let's see the place where the nugget was found," echoed another.
"All right! I'm agreeable," said Obed.
Followed by a crowd of miners, Obed Stackpole strode to the claim where
he had "struck it rich." In spite of his homely face and ungainly form
there was more than one who would have been willing to stand in his
shoes, homeliness and all. The day before little notice was taken of
him. Now he was a man who had won fame at a bound.
They soon stood around the lucky claim.
"It isn't much to look at, gentlemen," said Obed, "but looks is
deceptive, as my old grandmother used to tell me. 'Handsome is as
handsome does,' and this 'ere hole's done the handsome thing for me and
my partners, and I venture to say it hasn't got through doin' handsome
things. It's made three of us rich, and it's ready to make somebody else
rich. Who'll be the lucky man? Do I hear a bid!"
"Fifty pounds," said Tom Lewis.
"That'll do to start on, but it won't do to take. Fifty pounds I am
offered. Who says a hundred?"
A German miner offered a hundred, and Tom Lewis raised ten pounds.
A Scotch miner, Aleck Graham, offered a hundred and twenty-five.
From that time the bids rose slowly. Obed showed himself an excellent
auctioneer--indeed he had had some experience at home--and by his dry
and droll remarks stimulated the bidding when it became dull, and did
not declare the claim sold till it was clear no higher bid could be
obtained.
"Three hundred pounds, and sold to Frank Scott," he concluded. "Mr.
Scott, I congratulate you. I calculate you've made a pretty good
investment, and I shouldn't wonder if you'd find another nugget within a
week. 'Birds of a feather flock together,' as my writing-book says, and
'it never rains but it pours.'"
Frank Scott came forward and made arrangements for the payment of the
sum he had offered. Within five minutes he was offered an advance of
twenty-five pounds for his bargain, which put him in good humor, though
he declined it. I may as well say here, since we are soon to bid
farewell to Bendigo, that the claim yielded him double the amount of his
investment, and though this was not up to his expectations, he had no
reason to regret his purchase.
The little crowd of miners were just separating when two new-comers
appeared on the scene. They were the well-matched pair who had met
earlier in the morning at the deserted cabin. For convenience' sake we
will call them Colson and Ropes, the former being the man who had stolen
the nugget, as he supposed.
"What's all this crowd?" said Colson in a tone of curiosity.
Ropes put the question to Tom Lewis, who chanced to be passing.
"Haven't you heard about the nugget?" asked Lewis.
"What nugget?" asked Colson innocently.
"That slab-sided Yankee, Obed Stackpole, found a nugget last night--a
regular monster--and he's been selling his claim. I bid for it, but I
didn't bid high enough."
"Where's the nugget?" asked Colson eagerly.
"In charge of the commissioner, who will send it under escort to
Melbourne."
Colson expected this intelligence. Still he looked downcast. The chance
of getting hold of it under such circumstances seemed very small.
"What did the claim go for?" questioned Ropes.
"Three hundred pounds. Frank Scott bought it."
"That's a pretty steep price."
"Yes, but there may be another nugget."
"And there may not."
"Then he'll be a loser. Of course there's a risk."
"Is the Yankee going to stay around here?" asked Colson.
"No; he and the two boys are going to Melbourne. I believe they are
going back to America."
"It's a shame that such a prize should go to Americans," said Colson, in
a discontented tone.
He would have been very glad to head a movement for robbing Obed and the
boys of the proceeds of their lucky discovery, on this flimsy ground.
But Tom Lewis was a fair-minded man.
"I don't see what that has to do with it," said he. "They found it, and
they have a right to it. Of course, I'd rather it had been me; but it
wasn't, and there's an end of it."
"Some people are born lucky!" grumbled Colson, as Lewis walked away. "I
never had any luck."
"The nugget you found wasn't quite so valuable," returned Ropes grimly.
"No; I tugged away for nothing. My arms and shoulders are stiff enough
this morning. And now the nugget is out of our reach."
"But not the three hundred pounds," said Ropes significantly.
"The price of the claim?"
"Yes."
"That's true, but it won't do us any good."
"The Yankee will carry that with him. It's worth trying for."
The suggestion seemed to strike Colson favorably. The two held a
whispered consultation, which seemed to yield mutual satisfaction. They
were, indeed, congenial spirits, and agreed upon one point, that it was
better to make a living by knavery than by doing honest work for honest
wages. Yet there is no harder or more unsatisfactory way of living than
this. Ill-gotten gains seldom benefit the possessor, and the plans of
wicked men often fail altogether.
Gradually the two had drawn near to the claim, and at last drew the
attention of Obed and the boys.
Obed's thin face lighted up with satisfaction as he recognized the man
who had attempted to steal the nugget.
"Good-mornin', squire," he said politely. "You look kind of tired, as if
you was up late last night."
Colson eyed him sharply. "Does he suspect?" thought he. "Yes," he
answered, in an indifferent tone, "I didn't rest very well."
"Where did you pass the night?"
"'Round here," he answered vaguely.
"You look as if you had been taking a long walk."
"You are very observing," said Colson, not over pleased.
"I always was. It pays a man--sometimes."
"I hear you've struck it rich," said Colson, not caring to take notice
of the other's significant tone.
"Found a nugget, they tell me," interpolated Ropes. "How big was it?"
"Weighs about seventy-five pounds!"
"That is luck!" said Colson, with a sickly smile. He could scarcely help
groaning as he thought of his loss.
"Well, yes, it is tolerable hefty. I reckon me and the boys will be able
to take it easy for a few years. But we came near losin' it, after
all."
"How's that?" Colson asked, but he did not venture to meet Obed's
glance.
"Some skunk saw us bringin' back the nugget, and prowled round till he
thought we was all asleep. Then he got into the cabin and carried it
off. That is, he thought he did, but we was a little too sharp for him.
We tied up a big rock in my handkerchief, and I guess he had a sweet
time carryin' it off."
"Ha, ha! A good joke!" said Colson, but his laughter was mirthless.
"I thought you'd enjoy the joke, squire," said Obed. "How I pity the
poor fellow! His arms must ache with luggin' the old rock. The best of
it is we know the fellow that took it."
"You do?" ejaculated Colson, his jaw dropping.
"Yes, Harry woke up just in the nick of time and saw him scootin' out of
the cabin. If I should tell the boys 'round here, I reckon they'd lynch
him!" added Obed quietly.
"Just so," assented Colson, but his face was of a sickly hue, and taking
Ropes by the arm he hurried him away.
"That fellow's well scared," said Obed, turning to his two young
companions. "I reckon he'll make himself scarce till we're out of the
way."
CHAPTER XXX.
THE TWO CONSPIRATORS.
Obed and the boys made arrangements to travel with the party sent by the
commissioner as an escort to the nugget and other sums intrusted to it
by different miners. The strong guard gave them a sense of security
which they would not have had under other circumstances.
They were all in high spirits. They were no longer penniless
adventurers, but, though not rich, were possessed of enough gold to make
them feel so. Now that they were well fixed they were all filled with a
strong desire to see their home across the sea.
"I suppose, Obed, you'll be getting married soon after you reach home?"
said Harry.
"The very first thing I shall do will be to pay off the mortgage on
dad's farm," said Mr. Stackpole. "I want to see him a free man, with a
home that can't be taken from him. Then I'll look after the other
matter."
"You are right, Obed. I only wish I had a father to help and care for,"
said Harry soberly.
"I've got a step-father," said Jack, "but I don't feel much like helping
him."
"You have a mother, Jack."
"Yes, but I shall have to be careful about giving her money, for her
husband would get it away from her before long."
"Well, boys, we won't borrow trouble before the time comes. For all I
know Suke Stanwood may have got tired of waitin' for me, and married
some other feller."
"In that case, Obed, I suppose you would die of a broken heart."
"Not much, but I don't mind sayin' that I should feel uncommon blue."
Two days elapsed before Obed and his party started on their return trip.
Meanwhile Colson and Ropes had disappeared. The boys had expected to see
them about the camp, but they had vanished.
"I wonder what has become of them?" said Harry, just as they were
starting.
"I reckon they're hatchin' some new mischief, wherever they are,"
returned Obed composedly. "You maybe sure they're not engaged in any
honest work."
"Perhaps Colson is trying to sell his nugget," suggested Jack with a
smile.
"He's welcome to all he can get for it," said Obed.
Obed was very near the truth in his conjecture. Their greed was excited
by thoughts of the nugget which our three friends had discovered, and
their brains were busied with plans for obtaining possession of it. The
chances didn't seem very encouraging. It was under strong escort, and it
would be sheer madness for the two to attack an armed party. It would
require a much larger force than they could command to make an attack at
all practicable.
With no special plans, but with the hope that something would turn up in
their favor, the two men started for Melbourne in advance of the
government party. They were indebted for the requisite funds to a
successful theft by Colson, who was an expert in his line. It is
unnecessary to chronicle their daily progress. We will look in upon them
on the fourth day.
They were making toilsome progress, over the boggy road, when all at
once they were confronted by three bushrangers headed by Fletcher.
"Surrender, or you are dead men!" exclaimed Fletcher, with a boldness
which will be easily understood when it is considered that his force
outnumbered the travellers two to one.
Neither Colson nor Ropes appeared to be frightened. Indeed, they were
looking for such an encounter.
"All right, gentlemen," said Ropes quietly. "We are quite ready to
surrender."
"Empty your pockets," was the next order.
"All right again!" said Ropes. "I am sorry to say we haven't much to
surrender."
"Is this all you have?" asked Fletcher, frowning when a pound and ten
shillings were delivered to him as their united contributions to the
bushrangers' fund.
"We haven't a penny more."
"Search them!" said Fletcher to his followers.
A search, however, failed to bring to light anything more.
"Why, you poor tramps!" exclaimed Fletcher in disgust. "You are unworthy
the attention of gentlemen."
"Perhaps not, captain," answered Colson. "May I have a word with you in
private?"
Not without suspicion Fletcher granted this unexpected request, and
stepped aside with Colson a few paces, taking care, however, to keep
near enough to his party to insure his safety.
"Well, what have you to say?" he asked abruptly.
"I have no money to give you," replied Colson, "but I have information
that will enable you to obtain a great deal."
"What is your object in telling me this?" demanded Fletcher, still
suspiciously.
"The fact is, my friend and I want to join with you in the enterprise,
and get a fair share of the booty."
"Do you wish to join our band, then?"
"Well, not permanently, but for a little while."
"Out with the information, then!"
"Will you agree to our terms?"
"What are they?"
"We want half of the prize."
"You are very modest," said Fletcher in a sarcastic tone. "How much will
it amount to?"
"Not far from a hundred thousand dollars."
Fletcher pricked up his ears. This was indeed a prize worth trying for.
"Give particulars," he said.
"A big nugget is on the way to Melbourne, or will be in a day or two. It
was found at Bendigo. I don't know how much it will net, but probably
seventy-five thousand dollars. Then there is a considerable amount of
dust besides."
"Who is to carry it? Is it in the hands of a private party?"
"No, it is under government escort."
Fletcher's countenance changed.
"That is a different matter," he said. "There is danger in attacking a
government party."
"Think of the big sum at stake."
"It would require the co-operation of the whole band."
"Suppose it does."
"There will be more to divide it among. The captain would not agree for
a moment to give away half."
"Say a third, then."
"I am not authorized to make any bargain. That will be for the captain
to decide. You had better tell me all you know about it, and I will lay
it before the captain and secure you the best terms I can on
conditions----"
"Well?"
"That you give me quarter of your share."
"That is unreasonable," said Colson, disappointed.
"Then go ahead and rob the government train yourself."
Colson saw that he was helpless, and must submit to any terms proposed.
He accordingly signified his assent.
"Very well, then," said Fletcher, "you may come with us, and I will
introduce you to the captain. By the way, who found the nugget? You have
not told me that."
"A Yankee and two boys."
"What was the Yankee's name?" asked Fletcher eagerly.
"Stackpole--Obed Stackpole."
Fletcher whistled.
"I know the man," he said. "The boys are about sixteen--one a sailor?"
"Yes."
"I know them all, and I owe them all a grudge. There is nothing I should
like better than to take all they have and leave them penniless."
"I don't like them myself," said Colson, thinking this was the way to
curry favor with his new acquaintance.
"You know them also?"
"Yes; they have treated me meanly."
Colson probably referred to their substituting a common rock for the
rich nugget, and so subjecting him to mortification and disappointment.
Fletcher asked him a few more questions, and then with the new
accessions plunged into the woods, and led his party to the headquarters
of the bushrangers.
CHAPTER XXXI.
TAKEN CAPTIVE.
The new recruits, on being introduced to the captain of the bushrangers,
were subjected to a searching examination by the chief, a suspicion
having arisen in his mind that the two were spies sent out by the
government to lure the outlaws into a trap. He was convinced after a
while that they were acting in good faith, and a conference was called
to decide what should be done in the matter. On this point opinions
differed. The nugget, of course, would be a valuable prize, but it would
be impossible to dispose of it in Melbourne, as the fact of its
discovery would have been published, and any person attempting to sell
it would be instantly arrested. This view was held by Captain Ring
himself.
"That objection is easily met," said Fletcher.
"In what way?"
"One of the band could be sent to America to dispose of it. He could
carry it in his trunk as ordinary luggage."
"Perhaps you would like to undertake the commission," said Captain
Ring.
"I should be very willing," said Fletcher eagerly.
"I don't doubt you would," returned the captain, in a sarcastic tone.
"Who would insure your making over the proceeds to us?"
"I hope you don't doubt my integrity," said Fletcher, with an air of
virtuous indignation.
"Perhaps I had better say nothing on that subject, Fletcher. The band
are unwilling to subject you to the temptation--that's all. Many good
men go wrong."
"You might send someone with me," suggested Fletcher, unwilling to give
up the tempting prospect.
"We haven't got the nugget yet," answered the captain dryly.
Colson and Ropes had listened with interest to the discussion. They
began to fear that nothing would be done. They would have been as much
opposed as anyone to trusting Fletcher, as he had not inspired them with
confidence. It takes a rogue to detect a rogue, and they already
suspected his true character. Their hope of revenge on Obed Stackpole
seemed slipping through their fingers.
"The Yankee and the two boys have a good deal of gold about them,"
suggested Colson. "Of course it isn't much, compared with the nugget,
but it is better than nothing."
"How much has the Yankee?" demanded King.
"Three hundred pounds at least."
"That is something, but as he will travel with the government escort, we
should have to attack the whole party."
"Not necessarily. I have a plan that I think will work."
"Detail it."
Colson did so. What it was will appear in due time.
Meanwhile Obed and the two boys had started on their way to Melbourne.
With a strong military escort they gave themselves up to joyful
anticipations of the bright future that opened before them. They no
longer entertained apprehensions of being waylaid, being secure in the
strength of their party.
They travelled by easy stages, and at night camped out. A sentry was
always posted, who stood guard while the rest were asleep, for, unlikely
as an attack might be, it was deemed necessary to provide against it.
Often, however, after supper Obed and the two boys would take a walk
together, in order to talk over their plans without interruption from
others. On the third evening they unwittingly walked a little further
than usual. Harry was the first to notice it.
"Hadn't we better return, Obed?" he said. "We must be a mile from the
camp."
"You are right," said Obed. "It would be rather unlucky to meet with the
bushrangers, just as we are gettin' on so well."
"That's true; we mustn't run any risks."
They started to return, when Jack, stopping suddenly, said, "I thought I
heard a groan."
"So did I," said Harry.
They paused, and the groan was repeated. It appeared to come from a
couple of rods to the left in the recesses of the forest.
"If there's any poor critter in pain we ought to help him," said Obed,
"come along, boys!"
It was not difficult to discover the spot from which the groan
proceeded. A man of middle age lay outstretched beneath a tree, with an
expression of pain on his face.
"What's the matter, my friend?" asked Obed, standing over him.
"The bushrangers have robbed and beaten me," said the prostrate man
feebly.
"You don't say so! How long since?"
"About an hour."
"Then they must be near by," said Harry.
"No; they went away as soon as they got my money."
Meanwhile Jack had been attentively examining the face of the alleged
victim. He quietly beckoned to Harry to move off to a little distance.
"Well, Jack, what is it?" asked Harry, somewhat surprised.
"That man is one of the bushrangers. I remember his face very well. It
is one of the gang that captured us."
Harry was naturally startled.
"Are you sure of this?" he asked.
"Yes, I know him as well as I do Obed."
"Then it is a plot. We must get away if we can. There is danger in
staying here."
"You are right there, Harry."
"I will go up and take Obed's place while you call him away."
Harry advanced to the side of the victim, and said quietly, "Jack wishes
to speak to you a moment, Obed. He thinks we can carry this gentleman
with us, as he has lost all his money."
"Very well," said Obed, and walked to where Jack was standing.
Harry scrutinized the man's face, and he too recognized him as one of
the gang--but his face did not betray his suspicions.
"Were you robbed of much money?" he asked in a sympathizing tone.
"I had the value of a hundred pounds with me," said the other feebly.
"I suppose you came from Bendigo like ourselves?"
"Yes; have you been lucky?"
"We had some luck, but we are tired of mining, and are going back to
Melbourne. Would you like to have us take you along also?"
"Yes, if you would be so kind."
At this moment Obed's voice was heard.
"Come here, Harry; we'll make a litter to carry our friend there if he
is unable to walk."
"All right, Obed."
There might have been something in Obed's voice that betrayed him. At
any rate, the victim, looking up, eyed him keenly, and then, to the
surprise of the boys, gave a sharp whistle. Their suspicions were at
once kindled, and they started to run, but too late. From the underbrush
there sprang out three bushrangers, accompanied by Colson and Ropes, who
covered the boys with their weapons.
"Halt there!" exclaimed Fletcher in a tone of authority.
"Oh, it's you, is it?" said Obed with apparent coolness, though his
heart sank within him.
"Yes, it's I, Mr. Stackpole," returned Fletcher, with a grim smile. "I
hope you're better fixed than when we met last. I hear you've found a
nugget."
"One of those gentlemen with you can give you information about that,"
said Obed, indicating Colson.
Colson frowned and bit his lip.
"He has told us about it."
"Ask him for it, then. He broke into our tent the night we found it and
carried it off."
"Is this true?" demanded Fletcher, eying Colson suspiciously.
"No, it's a lie. The nugget is in charge of a mounted escort on the way
to Melbourne."
"What have you done with your nugget, Colson?" asked Obed.
Colson did not reply.
"There's no time to waste here. Stackpole, you and the boys will have to
go with us. Here, you two men, close behind them. We must not let them
escape."
The party started with the captives in the middle. It was decidedly a
bad outlook for our three friends.
CHAPTER XXXII.
OBED IN A TIGHT PLACE.
It must be confessed that the reflections of Obed and the two boys were
far from pleasant. The cup of happiness had been dashed from their lips
just as they had begun to taste it. Then again it was very mortifying to
watch the exultation of Fletcher and Colson, who had finally triumphed
over them after being successfully baffled.
"The worst of it is," said Obed to Harry, who was walking alongside of
him, "that them skunks have got the best of it. It's their time to crow
now."
"That's the way I feel," said Harry soberly. "I believe I would rather
have lost twice as much to anybody else."
"We haven't lost all, that's a comfort. They will take the money we have
with us, but if ever we escape to Melbourne, there is the nugget money
waiting for us."
Just then Colson stepped up with a smile on his face.
"It strikes me I've got about even with you, friend Stackpole," he
said.
"Don't call me friend, Colson; I don't own any man as friend who acts
like you. So you're a bushranger, are you?"
"Certainly not," answered Colson, amazed.
"It looks like it," remarked Obed significantly.
"I am merely in the company of the bushrangers just at present."
"Aiding and abetting them in their scheming. That's so, isn't it?"
"No."
"You haven't any interest in the plunder, then?"
Now, one of the bushrangers was within hearing, and Colson didn't
venture to say "No," or it would be virtually giving up his share of the
money taken from Obed and the boys.
"I don't care to answer any of your questions," he said stiffly.
"I don't wonder--not a mite, Colson. Still I'd like to ask one."
"What is it? I don't promise to answer it, though."
"Didn't you find that nugget rather heavy?" asked Obed slyly.
Colson didn't answer, but frowned, for the subject was a sore one.
"How many miles did you carry it, if I may be so bold?"
"I don't care to discuss the subject."
"I shouldn't if I were you. It makes me laugh when I think how you must
have looked when you found out it was nothing but common rock."
"How much does it weigh?" inquired Colson, in a tone of curiosity.
"Somewhere between fifty and five hundred pounds. Are you thinking of
attacking the guard? I wouldn't if I were you. They are prepared for
gentlemen of your kind. You'd be more likely to carry off lead than
gold."
"Confound the fellow!" thought Colson. "He looks as if he had the best
of me--I must worry him a little."
"Do you know that you are in a very ticklish position?" he asked.
"I can't say it's a position I fancy much. Did you put our friends here
on the track?"
"Yes, I did," answered Colson in a tone of satisfaction.
"I thought so. That identifies you with them, Colson. You may find it
used against you in a court of justice."
"I am no more a bushranger than you are," said Colson uneasily.
"I would respect you more if you was, Colson. They're open and
aboveboard, anyway. You want to profit by the same means, but sneak out
of it and say you're not a bushranger. It'll be hard to persuade the
courts of that."
"I have nothing to do with courts."
"You may have yet. Let me give you a piece of advice."
"What is it?" demanded Colson suspiciously.
"Join the band permanently. You're a man after Fletcher's own heart. You
and he will make a good match."
"Who is that mentioning my name?" asked Fletcher, who happened to be
within hearing.
"I took that liberty, squire. I've been advisin' Colson here to join
your band."
"What is that for?"
"I think it's a business that will suit him. His talents all lie in that
direction. He'll be like a brother to you, Fletcher."
"What did he say?"
"He don't like the idea. He seems to feel above you. He says he is only
keepin' company with you for a short time."
"Is that true?" demanded Fletcher, eying Colson with displeasure.
"I never said any such thing," said Colson eagerly. "He twists my words.
I have the greatest respect for the bushrangers, whom I regard as
gentlemen."
"Perhaps that is the reason you don't feel gratified to join them,
Colson?"
Fletcher laughed at this palpable hit, but Colson looked annoyed.
"I don't expect to remain in this section of the country long," said
Colson deprecatingly, for he was very much afraid of offending Fletcher.
"Of course I can't form any permanent ties."
"It might be better for you to leave, Colson. I've an idee that it isn't
good for your health to stay around here very long. You haven't made a
shinin' success so far. Now, as to that nugget which you stole----"
"Do you mean to insult me? I never took any nugget."
"That's so. You're right there, Colson. But you thought you had, all the
same. Fortunately, it's where you can't get at it."
"I have something to say on that point," said Fletcher. "I understand
the nugget is very valuable."
"I'm glad to hear it. You're a judge. I have an idee of that sort
myself."
"About how much does it weigh?"
"About seventy-five pounds. I don't mind gratifying your innocent
curiosity, Fletcher."
Fletcher's eyes sparkled.
"It must be very valuable," he said.
"I reckon it is."
"At what do you estimate it--twenty thousand dollars?"
"Not as much as that."
"It ought to come pretty near it, though."
Obed did not answer.
"It's a great prize. You were very lucky."
"So I thought at the time. I don't feel so certain, now," said Obed
dryly.
"I think half of it will be enough for you."
"What do you mean, Fletcher?"
"I mean that we shall want half of it."
"How are you going to get it?"
"We mean to hold you prisoner till half the proceeds are brought in from
Melbourne."
Obed's countenance fell. He had not thought of this.
Colson's eyes glistened with pleasure. Till that lucky suggestion was
made he saw no way of securing a share of the great prize.
"That's a nice scheme, Fletcher," said Obed, regaining his composure.
"So I think. You and the boys would still have a good sum of money. What
do you say? Shall we make a little friendly arrangement to that effect?
You could give me an order for half the sum realized, and on my securing
it you would be released."
"I shall have to talk it over with my partners here," returned Obed.
"They're equally interested with me."
"Better do so now."
"I won't till evenin', when we have more time."
Fletcher rode away under the impression that Obed was favorably disposed
to his plan.
"When I get the money," he said to himself, "I can decide whether to let
the fellow go or not. I don't care for the boys, but I'd like to give
this Yankee a good flogging, he's so confoundedly sarcastic. Plague take
it, the fellow doesn't know when he's down, but talks as if he was on
equal terms with me."
Meanwhile, though Fletcher did not know it, the train of bushrangers had
steadily advanced to the neighborhood of the place where the government
escort were encamped.
In fact, he was ignorant that they were so near. But Obed knew it, and
he was watching his opportunity to apprise his friends of his situation.
Harry had noticed the same thing. Lest he should make a premature
revelation, Obed placed his hand to his lips, as a sign of silence.
Harry understood, and seemed indifferent, but his heart was beating fast
with excitement.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
THE TABLES ARE TURNED.
It was certainly an oversight in Fletcher not to have ascertained the
situation of the government encampment. He was under the impression that
it was in a direction opposite to that in which they were moving, and
this determined his course. He was therefore wholly unconscious of
