"Happy?" repeated Mrs. Darche, a little surprised by the sudden
question. "Yes, why not? What do you mean by happy?"
"What everybody means, I suppose."
"What is that?"
"Why, wanting things and getting them, of course--wanting a ten cent
thing a dollar's worth, and having it."
"What a definition!" exclaimed Mrs. Darche. "But I really do believe
you enjoy your life."
"Though it would bore you to extinction."
"Possibly. The alternate wild attacks of teaching and flirting to which
you are subject would probably not agree with me."
"Perhaps you could do either, but not both at the same time."
"I suppose I could teach if I knew anything," said Mrs. Darche
thoughtfully. "But I do not," she added with conviction.
"And I have no doubt you could flirt if you loved anybody. It is a pity
you do not."
"Oh, my flirting days are over," answered Marion laughing. "You seem to
forget that I am married."
"Do you not forget it sometimes?" asked Dolly, laughing, but with less
genuine mirth.
"Do not be silly!" exclaimed Marion with a slight shade of annoyance.
She had been helping Dolly with the roses, all of which, with the
exception of two, were now arranged in a vase.
"These will not go in," she said, holding up the remaining flowers.
"You might stick them into that little silver cup."
"To represent you--and the other man. A red and a white rose. Is that
it?"
"Or you and me," suggested Mrs. Darche in perfect innocence. "Why not?"
"Tell me," said Dolly, when they had finished, "who is he?"
"Why, Russell Vanbrugh, of course."
"Oh!" exclaimed Dolly, turning her head away. "Why of course?"
"Oh, because--"
"Why not Harry Brett?" asked Dolly, with the merciless insistence
peculiar to very young people.
In all probability, if no interruption had occurred, the conversation
of that morning would have taken a more confidential turn than usual,
and poor Dolly might then and there have satisfied her curiosity in
regard to the relations between Marion and Russell Vanbrugh.
It would be more correct, perhaps, to use a word of less definite
meaning than relation. Dolly suspected indeed that Vanbrugh loved Mrs.
Darche in his own quiet and undemonstrative fashion, and that this was
the secret of his celibacy. She believed it possible, too, that her
friend might be more deeply attached to Vanbrugh than she was willing
to acknowledge even in her own heart. But she was absolutely convinced
that whatever the two might feel for one another their feelings would
remain for ever a secret. She had gone further than usual in asking
Marion whether she were happy, and whether she had not at some time or
another almost forgotten that she was married at all. And Marion had
not resented the words. Dolly felt that she was on the very point of
getting at the truth, and was hoping that she might be left alone
half-an-hour longer with her friend, when the door opened and Simon
Darche entered the room. At the sight of the two young women his pink
silk face lighted up with a bright smile. He rubbed his hands, and the
vague expression of his old blue eyes gave place to a look of
recognition, imaginary, it is true, but evidently a source of pleasure
to himself.
"Good morning, my dear," he said briskly, taking Marion's hand in both
of his and pressing it affectionately. "Good morning, Mrs. Chilton," he
added, smiling at Dolly.
"Dolly Maylands," suggested Marion in an undertone.
"Dolly? Dolly?" repeated the old man. "Yes, yes--what did you say? What
did you say, Marion? Dolly Chilton? Silly child. Dolly Chilton has been
dead these twenty years."
"What does he mean?" asked Dolly in a whisper. Simon Darche turned upon
her rather suddenly.
"Oh yes, I remember," he said. "You are the little girl who used to
talk about Darwin, and the soul, and monkeys without tails, and steam
engines, when you were seven years old. Why, my dear child, I know you
very well indeed. How long have you been married?"
"I am not married," answered the young girl, suppressing a smile.
"Why not?" inquired Mr. Darche with startling directness. "But
then--oh, yes! I am very sorry, my dear. I did not mean to allude to
it. I went to poor Chilton's funeral."
Just then, Stubbs, the butler, entered again, bearing this time a note
for Mrs. Darche. While she glanced at the contents he waited near the
door in obedience to a gesture from her. Old Mr. Darche immediately
went up to him, and with hearty cordiality seized and shook his
reluctant hand.
"Happy to meet you, old fellow!" he cried. "That is all right. Now just
sit down here and we will go through the question in five minutes."
"Beg pardon, sir," said the impassive butler. It was not the first time
that his master had taken him for an old friend.
"Eh, what!" cried Simon Darche. "Calling me 'sir'? Did you come here to
quarrel with me, old man? Oh, I see! You are laughing. Well come along.
This business will not keep. The ladies will not mind if we go to work,
I daresay."
And forthwith he dragged Stubbs to a table and forced him into a chair,
talking to him all the time. Dolly was startled and grasped Marion's
arm.
"What is it?" she asked under her breath. "Oh, Marion, what is it? Is
he quite mad?"
Mrs. Darche answered her only by a warning look, and then, turning
away, seemed to hesitate a moment. Stubbs was suffering acutely,
submitting to sit on the edge of the chair to which his master had
pushed him, merely because no means of escape suggested itself to his
mechanical intelligence.
"Why can you not sit down comfortably?" asked Mr. Darche, with a show
of temper. "You are not in a hurry, I know. Oh I see, you are cold.
Well, warm yourself. Cold morning. It will be warm enough in Wall
Street to-morrow, if we put this thing through. Now just let me explain
the position to you. I tell you we are stronger than anybody thinks.
Yes sir. I do not see any limit to what we may do."
Marion took a flower from one of the vases and went up to the old
gentleman.
"Just let me put this rose in your coat, before you go to work."
Mr. Darche turned towards her as she spoke, and his attention was
diverted. With a serio-comic expression of devout thankfulness, Stubbs
rose and noiselessly glided from the room.
"Thank you, thank you," said the old gentleman, and as he bent to smell
the blossom, his head dropped forward rather helplessly. "I was always
fond of flowers."
The note which Stubbs had brought conveyed the information that the
three doctors who were to examine old Mr. Darche with a view of
ascertaining whether he could properly be held responsible for his
actions, would come in half an hour. It was now necessary to prepare
him for the visit, and Marion had not decided upon any plan.
It was evidently out of the question to startle him by letting him
suspect the truth, or even by telling him that his visitors belonged to
the medical profession. Mrs. Darche wished that she might have the
chance of consulting Dolly alone for a moment before the doctors came,
but this seemed equally impossible. She silently handed the note to her
friend to read and began talking to the old gentleman again. He
answered at random almost everything she said. It was clear that he was
growing rapidly worse and that his state was changing from day to day.
Marion, of course, did not know that the medical examination was to be
held by order of the committee conducting the inquiry into the
Company's affairs. Her husband had simply told her what she already
knew, namely, that his father was no longer able to attend to business
and that the fact must be recognised and a new president elected. It
would be quite possible, he thought, to leave the old gentleman in the
illusion that he still enjoyed his position and exercised his
functions. There could be no harm in that. To tell him the truth might
inflict such a shock upon his faculties as would hasten their complete
collapse, and might even bring about a fatal result. He had impressed
upon her the necessity of using the utmost tact on the occasion of the
doctors' visit, but had refused to be present himself, arguing, perhaps
rightly, that his appearance could be of no use, but that it might, on
the contrary, tend to complicate a situation already difficult enough.
The only course that suggested itself to Mrs. Darche's imagination, was
to represent the three doctors as men of business who came to consult
her father-in-law upon an important matter. At the first mention of
business, the old gentleman's expression changed and his manner became
more animated.
"Eh, business?" he cried. "Oh yes. Never refuse to see a man on
business. Where are they? Good morning, Mrs. Chilton. I am sorry I
cannot stay, but I have some important business to attend to."
He insisted upon going to his study immediately in order to be ready to
receive his visitors.
"Wait for me, Dolly," said Marion, as she followed him.
Dolly nodded and sat down in her own place by the fireplace, taking up
the magazine she had begun to cut and thoughtfully resuming her
occupation. Under ordinary circumstances she would perhaps have gone
away to occupy herself during the morning in some of the many matters
which made her life so full. But her instinct told her that there was
trouble in the air to-day, and that the affairs of the Darches were
rapidly coming to a crisis. She liked difficulties, as she liked
everything which needed energy and quickness of decision, and her
attachment to her friend would alone have kept her on the scene of
danger.
Marion did not return immediately, and Dolly supposed that she had
determined to stay with the old gentleman until the doctors came. It
was rather pleasant to sit by the fire and think, and wonder, and fill
out the incidents of the drama which seemed about to be enacted in the
house. Dolly realised that she was in the midst of exciting events such
as she had sometimes read of, but in which she had never expected to
play a part. There were all the characters belonging to the situation.
There was the beautiful, neglected young wife, the cruel and selfish
husband, the broken-down father, the two young men who had formerly
loved the heroine, and last, but not least, there was Dolly herself. It
was all very interesting and very theatrical, she thought, and she
wished that she might watch it or watch the developments in the
successive scenes, entirely as a spectator, and without feeling what
was really uppermost in her heart--a touch of sincere sympathy for her
friend's trouble.
Just as she was thinking of all that Marion had to suffer, John Darche,
the prime cause and promoter of the trouble, entered the room, pale,
nervous, and evidently in the worst of humours.
"Oh, are you here, Miss Maylands?" he inquired, discontentedly.
Dolly looked up quietly.
"Yes. Am I in the way? Marion has just gone with Mr. Darche to his
study. This note came a few moments ago and she gave it to me to read.
I think you ought to see it."
John Darche's brow contracted as he ran his eye over the page. Then he
slowly tore the note to shreds and tossed them into the fire.
"I do not know why my wife thinks it necessary to take all her friends
into the confidences of the family," he said, thrusting his hands into
his pockets and going to the window, thereby turning his back upon
Dolly.
Dolly made no answer to the rude speech, but quietly continued to cut
the pages of the magazine, until, seeing that Darche did not move and
being herself rather nervous, she broke the silence again.
"Am I in the way, Mr. Darche?"
"Not at all, not at all," said John, waking, perhaps, to a sense of his
rudeness and returning to the fireplace. "On the contrary," he
continued, "it is as well that you should be here. There will probably
be hysterics during the course of the day, and I have no doubt you know
what is the right thing to do under the circumstances. There seems to
be a horticultural show here," he added, as he noticed for the first
time the vases of flowers on the tables.
"They are beautiful roses," answered Dolly in a conciliatory tone.
"Yes," said John, drawing in his tin lips. "Beautiful, expensive--and
not particularly appropriate to-day. One of my wife's old friends, I
suppose. Do you know who sent them?"
"Stubbs brought them in, a little while ago," Dolly replied. "I believe
there was no note with them."
"No note," repeated John, still in a tone of discontent. "It is rude to
send flowers without even a card. It is assuming too much intimacy."
"Is it?" asked Dolly innocently.
"Of course it is," answered John.
"Half an hour," he said, after a moment's pause. "Half an hour! How
long is it since that note came?"
"About twenty minutes I should think."
"Doctors are generally punctual," observed Darche. "They will be here
in a few minutes."
"Shall you be present?" asked Dolly.
"Certainly not," John answered with decision. "It would give me very
little satisfaction to see my father proved an idiot by three fools."
"Fools!" repeated Dolly in surprise.
"Yes. All doctors are fools. The old gentleman's head is as clear as
mine. What difference does it make if he does not recognise people he
only half knows? He understands everything connected with the business,
and that is the principal thing. After all, what has he to do? He signs
his name to the papers that are put before him. That is all. He could
do that if he really had softening of the brain, as they pretend he
has. As for electing another president at the present moment it is out
of the question."
"Yes, so I should suppose," said Dolly.
John turned sharply upon her.
"So you should suppose? Why should you suppose any such thing?"
"I have heard that the Company is in trouble," answered Dolly, calmly.
John opened his lips as though he were about to make a sharp answer,
but checked himself and turned away.
"Yes," he said more quietly, "I suppose that news is public property by
this time. There they are," he added, as his ear caught the distant
tinkle of the door bell.
"Shall I go?" asked Dolly for the third time.
"No," answered Darche, "I will go out and meet them. Stay here please.
I will send my wife to you presently."
CHAPTER V.
The verdict of the doctors was a foregone conclusion. The family
physician, who was one of the three, the other two being specialists,
stayed behind and explained to John Darche the result of the
examination. There was no hope of recovery, he said, nor even of
improvement. The most that could be done was to give the old gentleman
the best of care so long as he remained alive. Little by little his
faculties would fail, and in a few years, if he did not die, he would
be quite as helpless as a little child.
John Darche was not in a state to receive the information with
equanimity, though he had expected nothing else and knew that every
word the doctor said was true--and more also. He protested, as he had
protested to Dolly half an hour earlier, that Mr. Darche was still a
serviceable president for the Company, since he could sign his name, no
matter whether he understood the value of the signature or not. The
doctor, who, like most people, was aware of the investigation then
proceeding, shook his head, smiled incredulously, asked after Mrs.
Darche and went away, pondering upon the vanity of human affairs and
consoling himself for the sins of the world with the wages thereof,
most of which ultimately find their way to the doctor's bank-book, be
the event life or death.
Old Mr. Darche, supremely unconscious of what had taken place, and
believing that he had been giving the benefit of his valuable advice to
the directors of a western railroad, had lighted one of his very fine
cigars and had fallen asleep in his easy chair in his own study before
it was half finished. Marion had returned to Dolly in the library and
John had sent for his stenographer and had taken possession of the
front drawing-room for the morning, on pretence of attending to the
business which, in reality, had already been withdrawn from his hands
during several weeks.
He was in great suspense and anxiety, for it was expected that the work
of the investigating committee would end on that afternoon. He knew
that in any event he was ruined, and even he felt that it would be
humiliating to live on his wife's income. They would go abroad at once,
he thought, New York had become hateful to him. He had as yet no
apprehension of being deprived of his liberty, even temporarily.
Whatever action was taken against him must be of a civil nature, he
thought. He did not believe that any judge would issue a warrant for
his arrest on such evidence as could have been collected by the
committee. Simon Darche was incapable of remembering what he had done
even a week previously, and since the doctors declared that his mind
was gone, almost anything might be attributed to him--anything, in
fact, about which the slightest trace of irregularity could be
discovered. John had been cautious enough in his actions when he had
been aware that he was violating the law, though he had been utterly
reckless when he had appealed to chance in the hope of retrieving his
losses, and recovering himself. He believed himself safe, and indulged
in speculations about the future as a relief to the excessive anxiety
of the moment.
Mrs. Darche had some right to know the result of the consultation which
had taken place, but her husband either intended to leave her in
ignorance or forgot her existence after the doctors had left the house.
During some time she remained with Dolly in the library, expecting that
John would at least send her some message, if he did not choose to come
himself. At last she determined to go to him.
"I am very busy now," he said as she entered the room and glanced at
the secretary.
"Yes," answered Mrs. Darche, "I see, but I must speak to you alone for
a minute."
"Well--but I wish you would choose some other time." He nodded to the
secretary who rose and quietly disappeared.
"What is it?" asked Darche, when they were alone.
"What did the doctors say?"
"Oh, nothing at all. They talked as doctors always do. Keep the patient
in good health, plenty of fresh air, food and sleep." He laughed sourly
at his own words.
"Is that all?" inquired Marion, rather incredulously. "They must have
said something else. Why, we can all see that he is not himself. There
is something very seriously wrong. I am quite sure that he did not
recognise me yesterday."
"Not recognise you?" said John with the same disagreeable laugh. "Not
recognise you? Do not be silly. He talks of nobody else. I tell you
there is nothing in the world the matter with him, he is good for
another twenty years."
"Thank heaven for that--for the twenty years of life, whether with all
his faculties or not--"
"Yes, by all means let us return thanks. At the present rate of
interest on his life that means at least two millions."
"It hurts me to hear you talk like that about your father," said
Marion, sitting down and watching her husband as he walked slowly up
and down before her.
"Does it? That is interesting. I wonder why you are hurt because he is
likely to live twenty years. You are not very likely to be hurt by his
death."
"Did I ever suggest such a thing?"
"No, it suggested itself."
At this speech Mrs. Darche rose. Standing quite still for a moment, she
looked quietly into his uncertain eyes. He was evidently in the worst
of humours, and quite unable to control himself, even had he wished to
do so. She felt that it would be safer to leave him, for her own temper
was overwrought and ready to break out. She turned towards the door.
Then he called her back.
"I say, Marion!"
"Well."
"What are you making such a fuss about?"
"Have I said anything?"
"No, not much, but you have a particularly uncomfortable way of letting
one see what you would like to say."
"Is that why you called me back?" asked Mrs. Darche on the point of
turning away again.
"I suppose so. It certainly was not for the pleasure of prolonging this
delightful interview."
Once more she moved in the direction of the door. Then something seemed
to tighten about her heart, something long forgotten, and which, if she
tried to understand it at all, she thought was pity. It was
nothing--only a dead love turning in its grave. But it hurt her, and
she stopped and looked back. John Darche was leaning against the high
mantlepiece, shading his eyes from the fire with his small, pointed
white hand. She came and stood beside him.
"John," she said gently, "I want to speak to you seriously. I am very
sorry if I was hasty just now. Please forget it."
Darche looked up, pulled out his watch and glanced at it, and then
looked at her again before he answered. His eyes were hard and dull.
"I think I said that I was rather busy this morning," he answered
slowly.
"Yes, I know," answered Marion, in her sweet, low voice. "But I will
not keep you long. I must speak. John, is this state of things to go on
for ever?"
"I fancy not. The death of one of us is likely to put a stop to it
before eternity sets in," he answered with some scorn.
"We can stop it now if we will but try," said Marion, laying her hand
entreatingly upon his arm.
"Oh yes, no doubt," observed John coldly.
"Let me speak, please, this once," said Mrs. Darche. "I know that you
are worried and harassed about business, and you know that I want to
spare you all I can, and would help you if I could."
"I doubt whether your help would be conducive to the interests of the
Company," observed Darche.
"No--I know that I cannot help you in that way. But if you would only
let me, in other ways, I could make it so much easier for you."
"Could you?" asked John, turning upon her immediately. "Then just lend
me a hundred thousand dollars."
Mrs. Darche started a little at the words. As has been said, she was
really quite in ignorance of what was taking place and had no idea that
her husband could be in need of what in comparison with the means of
the Company seemed but a small sum in cash.
"Do you need money, John?" she asked, looking at him anxiously.
"Oh no, I was only putting an imaginary case."
"I wish it were not merely imaginary--"
"Do you?" he asked, interrupting her quickly. "That is kind."
Marion seemed about to lose her temper at last, though she meant to
control herself.
"John!" she exclaimed, in a tone of reproach, "why will you so
misunderstand me?"
"It is you who misunderstand everything."
"I mean it quite seriously," she answered. "You know if you were really
in trouble for a sum like that, I could help you. Not that you ever
could be. I was only thinking--wishing that in some way or other I
might be of use. If I could help you in anything, no matter how
insignificant, it would bring us together."
John smiled incredulously.
"Oh!" he exclaimed, "is that what you are driving at? Do you not think
life is very bearable as we are?"
By this time Marion had completely regained her self-possession. She
was determined not to be repulsed, but there was a little bitterness in
her voice as she spoke.
"No, frankly, John, as we are living now, life is not very bearable. I
cannot exchange half a dozen words with you without quarrelling, and it
is not my fault, John, it is not my fault! Could you not sometimes make
it a little easier for me?"
"By borrowing a hundred thousand dollars?"
A pause followed John's answer, and he walked as far as the window,
came back again and stopped.
"If you think it would be conducive to our conjugal happiness that I
should owe you a hundred thousand dollars, by all means lend it to me.
I will give you very good security and pay you the current rate of
interest."
Mrs. Darche hesitated a moment before she spoke again. She was not
quite sure that he was in earnest, and being determined to make the
utmost use of the opportunity she had created, she dreaded lest if she
pressed her offer upon him he should suddenly turn upon her with a
brutal laugh.
"Do you really mean it, John?" she asked at last. "Will it help you at
all?"
"Oh, if you insist upon it and think it will promote your happiness, I
have no objection to taking it," said Darche coolly. "As a matter of
fact it would be a convenience to-day, and it might help me to-morrow.
It will certainly not be of any importance next week."
"I do not know whether you are in earnest or not, but I am."
Once more she paused. She realised that he was in need of a great deal
of money, and that his scornful acceptance of her offer was really his
way of expressing real interest.
"You shall have it as soon as I can get it for you. If you really need
it I shall be very glad. If you are only laughing at me--well, I can
bear that too."
"No," answered John, speaking much more seriously than hitherto. "It is
a simple matter, of course--but it is quite true that it would be a
convenience to me to have a hundred thousand dollars in cash during the
next twenty-four hours, and after all, it will not make any difference
to you, as so much of your property is in bonds. All you need to do is
to borrow the money on call and give the bonds as collateral."
"I do not understand those things, of course," said Marion in a tone of
grief, "but I suppose it can be managed easily enough, and I shall be
so proud if I am able to help you a little. Oh, John," she added, after
a little pause, "if we could only be as we used to be, everything to
each other."
"I wish we could," John answered with real or assumed gravity. "But in
this existence, there is everything to separate us and hardly anything
to bring us together. You see, I am worried all day long, I never get
any rest and then I lose my temper about everything. I know it is wrong
but I cannot help it, and you must try to be as patient as you can, my
dear."
"I do try, John, I do try, do I not? Say that you know I do." For a
moment she thought she had produced an impression upon him, and a
vision of a happier and more peaceful life rose suddenly before her
ready imagination. But the tone in which he spoke the next words
dispelled any such illusion.
"Oh yes," he said dryly, "I know you do, of course. You are awfully
good--and I am awfully bad. I will reform as soon as I have time. And
now, if you do not mind, I will go and attend to my letters."
"And I will see about getting the money at once," she said, bravely
hiding her disappointment at his change of tone. "I may be able to have
it by this evening."
"Oh yes," he answered with some eagerness, "if you are quick about it.
Well good-bye, and I am really much more grateful than I seem."
His dry unpleasant laugh was the last sound she heard as she left the
room. After all, it seemed perfectly useless, though she did her best
all day and every day.
Marion Darche left her husband more than ever convinced of the
hopelessness of any attempt at a happier and more united existence.
Faithful, brave, loving, a woman of heart rather than head, she
encountered in every such effort the blank wall of a windowless nature,
so to say--the dull opposition of a heartless intelligence incapable of
understanding any natural impulse except that of self-preservation, and
responding to no touch of sympathy or love. Against her will, she
wondered why she had married him, and tried to recall the time when his
obstinacy had seemed strength, his dulness gravity, his brutality
keenness. But no inner conjuring with self could give an instant's
life to the dead illusion. The nearest approach to any real
resurrection which she had felt for years had been the little pang that
had overtaken her when she had turned to leave him and had thought for
one moment that he might be suffering, as she was apt to suffer--this
being, whom she had once misunderstood and loved, whom she loved not at
all now, but to whom she had been lovelessly faithful in word and
thought and deed for years past.
Yet she knew that others had loved her well, most of all Harry Brett,
and girl-like, groping for her heart's half-grown truth she had once
believed that she loved him too, with his boyish, careless ways, his
thoughtless talk and his love of happiness for its own sake. He had
disappointed her in some little way, being over-light of leaf and
flower, though the stem was good to the core; she had looked for
strength on the surface as a child breaks a twig and laughs at the oak
for its weakness; she had expected, perhaps, to be led and ruled by a
hand that would be tender and obedient only for her, and she had turned
from Harry Brett to John Darche as from a delusion to a fact, from a
dream to the strong truth of waking--very bitter waking in the end.
But though she had wrecked heart and happiness, and had suffered that
cold and hunger of the soul which the body can never feel, she would
not change her course nor give up the dream of hope. Worse than what
had been, could not be to come, she said to herself, realising how
little difference financial ruin, even to herself, could make now.
As she took up her pen to write a word to Brett, begging him to come to
her without delay, she paused a moment, thinking how strange it was
that in an extremity she should be obliged to send for him, who had
loved her, to help her to save her husband, if salvation were possible.
She even felt a little warmth about her heart, knowing how quickly
Harry would come, and she was glad that she had known how to turn a
boy's romantic attachment into a man's solid friendship. Brett would
not disappoint her.
She sent Dolly away, and Dolly, obedient, docile and long-suffering for
her friend's sake, kissed her on both pale cheeks and left her,
tripping down the brown steps with a light gait and a heavy heart.
CHAPTER VI.
Marion had sent a messenger down town after Brett, and the latter did
not lose a moment in answering the note in person. He was a little pale
as he entered.
"What is it?" he asked, almost before he had shaken hands.
"It is kind of you to come at once," answered Marion. "I asked you to
come about a matter of business. Sit down. I will explain."
"Can I be of any use?"
"Yes, I want some money, a great deal of money, in fact, and I want it
immediately."
"Are you going to buy a house?" he inquired in some surprise. "How much
do you want?"
"A hundred thousand dollars."
Brett did not answer at once. He looked at her rather anxiously, then
stared at the fire, then looked at her again.
"It is rather short notice for such an amount. But you have nearly as
much as that in bonds and mortgages."
"Yes, I know."
"Well then, there need not be any difficulty. What you have in bonds
you have already, to all intents and purposes. Do I understand that you
want this money in cash?"
"Yes," answered Mrs. Darche with decision, "in cash."
"I suppose a cheque will do as well?" suggested Brett with a smile.
"A cheque?" She repeated the word and seemed to hesitate. "I should
have to write my name on it, should I not?"
"Yes."
During the pause which followed, Marion seemed to be reviewing the
aspects of the transaction.
"The name of the person to whom I give it?" she asked at last, and she
seemed to avoid his glance.
"Yes," answered Brett, surprised at the inexperience betrayed by the
question, "unless you cashed it yourself and took the money in notes."
"No," said Mrs. Darche, as firmly as before. "I want the notes here,
please. What I want you to do, is to take enough bonds and get the
money for me. I do not care to know anything else about it, because I
shall not understand."
"I suppose I ought not to be inquisitive, my dear friend," replied
Brett after a little hesitation, "but I ought to tell you what you do
not seem to realise, that a hundred thousand dollars is a great deal of
money and that you ought not to keep such a sum in the house."
"I do not mean to keep it in the house. It is to be taken away
immediately."
"I see."
He concluded that the money was to be taken from the house by John
Darche, and he determined to prevent such a result if possible.
"May I ask one question?" he inquired.
"I will not promise to answer it." She still looked away from him.
"I hope you will. Do you mean to lend this money to some one? If it
were an ordinary payment you would certainly not want it in notes in
the house."
"How do you know?" asked Marion with some impatience.
"Because no human man of business with whom I have ever had anything to
do likes to trot about town with a hundred thousand dollars' worth of
notes in his pocket. And there is very little doubt in my mind about
what you mean to do with the money. You mean to give it to your
husband. Am I right?"
Mrs. Darche blushed a little and a shade of annoyance crossed her face.
"Why should I tell you what I am to do with it?" she asked.
"Because I am your legal adviser," answered Brett without hesitating,
"and I may give you some good advice."
"Thank you, I do not want any advice."
Another pause followed this declaration, which only seemed to confirm
the lawyer in his surmises.
"I will call it by another name," he said at last in a conciliatory
tone. "I will call it information. But it is information of a kind that
you do not expect. I should certainly not have said anything about it
if you had not sent for me on this business. Is it of any use to beg
you to reconsider the question of lending this money?"
"No, I have made up my mind."
"To lend it to your husband?"
"Dear Mr. Brett," said Marion, beginning to be impatient again, "I said
that I would rather not tell you."
"I fancy that I am not mistaken," Brett answered. "Now my dear friend,
you will be the last to know what every one has known for some time,
but it is time that you should know it. The affairs of the Company are
in a very bad state, so bad indeed, that an inquiry has been going on
into the management. I do not know the result of it yet, but I am very
much afraid that it will be bad, and that it will have very
disagreeable consequences for you all."
"Consequences?" repeated Mrs. Darche. "What consequences? Do you mean
that we shall lose money?"
"I mean that and I mean something more. It is very serious. Your
husband is deeply involved, and his father's name is so closely
associated with his in all the transactions that it seems almost
impossible to say which of the two is innocent."
"Innocent!" cried Marion, laying her hand suddenly upon the arm of her
chair and starting forward, then rising quickly to her feet and looking
down at him. "What do you mean? Why do you use that word?"
The expression had hardly escaped Brett's lips when he realised the
extent of his carelessness. He rose and stood beside her, feeling, as a
man does, that she had him at a disadvantage while he was seated and
she was standing.
"I beg your pardon," he said, "I should have been more careful. I
should have said which of the two is responsible for--"
"Something disgraceful?" interrupted Mrs. Darche whose excitement was
only increased by his hesitation. "For heaven's sake, do not keep me in
this suspense. Speak! Tell me! Be quick!"
"I should not have spoken at all except as your adviser," said Brett.
"Nothing definite is known yet, but something is wrong. As a purely
business transaction it is madness to lend money to John Darche. Can
you believe for a moment that the treasurer of such a Company, that the
men who control such a Company, would ask you to lend them a hundred
thousand dollars at a few hours' notice, if they were not on the very
verge of ruin?"
"No, but that is not what happened."
She stopped short and moved away from him a little, hesitating as to
what she should say next. It was impossible to describe to him the
scene which had taken place between her and her husband.
"I cannot tell you, and yet I want you to know," she said, at last.
"Do you not trust me?" said Brett, hoping to encourage her.
"Certainly. Trust you! Oh yes, I trust you with all my heart."
She turned and faced him again.
"Then tell me," said he. "Tell me what happened in as few words as
possible. Just the bare facts."
"It is the bare facts that are so hard to tell."
She turned away from him again feeling that if she allowed her eyes to
meet his she could not long withhold her confidence.
"I suppose your husband let you guess that there was trouble, so that
you made the offer spontaneously, and then he accepted it."
"Well--yes--no--almost."
Still she hesitated, standing by the writing-table, and idly turning
over the papers.
"I saw that he was worried and harassed and that something was wearing
upon him, and I did so want to help him! I thought it might--no I will
not say that."
"But it will not help matters to throw good money after bad," answered
Brett thoughtfully. "Believe me, there is no more chance of saving this
money you mean to give him, than all the other millions that have gone
through his hands--gone heaven knows where."
"Millions?"
There was surprise in her tone.
"I am afraid so," answered Brett, as though he had no reason in making
any correction in his estimate.
"You must tell me all you can, all you know," said Marion, turning to
him again.
"That would be a long affair," said Brett, "though I know a great deal
about it. But I do not know all, though the situation is simple enough
and bad enough. In spite of the large earnings of the Company, the
finances are in a rotten state and it is said that there are large sums
not accounted for. An inquiry has been going on for some time, and was,
I believe, closed last night, but the result will not be known until
this afternoon."
"What sort of an inquiry?" asked Mrs. Darche, anxiously.
"The regular examination of the books and of all the details which have
gone through the hands of your father-in-law and your husband."
"My father-in-law! Do you mean to say that they are trying to implicate
the old gentleman too?"
Marion's face expressed the utmost concern.
"As president of the Company, he cannot fail to be implicated."
"But he is no more responsible for what he does than a child!" cried
Mrs. Darche, in a tone of protestation.
"I know that, but he is nominally at the head of the administration.
That is all you need know. The rest is merely a mass of figures with
an account of tricks and manipulations which you could not understand."
"And what would happen if--if--"
She leaned towards him unconsciously, watching his lips to catch the
answer.
"I suppose that if the inquiry goes against them, legal steps will be
taken," said Brett.
"Legal steps? What legal steps?"
Brett hesitated, asking himself whether he should be justified in
telling her what he expected as well as what he knew.
"Well--" he continued at last, "you know in such cases the injured
parties appeal to the law. But it is of no use to talk about that until
you know the result of the inquiry."
"Do you mean, do you really mean that John may be arrested?" asked Mrs.
Darche, turning pale.
"At any moment."
Brett answered in a low voice. Almost as soon as he had spoken he left
her side and crossed the room as though not wishing to be a witness to
the effect the news must have upon her. Before his back was turned she
sank into a chair and covered her face with her hands. A long pause
followed. Marion was the first to speak.
"Mr. Brett--" she said, and stopped.
"Yes." He came back to her side at once.
"Can you not help me?" she asked earnestly.
"How can I?"
"Is there nothing, nothing that can be done?"
"The whole matter is already beyond my power, or yours, or any one's."
Marion looked steadily at him for several seconds and then turned her
face away, leaning against the mantelpiece.
"I am sure something can be done."
"No, nothing can be done."
He did not move, and spoke in a tone of the utmost decision.
"That is not true," said Marion turning upon him suddenly. "Money can
help him, and we are wasting time. Do not lose a moment! Take all I
have in the world and turn it into money and take it to him. Go! Do not
lose a moment! Go! Why do you wait? Why do you look at me so?"
"It would not be a drop in the bucket," answered Brett, still not
moving.
"All I have!"
"All you have."
"That is impossible," cried Mrs. Darche, incredulously. "I am not
enormously rich, but it is something. It is between four and five
hundred thousand dollars. Is it not? I have heard you say so."
"Something like that," assented Brett, as though the statement did not
alter the case.
Mrs. Darche came close to him, laid her hand upon his arm and gently
pushed him, as though urging him to leave her.
"Go! I say," she cried. "Take it. Do as I tell you. There may be time
yet. It may save them."
But Brett did not move.
"It is utterly useless," he said stolidly. "It is merely throwing money
out of the window. Millions could not stop the inquiry now, nor prevent
the law from taking its course if it is appealed to."
"You will not do it?" asked Marion with something almost like a menace
in her voice.
"No, I will not," said Brett, more warmly. "I will not let you ruin
yourself for nothing."
"Are you really my friend?"
She drew back a little and looked at him earnestly.
"Your friend? Yes--and more--more than that, far more than you can
dream of."
"Will you refuse, do you refuse, to do this for me?"
"Yes, I refuse."
"Then I will do it for myself," she said with a change of tone as
though she had suddenly come to a decision. "I will let my husband do
it for me. You cannot refuse to give me what is mine, what you have in
your keeping."
But Brett drew back and folded his arms.
"I can refuse and I do refuse," he said.
"But you cannot! You have no right."
Her voice was almost breaking.
"That makes no difference," Brett answered firmly. "I have the power. I
refuse to give you anything. You can bring an action against me for
robbing you, and you will win your case, but by that time it will be
too late. You may borrow money on your mere name, but your securities
and title-deeds are in my safe, and there they shall stay."
Marion looked at him one moment longer and then sank back into her
seat.
"You are cruel and unkind," she said in broken tones. "Oh, what shall I
do?"
Brett hesitated, not knowing exactly what to do, and not finding
anything especial to say. It is generally the privilege of man to be
the bearer of whatever bad news is in store for woman, but as yet no
hard and fast rule of conduct has been laid down for the unfortunate
messenger's action under the circumstances. Being at a loss for words
with which to console the woman he loved for the pain he had
unwillingly given her, Brett sat down opposite her and tried to take
her hand. She drew it away hastily.
"No, go away," she said almost under her breath. "Leave me alone. I
thought you were my friend."
"Indeed I am," protested Brett in a soothing tone.
"Indeed you are not."
Marion sat up suddenly and drew back to her end of the sofa.
"Do you call this friendship?" she asked almost bitterly. "To refuse to
help me at such a moment. Do you not see how I am suffering? Do you not
see what is at stake? My husband's reputation, his father's name, good
name, life perhaps--the shock of a disgrace would kill him--and for me,
everything! And you sit there and refuse to lift a finger to help
me--oh, it is too much! Indeed it is more than I can bear!"
"Of course you cannot understand it all now," said Brett, very much
distressed. "You cannot see that I am right, but you will see it soon,
too soon. You cannot save him. Why should you ruin yourself?"
"Why?"
"Is there some other reason," asked Brett, quickly. "Something that I
do not know?"
"All the reasons," she exclaimed passionately, "all the reasons there
ever were."
"Do you love him still?" asked Brett, scarcely knowing what he was
saying.
Marion drew still further back from him and spoke in an altered tone.
"Mr. Brett, you have no right to ask me such a question."
"No right? I? No, perhaps I have no right. But I take the right whether
it is mine or not. Because I love you still, as I have always loved
you, because there is nothing in heaven or earth I would not do for
you, because if you asked me for all I possessed at this moment, you
should have it, to do what you like with it--though you shall have
nothing of what is yours--because, to save you the least pain, I would
take John Darche's place and go to prison and be called a rascal and a
thief before all the world, for your sake, for your dear sake, Marion.
I love you. You know that I love you. Right or wrong--but it is right
and not wrong! There is not a man in the world who would do for any
woman the least of the things I would do for you."
Again he tried to take her hand, though she resisted and snatched it
from him after a little struggle.
"Leave me! leave me!" she cried despairingly. "Let me go!"
"Not until you know, not until you understand that every word I say
means ten thousand times more than it ever meant to any one, not until
you know that I love you through and through with every part of me,
with every thought and action of my life. Look at me! Look into my
eyes! Do you not see it there, the truth, the devotion? No? Is it so
long since I loved you and you said--you thought--you believed for one
little day that you loved me? Can you not remember it? Can you not
remember even the sound of the words? They were so sweet to hear! They
are so very sweet as they come back now--with all they mean now--but
could not mean then!"
"Harry!"
She could not resist pronouncing his name that once.
"I knew it! You loved me then. You love me now. What is the use of
fighting against it, when we love each other so? Marion! Love! Ah God!
At last!"
"Go!"
With a quick movement she sprang to her feet and stood back from him.
"Marion!"
But in a moment it was past. With a gesture she kept him at arm's
length.
"Is that your friendship?" she asked reproachfully.
"No, it is love," he answered almost roughly. "There is no friendship
in it."
"And you talk of helping me!" she cried. "And at such a time as this,
when I am weak, unstrung, you force it all upon me, and drag out what I
have hidden so long. No, no! You do not love me. Go!"
"Not love you!" Again he tried to get near her. "God in heaven! Do not
hurt me so!"
"No," she answered, still thrusting him back. "If you loved me you
would help me, you would respect me, you would honour me, you would not
try to drag me down."
"Drag you down! Ah, Marion!"
He spoke very unsteadily, then turning his face from her he leaned upon
the mantelpiece and watched the fire. A long pause followed. After
awhile he looked up again and their eyes met.
"Harry!" said Mrs. Darche quietly.
"Yes," he answered.
"Come and sit beside me on that chair."
Brett obeyed.
"We must forget this morning," said Marion in her natural tone of
voice. "We must say to ourselves that all this has never happened and
we must believe it. Will you?"
"You ask too much," answered Brett looking away. "I cannot forget that
I have said it--at last, after all these years."
"You must forget it. You must--must--for my sake."
"For your sake?" Still he looked away from her.
"Yes, for my sake," she repeated. "If you cannot forget, I can never
look any one in the face again. Look at me, please," she said, laying
her hand upon his arm. "Look into my eyes and tell me that you will not
remember."
"For your sake I will try not to remember," he said slowly. "But I
cannot promise yet," he added with sudden passion. "Oh no!"
"You will do your best. I know you will," said Marion, in a tone that
was meant to express conviction. "Now go. And remember that I have
forgotten."
"You are very kind," Brett answered with more humility than she had
expected. "You are very good to me. I was mad for a moment. Forgive me.
Try to forgive me."
"There is nothing to forgive, for I remember nothing," said Marion with
a faint smile.
"Good-bye, then." He turned to go.
"Good-bye," she answered quite naturally.
"Now come back, please," she said, when he had almost reached the door.
"You are Mr. Brett now, and I am Mrs. Darche. I am in great trouble and
you are my friend, and you must help me as well as you can."
"In any way I can," he answered, coming back to her. "But I will help
only you, I will not help any one else."
"Not even old Mr. Darche?"
"Yes, I do not mean to except him."
"That is right. And we must act quickly. We must decide what is to be
done. We have," she hesitated, "we have lost time--at any moment it may
be too late."
"It is too late now," Brett answered in a sudden change of tone, as
Stubbs the butler suddenly entered the room.
"Please madam," said Stubbs, who was pale and evidently very much
disturbed, "there are some strange gentlemen to see Mr. John Darche,
and when I told them that he was out, they said they would see old Mr.
Darche, and I said that old Mr. Darche was ill and could see no one,
and they said they must see him; and they are coming upstairs without
leave, and here they are, madam, and I cannot keep them out!"
CHAPTER VII.
Bail was refused, and John Darche remained in prison during the weeks
that intervened between his arrest and his trial. He was charged with
making use of large sums, the property of the Company, for which he was
unable to account, with fraudulently tampering with the books and with
attempting to issue certificates of stock to a very large amount,
bearing forged signatures.
The house in Lexington Avenue was very gloomy and silent. Simon Darche,
who was of course in ignorance of what had taken place, had caught cold
and was confined to his bed. It was said that he was breaking down at
last, and that his heart was affected. Dolly Maylands came daily and
spent long hours with her friend, but not even her bright face could
bring light into the house. Russell Vanbrugh and Harry Brett also came
almost every day. Vanbrugh had undertaken Darche's defence, out of
friendship for Marion, and it was natural that he should come. As for
Brett, he could not stay away, and as Mrs. Darche seemed to have
forgiven and forgotten his passionate outbreak and did not bid him
discontinue his visits, he saw no reason for doing so on any other
ground.
He was, on the whole, a very loyal-hearted man, and was very much
ashamed of having seemed to take advantage of Marion's distress, to
speak as he had spoken. But he was neither over-sensitive nor in any
way morbid. Seeing that she intended to forgive him, he did not
distress himself with self-accusations nor doubt that her forgiveness
was sincere and complete. Besides, her present distress was so great
that he felt instinctively her total forgetfulness of smaller matters,
and even went so far as to believe himself forgotten. Meanwhile he
watched every opportunity of helping Marion, and would have been ready
at a moment's notice to do anything whatever which could have
alleviated her suffering in the slightest degree. Nevertheless, he
congratulated himself that he was not a criminal lawyer, like
Vanbrugh, and that it had not fallen to his share to defend John
Darche, thief swindler, and forger. He would have done that, and more
also, as Vanbrugh was doing, for Marion's sake, no doubt, but he was
very glad that it could not be asked of him. It was bad enough that he
should be put into the witness-box to state on his oath such facts as
he could remember to Darche's advantage, and to be cross-examined and
re-examined, and forced through the endless phases of torture to which
witnesses are usually subjected. He was able, at least, to establish
the fact that not the smallest sum had ever, so far as he knew, passed
from the hands of John Darche to his wife's credit. On being asked why,
as Mrs. Darche's man of business, he had not invested any of her money
in the Company, he replied that his father had managed the estate
before him, and that his father's prejudices and his own were wholly in
favour of investment in real estate, bonds of long-established railways
and first mortgages, and that Mrs. Darche had left her affairs entirely
in his hands.
Marion herself gave her evidence bravely and truthfully, doing her best
to speak to her husband's advantage. Her appearance and manner excited
universal sympathy, to use the language of the reports of the case, but
what she said did not tend in any way to exculpate John Darche. On the
contrary, society learned for the first time from her lips that she had
led a most unhappy life. She suffered acutely under the
cross-examination. Being excessively truthful, she gave her answers
without the slightest distortion of fact, while doing her best to pass
over altogether any statement which could injure her husband's defence.
As often happens, what she omitted to say told most heavily against
him, while the little she was forced to admit concerning his father's
condition amply corroborated the medical opinion of the latter's state,
and proved beyond a doubt that he had been during more than a year a
mere instrument in his son's hands. He, at least, was wholly innocent,
and would be suffered to spend his few remaining years in the dreams of
a peaceful dotage.
The court, to use the current phrase, showed Marion every
consideration. That is, she was tacitly admitted from the first to have
had no connection whatever with the crime of which her husband was
accused. To the last, she intended to be present when the judge summed
up the case, in order to help John to the end by seeming to believe in
his innocence. On that very day, however, Simon Darche was so far
recovered as to be able to leave his room for the first time, and her
presence at his side seemed absolutely necessary. It was most important
that all knowledge of what was happening should be kept from him. He
was quite capable of leaving the house if left to himself, and he would
certainly not have submitted to any suggestion to the contrary offered
by Stubbs.
He might stroll into a club or into the house of some old friend, and
some one would be sure to offer him the tactless sympathy which goes
about to betray secrets. Moreover, he had been told, in explanation of
John's protracted absence, that the latter had been obliged to go away
on business, and he had enough memory and power of reasoning left to be
surprised at receiving no letters. He was sure to make inquiries about
John, if left to his own devices. Marion could not leave him. In the
midst of her extreme anxiety she was obliged to pass the greater part
of the day in reading to him, and in trying to divert his mind from the
thought of John and his absence. His love and mistaken admiration for
his son had been the strongest feelings in his life and continued to
the end.
Dolly Maylands would have been faithful to Marion under any imaginable
consequences, with that whole-souled belief and trust which is
girlhood's greatest charm. On the last day of the trial she came in the
morning and did not leave the house again. Brett appeared at intervals
and told Dolly how matters were going.
He was not a man like Vanbrugh, of very varied acquaintances and wide
experience, but in certain quarters he had great influence, and on
Marion's behalf he exerted it to the utmost on the present occasion.
Foreseeing that the verdict must inevitably be unfavourable, and
knowing of Simon Darche's great anxiety about his son's absence, Brett
succeeded in obtaining an order to bring John Darche to see his father
before he should be taken back to prison after the conclusion of the
trial. It was agreed that the police officers should appear dressed as
civilians, and should be introduced with John to the old man's presence
as men of business accompanying his son. John would then have the
opportunity of quieting his father's apprehensions in regard to his
future absence, and he could take leave of his wife if he wished to do
so, though of course he would not be allowed to be even a moment out of
his guardians' sight. The order was ostensibly granted in consideration
of Simon Darche's mental infirmity, and of the danger to his health
which any shock must cause, and which already existed in the shape of
acute anxiety. In reality, the favour was granted as a personal one to
Brett. When everything was arranged, he returned to Lexington Avenue.
He found Dolly alone in the library and told her what he had done.
It was very quiet in the room, and the dusk was stealing away the last
glow of the sunset that hung over the trees and houses of Gramercy
Park. Dolly sat near the window, looking out, her hands clasped upon
one knee, her fair young face very grave and sad. Brett paced the floor
nervously.
"How kind you are!" Dolly exclaimed.
"Kind?" repeated the young man, almost indignantly, and stopping in his
walk as he spoke. "Who would not do as much if he could?"
"Lots of people."
"Not of her friends--not of those who know her. It is little enough
that I can do for any of them. Vanbrugh has done more than I--can do
much more."
"What a fight he has made!" The ready enthusiasm rang in the girl's
clear voice. Then her tone changed she continued. "Yes," she said
thoughtfully, "Marion is lucky to have such friends as you and Russell
Vanbrugh."
"And you yourself, Miss Maylands."
"I? Oh, I do not count. What can a woman do on days like these? I can
only stay here and try to make her feel that I am a comfortable pillow
for her to lay her head upon, when she is entirely worn out. Poor
Marion! She is the bravest woman I ever knew. But then--"
She stopped, hesitating, and Brett, who was almost too much excited to
follow all the words she spoke, was suddenly aware that she had not
finished the sentence.
"What were you going to say?" he asked, struggling desperately to
remember what she had said already.
"I hardly ought--I suppose," objected Dolly. "But then--what can it
matter? He is sure to be found guilty, is he not?"
"Quite sure," Brett answered slowly.
"Well then--Marion must feel that when this last agony is over she will
have much more peace in her life than she has enjoyed for a long time.
I wonder whether it is very wrong to say such things."
