the long violent strain of the reception had followed ; 
and this had been followed, in turn, by the dreary 
sight-seeing, the Judge's wearying explanations and 
laudations of the sights, and the stupefying clamor 
 
of the dogs. As a congruous conclusion, a fitting 
end, his feelings had been hurt, a slight had been 
put upon him. He would have been glad to forego 
dinner and betake himself to rest and sleep, but he 
held his peace and said no word, for he knew his 
brother, Luigi, was fresh, unweary, full of life, spirit, 
energy; he would have scoffed at the idea of wast- 
ing valuable time on a bed or a sofa, and would have 
refused permission. 
CHAPTER IV 
SUPERNATURAL CHRONOMETRY 
ROWENA was dining out, Joe and Harry were 
belated at play, there were but three chairs 
and four persons that noon at the home dinner- 
table — the twins, the widow, and her chum, Aunt 
Betsy Hale. The widow soon perceived that An- 
gelo's spirits were as low as Luigi's were high, and 
also that he had a jaded look. Her motherly solici- 
tude was aroused, and she tried to get him interested 
in the talk and win him to a happier frame of mind, 
but the cloud of sadness remained on his counte- 
nance. Luigi lent his help, too. He used a form and 
a phrase which he was always accustomed to employ 
in these circumstances. He gave his brother an affec- 
tionate slap on the shoulder and said, encouragingly : 
"Cheer up, the worst is yet to come!" 
But this did no good. It never did. If anything, 
it made the matter worse, as a rule, because it 
irritated Angelo. This made it a favorite with 
Luigi. By and by the widow said: 
"Angelo, you are tired, you've overdone your- 
self; you go right to bed after dinner, and get a 
good nap and a rest, then you'll be all right." 
"Indeed, I would give anything if I could do 
that, madam." 
"And what's to hender, I'd like to know? Land, 
 
the room's yours to do what you please with! The 
idea that you can't do what you like with your 
own!" 
"But, you see, there's one prime essential — 
an essential of the very first importance — which 
isn't my own." 
"What is that?" 
"My body." 
The old ladies looked puzzled, and Aunt Betsy 
Hale said: 
"Why bless your heart, how is that?" 
"It's my brother's." 
"Your brother's! I don't quite understand. I 
supposed it belonged to both of you." 
"So it does. But not to both at the same time." 
"That is mighty curious; I don't see how it can 
be. I shouldn't think it could be managed that 
way." 
"Oh, it's a good enough arrangement, and goes 
very well; in fact, it wouldn't do to have it other- 
wise. I find that the teetotalers and the anti- 
teetotalers hire the use of the same hall for their 
meetings. Both parties don't use it at the same 
time, do they?" 
"You bet they don't!" said both old ladies in a 
breath. 
"And, moreover," said Aunt Betsy, "the Free- 
thinkers and the Baptist Bible class use the same 
room over the Market house, but you can take my 
word for it they don't mush up together and use it 
at the same time." 
"Very well," said Angelo, "you understand it 
 
now. And it stands to reason that the arrangement 
couldn't be improved. I'll prove it to you. If our 
legs tried to obey two wills, how could we ever get 
anywhere? I would start one way, Luigi would 
start another, at the same moment — the result 
would be a standstill, wouldn't it?" 
"As sure as you are born! Now ain't that won- 
derful! A body would never have thought of it." 
"We should always be arguing and fussing and 
disputing over the merest trifles. We should lose 
worlds of time, for we couldn't go down-stairs or 
up, couldn't go to bed, couldn't rise, couldn't wash, 
couldn't dress, couldn't stand up, couldn't sit down, 
couldn't even cross our legs, without calling a meet- 
ing first and explaining the case and passing resolu- 
tions, and getting consent. It wouldn't ever do — 
now would it?" 
"Do? Why, it would wear a person out in a 
week! Did you ever hear anything like it, Patsy 
Cooper?" 
"Oh, you'll find there's more than one thing 
about them that ain't commonplace," said the 
widow, with the complacent air of a person with a 
property right in a novelty that is under admiring 
scrutiny. 
"Well, now, how ever do you manage it? I 
don't mind saying I'm suffering to know." 
"He who made us," said Angelo reverently, "and 
with us this difficulty, also provided a way out of 
it. By a mysterious law of our being, each of us 
has utter and indisputable command of our body 
a week at a time, turn and turn about." 
'Well, I never! Now ain't that beautiful!" 
'Yes, it is beautiful and infinitely wise and just. 
The week ends every Saturday at midnight to the 
minute, to the second, to the last shade of a fraction 
of a second, infallibly, unerringly, and in that instant 
the one brother's power over the body vanishes and 
the other brother takes possession, asleep or awake." 
"How marvelous are His ways, and past finding 
out!" 
Luigi said: "So exactly to the instant does the 
change come, that dining our stay in many of the 
great cities of the world, the public clocks were 
regulated by it; and as hundreds of thousands of 
private clocks and watches were set and corrected in 
accordance with the public clocks, we really fur- 
nished the standard time for the entire city." 
"Don't tell me that He don't do miracles any 
more! Blowing down the walls of Jericho with 
rams' horns wa'n't as difficult, in my opinion." 
"And that is not all," said Angelo. "A thing 
that is even more marvelous, perhaps, is the fact 
that the change takes note of longitude and fits 
itself to the meridian we are on. Luigi is in com- 
mand this week. Now, if on Saturday night at a 
moment before midnight we could fly in an instant 
to a point fifteen degrees west of here, he would 
hold possession of the power another hour, for the 
change observes local time and no other." 
Betsy Hale was deeply impressed, and said with 
solemnity : 
' ' Patsy Cooper, for detail it lays over the Passage 
of the Red Sea." 
 
"Now, I shouldn't go as far as that," said Aunt 
Patsy, "but if you've a mind to say Sodom and 
Gomorrah, I am with you, Betsy Hale." 
"I am agreeable, then, though I do think I was 
right, and I believe Parson Maltby would say the 
same. Well, now, there's another thing. Suppose 
one of you wants to borrow the legs a minute from 
the one that's got them, could he let him?" 
"Yes, but we hardly ever do that. There were 
disagreeable results, several times, and so we very 
seldom ask or grant the privilege, nowadays, and 
we never even think of such a thing unless the case 
is extremely urgent. Besides, a week's possession 
at a time seems so little that we can't bear to spare 
a minute of it. People who have the use of their 
legs all the time never think of what a blessing it is, 
of course. It never occurs to them; it's just their 
natural ordinary condition, and so it does not excite 
them at all. But when I wake up, on Sunday 
morning, and it's my week and I feel the power all 
through me, oh, such a wave of exultation and 
thanksgiving goes surging over me, and I want to 
shout 'I can walk! I can walk!' Madam, do you 
ever, at your uprising, want to shout 'I can walk! 
I can walk!'?" 
"No, you poor unfortunate cretur', but I'll nevei 
get out of my bed again without doing it! Laws, 
to think I've had this unspeakable blessing all my 
long life and never had the grace to thank the good 
Lord that gave it to me!" 
Tears stood in the eyes of both the old ladies and 
the widow said, softly: 
 
"Betsy Hale, we have learned something, you 
and me." 
The conversation now drifted wide, but by and by 
floated back once more to that admired detail, the 
rigid and beautiful impartiality with which the pos- 
session of power had been distributed between the 
twins. Aunt Betsy saw in it a far finer justice than 
human law exhibits in related cases. She said: 
"In my opinion it ain't right now, and never has 
been right, the way a twin born a quarter of a 
minute sooner than the other one gets all the land 
and grandeurs and nobilities in the old countries and 
his brother has to go bare and be a nobody. Which 
of you was born first?" 
Angelo's head was resting against Luigi's; weari- 
ness had overcome him, and for the past five min- 
utes he had been peacefully sleeping. The old 
ladies had dropped their voices to a lulling drone, to 
help him to steal the rest his brother wouldn't take 
him up-stairs to get. Luigi listened a moment to 
Angelo's regular breathing, then said in a voice 
barely audible: 
"We were both born at the same time, but I am 
six months older than he is." 
"For the land's sake!" 
"'Sh! don't wake him up; he wouldn't like my 
telling this. It has always been kept secret till 
now." 
"But how in the world can it be? If you were 
both born at the same time, how can one of you be 
older than the other?" 
" It is very simple, and I assure you it is true. I 
 
was born with a full crop of hair, he was as bald as 
an egg for six months. I could walk six months 
before he could make a step. I finished teething 
six months ahead of him. I began to take solids six 
months before he left the breast. I began to talk 
six months before he could say a word. Last, and 
absolutely unassailable proof, the sutures in my skull 
closed six months ahead of his. Always just that 
six months' difference to a day. Was that accident? 
Nobody is going to claim that, I'm sure. It was 
ordained — it was law — it had its meaning, and we 
know what that meaning was. Now what does this 
overwhelming body of evidence establish ? It estab- 
lishes just one thing, and that thing it establishes 
beyond any peradventure whatever. Friends, we 
would not have it known for the world, and I must 
beg you to keep it strictly to yourselves, but the 
truth is, we are no more twins than you are." 
The two old ladies were stunned, paralyzed — 
petrified, one may almost say — and could only sit 
and gaze vacantly at each other for some moments; 
then Aunt Betsy Hale said impressively: 
"There's no getting around proof like that. I 
do believe it's the most amazing thing I ever heard 
of." She sat silent a moment or two and breathing 
hard with excitement, then she looked up and sur- 
veyed the strangers steadfastly a little while, and 
added: "Well, it does beat me, but I would have 
took you for twins anywhere." 
"So would I, so would I," said Aunt Patsy with 
the emphasis of a certainty that is not impaired by 
any shade of doubt. 
"Anybody would — anybody in the world, I don't 
care who he is," said Aunt Betsy with decision. 
"You won't tell," said Luigi, appealingly. 
"Oh, dear, no!" answered both ladies promptly, 
"you can trust us, don't you be afraid." 
"That is good of you, and kind. Never let on; 
treat us always as if we were twins." 
"You can depend on us," said Aunt Betsy, "but 
it won't be easy, because now that I know you ain't 
you don't seem so." 
Luigi muttered to himself with satisfaction: 
"That swindle has gone through without change of 
€ars." 
It was not very kind of him to load the poor 
things up with a secret like that, which would be 
always flying to their tongues' ends every time they 
heard any one speak of the strangers as twins, and 
would become harder and harder to hang on to with 
every recurrence of the temptation to tell it, while 
the torture of retaining it would increase with every 
new strain that was applied; but he never thought 
of that, and probably would not have worried much 
about it if he had. 
A visitor was announced — some one to see the 
twins. They withdrew to the parlor, and the two 
old ladies began to discuss with interest the strange 
things which they had been listening to. When 
they had finished the matter to their satisfaction, 
and Aunt Betsy rose to go, she stopped to ask a 
question : 
"How does things come on between Roweny and 
Tom Driscoll?" 
 
"Well, about the same. He writes tolerable 
often, and she answers tolerable seldom." 
"Where is he?" 
"In St. Louis, I believe, though he's such a gad- 
about that a body can't be very certain of him, I 
reckon." 
"Don't Roweny know?" 
"Oh, yes, like enough. I haven't asked her lately. ' ' 
"Do you know how him and the Judge are get- 
ting along now?" 
"First rate, I believe. Mrs. Pratt says so; and 
being right in the house, and sister to the one and 
aunt to t'other, of course she ought to know. She 
says the Judge is real fond of him when he's away; 
but frets when he's around and is vexed with his 
ways, and not sorry to nave him go again. He has 
been gone three weeks this time — a pleasant thing 
for both of them, I reckon." 
"Tom's ruther harum-scarum, but there ain't 
anything bad in him, I guess." 
"Oh, no, he's just young, that's all. Still, 
twenty- three is old, in one way. A young man 
ought to be earning his living by that time. If 
Tom were doing that, or was even trying to do it, 
the Judge would be a heap better satisfied with him. 
Tom's always going to begin, but somehow he can't 
seem to find just the opening he likes." 
"Well, now, it's partly the Judge's own fault. 
Promising the boy his property wasn't the way to 
set him to earning a fortune of his own. But what 
do you think — is Roweny beginning to lean any 
toward him, or ain't she?" 
 
Aunt Patsy had a secret in her bosom; she 
wanted to keep it there, but nature was too strong 
for her. She drew Aunt Betsy aside, and said in 
her most confidential and mysterious manner: 
"Don't you breathe a syllable to a soul — I'm 
going to tell you something. In my opinion Tom 
Driscoll's chances were considerable better yester- 
day than they are to-day." 
"Patsy Cooper, what do you mean?" 
"It's so, as sure as you're born. I wish you 
could 'a' been at breakfast and seen for yourself." 
"You don't mean it!" 
"Well, if I'm any judge, there's a leaning — 
there's a leaning, sure." 
"My land! Which one of 'em is it?" 
"I can't say for certain, but I think it's the 
youngest one — Anjy." 
Then there were handshakings, and congratula- 
tions, and hopes, and so on, and the old ladies 
parted, perfectly happy — the one in knowing some- 
thing which the rest of the town didn't, and the 
other in having been the sole person able to furnish 
that knowledge. 
The visitor who had called to see the twins was 
the Rev. Mr. Hotchkiss, pastor of the Baptist 
church. At the reception Angelo had told him he 
had lately experienced a change in his religious 
views, and was now desirous of becoming a Baptist, 
and would immediately join Mr. Hotchkiss's church. 
There was no time to say more, and the brief talk 
ended at that point. The minister was much grati- 
fied, and had dropped in for a moment now, to 
 
invite the twins to attend his Bible class at eight 
that evening. Angelo accepted, and was expecting 
Luigi to decline, but he did not, because he knew 
that the Bible class and the Free-thinkers met in the 
same room, and he wanted to treat his brother to 
the embarrassment of being caught in free-cninking 
company. 
CHAPTER V 
GUILT AND INNOCENCE FINELY BLENT 
[A long and vigorous quarrel follows, between the twins. And 
there is plenty to quarrel about, for Angelo was always seeking 
truth, and this obliged him to change and improve his religion 
with frequency, which wearied Luigi, and annoyed him too; 
for he had to be present at each new enlistment — which placed 
him in the false position of seeming to indorse and approve his 
brother's fickleness; moreover, he had to go to Angelo 's pro- 
hibition meetings, and he hated them. On the other hand, 
when it was his week to command the legs he gave Angelo just 
cause of complaint, for he took him to circuses and horse-races 
and fandangoes, exposing him to all sorts of censure and criticism; 
and he drank, too; and whatever he drank went to Angelo 's 
head instead of his own and made him act disgracefully. When 
the evening was come, the two attended the Free-thinkers' meet- 
ing, where Angelo was sad and silent; then came the Bible 
class and looked upon him coldly, finding him in such company. 
Then they went to Wilson's house and Chapter XI of Pudd'nhead 
Wilson follows, which tells of the girl seen in Tom Driscoll's 
room; and closes with the kicking of Tom by Luigi at the anti- 
temperance mass -meeting of the Sons of Liberty; with the 
addition of some account of Roxy's adventures as a chamber- 
maid on a Mississippi boat. Her exchange of the children had 
been flippantly and farcically described in an earlier chapter.] 
NEXT morning all the town was a-buzz with great 
news ; Pudd'nhead Wilson had a law case ! The 
public astonishment was so great and the public curi- 
osity so intense, that when the justice of the peace 
opened his court, the place was packed with people, 
and even the windows were full. Everybody was 
flushed and perspiring; the summer heat was almost 
unendurable. 
Tom Driscoll had brought a charge of assault and 
battery against the twins. Robert Allen was re- 
tained by Driscoll, David Wilson by the defense. 
Tom, his native cheerfulness unannihilated by his 
back-breaking and bone-bruising passage across the 
massed heads of the Sons of Liberty the previous 
night, laughed his little customary laugh, and said 
to Wilson: 
"I've kept my promise, you see; I'm throwing 
my business your way. Sooner than I was expect- 
ing, too." 
"It's very good of you — particularly if you 
mean to keep it up." 
"Well, I can't tell about that yet. But we'll see. 
If I find you deserve it I'll take you under my pro- 
tection and make your fame and fortune for you." 
"I'll try to deserve it, Tom." 
A jury was sworn in; then Mr. Allen said: 
"We will detain your honor but a moment with 
this case. It is not one where any doubt of the fact 
of the assault can enter in. These gentlemen — the 
accused — kicked my client at the Market Hall last 
night ; they kicked him with violence ; with extraor- 
dinary violence; with even unprecedented violence, 
I may say; insomuch that he was lifted entirely off 
his feet and discharged into the midst of the audi- 
ence. We can prove this by four hundred wit- 
nesses — we shall call but three. Mr. Harkness will 
take the stand." 
Mr. Harkness, being sworn, testified that he was 
 
chairman upon the occasion mentioned ; that he was 
close at hand and saw the defendants in this action 
kick the plaintiff into the air and saw him descend 
among the audience. 
"Take the witness," said Allen. 
"Mr. Harkness," said Wilson, "you say you 
saw these gentlemen, my clients, kick the plaintiff. 
Are you sure — and please remember that you are 
on oath — are you perfectly sure that you saw both 
of them kick him, or only one? Now be careful." 
A bewildered look began to spread itself over the 
witness's face. He hesitated, stammered, but got 
out nothing. His eyes wandered to the twins and 
fixed themselves there with a vacant gaze. 
"Please answer, Mr. Harkness, you are keeping 
the court waiting. It is a very simple question." 
Counsel for the prosecution broke in with impa- 
tience : 
"Your honor, the question is an irrelevant trivial- 
ity. Necessarily, they both kicked him, for they 
have but the one pair of legs, and both are respon- 
sible for them." 
Wilson said, sarcastically: 
"Will your honor permit this new witness to be 
sworn? He seems to possess knowledge which can 
be of the utmost value just at this moment — knowl- 
edge which would at once dispose of what every one 
must see is a very difficult question in this case. 
Brother Allen, will you take the stand?" 
"Go on with your case!" said Allen, petulantly. 
The audience laughed, and got a warning from the 
court. 
 
"Now, Mr. Harkness," said Wilson, insinuat- 
ingly, "we shall have to insist upon an answer to 
that question." 
"I — er — well, of course, I do not absolutely 
know, but in my opinion — " 
"Never mind your opinion, sir — answer the 
question." 
"I — why, I can't answer it." 
"That will do, Mr. Harkness. Stand down." 
The audience tittered, and the discomfited witness. 
retired in a state of great embarrassment. 
Mr. Wakeman took the stand and swore that he 
saw the twins kick the plaintiff off the platform. 
The defense took the witness. 
"Mr. Wakeman, you have sworn that you saw 
these gentlemen kick the plaintiff. Do I understand 
you to swear that you saw them both do it?"' 
"Yes, sir," — with decision. 
"How do you know that both did it?" 
"Because I saw them do it." 
The audience laughed, and got another warning 
from the court. 
"But by what means do you know that both, and 
not one, did it?" 
"Well, in the first place, the insult was given to 
both of them equally, for they were called a pair of 
scissors. Of course they would both want to resent 
it, and so — " 
"Wait! You are theorizing now. Stick to facts 
— counsel will attend to the arguments. Go on." 
"Well, they both went over there — that I saw.'* 
"Very good. Go on." 
 
"And they both kicked him — I swear to it." 
"Mr. Wakeman, was Count Luigi, here, willing 
to join the Sons of Liberty last night?" 
"Yes, sir, he was. He did join, too, and drank 
a glass or two of whisky, like a man." 
"Was his brother willing to join?" 
"No, sir, he wasn't. He is a teetotaler, and was 
elected through a mistake." 
"Was he given a glass of whisky?" 
"Yes, sir, but of course that was another mis- 
take, and not intentional. He wouldn't drink it. 
He set it down." A slight pause, then he added, 
casually and quite simply: "The plaintiff reached 
for it and hogged it." 
There was a fine outburst of laughter, but as the 
justice was caught out himself, his reprimand was 
not very vigorous. 
Mr. Allen jumped up and exclaimed: "I protest 
against these foolish irrelevancies. What have they 
to do with the case?" 
Wilson said: "Calm yourself, brother, it was 
only an experiment. Now, Mr. Wakeman, if one 
of these gentlemen chooses to join an association 
and the other doesn't; and if one of them enjoys 
whisky and the other doesn't, but sets it aside and 
leaves it unprotected" (titter from the audience), 
"it seems to show that they have independent 
minds, and tastes, and preferences, and that one 
of them is able to approve of a thing at the very 
moment that the other is heartily disapproving of 
it. Doesn't it seem so to you?" 
"Certainly it does. It's perfectly plain. 
 
"Now, then, it might be — I only say it might 
be — that one of these brothers wanted to kick the 
plaintiff last night, and that the other didn't want 
that humiliating punishment inflicted upon him in 
that public way and before all those people. Isn't 
that possible?" 
"Of course it is. It's more than possible. I 
don't believe the blond one would kick anybody. 
It was the other one that — " 
"Silence!" shouted the plaintiff's counsel, and 
went on with an angry sentence which was lost in 
the wave of laughter that swept the house. 
"That will do, Mr. Wakeman," said Wilson, 
"you may stand down." 
The third witness was called. He had seen the 
twins kick the plaintiff. Mr. Wilson took the 
witness. 
"Mr. Rogers, you say you saw these accused 
gentlemen kick the plaintiff?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Both of them?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Which of them kicked him first?" 
"Why — they — they both kicked him at the same 
time." 
•"Are you perfectly sure of that?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"What makes you sure of it?" 
"Why, I stood right behind them, and saw them 
do it." 
"How many kicks were delivered?" 
"Only one." 
' ' If two men kick, the result should be two kicks, 
shouldn't it?" 
"Why — why — yes, as a rule." 
'Then what do you think went with the other 
kick?" 
"I — well — the fact is, I wasn't thinking of two 
being necessary, this time." 
"What do you think now?" 
"Well, I — I'm sure I don't quite know what to 
think, but I reckon that one of them did half of the 
kick and the other one did the other half." 
Somebody in the crowd sung out: "It's the first 
sane thing that any of them has said." 
The audience applauded. The judge said: "Si- 
lence! or I will clear the court." 
Mr. Allen looked pleased, but Wilson did not 
seem disturbed. He said : 
"Mr. Rogers, you have favored us with what you 
think and what you reckon, but as thinking and 
reckoning are not evidence, I will now give you a 
chance to come out with something positive, one 
way or the other, and shall require you to produce 
it. I will ask the accused to stand up and repeat 
the phenomenal kick of last night. " The twins stood 
up. "Now, Mr. Rogers, please stand behind them." 
A Voice: "No, stand in front!" (Laughter. 
Silenced by the court.) Another Voice: "No, give 
Tommy another highst!" (Laughter. Sharply re- 
buked by the court.) 
"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, two kicks shall be de- 
livered, one after the other, and I give you my 
lord that at least one of the two shall be delivered 
 
by one of the twins alone, without the slightest 
assistance from his brother. Watch sharply, for you 
have got to render a decision without any if's and 
and's in it." Rogers bent himself behind the twins 
with his palms just above his knees, in the modern 
attitude of the catcher at a baseball match, and 
riveted his eyes on the pair of legs in front of him. 
"Are you ready, Mr. Rogers?" 
"Ready, sir." 
"Kick!" 
The kick was launched. 
"Have you got that one classified, Mr. Rogers?" 
"Let me study a minute, sir." 
"Take as much time as you please. Let me 
know when you are ready." 
For as much as a minute Rogers pondered, with all 
eyes and a breathless interest fastened upon him. 
Then he gave the word: "Ready, sir." 
"Kick!" 
The kick that followed was an exact duplicate of 
the first one. 
"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, one of those kicks was 
an individual kick, not a mutual one. You will now 
State positively which was the mutual one." 
The witness said, with a crestfallen look: 
"I've got to give it up. There ain't any man in 
the woiM that could tell t'other from which, sir." 
"Do yc." still assert that last night's kick was a 
mutual kick;" 
"Indeed, I don't, sir." 
"That will do, Mr. Rogers. If my brother Allen 
desires to address the court, your honor, very well; 
 
but as far as I am concerned I am ready to let the 
case be at once delivered into the hands of this 
intelligent jury without comment." 
Mr. Justice Robinson had been in office only two 
months, and in that short time had not had many 
cases to try, of course. He had no knowledge of 
laws and courts except what he had picked up since 
he came into office. He was a sore trouble to the 
lawyers, for his rulings were pretty eccentric some- 
times, and he stood by them with Roman simplicity 
and fortitude ; but the people were well satisfied with 
him, for they saw that his intentions were always 
right, that he was entirely impartial, and that he 
usually made up in good sense what he lacked in 
technique, so to speak. He now perceived that 
there was likely to be a miscarriage of justice here, 
and he rose to the occasion. 
"Wait a moment, gentlemen," he said, "it is 
plain that an assault has been committed — it is 
plain to anybody; but the way things are going, 
the guilty will certainly escape conviction. I can- 
not allow this. Now — " 
"But, your honor!" said Wilson, interrupting him, 
earnestly but respectfully, "you are deciding the 
case yourself, whereas the jury — " 
"Never mind the jury, Mr. Wilson; the jury will 
have a chance when there is a reasonable d- j.bt for 
them to take hold of — which there isn't, so far. 
There is no doubt whatever that an assault has been 
committed. The attempt to show that both of the 
accused committed it has failed. Are they both to 
escape justice on that account? Not in this court, 
 
if I can prevent it. It appears to have been a mis- 
take to bring the charge against them as a corpora- 
tion ; each should have been charged in his capacity 
as an individual, and — " 
"But, your honor!" said Wilson, "in fairness to 
my clients I must insist that inasmuch as the prose- 
cution did not separate the — " 
"No wrong will be done your clients, sir — they 
will be protected; also the public and the offended 
laws. Mr. Allen, you will amend your pleadings, 
and put one of the accused on trial at a time." 
Wilson broke in: "But, your honor! this is 
wholly unprecedented! To imperil an accused per- 
son by arbitrarily altering and widening the charge 
against him in order to compass his conviction when 
the charge as originally brought promises to fail to 
convict, is a thing unheard of before." 
"Unheard of where?" 
"In the courts of this or any other state." 
The Judge said with dignity: "I am not ac- 
quainted with the customs of other courts, and am 
not concerned to know what they are. I am respon- 
sible for this court, and I cannot conscientiously 
allow my judgment to be warped and my judicial 
liberty hampered by trying to conform to the 
caprices of other courts, be they — " 
"But, your honor, the oldest and highest courts 
in Europe — " 
"This court is not run on the European plan, 
Mr. Wilson; it is not run on any plan but its own. 
It has a plan of its own; and that plan is, to find 
justice for both State and accused, no matter what 
 
happens to be practice and custom in Europe or 
anywhere else." (Great applause.) "Silence! It 
has not been the custom of this court to imitate 
other courts; it has not been the custom of this 
court to take shelter behind the decisions of other 
courts, and we will not begin now. We will do the 
best we can by the light that God has given us, and 
while this court continues to have His approval, it 
will remain indifferent to what other organizations 
may think of it." (Applause.) "Gentlemen, I 
must have order! — quiet yourselves! Mr. Allen, 
you will now proceed against the prisoners one at a 
time. Go on with the case." 
Allen was not at his ease. However, after whis- 
pering a moment with his client and with one or 
two other people, he rose and said: 
"Your honor, I find it to be reported and be- 
lieved that the accused are able to act independently 
in many ways, but that this independence does not 
extend to their legs, authority over their legs being 
vested exclusively in the one brother during a 
specific term of days, and then passing to the other 
brother for a like term, and so on, by regular alter- 
nation. I could call witnesses who would prove 
that the accused had revealed to them the existence 
of this extraordinary fact, and had also made known 
which of them was in possession of the legs yester- 
day — and this would, of course, indicate where the 
guilt of the assault belongs — but as this would be 
mere hearsay evidence, these revelations not having 
been made under oath — " 
"Never mind about that, Mr. Allen. It may not 
 
all be hearsay. We shall see. It may at least help 
to put us on the right track. Call the witnesses." 
"Then I will call Mr. John Buckstone, who is 
now present, and I beg that Mrs. Patsy Cooper may 
be sent for. Take the stand, Mr. Buckstone." 
Buckstone took the oath, and then testified that 
on the previous evening the Count Angelo Capello 
had protested against going to the hall, and had 
called all present to witness that he was going by 
compulsion and would not go if he could help him- 
self. Also, that the Count Luigi had replied sharply 
that he would go, just the same, and that he, Count 
Luigi, would see to that himself. Also, that upon 
Count Angelo's complaining about being kept on his 
legs so long, Count Luigi retorted with apparent 
surprise, " Your legs! — I like your impudence!" 
"Now we are getting at the kernel of the thing," 
observed the Judge, with grave and earnest satisfac- 
tion. "It looks as if the Count Luigi was in pos- 
session of the battery at the time of the assault." 
Nothing further was elicited from Mr. Buckstone 
on direct examination. Mr. Wilson took the witness. 
"Mr. Buckstone, about what time was it that that 
conversation took place?" 
"Toward nine yesterday evening, sir." 
"Did you then proceed directly to the hall?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"How long did it take you to go there?" 
"Well, we walked; and as it was from the ex- 
treme edge of the town, and there was no hurry, I 
judge it took us about twenty minutes, maybe a, 
trifle more." 
 
"About what hour was the kick delivered?" 
"About thirteen minutes and a half to ten." 
"Admirable! You are a pattern witness, Mr. 
Buckstone. How did you happen to look at your 
watch at that particular moment?" 
"I always do it when I see an assault. It's likely 
I shall be called as a witness, and it's a good point 
to have." 
"It would be well if others were as thoughtful. 
Was anything said, between the conversation at my 
house and the assault, upon the detail which we are 
now examining into?" 
"No, sir." 
"If power over the mutual legs was in the pos- 
session of one brother at nine, and passed into the 
possession of the other one during the next thirty or 
forty minutes, do you think you could have de- 
tected the change?" 
"By no means!" 
"That is all, Mr. Buckstone." 
Mrs. Patsy Cooper was called. The crowd made 
way for her, and she came smiling and bowing 
through the narrow human lane, with Betsy Hale, as 
escort and support, smiling and bowing in her wake, 
the audience breaking into welcoming cheers as the 
old favorites filed along. The Judge did not check 
this kindly demonstration of homage and affection, 
but let it run its course unrebuked. 
The old ladies stopped and shook hands with the 
twins with effusion, then gave the Judge a friendly 
nod, and bustled into the seats provided for them. 
They immediately began to deliver a volley of eager 
 
questions at the friends around them: "What is 
this thing for?" "What is that thing for?" "Who 
is that young man that's writing at the desk? Why, 
I declare, it's Jack Bunce! I thought he was sick." 
"Which is the jury? Why, is that the jury? Billy 
Price and Job Turner, and Jack Lounsbury, and 
— well, I never!" "Now who would ever 'a* 
thought—" 
But they were gently called to order at this point, 
and asked not to talk in court. Their tongues fell 
silent, but the radiant interest in their faces re- 
mained, and their gratitude for the blessing of a 
new sensation and a novel experience still beamed 
undimmed from their eyes. Aunt Patsy stood up 
and took the oath, and Mr. Allen explained the 
point in issue, and asked her to go on now, in her 
own way, and throw as much light upon it as she 
could. She toyed with her reticule a moment or two, 
as if considering where to begin, then she said: 
"Well, the way of it is this. They are Luigi's 
legs a week at a time, and then they are Angelo's, 
and he can do whatever he wants to with them." 
"You are making a mistake, Aunt Patsy Cooper," 
said the Judge. "You shouldn't state that as a. fact, 
because you don't know it to be a fact." 
"What's the reason I don't?" said Aunt Patsy, 
bridling a little. 
"What is the reason that you do know it?" 
"The best in the world — because they told me." 
"That isn't a reason." 
"Well, for the land's sake! Betsv Hale, do you 
hear that?" 
 
"Hear it? I should think so," said Aunt Betsy, 
rising and facing the court. "Why, Judge, I was 
there and heard it myself. Luigi says to Angelo — 
no, it was Angelo said it to — " 
"Come, come, Mrs. Hale, pray sit down, and — " 
"Certainly, it's all right, I'm going to sit down 
presently, but not until I've — " 
"But you must sit down!" 
"Must! Well, upon my word if things ain't 
getting to a pretty pass when — " 
The house broke into laughter, but was promptly 
brought to order, and meantime Air. Allen persuaded 
the old lady to take her seat. Aunt Patsy continued : 
"Yes, they told me that, and I know it's true. 
They're Luigi's legs this week, but — " 
"Ah, they told you that did they?" said the 
Justice, with interest. 
"Well, no, I don't know that they told me, but 
that's neither here nor there. I know, without that, 
that at dinner } r esterday, Angelo was as tired as a 
dog, and yet Luigi wouldn't lend him the legs to go 
up-stairs and take a nap with." 
"Did he ask for them?" 
"Let me see — it seems to me somehow, that — 
that — Aunt Betsy, do you remember whether he — " 
"Never mind about what Aunt Betsy remembers 
— she is not a witness; we only want to know what 
you remember yourself," said the Judge. 
"Well, it does seem to me that you are most 
cantankerously particular about a little thing, Sim 
Robinson. Why, when I can't remember a thing 
myself, I always — " 
 
"Ah, please go on!" 
"Now how can she when you keep fussing at her 
all the time?" said Aunt Betsy. "Why, with a 
person pecking at me that way, I should get that 
fuzzled and fuddled that — " 
She was on her feet again, but Allen coaxed her 
into her seat once more, while the court squelched 
the mirth of the house. Then the Judge said : 
"Madam, do you know — do you absolutely 
know, independently of anything these gentlemen 
have told you — that the power over their legs passes 
from the one to the other regularly every week?" 
"Regularly? Bless your heart, regularly ain't 
any name for the exactness of it ! All the big cities 
in Europe used to set the clocks by it." (Laughter, 
suppressed by the court.) 
"How do you know? That is the question. 
Please answer it plainly and squarely." 
"Don't you talk to me like that, Sim Robinson — 
I won't have it. How do I know, indeed! How 
do you know what you know? Because somebody 
told you. You didn't invent it out of your own 
head, did you? Why, these twins are the truthful- 
est people in the world; and I don't think it be- 
comes you to sit up there and throw slurs at them 
when they haven't been doing anything to you. 
And they are orphans besides — both of them. 
All—" 
But Aunt Betsy was up again now, and both old 
ladies were talking at once and with all their might ; 
but as the house was weltering in a storm of laughter, 
and the Judge was hammering his desk with an iron 
 
paper-weight, one could only see them talk, not 
hear them. At last, when quiet was restored, the 
court said: 
"Let the ladies retire." 
"But, your honor, I have the right, in the interest 
of my clients, to cross-exam — " 
"You'll not need to exercise it, Mr. Wilson — 
the evidence is thrown out." 
"Thrown out!" said Aunt Patsy, ruffled; "and 
what's it thrown out for, I'd like to know." 
"And so would I, Patsy Cooper. It seems to 
me that if we can save these poor persecuted stran- 
gers, it is our bounden duty to stand up here and talk 
for them till—" 
"There, there, there, do sit down!" 
It cost some trouble and a good deal of coaxing, 
but they were got into their seats at last. The trial 
was soon ended now. The twins themselves became 
witnesses in their own defense. They established 
the fact, upon oath, that the leg-power passed from 
one to the other every Saturday night at twelve 
o'clock sharp. But on cross-examination their 
counsel would not allow them to tell whose week of 
power the current week was. The Judge insisted 
upon their answering, and proposed to compel them, 
but even the prosecution took fright and came to 
the rescue then, and helped stay the sturdy jurist's 
revolutionary hand. So the case had to go to the 
jury with that important point hanging in the air. 
They were out an hour and brought in this verdict: 
"We the jury do find: 1, that an assault was 
committed, as charged; 2, that it was committed by 
one of the persons accused, he having been seen to 
do it by several credible witnesses; 3, but that his 
identity is so merged in his brother's that we have 
not been able to tell which was him. We cannot 
convict both, for only one is guilty. We cannot 
acquit both, for only one is innocent. Our verdict 
is that justice has been defeated by the dispensation 
of God, and ask to be discharged from further 
duty." 
This was read aloud in court and brought out a 
burst of hearty applause. The old ladies made a 
spring at the twins, to shake and congratulate, but 
were gently disengaged by Mr. Wilson and softly 
crowded back into their places. 
The Judge rose in his little tribune, laid aside his 
silver-bowed spectacles, roached his gray hair up 
with his fingers, and said, with dignity and solemnity, 
and even with a certain pathos: 
"In all my experience on the bench, I have not 
seen justice bow her head in shame in this court 
until this day. You little realize what far-reaching 
harm has just been wrought here under the fickle 
forms of law. Imitation is the bane of courts — I 
thank God that this one is free from the contamina- 
tion of that vice — and in no long time you will see 
the fatal work of this hour seized upon by profligate 
so-called guardians of justice in all the wide circum- 
stance of this planet and perpetuated in their perni- 
cious decisions. I wash my hands of this iniquity. 
I would have compelled these culprits to expose 
their guilt, but support failed me where I had most 
right to expect aid and encouragement. And I was 
 
confronted by a law made in the interest of crime, 
which protects the criminal from testifying against 
himself. Yet I had precedents of my own whereby 
I had set aside that law on two different occasions 
and thus succeeded in convicting criminals to whose 
crimes there were no witnesses but themselves. 
What have you accomplished this day? Do you 
realize it? You have set adrift, unadmonished, in 
this community, two men endowed with an awful 
and mysterious gift, a hidden and grisly power for 
evil — a power by which each in his turn may com- 
mit crime after crime of the most heinous character, 
and no man be able to tell which is the guilty or 
which the innocent party in any case of them all. 
Look to your homes — look to your property — look 
to your lives — for you have need! 
"Prisoners at the bar, stand up. Through sup- 
pression of evidence, a jury of your — our — country- 
men have been obliged to deliver a verdict con- 
cerning your case which stinks to heaven with the 
rankness of its injustice. By its terms you, the 
guilty one, go free with the innocent. Depart in 
peace, and come no more ! The costs devolve upon 
the outraged plaintiff — another iniquity. The court 
stands dissolved." 
Almost everybody crowded forward to overwhelm 
the twins and their counsel with congratulations; 
but presently the two old aunties dug the duplicates 
out and bore them away in triumph through the 
hurrahing crowd, while lots of new friends carried 
Pudd'nhead Wilson off tavern ward to feast him 
and "wet down" his great and victorious entry into 
 
the legal arena. To Wilson, so long familiar with 
neglect and depreciation, this strange new incense 
of popularity and admiration was as a fragrance 
blown from the fields of paradise. A happy man 
was Wilson. 
CHAPTER VI 
THE AMAZING DUEL 
A deputation came in the evening and conferred upon Wilsou 
the welcome honor of a nomination for mayor; for the village 
has just been converted into a city by charter. Tom skulks 
out of challenging the twins. Judge Driscoll thereupon chal' 
lenges Angelo (accused by Tom of doing the kicking); he de- 
clines, but Luigi accepts in his place against Angelo's timid 
protest. 
JT was late Saturday night — nearing eleven. 
The Judge and his second found the rest of 
the war party at the further end of the vacant 
ground, near the haunted house. Pudd'nhead Wil- 
son advanced to meet them, and said anxiously: 
"I must say a word in behalf of my principal's 
proxy, Count Luigi, to whom you have kindly 
granted the privilege of fighting my principal's 
battle for him. It is growing late, and Count Luigi 
is in great trouble lest midnight shall strike before 
the finish." 
"It is another testimony," said Howard, approv- 
ingly. "That young man is fine all through. He 
wishes to save his brother the sorrow of fighting on 
the Sabbath, and he is right; it is the right and 
maniy feeling and does him credit. We will make 
all possible haste." 
Wilson said: "There is also another reason — a 
consideration, in fact, which deeply concerns Count 
