bitterness showed itself in her tone.
"Gen's pretty cute!" thought Chase. "She's not only feathering her own
nest up there in Asheville, but at the same time she is starving out
that wrong-headed husband of hers." Then he went on aloud: "Well, ma'am,
if it's to be Mrs. Jared who is to attend to the matter for me, I guess
I'll wait until I can put the whole thing before her in a nutshell, with
the details arranged. That will be pretty soon now--as soon as I come
back from California. For I must go to California myself before long."
"Are you going to take Ruth? How I shall miss her!" said the mother,
dispiritedly.
"We shall not be gone a great while--only five or six weeks. On second
thoughts, why shouldn't you come along, ma'am?--come along with us? I
guess I could fix it so as you'd be pretty comfortable."
"You are very kind. But I could not leave Dolly."
"Of course not. I didn't mean that, ma'am; I meant that Miss Dolly
should come along too. That French woman of Ruth's--Felicity--she's
capital when travelling. Or we could have a trained nurse? They have
very attractive nurses now, ma'am; real ladies; and good-looking too,
and sprightly."
"You are always thoughtful," answered Mrs. Franklin, amused by this
description. "But it is impossible. Dolly can travel for two or three
days, if we take great precautions; but a longer time makes her ill.
Ruth is coming to lunch, isn't she? With Malachi? I am so glad you
brought him; he doesn't have many holidays."
"Well, ma'am, he was there in Savannah, buying a bell, or, rather,
getting prices. A church bell, as I understood. He'd about got through,
and was going back to Asheville, when I suggested to him to come along
down to St. Augustine for three or four days. 'Come and look up your
wandering flock'--that is what I remarked to him. For you know, ma'am,
that with yourself and Miss Dolly, the commodore and Mrs. Kip, you make
four--four of his sheep in Florida; including Miss Evangeline Taylor,
four sheep and a first-prize lamb."
Mrs. Franklin smiled. But she felt herself called upon to explain a
little. "We are not of his flock, exactly; Mr. Hill has a mission
charge. But though he is not our rector, we are all much attached to
him."
"He's a capital little fellow, and works hard; I've great respect for
him. But somehow, ma'am, he's taken a queer way lately of stopping short
when he is talking. Almost as though he had choked!"
"So he has--choked himself off," answered Mrs. Franklin, breaking into a
laugh. "When with you, he is constantly tempted to ask for money for the
Mission, he says. He knows, however, that the clergy are always accused
of paying court to rich men for begging purposes, and he is determined
to be an exception. But he finds it uncommonly difficult."
"How much does he want?" inquired Chase. Then he paused. "Perhaps his
notions take the form of a church?" he went on. "I've been thinking a
little of building a church, ma'am. You see, my mother was a great
church-goer; she found her principal comfort in it. I've been very far
from steady myself, I'm sorry to say; I haven't done much credit to her
bringing-up. And so I've thought that I'd put up a church some day, as a
sort of memory of her. Because, if she'd lived, she would have liked
that better than anything else."
"Do you mean an Episcopal church?" inquired Mrs. Franklin, touched by
these words.
"Well, she was a Baptist herself," Chase replied. "So perhaps I have
rather a prejudice in favor of that denomination. But I'm not set upon
it; I should think it might be built so as to be suitable for all
persuasions. At any rate, I guess Hill and I could hit it off together
somehow."
Here Dolly came in, and a moment afterwards Ruth appeared with the Rev.
Malachi Hill. Dolly greeted the young missionary with cordiality. "How
is Asheville?" she inquired. "How is Maud Muriel?"
Malachi's radiant face changed. "She is the same. When I see her coming,
I do everything I can to keep out of the way. But sometimes there is no
corner to turn, or no house to go into, and I have to pass her. And
then I know just how she will say it!" And, tightening his lips, he
brought out a low "Manikin!"
"Brace up," said Dolly. "You must look back at her and look her down;
make her falter."
"Oh, falter!" repeated poor Malachi, hopelessly.
Another guest now appeared--Mrs. Kip. For Mrs. Franklin had invited them
all to lunch before the jessamine hunt, which had been appointed for
that afternoon. As it happened, Mrs. Kip's first question also was, "How
is Miss Mackintosh?"
"Unchanged. At least, she treats me with the same contumely," answered
the clergyman.
"If you indulge yourself with such words as 'contumely,' Mr. Hill,
people will call you affected," said Dolly, in humorous warning.
"Now, Dolly, don't say that," interposed Mrs. Kip. "For unusual words
are full of dignity. I don't know what I wouldn't give if I could
bring in, just naturally and easily, when I am talking, such a word, for
instance, as jejune! And for clergymen it is especially distinguished.
Though there is one clerical word, Mr. Hill, that I do think might be
altered, and that is closet. Why should we always be told to meditate in
our closets? Generally there is no room for a chair; so all one can
think of is people sitting on the floor among the shoes."
Every one laughed. Mrs. Kip, however, had made her remark in perfect
good faith.
The entrance of Walter Willoughby completed the party, and lunch was
announced. When the meal was over, and they came back to the parlor,
they found Félicité in waiting with Petie Trone, Esq. Félicité, a French
woman with a trim waist and large eyes, always looked as though she
would like to be wicked. In reality, however, she was harmless, for one
insatiable ambition within her swallowed up all else, namely, the
ambition not to be middle-aged. As she was forty-eight, the struggle
took all her time. "I bring to madame le petit trône for his promenade,"
she said, as, after a respectful salutation to the company, she detached
the leader from the dog's collar.
"Must that fat little wretch go with us?" Chase inquired, after the maid
had departed.
For answer, Ruth took up Mr. Trone and deposited him on her husband's
knee. "Yes; and you are to see to him."
"Is the squirrel down here too?" inquired Walter. "I haven't seen him."
"Robert the Squirrel--" began Chase, with his hands in his trousers
pockets; then he paused. "That's just like Robert the Devil, isn't it? I
mean an opera, ma'am, of that name that they were giving in New York
last winter," he explained to Mrs. Franklin, so that she should not
think he was swearing.
"Robert the Devil will do excellently well as a nickname for Bob," said
Dolly. "It's the best he has had."
"Well, at any rate, Robert the Squirrel isn't here," Chase went on. "He
boards with Mr. Hill for the winter, Walter; special terms made for
nuts. And, by-the-way, Hill, you haven't mentioned Larue; how is the
senator? I'm keeping my eye on him for future use in booming our resort,
you know. The Governor of North Carolina remarking to the Governor of
South Carolina--you've heard that story? Well, sir, what we propose now
is to have the senator from North Carolina remark to the senator from
South Carolina (and to all the other senators thrown in) that Asheville
is bound to be the Lone Star of mountain resorts south of the
Catskills."
Lilian Kip's heart had given a jump at Larue's name; to carry it off,
she took up a new novel which was lying on the table. (For Chase's order
had been a perennial one: "all the latest articles in fiction," pursued
Mrs. Franklin hotly, month after month.) "Oh, I am sure you don't like
this," said Lilian, when she had read the title.
"I have only just begun it," answered Mrs. Franklin. "But why shouldn't
I like it? It is said to be original and amusing."
"It is not at all the book I should wish to put into the hands of
Evangeline Taylor," replied Mrs. Kip, with decision.
"The one unfailing test of the American mother for the entire literature
of the world!" commented Dolly.
The search for the first jessamine was in those days one of the regular
amusements of a St. Augustine winter. Where St. George Street ends,
beyond the two pomegranate-topped pillars of the old city gate, Mrs.
Franklin's party came upon the other members of the searching
expedition, and they all walked on together along the shell road. On the
right, Fort San Marco loomed up, with the figures of several Indians on
its top outlined against the sky. Beyond shone the white sand-hills of
the North Beach. At the end of the road the searchers entered a long
range of park-like glades; here the yellow jessamine, the loveliest wild
flower of the Florida spring, unfolds its tendrils as it clambers over
the trees and thickets, lighting up their evergreen foliage with its
bell-shaped flowers. Dolly and Mrs. Franklin had accompanied the party
in a phaeton. "I think I can drive everywhere, even without a road, as
the ground is so level and open," Dolly suggested. "But you must serve
as guide, Ruth. Please keep us in sight."
But after a while Ruth forgot this injunction. Mrs. Franklin, always
interested in whatever was going on, had already disappeared, searching
for the jessamine with the eagerness of a girl. Dolly, finding herself
thus deserted, stopped. But her brother-in-law, who had had his eye on
her pony from the beginning, soon appeared. "What, alone?" he said,
coming up.
Upon seeing him, Dolly cleared her brow. "I don't mind it; the glades
are so pretty."
Chase examined the glades; but without any marked admiration in his
glance.
"Where is Ruth?" Dolly went on.
"Just round the corner--I mean on the other side of that thicket. Walter
has found some of the vine they are all hunting for, and she's in a
great jubilation over it; she wanted to find it ahead of that Mr. Kean,
who always gets it first."
"Please tell her to bring me a spray of it. As soon as she can."
Assuring himself that the pony felt no curiosity about the absence of a
road under his feet, Chase, with his leisurely step, went in search of
his wife. He found her catching jessamine, which Walter, who had climbed
into a wild-plum tree, was throwing down. She had already adorned
herself with the blossoms, and when she saw her husband approaching she
went to meet him, and wound a spray round his hat.
"Your sister wants some; she told me to tell you. She's back there a
little way--on the left," said Chase. "Hullo! here comes a wounded
hero;" for Petie Trone, Esq., had appeared, limping dolefully. "Never
mind; I'll see to the little porpoise if you want to go to Dolly." He
stooped and took up the dog with gentle touch. "He has probably been
interviewing some prickly-pears."
When Ruth had gone, Walter's interest in the jessamine vanished. He
swung himself down to the ground. "Mrs. Chase has been telling me that
you are thinking of going to California very soon?" he said,
inquiringly.
"Yes; I guess we shall get off next week," Chase answered, examining
Trone's little paws.
"I am going to be very bold," Walter went on. "I am going to ask you to
take me with you."
Chase's features did not move, but his whole expression altered; the
half-humorous look which his face always wore when, in the company of
his young wife, he was "taking things easy," as he called it, gave place
in a flash to the cool reticence of the man of business. "Take you?" he
inquired, briefly. "Why?"
And then Willoughby, in the plainest and most direct words (a directness
which was not, however, without the eloquence that comes from an intense
desire), explained his wish to be admitted to a part, however small, in
the California scheme. He allowed himself no reserves; he told the whole
story of his father's spendthrift propensities, and his own small means
in consequence. "I have a fixed determination to make money, Mr. Chase.
I dare say you have thought me idle; but I should not have idled if I
had had at any time the right thing to go into. Work? There is literally
no amount of work that I should shrink from, if it led towards the
fortune upon which I am bent. I can, and I will, work as hard as ever
you yourself have worked."
"I'm afraid you're looking for a soft snap," said Chase, shifting Mr.
Trone to his left arm, and putting his right hand into his trousers
pocket, where he jingled a bunch of keys vaguely.
"If you will let me come in, even by a little edge only, I am sure you
won't regret it," Walter went on. "Can't you recall, by looking back,
your own determination to succeed, and how far it carried you, how
strong it made you? Well, that is the way I feel to-day! You ought to be
able to comprehend me. You've been over the same road."
"The same road!" repeated Chase, ironically. "Let's size it up a little.
I was taken out of school before I was fourteen--when my father died.
From that day I had not only to earn every crumb of bread I ate, but
help to earn the bread of my sisters too. Before I was eighteen I had
worked at half a dozen different things, and always at the rate of
thirteen or fourteen hours a day. By the time I was twenty I was old; I
had already lived a long and hard life. Now your side: A good home;
every luxury; school; college; Europe!"
"You think that because I have been through Columbia, and because I once
had a yacht (the yacht was in reality my uncle's), I shall never make a
good business man," replied Walter. "Unfortunately, I have no means of
proving to you the contrary, unless you will give me the chance I ask
for. I don't pretend, of course, to have anything like your talents;
they are your own, and unapproached. But I do say that I have ability; I
feel that I have."
"It's sizzling, is it?" commented Chase. "Why don't you put it into the
business you're in already, then; the steamship firm of Willoughby,
Chase, & Co.? Boom that; put on steam, and boom it for all you're worth;
your uncles and I will see you through. You say you only want a chance;
why on earth don't you take the one that lies before you? If you wish to
convince me you know something, that's the way."
"The steamship concern is too slow for me; I have looked into it, and I
know. I might work at it for ten years, and with the small share I have
in it I should not be very rich," Walter answered. "I'm in a hurry! I am
willing to give everything on my side--all my time and my strength and
my brains; but I want something good on the other."
"Now you're shouting!"
"The steamship firm is routine--regular; that isn't the way you made
your money," Walter went on.
"My way is open to everybody. It isn't covered by any patent that I know
of," remarked Chase, in his dry tones.
"Yes, it is," answered Walter, immediately taking him up. "Or rather it
was; the Bubble Baking-Powder was very tightly patented."
Chase grinned a little over this sally. But he was not moved towards the
least concession, and Walter saw that he was not; he therefore played
his last card. "I have a great deal of influence with my uncles, I
think; especially with my uncle Nicholas."
"Put your money on Nicholas Willoughby, and you're safe, every time,"
remarked Chase, in a general way.
"I don't know whether you and Patterson care for more capital in
developing your California scheme?" Walter went on. "But if you do, I
could probably help you to some."
Chase looked at him. The younger man's eyes met his, bright as steel.
The millionaire walked over to a block of coquina, which had once formed
part of a Spanish house; here he seated himself, established Petie Trone
comfortably on his knee, and lifting his hand, tilted back still farther
on his head his jessamine-decked hat. "You've been blowing about being
able to work, Walter. But we can get plenty of hard workers without
letting 'em into the ring. And you've been talking about being sharp.
Sharp you may be. But I rather guess that when it comes to that, Dave
Patterson and I don't need any help. Capital, however, is another
matter; it's always another matter. By enlarging our scheme at its
present stage by a third (which we could do easily if your uncle
Nicholas came in), we should make a much bigger pile."
There was no second block of coquina; Walter remained standing. But his
compact figure looked sturdy and firm as he stood there beside the other
man. "I could not go to my uncle without knowing what I am to tell him,"
he remarked, after a moment.
"Certainly not!" Chase answered. Then, after further reflection (this
time Walter did not break the silence), he said: "Well, see here; I may
as well state at the outset that unless your uncle will come in to a
pretty big tune, we don't want him at all; 'twouldn't pay us; we'd
prefer to play it alone. Now your uncles don't strike me as men who
would be willing to take risks. You say you have influence with 'em, or
rather with Nick. But I've got no proof of that. Of course it's
possible; Nick has brought you up; he's got no son--only girls; perhaps
he'd be willing to do for you what he'd do for a son of his own; perhaps
he really would take a risk, to give you a first-class start. But I
repeat that I've no proof of your having the least influence with him.
What's more, I've a healthy amount of doubt about it! Oh, I dare say
you believe you've got a pull; you're straight as far as that goes. My
notion is simply that you're mistaken, that you're barking up the wrong
tree; Nicholas ain't that sort! However, as it happens to be the moment
when we could enlarge (and double the profits), I'll give you my
terms. You have convinced me at least of one thing, and that is that
you're very sharp set yourself as to money-making; you want tremendously
to catch on. And it's that I'm going to take as my security. In this
way. In order to learn whether your uncle Nicholas, to oblige you, is
willing to come in with Patterson and myself in this affair, you must
first know what the affair is (as you very justly remarked); I must
therefore tell you the whole scheme--show all my hand. Now, then, if I
do this, and your uncle doesn't take it up, then not only you don't
get in yourself, but if I see the slightest indication that my
confidence has been abused, I sell out of that steamship firm instanter,
and, as I'm virtually the firm, you know what that will mean! And the
one other property you have--that stock--you'll be surprised to see how
it'll go down to next to nothing on the street. 'Twon't hurt me, you
know. As for you, you'll deserve it all, and more, too, for having been
a dunderhead!"
"I accept the terms," answered Willoughby. "Under the circumstances,
they're not even hard. If I fail, I am a dunderhead!--I shall be the
first to say it. But I sha'n't fail." (Even at this moment, though he
was intensely absorbed, his eye was struck by the contrast between the
keen, hard expression of Horace Chase's face and his flower-decked hat;
between the dry tones of his voice and the care with which he still held
his wife's little dog, who at this instant, after a long yawn,
affectionately licked the hand that held him, ringing by the motion the
three small silver bells with which his young mistress had adorned his
collar.) "If I am to go to California with you next week, I have no time
to lose," he went on, promptly. "For I must first go to New York, of
course, to see my uncle."
"Well, rather!" interpolated Chase.
"Couldn't you tell me now whatever I have to know?" Walter continued.
"This is as good a place as any. We might walk off towards that house on
the right, near the shore; there is no danger of there being any
jessamine there."
Here Ruth appeared. "Haven't you found any more?" she asked, surprised.
"Mr. Willoughby, you pretended to be so much interested! As for you,
Horace, where is your spirit? I thought you liked to be first in
everything?"
"First in war, first in peace, first in the hearts of his countrymen,"
quoted Chase. "Here--you'd better put your monkey in the phaeton," he
went on, passing over Mr. Trone. "He has a little rheumatism in his paw.
But you must try to bear it." His voice had again its humorous tones;
the penetrating look in his eyes had vanished. His wife standing there,
adorned with jessamine, her face looking child-like as she stroked her
dog, seemed to change the man of a moment before into an entirely
different being. In reality it did not do this; but it brought out
another part of his nature, and a part equally strong. Ruth had taken
off her gloves; the gems which her husband had given her flashed on her
hands as she lifted Mr. Trone to her shoulder and laid her cheek against
his little black head. "We are going for a short walk, Willoughby and
I," Chase said--"over towards that house on the shore. We'll be back
soon."
"That house is Dalton's," answered Ruth, looking in that direction.
"Mrs. Dalton makes the loveliest baskets, Horace; won't you get me one?
They are always a little one-sided, and that makes them much more
original, you know, than those that are for sale in town."
"Oh, it makes them more original, does it?" repeated Chase.
When he returned, an hour later, he brought the basket.
Walter Willoughby started that night for New York.
CHAPTER XII
Seven weeks after she had searched for the first jessamine, Ruth Chase
was again at St. Augustine. But in the meanwhile she had made a long
journey, having accompanied her husband to California. Chase had
unexpectedly come back to Florida, to see David Patterson. When he
reached New York on his return from the West, and learned that Patterson
had been stricken down by illness at Palatka, he decided that the best
thing he could do would be to go to Palatka himself immediately.
Ruth was delighted. "That means St. Augustine for me, doesn't it? Mother
and Dolly are still there. Oh, I am so glad!"
"Why, Ruthie, do you care so much about it as all that? Why didn't you
say so before?" said Chase, looking up from his letters. "Then I could
have taken you down there in any case. Whereas now it's only this
accident of Patterson's being laid up that has made me decide to go. You
must tell me what you want, always. It's the only way we can possibly
get along," he concluded, with mock severity.
Ruth gazed at the fire; for in New York, at the end of March, it was
still cold. "I love St. Augustine. I was so happy there this winter,"
she said, musingly.
"Shall I build you a house near the sea-wall?" inquired her husband,
gathering up his letters and telegrams. As he left the room, he paused
beside her long enough to pass his hand fondly over her hair.
It was arranged that Walter Willoughby, who had returned with them from
California, should also accompany them southward. For there were certain
details of the Western enterprise which Patterson understood better than
any one else did, as he had devoted his attention to them for six
months; it now became important that these details should be explained
to the younger man, in the (possible) case of Patterson's being laid up
for some time longer. After one day in New York, therefore, Chase and
his wife and young Willoughby started for the land of flowers. At
Savannah a telegram met them: "Horace Chase, Pulaski House, Savannah.
Come alone. Patterson."
"When he's sick, he is always tremendously scared," commented Chase. "I
suppose we shall have to humor him. But I'll soon stir him up, and make
him feel better, Walter, and then I'll wire for you to come over at
once. Probably within twenty-four hours." After taking his wife to St.
Augustine, he crossed to Palatka alone. Walter was to wait at St.
Augustine for further directions.
The young New-Yorker agreed to everything. He was in excellent spirits;
throughout the whole Californian expedition he had, in truth, been
living in a state of inward excitement, though his face showed nothing
of it. For his uncle had consented, and he (Walter) had got his foot
into the stirrup at last. The ride might be breakneck, and it might be
hard; but at least it would not be long, and it would end at the
wished-for goal. Between two such riders as Patterson and Horace Chase
(Horace Chase especially; best of all, Horace Chase!), he could not fall
behind; they would sweep him along between them; he should come in
abreast. A closer acquaintance with Chase had only increased his
admiration for the man's extraordinary mind. "If ever there was a genius
for directing big combinations, here's one with a vengeance!" he said to
himself.
On the second day after Chase's departure for Palatka, Ruth and her
mother, in the late afternoon, drove across the Sebastian River by way
of the red bridge, and thence to the barrens. These great tree-dotted
Florida prairies possess a charm for far-sighted eyes; their broad,
unfenced, unguarded expanses, stretching away on all sides, carpeted
with flowers and ferns, and the fans of the dwarf-palmetto, have an air
of freedom that is alluring. Walter Willoughby accompanied the two
ladies, perched in the little seat behind. He had, in fact, nothing else
to do, as Chase had as yet sent no telegram.
They drove first to the Ponce de Leon spring. And Ruth made them drink:
"so that we shall always be young!"
Leaving the spring, they drove to another part of the barren. Here the
violets grew so thickly that they made the ground blue. "I must have
some," said Ruth, joyously. And leaving her mother comfortably leaning
back in the phaeton under her white umbrella, she jumped out and began
to gather the flowers with her usual haste and impetuosity. "Why don't
you come and help?" she said to Walter. "You're terribly lazy. Tie the
ponies to that tree, and set to work."
Walter obeyed. But he only gathered eight violets; then he stopped, and
stood fanning himself with his straw hat. "It is very warm," he said.
"Won't you let me get pitcher-plants instead? There are ever so many
over there. They are so large that eight of them will make a splendid
show." Daily companionship for seven weeks had made him feel thoroughly
at his ease with her. He had forgiven her for those old delays which she
had unknowingly caused in his plans; he now associated her with his
good-fortune, with his high hopes. She had been in the gayest spirits
throughout their stay in California, and this, too, had chimed in with
his mood.
"Pitcher-plants!" said Ruth. "Horrid, murdering things! Let them alone."
But they strolled that way to look at them; and then they walked on
towards a ridge, where she was sure that they should find calopogon.
Beyond the ridge there was a clear pool, whose amber-colored water
rested on a bed of silver sand; along one side rose the tall, delicate
plumes of the Osmunda regalis. "Isn't it lovely?" said Ruth. "I don't
believe there is anything more beautiful in all Florida!"
"Yes, one thing," thought Walter, "and that is Ruth Chase." For Ruth's
beauty had deepened richly during the past half-year. It was not Walter
alone who had noticed the change, every one spoke of it. At present his
eyes could not but note it once more, as she stood there in her white
dress under the ferns.
Then suddenly his thoughts were diverted in another direction. "I'm sure
that's for me!" he exclaimed. For he had discerned in the distance a
little negro boy on horseback. "He is bringing me my telegram at last--I
mean the one from your husband, Mrs. Chase, which I have been expecting
for two days. The stupid is following the road. I wonder if I couldn't
make him see me from here, so as to gain time?" And taking off his hat,
he waved it high in the air. But the child kept on his course. "Perhaps
I can make him hear," said Walter. He shouted, whistled, called. But all
to no purpose. "We might as well go back towards the phaeton," he
suggested. And they started.
"What will the telegram be?" said Ruth, arranging her violets as she
walked on. "Have you any idea?"
"A very clear one; it will tell me to arrive at Palatka as soon as
possible."
"And, from Palatka, do you go back to New York?"
"Yes; immediately."
"We shall be in New York, too, by the middle of April. You are to stay
in New York, aren't you?"
"Yes. It is to be my post in the game which will end, we trust, in your
husband's piling up still higher his great fortune, while I shall have
laid very solidly the foundation of mine. Good! that boy sees me at
last." For the little negro, suddenly leaving the road, was galloping
directly towards them over the barren, his bare feet flapping the flanks
of his horse to increase its speed. Walter ran forward to meet him, took
the telegram, tore open the envelope, and read the message within. Then,
after rewarding the messenger (who went back to town in joyful
opulence), he returned to Ruth.
"Palatka?" she said, as he came up.
"No. Something entirely different. And very unexpected. I am to go to
California; I am to start to-morrow morning. And I am to stay
there--live there. It will be for a year or two, I suppose; at any rate,
until this new campaign of your husband's planning has been fought out
and won--as won it surely will be. For Patterson, it seems, won't be
able to go at present, and I am to take his place. Later, he hopes to be
on the spot. But even then I am to remain, they tell me. My instructions
will be here to-night by letter." He felt, inwardly, a great sense of
triumph that he was considered competent--already considered
competent--to take charge of the more important post. And as he put the
telegram in his pocket, the anticipation of success came to him like a
breeze charged with perfume; his pulses had a firm, quick beat; the
future--a future of his own choosing--unrolled itself brightly before
him.
Ruth had made no reply. After a moment her silence struck him--struck
him even in his preoccupation--and he turned to look at her.
Her face had a strange, stiffened aspect, as though her breathing had
suddenly been arrested.
"Are you ill?" he asked, alarmed.
"Oh no; I am only tired. Where is the phaeton? I have lost sight of it."
"Over there; don't you see your mother's white parasol?"
"Let us go back to her. But no--not just yet. I'll wait a moment or two,
as I'm so tired." And, turning her back to him, she sat down on a fallen
pine-tree, and rested her head on her hand.
"I can bring the phaeton over here?" Walter suggested. "There is no
road, but the ground is smooth."
She shook her head.
After a moment he began to talk; partly to fill the pause, partly to
give expression to the thoughts that occupied his own mind--occupied it
so fully that he did not give close heed to her. She was suddenly tired.
Well, that was nothing unusual; it was always something sudden;
generally a sudden gayety. At any rate, she could rest there comfortably
until she felt able to go on. "It's very odd to me to think that
to-morrow I shall be on my way to California again," he began. "That's
what I get by being the poor one of the company, Mrs. Chase! Your
husband, and Patterson, and my uncle, they sit comfortably at home; but
they send me from pillar to post without the least scruple. I don't
mind the going. But the staying--that's a change indeed. To live in
California--I have had a good many ideas in my mind, but I confess I
have never had that." He laughed. But it was easy to see that the idea
pleased him greatly.
Ruth turned. Her eyes met his. And then, startled, amazed, the young man
read in their depths something that was to him an intense surprise.
At the same moment she rose. "I can go now. Mother will be wondering
where I am," she said.
He accompanied her in silence, his mind in a whirl. She said a few words
on ordinary subjects. Every now and then her voice came near failing
entirely, and she paused. But she always began again. Just before she
reached the phaeton she took a gray gauze veil from her pocket, and tied
it hastily across her face under her broad-brimmed hat. Mrs. Franklin
was waiting for them in lazy tranquillity. While Walter untied the
ponies, Ruth took the small seat behind. "Just for a change," she
explained. Walter, therefore, in her vacant place, drove them back to
town. Having taken Mrs. Franklin home, he left Ruth at her own door. "As
I'm off early to-morrow morning, Mrs. Chase, I'll bid you good-by now,"
he said, as the waiting servant came forward to the ponies' heads. She
gave him her hand. He could not see her face distinctly through that
baffling gray veil.
That evening at eleven o'clock he passed the house again; he was taking
a farewell stroll on the sea-wall. As he went by, he saw that there was
a light in the drawing-room. "She has not gone to bed," he thought. He
jumped down from the wall, crossed the road, and, going up the steps,
put his hand on the bell-knob. But a sudden temptation took possession
of him, and, instead of ringing, he opened the door. "If her mother is
with her, I'll pretend that I found it ajar," he said to himself. But
there were no voices, all was still. His step had made no sound on the
thick rugs, and, advancing, he drew aside a curtain. On a couch in a
corner of the drawing-room was Ruth Chase, alone, her face hidden in her
hands.
She started to her feet as he came in. "After all, Mrs. Chase, I found
that I wanted more of a good-by--" he began. And then, a second time, in
her eyes he read the astonishing, bewildering story. "She is still
unconscious of what it is," he thought. "If I go away at once--at once
and forever--no harm is done. And that is what I shall do." This was his
intention, and he knew that he should follow it. The very certainty,
however, made him allow himself a moment or two of delay. For how
beautiful she was, and how deeply she loved him! He could not help
offering, as it were, a tribute to both; it seemed to him that he would
be a boor not to do so. And then, before he knew it, he had gone
further. "You see how it is with me," he began. "You see that I love
you; I myself did not know it until now." (What was this he was telling
her? And somehow, for the moment, it was true!) "Don't think that I do
not understand," he went on. "I understand all--all--" While he was
uttering these words he met her eyes again. And then he felt that he was
losing his head. "What am I doing? I'm not an abject fool!" he managed
to say to himself, mutely--mutely but violently. And he left the house.
It took all his strength to do it.
CHAPTER XIII
Horace Chase, meanwhile, had arrived at Palatka, and opened the
discussion with David Patterson which ended in the decision to despatch
young Willoughby to California without delay. Having sent these
instructions, he remained at Palatka two days longer, his intention
being to cross, on the third day, to St. Augustine, get his wife and go
back to New York, stopping on the way at Raleigh in order to see Jared.
Always prompt, as soon as the question of the representative in
California was settled, his thoughts had turned towards his
brother-in-law; the proper moment had now arrived for fulfilling his
promises concerning him. But in answer to this note to Ruth, mentioning
this plan, there had come a long epistle from Mrs. Franklin. Ruth, she
wrote, wanted to go north by sea; it was a sudden fancy that had come to
her. Her wish was to go by the Dictator to Charleston, and there
change for the larger steamer. "As Dolly and I intend to start towards
L'Hommedieu next week, Ruth's idea is that we could go together as far
as Charleston; for the rest of the way, Félicité could look after her.
You need not therefore take the trouble to come to St. Augustine at all,
she says; you can go directly from Palatka to Raleigh. All this sounds
a little self-willed. But, my dear Mr. Chase, if we spoiled her more or
less in the beginning, you must acknowledge that you have carried on
the process! In the eighteen months that have passed since your
marriage, have you ever refused compliance with even one of her whims? I
think not. On the contrary, I fear you encourage them; you always seem
to me to be waiting, with an inward laugh, to see what on earth she will
suggest next!" Thus wrote the mother in a joking strain. Then, turning
to the subject which was more important to her, she filled three sheets
with her joyful anticipations concerning her son. "Insist upon his
resigning his present place on the spot," she urged; "take no denial.
Make him go with you to New York. Then you will be sure of him."
"The old lady seems to think he will be a great acquisition," said Chase
to himself, humorously.
Her statement that he had, from the first, allowed his wife to follow
her fancies unchecked was a true one. It amused him to do this, amused
him to watch an idea dawn, and then, in a few minutes, take such entire
possession of her that it shook her hard--only to leave her and vanish
with equal suddenness. The element of the unexpected in her was a
constant entertainment to him. Her heedlessness, her feminine
indifference to logic, to the inevitable sequences of cause and
effect--this, too, had given him many a moment of mirth. If her face had
been less lovely, these characteristics would have worn, perhaps,
another aspect. But in that case Horace Chase would not have been their
judge; for it was this alluring beauty (unconsciously alluring) which
had attracted him, which had made him fall in love with her. He was a
man whose life, up to the time of his engagement to Ruth, had been
irregular. But, though irregular, it had not been uncontrolled; he had
always been able to say, "Thus far; no farther!" But though her beauty
had been the first lure, he was now profoundly attached to his wife; his
pride in her was profound, his greatest pleasure was to make her happy.
"By sea to New York, is it?" he said to himself, as his eyes hastily
glanced through the remainder of Mrs. Franklin's long letter (that is,
the three sheets about Jared). "Well, she is a capital sailor, that's
one comfort. Let's see; which of our steamers will she hit at
Charleston?"
He was not annoyed because Ruth had not written, herself; Ruth did not
like to write letters. But it was a surprise to him that she should, of
her own accord, relinquish an opportunity to see her brother. "I reckon
she is counting upon my taking him up to New York with me, so that
she'll see him on the dock waiting for her when her steamer comes in,"
he thought. "I guess she knows, too, that I'm likely to succeed better
with Jared when she's out of the business entirely. Franklin isn't
going to be boosted by his sister--that's been his fixed notion all
along. He doesn't suspect that his sister's nowhere in the matter
compared with his wife; his whole position of being independent of me,
and all that, has been so undermined and honeycombed by Gen, that, in
reality, his sticking it out there at Raleigh is a farce! But he doesn't
know it. It's lucky he don't!"
       
Ruth had her way, as usual. Chase went northward from Palatka to
Savannah, where he had business; thence he was to go to Raleigh. His
wife, meanwhile, remained in St. Augustine for one week longer, and her
mother and sister, closing their own home, spent the time with her.
Their last day came; they were to leave St. Augustine on the morrow.
Early in the afternoon, Ruth disappeared. When they were beginning to
wonder where she was, Félicité brought them a note. Mrs. Franklin read
it, and laughed. "She has gone for a sail; by herself!"
"She might have told us. We could have gone with her," said Dolly,
irritably. "I don't like her being alone."
"Oh, she is safe enough, as far as that goes," answered the mother,
comfortably. "She has taken old Donato, who, in spite of his seventy
years, is an excellent sailor; and he has, too, a very good boat."
Dolly went to the window. "You are not in the least thinking of Ruth,
mother! You are thinking of Jared; you are thinking that if he takes
that place in New York, we must somehow get up there to see him this
summer; and you are planning to go to that boarding-house on Staten
Island that the commodore told you about."
Mrs. Franklin, who really was thinking of Staten Island, rolled a
lamplighter the wrong way. "It is happening oftener and oftener!" she
said to herself. "Is she going to die?" And she glanced towards her
invalid daughter with the old pang of loving pity quickened for the
moment to trepidation.
Dolly's back was turned; she was gazing down the inlet. The house, which
was formerly the residence of General Worth, the Military Governor of
Florida, commanded an uninterrupted view of the Matanzas north and
south, and, over the low line of Anastasia Island, even the smallest
sail going towards the ocean was visible. But in spite of this long
expanse of water, Dolly could not see old Donato's boat. "His Grand
suspects nothing! Are mothers always so blind?" she thought. "So secure?
But she shall never know anything through me--dear old Grand! Ruth has
of course gone to say good-bye to the places which are associated in her
mind with that hateful Willoughby. If I could only have known it, I
would have kept her from it at any price. These long hours alone which
she covets so--they are the worst things, the worst!"
Ruth's boat was far out of sight; at this moment she was landing on
Anastasia at the point where she had disembarked with Walter on the day
of the excursion. Telling the old Minorcan to wait for her, she sought
for the little Carib trail, and followed it inland to the pool. Here
she spent half an hour, seated in the loop of the vine where she had sat
before. Then, rising, she slowly retraced their former course along the
low ridge.
Since Walter's departure--he had left St. Augustine at dawn after that
strange evening visit--Ruth had been the prey of two moods, tossed from
one to the other helplessly; for the feelings which these moods by turn
excited were so strong that she had had no volition of her own--she had
been powerless against them. One of these mental states (the one that
possessed her now) was joy. The other was aching pain.
For her fate had come upon her, as it was sure from the first to come.
And it found her defenceless; those who should have foreseen it had
neither guarded her against it, nor trained her so that she could guard
herself. She had no conception of life--no one had ever given her such a
conception--as a lesson in self-control; from her childhood all her
wishes had been granted. It is true that these wishes had been simple.
But that was because she had known no other standard; the degree of
indulgence (and of self-indulgence) was as great as if they had been
extravagant. If her disposition as a girl had been selfish, it was
unconscious selfishness; for her mother, her elder sister, and her
brother had never required anything from her save that she should be
happy. With her joyous nature, life had always been delightful to her,
and her marriage had only made it more delightful. For Horace Chase,
unconsciously, had adopted the habit that the family had always had;
they never expected Ruth to take responsibility, to be serious, and, in
the same way, he never expected it. And he loved to see her contented,
just as they had loved it. There was some excuse for them all in the
fact that Ruth's contentment was a very charming thing--it was so
natural and exuberant.
And, on her side, this girl had married Horace Chase first of all
because she liked him. What he had done for her brother, and his
wealth--these two influences had come only second, and would not have
sufficed without the first; her affection (for it was affection) had
been won by his kindness to herself. Since their marriage his lavish
generosity had pleased her, and gratified her imagination. But his
delicate consideration for her--this girl nineteen years younger than
himself--and his unselfishness, these she had not appreciated; she
supposed that husbands were, as a matter of course, like that. As it
happened, she had not a single girl friend who had married, from whose
face (if not from whose words also) she might have divined other ways.
Thus she had lived on, accepting everything in her easy, epicurean
fashion, until into her life had come love--this love for Walter
Willoughby.
Walter devoting himself to Mrs. Chase for his own purposes, had never
had the slightest intention of falling in love with her; in truth, such
a catastrophe (it would have seemed to him nothing less) would have
marred all his plans. He had wished only to amuse her. And, in the
beginning, it had been in truth his gay spirits which had attracted
Ruth, for she possessed gay spirits herself. She had been unaware of the
nature of the feeling which was taking possession of her; her
realization went no further than that life was now much more
interesting; and, with her rich capacity for enjoyment, she had grasped
this new pleasure eagerly. It was this which had made her beauty so much
more rich and vivid. It was this which had caused her to exclaim, "How
delightful it is to live!" If obstacles had interfered, the pain of
separation might have opened her eyes, at an earlier period, to the
nature of her attachment. But, owing to the circumstances of the case,
the junior partner had been with Mr. and Mrs. Chase almost daily ever
since their return from Europe. That announcement, therefore, out on the
barrens--his own announcement--of his departure the next morning, and
for an indefinite stay, had come upon her like the chill of sudden
death. And then in the evening, while she was still benumbed and
pulseless, had followed his strange, short visit, and the wild thrill of
joy in her heart over his declaration of his own love for her. For he
had said it, he had said it!
These two conflicting tides--the pain of his absence and the joy of his
love--had held entire possession of her ever since. But passionate
though her nature was, in matters of feeling it was deeply reticent as
well, and no one had noticed any change in her save Dolly, Dolly who had
divined something from her sister's new desire to be alone. Never before
had Ruth wished to be alone; but now she went off for long walks by
herself; and this plan for returning to New York by sea--that was simply
the same thing. From the moment of Ruth's engagement, Dolly had been
haunted by a terrible fear. Disliking Horace Chase herself, she did not
believe that he would be able to keep forever a supreme place in his
wife's heart. And then? Would Ruth be content to live on, as so many
wives live, with this supreme place unoccupied? It was her dread of
this, a dread which had suddenly become personified, that had made her
form one of almost all the excursions of this Florida winter; she had
gone whenever she was able, and often when she was unable--at least, she
would be present, she would mount guard.
But in spite of her guardianship, something had evidently happened. What
was it? Was this desire of Ruth's to be alone a good sign or a bad sign?
Did it come from happiness or unhappiness? "If it is unhappiness, she
will throw it off," Dolly told herself. "She hates suffering. She will
manage, somehow, to rid herself of it." Thus she tried to reassure
herself.
Ruth gave not only the afternoon but the evening to her pilgrimage; she
visited all the places where she had been with Walter. When the twilight
had deepened to night, she came back to town, and, still accompanied by
Donato, she went to the old fort, and out the shell road; finally she
paid a visit to Andalusia. A bright moon was shining; over the low land
blew a perfumed breeze. Andalusia was deserted, Mrs. Kip had gone to
North Carolina. Bribing Uncle Jack, the venerable ex-slave who lived in
a little cabin under the bananas near the gate, Ruth went in, and
leaving her body-guard, the old fisherman, resting on a bench, she
wandered alone among the flowers. "You see that I love you. I myself did
not know it until now"--this was the talisman which was making her so
happy; two brief phrases uttered on the spur of the moment, phrases
preceded by nothing, followed by nothing. It was a proof of the
simplicity of her nature, its unconsciousness of half-motives,
half-meanings, that she should think these few words so conclusive. But
to her they were final. Direct herself, she supposed that others were
the same. She did not go beyond her talisman; she did not reason about
it, or plan. In fact, she did not think at all; she only felt--felt each
syllable take a treasure in her heart, and brooded over it happily. And
as she wandered to and fro in the moonlight, it was as well that Walter
did not see her. He did not love her--no. He had no wish to love her; it
would have interfered with all his plans. But if he had beheld her now,
he would have succumbed--succumbed, at least, for the moment, as he had
done before. He was not there, however. And he had no intention of
being there, of being anywhere near Horace Chase's wife for a long time
to come. "I'll keep out of that!" he had said to himself,
determinedly.
It was midnight when at last Ruth returned home, coming into the
drawing-room like a vision, in her white dress, with her arms full of
flowers.
"Well, have you had enough of prowling?" asked her mother, sleepily. "I
must say that it appears to agree with you!"
Even Dolly was reassured by her sister's radiant eyes.
But later, when Félicité had left her mistress, then, if Dolly could
have opened the locked door, her comfort would have vanished; for the
other mood had now taken possession, and lying prone on a couch, with
her face hidden, Ruth was battling with her grief.
Pain was so new to her, sorrow so new! Incapable of enduring (this was
what Dolly had hoped), many times during the last ten days she had
revolted against her suffering, and to-night she was revolting anew. "I
will not care for him; it makes me too wretched!" Leaving the couch,
she strode angrily to and fro. The three windows of the large room--it
was her dressing-room--stood open to the warm sea-air; she had put out
the candles, but the moonlight, entering in a flood, reflected her white
figure in the long mirrors as she came and went. Félicité had braided
her hair for the night, but the strands had become loosened, and the
thick, waving mass flowed over her shoulders. "I will not think of him;
I will not!" And to emphasize it, she struck her clinched hand with
all her force on the stone window-seat. "It is cut. I'm glad! It will
make me remember that I am not to think of him." She was intensely in
earnest in her resolve, and, to help herself towards other thoughts, she
began to look feverishly at the landscape outside, as though it was
absolutely necessary that she should now resee and recount each point
and line. "There is the top of the light-house--and there is the
ocean--and there are the bushes near the quarry." She leaned out of the
window so as to see farther. "There is the North Beach; there is the
fort and the lookout tower." Thus for a few minutes her weary mind
followed the guidance of her will. "There is the bathing-house. And
there is the dock and the club-house; and there is the Basin. Down there
on the right is Fish Island. How lovely it all is! I wish I could stay
here forever. But even to-morrow night I shall be gone; I shall be on
the Dictator. And then will come Charleston. And then New York." (Her
mind had now escaped again.) "And then the days--and the months--and the
years without him! Oh, what shall I do? What shall I do?" And the pain
descending, sharper than ever, she sank down, and with her arms on the
window-seat and her face on her arms, and cried and cried--cried so long
that at last her shoulders fell forward stoopingly, and her whole
slender frame lost its strength, and drooped against the window-sill
like a broken reed. Her despair held no plan for trying to see Walter,
her destiny seemed to her fixed; her revolts had not been against that
destiny, but against her pain. But something was upon her now which was
stronger than herself, stronger than her love of ease, stronger than her
dread of suffering. Dolly knew her well. But there were some depths
which even Dolly did not know.
Dawn found her still there, her hands and feet cold, her face white; she
had wept herself out--there were no more tears left. The sun came up;
she watched it mechanically. "Félicité mustn't find me here," she
thought. She dragged herself to her feet; all her muscles were stiff.
Then going to the bedroom, she fell into a troubled sleep.
It would be too much to say that during the entire night her mind had
not once turned towards her husband. She had thought of him now and
then, much as she had thought of her mother; as, for instance--would her
mother see any change in her face the next morning, after this night of
tears? Would her husband see any at New York when he arrived? Whenever
she remembered either one of them, she felt a sincere desire not to make
them unhappy. But this was momentary; during most of the night the
emotions that belonged to her nature swept over her with such force that
she had no power, no will, to think of anything save herself.
CHAPTER XIV
Horace Chase, following the suggestion of Mrs. Franklin (a suggestion
which had come in reality from Ruth), travelled northward to Raleigh
from Palatka without crossing to St. Augustine. He went "straight
through," as he called it; when he was alone he always went straight
through. He was no more particular as to where he slept than he was as
to what he ate. Reaching Raleigh in the evening, he went in search of
his brother-in-law. He had not sent word that he was coming. "I won't
give him time to trot out all his objections beforehand," he had said to
himself. He intended to make an attempt to arrange the matter with Jared
without calling in the aid of Genevieve. "If I fail, there'll always be
time to bring her on the scene. If I succeed, it'll take her down a bit;
and that won't hurt her!" he thought, with an inward smile.
Ruth's "horrid Raleigh" looked very pretty as he walked through its
lighted streets. The boarding-house where Jared had passed the winter
proved to be an old mansion, which, in its day, had possessed claims to
dignity; it was large, with two wings running backward, and the main
building had a high pointed roof with dormer-windows. The front was
even with the street; but the street itself was rural, with its two long
lines of magnificent trees, which formed the divisions (otherwise rather
vague) between the sidewalks and the broad expanse of the sandy roadway.
Chase's knock was answered by a little negro boy, whose head did not
reach the door-knob. "Mas' Franklin? Yassah. He's done gone out. Be in
soon, I reckon," he added, hopefully.
Chase, after a moment's reflection, decided to go in and wait.
"Show you in de parlo,' or right up in his own room, boss?" demanded the
infant, anxiously. "Dere's a party in de parlo'." This statement was
confirmed by the sound of music from within.
"A party, is there? I guess I'll go up, then," said Chase.
The child started up the stairs. His legs were so short that he had to
mount to each step with both feet, one after the other, before he could
climb to the next. These legs and feet and his arms were bare; the rest
of his small, plump person was clad in a little jacket and very short
breeches of pink calico. There were two long flights of stairs, and a
shorter flight to the attic; the pink breeches had the air of climbing
an Alp. Presently Chase took up the little toiler, candle and all.
"You can tell me which way to go," he said. "What's your name?"
"Pliny Abraham, sah."
"Do you like Mr. Franklin?"
"Mas' Franklin is de bes' body in dishyer house!" declared Pliny
Abraham, shrilly.
"The best what?"
"De bes' body. We'se got twenty-five bodies now, boss. Sometimes dere's
twenty-eight."
"Oh, you mean boarders?"
"Yassah. Bodies."
Jared's room was in the attic. Pliny Abraham, who had been intensely
serious, began to grin as his bearer, after putting him down, placed a
dime in each of his little pink pockets; then he dashed out of the room,
his black legs disappearing so suddenly that Chase had the curiosity to
follow to the top of the stairs and look over. Pliny had evidently slid
down the banisters; for he was already embarked on the broader rail of
the flight below.
Twenty minutes later there was a step on the stair; the door opened, and
Jared Franklin came in.
"They didn't tell you I was here?" said Chase, as they shook hands.
"No. Mrs. Nightingale is usually very attentive; too much so, in fact;
she's a bother!" Jared answered. "To-night, however, there's a party
down below, and she has the supper on her mind."
"Is Pliny Abraham to serve it?"
"You've seen him, have you?" said Jared, who was now lighting a lamp.
"Confounded smell--petroleum!" And he threw up the sash of the window.
"I'm on my way up to New York, and I came across from Goldsborough on
purpose to see you, Franklin, on a matter of business," Chase began.
"Ruth isn't with me this time; she took a notion to go north by sea.
Your mother and sister, I expect, will be seeing her off to-morrow from
Charleston; then, after a little rest for Miss Dolly, they're to go to
L'Hommedieu."
"They'll stop here, won't they?" asked Jared, who was standing at the
window in order to get air which was untainted by the odor of the lamp.
"Perhaps," Chase answered. He knew that Dolly and her mother believed
that by the time they should reach Raleigh, Jared would have already
left. "Well, the gist of the matter, Franklin, is about this," he went
on. And then, tilting his chair back so that his long legs should have
more room, and with his thumbs in the pockets of his waistcoat, he began
deliberately to lie.
For in the short space of time which had elapsed since his eyes first
rested upon Ruth's brother, he had entirely altered his plan. His
well-arranged arguments and explanations about the place in New York in
connection with his California scheme--all these he had abandoned;
something must be invented which would require no argument at all,
something which should attract Jared so strongly that he would of his
own accord accept it on the spot, and start northward the next morning.
"Once in New York, in our big house there, with Gen (for I shall
telegraph her to come on) and Ruth and the best doctors, perhaps the
poor chap can be persuaded to give up, and take a good long rest," he
thought.
For he had been greatly shocked by the change in Jared's appearance.
When he had last seen him, the naval officer had been gaunt; but now he
was wasted. His eyes had always been sad; but now they were deeply
sunken, with dark hollows under them and over them. "He looks bad,"
Chase said to himself, emphatically. "This sort of life's been too much
for him, and Gen's got a good deal to answer for!" The only ornament of
the whitewashed wall was a large photograph of the wife; her handsome
face, with its regular outlines and calm eyes, presided serenely over
the attic room of the lonely husband.
To have to contrive something new, plausible, and effective, in two
minutes' time, might have baffled most men. But Horace Chase had never
had a mind of routine, he had always been a free lance; original
conceptions and the boldest daring, accompanied by an extraordinary
personal sagacity, had formed his especial sort of genius--a genius
which had already made him, at thirty-nine, a millionaire many times
over. His invention, therefore, when he unrolled it, had an air of
perfect veracity. It had to do with a steamer, which (so he represented)
a man whom he knew had bought, in connection with what might be called,
perhaps, a branch of his own California scheme, although a branch with
which he himself had nothing whatever to do. This man needed an
experienced officer to take the steamer immediately from San Francisco
to the Sandwich Islands, and thence on a cruise to various other islands
in the South Pacific. "The payment, to a navy man like you, ought to be
pretty good. But I can't say what the exact figure will be," he went on,
warily, "because I'm not in it myself, you see. He's a good deal of a
skinflint" (here he coolly borrowed a name for the occasion, the name of
a capitalist well known in New York); "but he's sound. It's a bona
fide operation; I can at least vouch for that. The steamer is
first-class, and you can pick out your own crew. There'll be a man
aboard to see to the trading part of it; all you've got to do is to
sail the ship." And in his driest and most practical voice he went on
enumerating the details.
Jared knew that his brother-in-law had more than once been engaged in
outside speculations on a large scale; his acquaintance, therefore, with
kindred spirits, men who bought ocean steamers and sent them on cruises,
did not surprise him. The plan attracted him; he turned it over in his
mind to see if there were any reasons why he should not accept it. There
seemed to be none. To begin with, Horace Chase had nothing to do with
it; he should not be indebted to him for anything save the chance. In
addition, it would not be an easy berth, with plenty to get and little
to do, like the place at Charleston; on the contrary, a long voyage of
this sort would call out all he knew. And certainly he was sick of his
present life--deathly sick!
Chase had said to himself: "Fellows who go down so low--and he's at the
end of his rope; that's plain--go up again like rockets sometimes,
just give 'em a chance."
Jared, however, showed no resemblance to a rocket. He agreed, after a
while, to "undertake the job," as Chase called it, and he agreed, also,
to start the next morning with his brother-in-law for New York, where
the final arrangements were to be made; but his assent was given
mechanically, and his voice sounded weak, as though, physically, he had
very little strength. Mentally there was more stir. "I shall be deuced
glad to be on salt-water again," he said. "I dare say you think it's a
very limited life," he went on (and in the phrase there lurked something
scornful).
"Well," answered Chase, with his slight drawl, "that depends upon what a
man wants, what he sets out to do." He put his hands down in the pockets
of his trousers, and looked at the lamp reflectively; then he
transferred his gaze to Jared. "I guess you've got a notion, Franklin,
that I care for nothing but money? And that's where you make a mistake.
For 'tain't the money; it's the making it. Making it (that is, in large
sums) is the best sort of a game. If you win, there's nothing like it.
It's sport, that is! It's fun! To get down to the bed-rock of the
subject, it's the power. Yes, sir, that's it--the power! The knowing
you've got it, and that other men know it too, and feel your hand on the
reins! For a big pile is something more than a pile; it's a proof that
a man's got brains. (I mean, of course, if he has made it himself; I'm
not talking now about fortunes that are inherited, or are simply rolled
up by a rise in real estate.) As to the money taken alone, of course
it's a good thing to have, and I'm going on making more as long as I
can; I like it, and I know how. But about the disposing of it" (here he
took his hands out of his pockets and folded his arms), "I don't mind
telling you that I've got other ideas. My family--if I have a
family--will be provided for. After that, I've a notion that I may set
aside a certain sum for scientific research (I understand that's the
term). I don't know much about science myself; but I've always felt a
sort of general interest in it, somehow."
"Oh, you intend to be a benefactor, do you?" said Jared, ironically. "I
hope, at least, that your endowment won't be open to everybody. It's
only fair to tell you that, in my opinion, one of the worst evils of
our country to-day is this universal education--education of all classes
indiscriminately."
Chase looked at him for a moment in silence. Then, with a quiet dignity
which was new to the other man, he answered, "I don't think I understand
you."
"Oh yes, you do," responded Jared, with a little laugh. But he felt
somewhat ashamed of his speech, and he bore it off by saying, "Are you
going to found a new institution? Or leave it in a lump to Harvard?"
"I haven't got as far as that yet. I thought perhaps Ruth might like to
