working economy in Altruria.”
“Ah, but you know,” said Mrs. Makely, with the air of advancing a point
not to be put aside, “they had to drop that. It was a dead failure. They
found that they couldn’t make it go at all among cultivated people, and
that, if Christianity was to advance, they would have to give up all that
crankish kind of idolatry of the mere letter. At any rate,” she went on,
with the satisfaction we all feel in getting an opponent into close
quarters, “you must confess that there is a much greater play of
individuality here.”
Before the Altrurian could reply, young Camp said: “If you want to see
American individuality, the real, simon-pure article, you ought to go down
to one of our big factory towns and look at the mill-hands coming home in
droves after a day’s work, young girls and old women, boys and men, all
fluffed over with cotton, and so dead tired that they can hardly walk.
They come shambling along with all the individuality of a flock of sheep.”
“Some,” said Mrs. Makely, heroically, as if she were one of these, “must
be sacrificed. Of course, some are not so individual as others. A great
deal depends upon temperament.”
“A great deal more depends upon capital,” said Camp, with an offensive
laugh. “If you have capital in America, you can have individuality; if you
haven’t, you can’t.”
His sister, who had not taken part in the talk before, said, demurely: “It
seems to me you’ve got a good deal of individuality, Reub, and you haven’t
got a great deal of capital, either,” and the two young people laughed
together.
Mrs. Makely was one of those fatuous women whose eagerness to make a point
excludes the consideration even of their own advantage. “I’m sure,” she
said, as if speaking for the upper classes, “we haven’t got any
individuality at all. We are as like as so many peas or pins. In fact, you
have to be so in society. If you keep asserting your own individuality too
much, people avoid you. It’s very vulgar and the greatest bore.”
“Then you don’t find individuality so desirable, after all,” said the
Altrurian.
“I perfectly detest it!” cried the lady, and evidently she had not the
least notion where she was in the argument. “For my part, I’m never happy
except when I’ve forgotten myself and the whole individual bother.”
Her declaration seemed somehow to close the incident, and we were all
silent a moment, which I employed in looking about the room, and taking in
with my literary sense the simplicity and even bareness of its furnishing.
There was the bed where the invalid lay, and near the head a table with a
pile of books and a kerosene-lamp on it, and I decided that she was a good
deal wakeful, and that she read by that lamp when she could not sleep at
night. Then there were the hard chairs we sat on, and some home-made
hooked rugs, in rounds and ovals, scattered about the clean floor; there
was a small melodeon pushed against the wall; the windows had paper
shades, and I recalled that I had not seen any blinds on the outside of
the house. Over the head of the bed hung a cavalryman’s sword, with its
belt--the sword that Mrs. Makely had spoken of. It struck me as a room
where a great many things might have happened, and I said: “You can’t
think, Mrs. Camp, how glad I am to see the inside of your house. It seems
to me so typical.”
A pleased intelligence showed itself in her face, and she answered: “Yes,
it is a real old-fashioned farmhouse. We have never taken boarders, and so
we have kept it as it was built pretty much, and only made such changes in
it as we needed or wanted for ourselves.”
“It’s a pity,” I went on, following up what I thought a fortunate lead,
“that we city people see so little of the farming life when we come into
the country. I have been here now for several seasons, and this is the
first time I have been inside a farmer’s house.”
“Is it possible!” cried the Altrurian, with an air of utter astonishment;
and, when I found the fact appeared so singular to him, I began to be
rather proud of its singularity.
“Yes, I suppose that most city people come and go, year after year, in the
country, and never make any sort of acquaintance with the people who live
there the year round. We keep to ourselves in the hotels, or, if we go out
at all, it is to make a call upon some city cottager, and so we do not get
out of the vicious circle of our own over-intimacy with ourselves and our
ignorance of others.”
“And you regard that as a great misfortune?” asked the Altrurian.
“Why, it’s inevitable. There is nothing to bring us together, unless it’s
some happy accident, like the present. But we don’t have a traveler from
Altruria to exploit every day, and so we have no business to come into
people’s houses.”
“You would have been welcome in ours long ago, Mr. Twelvemough,” said Mrs.
Camp.
“But, excuse me,” said the Altrurian, “what you say really seems dreadful
to me. Why, it is as if you were not the same race or kind of men!”
“Yes,” I answered. “It has sometimes seemed to me as if our big hotel
there were a ship anchored off some strange coast. The inhabitants come
out with supplies, and carry on their barter with the ship’s steward, and
we sometimes see them over the side, but we never speak to them or have
anything to do with them. We sail away at the close of the season, and
that is the end of it till next summer.”
The Altrurian turned to Mrs. Camp. “And how do you look at it? How does it
seem to you?”
“I don’t believe we have thought about it very much; but, now that Mr.
Twelvemough has spoken of it, I can see that it does look that way. And it
seems very strange, doesn’t it, for we are all the same people, and have
the same language and religion and country--the country that my husband
fought for and, I suppose I may say, died for; he was never the same man
after the war. It does appear as if we had some interests in common, and
might find it out if we ever came together.”
“It’s a great advantage, the city people going into the country so much as
they do now,” said Mrs. Makely. “They bring five million dollars into the
State of New Hampshire, alone, every summer.”
She looked round for the general approval which this fact merited, and
young Camp said: “And it shows how worthless the natives are, that they
can’t make both ends meet, with all that money, but have to give up their
farms and go West, after all. I suppose you think it comes from wanting
buggies and pianos.”
“Well, it certainly comes from something,” said Mrs. Makely, with the
courage of her convictions.
She was evidently not going to be put down by that sour young fellow, and
I was glad of it, though I must say I thought the thing she left to rankle
in his mind from our former meeting had not been said in very good taste.
I thought, too, that she would not fare best in any encounter of wits with
him, and I rather trembled for the result. I said, to relieve the strained
situation: “I wish there was some way of our knowing each other better.
I’m sure there’s a great deal of good-will on both sides.”
“No, there isn’t,” said Camp, “or at least I can answer for our side that
there isn’t. You come into the country to get as much for your money as
you can, and we mean to let you have as little as we can. That’s the whole
story, and if Mr. Homos believes anything different, he’s very much
mistaken.”
“I hadn’t formed any conclusion in regard to the matter, which is quite
new to me,” said the Altrurian, mildly. “But why is there no basis of
mutual kindness between you?”
“Because it’s like everything else with us; it’s a question of supply and
demand, and there is no room for any mutual kindness in a question of that
kind. Even if there were, there is another thing that would kill it. The
summer folks, as we call them, look down on the natives, as they call us,
and we know it.”
“Now, Mr. Camp, I am sure that you cannot say I look down on the
natives,” said Mrs. Makely, with an air of argument.
The young fellow laughed. “Oh yes, you do,” he said, not unamiably, and he
added, “and you’ve got the right to. We’re not fit to associate with you,
and you know it, and we know it. You’ve got more money, and you’ve got
nicer clothes, and you’ve got prettier manners. You talk about things that
most natives never heard of, and you care for things they never saw. I
know it’s the custom to pretend differently, but I’m not going to pretend
differently.”
I recalled what my friend the banker said about throwing away cant, and I
asked myself if I were in the presence of some such free spirit again. I
did not see how young Camp could afford it; but then I reflected that he
had really nothing to lose by it, for he did not expect to make anything
out of us; Mrs. Makely would probably not give up his sister as seamstress
if the girl continued to work so well and so cheaply as she said.
“Suppose,” he went on, “that some old native took you at your word, and
came to call upon you at the hotel, with his wife, just as one of the city
cottagers would do if he wanted to make your acquaintance?”
“I should be perfectly delighted,” said Mrs. Makely, “and I should receive
them with the greatest possible cordiality.”
“The same kind of cordiality that you would show to the cottagers?”
“I suppose that I should feel that I had more in common with the
cottagers. We should be interested in the same things, and we should
probably know the same people and have more to talk about--”
“You would both belong to the same class, and that tells the whole story.
If you were out West, and the owner of one of those big twenty-thousand-acre
farms called on you with his wife, would you act toward them as you
would toward our natives? You wouldn’t. You would all be rich people
together, and you would understand one another because you had money.”
“Now, that is not so,” Mrs. Makely interrupted. “There are plenty of rich
people one wouldn’t wish to know at all, and who really can’t get into
society--who are ignorant and vulgar. And then, when you come to money, I
don’t see but what country people are as glad to get it as anybody.”
“Oh, gladder,” said the young man.
“Well?” demanded Mrs. Makely, as if this were a final stroke of logic. The
young man did not reply, and Mrs. Makely continued: “Now I will appeal to
your sister to say whether she has ever seen any difference in my manner
toward her from what I show to all the young ladies in the hotel.” The
young girl flushed and seemed reluctant to answer. “Why, Lizzie!” cried
Mrs. Makely, and her tone showed that she was really hurt.
The scene appeared to me rather cruel, and I glanced at Mrs. Camp with an
expectation that she would say something to relieve it. But she did not.
Her large, benevolent face expressed only a quiet interest in the
discussion.
“You know very well, Mrs. Makely,” said the girl, “you don’t regard me as
you do the young ladies in the hotel.”
There was no resentment in her voice or look, but only a sort of regret,
as if, but for this grievance, she could have loved the woman from whom
she had probably had much kindness. The tears came into Mrs. Makely’s
eyes, and she turned toward Mrs. Camp. “And is this the way you all feel
toward us?” she asked.
“Why shouldn’t we?” asked the invalid, in her turn. “But, no, it isn’t the
way all the country people feel. Many of them feel as you would like to
have them feel; but that is because they do not think. When they think,
they feel as we do. But I don’t blame you. You can’t help yourselves any
more than we can. We’re all bound up together in that, at least.”
At this apparent relenting Mrs. Makely tricked her beams a little, and
said, plaintively, as if offering herself for further condolence: “Yes,
that is what that woman at the little shanty back there said: some have to
be rich, and some have to be poor; it takes all kinds to make a world.”
“How would you like to be one of those that have to be poor?” asked young
Camp, with an evil grin.
“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Makely, with unexpected spirit; “but I am sure
that I should respect the feelings of all, rich or poor.”
“I am sorry if we have hurt yours, Mrs. Makely,” said Mrs. Camp, with
dignity. “You asked us certain questions, and we thought you wished us to
reply truthfully. We could not answer you with smooth things.”
“But sometimes you do,” said Mrs. Makely, and the tears stood in her eyes
again. “And you know how fond I am of you all!”
Mrs. Camp wore a bewildered look. “Perhaps we have said more than we
ought. But I couldn’t help it, and I don’t see how the children could,
when you asked them here, before Mr. Homos.”
I glanced at the Altrurian, sitting attentive and silent, and a sudden
misgiving crossed my mind concerning him. Was he really a man, a human
entity, a personality like ourselves, or was he merely a sort of spiritual
solvent, sent for the moment to precipitate whatever sincerity there was
in us, and show us what the truth was concerning our relations to one
another? It was a fantastic conception, but I thought it was one that I
might employ in some sort of purely romantic design, and I was
professionally grateful for it. I said, with a humorous gayety: “Yes, we
all seem to have been compelled to be much more honest than we like; and
if Mr. Homos is going to write an account of his travels when he gets
home, he can’t accuse us of hypocrisy, at any rate. And I always used to
think it was one of our virtues! What with Mr. Camp, here, and my friend
the banker at the hotel, I don’t think he’ll have much reason to complain
even of our reticence.”
“Well, whatever he says of us,” sighed Mrs. Makely, with a pious glance at
the sword over the bed, “he will have to say that, in spite of our
divisions and classes, we are all Americans, and, if we haven’t the same
opinions and ideas on minor matters, we all have the same country.”
“I don’t know about that,” came from Reuben Camp, with shocking
promptness. “I don’t believe we all have the same country. America is one
thing for you, and it’s quite another thing for us. America means ease and
comfort and amusement for you, year in and year out, and if it means work,
it’s work that you wish to do. For us, America means work that we have
to do, and hard work all the time if we’re going to make both ends meet.
It means liberty for you; but what liberty has a man got who doesn’t know
where his next meal is coming from? Once I was in a strike, when I was
working on the railroad, and I’ve seen men come and give up their liberty
for a chance to earn their family’s living. They knew they were right, and
that they ought to have stood up for their rights; but they had to lie
down and lick the hand that fed them. Yes, we are all Americans, but I
guess we haven’t all got the same country, Mrs. Makely. What sort of a
country has a blacklisted man got?”
“A blacklisted man?” she repeated. “I don’t know what you mean.”
“Well, a kind of man I’ve seen in the mill towns, that the bosses have all
got on their books as a man that isn’t to be given work on any account;
that’s to be punished with hunger and cold, and turned into the street,
for having offended them; and that’s to be made to suffer through his
helpless family for having offended them.”
“Excuse me, Mr. Camp,” I interposed, “but isn’t a blacklisted man usually
a man who has made himself prominent in some labor trouble?”
“Yes,” the young fellow answered, without seeming sensible of the point I
had made.
“Ah!” I returned. “Then you can hardly blame the employers for taking it
out of him in any way they can. That’s human nature.”
“Good heavens!” the Altrurian cried out. “Is it possible that in America
it is human nature to take away the bread of a man’s family because he has
gone counter to your interest or pleasure on some economical question?”
“Well, Mr. Twelvemough seems to think so,” sneered the young man. “But
whether it’s human nature or not, it’s a fact that they do it, and you can
guess how much a blacklisted man must love the country where such a thing
can happen to him. What should you call such a thing as blacklisting in
Altruria?”
“Oh yes,” Mrs. Makely pleaded, “do let us get him to talking about
Altruria on any terms. I think all this about the labor question is so
tiresome; don’t you, Mrs. Camp?”
Mrs. Camp did not answer; but the Altrurian said, in reply to her son: “We
should have no name for such a thing, for with us such a thing would be
impossible. There is no crime so heinous with us that the punishment would
take away the criminal’s chance of earning his living.”
“Oh, if he was a criminal,” said young Camp, “he would be all right
here. The state would give him a chance to earn his living then.”
“But if he had no other chance of earning his living, and had committed no
offence against the laws--”
“Then the state would let him take to the road--like that fellow.”
He pulled aside the shade of the window where he sat, and we saw pausing
before the house, and glancing doubtfully at the doorstep, where the dog
lay, a vile and loathsome-looking tramp, a blot upon the sweet and
wholesome landscape, a scandal to the sacred day. His rags burlesqued the
form which they did not wholly hide; his broken shoes were covered with
dust; his coarse hair came in a plume through his tattered hat; his red,
sodden face, at once fierce and timid, was rusty with a fortnight’s beard.
He offended the eye like a visible stench, and the wretched carrion seemed
to shrink away from our gaze as if he were aware of his loathsomeness.
“Really,” said Mrs. Makely, “I thought those fellows were arrested now. It
is too bad to leave them at large. They are dangerous.” Young Camp left
the room, and we saw him going out toward the tramp.
“Ah, that’s quite right,” said the lady. “I hope Reuben is going to send
him about his business. Why, surely, he’s not going to feed the horrid
creature!” she added, as Camp, after a moment’s parley with the tramp,
turned with him and disappeared round a corner of the house. “Now, Mrs.
Camp, I think that is really a very bad example. It’s encouraging them.
Very likely he’ll go to sleep in your barn, and set it on fire with his
pipe. What do you do with tramps in Altruria, Mr. Homos?”
The Altrurian seemed not to have heard her. He said to Mrs. Camp: “Then I
understand from something your son let fall that he has not always been at
home with you here. Does he reconcile himself easily to the country after
the excitement of town life? I have read that the cities in America are
draining the country of the young people.”
“I don’t think he was sorry to come home,” said the mother, with a touch
of fond pride. “But there was no choice for him after his father died; he
was always a good boy, and he has not made us feel that we were keeping
him away from anything better. When his father was alive we let him go,
because then we were not so dependent, and I wished him to try his fortune
in the world, as all boys long to do. But he is rather peculiar, and he
seems to have got quite enough of the world. To be sure, I don’t suppose
he’s seen the brightest side of it. He first went to work in the mills
down at Ponkwasset, but he was ‘laid off’ there when the hard times came
and there was so much overproduction, and he took a job of railroading,
and was braking on a freight-train when his father left us.”
Mrs. Makely said, smiling: “No, I don’t think that was the brightest
outlook in the world. No wonder he has brought back such gloomy
impressions. I am sure that if he could have seen life under brighter
auspices he would not have the ideas he has.”
“Very likely,” said the mother, dryly. “Our experiences have a great deal
to do with forming our opinions. But I am not dissatisfied with my son’s
ideas. I suppose Reuben got a good many of his ideas from his father: he’s
his father all over again. My husband thought slavery was wrong, and he
went into the war to fight against it. He used to say when the war was
over that the negroes were emancipated, but slavery was not abolished
yet.”
“What in the world did he mean by that?” demanded Mrs. Makely.
“Something you wouldn’t understand as we do. I tried to carry on the farm
after he first went, and before Reuben was large enough to help me much
and ought to be in school, and I suppose I overdid. At any rate, that was
when I had my first shock of paralysis. I never was very strong, and I
presume my health was weakened by my teaching school so much, and
studying, before I was married. But that doesn’t matter now, and hasn’t
for many a year. The place was clear of debt then, but I had to get a
mortgage put on it. The savings-bank down in the village took it, and
we’ve been paying the interest ever since. My husband died paying it, and
my son will pay it all my life, and then I suppose the bank will
foreclose. The treasurer was an old playmate of my husband’s, and he said
that as long as either of us lived the mortgage could lie.”
“How splendid of him!” said Mrs. Makely. “I should think you had been very
fortunate.”
“I said that you would not see it as we do,” said the invalid, patiently.
The Altrurian asked: “Are there mortgages on many of the farms in the
neighborhood?”
“Nearly all,” said Mrs. Camp. “We seem to own them, but in fact they own
us.”
Mrs. Makely hastened to say: “My husband thinks it’s the best way to have
your property. If you mortgage it close up, you have all your capital
free, and you can keep turning it over. That’s what you ought to do, Mrs.
Camp. But what was the slavery that Captain Camp said was not abolished
yet?”
The invalid looked at her a moment without replying, and just then the
door of the kitchen opened, and Young Camp came in and began to gather
some food from the table on a plate.
“Why don’t you bring him to the table, Reub?” his sister called to him.
“Oh, he says he’d rather not come in, as long as we have company. He says
he isn’t dressed for dinner; left his spike-tail in the city.”
The young man laughed, and his sister with him.
VIII
Young Camp carried out the plate of victuals to the tramp, and Mrs. Makely
said to his mother: “I suppose you would make the tramp do some sort of
work to earn his breakfast on week-days?”
“Not always,” Mrs. Camp replied. “Do the boarders at the hotel always work
to earn their breakfast?”
“No, certainly not,” said Mrs. Makely, with the sharpness of offence. “But
they always pay for it.”
“I don’t think that paying for a thing is earning it. Perhaps some one
else earned the money that pays for it. But I believe there is too much
work in the world. If I were to live my life over again, I should not work
half so hard. My husband and I took this place when we were young married
people, and began working to pay for it. We wanted to feel that it was
ours, that we owned it, and that our children should own it afterward. We
both worked all day long like slaves, and many a moonlight night we were
up till morning, almost, gathering the stones from our fields and burying
them in deep graves that we had dug for them. But we buried our youth and
strength and health in those graves, too, and what for? I don’t own the
farm that we worked so hard to pay for, and my children won’t. That is
what it has all come to. We were rightly punished for our greed, I
suppose. Perhaps no one has a right to own any portion of the earth.
Sometimes I think so, but my husband and I earned this farm, and now the
savings-bank owns it. That seems strange, doesn’t it? I suppose you’ll say
that the bank paid for it. Well, perhaps so; but the bank didn’t earn it.
When I think of that I don’t always think that a person who pays for his
breakfast has the best right to a breakfast.”
I could see the sophistry of all this, but I had not the heart to point it
out; I felt the pathos of it, too. Mrs. Makely seemed not to see the one
nor to feel the other very distinctly. “Yes, but surely,” she said, “if
you give a tramp his breakfast without making him work for it, you must
see that it is encouraging idleness. And idleness is very corrupting--the
sight of it.”
“You mean to the country people? Well, they have to stand a good deal of
that. The summer folks that spend four or five months of the year here
don’t seem to do anything from morning till night.”
“Ah, but you must recollect that they are resting! You have no idea how
hard they all work in town during the winter,” Mrs. Makely urged, with an
air of argument.
“Perhaps the tramps are resting, too. At any rate, I don’t think the sight
of idleness in rags, and begging at back doors, is very corrupting to the
country people; I never heard of a single tramp who had started from the
country; they all come from the cities. It’s the other kind of idleness
that tempts our young people. The only tramps that my son says he ever
envies are the well-dressed, strong young fellows from town that go
tramping through the mountains for exercise every summer.”
The ladies both paused. They seemed to have got to the end of their
tether; at least, Mrs. Makely had apparently nothing else to advance, and
I said, lightly: “But that is just the kind of tramps that Mr. Homos would
most disapprove of. He says that in Altruria they would consider exercise
for exercise’ sake a wicked waste of force and little short of lunacy.”
I thought my exaggeration might provoke him to denial, but he seemed not
to have found it unjust. “Why, you know,” he said to Mrs. Camp, “in
Altruria every one works with his hands, so that the hard work shall not
all fall to any one class; and this manual labor of each is sufficient to
keep the body in health, as well as to earn a living. After the three,
hours’ work, which constitutes a day’s work with us, is done, the young
people have all sorts of games and sports, and they carry them as late
into life as the temperament of each demands. But what I was saying to Mr.
Twelvemough--perhaps I did not make myself clear--was that we should
regard the sterile putting forth of strength in exercise, if others were
each day worn out with hard manual labor, as insane or immoral. But I can
account for it differently with you, because I understand that in your
conditions a person of leisure could not do any manual labor without
taking away the work of some one who needed it to live by; and could not
even relieve an overworked laborer, and give him the money for the work,
without teaching him habits of idleness. In Altruria we can all keep
ourselves well by doing each his share of hard work, and we can help those
who are exhausted, when such a thing happens, without injuring them
materially or morally.”
Young Camp entered at this moment, and the Altrurian hesitated. “Oh, do go
on!” Mrs. Makely entreated. She added to Camp: “We’ve got him to talking
about Altruria at last, and we wouldn’t have him stopped for worlds.”
The Altrurian looked around at all our faces, and no doubt read our eager
curiosity in them. He smiled and said: “I shall be very glad, I’m sure.
But I do not think you will find anything so remarkable in our
civilization, if you will conceive of it as the outgrowth of the
neighborly instinct. In fact, neighborliness is the essence of
Altrurianism. If you will imagine having the same feeling toward all,” he
explained to Mrs. Makely, “as you have toward your next-door neighbor--”
“My next-door neighbor!” she cried. “But I don’t know the people next
door! We live in a large apartment house, some forty families, and I
assure you I do not know a soul among them.”
He looked at her with a puzzled air, and she continued: “Sometimes it
does seem rather hard. One day the people on the same landing with us
lost one of their children, and I should never have been a whit the wiser
if my cook hadn’t happened to mention it. The servants all know each
other; they meet in the back elevator, and get acquainted. I don’t
encourage it. You can’t tell what kind of families they belong to.”
“But surely,” the Altrurian persisted, “you have friends in the city whom
you think of as your neighbors?”
“No, I can’t say that I have,” said Mrs. Makely. “I have my visiting-list,
but I shouldn’t think of anybody on that as a neighbor.”
The Altrurian looked so blank and baffled that I could hardly help
laughing. “Then I should not know how to explain Altruria to you, I’m
afraid.”
“Well,” she returned, lightly, “if it’s anything like neighborliness as
I’ve seen it in small places, deliver me from it! I like being
independent. That’s why I like the city. You’re let alone.”
“I was down in New York once, and I went through some of the streets and
houses where the poor people live,” said young Camp, “and they seemed to
know each other and to be quite neighborly.”
“And would you like to be all messed in with one another that way?”
 demanded the lady.
“Well, I thought it was better than living as we do in the country, so far
apart that we never see one another, hardly. And it seems to me better
than not having any neighbors at all.”
“Well, every one to his taste,” said Mrs. Makely. “I wish you would tell
us how people manage with you socially, Mr. Homos.”
“Why, you know,” he began, “we have neither city nor country in your
sense, and so we are neither so isolated nor so crowded together. You feel
that you lose a great deal in not seeing one another oftener?” he asked
Camp.
“Yes. Folks rust out living alone. It’s Human nature to want to get
together.”
“And I understand Mrs. Makely that it is human nature to want to keep
apart?”
“Oh no, but to come together independently,” she answered.
“Well, that is what we have contrived in our life at home. I should have
to say, in the first place, that--”
“Excuse me just one moment, Mr. Homos,” said Mrs. Makely. This perverse
woman was as anxious to hear about Altruria as any of us, but she was a
woman who would rather hear the sound of her own voice than any other,
even if she were dying, as she would call it, to hear the other. The
Altrurian stopped politely, and Mrs. Makely went on: “I have been thinking
of what Mr. Camp was saying about the blacklisted men, and their all
turning into tramps--”
“But I didn’t say that, Mrs. Makely,” the young fellow protested, in
astonishment.
“Well, it stands to reason that if the tramps have all been blacklisted
men--”
“But I didn’t say that, either.”
“No matter! What I am trying to get at is this: if a workman has made
himself a nuisance to the employers, haven’t they a right to punish him in
any way they can?”
“I believe there’s no law yet against blacklisting,” said Camp.
“Very well, then, I don’t see what they’ve got to complain of. The
employers surely know their own business.”
“They claim to know the men’s, too. That’s what they’re always saying;
they will manage their own affairs in their own way. But no man, or
company, that does business on a large scale has any affairs that are not
partly other folks’ affairs, too. All the saying in the world won’t make
it different.”
“Very well, then,” said Mrs. Makely, with a force of argument which she
seemed to think was irresistible, “I think the workmen had better leave
things to the employers, and then they won’t get blacklisted. It’s as
broad as it’s long.”
I confess that, although I agreed with Mrs. Makely in regard to what the
workmen had better do, her position had been arrived at by such
extraordinary reasoning that I blushed for her; at the same time, I wanted
to laugh. She continued, triumphantly: “You see, the employers have ever
so much more at stake.”
“Then men have everything at stake--the work of their hands,” said the
young fellow.
“Oh, but surely,” said Mrs. Makely, “you wouldn’t set that against
capital? You wouldn’t compare the two?”
“Yes, I should,” said Camp, and I could see his eye kindle and his jaw
stiffen.
“Then I suppose you would say that a man ought to get as much for his work
as an employer gets for his capital. If you think one has as much at stake
as the other, you must think they ought to be paid alike.”
“That is just what I think,” said Camp, and Mrs. Makely burst into a
peal of amiable laughter.
“Now, that is too preposterous!”
“Why is it preposterous?” he demanded, with a quivering nostril.
“Why, simply because it is” said the lady, but she did not say why, and
although I thought so, too, I was glad she did not attempt to do it, for
her conclusions seemed to me much better than her reasons.
The old wooden clock in the kitchen began to strike, and she rose briskly
to her feet and went and laid the books she had been holding in her lap on
the table beside Mrs. Camp’s bed. “We must really be going,” she said, as
she leaned over and kissed the invalid. “It is your dinner-time, and we
shall barely get back for lunch if we go by the Loop road; and I want very
much to have Mr. Homos see the Witch’s Falls on the way. I have got two or
three of the books here that Mr. Makely brought me last night--I sha’n’t
have time to read them at once--and I’m smuggling in one of Mr.
Twelvemough’s, that he’s too modest to present for himself.” She turned a
gay glance upon me, and Mrs. Camp thanked me, and a number of civilities
followed from all sides. In the process of their exchange, Mrs. Makely’s
spirits perceptibly rose, and she came away in high good-humor with the
whole Camp family. “Well, now, I am sure,” she said to the Altrurian, as
we began the long ascent of the Loop road, “you must allow that you have
seen some very original characters. But how warped people get living
alone so much! That is the great drawback of the country. Mrs. Camp thinks
the savings-bank did her a real injury in taking a mortgage on her place,
and Reuben seems to have seen just enough of the outside world to get it
all wrong. But they are the best-hearted creatures in the world, and I
know you won’t misunderstand them. That unsparing country bluntness--don’t
you think it’s perfectly delightful? I do like to stir poor Reuben up, and
get him talking. He is a good boy, if he is so wrong-headed, and he’s
the most devoted son and brother in the world. Very few young fellows
would waste their lives on an old farm like that; I suppose, when his
mother dies, he will marry and strike out for himself in some growing
place.”
“He did not seem to think the world held out any very bright inducements
for him to leave home,” the Altrurian suggested.
“Oh, let him get one of these lively, pushing Yankee girls for a wife, and
he will think very differently,” said Mrs. Makely.
The Altrurian disappeared that afternoon, and I saw little or nothing of
him till the next day at supper. Then he said he had been spending the
time with young Camp, who had shown him something of the farm-work, and
introduced him to several of the neighbors; he was very much interested in
it all, because at home he was, at present, engaged in farm-work himself,
and he was curious to contrast the American and Altrurian methods. We
began to talk of the farming interest again, later in the day, when the
members of our little group came together, and I told them what the
Altrurian had been doing. The doctor had been suddenly called back to
town; but the minister was there, and the lawyer and the professor and the
banker and the manufacturer.
It was the banker who began to comment on what I said, and he seemed to be
in the frank humor of the Saturday night before. “Yes,” he said, “it’s a
hard life, and they have to look sharp if they expect to make both ends
meet. I would not like to undertake it myself with their resources.”
The professor smiled, in asking the Altrurian: “Did your agricultural
friends tell you anything of the little rural traffic in votes that they
carry on about election time? That is one of the side means they have of
making both ends meet.”
“I don’t understand,” said the Altrurian.
“Why, you know, you can buy votes among our virtuous yeomen from two
dollars up at the ordinary elections. When party feeling runs high, and
there are vital questions at stake, the votes cost more.”
The Altrurian looked round at us all aghast. “Do, you mean that Americans
buy votes?”
The professor smiled again. “Oh no; I only mean that they sell them. Well,
I don’t wonder that they rather prefer to blink the fact; but it is a
fact, nevertheless, and pretty notorious.”
“Good heavens!” cried the Altrurian. “And what defence have they for such
treason? I don’t mean those who sell; from what I have seen of the
bareness and hardship of their lives, I could well imagine that there
might sometimes come a pinch when they would be glad of the few dollars
that they could get in that way; but what have those who buy to say?”
“Well,” said the professor, “it isn’t a transaction that’s apt to be
talked about much on either side.”
“I think,” the banker interposed, “that there is some exaggeration about
that business; but it certainly exists, and I suppose it is a growing evil
in the country. I fancy it arises, somewhat, from a want of, clear
thinking on the subject. Then there is no doubt but it comes, sometimes,
from poverty. A man sells his vote, as a woman sells her person, for
money, when neither can turn virtue into cash. They feel that they must
live, and neither of them would be satisfied if Dr. Johnson told them he
didn’t see the necessity. In fact, I shouldn’t myself, if I were in their
places. You can’t have the good of a civilization like ours without having
the bad; but I am not going to deny that the bad is bad. Some people like
to do that; but I don’t find my account in it. In either case, I confess
that I think the buyer is worse than the seller--incomparably worse. I
suppose you are not troubled with either case in Altruria?”
“Oh no!” said the Altrurian, with an utter horror, which no repetition of
his words can give the sense of. “It would be unimaginable.”
“Still,” the banker suggested, “you have cakes and ale, and at times the
ginger is hot in the mouth?”
“I don’t pretend that we have immunity from error; but upon such terms as
you have described we have none. It would be impossible.”
The Altrurian’s voice expressed no contempt, but only a sad patience, a
melancholy surprise, such as a celestial angel might feel in being
suddenly confronted with some secret shame and horror of the Pit.
“Well,” said the banker, “with us the only way is to take the business
view and try to strike an average somewhere.”
“Talking of business,” said the professor, turning to the manufacturer,
who had been quietly smoking, “why don’t some of you capitalists take hold
of farming here in the East, and make a business of it as they do in the
West?”
“Thank you,” said the other; “if you mean me, I would rather not invest.”
 He was silent a moment, and then he went on, as if the notion were
beginning to win upon him: “It may come to something like that, though. If
it does, the natural course, I should think, would be through the
railroads. It would be a very easy matter for them to buy up all the good
farms along their lines and put tenants on them, and run them in their own
interest. Really, it isn’t a bad scheme. The waste in the present method
is enormous, and there is no reason why the roads should not own the
farms, as they are beginning to own the mines. They could manage them
better than the small farmers do in every way. I wonder the thing hasn’t
occurred to some smart railroad man.”
We all laughed a little, perceiving the semi-ironical spirit of his talk;
but the Altrurian must have taken it in dead earnest: “But, in that case,
the number of people thrown out of work would be very great, wouldn’t it?
And what would become of them?”
“Well, they would have whatever their farms brought to make a new start
with somewhere else; and, besides, that question of what would become of
people thrown out of work by a given improvement is something that capital
cannot consider. We used to introduce a bit of machinery in the mill,
every now and then, that threw out a dozen or a hundred people; but we
couldn’t stop for that.”
“And you never knew what became of them?”
“Sometimes. Generally not. We took it for granted that they would light on
their feet somehow.”
“And the state--the whole people--the government--did nothing for them?”
“If it became a question of the poor-house, yes.”
“Or the jail,” the lawyer suggested.
“Speaking of the poor-house,” said the professor, “did our exemplary rural
friends tell you how they sell out their paupers to the lowest bidder, and
get them boarded sometimes as low as a dollar and a quarter a week?”
“Yes, young Mr. Camp told me of that. He seemed to think it was terrible.”
“Did he? Well, I’m glad to hear that of young Mr. Camp. From all that I’ve
been told before, he seems to reserve his conscience for the use of
capitalists. What does he propose to do about it?”
“He seems to think the state ought to find work for them.”
“Oh, paternalism! Well, I guess the state won’t.”
“That was his opinion, too.”
“It seems a hard fate,” said the minister, “that the only provision the
law makes for people who are worn out by sickness or a life of work should
be something that assorts them with idiots and lunatics, and brings such
shame upon them that it is almost as terrible as death.”
“It is the only way to encourage independence and individuality,” said the
professor. “Of course, it has its dark side. But anything else would be
sentimental and unbusinesslike, and, in fact, un-American.”
“I am not so sure that it would be un-Christian,” the minister timidly
ventured, in the face of such an authority on political economy.
“Oh, as to that, I must leave the question to the reverend clergy,” said
the professor.
A very unpleasant little silence followed. It was broken by the lawyer,
who put his feet together, and, after a glance down at them, began to say:
“I was very much interested this afternoon by a conversation I had with
some of the young fellows in the hotel. You know most of them are
graduates, and they are taking a sort of supernumerary vacation this
summer before they plunge into the battle of life in the autumn. They were
talking of some other fellows, classmates of theirs, who were not so
lucky, but had been obliged to begin the fight at once. It seems that our
fellows here are all going in for some sort of profession: medicine or law
or engineering or teaching or the church, and they were commiserating
those other fellows not only because they were not having the
supernumerary vacation, but because they were going into business. That
struck me as rather odd, and I tried to find out what it meant, and, as
nearly as I could find out, it meant that most college graduates would not
go into business if they could help it. They seemed to feel a sort of
incongruity between their education and the business life. They pitied the
fellows that had to go in for it, and apparently the fellows that had to
go in for it pitied themselves, for the talk seemed to have begun about a
letter that one of the chaps here had got from poor Jack or Jim somebody,
who had been obliged to go into his father’s business, and was groaning
over it. The fellows who were going to study professions were hugging
themselves at the contrast between their fate and his, and were making
remarks about business that were, to say the least, unbusinesslike. A few
years ago we should have made a summary disposition of the matter, and I
believe some of the newspapers still are in doubt about the value of a
college education to men who have got to make their way. What do you
think?”
The lawyer addressed his question to the manufacturer, who answered, with
a comfortable satisfaction, that he did not think those young men if they
went into business would find that they knew too much.
“But they pointed out,” said the lawyer, “that the great American fortunes
had been made by men who had never had their educational advantages, and
they seemed to think that what we call the education of a gentleman was a
little too good for money-making purposes.”
“Well,” said the other, “they can console themselves with the reflection
that going into business isn’t necessarily making money; it isn’t
necessarily making a living, even.”
“Some of them seem to have caught on to that fact; and they pitied Jack or
Jim partly because the chances were so much against him. But they pitied
him mostly because in the life before him he would have no use for his
academic training, and he had better not gone to college at all. They said
he would be none the better for it, and would always be miserable when he
looked back to it.”
The manufacturer did not reply, and the professor, after a preliminary
hemming, held his peace. It was the banker who took the word: “Well, so
far as business is concerned, they were right. It is no use to pretend
that there is any relation between business and the higher education.
There is no business man who will pretend that there is not often an
actual incompatibility if he is honest. I know that when we get together
at a commercial or financial dinner we talk as if great merchants and
great financiers were beneficent geniuses, who evoked the prosperity of
mankind by their schemes from the conditions that would otherwise have
remained barren. Well, very likely they are, but we must all confess that
they do not know it at the time. What they are consciously looking out for
then is the main chance. If general prosperity follows, all well and good;
they are willing to be given the credit for it. But, as I said, with
business as business, the ‘education of a gentleman’ has nothing to do.
That education is always putting the old Ciceronian question: whether the
fellow arriving at a starving city with a cargo of grain is bound to tell
the people before he squeezes them that there are half a dozen other
fellows with grain just below the horizon. As a gentleman he would have to
tell them, because he could not take advantage of their necessities; but,
as a business man, he would think it bad business to tell them, or no
business at all. The principle goes all through; I say, business is
business; and I am not going to pretend that business will ever be
anything else. In our business battles we don’t take off our hats to the
other side and say, ‘Gentlemen of the French Guard, have the goodness to
fire.’ That may be war, but it is not business. We seize all the
advantages we can; very few of us would actually deceive; but if a fellow
believes a thing, and we know he is wrong, we do not usually take the
trouble to set him right, if we are going to lose anything by undeceiving
him. That would not be business. I suppose you think that is dreadful?” He
turned smilingly to the minister.
“I wish--I wish,” said the minister, gently, “it could be otherwise.”
“Well, I wish so, too,” returned the banker. “But it isn’t. Am I right or
am I wrong?” he demanded of the manufacturer, who laughed.
“I am not conducting this discussion. I will not deprive you of the
floor.”
“What you say,” I ventured to put in, “reminds me of the experience of a
friend of mine, a brother novelist. He wrote a story where the failure of
a business man turned on a point just like that you have instanced. The
man could have retrieved himself if he had let some people believe that
what was so was not so, but his conscience stepped in and obliged him to
own the truth. There was a good deal of talk about the case, I suppose,
because it was not in real life, and my friend heard divers criticisms. He
heard of a group of ministers who blamed him for exalting a case of common
honesty, as if it were something extraordinary; and he heard of some
business men who talked it over and said he had worked the case up
splendidly, but he was all wrong in the outcome--the fellow would never
have told the other fellows. They said it would not have been business.”
We all laughed except the minister and the Altrurian; the manufacturer
said: “Twenty-five years hence, the fellow who is going into business may
pity the fellows who are pitying him for his hard fate now.”
“Very possibly, but not necessarily,” said the banker. “Of course, the
business man is on top, as far as money goes; he is the fellow who makes
the big fortunes; the millionaire lawyers and doctors and ministers are
exceptional. But his risks are tremendous. Ninety-five times out of a
hundred he fails. To be sure, he picks up and goes on, but he seldom gets
there, after all.”
“Then in your system,” said the Altrurian, “the great majority of those
who go into what you call the battle of life are defeated?”
“The killed, wounded, and missing sum up a frightful total,” the banker
admitted. “But whatever the end is, there is a great deal of prosperity on
the way. The statistics are correct, but they do not tell the whole truth.
It is not so bad as it seems. Still, simply looking at the material
chances, I don’t blame those young fellows for not wanting to go into
business. And when you come to other considerations! We used to cut the
knot of the difficulty pretty sharply; we said a college education was
wrong, or the hot and hot American spread-eaglers did. Business is the
national ideal, and the successful business man is the American type. It
is a business man’s country.”
“Then, if I understand you,” said the Altrurian, “and I am very anxious to
have a clear understanding of the matter, the effect of the university
with you is to unfit a youth for business life.”
“Oh no. It may give him great advantages in it, and that is the theory and
expectation of most fathers who send their sons to the university. But,
undoubtedly, the effect is to render business life distasteful. The
university nurtures all sorts of lofty ideals, which business has no use
for.”
“Then the effect is undemocratic?”
“No, it is simply unbusinesslike. The boy is a better democrat when he
leaves college than he will be later, if he goes into business. The
university has taught him and equipped him to use his own gifts and powers
for his advancement; but the first lesson of business, and the last, is to
use other men’s gifts and powers. If he looks about him at all, he sees
that no man gets rich simply by his own labor, no matter how mighty a
genius he is, and that, if you want to get rich, you must make other men
work for you, and pay you for the privilege of doing so. Isn’t that true?”
The banker turned to the manufacturer with this question, and the other
said: “The theory is, that we give people work,” and they both laughed.
The minister said: “I believe that in Altruria no man works for the profit
of another?”
“No; each works for the profit of all,” replied the Altrurian.
“Well,” said the banker, “you seem to have made it go. Nobody can deny
that. But we couldn’t make it go here.”
“Why? I am very curious to know why our system seems so impossible to
you.”
“Well, it is contrary to the American spirit. It is alien to our love of
individuality.”
“But we prize individuality, too, and we think we secure it under our
system. Under yours, it seems to me that while the individuality of the
man who makes other men work for him is safe, except from itself, the
individuality of the workers--”
“Well, that is their lookout. We have found that, upon the whole, it is
best to let every man look out for himself. I know that, in a certain
light, the result has an ugly aspect; but, nevertheless, in spite of all,
the country is enormously prosperous. The pursuit of happiness, which is
one of the inalienable rights secured to us by the Declaration, is, and
always has been, a dream; but the pursuit of the dollar yields tangible
proceeds, and we get a good deal of excitement out of it as it goes on.
You can’t deny that we are the richest nation in the world. Do you call
Altruria a rich country?”
I could not quite make out whether the banker was serious or not in all
this talk; sometimes I suspected him of a fine mockery, but the Altrurian
took him upon the surface of his words.
“I hardly know whether it is or not. The question of wealth does not enter
into our scheme. I can say that we all have enough, and that no one is
even in the fear of want.”
“Yes, that is very well. But we should think it was paying too much for it
if we had to give up the hope of ever having more than we wanted,” and at
this point the banker uttered his jolly laugh, and I perceived that he had
been trying to draw the Altrurian out and practise upon his patriotism. It
was a great relief to find that he had been joking in so much that seemed
a dead give-away of our economical position. “In Altruria,” he asked, “who
is your ideal great man? I don’t mean personally, but abstractly.”
The Altrurian thought a moment. “With us there is so little ambition for
distinction, as you understand it, that your question is hard to answer.
But I should say, speaking largely, that it was some man who had been able
for the time being to give the greatest happiness to the greatest
number--some artist or poet or inventor or physician.”
I was somewhat surprised to have the banker take this preposterous
statement seriously, respectfully. “Well, that is quite conceivable with
your system. What should you say,” he demanded of the rest of us
generally, “was our ideal of greatness?”
No one replied at once, or at all, till the manufacturer said: “We will
let you continue to run it.”
“Well, it is a very curious inquiry, and I have thought it over a good
deal. I should say that within a generation our ideal has changed twice.
Before the war, and during all the time from the Revolution onward, it was
undoubtedly the great politician, the publicist, the statesman. As we grew
older and began to have an intellectual life of our own, I think the
literary fellows had a pretty good share of the honors that were going--that
is, such a man as Longfellow was popularly considered a type of
greatness. When the war came, it brought the soldier to the front, and
there was a period of ten or fifteen years when he dominated the national
imagination. That period passed, and the great era of material prosperity
set in. The big fortunes began to tower up, and heroes of another sort
began to appeal to our admiration. I don’t think there is any doubt but
the millionaire is now the American ideal. It isn’t very pleasant to think
so, even for people who have got on, but it can’t very hopefully be
denied. It is the man with the most money who now takes the prize in our
national cake-walk.”
The Altrurian turned curiously toward me, and I did my best to tell him
what a cake-walk was. When I had finished, the banker resumed, only to
say, as he rose from his chair to bid us good-night: “In any average
assembly of Americans the greatest millionaire would take the eyes of all
from the greatest statesman, the greatest poet, or the greatest soldier we
ever had. That,” he added to the Altrurian, “will account to you for many
things as you travel through our country.”
IX
The next time the members of our little group came together, the
manufacturer began at once upon the banker:
“I should think that our friend the professor, here, would hardly like
that notion of yours, that business, as business, has nothing to do with
the education of a gentleman. If this is a business man’s country, and if
the professor has nothing in stock but the sort of education that business
has no use for, I should suppose that he would want to go into some other
line.”
The banker mutely referred the matter to the professor, who said, with
that cold grin of his which I hated:
“Perhaps we shall wait for business to purge and live cleanly. Then it
will have some use for the education of a gentleman.”
“I see,” said the banker, “that I have touched the quick in both of you,
when I hadn’t the least notion of doing so. But I shouldn’t really like to
prophesy which will adapt itself to the other--education or business. Let
us hope there will be mutual concessions. There are some pessimists who
say that business methods, especially on the large scale of the trusts and
combinations, have grown worse instead of better; but this may be merely
what is called a ‘transition state.’ Hamlet must be cruel to be kind; the
darkest hour comes before dawn--and so on. Perhaps when business gets
the whole affair of life into its hands, and runs the republic, as its
enemies now accuse it of doing, the process of purging and living cleanly
will begin. I have known lots of fellows who started in life rather
scampishly; but when they felt secure of themselves, and believed that
they could afford to be honest, they became so. There’s no reason why the
same thing shouldn’t happen on a large scale. We must never forget that we
are still a very novel experiment, though we have matured so rapidly in
some respects that we have come to regard ourselves as an accomplished
fact. We are really less so than we were forty years ago, with all the
tremendous changes since the war. Before that we could take certain
matters for granted. If a man got out of work, he turned his hand to
something else; if a man failed in business, he started in again from some
other direction; as a last resort, in both cases, he went West, pre-empted
a quarter-section of public land, and grew up with the country. Now the
country is grown up; the public land is gone; business is full on all
sides, and the hand that turned itself to something else has lost its
cunning. The struggle for life has changed from a free-fight to an
encounter of disciplined forces, and the free-fighters that are left get
ground to pieces between organized labor and organized capital. Decidedly,
we are in a transition state, and if the higher education tried to adapt
itself to business needs, there are chances that it might sacrifice itself
without helping business. After all, how much education does business
need? Were our great fortunes made by educated men, or men of university
training? I don’t know but these young fellows are right about that.”
“Yes, that may all be,” I put in. “But it seems to me that you give Mr.
Homos, somehow, a wrong impression of our economic life by your
generalizations. You are a Harvard man yourself.”
“Yes, and I am not a rich man. A million or two, more or less; but what is
that? I have suffered, at the start and all along, from the question as to
what a man with the education of a gentleman ought to do in such and such
a juncture. The fellows who have not that sort of education have not that
sort of question, and they go in and win.”
“So you admit, then,” said the professor, “that the higher education
elevates a business man’s standard of morals?”
“Undoubtedly. That is one of its chief drawbacks,” said the banker, with a
laugh.
“Well,” I said, with the deference due even to a man who had only a
million or two, more or less, “we must allow you to say such things. But
if the case is so bad with the business men who have made the great
fortunes--the business men who have never had the disadvantage of a
university education--I wish you would explain to Mr. Homos why, in every
public exigency, we instinctively appeal to the business sense of the
community as if it were the fountain of wisdom, probity, and equity.
Suppose there were some question of vital interest--I won’t say financial,
but political or moral or social--on which it was necessary to rouse
public opinion, what would be the first thing to do? To call a meeting
over the signatures of the leading business men, because no other names
appeal with such force to the public. You might get up a call signed by
all the novelists, artists, ministers, lawyers, and doctors in the state,
and it would not have a tithe of the effect, with the people at large,
that a call signed by a few leading merchants, bank presidents, railroad
men, and trust officers would have. What is the reason? It seems strange
that I should be asking you to defend yourself against yourself.”
“Not at all, my dear fellow, not at all,” the banker replied, with his
caressing bonhomie. “Though I will confess, to begin with, that I do not
expect to answer your question to your entire satisfaction. I can only do
my best--on the instalment plan.”
He turned to the Altrurian, and then went on: “As I said the other night,
this is a business man’s country. We are a purely commercial people; money
is absolutely to the fore; and business, which is the means of getting the
most money, is the American ideal. If you like, you may call it the
American fetish; I don’t mind calling it so myself. The fact that business
is our ideal, or our fetish, will account for the popular faith in
business men, who form its priesthood, its hierarchy. I don’t know,
myself, any other reason for regarding business men as solider than
novelists or artists or ministers, not to mention lawyers and doctors.
They are supposed to have long heads; but it appears that ninety-five
times out of a hundred they haven’t. They are supposed to be very
reliable; but it is almost invariably a business man of some sort who gets
out to Canada while the state examiner is balancing his books, and it is
usually the longest headed business men who get plundered by him. No, it
is simply because business is our national ideal that the business man is
honored above all other men among us. In the aristocratic countries they
forward a public object under the patronage of the nobility and gentry; in
a plutocratic country they get the business men to indorse it. I suppose
that the average American citizen feels that they wouldn’t indorse a thing
unless it was safe; and the average American citizen likes to be safe--he
is cautious. As a matter of fact, business men are always taking risks,
and business is a game of chance, in a certain degree. Have I made myself
intelligible?”
“Entirely so,” said the Altrurian; and he seemed so thoroughly well
satisfied that he forbore asking any further question.
No one else spoke. The banker lighted a cigar, and resumed at the point
where he left off when I ventured to enter upon the defence of his class
with him. I must say that he had not convinced me at all. At that moment
I would rather have trusted him, in any serious matter of practical
concern, than all the novelists I ever heard of. But I thought I would
leave the word to him, without further attempt to reinstate him in his
self-esteem. In fact, he seemed to be getting along very well without it,
or else he was feeling that mysterious control from the Altrurian which I
had already suspected him of using. Voluntarily or involuntarily, the
banker proceeded with his contribution to the Altrurian’s stock of
knowledge concerning our civilization:
“I don’t believe, however, that the higher education is any more of a
failure, as a provision for a business career, than the lower education is
for the life of labor. I suppose that the hypercritical observer might say
that in a wholly commercial civilization like ours the business man really
needed nothing beyond the three R’s, and the working-man needed no R at
all. As a practical affair, there is a good deal to be said in favor of
that view. The higher education is part of the social ideal which we have
derived from the past, from Europe. It is part of the provision for the
life of leisure, the life of the aristocrat, which nobody of our
generation leads, except women. Our women really have some use for the
education of a gentleman, but our men have none. How will that do for a
generalization?” the banker asked of me.
“Oh,” I admitted, with a laugh, “it is a good deal like one of my own. I
have always been struck with that phase of our civilization.”
“Well, then,” the banker resumed, “take the lower education. That is part
of the civic ideal which, I suppose, I may say we evolved from the depths
of our inner consciousness of what an American citizen ought to be. It
includes instruction in all the R’s, and in several other letters of the
alphabet. It is given free by the state, and no one can deny that it is
thoroughly socialistic in conception and application.”
“Distinctly so,” said the professor. “Now that the text-books are
furnished by the state, we have only to go a step further and provide a
good, hot lunch for the children every day, as they do in Paris.”
“Well,” the banker returned, “I don’t know that I should have much to say
against that. It seems as reasonable as anything in the system of
education which we force upon the working classes. They know perfectly
well, whether we do or not, that the three R’s will not make their
children better mechanics or laborers, and that, if the fight for a mere
living is to go on from generation to generation, they will have no
leisure to apply the little learning they get in the public schools for
their personal culture. In the mean time we deprive the parents of their
children’s labor, in order that they may be better citizens for their
schooling, as we imagine; I don’t know whether they are or not. We offer
them no sort of compensation for their time, and I think we ought to feel
obliged to them for not wanting wages for their children while we are
teaching them to be better citizens.”
“You know,” said the professor, “that has been suggested by some of their
leaders.”
“No, really? Well, that is too good!” The banker threw back his head and
roared, and we all laughed with him. When we had sobered down again, he
said: “I suppose that when a working-man makes all the use he can of his
lower education he becomes a business man, and then he doesn’t need the
higher. Professor, you seem to be left out in the cold by our system,
