week, he wrote Edith dashing, hurried letters, speak- 
ing of ever so many places he had been to and ever 
so many people he had seen yes, Carmen and Miss 
Tavish and everybody who was in town, and he 
did not say too much about the hot city and its 
discomforts. 
Henderson's affairs kept him in town, Miss Tav- 
ish still postponed Bar Harbor, and Carmen will- 
ingly remained. She knew the comfort of a big 
New York house when the season is over, when no 
social duties are required, and one is at leisure to 
lounge about in cool costumes, to read or dream, to 
open the windows at night for the salt breeze from 
the bay, to take little excursions by boat or rail, to 
dine alfresco in the garden of some semi-foreign 
hotel, to taste the unconventional pleasures of the 
town, as if one were in some foreign city. She used 
to say that New York in matting and hollands was 
almost as nice as Buda-Pesth. These were really 
summer nights, operatic sorts of nights, with music 
floating in the air, gay groups in the streets, a stage 
imitation of nature in the squares with the thick 
foliage and the heavy shadows cast on the asphalt 
by the electric lights, the brilliant shops, the non- 
sense of the summer theatres, where no one ex- 
pected anything, and no one was disappointed, the 
general air of enjoyment, and the suggestion of in- 
trigue. Sometimes, when Mavick was over, a party 
was made up for the East Side, to see the foreign 
costumes, the picturesque street markets, the dime 
museums, and the serious, tragical theatres of the 
people. The East Side was left pretty much to 
itself, now that the winter philanthropists had gone 
away, and was enjoying its summer nights and its 
irresponsible poverty. 
They even looked in at Father Damon's chapel, 
the dimly lighted fragrant refuge from the world 
and from sin. Why not? They were interested 
in the morals of the region. Had not Miss Tavish 
danced for one of the guilds ; and had not Carmen 
given Father Damon a handsome check in support 
of his mission? It was so satisfactory to go into 
such a place and see the penitents kneeling here 
and there, the little group of very plainly dressed 
sinners attracted by Father Damon's spiritual face 
and unselfish enthusiasm. Carmen said she felt 
like kneeling at one of the little boxes and confess- 
ing the sins of her neighbors. And then the four 
Carmen, Miss Tavish, Mavick, and Jack had a 
little supper at Wherry's, which they enjoyed all the 
more for the good action of visiting the East Side 
a little supper which lasted very late, and was 
more and more enjoyed as it went on, and was, in 
fact, so gay that when the ladies were set down at 
their houses, Jack insisted on dragging Mavick off 
to the Beefsteak Club and having something manly 
to drink ; and while they drank he analyzed the 
comparative attractions of Carmen and Miss Tav- 
ish ; he liked that kind of women, no nonsense in 
them ; and presently he wandered a little and lost 
the cue of his analysis, and, seizing Mavick by the 
arm, and regarding him earnestly, in a burst of con- 
fidence declared that, notwithstanding all appear- 
ances, Edith was the dearest girl in the world. 
It was at this supper that the famous society 
was formed, which the newspapers ridiculed, and 
which deceived so many excellent people in New 
York because it seemed to be in harmony with the 
philanthropic endeavor of the time, but which was 
only an expression of the Mephistophelian spirit of 
Carmen the Society for Supplying Two Suspend- 
ers to Those who have only One. 
By the end of June there was no more doubt 
about the heat of the town than about its odors. 
The fashionable residence part was dismantled and 
deserted. At least miles and miles of houses seemed 
to be closed. Few carriages were seen in this quar- 
ter, the throngs of fashion had disappeared, com- 
paratively few women were about, and those that 
appeared in the Sunday promenade were evidently 
sight-seers and idlers from other quarters ; the 
throng of devotees was gone from the churches, 
and indeed in many of them services were sus- 
pended till a more convenient season. The hotels, 
to be sure, were full of travellers, and the club- 
houses had more habitues than usual, and were 
more needed by the members whose families had 
gone into the country. 
Notwithstanding the silence and vacation aspect 
of up -town, the public conveyances were still 
thronged, and a census would have shown no such 
diminution of population as seemed. Indeed, 
while nobody was in town, except accidentally, the 
greater portion of it presented a more animated ap- 
pearance than usual, especially at night, on account 
of the open windows, the groups on door-steps and 
curb-stones, and the restless throng in the streets 
buyers and sellers and idlers. To most this out- 
door life was a great enjoyment, and to them the 
unclean streets with the odors and exhalations of 
decay were homelike and congenial. Nor did they 
seem surprised that a new country should so com- 
pletely reproduce the evil smells and nastiness of 
the old civilizations. It was all familiar and pictu- 
resque. Work still went on in the crowded tene- 
ment-houses, and sickness simply changed its char- 
acter, death showing an increased friendliness to, 
young children. Some impression was of course 
made by the agents of various charities, the guilds 
and settlements bravely strove at their posts, some 
of the churches kept their flags flying on the bor- 
ders of the industrial districts, the Good Samaritans 
of the Fresh-air Fund were active, the public dis- 
pensaries did a thriving business, and the little band 
of self - sacrificing doctors, most of them women, 
went their rounds among the poor, the sick, and 
the friendless. 
Among them Ruth Leigh was one who never 
took a vacation. There was no time for it. The 
greater the heat, the more noisome the town, the 
more people became ill from decaying food and 
bad air and bad habits, the more people were hun- 
gry from improvidence or lack of work, the more 
were her daily visits a necessity ; and though she 
was weary of her monotonous work, and heart-sick 
at its small result in such a mass, there never came 
a day when she could quit it. She made no repu- 
tation in her profession by this course ; perhaps she 
awoke little gratitude from those she served, and 
certainly had not so much of their confidence as 
the quacks who imposed upon them and took their 
money ; and she was not heartened much by hope 
of anything better in this world or any other ; and 
as for pay, if there was enough of that to clothe 
her decently, she apparently did not spend it on 
herself. 
It was, in short, wholly inexplicable that this lit- 
tle woman should simply go about doing good, 
without any ulterior purpose whatever, not even 
notoriety. Did she love these people? She did 
not ever say anything about that. In the Knights 
of Labor circle, and in the little clubs for the study 
of social questions, which she could only get leisure 
to attend infrequently, she was not at all demon- 
strative about any religion of humanity. Perhaps 
she simply felt that she was a part of these people, 
and that whether they rejected her or received her, 
there was nothing for her to do but to give herself 
to them. She would probably have been surprised 
if Father Damon had told her that she was in this 
following a great example, and there might have 
been a tang of agnostic bitterness in her reply. 
"When she thought of it the condition seemed to 
her hopeless, and the attitude of what was called 
civilization towards it so remorseless and indifferent, 
and that of Christianity so pharisaical. If she ever 
lost her temper, it was when she let her mind run 
in this nihilistic channel, in bitterness against the 
whole social organization, and the total outcome of 
civilization so far as the mass of humanity is con- 
cerned. 
One day Father Damon climbed up to the top 
of a wretched tenement in Baxter Street in search 
of a German girl, an impulsive and pretty girl of 
fifteen, whom he had missed for several days at 
the chapel services. He had been in the room be- 
fore. It was not one of the worst, for though 
small and containing a cook-stove, a large bed, and 
a chest of drawers, there was an attempt to make 
it tidy. In a dark closet opening out from it was 
another large bed. As he knocked and opened 
the door, he saw that Gretchen was not at home. 
Her father sat in a rocking-chair by an open win- 
dow, on the sill of which stood a pot of carnations,, 
the Easter gift of St. George's, a wax-faced, hollow- 
eyed man of gentle manners, who looked round 
wearily at the priest. The mother was washing 
clothes in a tub in one corner ; in another corner 
was a half -finished garment from a slop-shop. The 
woman alternated the needle at night and the tub 
in the daytime. Seated on the bed, with a thin, 
sick child in her arms, was Dr.. Leigh. As she 
looked up a perfectly radiant smile illuminated her 
usually plain face, an unworldly expression of such 
purity and happiness that she seemed actually 
beautiful to the priest, who stopped, hesitating, 
upon the threshold. 
" Oh, you needn't be afraid to come in, Father 
Damon," she cried out ; " it isn't contagious only 
a rash." 
Father Damon, who would as readily have walked 
through a pestilence as in a flower-garden, only 
smiled at this banter, and replied, after speaking 
to the sick man, and returning in German the 
greeting of the woman who had turned from the 
tub, " I've no doubt you are disappointed that it 
isn't contagious !" And then, to the mother : 
"Where is Gretchen? She doesn't come to the 
chapel." 
"Nein," replied the woman, in a mixture of 
German and English, "it don't come any more 
in dot place ; it be in a shtore now ; it be good 
girl." 
" What, all day ?" 
" Yaas, by six o'clock, and abends so spate. Not 
much it get, but my man can't earn nothing any 
more." And the woman, as she looked at him, 
wiped her eyes with the corner of her apron. 
"But, on Sunday?" Father Damon asked, still 
further. 
" Veil, it be so tired, and goed up by de Park 
with Dick Loosing and dem oder girls." 
" Don't you think it better, Father Damon," Dr. 
Leigh interposed, "that Gretchen should have fresh 
air and some recreation on Sunday ?" 
" Und such bootiful tings by de Museum," added 
the mother. 
" Perhaps," said he, with something like a frown 
on his face, and then changed the subject to the 
sick child He did not care to argue the matter 
when Dr. Leigh was present, but he resolved to 
come again and explain to the mother that her 
daughter needed some restraining power other than 
her own impulse, and that without religious guid- 
ance she was pretty certain to drift into frivolous 
and vulgar if not positively bad ways. The father 
was a free-thinker ; but Father Damon thought he 
had some hold on the mother, who was of the 
Lutheran communion, but had followed her hus- 
band so far as to become indifferent to anything 
but their daily struggle for life. Yet she had a 
mother's instinct about the danger to her daughter, 
and had been pleased to have her go to Father 
Damon's chapel. 
And, besides, he could not bring himself in that 
presence to seem to rebuke Ruth Leigh. Was she 
not practically doing what his Lord did going 
about healing the sick, sympathizing with the poor 
and the discouraged, taking upon herself the bur- 
den of the disconsolate, literally, without thought 
of self, sharing, as it were, the misery and sin of 
this awful city ? And to-day, for the first time, he 
seemed to have seen the woman in her or was it 
the saint ? and he recalled that wonderful illumi- 
nation of her plain face that made her actually 
beautiful as she looked up from the little waif of 
humanity she held in her arms. It had startled 
him, and struck a new chord in his heart, and 
planted a new pang there that she had no belief 
in a future life. 
It did not occur to him that the sudden joy in 
her face might have been evoked by seeing him, 
for it was a long time since she had seen him. 
Nor did he think that the pang at his heart had 
another cause than religious anxiety. Ah, priest 
and worldly saint, how subtle and enduring are 
the primal instincts of human nature ! 
" Yes," he said, as they walked away, in reply to 
her inquiry as to his absence, " I have been in re- 
treat a couple of weeks." 
" I suppose," she said, softly, " you needed the 
rest, though," and she looked at him professionally; 
" if you will allow me to say it, it seems to me that 
you have not rested enough." 
" I needed strength " and it was the priest that 
spoke " in meditation and prayer to draw upon 
resources not my own." 
"And in fasting, too, I dare say," she added, with 
a little smile. 
" And why not ?" he asked. 
" Pardon me," she said ; " I don't pretend to know 
what you need. I need to eat, though Heaven 
knows it's hard enough to keep up an appetite 
down here. But it is physical endurance you need 
for the work here. Do you think fasting strength- 
ens you to go through your work night and day ?" 
" I know I couldn't do it on my own strength." 
And Dr. Leigh recalled times when she had seen 
him officiating in the chapel apparently sustained 
by nothing but zeal and pure spirit, and wondered 
that he did not faint and fall. And faint and fall 
he did, she was sure, when the service was over. 
" Well, it may be necessary to you, but not as an 
example to these people. I see enough involuntary 
fasting." 
" We look at these people from different points 
of view, I fear." And after a moment he said : 
" But, doctor, I wanted to ask you about Gretchen. 
You see her ?" 
" Occasionally. She works too many hours, but 
she seems to be getting on very well, and brings 
her mother all she earns." 
"Do you think she is able to stand alone?" 
Dr. Leigh winced a little at this searching ques- 
tion, for no one knew better than she the vulgariz- 
ing influence of street life and chance associations 
upon a young girl, and the temptations. She was 
even forced to admit the value in the way of re- 
straint, as a sort of police force, of the church and 
priestly influence, especially upon girls at the sus- 
ceptible age. But she knew that Father Damon 
meant something more than this, and so she an- 
swered : 
" But people have got to stand alone. She might 
as well begin." 
" But she is so young." 
" Yes, I know. She is in the way of temptation, 
but so long as she works industriously, and loves 
her mother, and feels the obligation, which the 
poor very easily feel, of doing her share for the 
family, she is not in so much moral danger as other 
girls of her age who lead idle and self-indulgent 
lives. The working-girls of the city learn to pro- 
tect themselves." 
" And you think this is enough, without any sort 
of religion that this East Side can go on without 
any spiritual life ?" 
Ruth Leigh made a gesture of impatience. In 
view of the actual struggle for existence she saw 
around her. this talk seemed like cant. And she 
said : " I don't know that anything can go on. 
Let me ask you a question, Father Damon. Do 
you think there is any more spirituality, any more 
of the essentials of what you call Christianity, in 
the society of the other side than there is on the 
East Side ?" 
" It is a deep question, this of spirituality," re- 
plied Father Damon, who was in the depths of his 
proselyting action a democrat and in sympathy 
with the people, and rated quite at its full value 
the conventional fashion in religion. " I shouldn't 
like to judge, but there is a great body of Christian 
men and women in this city who are doing noble 
work." 
" Yes," replied the little doctor, bitterly, "trying to 
save themselves. How many are trying to save others 
others except the distant and foreign sinners?" 
" You surely cannot ignore," replied the father, 
still speaking mildly, " the immense amount of 
charitable work done by the churches !" 
" Yes, I know ; charity, charity, the condescen- 
sion of the rich to the poor. What we want are 
understanding, fellowship, and we get alms! If 
there is so much spirituality as you say, and Chris- 
tianity is what you say it is to-day, how happens 
it that this side is left in filth and misery and 
physical wretchedness ? You know what it is, and 
you know the luxury elsewhere. And you think 
to bridge over the chasm between classes with 
flowers, in pots, yes, and Bible-readers and fashion- 
able visitors and little aid societies little pallia- 
tives for an awful state of things. Why, look at 
it ! Last winter the city authorities hauled off the 
snow and the refuse from the fashionable avenues, 
and dumped it down in the already blockaded and 
filthy side streets, and left us to struggle with the 
increased pneumonia and diphtheria, and general 
unsanitary conditions. And you wonder that the 
little nihilist groups and labor organizations and 
associations of agnostics, as you call them, meeting 
to study political economy and philosophy, say that 
the existing state of things has got to be overturned 
violently, if those who have the power and the 
money continue indifferent." 
" I do not wonder," replied Father Damon, sadly. 
" The world is evil, and I should be as despairing 
as you are if I did not know there was another life 
and another world. I couldn't bear it. Nobody 
could." 
" And all you've got to offer, then, to this mass 
of wretchedness, poverty, ignorance, at close quar- 
ters with hunger and disease, is to grin and bear it, 
in hope of a reward somewhere else !" 
" I think you don't quite " 
The doctor looked up and saw a look of pain on 
the priest's face. 
" Oh," she hastened to say, almost as impetuous- 
ly as she had spoken before, " I don't mean you 
I don't mean you. I know what you do. Pardon 
me for speaking so. I get so discouraged some- 
times." They stood still a moment, looking up 
and down the hot, crowded, odorful street they 
were in, with its flaunting rags of poverty and in- 
efficiency. " I see so little result of what I can do, 
and there is so little help." 
" I know," said the father, as they moved along. 
" I don't see how you can bear it alone." 
This touched a sore spot, and aroused Kuth 
Leigh's combativeness. It seemed to her to ap- 
proach the verge of cant again. But she knew 
the father's absolute sincerity ; she felt she had al- 
ready said too much ; and she only murmured, as if 
to herself, " If we could only know." And then, 
after a moment, she asked, "Do you, Father Da- 
mon, see any sign of anything better here ?" 
" Yes, to-day." And he spoke very slowly and 
hesitatingly. " If you will excuse the personality 
of it. When I entered that room to-day, and saw 
you with that sick child in your arms, and com- 
prehended what it all meant, I had a great wave 
of hope, and I knew, just then, that there is coming 
virtue enough in the world to redeem it." 
Kuth was confounded. Her heart seemed to 
stand still, and then the hot blood flowed into her 
face in a crimson flood. " Ah," escaped from her 
lips, and she walked on more swiftly, not daring to 
look up. This from him ! This recognition from 
the ascetic father ! If one of her dispensary com- 
rades had said it, would she have been so moved ? 
And afterwards, when she had parted from him, 
and gone to her little room, the hot flush again 
came to her neck and brow, and she saw his pale, 
spiritual face, and could hear the unwonted tender- 
ness of his voice. Yes, Father Damon had said it 
of her. 
CHAPTER XI 
THE question has been very much discussed 
whether the devil, in temperate latitudes, is busier 
in the summer or in the winter. When Congress 
and the various State legislatures are in session, and 
the stock and grain exchanges are most active, and 
society is gayest, and the churches and benevolent 
and reformatory associations are most aggressive 
at this season, which is the cool season, he seems to 
be most animated and powerful. 
But is not this because he is then most opposed ? 
The stream may not flow any faster because it is 
dammed, but it exhibits at the obstructed points 
greater appearance of agitation. Many people are 
under the impression that when they stop fighting 
there is a general truce. There is reason to believe 
that the archenemy is pleased with this impression, 
that he likes a truce, and that it is his best oppor- 
tunity, just as the weeds in the garden, after a 
tempest, welcome the sun and the placidity of the 
elements. It is well known that in summer virtue 
suffers from inertia, and that it is difficult to as- 
semble the members of any vigilant organization, 
especially in cities, where the flag of the enemy is 
never lowered. But wherever the devil is there is 
always a quorum present for business. It is not 
his plan to seek an open fight, and many observers 
say that he gains more ground in summer than in 
any other season, and this notwithstanding people 
are more apt to lose their tempers, and even become 
profane, in the aggravations of what is known as 
spring than at any other time. The subject cannot 
be pursued here, but there is ground for supposing 
that the devil prefers a country where the tem- 
perature is high and pretty uniform, 
At any rate, it is true that the development of 
character is not arrested by any geniality or lan- 
guor of nature. By midsummer the Hendersons 
were settled in Lenox, where the Blunts had long 
been, and Miss Tavish and her party of friends 
were at Bar Harbor. Henderson was compelled 
to be in the city most of the time, and Jack De- 
lancy fancied that business required his presence 
there also ; but he had bought a yacht, and contem- 
plated a voyage, with several of the club men, up 
the Maine coast. " No, I thank you," Major Fair- 
fax had said ; " I know an easier way to get to Bar 
Harbor." 
Jack was irritable and restless, to be sure, in the 
absence of the sort of female society he had become 
accustomed to; but there were many compensations 
in his free-and-easy bachelor life, in his pretence of 
business, which consisted in watching the ticker, 
as it is called, in an occasional interview with Hen- 
derson, and in the floating summer amusements of 
the relaxed city. There was nothing unusual in 
this life except that he needed a little more stimu- 
lation, but this was not strange in the summer, and 
that he devoted more time to poker but every- 
body knows that a person comes out about even in 
the game of poker if he keeps at it long enough 
there was nothing unusual in this, only it was giv 
ing Jack a distaste for the quiet and it seemed to 
him the restraint of the Golden House down by 
the sea. And he was more irritable there than 
elsewhere. It is so difficult to estimate an interior 
deterioration of this sort, for Jack was just as pop- 
ular with his comrades as ever, and apparently more 
prosperous. 
It is true that Jack had had other ideas when he 
was courting Edith Fletcher, and at moments, at 
any rate, different aspirations from any he had 
now. "With her at that time there had been nobler 
aspirations about life. But now she was his wife. 
That was settled. And not only that, but she 
was the best woman he knew ; and if she were not 
his wife, he would spare no effort to win her. He 
felt sure of that. He did not put it to himself in 
the way an Oriental would do, "That is finished"; 
but it was an act done a good act and here was 
his world again, with a hundred interests, and there 
were people besides Edith to be thought of, other 
women and men, and affairs. Because a man was 
married, was he to be shut up to one little narrow 
career, that of husband ? Probably it did not occur 
to him that women take a different view of this in 
the singleness of their purpose and faith. Edith, 
for instance, knew or guessed that Jack had no 
purpose in life that was twenty -four hours old ; but 
she had faith and no amount of observation de- 
stroys this faith in women that marriage would 
inspire him with energy and ambition to take a 
man's place in the world. 
With most men marriage is un fait accompli* 
Jack had been lucky, but there was, no doubt, 
truth in an observation of Mavick's. One night 
as they sat at the club Jack had asked him a lead- 
ing question, apropos of Henderson's successful 
career : " Mavick, why don't you get married ?" 
" I have never," he replied, with his usual cynical 
deliberation, " been obliged to. The fact is, mar- 
riage is a curb-bit. Some horses show off better 
with it, and some are enraged and kick over the 
traces. I cannot decide which I would be." 
" That's true enough," said Jack, " from a bache- 
lor's point of view of independence, but it's really 
a question of matching." 
" The most difficult thing. in the world in horses. 
Just about impossible in temperament and move- 
ment, let alone looks. Most men are lucky if they 
get, like Henderson, a running mate." 
" I see," said Jack, who knew something about 
the Henderson household, " your idea of a pair is 
that they should go single." 
Mavick laughed, and said something about the 
ideas of women changing so much lately that no- 
body could tell what the relation of marriage would 
become, and Jack, who began to feel that he was 
disloyal, changed the subject. To do him justice, 
he would have been ashamed for Edith to hear this 
sort of flippant and shallow talk, which wouldn't 
have been at all out of place with Carmen or Miss 
Tavish. 
" I wanted to ask you, Mavick, as a friend, do 
you think Henderson is square ?" 
" How square ?" 
"Well, safe?" 
" Nobody is safe. Henderson is as safe as any- 
body. You can rely on what he says. But there's 
a good deal he doesn't say. Anything wrong ?" 
" Not that I know. I've been pretty lucky. But 
the fact is, I've gone in rather deep." 
" Well, it's a game. Henderson plays it, as ever- 
body does, for himself. I like Henderson. He 
plays to win, and generally does. But, you know, 
if one man wins, somebody else has got to lose in 
this kind of industry." 
"But Henderson looks out for his friends?" 
"Yes when it doesn't cost too much. Timesf 
may come when a man has to look out for him 
self. "Wealth isn't made out of nothing. There 
must be streams into the reservoir. These great ac- 
cumulations of one you can see that must be 
made up of countless other men's small savings. 
There's Uncle Jerry. lie operates a good deal 
with Henderson, and they'd incline to help each 
other out. But Uncle Jerry says he's got a small 
pond of his own, and he's careful not to connect it 
with Henderson's reservoir." 
" What do you think of Missouri ?" 
" What do I think of the Milky Way ? It doesn't 
much matter to me what becomes of Missouri, un- 
less Henderson should happen to get smashed in 
it, and that isn't what he is there for. But when 
you look at the combinations, and the dropping-off 
of roads that have been -drained, and the scaling 
down in refunding, and the rearranging, and the 
strikes, how much chance do you think the small- 
fry stand? I don't doubt that Henderson will 
make a big thing out of it, and there will be lots 
of howling by those who were not so smart, and 
the newspapers will say that Henderson was too- 
strong for them. What we respect nowadays are 
adroitness and strength. 
" It's an exciting game," Mavick continued, after 
a moment's pause. " Let me know if you get un- 
easy. But I'll tell you what it is, Jack ; if I had a 
comfortable income, I wouldn't risk it in any spec- 
ulation. There is a good deal that is interesting 
going on in this world, and I like to be in it ; but 
the best plan for a man who has anything is, as 
Uncle Jerry says, to sail close and salt down." 
The fact was that Mavick's connection with 
Henderson was an appreciable addition to his in- 
come, and it was not a bad thing for Hender- 
son. Mavick's reputation for knowing the inside 
of everything and being close - mouthed actually 
brought him confidences ; that which at first was 
a clever assumption became a reality, and his rep- 
utation was so established for being behind the 
scenes that he was not believed when he honestly 
professed ignorance of anything. His modest dis- 
claimer merely increased the impression that he 
was deep. Henderson himself had something of 
the Bismarck trait of brutal, contemptuous frank- 
ness. Mavick was never brutal and never con- 
temptuous, but he had a cynical sort of frankness, 
which is a good deal more eif ectual in a business way 
than the oily, plausible manner which on 'Change, 
as well as in politics, is distrusted as hypocrisy. 
Now Uncle Jerry Hollo well was neither oily nor 
frank ; he was long - headed and cautious, and had 
a reputation for shrewdness and just enough of 
plasticity of conscience to remove him out of the 
list of the impracticable and over-scrupulous. This 
reputation that business men and politicians ac- 
quire would be a very curious study. The world 
is very complacent, and apparently worships sue- 
cess and votes for smartness, but it would surprise 
some of our most successful men to know what 
a real respect there is in the community, after all, 
for downright integrity. 
Even Jack, who fell into the current notion of 
his generation of young men that the Henderson 
sort of morality was best adapted to quick success, 
evinced a consciousness of want of nobility in the 
course he was pursuing by not making Edith his 
confidante. He would have said, of course, that 
she knew nothing about business, but what he 
meant was that she had a very clear conception of 
what was honest. All the evidences of his prosper- 
ity, shown in his greater freedom of living, were 
sore trials to her. She belonged to that old class 
of New-Yorkers who made trade honorable, like 
the merchants of Holland and Venice, and she 
knew also that Jack's little fortune had come out 
of honest toil and strict business integrity. Could 
there be any happiness in life in any other course? 
It seemed cruel to put such a problem as this 
upon a young woman hardly yet out of girlhood, in 
the first flush of a new life, which she had dreamed 
should be so noble and high and so happy, in the 
period which is consecrated by the sweetest and 
loveliest visions and hopes that ever come into a 
woman's life. 
As the summer wore on to its maximum of heat 
and discomfort in the city, Edith, who never for- 
got to measure the hardships of others by her own 
more fortunate circumstances, urged Dr. Leigh to 
come away from her labors and rest a few days by 
the sea. The reply was a refusal, but there was 
no complaint in the brief business-like note. One 
might have supposed that it was the harvest - time 
of the doctor, if he had not known that she gath- 
ered nothing for herself. There had never been so 
much sickness, she wrote, and such an opportunity 
for her. She was learning a great deal, especially 
about some disputed contagious diseases. She 
would like to see Mrs. Delancy, and she wouldn't 
mind a breath of air that was more easily to be an- 
alyzed than that she existed in, but nothing could 
induce her to give up her cases. All that ap- 
peared in her letter was her interest in her profes- 
sion. 
Father Damon, who had been persuaded by 
Edith's urgency to go down with Jack for a few 
days to the Golden House, seemed uncommonly 
interested in the reasons of Dr. Leigh's refusal to 
come. 
" I never saw her," he said, " so cheerful. The 
more sickness there is, the more radiant she is. I 
don't mean," he added, laughing, " in apparel. 
Apparently she never thinks of herself, and posi- 
tively she seems to take no time to eat or sleep. I 
encounter her everywhere. I doubt if she ever 
sits down, except when she drops in at the mission 
chapel now and then, and sits quite unmoved on a 
bench by the door during vespers." 
" Then she does go there ?" said Edith. 
"That is a queer thing. She would promptly 
repudiate any religious interest. But I tell her 
she is a bit of a humbug. When I speak about 
her philanthropic zeal, she says her interest is 
purely scientific." 
" Anyway, I believe," Jack put in, " that women 
doctors are less mercenary than men. I dare say 
they will get over that when the novelty of com- 
ing into the profession has worn off." 
" That is possible," said Father Damon ; " but 
that which drives women into professions now is 
the desire to do something rather than the desire 
to make something. Besides, it is seldom, in their 
minds, a finality ; marriage is always a possibility." 
" Yes," replied Edith, " and the probability of 
having to support a husband and family ; then 
they may be as mercenary as men are." 
" Still, the enthusiasm of women," Father Da- 
mon insisted, " in hospital and out - door practice, 
the singleness of their devotion to it, is in contrast 
to that of the young men -doctors. And I notice 
another thing in the city : they take more interest 
in philanthropic movements, in the condition of 
the poor, in the labor questions ; they dive eager- 
ly into philosophic speculations, and they are more 
aggressively agnostics. And they are not afraid 
of any social theories. I have one friend, a skilful 
practitioner they tell me, a linguist, and a metaphy- 
sician, a most agreeable and accomplished woman, 
who is in theory an extreme nihilist, and looks to 
see the present social and political order upset." 
" I don't see," Jack remarked, " what women es- 
pecially are to gain by such a revolution." 
"Perhaps independence, Jack," replied Edith. 
" You should hear my club of working-girls, who 
read and think much on these topics, talk of these 
things." 
" Yes," said Father Damon, " you toss these top- 
ics about, and discuss them in the magazines, and 
fancy you are interested in socialistic movements. 
But you have no idea how real and vital they are, 
and how the dumb discontent of the working classes 
is being formulated into ideas. It is time we tried 
to understand each other." 
Not all the talk was of this sort at the Golden 
House. There were three worlds here that of 
Jack, to which Edith belonged by birth and tradi- 
tion and habit ; that of which we have spoken, to 
which she belonged by profound sympathy ; and 
that of Father Damon, to which she belonged by 
undefined aspiration. In him was the spiritual 
element asserting itself in a mediaeval form, in a 
struggle to mortify and deny the flesh and yet 
take part in modern life. Imagine a celibate and 
ascetic of the fifteenth century, who knew that 
Paradise must be gained through poverty and pri- 
vation and suffering, interesting himself in the 
tenement-house question, in labor leagues, and the 
single tax ! 
Yet, hour after hour, in those idle summer days, 
when nature was in a mood that suggested grace 
and peace, when the waves lapsed along the shore 
and the cicada sang in the hedge, did Father Da- 
mon unfold to Edith his ideas of the spiritualiza- 
tion of modern life through a conviction of its pet- 
tiness and transitoriness. How much more content 
there would be if the poor could only believe that 
it matters little what happens here if the heart is 
only pure and fixed on the endless life. 
" Oh, Father Damon," replied Edith, with a grave 
.smile, " I think your mission ought to be to the 
rich." 
"Yes," he replied, for he also knew his world, 
" if I wanted to make my ideas fashionable, but I 
want to make them operative. By-and-by," he 
added, also with a smile, " we will organize some 
fishermen and carpenters and tailors on a mission 
to the rich." 
Father Damon's visit was necessarily short, for 
his work called him back to town, and perhaps his 
conscience smote him a little for indulging in this 
sort of retreat. By the middle of August Jack's 
yacht was ready, and he went with Mavick and the 
Van Dams and some other men of the club on a 
cruise up the coast. Edith was left alone with her 
Baltimore friend. 
And yet not alone. As she lay in her hammock 
in those dreamy days a new world opened to her. 
It was not described in the chance romance she 
took up, nor in the volume of poems she some- 
times held in her hand, with a finger inserted in 
the leaves. Of this world she felt herself the centre 
and the creator, and as she mused upon its mys- 
teries, life took a new, strange meaning to her. It 
was apt to be a little hazy off there in the watery 
horizon, and out of the mist would glide occasion- 
ally a boat, and the sun would silver its sails, and 
it would dip and toss for half an hour in the blue, 
laughing sea, and then disappear through the mys- 
terious curtain. Whence did it come ? AVhither had 
it gone ? Was life like that ? Was she on the 
shore of such a sea, and was this new world into 
which she was drifting only a dream? By her 
smile, by the momentary illumination that her 
sweet thoughts made in her lovely, hopeful face, 
you knew that it was not. Who can guess the 
thoughts of a woman at such a time? Are the 
trees glad in the spring, when the sap leaps in their 
trunks, and the buds begin to swell, and the leaves 
unfold in soft response to the creative impulse? 
The miracle is never old nor commonplace to them, 
nor to any of the human family. The anticipation 
of life is eternal. The singing of the birds, the 
blowing of the south wind, the sparkle of the 
waves, all found a response in Edith's heart, which 
leaped with joy. And yet there was a touch of 
melancholy in it all, the horizon was so vast, and 
the mist of uncertainty lay along it. Literature, 
society, charities, all that she had read and expe- 
rienced and thought, was nothing to this, this great 
unknown anxiety and bliss, this saddest and sweet- 
est of all human experiences. She prayed that she 
might be worthy of this great distinction, this re- 
sponsibility and blessing. 
And Jack, dear Jack, would he love her more ? 
CHAPTER XII 
ALTHOUGH Father Damon had been absent from 
his charge only ten days, it was time for him to 
return. If he had not a large personal following, 
he had a wide influence. If comparatively few 
found their way to his chapel, he found his way to 
many homes ; his figure was a familiar one in the 
streets, and his absence was felt by hundreds who 
had no personal relations with him, but who had 
become accustomed to seeing him go about on his 
errands of encouragement, and probably had never 
realized how much the daily sight of him had 
touched them. The priestly dress, which may once 
have provoked a sneer at his effeminacy, had now 
a suggestion of refinement, of unselfish devotion, 
of consecration to the service of the unfortunate, 
his spiritual face appealed to their better natures, 
and the visible heroism that carried his frail figure 
through labors that would have worn out the stout- 
est physique stirred in the hearts of the rudest 
some comprehension of the reality of the spirit. 
It may not have occurred to them that he was 
of finer clay than they perhaps he was not but 
his presence was in their minds a subtle connection 
and not a condescending one, rather a confession 
of brotherhood, with another world and another 
view of life. They may not have known that their 
hearts were stirred because he had the gift of sym- 
pathy. And was it an unmanly trait that he 
evoked in men that sentiment of chivalry which is 
never wanting in the roughest community for a 
pure woman ? Wherever Father Damon went there 
was respect for his purity and his unselfishness, 
even among those who would have been shame- 
faced if surprised in any exhibition of softness. 
And many loved him, and many depended on 
him. Perhaps those who most depended on him 
were the least worthy, and those who loved him 
most were least inclined to sacrifice their own rea- 
sonable view of life to his own sublimated spiritual 
conception. It was the spirit of the man they 
loved, and not the creed of the priest. The little 
chapel in its subdued lights and shadows, with con- 
fessionals and crosses and candles and incense, was 
as restful a refuge as ever to the tired and the de- 
pendent ; but wanting his inspiring face and voice, 
it was not the same thing, and the attendance al- 
ways fell away when he was absent. There was 
needed there more than elsewhere the living pres- 
ence. 
He was missed, and the little world that missed 
him was astray. The first day of his return his 
heart was smitten by the thinness of the congrega- 
tion. Had he, then, accomplished nothing ; had 
he made no impression, established in his shifting 
flock no habit of continuance in well - doing that 
could survive even his temporary withdrawal \ The 
fault must be his. He had not sufficiently humili- 
ated and consecrated himself, and put under all 
strength of the flesh and trust in worldly instru- 
mentalities. There must be more prayer, more 
vigils, more fasting, before the power would come 
back to him to draw these wandering minds to the 
light. And so in the heat of this exhausting Au- 
gust, at the time when his body most needed re- 
enforcement for the toil he required of it, he was 
more rigid in his spiritual tyranny and contempt 
of it. 
Euth Leigh was not dependent upon Father Da- 
mon, but she also learned how long ten days could 
be without a sight of him. "When she looked into 
his chapel occasionally she realized, as never be- 
fore, how much in the air his ceremonies and his 
creed were. There was nothing there for her ex- 
cept his memory. And she knew when she stepped 
in there, for her cool, reasoning mind was honest, 
that it was the thought of him that drew her to 
the place, and that going there was a sentimental 
indulgence. What she would have said was that 
she admired, loved Father Damon on account of 
his love for humanity. It was a common saying 
of all the professional women in her set, and of the 
working-girls, that they loved Father Damon. It 
is a comfort to women to be able to give their af- 
fection freely where conventionalities and circum- 
stances make the return of it in degree unlikely. 
At the close of a debilitating day Dr. Leigh found 
herself in the neighborhood of the mission chapel. 
She was tired and needed to rest somewhere. She 
knew that Father Damon had returned, but she 
had not seen him, and a double motive drew her 
steps. The attendance was larger than it had been 
recently, and she found a stool in a dark corner, 
and listened, with a weary sort of consciousness of 
the prayers and the singing, but not without a 
deeper feeling of peace in the tones of a voice 
every inflection of which she knew so well. It 
seemed to her that the reading cost him an effort, 
and there was a note of pathos in the voice that 
thrilled her. Presently he advanced towards the 
altar rail he was accustomed to do this with his 
little flock and placing one hand on the lectern, 
began to speak. 
At first, and this was not usual, he spoke about 
himself in a strain of sincere humility, taking 
blame upon himself for his inability to do effect- 
ively the great service his Master had set him to 
do. He meant to have given himself more entirely 
to the dear people among whom he labored ; he 
hoped to show himself more worthy of the trust 
they had given him ; he was grateful for the sue- 
cess of his mission, but no one knew so well as he 
how far short it came of being what he ought to 
have made it. He knew indeed how weak he was, 
and he asked the aid of their sympathy and en- 
couragement. It seemed to be with difficulty that 
he said this, and to Kuth's sympathetic ear there 
was an evidence of physical exhaustion in his 
tone. There was in it, also, for her, a confession 
of failure, the cry of the preacher, in sorrow and 
entreaty, that says, " I have called so long, and ye 
would not listen." 
As he went on, still with an effort and feebly, 
there came over the little group a feeling of awe 
and wonderment, and the silence was profound. 
Still steadying himself by the reading-desk, he 
went on to speak of other things, of those of his 
followers who listened, of the great mass swirling 
about them in the streets who did not listen and 
did not care ; of the little life that now is so full of 
pain and hardship and disappointment, of good in- 
tentions frustrated, of hopes that deceive, and of 
fair prospects that turn to ashes, of good lives that 
go wrong, of sweet natures turned to bitterness in 
the unaided struggle. His voice grew stronger 
and clearer, as his body responded to the kindling 
theme in his soul. He stepped away from the desk 
nearer the rail, the bowed head was raised. "What 
does it matter ?" he said. " It is only for a little 
while, my children." Those who heard him that 
day say that his face shone like that of an angel, 
and that his voice was like a victorious clarion, so 
clear, so sweet, so inspiring, as he spoke of the life 
that is to come, and the fair certainty of that City 
where he with them all wished to be. 
As he closed, some were kneeling, many were 
crying; all, profoundly moved, watched him as, 
with the benediction and the sign of the cross, he 
turned and walked swiftly to the door of the sac- 
risty. It opened, and then Ruth Leigh heard a 
cry, " Father Damon ! Father Damon !" and there 
was a rush into the chancel. Hastening through 
the throng, which promptly made way for the 
doctor, she found Father Damon lying across the 
threshold, as he had fallen, colorless and uncon- 
scious. She at once took command of the situa- 
tion. The body was lifted to the plain couch in 
the room, a hasty examination was made of pulse 
and heart, a vial of brandy was produced from her 
satchel, and messengers were despatched for things 
needed, and especially for beef-tea. 
" Is he dead, Dr. Leigh ? Is he any better, doc- 
tor ? What is the matter, doctor ?" 
" Want of nourishment," replied Dr. Leigh, sav- 
agely. 
The room was cleared of all except a couple of 
stout lads and a friendly German woman whom, 
the doctor knew. The news of the father's sudden 
illness had spread rapidly, with the report that he 
bad fallen dead while standing at the altar ; and 
the church was thronged, and the street rapidly 
blocked up with a hushed crowd, eager for news 
and eager to give aid. So great was the press that 
the police had to interfere, and push back the 
throng from the door. It was useless to attempt 
to disperse it with the assurance that Father Damon 
was better; it patiently waited to see for itself. 
The sympathy of the neighborhood was most im- 
pressive, and perhaps the thing that the public 
best remembers about this incident is the pathetic 
solicitude of the people among whom Father Damon 
labored at the rumor of his illness, a matter which 
was greatly elaborated by the reporters from the 
city journals and the purveyors of telegraphic news 
for the country. 
With the application of restoratives the patient 
revived. When he opened his eyes he saw figures 
in the room as in a dream, and his mind struggled 
to remember where he was and what had hap- 
pened ; but one thing was not a dream : Dr. Leigh 
stood by his bedside, with her left hand on his 
brow and the right grasping his own right hand, 
as if to pull him back to life. He saw her face, 
and then he lost it again in sheer weariness at the 
effort. After a few moments, in a recurring wave 
of strength, he looked up again, still bewildered, 
and said, faintly, 
"Where am I?" 
" With friends," said the doctor. " You were a 
little faint, that is all ; you will be all right pres- 
ently." 
