partner, and then to his vis-a-vis, began to per 
form such antics and cut such pigeon-wings, 
that his pigeon-toed partner glared at him 
through the slits of her mask in envious astonishment. The floor was dotted with numerous 
circles of maskers, tenor fifteen deep, all watch 
ing and applauding the capers of the hilarious 
couples in the middle. 

But Clifford's set soon attracted a large and 
enthusiastic audience, who were connoisseurs 
enough to distinguish a voluntary dancer from a 
hired one; and when the last thundering chords 
of Offenbach's "March into Hell" scattered the 
throng into a delirious waltz, Clifford reeled 
heavily into the side scenes and sat down, rather 
unexpectedly, in the lap of Mademoiselle Ni- 
touche, who had crept in there with the Baron 
Silberstein for a nice, quiet view of a genuine 
can-can. 

Mademoiselle did not think it funny, but 
the Baron did, and when she boxed Clifford's 
ears he thought it funnier still. 



 

Rowden and Elliott, who were laboriously 
waltzing with a twin pair of flat-footed Watteau 
Shepherdesses, immediately ran to his assist 
ance; and later, with a plentiful application of 
cold water and still colder air restored Mr. 
Clifford to his usual spirits. 

"You're not a beauty, you know," said Row- 
den, looking at Clifford's hair, which was soaked 
into little points and curls; "you're certainly 
no beauty, but I think you're all right now, 
don't you, Elliott?" 

"Certainly," laughed the triumvir, producing 
a little silver pocket-comb and presenting it to 
the woe-begone Clifford, who immediately 
brought out a hand-glass and proceeded to con 
struct a "bang" of wonderful seductiveness. 

In ten minutes they sallied forth from the 
dressing-room, and wended their way through 
the throngs of masks to the center of the floor. 
They passed Thaxton and Rhodes, who, each 
with a pretty nun upon his arm, were trying to 
persuade Bulfinch into taking the third nun, who 
might have been the Mother Superior or pos 
sibly a resuscitated I4th century abbess. 

"No," he was saying, while he blinked painfully at the ci-devant abbess, "I can't go that; 

upon my word, don't ask me, fellows, I
can't." 

"Oh, come," urged Rhodes, "what's the odds?" 

"You can take her and I'll take yours," began 
the wily little man, but neither Rhodes nor 
Thaxton waited to argue longer. 

"No catacombs for me," growled Bulfinch 
eyeing the retreating nuns, but catching sight of 
the triumvirate, his face regained its bird-like 
felicity of expression. 

"Glad to see you indeed I am! That Co 
lossus is too disinterested in securing partners for 
his friends; he is, I assure you. If you're look 
ing for a Louis Quatorze partner, warranted gen 
uine, go to Rhodes." 

"Rex ought to be hereby this time," said 
Rowden; "look in the boxes on that side, and 
Clifford and I will do the same on this." 

"No need," cried Elliott, "I see him with a 
white domino there in the second tier. Look! 
He's waving his hand to us and so is the dom- 



"Come along," said Clifford, pushing his way 
toward the foyer, "I'll find them in a moment. 



 

Let me see," a few minutes later, pausing out 
side a row of white and gilt doors, "let me 
see, seventh box, second tier, here we are," 
he added, rapping loudly. 

Yvonne ran and opened the door. 

"Bonsoir, Messieurs," she said, with a de 
mure curtsy. 

Clifford gallantly kissed the little glove and 
then shook hands with Gethryn. 

"How is it on the floor?" asked the latter, as 
Elliott and Rowden came forward to the edge 
of the box. "I want to take Yvonne out for a 
turn, and perhaps a walt2, if it isn't too crowded." 

"Oh, it's pretty rough just now, but it will 
be better in half an hour," replied Rowden, bar 
ricading the champagne from Clifford. 

"We saw you dancing, Mr. Clifford," observed 
Yvonne, with a wicked glance at him from un 
der her mask. 

Clifford blushed. 

"I I don't make an ass of myself but once 
a year, you know," he said, with a deprecatory 
look at Elliott. 

"Oh," murmured the latter, doubtfully, "glad 
to hear it." 





Clifford gazed at him in meek reproof, and 
then made a flank movement upon the cham 
pagne, but was again neatly foiled by Rowden. 

Yvonne looked serious, but presently leaned 
over and filled one of the long-stemmed gob 
lets. 

"Only one, Mr. Clifford; one for you to drink 
my health, but you must promise me truthfully 
not to take any more wine this evening!" 

Clifford promised with great promptness, and 
taking the glass from her hand with a low bow, 
sprang recklessly upon the edge of the box and 
raised the goblet. 

"A la plus belle demoiselle de Paris !" he cried, 
with all the strength of his lungs, and drained 
the goblet. 

A shout from the crowd below answered his 
toast. A thousand faces were turned upward, 
and people leaned over their boxes, and looked 
at the party from all parts of the house. 

Mademoiselle Nitouche turned to Monsieur 
de Sacrebleu. 

"What audacity!" she murmured. 

Mademoiselle Goujon smiled at the Baron 
Silberstein. 



 

"Tiens!" she cried, "the gayety has begun, I 
hope." 

Little Miss Ducely whispered to Lieutenant 
Faucon: 

"Those are American students," she sighed; 
"how jolly they seem to be, especially Mr. Clifford ! 
I wonder if she is so pretty!" 

Half a dozen riotous Frenchmen in the box 
opposite jumped to their feet and waved their 
goblets at Clifford. 

"A la plus jolie femme du monde!" they 
roared. 

Clifford seized another glass and filled it. 

"She is here!" he shouted, and sprang to the 
edge again. But Gethryn pulled him down. 

"That's too dangerous," he laughed; "you 
could easily fall." 

"Oh, pshaw!" cried Clifford, draining the 
glass, and shaking it at the opposite box. 

Yvonne put her hand on Gethryn's arm. 

"Don't let him have any more," she whispered. 

"Give us the goblet!" yelled the Frenchmen. 

"Le voila!" shouted Clifford, and stepping 
back, hurled the glass with all his strength across 





the glittering gulf. It fell with a crash in the 
box it was aimed at, and a howl cf applause 
went up from the floor. 

Yvonne laughed nervously, but coming to the 
edge of the box buried her mask in her bouquet 
and looked down. 

4 A rose! A rose!" cried the maskers below; 
"a rose from the most charming demoiselle in 
Paris!" 

She half turned to Gethryn, but suddenly 
stepping forward, seized a handful of flowers from 
the middle of the bouquet and flung them into 
the crowd. 

There was a shout and a scramble, and then 
she tore the bouquet end from end, sending a 
shower of white buds into the throng. 

"None for me?" sighed Clifford, watching the 
fast-dwindling bouquet. 

She laughed brightly as she tossed the last 
handful below, and then turned and leaned over 
Gethryn's chair. 

"You destructive little wretch !" he laughed, 
"this is not the season for the Battle of Flowers. 
But white roses mean nothing, so I'm not jeal- 



 

"Ah, mon ami, I saved the red rose for you," 
she whispered; and fastened it upon his breast. 

And at his whispered answer her cheeks flushed 
crimson under the white mask. But she sprang 
up laughing. 

"I would so like to go onto the floor," she 
cried, pulling him to his feet, and coaxing him 
with a simply irresistible look; "don't you think 
we might, just for a minute, Mr. Rowden?" 
she pleaded. "I don't mind a crowd, indeed I 
don t, and I am masked so perfectly." 

"What's the harm, Rex?" said Rowdan; "she 
is well masked." 

"And when we return it will be time for sup 
per, won't it?" 

"Yes, I should think so!" murmured Clifford. 

"Where do we go then?" 

"Maison Doree." 

"Come along, then, Mademoiselle Destruc- 
tiveness!" cried Gethryn, tossing his mask and 
field glass onto a chair, where they were appro 
priated by Clifford, who spent the next half 
hour in staring across at good old Colonel Todd- 
lum and his frisky companion, an attention 
which drove the poor old gentleman almost frantic with suspicion, for he was a married man, 
bless his soul! and a pewholder in the Amer 
ican Church. 

"My love," said the frisky one, "who is the 
gentleman in the black mask who stares?" 

"I don't know," muttered the dear old man, 
in a cold sweat, "I don't know, but I wish I 
did." 

And the frisky one shrugged her shoulders and 
smiled at the mask. 

"What are they looking at . "whispered Yvonne, 
as she tripped along, holding very tightly to 
Gethryn's arm. 

"Only a quadrille, LaPataude is dancing. 
Do you want to see it?" 

She nodded, and they approached the circle 
in the middle of which LaPataude and Grille 
d Egout were holding high carnival. At every 
ostentatious display of hosiery the crowd 
roared. 

"Brava! Bis!" cried an absinthe-soaked old 
gentleman; "vive La Pataude!" 

For answer the lady dexterously raised his hat 
from his head with the point of her satin slipper. 



 

The crowd roared again. "Brava! Brava, La 
Pataude!" 

Yvonne turned away. 

"I don't like it. I don't find it amusing," 
she said, faintly. 

Gethryn's hand closed on hers. 

"Nor I," he said. 

"Bat you and your friends used to go to the 
students ball at Bullier s, " she began, a lit 
tle reproachfully. 

"Only as Nouveaux, and then, as a rule, the 
high jinks are pretty genuine there at least, with 
the students. We used to go to keep cool in 
spring, and hear the music; to keep warm in 
winter; and amuse ourselves at Carnival 
time." 

"But Mr. Clifford knows all the girls at 
Bullier s. Do do you?" 

"Some." 

"How many?" she said, pettishly. 

"None, now." 

A pause. Yvonne was looking down. 

"See hare, little goose, I never cared abDut 
any of that crowd, and I haven't been to the 
Bullier since since last May." 





She turned her face up to his; tears were 
stealing down from under her mask. 

"Why, Yvonne!" he began, but she clung to 
his shoulder, as the orchestra broke into a waltz. 

"Don't speak to me, Rex but dance! Dance!" 

They danced until the last bar of music ceased 
with a thundering crash. 

"Tired?" he asked, still holding her. 

She smiled breathlessly and stepped back, 
but stopped short, with a little cry. 

"Oh! I'm caught there, on your coat!" 

He leaned over her to detach the shred of silk. 

"Where is it? Oh! Here!" 

And they both laughed and looked at each 
other, for she had been held by the little golden 
clasp, the fieur-de lis. 

"You see," he said, "it will always draw me 
to you." 

But a shadow fell on her fair face, and she 
sighed as she gently took his arm. 

When they entered their box, Clifford was 
still tormenting the poor Colonel. 

"Old dog thinks I know him," he grinned, as 
Yvonne and Rex came in. Yvonne flung off 
her mask and began to fan herself. 



 

"Time for supper, you know," suggested Clif 
ford. 

Yvonne lay back in her chair, smiling and 
slowly waving the great plumes to and fro. 

"Who are those people in the next box?" she 
asked him. "They do make such a noise." 

"There are only two, both masked." 

"But they have unmasked now. There are 
their velvets on the edge of the box. I'm go 
ing to take a peep," she whispered, rising and 
leaning across the railing. 

"Don t; I wouldn t," began Gethryn, but he 
was to late. 

Yvonne leaned across the gilded cornice, and 
instantly fell back in her chair, deathly pale. 

"My God! Are you ill, Yvonne?" 

"Oh, Rex, Rex, take me away home " 

Then came a loud hammering on the box door. 
A harsh, strident voice called, "Yvonne! 
Yvonne!" 

Clifford thoughtlessly threw it open, and a 
woman in evening dress, very decolletee, swept 
by him into the box, with a waft of sickly scented 
air. 

Yvonne leaned heavily on Gethryn's shoul 
der; the woman stopped in front of them. 





"Ah! here you are, then!" 

Yvonne's face was ghastly 

"Nina," she whispered, "why did you come?" 

"Because I wanted to make you a little surprise," sneered the woman; "a pleasant little 
surprise. \Ve love each other enough, I hope." 
She stamped her foot. 

"Go," said Yvonne, looking half dead. 

"Go!" mimicked the other. "But certainly! 
Only first you must introduce me to these gentlemen who are so kind to you." 

"You will leave the box," said Gethryn, in a 
low voice, holding open the door. 

The woman turned on him. She was evi 
dently in a prostitute's tantrum of malicious 
deviltry. Presently she would begin to lash her 
self into a wild rage. 

"Ah! this is the one!" she sneered, and raising her voice, she called, "Mannie, Mannie, come 
in here, quick!" 

A sidling step approached from the next box, 
and the face of Mr. Emanuel Pick appeared at 
the door. 

"This is the one," cried the woman, shrilly. 
"Isn't he pretty?" 



 

Mr. Pick looked insolently at Gethryn and 
opened his mouth, but he did not say anything, 
for Rex took him by the throat and kicked him 
headlong into his own box. Then he locked the 
door, and taking out the key, returned and presented it to the woman. 

"Follow him!" he said, and quietly, but for 
cibly, urged her toward the lobby. 

"Mannie! Mannie !" she shrieked, in a voice 
choked by rage and dissipation, "come and kill 
him! He's insulting me!" 

Getting no response, she began to pour forth 
shriek upon shriek, mingled with oaths and ravings. "I shall speak to my sister! Who dares 
prevent me from speaking to my sister ! You, " 
she glared at Yvonne and ground her teeth. 
"You, the good one. You! the mother's pet! 
Ran away from home! Took up with an En 
glish hog!" 

Yvonne sprang to her feet again. 

"Leave the box," she gasped. 

"Ha! ha! Maisoui! leave the box! and let 
her dance while her mother lies dying!" 

Yvonne ave a cry. 

"Ah! Ah!" said her sister, suddenly speaking very slowly, nodding at every word. "Ah! 
Ah ! go back to your room, and see what is there, 
in the room of your lover; the little letter 
from Vernon. She wants you. She wants you. 
That is because you are so good. She does not 
want me. No, it is you who must come to see 
her die. I I dance at the Carnival!" 

Then, suddenly turning on Gethryn with a 
devilish grin, "You ! tell your mistress her mother 
is dying!" She laughed hatefully, but preserved 
her pretense of calm, walked to the door, and 
as she reached it swung round and made an 
insulting gesture to Gethryn. 

"You! I will remember you!" 

The door slammed, and a key rattled in the 
next box. 

Clinging to Gethryn, Yvonne passed down 
the long corridor to the vestibule, while Elliott 
and Rowden silently gathered up the masks and 
opera glasses. Clifford stood holding her 
crushed and splintered fan. He looked at Elliott, 
who looked gloomily back at him, asBraith en 
tered hurriedly. 

"What's the matter? I saw something was 
wrong from the floor. Rex ill?" 



 

"I'm at ease," said Clifford, grimly. "There's 
a sister turned up. A devil of a sister." 

Braith spoke very low. "Yvonne's sister?" 

"Yes, a she-devil." 

"Did you hear her name?" 

"Name's Nina." 

Braith went quietly out again. Passing 
blindly down the lobby, he ran against Mr. 
Bulfinch. Mr. Bulfinch was in charge of a policeman. 

"Hello, Braith!" he called, hilariously. 

Braith was going on with a curt nod, when 
the other man added: 

"I've  taken it out of Pick," and he stopped 
short. "I got my two hundred francs worth," the 
artist of the "London Mirror" proceeded, "and 
now I shall feel bound to return you yours, 
the first time I have it," he ended, vaguely. 

Braith made an impatient gesture. 

"Are you under arrest?" 

"Yes, I am. He couldn't help it," smiling 
agreeably at the Sergeant de Ville. "He saw me 
hit him." 

The policeman looked stolid. 

"But what excuse?" began Braith. 

"Oh! none! Pick just passed me, and I 





felt as if I couldn't stand it any longer, so I 
pitched in." 

"Well, and now you're in for fine and imprisonment." 

"I suppose so," said Bulfinch, beaming. 

"Have you any money with you?" 

"No, unless I have some in your pocket?" said 
the little man, with a mixture of embarrassment 
and bravado that touched Braith, who saw what 
the confession cost him. 

"Lots!" said he, cordially. "But first let us 
try what we can do with Bobby. Do you ever 
drink a petit verre, Monsieur le Sergeant de 

Ville?"with a winning smile to the wooden policeman. 

The latter looked at the floor. 

"No," said he. 

"Never?" 

"Never!" 

Well, I was only thinking that over on the 
corner of the Rue Taitbout one finds excellent 
wine at twenty francs." 

The officer now gazed dreamily at the ceiling. 

"Mine costs forty," he said. 

And a few minutes later the faithful fellow 
stood in front of the Opera house quite alone. 



CHAPTER X. 

The cab rolled slowly over the Pont au Change, 
and the wretched horse fell into a walk as he 
painfully toiled up the hill of St. Michel. Yvonne 
lay back in the corner; covered with all her own 
wraps and Gethryn's overcoat, she shivered. 

"Poor little Yvonne!" was all he said, as he 
leaned over now and then to draw the cloak 
more closely around her. Not a sound but the 
rumble of the wheels and the wheezing of the 
old horse broke the silence. The streets were 
white and deserted. A few ragged flakes fell 
from the black vault above, or were shaken down 
from the crusted branches. 

The cab stopped with a jolt. Yvonne was 
trembling as Rex lifted her to the ground, and 
he hurried her into the house, up the black 
stairway and into their cold room. 

When he had a fire blazing in the grate, he 
looked around. She was kneeling on the floor 
beside a candle she had lighted, and her tears 






were pouring down upon the page of an open 
letter. Rex stepped over and touched her. 

"Come to the fire." He raised her gently, 
but she could not stand, and he carried her in 
his arms to the great soft chair before the grate. 
Then he knelt down and warmed her icy 
hands in his own. After a while he moved her 
chair back, and drawing off her dainty white 
slippers, wrapped her feet in the fur that lay 
heaped on the hearth. Then he unfastened the 
cloak and the domino, and rolling her gloves 
from elbow to wrist, slipped them over the 
helpless little hands. The firelight glanced and 
glowed on her throat and bosom, tingeing their 
marble with opalescent lights, and searching 
the deep shadows under her long lashes. It 
reached her hair, touching here and there a soft, 
dark wave, and falling aslant the knots of rib 
bon on her bare shoulders, tipped them with 
points of white fire. 

"Is it so bad, dearest Yvonne?" 

"Yes." 

"Then you must go?" 

"Oh, yes!" 

"When?" 



 

"At daylight." 

Gethryn rose and went toward the door; he 
hesitated, came back and kissed her once on the 
forehead. When the door closed on him she 
wept as if her heart would break, hiding her 
head in her arms. He found her lying so when 
he returned, and, throwing down her traveling 
bag and rugs, he knelt and took her to his breast, 
kissing her again and again on the forehead. At 
last he had to speak. 

"I have packed the things you will need most, 
and will send the rest. It is getting light, dearest; you have to change your dress, you know." 

She roused herself and sat up, looking deso 
lately about her. 

"Forever!" she whispered. 

"No! No!" cried Gethryn. 

"Ah! oui, mon ami!" 

Gethryn went and stood by the window. The 
bedroom door was closed. 

Day was breaking. He opened the window 
and looked into the white street. Lamps burned 
down there with a sickly yellow; a faint light 
showed behind the barred windows of the old 
gray barracks. One or two stiff sparrows 





hopped silently about the gutters, flying up 
hurriedly when the frost-covered sentinel 
stamped his boots before the barracks gate. 
Now and then a half-starved workman limped 
past, his sabots echoing on the frozen pavement. 
A hooded and caped policeman, a red-faced cab 
man stamping beside his sleepy horse, the 
street was empty but for them. 

It grew lighter. The top of St. Sulpice 
burned crimson. Far off a bugle fluttered, and 
then came the tramp of the morning guard 
mount. They came stumbling across the stony 
court and leaned on their rifles while one of them 
presented arms and received the word from the 
sentry. Little by little people began to creep 
up and down the sidewalks, and the noise of 
wooden shutters announced another day of toil 
begun. The point of the Luxembourg Palace 
struck fire as the ghastly gas-lamps faded and 
went out. Suddenly the great bell of St. Sulpice clashed the hour, Eight o clock! 

Again a bugle blew sharply from the barracks, 
and a troop of cavalry danced and pawed through 
the gate, clattering away down the Rue de Seine. 

Gethryn shut the window and turned into the 



 

room. Yvonne stood before the dying embers. 

He went to her, almost timidly. Neither spoke. 

At last she took up her satchel and wrap. 
"It is time," she whispered. "Let us go." 
He clasped her once in his arms; she laid her 

cheek against his. 



The train left Montparnasse station at nine. 
There was hardly any one in the waiting-room. 
The Guard flung back the grating. 

"Vernon, par Chartres?" asked Gethryn. 

"Vernon Moulins Chartres direct!" shout 
ed the Guard, and stamped off down the plat 
form. 

Gethryn showed his ticket which admitted 
him to the platform, and they walked slowly 
down the line of dismal-looking cars. 

"This one?" and he opened a door. 

She stood watching the hissing and panting 
engine, while Gethryn climbed in and placed 
her bags and rugs in a window corner. The car 
smelt damp and musty, and he stepped out with 
a choking sensation in his chest. A train man 
carne along, closing doors with a slam. 





"All aboard ladies gentlemen voyageurs?" 
he growled, as if to himself or some familiar 
spirit, and jerked a sullen clang from the station 
bell. The engine panted impatiently. 

Rex struggled against the constraint that 
seemed to be dividing them. 

"Yvonne, you will write?" 

"I don't know!" 

"You don't know! Yvonne!" 

"I know nothing except that I am wicked, 
and my mother is dying!" She said it in low, 
even tones, looking away from him. 

The gong struck again, with a startling clash. 

The engine shrieked; a cloud of steam rose 
from under the wheels. Rex hurried her into 
the carriage; there was no one else there. Suddenly she threw herself into his arms. 

"Oh! I love you! I love you! One kiss, 
no; no; on the lips. Good-bye, my own Rex!" 

"You will come again?" he said, crushing her 
to him. 

Her eyes looked into his. 

"I will come. I love you! Be true to me, 
Rex. I will come back." 

Her lover could not speak. Doors slam- 




ming, and an impatient voice "Descendez 
done, M sieu !" roused him; he sprang from 
the carnage, and the train rolled slowly out of 
the smoke-filled station. 

How heavy the smoke was! Gethryn could 
hardly breathe hardly see. He walked away, 
and out into the street. The city was only half 
awake even yet. After, as it seemed, a long 
time, he found himself looking at a clock which 
said a quarter past ten. The winter sunshine 
slanted now on roof and pane, flooding the 
western side of the shabby boulevard, dappling 
the snow with yellow patches. He had stopped 
in the chilly shadow of a gateway, and was 
looking vacantly about. He saw the sunshine 
across the street, and shivered where he was, 
and yet he did not leave the shadow. He 
stood and watched the sparrows taking bold 
little baths in the puddles of melted snow water. 
They seemed to enjoy the sunshine, but it was 
cold in the shade, cold and damp and the air 
was hard to breathe. A policeman sauntered 
by, and eyed him curiously. Rex's face was 
haggard and pinched. Why had he stood there 
in the cold for half an hour, without ever changing his weight from one foot to the other? 





The policeman spoke at last, civilly: 

"Monsieur!" 

Gethryn turned his head. 

"Is it that Monsieur seeks the train?" he 
asked, saluting. 

Rex looked up. He had wandered back to 
the station. He lifted his hat and answered 
with the politeness dear to French officials. 

"Merci, Monsieur!" It made him cough to 
speak, and he moved on slowly. 

Gethryn would not go home yet. He wanted 
to be where there was plenty of cool air, and 
yet he shivered. He drew a deep breath, which 
endad in a pain. How cold the air must be 
to pain the chest like that! And yet, there 
were women wheeling hand-carts full of yellow 
crocus buds about. He stopped, and bought 
some for Yvonne. 

"She will like them," he thought. "Ah!" he 
turned away, leaving flowers and money. The 
old flower-woman crossed herself. 

No he would not go home just yet. The 
sun shone brightly; men passed, carrying 
their overcoats on their arms; a steam was rising from the pavements in the Square. 



 

There was a crowd on the Pont au Change. 
He did not see any face distinctly, but there 
seemed to be a great many people, leaning 
over the parapets, looking down the river. He 
stopped and looked over too. The sun glared 
on the foul water eddying in and out among the 
piles and barges. Some men were rowing in a 
boat, furiously. Another boat followed close. 
A voice close by Gethryn cried, angrily: 

"Dieu! who are you shoving?" 

Rex moved aside; as he did so a gamin 
crowded quickly forward and craned over the 
edge, shouting, "Vive le cadavre!" 

"Chut!" said another voice. 

"Vive la Mort ! Vive la Morgue!" screamed 
the wretched little creature. 

A policeman boxed his ears and pulled him 
back. The crowd laughed. The voice that had 
cried, "Chut!" said lower, "What a little devil, 
that Rigaud!" 

Rex moved slowly on. 

In the Court of the Louvre were people 
enough and to spare. Some of them bowed to 
him; several called him to turn and join them. 
He lifted his hat to them all, as if he knew 





them, but passed on without recognizing a soul. 
The broad pavements were warm and wet, but 
the air must have been sharp to hurt his chest 
so. The great pigeons of the Louvre brushed 
by him. It seemed as if he felt the beat of their 
wings on his brains. A shabby-looking fellow 
asked him for a sou and, taking the coin Rex 
gave him, shuffled off in a hurry; a dog followed him, he stooped and patted it; a horse 
fell, he went into the street and helped to raise 
it. He said to a man standing by, that the 
harness was too heavy, : and the man, looking 
after him as he walked away, told a friend that 
there was another crazy foreigner. 

Soon after this he found himself on the Quai 
again, and the sun was sinking behind the dome 
of the Invalides. He decided to go home. He 
wanted to get warm, and yet it seemed as if the 
air of a room would stifle him. However, once 
more he crossed the Seine, and as he turned in 
at his own gate he met Clifford, who said something, but Rex pushed past without trying to 
understand what it was. 

He climbed the dreary old stairs and came to 
his silent studio. He sat down by the fireless 



 

hearth and gazed at along, slender glove among 
the ashes. At his feet her little white satin 
slippers lay half hidden in the long white fur 
of the rug. 

He felt giddy and weak, and that hard pain in 
his chest left him no peace. He rose and went 
into the bedroom. Her ball dress lay where 
she had thrown it. He flung himself on the 
bed and buried his face in the rustling silk. A 
faint odor of violets pervaded it. He thought 
of the bouquet that had been placed for her at 
the dinner. Then the flowers reminded him of 
last summer. He lived over again their gay life, 
their excursions to Meudon, Sceaux, Versailles, 
with its warm meadows, and cool, dark forests; 
Fontainebleau, where they lunched under the 
trees; St. Cloud Oh ! he remembered their little 
