home, for peace, for fire and pillow. It is one of the nights when
the soul of the gale enters into the soul of the tempted and the
unbefriended, and with it seven devils worse than the first. It was
one of the nights when girls like Lena are too easy or too hard to
find.
Bayard sought her everywhere. She was not to be seen in Angel
Alley, and he systematically and patiently searched the town. With
coat-collar turned up, and hat turned down, he tried to keep warm,
but the night was deadly bleak. It came on to be eleven o’clock;
half past; and midnight approached. He was about to abandon his
quest when he struck a trace of her, and with redoubled patience
he hunted it down. He had taken no one with him in his search for
Lena; in truth, he knew of no person in all that Christian town
who would have wished to share that night’s repulsive errand if he
had asked it. He recognized this fact with that utter absence of
bitterness which is the final grace and test of dedication to an
unselfish end.
“Why should I expect it?” he thought gently. “Duty is not subject
to a common denominator. This is mine and not another’s.”
A policeman gave him, at last, the clew he needed; and Bayard, who
had returned on his track to Angel Alley, halted before the door
of a house at the end of a dark court, within a shell’s-throw of
the wharves. His duty had never led him before into precisely such
a place, and his soul sickened within him. He hesitated, with his
foot on the steps.
“Better stay outside, sir,” suggested the policeman.
Bayard shook his head.
“Shan’t I go with you, sir? You don’t know what you’re about.
Better have an officer along.”
“Stay here, within call, will you?” answered Bayard. “That will do.
The law can’t do my errand.”
“Nor nothin’ else in this town but that,” returned the officer,
touching his helmet.
He pointed up the Alley where the large letters of the solemn
white and scarlet sign blazed all night before the chapel of
Christlove. The fishermen could see it from their schooners’
decks as they dropped anchors; and it shone strangely in their
weather-beaten faces as they pushed past--or sank into--the doors
of the dens that lined the street.
Bayard’s eye followed the officer’s finger, lighting with that
solemn radiance peculiar to himself; and with this illumination on
his face he entered the place whose ways take hold on death.
The officer waited without. In an incredibly short time the
minister reappeared. He was not alone. Lena followed him with
hanging head.
“Thank you, Sergeant,” said Bayard quietly, touching his hat, “I
shall need you no longer.”
He turned, with the girl beside him, and crossed the Alley. The
officer, with a low whistle, lingered a moment, and watched the
astounding pair. In the full moonlight, in the sight of all whom
it did or did not concern, Bayard walked up and down the street
with Lena. It was now near to the stroke of midnight. The two
could be seen conversing earnestly. Lena did not raise her eyes.
The minister watched her eagerly. They paced up and down. Men
staggering home from their sprees stood stupidly and stared at the
two. Old Trawl came to his door and saw them, and called Ben, who
looked, and swore the mighty oath of utter intellectual confusion.
The minister nodded to Ben, and spoke once or twice to some sailor
who awaited salutation; but he suffered no interruption of his
interview with the girl. In the broad moonlight he continued
quietly to walk up and down Angel Alley, with the street-girl at
his side.
“Lena,” Bayard had begun, “I have been trying to help the people
in this Alley for almost a year and a half, and I have met with
nothing to discourage me as much as you do. Some men and women have
grown better, and some have not changed at all. You are growing
worse.”
“That’s so,” assented Lena. “It’s as true as Hell.”
“I begin to think,” replied the minister, “that it must be partly
my fault. It seems to me as if I must have failed, somehow, or made
some mistake--or you would be a better girl, after all this time.
Do you think of anything--Come, Lena! Give your best attention to
the subject--Do you think of anything that I could do, which I have
not done, to induce you to be a decent woman?”
“I tried, for you!” muttered Lena. “I tried; you know I did!”
“Yes, I know you did; and I appreciated it. You failed, that was
all. You are discouraged, and so am I. Now, tell me! What else can
I do, to make a good girl of you? For it’s got to be done, you
see,” he added firmly. “I can’t have this any longer. You disgrace
the chapel, and the people, and me. It makes me unhappy, Lena.”
“Mr. Bayard! Mr. Bayard!” said Lena with trembling lip, “I’ll go
drown in the outer harbor. I ain’t fit to live ... if you care. I
didn’t suppose you cared.”
“You are not fit to die, Lena,” returned Bayard gently. “And I
do care. I have always thought you were born to be a fine woman.
There’s something I like about you. You are generous, and brave,
and kind-hearted. Then see what a voice you have! You might have
been a singer, Lena, and sung noble things--the music that makes
people purer and better. You might have”....
“Oh, my God!” cried Lena; “I was singin’ in that--in
there--to-night. They’re always after me to sing ’em into
damnation.”
“Lena,” said Bayard in a thrilling tone, “look into my face!”
She obeyed him. High above her short stature Bayard’s delicate
countenance looked down at the girl. All the loathing, all the
horror, all the repulsion that was in him for the sin he suffered
the sinner to see for the first time. His tender face darkened and
quivered, shrinking like some live thing that she tormented.
“Oh,” wailed Lena, “am I like that--to you? Is it as bad as
that?”
“It is as bad as that,” answered the minister solemnly.
“Then I’ll go drown,” said Lena dully; “I might as well.”
“No,” he said quietly. “You will not drown. You will live, and
make yourself a girl whom I can respect.”
“Would you ever respect me--respect ME, if I was to be--if I
was to do what you say?” asked Lena in a low, controlled tone.
“I should respect you from my soul,” said Bayard.
“Would you--would you be willing to--would you feel ashamed to
shake hands with me, Mr. Bayard,--if I was a different girl?”
“I will shake hands with you now,” returned the minister quietly,
“if you will give me your word of honor that you will never, from
this hour”--
“I will never, from this hour, so help me God!” said Lena solemnly.
“So help her, God!” echoed Bayard.
He lifted his hand above her head, as if in prayer and blessing;
then gently extended it. The girl’s cold, purple fingers shook as
he touched them. She held her bare hand up in the moonlight, as if
to bathe it in whiteness.
“Mr. Bayard, sir,” she said in her ordinary voice, “it is a
bargain.”
Bayard winced, in spite of himself, at the words; but he looked at
Lena’s face, and when he saw its expression he felt ashamed of his
own recoil.
“Very well,” he answered, adopting her business-like tone, “so it
is. Now, then, Lena! What next? What are you going to do? Have you
any home--any friends--anywhere to turn?”
“I have no friend on all God’s earth but you, sir,” said Lena
drearily, “but I guess I’ll manage, somehow. I can mostly do what
I set out to.”
“Your mother?” asked Bayard gently.
“She died when my baby was born, sir. She died of the shame of it.
I was fifteen year old.”
“Oh! and the--the man? The father of your child?”
“He was a gentleman. He was a married man. I worked for him, in a
shop. He ain’t dead. But I’d sooner go to hell than look to him.”
“I’d about as soon you would”--the minister said in his heart. But
his lips answered only,--“You poor girl! You poor, poor, miserable
girl!”
Then, for the first time, Lena broke down, and began to cry, there,
on the streets, in the sight of every one.
“I must find you work--shelter--home--with some lady. I will do
whatever can be done. Rely on me!” cried Bayard helplessly.
He began to realize what he had done, in undertaking Lena’s “case”
without the help of a woman. Confusedly he ran over in his mind the
names of the Christian women whom he knew, to whom he could turn in
this emergency. He thought of Helen Carruth; but an image of the
Professor’s wife, her mother, being asked to introduce Lena into
the domestic machinery of a Cesarea household, half amused and half
embittered him. He remembered the wife of his church treasurer,
a kindly woman, trained now to doing the unexpected for Christ’s
sake.
“I will speak to Mrs. Bond. I will consider the matter. Perhaps
there may be some position--some form of household service,” he
ventured, with the groping masculine idea that a domestic career
was the only one open to a girl like Lena.
Then Lena laughed.
“Thank you, sir. But I ain’t no more fit for housework than I be
for a jeweler’s trade, or floss embroidery, or a front pew in
Heaven. There ain’t a lady in Christendom would put up with me. I
wouldn’t like it, either,” said Lena candidly. “There’s only one
thing I would like. It’s just come over me, standin’ here. I guess
I’ll manage.”
“I shall wish to know,” observed Bayard anxiously, “what you are
going to do, and where you will be.”
“I’ll take a room I know of,” said Lena. “It ain’t in Angel Alley.
It’s a decent place. I’ll get Johnny’s mother to come along o’ me.
She’s dead sick of the Widders’ Home. She’s kinder fond of me,
Johnny’s mother is, and she can take in or go out, to help a bit.
Then I’ll go over to the powder factory.”
“The powder factory?” echoed the puzzled pastor.
“The gunpowder factory, over to the Cut,” said Lena. “They’re
kinder short of hands. It ain’t a popular business. The pay’s good,
and Lord, I shouldn’t care! The sooner I blow up, the safer I’ll
be. I guess I’d like it, too. I always thought I should.”
“Very well,” said the minister helplessly. “That may answer, till
we can find something better.”
It was now past twelve o’clock, and the night was growing bitterly
cold. Bayard said good-night to Lena, and they separated opposite
Trawl’s door.
He went shivering home, and stirred up his fire. He was cold to the
heart. That discreet afterthought which is the enemy of too many
of our noble decisions, tormented him. He turned to his books, and
taking one which was lying open upon the study-table read:--
“He spoke much about the wrongs of women; and it is very touching
to know that during the last year of his life he frequently went
forth at night, and endeavored to redeem the fallen women of
Brighton.”...
It was not three days from this time that Captain Hap approached
the minister on the Alley, with a sober and anxious face. He held
in his hand a copy of the “Windover Topsail.” His rough finger
trembled as it pressed the paragraph which he handed in silence for
Bayard to read:--
“We regret to learn that a certain prominent citizen of this
place who has been laboring among the sailors and fishermen in a
quasi-clerical capacity, is so unfortunate as to find his name
associated with a most unpleasant scandal arising out of his
acquaintance with the disreputable women of the district in which
he labors. We wish the Reverend gentleman well out of his scrape,
but may take occasion to suggest that such self-elected censors of
our society and institutions must learn somehow that they cannot
touch pitch and not be defiled, any more than ordinary men who do
not make their pretensions to holiness.”
“Well?” said Bayard, quietly returning the paper.
Job Slip had joined them, and read the paragraph over the Captain’s
shoulder. Job was white to the lips with the virile rage of a man
of the sea.
“I’ve shipped here, and I’ve coasted there, and I’ve sailed
eenymost around the world,” slowly said Captain Hap. “I never in my
life--and I’m comin’ on seventy-five year old--I never knew no town
I wouldn’t d’ruther see a scandal a-goin’ in, than this here. It’s
Hell let loose on ye,” added the Captain grimly.
“Find me the fellar that put up that job!” roared Job Slip, rolling
up his sleeves.
“He ain’t fur to seek,” answered the Captain with a short laugh.
“He’s the devil and all his angels smithered into one!” raved Job.
“That’s drawrin’ of it mild,” said Captain Hap.
“This--low--matter does not trouble me,” observed Bayard, smiling
with genuine and beautiful remoteness.
“Excuse me, sir,” said Captain Hap; “that’s all you know!”
XXI.
Captain Hap was wiser in his generation than the child of light.
Before a week had gone by, Bayard found himself the victim of
one of the cruelest forms of human persecution--the scandal of a
provincial town.
Its full force fell suddenly upon him.
Now, this was the one thing for which he was totally unprepared; of
every other kind of martyrdom, it seemed to him, he had recognized
the possibility: this had never entered his mind.
He accepted it with that outward serenity which means in a man of
his temperament the costliest expenditure of inward vitality, and,
turning neither to the right nor to the left, kept on his way.
Averted looks avoided him upon the streets. Cold glances sought
him in Angel Alley. Suspicion lurked in eyes that had always met
him cordially. Hands were withdrawn that had never failed to meet
his heartily. His ears quivered with comments overheard as he
passed through groups upon the business streets. The more public
and the more respectable the place, the worse his reception. He
came quickly into the habit of avoiding, when he could, the better
portions of the town.
Before he had time to determine on any given course of conduct, he
felt himself hunted down into Angel Alley, like other outcasts.
The Reverend Mr. Fenton in this crisis did what appealed to him as
a praiseworthy deed. He came down to the chapel, and, in the eyes
of Angel Alley sought his classmate boldly. Give him the credit of
the act; it meant more than we may readily distinguish.
Men who conform, who live like other men, who think in the
accustomed channels, are not to be judged by the standard which we
hold before our heroes. He held out his hand to Bayard with some
unnecessary effusion.
“My dear fellow!” he murmured, “this is really--you know--I came
to--express my sympathy.”
“Thank you, Fenton,” said Bayard quietly.
He said nothing more, and Fenton looked embarrassed. He had
prepared himself at some length to go into the subject. He felt
that Bayard’s natural indiscretion needed the check which it had
probably now received, for life. But he found himself unable to
say anything of the kind. The words shriveled on his tongue. His
own eyes fell before Bayard’s high look. A spectator might have
thought their positions to be reversed; that the clergyman was the
culprit, and the slandered missionary the judge and patron. Fenton
was uncomfortable, and, after a few meaningless words, he said
good-morning, and turned away.
“Of course,” he observed, as he went down the long steps of
the mission, “you will meet this slander by some explanation,
or change of tack? You will adapt your course hereafter to the
circumstances?”
“I shall explain nothing, and change nothing,” answered Bayard
calmly. “I should do the same thing over again to-morrow, if I had
it to do. I have committed no imprudence, and I shall stoop to no
apology. I doubt if there are six civilized places in this country
where an honest man in my position, doing my work, would have been
subjected to the consequences which have befallen a simple deed
of Christian mercy such as has been done by scores of better men
than I, before me. Why, it has not even the merit--or demerit--of
originality! I did not invent the salvation of the Magdalene. That
dates back about two thousand years. It takes a pretty low mind to
slander a man for it.”
This was the only bitter thing he was heard to say. It may be
pardoned him. It silenced the Reverend Mr. Fenton, and he departed
thoughtfully from Angel Alley.
As Bayard looked back upon these lonely days, when the fury of
the storm which swept about his ears had subsided, as such social
tornadoes do, he perceived that the thing from which he had
suffered most keenly was the disapproval of his own people. Wrong
him they did not, because they could not. They might as easily have
smirched the name and memory of the beloved disciple. But criticise
him they did, poor souls! Windover gossip, the ultimatum of their
narrow lives, seemed to them to partake of the finalities of death
and the judgment. The treasurer of the society was troubled.
“We must reef to the breeze! we must reef to the breeze!” he
repeated mournfully. “But, my dear sir, you must allow me to say
that I think it would have been better seamanship to have avoided
it altogether.”
“What would you have had me do, Mr. Bond?” asked Bayard, looking
rather pale. “I am sorry to disappoint you. The love and trust of
my own people is all I have,” he faltered.
“Some witness, for instance,” suggested Mr. Bond. “To be sure, you
did call on the police, I am told.”
“All Angel Alley was my witness,” returned Bayard, recovering his
self-possession.
“Some woman, then--some lady?”
“Name the woman. I thought of summoning your wife. Should you have
let her go on such an errand, on such a night, at such an hour, and
under such conditions?”
“I ought to have let her go,” answered the officer of the heretic
church, honestly. “I’m not sure that I should.”
He looked perplexed, but none the less troubled for that, and
sighed as he shook hands with his pastor. Mrs. Bond took her
husband’s arm, and walked away with him. “I would have done it,
John,” she said. But she was crying; so was Mrs. Granite. Jane’s
face was white and scared. Captain Hap was very sober. Job Slip
was significantly silent. Rumor had it, that a fight was brewing
between Job and the Trawls. Job’s anger, if thoroughly aroused,
was a serious affair. Bayard felt the discomfort and annoyance of
his people acutely. He went away alone, and walked up and down
the winter coast, for miles and hours, trying to regain himself
in solitude and the breath of the sea. For some time he found it
impossible to think coherently. A few words got the ring of his
mind, and shook it:--
“From that time many of His disciples went back, and walked no more
with Him.”
       
Usually in such a situation, some one trivial occurrence fixes
itself upon the sore imagination of a man and galls him above all
the really important aspects of his misfortune. This trifle came to
Bayard in the reception of a letter from the girl herself.
  DEAR SIR, MR. BAYARD: My hart will brake to think I cause you
  shame for savin of a poor girl. I see that peece in the paper. It
  aint far to gess who done it. If it wasnt for disgrasin you Ide
  kill Ben Trawl tonite. I wouldnt mind hangin. I know how Ide do
  it too. But dont you trubble I wont shame you no more. I’ll clare
  out all-together. So good-bye and God bless you Sir.
    This is from, Yours respictfully,                       LENA.
Bayard’s reply to Lena’s note was to go straight to the gunpowder
factory, and speak with the girl. The superintendent stood by, and
overheard him say, in a commanding tone:--
“Lena, you will not leave this town. You will come to the chapel as
usual. You will sing with us next Sunday. You will pay no attention
to anything that you hear, or see. You will never suffer yourself
even to suppose that any base, low mind or tongue can injure your
pastor. You will do as I bid you, and you will become the woman you
promised to. You will do this with my help or without it. Anything
may happen to a person. Nothing can undo a promise.”
“Mr. Bayard, sir,” said Lena, forcing back her tears, for she was
not a crying girl, “I’m a girl of my word, and I ain’t goin’ back
on you. But there’s one thing I’ve got to say. Mebbe I shouldn’t
have another chance, bein’ things are as they be. I did want
to ask you, Mr. Bayard, sir, if I was to be a good girl long
enough,--as long as you should set the time to make me fit,--do you
suppose, Mr. Bayard, you would ever feel so as if you could touch
your hat to me--same as you do to decent girls?”
The superintendent of the powder factory brushed his hand across
his eyes. Bayard was much moved.
The dark, little figure of the girl, in her working-clothes,
standing stolidly at her post in the most dangerous of the deadly
trades, wherein no “hand” can insure his life, blurred before the
minister. He thought how little life could mean to Lena, at its
kindest and best.
“When the time comes,” he said gently, “I shall lift my hat to you.”
“That’s worth while,” said Lena in her short, forcible way. She
turned and went back to her work.
The factory seemed to throb with the struggle of imprisoned death
to burst its bars. Bayard came out into the air with the long
breath which the bravest man always drew when he left the buildings.
These incidents (which are events to the solitary, missionary life)
were but two days old when Joey Slip climbed the minister’s stairs,
sobbing dolorously.
Rumor was running in Windover that Job was drunk again. Neither the
child nor the wife could say if truth were in it, for neither had
seen the man since yesterday. But Mari had dispatched the boy to
the minister with the miserable news. With a smothered exclamation
which Joey found it impossible to translate, Bayard snatched the
child’s hand, and set forth. His face wore a terrible look. He
reached the wharves in time to come directly upon Job, the centre
of a ring of jeering roughs. Muddy, wet, torn, splashed with slime
from the docks, hatless and raving, Job was doing his maudlin best
to fight Ben Trawl, who stood at a safe distance, smiling with
the cynicism of a rumseller who never drinks. Job--poor Job, the
“reformed man”; Job, who had fought harder for his manhood than
most sober men ever fight for anything from the baby’s crib to the
broadcloth casket; Job, the “pillar” of Christlove mission, the
pride and pet of the struggling people; Job, the one sure comfort
of his pastor’s most discouraged hour,--Job stood there, abased and
hideous.
He had lived one splendid year; he had done one glorious thing;
he had achieved that for which better men than he should take
off their hats to him. And there--Bayard looked at him once, and
covered his face.
Job recognized him, and, frenzied as he was, sunk upon his knees
in the mud, and crawled towards the minister, piteously holding up
his hands. One must have been in Job’s place, or in Bayard’s, to
understand what that moment was to these two men.
In the paltry scenes of what we call the society of the world,
there are no actors who should criticise, as there are few who can
comprehend the rôles of this plain and common tragedy.
With the eyes of a condemning angel, Bayard strode into the group,
and took Job home.
“It’s clear D. T.,” said Captain Hap between his teeth.
Bayard sent for a doctor, who prescribed chloral, and said the
case was serious. Mari put on a clean apron, and dusted up the
rooms, and reinforced the minister, who proceeded to nurse Job for
thirty-six hours. Captain Hap went home. He said he’d rather tie a
slipknot round the fellar’s neck, and drawr it taut.
But when Job came to himself, poor fellow, the truth came with him.
Job had been the blameless victim of one of those incredible but
authenticated plots which lend blackness to the dark complexion of
the liquor trade.
Job was working ashore, it seemed, for a week, being out of a
chance to ship; and he had been upon the wharves, salting down
fish, and came out at his nooning, with the rest, for his lunch.
There was a well, in a yard, by the fish-flakes, and a dipper,
chained, hung from the pump.
It came Job’s turn to drink from the dipper. And when he had
drunk, the devil entered into him. For the rim of the dipper had
been maliciously smeared with rum. Into the parched body of the
“reformed man” the fire of that flavor ran, as flame runs through
stubble in a drought.
The half-cured drunkard remembered putting down his head, and
starting for the nearest grogshop on a run, with a yell. From that
moment till Bayard found him, Job remembered nothing more. Such
episodes of the nether world are not rare enough to be doubted, and
this one is no fiction.
“I’m in for it, now,” groaned Job. “Might as well go to h---- and
done with it.”
Then Bayard, haggard from watching, turned and looked on Job. Job
put his hands before his face.
“Oh, sir!” he cried. “But you see, there ain’t a wharf-rat left
in Windover as ’u’d trust me now!”
“Take my hand, Job,” said the minister slowly.
Job took it, sobbing like a baby.
“Now climb up again, Job!” said Bayard in a strong voice. “I’m with
you!”
Thus went the words of the shortest sermon of the minister’s life.
To the end of his days, Job Slip will think it was the greatest and
the best.
Captain Hap, penitent, but with no idea of saying so, came up the
tenement stairs. Mari and Joey sat beside the fire. Mari was frying
chunks of haddock for supper. Joey was singing in a contented
little voice something that he had caught in the mission:--
    “Veresawidenessin Godsmer--cy
      Likevewidenessof vesea....
    ForveloveofGod is bwoard--er
      Vanvemeazzerof mansmine
    Anve heartof veE--ter--nal
      Ismoswonderfully kine.”
“Hear the boy!” cried Mari, laughing for the first time for many
black days.
“What in the world is he singin’?” asked Joey’s father.
“Why, I’m sure it’s as plain as can be,” said Joey’s mother,--
    “‘There’s a wideness in God’s mercy,
      Like the wideness of the sea.’
Then he says:--
    “‘For the love of God is broader
      Than the measure of man’s mind,
    And the heart of the Eternal
      Is most wonderful and kind.’
Oh, ain’t he the clever boy?”
“We’ll see,” said Job unexpectedly, putting his feet to the floor.
“I ain’t a-goin’ to have the little fellar ashamed of his father,
see if I be!”
“All the same,” observed Captain Hap dryly, “I wouldn’t go on the
street to-night, if I was you. I’ll stay along of you a spell.
The minister’s beat out. There’s enough goin’ on yet to capsize a
soberer man than you be, Job. The fellar that did this here ain’t
a-goin’ to stop at rims of dippers. No, sir!... Job Slip! Don’t you
tech nothin’; not nothin’ outside of your own house, this six
month to come! Not a soda, Job! Not a tumbler o’ milk! Not a cup o’
coffee! Not a swaller o’ water! No, nor a bite of victuals. You’ll
be hunted down like a rat. There’s bread buttered with phosphorus
layin’ round loose for ye most anywheres. Everybody knows who done
this. ’T ain’t no use to spile good English callin’ bad names. He
won’t stop at nothin’ partikkelar to drawr you under.”
“But why?” asked Bayard. “Why should he hound down poor Job so?”
“To spite you, sir,” replied the captain without hesitation.
In the dead silence which followed the captain’s words, Joey’s
little voice piped up again:--
    “Be hushed my dark spew--it
    Ve wussvatcancome
    But shortens vy zhour--nee
    Anhastingsme home.”
Joey stole up merrily, and patted out the tune with his little
fingers on the minister’s pale cheek.
“He says,” began Mari proudly,
    “‘Be hushed, my dark spirit,
    The worst that can come’”--
But Captain Hap, who was not in a pious mood, interrupted the
maternal translation.
“Folks say that they’ve got into their ---- heads their license
is in genooine danger. Confine yourself to prayin’ an’ singin’,
an’ they don’t deny that’s what you’re hired for. Folks say if
you meddle with city politics, there ain’t an insurance company
in New England ’u’d take a policy on your life, sir. You might as
well hear what’s goin’ on, Mr. Bayard. I don’t suspicion it’ll
make no odds to you. I told ’em you wouldn’t tech the politics of
this here town with a forty-fathom grapplin’-iron,--no, nor with a
harbor-dredger!”
“You’re right there, Captain,” returned Bayard, smiling.
“Then ’tain’t true about the license?” asked the captain anxiously.
“I have nothing to conceal in the matter, Captain,” answered Bayard
after a moment’s silence. “There are legalized crimes in Angel
Alley which I shall fight till I die. But it will be slow work. I
don’t do it by lobbying. I have my own methods, and you must grant
me my own counsel.”
“The dawn that rises on the Trawls without their license,” slowly
said the captain, “that day, sir, you may as well call on the city
marshal for a body-guard. You’ll need it!”
“Oh, you and Job will answer, I fancy,” replied Bayard, laughing.
He went straight home and to bed, where he slept fitfully till
nearly noon of the next day. He was so exhausted with watching and
excitement, that there is a sense of relief in thinking that the
man was granted this one night’s rest before that which was to be
befell him.
For, at midnight of the succeeding night, he was awakened by the
clang of the city bells. It was a still night, there was little
wind, and the tide was calm at the ebb. The alarm was quite
distinct and easily counted. One? two? three? Six? One--two--three.
Six. Thirty-six. Thirty-six was the call from the business section
of the town. This alarm rang in for the board of trade, Angel
Alley, the wharves, and certain banks and important shops.
“A fire on the wharves, probably,” thought Bayard; he turned on his
pillow; “the fire-boat will reach it in three minutes. It is likely
to be some slight affair.”
One--two--three. Six. One--two--three. Six. One-two. One-two. The
sounding of the general alarm aroused him thoroughly. He got to
the window and flung open the blinds. In the heart of the city, two
miles away, a pillar of flame shot straight towards the sky, which
hung above it as red as the dashed blood of a mighty slaughter.
At this moment a man came running, and leaned on Mrs. Granite’s
fence, looking up through the dark.
“Mr. Bayard! Mr. Bayard!” he called loudly.
“Bob! Is that you? What is it? Where is it?”
“It’s in Angel Alley, sir.”
“Be there in a minute, Bob.”
“But, Mr. Bayard, sir--there’s them as think you’re safer where you
be. Job Slip says you stay to home if you love us, Mr. Bayard!”
“Wait for me, Bob,” commanded Bayard. “I’m half dressed now.”
“But, Mr. Bayard, Mr. Bayard--you ain’t got it through your head--I
said I wouldn’t be the man to tell you, and I wish to gollyswash
I’d stuck to it.”
“Bob! It isn’t the Mission?”
“Oh, sir--yes! They’ve set us afire!”
“Now, Bob,” said the minister, suddenly shooting up in the dark at
Bob’s side, with coat and vest over his arm, “run for it! Run!”
       
The building was doomed from the first. The department saw that, at
a glance, and concentrated its skill upon the effort to save the
block.
The deed had been dexterously done. The fire sprang from half a
dozen places, and had been burning inwardly, it was thought, for an
hour before it was discovered. The people had been too poor to hire
a night-watchman.
“We trusted Providence,” muttered Captain Hap. “And this is what we
get for it!”
The crowd parted before the minister when he came panting up, with
Bob a rod behind. Bayard had got into his coat on the way, but he
had not waited for his hat. In the glare, with his bared head and
gray-white face, he gathered an unearthly radiance.
He made out to get under the ropes, and sprang up the steps of the
burning building.
“No, sir!” said the chief respectfully; “you can’t get in, now.
We’ve saved all we could.”
“There are some things I must have. I can get at them. I’ve done
this before. Let me in!” commanded the minister.
All the coherent thought he had at that moment was that he must
save some of the pictures--Helen’s pictures that she had given
to the people. In that shock of trouble they took on a delirious
preciousness to him.
“Let me into my own chapel!” he thundered. But the chief put his
hand upon the preacher’s breast, and held it there.
“Not another step, Mr. Bayard. The roof will fall in five minutes.
Get back, sir!”
He heard his people calling him; strong hands took hold of him;
pitying faces looked at him.
“Come, Mr. Bayard,” some one said gently. “Turn away with us. Don’t
see it go.”
He protested no more, but obeyed quietly. For the first time since
they had known him, he faltered, and broke before his people.
They led him away, like a wounded man. He covered his face when
the crash came. The sparks flew far and hot over the wharves, and
embers followed. The water hissed as it received them.
At the first gray of dawn, the minister was on the ground again.
Evidently he had not slept. There was a storm in the sky, and slow,
large flakes of snow were falling. The crowd had gone, and the
Alley was deserted. Only a solitary guardian of the ruins remained.
Bayard stood before them, and looked up. Now, a singular thing
had happened. The electric wire which fed the illuminated sign in
front of the mission had not been disconnected by the fire; it had
so marvelously and beautifully happened; only a few of the little
colored glass globes had been broken, and four white and scarlet
words, paling before the coming day, and blurring in the snow, but
burning steadily, answered the smothered tongues of fire and lips
of smoke which muttered from the ruins.
As day opened, the people began to collect upon the spot.
Expressions of awe or of superstition were heard, as they looked
up and read, serene and undisturbed against the background of the
rising storm,--
  THE LOVE OF CHRIST.
XXII.
Immediately upon the destruction of the chapel, two things
happened. The first, was a visit from Mr. Hermon Worcester. Nothing
could have been more unexpected; and when Bayard, coming into
his lodgings one dreary afternoon, found his uncle in the bony
rocking-chair, the young man was much moved.
Mr. Worcester, not untouched by the sight of his nephew’s emotion,
held out an embarrassed hand. Bayard took it warmly. He had learned
the lesson of loneliness so thoroughly, that he was ill prepared
for the agitation of this little, common, human incident.
“You are ill, Manuel!” cried the elder man. “Good heavens, how you
have changed! I had no idea--You should have told me!” he added,
with the old autocratic accent. “I ought to have been informed....
And this is how you live!”
Hermon Worcester looked slowly about him. His eye fell on the
paper screen, the mosquito-net portière, the iron angel on the
stove, the hard lounge, the old carpet, the stained wall-paper; he
scrutinized the bookcase, he glanced at the Saint Michael. When he
saw the great Christ, he coughed, and turned his face away; got up
uneasily, and went into the bedroom, where he fell to examining
the cotton comforters.
“At least,” he said sharply, “you could have sent for your own hair
mattress! Nobody has slept on it, since”--
He broke off, and returned to the skeleton rocking-chair, with an
expression of discomfiture so serious that Bayard pitied him. He
hastened to say:--
“Oh, I have done very well, very well indeed, Uncle. A man expects
to rough it, if he chooses to be a home missionary. Give yourself
no concern--now.”
If there were an almost uncontrollable accent on the last word,
Mr. Hermon Worcester failed to notice it. Something in that other
phrase had arrested his Orthodox attention. A home missionary? A
home missionary. Was it possible to regard this heretic boy in that
irreproachable light?
To the home missions of his denomination Mr. Worcester was a large
and important contributor. Now and then an ecclesiastical Dives is
to be found who gives a certain preference to the heathen of his
own land before those of India, Africa, and Japan; Mr. Worcester
had always been one of these illuminated men. Indeed, Japan,
Africa, and India had been known to reflect upon the character of
his Christianity for the reason that his checks were cashed for the
benefit of Idaho, Tennessee, and the Carolinas.
To this hour it had not occurred to Mr. Worcester that the heathen
of Windover could be properly rated as in the home missionary
field. Even the starving pastors in the northern counties of
Vermont might have gratefully called for yearly barrels of his old
clothes; but Windover? Why, that was within two hours of Boston!
And, alas, the Vermont ministers were always “sound.” In Idaho,
Tennessee, and the Carolinas, where was a corrupt theology to be
found?
But that phrase had lodged in some nick of Mr. Worcester’s mind;
and he could no more brush it off than one can brush away a seed
out of reach in the crevice of a rock. He regarded his nephew with
a certain tolerance, warmly tinged by compassion.
“The boy is a wreck,” he said to himself. “Manuel will die if this
goes on. He might have expected it. And so might I.”
The old man’s face worked. He spoke, crossly enough. Bayard
remembered that he always used to be cross when he was touched.
“What’s to happen now? Ready to give it up, Manuel?”
“I am ready to begin all over again,” replied Emanuel, smiling.
His voice had the ring that his uncle knew too well; when he was a
little fellow, and bound to do a thing whether or no, he spoke in
that tone, and always with that engaging smile.
“Who pays for this phœnix?” asked the man of business brusquely.
“I passed by your place. It is a fine heap of ashes. A curious
sight I saw there, too. That sign you hang out--those four words.”
Bayard nodded.
“It is a pleasant accident. The department says it is almost
unprecedented. Oh, we shall crawl up somehow, Uncle! I don’t feel
very anxious. The town hall is already hired for temporary use.
There is great excitement in the city over the whole affair. You
see, it has reached the proportions, now, of a deadlock between
the rum interest and the decent citizens. Our treasurer is
circulating some sort of a paper. I think he hopes to collect a few
hundreds--enough to tide us over till we can float off. I don’t
know just how it is all coming out. Of course we can’t expect the
help that an ordinary church would get in a similar trouble.”
“I’m glad if you recognize that fact, Manuel,” replied Mr.
Worcester uncomfortably. In his heart he was saying, “The boy has
his mother’s splendid Worcester pride. He’ll perish here, like a
starving eagle on a deserted crag, but he won’t ask me!”
“You need a new building,” observed Mr. Worcester, with that quiet
way of putting a startling thing which was another Worcester
quality. “You seem to have made--from your own point of view,
of course--what any man of affairs would call a success here. Of
course, you understand, Manuel, that I cannot approve of your
course. It has been the greatest grief of my life.”
Bayard hastened to observe that his comprehension of this point was
not limited.
“From your point of view, not mine, Manuel, I should, as a man of
business, suggest that a new building--your own property--something
to impress business men, you know; something to give material form
to that--undoubtedly sincere and--however mistaken--unselfish,
religious effort that you have wasted in this freezing hole.... I
wonder, Manuel, if you could put the draughts on that confounded
box-burner with the angel atop? I don’t know when I’ve been so
chilly!”
Bayard hastened to obey this request, without intimating that the
draughts were closed to save the coal. This species of political
economy was quite outside of his uncle’s experience, and yet,
perhaps, the man of business had more imagination than his nephew
gave him credit for; he said abruptly:--
“Look here, Manuel, I’ve got to get the seven o’clock train home,
you know, and I’d best do the errand I came on, at once. You know
those old Virginia mines of your mother’s? There was a little stock
there, you remember? It went below zero. Hasn’t been heard of for
twenty years. But it remained on the inventory of the estate, you
know. Well, it’s come up. There’s a new plant gone in--Northern
enterprise, you know--and the stock is on the market again. There
is only a trifle, a paltry two thousand, if well handled. It’s
yours, you see, whatever there is of it. I came down to ask if you
would like to have me force a sale for you.”
“Two thousand dollars!” cried Bayard, turning pale. “Why, it would
almost build me--at least, it would furnish a new chapel. We
had about so much of inside property--library, piano, pictures,
settees, hymn-books, and all that--it is all a dead loss.
Unfortunately, Mr. Bond had never insured it--we were so poor;
every dollar tells!”
“Then he was a very bad man of business for a church--for
a--missionary officer!” cried Mr. Worcester irritably; “and I
hope you’ll do nothing of the kind. You could spend that amount
on your personal necessities inside of six months, and then not
know it, sir! You are--I hope, Manuel,” sternly, “that you will
regard my wish, for once, in one respect, before I die. Don’t fling
your mother’s money into the bottomless pit of this unendowed,
burnt-out, unpopular enterprise! Wait awhile, Manuel. Wait a little
and think it over. I don’t think, under the circumstances,” added
Mr. Worcester with some genuine dignity, “that it is very much to
ask.”
“Perhaps it is not,” replied Bayard thoughtfully. “At least, I will
consider it, as you say.”
Four days after, an envelope from Boston was put into Bayard’s
hand. It contained a typewritten letter setting forth the fact that
the writer desired to contribute to the erection of the new chapel
in Windover known by the name of Christlove, and representing a
certain phase of home missionary effort--the inclosed sum. It was
a bank draft for twenty-five hundred dollars. The writer withheld
his name, and requested that no effort be made to identify him.
He also desired that his contribution be used, if possible, in a
conditional character, to stimulate the growth of a collection
sufficient to put the building and the mission behind it, upon a
suitable basis.
The following day Mr. Worcester sent to Bayard by personal check
the remnant of his mother’s property. This little sum seemed as
large, now, to the Beacon Street boy, as if he had been reared
in one of the Vermont parsonages to which his uncle sent old
overcoats; or, one might say, as if he had never left the shelter
of that cottage under the pine grove in Bethlehem, where his eyes
first opened upon the snow-girt hills. Self-denial speaks louder
in the blood than indulgence, after all; and who knew how much of
Bayard’s simple manliness in the endurance of privation he owed to
the pluck of the city girl who left the world for love of one poor
man, and to become the mother of another?
Bayard had scarcely adjusted his mind to these events when he
received from Helen Carruth this letter:--
   “MY DEAR MR. BAYARD,--My little note of sympathy with your
  great trouble did not deserve so prompt an answer. I thank you
  for it. I could not quite make up my mind to tell you, in the
  midst of so much care and anxiety, what I can delay no longer in
  saying”--
Bayard laid down the letter. The room grew black before his
starting eyes.
“There is another man,” he thought. “She is engaged. She cannot
bear to tell me.”
Sparks of fire leaped before his eyeballs. Black swung into
purple--into gray--light returned; and he read on:--
  “If I flatter myself in supposing that you might mind it a
  little, why, the mistake hurts nobody, neither you nor me; but
  the fact is we are not coming to Windover this summer. We sail
  for Europe next week.
  “Father has decided quite suddenly, and there is nothing to be
  done but to go. It is something to do with Exegesis, if you
  please! There is a mistake in Exegesis, you know,--in the New
  Version. It seems to me a pretty Old Version by this time,
  but father has always been stirred up about it. He has been
  corresponding with a German Professor for a year or two on this
  burning subject. I have an inarticulate suspicion that, between
  them, they mean to write the New Testament over again. Could they
  do another Version? How many Versions can be versed?
  “I never graduated, you know; I never even attended a Cesarea
  Anniversary in my life (and you can’t think how it shocked the
  Trustees at dinner, and that was such fun, so I kept on not
  going!), and I can’t be expected to fathom these matters. Anyhow,
  it is mixed up with the Authenticity of the Fourth Gospel, and
  the Effect of German Rationalism upon the Evangelical Faith. It
  is a reason full of capital letters and Orthodoxy,--and go he
  will. He won’t leave mother behind, for he is one of the men who
  believe in living with their wives; he’s just as dependent on
  his womenkind when he’s engaged in a theological row, as a boy
  who’s got hurt at football; and I’ve got to go to take care of
  the two of them. So there it is! I think there is a convention in
  Berlin--an Exegetical Something--anyhow, there’s a date, and live
  up to it we must. He has sublet the Flying Jib to the Prudential
  Committee of the A. B. C. F. M.--I mean to one of it, with six
  grandchildren. Think how they’ll punch their fists through our
  lace curtains! I wish you’d go down and tell Mr. Salt they shan’t
  have my dory. Couldn’t you manage to use it yourself? And I--I
  can’t take Joey Slip to the circus, nor sit down in sackcloth on
  the ashes of Christlove Chapel to help you.
  “Truly, dear friend, I meant to help this summer. And I am
  disappointed, if you care to know it.
                       “Yours faithfully,
                                                 “HELEN CARRUTH.
  “I forgot to say that father has doubled up his lectures, and the
  Trustees have given him the whole summer term. This, I believe, is
  in view of the importance of the quarrel over the Fourth Gospel.
  We sail in the Scythia a week from Saturday.”
       
It was early afternoon of the next day, when Helen, standing in
her window to draw the shades, glanced over automatically at the
third-story northwest corner front of Galilee Hall. The room had
long since been occupied by a middler with blue spectacles and a
peaked beard; a long-legged fellow, who was understood to be a
Hebrew scholar, and quite Old School, and was expected to fill a
large parish without offending the senior deacon. Privately, Helen
hated the middler. But the eye that had learned to wander at sunset
across the Seminary “yard” to the window blazing in gold and glory,
had slowly unlearned the lesson of its brief and pleasant habit.
Even yet, on blue-white winter days, when life stood still to
freeze on Cesarea Hill, Helen found herself drearily looking at the
glittering glass--as one looks at the smile on a face from which
the soul has fled.
It was still many hours to sunset, and the early April afternoon
fell gustily and gray upon the snows of Cesarea. It was not a sunny
day, and Cesarea was at her worst. Helen idly watched a figure
splashing through two feet of slush “across lots” over the Seminary
grounds from the Trustees’ Hotel.
“A post-graduate,” she thought, “back on a visit. Or, more
likely, a minister without a pulpit, coming to Cesarea after
a parish, or places to supply. Probably he has seven children
and a mother-in-law to support. If he’s ‘sound’ he’ll come to
Father--no--yes. Why, yes!”
She drew suddenly back from the window. It was Emanuel Bayard.
He waded through the slush as quickly as so tired a man could. He
had walked from the station, saving his coach fare, and had made
but feint of being a guest at the hotel, where he had not dined.
He was not quite prepared to let Helen know that he had lunched on
cold johnny-cake and dried beef, put up by Mrs. Granite in a red
cotton doily, and tenderly pinned over by Jane with a safety-pin.
He lifted his eyes to the gloomy landscape for illumination, which
it denied him. He knew no more than the snow professor what he
should do, what he should say, no, nor why he had lapsed into this
great weakness, and come to Cesarea at all. He felt as if he might
make, indeed, a mortal mistake, one way or the other. He pleaded to
himself that he must see her face once more, or perish. Nature was
mightier than he, and drove him on, as it drives the strongest of
us in those reactions from our strenuous vow and sternest purpose,
for which we have lacked the simple foresight to provide in our
plan of life.
There was a new snow professor, by the way, comfortably melting
before the pump beside the Academy commons. He had been considered
sounder than any of his predecessors, and had been supplied
with a copy of St. Augustine’s Confessions, which he perused
with a corncob pipe between his lips of ice. A Westminster
catechism ornamented his vest pocket. He was said to have slumped
beautifully, when the thaw came.
Bayard shot a tolerant smile at the snow professor’s remains, as he
came up the steps.
Helen herself answered his ring. Both of them found this so natural
that neither commented upon this little act of friendliness.
The Professor was at his lecture; and Mrs. Carruth was making her
final appearance at certain local Cesarea charities; principally,
to-day, at the Association for Assisting Indigent Married Students
with blankets and baby-clothes. Helen explained these facts with
her usual irreverence, as she ushered her visitor into the parlor.
“If I had a fortune,” she observed, “I would found a society in
Cesarea for making it a Penal Offence for a Married Man to Study
for the Ministry without a Visible Income. The title is a little
long, don’t you think? How could we shorten it? It’s worse than the
Cruelty to Animals thing. Mr. Bayard?--why, Mr. Bayard!”
When she saw the expression of his face, her own changed with
remorseful swiftness.
“You are perfectly right,” he said with sudden, smiting
incisiveness. “You are more than right. It is the greatest act of
folly of my life that I am here.”
He stood still, and looked at her. The despair she saw in his eyes
seemed to her a measureless, bottomless thing.
“I had to come,” he said. “How could I let you go, without--you
must see that I had to look upon your face once more. Forgive
me--dear!”
Her chin trembled, at the lingering of that last, unlooked-for word.
“I have tried,” said Bayard slowly. “You won’t misunderstand me
if I say I have tried to do the best I can, at Windover; and I have
failed in it,” he added bitterly, “from every point of view, and in
every way!”
“As much as that,” said Helen, “happened to the Founder of the
Christian religion. You are presumptuous if you expect anything
different.”
“You are right,” answered Bayard, with that instinctive humility
which was at once the strongest and the sweetest thing about him.
“I accept your rebuke.”
“Oh,” cried Helen, holding out her hands, “I couldn’t rebuke you!
I”--she faltered.
“You see,” said Bayard slowly, “that’s just the difference, the
awful, infinite difference. All His difficulties were from the
outside.”
“How do you know that?” asked Helen quickly.
“I don’t,” replied Bayard thoughtfully. “I don’t know. But I have
been accustomed to think so. Perhaps I am under the traditions
yet; perhaps I am no nearer right than the other Christians I have
separated myself from. But mine, you see--my obstacles, the things
that make it so hard--the only thing that makes it seem impossible
for me to go on--is within myself. You don’t suppose He ever loved
a woman--as I--love you? It’s impossible!” cried the young man.
“Why, there are times when it seems to me that if the salvation of
the world hung in one scale, and you in the other--as if I--” He
finished by a blinding look. Her face drooped, but did not fall.
He could see her fingers tremble. “It was something,” he went on
dully, “to see you; to know that I--why, all winter I have lived on
it, on the knowledge that summer was coming--that you--Oh, you
can’t know! You can’t understand! I could bear all the rest!” he
cried. “This--this--”
His sentence broke, and was never completed; for Helen looked up
into his face. It was ashen, and all its muscles were set like
stiffening clay. She lifted her eyes and gave them to him.
“I do understand.... I do,” she breathed. “Would it make you any
happier if you knew--if I should tell you--of course, I know what
you said; that we can’t ... but would it be any easier if I should
tell you that I have loved you all the time?”
XXIII.
To the end of her life Helen will see the look on Emanuel Bayard’s
face when she had spoken these words.
With more of terror than delight, the woman’s nature sprang, for
that instant, back upon itself. Would she have recalled what she
had said? It is possible; for now she understood how he loved her,
and perceived that she had never understood what a man’s love is.
Yet, when he spoke, it was with that absence of drama, with that
repression amounting almost to commonplace, which characterize the
intensest crises of experience.
“Do you?” he said. “Have you?”
And at first that was all. But his voice shook, and his hand; and
his face went so white that he seemed like a man smitten rather by
death than by love.
Helen, in a pang of maiden fright, had moved away from him, and
retreated to the sofa; he sank beside her silently. Leaning forward
a little, he covered his eyes with one hand. The other rested
on the cushion within an inch of her purple dress; he did not
touch her; he did not touch it. Helen felt sorry, seeing him so
troubled and wrung; her heart went out in a throb of that maternal
compassion which is never absent from the love of any woman for
any man.
“Oh,” she sighed, “I meant to make you happy, to give you comfort!
And now I have made you unhappy!”
“You have made me the happiest of all miserable men!”
He raised his head, and looked at her till hers was the face to
fall.
“Oh, don’t!” she pleaded. “Not like that!”
But he paid no heed to this entreaty. The soul of the saint and
the heart of the man made duel together; and the man won, and
exulted in it, and wondered how he dared; but his gaze devoured
her willfully. The first embrace of the eyes--more delicate, more
deferent, and at once less guarded than the meeting of hands or
clasp of arms--he gave her, and did not restrain it. Before it,
Helen felt more helpless than if he had touched her. She seemed to
herself to be annihilated in his love.
“Happy?” he said exultingly, “you deify me! You have made a god of
me!”
“No,” she shook her head with a little teasing smile, “I have made
a man of you.”
“Then they are one thing and the same!” cried the lover. “Let me
hear you say it. Tell it to me again!”
She was silent, and she crimsoned to the brows.
“You are not sure!” he accused her. “You want to take it back. It
was a madness, an impulse. You don’t mean it. You do not, you have
not loved me.... How could you?” he added humbly. “You know I
never counted on it, never expected, did not trust myself to think
of it--all this while.”
She lifted her head proudly.
“I have nothing to take back. It was not an impulse. I am not that
kind of woman. I have been meaning to tell you--when you gave me
the chance. I love you. I have loved you ever since--”
She stopped.
“Since when? How long have you loved me? Come! Speak! I will
know!” commanded Bayard deliriously.
“Oh, what is going to be gained if I tell you?” Helen gave
him a prisoner’s look. She turned her head from side to side
rebelliously, as if she had flown into a cage whose door was now
unexpectedly shut.
“I meant to make you happy. All I say seems to make everything
worse. I shall tell you nothing more.”
“You will tell me,” he said in a tone of calm authority, “all I
ask. It is my affair whether I am happy or wretched. Yours is to
obey my wish: because you love me, Helen.”
His imperious voice fell to a depth of tenderness in which her soul
and body seemed to sink and drown.
“I have loved you,” she whispered, “ever since that night,--the
first time I saw you here, in my father’s house.”
“Now, sir!” she added, with her sudden, pretty willfulness, “make
the most of it. I’m not ashamed of it, either. But I shall be
ashamed of you if--this--if after I’ve said it all, it doesn’t
make you happy.... That’s all I care for,” she said quietly. “It is
all I care for in this world.”
“Oh, what shall we do?” pleaded Bayard.
“You have your work,” said Helen dreamily, “and I your love.”
Her voice sank to a whisper.
“Is that enough for you?” demanded the man. “I shall perish of it,
I shall perish!”
Something in his tone and expression caused Helen to regard him
keenly. He looked so wasted, so haggard, that her heart stood
still, and said to her,--“This is truer than he knows.”
“No,” she answered with a sweet, womanly composure, “it is not
enough for me.”
“And yet,” he said with the brutality of the tormented, “I cannot,
