had taken hold of me. O Dil, don’t let her send me away!”
“If she should—if she did—I’d—I’d kill her!” and a fierce, desperate
look came in the brown eyes. “O Bess dear, don’t cry so, don’t cry.”
“O Dil,” sobbed the child, “then you’d be jugged like daddy, but you
wouldn’t kill her—you couldn’t, she’s so much bigger an’ stronger.”
“But I’d fight awful! And I wouldn’t stay. I’d run away, if I had to
drown myself.”
“They cut people up in hospitals”—and there was an awesome sound in the
frightened voice.
“Don’t, dear, don’t;” and the pleading was that of agony. She held Bess
close—all her life was centred in this poor, maimed body. The babies
might cry, the world might cease to be, but nothing should part them.
“She’ll be cross because there ain’t more babies. And to-day she knows.
But the bank’s most all out. O Dil, s’pose something happened to—to
him!”
They looked at each other in a pathetic fashion through their tears,
each bearing the other’s sorrow, though they knew nothing of the divine
injunction. Dil had fought silent battles with herself for faith in John
Travis, but Bess had never wavered until now.
“It was so beautiful—that afternoon, an’ the talkin’. I’ve thought so
often ’bout his Lord Jesus, who could make my poor little legs well,
an’, Dil, somehow they keep shrinken’ away. An’ the lovely fruit an’
things! An’ all that money! O Dil, we know now how rich folks feel, only
they’re rich all their lives, and we was rich jest that little while.
But it was splendid! Rich folks oughter be happy every minnit, an’—an’
good. ’Twould be so easy when you lived in a big, beautiful house, an’
had flowers an’ nice things to eat an’ to wear, an’ a kerrige to ride
in—”
She stopped exhausted, but her eyes glowed with the vision, and a
rapture illumined her wan face. Ah, Bess, one poor, forlorn creature,
born in the brain of the finest genius of his time, made the same
pathetic outcry in her pitiful plight, brought about by her own
ill-doing. And you both touched the boundary of a broad truth.
Dil gave a long, quivering breath, and it seemed as if her arms could
never unclose again, so tight and fast did they hold their treasure.
“I’m most sure he’ll come.” Bess made a strenuous effort to keep the
doubt out of her tone. “He was ter bring the book, you know, and the
picture; an’ he didn’t look ’s though he was one of the forgettin’ kind.
There’s somethin’—I can’t quite make it out; but Dil, when things is all
still, most towards mornin’, seems if I could hear him talk. Only—it’s
so long to spring. I’m most sorry we didn’t start that day. Why, we
might have been to heaven before real cold weather. I’m so tired. Dil,
dear, lay me down on the lounge, won’t you? It’ll rest me a bit.”
She put her down softly, and tucked the faded quilt about her. Mamie had
fallen asleep on the floor, and she laid her on her own little pallet.
The other baby had found a dropped-out knot in the floor, and was trying
to put his crust of bread down through it.
Dil washed her dishes and tidied up the house. The clothes from the
floor above swung on the pulley-line, and helped to shut out even the
chilly gray light. Then there was dinner to get for the boys, who went
to school quite steadily. Dan wasn’t so bad, though; and Owen had been
threatened with the reform-school, “where you had to sweep floors and
sew on a machine like a gal!” That did not look so inviting as liberty.
What would happen to-night when her mother came home? Would she, could
she, send Bess away?
“’Tain’t no use to pray,” she thought despairingly within her much-tried
soul. “I uster pray about Bess’s poor little legs, an’ they never mended
any. An’ mebbe he thought we’d be a bother, an’ he’d rather go to heaven
alone.”
What had become of John Travis?
V—A SONG IN THE NIGHT
In the twenty-four years of John Travis’s life he had not done much but
please himself. There was never any special pinch in the Travis
household, any choice of two things, with the other to be given up
entirely. His father was an easy-going man, his mother an amiable
society woman, proud, of course, of her good birth. As I said before,
excesses were not to John’s taste. He didn’t look like a fastidious
young fellow, but the Travises were clean, wholesome people. Perhaps
this was where their good blood really showed itself.
Mr. Travis had a little leaning toward the law for his son; the young
fellow fancied he had a little leaning toward medicine. He dallied
somewhat with both; he wrote a few pretty society verses; he etched very
successfully, and he painted a few pictures, which roused an art
ambition within him. He fell in love with a sweet girl in the winter,
and in the late summer they had quarrelled and gone separate ways.
There had been another factor in his life,—his cousin, Austin Travis,
some twelve years older than himself, his father’s eldest brother’s only
child, and the eldest grandson. Travis farm had been his early home; and
there John, the little boy, had fallen in love with the big boy.
Austin was one of the charming society men that women delight in. Every
winter girls tried their best for him; and John was made much of on his
account, for they were almost inseparable. It was Austin who soothed his
uncle’s disappointment in the law business. It was Austin who compelled
the rather dilatory young fellow to paint in earnest.
Austin had planned a September tour. They would spend a few days with
grandmother, and then go to the Adirondacks. He knew a camping-out party
of artists and designers that it would be an advantage for John to meet.
John had packed his traps and sent them down to the boat, that was to go
out at six. There was nothing special to do. He would walk down, and
presently stop in at Brentano’s, then take the car. He was very fond of
seeing people group themselves together and change like a kaleidoscope.
But his heart was sore and indignant, and then his quick eye fell on the
withered rose-buds in the shrunken hand of the child, and after that
adventure he had barely time to catch his boat.
He hardly knew himself as he sat on the deck till past midnight. Two
little poverty-stricken waifs had somehow changed his thoughts, his
life. When he was a little boy at Travis Farm a great many curious ideas
about heaven had floated through his brain. And when his grandmother
sang in her soft, limpid voice,—
    “There is a land of pure delight,
    Where saints immortal reign;
    Infinite day excludes the night,
    And pleasures banish pain,”
he used to see it all as a vision. Perhaps his ideas were not much wiser
than those of poor little ignorant Bess. He had travelled with Pilgrim;
he had known all the people on the way, and they were real enough to him
at that period.
Oh, how long ago that seemed! Everything had changed since then. Science
had uprooted simple faith. One lived by sight now. The old myths were
still beautiful, of course. But long before Christ came, the Greek
philosophers had prayed, and the Indian religions had had their
self-denying saviours.
But he had promised to find the way to heaven for them, and they were so
ignorant. He had promised to go thither himself, and he had dipped into
so many philosophies; he knew so much, and yet he was so ignorant. But
there must be a heaven, that was one fact; and there must be a way to go
thither.
Sunday morning he was in Albany with Austin and two young men he had
known through the winter. One of them was very attentive to a pretty
cousin who would be found at Travis Farm. They had a leisurely elegant
breakfast, they took a carriage and drove about to points of interest,
had a course dinner, smoked and talked in the evening. But the inner
John was a little boy again, and had gone to church with his
grandmother. The sermon was long, and he did not understand it; but he
read the hymns he liked, and chewed a bit of fennel, and went almost
asleep. The singing was delightful, the spirited old “Coronation.”
They went out to Travis Farm the next morning. There was grandmother and
Aunt Maria, the single Miss Travis, Daisy Brockholst and her dear friend
Katharine Lee. Of course the young people had a good time. They always
did at Travis Farm, and they were fond of coming.
“Grandmother,” John said, in a hesitating sort of way, “you used to sing
an old hymn I liked so much,”
    “There is a land of pure delight.”
“Have you forgotten it? I wish you would sing it for me,” and his hand
slipped over hers.
“Why—yes, dear. I go singing about the house for company when no one is
here; but old voices are apt to get thin in places, you know.”
He did not say he had hunted up an old hymn-book, and read the words
over and over. He was ashamed that the children’s talk had taken such
hold of him. But presently he joined in, keeping his really fine tenor
voice down to a low key, and they sang together.
Then there was the soft silence of a country afternoon—the hushed
sweetness of innumerable voices that are always telling of God’s
wonders.
“John,” she said, in her low, caressing sort of tone that she had kept
from girlhood, “I think heaven won’t be quite perfect to me until I hear
your voice among the multitude no man can number.”
That was all. She had let her life of seventy-four years do her
preaching. But she still prayed for her sheaves.
How had he come to have so much courage on Saturday afternoon, and so
little now? Of course he could not be quite sure. And there would be
Austin’s incredulous laugh.
They went on to the Adirondacks. He made a sketch of Bess, and sent it
to a photographer’s with instructions. He was delighted with the artist
group. He was planning out his winter. He would take a studio with some
one. He would see what he could do for the Quinn children, and paint his
fine picture. She would see it when it was exhibited somewhere. There
would be a curious satisfaction in it. And yet he was carrying around
with him every day three faded, shrivelled wild-rose buds.
And then one day they brought in Austin Travis insensible—dead, maybe.
There was a little blood stain on his face and his golden brown beard;
and it was an hour before they could restore him to consciousness. Just
by a miracle he had been saved. A bit of rock that seemed so secure, had
been secure for centuries perhaps, split off, taking him down with it.
He had the presence of mind to throw away his gun, but the fall had
knocked him insensible. He had lain some time before the others found
him. There were bruises, a dislocated shoulder, and three broken ribs.
Surgery could soon mend those. But there was a puncture in the
magnificent lungs, such a little thing to change all one’s life; and at
first he rebelled with a giant’s strength. Life was so much to him,
all to him. He could not go down into nothingness with his days but
half told.
Out of all the plans and advice it was settled to try the south of
France, and perhaps the Madeira Isles, to take such good care and have
such an equable climate that the wound might heal. And John was to be
his companion and nurse and friend for all the lighter offices. Austin
had hardly allowed him to go out of his sight.
They had returned to New York. Everything was arranged. Austin was
impatient to be off before cold weather. For three days John never had a
moment; but Bess and Dil had not been out of his mind, and he could
steal this afternoon; so, with book and picture, he set out for Barker’s
Court, not much clearer about the way to heaven than he had been six
weeks before.
Barker’s Court was not inviting to-day, with its piles of garbage, and
wet clothes hanging about like so many miserable ghosts.
“Is it Misses Quinn ye want, or old Granny Quinn?” queried the woman he
questioned. “Granny lives up to th’ end, an’ Misses Quinn’s is the third
house, up-stairs.”
It was semi-twilight. He picked his way up and knocked gently.
So gently, Dil was sure of a customer for her mother. The babies were
asleep. Bess was fixed in her wagon. Dil had some patches of bright
colors that she was going to sew together, and make a new carriage rug.
She opened the door just a little way. He pushed it wider, and glanced
in.
“Oh, have you forgotten me?” he exclaimed. “Did you think I would not
come?”
Dil stood in a strange, sweet, guilty abasement. She had disbelieved
him. Bess gave a soft, thrilling cry of delight, and stretched out her
hands.
“I knew you would come,” and there was a tremulous exaltation in her
weak voice.
“I’ve only been in town a few days. I have been staying with a cousin
who met with a sad accident and is still ill. But I have run away for an
hour or two; and I have brought Bess’s picture.”
He was taking a little survey of the room. The stove shone. The floor
was clean. The white curtain made a light spot in the half gloom. The
warmth felt grateful, coming out of the chilly air, though it was rather
close. Dil did not look as well as on the summer day. Her eyes were
heavy, with purple shadows underneath; the “bang” of the morning had
left some traces. And Bess was wasted to a still frailer wraith, if such
a thing was possible.
They both looked up eagerly, as he untied the package, and slipped out
of an envelope a delicately tinted photograph.
“There, blue eyes, will it do for Dil?”
The child gave a rapturous cry. Dil stood helpless from astonishment.
“There ain’t no words good enough,” Dil said brokenly. “Leastways, I
don’t know any. O Bess, he’s made you look jes’ ’s if you was well. O
mister, will she look that way in heaven?” For Dil had a vague misgiving
she could never look that way on earth.
“She will be more beautiful, because she will never be ill again.”
“Dil’s right—there ain’t no words to praise it,” Bess said simply. “If
we was rich we’d give you hundreds and hundreds of dollars, wouldn’t we,
Dil?”
Dil nodded. Her eyes were full of tears. Something she had never known
before struggled within her, and almost rent her soul.
“And here is your book. You can read, of course?”
“I can read some. Oh, how good you are to remember.” She was deeply
conscience stricken.
The tone moved him immeasurably. His eyelids quivered. There were
thousands of poor children in the world, some much worse off than these.
He could not minister to all of them, but he did wish he could put these
two in a different home.
“I must go away again with my cousin, and I am sorry. I meant to”—what
could he do, he wondered—“to see more of you this winter; but a friend
of mine will visit you, and bring you a little gift now and then. You
must have spent all your money long ago,” flushing at the thought of the
paltry sum.
“We stretched it a good deal,” said Dil quaintly. “You see, I bought
Bess some clo’es, there didn’t seem much comin’ in for her. An’ the
fruit was so lovely. She’s been so meachin’.”
“Well, I am going to be—did you ever read Cinderella?” he asked eagerly.
“I ain’t had much time for readin’, an’ Bess couldn’t go to school but
such a little while.”
“And no one has told you the story?”
There was a curious eagerness in the sort of blank surprise.
“Well, this little Cinderella did kitchen work; and sat in the
chimney-corner when her work was done, while her sisters dressed
themselves up fine and went to parties. One evening a curious old woman
came, a fairy godmother, and touched her with a wand, a queer little
stick she always carried, and turned her old rags into silks and satins,
and made a chariot for her, and sent her to the ball at the king’s
palace.”
“Oh,” interposed Dil breathlessly, “she didn’t have to come back to her
rags, an’ chimney, an’ all, did she?”
“She did come back, because her fairy godmother told her to. But the
king’s son sent for her and married her.”
“Oh, if she’d only come to us, Dil!” Bess had a quicker and more vivid
imagination. She had not been so hard worked, nor had her head banged so
many times. “We’d have the char—what did you call it? an’ go to heaven.
Then you wouldn’t have to wheel me, Dil, an’ we’d get along so much
faster.” She laughed with a glad, happy softness, and her little face
was alight with joy. “Say, mister, you must think I’ve got heaven on the
brain. But if you’d had hurted legs so long, you’d want to get to the
Lord Jesus an’ have ’em made well. I keep thinkin’ over what you told us
’bout your Lord Jesus, an’ I know it’s true because you’ve come back.”
Such a little thing; such great faith! And he had been comparing claims,
discrepancies, and wondering, questioning, afraid to believe a delusion.
Was he truly his Lord Jesus? The simple belief of the children
touched, melted him. It was like finding a rare and exquisite blossom in
an arid desert. He wished he were not going away. He would like to care
for little Bess until the time of her release came. Ah, would they be
disillusioned when they came to know what the real pilgrimage was?
“There ain’t no fairies truly,” said Dil with pathetic gravity. “There
ain’t much of anything for poor people.”
“I can’t take you to a palace; but when I come back I mean you shall
have a nice, comfortable home in a prettier place—”
“Mother wouldn’t let Dil go on ’count of the babies. There ain’t but two
to-day, ’n’ she was awful mad! ’N’ I wouldn’t go athout Dil. No one else
’d know how to take care of me.”
“We will have that all right. And while I am gone you must have some
money to buy medicines and the little luxuries your mother cannot
afford.”
“She don’t buy nothin’ ever. I ain’t no good, ’cause I’ll never walk,
’n’ only Dil cares about me,” Bess said, as if she had so long accepted
the fact the sting was blunted.
“Yes, I care; and I will send a friend here to see you, a young lady,
and you need not be afraid to tell her of whatever you want. And Dil may
like to know—that I am going to put her in a picture, and the money will
be truly her own.”
He was not sure how much pride or personal delicacy people of this class
possessed.
“O Dil!” Bess was electrified with joy. “Oh, I hope you made Dil
look—just as she’d look if we lived in one of them beautiful houses, ’n’
had a maid ’n’ pretty clo’es, ’n’ no babies to take care of. We never
knowed any one like you afore. Patsey’s awful good to us, but he ain’t
fine like an’ soft spoken. Are you very rich, mister?”
He laughed.
“Only middling, but rich enough to make life a little pleasanter for you
when I come back.”
She seemed to be studying him.
“You look as if you lived in some of the fine, big houses. I’d like to
go in wan. An’ you know so much! You must have been to school a good
deal. Oh, how soft your hands are!”
She laughed delightedly as she enclosed one in both of hers, and then
pressed it to her cheek.
He stooped and kissed her. No one ever did that but Dil and Patsey.
“You’ll surely come back in time to go to heaven, soon as it’s pleasant
weather,” she said suddenly. “An’ Dil couldn’t be leaved behind. Mother
threatens to put her in a shop, an’ she does bang her head cruel. But I
wouldn’t want to be in a pallis an’ have everything, if I couldn’t have
Dil. An’ you’ll get it all fixed so’s we can go?”
Ah, ah! before that time Bess would have been folded in the everlasting
arms. There was a lump in his throat, and he began to untie the string
of the book to evade a more decisive answer.
It was an illustrated edition, simplified for children’s reading. He
turned some of the leaves and found one picture—Christiana ascending the
palace steps amid a host of angels.
From this squalid place and poverty, to that—how could he explain the
steps between? When he came back Bess would be gone—
    “Past night, past day,”
and he would give Dil a new and better chance in spite of her mother.
Dil drew a long, long breath.
“Can we all get to the pallis?” she asked, with a soft awe in her tone.
“Yes, there are many things to do—you will see what Christiana and Mercy
did. And if you love the Lord Jesus and pray to him—”
Poor Dil was again conscience smitten. Only this morning she had said
praying wasn’t any good. She glanced up through tears,—
“’Pears as if I couldn’t ever get to understand. I wasn’t smart at
school—”
“But you are smart,” interposed Bess. “An’ now we’ve got the book
we’ll find just how Christiana went. There’s only six months left.
You’ll surely be back by April?”
“I shall be back.” His heart smote him. He was a coward after all. Ah,
could he ever undertake any of the Master’s business?
“Do you remember a hymn an old lady sang for you once?” he said, glad of
even this faltering way out. “I have been learning the words.”
“’Bout everlasting spring?” and Bess’s eyes were alight. “Oh, do please
sing it! I’m in such an awful hurry for spring to come. Sometimes my
breath gets so short, as if I reely couldn’t wait.”
Dil raised her eyes with a slow, beseeching movement. He pushed a chair
beside the wagon, and held Bess’s small hands, that were full of leaping
pulses.
The sweet old hymn, almost forgotten amid the clash of modern music. Ah,
there was some one who would love and care for Dil in her desolation—his
grandmother. He would write to her. Then he began, and at the first note
the children were enraptured:—
    “There is a land of pure delight,
    Where saints immortal reign;
    Infinite day excludes the night,
    And pleasures banish pain.
    Oh, the transporting, rapturous scene,
    That dawns upon my sight;
    Sweet fields arrayed in living green,
    And rivers of delight.
    There everlasting spring abides,
    And never-withering flowers;
    Death, like a narrow sea, divides
    This heavenly land from ours.
    No chilling winds nor poisonous breath
    Can reach that blessed shore;
    Sickness and sorrow, pain and death,
    Are felt and feared no more.
    O’er all those wide extended plains,
    Shines one eternal day;
    There Christ the Son forever reigns,
    And scatters night away.
    Filled with delight, my raptured soul
    Can here no longer stay;
    Though Jordan’s waves around me roll,
    Fearless I launch away.”
John Travis had a tender, sympathetic voice. Just now he was more moved
by emotion than he would have imagined. Dil turned her face away and
picked up the tears with her fingers. It was too beautiful to cry about,
for crying was associated with sorrow or pain. A great inarticulate
desire thrilled through her, a blind, passionate longing for a better,
higher life, as if she belonged somewhere else. And, like Bess, an
impatience pervaded her to be gone at once.
“Oh, please do sing it again!” besought Bess in a transport, her face
spiritualized to a seraphic beauty. “Did they sing like that in the
Mission School, Dil?”
Dil shook her head in speechless ecstasy.
There was a knock, and then the door opened softly. It was Mrs. Murphy,
with her sick baby in her arms.
“Ah, dear,” she began deprecatingly, with an odd little old country
courtesy, “I heard the singing, an’ I said to poor old Mis’ Bolan,
‘That’s never the Salvation Army, for they do make such a hullabaloo;
but it must be a Moody an’ Sankey man that I wunst haird, with the v’ice
of an angel.’ An’ the pore craythur is a hankerin’ to get nearer. Will
ye lit her come down, plaise, or will ye come up?”
John Travis flushed suddenly. Dil glanced at her visitor aghast. Some
finer instinct questioned whether he were offended. But he smiled. If it
would give a poor old woman a pleasure—
Dil was considering a critical point. She had learned to be wise in
evading the fury of a half-drunken woman. There were many things she
kept to herself. But Mrs. Murphy would talk him over. A Moody and
Sankey man,—she had not a very clear idea; but if Mrs. Murphy knew, it
might be wisdom to have some one here who would speak a good word for
her if it should be needed.
“Ye can bring her down,” she answered, still looking at John Travis with
rising color.
She simply stepped into the hall; but the old woman was half-way
down-stairs, and needed no further summons.
“Ah, dear, it’s the v’ice of an angel shure. An’ though I’m not given to
them kind of maytins, on account of the praist, they do be beautiful an’
comfortin’ whiles they sing. Come in. It’s Dilly Quinn that’ll bid ye
welcome. For it’s the Moody an’ Sankey man.”
“Yer very good, Dilly Quinn, very good, to ask in a poor old woman;
though I’m main afeared of yer mother in a tantrum.” Her voice was
shrill and shaky, though she was not seventy; but poverty and hardships
age people fast. A bowed and shrunken woman, with thin, white,
straggling hair, watery, hungry-looking eyes, a wrinkled, ashen skin,
her lips a leaden blue and sunken from lack of teeth. She had one of
Mrs. Murphy’s rooms since the head of the house was safely bestowed
within prison limits. Mrs. Bolan’s only son had been killed in the war,
and she had her pension. Now and then some one gave her a little work
out of pity.
She dropped down on the lounge. “When I heard that there hymn,” she went
on quaveringly, “it took me back forty year an’ more. There was great
revival meetin’s. My poor old mother used to sing it. But meetin’s don’t
seem the same any more, or else we old folks kinder lost the end er
r’ligion.”
She was so pitiful, with her timorous, lonely look, and the hard
struggles time had written on her everywhere.
“Will you sing it for her?” Dil asked timidly, glancing up at Travis.
Some one else paused to listen and look in, and stared with strange
interest at the fine young fellow, whose rich, deep voice found a way to
their hearts. And as he sang, a realization of their pinched, joyless
lives filled him with dismay. Mrs. Bolan rocked herself too and fro, her
hands clutched tightly over her breast, as if she was hugging some
comfort she could not afford to let go. The tears rolled silently down
her furrowed cheeks.
The foreign part of the audience was more outspoken.
“Ah, did yez iver listen to the loikes! Shure, it would move the heart
of a sthone. It’s enough to take yez right t’ro’ to heaven widout the
laste taste o’ purgatory. Shure, Mrs. Kelly, it’s like a pack o’
troubles fallin’ off, an’ ye step out light an’ strong to yer work agen.
There’ll be a blissin’ for ye, young man, for the pleasure ye’ve given.”
Mrs. Bolan shuffled forward and caught his hand in hers, which seemed
almost to rattle, they were so bony.
“God bless you, sir.” Her voice was so broken it sounded like sobs. “An’
there’s something ’bout makin’ his face shine on you—I disremember, it’s
so long since I’ve read my Bible, more shame to me; but my eyes are so
old and bad, I hope the Lord won’t lay it up agen me. I’m a poor old
body, pushed outen the ranks. And you get kicked aside. Ye see, ’tain’t
every voice that takes one to heaven. Lord help us ’bout gettin’ in. But
mebbe he’ll be merciful to all who go astray. An’—if ye wouldn’t mind
sayin’ a bit of prayer, ’pears like ’twould comfort me to my dyin’ day.”
Her hungry eyes pleaded through their tears.
A bit of prayer! He had been praying a little for himself of late, but
it came awkward after his years of intellectual complacency. A youngish
woman was glancing at him in frightened desperation, as if she waited
for something to turn her very life. There was but one thing he could
think of in this stress—the divine mandate. Could anything be more
complete? When ye pray, say,—
“Our Father which art in heaven—”
VI—A WONDERFUL STORY
John Travis stood with upraised hand. Clearly, slowly, the words fell,
and you could hear only the labored respiration of the women. There was
a benediction—he could not recall it, but a verse of Scripture came into
his mind. “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the
world giveth give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither
let it be afraid.”
“The Lord will bless you,” said the trembling old woman.
He squeezed something into her hand as she turned to go. Mrs. Murphy’s
sickly baby began to cry, and one of Dil’s woke up. The little crowd
dispersed.
It began to grow dusky. Night came on early in Barker’s Court. Days were
shorter, and sunless at that.
Travis stepped back to Bess.
“I shall ask my friend to tell me all about you—she will write it. And I
shall come back.” He stooped and kissed Bess on the brow, for the last
time. Heaven help her on her lonely journey. But the Saviour who blessed
little children would be tender of her surely.
“We’ll all go—won’t we—to heaven? The singin’ was so beautiful. An’ the
everlastin’ spring.”
“Good-by.” He clasped Dil’s hand. “Remember, wherever you are, I shall
find you. Oh, do not be afraid, God will care for you.”
“I don’t seem to understand ’bout God,” and there was a great, strange
awe in Dil’s eyes. “But you’ve been lovely. I can understand that.”
One more glance at Bess, whose face was lighted with an exalted glow, as
if she were poised, just ready for flight. Oh, what could comfort Dil
when she was gone? And he had so much! He was so rich in home and
love.
A woman stood in the lower hallway, the half-despairing face he had
noted. She clutched his arm.
“See here,” she cried. “You said, ‘deliver us from evil.’ Is anybody—is
God strong enough to do it? From horrible evil—when there seems no other
way open—when you must see some one you love—die starvin’—an’ no work to
be had—O my God!”
The cry pierced him. Yes, there was a beneficent power in money. He gave
thanks for it, as he crushed it in her hand. How did the poor souls
live, herded in this narrow court? His father’s stable was a palace to
it in cleanliness.
He had reasoned about poverty being one of the judicious forces of the
world. He had studied its picturesque aspects, its freedom from care and
responsibility, its comfortable disregard of conventionals, its happy
indifference to custom and opinion. Did these people look joyous and
content? Why, their faces even now haunted him with the weight of
hopeless sorrow. Oh, what could he do to ease the burthen of the world?
Dil picked up the baby after she had lighted the lamp. She was still in
a maze, as if some vision had come and gone. Was he really here? Or had
she been in a blissful dream?
“Come an’ spell out what he’s written—an’—an’ his name, Dil!”
Bess was studying the fly-leaf. Yes, there it was, “John Travis.”
“I wisht it wasn’t John,” said Bess, a little disappointed. “He ought to
have a fine, grand name, he’s so splendid. Rich people have nice ways,
that poor people can’t seem to get.”
“No, they can’t get ’em, they can’t,” Dil repeated, with a despairing
sense of the gulf between. She had never thought much about rich people
before.
“You’d better hide the book, an’ the money, ’fore Owny comes in,” said
Bess fearfully. “I don’t even dast to look at the pictures. But we’ll
have it a good many days when mammy’s out, an’ I must learn to read the
hard words. O Dil! if I had two good legs, I would jump for joy.”
Dil wanted to sit down and cry from some unknown excess of feeling—she
never had time to cry from pure joy. But she heeded Bess’s admonition,
and hid their precious gifts. Then she stirred the fire and put on the
potatoes. It was beginning to rain, and the boys came in noisily. The
babies went home, and they had supper.
It was quite late when Mrs. Quinn returned home, and she threw a bundle
on the lounge. The boys being in, and Bess out of the way, she had
nothing to scold about. She had had her day’s work praised, and a good
supper in the bargain. Then cook had given her a “drap of the craythur”
to keep out the cold. And she could have two days’ work every week
“stiddy,” so she resolved to throw over some poorer customer.
But when Mrs. Murphy came down with a few potatoes in her hand that she
had borrowed, and full of her wonderful news, Dil’s heart sank within
her like lead.
“An’ what do ye think?” the visitor began incautiously. “Poor old Mrs.
Bolan is half wild with all the singin’ an’ the beautiful prisint he gev
her.”
“What prisint?” asked Mrs. Quinn peremptorily.
“Why, it was a five-dollar bill. I thought first she’d faint clear away
wid joy.”
“What man?” eying them both suspiciously.
Dil’s lips moved, but her throat was so dry she could not utter a sound.
“Wan of them Moody an’ Sankey men that do be singin’ around, an’
prayin’. An’ ye niver heard sich an’ iligant v’ice even at the free and
easies! Why, Mrs. Quinn, it’s my belafe, in spite of the praist, he cud
draw a soul out o’ purgatory just wid his singin’. Mrs. Bolan’s that
’raptured she does nothin’ but quaver about wid her shaky old v’ice. Ah,
dear—ave ye cud hev heard him!”
“To the divil wid him! Comin’ round to git money out’v poor folks. I
knows ’em. Dil, did you give him a cint?”
“I didn’t have any; but he didn’t ast for none,” and the poor child had
hard work to steady her voice.
“An’ ye’r mistaken, Mrs. Quinn, if ye think the likes of sich a
gentleman would be beggin’ of the poor,” returned Mrs. Murphy
indignantly. “An’ he a-gevin a poor ould craythur five dollars! An’ they
do be goin’ around a-missionin’ with their prayers and hymns.”
“I know ’em. An’ the praists an’ the sisters beggin’ the last cint, an’
promisin’ to pray ye outen purgatory! Mrs. Murphy,” with withering
contempt, “them men cuddent pray ye outen a sewer ditch if ye fell in!
An’ I won’t have them comin’ here—ye hear that, Dilsey Quinn! If I catch
a Moody an’ Sankey man here, I’ll break ivery bone in his body, an’
yours too; ye hear that now!”
Mrs. Quinn was evidently “spilin’ for a fight.” Mrs. Murphy went off in
high dudgeon without another word.
But she stopped to pour out her grievance to Mrs. Garrick on her floor.
“Shure, I pity them childers, for their mother do be the worst haythen
an’ infidel, not belayvin’ a word about her own sowl, an’ spindin’ her
money for gin as she do. She was a foine-lukin’ woman, an’ now her eyes
is all swelled up, an’ her nose the color of an ould toper. An’ that
poor little Bess dyin’ afore her very eyes widout a bit of a mass, or
even christenin’ I belayve. I’m not that bigoted, Mrs. Garrick, though
the praists do say there bees but the wan way. I’m willin’ that people
shall try their own ways, so long as they save their sowls; but pore,
helpless bits of childer that can’t know! An’ what are their mothers put
in the wurruld for but to tache them? But when ye don’t belayve ye have
a sowl of yer own it’s awful! There’s them b’ys runnin’ wild—an’ a
moighty good thing it’ll be whin they’re in the ’form-school, kapin’ out
o’ jail, an’ wuss!”
Dil sat in awful fear when the door had closed behind their neighbor.
She took up Owen’s trousers—the rent was sufficient to send any boy
early to bed.
That recalled her mother. She threw the bundle towards Dil.
“There’s some clo’es ye kin be fixin’ up for Dan, whin ye’ve so much
time as to be spindin’ it on Moody and Sankey men, drat ’em! foolin’
’round an’ wastin’ valyble time. Next I’ll hear that ye’ve ast in the
organ man an’ the monkey, and I’ll come home to find ye givin’ a pairty.
An’ ye’ll hev yer head broke for it, that ye will!”
So long as it was not broken now, Dil gave secret thanks. Did God help
any? Then, why didn’t he help other times when things were very bad? She
examined the suit, and found it a nice one, rather large for Dan, who
was not growing like a weed, although he ran the streets.
Her mother began to snore. She would be good for some hours’ sound
sleep. So Dil stole into the little room, and began to prepare Bess for
bed, though she trembled with a half fear.
“O Dil, I didn’t hardly dast to breathe! An’ if she’d known he come in
here an’ sung, she’d murdered us! An’ it made me feel glad like that he
was goin’ away, for mammy might happen to be home when he come—though
don’t you b’lieve he’d take us away right then? An’—an’ wasn’t it lucky
you didn’t have to tell about the—”
Bess held the bill up in her hand.
“Le’s put it in the book, an’ hide the book in the bottom of the wagon.
An’, Dil, I can’t help feeling light like, as if I was goin’ to float.
Think of that splendid place, an’ no night, an’ no winter, an’ all
beautiful things. Oh, I wisht he’d gev us the words too; I’m most sure I
could sing ’em. An’ the best of all is that mammy won’t be there, cause,
you see, ’twouldn’t please her any, and I’d be awful feared. She’d
ruther stay here an’ drink gin.”
They had not gone far enough in the Christian life, poor ignorant little
souls, to have much missionary spirit. But they kissed, and kissed
softly, in the half-dark, and cried a little—tender tears touched with a
sadness that was as sweet as joy.
Dil stepped about cautiously, emptied the grate, and did up her
night-work. There seemed a certainty about heaven that she had not
experienced before, a confidence in John Travis that gave her a stubborn
faith. He would surely return in the spring. They would go out some day
and never, never come back to Barker’s Court.
She fell asleep in her visionary journey when she was up beyond Central
Park. She was always so tired, and this night quite exhausted. But Bess
kept floating on a sea of delicious sound; and if ever one had visions
of the promised land, it was Bessy Quinn.
There were seven babies in the next morning, it being a sharp, clear
day. Mrs. Quinn had gone off about her business with no row. When Bess
had been dressed and had her breakfast, they drew out the precious book.
“I’ll jes’ cover it with a bit of old calico an’ no one will mistrust,
for you can jes’ slip it down in the carriage. An’ we’ll get out that
old speller of Owny’s, so mother can see that around if we do be taken
by s’prise.”
They looked at the pictures as the babies would allow them the leisure,
and spelled out the explanation underneath. It was so wonderful, though
at times they were appalled by the difficulties and dangers. And it was
almost night when they reached the crowning-point of all,—Christiana
going across the river.
“All the banks beyond the river were full of horses and chariots which
were come down from above to accompany her to the City Gate.” Her
friends were thronging round. She was entering the river with a fearless
step and uplifted face.
“Why, Dil, she jes’ walked right acrost.” Bess gave a joyous little
laugh. “You see, she couldn’t get drownded, because that Lord Jesus had
made it all right an’ safe, jes’ as he carried people in his arms. I’m
so glad we know. You see, when we get to the river, an’ it will be way,
way above Cent’l Park, when we’ve been through these giants an’ all—an’
I’m ’most afraid of thim; but the man did not let ’em hurt her, an’
he, our man, won’t let ’em hurt us. An’ we’ll jest step right in the
river,—maybe he’ll carry me acrost on account of my poor little
legs,—an’ we sha’n’t be a mite afraid, for he won’t let us drown. O Dil,
it’ll be so lovely! An’ here’s the pallis!”
There was the “throng that no man can number,” welcoming Christiana.
Angels with spreading wings and rapturous faces. Her husband coming to
meet her, and the Lord Jesus ministering an abundant welcome.
What a day it was! Never was day so short, so utterly delightful. Some
of the babies were cross: out of seven little poorly born and poorly
nourished babies, there were wants and woes; but Dil hugged them,
cuddled them, crooned to them, with a radiant bliss she had never known
before. She could look so surely at the end.
An old debt of half a dollar came in, and there were thirty-five cents
for the babies. Dan had on his new suit too, and altogether Mrs. Quinn
was remarkably good-natured. Dil felt almost conscience-smitten about
the book—but then the story would have to come out, and alas!
After that they began to read the wonderful story. Dil was not much of a
scholar. Her school-days had been few and far between, never continuous
enough to give her any real interest. Indeed, she had not been bright at
her books, and her mother had not cared. School was something to fill up
the time until children were old enough to go to work. But Dil surely
had enough to fill up her time.
Bess would have far outstripped her in learning. But Dil had a shrewd
head, and was handy with her needle. She possessed what Yankee people
call “faculty;” and her training had given her a sharp lookout for any
short cuts in what she had to do, as well as a certain tact in evading
or bridging over rough places.
But the reading was very hard labor. They did not know the meaning or
the application of words, and their pronouncing ability was indeed
halting.
They had not even attained to the practical knowledge acquired by
mingling with other children. Dil’s life had been pathetic in its
solitariness, like the loneliness of a strange crowd. Other children had
not “taken to her.” Her days had been all work. She would have felt
awkward and out of place playing with anything but a baby.
Bess found the most similitudes in Christiana. Even John Travis would
have been amused by her literal interpretation. Though it had been
simplified for children’s reading, it was far above their limited
capacity. But the pictures helped so much; and when Dil could not get
“the straight of it,” when the spiritual part tried and confused their
brains, they turned to Christiana crossing the river and entering
heaven.
Valiant Mr. Greatheart appealed strongly to Bess.
“He’s got such a strong, beautiful name,” she declared enthusiastically.
“He always comes when there’s troubles, an’ gettin’ lost, an’ all that.
I ’most wish his name was Mr. Greatheart. He could fight, I know; not
this common, hateful fightin’ down here in the court, but with giants
an’ wild beasts. An’ there were the boys, Dil; but I s’pose Owny
wouldn’t care ’bout goin’.”
“Well,” Dil hesitated curiously, “you’ve got to try to be good some way,
an’ Owny wouldn’t quit swearin’ an’ snivyin’ when he got a chance. An’ I
don’t think he’d understand. Then he might tell mammy ’bout our plans.”
“An’ mammy jes’ wouldn’t let you stir a step, I know. An’ I couldn’t go
athout you, Dil, though there’ll be many people on the road. I was most
feared it would be lonesome like.”
“An’ I’ll be gettin’ a few clo’es ready, the best of thim. I’ll wash an’
iron your new white dress when we don’t go out no more, an’ put it away
kerful. An’ I hope some one will give mother some clo’es for a big girl!
I’ll be so glad to go, for sometimes I’m so tired I jes’ want to drop.”
“But October’s ’most gone. An’ last winter don’t seem long to me now,
an’ the summer that was so hot,—but it had that beautiful Sat’day when
we found him. An’ to think of havin’ him forever ’n’ ever!”
Dil gave a long sigh. She was as impatient as Bess, but she hardly dared
set her heart upon the hope.
She was a very busy little woman, and her mind had to be on her work.
The garments given to the boys had, of course, the best taken out of
them, and Owen was hard on his clothes. As for the stockings, their
darning was a work of labor, if not of love. Bess had to be kept warm
and comfortable, and Dil tried to make her pretty as well. There were
some rainy Saturdays, and the one baby often came in that day. But she
tried to give Bess an airing on Sunday. It was such a change for the
poor little invalid.
Mrs. Quinn was better pleased to be busy all the time. Besides the
money, which was really needed now that fires were more expensive, she
liked the change, the gossiping and often it was a pleasure to find
fault with her customers. She still went to Mrs. MacBride’s of an
evening.
With the advent of November came a week of glorious Indian summer
weather. And one Saturday Mrs. Quinn was to do some cleaning at a fine
house, and stay to help with a grand dinner. Dil rushed through with her
work, and they went up to the Square that afternoon, and sat in the old
place. The sparrows came and chirped cheerfully; but the flowers were
gone, the trees leafless. Yet it was delightful to picture it all again.
John Travis would have felt sorry for Dil to-day—perhaps if he had seen
her for the first time he would not have been so instantly attracted.
Her eyes were heavy, her skin dark and sodden. Even Bess grew weary with
the long ride. But they shopped a little again; and Dil was extravagant
enough to buy some long, soft woollen stockings for Bess’s “poor, hurted
legs.”
“I’m so tired,” she said afterward. “’Tain’t quite like summer, is it?
Make up a good fire, Dil, an’ get me snappin’ warm.”
She did not want much to eat. Even the grapes had lost their flavor.
“I wish you could sing that beautiful hymn,” she said to Dil. “I’d just
like to hear it, ’cause it keeps floatin’ round all the time, an’ don’t
get quite near enough. O Dil! don’t you s’pose you can sing in heaven?”
“Seems to me I heard at the Mission School that everybody would. If the
Lord Jesus can mend your legs, I’m sure he can put some music in my
throat.”
“We’ll ask him right away. Then read to me a little.”
Bess fell asleep presently. Dil made slow work spelling out the words
and not knowing half the meanings. Her seasons at the Mission School had
always been brief, from various causes. Now and then some visitor came
in, but the talk was often in phrases that Dil did not understand. She
had not a quick comprehension, neither was she an imaginative child.
Looking now at Bess’s pinched and pallid face a strange fear entered her
mind. Would Bess be strong enough in the spring to take the long
journey? For it was so much longer than she imagined, and Bess couldn’t
be made well until they reached the Lord Jesus. There was a vague
misgiving tugging at her heart. They ought to have gone that lovely
Saturday.
They talked so much about John Travis that they almost forgot what he
had said about his friend. They were husbanding their small resources
for the time of need. There had been so many babies that Dil had not
needed to make up deficiencies. Sometimes they felt quite afraid of
their hiding-place, and Dil made a little bag and put it around Bess’s
neck, so no one would come upon the money unaware.
The touch of Indian summer was followed by a storm and cool, brisk
winds. It was too cold to take Bess out, even if she had cared; but she
had been rather drooping all the week. There was a baby in, also, and
Bess kept in her own room, as she often did Saturday morning, to be out
of the way of her mother’s sharp frowns.
Dil had gone of an errand. Mrs. Quinn sat furbishing up an ulster she
had bought at a second-hand store at a great bargain. The baby was
asleep on the lounge. When Dil returned, a dreadful something met her on
the threshold that made her very heart stand still.
“I have come from a Mr. Travis, to see the children. He has gone abroad,
and he asked me to look after them.”
This was what had gone before—very little, indeed. Mrs. Quinn had
answered, “Come in,” to a tap at the door; and there had entered a
rather pretty, well-dressed, well-bred young woman, who considered
herself quite an important member of the charitable world. She saw a
clean-looking room with more comforts than usual, and she gave a sharp
glance around the corners.
Mrs. Quinn received her very civilly, considering her a possible
customer.
“You have a little girl who is an invalid, I believe?” she queried.
“That I have,” was the brief reply.
The stranger glanced at the two open doors, and wondered; was the child
in bed?
The next sentence was what Dil had caught. Miss Nevins checked herself
suddenly. Mr. Travis had said, “See the children alone if you can. Their
mother is out to work most of the time, and it will be an easy matter.
But do not give any money to the woman for them; they will not get it.”
“Well—what?” asked Mrs. Quinn sharply, with an aspect that rather
nonplussed the lady. “Whin did he see so much of thim, an’ come to think
they needed his attintion?”
“Why—when he was here—”
“Was he here now? an’ what called him?”
Mrs. Quinn gave her visitor an insolent stare that rendered her very
uncomfortable.
“I—I really do not know when. Kindly disposed people do visit the
sick and the needy. I go to a great many places—”
“Av ye plaise,” she interrupted, “we’re not paupers. I’m well enough, ye
see, to be takin’ care of me own childers. An’ he nor no one else nade
throubble theirselves. I’m not askin’ charity; an’ av they did it
unbeknownst to me, I’ll hammer thim well, that I will! They’re as well
off as common folk, an’ ye needn’t be worritin’. Av that’s all ye come
fer, ye kin be goin’ about yer own bisniss, bedad! An’ ye kin tell Mr.
What’s-his-name that I’m not sufferin’ fer help.”
This was not the fashion in which Miss Nevins was generally received.
“You do not understand”—with rising color. “We desire to be of whatever
service we can; and if your child is ill, you cannot have a better
friend—”
“Frind! is it? Bedad, I kin choose me own frinds! An’ if he knows whin
he’s well off, he’ll not show his foine forrum here, er his mug’ll get a
party mash on it. Frind, indade!”
The irate woman looked formidable as she rose, but Miss Nevins did not
mean to be daunted.
“You may see the time when you will be glad of a friend, though you need
not worry about his coming. I shall tell him you are not worth his
interest. As for the child”—and her indignation sparkled in her eyes.
“The child wants none of his help, ye kin tell him. I kin look afther
her mesilf.”
“Good-day,” and the visitor opened the door. Dil stepped back in the
obscurity. The lady held up her fine cloth gown, and gave her nose a
haughty wrinkle or two as she inhaled the stifling air once, and then
did not breathe until she was in the court.
“Such a horrid hole!” she commented. “The child ought to be moved to a
hospital—or perhaps she is well by this time. John is so easily taken
in—his swans so often turn out to be geese. As if I would have given
her any money, the impudent, blowsy thing! I know pretty well how far to
trust that class! Though it’s rather funny,” and she smiled in the midst
of her disgust; “they are always whining and pleading poverty, and will
be abject enough for a quarter. And she was very high and mighty! I’ll
write a good long letter to John about it, but I won’t trouble her
ladyship again.”
Dil stood shaking with terror, and some moments elapsed before she had
courage enough to open the door. She was in a degree prepared for a line
of defence.
Her mother seized her by the arm, and fairly shouted at her,—
“Who was the man who kim to see ye, ye young huzzy?”
“Man! When did a man come? I don’t remember,” assuming surprise.
“I’ll help yer mem’ry thin wid that;” and Dil’s ears rang with the sound
of the blow.
“There wasn’t any man since the wan that sang a long whiles ago. Mrs.
Murphy knew. She said he was a Moody an’ Sankey man, an’ that they do be
goin’ round singin’ and prayin’. An’ they all stood in the hall, the
women about. Mrs. Murphy kin tell you.”
Mrs. Quinn was rather nonplussed.
“What did he gev ye?”
“Nothin’,” sobbed Dil. “It was poor old Mrs. Bolan that had the money.”
“Not a cint?” She took Dil by the shoulder. “Dil Quinn, I don’ no
whether to belave yer; but if he’d gev ye any money, an’ ye’d bin such a
deceivin’ little thafe, I’d break ivery bone in yer mean little body.
Howld yer tongue! I ain’t done nothin’ but ast a civil question.”
Dil tried to stop sobbing. Her mother was in a hurry to get out, or
matters might have been worse.
“Stop yer snivelin’,” commanded her mother. “But if I hear of any more
men singin’ round, I’ll make ye wish yer never been born.”
The baby cried at this juncture, and Dil took it up. Mrs. Quinn went
out, and there would be peace until midnight.
Bess sat in the carriage, wild-eyed and ghostly, trembling in every
limb.
“It was a norful lie!” sobbed Dil. “But if I’d told her, she’d killed
me! He wouldn’t a done such a thing; but nobody’d darst to tackle him,
an’ rich people don’t beat an’ bang.”
“You didn’t tell no lie,” said Bess in a sudden strong voice. “He
never gev you no money. ’Twarn’t your money ’t all. Doncher know he put
it in the bag the first time when you was feared to take it, an’ he jes’
dropped it down here in the side of the kerrige. He never gev you a
penny. An’ it was my money.”
“O Bess! Ye’r such a bright, smart little thing! If you’d been well we’d
just kept ahead of mother all the time;” and now the sunshine slanted
over the brown quartz eyes that were swimming in tears. “I d’n’ know,
but I should have hated norful to tell a lie ’bout him. He seems—well, I
can’t somehow git the right words; but’s if you wanted to be all on the
square when he liked you. I don’t b’leve he’d so much mind yer snivyin’
out a nickel when there was a good many babies, an’ puttin’ it back when
there wasn’t, to save gettin’ yer head busted. But he wouldn’t tell no
lie. He kem when he said he would an’ brought Christiana, an’ he’ll come
in the spring, sure.”
“Yes, sure,” said Bess, with a faint smile. “But you better ast Mrs.
Murphy to keep the book a few days, for mammy might go snoopin’ about—”
“I just will; but I don’t b’leve she’d dast to hustle you round and find
the money. An’ now a week’s gone, an’ there’s only three left, en then
it’ll be anuther month, an’ O Bess, spring! spring!”
There was an exultant gladness in Dil’s voice.
VII—MARTYRED CHRISTIANA.
Dil was always so tired, she went to sleep at once from exhaustion. But
to-night every nerve seemed in a quiver. They had found some medicine
that soothed Bess and kept her from coughing, so she slept better than
in the summer. Dil tossed and tumbled. There had been given her a
magnificent endowment of physical strength, and the dull apathy of
poverty had kept her from a prodigal waste of nerve force. She was what
people often called stolid, but she had never been roused. How many poor
souls live and die with most of their energies dormant.
There had never been but one dream to Dil’s life, and that was Bess.
Here her imagination had some play. When they took their outings through
the more respectable streets for the cleanliness and quiet, or paused
awhile in the green and flowery squares, she sometimes “made believe”
that Bess was the lovely child in the elegant carriage, with wraps of
eider down and lace, and she the nurse-maid in white apron and cap who
trundled her along jauntily. Or else it was Bess, blue-eyed and
golden-haired, sitting in a real “grown-up” carriage with her pretty
mamma in silks and satins. The little nurse-maid was at home, putting
everything in order, and waiting for the lovely princess to come back
and tell her all she had seen. That and heaven had been the extent of
her romancing.
But to-night a curious, separate life stirred within her. A
consciousness of the great difference between such people as John
Travis, even the lady in the hall who had so disdainfully gathered up
her skirts and scattered a faint fragrance about. Why was such a great
difference made? Why should she and Bess be Honor Quinn’s children?
Would another mother be given them in heaven?
The mothers in the court seemed to love their little babies, yet
afterward they beat and banged them about. But the children in that
clean, beautiful world where there was no pain, the children in
heaven—ah! ah! She was not crying with human passion; it was the deep
anguish of the soul that cannot even find vent in tears, the throes of
an awful inward pain, that seldom, thank God, comes to the young, that
dense ignorance often keeps from the very poor.
“Took them in his arms.” That was what John Travis had said. She was so
tired to-night—not the fatigue of hard work altogether, but a great
aching that had no name. If she could be taken in some one’s arms!
Dilsey Quinn could not remember being held, though her mother had been
proud of her first-born, and fond too, in those days.
If Mrs. Quinn’s life had been a little more prosperous, if she had lived
in a cottage with a patch of ground, a cow and some chickens, and the
wholesome surroundings of the little village where she had reigned a
sort of rural queen, her children might have known love and tenderness.
But the babies had come fast. Her man had taken to drink. They were
crowded in among the poor and ignorant, where brawls and oaths, drinking
and cruelty, were daily food. Ah, what wonder one lapses into barbarism!
For the last half-dozen years she had slaved, and sometimes gone hungry.
She could have strangled little Dan when he came, for adding to her
burthens. How much of the peril of the soul depends upon the
surroundings!
And now Dil longed for the strong arms to be about her. Do you wonder
she had so little idea of a heavenly Father? The teaching of the Mission
School had been measured by the hard, bare materialism of poverty, quite
as upas-like as the materialism of philosophy. It had a rather dainty
aspect when John Travis dallied with it among his college compeers; but
it seems shocking when these hundreds of little children cannot even
formulate the idea of a God. And though Dil stretched out her hands with
an imploring moan, it was for some present and personal comfort.
Owny came creeping in softly, and just saved his skin, for to-night his
mother returned earlier than usual. She was growing stout, and walked
solidly. She seemed to be puttering about. Then she pushed Dil’s door
wide open, and there was barely room for her. The lamp stood on the
floor outside. Dil’s “chest of drawers” was covered with a curtain of
various pieces, and she had ornamented the top with treasures found amid
the cast-off Christmas and Easter cards that had fallen to her when more
favored children had tired of them. A cigar-box was covered with some
bits of silk, and held a few paltry “treasures.” Some fancy beads, a
tarnished bangle, a bit of ribbon, and so on, she found as she dumped
them in her apron and then thrust them back. Next she dragged the
articles out of the improvised “drawers,” and shook them one by one.
Nothing contraband fell out. There was nothing to reward her search, and
she glared at the child in the faded, shabby wagon.
Dil hardly breathed. She remembered in that half-frozen, fascinated sort
of way that horrible events will rise up, ghost-like, in times of
terror—that one night last winter, a woman farther up the court had
murdered her two little children, and then killed herself. She was cold
with an awful apprehension of evil. Even though she kept her eyes
closed, she could seem to see with that awesome, inward sight.
Mrs. Quinn thrust her hand under Bess’s pillow, under her bed, and the
poor child gave a broken, disturbed half-cry. Her efforts were
fruitless; but before Dil could give a sound to her horrible fear, she
had turned and was facing her. Then Dil sprang partly up, but the scream
curdled in her throat.
“Oh, ye naydent disturb yersilf this time o’ night. I was jist lookin’
in upon me two gals that the man was so distrissed about. Dil Quinn, av’
ye iver go to the bad like some gals, I’ll not lave a square inch of
skin on yer body, ner a whole bone inside. I’ll have no men singin’
round whiles I’m not here. You shut the door on ’em, jist. You’re a
humbly little runt, God knows, but thim kind is purty hard whin they
once set out. Ye mind, now! An’ that un—”
She shook her fist, and backed out of the room, for she could hardly
have turned around. Bess moaned, but she was not awake. Dil used all her
strength to suppress a scream, while a cold perspiration oozed from
every pore.
When she dared, after the lamp was out, she rose and changed Bess to a
more comfortable position. Ah, if the book had been there! The child
shuddered with vague apprehension.
All the rest of the night she lay fearfully awake, and the next morning
she looked ghastly. Even her mother was moved.
“You don’t look well, Dil,” she said. “What’s got yer?”
“My head aches.” Had she dreamed that horrible vision of the night?
“Take some queuann. Ye’ve no toime to be sick. Ye spind too much toime
over the brat there. An’ it’ll be a mercy whin it’s all over. I cuddent
stan’ it mesilf much longer.”
Patsey came that afternoon. Business was good, and he had a few dimes in
the bank. He and three other boys boarded with an old woman.
“But I’ve been thinkin’, Dil, that if we had you instid o’ the old
woman! She can’t make an Irish stew worth shucks, an’ yers wud jist make
a felly sing in his sleep. Whin I git some money ahead I’ll jist have
youse come. Yer mammy’ll not mind if ye take Bess.”
Dil smiled. It was lovely of Patsey, but they would be going to heaven
then. She wondered why they didn’t care to take Patsey along when they
were so fond of him. He wouldn’t want to go—how she knew that she could
not tell, either.
He brought Bess a splendid orange and some candy and an illustrated
paper. The pictures were very entertaining.
“Bess is lookin’ slim,” he said. “She wants to go out in the fresh air.”
“But it’s so cold, an’ it just goes over me an’ all through, as if I
hadn’t half enough clo’es on. No, I must stay in an’ keep good an’ warm,
an’ get well by spring.”
“That’s the talk,” and Patsey smiled.
When he was gone and they were all alone, they looked at each other
curiously.
“’Twould be nice to go an’ live with Patsey if we wasn’t goin’ to
heaven,” Bess said. “I do be so afeard of mammy sometimes.”
“An’ she rummiged last night, Bess, on the shelves an’ in your bed; an’
if it hadn’t been for yer wit she’d a found the book. I was so glad it
