and Huck Finn, that's always wandering from the 
subject and ain't got any more sense, than to try to 
reason out a thing that's pure theology by the laws 
that protects real estate.' 

Now, that's just where Tom Sawyer warn't fair. 
Jim didn't mean no harm, and I didn't mean no 
harm. We knowed well enough that he was right 
and we was wrong, and all we was after was to get 
at the how of it — that was all; and the only 
reason he couldn't explain it so we could understand 
it was because we was ignorant — yes, and pretty 
dull, too, I ain't denying that ; but land ! that ain't 
no crime, I should think. 

But he wouldn't hear no more about it ; just 
said if we had tackled the thing in a proper spirit 
he would 'a' raised a couple of thousand knights 
and put them up in steel armour from head to hee], 
and made me a lieutenant and Jim a sutler, and 
took the command himself, and brushed the whole 
paynim outfit into the sea like flies, and come back 
across the world in a glory like sunset. But he 
said we didn't know enough to take the chance 
when we had it, and he wouldn't ever offer it again. 
And he didn't. When he once got set, you couldn't 
budge him. 

But I didn't care much. I am peaceable, and 
don't get up no rows with people that ain't doing 
nothing to me. I allowed if 
the paynims was satisfied I 
was, and we would let it stand 
at that. 
Now, Tom he got all that wild notion out of 
Walter Scott's books, which he was always reading. 
And it was a wild notion, because in my opinion 
he never could 'a' raised the men, and if he did, as 
like as not he would  got licked. I took the 
books and read all about it, and as near as I 
could make it out, most of the folks that shook 
farming to go crusading had a mighty rocky time 
of it. 


CHAPTER II 

Well, Tom got up one thing after another, but 
they all had sore places in them somewheres, and 
he had to shove them aside. So at last he was 
'most about in despair. Then the St. Louis papers 
begun to talk a good deal about the balloon that 
was going to sail to Europe, and Tom sort of 
thought he wanted to go down and see what it 
looked like, but couldn't make up his mind. But 
the papers went on talking, and so he allowed that 
maybe if he didn't go he mightn't ever have 
another chance to see a balloon ; and next, he
found out that Nat Parsons was going down to see 
it, and that decided him, of course. He wasn't 
going to have Nat Parsons coming back bragging 
about seeing the balloon and him having to listen 
to it and keep his head shut. So he wanted me 
and Jim to go too, and we went. 

It was a noble big balloon, and had wings, and 
fans, and all sorts of things, and wasn't like any 
balloon that is in the pictures. It was away out 
towards the edge of town, in a vacant lot corner of 
Twelfth Street, and there was a big crowd around it 
making fun of it, and making fun of the man — 
which was a lean, pale feller with that soft kind of 
moonlight in his eyes, you know — and they kept say- 
ing it wouldn't go. It made him hot to hear them, 
and he would turn on them and shake his fist and 
say they was animals and blind, but some day they 
would find they'd stood face to face with one of the 
men that lifts up nations and makes civilisations, 
and was too dull to know it, and right here on this 
spot their own children and grandchildren would 
build a monument to him that would last a thou- 
sand years, but his name would outlast the monu- 
ment ; and then the crowd would burst out in a 
laugh again, and yell at him, and ask him what was 
his name before he was married, and what he would 
take to don't, and what was his sister's cat's grand- 
mother's name, and all them kind of things that a 
crowd says when they've got hold of a feller they 
see they can plague. Well, the things they said 
was fanny — yes, and mighty witty too, I ain't 
denying that ; but all the same it warn't fair nor 
brave, all them people pitching on one, and they 
so glib and sharp, and him without any gift of talk 
to answer back with. But good land ! what did he 
icant to sass back for ? You see, it couldn't do him 
no good, and it was just nuts for them. They had 
him, you know. But that was his way ; I reckon 
he couldn't help it : he was made so, I judge. He 
was a good enough sort of a cretur, and hadn't no 
harm in him, and was just a genius, as the papers 
said, which wasn't his fault. We can't all be sound : 
we've got to be the way we are made. As near as 
I can make out, geniuses think they know it all, 
and so they won't take people's advice, but always 
go their own way, which makes everybody forsake 
them and despise them, and that is perfectly 
natural. If they was humbler, and listened and 
tried to learn, it would be better for them. 

The part the professor was in was like a boat, 
and was big and roomy, and had water-tight 
lockers around the inside to keep all sorts of things 
in, and a body could set on them and make beds on 
them too. We went aboard, and there was twenty 
people there, snooping around and examining, and 
old Nat Parsons was there too. The professor kept 
fussing around getting ready, and the people went 
ashore, drifting out one at a time, and old Nat he 
was the last. Of course it wouldn't do to let him go 
out behind us. We mustn't budge till he was gone, 
so we could be last ourselves. 

But he was gone now, so it was time for us to 
follow. I heard a big shout, and turned around — 
the city was dropping from under us like a shot ! 
It made me sick all through, I was so scared. Jim 
turned grey, and couldn't say a word, and Tom 
didn't say nothing but looked excited. The city 
went on dropping down, and down, and down, but 
we didn't seem to do nothing but hang in the 
air and stand still. The houses got smaller and 
smaller, and the city pulled itself together closer and 
closer, and the men and waggons got to looking like 
ants and bugs crawling about, and the streets was 
like cracks and threads ; and then it all kind of 
melted together, and there wasn't any city any more : 
it was only a big scab on the earth, and it seemed 
to me a body could see up the river and down the 
river about a thousand miles, though of course it 
wasn't so much. By-and-by the earth was a ball 
-just a round ball, of a dull colour, with shiny 
stripes wriggling and winding around over it, which 
was rivers. And the weather was getting pretty 
chilly. The widder Douglas always told me the 
world was round like a ball, but I never took no 
stock in a lot of them superstitions o' hern, and of 
course I paid no attention to that one because 
I could see myself that the world was the shape of 
a plate, and flat. I used to go up on the hill and 
take a look all around and prove it for myself, 
because I reckon the best way to get a sure thing 
on a fact is to go and examine for yourself and not 
take it on anybody's say-so. But I had to give in, 
now, that the widder was right. That is, she was 
right as to the rest of the world, but she warn't 
right about the part our village is in : that part is 
the shape of a plate, and flat, I take my oath. 

The professor was standing still all this time 
like he was asleep, but he broke loose, now, and 
he was mighty bitter. He says something like 
this : 

'Idiots ! they said it wouldn't go. And they 
wanted to examine it and spy around and get the 
secret of it out of me. But I beat them. Nobody 
knows the secret but me ! Nobody knows what 
makes it move but me ; and it's a new power ! A 
new power, and a thousand times the strongest in 
the earth. Steam's foolishness to it. They said 
I couldn't go to Europe. To Europe ! why there's 
power aboard to last five years, and food for three 
months. They are fools — what do they know about 
it ? Yes, and they said my air-ship was flimsy ; 
why, she's good for fifty years. I can sail the skies 
all my life if I want to, and steer where I please, 
though they laughed at that, and said I couldn't. 
Couldn't steer ! Come here, boy ; we'll see. You 
press these buttons as I tell you.' 

He made Tom steer the ship all about and every 
which way, and learnt him the whole thing in 
nearly no time, and Tom said it was perfectly easy. 
He made him fetch the ship down 'most to the 
earth, and had him spin her along so close to the 

Illinois prairies that a body could talk to the 
farmers and hear everything they said, perfectly 
plain ; and he flung out printed bills to them that 
told about the balloon and said it was going to 
Europe. Tom got so he could steer straight for a 
tree till he got nearly to it and then dart up and 
skin right along over the top of it. Yes, and he 
learnt Tom how to land her ; and he done it first 
rate, too, and set her down in the prairie as soft as 
wool ; but the minute we started to skip out the 
professor says, ' No you don't ! ' and shot her up 
into the air again. It was awful. I begun to beg, 
and so did Jim ; but it only give his temper a rise, 
and be begun to rage around and look wild out of 
his eyes, and I was scared of him. 

Well, then he got on to his troubles again, and 
mourned and grumbled about the way he was 
treated, and couldn't seem to git over it, and espe- 
cially people's saying his ship was flimsy. He scoffed 
at that, and at their saying she warn't simple and 
would be always getting out of order. Get out of 
order— that gravelled him ; he said she couldn't any 
more get out of order than the solar sister. He got 
worse and worse, and I never see a person take on 
so. It give me the cold shivers to see him, and 
so it did Jim. By-and-by he got to yelling and 
screaming, and then he swore the world shouldn't 
ever have his secret at all now, it had treated him 
so mean. He said he would sail his balloon around 
the globe just to show what he could do, and then he 
would sink it in the sea, and sink us all along with 
it, too. Well, it was the awfullest fix to be in ; and 
here was night coming on. 

He give us something to eat, and made us go 
to the other end of the boat, and laid down on a 
locker where he could boss all the works, and put 
his old pepper-box revolver under his head, and said 
anybody that come fooling around there trying to 
land her he would kill him. 

We set scrunched up together, and thought 
considerable, but didn't say nothing, only just a 
word once in a while when a body had to say some- 
thing or bust, we was so scared and worried. The 
night dragged along slow and lonesome. We was 
pretty low down, and the moonshine made every- 
thing soft and pretty, and the farm-houses looked 
snug and homeful, and we could hear the farm 
sounds, and wished we could be down there ; but 
laws ! we just slipped along over them like a ghost, 
and never left a track. 
Away in the night, when all the sounds was late 
sounds, and the air had a late feel, and a late smell, 
too — about a two o'clock feel, as near as I could 
make out— Tom said the professor was so quiet 
this long time he must be asleep, and we better 

' Better what ? ' I says in a whisper, and feel- 
ing sick all over, because I knowed what he was 
thinking about. 

 Better slip back there and tie him and land the 
ship,' he says. 

I says : 

' No, sir ! Don't you budge, Tom Sawyer.' 

And Jim— well, Jim was kind of gasping, he was 
so scared. He says : 

' Oh, Mars Tom, don't ! Ef you tetches him we's 
gone— we's gone, sho' ! I ain't gwyne anear him, 
not for nothin' in dis worl'. Mars Tom, he's plum 
crazy.' 

Tom whispers and says : 

' That's why we've got to do something. If he 
wasn't crazy I wouldn't give shucks to be anywhere 
but here ; you couldn't hire me to get out, now 
that I've got used to this balloon and over the scare 
of being cut loose from the solid ground, if he was 
in his right mind ; but it's no good politics sailing 
around like this with a person that's out of his 
head and says he's going around the world and 
then drown us all. We've got to do something, I 
tell you, and do it before he wakes up, too, or we 
mayn't ever get another chance. Come ! ' 

But it made us turn cold and creepy just to think 
of it, and we said we wouldn't budge. So Tom was 
for slipping back there by himself to see if he couldn't 
get at the steering gear and land the ship. We 
begged and begged him not to, but it warn't no use ; 
so he got down on his hands and knees and begun 
to crawl an inch at a time, we a-holding our breath 
and watching. After he got to the middle of the 
boat he crept slower than ever, and it did seem 
like years to me. But at last we see him get to the 
professor's head and sort of raise up soft and look 
a good spell in his face and listen. Then we see him 
begin to inch along again towards the professor's 
feet where the steering buttons was. Well, he got 
there all safe, and was reaching slow and steady 
towards the buttons, but he knocked down some- 
thing that made a noise, and we see him slump flat 
and soft in the bottom and lay still. The professor 
stirred, and says, ' What's that ? ' But everybody 
kept dead still and quiet, and he begun to mutter 
and mumble and nestle, like a person that's going 
to wake up, and I thought I was going to die, I was 
so worried and scared. 

Then a cloud come over the moon, and I 'most 
cried, I was so glad. She buried herself deeper and 
deeper in the cloud, and it got so dark we couldn't 
see Tom no more. Then it begun to sprinkle rain, 
and we could hear the professor fussing at his ropes 
and things and abusing the weather. We was 
afraid every minute he would touch Torn, and then 
we would be goners and no help ; but Tom was 
already on his way home, and when we felt his hands 
on our knees my breath stopped sudden, and my 
heart fell down amongst my other works, because I 
couldn't tell in the dark but it might be the pro- 
fessor, which I thought it was. 

Dear ! I was so glad to have him back that I 
was just as near happy as a person could be that was 
up in the air that way with a deranged man. You 
can't land a balloon in the dark, and so I hoped it 
would keep on raining, for I didn't want Tom to go 
meddling any more and make us so awful uncomfortable.
Well, I got my wish. It drizzled and 
drizzled along the rest of the night, which wasn't 
long, though it did seem so ; and at daybreak it 
cleared, and the world looked mighty soft and grey 
and pretty, and the forests and fields so good to see 
again, and the horses and cattle standing sober and 
thinking. Next, the sun come a-blazing up gay 
and splendid, and then we begun to feel rusty and 
stretchy, and first we knowed we was all asleep. 


CHAPTER III 

We went to sleep about four o'clock, and woke up 
about eight. The professor was setting back there 
at his end looking glum. He pitched us some 
breakfast, but he told us not to come abaft the 
midship compass. That was about the middle of 
the boat. Well, when you are sharp set, and you 
eat and satisfy yourself, everything looks pretty 
different from what it done before. It makes a 
body feel pretty near comfortable, even when he is 
up in a balloon with a genius. We got to talking 
together. 

There was one thing that kept bothering me, 
and by-and-by I says : 

' Tom, didn't we start East ? ' 

' Yes.' 

'How fast have we been going ? ' 

' Well, you heard what the professor said when 
he was raging around ; sometimes, he said, we was 
making fifty miles an hour, sometimes ninety, 
sometimes a hundred ; said that with a gale to help 
he could make three hundred any time, and said if 
he wanted the gale, and wanted it blowing the 
right direction, he only had to go up higher or 
down lower and find it.' 

'Well, then it's just as I reckoned. The pro- 
fessor lied.' 

' Why ? ' 

' Because if we was going so fast we ought to be 
past Illinois, oughtn't we ? ' 
' Certainly.' 
' Well, we ain't.' 
' What's the reason we ain't ? ' 

'I know by the colour. We're right over Illinois 
yet. And you can see for yourself that Indiana 
ain't in sight.' 

' I wonder what's the matter with you, Huck. 
You know by the colour ? ' 
' Yes — of course I do.' 
' What's the colour got to do with it ? ' 
' It's got everything to do with it. Illinois is 

green, Indiana is pink. You show me any pink 
down here if you can. Nro, sir ; it's green.' 

'Indiana pink ? Why, what a lie ! ' 

' It ain't no lie ; I've seen it on the map, and 
it's pink.' 

You never see a person so aggravated and dis- 
gusted. He says : 

' Well, if I was such a numskull as you, Huck 
Finn, I would jump over. Seen it on the map ! 
Huck Finn, did you reckon the States was the 
same colour out of doors that they are on the map ? ' 

 Tom Sawyer, what's a map for ? Ain't it to 
learn you facts ? ' 

' Of course.' 

' Well, then, how is it going to do that if it tells 
lies '? — that's what I want to know.' 

' Shucks, you muggins, it don't tell lies.' 

' It don't, don't it ? ' 

' No, it don't.' 

' All right, then ; if it don't, there ain't no two 
States the same colour. You git around that, if you 
can, Tom Sawyer.' 

He see I had him, and Jim see it too, and I tell 
you I felt pretty good, for Tom Sawyer was always 
a hard person to git ahead of. Jim slapped his leg 
and says : 

' I tell you ! dat's smart, dat's right down smart ! 
Ain't no use, Mars Tom, he got you dis time — he 
done got you dis time, sho' ! ' He slapped his leg 
again, and says, ' My Ian'', but it was a smart one ! ' 

I never felt so good in my life ; and yet I didn't 
know I was saying anything much till it was out. 
I was just mooning along, perfectly careless, and 
not expecting anything was going to happen, and 
never thinking of such a thing at all, when all of a 
sudden out it come. Why, it was just as much a 
surprise to me as it was to any of them. It was 
just the same way it is when a person is munching 
along on a hunk of corn-pone and not thinking 
about anything, and all of a sudden bites into a 
di'mond. Now, all that he knows, first-off, is that 
it's some kind of gravel he's bit into, but he don't 
find out it's a di'mond till he gits it out and brushes 
off the sand and crumbs and one thing or another, 
and has a look at it, and then he's surprised and 
glad. Yes, and proud, too ; though, when you come 
to look the thing straight in the eye, he ain't entitled 
to as much credit as be would 'a' been if he'd been 
hunting di'monds. You can see the difference easy, 
if you think it over. You see, an accident, that 
way, ain't fairly as big a thing as a thing that's 
done a-purpose. Anybody could find that di'mond 
in that corn-pone ; but, mind you, it's got to be 
somebody that's got that hind of corn-pone. That's 
where that feller's credit comes in, you see ; and 
that's where mine comes in. I don't claim no great 
things ; I don't reckon I could 'a' done it again, but 
I done it that time — that's all I claim. And I hadn't 
no more idea I could do such a thing, and warn't 
any more thinking about it or trying to, than you 
be this minute. Why, I was just as cam, a body 
couldn't be any cammer, and yet all of a sudden 
out it come. I've often thought of that time, and 
I can remember just the way everything looked, 
same as if it was only last week. I can see it all : 
beautiful rolling country with woods and fields 
and lakes for hundreds and hundreds of miles all 
around, and towns and villages scattered everywheres 
under us here and there and yonder, and the professor 
mooning over a chart on his little table, and 
Tom's cap flopping in the rigging where it was hung 
up to dryv/uid one thing in particular was a bird 
right alongside, not ten foot off, going our way and 
trying to keep up, but losing ground all the time, 
and a railroad train doing the same, down there, 
sliding along amongst the trees and farms, and 
pouring out a long cloud of black smoke and now 
and then a little puff of white ; and when the white 
was gone so long you had 'most forgot it, you 
would bear a little faint toot, and that was the 
whistle ; and we left the bird and the train both 
behind, 'way behind, and done it easy, too. 

But Tom he was huffy, and said me and Jim 
was a couple of ignorant blatherskites, and then 
he says : 

' Suppose there's a brown calf and a big brown 
dog, and an artist is making a picture of them. 
What is the main thing that that artist has got to 
do ? He has got to paint them so you can tell 'em 
apart the minute you look at them, hain't he ? Of 
course. Well, then, do you want him to go and 
paint both of them brown ? Certainly you don't. 

He paints one of them blue, and then you can't 
make no mistake. It's just the same with the 
maps. That's why they make every State a 
different colour ; it ain't to deceive you — it's to keep 
yon from deceiving yourself.' 

But I couldn't see no argument about that, and 
neither could Jim. Jim shook his head and 
says : 

 Why, Mars Tom, of you knowed what chuckle- 
heads dem painters is, you'd wait a long time befo' 
you'd fetch one er dem in to back up a fac'. I's 
gwyne to tell you, den you kin see for you'seff. I 
see one er 'em a-paintin' away, one day, down in 
old Hank Wilson's back lot, en I went down to see, 
en he was paintin' dat old brindle cow wid de near 
horn gone — you knows de one I means. En I ast 
him what's he paintin' her for, en he say when he 
git her painted de picture's wuth a hundred dollars. 
Mars Tom, he could 'a' got de cow fer fifteen, en 
I tole him so. Well, sah, ef you'll b'lieve me, he 
jes' shuck his head en went on a-dobbin'. Bless 
you, Mars Tom, dey don't know nothin'.' 

Tom he lost his temper ; I notice a person 'most 
always does that's got laid out in an argument. 
He told us to shut up and don't stir the slush in 
our skulls any more — hold still and let it cake, and 
maybe we'd feel better. Then he see a town clock 
away off down yonder, and he took up the glass 
and looked at it, and then looked at his silver 
turnip, and then at the clock, and then at the 
turnip again, and says : 

' That's funny — that clock's near about an 
hour fast.' 

So he put up his turnip. Then he see another 
clock, and took a look, and it was an hour fast too. 
That puzzled him. 

' That's a mighty curious thing,' he says ; ' I 
don't understand it.' 

Then he took the glass and hunted up another 
clock, and sure enough it was an hour fast too. 
Then his eyes begun to spread and his breath to 
come out kind of gaspy like, and he says : 

' Ger-reat Scott, it's the longitude ! ' 

I says, considerable scared : 

'Well, what's been and gone and happened 
now? ' 

'Why, the thing that's happened is that this 
old bladder has slid over Illinois and Indiana and 
Ohio like nothing, and this is the east end of 
Pennsylvania or New York, or somewheres around 
there.' 

' Tom Sawyer, you don't mean it ! ' 

 Yes, I do, and it's so, dead sure. We've 
covered about fifteen degrees of longitude since we 
left St. Louis yesterday afternoon, and them clocks 
are right. We've come close on to eight hundred 
miles.' 

I didn't believe it, but it made the cold streaks 
trickle down my back just the same. In my 
experience I knowed it wouldn't take much short 
of two weeks to do it down the Mississippi on a 
raft. 

Jim was working his mind, and studying. 
Pretty soon he says : 

' Mars Tom, did you say dem clocks uz right ? ' 

' Yes, they're right.' 

' Ain't yo' watch right, too ? ' 

' She's right for St. Louis, but she's an hour 
wrong for here.' 

' Mars Tom, is you tryin' to let on dat de time 
ain't de same everywheres ? ' 

' No, it ain't the same everywheres, by a long 
shot.' 

Jim he looked distressed, and says : 

' It grieve me to hear you talk like dat, Mars 
Tom ; I's right down 'shamed to hear you talk like 
dat, arter de way you's been raised. Yassir, it'd 
break 3-0' aunt Polly's heart to hear you.' 

Tom was astonished. He looked Jim over, 
wondering, and didn't say nothing, and Jim he 
went on : 

' Mars Tom, who put de people out yonder in 
St. Louis ? De Lord done it. Who put de people 
here whah we is ? De Lord done it. Ain' dey 
bofe His children ? 'Cose dey is. Well, den ! is He 
gwyne to 'scriminate 'twixt 'em ? ' 

' 'Scriminate ! I never heard such ignorant 
rot. There ain't no discriminating about it. 
When He makes you and some more of His 
children black, and makes the rest of us white, 
what do you call that ? ' 

Jim see the p'int. He was stuck. He couldn't 
answer. Tom says : 

' He does discriminate, you see, when He wants 
to; but this case here ain't no discrimination of 
His — it's man's. The Lord made the day, and He 
made the night ; but He didn't invent the hours, 
and He didn't distribute them around ; man done it.' 

' Mars Tom, is dat so ? Man done it ? ' 

' Certainly.' 

' Who tole him he could ? : 

' Nobody. He never asked.' 

Jim studied a minute, and says : 

' Well, dat do beat me. I wouldn't 'a' tuck no 
sich resk. But some people ain't scared o' nothin'. 
Dey bangs right ahead — dey don't care what 
happens. So den dey's allays an hour's diffunce 
everywhah, Mars Tom?' 

' An hour ? No ! It's four minutes' difference 
for every degree of longitude, you know. Fifteen 
of 'em's an hour, thirty of 'em's two hours, and so 
on. When it's one o'clock Tuesday morning in 
England, it's eight o'clock the night before in 
New York.' 

Jim moved a little away along the locker, and 
you could see he was insulted. He kept shaking 
his head and muttering, and so I slid along to him 
and patted him on the leg and petted him up, 
and got him over the worst of his feelings, and then 
he says : 

' Mars Tom talkin' sich talk as dat — Choosday 
in one place en Monday in t'other, bofe in de 
same day ! Huck, dis ain' no place to joke — up 
here whah we is. Two days in one day ! How 
you gwyne to git two days inter one day — can't git 
two hours inter one hour, kin you ? can't git two 
niggers inter one nigger skin, kin you? can't git 
two gallons 0' whisky inter a one-gallon jug, kin you ? 
No, sir ; ' 'twould strain de jug. Yes, en even den 
you couldn't, I doan' b'lieve. Why, looky here, 
Huck, sposen de Choosday was New Year's — now 
den ! Is you gwyne to tell me it's dis year in one 
place en las' year in t'other, bofe in de identical 
same minute ? It's de beatenest rubbage — I can't 
stan' it, I can't stan' to hear tell 'bout it.' Then 
he begun to shiver and turn grey, and Tom says : 

' Noiv what's the matter ? What's the trouble ? ' 


Jim could hardly speak, but he says : 

' Mars Tom, you ain't jokin', en it's so ? ' 

' No, I'm not, and it is so.' 

Jim shivered again, and says : 

'Den dat Monday could be de Las' Day, en 
dey wouldn't he no Las' Day in England, en de 
dead wouldn't be called. We mustn't go over dah, 
Mars Tom. Please git him to turn back ; I wants 
to be whah ' 

All of a sudden we see something, and all 
jumped up, and forgot everything and begun to 
gaze. Tom says : 

'Ain't that the ' He catched his breath, then 

says : ' It is — sure as you live — it's the Ocean ! ' 

That made me and Jim catch our breath, too. 
Then we all stood putrified but happy, for none of 
us had even seen an ocean, or ever expected to. 
Tom kept muttering : 

' Atlantic Ocean — Atlantic. Land ! don't it 
sound great ! . . . And that's it — and we are look- 
ing at it — we ! Why, it's just too splendid to 
believe ! ' 

Then we see a big bank of black smoke ; and 

when we got nearer it was a city, and a monster 
she was, too, with a thick fringe of ships around one 
edge ; and wondered if it was New York, and begun 
to jaw and dispute about it, and first we knowed 
it slid from under us and went flying behind, and 
here we was, out over the very ocean itself, and 
going like a cyclone. Then we woke up, I tell 
you! 

We made a break aft, and raised a wail, and 
begun to beg the professor to take pity on us and 
turn back and land us, and let us go back to our 
folks, which would be so grieved and anxious about 
us, and maybe die if anything happened to us ; but 
he jerked out his pistol and motioned us back, and 
we went, but nobody will ever know how bad we 
felt. 

The land was gone, all but a little streak, like a 
snake, away off on the edge of the water, and down 
under us was just ocean, ocean, ocean — millions of 
miles of it, heaving and pitching and squirming, 
and white sprays blowing from the wave-tops, and 
only a few ships in sight, wallowing around and 
laying over, first on one side and then on t'other, 
and sticking their bows under and then their sterns ; 
and before long there warn't no ships at all, and 
we had the sky and the whole ocean all to our- 
selves, and the roomiest place I ever see and the 
lonesomest. 


CHAPTER IV 

And it got lonesomer and lonesomer. There was 
the big sky up there, empty and awful deep, and 
the ocean down there without a thing on it but just 
the waves. All around us was a ring — a perfectly 
round ring — where the sky and the water come 
together ; yes, a monstrous big ring it was, and we 
right in the dead centre of it. Plum in the centre. 
We was racing along like a prairie fire, but it never 
made any difference — we couldn't seem to git past 
that centre no way ; I couldn't see that we ever 
gained an inch on that ring. It made a body feel 
creepy, it was so curious and unaccountable. 

Well, everything was so awful still that we got 
to talking in a very low voice, and kept on getting 
creepier and lonesomer and less and less talky, till 
at last the talk run dry altogether, and we just set 
there and ' thunk ' as Jim calls it, and never said 
a word, the longest time. 

The professor never stirred till the sun was 
overhead ; then he stood up and put a kind of a tri- 
angle to his eye, and Tom said it was a sextant 
and he was taking the sun, to see whereabouts 
the balloon was. Then he ciphered a little, and 
looked in a book, and then he begun to carry on 
again. He said lots of wild things, and amongst 
others he said he would keep up this hundred- 
mile gait till the middle of to-morrow afternoon, 
and then he'd land in London. 

We said we would be humbly thankful. 

He was turning away, but he whirled around 
when we said that, and give us a long look of his 
blackest kind, one of the maliciousest and sus- 
piciousest looks I ever see. Then he says : 

'You want to leave me. Don't try to deny 
it.' 

We didn't know what to say, so we held in and 
didn't say nothing at all. 

He went aft and set down, but he couldn't seem 
to git that thing out of his mind. Every now and 
then he would rip out something about it, and try 
to make us answer him, but we dasn't. 
It got lonesomer and lonesomer right along, and 
it did seem to me I couldn't stand it. It was still 
worse when night begun to come on. By-and-by 
Tom pinched me and whispers : 

'Look ! ' 

I took a glance aft, and see the professor taking 
a whet out of a bottle. I didn't like the looks of that. 
By-and-by he took another drink, and pretty soon 
he begun to sing. It was dark now, and getting 
black and stormy. He went on singing, wilder 
and wilder, and the thunder begun to mutter and 
the wind to wheeze and moan amongst the ropes, 
and altogether it was awful. It got so black we 
couldn't see him any more, and wished we couldn't 
hear him, but we could. Then he got still ; but he 
warn't still ten minutes till we got suspicious, and 
wished he would start up his noise again, so we 
could tell where he was. By-and-by there was a 
flash of lightning, and we see him start to get 
up, but he was drunk, and staggered and fell down. 
We heard him scream out in the dark : 

' They don't want to go to England — all right ; 
I'll change the course. They, want to leave me. 
Well, they shall — and now ! ' 

I 'most died when he said that. Then he was 
still again ; still so long I couldn't bear it, and it 
did seem to me the lightning wouldn't ever come 
again. But at last there was a blessed flash, and 
there he was, on his hands and knees, crawling, 
and not four foot from us. My ! but his eyes was 
terrible. He made a lunge for Tom and says, 
' Overboard you go ! ' but it was already pitch dark 
again, and I couldn't see whether he got him or 
not, and Tom didn't make a sound. 

There was another long, horrible wait ; then 
there was a flash and I see Tom's head sink down 
outside the boat and disappear. He was on the 
rope ladder that dangled down in the air from the 
gunnel. The professor let off a shout and jumped 
for him, and straight off it was pitch dark again, 
and Jim groaned out, ' Po' Mars Tom, he's a 
goner ! ' and made a jump for the professor ; but the 
professor warn't there. 

Then we heard a couple of terrible screams — 
and then another, not eo loud, and then another 
that was 'way below, and you could only just hear 
it ; and I hear Jim say, ' iV Mars Tom ! ' 

Then it was awful still, and I reckon a person 
could 'a' counted four hundred thousand before the 
next flash come. When it come, I see Jim on his 
knees, with his arms on the locker and his face 
buried in them, and he was crying. Before I could 
look over the edge, it was all dark again, and I was 
kind of glad, because I didn't want to see. But 
when the next flash come I was watching, and down 
there I see somebody a-swinging in the wind on 
that ladder, and it was Tom ! 
' Come up ! ' I shouts — ' come up, Tom ! ' 

His voice was so weak, and the wind roared so, 
I couldn't make out what he said, but I thought he 
asked was the professor up there. I shouts : 

' No ; he's down in the ocean ! Come up ! Can 
we help you ? ' 

Of course, all this hi the dark. 

' Huck, who is you hollerin' at ? ' 

' I'm hollering at Tom.' 

' Oh, Huck, how kin you act so, when you knows 

po' Mars Tom's ' Thenhe let off an awful scream, 

and flung his head and his arms back and let off 
another one ; because there was a white glare just 
then, and he had raised up his face just in time to 

see Tom's, as white as snow, rise above the gunnel 
and look him right in the eye. He thought it was 
Tom's ghost, you see. 

Tom clumb aboard, and when Jim found it 
was him, and not his ghost, he hugged him and 
slobbered all over him, and called him all sorts of 
loving names, and carried on like he was gone 
crazy, he was so glad. Says I : 

'What did you wait for, Tom? Why didn't 
you come up at first ? ' 

' I dasn't, Huck. I knowed somebody plunged 
down past me, but I didn't know who it was, in the 
dark. It could 'a' been you, it could 'a' been Jim.' 

That was the way with Tom Sawyer — always 
sound. He warn't coming up till he knowed where 
the professor was. 

The storm let go, about this time, with all its 
might, and it was dreadful the way the thunder 
boomed and tore, and the lightning glared out, and 
tlic wind sung and screamed in the rigging, and the 
rain come down. One second you couldn't see 
your hand before you, and the next you could count 
the threads in your coat sleeve, and see a whole 

wide desert of waves pitching and tossing, through 
a kind of veil of rain. A storm like that is the 
loveliest thing there is, but it ain't at its best when 
you are up in the sky and lost, and it's wet and 
lonesome, and there's just been a death in the 
family. 

We set there huddled up in the bow, and 
talked low about the poor professor, and everybody 
was sorry for him, and sorry the world had made 
fun of him, and treated him so harsh, when he was 
doing the best he could and hadn't a friend nor 
nobody to encourage him and keep him from 
brooding his miud away and going deranged. 
There was plenty of clothes and blankets and every- 
thing at the other end, but we thought we'd ruther 
take the rain than go meddling back there. You 
see, it would seem so crawly to be where it was 
warm yet, as you might say, from a dead man. 
Jim said he would soak till he was mush before he 
would go there and maybe run up against that 
ghost betwixt the flashes. He said it always mado 
him sick to see a ghost, and he'd ruther die than 
feel of one. 



CHAPTER V 

We tried to make some plans, but we couldn't come 
to no agreement. Me and Jim was for turning 
around and going back home, but Tom allowed 
that by the time daylight come, so we could see our 
way, we would be so far towards England that we 
might as well go there and come back in a ship and 
have the glory of saying we done it. 

About midnight the storm quit and the moon 
come out and lit up the ocean, and then we begun 
to feel comfortable and drowsy ; so we stretched 
out on the lockers and went to sleep, and never 
woke up again till sun-up. The sea was sparkling 
like di'monds, and it was nice weather, and pretty 
soon our things was all dry again. 

We went aft to find some breakfast, and the 
first thing we noticed was that there was a dim 

light burning in a compass back there under a 
hood. Then Tom was disturbed. He says : 

' You know what that means easy enough. 
It means that somebody has got to stay on watch 
and steer this thing the same as he would a ship, 
or she'll wander around and go wherever the wind 
wants her to.' 

' Well,' I says, ' what's she been doing since — er 
— since we had the accident ? ' 

' Wandering,' he says, kind of troubled — ' wan- 
dering, without any doubt. She's in a wind, now, 
that's blowing her south of east. We don't know 
how long that's been going on, either.' 

So then he p'inted her east, and said he would 
hold her there, whilst we rousted out the breakfast. 
The professor had laid in everything a body could 
want : he couldn't 'a' been better fixed. There 
wasn't no milk for the coffee, but there was water 
and everything else you could want, and a charcoal 
stove and the fixings for it, and pipes and cigars 
and matches; and wine and liquor, which warn't in 
our line ; and books and maps and charts, and an 
accordion ; and furs and blankets, and no end of 

rubbish, like glass beads and brass jewellery, which 
Tom said was a sure sign that he had an idea of 
visiting around amongst savages. There was 
money, too. Yes, the professor was well enough 
fixed. 

After breakfast Tom learned me and Jim how to 
steer, and divided all of us up into four-hour 
watches, turn and turn about ; and when his 
watch was out I took his place, and he got out the 
professor's papers and pens, and wrote a letter 
home to his aunt Polly telling her everything that 
had happened to us, and dated it 'In the Welkin, 
approaching England,' and folded it together and 
stuck it fast with a red wafer, and directed it, and 
wrote above the direction in big writing, ' From 
Tom Satcyer the Erronort,' and said it would sweat 
old Nat Parsons the postmaster when it come along 
in the mail. I says : 

