wounded officer, whose mind seemed to be clear enough by this time.
"And that was just what we were doing when both of us went down; though
I was on my feet soon enough to drag you out of the fight," replied the
sergeant.
"What has become of the platoon?"
"You were on the flank, and Life Knox got in at the head of the men,
dropping every Confederate that came in front of him; and the rest of
our fellows were not far behind him. None of them were captured; but
two were killed, and probably some of them were slightly wounded."
"The men are not prisoners, then?"
"They are not."
"How is it with us?"
"I suppose we are prisoners, for we are within the enemy's lines; but
no person has been near us as we lay here. I think the Southerners have
all they can attend to at present, and doubtless they are getting ready
for a fight to-morrow morning; for General Thomas will certainly clean
them out before he has done with them."
"What is to be done with us?" suggested Deck.
"That is a question, Lieutenant."
"Well, the next business in order is to get away, for I have no fancy
for being taken to the South, since the Confederates have no provisions
for their own men, and as prisoners we would starve with them," said
Deck. "I haven't had my supper yet, and I feel a little faint. I have
enough to eat in my haversack."
"So have I; for we were so busy at noon, that I did not have time to
eat much dinner, though it was served as usual. I think we had better
go to supper now, and then we will look about us."
Both of them began to eat from their haversacks, and they made a hearty
meal of it. The lieutenant declared that he felt all right then, and
his head did not ache half so bad as it had when he first came to
himself. In the excitement of the day Deck had eaten very little. He
had been careful that his soldiers had their dinner, but he had been
too busy to attend to the matter himself. He had become somewhat faint
while within the breastworks before the charge. At any rate, he felt a
great deal better after he had eaten his supper.
"I wonder what they are doing in here," said he, looking to the middle
of the camp, though it was now so dark that he could not make out
anything.
"Of course there is going to be another battle in the morning, and the
enemy here are getting ready for it," replied Fronklyn. "General Thomas
was sent down here to capture these works, and drive the enemy away
from this region, and he is going to do it. He is a regular army
officer, and he understands his business."
"What do you suppose has become of your horse and mine, Fronklyn?"
asked Deck, as he looked about him again. "I wouldn't lose Ceph for
everything else I have in the world."
"I saw him pressing forward with the men after you had fallen, and it
seemed as though he meant to do some fighting on his own account,"
replied the sergeant. "I fancy that both our horses went with the men
out of the fort, and that they will be cared for, even if they are
wandering about in the fields."
"The question just now is how we are to get out of this scrape," said
Deck, as he rose from his seat on the wet ground. "I don't like the
idea of going South as a prisoner, and not much better being paroled,
and tied up in idleness for I don't know how long. We must get out of
this place, Fronklyn."
"I am entirely of your opinion, Lieutenant; but I don't see any chance
to do so now," replied the sergeant. "They have closed up the entrance
by which we were forced in; for it is as dark there as all along the
breastworks."
"No men appear to be stirring in this part of the camp, though there
are plenty of them not ten rods from us," added Deck.
"But there is a line of sentinels all along the inside of the
breastworks. I made out the men before it was as dark as it is now. If
it wasn't for them we could climb over it, and go back to our camp,"
said Fronklyn. "Our men have two or three batteries on the field, and
they are firing at intervals. The artillerists inside the fort are
standing by their guns, and they fire them once in a while to show that
they are awake."
"I think we had better reconnoitre the situation, and we may find some
hole we can crawl through," suggested Deck, as he walked towards the
creek which bounded the intrenchments on the west.
"Do you expect to get out this way?" inquired the sergeant.
"Perhaps we may possibly do so," replied the lieutenant.
"Impossible; I have looked into that creek before. It is wide near the
river, and after the freshet of the last three days it is a rushing
torrent, and the great river is not much better out in the middle,"
protested Fronklyn.
"Well, we must do something," Deck insisted earnestly. "I am going to
move over where there is something going on. We can't afford to waste
our time while we have any of it on our hands."
"All right, Lieutenant; I will follow you wherever you go," returned
the sergeant.
Deck led the way towards the centre of the camp; but he had not gone
two rods before he stumbled over the form of a dead trooper, one of the
number who had been unhorsed in the charge of the platoon. Half a dozen
more of them lay near the spot where the heaviest of the fighting had
been done. Probably the wounded had been picked up and borne to the
hospital.
"Lie down, Sergeant!" said Deck, as he did so himself.
A mounted officer rode along the line of sentinels as far as the creek,
evidently assuring himself that all was safe in this part of the camp.
He paused a moment at each of the guards, and finally turned his horse
and rode back the way he had come.
"We must get over by the river, and see how it looks there," said Deck
when the officer had passed out of hearing.
"Then we had better snake it; for if we stand up it may attract the
attention of the sentinel nearest to us," suggested the sergeant, as he
began to crawl after the manner of the reptile he had mentioned.
The lieutenant followed his example; for he realized that a moving
object could be made out in the darkness. By this slow process of
locomotion they reached the bank of the river, and heard the dull flow
of the water from the middle of the great stream. The bank was high and
steep; and it was soft and wet. From this point they could see a
steamboat,--a small affair. It was headed up the river; but the light
of the fires in the forward part of the craft enabled them to see her,
and to make out her position.
On the shore above her there was a considerable crowd of men; but the
observers were too far off to be seen distinctly. They could make out
by the light of the steamer's fires two large flatboats, and a much
smaller craft was made fast to the stern of the steamer. Deck had an
idea, but he did not mention it. Stepping over the bank of the river,
he began to descend the steep and slippery declivity; and Fronklyn,
with a mental protest, followed him.
CHAPTER XXIV
A NIGHT ADVENTURE ON THE CUMBERLAND
It was walking by the feeling rather than the sight; for the black
waters of the great river seemed to make the darkness more dense than
in the camp above. Deck's lessons in reasonable caution came to his
mind; and he had quite as much need of them as on the field of battle.
A misstep might precipitate him into the dark waters of the rushing
stream.
He did not "lose his head," which was exceedingly serviceable to him at
the present moment. He had said nothing to his companion in regard to
this perilous descent in the darkness, for he was sure Fronklyn would
protest against the difficult and dangerous enterprise upon which he
had entered; but he was willing that he should follow him, or remain in
the camp, as he might think best.
The sergeant was a courageous man, as had often been demonstrated on
the field of battle. He was not only loyal to the government, but to
the lieutenant; and he would have sacrificed his life rather than
abandon him in the present emergency. At the same time, he could see
but little hope in the present venture, whatever it might be; for the
lieutenant had not informed him in regard to his purpose in descending
to the stream.
If he had seen the boat that was made fast to the stern of the steamer,
it had no significance to him. He had never been a boatman; and the
little craft was not suggestive to him as it was to Deck, who had spent
much of his time on the waters of Bar Creek and Green River since his
father moved from New Hampshire to Kentucky. He had not spoken of his
plan to his associate, partly from the force of habit as an officer,
and partly from the fear of being overheard by some one on the shore
above. They had crawled, "snaked it," nearly half a mile, and had come
to a point near the body of the Confederate troops.
It was not easy to stand up on the miry slope of forty-five degrees,
and the feet of the leader had a tendency to give way in the mud. He
took an angling course, which would require him to move five or six
hundred feet up the river before he reached the water. He had left his
sabre where his companion had removed it; but he still wore his belt,
which he had replaced after he came to his senses; and the small
revolver was suspended where the hip pocket would have been if his
trousers had been provided with one.
He had nothing on that impeded his movements. Their slow progress in
"snaking" it for so long a distance led the lieutenant to believe it
must be ten or eleven o'clock in the evening. He continued his march on
the diagonal of the slope, but with the greatest difficulty; and he
often had to stop and rest from the exertion of the struggle with the
mud. At the end of an hour, as Deck judged it might be, he had made
about one-third of the distance to the water, and halted to recover his
breath. At this pause in the descent Fronklyn came up with him. Both of
them were out of breath, and neither of them spoke, though they were
out of hearing of the enemy.
"This is a hard road to travel," said Deck, when he was more nearly in
possession of his wind.
"That's right; but why we are travelling it I will be hanged if I can
see," replied Fronklyn, his tones indicating that he was much disgusted
with the present situation. "You did not tell me what you intended to
do, Lieutenant."
"Because I did not wish to inform any of the enemy who might be within
earshot of us," replied Deck. "I did not go off at half-cock when I
started on this tramp. You have a first-class pair of eyes, Sergeant;
and I supposed you would use them, and could see for yourself what I
was about."
"I have used my eyes for all they are worth; but I will be hanged if I
can see what you are driving at through this mud."
"Have you seen a steamboat anywhere on the great river?"
"I reckon I have; but I don't take it that you are going to her."
"That is just where I am going," answered Deck impressively and
decidedly.
"Going to the steamboat!" exclaimed the sergeant incredulously.
"Precisely so."
"Then I suppose you expect to procure a passage in her across the
river, if that is where she is going; and I can't see what else she is
here for."
"I don't know why she is here, for I am not in the counsels of the
enemy."
"You seem to be in a fair way to become better acquainted with the
Southern army."
"The steamer may have brought supplies for this camp; and according to
all accounts the soldiers inside of the breastworks are in need enough
of them. I don't know what she is here for, though I have a suspicion
that our forces will not find the enemy in their intrenchments in the
morning. But, Sergeant Fronklyn, you are disgruntled, as I have never
seen you before."
"Because it seems to me you are running as fast as the mud will permit
you into the very jaws of the lion; or, if that is too figurative for
your plain common-sense, into the hands of the enemy. You are a
lieutenant, and they will be glad to get you; for they have not bagged
many officers in the last twenty-four hours," replied Fronklyn.
"Sergeant, if you are dissatisfied with my movements, we are not in the
camp or in the field, and you are at liberty to retire and look out for
yourself."
"I would drown myself in the river before I would do that!" protested
the sergeant warmly. "I hope I have not said anything disrespectful,
Lieutenant. On the field I have followed you wherever you chose to go,
or wherever you chose to send me. I have no doubt you know just where
you intend to go, and just what you intend to do; but I am in darkness,
and wish for light. I am going it blind; but I will follow you, even if
it be into a Confederate prison-camp, Lieutenant!"
"I have no secret to keep from you, my dear fellow," said Deck,
reaching out, and grasping for the hand of his companion, which he
found, and pressed earnestly. "We have stood together on some fighting
ground, and we will not fall out here, though we may fall down this
slippery bank. You can see that I could not stop to make explanations
within reach of the sound of the enemy's voices. What's that just above
you, sergeant?" asked he, pointing to something on which a gleam of
light from the steamer's fires fell.
"It looks like a board," replied Fronklyn; "it may be of use to us in
making our way along this bank. I will get it;" and he went up the
slope about a rod, and returned with it.
It was a board about ten feet long, and not more than six inches wide,
and had probably been dropped from the camp above. The sergeant laid it
down, and then seated himself upon it, Deck following his example.
"We may come to gullies made by the rain, and this board will help us
in crossing them. I had nearly lost my balance in getting over one of
them," added Fronklyn.
"I could not explain before, but I am ready to do so now," said Deck,
taking up the conversation where he had left it before.
"Perhaps I ought not to ask an explanation; for I have been accustomed
to obey your orders without asking a question, or to follow wherever
you led the way," returned the sergeant.
"I have given you no order, Fronklyn; and, if I had, you are no longer
under my authority. After a ship is wrecked the sailors look out for
themselves," continued Deck. "You have seen the steamer; and you can
see it better now than at any time before, for the firemen are piling
in the wood, and the furnace doors are open."
The blazing fires under the boiler cast their light on the river and
the banks, illuminating the scene ahead of her, but not astern,
fortunately for the fugitives seated on the board, or they might have
been seen, and their uniforms distinguished by the enemy. Some of this
light was reflected to the stern of the steamer, through the openings
on the main deck.
"I can see the steamer plainly enough now," said Fronklyn. "It looks as
though ropes had been passed from the top of the banks down to the
vessel."
"Very likely those are to assist the officers and privates to descend
to her; and I wish we had a rope here to help us along," added Deck.
"But do you see the small boat hitched to the stern of the steamer?"
"I can see it now plainly enough; but I had not noticed it before."
"I saw it when I first discovered the steamboat, and I have been making
for it ever since. I was afraid if I said anything that little craft
would be placed out of our reach before we got to it."
"I understand it all now!" exclaimed Fronklyn. "I hope you will excuse
me for grumbling, Lieutenant, when I could not make head nor tail to
your movement."
"That is all right, my dear fellow; only trust me first, and grumble
afterwards, the next time. But we must be moving on."
"What about this board? It is rather heavy to lug the rest of the way,"
said the sergeant, as he lifted one end of it. "Shall we leave it?"
"It may be of use to us. If I had a pole about six feet long it would
help me very much, and perhaps save me from sliding down into the
river."
"If we could break the board in two in the middle, it would make two
staffs for us."
"We can do that," added the lieutenant.
"How?"
"Shoot it in two."
This answer looked like a joke to the sergeant, and he gave his opinion
that the board could not be broken in two in the middle without
splintering it from one end to the other. Deck declared he could manage
the case, and asked his associate to find the middle of the piece of
lumber. By the time he had done so the lieutenant had taken out his
revolver, loaded with six cartridges.
Placing the muzzle of the barrel on the board where Fronklyn pointed to
the middle, he fired, repeating the operation till he had discharged it
six times. The holes made by the balls were about an inch apart. The
reports from the revolvers were only cracks; and, so far as they knew,
no one heard them but themselves. Fronklyn put his foot on the board,
and then with his hands hold of one end of it, lifted it till it
snapped on the line of the bullet-holes. Each of them took one of the
pieces, and renewed their tramp.
Deck kept the lead, as before, and placed the board on the lower side;
and the sergeant did the same. The staff was as useful to them as the
alpenstock to the mountain climber in Switzerland. It enabled them to
double their speed, at least, and with much less labor than they had
made their way before. The doors of the furnaces on the steamer were
closed now, but they could see men descending by the lines to the
gang-plank of the steamer.
In due time they arrived within ten rods of the small boat of which
they desired to obtain possession. The furnace-doors were again opened
to put in more fuel, and the scene was lighted by the blaze again. As a
matter of prudence, the lieutenant lay down on his board, and the
sergeant did the same.
"Now, Fronklyn, I will make my way to the boat, and bring it down for
you to get in; for both of us need not incur the risk of doing this
work."
"All right; I agree with you in regard to the risk, but I will do this
instead of you," replied Fronklyn.
"Are you accustomed to handling a boat, and especially to rowing?"
asked Deck.
"I never handled a boat at all, and never rowed one in my life,"
answered the sergeant.
"Then I must do this job;" and the lieutenant started on his mission.
Some of the soldiers had gone aboard the steamer, though he could see
none on the after deck. Deck approached the river very cautiously,
lying down on his board not less than three times when he thought he
was observed. King Fortune favored him, for the current of the stream
kept the boat swinging out and in. Watching his opportunity, he caught
hold of the stern, and leaped into the boat as though nothing ailed his
head, either outside or inside.
He dropped into the bottom of it, and peered over the deck of the
steamer. Then he hauled on the painter till he brought the little craft
up to the taffrail, where with no little difficulty he cast off the
rope. He could see the soldiers on the upper bank, and those on the
forward part of the steamboat; but they were all too busy to bestow any
attention upon him. The current bore the tender rapidly down the
stream.
When it had gone to a safe distance, Deck seated himself in the
stern-sheets, and put his board in the scull-hole, and forced the boat
to the shore, though not without a great deal of difficulty and labor.
Fronklyn was on the lookout for it, and sprang lightly into the
fore-sheets, making a spring on his board stick. The current took the
boat, and no further exertion was necessary. They had escaped from the
fortifications, and they were satisfied.
CHAPTER XXV
A BOAT VOYAGE DOWN THE GREAT RIVER
The tender in which Deck Lyon and his companion had embarked was a
keel-boat such as is usually suspended by two ropes from either end to
the upper extremity of a pole, like an ensign staff. It was about
twelve feet long, and was not likely to upset, even in the turbulent
water at the middle of the river which drained the Cumberland Mountains
in the south-eastern part of the State.
Very heavy rains had been falling for several days, overflowing brooks
and creeks so as to make many of them impassable; and the great river
was swollen, though not to an unusual height in the rainy season. Deck
made no effort at first to direct the craft, for he was well-nigh
exhausted by the fatigues of the day and his efforts to escape from the
fortification.
He kept his seat in the stern-sheets, as Fronklyn did in the forward
part of the boat, which was still abreast of the camp, but well under
the high bank of the stream. The enterprise was a success so far, and
they were so well pleased to escape from the immediate vicinity of the
enemy that they were not disposed to do anything but rest themselves.
But in a few minutes they had recovered their breath, and ceased to
pant from their exertions.
Left to its own guidance, or that of the current, it had whirled about
two or three times; but Deck was too tired to be disturbed by this
movement. Their uniforms were wet through; for it had rained all the
afternoon and evening, and the tender had considerable water in her
bottom. Under any other circumstances they would have been very
uncomfortable; but their satisfaction at the escape from a prison or
prison-camp in the near future was the uppermost thought in their
minds, and for a time it banished the annoyance of wet and cold.
"If we whirl round like this it will make us dizzy," said the sergeant
as a mild joke. "What makes the boat do so?"
"The tender is so happy to get out of Confederate hands that it wants
to dance, and it is indulging in a waltz," replied Deck as another
pleasantry.
"I wish it wouldn't do so, for I don't like the motion. I suppose you
don't intend to continue this voyage down to New Orleans; for that
would not be a more agreeable locality than the Beech Grove
intrenchments," added Fronklyn.
"I don't believe we shall care to go as far as that."
"How far down do you mean to go, Lieutenant?"
"That depends; if we can get the craft under control, I don't think we
need go much farther," said Deck, as he began to feel about in the
bottom of the boat.
"What are you fishing for, Lieutenant?" asked his companion.
"I think you had better not use that word any more at present."
"What word?"
"Lieutenant; for I don't care to have my rank published any more on
this cruise, for some one on the shore might hear it. Call me Deck; and
as you are not a sergeant here any more than I am a lieutenant, I will
not call you so; but I forget your first name, as I have never used
it."
"They all call me Ben among my friends."
"Very well; Ben it is."
"I am satisfied, Deck, though it seems a little off now to call you by
your given name, cut short, though we used to do so before you were
promoted. But what are you feeling for?" asked Ben, as his companion
continued to poke about him.
"I was trying to find the oars which belong in this boat," replied
Deck. "See if you can find them near the bow."
Both of them made diligent search in every part of the boat; but no
oars could be found, and it was evident that they were kept on board of
the steamer.
"No oars; that makes it bad for us," added Deck.
"I can make a paddle out of my board," suggested Ben.
"Do so if you can," replied Deck as he picked up his own staff.
By this time, after sitting still for a while, both of them were
chilled by the wet and the night air, and they needed exercise of some
kind to warm them. Ben had a large and sharp knife in his pocket, and
he began to whittle the board like a typical Yankee. Deck put his staff
into the scull-hole, and made an effort to steer the tender, and thus
prevent her from whirling. As a rudder it was a failure; but as an oar,
heaving around the stern, he succeeded with much exertion in making a
tolerably straight course.
"That village must be Robertsport," said Deck, who had carefully
studied all the localities in this region on his map. "There is a big
bend of the river here, and we might as well go ashore there as farther
down."
"What has the bend to do with our going ashore there, Deck?"
"The water in the river has a tendency to flow straight ahead, Ben; I
learned that at Big Bend, on the Green River, near Riverlawn."
"I know the place very well," added Ben.
"When we come to the bend below the village, the current will be likely
to shoot us over near the opposite shore."
"But that will take us to the wrong side of the river, and we shall
have to get across it afterwards; and, besides, the enemy will be on
that side."
"I don't figure it out in just that way, Ben; for the current will take
us to the north side of the stream. The river turns to the left, or
south; but the water wants to go straight ahead, and that will cast us
on the side where we are now: don't you see?"
"Well, I don't see. I am no boatman, and I won't raise any objection,"
replied Ben. "Here is your paddle. I had to cut it out in the dark, and
work by faith, and not by sight, so that it is not handsome."
"It does first rate, Ben; but we shall have to do some hard work in
holding the tender to the shore when the current throws it on the bank;
and probably it is just as high as it is at the fort."
"I will do my share of the work if you will tell me how, Deck."
In a few minutes more the boat began to feel the current as it came to
the bend, and they could hear the roar of the water as it was dashed
against the shore. With the paddle Ben had made, Deck contrived to keep
the tender from whirling about, though he had to work very hard to do
so. With the bow pointed to the shore, which he could now make out in
the gloom of the night, she was going ahead very rapidly, having now
the full force of the stream.
"What am I to do, Deck?" demanded Ben, who did not feel at all at home
while the craft was in the midst of her gyrations.
"The boat is going head on against the shore; but I don't know what
sort of a landing-place it will prove to be. But whatever it is, take
the painter in your hand"--
"Who?" cried Ben.
"The painter. The rope made fast at your end of the tender," replied
the skipper of the craft impatiently; for the sergeant was entirely
ignorant of nautical terms. "Take the end of the rope in your hand, and
jump ashore as soon as it touches the land."
"All right; I understand you now," responded Ben, as he seized the
painter, and stood up in the fore-sheets as well as the rolling of the
boat in the current would permit.
"Now for it!" shouted Deck, as he felt the bottom of the boat strike on
its keel.
Ben said nothing, but sprang over the bow of the boat, upon what seemed
to be a flat shore, with the rope in his hand.
"Hold on with all your might, or I shall go down stream!" called Deck,
as he vigorously plied his paddle in an effort to heave around the
stern of the boat so that the current might strike it on the broadside.
The action of the stream helped him, and, assisted by the strength of
Ben at the painter, the tender was thrown high and dry on the gentle
slope where it had struck. The landing had proved to be a much less
difficult task than Deck had anticipated, perhaps because he had
skilfully handled the craft so that the current did most of the work.
The leader of the enterprise jumped from the stern-sheets upon the
ground, which was a part of the tongue of land formed by the great
bend, and extending to the south. Then Deck had a chance to look around
him, though it was too dark to make out the situation.
"Where are we now, Deck?" asked Ben.
"I never was here before; but I guess we are not more than six miles
below the intrenchments of the enemy on the Cumberland, and they have
another breastwork on the south side of the river," replied Deck, as he
continued to look about him.
"Where is Robertsport, of which you spoke a while ago?"
"That's on the opposite side of the river, not more than a quarter of a
mile higher up. I suppose you are satisfied now that you are on the
north side of the stream, and not on the south, as you anticipated,
Ben," said Deck.
"Yes; I reasoned that matter out, and found you were right. I suppose
you are about used up by this time. I wonder what o'clock it is."
"I have a watch if you have a match."
The sergeant took a tin box from his pocket, and lighted a match from
it, and held it under his cap. Deck produced his watch, and found that
it was twenty-five minutes past one.
"Later than I supposed," he added.
"We have been on our feet nearly twenty-four hours, and I think you
must be about played out," said the sergeant with a gape. "I am tired
out; and you are still young, too young to go without your regular
sleep."
"But I shall survey this locality before I do anything else."
"I am with you."
"I did not expect to find anything like a flat surface here," continued
the lieutenant, as he started to walk towards a high bluff in the
direction from which they had come.
It was only a couple of rods from the water, and the flat space where
they had come ashore was evidently made by the caving of the earth
along the bluff, when the river had been even higher than at present.
It was a hill which had possibly turned the river aside from its
westerly course to the south at some remote period in the past. There
was just such a bluff on the other side of the tongue of land, and
possibly a hill there had again changed the river's course to the
westward. But Deck's theory explained the presence of the fortunate
flat where they had landed.
"Now we must find a way to get up on the hill above the high bluff,"
said he, as he led the way up the river.
Beyond the bluff the bank of the river was the same as it had been all
the way from the fort, and the flat came to a sudden ending.
"Here is a flatboat," said Ben, who was the first to discover it.
"Somebody must live near here."
"This looks like a path up the bank," added Deck, who had been studying
the river above. "I think this must be a ferry, Ben; though I should
suppose the ferryman would find it hard work to get through the current
that brought us down."
It was plain that some work had been done on the path leading up the
bank, which was diagonal with the steep slope. It had been dug out, and
in the steepest parts there was something built for a fence or a
hand-rail. On the opposite side of the river from Robertsport there was
a road to the one extending from Harrison to Somerset. Doubtless the
ferry, if there was one, was for the use of travellers into Wayne
County, all of which lay on the south side of the river.
The fugitives were ready to mount the bluff by the path; but first they
went back to the boat, which might be of use to them later if they had
occasion to renew the voyage down the stream. They drew it back, and
concealed it behind a huge rock which the current had laid bare. Then
they mounted the path to the top of the bluff. Not ten rods from the
shore they found a cabin, around which were some fruit-trees and the
dried stalks of corn, showing that the land had been cultivated.
"This is some negro's house," said Ben, as they halted under a tree not
two rods from the cabin, which was nothing more than a shanty.
"It looks like one. Very likely the ferryman lives here," replied Deck.
"But there is some kind of a row going on in that cabin."
"It seems to be lighted up as though something was happening there at
this time of night. We will go up nearer and look into the matter,"
returned Ben, as he walked towards the cabin, and stationed himself at
the only window on that side of the building.
They listened for some time, and heard the voices of four different
white men, as they judged from their dialect.
"I done tole you I can't cross de riber to-night. We should all be
drownded, shore," replied an unmistakable negro.
CHAPTER XXVI
FOUR FUGITIVES FROM THE BATTLE-FIELD
The whinnying of a horse near the two wanderers attracted their
attention, and Fronklyn went over to look at the animal. He found four
of them hitched to the trees, all of them wearing cavalry saddles. The
sergeant still had his carbine slung at his back. He unslung the
firearm, thinking he might have occasion to use it. He knew the
lieutenant had reloaded his revolver after making with it the holes
across the board which had proved so serviceable to them.
In his report to the Confederate authorities at Richmond, General
Crittenden alludes to a battalion of cavalry, of which some officers
and privates were absent on furloughs, and of which all but about
twenty-five ran away. It is possible that the four troopers who were
trying to force the negro to ferry them over the river belonged to the
number.
"Cavalry," said the sergeant as he returned to the lieutenant.
"They have threatened to shoot the negro if he don't ferry them over to
Robertsport," added Deck, who had remained at the window of the shanty.
"They called him Cuffy; and when they threatened to kill him, he rushed
out of the house. I saw him go into the barn or outhouse in the rear.
The men lost sight of him when they followed him out, and perhaps
thinking he had gone to his boat, they went off in that direction. Let
us find the negro."
They went to the shanty, which did duty as a barn; but Cuffy had
concealed himself, and they could not find him. Deck called him by name
several times; and if the ferryman was not extremely stupid, he could
understand that neither his voice nor his speech was that of the
troopers.
"Who's dar?" responded the negro, after a long delay.
"Come out here, and we will help you out of your trouble," added Deck.
"Who be you uns?" inquired Cuffy, which proved later to be his real
surname.
"We are your friends."
"Whar dem sogers now?" asked the terrified ferryman.
"They moved off towards the river."
"Den dey done gone to steal my boat!" groaned the negro, coming out of
his hiding-place with a gun in his hand.
As the wanderers followed him out of the barn, they saw in the darkness
that his head was thickly covered with white wool, and he must have
been well along in years. He evidently kept his gun and ammunition in
this out-building, for he had a powder-horn and shot-bag suspended from
his shoulders.
"What are you going to do with that gun, Cuffy?" asked Deck, who was
rather astonished to see him armed.
"I's gwine to shoot one of dose men if dey try to kill me, as dey done
sworn dey would," replied the ferryman.
"Better not do anything of that kind, Cuffy," said Deck. "We will stand
by you, and we can fire shots enough to kill the whole of them."
"Who be you uns, Mars'r?" asked the ferryman, gazing at them, and
trying to make them out in the darkness.
"We are Union soldiers, just escaped from the enemy," answered Deck.
"Bress de Lo'd!" exclaimed the negro. "Dem men was Seceshers, and is
gwine to steal my boat. It's all I have to make a little money for de
contribution-box, and ef I lose it I'm done ruinged."
"Never mind the boat, Cuffy," continued Deck, as he led the way to the
four horses; for he had seen the Southrons go off on foot, and knew
they had not taken them. "Mount one of these animals, Ben."
He led out one of them, and put himself in the saddle, while the
sergeant did the same with another.
"Can you ride a horse, Cuffy?" asked the lieutenant.
"I done ride 'em all my life."
"Get one of the others, then. Can we get to the ferry on horseback?"
"For sartin, Mars'r; some folks goes down to de boat on hosses, and we
swim 'em ober de riber," replied Cuffy, as he mounted the animal he had
chosen. "My son comes ober dat way."
"Now lead the way to the ferry. Do they know where you keep your boat?"
"Dunno, Mars'r; but I reckon dey find it."
Cuffy conducted the wanderers nearly to the Harrison road, and then
took a path towards the river, arriving in a few minutes at the head of
the descent to the flat below.
"Not too far, Cuffy; fall back a little, where the men cannot see you,"
said Deck in a low tone.
"But I's gwine to shoot 'em if dey touch my boat," said the owner, his
determination indicated in his tones.
"Don't do it, and don't let them see you," added Deck in a low tone,
but with energy enough to impress the negro.
"Dey gwine to steal my boat!" groaned Cuffy; and his agony seemed to be
intense. "Den whar I git any money for de missions?"
"Never mind your boat, man. I saw it down below; it is not worth much,
and I wouldn't give two dollars for it," said Deck somewhat
impatiently.
"I takes folks ober de riber in it, and some days I makes twenty cents
wid it. Can't affode to lose it, Mars'r," protested Cuffy.
"If you lose it, I will give you another."
"Dat so? Whar's yo' boat?"
"It is down below there, and you will not have to wait a single hour
for it."
"Whar you git dat boat, Mars'r?"
"No matter about that now; I will tell you when we have more time,"
replied Deck, as he rode his horse to a tree, followed by both of his
companions, and secured him to the sapling, as did the others.
Returning to the bank, they lay down upon the ground, where they could
see the four troopers without being seen. They had found the negro's
flatboat, and carried it to the stream. This was done, perhaps, half a
mile above where the wanderers had landed, and the current was not so
violent as it was where the water concentrated all its force against
the lofty bluff.
The Southrons put the boat into the water after they had tipped it
over, and emptied out the leakage or the rain which it contained. Then
they seated themselves equidistant fore and aft in the rickety craft,
and pushed off.
"I knowed dey was gwine to steal my boat," groaned Cuffy again, as the
skiff receded from the shore.
"Don't say that again!" said Deck, disgusted with the ferryman. "If you
do, I won't give you any boat for the one you lose!"
"I lub dat boat, Mars'r. Berry ole friend ob mine," pleaded Cuffy.
"Say no more about it; perhaps you will get it again, for those men
only wish to get across the river," added Deck in a milder tone. "You
would not take them over, and they intend to ferry themselves across."
"I can't ferry dem ober in de night, when de riber is ragin' like a
roarin' lion seekin' wem he mout devour. No, sar; ef Mars'r looks long
enough, he's see dem men all devoured like as ef de ragin' lion had 'em
in his gills," said Cuffy very impressively, as though he was within
hail of a funeral. "Don't b'lebe dey done been converted."
Two of the troopers had paddles, or something that was a cross between
a paddle and an oar; for the wanderers had seen them in the boat in the
darkness. They forced the skiff out into the current, headed directly
for the opposite shore. They did very well so far; but in a few moments
more the full strength of the stream struck them, and the flimsy craft
was carried down the stream at a rapid rate. They were farther out than
the keel-boat had been; and the rushing water, lifted into waves by its
own force, began to tumble about as it would have done in the wilder
rapids of Niagara.
None of the four were skilful boatmen, and there seemed to be no one in
particular in the skiff to take the lead. As usually happens on such
occasions, the two men without paddles were frightened, and stood up,
which was the worst possible thing they could do. The two who were
managing the boat did not agree as to the method of handling it, and
each wanted his own way of doing it. Each of them was sure he could do
it, and that the other could not.
The couple with the paddles could not use them; and the skiff whirled
as it mounted the waves, and then it heeled over from one side to the
other. The two men who were standing up jumped from one side to the
other; then one of them lost his balance, and tumbled overboard. The
second tried to save him, and one of the two with the paddles went to
his assistance, the result of this, throwing the weight nearly over on
one side, capsized the boat, and the next instant all four of them were
floundering in the uneasy tide.
"De boat done tip over!" exclaimed Cuffy, as though his companions on
the bluff could not see for themselves what had happened.
"Perhaps we can save the men!" said Deck, as he rose from the ground
and ran with all his might to the path leading down to the landing of
the ferry, closely followed by the sergeant.
"Sabe de boat!" shouted Cuffy, trying to keep up with them, though he
soon fell far behind them.
The lieutenant was first to reach the foot of the path, and saw the
four unfortunates whirling through the agitated current, directly
towards the bluff where the keel-boat had been thrown on the flat. They
were too far out for him to reach them, and he could do nothing. It was
plain that not one of them could swim, and if they had been able to do
so at all they could have done nothing in the boiling flow of the rapid
current. They were swept down the stream, and being farther out from
the shore than the other boat had been they were not dashed upon the
flat.
Deck and Fronklyn watched them till they disappeared behind the bend,
though one was seen to go down before he reached it, and the others
must soon have followed him. The skiff had gone on ahead of them, and
was the first to pass beyond the view of the observers. The lieutenant,
with the hope that he might save the men if they were thrown on the
flat in an exhausted condition, had nearly reached the high bluff. The
sergeant had ceased to hurry when he realized that nothing could be
done for the doomed troopers. They had to pay the penalty of their own
folly.
Fronklyn and Cuffy soon joined Deck, the negro putting all his strength
into his lamentations for the loss of his boat. He did not seem to
realize that four men had just passed into eternity; but Deck had more
charity for him after he said he loved the flimsy craft, and reproached
him no more.
"Your boat is gone for the present, but you may find it again," said
Deck with an effort to comfort him. "It will be cast ashore by the
current, or be drawn into some eddy. When the river gets quiet again,
you can go down stream and find it in some place where the logs gather
on the shoal places."
"I dunno, Mars'r; how kin I go down de riber when I done lose my boat?"
demanded Cuffy.
"Come with me," said Deck, as he led the way to the rock behind which
they had left the steamer's tender. "There is a boat you can use till
some one claims it."
"Glory Hallelujah!" exclaimed the negro, when he saw the keel-boat; and
he was skilled enough to perceive even in the darkness, that it was a
vastly better one than the skiff he had lost.
"Whar you git dat boat, Mars'r?" asked Cuffy, disturbed by the
suggestion that some one might claim it.
"Can you keep a secret, Cuffy?" asked Deck.
"Kin keep a hund'ed on 'em."
"That's too many for one man to keep," replied the lieutenant, who
decided not to admit, as he had before intended to do, in what manner
they had escaped from the enemy's camp. "This boat belongs to the
steamboat up by Mill Springs; we have no further use for it, and we
shall leave it here. But you haven't lost anything of any value
to-night. We shall want two of the men's horses, as they have no
further use for them, and you can keep the other two, Cuffy. You can
sell them for money enough to make you rich."
"Bress de Lo'd!" cried the ferryman.
"Come along now, and we will go back to your shanty," said Deck, as he
led the way to the tree where the horses had been secured. They all
mounted, and rode back to the cabin, where the tired trooper and his
officer went to bed in the barn on some straw they found there.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE OWNER OF THE MANSION ON THE HILL
Cuffy took care of the horses, for two of them were to belong to him,
giving them even a feed of corn-meal mixed with water, which was all he
had to give them. He hitched them in the barn with the exhausted
soldiers of the Riverlawn Cavalry, though it was rather close quarters
for them. Deck preferred the out-building to Cuffy's bed, which he
offered them.
It was four o'clock in the morning when the lieutenant and the sergeant
retired upon their bed of straw, though there was plenty of it, and it
was a luxury to men who had been accustomed to lie at night on the
ground. They had been fully twenty-four hours on their feet, and had
been through a great deal of excitement during the day and the night.
They were asleep about as soon as they struck the bed.
Cuffy came to the barn about nine o'clock in the forenoon to attend to
the horses. He led them all out to water, and then gave them another
feed in tubs. His guests had complained of fatigue, and he allowed them
to sleep as long as they desired.
It was noon when Fronklyn awoke, and he had slept his full eight hours.
Deck put in another hour; for he was younger than his companion, and
needed more sleep. The sergeant had worn his overcoat all the day and
night, though he had several times been tempted to throw it away,
especially when they were climbing down the steep bank of the river. He
was glad he had not done so when he went to bed on the straw.
He had given his blanket to Deck, though it required a great deal of
persuasion to induce him to accept it; but Fronklyn had an overcoat. It
was not so cold as to interfere with the slumbers of the weary
soldiers; and when they woke they felt like new men. They went to a
brook that flowed through the negro's farm, and had a thorough wash to
freshen them up. The sergeant then renewed the plaster on his head, and
examined the wound of his companion. The swelling had nearly all gone
down, though there was still a soreness there; but the patient felt
well enough for duty.
"Here we are, Ben; what is the next move on the checker-board?" said
Deck, as they returned from the brook to the barn.
"Considering what we have been through since the sun went down last
night, I think we are very well fixed to-day. We have a couple of
horses to go where we please, and all we have to do is to ride back to
the outside of the Beech-Grove camp of the enemy; for we have seen
enough of the inside of it," replied Fronklyn.
"We can't be many miles from it; and when we get there I think we shall
find our army in possession of it. That steamer whose boat we borrowed,
and the other craft about there, must have been busy ferrying the enemy
across to the Mill Springs fortification," added Deck. "But what do you
suppose has become of all those cavalry men, and infantry too, that ran
away from the battle-field?"
"I don't imagine that a great many of them went back to the
intrenchments, and probably most of them are wandering about the
country in this vicinity," replied the sergeant. "The farmers'
corncribs, if there is anything left in them, will suffer for the next
week. They are not bashful, those fellows; and I have no doubt they
will visit the houses, and order meals as they would at a hotel."
"We are liable to meet them on our way back to the camp; and if we have
anything they want, they are likely to take it. Your blanket and
overcoat would be useful to them, and so would the horses. But I fancy
they would move about in small parties, and we may be able to take care
of ourselves. You have your carbine, and I have my revolver."
"That looks like a big house on the hill back of us," said Fronklyn,
pointing to the mansion.
"Mornin', Mars'rs!" shouted Cuffy, coming from his shanty to meet them.
"You done git up; I don't 'sturb you, coz I knowed you was tired out."
"We are glad you didn't, and we feel first-rate this morning. Whose
house is that on the hill?" asked Deck.
"Dat's de mansion ob Cun'l Hickman, my ole mars'r," replied Cuffy. "He
owns all de land 'bout here, mor'n tousand acres. He let me live on dis
corner when he want me to run de ferry, and I stops here eber since."
"Then he must be very rich."
"Rich! Dat ain't no name for't. He's got more money'n de Bank ob
London, 'n I reckon he could buy out de State of Kaintuck. He's pow'ful
rich, Mars'r."
"Is he a Secessionist?" asked Deck.
"Cun'l Hickman! Secesher! No, sar! He's de out-en-outenish Union man in
Kaintuck," returned Cuffy, whose politics were not at all in doubt with
his guests. "De Seceshers done raided his place fo' times; yesterday
was de last time, 'n I reckon dem fellers dat wanted me to ferry 'em
ober de riber in de night is de ones dat did it. I done seen 'em on de
hill fo' dark. I done see lots o' men wid guns, and some on hossback
dis mornin' strollin' 'long de riber an' ober de country."
"Which way did they come from, Cuffy?" inquired Deck.
"Most on 'em com 'd down de Harrison road, an' some on 'em was beat'n'
across de farm."
"Have you heard of the great battle that was fought over by Logan's
Cross Roads?" asked the sergeant.
"I don't hear ob no battle," replied the negro, opening his eyes wide
enough to let them drop out of their sockets. "Gollywhimpers!" suddenly
exclaimed Cuffy, turning his gaze towards the mansion on the hill, "dar
comes de cun'l on a hoss!"
The lieutenant and the sergeant looked in the direction indicated by
the ferryman, and saw a man riding down the hill at a breakneck speed.
As he came nearer they saw that he was a person over sixty years of
age, with long, flowing white hair, like one of the patriarchs of old.
He wore a soft black hat, well back on his head. He looked behind him
frequently, as though he expected something to transpire in that
direction. As Cuffy said, his mansion had been raided several times,
and he might have got used to such events.
"W'a--w'a--w'at's de matter, Cun'l Hickman?" shouted the ferryman,
before the gentleman came within ten rods of him.
The rider did not check his speed till he reined in his horse in front
of the negro and his guests. He looked at the two officers without
giving any attention to Cuffy, and seemed to be astonished to find them
there.
"I see that you wear the blue," said the colonel, addressing Deck,
whose shoulder-straps apparently excited his attention.
"We belong to the army of the United States, sir," replied Deck.
"Then how do you happen to be here?" demanded the colonel in a tone and
with a look of great severity.
"It would take some time, Colonel Hickman, to answer your question in
full," returned Deck; "but I will say that we marched and fought
yesterday from four o'clock in the morning till dark, and were
practically prisoners in the camp of the enemy at the end of the day,
but escaped in the night in a boat we took from a steamer alongside the
fortifications at Beech Grove."
"Excuse me for speaking somewhat abruptly, Lieutenant, and give me your
hand; for I honor every man that fights or works for his country,"
continued the colonel. "I am somewhat too old to do either, or I should
not be at home."
Deck took the proffered hand, and it was warmly pressed by the planter,
and he extended the same courtesy to the sergeant.
"My mansion is beset by a band of ruffians, and I have been obliged to
flee for my life," pursued the planter, glancing back at his house as
though he expected to see the flames rising from it.
"Do they mean to burn the mansion?" asked the lieutenant,
misinterpreting the glance of the owner.
"Not at all; I have no fear that they will do that, for they are
looking for my money, for I have some concealed on my premises where
they will never find it," said the planter with a significant shake of
the head, which was as much as to say, "I have euchred them!"
"I suppose the banks in this part of the State are no longer safe
repositories for valuables," added Deck.
"They are not, and I keep a comparatively small amount for current
expenses at hand. This same band raided me three days ago, and
threatened to hang me in front of my mansion if I did not give up my
money; but I would burn the bank-bills rather than permit them to fall
into the hands of these miscreants. I had a horse ready as soon as I
saw the ruffians coming down the private road from Millersville; and I
keep several of my negroes on the watch for them. I escaped on my horse
before, as I have done this time."
"How many are there in this band, Colonel?" asked Deck.
"My negroes counted ten of them. These raids are not uncommon events;
and there were two or three of them within less than ten miles,
sometimes by the enemy's foragers, and sometimes by partisan gangs. The
mansion of Mr. Halliburn was captured a few days ago; but a very clever
young lieutenant, whose name was Lyon, in command of a detachment of
cavalry, entrapped the whole gang of ruffians in the house, and made
prisoners of every one of them, without the loss of a man."
"Perhaps I know more about that affair than you do, Colonel Hickman;
for my name is Lyon, and I happen to be the officer to whom you
allude," replied Deck, looking at the ground.
"Lieutenant Lyon! Is it possible?" exclaimed the planter, taking the
young man's hand again.
"But we will not talk about things that are passed and gone, Colonel,"
interposed the young officer. "I wish I had my platoon, or even half of
them, here. Now, what can we do to aid you in this trouble, and free
you from the annoyance of such enemies?"
"As you have only a sergeant with you, I don't see that you can do
anything, my young friend; though I am as much obliged to you for your
good intentions as though you had a whole army behind you," said the
planter. "I have been a soldier myself, and I was one of the young
Kentuckians that fought in the battle of New Orleans under General
Jackson."
"Have you any arms at your mansion, sir?" inquired Deck, as though he
had some scheme in his head.
"Plenty of them; enough to supply half of your platoon."
"Can you get back to your house without being seen, Colonel?"
"Easily; back of my house is an avenue, planted with trees, by which I
once made my escape while they were looking for me. You can see it on
the south side of the hill; and it extends down to the river, the last
part of it on the tongue of land, so that it has the stream on each
side of it," the old soldier explained.
"If you have such a quantity of arms, where do you keep them?"
"In the spring-house, the brick building on the brook, which you cannot
see from here. I have five sons and one daughter; two of the boys are
in the army, and three are past the military age, though they belong to
the Millersville Home Guards, and were called out for duty three days
ago. I expect them home soon; but they have been gone four days now. My
overseer, his assistant, and two mechanics, went over to see the fight
yesterday afternoon, and they have not yet returned."
"Dar dey is, Mars'r Cun'l!" shouted Cuffy, pointing to the Harrison
road, down which three mounted riflemen were riding.
"I am glad to see them," added the planter, as the men came up the
hill.
The father greeted them heartily, and they began to tell what service
they had rendered during the preceding day on the right flank of the
field of battle. One of them happened to turn his head, and saw Deck;
and, interrupting the conversation that was going on, he shouted,--
"Lieutenant Lyon!"
The other two, who had also been with the riflemen under command of
Captain Ripley, repeated the exclamation.
"We fought under the command of Lieutenant Lyon most of the day
yesterday, and he is one of the ablest and bravest officers in the
service," said one of the sons. "He is"--
"We will hear that another time, Mr. Hickman; and you may have a chance
to fight under me to-day, for your father's mansion is beset by a band
of ruffians, who threaten to hang him," interposed Deck. "We muster six
men now, and I propose to clean them out."
It was talked over for a little while, and the party soon rode off to
one of the openings of the avenue by the river.
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE FIGHT BEGINS AT GROVE-HILL MANSION
Colonel Hickman led the way; and, like most Kentuckians of good estate,
he rode an excellent horse. He hurried the animal beyond the capacity
of the two cavalry horses which had come into the possession of Deck
and Fronklyn, and he reached the avenue by the river considerably in
advance of the others. He rode into the opening, and disappeared behind
the trees.
By this time the lieutenant had an opportunity to examine this approach
to the mansion. The road was not more than thirty feet wide, with three
rows of trees on each side of it, so that it was really a grove
consisting of a variety of trees. It had evidently been laid out many
years before, for the ground was completely shaded. The mansion faced
the Millersville road, and in the rear of it was quite a village of
out-buildings.
The planter halted as soon as he was in the avenue, and waited till the
others joined him. After all that had been said about him by the sons,
he was willing to leave the management of the affair to Lieutenant
Lyon; for, young as he was, he had obtained some experience in
defeating and capturing such marauders as those who had taken
possession of the great house on the hill. The ruffians were after the
colonel's money; a gentleman as wealthy as he was reputed to be must
have a considerable sum on hand, as he had admitted, for the payment of
his ordinary expenses.
Deck had asked but few questions in regard to the situation, preferring
to inform himself more fully when he had seen the premises. The avenue,
or grove, was as the owner had described it. At the point where the
party had passed into it, the mansion could not be seen at all through
the dense foliage of the trees; and the approach to it was entirely
safe, even if the ruffians had placed some of their number on guard
outside of the dwelling. The covered road was not entirely straight,
for several bends and curves made it more picturesque than it would
otherwise have been.
It was certainly a very pleasant place for a ride on a warm day; and
the young lieutenant had taste enough to appreciate and admire it,
though under the circumstances he could not use much of his time in
examining its beauties, which he would have been pleased to do at a
more convenient season. Just then he looked at it as a strategist
rather than as a lover of art.
"I don't quite understand, Colonel Hickman, how you succeeded in
getting away from your mansion without having a bullet planted
somewhere in your head or body," said Deck, as he surveyed the
surroundings. "You came directly down the hill, and not through this
avenue."
"As I have told you before, I have been on the lookout for these
miscreants since their former visit, when they threatened to hang me to
one of my trees if I did not give up what money I had on hand," replied
the planter. "I was alone on the estate, and of course I could not
defend myself against ten men armed with rifles or muskets. I kept half
a dozen of my negroes on the watch upon the road, to notify me of their
coming. I had my horse saddled and bridled all the time. As soon as I
was informed that the ruffians were coming, I hastened to the stable,
mounted, and rode down the hill by the shortest way, in the direction
of the road to Harrison. I did not expect to obtain assistance before I
reached Jamestown, where I thought some of the Federal troops might be
posted. I was glad to find you at Cuffy's, and rejoiced to meet my sons
again."
"If there are ten of the ruffians, we shall still be outnumbered,"
added Deck. "But I hope we shall be able to outmanoeuvre them."
"My sons are riflemen, and they are dead shots at a long distance,"
said the colonel.
"I am aware of that, for I have seen them shoot with the rest of
Captain Ripley's men. I think we had better be on the march," added the
lieutenant. "We will send out a couple of pickets to feel the way for
us. Sergeant Fronklyn shall go for one, and with him one of your sons,
to show him the way and explain the situation."
"Warren shall accompany him, and can give him all the information he
needs," the planter decided.
The sergeant and the planter's son started the horses, and rode off at
full gallop; but they did not continue at this speed for more than
half-way to the top of the hill, and they soon disappeared at a bend in
the avenue. Deck and the rest of the party followed.
"I think we had better leave our horses here," said Fronklyn, as he
reined in his steed. "The sound of the horses' feet may betray us."
"I obey your orders, Sergeant; but the villains will not hear us at
this distance," replied Warren Hickman. "I have no doubt they are
looking for the money in the house."
