"He has not been mentioned in your letters, mother."
"Well, child, I just told Mrs. Bowler not to. For he said himself,
frankly, that you might not like it; but that he'd make his peace with
you when you come back. I let him have his way about it, and I have
enjoyed seeing him. He's the only person I've seen but Mrs. Bowler and
the doctor, and I'm mortal tired of both."
During Mrs. Spurr's second illness Noel had not come in person to the
street of the Hyacinth; he had sent to inquire, and fruits and flowers
came in his name. Miss Macks learned that these had come from the
beginning.
When three weeks had passed Mrs. Spurr was back in her former place as
regarded health. One of her first requests was to be taken out to drive;
during her daughter's absence Mr. Noel had taken her five times, and she
had greatly enjoyed the change. It was not so simple a matter for the
daughter as it had been for Mr. Noel; her purse was almost empty; the
long journeys and her mother's illness had exhausted her store. Still
she did it. Mrs. Spurr wished to go to the Pincio. Her daughter thought
the crowd there would be an objection.
"It didn't tire me one bit when Mr. No-ul took me," said Mrs. Spurr, in
an aggrieved tone; "and we went there every single time--just as soon as
he found out that I liked it. What a lot of folks he does know, to be
sure! They kept him a-bowing every minute."
The day after this drive Mr. Noel came to the street of the Hyacinth. He
saw Miss Macks. Her manner was quiet, a little distant; but she thanked
him, with careful acknowledgment of every item, for his kind attentions
to her mother. He said little. After learning that Mrs. Spurr was much
better he spoke of her own health.
"You have had two long, fatiguing journeys, and you have been acting as
nurse; it would be well for you to give yourself entire rest for several
weeks at least."
She replied, coldly, that she was perfectly well, and turned the
conversation to subjects less personal. He did not stay long. As he rose
to take leave, he said:
"You will let me come again, I hope? You will not repeat the 'not at
home' of last spring?"
"I would really much rather not see you, Mr. Noel," she answered, after
hesitating.
"I am sorry. But of course I must submit." Then he went away.
Miss Macks now resumed her burdens. She was obliged to take more pupils
than she had ever accepted before, and to work harder. She had not only
to support their little household, but there were now debts to pay. She
was out almost the whole of every day.
After she had entered upon her winter's work Raymond Noel began to come
again to the street of the Hyacinth. But he did not come to see her; his
visits were to her mother. He came two or three times a week, and always
during the hours when the daughter was absent. He sat and talked to Mrs.
Spurr, or rather listened to her, in a way that greatly cheered that
lady's monotonous days. She told him her whole history; she minutely
described Tuscolee and its society; and, finally, he heard the whole
story of "John." In addition, he sent her various little delicacies,
taking pains to find something she had not had.
Miss Macks would have put an end to this if she had known how. But
certainly Mr. Noel was not troubling her, and Mrs. Spurr resented any
attempt at interference.
"I don't see why you should object, Ettie. He seems to like to come, and
there's but few pleasures left to me, I'm sure! You oughtn't to grudge
them!"
In this way two months passed, Noel continuing his visits, and Miss
Macks continuing her lessons. She was working very hard. She now looked
not only pale, but much worn. Count L----, who had been long absent,
returned to Rome about this time. He saw her one day, although she did
not see him. The result of this vision of her was that he went down to
Naples, and, before long, the desirable second cousin with the fortune
was the sister of the Princess C----.
One afternoon in March Miss Macks was coming home from the broad, new,
tiresome piazza Indipendenza; the distance was long, and she walked with
weariness. As she drew near the dome of the Pantheon she met Raymond
Noel. He stopped, turned, and accompanied her homeward. She had three
books.
"Give them to me," he said, briefly, taking them from her.
"Do you know what I have heard to-day?" he went on. "They are going to
tear down your street of the Hyacinth. The Government has at last
awakened to the shame of allowing all those modern accretions to
disfigure longer the magnificent old Pagan temple. All the streets in
the rear, up to a certain point, are to be destroyed. And the street of
the Hyacinth goes first. You will be driven out."
"I presume we can find another like it."
He went on talking about the Pantheon until they entered the doomed
street; it was as obstinately narrow and dark as ever. Then he dropped
his Pagan temple.
"How much longer are you going to treat me in this way, Faith?" he said.
"You make me very unhappy. You are wearing yourself out, and it troubles
me greatly. If you should fall ill I think that would be the end. I
should then take matters into my own hands, and I don't believe you
would be able to keep me off. But why should we wait for illness? It is
too great a risk."
They were approaching her door. She said nothing, only hastened her
steps.
"I have been doing my best to convince you, without annoying you, that
you were mistaken about me. And the reason I have been doing it is that
I am convinced myself. If I was not entirely sure last spring that I
loved you, I certainly am sure now. I spent the summer thinking of it. I
know now, beyond the possibility of a doubt, that I love you above all
and everything. There is no 'duty' or 'generosity' in this, but simply
my own feelings. I could perfectly well have let the matter drop; you
gave me every opportunity to do so. That I have not done it should show
you--a good deal. For I am not of the stuff of which heroes are made. I
should not be here unless I wanted to; my motive is the selfish one of
my own happiness."
They had entered the dark hallway.
"Do you remember the morning when you stood here, with two tears in your
eyes, saying 'Never mind; you will come another time'?" (Here the
cobbler came down the stairs.) "Why not let the demolition of the street
of the Hyacinth be the crisis of our fate?" he went on, returning the
cobbler's bow. (Here the cobbler departed.) "If you refuse, I shall not
give you up; I shall go on in the same way. But--haven't I been tried
long enough?"
"You have not," she answered. "But, unless you will leave Rome, and--me,
I cannot bear it longer."
It was a great downfall, of course; Noel always maintained that it was.
"But the heights upon which you had placed yourself, my dear, were too
superhuman," he said, excusingly.
The street of the Hyacinth experienced a great downfall, also. During
the summer it was demolished.
Before its demolition Mrs. Lawrence, after three long breaths of
astonishment, had come to offer her congratulations--in a new direction
this time.
"It is the most fortunate thing in the world," she said to everybody,
"that Mrs. Spurr is now confined to her bed for life, and is obliged to
wear mourning."
But Mrs. Spurr is not confined to her bed; she drives out with her
daughter whenever the weather is favorable. She wears black, but is now
beginning to vary it with purple and lavender.
A CHRISTMAS PARTY
In 188- the American Consul at Venice was occupying the second story of
an old palace on the Grand Canal. It was the story which is called by
Italians the piano nobile, or noble floor. Beneath this piano nobile
there is a large low ground, or rather water, floor, whose stone
pavement, only slightly above the level of the canal outside, is always
damp and often wet. At the time of the Consul's residence this
water-floor was held by another tenant, a dealer in antiquities, who had
partitioned off a shallow space across its broad front for a show-room.
As this dealer had the ground-floor, he possessed, of course, the
principal entrance of the palace, with its broad marble steps descending
into the rippling wavelets of the splendid azure street outside, and
with the tall, slender poles, irregularly placed in the water, which
bore testimony to the aristocracy of the venerable pile they guarded.
One could say that these blue wands, ornamented with heraldic devices,
were like the spears of knights; this is what Miss Senter said. Or one
could notice their strong resemblance to barbers' poles; and this was
what Peter Senter always mentioned.
Peter Senter was the American Consul, and his sister Barbara was the
Consuless; for she kept house for her brother, who was a bachelor. And
she not only kept house for him, but she assisted him in other ways,
owing to her knowledge of Italian. The Consul, a man of fifty-seven,
spoke only the language of his native place--Rochester, New York. That
he could not understand the speech (gibberish, he called it) of the
people with whom he was supposed to hold official relations did not
disturb him; he thought it patriotic not to understand. There was a
vice-consul, an Italian, who could attend to the business matters; and
as for the rest, wasn't Barbara there--Barbara, who could chatter not
only in Italian, but in French and German also, with true feminine
glibness? (For Peter, in his heart, thought it unmasculine to have a
polyglot tongue.) He knew how well his sister could speak, because he
had paid her bills during the six years of her education abroad. These
bills had been large; of course, therefore, the knowledge must be large
as well.
Miss Senter was always chronically annoyed that she and her brother did
not possess the state entrance. As the palace was at present divided,
the tenants of the noble floor descended by an outside stairway to a
large inner court, and from this court opened the second water-door.
Their staircase was a graceful construction of white marble, and the
court, with the blue sky above, one or two fretted balconies, and a
sculptured marble well-curb in the centre, was highly picturesque. But
this did not reconcile the American lady to the fact that their door was
at the side of the palace; she thought that by right the gondola of the
Consul should lie among the heraldic poles on the Grand Canal. But, in
spite of right, nothing could be done; the antiquity-dealer held his
premises on a long lease. Miss Senter, therefore, disliked the dealer.
Her dislike, however, had not prevented her from paying a visit to his
establishment soon after she had taken possession of the high-ceilinged
rooms above. For she was curious about the old palace, and wished to see
every inch of it; if there had been cellars, she would have gone down to
inspect them, and she was fully determined to walk "all over the roof."
The dealer's name was Pelham--"Z. Pelham" was inscribed on his sign. How
he came by this English title no one but himself could have told. He was
supposed to be either a Pole or an Armenian, and he spoke many languages
with equal fluency and incorrectness. He appeared to have feeble health,
and he always wore large arctic over-shoes; he was short and thin, and
the most noticeable expression of his plain, small face was resignation.
Z. Pelham conducted the Consuless through the dusky space behind his
show-room, a vast, low, open hall with massive squat columns and arches,
and the skeletons of two old gondolas decaying in a corner. At the back
he opened a small door, and pointed out a flight of stone steps going up
steeply in a spiral, enclosed in a circular shaft like a round tower.
"It leads to the attic floor. Her Excellency wishes to mount?" he
inquired, patiently. For, owing to the wares in which he dealt, he had
had a large acquaintance with eccentric characters of all nations.
"Certainly," replied Miss Senter. "Carmela, you can stay below, if you
like," she said to the servant who accompanied her.
But no; Carmela also wished to mount. Z. Pelham preceded them,
therefore, carrying his small oil-lamp. They went slowly, for the steps
were narrow, the spiral sharp. The attic, when they reached it, was a
queer, ghostly place; but there was a skylight with a ladder, and the
Consuless carried out her intention of traversing the roof, while Mr.
Pelham waited calmly, seated on the open scuttle door. Carmela followed
her mistress. She gave little cries of admiration; there never were such
wonderful ladies anywhere as those of America, she declared. On the way
down, the stairs were so much like a corkscrew that Miss Senter, feeling
dizzy, was obliged to pause for a moment where there was a landing.
"Isn't there a secret chamber?" she demanded of the dealer.
Z. Pelham shook his head. "I have not one found."
"Try again," said Miss Senter, laughing. "I'll make it worth your while,
Mr. Pelham."
Z. Pelham surveyed the walls, as if to see where he could have one
built. His eye passed over a crack, and, raising his lamp, he showed it
to the Consuless. "One time was there a door, opening into the rooms of
her Excellency. But it opens not ever now; it is covered on inside."
"Oh, that isn't a secret chamber," answered Miss Senter; "we have
doors that have been shut up at home. What I want is something
mysterious--behind a picture, or a sliding panel."
Partly in return for this expedition to the roof, and partly because she
had a liking for wood-carvings, Miss Senter purchased from Mr. Pelham,
shortly afterwards, his best antique cabinet. It was eight feet high,
and its whole surface was beautifully sculptured in odd designs, no two
alike. Within were many ingenious receptacles, and, better than these, a
concealed drawer. "You see I have my secret chamber, after all," said
the Consuless, making a joke. And there was a best even to this better;
for after the cabinet had been placed in her own room, Miss Senter
discovered within it a second hiding-place, even more perfectly
concealed than the first. This was delightful, and she confided to its
care all her loose money. She thought with disgust of the ugly green
safe, built into the wall of Peter's Rochester house, where she was
obliged to keep her gold and silver when at home. Not only was Miss
Senter's own room in the old palace handsomely furnished, but all the
others belonging to the apartment were rich in beautiful things. The
Consuless had used her own taste, which was great, and her brother's
fortune, which was greater, deferring to him only on one point--namely,
warmth. In Peter's mind the temperature of his Rochester house remained
a fixed standard, and his sister therefore provided in every room a
place for a generous open fire, while in the great drawing-room, in
addition to this fire, two large white Vienna stoves, like monuments,
were set up, hidden behind screens. As this salon was eighty feet long
and thirty feet high, it required all this if it was to be used--used by
Peter, at least--in December, January, and February; for the Venetian
winter, though short, is often sharp and raw.
On Christmas Eve of their third year in Venice this drawing-room was
lighted for a party. At one end, concealed by a curtain, stood a
Christmas-tree; for there were thirty children among their invited
guests, who would number in all over fifty. After the tree had bestowed
its fruit the children were to have a dance, and an odd little
projection like a very narrow balcony high on the wall was to be
occupied by five musicians. These musicians would have been much more
comfortable below. But Miss Senter was sure that this shelf was
intended for musicians; her musicians, therefore, were to sit there,
though their knees would be well squeezed between the wall and the
balustrade. Fifteen minutes before the appointed hour, which was an
early one on account of the children, the Consuless appeared. She found
her brother standing before the fire, surveying the room, with his hands
behind him.
"Doesn't it look pretty?" said the sister, with pride; for she had a
great faith in all her pots and pans, carvings and tapestries. Any one,
however, could have had faith in the chandeliers of Venetian glass, from
which came the soft radiance of hundreds of wax candles, lighting up the
ancient gilding of the ceiling.
"Well, Barly, you know that personally I don't care much for all these
second-hand articles you have collected," replied Peter. "And you
haven't got the room very warm, after all--only 60°. However, I can
stand it if the supper is all right--plenty of it, and the hot things
really hot; not lukewarm, you know."
"We can trust Giorgio. But I'll go and have a final word with him, if
you like," answered Miss Senter, crossing the beautiful salon, her train
sweeping over the floor behind her. The Consuless was no longer young
(the days when Peter had paid those school bills were now far distant),
and she had never been handsome. But she was tall and slender, with
pretty hands and feet, a pleasant expression in her blue eyes, and soft
brown hair, now heavily tinged with silver. Her brother's use of "Barly"
was a grief to her. She had tried to lead him towards the habit of
calling her Barbe, the French form of Barbara, if nickname he must have.
But he pronounced this Bob, and that was worse than the other.
On her way towards the kitchen the Consuless came upon Carmela. Carmela
was the servant who had the general oversight of everything excepting
the cooking. For Giorgio, the cook, allowed no interference in his
department; in the kitchen he must be Cæsar or nothing. Carmela was not
the house-keeper, for Miss Senter herself was the house-keeper. But the
American would have found her task twenty times, fifty times more
difficult if she had not had this skilful little deputy to carry out all
her orders. Carmela was said to be middle-aged. But her short, slender
figure was so erect, her little face so alert, her movements were so
brisk, and her small black eyes so bright, that she seemed full of
youthful fire; in fact, if one saw only her back, she looked younger
than Assunta and Beppa, who were Venetian girls of twenty. Carmela was
always attired in the French fashion, with tight corsets, a plain black
dress fitting like a glove round her little waist, and short enough to
show the neat shoes on her small feet; over this black dress there was a
jaunty white apron with pockets, and upon her beautifully braided
shining dark hair was perched a small spotless muslin cap. The younger
servants asserted that the slight pink tint on the tidy little woman's
cheeks was artificial. However that may have been, Carmela, as she
stood, was the personification of trimness and activity. Untiring and
energetic, she was a wonderful worker; Miss Senter, who had been much in
Italy, appreciated her good-fortune in having secured for her Venetian
house-keeping such a coadjutor as this. Carmela was scrupulously neat,
and she was even more scrupulously honest, never abstracting so much as
a pin; she economized for her mistress with her whole soul, and kept
watch over every detail; she told the truth, she swept the corners, she
dusted under everything; she worked conscientiously, in one way and
another, all day long. Even Peter, who did not like foreign servants,
liked Carmela; he said she was "so spry!"
"Is everything ready?" inquired Miss Senter, as she met her deputy.
"Yes, signorina, everything," answered Carmela, briskly. She was looking
her very best and tightest, all black and white, with black silk
stockings showing above her little high-heeled shoes. As she spoke she
put her hands in their black lace mitts in the pockets of her apron,
and, middle-aged though she was said to be, she looked at that moment
like a smart French soubrette of the stage.
"I am going to the kitchen to have a word with Giorgio," said the
Consuless, passing on.
"If the signorina permits, I carry the train," answered Carmela, lifting
the satin folds from the floor. Thus they went on together, mistress and
maid, through various rooms and corridors, until finally the kitchen was
reached. It was a large, lofty place, brilliantly lighted, for Giorgio
was old and needed all the radiance that could be obtained to aid his
failing sight. He was a small man with a melancholy countenance. But
this melancholy was an accident of expression; in reality, old Giorgio
was cheerful and amiable, with a good deal of mild wit. He was the most
skilful cook in Venice. But his health had failed some years before, and
he had now very little strength; the Consul, who liked good dinners,
paid him high wages, and gave him a young assistant.
"Well, Giorgio, all promises well, I trust?" said Miss Senter as she
entered, her steps somewhat impeded by the tightness with which Carmela
held back her train. "The Consul is particular about having the hot
things really hot, and constantly renewed, as it is such a cold night.
The three men from Florian's will have charge of the ices and the other
cold things, and will do all that is necessary in the supper-room. But
for the hot dishes we depend upon you."
Giorgio, who was dressed entirely in white, bowed and waved his hand.
"Mademoiselle need give herself no uneasiness," he said in French. For
Giorgio had learned his art in Paris, and whenever Carmela was present
he invariably answered his mistress in the language of that Northern
capital, even though her question had been couched in Italian; it was
one of his ways--and he had but few--of standing up, as it were, against
the indefatigable little deputy. For, clever though Carmela was, she had
never been out of her native land, and could speak no tongue but her
own.
"Are you feeling well, Giorgio?" continued Miss Senter. "I see that you
look pale. I am afraid you have been doing too much. Where is Luigi?"
(Luigi was the cook's assistant.)
"He has gone home; ten minutes ago. I let him go, as it is a festival.
He is young, and we can be young but once. Che vuole! In addition, all
was done."
"No," said Miss Senter, who was now speaking French also; "there is
still much to do, and it was not wise to let Luigi go. You are certainly
very tired, Giorgio."
"Let not mademoiselle think of it," said the old man, straightening
himself a little.
"But I shall think of it," said Miss Senter, kindly. "Carmela," she
continued, speaking now in Italian, "go to my room and get my case of
cordials."
Carmela divined that the cordial was for the cook. "And the signorina's
train?" she said. "Surely I cannot leave it on this dirty floor! Will
not the signorina return to the drawing-room to take her cordial? Eh--it
is not for her? It is for Giorgio? A man? A man to be faint like a
girl? Ha, ha! it makes me laugh!"
"Go and get it," repeated Miss Senter, taking the train over her own
arm. She knew that Carmela did not like the cook. Jealousy was the one
fault the hard-working little creature possessed. "She has tried to make
me dismiss Giorgio more than once," she said to her brother, in
confidence; "but I always pretend not to see the feeling that influences
her. It is only Giorgio she is jealous of; she gets on perfectly well
with Luigi, and with Assunta and Beppa; while for Ercole she can never
do enough. She is devoted to Ercole!"
Giorgio had not taken up the slur cast upon his immaculate floor. All he
said was, "Comme elle est méchante!" with a shrug.
"Where is Ercole?" said Miss Senter, while she waited.
"He is dressing," answered Giorgio. "He makes himself beautiful for the
occasion."
Ercole was the chief gondolier--a tall, athletic young man of thirty,
handsome and clever. Miss Senter had chosen Ercole to assist her with
the Christmas-tree. The second gondolier, Andrea, was to be stationed at
the end of the little quay or riva down below, outside of their own
water-door; for here on the small canal were the steps used by arriving
and departing gondolas, and here also floated the handsome gondola of
the Consul, with its American flag. The two gondoliers also had
picturesque costumes of white (woollen in winter, linen in summer), with
blue collars, blue stockings, blue caps, and long fringed red sashes,
the combination representing the American national colors. To-night
Ercole, having to appear in the drawing-room, was making a longer stay
than usual before his little mirror.
Carmela returned with the cordial-case. "Ah, yes, our cook is
pale--pale as a young virgin!" she commented, as Miss Senter, unlocking
the box, poured into one of the little glasses it contained a generous
portion of a restorative whose every drop was costly.
Giorgio, taking off the white linen cap which covered his gray hair,
made a bow, and then drank the draught with much appreciation. "It is
true that I am pale," he remarked, slyly, in Italian. "I might, perhaps,
try some rouge?"
And then the Consuless, to avert war, hastily bore her deputy away.
Half an hour later the guests had arrived; they included all the
Americans in Venice, with a sprinkling of English, Italians, and
Russians. The grown people assembled in the drawing-room. And presently
they heard singing. Through the anterooms came the children, entering
with measured step, two and two, led by three little boys in Oriental
costumes. These three boys were singing as follows:
    "We three Kings of Orient are,
     Bearing gifts we've travelled from far,
     Field and fountain, moor and mountain,
     Following yonder star."
Here, from the high top branch of the Christmas-tree which rose above
the concealing curtain, blazed out a splendid star. And then all the
procession took up the chorus, as they marched onward:
    "Oh, star of wonder,
       Star of might,
     Star with royal
       Beauty bright!"
Ercole, who was behind the curtain, now drew it aside, and there stood
the tree, blazing with fairy-lamps and glittering ornaments, while
beneath it was a mound composed entirely of toys. The children behaved
well; they kept their ranks and repeated their carol, as they had been
told to do, ranging themselves meanwhile in a half-circle before the
tree.
    "We three Kings of Orient are,"
chanted the three little kings a second time, though their eyes were
fixed upon a magnificent box of soldiers, with tents and flags and
cannon. The carol finished, Miss Senter, with the aid of her gondolier,
distributed the toys and bonbons, and the room was filled with happy
glee. When Ercole had detached the last package of sweets from the
sparkling branches he disappeared. His next duty was to conduct the
musicians up to their cage.
Miss Senter had allowed an hour for the inspection and trial of the toys
before the dancing should begin. It was none too much, and the clamor
was still great as this hour drew towards its close, so great that she
herself was glad that the end was near. Looking up to see whether her
musicians had assembled on their shelf, she perceived some one at the
drawing-room door; it was Carmela, hiding herself modestly behind the
portière, but at the same time unmistakably beckoning to her mistress as
soon as she saw that she had caught her eye. Miss Senter went to the
doorway.
"Will the signorina permit? A surprise of Ercole's," whispered Carmela,
eagerly, standing on tiptoe to reach her mistress's ear. "He has dressed
himself as a clown, and he is of a perfection! He has bells on his cap
and his elbows, and if the signorina graciously allows, he will come in
to amuse the children."
"A clown!" answered Miss Senter, hesitating. "I don't know; he ought to
have told me."
"He has been dancing to show me. And oh! so beautifully, with bounds
and leaps. He makes of himself also a statue," pursued Carmela.
"But I cannot have any buffoonery here, you know," said Miss Senter. "It
would not do."
"Buffoonery! Surely the signorina knows that Ercole has the soul of a
gentleman," whispered Carmela, reproachfully.
And it was true that Miss Senter had always thought that her chief
gondolier possessed a great deal of natural refinement.
"Will the signorina step out for a moment and look at him?" pursued the
deputy, her whisper now a little dejected. "If he is to be disappointed,
poor fellow, may he at least have that pleasure?"
The idea of the gondolier's disappointment touched the amiable American.
She turned her head and glanced into the drawing-room; all was going on
gayly; no one had missed her. She slipped out under the portière, and
followed Carmela to a room at the side. Here stood the gondolier. He
wore the usual white dress and white mask of a clown, and, as the
Consuless entered, he cut a splendid caper, ringing all his bells.
"I had no idea that you were such a skilful acrobat, Ercole," said his
mistress.
Ercole turned a light somerset, gave a high jump, and came down in the
attitude of the Mercury of John of Bologna.
"Why, you are really wonderful!" said Miss Senter, admiringly.
And now he was dancing with butterfly grace.
Miss Senter was won. "But if I let you come in, Ercole, I hope you will
remember where you are?" she said, warningly. "Can you breathe quite at
ease in that mask?"
The gondolier opened his grotesque painted lips a little to show that he
could part them.
"Yes, I see. Now listen; in the drawing-room you must keep your eye on
me, and if at any time you see me raise my hand--so--you must dance out
of the room, Ercole. For the sign will mean that that is enough. But,
dear me! there's one thing we haven't thought of; who is to see to the
musicians up-stairs, and to go back and forth, telling them what to
play?"
"I can do that," said Carmela, who was now all smiles. "Does the
signorina wish me to take them up? They are all ready. They are waiting
in the wood-room."
The wood-room was a remote store-room for fuel; it was detached from the
rest of the apartment. "Why did you put them there?" inquired Miss
Senter, astonished.
"They are musicians--yes; but who knows what else they may be? Thieves,
perhaps!" said the deputy, shrewdly.
"Get them out immediately and take them up to the gallery," said Miss
Senter. "And tell them to play something lively as a beginning."
Carmela, quick as usual, was gone before the words were ended.
"Now, Ercole, wait until you hear the music. Then come in," said the
Consuless.
She returned to the drawing-room, making a motion with her hands as she
advanced, which indicated that her guests were to move a little more
towards the walls on each side, leaving the centre of the room free. And
then, as the music burst out above, Ercole came bounding in. His dress
was ordinary; Miss Senter was vexed anew that he had not told her of his
plan, for if he had she could have provided a perfectly fresh costume.
But no one noticed the costume; all eyes were fixed upon the gambols;
for, keeping time to the music, he was advancing up the room, dancing,
bounding, leaping, turning somersets, and every now and then striking an
attitude with extraordinary skill. He was so light that his white linen
feet made no sound, and so graceful that the fixed grin of his mask
became annoying, clashing as it did with the beauty of his poses. This
thought, however, came to the elders only; for to the children,
fascinated, shouting with delight, the broad red smile was an important
part.
"It's our gondolier," explained Miss Senter. "It's Ercole," she had
whispered to her brother.
"You are always so fortunate in servants," said Lady Kay. "That little
woman you have, too, Carmela--she is a miracle for an Italian."
Four times the clown made his pyrotechnic progress up and then down the
long salon, never twice repeating the same pose, but always something
new; then, after a final tremendous pigeon-wing, he let his white arms
fall and his white head droop on his breast, as if saying that he was
taking a moment for repose.
"Yes, yes; give him time to breathe, children," cried Peter. "I'll tell
you what," he added to Sir William Kay; "I've never seen a better
performance on any stage." And he slapped his leg in confirmation. The
Consul was a man whose sole claim to beauty lay in the fact that he
always looked extremely clean. He was meagre and small, with very short
legs, but he was without consciousness of these deficiencies; in the
presence of the Apollo Belvedere, for instance, it had never occurred to
him to draw comparisons. Nature, however, will out in some way, and from
childhood Peter Senter had had a profound admiration for feats of
strength, vaulting, tumbling, and the like. "I'll tell you what," he
repeated to Sir William; "I'll have the fellow exhibited; I'll start him
at my own cost. Here all this time--two whole years--he has been our
gondolier, Ercoly has, and nothing more; for I hadn't a suspicion that
he had the least talent in this line. But, sir, he's a regular
high-flier! And A Number One!"
Meanwhile the children were crowding closely round their clown, and
peering up in order still to see his grin, which was now partly hidden,
owing to his drooped head; the three Kings of Orient, especially, were
very pressing in their attentions, pinching his legs to see if they were
real.
"Come, children, this will be a good time for our second song," said
Miss Senter, making a diversion. "Take hands, now, in a circle;
yes--round the clown, if you wish. There--that's right." She signalled
to the music to stop, and then, beginning, led the little singers
herself:
    "Though we're here on foreign shores,
           We are all devotion
     To our land of Stars and Stripes,
           Far across the ocean.
     Yankee doodle doodle doo,
           Yankee doodle dandy,
     Buckwheat cakes are very good,
           And so's molasses candy."
Singing this gayly to the well-known fife-like tune, round and round
danced the children in a circle, holding each other's hands, the English
and Italians generously joining with the little Americans in praise of
the matutinal cakes which they had never seen; the Consuless had drilled
her choir beforehand, and they sang merrily and well. The first four
lines of this ditty had been composed by Peter himself for the occasion.
"I hear you haf written this vurra fine piece!" said a Russian
princess, addressing him.
"Oh no," answered the Consul; "I only wrote the first four lines; the
chorus is one of our national songs, you know."
"But those first four lines--their sentiment ees so fine, so speerited!"
said the princess.
"Well, they're neat," Peter admitted, modestly.
The clown, having recovered his breath, cut a caper. Instantly "Yankee
Doodle" came to an end, and the children all stopped to watch him.
"Tell them to play a waltz," said Miss Senter to Carmela, who was in
waiting at the door. The deputy must have flown up the little stairway
leading to the gallery, for the waltz began in less than a minute. Then
Ercole, selecting a pretty American child from among the group, began to
dance with her in the most charming way, followed by all the little
ones, two and two. Those who could waltz, did so; those who could not,
held each other's hands and hopped about.
Supper followed. The hot things were smoking and delicious, and the
supplies constantly renewed; old Giorgio was evidently on his mettle. It
was the gondolier, still in his clown's dress, who brought in these
supplies and handed them to the waiters from Florian's.
"You need not do that, Ercole," said Miss Senter, in an undertone;
"these men can go to the kitchen for them."
Ercole bowed; it would not have been respectful to reply with his
grinning linen lips. But he continued to fill the same office.
"Perhaps Giorgio won't have Florian's people in the kitchen!" the
Consuless reflected.
As soon as supper was over, the children clamored for their clown, and
he came bounding in a second time, and, after several astonishing
capers, selected a beautiful English child with long golden curls and
led a galop, followed again by all the others, two and two. Peter, his
mind still occupied with his project of taking the young Italian to
America as a star performer, moved from point to point, in order to get
different views of him. One of these stations was in the doorway, and
here Carmela spoke to him in a low tone, and asked him to come to the
outer hall. He did not understand her words; but he comprehended her
gesture and followed her. She was talking angrily, almost spluttering,
as she led the way. But her talk was lost on her master, who, however,
opened his eyes when he saw four policemen standing at his outer door.
"What do you want here?" he said. "This is a private residence, and you
are disturbing a Christmas party."
The chief officer told his tale. But Peter did not comprehend him.
"You should have gone to the Consulate," he went on. "The Consulate, you
know--Riva Skevony. The vice-consul won't be there so late as this; but
you'll find him early to-morrow morning, sure."
The policemen, however, remained where they were.
"There's no making them understand a word," said Peter to himself, in
irritation. "Here, you go and call my sister," he said to Carmela, who,
in her wrath over this intrusion, stood at a distance swallowing nothing
in a series of gulps that made her throat twitch. "Let's see; sister,
that's sorelly. Sorelly!" he repeated to Carmela. "Sorelly!"
The enraged little deputy understood. And she got Miss Senter out of the
drawing-room without attracting notice. "The master wishes to see the
signorina," she said, in a concentrated undertone. "I burn with
indignation, for it is an insolent intrusion; it is an insult to his
Excellency, who no doubt is a prince in his own country. But they
would not go, in spite of all I could say. Nor would they tell me
their errand--brutes!" And with her skirts quivering she led the way to
the outer hall.
"Find out what these men want, Barly," said Peter, when his sister
appeared.
And then the chief officer again told his story.
"Mercy!" said Miss Senter, "how dreadful. Somebody was killed, Peter,
about seven o'clock this evening, in a café near the Rialto, and they
say they have just found a clew which appears to track the assassin to
this very door! And they wish to search."
"What an absurd idea! With the whole place crowded and blazing with
lights, as it is to-night, a mouse couldn't hide," said Peter. "Tell
them so."
"They repeat that they must search," said Miss Senter. "But if you will
exert your authority, Peter--make use of your official position--I am
sure we need not submit to such a thing."
Peter, however, was helpless without his vice-consul; he had no clear
idea as to what his powers were or were not; he had never informed
himself.
Carmela, greatly excited, had drawn Miss Senter aside. "There was a
sixth man with those musicians!" she whispered. "I saw him. He did not
play, but he sat behind them. And he has only just gone. Five minutes
ago."
Miss Senter repeated the information to the chief officer. The officer
immediately detached two men to follow this important clew; he himself,
with the third, would remain to go through the apartment, as a matter of
form.
"As the rooms are all open and lighted," said Miss Senter in English to
her brother, "it will only take a few minutes, if go they must, and no
one need know anything about it. But whom shall we send with them? If we
call Ercole, it will attract attention; and Florian's men, who were due
at another place, have already gone. We could have Andrea come up. But
no; Giorgio will do best of all. Call Giorgio to go with these men," she
added in Italian to Carmela.
"Let me conduct them!" answered the deputy.
"Yes; on the whole, she will be better than any one," said Miss Senter
to Peter. "She is so angry at what she calls the insult to you, and so
excited about the mysterious person who was with the musicians, that she
will bully them and hurry them off to look for him in no time. They can
begin with a peep into the drawing-room; I'll tell them to keep
themselves hidden." She turned and explained her idea in Italian to the
officer; they could glance into the drawing-room first, and then Carmela
would take them through all the other rooms; the Consul, though he had
the power of refusal, would permit this liberty in the cause of justice.
Their search, however, would be unavailing; under the circumstances, it
was impossible that any one should have taken refuge there, unless it
was that one extra man who had been admitted with the musicians to the
gallery. And he was already gone.
"Perhaps he only pretended to go?" suggested the officer. "With
permission, I will lock this door." And he did so.
They went to the drawing-room, the policemen moving quietly, close to
the wall. When the last anteroom was reached, the two men hid themselves
behind the tapestries that draped the door, and, making loop-holes among
the folds, peeped into the ball-room. For it was at that moment a
ball-room. The children had again taken up their whirling dance around
Ercole, and the gondolier, who had now a small child perched on each of
his shoulders, was singing with them in a clear tenor, having caught
the syllables from having heard them shouted about fifty times:
    "Yankee dooda dooda doo,
       Yankee dooda dandee,
     Barkeet cakar vera goo,
       Arso molarsa candee."
Miss Senter had sent Peter back to his guests. She herself, standing
between the tapestries as though she were looking on from the doorway,
named to the hidden policemen, as well as she could amid the loud
singing within, all the persons present, one by one. Finally her list
came to a close. "And that is Mr. Barlow, the American who lives at the
Danieli; and the one near the Christmas-tree is Mr. Douglas, who has the
Palazzo Dario. And the tall, large gentleman with silver hair is Sir
William Kay. That is all, except the clown, who is our gondolier, and
the five musicians up in the gallery; can you see them from here? If
not, Carmela can take you up." And then she thought, with a sudden
little shudder, that perhaps the officer's idea was not, after all,
impossible; perhaps, indeed, that extra man had only pretended to go!
The policemen signified that this was enough as regarded the
drawing-room; they withdrew softly, and waited outside the door.
"Now take them through all the other rooms, Carmela," whispered the
Consuless. "Be as quiet about it as you can, so that no one need know.
And when they have finally gone, come and stand for a moment between
these curtains, as a sign. If, by any chance, they should discover any
one--"
"The signorina need not be frightened; I saw the man go myself! And he
could not have re-entered without my knowledge. As for these beasts of
policemen--" And Carmela's eyes flashed, while her set lips seemed to
say, "Trust me to hustle them out!"
"Run up first and tell the musicians to play the music I sent them,"
said the Consuless. And then she rejoined her guests.
For the next dance was to be a Virginia Reel, and some of the elders
were to join the children; the two lines, when arranged, extended down
half the length of the long room. It began with great spirit, the clown
and the three Kings of Orient dancing at the end of the file.
"It is really Sir Roger de Coverley, an English dance," said Lady Kay to
the Russian princess, who was looking on from the chair next her own.
"But the Senters like to call it a Virginia Reel, they are so patriotic.
And we never contradict the Senters, you know," added the English lady,
laughing; "we let them have their way."
"It seems to me a vurra good way," answered the princess, who was a
plain-looking old woman with a charming smile. "I have nowhere seen so
many reech toyees" (here she glanced at the costly playthings heaped on
a table near by). "Nor haf I, in Italy, seen so many tings to eat.
With so moche champagne."
"Yes, they always do that," answered the baronet's wife. "They are so
very lavish. And very kind."
Miss Senter herself was dancing the reel. Once she thought there was a
quaver in the music, and, glancing up quickly towards the gallery, she
perceived the heads of the policemen behind the players. The players,
however, recovered themselves immediately, and upon looking up again a
moment afterwards she saw with relief that the sinister apparition had
vanished. Ten minutes later the trim little figure of the deputy
appeared between the tapestries of the doorway. Miss Senter, still
dancing, nodded slightly, as a signal that she perceived her, and then
Carmela, with an answering nod and one admiring look at Ercole,
disappeared. After all, now that there had been a suspicion about that
extra man, it was a comfort to have had the apartment searched; it
would make the moment of going to bed easier, the American lady
reflected.
It was now half-past eleven. By midnight the last sleepy child had been
carried down the marble stairway, the music ceased, and the musicians
departed. The elders, glad that the noise was over, remained half an
hour longer; then they took leave. Only Lady Kay and her husband were
left; they had waited to take a closer look at Miss Senter's Christmas
present to her brother, which was a large and beautifully executed copy
of Tintoretto's "Bacchus and Ariadne," from the Anticollegio of the
Doge's Palace. It had been placed temporarily on the wall behind the
Christmas-tree.
"How exquisite!" said Lady Kay, with a long sigh. "You are most
fortunate, Mr. Senter."
"Oh yes. Though I don't quite know what they will think of it in
Rochester, New York," answered Peter, chuckling.
Sir William and his wife intended to walk home. When it was cold they
preferred to walk rather than go to and fro in a gondola; and as they
were old residents, they knew every turn of the intricate burrowing
chinks in all the quarters that serve as footways. When they took leave
at one o'clock, Peter and Miss Senter, with American friendliness,
accompanied them to the outer door. Peter was about to open this door
when it was swung back, and a figure reeled in--Ercole. He had taken off
his clown's dress, and wore now his gondolier's costume; but this
costume was in disorder, and his face was darkly red--a purple red.
"Why, Ercole, is it you? What is the matter?" said Miss Senter, as he
staggered against the wall.
"Oh, her Excellency the Consuless, I have been beaten!"
"Beaten? Where have you been? I thought you were down at the landing
with Andrea," said Miss Senter.
"The antiquity-dealer suffocates," muttered Ercole. "And Giorgio--dead!"
This "dead" (morto!) even Peter understood. "Dead! What is he saying,
Barly?"
"The man is saying, Mr. Senter, that an antiquity-dealer is suffocating,
and that somebody he calls Giorgio is dead," translated the
pink-cheeked, portly Lady Kay, in her sweet voice. "It's your gondolier,
isn't it--the one who played the clown so nicely? What a pity! He has
been drinking, I fear."
While she was saying this, Sir William was leading Ercole farther away
from the ladies.
"Yes, he is drunk," said Peter, looking at him. "Too bad! We must have
help. Let's see; Andrea is down at the landing. I'll get him. And you
call Giorgio, Barly."
Here Ercole, held by Sir William, gave a maddened cry, and threw his
head about violently.
"Oh, don't leave my husband alone with him, Mr. Senter," said Lady Kay,
alarmed. "He is a very powerful young man, and his eyes are dreadful.
To me he looks as if he were mad. Those somersaults have affected his
head."
And the gondolier's eyes were indeed strangely bloodshot and wild. Miss
Senter had hurried to the kitchen. But Giorgio was not there. She came
back, and found Ercole struggling with the Englishman and her brother.
"Let me try," she said. "I am not afraid of him. Ercole," she continued,
speaking gently in Italian, "go to your room now, and go to bed quietly;
everything will be all right to-morrow."
Ercole writhed in Sir William's grasp. "The antiquity-dealer! And
Giorgio--dead!"
"Where is Giorgio, Barly?" said Peter, angrily, as he helped Sir William
in securing the gondolier. "And where are the other servants? Where's
Carmela? Find them, and send one down to the landing for Andrea, and the
other for Giorgio. Quick!"
"Oh, Peter, I've been, and I couldn't find Giorgio or any one."
"Carmela was in your bedroom not long ago," said Lady Kay, watching the
gondolier's contortions nervously; "she helped me put on my cloak."
Miss Senter ran to her bedroom, her train flying in the haste she made.
But in a moment she was back again. "There is no one there. Oh, where
are they all?"
Ercole, hearing her voice, peered at her with his crimsoned eyes, and
then, breaking loose suddenly, he came and caught hold of her arm. "The
antiquity-room. Will she come?"
Peter and Sir William dragged him away by main force.
"The gentlemen, then. Will they come?" said the gondolier, hoarsely.
And again freeing himself with two strokes of his powerful arms, he
passed out (for the door was still open), and began to descend the
outside staircase.
"Oh, thank Heaven, he has gone!" "Oh, lock the door!" cried the two
ladies together.
"We must follow him, Mr. Senter," said Sir William. "He is plainly mad
from drink, and may do some harm."
"Yes; and down there Andrea can help us," answered Peter.
And the two gentlemen hastened down the staircase. It was a very long
flight with three turns. The court below was brilliantly lighted by many
wall lamps.
"I don't like my husband's going down," said Lady Kay, in a tremor, as
she stood on the landing outside. "If they are going to seize him, the
more of us the better; don't you think so? For while they are holding
him, you and I could run across and get that other man in from the
riva."
But Miss Senter was not there. She had rushed back into the house, and
was now calling with all her strength: "Giorgio! Carmela! Assunta!
Beppa!" There was no answer, and, seized with a fresh panic by the
strangeness of this silence, she hastened out again and joined Lady Kay,
who was already half-way down the stairs. The gondolier had not turned
towards the water entrance; he had crossed the court in the opposite
direction, and now he was passing through a broad, low door which led
into the hall on the ground-floor behind the show-room of Z. Pelham,
throwing open as he did so both wings of this entrance, so that the
light from the court entered in a broad beam across the stone pavement.
"My dear, don't go in!" "Oh, Peter, stop! stop!" cried the two ladies,
as they breathlessly descended the last flight.
But Peter and Sir William had paid no attention. Quickly detaching two
of the lamps from the wall, they had followed the madman.
"The other gondolier!" gasped Lady Kay.
And the two women ran swiftly to the water-door and threw it open, Miss
Senter calling, in Italian: "Andrea! come instantly!"
The little riva along the small canal was also brightly lighted. But
there was no one there. And opposite there was only a long blank wall.
"Oh, we must not leave them a moment longer," said Lady Kay.
And again they rushed across the broad court, this time entering the
dark water-story; for it was better to enter, dreadful though it was,
than to remain outside, not knowing what might be happening within.
Ercole meanwhile had made his way into Mr. Pelham's show-room, and here
he had struck a match and lighted a candle. As he had left the door of
the show-room open, those who were without could see him, and they
stopped for a moment to watch what he would do next. It was now a group
of four, for the ladies had joined the other two, Miss Senter whispering
to her brother:
"Andrea isn't there!"
The gondolier bent down, and began to drag something across the floor
and out to the open space behind. "Here!" he said, turning his purple
face towards their lamps. "I can no more." And he sat down suddenly on
the pavement, and let his head and arms fall forward over his knees.
Peter and Sir William, giving their lamps to the ladies, were
approaching cautiously, in order to secure him while he was quiet, when
they saw, to their horror, two human legs and feet protruding from the
object which he had dragged forth.
"Why, it's the second-hand dealer; it's Z. Pelham!" said Peter, in fresh
excitement. "I know his arctics. Bring the lamp, Barly. Quick!"
The two ladies came nearer, keeping one eye upon Ercole. Peter and Sir
William with some difficulty cut the rope, and unwound two woollen
coverlids and a sheet. Within, almost suffocated, with his hands tied
behind him, was the dealer.
"I suppose he did this!" whispered Lady Kay to Miss Senter, her pink
face white, as she indicated the motionless gondolier.
Sir William lifted the dealer's head, while Peter loosened his collar.
"Now will Excellencies look for Giorgio," muttered Ercole, without
changing his position.
"He says now will you look for Giorgio," translated Lady Kay. "That he
tells his crimes shows that he really is mad!" she added, in a
whisper.
"No; I think he has come to for the moment, and that's why he tells,"
said Peter, hastily rubbing Z. Pelham's chest. "Ask him where we shall
look, Barly; ask while he's lucid."
"Where must we look for Giorgio, Ercole?" quavered Miss Senter, her
Italian coming out with the oddest pronunciation.
"Back stairs," answered the gondolier.
"Back stairs, he says," translated Lady Kay.
"There are no back stairs," replied Peter.
"I'll put this coverlid under his back. That will make him breathe
better," said the Englishman, his sympathies roused by the forlorn
plight of the little dealer, whose carefully strapped arctic shoes gave
ironical emphasis to his helplessness.
Meanwhile Miss Senter, saying "Yes, there are stairs," had run across
the pavement with her lamp, found the door at the back of the hall, and
opened it. Z. Pelham began to breathe more regularly, although he had
not yet opened his eyes. Sir William drew him farther away from the
gondolier, and then he and Peter hastened across and looked up the
spiral. "It goes to the attics," explained Miss Senter.
"You two stand here at the bottom with one lamp, and Sir William and I
will go up with the other," said Peter. "Keep your eye on Ercole, Barly,
and if he so much as moves, come right up and join us."
"Wait an instant," said the Englishman. "Stay here with Mr. Senter,
Gertrude." Making a détour so as not to rouse the gondolier, he entered
the antiquity-dealer's show-room and tried to open the outer door. But
it was locked, and the key was not there. "No use," he said, coming
hurriedly back; "I had hoped to get help from outside to watch him while
we go up. Now remember, Gertrude, you and Miss Senter are to come up and
join us instantly if he leaves his place." And then he and Peter
ascended the winding steps, carrying one of the lamps. Round and round
went the gleam of their light, and the two ladies at the bottom,
standing with their skirts caught up ready to run, watched the still
form of the gondolier in the distance, visible in the gleam of the
candle burning in the show-room. It seemed an hour. But a full minute
had not gone when Peter's voice above cried out:
"It's Giorgio! Good God! Killed! Bring up the other light."
And the two ladies rushed up together. There on the landing lay the poor
old cook, his eyes closed, his face ghastly, his white jacket deeply
stained with blood. Miss Senter, who was really attached to the old man,
began to cry.
"He isn't quite dead," said Peter, who had been listening for the heart.
"But we must get him out of this icy place. Then we'll tie up Ercoly--we
can use that rope--and after he is secured, I can go for help. Here, you
take his head and shoulders, Sir William; you are the strongest. And
I'll take his body. Barly can take the feet."
"It will be difficult," said the Englishman. "These steep stairs--"
But Peter, when roused, was a veritable little lion. "Come on," he said;
"we can do it."
"Please go down first and see if Ercole is still quiet," begged Miss
Senter of Lady Kay. And the Englishwoman, who now had both lamps, went
down and came back in thirty seconds; she never knew how she did it. "He
has not stirred," she said. And then old Giorgio was borne down, and out
to the brilliantly lighted court beyond.
"Now," said Peter, whose face was bathed with great drops of
perspiration, "we'll first secure him," and he indicated Ercole by
pointing his thumb backward over his shoulder towards the water-story,
"and then I'll go for a doctor and the police."
But as he spoke, coming out of the door upon his hands and knees,
appeared Z. Pelham, who, as soon as he saw the cook's prostrate body,
called back, hoarsely, in Italian: "Ercole, get my brandy-flask."
"Oh, don't call him!" said Lady Kay, in terror, clapping a fold of her
skirt tightly over the dealer's mouth and holding it there. "He is
mad--quite mad!"
Mr. Pelham collapsed.
"Good heavens! Gertrude, don't suffocate the poor creature a second
time," said Sir William, pulling his wife away.
Z. Pelham, released, raised his head. "Ercole has been bad beat, and
that makes him not genteel," he explained. "Ercole, bring my
brandy-flask," he called again, in Italian, and the effort he made to
break through his hoarseness brought out the words in a sudden wild
yell. "My voice a little deranged is," he added, apologetically, in
English.
They could now hear the steps of the gondolier within, and the ladies
moved to a distance as he appeared, walking unsteadily, the flask in his
hand. "Not dead?" he said, trying to see Giorgio. But his eyes closed
convulsively, and as soon as the dealer had taken the flask, down he
went, or half fell, on the pavement as before, with his head thrown
forward over his knees. Sir William placed himself promptly by his side,
while Peter ran within to get the rope. Z. Pelham, uncorking the flask,
poured a little brandy between Giorgio's pale lips. "You have all
mistake," he said to Sir William as he did this. "Ercole was bad beat by
a third partee who has done it all--me and he and this died cook; a
third partee was done it all." And he chafed the cook's temples with
brandy.
"A third party?" said Peter, who had returned with the rope. "Who?"
"I know not; they knocked me from behind. It was lightning to me, in
my head also," answered Z. Pelham, going on with his chafing.
"Come here, Barly," said Peter, taking command. "Say what I tell you.
Don't be afraid; Sir William and I will grab him if he stirs. Say,
'Ercoly, who hurt you?'"
"Ercole, who hurt you?" said Miss Senter, tremulously.
"Non so. Un demonio," answered the gondolier, his head still on his
knees.
"He says he doesn't know. A demon," said Lady Kay.
"Ask when it happened."
"It was after he had taken the presents from the tree," translated Lady
Kay again. "He was struck, dragged down the back stairs, gagged, and
left in the antiquity-room. He has only just now been able to free
himself."
"How could he act the clown, then?" pursued Peter.
"He says he hasn't been a clown or seen a clown. Oh, Peter, it was some
one else disguised! Who could it have been?" cried Miss Senter, running
away as if to fly up the staircase, and then in her terror running back
again.
The cook's eyes had now opened. "He says see what is stoled," said Mr.
Pelham, administering more brandy. Mr. Pelham was seated, tailor
fashion, on the pavement, his feet in their arctics under him.
"Giorgio knows something about it, too," said Peter. "Ask him, Barly."
But Miss Senter was incapable of speaking; she had hidden her face on
Lady Kay's shoulder, shuddering. The clown with whom she had talked, who
had danced all the evening with the children, was an assassin! A strange
and savage murderer!
"I'll do it," said the Englishman. And bending over Giorgio, he asked,
in correct, stiff Italian: "Do you know who hurt you?"
"A tall, dark man. I never saw him before," answered the cook, or rather
his lips formed those words. "He stabbed me after he had struck down
Ercole."
"Now he is again gone," soliloquized Z. Pelham, as Giorgio's eyes
closed; "I have fear this time he is truly died!" And he chafed the
cook's temples anew.
"It's all clear now," said Peter, "and Ercoly isn't mad; only hurt in
some way. So I'll go for help at once."
"Oh, Peter, you always get lost!" moaned his sister.
And it was true that the Consul almost invariably lost his way in the
labyrinth of chinks behind the palace.
"I'll go," said the Englishman. "It's not very late" (he looked at his
watch); "I shall be sure to find some one."
"You must let me go with you, my dear," urged Lady Kay.
In three minutes they were back with two men. "I've brought these two,
and there's a doctor coming. And I sent word to the police," said the
Englishman.
And following very soon came a half-dressed youth, a young American
doctor, who had been roused by somebody. The cook was borne up the
stairway and into the salon, where the chandeliers were shedding their
soft radiance calmly, and where all the fairy-lamps were still burning
on the Christmas-tree; for only twenty minutes had passed since the host
and his guests had left the room. Behind the group of the two men from
outside, who with Peter and the doctor were carrying Giorgio, came Sir
William leading the gondolier, who seemed now entirely blind, while Z.
Pelham followed, last of all, on his hands and knees.
"This old man has a deep cut--done with a knife; he has lost a good deal
of blood; pretty bad case," said the doctor. "Your gondolier has been
dreadfully beaten about the head, but it won't kill him; he is young and
strong. This third man seems to be only sprained. Get me something for
bandages and compresses, and bring cold water."
"Get towels, Barly," said the Consul.
"Oh, Peter, I'm afraid to go," said Miss Senter, faintly. "The man may
still be hidden here somewhere. And I know he has murdered Carmela and
