walked their beat, to and fro. The sun had gone down, and it was already
twilight on that side of the mountains. The rain had cooled the air, and
the far land to southward was darkly distinct beyond the purple water.
It was very chilly, and Clare was without a shawl, and Johnstone was
hatless, but neither of them noticed that it was cool. Johnstone was the
first to speak.
"Is this sort of thing to go on for ever, Miss Bowring?" he asked
gravely.
"What?" But she knew very well what he meant.
"This--this very odd footing we are on, you and I--are we never going to
get past it?"
"Oh--I hope not," answered Clare, cheerfully. "I think it's very
pleasant, don't you? And most original. We are intimate enough to say
all sorts of things, and I'm your enemy, and you say you are my friend.
I can't imagine any better arrangement. We shall always laugh when we
think of it--even years hence. You will be going away in a few days, and
we shall stay here into the summer and we shall never see each other
again, in all probability. We shall always look back on this time--as
something quite odd, you know."
"You are quite mistaken if you think that we shall never meet again,"
said Johnstone.
"I mean that it's very unlikely. You see we don't go home very often,
and when we do we stop with friends in the country. We don't go much
into society. And the rest of the time we generally live in Florence."
"There is nothing to prevent me from coming to Florence--or living
there, if I choose."
"Oh no--I suppose not. Except that you would be bored to death. It's not
very amusing, unless you happen to be fond of pictures, and you never
said you were."
"I should go to see you."
"Oh--yes--you could call, and of course if we were at home we should be
very glad to see you. But that would only occupy about half an hour of
one day. That isn't much."
"I mean that I should go to Florence simply for the sake of seeing you,
and seeing you often--all the time, in fact."
"Dear me! That would be a great deal, wouldn't it? I thought you meant
just to call, don't you know?"
"I'm in earnest, though it sounds very funny, I dare say," said
Johnstone.
"It sounds rather mad," answered Clare, laughing a little. "I hope you
won't do anything of the kind, because I wouldn't see you more than
once or twice. I'd have headaches and colds and concerts--all the things
one has when one isn't at home to people. But my mother would be
delighted. She likes you tremendously, you know, and you could go about
to galleries together and read Ruskin and Browning--do you know the
Statue and the Bust? And you could go and see Casa Guidi, where the
Brownings lived, and you could drive up to San Miniato, and then, you
know, you could drive up again and read more Browning and more Ruskin.
I'm sure you would enjoy it to any extent. But I should have to go
through a terrific siege of colds and headaches. It would be rather hard
on me."
"And harder on me," observed Brook, "and quite fearful for Mrs.
Bowring."
"Oh no! She would enjoy every minute of it. You forget that she likes
you."
"You are afraid I should forget that you don't."
"I almost--oh, a long way from quite! I almost liked you yesterday when
you thrashed the carter and tied him up so neatly. It was beautifully
done--all those knots! I suppose you learned them on board of the yacht,
didn't you?"
"I've yachted a good deal," said Brook.
"Generally with that party?" inquired Clare.
"No. That was the first time. My father has an old tub he goes about
in, and we sometimes go together."
"Is he coming here in his 'old tub'?"
"Oh no--he's lent her to a fellow who has taken her off to Japan, I
believe."
"Japan! Is it safe? In an 'old tub'!"
"Oh, well--that's a way of talking, you know. She's a good enough boat,
you know. My father went to New York in her, last year. She's a steamer,
you know. I hate steamers. They are such dirty noisy things! But of
course if you are going a long way, they are the only things."
He spoke in a jerky way, annoyed and discomfited by her forcing the
conversation off the track. Though he was aware that he had gone further
than he intended, when he proposed to spend the winter in Florence.
Moreover, he was very tenacious by nature, and had rarely been seriously
opposed during his short life. Her persistent refusal to tell him the
cause of her deep-rooted dislike exasperated him, while her frank and
careless manner and good-fellowship fascinated him more and more.
"Tell me all about the yacht," she said. "I'm sure she is a beauty,
though you call her an old tub."
"I don't want to talk about yachts," he answered, returning to the
attack in spite of her. "I want to talk about the chances of seeing you
after we part here."
"There aren't any," replied the young girl carelessly. "What is the name
of the yacht?"
"Very commonplace--'Lucy,' that's all. I'll make chances if there are
none--"
"You mustn't say that 'Lucy' is commonplace. That's my mother's name."
"I beg your pardon. I couldn't know that. It always struck me that it
wasn't much of a name for a yacht, you know. That was all I meant. He's
a queer old bird, my father; he always says he took it from the Bride of
Lammermoor, Heaven knows why. But please--I really can't go away and
feel that I'm not to see you again soon. You seem to think that I'm
chaffing. I'm not. I'm very serious. I like you very much, and I don't
see why one should just meet and then go off, and let that be the
end--do you?"
"I don't see why not," exclaimed Clare, hating the unexpected longing
she felt to agree with him, and tell him to come and stay in Florence as
much as he pleased. "Come--it's too cold here. I must be going in."
CHAPTER IX
Brook Johnstone had never been in the habit of observing his sensations
nor of paying any great attention to his actions. He was not at all an
actor, as Clare believed him to be, and the idea that he could ever have
taken pleasure in giving pain would have made him laugh. Possibly, it
would have made him very angry, but it certainly had no foundation at
all in fact. He had been liked, loved, and made much of, not for
anything he had ever taken the trouble to do, but partly for his own
sake, and partly on account of his position. Such charm as he had for
women lay in his frankness, good humour, and simplicity of character.
That he had appeared to be changeable in his affection was merely due to
the fact that he had never been in love. He vaguely recognised the fact
in his inner consciousness, though he would have said that he had been
in love half a dozen times; which only amounted to saying that women he
had liked had been in love with him or had thought that they were, or
had wished to have it thought that he loved them or had perhaps, like
poor Lady Fan, been willing to risk a good deal on the bare chance of
marrying one of the best of society's matches in the end. He was too
young to look upon such affairs very seriously. When he had been tired
of the game he had not lacked the courage to say so, and in most cases
he had been forgiven. Lady Fan might prove an exception, but he hoped
not. He was enormously far removed from being a saint, it is true, but
it is due to him to repeat that he had drawn the line rigidly at a
certain limit, and that all women beyond that line had been to him as
his own mother, in thought and deed. Let those who have the right to
cast stones--and the cruelty to do so--decide for themselves whether
Brook Johnstone was a bad man at heart, or not. It need not be hinted
that a proportion of the stone-throwing Pharisees owe their immaculate
reputation to their conspicuous lack of attraction; the little band has
a place apart and they stand there and lapidate most of us, and secretly
wish that they had ever had the chance of being as bad as we are without
being found out. But the great army of the pure in heart are mixed with
us sinners in the fight, and though they may pray for us, they do not
carp at our imperfections--and occasionally they get hit by the
Pharisees just as we do, being rather whiter than we and therefore
offering a more tempting mark for a jagged stone or a handful of pious
mud. You may know the Pharisee by his intimate knowledge of the sins he
has never committed.
Besides, though the code of honour is not worth much as compared with
the Ten Commandments, it is notably better than nothing, in the way of
morality. It will keep a man from lying and evil speaking as well as
from picking and stealing, and if it does not force him to honour all
women as angels, it makes him respect a very large proportion of them as
good women and therefore sacred, in a very practical way of sacredness.
Brook Johnstone always was very careful in all matters where honour and
his own feeling about honour were concerned. For that reason he had told
Clare that he had never done anything very bad, whereas what she had
seen him do was monstrous in her eyes. She had not reflected that she
knew nothing about Lady Fan; and if she had heard half there was to be
known she would not have understood. That night on the platform Lady Fan
had given her own version of what had taken place on the Acropolis at
sunset, and Brook had not denied anything. Clare did not reflect that
Lady Fan might very possibly have exaggerated the facts very much in her
statement of them, and that at such a time Brook was certainly not the
man to argue the case, since it had manifestly been his only course to
take all the apparent blame on himself. Even if he had known that Clare
had heard the conversation, he could not possibly have explained the
matter to her--not even if she had been an old woman--without telling
all the truth about Lady Fan, and he was too honourable a man to do
that, under any conceivable circumstances.
He was decidedly and really in love with the girl. He knew it, because
what he felt was not like anything he had ever felt before. It was
anything but the pleasurable excitement to which he was accustomed.
There might have been something of that if he had received even the
smallest encouragement. But, do what he would, he could find none. The
attraction increased, and the encouragement was daily less, he thought.
Clare occasionally said things which made him half believe that she did
not wholly dislike him. That was as much as he could say. He cudgelled
his brains and wrung his memory to discover what he could have done to
offend her, and he could not remember anything--which was not
surprising. It was clear that she had never heard of him before he had
come to Amalfi. He had satisfied himself of that by questions, otherwise
he would naturally enough have come near the truth and guessed that she
must have known of some affair in which he had been concerned, which she
judged harshly from her own point of view.
He was beginning to suffer, and he was not accustomed to suffering,
least of all to any of the mental kind, for his life had always gone
smoothly. He had believed hitherto that most people exaggerated, and
worried themselves unnecessarily, but when he found it hard to sleep,
and noticed that he had a dull, unsatisfied sort of misery with him all
day long, he began to understand. He did not think that Clare could
really enjoy teasing him, and, besides, it was not like mere teasing,
either. She was evidently in earnest when she repeated that she did not
like him. He knew her face when she was chaffing, and her tone, and the
little bending of the delicate, swan-like throat, too long for perfect
beauty, but not for perfect grace. When she was in earnest, her head
rose, her eyes looked straight before her, and her voice sank to a
graver note. He knew all the signs of truth, for with her it was always
very near the surface, dwelling not in a deep well, but in clear water,
as it were, open to the sky. Her truth was evidently truth, and her
jesting was transparent as a child's.
It looked a hopeless case, but he had no intention of considering it
without hope, nor any inclination to relinquish his attempts. He did
not tell himself in so many words that he wished to marry her, and
intended to marry her, and would marry her, if it were humanly possible,
and he assuredly made no such promises to himself. Nor did he look at
her as he had looked at women in whom he had been momentarily
interested, appreciating her good points of face and figure, cataloguing
and compiling her attractions so as to admire them all in turn, forget
none, and receive their whole effect.
He had a restless, hungry craving that left him no peace, and that
seemed to desire only a word, a look, the slightest touch of sympathy,
to be instantly satisfied. And he could not get from her one softened
glance, nor one sympathetic pressure of the hand, nor one word spoken
more gravely than another, except the assurance of her genuine dislike.
That was the only thing he had to complain of, but it was enough. He
could not reproach her with having encouraged him, for she had told him
the truth from the first. He had not quite believed her. So much the
worse for him. If he had, and if he had gone to Naples to wait for his
people, all this would not have happened, for he had not fallen in love
at first sight. A fortnight of daily and almost hourly intercourse was
very good and reasonable ground for being in love.
He grew absent-minded, and his pipe went out unexpectedly, which always
irritated him, and sometimes he did not take the trouble to light it
again. He rose at dawn and went for long walks in the hills, with the
idea that the early air and the lofty coolness would do him good, and
with the acknowledged intention of doing his walking at an hour when he
could not possibly be with Clare. For he could not keep away from her,
whether Mrs. Bowring were with her or not. He was too much a man of the
world to sit all day long before her, glaring at her in shy silence, as
a boy might have done, and as he would have been content to do; so he
took immense pains to be agreeable, when her mother was present, and
Mrs. Bowring liked him, and said that he had really a most extraordinary
talent for conversation. It was not that he ever said anything very
memorable; but he talked most of the time, and always pleasantly,
telling stories about people and places he had known, discussing the
lighter books of the day, and affecting that profound ignorance of
politics which makes some women feel at their ease, and encourages
amusing discussion.
Mrs. Bowring watched him when she was there with a persistency which
might have made him nervous if he had not been wholly absorbed in her
daughter. She evidently saw something in him which reminded her of some
one or something. She had changed of late, and Clare was beginning to
think that she must be ill, though she scouted the suggestion, and said
that she was growing daily stronger. She had altogether relaxed her
vigilance with regard to the two young people, and seemed willing that
they should go where they pleased together, and sit alone together by
the hour.
"I dare say I watched him a good deal at first," she said to her
daughter. "But I have made up my mind about him. He's a very good sort
of young fellow, and I'm glad that you have a companion. You see I can't
walk much, and now that you are getting better you need exercise. After
all, one can always trust the best of one's own people. He's not falling
in love with you, is he, dear? I sometimes fancy that he looks at you as
though he were."
"Nonsense, mother!" and Clare laughed intentionally. "But he's very good
company."
"It would be very unfortunate if he did," said Mrs. Bowring, looking
away, and speaking almost to herself. "I am not sure that we should not
have gone away--"
"Really! If one is to be turned out of the most beautiful place in the
world because a young Englishman chooses to stop in the same hotel!
Besides, why in the world should he fall in love with me? He's used to
a very different kind of people, I fancy."
"What do you mean?"
"Oh--the gay set--'a' gay set, I suppose, for there are probably more
than one of them. They are quite different from us, you know."
"That is no reason. On the contrary--men like variety and
change--change, yes," repeated Mrs. Bowring, with an odd emphasis. "At
all events, child, don't take a fancy to him!" she added. "Not that I'm
much afraid of that. You are anything but 'susceptible,' my dear!" she
laughed faintly.
"You need not be in the least afraid," answered Clare. "But, after all,
mother--just supposing the case--I can't see why it should be such an
awful calamity if we took a fancy to each other. We belong to the same
class of people, if not to the same set. He has enough money, and I'm
not absolutely penniless, though we are as poor as church mice--"
"For Heaven's sake, don't suggest such a thing!" cried Mrs. Bowring.
Her face was white, and her lips trembled. There was a frightened look
in her pale eyes, and she turned her face quickly to her daughter, and
quickly away again.
"Mother!" exclaimed the young girl, in surprise. "What in the world is
the matter? I was only laughing--besides--" she stopped, puzzled. "Tell
me the truth, mother," she continued suddenly. "You know about his
people--his father is some connection of--of your first husband--there's
some disgraceful story about them--tell me the truth. Why shouldn't I
know?"
"I hope you never will!" answered Mrs. Bowring, in a low voice that had
a sort of horror in it.
"Then there is something?" Clare herself turned a little paler as she
asked the question.
"Don't ask me--don't ask me!"
"Something disgraceful?" The young girl leaned forward as she spoke, and
her eyes were wide and anxious, forcing her mother to speak.
"Yes--no," faltered Mrs. Bowring. "Nothing to do with this
one--something his father did long ago."
"Dishonourable?" asked Clare, her voice sinking lower and lower.
"No--not as men look at it--oh, don't ask me! Please don't ask
me--please don't, darling!"
"Then his yacht is named after you," said the young girl in a flash of
intelligence.
"His yacht?" asked the elder woman excitedly. "What? I don't
understand."
"Mr. Johnstone told me that his father had a big steam yacht called the
'Lucy'--mother, that man loved you, he loves you still."
"Me? Oh no--no, he never loved me!" She laughed wildly, with quivering
lips. "Don't, child--don't! For God's sake don't ask questions--you'll
drive me mad! It's the secret of my life--the only secret I have from
you--oh, Clare, if you love me at all--don't ask me!"
"Mother, sweet! Of course I love you!"
The young girl, very pale and wondering, kneeled beside the elder woman
and threw her arms round her and drew down her face, kissing the white
cheeks and the starting tears and the faded flaxen hair. The storm
subsided, almost without breaking, for Mrs. Bowring was a brave woman
and, in some ways, a strong woman, and whatever her secret might be, she
had kept it long and well from her daughter.
Clare knew her, and inwardly decided that the secret must have been
worth keeping. She loved her mother far too well to hurt her with
questions, but she was amazed at what she herself felt of resentful
curiosity to know the truth about anything which could cast a shadow
upon the man she disliked, as she thought so sincerely. Her mind worked
like lightning, while her voice spoke softly and her hands sought those
thin, familiar, gentle fingers which were an integral part of her world
and life.
Two possibilities presented themselves. Johnstone's father was a
brother or near connection of her mother's first husband. Either she had
loved him, been deceived in him, and had married the brother instead;
or, having married, this man had hated her and fought against her, and
harmed her, because she was his elder brother's wife, and he coveted the
inheritance. In either case it was no fault of Brook's. The most that
could be said would be that he might have his father's character. She
inclined to the first of her theories. Old Johnstone had made love to
her mother and had half broken her heart, before she had married his
brother. Brook was no better--and she thought of Lady Fan. But she was
strangely glad that her mother had said "not dishonourable, as men look
at it." It had been as though a cruel hand had been taken from her
throat, when she had heard that.
"But, mother," she said presently, "these people are coming to-morrow or
the next day--and they mean to stay, he says. Let us go away, before
they come. We can come back afterwards--you don't want to meet them."
Mrs. Bowring was calm again, or appeared to be so, whatever was passing
in her mind.
"I shall certainly not run away," she answered in a low, steady voice.
"I will not run away and leave Adam Johnstone's son to tell his father
that I was afraid to meet him, or his wife," she added, almost in a
whisper. "I've been weak, sometimes, my dear--" her voice rose to its
natural key again, "and I've made a mistake in life. But I won't be a
coward--I don't believe I am, by nature, and if I were I wouldn't let
myself be afraid now."
"It would not be fear, mother. Why should you suffer, if you are going
to suffer in meeting him? We had much better go away at once. When they
have all left, we can come back."
"And you would not mind going away to-morrow, and never seeing Brook
Johnstone again?" asked Mrs. Bowring, quietly.
"I? No! Why should I?"
Clare meant to speak the truth, and she thought that it was the truth.
But it was not. She grew a little paler a moment after the words had
passed her lips, but her mother did not see the change of colour.
"I'm glad of that, at all events," said the elder woman. "But I won't go
away. No--I won't," she repeated, as though spurring her own courage.
"Very well," answered the young girl. "But we can keep very much to
ourselves all the time they are here, can't we? We needn't make their
acquaintance--at least--" she stopped short, realising that it would be
impossible to avoid knowing Brook's people if they were stopping in the
same hotel.
"Their acquaintance!" Mrs. Bowring laughed bitterly at the idea.
"Oh--I forgot," said Clare. "At all events, we need not meet
unnecessarily. That's what I mean, you know."
There was a short pause, during which her mother seemed to be thinking.
"I shall see him alone, for I have something to say to him," she said at
last, as though she had come to a decision. "Go out, my dear," she
added. "Leave me alone a little while. I shall be all right when it is
time for luncheon."
Her daughter left her, but she did not go out at once. She went to her
own room and sat down to think over what she had seen and heard. If she
went out she should probably find Johnstone waiting for her, and she did
not wish to meet him just then. It was better to be alone. She would
find out why the idea of not seeing him any more had hurt her after she
had spoken.
But that was not an easy matter at all. So soon as she tried to think of
herself and her own feelings, she began to think of her mother. And when
she endeavoured to solve the mystery and guess the secret, her thoughts
flew off suddenly to Brook, and she wished that she were outside in the
sunshine talking to him. And again, as the probable conversation
suggested itself to her, she was glad that she was not with him, and she
tried to think again. Then she forced herself to recall the scene with
Lady Fan on the terrace, and she did her best to put him in the worst
possible light, which in her opinion was a very bad light indeed. And
his father before him--Adam--her mother had told her the name for the
first time, and it struck her as an odd one--old Adam Johnstone had been
a heart-breaker, and a faith-breaker, and a betrayer of women before
Brook was in the world at all. Her theory held good, when she looked at
it fairly, and her resentment grew apace. It was natural enough, for in
her imagination she had always hated that first husband of her mother's
who had come and gone before her father; and now she extended her hatred
to this probable brother, and it had much more force, because the man
was alive and a reality, and was soon to come and be a visible talking
person. There was one good point about him and his coming. It helped her
to revive her hatred of Brook and to colour it with the inheritance of
some harm done to her own mother. That certainly was an advantage.
But she should be very sorry not to see Brook any more, never to hear
him talk to her again, never to look into his eyes--which, all the
same, she so unreasonably dreaded. It was beyond her powers of analysis
to reconcile her like and dislike. All the little logic she had said
that it was impossible to like and dislike the same person at the same
time. She seemed to have two hearts, and the one cried "Hate," while the
other cried "Love." That was absurd, and altogether ridiculous, and
quite contemptible.
There they were, however, the two hearts, fighting it out, or at least
altercating and threatening to fight and hurt her. Of course "love"
meant "like"--it was a general term, well contrasting with "hate." As
for really caring, beyond a liking for Brook Johnstone, she was sure
that it was impossible. But the liking was strong. She exploded her
difficulty at last with the bomb of a splendidly youthful quibble. She
said to herself that she undoubtedly hated him and despised him, and
that he was certainly the very lowest of living men for treating Lady
Fan so badly--besides being a black sinner, a point which had less
weight. And then she told herself that the cry of something in her to
"like" instead of hating was simply the expression of what she might
have felt, and should have felt, and should have had a right to have
felt, had it not been for poor Lady Fan; but also of something which she
assuredly did not feel, never could feel, and never meant to feel. In
other words, she should have liked Brook if she had not had good cause
to dislike him. She was satisfied with this explanation of her feelings,
and she suddenly felt that she could go out and see him and talk to him
without being inconsistent. She had forgotten to explain to herself why
she wished him not to go away. She went out accordingly, and sat down on
the terrace in the soft air.
She glanced up and down, but Johnstone was not to be seen anywhere, and
she wished that she had not come out after all. He had probably waited
some time and had then gone for a walk by himself. She thought that he
might have waited just a little longer before giving it up, and she half
unconsciously made up her mind to requite him by staying indoors after
luncheon. She had not even brought a book or a piece of work, for she
had felt quite sure that he would be walking up and down as usual, with
his pipe, looking as though he owned the scenery. She half rose to go
in, and then changed her mind. She would give him one more chance and
count fifty, before she went away, at a good quick rate.
She began to count. At thirty-five her pace slackened. She stopped a
long time at forty-five, and then went slowly to the end. But Johnstone
did not come. Once again, she reluctantly decided--and she began
slowly; and again she slackened speed and dragged over the last ten
numbers. But he did not come.
"Oh, this is ridiculous!" she exclaimed aloud to herself, as she rose
impatiently from her seat.
She felt injured, for her mother had sent her away, and there was no one
to talk to her, and she did not care to think any more, lest the
questions she had decided should again seem open and doubtful. She went
into the hotel and walked down the corridor. He might be in the
reading-room. She walked quickly, because she was a little ashamed of
looking for him when she felt that he should be looking for her.
Suddenly she stopped, for she heard him whistling somewhere. Whistling
was his solitary accomplishment, and he did it very well. There was no
mistaking the shakes and runs, and pretty bird-like cadences. She
listened, but she bit her lip. He was light-hearted, at all events, she
thought.
The sound came nearer, and Brook suddenly appeared in the corridor, his
hat on the back of his head, his hands in his pockets. As he caught
sight of Clare the shrill tune ceased, and one hand removed the hat.
"I've been looking for you everywhere, for the last two hours," he cried
as he came along. "Good morning," he said as he reached her. "I was
just going back to the terrace in despair."
"It sounded more as though you were whistling for me," answered Clare,
with a laugh, for she was instantly happy, and pacified, and peaceful.
"Well--not exactly!" he answered. "But I did hope that you would hear me
and know that I was about--wishing you would come."
"I always come out in the morning," she replied with sudden demureness.
"Indeed--I wondered where you were. Let us go out, shall we?"
"We might go for a walk," suggested Brook.
"It is too late."
"Just a little walk--down to the town and across the bridge to Atrani,
and back. Couldn't we?"
"Oh, we could, of course. Very well--I've got a hat on, haven't I? All
right. Come along!"
"My people are coming to-day," said Brook, as they passed through the
door. "I've just had a telegram."
"To-day!" exclaimed Clare in surprise, and somewhat disturbed.
"Yes, you know I have been expecting them at any moment. I fancy they
have been knocking about, you know--seeing Pæstum and all that. They
are such queer people. They always want to see everything--as though it
mattered!"
"There are only the two? Mr. and Mrs. Johnstone?"
"Yes--that's all." Brook laughed a little as though she had said
something amusing.
"What are you laughing at?" asked Clare, naturally enough.
"Oh, nothing. It's ridiculous--but it sounded funny--unfamiliar, I mean.
My father has fallen a victim to knighthood, that's all. The affliction
came upon him some time ago, and his name is Adam--of all the names in
the world."
"It was the first," observed Clare reassuringly. "It doesn't sound badly
either--Sir Adam. I beg his pardon for calling him 'Mr.'" She laughed in
her turn.
"Oh, he wouldn't mind," said Brook. "He's not at all that sort. Do you
know? I think you'll like him awfully. He's a fine old chap in his way,
though he is a brewer. He's much bigger than I am, but he's rather odd,
you know. Sometimes he'll talk like anything, and sometimes he won't
open his lips. We aren't at all alike in that way. I talk all the time,
I believe--rain or shine. Don't I bore you dreadfully sometimes?"
"No--you never bore me," answered Clare with perfect truth.
"I mean, when I talk as I did yesterday afternoon," said Johnstone with
a shade of irritation.
"Oh, that--yes! Please don't begin again, and spoil our walk!"
But the walk was not destined to be a long one. A narrow, paved footway
leads down from the old monastery to the shore, in zigzag, between low
whitewashed walls, passing at last under some houses which are built
across it on arches.
Just as they came in sight a tall old man emerged from this archway,
walking steadily up the hill. He was tall and bony, with a long grey
beard, shaggy bent brows, keen dark eyes, and an eagle nose. He wore
clothes of rough grey woollen tweed, and carried a grey felt hat in one
long hand.
A moment after he had come out of the arch he caught sight of Brook, and
his rough face brightened instantly. He waved the grey hat and called
out.
"Hulloa, my boy! There you are, eh!"
His voice was thin, like many Scotch voices, but it carried far, and had
a manly ring in it. Brook did not answer, but waved his hat.
"That's my father," he said in a low tone to Clare. "May I introduce
him? And there's my mother--being carried up in the chair."
A couple of lusty porters were carrying Lady Johnstone up the steep
ascent. She was a fat lady with bright blue eyes, like her son's, and a
much brighter colour. She had a parasol in one hand and a fan in the
other, and she shook a little with every step the porters made. In the
rear, a moment later, came other porters, carrying boxes and bags of all
sizes. Then a short woman, evidently Lady Johnstone's maid, came quietly
along by herself, stopping occasionally to look at the sea.
Clare looked curiously at the party as they approached. Her first
impulse had been to leave Brook and go back alone to warn her mother. It
was not far. But she realised that it would be much better and wiser to
face the introduction at once. In less than five minutes Sir Adam had
reached them. He shook hands with Brook vigorously, and looked at him as
a man looks who loves his son. Clare saw the glance, and it pleased her.
"Let me introduce you to Miss Bowring," said Brook. "Mrs. Bowring and
Miss Bowring are staying here, and have been awfully good to me."
Sir Adam turned his keen eyes to Clare, as she held out her hand.
"I beg your pardon," he said, "but are you a daughter of Captain
Bowring who was killed some years ago in Africa?"
"Yes." She looked up to him inquiringly and distrustfully.
His face brightened again and softened--then hardened singularly, all at
once. She could not have believed that such features could change so
quickly.
"And my son says that your mother is here! My dear young lady--I'm very
glad! I hope you mean to stay."
The words were cordial. The tone was cold. Brook stared at his father,
very much surprised to find that he knew anything of the Bowrings, for
he himself had not mentioned them in his letters. But the porters,
walking more slowly, had just brought his mother up to where the three
stood, and waited, panting a little, and the chair swinging slightly
from the shoulder-straps.
"Dear old boy!" cried Lady Johnstone. "It is good to see you. No--don't
kiss me, my dear--it's far too hot. Let me look at you."
Sir Adam gravely introduced Clare. Lady Johnstone's fat face became
stony as a red granite mummy case, and she bent her apoplectic neck
stiffly.
"Oh!" she ejaculated. "Very glad, I'm sure. Were you going for a walk?"
she asked, turning to Brook, severely.
"Yes, there was just time. I didn't know when to expect you. But if Miss
Bowring doesn't mind, we'll give it up, and I'll install you. Your rooms
are all ready."
It was at once clear to Clare that Lady Johnstone had never heard the
name of Bowring, and that she resented the idea of her son walking alone
with any young girl.
CHAPTER X
Clare went directly to her mother's room. She had hardly spoken again
during the few minutes while she had necessarily remained with the
Johnstones, climbing the hill back to the hotel. At the door she had
stood aside to let Lady Johnstone go in, Sir Adam had followed his wife,
and Brook had lingered, doubtless hoping to exchange a few words more
with Clare. But she was preoccupied, and had not vouchsafed him a
glance.
"They have come," she said, as she closed Mrs. Bowring's door behind
her.
Her mother was seated by the open window, her hands lying idly in her
lap, her face turned away, as Clare entered. She started slightly, and
looked round.
"Oh!" she exclaimed. "Already! Well--it had to come. Have you met?"
Clare told her all that had happened.
"And he said that he was glad?" asked Mrs. Bowring, with the ghost of a
smile.
"He said so--yes. His voice was cold. But when he first heard my name
and asked about my father his face softened."
"His face softened," repeated Mrs. Bowring to herself, just above a
whisper, as the ghost of the smile flitted about her pale lips.
"He seemed glad at first, and then he looked displeased. Is that it?"
she asked, raising her voice again.
"That was what I thought," answered Clare. "Why don't you have luncheon
in your room, mother?" she asked suddenly.
"He would think I was afraid to meet him," said the elder woman.
A long silence followed, and Clare sat down on a stiff straw chair,
looking out of the window. At last she turned to her mother again.
"You couldn't tell me all about it, could you, mother dear?" she asked.
"It seems to me it would be so much easier for us both. Perhaps I could
help you. And I myself--I should know better how to act."
"No. I can't tell you. I only pray that I may never have to. As for you,
darling--be natural. It is a very strange position to be in, but you
cannot know it--you can't be supposed to know it. I wish I could have
kept my secret better--but I broke down when you told me about the
yacht. You can only help me in one way--don't ask me questions, dear. It
would be harder for me, if you knew--indeed it would. Be natural. You
need not run after them, you know--"
"I should think not!" cried Clare indignantly.
"I mean, you need not go and sit by them and talk to them for long at a
time. But don't be suddenly cold and rude to their son. There's nothing
against--I mean, it has nothing to do with him. You mustn't think it
has, you know. Be natural--be yourself."
"It's not altogether easy to be natural under the circumstances," Clare
answered, with some truth, and a great deal of repressed curiosity which
she did her best to hide away altogether for her mother's sake.
At luncheon the Johnstones were all three placed on the opposite side of
the table, and Brook was no longer Clare's neighbour. The Bowrings were
already in their places when the three entered, Sir Adam giving his arm
to his wife, who seemed to need help in walking, or at all events to be
glad of it. Brook followed at a little distance, and Clare saw that he
was looking at her regretfully, as though he wished himself at her side
again. Had she been less young and unconscious and thoroughly innocent,
she must have seen by this time that he was seriously in love with her.
Sir Adam held his wife's chair for her, with somewhat old-fashioned
courtesy, and pushed it gently as she sat down. Then he raised his head,
and his eyes met Mrs. Bowring's. For a few moments they looked at each
other. Then his expression changed and softened, as it had when he had
first met Clare, but Mrs. Bowring's face grew hard and pale. He did not
sit down, but to his wife's surprise walked quietly all round the end of
the table and up the other side to where Mrs. Bowring sat. She knew that
he was coming, and she turned a little to meet his hand. The English old
maids watched the proceedings with keen interest from the upper end.
Sir Adam held out his hand, and Mrs. Bowring took it.
"It is a great pleasure to me to meet you again," he said slowly, as
though speaking with an effort. "Brook says that you have been very good
to him, and so I want to thank you at once. Yes--this is your
daughter--Brook introduced me. Excuse me--I'll get round to my place
again. Shall we meet after luncheon?"
"If you like," said Mrs. Bowring in a constrained tone. "By all means,"
she added nervously.
"My dear," said Sir Adam, speaking across the table to his wife, "let me
introduce you to my old friend Mrs. Bowring, the mother of this young
lady whom you have already met," he added, glancing down at Clare's
flaxen head.
Again Lady Johnstone slightly bent her apoplectic neck, but her
expression was not stony, as it had been when she had first looked at
Clare. On the contrary, she smiled very pleasantly and naturally, and
her frank blue eyes looked at Mrs. Bowring with a friendly interest.
Clare thought that she heard a faint sigh of relief escape her mother's
lips just then. Sir Adam's heavy steps echoed upon the tile floor, as he
marched all round the table again to his seat. The table itself was
narrow, and it was easy to talk across it, without raising the voice.
Sir Adam sat on one side of his wife, and Brook on the other, last on
his side, as Clare was on hers.
There was very little conversation at first. Brook did not care to talk
across to Clare, and Sir Adam seemed to have said all he meant to say
for the present. Lady Johnstone, who seemed to be a cheerful,
conversational soul, began to talk to Mrs. Bowring, evidently attracted
by her at first sight.
"It's a beautiful place when you get here," she said. "Isn't it? The
view from my window is heavenly! But to get here! Dear me! I was carried
up by two men, you know, and I thought they would have died. I hope
they are enjoying their dinner, poor fellows! I'm sure they never
carried such a load before!"
And she laughed, with a sort of frank, half self-commiserating amusement
at her own proportions.
"Oh, I fancy they must be used to it," said Mrs. Bowring, reassuringly,
for the sake of saying something.
"They'll hate the sight of me in a week!" said Lady Johnstone. "I mean
to go everywhere, while I'm here--up all the hills, and down all the
valleys. I always see everything when I come to a new place. It's
pleasant to sit still afterwards, and feel that you've done it all,
don't you know? I shall ruin you in porters, Adam," she added, turning
her large round face slowly to her husband.
"Certainly, certainly," answered Sir Adam, nodding gravely, as he
dissected the bones out of a fried sardine.
"You're awfully good about it," said Lady Johnstone, in thanks for
unlimited porters to come.
Like many unusually stout people, she ate very little, and had plenty of
time for talking.
"You knew my husband a long time ago, then!" she began, again looking
across at Mrs. Bowring.
Sir Adam glanced at Mrs. Bowring sharply from beneath his shaggy brows.
"Oh yes," she said calmly. "We met before he was married."
The grey-headed man slowly nodded assent, but said nothing.
"Before his first marriage?" inquired Lady Johnstone gravely. "You know
that he has been married twice."
"Yes," answered Mrs. Bowring. "Before his first marriage."
Again Sir Adam nodded solemnly.
"How interesting!" exclaimed Lady Johnstone. "Such old friends! And to
meet in this accidental way, in this queer place!"
"We generally live abroad," said Mrs. Bowring. "Generally in Florence.
Do you know Florence?"
"Oh yes!" cried the fat lady enthusiastically. "I dote on Florence. I'm
perfectly mad about pictures, you know. Perfectly mad!"
The vision of a woman cast in Lady Johnstone's proportions and perfectly
mad might have provoked a smile on Mrs. Bowring's face at any other
time.
"I suppose you buy pictures, as well as admire them," she said, glad of
the turn the conversation had taken.
"Sometimes," answered the other. "Sometimes. I wish I could buy more.
But good pictures are getting to be most frightfully dear. Besides, you
are hardly ever sure of getting an original, unless there are all the
documents--and that means thousands, literally thousands of pounds. But
now and then I kick over the traces, you know."
Clare could not help smiling at the simile, and bent down her head.
Brook was watching her, he understood and was annoyed, for he loved his
mother in his own way.
"At all events you won't be able to ruin yourself in pictures here,"
said Mrs. Bowring.
"No--but how about the porters?" suggested Sir Adam.
"My dear Adam," said Lady Johnstone, "unless they are all Shylocks here,
they won't exact a ducat for every pound of flesh. If they did, you
would certainly never get back to England."
It was impossible not to laugh. Lady Johnstone did not look at all the
sort of person to say witty things, though she was the very incarnation
of good humour--except when she thought that Brook was in danger of
being married. And every one laughed, Sir Adam first, then Brook, and
then the Bowrings. The effect was good. Lady Johnstone was really
afflicted with curiosity, and her first questions to Mrs. Bowring had
been asked purely out of a wish to make advances. She was strongly
attracted by the quiet, pale face, with its excessive refinement and
delicately traced lines of suffering. She felt that the woman had taken
life too hard, and it was her instinct to comfort her, and warm her and
take care of her, from the first. Brook understood and rejoiced, for he
knew his mother's tenacity about her first impressions, and he wished to
have her on his side.
After that the ice was broken and the conversation did not flag. Sir
Adam looked at Mrs. Bowring from time to time with an expression of
uncertainty which sat strangely on his determined features, and whenever
any new subject was broached he watched her uneasily until she had
spoken. But Mrs. Bowring rarely returned his glances, and her eyes never
lingered on his face even when she was speaking to him. Clare, for her
part, joined in the conversation, and wondered and waited. Her theory
was strengthened by what she saw. Clearly Sir Adam felt uncomfortable in
her mother's presence; therefore he had injured her in some way, and
doubted whether she had ever forgiven him. But to the girl's quick
instinct it was clear that he did not stand to Mrs. Bowring only in the
position of one who had harmed her. In some way of love or friendship,
he had once been very fond of her. The youngest woman cannot easily
mistake the signs of such bygone intercourse.
When they rose, Mrs. Bowring walked slowly, on her side of the table, so
as not to reach the door before Lady Johnstone, who could not move fast
under any circumstances. They all went out together upon the terrace.
"Brook," said the fat lady, "I must sit down, or I shall die. You know,
my dear--get me one that won't break!"
She laughed a little, as Brook went off to find a solid chair. A few
minutes later she was enthroned in safety, her husband on one side of
her and Mrs. Bowring on the other, all facing the sea.
"It's too perfect for words!" she exclaimed, in solid and peaceful
satisfaction. "Adam, isn't it a dream? You thin people don't know how
nice it is to come to anchor in a pleasant place after a long voyage!"
She sighed happily and moved her arms so that their weight was quite at
rest without an effort.
Clare and Johnstone walked slowly up and down, passing and repassing,
and trying to talk as though neither were aware that there was something
unusual in the situation, to say the least of it. At last they stopped
at the end farthest away from the others.
"I had no idea that my father had known your mother long ago," said
Brook suddenly. "Had you?"
"Yes--of late," answered Clare. "You see my mother wasn't sure, until
you told me his first name," she hastened to add.
"Oh--I see. Of course. Stupid of me not to try and bring it into the
conversation sooner, wasn't it? But it seems to have been ever so long
ago. Don't you think so?"
"Yes. Ever so long ago."
"When they were quite young, I suppose. Your mother must have been
perfectly beautiful when she was young. I dare say my father was madly
in love with her. It wouldn't be at all surprising, you know, would it?
He was a tremendous fellow for falling in love."
"Oh! Was he?" Clare spoke rather coldly.
"You're not angry, are you, because I suggested it?" asked Brook
quickly. "I don't see that there's any harm in it. There's no reason why
a young man as he was shouldn't have been desperately in love with a
beautiful young girl, is there?"
"None whatever," answered Clare. "I was only thinking--it's rather an
odd coincidence--do you mind telling me something?"
"Of course not! What is it?"
"Had your father ever a brother--who died?"
"No. He had a lot of sisters--some of them are alive still. Awful old
things, my aunts are, too. No, he never had any brother. Why do you
ask?"
"Nothing--it's a mere coincidence. Did I ever tell you that my mother
was married twice? My father was her second husband. The first had your
name."
"Johnstone, with an E on the end of it?"
"Yes--with an E."
"Gad! that's funny!" exclaimed Brook. "Some connection, I dare say. Then
we are connected too, you and I, not much though, when one thinks of it.
Step-cousin by marriage, and ever so many degrees removed, too."
"You can't call that a connection," said Clare with a little laugh, but
her face was thoughtful. "Still, it is odd that she should have known
your father well, and should have married a man of the same name--with
the E--isn't it?"
"He may have been an own cousin, for all I know," said Brook. "I'll ask.
He's sure to remember. He never forgets anything. And it's another
coincidence too, that my father should have been married twice, just
like your mother, and that I should be the son of the second marriage,
too. What odd things happen, when one comes to compare notes!"
While they had walked up and down, Lady Johnstone had paid no attention
to them, but she had grown restless as soon as she had seen that they
stood still at a distance to talk, and her bright blue eyes turned
towards them again and again, with sudden motherly anxiety. At last she
could bear it no longer.
"Brook!" she cried. "Brook, my dear boy!" Brook and Clare walked back
towards the little group.
"Brook, dear," said Lady Johnstone. "Please come and tell me the names
of all the mountains and places we see from here. You know, I always
want to know everything as soon as I arrive."
Sir Adam rose from his chair.
"Should you like to take a turn?" he asked, speaking to Mrs. Bowring and
standing before her.
She rose in silence and stepped forward, with a quiet, set face, as
though she knew that the supreme moment had come.
"Take our chairs," said Sir Adam to Clare and Brook. "We are going to
walk about a little."
Mrs. Bowring turned in the direction whence the young people had come,
towards the end of the terrace. Sir Adam walked erect beside her.
"Is there a way out at that end?" he asked in a low voice, when they
had gone a little distance.
"No."
"We can't stand there and talk. Where can we go? Isn't there a quiet
place somewhere?"
"Do you want to talk to me?" asked Mrs. Bowring, looking straight before
her.
"Yes, please," answered Sir Adam, almost sharply, but still in a low
tone. "I've waited a long time," he added.
Mrs. Bowring said nothing in answer. They reached the end of the walk,
and she turned without pausing.
"The point out there is called the Conca," she said, pointing to the
rocks far out below. "It curls round like a shell, you know. Conca means
a sea-shell, I think. It seems to be a great place for fishing, for
there are always little boats about it in fine weather."
"I remember," replied Sir Adam. "I was here thirty years ago. It hasn't
changed much. Are there still those little paper-mills in the valley on
the way to Ravello? They used to be very primitive."
They kept up their forced conversation as they passed Lady Johnstone and
the young people. Then they were silent again, as they went towards the
hotel.
"We'll go through the house," said Mrs. Bowring, speaking low again.
"There's a quiet place on the other side--Clare and your son will have
to stay with your wife."
"Yes, I thought of that, when I told them to take our chairs."
In silence they traversed the long tiled corridor with set faces, like
two people who are going to do something dangerous and disagreeable
together. They came out upon the platform before the deep recess of the
rocks in which stood the black cross. There was nobody there.
"We shall not be disturbed out here," said Mrs. Bowring, quietly. "The
people in the hotel go to their rooms after luncheon. We will sit down
there by the cross, if you don't mind--I'm not so strong as I used to
be, you know."
They ascended the few steps which led up to the bench where Clare had
sat on that evening which she could not forget, and they sat down side
by side, not looking at each other's faces.
A long silence followed. Once or twice Sir Adam shifted his feet
uneasily, and opened his mouth as though he were going to say something,
but suddenly changed his mind. Mrs. Bowring was the first to speak.
"Please understand," she said slowly, glancing at him sideways, "I don't
want you to say anything, and I don't know what you can have to say. As
for my being here, it's very simple. If I had known that Brook Johnstone
was your son before he had made our acquaintance, and that you were
coming here, I should have gone away at once. As soon as I knew him I
suspected who he was. You must know that he is like you as you used to
be--except your eyes. Then I said to myself that he would tell you that
he had met us, and that you would of course think that I had been afraid
to meet you. I'm not. So I stayed. I don't know whether I did right or
wrong. To me it seemed right, and I'm willing to abide the consequences,
if there are to be any."
"What consequences can there be?" asked the grey-bearded man, turning
his eyes slowly to her face.
"That depends upon how you act. It might have been better to behave as
though we had never met, and to let your son introduce you to me as he
introduced you to Clare. We might have started upon a more formal
footing, then. You have chosen to say that we are old friends. It's an
odd expression to use--but let it stand. I won't quarrel with it. It
does well enough. As for the position, it's not pleasant for me, but it
must be worse for you. There's not much to choose. But I don't want you
to think that I expect you to talk about old times unless you like. If
you have anything which you wish to say, I'll hear it all without
interrupting you. But I do wish you to believe that I won't do anything
nor say anything which could touch your wife. She seems to be happy with
you. I hope she always has been and always will be. She knew what she
was doing when she married you. God knows, there was publicity enough.
Was it my fault? I suppose you've always thought so. Very well,
then--say that it was my fault. But don't tell your wife who I am unless
she forces you to it out of curiosity."
"Do you think I should wish to?" asked Sir Adam, bitterly.
"No--of course not. But she may ask you who I was and when we met, and
all about it. Try and keep her off the subject. We don't want to tell
lies, you know."
"I shall say that you were Lucy Waring. That's true enough. You were
christened Lucy Waring. She need never know what your last name was.
That isn't a lie, is it?"
"Not exactly--under the circumstances."
"And your daughter knows nothing, of course? I want to know how we
stand, you see."
"No--only that we have met before. I don't know what she may suspect.
And your son?"
"Oh, I suppose he knows. Somebody must have told him."
"He doesn't know who I am, though," said Mrs. Bowring, with conviction.
"He seems to be more like his mother than like you. He couldn't conceal
anything long."
"I wasn't particularly good at that either, as it turned out," said Sir
Adam, gravely.
"No, thank God!"
"Do you think it's something to be thankful for? I don't. Things might
have gone better afterwards--"
"Afterwards!" The suffering of the woman's life was in the tone and in
her eyes.
"Yes, afterwards. I'm an old man, Lucy, and I've seen a great many
things since you and I parted, and a great many people. I was bad
enough, but I've seen worse men since, who have had another chance and
have turned out well."
"Their wives did not love them. I am almost old, too. I loved you, Adam.
It was a bad hurt you gave me, and the wound never healed. I married--I
had to marry. He was an honest gentleman. Then he was killed. That hurt
too, for I was very fond of him--but it did not hurt as the other did.
Nothing could."
Her voice shook, and she turned away her face. At least, he should not
see that her lip trembled.
"I didn't think you cared," said Sir Adam, and his own voice was not
very steady.
She turned upon him almost fiercely, and there was a blue light in her
faded eyes.
"I! You thought I didn't care? You've no right to say that--it's wicked
of you, and it's cruel. Did you think I married you for your money,
Adam? And if I had--should I have given it up to be divorced because you
gave jewels to an actress? I loved you, and I wanted your love, or
nothing. You couldn't be faithful--commonly, decently faithful, for one
year--and I got myself free from you, because I would not be your wife,
nor eat your bread, nor touch your hand, if you couldn't love me. Don't
say that you ever loved me, except my face. We hadn't been divorced a
year when you married again. Don't say that you loved me! You loved your
wife--your second wife--perhaps. I hope so. I hope you love her now--and
I dare say you do, for she looks happy--but don't say that you ever
loved me--just long enough to marry me and betray me!"
"You're hard, Lucy. You're as hard as ever you were twenty years ago,"
said Adam Johnstone.
As he leaned forward, resting an elbow on his knee, he passed his brown
hand across his eyes, and then stared vaguely at the white walls of the
old hotel beyond the platform.
"But you know that I'm right," answered Mrs. Bowring. "Perhaps I'm
hard, too. I'm sorry. You said that you had been mad, I remember--I
don't like to think of all you said, but you said that. And I remember
thinking that I had been much more mad than you, to have married you,
but that I should soon be really mad--raving mad--if I remained your
wife. I couldn't. I should have died. Afterwards I thought it would have
been better if I had died then. But I lived through it. Then, after the
death of my old aunt, I was alone. What was I to do? I was poor and
lonely, and a divorced woman, though the right had been on my side.
Richard Bowring knew all about it, and I married him. I did not love you
any more, then, but I told him the truth when I told him that I could
never love any one again. He was satisfied--so we were married."
"I don't blame you," said Sir Adam.
"Blame me! No--it would hardly be for you to blame me, if I could make
anything of the shreds of my life which I had saved from yours. For that
matter--you were free too. It was soon done, but why should I blame you
for that? You were free--by the law--to go where you pleased, to love
again, and to marry at once. You did. Oh no! I don't blame you for
that!"
Both were silent for some time. But Mrs. Bowring's eyes still had an
indignant light in them, and her fingers twitched nervously from time to
time. Sir Adam stared stolidly at the white wall, without looking at his
former wife.
"I've been talking about myself," she said at last. "I didn't mean to,
for I need no justification. When you said that you wanted to say
something, I brought you here so that we could be alone. What was it? I
should have let you speak first."
"It was this." He paused, as though choosing his words. "Well, I don't
know," he continued presently. "You've been saying a good many things
about me that I would have said myself. I've not denied them, have I?
Well, it's this. I wanted to see you for years, and now we've met. We
may not meet again, Lucy, though I dare say we may live a long time. I
wish we could, though. But of course you don't care to see me. I was
your husband once, and I behaved like a brute to you. You wouldn't want
me for a friend now that I am old."
He waited, but she said nothing.
"Of course you wouldn't," he continued. "I shouldn't, in your place. Oh,
I know! If I were dying or starving, or very unhappy, you would be
capable of doing anything for me, out of sheer goodness. You're only
just to people who aren't suffering. You were always like that in the
old days. It's so much the worse for us. I have nothing about me to
excite your pity. I'm strong, I'm well, I'm very rich, I'm relatively
happy. I don't know how much I cared for my wife when I married her, but
she has been a good wife, and I'm very fond of her now, in my own way.
It wasn't a good action, I admit, to marry her at all. She was the
beauty of her year and the best match of the season, and I was just
divorced, and every one's hand was against me. I thought I would show
them what I could do, winged as I was, and I got her. No; it wasn't a
thing to be proud of. But somehow we hit it off, and she stuck to me,
and I grew fond of her because she did, and here we are as you see us,
and Brook is a fine fellow, and likes me. I like him too. He's honest
and faithful, like his mother. There's no justice and no logic in this
world, Lucy. I was a good-for-nothing in the old days. Circumstances
have made me decently good, and a pretty happy man besides, as men go. I
couldn't ask for any pity if I tried."
"No; you're not to be pitied. I'm glad you're happy. I don't wish you
any harm."
"You might, and I shouldn't blame you. But all that isn't what I wished
to say. I'm getting old, and we may not meet any more after this. If
you wish me to go away, I'll go. We'll leave the place tomorrow."
"No. Why should you? It's a strange situation, as we were to-day at
table. You with your wife beside, and your divorced wife opposite you,
and only you and I knowing it. I suppose you think, somehow--I don't
know--that I might be jealous of your wife. But twenty-seven years make
a difference, Adam. It's half a lifetime. It's so utterly past that I
sha'n't realise it. If you like to stay, then stay. No harm can come of
it, and that was so very long ago. Is that what you want to say?"
"No." He hesitated. "I want you to say that you forgive me," he said, in
a quick, hoarse voice.
His keen dark eyes turned quickly to her face, and he saw how very pale
she was, and how the shadows had deepened under her eyes, and her
fingers twitched nervously as they clasped one another in her lap.
"I suppose you think I'm sentimental," he said, looking at her. "Perhaps
I am; but it would mean a good deal to me if you would just say it."
There was something pathetic in the appeal, and something young too, in
spite of his grey beard and furrowed face. Still Mrs. Bowring said
