with the meanness of my patients, that I have regretted not choosing a
different profession. Of course there is a different side to the
picture, and gratitude and appreciation are to be found, as well as the
opposite qualities.
I had been waiting a long time without a patient, when a shuffling sound
was heard on the stairs, and a heavy step approaching the door.
Next came a knock.
Instead of calling out, "Come in!" I was so pleased at the prospect of a
patient, that I rose from my seat and opened the door, myself.
I started back in surprise. For in the heavy, lumbering figure of the
new arrival I recognized Prof. Poppendorf.
"Prof. Poppendorf!" I exclaimed.
"Ja, doctor, it is I. May I come in?"
"Certainly."
Supposing that he had come to consult me on the subject of his health, I
began to wonder from what disease he was suffering. Remembering his
achievements at the table I fancied it might be dyspepsia.
The Professor entered the room, and sank into an armchair, which he
quite filled from side to side.
"I suppose you are surprised to see me, Herr Doctor," began the
Professor.
"Oh, no. I am never surprised to see anybody. I had not supposed you
were sick."
"Sick! Oh, no, I'm all right. I eat well and I sleep well. What should
be the matter with me?"
"I am glad to hear such good reports of you."
Was I quite sincere? I am afraid it was a disappointment to learn that
my supposed patient was in no need of advice.
"Ja, I am well. I was never better, thank God!"
"Then I am to consider this a social call," I said with affected
cheerfulness. "You are very kind to call upon me, Prof. Poppendorf. I
appreciate it as a friendly attention."
"No, it is not quite dat."
"Is there anything I can do for you?"
"I come on a little peezness."
I was puzzled. I could not understand what business there could be
between the Professor and myself.
"I shall be glad to hear what it is."
"You see, I thought I would ask you if you were courting Mees Ruth
Canby, if you mean to make her your wife?"
I dropped into the nearest chair--I had been standing--in sheer
amazement. To be asked my intentions in regard to the young woman from
Macy's was most astonishing, and by Prof. Poppendorf, too!
"Did Miss Canby send you here to speak to me?" I asked, considerably
annoyed.
"Oh, no! she knows nothing about it."
"I can't understand what you have to do in the matter, Prof.
Poppendorf. You are neither her father nor her brother."
"Oh, ja, you are quite right."
"Then why do you come to me with such a question?"
"I thought I would like to know myself."
"I deny your right to speak to me on the subject," I said, stiffly. "If
now you had a good reason."
"But I have a reason," protested the Professor, earnestly.
"What is it?"
"I lofe her myself. I wish to make her my frau."
This was most astonishing.
"You love her yourself?"
"Ja, Herr Doctor."
"And you want to marry her?"
"Ja."
"But you are an old man."
"Not so old," said he, jealously; "I am only a little over sixty."
"And I think she cannot be over twenty-one."
"But I am a good man. I am strong. I am well. Look here!" and he struck
his massive chest a sturdy blow, as if to show how sound he was.
"Yes, you seem to be well."
"You have not told me, Herr Doctor, if you lofe Mees Ruth," he said,
uneasily.
"No, I don't love her."
"But you called to see her--at Macy's."
"I called to buy some socks and handkerchiefs."
"Was that all?" he asked, with an air of relief.
"It was all."
"Then you do not wish to marry Mees Ruth?"
"I do not wish to marry any one. I am not rich enough. Are you?"
"I have just engage to teach philosophy at Mees Smith's school on
Madison Avenue. Then I have my private pupils. Ah, ja, I will make
quite an income," he said, complacently. "Besides, Mees Ruth, she is a
good housekeeper."
"I do not know."
"She will not wish to spend money," he said, anxiously.
"I think she was brought up economically."
"Ja, dat is good. All the German frauleins are good housekeepers. Dey
can cook and keep house on a little money."
"Were you ever married, Professor?"
"Ja, long ago, but my frau she not live very long. It is many years
ago."
"If you married Miss Canby would you still board here?"
"No, it would cost too much money. I would hire an apartment--what you
call a flat, and Mees Ruth would keep the house--she would wash, she
would cook, and--"
"Take care of the babies," I added, jocularly.
"Dat is as God wills."
"Have you spoken to Miss Ruth on the subject?"
"No, not yet. I wish to speak to you first--I thought you might want to
marry her yourself."
"You need have no anxiety on that subject; I never thought of such a
thing."
"Dat is good. I feel better."
"Have you any idea that Miss Canby will agree to marry you?"
"I do not know. I am a Herr Professor," he said, proudly.
In Germany there is a high respect felt for titles of every kind, and
the Professor evidently thought that his official dignity would impress
the young woman from Macy's.
"Still, you are so much older than she, that she may not at first like
the idea."
"You think she refuse me--that she gives me the mitten?" he said,
uneasily.
"If you propose too quick. Will you take my advice?"
"Ja, ja!"
"Then don't propose at once. Let her get accustomed to your attentions."
"What shall I do first?" he asked, anxiously.
"Suppose you invite her to go to the theatre with you?"
"Ja, dat is good!"
"Perhaps you could take her to hear Patti?"
"No, no. It cost too much!" said he, shaking his head.
"Then you might invite her to the Star Theatre to see Crane."
"So I will."
He rose and shuffled out of the office in a very pleasant humor. He felt
that there was no obstacle to his suit, now that I had disclaimed all
intention of marrying the young woman from Macy's.
CHAPTER IX.
AN EVENING AT THE BOARDING-HOUSE.
The confidence which Prof. Poppendorf had reposed in me, naturally led
me to observe his behavior at table to the young woman from Macy's.
There was a difficulty as I had to look round the "Disagreeable Woman,"
who sat next to me. Then I could not very well watch the Professor's
expression, as his large, green goggles concealed so large a part of his
face.
He still continued to devote the chief part of his time to the business
of the hour, and his eyes were for the most part fixed upon his plate.
Yet now and then I observed he offered her the salt or the pepper, a
piece of attention quite new to him. I had some thought of suggesting
to Miss Canby that she had awakened an interest in the heart of the gray
old Professor, but it occurred to me that this would be hardly fair to
the elderly suitor. It was only right to leave him a fair field, and let
him win if Fate ordained it.
On Wednesday evenings it was generally understood that the boarders,
such at any rate as had no other engagements, would remain after supper
and gather in the little reception-room, till the dining-room was
cleared, spending the evening socially.
On such occasions Mrs. Wyman would generally volunteer a song,
accompanying herself if there was no one else to play. She had a thin,
strident voice, such as one would not willingly hear a second time, but
out of courtesy we listened, and applauded. The widow had one who fully
appreciated her vocal efforts, and this was herself. She always looked
pleased and complacent when her work was done.
It was on the first Wednesday after the Count's arrival that she induced
him to remain.
"Don't you sing, Count?" she asked.
"Very little, madam," he said.
"But you are an Italian, and all Italians are musical."
He uttered a faint disclaimer, but she insisted.
"Do me a favor--a great favor," she said, persuasively, "and sing some
sweet Italian air, such as you must know."
"No, I don't sing Italian airs," he said.
"What then?"
"I can sing 'Sweet Marie.'"
"I am sure we shall all be glad to hear it. I sometimes sing a little
myself--just a tiny bit."
"I shall like much to hear you, signora."
"I shall feel very bashful about singing to an Italian gentleman. You
will laugh at me."
"No, no, I would not be so rude."
"Then perhaps I may. Our friends always insist upon hearing me."
So at an early period in the evening she sang one of her routine songs.
I watched the Count's face while she was singing. I was amused. At first
his expression was one of surprise. Then of pain, and it seemed to me of
annoyance. When Mrs. Wyman had completed the song she turned to him a
look of complacent inquiry. She was looking for a compliment.
"Didn't I do horribly?" she asked.
"Oh, no, no," answered the Count, vaguely.
"It must have seemed very bad to you."
"No, no--"
"Do you think it was passable?"
"Oh, signora, I never heard anything like it."
"Oh, you naughty flatterer," she said, smiling with delight. "I am sure
you don't mean it."
"Indeed I do."
I was sitting next the Disagreeable Woman.
"The Count has more brains than I thought," she said. "I quite agree
with him."
"That you never heard anything like it?" I queried, smiling.
"Yes."
"Miss Ruth," I said to the young woman from Macy's, "do you never sing?"
"I used to sing a little in my country home," she admitted.
"What, for instance?"
"I can sing 'Annie Laurie'."
"Nothing could be better. It is a general favorite. Won't you sing it
to-night?"
"But I cannot sing without an accompaniment," she said, shyly.
"I am not much of a musician, but I can play that."
With a little more persuasion I induced her to sing. She had a pleasant
voice, and while I cannot claim for her anything out of the common on
the score of musical talent, she rendered the song fairly well. All
seemed to enjoy it, except Mrs. Wyman, who said, in a sneering tone:
"That song is old as the hills."
"It may be so," I retorted, "but the best songs are old."
"It was very good," said the Count, who really seemed pleased.
This seemed to annoy the widow.
"You are very good-natured, Count, to compliment such a rustic
performance," she said.
"But, signora, I mean it."
"Well, let it pass! She did her best, poor thing!"
"She is a nice girl."
"Oh, Count, she is only a young woman from Macy's. She was born in the
country, and raised among cabbages and turnips."
He seemed puzzled, but evidently regarded Ruth with favor.
Meanwhile, Prof. Poppendorf had listened attentively to the song of the
maiden on whom he had fixed his choice.
"Mees Ruth, you sing beautiful!" he said.
Ruth Canby smiled.
"You are very kind, Prof. Poppendorf," she said, gratefully.
"I like your singing much better than Mrs. Wyman's."
"No. You mustn't say that. She sings airs from the opera."
"I like better your leetle song."
By this time Mrs. Wyman had succeeded in extracting a promise from the
Count to sing.
"Dr. Fenwick," she said, "can't you play the accompaniment for the
Count?"
"What is the song?"
"'Sweet Marie'."
"I will do my best. I am not professional."
So I played and the Count sang. He had a pleasant, sympathetic voice,
and we were pleased with his singing.
"Oh, how charming, Count!" said Mrs. Wyman; "I shall never dare to sing
before you again."
"Why not, signora."
"Because you are such a musical artist."
"Oh, no, no, signora!" he said, deprecatingly.
He was persuaded to sing again, and again he pleased his small audience.
"Miss Blagden, won't you favor us with a song?" asked Mrs. Wyman, in a
tone of mockery.
"Thank you," said the Disagreeable Woman, dryly. "There is so much
musical talent here, that I won't undertake to compete with those who
possess it."
"Prof. Poppendorf, don't you ever sing?" asked the widow, audaciously.
"I used to sing when I was young," answered the Professor, unexpectedly.
"Then do favor us!"
He seated himself at the piano, and sang a German drinking song, such as
in days gone by he had sung with Bismarck and his old comrades at the
university.
There was a rough vigor in his performance that was not unpleasant. No
one was more surprised than Mrs. Wyman at the outcome of what she had
meant as a joke.
"Really, Professor," said the Disagreeable Woman, "you are more
accomplished than I supposed. I like your song better than I did your
lecture."
Prof. Poppendorf removed his glasses, and we saw in his eyes a
suspicious moisture.
"Ah," he said, not appearing to hear the compliment, if it was a
compliment, "it brings back the old days. I have not sing that song
since I was at the university with Bismarck. There were twenty of us,
young students, who sang it together, and now they are almost all gone."
This ended the musical performances of the evening. After this, there
was conversation, and later Mrs. Gray provided ice-cream and cake. It
was Horton's ice-cream, and the plates were small, but we enjoyed it.
Before we parted, the Professor found himself sitting next to Ruth
Canby.
"Do you ever go to the theatre, fraulein?" he asked.
"Not often, Professor. I cannot go alone, and there is no one to take
me."
"I will take you, Mees Ruth."
The young woman from Macy's looked amazed. She had not dreamed of such
an invitation from him. Yet she was very fond of the stage, and she saw
no reason why she should not accept.
"You are very kind, Professor," she said. "I did not think you cared
for the theatre."
"I would like to go--with you," he said, gallantly.
"Then I will go."
"It will be like going with my grandfather," she thought.
CHAPTER X.
A RUSTIC ADMIRER.
Sunday was always a lonely day to me. In the country village, where I
knew everybody, I always looked forward to it as the pleasantest day of
the week. Here in the crowded city, I felt isolated from human sympathy.
I accustomed myself to attending church in the forenoon. In the
afternoon I took a walk or an excursion.
At the boarding-house even it was dull and less social than usual. Such
of the boarders as had friends near the city were able to absent
themselves after breakfast. Among the faces that I missed was that of
the Disagreeable Woman. Sometimes she appeared at breakfast; but never
at dinner or tea. Though she never indulged in conversation to any
extent, I think we all missed her.
One Sunday afternoon, soon after the gathering described in the last
chapter, I walked up Fifth Avenue to Central Park. It was a pleasant day
and many were out. Through the magnificent avenue I walked in a
leisurely way, and wondered idly how it would seem to own a residence in
this aristocratic street. I could not repress a feeling of envy when I
thought of the favored class who dwelt in the long line of palaces that
line the avenue. Their lives seemed far removed from that of a
struggling physician, who was in daily doubt how long he could maintain
his modest style of living in the crowded metropolis.
Arrived at Fifty-ninth street I sauntered toward the menagerie. This is
the favorite resort of children, and of young persons from the country.
Perhaps I, myself, might be classed among the latter. I did not care so
much, however, to observe the animals as the visitors. I had a hope that
I might see some one whom I knew.
At first I could see no familiar face. But presently I started, as my
glance fell on the short and somewhat plump figure of the young woman
from Macy's.
She was not alone. With her walked a tall, sun-burned young man, who was
evidently from the country. She leaned confidingly upon his arm, and her
face was radiant. He was evidently an old friend, perhaps a lover. He,
too, looked contented and happy. Were they lovers? It looked like it. If
so, the matrimonial plans of Prof. Poppendorf were doomed to
disappointment. Delicacy dictated my silent withdrawal, but I confess
that my curiosity was aroused, and I resolved to gratify it.
Accordingly I pressed forward and overtook the young woman from Macy's
and her escort. She looked up casually, and a little flush overspread
her face when she recognized me.
"Dr. Fenwick!" she said, impulsively.
I turned and lifted my hat.
"I am glad to meet you, Miss Canby!" I said.
At the same time I looked inquiringly at her escort.
"Stephen," she said, "this is Dr. Fenwick from our boarding-house."
"Proud to know you, sir," said the young man, offering his hand.
I shook it heartily.
"You have not mentioned your friend's name, Miss Canby," I said.
"Excuse me! I am very neglectful. This is Stephen Higgins from our town.
I used to go to school with him."
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Higgins."
"Same to you, sir."
"I suppose you are on a visit to the city, Mr. Higgins."
"Yes, sir. I came here to spend Sunday, and see Ruth."
"I presume you have been in the city before?"
"Not for five years. It's a pretty smart place. I'm so turned round that
I hardly know which way to turn."
"You will have a good guide in Miss Canby."
"In Ruth, yes."
"I wish I could go round with him all the time he is here, Dr. Fenwick,
but to-morrow I shall have to go back to my work at Macy's."
She gave a little sigh as she spoke.
"Do you intend to stay long, Mr. Higgins?"
"Only a day or two. It's pretty expensive stayin' in York."
"I want him to stay over till Tuesday, Dr. Fenwick. He can't see much if
he goes home to-morrow."
"If you could be with me, Ruth--"
"But I can't, so it's no use talking about it."
"Wouldn't Mr. Macy give you a day off?"
"If I could find him perhaps he would," she said, laughing.
"Why can't you find him? Isn't he at the store every day?"
"Mr. Macy is dead, Stephen."
"Then how can he keep store?" asked Stephen, bewildered.
"Somebody else runs it in his name?"
"Don't let me interfere with your plans," I said, feeling that perhaps I
might be in the way.
They both urged me to stay, and so I did.
By this time all the attractions of the menagerie had been seen, and I
proposed to walk to the lake.
"How would you like to live in the city, Mr. Higgins?" I asked.
"First rate, if I could find anything to do."
"What is your business at home?"
"I work on father's farm. Next year, as father's gettin' feeble, I may
take it on shares."
"That will be better, perhaps, than seeking a situation in the city."
"I should like to be here on account of Ruth," he said, wistfully.
She smiled and shook her head.
"There's nothing for me to do in the country," she said.
"I might find something for you to do," he said, eagerly.
Then I saw how it was, and felt inclined to help him.
"Do you like Macy's so well, then?" I asked.
"I don't know," she answered, thoughtfully, "I like to feel that I am
earning my living."
"You wouldn't need," commenced Stephen, but she checked him by a look.
"You might not like to part with the Professor," said I, mischievously.
Stephen took instant alarm.
"What Professor?" he asked.
"Professor Poppendorf. He is a German, a very learned man."
"And what have you got to do with the Professor, Ruth?" he asked,
jealously.
"Oh, you foolish boy!" she said. "You ought to see him."
"I don't want to see him."
"He is an old gentleman, most seventy, and wears green glasses."
Stephen looked relieved.
"By the way, did you have a pleasant evening with the Professor at the
theatre the other evening, Miss Canby?"
It was very reprehensible of me, I know, but I felt a little
mischievous.
"Did you go to the theatre with him, Ruth?" asked Stephen,
reproachfully.
"Yes, I am so fond of the theatre, you know, I could not resist the
temptation."
"What did you see?"
"I went to see Crane in the Senator. Where do you think we sat?" and
she laughed.
"I don't know."
"In the upper gallery. The idea of asking a lady to sit in the top of
the house!"
"The Professor is a German, and all Germans are frugal. I presume he
thought you would be perfectly satisfied. Did the Professor appear to
enjoy the play?"
"Very much. He did not always understand it, and asked me to explain it
to him. Now and then he burst into such a loud laugh that I felt quite
ashamed. Then I was glad that we were in the top gallery."
"When the play was over did he invite you to take an ice-cream at
Delmonico's or Maillard's?"
"No, but he invited me into a saloon to take a glass of lager."
Here she laughed again.
"Evidently the Professor is not a ladies' man. Did you accept the
beer?"
"As if I would!"
"Poor man! you deprived him of a pleasure."
"No, I did not. He left me on the sidewalk while he went in and took his
beer."
"I hope you won't go to the theatre with him again," said Stephen, in a
tone of dissatisfaction.
"You can rest quite easy, Stephen, I won't."
"What made him ask you to go?"
"You will have to ask him, Stephen. If you will come round to supper
this evening, I will introduce you to him. There will be plenty of room,
as some of our boarders are always away on Sunday."
Stephen felt a little bashful at first, but finally yielded to
persuasion and took his place at the table in the seat of the
Disagreeable Woman.
After seeing the Professor he got over his jealousy. The old German
scholar hardly suggested a young Lothario, and his appearance was not
calculated to excite jealousy. Prof. Poppendorf removed his goggles the
better to observe Ruth's friend, but did not appear to be disturbed.
That Ruth should prefer this young rustic to a man of his position and
attainments, would have seemed to him quite out of the range of
probability.
CHAPTER XI.
A POOR PATIENT.
I was accustomed to remain in my office till about four o'clock in the
afternoon waiting for possible patients. It was a long and weary wait,
and oftentimes not a caller rewarded me. I suppose it is the usual
fortune of young medical practitioners who are comparatively unknown.
When four o'clock came I went out for a walk. Generally my steps tended
to Sixth Avenue where there was some life and bustle.
I was compelled to practise the most rigid economy, but I could not deny
myself the luxury of an evening paper. I would buy either the Sun or
World, each of which cost but a penny. One little newsboy came to
know me, and generally lay in wait for me as I emerged from a side
street. He was a bright, attractive little boy of ten, whose name I
found to be Frank Mills. His clothing was well-worn but clean, and his
whole appearance was neat, so that I judged he had a good mother.
Usually Frank's manner was cheerful, but on the day succeeding my visit
to the Park I found he looked sober and his eyes looked red as if he had
been crying.
"What is the matter, Frank?" I asked.
"My sister is sick," he said, sadly.
"Is it an older sister?"
"Yes; she works at O'Neil's dry goods store. She has been sick two
days."
"What is the matter?"
"Mother thinks it is a fever."
"Have you called a doctor?"
"N--no," answered Frank.
"Why not?"
"We haven't any money to pay a doctor. We are very poor, and now that
sister isn't working I don't know how we shall get along. There is no
one to earn money except me, and I don't make more than thirty cents a
day."
"If I were rich, Frank, I would help you."
"I am sure you would, sir, for you look like a kind gentleman."
This simple tribute went to my heart. The boy felt that I was a friend,
and I determined that I would be one so far as I was able.
"Still I can do something for you. I am a doctor, and if you will take
me round to your house I will look at your sister and see if I can do
anything for her."
The boy's eyes lighted up with joy.
"Will you be so kind, sir? I will go with you now."
"Yes, Frank, the sooner the better."
I followed him for perhaps a quarter of a mile to a poor house situated
on one of the side streets leading down to the North River. The street
was shabby enough, and the crowd of young children playing about showed
that it was tenanted by poor families, rich in children if nothing else.
Frank stopped at one of these houses and opened the door into a dirty
hall.
"We live on the top floor," he said, "if you won't mind going up."
"I shall mind it no more than you, Frank," I said. "I am still a young
man."
We climbed three staircases, and stood on the upper landing.
"I'll go in and tell mother I have brought a doctor," said Frank. "Just
wait here a minute."
He opened a door and entered. He came out again almost immediately. He
was followed by a woman of perhaps forty, with a pleasant face, but
looking very sad.
"Welcome, doctor," she said. "Frank tells me you were kind enough to
offer us your services."
"Yes, I am glad to do what I can for you."
"This is my daughter. I feel very much worried about her."
The daughter lay on a bed in an inner room (there were but two). She was
pale and looked ill-nourished, but in spite of the delicacy of her
appearance, she was pretty.
"Alice, this is the doctor," said her mother. Alice opened her eyes
languidly, and tried to smile.
"Let me feel your pulse," I said.
The pulsations were slow and feeble.
The mother fixed her eyes upon me anxiously, and awaited my verdict.
"Your daughter is quite run down," I said. "She has very little
strength, but I do not find any positive indications of disease."
"You are right, no doubt, doctor," said the mother with a sigh. "She is
a delicate girl, and I am sure she was overworked."
"She is employed in a dry goods store, Frank tells me."
"Yes, she is at O'Neil's. They are very considerate there, but it is
hard to be standing all day."
"It would be hard for any one. I am a man and strong, but I don't think
I could endure it. She ought to have two weeks' rest, at least, before
returning to work."
"I am sure you are right, doctor," said Mrs. Mills, "but how can it be
managed? We have but two breadwinners, Frank and Alice. Frank, poor boy,
brings in all he can, but Alice earns six dollars a week. It is upon
that that we depend for our living. It is a hard thing to be poor,
doctor."
"Indeed it is," I answered.
"You speak as if you know something about it."
"I do. I am a young physician, with very little money, and few patients.
Life with me is a struggle, as it is with you."
I was well dressed--that is a necessity with a professional man, who
must keep up appearances--and this perhaps made it difficult for Mrs.
Mills to believe that I was really poor.
"What do you prescribe, doctor?"
"No medicines are needed. What your daughter needs most is strengthening
food--to begin with a little beef tea."
Mrs. Mills looked embarrassed. I understood her embarrassment. What I
ordered was simple enough; but where was the money to come from, to
supply the sick girl's needs?
"I can make some beef tea," she said, after a pause, "and some bread."
"It is just the thing," I said, cheerfully.
"Then you don't think she needs any medicine?"
"No."
There was still that anxious look on the mother's face. Alice was the
breadwinner, and she was sick. How were they to live?
An idea came to me.
"I will call again to-morrow morning," I said, cheerfully.
"You are very kind, doctor. I should like to pay you, but we are so
miserably poor."
"Don't let that trouble you for a moment. I can give you some of my
time, for of that I have plenty."
CHAPTER XII.
THE DISAGREEABLE WOMAN IN A NEW LIGHT.
I have said that I had an idea. The destitute condition of this poor
family weighed upon me, and excited my sympathy. With my scanty means I
could give them only advice, but could I not secure help from others.
Mrs. Gray, my landlady, would perhaps furnish a supply of food, but
though a good woman in the main she was not inclined to be charitable.
She was inclined to be suspicious of those who applied to her for help,
and I did not want to subject Mrs. Mills to any new sorrow or
mortification. Among my fellow boarders, I could not think of one to
whom I could apply, except--well, yes, except the Disagreeable Woman.
Under her cynical exterior I suspected there was a sympathetic heart,
though I believe that I alone gave her credit for it. I resolved to
speak to her about my poor patient.
As the reader already knows, I sat next to Miss Blagden at the table.
Toward the close of supper I said in a low voice: "If you will allow me,
Miss Blagden, I will walk with you a short distance after supper. I have
something to say to you."
She looked surprised, but answered promptly, "I shall be glad of your
company."
This was the most agreeable speech I had heard from her since our
acquaintance commenced.
Nothing more was said till I found myself walking by her side toward
Broadway.
"Now?" she said, expectantly.
"I am going to take a liberty," I said. "I am going to try to interest
you in a poor family. I of course know nothing of your means, but my own
are so limited that in spite of my profound sympathy I can only give my
medical services, while more is needed."
"Go on, doctor," she said, and there was unwonted kindness in her tone.
I told her the story in brief words, and she seemed interested.
"Your young patient has no organic disease?" she inquired.
"None whatever. She is ill-nourished, and works too hard. That is the
whole story."
"They are very poor."
"You can judge. Their income cannot be more than seven dollars and a
half, and of this the girl earns six dollars. Her sickness will entail
some outlay, and there is only the boy to earn money now."
"It is very sad, doctor. How little we whose wants are provided for
know of the sufferings of the poor! But fortunately," she added, and a
rare smile lighted up her features and made her positively attractive,
in spite of her name, "fortunately there is a remedy. When do you see
this poor family again?"
"I shall call to-morrow morning after breakfast."
"And in the meantime do you think they will suffer for the lack of
food?"
"It may be so. I don't think they have much money in the house?"
"Do you think you could make it convenient to call there this evening?"
"Yes, I am sure I could. Their poor home is less than half a mile
distant from our boarding-house."
"Then, doctor, be kind enough to hand them this."
She drew out her purse and handed me a five dollar bill.
I suppose I showed the joy I felt.
"Miss Blagden," I said, "you could not give me a more agreeable
commission."
"I believe it, doctor."
There was an unwonted softness in her tone, and her smile was positively
attractive.
How could we call her the "Disagreeable Woman?"
CHAPTER XIII.
MRS. WYMAN'S CURIOSITY.
I was passing our boarding-house on my return from the walk with Miss
Blagden when Mrs. Wyman tapped on the window, and opened it.
"I saw you!" she said, in a bantering tone.
"At supper?"
"No, I saw you walking away with Miss Blagden. So you are smitten at
last!"
I smiled.
"I assure you," I said, "there is nothing between us."
"You seem uncommonly attentive," and I thought there was something of
pique in her tone.
"What can I do?" I answered. "You have forsaken me, and devote yourself
to the Count."
"As if I could forget you!" she said, in a sentimental tone.
If she had known how utterly indifferent I was to her favor or disfavor
she would hardly have been complimented. She had transferred her
attentions to Count Penelli, but she still wished to retain her hold
upon me.
"By the way," she said, suddenly, "are you going to hear Patti during
her present engagement?"
"Do you take me for a millionaire?"
"Her prices are frightful!" she said, thoughtfully. "Of course I cannot
go without an escort."
"If you will secure two tickets, I will accompany you."
"Thank you, but I am so poor. Still I dote on music, and I would buy my
own ticket."
I shrugged my shoulders, and declined to take the hint.
"Very probably the Count will wish to go. He is an Italian, you know,
and would have the advantage of understanding the language."
"True."
"As a nobleman he is doubtless above money considerations."
"You are mistaken. He is the heir to great estates, but he is out of
favor with his father, and has to live on a very small allowance. It is
a pity, isn't it?"
"He might work at some business, and replenish his purse."
"But you must remember he is a nobleman. His rank debars him from many
positions that would be open to a common man."
"I am glad that I am not a nobleman, then."
"Ah, he might not object to being a doctor if he were trained to that
profession. I wish there were any way of getting a ticket to Patti,
without such a monstrous outlay. Can't you think of any way?"
"Mr. Blake is connected with a morning paper. Perhaps he may be entitled
to a Press ticket."
"Thank you, Dr. Fenwick. That is an excellent suggestion. I will speak
to him to-morrow morning. Where are you walking, if I may ask?"
"To see a poor patient. Will you accompany me?"
"No, no, I should be afraid of catching some horrid fever or something."
"The family is poor, and stands very much in need of assistance."
"How will they pay you, then?"
"They won't pay me. I shall not ask any compensation."
"I think you are foolish to waste your time on such people. They can't
benefit you."
"I can help them."
"You will never get rich in that way."
"I do not expect to. I shall be satisfied if I can make a living. If
you feel inclined to be charitable, I can recommend Mrs. Mills as
deserving all the help you are inclined to bestow."
"I positively haven't a cent to spare. Besides it would make it all the
more difficult to hear Patti."
Mrs. Wyman closed the window. The conversation had taken a turn which
she did not relish.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE QUALITY OF MERCY.
When I knocked again at the door of Mrs. Mills, she opened it and
regarded me in some surprise.
"Did you think Alice would be worse?" she asked.
"No, but I am commissioned by a charitable lady, one of my fellow
boarders, to give you this."
She took the bill which I offered her, and her face lighted up with joy.
"It is a godsend," she said. "I was feeling very anxious. We had but
twenty-five cents in the house."
"This will help along."
"Indeed it will. How kind you are, doctor," and her eyes filled with
grateful tears.
"I would like to be kind, but my ability is limited."
"And who is this lady to whom I am indebted?"
"We call her the Disagreeable Woman."
She looked very much surprised.
"Surely you are jesting, doctor."
"No; she is a social mystery. She is very blunt and says many sharp
things."
"But she sends me this money. She must have a good heart."
"I begin to think so. It would surprise all at the table if they knew
she had done this."
"I shall think of her as the Agreeable Woman."
"Now, Mrs. Mills, I am going to give you some advice. What your daughter
needs is nourishing food. Use this money to provide it not only for her
but for yourself."
"I will--but when this is gone," she hesitated.
"We will appeal to the Disagreeable Woman. What has your daughter
taken?"
"I have given her some beef tea."
"That is good as far as it goes. Do you think she could eat a bit of
steak?"
"I will ask her."
Alice seemed so pleased at the suggestion that Frank was dispatched to
the butcher's for a pound of sirloin steak, and a few potatoes. Soon the
rich and appetizing flavor of broiled steak pervaded the apartment, and
a smile of contentment lighted up the face of the sick girl.
"Now mind that you and Frank eat some too," I said. "I will see you
to-morrow morning."
I made a report to Miss Blagden at breakfast.
"If you had seen how much pleasure your gift gave, you would feel amply
repaid," I said to her.
"Doctor," she said, earnestly, "I thank you for mentioning this case to
me. We are so apt to live for ourselves."
"I also mentioned the case to Mrs. Wyman," I added.
"Well?" she asked, curiously.
"She said she was very poor, and wanted to buy a ticket to Patti's
concert."
Miss Blagden smiled.
"I am not surprised to hear it," she said. "Did you ever hear Patti, Dr.
Fenwick?"
"No, Miss Blagden. I am new to the city, and I am cut off from expensive
amusements by my limited means."
"Do you like music?"
"Very much. When Patti gives a concert at fifty cents, I may venture to
go."
At supper Miss Blagden placed something in my hand.
I looked at it, and found that it was a ticket to Patti's concert on the
following evening. It would give me admission to the most expensive
part of the house.
"You are very kind, Miss Blagden," I said, in grateful surprise.
"Don't mention where you got it. You may consider it in the light of a
fee for attendance upon your poor patient. By the way, how is she? Have
you been there to-day?"
"Yes; she is doing well, but is in a great hurry to get well. The rent
comes due next week, and--"
"How much is it?" asked Miss Blagden, interrupting me.
"Seven dollars."
She drew a ten dollar bill from her pocket-book and extended it to me.
"Give that to Mrs. Mills," she said.
"You make me very happy as well as her; I am beginning to find how kind
and charitable you are."
"No, no," she said gravely. "There are few of us of whom that may be
said. How soon do you think your patient will be able to resume work?"
"Next Monday, I hope. She is gaining rapidly."
"How thick you are with the Disagreeable Woman!" said Mrs. Wyman, when
she next met me. "Don't fail to invite me to the wedding."
"On one condition."
"What is that?"
"That you invite me to your wedding with the Count."
She smiled complacently and called me a naughty man. I wonder if she
aspires to become a Countess.
CHAPTER XV.
THE PROFESSOR'S COURTSHIP.
"What a guy!"
The busy day at Macy's was over. Troops of young women passed through
the doors, in street costume, and laughing and chatting, made their way
up or down Sixth Avenue, or turned into Twenty-third street. Among them
was Ruth Canby, and it was to her that her friend Maria Stevenson
addressed the above exclamation.
Ruth turned to observe the figure indicated by her friend, and was
almost speechless with surprise.
At the corner leaning against the lamppost was a figure she knew well.
The rusty overcoat with its amplitude of cape, the brown crushed hat,
the weather-beaten face, and the green goggles were unmistakable. It was
Prof. Poppendorf. He was peering in his short-sighted way at the young
women emerging from the great store with an inquiring gaze. Suddenly his
eyes brightened. He had found the object of his search.
"Mees Ruth!" he exclaimed, stepping forward briskly, "I haf come to walk
home with you."
Ruth looked confused and almost distressed. She would gladly have found
some excuse to avoid the walk but could think of none.
"Maria!" she said, hurriedly, "it is an old friend of the family. I
shall have to leave you."
Her friend looked at the rusty figure in amazement.
"Oh, well, Ruth," she said, "we will meet to-morrow. So long!"
This was not perhaps the way in which a Fifth Avenue maiden would have
parted from her friend, but Maria Stevenson was a free and easy young
woman, of excellent heart and various good qualities, but lacking the
social veneering to be met with in a different class of society.
"How provoking!" thought Ruth, as she reluctantly took her place beside
the Professor, who, unlike herself, seemed in the best of spirits.
"I haf waited here a quarter of an hour to meet you, Mees Ruth," he
said.
"I wish you hadn't," thought Ruth, but she only said, "I am sorry to
have put you to so much trouble."
"It was no trouble, I assure you, Mees Ruth," said her elderly companion
in as genial a tone as his bass voice could assume.
"Let us cross the street," suggested Ruth.
She wished as soon as possible to get out of sight of her shop
companions, who were sure to tease her the next day.
"With all my heart," said the Professor. "I should wish to be more
alone."
They crossed Sixth Avenue, and walked down on the west side. Ruth was
wondering all the while what on earth could have induced the Professor
to take such pains to offer her his escort. She did not have long to
wait.
"I haf something very particular to say to you, Mees Ruth," said the
Professor, gazing fondly at her through his green goggles.
"Indeed!" returned Ruth, in great surprise.
"Yes, Mees Ruth, I haf been feeling very lonely. I am tired of living at
a boarding-house. I wish to have a home of my own. Will you marry me?
Will you be my frau--I mean my wife?"
Ruth Canby stopped short. She was "like to drop," as she afterwards
expressed it.
"Marry you!" she repeated, in a dazed way.
"Yes, Mees Ruth, dear Mees Ruth, I want you to be my wife."
"But, Professor, I could never think of marrying a man so----" old she
was about to add, but she feared it would hurt the Professor's feelings.
"I know what you would say, Mees Ruth. You think I am too old. But I am
strong. See here!" and he smote his large breast vigorously. "I am
sound, and I shall live many years. My father lived till eighty-five,
and I am only sixty-five."
"I am only twenty."
"True! you are much younger, but no young man would love you so fondly."
"I don't know," said Ruth.
"Perhaps you think I am poor, but it is not so. I haf a good income, and
I haf just been appointed to gif lectures on philosophy in Miss Green's
school on Madison Avenue. We will take a nice flat. I will furnish it
well, and we will haf a happy home."
"Thank you very much, Prof. Poppendorf," said Ruth, hurriedly. "Indeed
I feel complimented that such a learned man and great scholar should
wish to marry me, but I am only a simple girl--I have not much
education--and I should not make a suitable wife for you."
"Do not think of that, Mees Ruth. I will teach you myself. I will teach
you Latin and Greek, and Sanscrit, if you please. I will read my
lectures on philosophy to you, and I will make you 'une femme
savante,' so that you can talk with my brother Professors who will come
to see me. You can cook, can you not, Mees Ruth?"
"Yes, I know how to cook, but--"
"Ah, that is well," said the Professor, in a tone of satisfaction. "All
the German ladies can cook. Frau von Bismarck, the wife of my old
friend, is an excellent cook. I haf dined at Bismarck's house."
"But," said Ruth, firmly, "I can not think of becoming your wife, Prof.
Poppendorf."
"Ach, so!" said the Professor, in a tone of disappointment. "Do not make
such a mistake, my dear Mees Ruth. Is it nothing to become Mrs.
Professor Poppendorf. You will take a good place in society. For I
assure you that I am well known among scholars. I am now busy on a great
work on philosophy, which will extend my fame. I will make you proud of
your husband."
"Indeed, Prof. Poppendorf, I do not doubt your learning or your fame,
but I can not marry a man old enough to be my grandfather."
"So, I am not so sure about that. I am old enough to be your father,
but--"
"Never mind! We will not argue the point. I hope you will say no more. I
can not marry you."
"Ah! is there another? Haf I a rival?" demanded the Professor, frowning
fiercely. "It is that Dr. Fenwick?"
"No, it is not."
"I do not think he would care to marry you."
"And I don't want to marry him, though I think him a very nice young
gentleman."
"Who is it, then?"
"If you must know," said Ruth, pettishly, "it is that young man who took
supper with us not long ago."
"The young man from the country?"
"Yes."
"But what do you see in him, Mees Ruth. He is a yokel."
"A what?"
"He is a very worthy young man, I do not doubt, but what does he know?
He is a farmer, is he not, with no ideas beyond his paternal acres?"
"Prof. Poppendorf, I will not have you speak so of my Stephen," said
Ruth, while a wave of anger passed over her face.
"Ah, that is his name. Stephen. Pardon, Mees Ruth! I do not wish to say
anything against this rural young man, but he will never give you the
position which I offer you."
"Perhaps not, but I like him better."
"Ach, so. Then is my dream at an end; I did hope to have you for my
frau, and haf a happy home and a loving companion in my declining
years."
His tone seemed so mournful that Ruth was touched with pity and remorse.
"Prof. Poppendorf," she said, gently, "you must not be too much
disappointed. There are many who would appreciate the honor of marrying
you. Why do you not ask Mrs. Wyman?"
"She is a butterfly--a flirt. I would not marry her if there were no
other woman living."
The young woman from Macy's quite agreed with the Professor, and it was
not without satisfaction that she heard him express himself in this
manner.
"Well," she continued, "then there is Miss Blagden. She is of a more
suitable age."
"The Disagreeable Woman. What do you take me for, Mees Ruth? She is too
strong-minded."
"Perhaps so, but I am sure she has a kind heart."
"I should never be happy with her--never!" said the Professor,
decidedly.
"Were you ever married, Professor?" asked Ruth with sudden curiosity.
"Yes, I was married when I was thirty--but my Gretchen only lived two
years. I haf mourned for her more than thirty years."
"You have waited a long time, Professor."
"Yes; till I saw you, Mees Ruth, I never haf seen the woman I wanted to
marry. Perhaps," he added with sudden hope, "this young man, Stephen,
does not wish to marry you."
"He will be only too glad," said Ruth, tossing her head. "He offered
himself to me a year ago."
"Then there is no hope for me?"
"None at all, Professor."
They had reached Waverley Place, and so there was no time for further
conversation. As they came up the stoop Mrs. Wyman saw them through the
window. She was in waiting in the hall.
"Have you had a nice walk together?" she purred.
"How I hate that woman!" said Ruth to herself.
She ran up stairs and prepared for supper.
CHAPTER XVI.
SITS THE WIND IN THAT QUARTER.
Of course I attended the Patti concert. The seat given me was in the
best part of the house, and I felt somewhat bashful when I found that
all my neighbors wore dress suits. My own suit--the best I had--was
beginning to show the marks of wear, but I did not dare go to the
expense of another.
My next neighbor was an elderly gentleman, bordering upon sixty. In the
twenty minutes that elapsed before the rise of the curtain we fell into
a pleasant conversation. It was pleasant to find that he was becoming
interested in me.
"You enjoy Patti?" he said. "But then I hardly need ask that. Your
presence here is sufficient evidence."
"I have no doubt I shall enjoy Patti," I answered. "I have never heard
her."
"Indeed? How does that happen?"
"Because I have been only three months in New York. I came here from the
country, and of course I had no chance to hear her there."
"Excuse my curiosity, but you do not look like a business man."
"I am not. I am a practising physician."
"Indeed!" he replied, with interest. "I wish you could cure my
rheumatism."
"I should like a chance to try."
This was a little audacious, as probably he had his own family
physician, but it came naturally upon his remark.
"You shall try," he said, impulsively. "My family physician has failed
to benefit me."
"It may be so with me."
"At any rate I will try you. Can you call at my house to-morrow at
eleven o'clock?"
"I will do so with pleasure."
He gave me his card. I found that his name was Gregory Vincent, and that
he lived in one of the finest parts of Madison Avenue. It occurred to me
that he was perhaps imprudent in trusting an unknown young physician,
but I was not foolish enough to tell him so.
"I will call," I said with professional gravity, and I entered the name
and engagement in my medical note-book.
Here the curtain rose, and our thoughts were soon occupied by the stage.
When the concert was over, my new friend as he shook my hand, said, "I
can rely upon your calling to-morrow, Dr. Fenwick?"
"I will not fail you."
"I don't know how it is," he said, "but though we are strangers I have a
prophetic instinct that you can help me."
"I will do my best, Mr. Vincent."
Congratulating myself on my new and promising patient, I made my way
into the lobby. There presently I met Mrs. Wyman and Count Penelli. I
learned later that she had purchased two cheap seats and invited the
Count to accompany her. They had not distinguished me in the audience, I
was so far away from them.
"Dr. Fenwick!" exclaimed Mrs. Wyman, in surprise. "I thought you said
you were not coming."
"I changed my mind," I answered, smiling. "Of course, you enjoyed the
concert?"
"Did I not? But where were you sitting?"
"In the orchestra."
"What! Among the millionaires?"
"I don't know if they were millionaires. I was ashamed of my appearance.
All wore dress suits except myself and the ladies."
"It seems to me, doctor, you were extravagant."
"It does seem so."
I did not propose to enlighten Mrs. Wyman as to the small expense I was
at for a ticket. I could see with secret amusement that her respect for
me was increased by my supposed liberal outlay. In this respect I showed
to advantage beside her escort who had availed himself of a ticket
purchased by her. She had represented that the tickets were sent her by
the management.
"The Count had an advantage over us," said the widow. "He could
understand the language."
"Si, Signora," said the Count, with a smile.
"It wasn't the words I cared for," said I. "I should enjoy Patti if she
sang in Arabic."
"Well, perhaps so. Were you ever in Italy, doctor?"
"No, the only foreign country I ever visited was New Jersey."
"Is New Jersey then a foreign country?" asked the Count, puzzled.
"It is only a joke, Count," said the widow.
"And a poor one, I admit."
"The Count had been telling me of his ancestral home, of the vine-clad
hills, and the olive trees, and the orange groves. Oh, I am wild to
visit that charming Italy."
"Perhaps you may do so some day, my dear Mrs. Wyman," said the Count, in
a soft tone.
The widow cast down her eyes.
"It would be too lovely," she said.
When we reached the boarding-house, the Count asked, "May I come up to
your room, Dr. Fenwick?"
"Certainly. I shall be glad to have you do so." My room was a small one.
I should have had to pay a higher price for a larger one. However, I
gave the Count my only chair, and sat on the bed.
"Is it permitted?" he asked, as he lighted a cigarette.
"Oh, yes," I replied, but I only said so out of politeness. It was
decidedly disagreeable to have any one smoke in my chamber in the
evening. I could, however, open the window afterwards and give it an
airing.
"Mrs. Wyman is a very fine woman," said the Count, after a pause.
"Very," I responded, briefly.
"And she is rich, is she not?" he asked, in some anxiety.
"Sits the wind in that quarter?" I thought. "Well, I won't stand in the
way."
"She seems independent."
"Ah! you mean--"
"That she has enough to live upon. She never seemed to have any money
troubles. I suppose it is the same with you, you no doubt draw a
revenue from your estates in Italy?"
"No, no, you make a mistake. They belong to my father, and he is
displease with me. He will send me no money."
"Are you the oldest son?"
"Si, signor!" but he answered hesitatingly.
"Then you will be all right some day."
"True, doctor, some day, but just now I am what you call short. You
could do me a great favor."
"What is it?"
"If you could lend me fifty dollar?"
