the memorials of the Mutiny; and for these alone they would not have missed
seeing the historic locality. The rest of the day was devoted to rides
through the streets and suburbs of the city. The avenues were wide, the
houses neat and commodious, and the gardens laid out with English taste.
The evidences of British thrift were to be seen in many portions of the
place.
Lochner's Hotel was their abiding-place, and Major Shandon regaled the
party at dinner and in the evening with stories of the place, and proved
himself to be a gentleman of "infinite humor." The next morning the company
took the train for Benares. They were a very sociable party, and preferred
the conference carriage to being confined to the smaller compartments. The
route was along the Boomtee River at first, which, some one has said, is
the crookedest stream in the world, and the scenery was worth looking at.
But as soon as the ladies and gentlemen had satisfied themselves with
looking out the windows the commander presented Sir Modava as the "talkist"
for the trip of six hours, or as much of the time as he chose to occupy.
"I shall not take more than half an hour for what I have to say, my
much-loved friends," the Hindu gentleman began, "though I know you are very
patient and long-suffering; and I assure you that I shall not take offence
if you look out the windows while I am talking. The Boomtee River is as
pretty as it is sinuous. If you write to your friends in the United States
about it, you can spell the last syllable t-i, if you prefer; for Indian
orthography is not yet controlled by statute, as I hope it will be when we
have established an Académie Indienne, such as they have in France.
But Benares is my subject, and not spelling.
"Where is Benares? It is four hundred and twenty miles by rail from
Calcutta, and is on the left bank of the Ganges. I suppose you know which
side that is."
"Of course we do," laughed Mrs. Belgrave. "It is on the left-hand side."
"You have put your foot in it, mother," rallied Louis.
"Into the Ganges?" queried the lady. "I did at Cawnpore, but not here."
"Suppose you were coming up the river in a steamer from Calcutta, which
would be the left bank?" asked Louis.
"On my left, of course."
"Then Sir Modava will have to oblige you by locating Benares on both sides
of the Ganges, and I don't believe it would be convenient for him to do
that," said Louis, laughing at the expense of his mother, who blushed,
though she did not see what was wrong, when she realized that she had made
a blunder of some kind.
"Better not have said anything," whispered Mrs. Blossom in retaliation; for
hitherto she had had a monopoly of all the blunders."
"Will you tell me, Sarah, which is the left bank of a river, for it appears
that I don't know," added the lady out loud.
"The left bank of the Ganges is the one Benares is on," replied the worthy
woman; and she was greeted with a roar of laughter, and a volley of
applause started by the live boys who were making their way across India.
"Quite right, madam!" exclaimed Sir Modava, applauding with the others. "It
may be a matter of no particular consequence; but you will excuse me for
saying that the left bank is the one on your left as you go down the
stream, and not at all as you go up."
"I remember now, for I learned that in my geography when I first went to
school; and it is strange that I should have forgotten it," added Mrs.
Belgrave.
"We know just where Benares is now," Sir Modava proceeded. "It is the
largest city in this part of India with the exception of Lucknow, to which
it stands next, or sixth among those of the country, having a population of
219,467. It extends along the Ganges for three miles; and the shore is
lined continuously with staircases, called ghats, which lead up to
the temples, palaces, and the vast number of houses on the banks of the
river. The stream sweeps around the place like a crescent, presenting one
of the finest views you ever saw, with the ornamented fronts of dwellings,
public offices, and a forest of towers, pinnacles, and turrets. To the
Hindus it is the most sacred city known to them.
"When I was a boy I came here for the first time, brought by my father on
account of the religious character of the place, if I may call anything
idolatrous by such a name. But the city, when you get into it, will
disappoint you. It is like Constantinople, very beautiful to look at from
the Bosporus, or the Golden Horn; but its dirty, narrow streets disgust
you. I am afraid this will be your experience in Benares. You will be
obliged to forego the luxury of carriages in making your tours through the
place, for the streets are so narrow and crowded that it is impossible to
get along with a vehicle. An elephant is equally impracticable, and even in
a palanquin your progress would be so slow that you would lose all your
stock of patience."
"The city must be 'done' by walking, must it?" asked the commander.
"Whew!" whistled Dr. Hawkes; and the sibilation was repeated by Uncle
Moses, for each of them weighed over two hundred and a quarter.
"If the ship were here I would lend you the barge with eight rowers, to
enable you to see the sights from the river," suggested Captain Ringgold.
"A steam-launch shall be provided for all the company, and our obese
friends shall be provided with stuffed chairs, for the survey of the river
scenes; but carriages can be used in some parts of the city, though what
you will desire to see can best be observed from the river; and we can land
when you wish to see interiors," added Lord Tremlyn.
This interruption was heartily applauded by the Cupids, as the fat
gentlemen had been called in Cairo, assisted by all the others.
"The famous Monkey Temple is just out of the city, and that can be reached
by carriages," continued Sir Modava. "There are fourteen hundred and fifty
Hindu temples, pagodas, and shrines, and two hundred and seventy-two
Mohammedan mosques, so that our good friend, General Noury, need not
neglect his devotions."
"The good Mussulman never does that, whether there be a mosque at hand or
not, for he says his prayers at the proper time, wherever he may be,"
replied the general.
"I know that some of your people are better Christians than some who bear
the name," replied the Hindu gentleman politely. "Benares is so holy, and
the Ganges is so holy, that hundreds of thousands visit it as the
Mussulmans visit Mecca. Men of wealth, and those who have the means without
being rich, come to this city when they feel that they have been seized
with a malady likely to prove fatal; for to die here with the Hindu is a
passport to eternal happiness. But I am talking too long, though there is
much more that might be said; but perhaps it could be better said on board
of that launch my friend mentions, and in sight of the temples, towers, and
other objects of interest."
In the middle of the afternoon the train arrived at its destination; and
the party proceeded in carriages to the western suburb, the location of the
cantonment, or English quarter of the city.
                                 CHAPTER XXXIII
                      A STEAMER TRIP UP AND DOWN THE GANGES
Clarke's Hotel, at Secrole, received the tourists, and everything was in
readiness for them when they arrived. Lord Tremlyn had announced the coming
of himself and his large party, and a person of his distinction and
influence could command anything he desired. The rest of the day was given
to rest, though in the evening Sir Modava talked to the tourists about the
city.
Early the next morning the party were conveyed to the river, where they
embarked in a steam-yacht which had been provided for their use. It was
more than a launch; for its standing-room would seat the whole company,
while an awning was spread over a portion of the upper deck, from which a
full view of the shore could be obtained. The city is on the north shore of
the river, which has an easterly course in this portion of India, and the
houses are packed in about as thickly as they can be.
"This is the Dasasvamedh Ghat," said Sir Modava, with a smile. "I thought
you might wish to recall it after you get home to America. I think it is
rather pleasant to know the names of places one has visited."
"We could not speak the word now without an hour's practice, and I am sure
not one of us will know it when we get to the other side of the Atlantic,"
said Mrs. Belgrave.
"You can write it down in your diaries."
"We might as well attempt to copy the top of a tea-chest," added Louis.
The ladies were assisted on board of the steamer.
The captain was a very gentlemanly Englishman; and he was all devotion to
the wants of his passengers, who seated themselves on the promenade deck.
The steamer belonged to the government; and she was fitted up in the most
comfortable manner, though it was not so gaudy as the craft of a maharajah
would have been. The ghat was at the western extremity of the crescent to
which Sir Modava had alluded, and from this point the town looked like an
amphitheatre.
The river is ordinarily about half a mile wide, but in the season of high
water it is double that width. The captain called the attention of the
party to the ghat as they receded from it, the broad flight of stairs being
a rather wonderful sight to the strangers, though they had seen something
of the kind before in Delhi and Cawnpore.
The steps are adorned with small temples with plenty of spires. Near the
top of the flight was the Man Munder, the great observatory. Though the
building is plain, as a whole, Captain Carlisle pointed out a highly
ornamental window, with a profusion of handsome brackets. The stairs on the
city side of the river were unlimited as far as the eye could see. Behind
them was a forest of spires, domes, and cupolas.
"You ought to have left the ghat before sunrise," said the captain, who was
walking up and down the deck, with an eye on the Hindu pilot. "Then you
would have been in time to see the sight of the day, for the appearance of
the sun is the holy moment for the natives to plunge into the holy river.
For miles along the shore the ghats are thronged at the first appearance of
the orb of day, and there is a continuous murmur of voices. No matter how
cold the water is, they dive in and swim like fishes. You can see a
thousand heads in the water along the shore at any moment. Then they
support themselves on the surface, and gaze motionless at the sun as it
mounts in the sky."
"Are you a sailor, Captain Carlisle?" asked Louis, who thought he was
rather poetic for an uneducated man.
"Not as the commander of your ship would understand it, though I was in
command of a Thames steamer, and fell into the same business when I came to
India," replied the captain, laughing at the question. "My father was a
good Baptist; he wanted to make a minister of me, and I was educated far
enough to enter the university; but I concluded that I did not like the
business, and took to steamboating."
"But aren't the women as religious as the men?" inquired Captain Ringgold.
"More so, if anything. But they come down to the river before sunrise and
take their swim. If you had been here this morning you would have seen them
coming out of the water just as the men are ready to go in, and you would
have observed them in their white garments, dripping like drowned rats.
That pagoda you see ahead of us with the bell tower and shining in gilt is
the only temple the Buddhists have in Benares."
"We are coming now to the Munikurnika Ghat. It is a five-syllable word, but
you can easily pronounce it," said Sir Modava, who thought he would "spell"
the captain for a time; and he was quite as familiar with the banks of the
Ganges.
"And it is quite musical," added the captain.
"Pronounce u like double o, and the rest of the letters as in English, and
you can speak it without choking," said the Hindu gentleman. "But there are
some letters in Hindu that have no equivalents in English."
"Moo-ui-koor-ni-ka Ghat," added Louis, pronouncing the word. "But what is
it all about?"
"It is the place for burning the dead, such as you saw in Bombay, but on a
much larger scale," replied Sir Modava. "You see that it extends a
considerable distance. Please keep to the leeward of the smoke, Captain
Carlisle."
"That is what I am doing, Sir Modava."
"These funeral pyres are burning all the time, night and day. The people
whose bodies are consumed in these fires, and their friends, believe that
the souls of the deceased will pass from this spot into paradise, where, if
they have not been very great sinners they will be transplanted into the
bodies of future Brahmins. Many deceased persons are brought even hundreds
of miles to be burned on the Munikurnika by the Ganges, as their sure
passport to the realms of bliss."
The obliging captain took the steamer near enough to the ghat to enable the
tourists to see the process of burning. An occasional puff of the horribly
offensive odor came to the nostrils of the sightseers; but the captain
sheered off, and they got very little of it.
"It smells just like assafoedita. It is awful-smelling stuff; and I wonder
if they don't make it out of this smoke, for it hits my nose in just the
same way," said Mrs. Blossom. "I took care of old Jotham Beeling when he
had the apoplexy, and gave the stuff to him. The room smelt then just the
same as it does here."
"You are quite right, madam," said Dr. Hawkes, laughing. "It gets part of
its name from its bad odor; but it is not made out of smoke. Asa is the gum
of a tree that grows here. It has a very offensive odor, which gives it the
rest of the name, from foeditas, meaning foul, filthy."
The workmen who were operating the burning were nearly naked, begrimed by
the sooty smoke, and looked like so many imps. They were stirring up the
fires with long iron pokers, and throwing vessels of oil upon them. The
boat passed beyond the fumes of the pyres, and came up to the ghat, at the
request of Lord Tremlyn. A multitude of hideous-looking cripples,
humpbacks, and beggars made an onslaught on the steamer; and the boys and
gentlemen pelted them with coppers, with which they had been forewarned to
supply themselves. It was fun to them, and the mendicants enjoyed it quite
as much.
"There is a procession of pilgrims just arrived," said Captain Carlisle,
pointing to the high ground beyond the ghat. "They are coming here all the
time. The Hindus under the umbrellas are Brahmins, who collect the fees for
bathing from the steps; and they sell certificates of purification,
indulgences, and amulets."
The boat continued on her course, and they did not wait to see the bathing,
though the heads of the swimmers were soon in view. A staircase is reserved
for women, who are watched over by the elders of their sex. But they could
be seen in the distance, frolicking in the water; and they were so
hilarious that their shouts could be heard on board of the Sylph, as the
boat was called.
The steamer next came to a long row of palaces on the high ground, whose
fronts were profusely ornamented with staircases that exceeded in extent
and beauty anything they had before seen. Every rajah has a residence here,
not permanent, but where he comes to celebrate the religious festivals. The
king of Nagpore has the finest one, with one hundred stairs of white
sandstone reaching down to the water.
"Now we come to a building worth looking at," said Sir Modava, as they
passed beyond the assemblage of palaces. "This is the mosque of Aurungzeb.
Those two lofty minarets are one hundred and forty-seven feet high. They
are very slender, and look like a couple of needles; but, though they are
only eight and a quarter feet in diameter on the ground, they have spiral
staircases reaching to the top. If you wish to land and go to the cupola
you can do so."
"I pray thee have me excused," interposed Uncle Moses; and Dr. Hawkes said
"Me too!" And no one cared to ascend to such a height.
"This mosque was built by the Emperor Aurungzeb, on the site of a Hindu
temple of Siva, which he caused to be pulled down, to the scandal of the
worshippers of that deity, for it marked the spot where Vishnu himself
first appeared to man. A flight of one hundred stairs leads to the mosque,
which the Hindus formerly ascended on their knees when they went to the
worship of Vishnu. But we have gone as far in this direction as we need
go."
The Sylph came about, and went back up the river, landing above the funeral
pyres. From the ghat, they walked into one of the crowded streets. They
were conducted by Sir Modava to a square, which was thronged with natives.
In the middle of it was a small round temple, the spire of which was
overlaid with plates of gold. At the present day this is the holy of holies
of the Hindus. Its principal object of adoration is a plain stone post,
which is believed to form a part of the very body of the deity, Siva in
this instance.
The narrow streets, through which the party made their way with difficulty
were very clean. They were thronged with pilgrims from all parts of India,
dressed in their best garments, loaded with gold and silver ornaments. The
men were carrying great brass trays, piled up with flowers, as offerings
for the various deities. The little stalls, which were the stores, made the
thoroughfares look like bazaars. They passed no end of temples; and all of
them were small, though they were very pretty, what there were of them.
Emerging from these narrow streets, the company came to a section where the
avenues were broad, with handsome houses built upon them. This portion was
practicable for carriages, and half a dozen culèches were drummed
together after some delay; and the ladies were glad to be seated again, for
they had had a long and tiresome walk through the narrow and crowded
streets. Sir Modava directed the drivers, and when he said Dourga Khound no
one knew what he was to see next. The word means the Fountain of Dourga;
and when they came to it they agreed that it was one of the most beautiful
buildings in Benares, though it was painted all over with red, which made
it look rather fantastic.
Sir Modava said nothing about the use of the building, and led the way into
the enclosure. The moment they entered the grounds they realized that the
Hindu gentleman had worked a surprise upon them; for the yard was filled
with monkeys, and the walls were covered with them. The chattering
creatures immediately surrounded them, holding out their paws for
something. Sir Modava gave the most dignified one a rupee, and Lord Tremlyn
made a similar gift to another.
"They can't eat silver," suggested Morris.
"The money is for the Brahmin who has charge here. You see they have gone
to give it to him," replied Sir Modava, as he opened a large paper package
he had bought at a store, and proceeded to distribute its contents,
consisting of nuts and parched corn, to the members of the monkey
community.
For half an hour they fed the animals, which were very tame, and made
friends with them. The live boys were more pleased with this occupation
than in looking at temples and mosques. They all visited the sanctuary of
the temple, which was said to date back a thousand years. The party greatly
enjoyed the ride back to Secrole, which is the English town of Benares.
After dinner Sir Modava told them about the Feast of Ganesa.
"He is one of the most popular deities of India," said the Hindu gentleman.
"He is the embodiment of wisdom, prudence, and commerce; his presence wards
off all perils. You will find him over the door of places of business; and
contracts open with an invocation to Ganesa, sometimes given by a picture
of the god. He was the son of Siva and Parvati. His picture is that of a
short, fat man, with four arms and an elephant's head.
"Though he was Siva's son, the father was jealous of him, and struck off
his head. Siva was sorry for what he had done, and wanted to bring Ganesa
back to life; but his head was gone."
"Couldn't he put a head on him?" asked Scott very seriously; and the other
boys laughed.
"That was just what he did," replied Sir Modava, wondering what the boys
and some of the others were laughing at. "Siva selected a young elephant,
cut off his head, and affixed it to his son's shoulders; and that is how he
happens to have such a head. This head sometimes takes the place of the
whole figure on contracts. His festival is celebrated the last of April,
with the greatest magnificence. Effigies of the god are made of
terra-cotta, painted and gilded, and borne by processions through the
streets. Priests and musicians surround the idol; and young girls, widowed
before they are wives, dancing and waving their scarfs in solemn cadence,
lead the way.
"When the processions reach the river, they embark in fairy-like boats
propelled by sails or oars, forming a grand aquatic spectacle. At sunset
the idols are thrown into the river, and the festival terminates with a
grand frolic on shore, with fireworks, in which many Europeans take part;
and the river is thronged with boats decorated with many-colored lanterns."
The party spent two days more at Benares, and visited temples, mosques, and
many places of interest. They were visited by British civil and military
officers, who were extremely kind to them, and offered them every facility
for seeing the city. After dinner on the last day, Captain Ringgold asked
Lord Tremlyn to tell them something about Patna; and he evidently did so
with a purpose.
"Patna is the fifteenth city in India in population, one hundred and forty
miles from Benares," replied the viscount. "It extends nine miles along the
Ganges, and an average of two back from it. The streets are narrow and
crooked. The houses are mostly of mean appearance, and there are but very
few buildings there of any importance. You laid out your list of cities to
be visited yourself, Captain, and generally very judiciously; but if I had
made it out I should have omitted Patna. It has a population of about one
hundred and sixty-five thousand."
"I asked the question with a view to omit it from the list if there are no
sights of importance, and, after what you have said, I shall do so; and
tomorrow we will take the train for Calcutta," added the captain.
This decision pleased the party, and at six the next morning the special
started with them for the greatest city of India.
                                 CHAPTER XXXIV
                       ALL OVER THE CITY OF CALCUTTA
"I shall be glad to be on board of the Guardian-Mother again," said Scott,
after the four live boys had taken a place by themselves in the conference
carriage. "I have seen enough of India."
"But you have not seen one-half of India," replied Louis.
"I read a story in an old schoolbook Uncle Moses had used when he didn't
weigh as much as I do now, which was called 'The Half is Better than the
Whole;' and it proved the proposition with which it started out. That is
just what is the matter now."
"But you have been seeing new things all the time, and learning something,"
added Louis.
"That's very true; but we have seen all the big mosques and things, and
enough is as good as a feast," suggested Scott. "I suppose if we stayed
here a couple of years more we should not see the whole of the country. We
have got a specimen brick of the principal cities; and a dozen specimens of
the same thing don't amount to much."
"But you haven't seen Calcutta yet, and that is the biggest toad in the
puddle," said Felix. "The ship will be there, and if you are homesick you
can go on board of her."
But the call for attention from Captain Ringgold interrupted the
conversation, and Sir Modava had seated himself in front of the company to
give one of his "talks."
"Our route will be along the Ganges till we come to Luckieserai Junction,
where the loop-line falls into the main line," the Hindu gentleman began.
"Is it much of a fall, sir?" asked Felix.
"I don't understand you, Mr. McGavonty," replied the speaker blankly.
"The expression 'falls into the main line' is somewhat different from what
we use at home; but the young man ought to have understood you," interposed
the commander.
"What would you have said, Captain?"
"The loop-line we call a branch, and we say connects with instead of falls
into," replied the captain. "But your meaning was plain enough, and our
boys must fall into the methods of expression used here."
"Though you have seen the Ganges several times, not much has been said
about it; and I will tell you a little more concerning it before we leave,
not to see it again. It rises in Gahrwal, one of the Hill states,
north-east of Delhi. It has its source in an ice-cave nearly fourteen
thousand feet above the level of the sea. It is not called the Ganges till
it has received the flow of two other rivers, a hundred and fifty miles or
more from its lofty source. Just below Allahabad it takes in the Jumna,
itself a mighty stream.
"As you have learned, it is the holy river of the Hindus; and it deserves
their homage, for, aside from the religious character they give to it,
three hundred thousand square miles are drained and fertilized by the
Ganges and its tributaries. Of its sanctity, that it washes away sin, and
that death in its waters or on its shores is the passport to eternal bliss,
you have learned. But it renders a more immediate and practical service to
the people; for it is navigable for small craft from the point where it
enters the lowlands, seventy or eighty miles north of Delhi.
"The river is 1,509 miles long. Though it rises and falls at different
seasons, it never fails, even in the hottest summer; and its inundations
render, to some extent, the benefit which the Nile does to the soil of
Egypt. Like the Mississippi, in your country, it has sometimes changed its
course, as proved by the ruins of cities that were once on its banks.
"Now you have a view of the Ganges for quite a distance, and can see the
kinds of boats that navigate it. It is one of the most frequented waterways
in the world, though the building of railways and canals has somewhat
diminished the amount of freight borne on its tide. About £6,000,000 is
needed to complete the Ganges canal, which will reach all the cities
through which you have passed. There is a very complicated mythology
connected with the river, which it would take me all day to relate, and
therefore I will not meddle with it."
For a couple of hours the passengers watched the boats and steamers on the
river, and the scenes on the other side. While they were thus employed,
Lord Tremlyn gave to each person a map of Calcutta, intimating that he
should soon tell them something about the city; and they all began to study
it, so as to form some idea of the place they were next to visit. Of course
they could make out but little from the vast maze of streets, but some of
them obtained a very good idea of the situation of the city and many of its
important buildings.
"People coming from England or America generally arrive at Calcutta or
Bombay, the larger portion at the former. From the sea the metropolis of
India is reached by the Hoogly River, the most western outlet of the
Ganges," his lordship began. "It is sometimes spelled Hugli. Under this
name, the stream is known sixty-four miles above Calcutta and seventeen
below. Vessels drawing twenty-six feet of water come up to the city; though
the stream, like the Mississippi, is liable to be silted up."
"I see that some of you look at me as though I had used a strange word.
Silt is the deposit of mud, sand, or earth of any kind carried up and down
streams by the tide or other current. But the river engineers here are
constantly removing it; the course is kept open, and the Hoogly pilots are
very skilful. The river has also a bore, though not a great bore, like some
people I know.
"We know the book-agent better than this one," said Scott.
"Some of our rivers in England have bores, though not book-agents; so have
the Seine, the Amazon, and others with broad estuaries. High tides drive a
vast body of water into the wide mouth; and, as the stream is not large
enough to take it in, it piles it up into a ridge, which rolls up the
river. It forms a wall of water in the Hoogly seven feet high, which is
sometimes dangerous to small craft. Enough of the Hoogly.
"Calcutta, by the last census, 1891, had a population of 861,764; but it is
not so large as New York, Philadelphia, or Chicago; and London is the only
larger city in the United Kingdom. It became a town in 1686. After it had
attained considerable importance, in 1756, it was attacked by the Nawab of
Bengal, the king or rajah; and after a siege of two days the place yielded.
The tragedy of the 'Black Hole' followed."
"I have heard of that, but I don't know what it means," said Mrs. Belgrave.
"You observe the large open enclosure at the right of your map of the city,
the esplanade. Within it is Fort William, which has existed nearly two
hundred years. It had a military prison, which has since been called the
'Black Hole.' The nawab caused one hundred and forty-six prisoners, all he
had taken, to be shut up in a room only eighteen feet square, with only two
small windows, both of them obstructed by a veranda. This was but a little
more than two square feet on the floor for each person, so that they could
not stand up without crowding each other. They spent the night there,
pressing together, the heat terrible, enduring the pangs of suffocation. In
the morning all were dead but twenty-three.
"The nawab held the fort for seven months, when it was recaptured by Lord
Clive. Calcutta extends about five miles on the bank of the river, being
about two in breadth. I shall not follow out its history, for you will hear
enough of that as you visit the various localities."
"I used to think Calicut and Calcutta were the same city," said Louis.
"Not at all, though the names of the two may have been derived from the
same source. The name of the great city is from Kali, a Hindu goddess of
whom you heard in Bombay, and cuttah, a temple; and doubtless there was
such a building here. Calicut is on the south-west coast of India, and was
a very rich and populous city when it was visited by Vasco da Gama, who was
the first to double the Cape of Good Hope, in 1498. The cotton cloth,
calico, generally called print, gets its name from this city."
Dinner was brought into the carriages; and the tourists slept in the
afternoon, arriving at Calcutta in the evening. The Great Eastern, one of
the two largest hotels in the city, was prepared to receive them. Here, as
in Bombay and elsewhere, every guest is attended by his own servant. Half a
dozen of them had been retained, but when the omnibuses set them down at
the hotel a hundred more could have been readily procured.
The business of sight-seeing began early the next morning with a visit to
the esplanade, which may be called a park, though it contains a variety of
buildings besides Fort William, which is half a mile in diameter. The
enclosure is a mile and three-quarters in length by about one mile in depth
from the river. The Government House occupies a position next to it, and
they passed it as they entered.
"Whose statue is that--the Duke of Wellington?" asked Louis, as he walked
on one side of Sir Modava, with his mother on the other side.
"Not at all; most of our streets and buildings are named after persons
noted in the history of India," replied the Indian gentleman, laughing.
"That is the statue of Lord William Cavendish Bentinck, the first
governor-general of India; and many important events dated from his time,
for he suppressed the suttee and thugging."
"Thugging?" repeated the lady interrogatively.
"You have not been told about it; but I will give you its history when we
have time, for here are the Eden Gardens," replied Sir Modava.
"Not the Garden of Eden?" suggested Mrs. Belgrave.
"Only named for it; but it is a very beautiful garden in English style,
though the trees and plants are, of course, different. It has water enough
for variety; and there is no difficulty at all in getting it, for the city
is hardly above the river at high tide. All there is of the fort you can
see from here."
"But what are those things over the other side of the park?"
"They are all tanks; and, of course, they are to hold water. Each of them
has its name, generally Indian. Now we will walk across to the Chowringhee
Road, where the finest private residences of the city are situated. On our
left is the Government House, which we passed when we came in. It is a fine
building, and it has a large garden of its own."
"But what is it for?" asked the lady.
"It is the residence of the governor-general, generally called the viceroy;
and he has his offices there. Now, if you look beyond Fort William, you
will see the race-course."
"I don't care for that," replied Mrs. Belgrave, whose memories of the sport
were anything but pleasant.
"Near it is the presidency jail, and there are two hospitals farther
along."
The party walked along the road to view the residences of the nabobs, and
returned to the hotel, where they seated themselves on the large veranda
overlooking the street. The first thing Louis did was to look at a
thermometer he discovered on a post.
"How hot is it, Louis?" asked his mother.
"It isn't hot at all; it is only 70°."
"The glass varies here from 52° to 100°; but we don't get the latter figure
except in summer," added Sir Modava.
"But you have awful cyclones here, an English lady told me last night,"
said Mrs. Belgrave.
"We do; but we never have them at this season of the year; they come in
May, September, and October, and sometimes in November the belated ones. In
1867 we had one in the latter month which destroyed thirty thousand native
houses; but you know they are built of bamboos and such stuff, and it does
not take much of a breeze to demolish them. Another in June, 1870, did
nearly as much damage."
"I should think the bore would make mischief here," suggested Louis.
"The monsoons here begin in July, and during their time the bore is the
most mischievous. The big wave comes up the river at the rate of twenty
miles an hour. All boats run for the middle of the river, where the billow
does not break against the shore. Ships often part their cables, and knock
themselves to pieces against the walls. Sometimes the bore is twelve feet
high, though not much more than half that generally."
"What are the prices at a hotel like this one, Lord Tremlyn?" asked Dr.
Hawkes.
"Here is the list of prices," replied his lordship, handing him a card
taken from the wall.
"Coffee at six in the morning, breakfast à la fourchette at nine,
tiffin at one, and dinner at seven. Price, Rs. six per day," the doctor
read. "I suppose Rs. means rupees; and that makes it about twelve English
shillings, or three dollars a day, which is not high."
"There are no extras except for wines, liquors, and beer, which none of
your people use," added the viscount. "But you have to pay for your own
attendance; and your servant's pay is from eight to ten rupees a month, or
about a pound."
"Cheap enough!" exclaimed the surgeon. "I have to pay my waiter at home six
pounds a month."
"Now, what is there to be seen in Calcutta?" asked the commander after
breakfast.
"If you wish to see mosques, temples, pagodas"--the viscount began.
"We do not," interposed the captain. "At first those were very interesting;
but we have seen enough of them."
"I supposed so," added Lord Tremlyn. "I have ordered carriages, and to-day
we will take a general view of the city."
This plan was agreeable to the party, and it was carried out. From the
hotel they proceeded to the river. There was a crowd of shipping at anchor,
and at the landing-stages and jetties. Among them Louis was the first to
discover the Guardian-Mother. She was in the middle of the river, off Fort
William. Half a mile below her they saw the Blanche. At the request of the
commander, the carriages went down to the fort, where the passengers all
alighted, and gathered together on the shore. The gentlemen cheered, and
the ladies waved their handkerchiefs.
"I see that Mr. Boulong has painted the ship, and she looks as taut and
snug as a man-of-war," said the commander, who was evidently glad to see
his vessel.
"They are lowering the boats," added Louis; and in a few minutes the barge
and first cutter came up to the shore.
There was a general handshaking with the first officer, in command, and the
boys extended this courtesy to all the crews of the boats, going on board
of them for a few minutes. It was a happy meeting; but it could not be long
continued, and the carriages drove off again.
As he was about to take his place in the landau, Mr. Boulong informed the
commander that he had received a visit from Captain Mazagan. He wanted to
see Captain Ringgold, but did not state his business. The first officer
could not tell whether the visitor knew the Blanche was in the river, for
he had not mentioned her. With the statement that the party would go on
board in two or three days, they parted, and the boats returned to the
ship. The commander had something to think of now; but he came to the
conclusion that the reprobate was not aware of the presence of the Blanche
or her owner.
The carriages followed the shore road till they came to the upper end of
the city, and then turned into the first of the long streets with several
names in different parts, which extends entirely through the town. Near the
esplanade they found the finest shops, and the ladies went into some of
them to see the goods. Then they struck the Circular Road, and drove
entirely around the city.
"This reminds me of Moscow, in some parts, where palaces and shanties are
side by side in the same street," said Captain Ringgold. "There does not
seem to be any aristocratic section, unless that by the esplanade is such."
They saw plenty of mosques, temples, and churches, some of the latter very
fine. They believed they had taken in the whole city. After dinner Lord
Tremlyn invited them to an excursion on board of a steam-yacht the next
day, the use of which was tendered to him by a high official.
                                 CHAPTER XXXV
                      A SUCCESSFUL HUNT IN THE SUNDERBUNDS
A breakfast at six o'clock was provided the following morning for the
tourists, and they came down from their chambers prepared for the aquatic
excursion, which was to include something more than sight-seeing, for the
gentlemen and the boys were directed to take their rifles along. Mr.
Boulong had called upon the commander the evening before, and he had been
invited to join the party; but he had excused himself, and suggested that
Mr. Gaskette would enjoy it more than he should, and he was asked to go.
By half-past six the party were on The Strand, as the road in the esplanade
bordering the river is called. The second officer of the ship was there;
and he was not only a sailor and an artist, but he had the reputation of
being a dead shot. The company embarked on the steam-yacht, which was large
enough to make voyages to Madras and Ceylon. The excursion was not intended
as a mere shooting-party, Lord Tremlyn explained, but to enable the company
to obtain a better view of Calcutta than they could get in any other
manner.
From the river a full view was obtained of the multitude of columns,
belfries, and cupolas, as well as of the Government House, the Town Hall,
and the line of magnificent houses beyond the esplanade. Along the shore
The Strand, as it is called the whole length of the city, the jetties, and
the landing-stages were crowded with men; for, where labor is so cheap,
work is not done by small forces of men. There are several lines of
steamers running between London, Southampton, and Liverpool to this port;
and they were constantly arriving and departing.
"You don't see such a variety of races here as you did in Bombay," said
Lord Tremlyn as he was pointing out the sights to be seen. "You observe
some Chinamen and Burmese; but most of the laborers are of the low class of
natives, Bengalese, and they are very sorry specimens of the Hindus."
"But what are the merchants and shopkeepers?" asked Captain Ringgold.
"They are Baboos, which is a name given to the Bengalese. The better class
of them, in contact with the English, realize that education is a power;
and they have labored for years to improve their countrymen. They have
established schools and colleges, and when young natives applied for
government situations the authorities felt obliged to admit them. To-day
you will find many natives acting as clerks in the post-office, railway,
and telegraph-offices, as well as in the courts in minor capacities.
"In fact, there has been a social revolution in progress here for half a
century or more, and its effects may be seen now. The government has
modified the lot of woman to some extent, as you have learned. The Hindu
law weighed terribly upon her. When a woman lost her husband, custom
required that she should be sent back to her own family. Her relatives
shaved off her hair, dressed her in the coarsest clothing, and compelled
her to do the severest drudgery of the household. She is forbidden to marry
again, and is treated as though she was responsible for becoming a widow.
The reforming of this evil is in progress; but the people are baked into
their prejudices and superstitions of forty centuries, and it is worse than
pulling their teeth to interfere with them.
"One of the favorite divinities of the natives here is Kali, the wife of
Siva, the goddess of murder. Her worship is odious and disgusting; for her
altars were formerly sprinkled with human blood, and the idols were
surrounded with dead bodies and skulls. Their great festival is the
Churuk-Pooja, which is still celebrated, though the government has
forbidden all its brutal features. You have all seen a 'merry-go-round'
machine in which children ride in a circle on wooden horses.
"An apparatus like this, but without the wooden steeds, was used by these
fanatics. At the end of the four arms hung ropes with sharp hooks at the
end, on which were hung up the devotees, as the butcher does his meats in
his shop; and the machine was revolved rapidly till the hooks pulled out,
and the victim dropped upon the ground, fainting or dead. At the present
time the festival is attended by Baboos of the best class; but it amounts
simply to an athletic exhibition with music. The government and the
reformers have brought about this change of performance."
"Do the English attend such shows?" asked Dr. Hawkes.
"Sometimes, from curiosity. But they are here just about what they are in
London, and their habits are much the same," replied the viscount. "The
river here is about a mile wide. Formerly we could not have come as far as
we have without seeing hundreds of corpses floating on the surface. Natives
who were too poor to pay the bill for the funeral pyre threw the bodies of
their friends into the river. Of course this was a menace to the health of
the city; and the practice was forbidden by the government, which built an
immense tower, wherein is kept a fire constantly burning, in which the
bodies of the poor are consumed without expense."
"See that big bird on the shore!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave. "I saw several
of them yesterday, and I meant to ask what it was."
"That is the arghilah, generally called the adjutant," replied Sir
Modava. "He is the licensed scavenger of Calcutta, for it is forbidden by
law to kill or molest him. You see him walking about in a crowd with as
much dignity and gravity as though he were a big banker; and he is also
seen perched upon the walls and buildings. They have an enormous bill, as
you observe. A friend of mine had a tame one; and one day when the table
was ready for dinner he took a chicken from the dish and swallowed it
whole. He has a searching eye, and discovers a hidden bit of meat, a dead
cat or other animal, and bolts it in the twinkling of an eye."
The steamer continued on her course down the river, and in less than four
hours arrived at Diamond Harbor. It contained a fort, a signal-station, and
a telegraph-office, though there is nothing in the shape of a village. The
East India Company's ships made this their port; but the improvement of the
navigation of the river enables all the steamers to go up to the city, to
which their arrival is telegraphed.
The extensive territory included in the delta of the Ganges is called the
Sunderbunds, and is about equal to the State of Massachusetts in size. It
is a muddy region, cut up by a network of streams; and it is full of
swamps, morasses, and mud-holes. Nearest to the sea is a belt of land,
forming a wide extent of jungle, with a dense undergrowth of tropical
plants and verdure; for it is in the Torrid Zone, which the tourists
entered about forty miles north of Calcutta. This jungle was the objective
point of the hunters of the party.
The captain of the steam-yacht took the company on board through a number
of the lagoons and cutoffs to enable them to see the wild character of the
scenery. Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava, and Dr. Ferrolan were kept busy
explaining the trees, plants, crocodiles, storks, and other animals.
At a pleasant basin, dinner was served on board, and it was quite as good
as they would have obtained at the Great Eastern; for just now the party
were government guests, and the officials could not do enough for a person
of Lord Tremlyn's influence in England. After the meal the hunters prepared
themselves for the sport in which they were to engage. Mrs. Belgrave warned
her son to be very careful, and Mrs. Blossom did as much for Felix.
The steamer started into a cut-off leading through to the Bay of Bengal,
the polite captain explained. It was full of game of all sorts, including
the wild buffalo, rhinoceros, tiger, leopard, wild hog, deer, and the trees
and bushes were as full of monkeys as they could swarm. It was agreed among
the hunters that none of the latter should be shot, for they were harmless
animals.
"Captain, dear, are there any schnakes forninst the joongle?" asked the
Milesian, who was much exhilarated at the prospect of the sport, and easily
slipped into the vernacular of his mother.
"Plinty av thim, Musther McGavonty," replied Captain O'Flaherty, with a
broad grin on his honest face. "They air as thidck as broken heads at a
Donnybrook fair."
"Faix, ye's air a brither o' moine!" exclaimed Felix, grasping the hand of
the captain.
"Air ye's from the County Carhk?"
"Oi'm from the county and parish of Kilkenny; or mi mudther was, thou'
she's dead now, long loife to her! Wud I foind ary cobry in here?"
"All you'll want uv 'em; and pythons too."
"What is a poithon?" asked Felix.
"A big schnake; a boa, or loike him."
"Is it the bore that runs up the river to Calcutty?"
"Not the same boa," laughed the captain. "But you speak English, for I have
heard you do it; and I have about forgotten my native brogue."
"If the boa is a snake, he is the fellow I want to see," replied Felix.
"There's one of them now!" exclaimed Captain O'Flaherty, pointing to one
wreathed around a bush.
The young hunter brought his rifle to his shoulder, and fired before the
captain had time to say anything more. The python began to writhe and
wriggle in the bush, and Felix fired again. Then he dropped off into the
water. The rest of the company had been aft with the ladies, but they all
rushed forward at the report of the rifle. The captain stated what the
hunter had done, as he rang to stop and back the boat. They saw the bamboo
on which the serpent had been, but the game could not be seen. They
wondered what had become of him.
The rest of the hunters began to shoot ducks, herons, and other
water-fowls. As fast as a bird dropped into the bayou he disappeared, and
not one of them could be recovered. Captain Ringgold wondered what became
of them, and the Indian gentlemen only laughed at his perplexity.
"But what becomes of them, for they do not sink?" demanded the commander.
"You shall see," replied Sir Modava. "Don't shoot the adjutants; but there
is a long-legged heron. I will bring him down, for he waits very patiently
to be shot. Now watch the water when he comes down."
The bird dropped the moment he fired, and the instant he touched the water
a pair of jaws closed upon him, and drew him under water. The company were
astonished, and looked for an explanation.
"I never counted the crocodiles in this river; but I should guess there
were at least a million of them, and they steal your game as fast as you
bring it down," said Sir Modava.
The ladies were interested; and another bird was shot, to enable them to
see the operation of the saurians. The python was about ten feet long, and
he must have been a meal for one of them. The cranes, herons, and storks
were numerous; but the party decided to kill no more of them, for they held
still, as though they were all ready to be shot; and there was no sport in
such game.
The boat continued on its course for half an hour longer, and then came up
to a sort of stockade, extending out into the water, and near it were a
couple of bamboo huts. This wild region is sparsely peopled with Hindus,
who are obliged to keep guard over themselves and their families all the
time, and are occasionally the victims of the ferocious monsters of the
jungle and of the water.
"What is that stockade for?" asked the commander, as soon as the steamer
was moored to the shore.
"The Hindus are a cleanly people, as required by their religion," replied
Captain O'Flaherty in the hearing of all the party. "That stockade contains
a big trough for washing their scanty clothing. It reaches into the water,
so that they can fill their washtub without going out of it."
"I don't see why?" asked Mrs. Woolridge.
"If they went to the border of the stream to dip up water the crocodiles
would pick them up as fast as they did so," added the captain; and all the
ladies shuddered, and wanted to get out of such a horrible place.
"But the hunters are to land here; and they will find all the heavy game
they can dispose of, for there have been no hunters here yet this season to
scare them off. You will find the biggest tigers of India here, gentlemen."
The hunters went on shore, and as they passed down the gangway they saw a
couple of the crocodiles in the water. Louis put a bullet into the eye of
one, and Mr. Woolridge served the other in the same way; but all of them
thought saurians were mean game. Near the huts they found two men, and Sir
Modava had a talk with them, which no one else could understand; but he
employed them to guide the party and show them their traps.
"The wife of one of these men was devoured by a crocodile a year ago, and
the daughter of the other, a child of six, had been borne off by a tiger,"
he explained, as they proceeded after the two men.
They soon came to the traps. The tigers were exceedingly numerous on all
the islands formed by the cut-offs, and swam without difficulty from one to
another. The first trap they saw was a broad trench, the bottom and sides
armed with stakes of the hardest wood, sharpened to a wicked point. A
roaring sound attracted the visitors to another of the same kind, in which
a monstrous tiger was floundering about, trying to escape the points that
pierced him. He was suffering fearfully; and Captain Ringgold shot him at
once, though the Hindus were delighted by his torture.
Another kind of trap was more ingenious. It was on the plan of the
twitch-up snare, common in New England. A young tree, very strong and
flexible, is bent down till the upper end touches the ground. To this
extremity is attached a stout cord, and fastened to a stake in the ground.
A slip-noose is so arranged that the tiger thrusts his head through it in
order to reach the meat with which the cord holding the tree is baited. As
the animal pulls the cord he casts off the line holding the tree in its
bent position. The slip-noose is tightened around his neck, the tree flies
up into the air, carrying the tiger with it. Everything about the trap is
made very strong, and there the savage marauder hangs till he chokes to
death.
The party moved on, and they had not gone ten rods before a cobra elevated
his head. Felix claimed the right to fire first, and he killed him with one
ball. A large python was Scott's first prize; and, after a long walk, they
came to a nest of tigers, as it seemed, for there were not less than five
of them drinking at a brook. It appeared to be the only place in the
vicinity where fresh water could be obtained. The first of the tigers was
killed by Louis with a single shot, for he put the ball through the eye of
the beast.
Captain Ringgold brought down another with three shots from his repeating
rifle. Felix did not care for tigers; he was looking for snakes, and they
came to the brook to drink. In a couple of hours he had half a dozen of his
favorite game. He declared that he was following the blessed example of St.
Patrick, and if he did not die too soon he would rid the world of all the
snakes in it.
The five tigers lay dead by the brook; and, taking the advice of the
coolies, the hunters returned into a thicket, where Felix killed another
python. The party could see the brook. A pair of timid deer came next to
drink; but they fled at the approach of what seemed to be a family of
leopards, for two of them were evidently cubs. They were all shot; but the
repeated reports of the rifles had probably scared off others, and no more
beasts of any kind came.
"These men say you have killed more tigers and leopards than any party of
hunters who ever came here," said Sir Modava, who carried a rifle, but had
not fired it once; and Lord Tremlyn's weapon had not been discharged; for
both preferred to leave the game for their friends.
It was a great hunt, and the Americans were correspondingly proud of their
success. Louis and Felix had been trained in a shooting-gallery, and
neither of them missed his aim; but the shooting had all been at short
range. With the help of two coolies, all the game was carried to the
steamer, where it was exhibited to the rest of the company. The tigers were
all skinned by the coolies and the crew of the steamer, as were the
leopards; but after Mrs. Blossom and the others had seen the snakes, they
were fed out to the crocodiles. The coolies were abundantly rewarded, and
seemed to worship their visitors. They presented to them four mango fish,
golden-yellow in color, and exquisite in flavor.
The steamer cast off her fasts, and headed for Calcutta; but it was late,
and the fish presented, which abound in the markets of the city, were the
burden of a fine supper they ate on the way.
                                 CHAPTER XXXVI
                      THE PARTING FESTIVITIES ON THE HOOGLY
While the hunters were so successfully bagging the big game of the jungle,
Captain O'Flaherty had taken the party who had remained on board the
steamer on an excursion through some of the waterways of the Sunderbunds,
so that they were not wearied by waiting for those more actively employed.
The united party had thoroughly enjoyed the day, even into the evening. The
skins of the tigers and leopards were sent to an expert, to be prepared for
future preservation when the time should admit.
At the hotel the wonderful success of the hunters was the theme of the
other guests; but the place was regarded as a dangerous one, though that
would not deter Englishmen from visiting it if it were not so difficult of
access, for a government steam-yacht was not available for many parties.
The next morning the tourists were taken to the Botanical Garden, a short
distance above the city, which is said to be the finest as well as the most
spacious in the world.
It was not an affair of greenhouses, like most of such places they had
seen; for they were superfluous in the Torrid Zone, and all the plants grew
in the open air. The ladies and most of the gentlemen were greatly
interested in the plants and flowers, and the whole forenoon was agreeably
passed in viewing them. Uncle Moses insisted that the baobab and the Indian
banyan were literally the "biggest things" there; for the trunk of the
former was ten feet in diameter, while the latter covered half a square
mile of ground. The latter had been considerably damaged by a cyclone.
At the end of a week in Calcutta, every day of which had been occupied to
the pleasure and instruction of the tourists, Captain Ringgold insisted
that they must remain no longer. It was the middle of March, and the hot
weather was coming on, and the company must return to the Guardian-Mother
on the following morning. It was not an unpleasant announcement, as they
had all become greatly attached to the steamer, for they had always been
exceedingly happy on board of her.
"It is time for me to settle up our accounts, Lord Tremlyn," said the
commander, as they were seated on the veranda after the intended departure
had been announced.
"That time has not come, Captain Ringgold; and it never will come," replied
his lordship very decidedly. "I thought we had disposed of that question
once for all at Bombay. You and your party have been our guests from the
moment we landed. Sir Modava and I have done our best, in the time allotted
to us, to make you acquainted with India, and to make the time pass
pleasantly with you. As far as we had influence, we have used it to promote
the objects of your visit."
"You have done a hundred times more than we had any right to expect, and
certainly we should not have asked for what you have given us; but it seems
to be no more than right that we should pay our own expenses, and we shall
be just as grateful to you for the vast service you have rendered us."
"What we have done does not extinguish a tithe of our obligations to you
and your ship's company. Any money allusion grieves me, and the very
thought of being paid almost breaks the heart of Sir Modava. I beg you not
to allude to the matter again. Now, my dear Captain Ringgold," continued
his lordship, taking what looked like a picture-frame from a table near
him, "I ask the privilege of presenting to you this testimonial of the
gratitude of the three cabin survivors of the wreck of the Travancore,
which I will ask you to hang up in the cabin of the Guardian-Mother."
The commander took the frame, in which was a printed testimonial,
containing a full account of the rescue of the survivors of the wreck, with
a concluding paragraph, expressive of the obligations of the principal
persons rescued, to the captain and his ship's company for their noble and
successful exertions in saving them and all the people on board. It had the
autographs of Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava, and Dr. Ferrolan at the foot of the
printed statement. It was on parchment, printed in plain, clear type, and
the frame was as elegant as money could buy.
"I accept this as the property of the ship, and to me personally nothing
could be more valued," replied the commander, extending his thanks at
considerable length; but he said nothing more about payment, though he
could not help thinking that their elegant and bountiful hospitality had
cost the viscount and the Indian gentleman several thousand pounds.
"But we do not separate just yet; and I have another favor to ask of you,
Captain Ringgold, which is that you will give us a passage to Colombo,"
added Lord Tremlyn.
"For myself and my party, we shall all be delighted to have you remain with
us indefinitely," replied the commander, taking his lordship's hand. "I
extend to you, Sir Modava, and Dr. Ferrolan a cordial invitation to
complete with us our voyage around the world; and we will endeavor to be as
hospitable to you in the United States as you have been to us in India."
"Nothing would afford me so great a pleasure," replied Lord Tremlyn; "but
it would be quite impossible for me to accept the invitation, for I must
return to England, and report upon my mission to India."
Sir Modava and Dr. Ferrolan also declined, for reasons given. The company
had called upon some of the officials of the government and officers of the
army, at the request of his lordship, and most of them made parting calls
the next forenoon; and the viceroy sent his private secretary, with the
best wishes of his Excellency for a prosperous voyage, to them. After
tiffin they all went on board, where their baggage had been sent before,
the Italian band playing all the time on Captain O'Flaherty's steamer,
which put them on board.
General Noury had sent word to Captain Sharp that he should continue with
the party to Colombo, and that he could proceed at once to that port. In
fact, he liked the company of the party on board of the Guardian-Mother so
well that he was not inclined to part with them at present.
The passengers took possession of their staterooms, and there was still one
left for the general, and the band was quartered in the library. The hour
for sailing had been fixed at three o'clock; and just before that time the
Cherub, Captain O'Flaherty, appeared, having on board a regimental band and
the friends of Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava, and Dr. Ferrolan, who extended to
them the compliment of an escort, and, incidentally, to the commander and
his passengers.
About half an hour before the time for sailing a shore boat came up to the
gangway, and a well-dressed gentleman with a swarthy face ascended the
steps. He asked to see Captain Ringgold, and he was called down from the
upper deck. It was Mazagan.
"I have called, Captain, to remind you that our account has not yet been
settled," said the villanous Moor. "I have another to add to it, for the
destruction of the Fatimé, his Highness the Pacha Ali-Noury's steam-yacht,
which he authorizes me to collect."
"Does he, indeed?" replied the captain, laughing; for, having the "weather
gauge" of the rascal, he was disposed to treat the matter very lightly.
"I have the account in the handwriting of his Highness," added Mazagan, as
he presented a paper written in good English.
"Very well; but I prefer to settle the account with his Highness himself,"
added the commander, as he touched an electric bell, which brought Sparks
to the boudoir into which they had gone. "Ask the general to come here," he
said in a low tone to the steward.
"But I do not choose to wait a year or two for a settlement," protested the
visitor.
"You need not wait five minutes," added Captain Ringgold.
The Moor began to go over his story again, but it was interrupted by the
entrance of General Noury. Mazagan looked at him, and seemed to be unable
to believe the evidence of his own eyes. The commander stated the case to
him.
"Is this account in your handwriting, General?" he asked.
"Certainly not," replied the Pacha. "We have discussed this matter fully,
and I have no claim whatever against you; neither has this man. I settled
all my accounts with him; and I have his receipt in full, signed by him,
and witnessed by Captain Sharp and his wife. He is a swindler and a
villain; and if I ever catch him in Morocco he shall have the bowstring!"
The general denounced him in the severest manner, and then asked the
commander to send him out of the ship. Knott was at the gangway, the pirate
was turned over to him, and hustled down the steps into his boat. The
general expressed his regret that the captain had been annoyed by the
villain again, and was confident he would never see or hear from him again;
and he never did.
Promptly at the hour set the Guardian-Mother got under way, and the
Cherub's band played its liveliest airs. When it stopped to rest, the
Italian band played, and thus the music was kept up for three hours, when
the steamers were at Diamond Harbor. Here they came alongside each other,
and all the company on board the Cherub were invited to a collation on
board of the Guardian-Mother, at which Captain Ringgold presided, and many
speeches were made by the residents of Calcutta, and by the passengers on
board.
The ship's company on each vessel were not left out in the cold; for, while
their officers were at the collation, Baldy Bickling, the second cook,
regaled them from the abundant stores provided for the occasion, of which
notice had been given to Mr. Melanchthon Sage, the chief steward, the day
before. At this point adieus were exchanged, the Guardian-Mother went to
sea, and the Cherub returned to Calcutta. The passengers were tired out and
retired early.
It was an easy run, from Diamond Harbor to Madras in two days and a half,
for the Guardian-Mother. The weather was favorable, and the tourists used
their time in getting rested. The social occasions, the playing of the
band, and the singing in the music-room, made plenty of variety. But the
commander did not lose sight of what he regarded as one of the principal
objects of the long voyage, the instruction of the young people, and
incidentally of the elder ones.
On the forenoon of the second day out the passengers were called together
in Conference Hall, and they were glad to assemble there again. The
temperature was moderate, the sea was in its most cheerful mood, and, after
their long stay on shore, they were glad to be out of sight of land again.
Mr. Gaskette had been busy during the vacation the ship's company had
obtained at Bombay and Calcutta; had made several new maps, one of which
was the shores of the Bay and Sea of Bengal from Calcutta to the southern
point of Ceylon; and he had enlarged a small map of Ceylon, to be used when
the ship arrived at Colombo, or sooner. It was Sir Modava who mounted the
platform for this occasion; and he was received with the heartiest
applause, for he had become even more popular than at first.
"I am to tell you something, not much, about Madras, where we shall arrive
about this time day after to-morrow," the Hindu gentleman began; and the
usual smile which had fascinated all the ladies was on his face. "Madras is
the third city in population of India, or next to Bombay, with 452,518
