of death and burial still pervaded the expectant 
court and the beautiful rooms. All were empty. 
The family were alone. No profane eye witnessed 
that solemn coming home. At the threshold Jesus 
paused, and extended his arms in benediction and 
in welcome. Lazarus fell, like a shadow, at his feet. 
The women dropped upon their faces. No one 
spoke. The faint light from one hanging lamp left 
by the mourners revealed the majestic form but not 
the inscrutable face of the Nazarene. 
... In this shelter of awe, of ]"oy, of remoteness 
from all usual pains and pleasures, he remained for 
the respite and the risk of several days and nights. 
Jerusalem began to mutter for his life, but he stayed 
on. He was visible to no man. Shut in with the 
solemn experience of that one family selected to 
know the ecstasy of heaven while enduring the an- 
guish of earth, he veiled himself* 
Who shall say what interchange of feeling or of 
thought in that quiet space passed between himself 
and the living man who had been dead? Who 
knows if Lazarus needed yet the glorious vitality, 
the supernal power, which had dragged him from 
dissolution ? Is it to be thought that Jesus, careful 
INTO JERUSALEM 291 
for the permanence of the mighty thing that had 
been done, chose to watch for a little over the man 
on whose body he had wrought the deed of a divin- 
ity? He had done it under the limitations of a 
man. What if Lazarus showed signs of weakness, 
of relapse into the disease which had slain him ? If 
he should ^fnk suddenly? If the astonished vital 
force, munched back into the mortal frame by the 
law above laws which it had obeyed, should hesitate 
anywhere? Dead Lazarus lived. Who could say 
that he would continue to live ? 
Sensitiveness to possible failure, and anxiety for 
results, exist in proportion to refinement of power. 
In those days smitten with awe and ecstasy, whose 
scroll no one unrolled with the shielded family at 
Bethany, did the heart of their great friend quiver 
with an anxiety over the condition of Lazarus which 
even they coiild not divine or share? 
These were the last days of happiness or calm 
which Jesus of Nazareth was to know in the land 
that he had tried to bless with his mysterious per- 
sonality, and which now resounded with curses upon 
his gentle head. 
This last little cup of peace was tinged as every- 
thing in his life was discolored with suffering by 
the solitary and tremendous responsibilities attach- 
ing to him who could give a dead man life, 
Tho futnvo of the Christian faith rested at the 
crisis, to an extent impossible to measure, upon the 
necessity that Liwsarus should remain a livo man for 
a sufficient time. It has been said * that he lived 
on for thirty years. 
1 Tradition. 
292. ' THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Bearing within himself the experience of corrup- 
tion, what vigor did he need to reconquer the sources 
of life I How did he get it ? Holding the awful se- 
crets of death, at whose door humanity has knocked 
in vain for knowledge from the break of time till 
now, did he ever reveal them by a word, a sign ? 
Did curious Martha or reverent Mary ever share 
with him one lesson of his terrible and blessed edu- 
cation ? Bather to his last hour did there rest upon 
Lazarus something of the dignity of death. His lips 
were closed. No person pried upon their reticence. 
His lips were closed like those of the sepulchre from 
which he had been summoned, and to whose dark 
hospitality he must who can guess with what 
untold reluctance ? who can say with what inexpres- 
sible hope and courage ? on some day return. 
Be these things as they may, the dead man was 
alive. By hundreds, by thousands, the witnesses of 
the fact poured into Bethany. So intense was the 
public excitement that the Sanhedrin were at their 
wits' end. It is a matter of history that, before the 
month was out within whose dark span the greatest 
o dramas was to thrill the world, the authorities of 
the Jewish Church seriously contemplated an at- 
tempt to put Lazarus to death again. 
The Nazarene was now in imminent peril. Threats 
oj(f excommunication against any person who acknow- 
ledged his Messianic claims vied with popular in- 
ducements to effect his arrest. It was determined 
at all hazards to put a stop to his career. The dan- 
ger became so acute that Jesus reluctantly left 
Bethany. 
INTO JERUSALEM 293 
The strange impressions under which, his move- 
ments were ordered produced a plan of action which 
gave for the moment to the most courageous of men 
the appearance of retreat from his fate. 
" My time is not yet come," was a favorite phrase 
with him. Suddenly he disappeared. Jerusalem, 
and Bethany sought without success for him. The 
detectives of the Sanhedrin tracked him in vain. 
At a sufficient distance from their malice ; in a 
little town known as Ephraim, always remembered 
lovingly for the shelter that it gave to the hunted 
man at the cruelest crisis of his lot ; on the "borders 
of the wilderness, he crept into a temporary safety. 
But lie dared not, or he did not, long remain in any 
one retreat. He was soon heard of in Perea, and 
even in certain districts of Galilee. The itinerant 
habits of his public life were still strong upon him. 
He coxild not keep still. He could not stop work. 
With intensified en orgy he pursued the service to 
humanity which he so passionately loved. To lighten 
suffering! To ease sickness! To help poverty! 
To shame guilt ! To confirm purity I To heal, to 
comfort, to teach, to warn! With exclamatory force 
those motives propollod him. Those last few weeks 
brimmed with marvels wrought out of a dedication 
which would have Imrnod him to ashes but for his 
illustrious sanity, lie kept his perfect self-posses- 
sion. Ho never lost hi eminent calm. Ilo worked 
as if ho wore to work on forever. 
Lepers crawling to him van from him : they came 
corrupt ; tboy went (Joan. The born blind groped 
to him, and left him, lingering roluctautly for the 
294: THE STORY OP JESUS CHRIST 
f* 
last sight of his face, the first human countenance 
that they had ever seen, the one to be retained by 
the newly responsive, sensitive retina as the tender- 
est it should ever see. His heart, his mind, were 
full. It seemed as if he gave himself no time to 
consider his own fate. He ignored his own perils, 
He worked as if he had been the most popular Kabbi 
in Palestine. 
The condemned heretic never wore the aspect of 
an offender. 
He did not even have the comfort which comes 
from the grandeur of suffering greatly endured and 
let alone. He was haunted and taunted by the 
pettiest things. 
In the territory of Herod deliberate traps were 
laid for the views of Jesus about divorce, it being 
the purpose publicly to draw from him expressions 
of opinion which would expose him to the vengeance 
of the monarch, whose family history made him irri- 
table on this delicate point. 
John the prophet had perished for such cauBC. 
Why not this other? Jesus parried the diabolic 
casuistry with adroitness which astounded and si- 
lenced the wiliest polemicists in the province*. they 
could not even involve him in a rabbinical contro- 
versy, that might have opened a f refill charge of 
heresy against him then and there. 
He was pursued by paltry annoyances oven among 
his own friends. Those nearest to him fretted him 
with incredible obtuseness. His very dearest cut 
him with the slenderest blades. 
His favorite disciples wrangled even then about 
INTO JERUSALEM 295 
their official positions at right and left of him when 
he should come to the throne. He found it impos- 
sible to make them understand the very essence of 
his claims, the very basis of his doctrines. Femi- 
nine ambition laid a little finger on his great trou- 
bles, and the mother of James and John preferred 
a formal petition for the advancement of her sons 
when he should come into political power. He 
knew to the full the incoherence of human fate 
which does not relieve great souls moving on grand 
errands of small worries, or free the noble from 
paltry cares. 
His chosen twelve gave themselves over to jeal- 
ousies almost too petty to credit or to record, while 
this sad and solitary man, going patiently to defeat, 
was making ready for death. 
There now began the most extraordinary episode 
in the annals of missionary travel, the last jour- 
ney of the Nuzareno to Jerusalem. While yet in a 
safe position, ho abruptly elected to thrust himself 
into clangor. Sheltered, he tore himself out of his 
rofugo. Jt was the bud of the year. Passover time 
was coming on. It was not necessary for him to 
attend the great festival, ho, mi excommunicated 
church -mombov, whoao deference to ecclesiastical 
cuHtomH could do nothing but irritate. But, an if 
ho wore yet ono of the most honored of her rabbis, 
ho clioso to vospoet the religion** observances of his 
church. Quite as if nothing had happened, exactly 
as if nothing wcro fit stake, lio started with his 
twolve and some othor friends, forming one of the 
little foBtive bandw with which Palestine was now 
joyottaly. 
296 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
He was under no delusion. No false hope played 
with his unerring intelligence. He knew perfectly 
what that journey meant. Deliberately he chose to 
put himself into the very throat of danger. Stead- 
ily, sturdily, without one backward step, without one 
hesitating movement, he marched to his doom. 
Its very details were made, at that early day, 
quite evident to him. How, no one asked. Upon 
his exquisite sensitiveness the whole horrible minu- 
tiae were stamped. All through those tired, days 
and waking nights he lived his late through before 
its time. The delicacy of imagination, which is the 
essence of power and pleasure in the highest organi- 
zation, is always the fatal source of its pain. He 
knew to the uttermost the relentlessness of this law. 
Add to this his mystical enlightenment as to facts 
unknown to other men. Here was illumination 
whose working is no easier for us to explain to-day 
than it was for his fishermen friends to comprehend 
as they turned their faces towards Jerusalem with 
him in the laughing spring weather. They alone 
among all the happy pilgrims were going upon an 
awful errand which they did not, would not, could 
not understand. 
He tried to explain it to them as they traveled. 
He told them dreadful things. Ho used unsparing 
language. What he should undergo, and whon and 
where, he related with distinctness. He spoke witli 
calmness of unendxirable torment. 
Where were the senses of his friends ? Dulled 
by trouble, or blunted by love ? Dazed, perhaps, 
by the sheer force of events which liurried them 
INTO JERUSALEM 297 
along a course inconceivable to their prepossessions. 
They acted like people stupefied by the conviction 
that they knew better than their Kabbi wha't should 
happen to him. Aching for sympathy, he found 
himself denied it because his dearest friends did not 
credit his preconsciousness of his fate. They treated 
him as too sanguine persons treat those more sensi- 
tive, and hence more anxious than themselves, dis- 
missing the matter as the nightmare of an unhealthy 
temperament. Yet it were un philosophical to blame 
them. He never did. It was a severe education 
that their affection for their Lord brought upon 
these simple-natured men. They loved him accord- 
ing to their capacity. At least it was the best kind 
of love that he had. He clung to it more and more 
wistfully as the end drew on. 
Burning Jericho swam in a crater of heat. The 
travelers would have known where they were by the 
temperature, if not by the map. They must pass 
through a scorched and treeless region to reach the 
place, and they arrived exhausted. This was the 
town where the inhabitants could wear nothing 
warmer than linen in winter. And spring was 
bursting into summer now. The heat was oppres- 
sive to strangers, and more than hard enough to 
those who had traveled on foot, and who reached 
the city at the end of a long day's march. The sky 
waft like a motal cover shutting one down into a 
brazior sot upon coals. The air was a furnace. 
Jesus felt his strength attacked by the climate 
of this place. It was a little misery, but it made 
298 THE STOKT OF JESUS CHRIST 
his greater sufferings more difficult to bear. The 
scented gusts of fire beat without mercy upon his 
burning* face and brow* The too-sweet odors of 
Jericho the Perfumed aroused distaste in fine 
senses. He lifted his eyes wearily to the balsam- 
plantations, whose rich gums devoured the fresh- 
ness of the air. These were the famous plantations 
once given by Anthony to Cleopatra, and sold by 
her to Herod. Here was a bustling town. The 
streets were full and noisy. Trade chattered every- 
where, the great balsam traffic of Palestine, which 
made this spot the centre of schemes and frauds, 
and the meeting-place of commercial natures. Rome 
took heavy revenues there, and made much account 
of her tax-collectors, whose duties were not light in 
such a place, and whose persons were bitterly un- 
popular with her subjects. The Hebrews shunned 
these men with a distrust as scorching as the atmos- 
phere. 
The chief collector, wishing to see the great Rabbi 
as he entered the perfumed city at the head of his 
hand of pilgrims, climbed into a thick tree by the 
roadside to escape the crush of the crowd, for he was 
an under-sized man, and also to escape its enmity, 
for he was not an obtuse person. There he quietly 
took the measure of the famous preacher. 
He saw a tall, finely modeled man, browixcd by 
the excess of the sun, but singularly without redness 
or rudeness of complexion. Jesus was walking 
slowly. His staff looked ready to drop from his 
tired hand ; it had a white tiut at the tip, like a 
sceptre of silver blazing in the hot air. His face 
INTO JERUSALEM 299 
bore signs of weariness both of the spirit and of the 
flesh, but none of weakness. 
A puzzling strength seemed to fortify this ex- 
hausted pilgrim. The collector examined him with 
a discernment in which reverence began to get the 
better of curiosity. He did not speak to the distin- 
guished Rabbi. He would have liked to do so ; his 
heart went out in such a wave of longing as this 
man of public experience had never felt to any pri- 
vate citizen. Official life had done its cold work 
upon him ; sly opportunities had not passed him by ; 
the consciousness of always being unpopular had 
told upon him ; he was accumulating peccadillos ; 
ideas of honor to which he had sworn allegiance at 
the outset of his career were somehow slipping into 
phantasmagoria. The man of the world who had 
sunk a little lower than he was meant to go, or than 
he had ever thought to be, regarded the Nazarene 
with a strange pang, half shame, half moral resolve. 
Then he saw that Jesus had stopped, and was look- 
ing him full in the face, 
" Come down, Zacch&us," said the Rabbi ; " I 
sup at your house." 
It had not been a cautious thing to do, but Jesus 
had done it with his usual independence. The Jews 
luitod the collector, but JOBUS became the guest of 
at Jericho without asking his country- 
pevnriwHion. The moral crisis in the life of 
an unpopular and tempted man. appealed to him so 
powerfully that he put aside every other cxniHidera- 
tiou to roueft it. This one soul above all others in 
Jericho needed him. Here wan one of the opportu- 
300 THE STOKY OF JESUS CHKIST 
nities to help an individual which he never disre- 
garded. 
The collector entertained the Rabbi deferentially ; 
he poured out the hospitality o an opulent home 
with the generous gratitude of a man who has been 
forced back to his true self by the power of a higher 
nature. But the people muttered. 
At this stage of his royal career, what kind of 
a king was that? Zacchseus was not recognized in 
respectable Hebrew society. Should the Messiah 
of the nation fellowship with an outcast? Jesus 
ignored these complaints. But they stirred sound- 
waves in the hot balsamic air, and echoes of them 
came into the capital. Every Passover pilgrim car- 
ried his own tale. The conduct of the distinguished 
heretic was the subject of discussion in every tent, 
in every shop and house ; there was not a political 
or ecclesiastical caucus in Jerusalem which did not 
hiss with his name. 
Jesus found his acquaintance with this man of 
affairs at Jericho a comforting episode to himself. 
This successful effort to uplift the moral tone of an- 
other was a temporary diversion from the acute con- 
sciousness of his own lot. The two parted with a 
mutual regret. The man of the world looked rever- 
ently at the Nazarene: he felt that the man of an*, 
other world existed ; he had never believed it before ; 
he tried to express his thoughts, ho who was adopt 
in the diplomacy of Roman official life, but ho 
could not, and he turned away to hide his emotion. 
Jesus moved on at the head o his pilgrim band. 
The bright morning blazed like a huge camp-fire. 
INTO JERUSALEM 301 
The party walked on among the plantations. Jeri- 
cho on her oasis added the breath of leaf -honey 
to the perfumes of the balsams. In the sickening 
scents, the path swam before the eyes of Jesus* His 
thoughts swam, too. That brief distraction vanished 
out of them. Jericho, its welcome, its hospitality, 
the collector and his moral emergency, began to dim. 
Images of unspeakable things which had beset the 
imagination before returned. Outlines of terrible 
scenes began to fill in. Jesus walked giddily, and 
was seen once or twice to stagger. . . . The sun 
smote his head and made a rim around it. ... 
"What was that? Thorns? He passed his hand 
over his brow and then examined the palm carefully. 
What color did he see ? One of the twelve spoke 
to him. He found it impossible to answer. He 
walked on silently. His head sank upon his breast. 
. . . What sights 1 What sensations ! Surely they 
would pass soon. Ho quickened his steps. But it 
all kept pace with him. . . . 
So he came into the great gorge through which 
the road from Jericho wound harshly towards Jeru- 
salem. It was a steep, rocky cut, rough to pass and 
haunted by robbers. Six hours' travel on foot took 
the ascent from six hundred feet below to nearly 
three thousand above the level of the Mediterranean. 
It was mi exhausting climb. 
JOHUH walked at the head of his Passover band. 
Shadows and lights from the broken features of the 
rooks that lined the way alternately illuminated and 
veiled Ms ascending figure. The gorge grew ruder. 
Its dreariness deepened. lie looked down into its 
302 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
grim depths with a sick repulsion ; they seemed to 
be waiting below for him. 
" Though I walk through the valley of death " 
Old words from the Scriptures o his people caine 
to him. He reinforced his strength for the ascent, 
which he made powerfully and silently. Once or 
twice he slipped unaccountably, and seemed to 
weaken ; but when asked what had befallen him, he 
made no reply. 
At moments he moved like a man who carried 
some strange, intolerable burden. 
What was that upon his shoulders, bearing 
heavily upon them, crushing him to the ground? 
Had the light spring air acquired weight? Ho put 
up his hand and brushed off something unseen. It 
seemed to him to have a frightful shape, significant 
of disgrace, portending agony. 
"Through the valley of the shadow . . . Thou 
shalt be with me." 
. 
And now the festal bands began to gatliev them- 
selves in preparation for the journey's end. Jerusa- 
lem lay yonder; the city of God and of his people. 
Soon the marble and gold of the Temple would cut 
the glittering air. Soon the ancient Songs of Ascent 
would swell from ten thousand throats Jis tlio pil- 
grims climbed the last slopes to the sacred city. 
Soon the joyful solemnity of tlie Passover Hiippor 
would blot the hardship of the pilgrimage from a 
weary memory. The lambs, already bound aud 
bleating, with gentle, patient facps waited for the 
sacrifice. 
w 
13 
INTO JERUSALEM 303 
It was Bethany, the peaceful hamlet carried on 
the shoulder of the Mount of Olives. Jesus and his 
party had lingered here. It lacked now six days of 
the Passover. He longed for a temporary rest, for 
the touch of tried friendship. His emergency was 
so great that he felt a pathetic need of a little 
comfort. 
The usual Passover crowd was increased to an 
extraordinary size. From all corners of Palestine 
and all quarters of the East, sightseers had added 
themselves to the customary pilgrims. Cold curi- 
osity, political and ecclesiastical malice, blotted the 
religious anniversary. 
The name of Jesus of Nazareth was on every lip. 
Rumor had run far and wide with the recent events 
of his career. It was said that he was coming into 
Jerusalem at the head of phalanxes; that he was 
prepared to take the city by some adroit feint or 
solid blow ; that he was ready to defy Rome, to head 
a successful insurrection, and to capture the throne. 
It was no longer a secret that the Sanhedrin had in- 
dicted him, and that this condemned heretic would 
not fly. On the contrary, ho had faced his fate 
deliberately, and had been seen within two miles of 
the capital. Crisis was in the air. All the world 
hurried to be present at the climax. Crowds poured 
out into Bethany to obtain a sight of the great 
offender. 
But in Bethany he was loved and trusted, and 
Bethany mot tlio general agitation by a feast whereat 
he wa# the guest of honor. It was a Sabbath feast, 
for he had arrived ou Friday evening. Although 
304 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 
the supper was held in a private house, it partook of 
a public character. 
His personal friends, the most distinguished citi- 
zens in the village, were prominent in the entertain- 
ment. Living Lazarus himself, the startling object 
of every gaze, was present. 
Martha's housewifely genius was lavished upon 
the occasion. She meant to make this a splendid 
affair. True, Lazarus was alive and the Rabbi had 
come, but supper must be properly served neverthe- 
less. Martha was very busy. 
But Mary had slipped away out of sight, no one 
knew why ; and it was a general surprise when she 
was discovered in the attitude of worship at the 
Rabbi's feet. A precious perfume swiftly filled 
the dining-hall, and it was seen that Mary had 
broken a box of spikenard and was anointing Jesus 
with the costly tribute. 
The treasurer of the twelve he whose name has 
become the synonym of infamy spoke up curtly 
with caustic reproach : 
" This spikenard was worth nearly fifty dollars. 
Why was it not sold and the proceeds given to 
charity ? " 
Strictly, there was not much force in this charge 
of extravagance, for fifty dollars would have been 
a small price at Rome for an alabastron of Indian 
nard. But Judas had the adroitness of an unde- 
tected peculator. He set up pseudo-philanthropic 
standards, and recalled the general poverty. It was 
well known that two hundred dinars (about thirty 
dollars) could be made to provide bread for five 
INTO JERUSALEM 305 
thousand families, and that one dinar made the 
wages of a day-laborer. 
" This vast sum should have been given to the 
poor," urged the treasurer severely. 
The eyes of Jesus softly sought those of Mary. 
He smiled gravely. 
Mary glanced from him to her brother, then looked 
back at the .Rabbi. Her heart was so full of adora- 
tion that she could not have spoken a word. Laza- 
rus watched the two in the sacred silence which now 
so often enveloped him. He made no effort to enter 
into the scene. 
Slowly raising one white, tremulous finger, Mary 
pointed at her brother solemnly, and sank upon her 
knees at the feet of Jesus. There she veiled her face. 
The eyes of the guests filled. 
A fragment of the broken alabastron rolled in the 
direction of Judas, who observed it uncomfortably. 
Jesus turned his head. The brilliant dining-hall 
floated before his eyes. His breath halted for an 
instant. Ho glanced at his feet, from which Mary 
was tenderly wiping the scented ointment. Almost 
imperceptibly ho started, as one does who sees some- 
thing painful which is unnoticed by others. . . . Was 
that blood ? What stabbed what hurt him so ? 
A burning tear, a single one, had fallen upon his 
foot from Mary's lowered lashes. 
" Lot her alone," said Jesus, not with unsteady 
lip ; " she Las done this for my burial." 
Now ho regarded his treasurer with a firm eye ; it 
gave out no irritation, no resentment. Jesus spoke 
gently. 
306 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
In a few poignant words lie suggested that charity 
was never without its opportunities and its objects. 
" But me ye will not have always." Then his 
wistful voice rose into the ring of prophecy : 
" I tell you wherever this Gospel shall be preached, 
this thing that she has done for me shall be spoken. 
It shall be a memorial of her throughout the world." 
It had gone abroad that the JSTazarene had now in 
deed and truth come to the front of his revolution, 
and that he was about to make his entrance into 
Jerusalem in the triumph and splendor which the 
people love to see wasted about their heroes, when, 
springing from the humblest to the highest rank, the 
strong will and the superior soul accept the station 
that they have created for themselves. 
The man and the moment had met. It was said 
that Jesus had at last cast away his unaccountable 
reluctance to filling his true position. It was said 
that he was done with all those qualms and pecu- 
liarities which had prevented him fi-om taking the 
natural advantage of his popularity. It was known 
that the indictment against his life, the enmity of 
the church and the state, had produced no effect 
upon him. Nothing checked his purpose. Nothing 
modified his courage or his independence. Ho had 
boldly left his shelter at Bethany. He was coming 
down the Mount of Olives. He was advancing 
towards Jerusalem. Intense excitement pervaded 
the capital Eoman officer and Hebrew ecclesiastic 
were nigh to love each other for the first time in 
their common hatred of the Nazarene. The Sanhe- 
drin were stupefied. The government, though scorn- 
ful of the rustics, was perplexed. 
INTO JERUSALEM 307 
It seemed the easiest thing in the world to capture 
this agitator now. 
But in fact it had never been more inexpedient 
to do so. Whence had his friends sprung ? The 
earth, the very air, seemed to have created them. 
Who would have believed that this hunted heretic 
had such a following ? Unpopular ? Why, it was 
as if the whole world had wings and flew to him. It 
was too true that Jerusalem hated him with deadly 
persistence. But Jerusalem was under the restraints 
which control a host. Her streets overflowed with 
pilgrims from all parts of Palestine, and with visitors 
from the East. This multitude of strangers, famil- 
iar only with the main facts in the life of the Naza- 
rene, and unembarrassed by local dissensions, were 
quivering with cordial interest in him. His direst 
foe dared not strike out till it was to be seen which 
way the currents would set. 
From her Temple to her gates, Jerusalem watched 
for him. 
Who knew what secret service had been planning 
the coup of this brilliant day? What unknown 
resources had the carpenter commanded? What 
unestimated forces could thrust over the talith of 
the Itabbi the purple of the King ? What legions 
wore at his back? What splendors glittered before 
him? What mounted guardsmen, what shining 
mail, what serried edges of spears, blazed around 
him? On a caparisoned charger he was mounted 
proudly* His war -horse already scented blood. 
Magnificent in attire, imperious in carriage, he was 
coming on to capture the city. His long reserve, his 
308 THE STOEY OF JESUS CHRIST 
false humility, had tossed off its mask. The true 
force of this remarkable man had now expressed 
itself. To make himself Dictator, to become King 
of the nation, was clearly his intention. The peo- 
ple seemed to be at his feet. What would be the 
consequence ? 
The unrest deepened in the capital. The officers 
of Rome could not deny that they shared it, though 
treating the matter with well-bred indifference. The 
Jewish Church sent her delegates into the crowd 
with orders to report what was to be seen. Hurried 
councils and secret threats and plots muttered in 
Temple and palace. 
The mob rushed on. The jam thickened. The 
uproar increased. The Nazarene was said to have 
descended the mountain, to be crossing the valley, to 
be climbing the sacred hills of Zion. In an hour 
in minutes he would be in sight. He and his 
retinue were coming up rapidly, splendidly* In a 
moment Ah, there ! 
The cries of the multitude rose to the heavens. 
For a space, one could neither hear nor see. A craze 
to witness the gorgeous spectacle seized the quietest 
man in the crowd. A kind of glorious madness set 
in. Who would have believed that this country 
Eabbi could have commanded such a demonstration? 
Ah, behold! at last! That is he. Here is the 
heretic. See the madman. Look at the Sabbath- 
breaker, the blasphemer, the excommunicated. Rabbi. 
There is the revolutionist, the pretender, . . , Rub 
the eyes well. Look again. Doubt your senses, but 
look once more. 
INTO JERUSALEM 309 
The day was quiet and warm. Spring sang out- 
side of the city. The sky was a pallid, pure color. 
All the people were in their Passover clothes. Festal 
bands were coming up everywhere, and these from 
without and those others, the throng from within the 
capital, met in a mass. 
In the centre of it was a plain man. He rode a 
young animal whose neck had never before known 
the bridle, the colt of an ass, which, it was said, 
had been mysteriously found, or strangely offered 
to his service. No trappings, no tricks of effect, 
deviated from the simplicity of his mount. No steed 
of war bore him on his errand of peace. He had no 
arms and no armor. There was no retinue. Not a 
guardsman lifted a spear-tip to protect this defenseless 
man. His courtiers were a motley group, fishermen 
and common folk : they walked behind him sturdily ; 
they had strong, serious faces, like those of men 
whose characters had been tried and were capable of 
further test ; their garments were poor ; a few women 
were among the lot, modest and with thoughtful ex- 
pressions. When one came to examine the Nazarene 
himself oh, amazement I He was but the simplest, 
the gentlest of men. Pretender? Nay, the most 
unpretending hero who ever showed himself at the 
front of a national crisis. Ho was clad in his ordi- 
nary dress, the hyacinth-colored talith of the Rabbi. 
The bluo of his robe and the tint of the sky were 
felt to harmonize without the reflection that they 
did so* His head was bare. It wore no crown but 
the touch of the Passover sunlight. 
His nervous hand held no sccptro. Some one came 
310 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
up as lie passed through the suburban gardens, and 
reverently offered him a spray of a palm-branch ; lie 
took it appreciatively. 
Palms were everywhere. The trees were stripped 
of their branches. Men and women tore them and 
flung them. A green carpet fell at the feet of Jesus, 
and he rode over it. Hosannas rose higher. The 
people went mad with the welcome of him. They 
cast off their cloaks and spread them in his way. 
He rode on as if he had been riding over velvet and 
treading upon pearls. 
Now came a fresh outburst of voices and of warm- 
hearted words : 
" Blessed be our King ! " 
" Peace in Heaven ! " 
"Glory in the Highest! Praise God for His 
mighty works I Blessed be Jesus our King ! " 
It was afterwards said that the most loving of these 
outcries came from the long-sick whom the healer had 
cured; and some of them from the sick of sin to 
whom he had given the health of purity ; and some 
from the bereaved to whom he had restored the dying 
or the dead ; that especially the very poor, and the 
altogether neglected, and the heart-broken whom he 
only had ever tried to comfort, and persons of no 
consequence whom only he had ever remembered, 
were in his retinue that day. These mingled their 
hosannas with the plaudits of the stranger pilgrims 
who had come out of the city. It was said, indeed, 
that Jesus was borne into the capital on the love of 
those who knew him best, and the trust of those who 
knew him least. 
INTO JERUSALEM 311 
But as lie rode along, it was noticed that his eyes 
were fixed upon Jerusalem. The stately city, hin- 
dered by Olivet, visible only at two or three points 
of the journey, now rose haughtily before him, 
terrace upon terrace, straight from the Valley of 
Kedron, as if from an abyss. From the Palace of 
the Maccabees and that of the High-priest to the 
towers and gardens of Herod, Jerusalem shot up 
glittering. Her architecture had a cold look. Some- 
thing about it seemed to smile cruelly. 
The countenance of Jesus melted and broke. 
Those nearest him heard murmured words, one 
involuntary cry ; 
" Ah, Jerusalem ! If thou hadst known " Then 
he commanded himself and rode on. His face was 
wet. Something inexpressible on it wrung the heart 
to seo. But his demeanor was high, and so quiet 
that those whose hosannas had rung the loudest 
began to fall silent, one by one. A sudden hush 
smote the vociferating throng. 
In a silence which no man could understand, 
either in himself or in another, Jesus, the prophet of 
Nazareth in Galilee, passed through the Gate Shusan 
and entered the royal city. 
Thus the great democrat, traveling like a peasant, 
assuming and asserting nothing, avoiding lawlessness, 
spurning display, humble and gentle, followed and 
blessod by the poor, and loved by the unhappy, 
treated the practical chance of political power. 
Thus ho put aside the opportunity of his life and 
of his age. 
CHAPTER XIV 
IN THE TEMPLiE 
WITHOUT a symptom of fear the indicted man 
went straight into the Temple and remained there 
for a while. His manner was perfectly self-possessed, 
and he preserved a noticeable silence, making no 
public address that day to the turbulent people. 
Sheer amazement at his courage held the hands of 
the law back from him. Unmolested as he came, he 
returned that night to Bethany and to his friends. 
There they gave him such solace as they could. 
It was little enough. His demeanor forbadle intru- 
sion. The very air that he breathed seemed sur- 
charged with unknown tragedy. He was still cheer- 
ful, but the lines on his face grew tense. To the 
loyalty of the twelve the three at Bethany added 
an eager devotion, and two of these a subtler com- 
prehension. The solemn reticence of Lazarus, the 
watchful tenderness of Mary, protected Jesus from 
idle talk. His puzzled disciples would imitate this 
reserve, this calm. 
Here for a space he felt that he was so loved that 
it mattered less whether he were undexstood or not* 
He tried for the moment to throw off his intolerable 
burden. Love and life seemed to be of necessity 
one force united to demolish the fact of death. 
IN THE TEMPLE 313 
Quiet affection, home, peace, temporary respite from 
trouble, wrought upon him something of the incredu- 
lousness of pain and mortality which it is their na- 
ture to arouse in us all. The images of his torment 
retreated. That night the overstrained man knew 
the bliss of a little sleep. He needed to, for it was 
one of the last when rest was possible, either by the 
friction of events, or from the condition of his own 
brain and nerves. He awaked to thank God that 
any had been permitted him. 
But in the morning the consciousness of everything 
returned. His true position was not to be ignored. 
He faced it at once, and went directly into the capital. 
He acted like one who was more fearful of seeming 
to fly from danger than of danger itself. He was as 
a man moving upon a terrible errand whose object 
might be defeated if he deviated by a thought's 
breadth from a certain course. 
Those most in his confidence could not tell how 
definite his impressions were becoming of the man- 
ner or the moment of his fate. Did he go into 
Jerusalem each day knowing or iinknowing whether 
it would be his last? Could he or could he not 
yet perceive precisely whence the blow would fall, 
or who would strike it ? 
The group at Bethany held the breath, and choked 
the sobs, and adored him the more because they 
could not help knowing that but for them he might 
not have been in the strait that he was. 
For this thing was true, and time has confirmed 
the fact. But for Lasaarus, the story of Jesus of 
Nazareth might have boon a different cue to tell. 
314 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Loyalty to friendship, sympathy with sorrow, the 
tenderest, the greatest deed of his life, directly 
placed it in the final peril. 
The popular feeling aroused by the wonder 
Thought at Bethany did not decline. The Sanhe- 
drin became very much afraid of it. " The world 
has gone after him," said Pharisee to Pharisee. 
Unconsciously (for it would have broken her 
heart to know it), Mary, the gentlest, the most lov- 
ing of women, had herself added a mesh to the net 
which Bethany was destined to weave around him. 
The Indian nard lavished upon his feet served to 
mark the steps by which he was to be tracked and 
trapped. For this little incident had an unusual 
effect upon a low mind f It took disproportionate 
hold of the thoughts of Judas. The petty peculator 
had missed the opportunity to defraud on a large 
scale. He resented the loss of wealth which had 
never been, but might so easily have been, his. 
Then he was irritated by the social embarrassment 
of the Sabbath supper at Bethany, The gentle 
reproof of Jesus had rankled. 
Out of any twelve picked men chosen for an im- 
portant purpose, there is more than apt to be at 
least one failure. The treasurer of the society of 
Jesus had become that one. Judas had started in 
honestly enough. To begin with, he thought he 
loved his Kabbi, but the mercenary acid was in his 
nature. Dishonor had eaten its way by unnoticed 
degrees. He had deteriorated under the commission 
and concealment of small pecuniary irregularities. 
Judas, the only Judean of the twelve, had been 
IN THE TEMPLE 315 
an ambitious man as well. He counted upon politi- 
cal preferment when the Nazarene should come to 
the throne ; he had relied more upon this than had 
one or two others of the group who had said more 
about it. He hid his expectations, but fondled them 
accordingly. His present position gave him treach- 
erous hopes. He looked to nothing less than to be 
Treasurer of State at Jerusalem, perhaps even at 
Rome. He was bitterly disappointed at the turn 
which the affairs of Jesus were taking. Instead 
of capturing a throne, the misguided revolutionist 
seemed to be walking straight into a Roman dun- 
geon. Judas was displeased with the whole situa- 
tion. It began to occur to him that the disciples 
had a case against their Rabbi. It struck him that 
he had not been personally well treated. 
Judas was not a brave man. He had the timidity 
produced by undetected dishonor. He now began 
to dwell upon the risks of his position. What 
would become of the followers of the Nazarene in 
the event of Ms downfall ? He remembered the fiat 
of excommunication most dreadful of all things 
to a Jewish mind already extended to include all 
persons who admitted the claims of this Messiah.. 
There had been other messiahs. There might be 
others still. Was it possible, after all, that his Lord 
was a pretender ? How madly had he thrown away 
hia chances! This descendant of David, this heir 
to the Theocracy, had entered Jerusalem without 
a claim. 
The thoughts of Judas began to coarsen fast. 
Shapes of moustrous ideas groveling, crawled around 
316 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
him. He tried to escape them at first. He called 
upon his early ideals, his young trust and affection. 
But his lost integrity did not respond. His sense 
of honor protested feebly for a little, but it had 
hardly life enough left in it to articulate. One day 
he put out his hesitating hand and choked it. 
He had gone away from the others to think this 
thing out by himself. In a moment it was suddenly 
plain to him. Now he knew what he should do. 
He did actually stretch his grasping hand into the 
hot air, and bring the fingers together as if he were 
strangling some small, living creature. His face 
had grown old when he rose and came back to the 
side of his Eabbi. It was withered ; it looked like 
the faxse of a corpse. For the highest in us is the 
vitality of us, and, in order to kill his honor, a 
man must kill himself. From that moment Judas 
moved about the living world like a dead man. He 
was done with it, and it with him. He made a few 
attempts, in which there was something to pity, to 
contend with his own condition. But the laws of 
moral corruption are as inexorable as those of phy- 
sical decay. There is such a thing on this warm 
earth as a dead soul. 
On Monday morning Jesus seemed restless, but 
his wan face was set with resolve. He was walking 
rapidly into the city, when he suddenly turned very 
faint. His broken night, part of it passed in the 
woods on the Mount of Olives, had poorly prepared 
him for the day's strain. He tried to find some 
fruit by the wayside, selecting a fig-tree, on which it 
seemed that some of last season's fruit might yet be 
IN THE TEMPLE 317 
hanging unobserved. But none was to be found, and 
with a momentary assumption of the royal manner 
which he sometimes wore, rebuking the tree (as he 
might have rebuked the faithless, fruitless city be- 
fore him for its disregard of his nature and his 
needs), he went on. 
The twelve wondered at this incident. The Rabbi 
was never impatient with little annoyances; he 
never scolded; this must have been a parable; 
but what ? The fishermen walked behind him into 
Jerusalem puzzled, always puzzled. That Passover 
week was a dense and terrible darkness through 
which they beat about blindly, like birds caught in 
the clouds of a tempest. All they understood was 
that they loved their Lord, their sad Lord, who 
was not going to be King, after all. The whole 
world was turning against him : he needed them ; he 
had never needed them so much. They clung to 
him lovingly, but in their hearts these simple men 
were terrified at the position in which they found 
themselves. 
Jesus arrived in the Temple at an early hour. 
Here he found the very same abuses which he had 
tried in vain to reform at the outset of his ministry. 
In the Court of the Gentiles the shops were full. 
"Wine, oil, fruit, doves, were selling rapidly. Here 
were the brokers vociferating, precisely as they did 
three years ago, when he had lashed them out. The 
old wrongs wore going on in the same old way. He 
felt the disappointment which any public teacher 
feels, in returning to the scene of a former effort, to 
find that everything that he lias done to destroy 
318 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
an error is apparently thrown away. He looked 
about him for a while in bitter silence. Almost 
forgetting for the moment that he was approaching 
the end, and was not still at the beginning of his 
career, he began enthusiastically to repeat his wasted 
experiment to purify the holy place. 
No whip was needed this time to scatter the of- 
fenders. The authoritative force and influence of 
Jesus had greatly increased. His voice was a lash. 
It struck and stung. The porters carrying unlaw- 
ful loads by a short cut across the Temple to save 
steps, the brokers, the merchants, all the unwhole- 
some pack ran scattering before the command which 
sprang from his lips. 
Among the bedlam of noises, the bleating of 
lambs, the flutterings of frightened doves, the curses 
of the brokers, he stood, mournfully smiling. This 
excommunicated man ended his public career as he 
had begun it, by an act of passionate devotion to the 
honor and the purity of his church. Not to conform 
to the false because it was the ecclesiastical, but to 
protect the true because it was sacred, was his last 
as it had been his first devout and fearless care* 
Attracted by the commotion of the scene, and 
trusting to the reputation for human mercy which 
always followed the Nazarene as if it had boen white 
fire raying about his head, the beggars and decrepit 
folk from without the gates of the Temple began to 
clamor for him. As if to show what the religioxiw 
idea really meant to him, Jesus turned quickly from 
the desecrated Temple courts to these miserable 
people, 
IN THE TEMPLE 319 
Now, indeed, the mournf ulness went out of Ms 
look, and for the moment Ms own high joyousness 
flashed back to it. His instinctive happiness in 
relieving suffering could not be repressed. They 
crawled to him, the crippled, the neglected sick, 
the loathsome, and the blind ; and for one hour of 
eager gladness he gave himself to them. He healed 
with a dazzling swiftness never seen in his touch he- 
fore ; he comforted with a tenderness which might 
have melted the very stones in the Temple pave- 
ment beneath his unsandaled feet. What a smile ! 
It was soft fire from heaven itself. The artist who 
could have painted him as he looked then would 
have scorned the aureola. Jesus needed none but 
the light of his lips and eyes. 
Now he had never cured any of his patients in the 
Temple before, and the scene aroused an awed atten- 
tion. Many crowded in to hear and to see, and the 
physical discomfort of the press was as great as the 
moral irritation produced by the healer's success. 
The priests looked on darkly. Pharisees and Sad- 
ducees and Herodians whispered with sullen dis- 
pleasure. 
Nothing which this patient, gentle man could do 
was right, his noblest acts most wrong of all. 
Tho ecclesiastical officers were the more angered be- 
oauso he gave them so little ground of legal offense, 
anct they watched him narrowly with a helpless rage. 
The spectators looked at the priests, and many, who 
had begun to shout for Josus affectionately, were 
alarmed and grew cowardly quiet. 
But it happened that the chorister boys in the 
320 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Temple, the sons of the Levite priests, had come out 
to see the sight, and were not as quick as their elders 
to catch the idea that the tide, on whose brilliant 
flow the Nazarene had entered the city yesterday, 
had already begun to ebb. 
These boys came out, in their little consecrated 
robes, and clustered around the Rabbi. Some put 
up their hands and played with his talith. One or 
two leaned against him with a graceful attitude, half 
nestling, half aloof, prettily independent of too much 
show of emotion, as a growing boy is. He who 
loved children so heartily stopped to chat with the 
boys, and to welcome them ; for he was gratified by 
their affectionate attention. Then the boys, remem- 
bering how all the world had cried after him the 
day before, took up the words that they recalled most 
easily, and began to shout in chorus, as they were 
trained to sing, rhythmically : 
" Hosanna ! Hosanna ! 
To the Son of David 
Hosanna ! Hosanna ! " 
