to make a decision either way would Infallibly embroil 
them with one of those parties ; so It seemed to them 
wisest to roost on the fence and shift the burden to other 
shoulders. And that Is what they did. They made final 
report that Joan's case was beyond their powers, and re- 
commended that It be put Into the hands of the learned and 
Illustrious doctors of the University of Poitiers. Then they 
retired from the field, leaving behind them this little Item 
of testimony, wrung from them by Joan's wise reticence : 
they said she was a ' gentle and simple little shepherdess, 
very candid, but not given to talking,'' 
It was quite true — In their case. But if they could have 
looked back and seen her with us In the happy pastures 
of Domremy, they would have perceived that she had a 
tongue that could go fast enough when no harm could 
come of her words. 
So we travelled to Poitiers, to endure there three weeks 
of tedious delay while this poor child was being dally ques- 
tioned and badgered before a great bench of — what? 
Military experts ? — since what she had come to apply for 
was an army and the privilege of leading it to battle against 
the enemies of France. Oh no ; it was a great bench of 
priests and monks — profoundly learned and astute casuists 
— renowned professors of theology ! Instead of setting a 
military commission to find out if this valorous little soldier 
could win victories, they set a company of holy hair-splitters 
and phrasemongers to work to find out if the soldier was 
sound in her piety and had no doctrinal leaks. The rats 
were devouring the house, but instead of examining the 
cat's teeth and claws, they only concerned themselves to 
find out if It was a holy cat. If it was a pious cat, a moral 
cat, all right, never mind about the other capacities, they 
were of no consequence. 
Joan was as sweetly self-possessed and tranquil before 
this grim tribunal, with its robed celebrities. Its solemn 
state and imposing ceremonials, as if she were but a 
spectator and not herself on trial. She sat there, solitary on 
her bench, untroubled, and disconcerted the science of the 
sages with her sublime ignorance — an ignorance which was 
a fortress ; arts, wiles, the learning drawn from books, and 
all like missiles rebounded from its unconscious masonry 
and fell to the ground harmless ; they could not dislodge 
the garrison which was within — Joan's serene great heart 
and spirit, the guards and keepers of her mission. 
She answered all questions frankly, and she told all the 
story of her visions and of her experiences with the angels 
and what they said to her ; and the manner of the telling 
was so unaffected, and so earnest and sincere, and made it 
all seem so life-like and real, that even that hard practical 
Court forgot itself and sat motionless and mute, listening 
with a charmed and wondering interest to the end. And 
if you would have other testimony than mine, look in the 
histories and you will find where an eye-witness, giving 
sworn testimony in the Rehabilitation process, says that 
she told that tale ' with a noble dignity and simplicity,' 
and as to its effect, says in substance what I have said. 
Seventeen, she was — seventeen, and all alone on her bench 
by herself; yet was not afraid, but faced that great 
company of erudite doctors of law and theology, and by 
the help of no art learned in the schools, but using only 
the enchantments which were hers by nature, of youth, 
sincerity, a voice soft and musical, and an eloquence whose 
source was the heart, not the head, she laid that spell 
upon them. Now was not that a beautiful thing to see ? 
If I could, I would put it before you just as I saw it ; 
then I know what you would say. 
As I have told you, she could not read. One day they 
harried and pestered her with arguments, reasonings, 
objections and other windy and wordy trivialities, gathered 
out of the works of this and that and the other great 
theological authority, until at last her patience vanished, 
and she turned upon them sharply and said : 
' I don't know A from B ; but I know this : that I am 
come by command of the Lord of Heaven to deliver Orleans 
from the English power and crown the King at Rheims, and 
the matters ye are puttering over are of no consequence ! ' 
Necessarily those were trying days for her, and wear- 
ing for everybody that took part ; but her share was the 
hardest, for she had no holidays, but must be always on 
hand and stay the long hours through, whereas this, that, 
and the other inquisitor could absent himself and rest up 
from his fatigues when he got worn out. And yet she 
showed no wear, no weariness, and but seldom let fly her 
temper. As a rule she put her day through calm, alert, 
patient, fencing with those veteran masters of scholarly 
sword-play and coming out always without a scratch. 
One day a Dominican sprung upon her a question 
which made everybody cock up his ears with interest ; as 
for me, I trembled, and said to myself she is caught this 
time, poor Joan, for there is no way of answering this. 
The sly Dominican began in this way — in a sort of indolent 
fashion, as if the thing he was about was a matter of no 
moment : 
' You assert that God has willed to deliver France from 
this English bondage ? ' 
' Yes, He has willed it.' 
' You wish for men-at-arms, so that you may go to the 
relief of Orleans, I believe ? ' 
' Yes — and the sooner the better.' 
' God is all-powerful, and able to do whatsoever thing 
He wills to do, is it not so ? ' 
' Most surely. None doubts it.' 
The Dominican lifted his head suddenly, and sprung 
that question I have spoken of, with exultation : 
' Then answer me this. If He has willed to deliver 
France, and is able to do whatsoever He wills, where is 
the need for men-at-arms ? ' 
There was a fine stir and commotion when he said that, 
and a sudden thrusting forward of heads and putting up 
of hands to ears to catch the answer ; and the Dominican 
wagged his head with satisfaction, and looked about him 
collecting" his applause, for it shone in every face. But 
Joan was not disturbed. There was no note of disquiet 
in her voice when she answered : 
' He helps who help themselves. The sons of France 
will fight the battles, but He will give the victory ! ' 
You could see a light of admiration sweep the house 
from face to face like a ray from the sun. Even the 
Dominican himself looked pleased, to see his master-stroke 
so neatly parried, and I heard a venerable bishop mutter, 
in the phrasing common to priest and people in that robust 
time, ' By God, the child has said true. He willed that 
Goliath should be slain, and He sent a child like this to 
do it ! ' 
Another day, when the inquisition had dragged along 
until everybody looked drowsy and tired but Joan, brother 
Sguin, professor of theology in the University of Poitiers, 
who was a sour and sarcastic man, fell to plying Joan 
with all sorts of nagging questions in his bastard Limousin 
French — for he was from Limoges. Finally he said : 
' How is it that you could understand those angels ? 
What language did they speak ? ' 
' French.' 
' In-deed ! How pleasant to know that our language 
is so honoured ! Good French ? ' 
' Yes — perfect.' 
' Perfect, eh ? Well, certainly jd?« ought to know. It 
was even better than your own, eh ? ' 
' As to that, I — I believe I cannot say,' said she, and 
was going on, but stopped. Then she added, almost as 
if she were saying it to herself, ' Still, it was an improve- 
ment on yours ! ' 
I knew there was a chuckle back of her eyes, for all 
their innocence. Everybody shouted. Brother Sguin was 
nettled, and asked brusquely : 
' Do you believe in God ? ' 
Joan answered with an irritating nonchalance : 
' Oh, well, yes — better than you, it is likely.' 
Brother Sguin lost his patience, and heaped sarcasm 
after sarcasm upon her, and finally burst out In angry 
earnest, exclaiming : 
' Very well, I can tell you this, you whose belief in God 
is so great : God has not willed that any shall believe in 
you without a sign. Where is your sign ? — show It ! ' 
This roused Joan, and she was on her feet in a moment, 
and flung out her retort with spirit : 
' I have not come to Poitiers to show signs and do 
miracles. Send me to Orleans and you shall have signs 
enough. Give me men-at-arms — few or many — and let me 
go ! ' 
The fire was leaping from her eyes — ah, the heroic 
little figure ! can't you see her ? There was a great burst 
of acclamations, and she sat down blushing, for it was not 
in her delicate nature to like being conspicuous. 
This speech and that episode about the French language 
scored two points against Brother Sguin, while he scored 
nothing against Joan ; yet, sour man as he was, he was a 
manly man, and honest, as you can see by the histories ; 
for at the Rehabilitation he could have hidden those un- 
lucky incidents if he had chosen, but he didn't do it, but 
spoke them right out in his evidence. 
On one of the later days of that three weeks' session 
the gowned scholars and professors made one grand 
assault all along the line, fairly overwhelming Joan with 
objections and arguments culled from the writings of 
every ancient and illustrious authority of the Roman 
Church. She was well nigh smothered ; but at last she 
shook herself free and struck back, crying out : 
' Listen ! The Book of God is worth more than all 
these ye cite, and I stand upon . And I tell ye there are 
things in that Book that not one among ye can read, with 
all your learning ! ' 
From the first she was the guest, by invitation, of the 
dame De Rabateau, wife of a councillor of the Parliament 
of Poitiers ; and to that house the great ladies of the city 
came nightly to see Joan and talk with her ; and not these 
only, but the old lawyers, councillors, and scholars of the 
Parliament and the University. And these grave men, ac- 
customed to weigh every strange and questionable thing, 
and cautiously consider it, and turn it about this way and 
that and still doubt it, came night after night, and night 
after night, falling ever deeper and deeper under the in- 
fluence of that mysterious something, that spell, that elusive 
and unwordable fascination, which was the supremest en- 
dowment of Joan of Arc, that winning and persuasive and 
convincing something which high and low alike recognised 
and felt, but which neither high nor low could explain or 
describe ; and one by one they all surrendered, saying 
' This child is sent of God.' 
All day long Joan, in the great court and subject to its 
rigid rules of procedure, was at a disadvantage ; her judges 
had things their own way ; but at night she held court 
herself, and matters were reversed, she presiding, with her 
tongue free and her same judges there before her. There 
could be but one result ; all the objections and hindrances 
they could build around her with their hard labours of the 
day she would charm away at night. In the end, she 
carried her judges with her In a mass, and got her great 
verdict without a dissenting voice. 
The court was a sight to see when the president of It 
read it from his throne, for all the great people of the 
town were there who could get admission and find room. 
First there were some solemn ceremonies, proper and usual 
at such times ; then, when there was silence again, the 
reading followed, penetrating the deep hush so that every 
word was heard in even the remotest parts of the house : 
' It is found, and is hereby declared, that Joan of Arc, 
called the Maid, is a good Christian and good Catholic ; 
that there is nothing in her person or her words contrary 
to the faith ; and that the King may and ought to accept the 
succour she offers ; for to repel it would be to offend the 
Holy Spirit, and render him unworthy of the aid of God.' 
The court rose, and then the storm of plaudits burst 
forth unrebuked, dying down and bursting forth again and 
again, and I lost sight of Joan, for she was swallowed up 
in a great tide of people who rushed to congratulate her 
and pour out benedictions upon her and upon the cause of 
France, now solemnly and irrevocably delivered into her 
little hands. 
CHAPTER IX 
It was indeed a great day, and a stirring thing to see. 
She had won ! It was a mistake of Tremouille and her 
other ill-wishers to let her hold court those nights. 
The commission of priests sent to Lorraine ostensibly 
to inquire into Joan's character — in fact to weary her with 
delays and wear out her purpose and make her give it up — 
arrived back and reported her character perfect. Our 
affairs were in full career now, you see. 
The verdict made a prodigious stir. Dead France 
woke suddenly to life, wherever the great news travelled. 
Whereas before, the spiritless and cowed people hung their 
heads and slunk away if one mentioned war to them, now 
they came clamouring to be enlisted under the banner of 
the Maid of Vaucouleurs, and the roaring of war songs and 
the thundering of the drums filled all the air. I remem- 
bered now what she had said, that time there in our village 
when I proved by facts and statistics that France's case 
was hopeless, and nothing could ever rouse the people 
from their lethargy : 
' They will hear the drums — and they will answer, they 
will march ! ' 
It has been said that misfortunes never come one at a 
time, but in a body. In our case it was the same with 
good luck. Having got a start it came flooding in, tide 
after tide. Our next wave of it was of this sort. There 
had been grave doubts among the priests as to whether the 
Church ought to permit a female soldier to dress like a 
man. But now came a verdict on that head. Two of the 
greatest scholars and theologians of the time — one of 
whom had been Chancellor of the University of Paris — 
rendered it. They decided that since Joan ' must do the 
work of a man and a soldier, it is just and legitimate 
that her apparel should conform to the situation.' 
It was a great point gained, the Church's authority to 
dress as a man. Oh yes, wave on wave the good luck 
came sweeping in. Never mind about the smaller waves, 
let us come to the largest one of all, the wave that swept 
us small fry quite off our feet and almost drowned us with 
joy. The day of the great verdict, couriers had been de- 
spatched to the King with it, and the next morning bright 
and early the clear notes of a bugle came floating to us on 
the crisp air, and we pricked up our ears and began to count 
them. One — two — three ; pause ; one — two ; pause ; one — 
two — three, again — and out we skipped and went flying ; 
for that formula was used only when the King's herald-at 
arms would deliver a proclamation to the people. As we 
hurried along, people came racing out of every street and 
house and alley, men, women, and children, all flushed, 
excited, and throwing lacking articles of clothing on as 
they ran ; still those clear notes pealed out, and still the 
rush of people increased till the whole town was abroad 
and streaming along the principal street. At last we 
reached the square, which was now packed with citizens, 
and there, high on the pedestal of the great cross, we saw 
the herald in his brilliant costume, with his servitors about 
him. The next moment he began his delivery in the 
powerful voice proper to his office : 
' Know all men, and take heed therefore, that the most 
high, the most illustrious Charles, by the grace of God 
King of France, hath been pleased to confer upon his well- 
beloved servant Joan of Arc, called the Maid, the title, 
emoluments, authorities, and dignity of General-in-Chief 
of the Armies of France — ' 
Here a thousand caps flew into the air, and the multitude 
burst into a hurricane of cheers that raged and raged till it 
seemed as if it would never come to an end ; but at last it 
did ; then the herald went on and finished : 
— ' and hath appointed to be her lieutenant and chief of 
staff a prince of his royal house, his grace the Duke of 
Alenon ! ' 
That was the end, and the hurricane began again, and 
was split up into innumerable strips by the blowers of it 
and wafted through all the lanes and streets of the town. 
General of the Armies of France, with a prince of the 
blood for subordinate ! Yesterday she was nothing — to- 
day she was this. Yesterday she was not even a sergeant, 
not even a corporal, not even a private — to-day, with one 
step, she was at the top. Yesterday she was less than 
nobody to the newest recruit — to-day her command was 
law to La Hire, Saintrailles, the Bastard of Orleans, and 
all those others, veterans of old renown, illustrious masters 
of the trade of war. These were the thoughts I was think- 
ing ; I was trying to realise this strange and wonderful 
thing that had happened, you see. 
My mind went travelling back, and presently lighted 
upon a picture — a picture which was still so new and fresh 
in my memory that it seemed a matter of only yesterday — 
and indeed its date was no further back than the first days 
of January. This is what it was. A peasant girl in a far- 
off village, her seventeenth year not yet quite completed, 
and herself and her village as unknown as if they had been 
on the other side of the globe. She had picked up a 
friendless wanderer somewhere and brought it home — a 
small grey kitten in a forlorn and starving condition — and 
had fed it and comforted it and got its confidence and made 
it believe in her, and now it was curled up in her lap 
asleep, and she was knitting a coarse stocking and think- 
ing — dreaming — about what, one may never know. And 
now — the kitten had hardly had time to become a cat, and 
yet already the girl is General of the Armies of France, 
with a prince of the blood to give orders to, and out of her 
village obscurity her name has climbed up like the sun and 
is visible from all corners of the land ! It made me dizzy 
to think of these things, they were so out of the common 
order, and seemed so impossible. 
CHAPTER X 
Joan's first official act was to dictate a letter to the English 
commanders at Orleans, summoning them to deliver up all 
strongholds in their possession and depart out of France. 
She must have been thinking it all out before and arrang- 
ing it in her mind, it flowed from her lips so smoothly, and 
framed itself into such vivacious and forcible language. 
Still, it might not have been so ; she always had a quick 
mind and a capable tongue, and her faculties were con- 
stantly developing in these latter weeks. This letter was 
to be forwarded presently from Blois. Men, provisions, 
and money were offering in plenty now, and Joan ap- 
pointed Blois as a recruiting station and depot of supplies, 
and ordered up La Hire from the front to take charge. 
The Great Bastard — him of the ducal house, and 
governor of Orleans — had been clamouring for weeks for 
Joan to be sent to him, and now came another messenger, 
old D'Aulon, a veteran officer, a trusty man and fine and 
honest. The King kept him, and gave him to Joan to be 
chief of her household, and commanded her to appoint the 
rest of her people herself, making their number and dignity 
accord with the greatness of her office ; and at the same 
time he gave order that they should be properly equipped 
with arms, clothing, and horses. 
Meantime the King was having a complete suit of 
armour made for her at Tours. It was of the finest steel, 
heavily plated with silver, richly ornamented with engraved 
designs, and polished like a mirror. 
Joan's Voices had told her that there was an ancient 
sword hidden somewhere behind the altar of St. Catherine's 
at Fierbois, and she sent De Metz to get it. The priests 
knew of no such sword, but a search was made, and sure 
enough it was found in that place, buried a little way under 
the ground. It had no sheath and was very rusty, but the 
priests polished it up and sent it to Tours, whither we were 
now to come. They also had a sheath of crimson velvet 
made for it, and the people of Tours equipped it with 
another one, made of cloth of gold. But Joan meant to 
carry this sword always in battle ; so she laid the showy 
sheaths away and got one made of leather. It was 
generally believed that this sword had belonged to Charle- 
magne, but that was only a matter of opinion. I wanted 
to sharpen that old blade, but she said it was not necessary, 
as she should never kill anybody, and should carry it only 
as a symbol of authority. 
At Tours she designed her Standard, and a Scotch 
painter named James Power made it. It was of the most 
delicate white boucassin with fringes of silk. For device 
it bore the image of God the Father throned in the clouds 
and holding the world in His hand ; two angels knelt at 
His feet, presenting lilies ; inscription, Jesus, Maria ; on 
the reverse the crown of France supported by two angels. 
She also caused a smaller standard or pennon to be 
made, whereon was represented an angel offering a lily to 
the Holy Virgin. 
Everything was humming, there at Tours. Every now 
and then one heard the bray and crash of military music, 
every little while one heard the measured tramp of march- 
ing men — squads of recruits leaving for Blois ; songs and 
shoutings and huzzas filled the air night and day, the town 
was full of strangers, the streets and inns were thronged, 
the bustle of preparation was everywhere, and everybody 
carried a glad and cheerful face. Around Joan's head- 
quarters a crowd of people was always massed, hoping 
for a glimpse of the new General, and when they got it, 
they went wild , but they seldom got it, for she was busy 
planning her campaign, receiving reports, giving orders, 
despatching couriers, and giving what odd moments she 
could spare to the companies of great folk waiting in the 
drawing-rooms. As for us boys, we hardly saw her at all, 
she was so occupied. 
We were in a mixed state of mind — sometimes hopeful, 
sometimes not ; mostly not. She had not appointed her 
household yet — that was our trouble. We knew she was 
being overrun with applications for places in it, and that 
these applications were backed by great names and weighty 
Influence, whereas we had nothing of the sort to recom- 
mend us. She could fill her humblest places with titled 
folk — folk whose relationships would be a bulwark for her 
and a valuable support at all times. In these circumstances 
would policy allow her to consider us ? We were not as 
cheerful as the rest of the town, but were Inclined to be 
depressed and worried. Sometimes we discussed our slim 
chances, and gave them as good an appearance as we could. 
But the very mention of the subject was anguish to the 
Paladin ; for whereas we had some little hope, he had none 
at all. As a rule, Noel Ralnguesson was quite willing to 
let the dismal matter alone ; but not when the Paladin was 
present. Once we were talking the thing over, when Noel 
said : 
' Cheer up. Paladin ; I had a dream last night, and you 
were the only one among us that got an appointment. It 
wasn't a high one, but it was an appointment, anyway — 
some kind of a lackey or body-servant, or something of 
that kind.' 
The Paladin roused up and looked almost cheerful ; for 
he was a believer In dreams, and In anything and every- 
thing of a superstitious sort, in fact. He said, with a rising 
hopefulness : 
' I wish it might come true. Do you think It will come 
true ? ' 
' Certainly ; I might almost say I know it will, for my 
dreams hardly ever fail.' 
' Noel, I could hug you if that dream could come true, 
I could indeed ! To be servant to the first General of 
France and have all the world hear of it, and the news go 
back to the village and make those gawks stare that always 
said I wouldn't ever amount to anything — wouldn't it be 
great ! Do you think it will come true, Noel ? Don't you 
believe it will ? ' 
' I do. There's my hand on it.' 
' Noel, if it comes true I'll never forget you — shake 
again ! I should be dressed in a noble livery, and the news 
would go to the village, and those animals would say, 
' Jlim, lackey to the General-in-Chief, with the eyes of the 
whole world on him, admiring — well, he has shot up into 
the sky, now, hasn't he ? ' " 
He began to walk the floor and pile castles In the air so 
fast and so high that we could hardly keep up with him. 
Then all of a sudden all the joy went out of his face and 
misery took its place, and he said ; 
' Oh dear, it is all a mistake, it will never come true. I 
forgot about that foolish business at Toul. I have kept 
out of her sight as much as I could, all these weeks, hoping 
she would forget that and forgive it — but I know she never 
will. She can't, of course. And, after all, I wasn't to 
blame. I did say she promised to marry me, but they put 
me up to it and persuaded me, I swear they did ! ' The 
vast creature was almost crying. Then he pulled himself 
together and said, remorsefully, ' It was the only lie I've 
ever told, and — ' 
He was drowned out with a chorus of groans and out- 
raged exclamations ; and before he could begin again, 
one of D'Aulon's liveried servants appeared and said we 
were required at headquarters. We rose, and Noel said : 
' There — what did I tell you ? I have a presentiment — 
the spirit of prophecy is upon me. She is going to appoint 
him, and we are to go there and do him homage. Come 
along ! ' 
But the Paladin was afraid to go, so we left him. 
When we presently stood in the presence, in front of a 
crowd of glittering officers of the army, Joan greeted us 
with a winning smile, and said she appointed all of us to 
places in her household, for she wanted her old friends by 
her. It was a beautiful surprise to have ourselves honoured 
like this when she could have had people of birth and con- 
sequence instead, but we couldn't find our tongues to say 
so, she was become so great and so high above us now. 
One at a time we stepped forward and each received his 
warrant from the hand of our chief, D'Aulon. All of us 
had honourable places : the two knights stood highest ; 
then Joan's two brothers ; I was first page and secretary, 
a young gentleman named Raimond was second page ; 
Noel was her messenger ; she had two heralds, and also a 
chaplain and almoner, whose name was Jean Pasquerel. 
She had previously appointed a maitre d'hotel and a number 
of domestics. Now she looked around and said : 
' But where is the Paladin ? ' 
The Sieur Bertrand said : 
' He thought he was not sent for, your Excellency.' 
' Now that is not well. Let him be called.' 
The Paladin entered humbly enough. He ventured 
no farther than just within the door. He stopped there, 
looking embarrassed and afraid. Then Joan spoke plea- 
santly, and said : 
' I watched you on the road. You began badly, but 
improved. Of old you were a fantastic talker, but there is 
a man in you, and I will bring it out.' It was fine to see 
the Paladin's face light up when she said that. ' Will you 
follow where I lead ? ' 
' Into the fire ! ' he said ; and I said to myself, ' By the 
ring of that, I think she has turned this braggart into a 
hero. It is another of her miracles, I make no doubt of 
it.' 
' I believe you,' said Joan. ' Here — take my banner. 
Ycu will ride with me in every field, and when France is 
saved you will give it me back.' 
He took the banner, which is now the most precious of 
the memorials that remain of Joan of Arc, and his voice 
was unsteady with emotion when he said : 
' If I ever disgrace this trust, my comrades here will 
know how to do a friend's office upon my body, and this 
charge I lay upon them, as knowing they will not fail me.' 
CHAPTER XI 
Noel and I went back together — silent at first, and im- 
pressed. Finally Noel came up out of his thinkings and 
said : 
' The first shall be last and the last first — there's authority 
for this surprise. But at the same time wasn't it a lofty 
hoist for our big bull ! ' 
' It truly was ; I am not over being stunned yet. It 
was the greatest place in her gift.' 
' Yes, it was. There are many generals, and she can 
create more ; but there is only one Standard-Bearer.' 
' True. It is the most conspicuous place in the army, 
after her own.' 
' And the most coveted and honourable. Sons of two 
dukes tried to get it, as we know. And of all people in 
the world, this majestic windmill carries it off. Well, 
isn't it a gigantic promotion, when you come to look 
at it ! ' 
' There's no doubt about it. It's a kind of copy of 
Joan's own in miniature.' 
' I don't know how to account for it — do you ? ' 
' Yes, without any trouble at all — that is, I think I do.' 
Noel was surprised at that, and glanced up quickly, as 
if to see if I was in earnest. He said : 
' I thought you couldn't be in earnest, but I see you 
are. If you can make me understand this puzzle, do it. 
Tell me what the explanation is.' 
' I believe I can. You have noticed that our chief 
knight says a good many wise things and has a thoughtful 
head on his shoulders. One day, riding along, we were 
talking about Joan's great talents, and he said, ''But, 
greatest of all her gifts, she has the seeing eye." I said, 
like an unthinking fool, ''The seeing eye? — I shouldn't 
count that for much ; I suppose we all have it." ''No," 
he said; "very few have it." Then he explained, and 
made his meaning clear. He said the common eye sees 
only the outside of things, and judges by that ; but the 
seeing eye pierces through and reads the heart and the 
soul, finding there capacities which the outside didn't indi- 
cate or promise, and which the other kind of eye couldn't 
detect. He said the mightiest military genius must fail 
and come to nothing if it have not the seeing eye — that is 
to say, if it cannot read men and select its subordinates 
with an infallible judgment. It sees as by intuition that 
this man is good for strategy, that one for dash and dare- 
devil assault, the other for patient bull-dog persistence, 
and it appoints each to his right place and wins ; while 
the commander without the seeing eye would give to each 
the other's place and lose. He was right about Joan, and 
I saw it. When she was a child and the tramp came one 
night, her father and all of us took him for a rascal, but 
she saw the honest man through the rags. When I dined 
with the governor of Vaucouleurs so long ago, I saw 
nothing in our two knights, though I sat with them 
and talked with them two hours ; Joan was there fivej 
minutes, and neither spoke with them nor heard therrij 
speak, yet she marked them for men of worth and fidelity, 
and they have confirmed her judgment. Whom has she! 
sent for to take charge of this thundering rabble of new 
recruits at Blois, made up of old disbanded Armagnac 
raiders, unspeakable hellions, every one? Why, she has 
sent for Satan himself — that is to say, La Hire — that 
military hurricane, that godless swashbuckler, that lurid con-j 
flagration of blasphemy, that Vesuvius of profanity, for
ever in eruption. Does he know how to deal with thai 
mob of roaring" devils ? Better than any man that lives ; 
for he is the head devil of this world his own self, he is the 
match of the whole of them combined, and probably the 
father of most of them. She places him in temporary 
command until she can get to Blois herself — and then ! 
Why, then she will certainly take them in hand personally, 
or I don't know her as well as I ought to, after all these 
years of intimacy. That will be a sight to see — that fair 
spirit in her white armour, delivering her will to that 
muck-heap, that rag-pile, that abandoned refuse of per- 
dition.' 
' La Hire ! ' cried Noel, ' our hero of all these years — I 
do want to see that man ! ' 
' I too. His name stirs me just as it did when I was a 
little boy.' 
' I want to hear him swear.' 
' Of course. I would rather hear him swear than 
another man pray. He is the frankest man there is, and 
the naivest. Once when he was rebuked for pillaging on 
his raids, he said it was nothing. I judge he is the right 
man to take temporary charge there at Blois. Joan has 
cast the seeing eye upon him, you see.' 
' Which brings us back to where we started. I have 
an honest affection for the Paladin, and not merely because 
he is a good fellow, but because he is my child — I made 
him what he is, the windiest blusterer and most catholic 
liar in the kingdom. I'm glad of his luck, but I hadn't the 
seeing" eye. I shouldn't have chosen him for the most 
dangerous post in the army ; I should have placed him in 
the rear to kill the wounded and violate the dead.' 
' Well, we shall see. Joan probably knows what is in 
him better than we do. And I'll give you another idea. 
When a person in Joan of Arc's position tells a man he is 
brave, he believes it, and believing it is enough ; in fact, to 
believe yourself brave is to be brave ; it is the one only 
essential thing.' 
' Now you've hit it ! ' cried Noel. ' She's got the 
creating mouth as well as the seeing eye ! Ah yes, that 
is the thing. France was cowed and a coward ; Joan of 
Arc has spoken, and France is marching, with her head 
up!' 
I was summoned now, to write a letter from Joan's 
dictation. During the next day and night our several 
uniforms were made by the tailors, and our new armour 
provided. We were beautiful to look upon now, whether 
clothed for peace or war. Clothed for peace, in costly 
stuffs and rich colours, the Paladin was a tower dyed with 
the glories of the sunset ; plumed and sashed and iron-clad 
for war, he was a still statelier thing to look at. 
Orders had been issued for the march towards Blois. 
It was a clear, sharp, beautiful morning. As our showy 
great company trotted out in column, riding two and two, 
Joan and the Duke of Alenon in the lead, D'Aulon and the 
big standard-bearer next, and so on, we made a handsome 
spectacle as you may well imagine ; and as we ploughed 
through the cheering crowds, with Joan bowing her plumed 
head to left and right and the sun glinting from her silver 
mail, the spectators realised that the curtain was rolling up 
before their eyes upon the first act of a prodigious drama, 
and their rising hopes were expressed in an enthusiasm 
that increased with each moment, until at last one seemed 
to even physically feel the concussion of the huzzas as well 
as hear them. Far down the street we heard the softened 
strains of wind-blown music, and saw a cloud of lancers 
moving, the sun glowing with a subdued light upon the 
massed armour but striking bright upon the soaring lance- 
heads — a vaguely luminous nebula, so to speak, with a 
constellation twinkling above it — and that was our guard 
of honour. It joined us, the procession was complete, the 
first war-march of Joan of Arc was begun, the curtain was 
up. 
CHAPTER XII 
We were at Blois three days. Oh, that camp, it is one of 
the treasures of my memory ! Order ? There was no more 
order among those brigands than there is among the wolves 
and the hyenas. They went roaring and drinking about, 
whooping, shouting, swearing, and entertaining themselves 
with all manner of rude and riotous horse-play ; and the 
place was full of loud and lewd women, and they were no 
whit behind the men for romps and noise and fantastics. 
It was in the midst of this wild mob that Noel and I 
had our first glimpse of La Hire. He answered to our 
dearest dreams. He was of great size and of martial bear- 
ing, he was cased in mail from head to heel, with a bushel 
of swishing plumes on his helmet, and at his side the vast 
sword of the time. 
He was on his way to pay his respects in state to Joan, 
and as he passed through the camp he was restoring order, 
and proclaiming that the Maid was come, and he would 
have no such spectacle as this exposed to the head of 
the army. His way of creating order was his own, not 
borrowed. He did it with his great fists. As he moved 
along swearing and admonishing, he let drive this way, 
that way, and the other, and wherever his blow landed, a 
man went down. 
' Damn you ! ' he said, ' staggering and cursing around 
like this, and the Commander-in-Chief in the camp ! 
Straighten up ! ' and he laid the man flat. What his idea 
of straightening up was, was his own secret. 
We followed the veteran to headquarters, listening, 
observing, admiring — yes, devouring, you may say, the pet 
hero of the boys of France from our cradles up to that 
happy day, and their idol and ours. I called to mind how 
Joan had once rebuked the Paladin, there in the pastures of 
Domremy, for uttering lightly those mighty names, La Hire 
and the Bastard of Orleans, and how she said that if she 
could but be permitted to stand afar off and let her eyes 
rest once upon those great men, she would hold it a 
privilege. They were to her and the other girls just what 
they were to the boys. Well, here was one of them at last 
— and what was his errand ? It was hard to realise it, and 
yet it was true ; he was coming to uncover his head before 
her and take her orders. 
While he was quieting a considerable group of his 
brigands in his soothing way, near headquarters, we stepped 
on ahead and got a glimpse of Joan's military family, the 
great chiefs of the army, |for they had all arrived now. 
There they were, six officers of wide renown, handsome 
men in beautiful armour, but the Lord High Admiral of 
France was the handsomest of them all and had the most 
gallant bearing. 
When La Hire entered, one could see the surprise in his 
face at Joan's beauty and extreme youth, and one could 
see, too, by Joan's glad smile, that it made her happy to 
get sight of this hero of her childhood at last. La Hire 
bowed low, with his helmet in his gauntleted hand, and 
made a bluff but handsome little speech with hardly an oath 
in it, and one could see that those two took to each other 
on the spot. 
The visit of ceremony was soon over, and the others 
went away ; but La Hire stayed, and he and Joan sat there, 
and he sipped her wine, and they talked and laughed 
together like old friends. And presently she gave him 
some instructions, in his quality as master of the camp, 
which made his breath stand still. For, to begin with, she 
said that all those loose women must pack out of the place 
at once, she wouldn't allow one of them to remain. Next, 
the rough carousing must stop, drinking must be brought 
within proper and strictly defined limits, and discipline must 
take the place of disorder. And finally she climaxed the 
list of surprises with this — which nearly lifted him out of 
his armour : 
' Every man who joins my standard must confess before 
the priest and absolve himself from sin ; and all accepted 
recruits must be present at divine service twice a day.' 
La Hire could not say a word for a good part of a 
minute, then he said, in deep dejection : 
' Oh, sweet child, they were littered in hell, these poor 
darlings of mine I Attend mass ? Why, dear heart, they'll 
see us both damned first ! ' 
And he went on, pouring out a most pathetic stream of 
arguments and blasphemy, which broke Joan all up, and 
made her laugh as she had not laughed since she played in 
the Domremy pastures. It was good to hear. 
But she stuck to her point ; so the soldier yielded, and 
said all right, if such were the orders he must obey, and 
would do the best that was in him ; then he refreshed him- 
self with a lurid explosion of oaths, and said that if any man 
in the camp refused to renounce sin and lead a pious life, 
he would knock his head off. That started Joan off again : 
she was really having a good time, you see. But she would 
not consent to that form of conversions. She said they 
must be voluntary. 
La Hire said that that was all right, he wasn't going to 
kill the voluntary ones, but only the others. 
No matter, none of them must be killed — Joan couldn't 
have it. She said that to give a man a chance to volunteer, 
on pain of death if he didn't, left him more or less tram- 
melled, and she wanted him to be entirely free. 
So the soldier sighed and said he would advertise the 
mass, but said he doubted if there was a man in camp 
that was any more likely to go to it than he was himself. 
Then there was another surprise for him, for Joan said : 
' But dear man, you are going ! ' 
' I ? Impossible ! Oh, this is lunacy ! ' 
' Oh no, it isn't. You are going to the service twice a 
day.' 
' Oh, am I dreaming ? Am I drunk — or is my hearing 
playing me false ? Why, I would rather go to — ' 
' Never mind where. In the morning you are going to 
begin, and after that it will come easy. Now don't look 
down-hearted like that. Soon you won't mind it.' 
La Hire tried to cheer up, but he was not able to do it. 
He sighed like a zephyr, and presently said : 
' Well, I'll do it for you, but before I would do it for 
another, I swear I — ' 
' But don't swear. Break it off.' 
' Break it off? It is impossible. I beg you to — to — 
Why — oh, my General, it is my native speech ! ' 
He begged so hard for grace for his impediment, that 
Joan left him one fragment of it ; she said he might swear 
by his baton, the symbol of his generalship. 
He promised that he would swear only by his baton 
when in her presence, and would try to modify himself 
elsewhere, but doubted if he could manage it, now that it 
was so old and stubborn a habit, and such a solace and 
support to his declining years. 
That tough old lion went away from there a good deal 
tamed and civilised — not to say softened and sweetened, 
for perhaps those expressions would hardly fit him. Noel 
and I believed that when he was away from Joan's influ- 
ence his old aversions would come up so strong in him 
that he could not master them, and so wouldn't go to mass. 
But we got up early in the morning to see. 
Well, he really went. It was hardly believable, but 
there he was, striding along, holding himself grimly to his 
duty, and looking as pious as he could, but growling and 
cursing like a fiend. It was another instance of the same 
old thing ; whoever listened to the voice and looked into 
the eyes of Joan of Arc fell under a spell, and was not his 
own man any more. 
Satan was converted, you see. Well, the rest followed. 
Joan rode up and down that camp, and wherever that fair 
young form appeared in its shining armour, with that sweet 
face to grace the vision and perfect it, the rude host seemed 
to think they saw the god of war in person, descended out 
of the clouds ; and first they wondered, then they worshipped. 
After that, she could do with them what she 
would. 
In three days it was a clean camp and orderly, and those 
barbarians were herding to divine service twice a day like 
good children. The women were gone. La Hire was 
stunned by these marvels ; he could not understand them. 
He went outside the camp when he wanted to swear. He 
was that sort of a man — sinful by nature and habit, but 
full of superstitious respect for holy places. 
The enthusiasm of the reformed army for Joan, its 
devotion to her, and the hot desire she had aroused in it 
to be led against the enemy, exceeded any manifestations 
of this sort which La Hire had ever seen before in his long 
career. His admiration of it all, and his wonder over the 
mystery and miracle of it, were beyond his power to 
put into words. He had held this army cheap before, 
but his pride and confidence in it knew no limits now. 
He said : 
' Two or three days ago it was afraid of a hen-roost ; 
one could storm the gates of hell with it now.' 
Joan and he were inseparable, and a quaint and pleasant 
contrast they made. He was so big, she so little ; he was 
so grey and so far along in his pilgrimage of life, she so 
youthful ; his face was so bronzed and scarred, hers so fair 
and pink, so fresh and smooth ; she was so gracious, and he 
so stern ; she was so pure, so innocent, he such a cyclopaedia 
of sin. In her eye was stored all charity and compassion, 
In his lightnings ; when her glance fell upon you It seemed 
to bring benediction and the peace of God, but with his It 
was different generally. 
They rode through the camp a dozen times a day, visit- 
ing every corner of It, observing, inspecting, perfecting ; 
and wherever they appeared, the enthusiasm broke forth. 
They rode side by side, he a great figure of brawn and 
muscle, she a little master-work of roundness and grace ; 
he a fortress of rusty Iron, she a shining statuette of silver ; 
and when the reformed raiders and bandits caught sight of 
them they spoke out, with affection and welcome in their 
voices, and said : 
' There they come — Satan and the Page of Christ ! ' 
All the three days that we were in Blois, Joan worked 
earnestly and tirelessly to bring La Hire to God — to rescue 
him from the bondage of sin — to breathe into his stormy 
heart the serenity and peace of religion. She urged, she 
begged, she implored him to pray. He stood out, the 
three days of our stay, begging almost piteously to be let 
off — to be let off from just that one thing, that impossible 
thing ; he would do anything else — anything — command, 
and he would obey — he would go through the fire for her, 
if she said the word — but spare him this, only this, for he 
couldn't pray, had never prayed, he was ignorant of how 
to frame a prayer, he had no words to put it in. 
And yet — can any believe it ? — she carried even that 
point, she won that incredible victory. She made La Hire 
pray. It shows, I think, that nothing was impossible to 
Joan of Arc. Yes, he stood there before her and put up 
his mailed hands and made a prayer. And it was not 
borrowed, but was his very own ; he had none to help him 
frame it, he made it out of his own head — saying : 
' Fair Sir God, I pray you to do by La Hire as he would 
do by you if you were La Hire and he were God.'
Then he put on his helmet and marched out of Joan's 
tent as satisfied with himself as any one might be who has 
arranged a perplexed and difficult business to the content 
and admiration of all the parties concerned in the matter. 
If I had known that he had been praying, I could have 
understood why he was feeling so superior, but of course I 
could not know that. 
I was coming to the tent at that moment, and saw him 
come out, and saw him march away in that large fashion, 
' This prayer has been stolen many times and by many nations in the 
past four hundred and sixty years, but it originated with La Hire, and the 
fact is of official record in the National Archives of France. We have 
the authority of Michelet for this.— Translator. 
and indeed it was fine and beautiful to see. But when I 
got to the tent door I stopped and stepped back, grieved 
and shocked, for I heard Joan crying, as I mistakenly 
thought — crying as if she could not contain nor endure the 
anguish of her soul, crying as if she would die. But it was 
not so, she was laughing — laughing at La Hire's prayer. 
It was not until six-and-thirty years afterwards that I 
found that out, and then — oh, then I only cried when that 
picture of young care-free mirth rose before me out of the 
blur and mists of that long-vanished time ; for there had 
come a day between, when God's good gift of laughter had 
gone out from me to come again no more in this life. 
CHAPTER Xni 
We marched out in great strength and splendour, and took 
the road toward Orleans. The initial part of Joan's great 
dream was realising itself at last. It was the first time 
that any of us youngsters had ever seen an army, and it 
was a most stately and Imposing spectacle to us. It was 
indeed an inspiring sight, that interminable column, stretch- 
ing away into the fading distances, and curving itself in 
and out of the crookedness of the road like a mighty 
serpent. Joan rode at the head of it with her personal 
staff" ; then came a body of priests singing the Vent Creator y 
the banner of the Cross rising out of their midst ; after 
these the glinting forest of spears. The several divisions 
were commanded by the great Armagnac generals. La Hire, 
the Marshal de Boussac, the Sire de Retz, Florent d'lliers, 
and Poton de Saintrailles. 
Each in his degree was tough, and there were three 
degrees — tough, tougher, toughest — and La Hire was the 
last by a shade, but only a shade. They were just illustri- 
ous official brigands, the whole party ; and by long habits 
of lawlessness they had lost all acquaintanceship with 
obedience, if they had ever had any. 
The King's strict orders to them had been, ' Obey the 
General-in-Chief in everything ; attempt nothing without 
her knowledge, do nothing without her command.' 
But what was the good of saying that ? These inde- 
pendent birds knew no law. They seldom obeyed the 
King ; they never obeyed him when it didn't suit them to 
do it. Would they obey the Maid ? In the first place they 
wouldn't know how to obey her or anybody else, and in the 
second place it was of course not possible for them to take 
her military character seriously — that country girl of seven- 
teen who had been trained for the complex and terrible 
business of war — how ? By tending sheep. 
They had no idea of obeying her except in cases where 
their veteran military knowledge and experience showed 
them that the thing she required was sound and right when 
gauged by the regular military standards. Were they to 
blame for this attitude? I should think not. Old war- 
worn captains are hard-headed, practical men. They do 
not easily believe in the ability of ignorant children to plan 
campaigns and command armies. No general that ever 
lived could have taken Joan seriously (militarily) before she 
raised the siege of Orleans and followed it with the great 
campaign of the Loire. 
Did they consider Joan valueless ? Far from it. They 
valued her as the fruitful earth values the sun — they fully 
believed she could produce the crop, but that it was in their 
line of business, not hers, to take it off. They had a deep 
and superstitious reverence for her as being endowed with 
a mysterious supernatural something that was able to do 
a mighty thing which they were powerless to do — blow the 
breath of life and valour into the dead corpses of cowed 
armies and turn them into heroes. 
To their minds they were everything with her, but no- 
thing without her. She could inspire the soldiers and fit 
them for battle — but fight the battle herself ? Oh, nonsense 
— that was their function. They, the generals, would fight 
the battles, Joan would give the victory. That was their 
idea— an unconscious paraphrase of Joan's reply to the 
Dominican. 
So they began by playing a deception upon her. She 
had a clear idea of how she meant to proceed. It was her 
purpose to march boldly upon Orleans by the north bank 
of the Loire. She gave that order to her generals. They 
said to themselves, ' The idea is insane — it is blunder 
No. I ; it is what might have been expected of this child 
who is ignorant of war.' They privately sent the word to 
the Bastard of Orleans. He also recognised the insanity 
of it — at least he thought he did — and privately advised the 
generals to get around the order in some way. 
They did it by deceiving Joan. She trusted those people, 
she was not expecting this sort of treatment, and was not 
on the look-out for it. It was a lesson to her ; she saw to 
it that the game was not played a second time. 
Why was Joan's idea insane, from the generals' point of 
view, but not from hers ? Because her plan was to raise 
the siege immediately, by fighting, while theirs was to be- 
siege the besiegers and starve them out by closing their 
communications— a plan which would require months in the 
consummation. 
The English had built a fence of strong fortresses called 
bastilles around Orleans — fortresses which closed all the 
gates of the city but one. To the French generals the idea 
of trying to fight their way past those fortresses and lead 
the army into Orleans was preposterous ; they believed 
that the result would be the army's destruction. One may 
not doubt that their opinion was militarily sound — no, 
would have been, but for one circumstance which they
overlooked. That was this : the English soldiers were in a 
demoralised condition of superstitious terror ; they had 
become satisfied that the Maid was in league with Satan. 
By reason of this a good deal of their courage had oozed 
out and vanished. On the other hand the Maid's soldiers 
were full of courage, enthusiasm, and zeal. 
Joan could have marched by the English forts. However, 
it was not to be. She had been cheated out of her 
first chance to strike a heavy blow for her country. 
In camp that night she slept in her armour on the 
ground. It was a cold night, and she was nearly as stiff 
as her armour itself when we resumed the march in the 
morning, for iron is not good material for a blanket. How- 
ever, her joy in being now so far on her way to the theatre 
of her mission was fire enough to warm her, and it soon 
did it. 
Her enthusiasm and impatience rose higher and higher 
with every mile of progress ; but at last we reached Olivet, 
and down it went, and indignation took its place. For she 
saw the trick that had been played upon her — the river lay 
between us and Orleans. 
She was for attacking one of the three bastilles that 
were on our side of the river and forcing access to the 
bridge which it guarded (a project which, if successful, 
would raise the siege instantly), but the long-ingrained 
