I a good while ago supposed you to have accepted 
had what shall I call it? rather faded away. 
But at the same time I hoped " and Tony 
invited his companion to resume their walk 
"that it would charmingly come up again." 
Jean moved beside him and spoke with a 
colourless kindness which suggested no desire to 
challenge or cross-question, but a thoughtful in 
terest in anything, in the connection in which 
they were talking, that he would be so good as 
to tell her, and an earnest desire to be clear about 
it. Perhaps there was also in her manner just 
the visible tinge of a confidence that he would 
tell her the absolute truth. "I see. You hoped 
it would charmingly come up again." 
"So that on learning that it is charmingly 
coming up, don't you see," Tony laughed, "I'm 
so agreeably agitated that I spill over on the 
spot. I want without delay to be definite to 
you about the really immense opinion I have of 
dear Paul. It can't do any harm, and it may 
do a little good, to mention that it has always 
seemed to me that we've only got to give him 
time. I mean, of course, don't you know," he 
added, "for him quite to distinguish himself." 
Jean was silent a little, as if she were thor 
oughly taking this home. " Distinguish himself 
in what way?" she asked with all her tran 
quillity. 
"Well in every way," Tony handsomely re 
plied. " He's full of stuff there's a great deal 
of him: too much to come out all at once. Of 
course you know him you've known him half 
your life; but I see him in a strong and special 
light, a light in which he has scarcely been shown 
to you, and which puts him to a real test. He 
has ability; he has ideas; he has absolute hon 
esty; and he has moreover a good stiff back of 
his own. He's a fellow of head; he's a fellow 
of heart. In short he's a man of gold." 
" He's a man of gold," Jean repeated with 
punctual acceptance, yet as if it mattered much 
more that Tony should think so than that she 
should. "It would be odd," she went on, "to 
be talking with you on a subject so personal to 
myself, if it were not that I felt Paul's attitude 
for so long past to be rather publicly taken for 
granted. He has felt it so, too, I think, poor 
boy, and, for good or for ill, there has been in 
our situation very little mystery and perhaps 
not much modesty." 
 
"Why should there be, of the false kind, 
when even the true has nothing to do with the 
matter ? You and Paul are great people : he's 
the heir-apparent, and you're the most eligible 
princess in the Almanach de Gotha. You can't 
be there and be hiding behind the window- 
curtain: you must step out on the balcony to 
be seen of the populace. Your most private 
affairs are affairs of state. At the smallest hint 
like the one I just mentioned, even an old dunder 
head like me catches on he sees the strong 
reasons for Paul's attitude. However, it's not 
of that, so much, that I wanted to say a word. 
I thought perhaps you'd just let me touch on 
your own." Tony hesitated; he felt vaguely 
disconcerted by the special quality of stillness 
that, though she moved beside him, her atten 
tion, her expectation put forth. It came over 
him that for the purpose of his plea she was 
almost too prepared, and this made him speculate. 
He stopped short again, and, uneasily, "May I 
light one more cigarette?" he asked. She as 
sented with a flicker in her dim smile, and while 
he lighted he was increasingly conscious that 
she waited. He met the deep gentleness of her 
eyes and reflected afresh that if she was always 
beautiful, she was beautiful at different times 
from different sources. What was the source of 
the impression she made on him at this moment 
if not a kind of refinement of patience in which 
she seemed actually to hold her breath? "In 
fact," he said as he threw away his match, "I 
have touched on it I mean on the great hope 
we all have that you do see your way to meeting 
our friend as he deserves." 
"You 'all' have it?" Jean softly asked. 
Tony hesitated again. "I'm sure I'm quite 
right in speaking for Wilverley at large. It 
takes the greatest interest in Paul, and I needn't, 
at this time of day, remind you of the interest 
it takes in yourself. But I repeat, what I meant 
more particularly to utter was my own special 
confidence in your decision. Now that I'm fully 
enlightened, it comes home to me that, as regards 
such a possibility as your taking your place here 
as a near neighbour and a permanent friend " 
and Tony fixedly smiled " why, I can only feel 
the liveliest suspense. I want to make thor 
oughly sure of you ! " 
Jean took this in as she had taken the rest; 
after which she simply said: "Then I think I 
ought to tell you that I shall not meet Paul in 
 
the way that what you're so good as to say seems 
to point to." 
Tony had made many speeches, both in public 
and in private, and he had naturally been exposed 
to replies of the incisive no less than of the 
massive order. But no check of the current 
had ever made him throw back his head quite 
so far as this brief and placid announcement. 
"You'll not meet him ?" 
"I shall never marry him." 
He undisguisedly gasped. "In spite of all 
the reasons ? " 
" Of course I've thought the reasons over 
often and often. But there are reasons on the 
other side too. I shall never marry him," she 
repeated. 
XX 
SOMETHING strange occurred for Tony Bream 
as he listened to the words in which Jean Martle 
dispelled such obscurity as had hitherto attached 
to her position something consisting of the fact 
that though half an hour before he had not felt 
the want of the assurance he had just asked of 
her, yet now that he saw it definitely withheld 
it took an importance as instantly as a mirror 
takes a reflection. This importance was so great 
that he found himself suddenly scared by what 
he heard. He thought an instant, with intensity. 
" In spite of knowing that you'll disappoint " 
he paused a little "the universal hope?" 
" I know whom I shall disappoint ; but I must 
bear that. I shall disappoint Cousin Kate." 
"Horribly," said Tony. 
" Horribly." 
" And poor Paul to within an inch of his life." 
" No, not poor Paul, Mr. Bream ; not poor Paul 
 
in the least," Jean said. She spoke without a 
hint of defiance or the faintest ring of bravado, 
as if for mere veracity and lucidity, since an 
opportunity quite unsought had been forced upon 
her. "I know about poor Paul. It's all right 
about poor Paul," she declared, smiling. 
She spoke and she looked at him with a sin 
cerity so distilled, as he felt, from something 
deep within her, that to pretend to gainsay her 
would be in the worst taste. He turned about, 
not very brilliantly, as he was aware, to some 
other resource. " You'll immensely disappoint 
your own people." 
" Yes, my mother and my grandmother they 
both would like it. But they've never had any 
promise from me." 
Tony was silent awhile. "And Mrs. Beever 
hasn't she had?" 
" A promise ? Never. I've known how much 
she has wanted it. But that's all." 
" Ah, that's a great deal," said Tony. " If, 
knowing how much she has wanted it, you've 
come back again and again, hasn't that been 
tantamount to giving it?" 
Jean considered. " I shall never come back 
again." 
" Ah, my dear child, what a way to treat us ! " 
her friend broke out. 
She took no notice of this ; she only went on : 
" Months ago the last time I was here an 
assurance, of a kind, was asked of me. But even 
then I held off." 
"And you've gone on with that intention?" 
He had grown so serious now that he cross- 
questioned her, but she met him with a prompti 
tude that was touching in its indulgence. " I've 
gone on without an intention. I've only waited 
to see, to feel, to judge. The great thing seemed 
to me to be sure I wasn't unfair to Paul. I 
haven't been I'm not unfair. He'll never say 
I've been I'm sure he won't. I should have 
liked to be able to become his wife. But I 
can't." 
"You've nevertheless excited hopes," said Tony. 
" Don't you think you ought to consider that a 
little more?" His uneasiness, his sense of the 
unexpected, as sharp as a physical pang, increased 
so that he began to lose sight of the importance 
of concealing it ; and he went on even while 
something came into her eyes that showed he 
had not concealed it. "If you haven't meant 
not to do it, you've, so far as that goes, meant 
the opposite. Therefore something has made you 
change." 
Jean hesitated. " Everything has made me 
change." 
"Well," said Tony, with a smile so strained 
that he felt it to be almost pitiful, " we've spoken 
of the disappointment to others, but I suppose 
there's no use in my attempting to say anything 
of the disappointment to me. That's not the thing 
that, in such a case, can have much effect on you." 
Again Jean hesitated ; he saw how pale she had 
grown. "Do I understand you tell me that you 
really desire my marriage?" 
If the revelation of how he desired it had not 
already come to him, the deep mystery of her 
beauty at this crisis might have brought it on 
the spot a spectacle in which he so lost him 
self for the minute that he found no words to 
answer till she spoke again. "Do I understand 
that you literally ask me for it?" 
"I ask you for it I ask you for it," said 
Tony Bream. 
They stood looking at each other like a pair 
who, walking on a frozen lake, suddenly have 
in their ears the great crack of the ice. "And 
what are your reasons ? " 
"I'll tell you my reasons when you tell me 
yours for having changed." 
"I've not changed," said Jean. 
It was as if their eyes were indissolubly en 
gaged. That was the way he had been looking, 
a while before, into another woman's, but he 
could think at this moment how exquisitely 
different Jean's were from those. He shook his 
head sadly and with all the tenderness he felt 
he might permit himself to show just this once 
and never again. " You've changed you've 
changed." 
Then she gave up. " Wouldn't you much 
rather I should never come back?" 
"Far rather. But you will come back," said 
Tony. 
She looked away from him at last she turned 
her eyes over the place in which she had known 
none but emotions permitted and avowed, and 
again she seemed to yield to the formidable 
truth. " So you think I had better come back 
different?" 
His tenderness broke out into a smile. " As 
different as possible. As different as that will 
be all the difference," he added. 
She appeared, with her averted face, to con- 
sider intently how much it might in such a case 
amount to. But " Here he comes," was what she 
presently replied. 
Paul Beever was in sight, so freshly dressed 
that even at a distance his estimate of the re 
quirements of the occasion was visible from his 
necktie to his boots. Adorned as it unmis 
takably had never been, his great featureless 
person moved solemnly over the lawn. 
" Take him, then take him ! " said Tony 
Bream. 
Jean, intensely serious, but with agitation held 
at bay, gave him one more look, a look so in 
finitely pacific that as, at Paul's nearer approach, 
he turned away from her, he had the sense of 
going off with a sign of her acceptance of his 
solution. The light in her face was the light of 
the compassion that had come out to him, and 
what was that compassion but the gage of a relief, 
of a promise? It made him walk down to the 
river with a step quickened to exhilaration ; all 
the more that as the girl's eyes followed him 
he couldn't see in them the tragic intelligence 
he had kindled, her perception from the very 
rhythm of the easy gait she had watched so often 
that he really thought such a virtual confession 
to her would be none too lavishly repaid by the 
effort for which he had appealed. 
Paul Beever had in his hand his little morocco 
case, but his glance also rested, till it disappeared, 
on Tony's straight and swinging back. "I've 
driven him away," he said. 
" It was time," Jean replied. " Effie, who 
wasn't ready for me, must really come at last." 
Then, without the least pretence of unconscious 
ness, she looked straight at the small object Paul 
carried. 
Observing her attention to it he also dropped 
his eyes on it, while his hands turned it round 
and round in apparent uncertainty as to whether 
he had better present it to her open or shut. " I 
hope you won't be as indifferent as Effie seems 
to be to the pretty trifle with which I've thought 
I should like to commemorate your birthday." 
He decided to open the case, and with its lifted 
lid he held it out to her. "It will give me 
great pleasure if you'll kindly accept this little 
ornament." 
Jean took it from him she seemed to study 
it a minute. " Oh, Paul, oh, Paul! " her protest 
was as sparing as a caress with the back of the 
hand. 
 
"I thought you might care for the stone," he 
said. 
"It's a rare and perfect one it's magnificent." 
" Well, Miss Armiger told me you would 
know." There was a hint of relaxed suspense 
in Paul's tone. 
Still holding the case open, his companion 
looked at him a moment. " Did she kindly 
select it?" 
He stammered, colouring a little. " No ; mother 
and I did. We went up to London for it; we 
had the mounting designed and worked out. 
They took two months. But I showed it to Miss 
Armiger, and she said you'd spot any defect." 
" Do you mean," the girl asked, smiling, " that 
if you had not had her word for that, you would 
have tried me with something inferior? " 
Paul continued very grave. " You know well 
enough what I mean." 
Without again noticing the contents of the 
case she softly closed it and kept it in her 
hand. "Yes, Paul, I know well enough what 
you mean." She looked round her ; then, as if 
her old familiarity with him were refreshed and 
sweetened : " Come and sit down with me." She 
led the way to a garden bench that stood at a 
distance from Mrs. Beever's tea-table, an old 
green wooden bench that was a perennial feat 
ure of the spot. " If Miss Armiger knows that 
I'm a judge," she pursued as they went, "it's 
because, I think, she knows everything every 
thing except one, which I know better than 
she." She seated herself, glancing up and put 
ting out her free hand to him with an air of 
comradeship and trust. Paul let it take his own, 
which it held there a minute. "I know you" 
She drew him down, and he dropped her hand; 
whereupon it returned to his little box, which, 
with the aid of the other, it tightly and ner 
vously clasped. " I can't take your present. It's 
impossible," she said. 
He sat leaning forward with his big red fists 
on his knees. "Not for your birthday?" 
" It's too splendid for that it's too precious. 
And how can I take it for that when it isn't for 
that you offer it? How can I take so much, 
Paul, when I give you so little ? It represents 
so much more than itself a thousand more 
things than I've any right to let you think I 
can accept. I can't pretend not to know I 
must meet you half-way. I want to do that 
so much to keep our relations happy, happy 
 
always, without a break or a cloud. They will 
be they'll be beautiful. We've only to be 
frank. They are now: I feel it in the kind 
way you listen to me. If you hadn't asked to 
speak to me, I should have asked it myself. Six 
months ago I promised I would tell you, and I've 
known the time was come." 
" The time is come, but don't tell me till you've 
given me a chance," said Paul. He had listened 
without looking at her, his little eyes pricking 
with their intensity the remotest object they could 
reach. " I want so to please you to make you 
take a favourable view. There isn't a condition 
you may make, you know, of any sort whatever, 
that I won't grant you in advance. And if 
there's any inducement you can name that I've 
the least capacity to offer, please regard it as 
offered with all my heart. You know every 
thing you understand; but just let me repeat 
that all I am, all I have, all I can ever be or 
do " 
She laid her hand on his arm as if to help, not 
to stop him. " Paul, Paul you're beautiful ! " 
She brushed him with the feather of her tact, 
but he reddened and eontinued to avert his big 
face, as if he were aware that the moment of such 
an assertion was scarcely the moment to venture 
to show it. " You're such a gentleman ! " Jean 
went on this time with a tremor in her voice 
that made him turn. 
" That's the sort of fine thing I wanted to say 
to you," he said. And he was so accustomed, in 
any talk, to see his interlocutor suddenly laugh, 
that his look of benevolence covered even her air 
of being amused by these words. 
She smiled at him; she patted his arm. 
"You've said to me far more than that comes 
to. I want you oh, I want you so to be suc 
cessful and happy ! " And her laugh, with an 
ambiguous sob, suddenly changed into a burst 
of tears. 
She recovered herself, but she had brought 
tears into his own eyes. "Oh, that's of no 
consequence ! I'm to understand that you'll 
never, never ?" 
"Never, never." 
Paul drew a long, low breath. " Do you know 
that everyone has thought you probably would?" 
" Certainly, I've known it, and that's why I'm 
glad of our talk. It ought to have come sooner. 
You thought I probably would, I think " 
" Oh, yes ! " Paul artlessly broke in. 
 
Jean laughed again while she wiped her eyes. 
" That's why I call you beautiful. You had my 
possible expectation to meet." 
" Oh, yes ! " he said again. 
"And you were to meet it like a gentleman. 
I might have but no matter. You risked your 
life you've been magnificent." Jean got up. 
"And now, to make it perfect, you must take 
this back." 
She put the morocco case into his submissive 
hand, and he sat staring at it and mechanically 
turning it round. Unconsciously, musingly, he 
threw it a little way into the air and caught it 
again. Then he also got up. "They'll be tre 
mendously down on us." 
" On ' us ' ? On me, of course but why on 
you?" 
"For not having moved you." 
"You've moved me immensely. Before me 
let no one say a word about you ! " 
"It's of no consequence," Paul repeated. 
"Nothing is, if we go on as we are. We're 
better friends than ever. And we're happy!" 
Jean announced in her triumph. 
He looked at her with deep wistfulness, with 
patient envy. " You are ! " Then his eyes took 
the direction to which her attention at that 
moment passed : they showed him Tony Bream 
coming up the slope with his little girl in his 
hand. Jean went down instantly to welcome 
the child, and Paul turned away with a grave 
face, giving at the same time another impulsive 
toss to the case containing the token she had 
declined. 
XXI 
HE directed his face to the house, however, 
only to find himself in the presence of his 
mother, who had come back to her tea-table 
and whom he saw veritably glare at the small 
object in his hands. From this object her scru 
tiny jumped to his own countenance, which, to 
his great discomfort, was not conscious of very 
successfully baffling it. He knew therefore a 
momentary relief when her observation attached 
itself to Jean Martle, whom Tony, planted on 
the lawn, was also undisguisedly watching, and 
who was already introducing Erne to the treasure 
laid up in the shade of the tea-table. The girl 
had caught up the child on her strong young 
arm, where she sat robust and radiant, befrilled 
and besashed, hugging the biggest of the dolls ; 
and in this position erect, active, laughing, her 
rosy burden, almost on her shoulder, mingling its 
brightness with that of her crown of hair, and her 
other hand grasping, for Effie's further delight, in 
the form of another puppet from the pile, a still 
rosier imitation of it anticipated quickly the 
challenge which, as Paul saw, Mrs. Beever was 
on the point of addressing her. 
"Our wonderful cake's not coming out?" 
"It's too big to transport," said Mrs. Beever: 
"it's blazing away in the dining-room." 
Jean Martle turned to Tony. "I may carry 
her in to see it?" 
Tony assented. "Only please remember she's 
not to partake." 
Jean smiled at him. " I'll eat her share ! " 
And she passed swiftly over the lawn while the 
three pairs of eyes followed her. 
" She looks," said Tony, " like the goddess 
Diana playing with a baby-nymph." 
Mrs. Beever's attention came back to her son. 
"That's the sort of remark one would expect to 
hear from you! You're not going with her?" 
Paul showed vacant and vast. " I'm going in." 
"To the dining-room?" 
He wavered. "To speak to Miss Armiger." 
His mother's gaze, sharpened and scared, had 
reverted to his morocco case. "To ask her to 
keep that again?" 
 
At this Paul met her with spirit. "She may 
keep it for ever ! " Giving another toss to his 
missile, while his companions stared at each 
other, he took the same direction as Jean. 
Mrs. Beever, disconcerted and flushed, broke 
out on the spot to Tony. " Heaven help us all 
she has refused him ! " 
Tony's face reflected her alarm. "Pray, how 
do you know ? " 
" By his having his present to her left on his 
hands a jewel a girl would jump at! I came 
back to hear it was settled " 
" And you haven't heard it's not ! " Tony anx 
iously broke in. 
"What I haven't heard I've seen. That it's 
not ' sticks out of them ! If she won't accept the 
gift," Mrs. Beever cried, " how can she accept the 
giver?" 
Tony's appearance, for some seconds, was an 
echo of her question. "Why, she just promised 
me she would! " 
This only deepened his neighbour's surprise. 
" Promised you ? " 
Tony hesitated. " I mean she left me to infer 
that I had determined her. She was so good as 
to listen most appreciatively to what I had to say." 
" And, pray, what had you to say ? " Mrs. 
Beever asked with austerity. 
In the presence of a rigour so immediate he 
found himself so embarrassed that he considered. 
"Well everything. I took the liberty of urg 
ing Paul's claim." 
Mrs. Beever stared. " Very good of you ! 
What did you think you had to do with it?" 
"Why, whatever my great desire that she 
should accept him gave me." 
"Your great desire that she should accept him? 
This is the first I've heard of it." 
Once more Tony pondered. "Did I never 
speak of it to you?" 
" Never that I can remember. From when does 
it date?" Mrs. Beever demanded. 
"From the moment I really understood how 
much Paul had to hope." 
"How 'much'?" the lady of Eastmead deri 
sively repeated. "It wasn't so much that you 
need have been at such pains to make it less ! " 
Tony's comprehension of his friend's discomfit 
ure was written in the smile of determined good- 
humour with which he met the asperity of her 
successive inquiries ; but his own uneasiness, 
which was not the best thing in the world for 
 
his temper, showed through this superficial glitter. 
He looked suddenly as blank as a man can look 
who looks annoyed. " How in the world could I 
have supposed I was making it less ? " 
Mrs. Beever faltered in her turn. "To answer 
that question I should need to have been present 
at your appeal." 
Tony's eyes put forth a fire. " It seems to me 
that your answer, as it is, will do very well for a 
charge of disloyalty. Do you imply that I didn't 
act in good faith?" 
" Not even in my sore disappointment. But I 
imply that you made a gross mistake." 
Tony lifted his shoulders ; with his hands in his 
pockets he had begun to fidget about the lawn 
bringing back to her as he did so the worried fig 
ure that, in the same attitude, the day of poor 
Julia's death, she had seen pace the hall at the 
other house. "But what the deuce then was I to 
do?" 
"You were to let her alone." 
" Ah, but I should have had to begin that ear 
lier ! " he exclaimed with ingenuous promptitude. 
Mrs. Beever gave a laugh of despair. "Years 
and years earlier?" 
"I mean," returned Tony with a blush, "that 
from the first of her being here I made a point of 
giving her the impression of all the good I thought 
of Paul." 
His hostess continued sarcastic. "If it was a 
question of making points and giving impressions, 
perhaps then you should have begun later still ! " 
She gathered herself a moment ; then she brought 
out : " You should have let her alone, Tony 
Bream, because you're madly in love with her ! " 
Tony dropped into the nearest chair; he sat 
there looking up at the Queen-mother. " Your 
proof of that's my plea for your son?" 
She took full in the face his air of pity for her 
lapse. "Your plea was not for my son your 
plea was for your own danger." 
" My own ' danger ' ? " Tony leaped to his 
feet again in illustration of his security. " Need 
I inform you at this time of day that I've such 
a thing as a conscience?" 
"Far from it, my dear man. Exactly what I 
complain of is that you've quite too much of one." 
And she gave him, before turning away, what 
might have been her last look and her last word. 
" Your conscience is as big as your passion, and if 
both had been smaller, you might perhaps have 
held your tongue ! " 
 
She moved off in a manner that added emphasis 
to her words, and Tony watched her with his 
hands still in his pockets and his long legs a little 
apart. He could turn it over that she accused 
him, after all, only of having been a particularly 
injurious fool. " I was under the same impression 
as you," he said "that Paul was safe." 
This arrested and brought her sharply round. 
"And were you under the impression that Jean 
was?" 
" On my honour as far as J'm concerned ! " 
" It's of course of you we're talking," Mrs. Bee- 
ver replied. " If you weren't her motive, are you 
able to suggest who was?" 
" Her motive for refusing Paul ? " Tony looked 
at the sky for inspiration. "I'm afraid I'm too 
surprised and distressed to have a theory." 
"Have you one by chance as to why, if you 
thought them both so safe, you interfered?" 
" ' Interfered ' is a hard word," said Tony. " I 
felt a wish to testify to my great sympathy with 
Paul from the moment I heard what I didn't at 
all know that this was the occasion on which 
he was, in more senses than one, to present his 
case." 
" May I go so far as to ask," said Mrs. Beever, 
"if your sudden revelation proceeded from Paul 
himself?" 
"No not from Paul himself." 
" And scarcely from Jean, I suppose." 
" Not in the remotest degree from Jean." 
" Thank you," she replied " you've told me." 
She had taken her place in a chair and fixed her 
eyes on the ground. " I've something to tell you 
myself, though it may not interest you so much." 
Then raising her eyes : " Dennis Vidal is here." 
Tony almost jumped. " In the house ? " 
" On the river paddling about." After which, 
as his blankness grew, "He turned up an hour 
ago," she explained. 
"And no one has seen him?" 
"The Doctor and Paul. But Paul didn't 
know " 
"And didn't ask?" Tony panted. 
"What does Paul ever ask? He's too stupid! 
Besides, with all my affairs, he sees my people 
come and go. Mr. Vidal vanished when he heard 
that Miss Armiger's here." 
Tony went from surprise to mystification. 
"Not to come back?" 
" On the contrary, I hope as he took my 
boat." 
 
" But he wishes not to see her ? " 
" He's thinking it over." 
Tony wondered. "What then did he come 
for?" 
Mrs. Beever hung fire. "He came to see 
Effie." 
"Effie?" 
"To judge if you're likely to lose her." 
Tony threw back his head. "How the devil 
does that concern him?" 
Again Mrs. Beever faltered; then as she rose, 
"Hadn't I better leave you to think it out?" she 
demanded. 
Tony, in spite of his bewildered face, thought 
it out with such effect that in a moment he ex 
claimed: "Then he still wants that girl?" 
" Very much indeed. That's why he's afraid " 
Tony took her up. "That Effie may die?" 
" It's a hideous thing to be talking about," said 
Mrs. Beever. " But you've perhaps not forgotten 
who were present " 
" I've not forgotten who were present ! I'm 
greatly honoured by Mr. Vidal's solicitude," 
Tony continued ; " but I beg you to tell him 
from me that I think I can take care of my 
child." 
THE OTHEE HOUSE 
" You must take more care than ever ! " Mrs. 
Beever pointedly observed. " But don't mention 
him to Tier ! " she as sharply added. Rose Armi- 
ger's white dress and red parasol had reappeared 
on the steps of the house. 
XXII 
AT the sight of the two persons in the garden 
Rose came straight down to them, and Mrs. Beever, 
sombre and sharp, still seeking relief in the oppor 
tunity for satire, remarked to her companion, in a 
manner at once ominous and indifferent, that her 
guest was evidently in eager pursuit of him. Tony 
replied with gaiety that he awaited her with forti 
tude, and Rose, reaching them, let him know that, 
as she had something more to say to him, she was 
glad he had not, as she feared, quitted the garden. 
Mrs. Beever hereupon signified her own intention 
of taking this course : she would leave their vis 
itor, as she said, to Rose to deal with. 
Rose smiled with her best grace. " That's as I 
leave Paul to you. I've just been with him." 
Mrs. Beever testified not only to interest but to 
approval. " In the library ? " 
" In the drawing-room." Rose, the next mo 
ment, conscientiously showed by a further remark 
her appreciation of the attitude that, on the part 
of her hostess, she had succeeded in producing. 
" Miss Martle's in the library." 
"And Effie?" Mrs. Beever asked. 
" Effie, of course, is where Miss Martle is." 
Tony, during this brief colloquy, had lounged 
away as restlessly as if, instead of beaming on the 
lady of Eastmead, Rose were watching the master 
of the other house. He promptly turned round. 
" I say, dear lady, you know be kind to her ! " 
" To Effie?" Mrs. Beever demanded. 
" To poor Jean." 
Mrs. Beever, after an instant's reflection, took a 
humorous view of his request. "I don't know 
why you call her ' poor ' ! She has declined an 
excellent settlement, but she's not in misery yet." 
Then she said to Rose : " I'll take Mm first." 
Rose had put down her parasol, pricking the 
point of it, as if with a certain shyness, into the 
close, firm lawn. "If you like, when you take 
Miss Martle " She paused, in deep contem 
plation of Tony. 
" When I take Miss Martle ? " There was a 
new encouragement in Mrs. Beever's voice. 
The apparent effect of this benignity was to 
make Miss ' Armiger's eyes widen strangely at their 
 
companion. "Why, I'll come back and take the 
child." 
Mrs. Beever met this offer with an alertness not 
hitherto markedly characteristic of her intercourse 
with Rose. " I'll send her out to you." Then, 
by way of an obeisance to Tony, directing the 
words well at him : " It won't indeed be a scene 
for that poor lamb ! " She marched off with her 
duty emblazoned on her square satin back. 
Tony, struck by the massive characters in which 
it was written there, broke into an indulgent 
laugh, but even in his mirth he traced the satis 
faction she took in letting him see that she 
measured with some complacency the embarrass 
ment Rose might cause him. " Does she propose 
to tear Miss Martle limb from limb ? " he humor 
ously inquired. 
" Do you ask that," said Rose, " partly because 
you're apprehensive that it's what I propose to do 
to you ? " 
"By no means, my dear Rose, after your just 
giving me so marked a sign of the pacific as your 
coming round " 
"On the question," Rose broke in, "of one's 
relation to that little image and echo of her adored 
mother? That isn't peace, my dear Tony. You 
give me just the occasion to let you formally know 
that it's war." 
Tony gave another laugh. " War? " 
" Not on you I pity you too much." 
" Then on whom ? " 
Rose hesitated. " On anyone, on everyone, who 
may be likely to find that small child small as 
she is! inconvenient. Oh, I know," she went 
on, " you'll say I come late in the day for this, and 
you'll remind me of how very short a time ago it 
was that I declined a request of yours to occupy 
myself with her at all. Only half an hour has 
elapsed, but what has happened in it has made all 
the difference." 
She spoke without discernible excitement, and 
Tony had already become aware that the face she 
actually showed him was not a thing to make him 
estimate directly the effect wrought in her by the 
incongruous result of the influence he had put 
forth under pressure of her ardour. He needed 
no great imagination to conceive that this con 
sequence might, on the poor girl's part, well be 
mainly lodged in such depths of her nature as not 
to find an easy or an immediate way to the sur 
face. That he had her to reckon with he was re 
minded as soon as he caught across the lawn the 
 
sheen of her white dress ; but what he most felt 
was a lively, unreasoning hope that for the hour 
at least, and until he should have time to turn 
round and see what his own situation exactly con 
tained for him, her mere incontestable cleverness 
would achieve a revolution during which he might 
take breath. This was not a hope that in any 
way met his difficulties it was a hope that only 
avoided them ; but he had lately had a vision of 
something in which it was still obscure to him 
whether the bitter or the sweet prevailed, and he 
was ready to make almost any terms to be allowed 
to surrender himself to these first quick throbs of 
response to what was at any rate an impression of 
perfect beauty. He was in bliss with a great chill 
and in despair with a great lift, and confused and 
assured and alarmed divided between the joy 
and the pain of knowing that what Jean Martle 
had done she had done for Am, and done full in 
the face of all he couldn't do to repay her. That 
Tony Bream might never marry was a simple 
enough affair, but that this rare creature mightn't 
suddenly figured to him as formidable and exquisite. 
Therefore he found his nerves rather indebted to 
Rose for her being if that was the explanation 
too proud to be vulgarly vindictive. She knew 
his secret, as, even after seeing it so freely handled 
by Mrs. Beever, he still rather artlessly called the 
motive of his vain appeal ; knew it better than 
before, since she could now read it in the intenser 
light of the knowledge of it betrayed by another. 
If on this advantage he had no reason to look to 
her for generosity, it was at least a comfort that he 
might look to her for good manners. Poor Tony 
had the full consciousness of needing to think out 
a line, but it weighed somewhat against that oppres 
sion to feel that Rose also would have it. He 
was only a little troubled by the idea that, ardent 
and subtle, she would probably think faster than 
he. He turned over a moment the revelation 
of these qualities conveyed in her announcement 
of a change, as he might call it, of policy. 
" What you say is charming," he good-naturedly 
replied, " so far as it represents an accession to the 
ranks of my daughter's friends. You will never 
remind me without touching me how nearly a 
sister you were to her mother ; and I would rather 
express the pleasure I take in that than the bewil 
derment I feel at your allusion to any class of 
persons whose interest in her may not be sincere. 
The more friends she has, the better I welcome 
you all. The only thing I ask of you," he went 
 
oil, smiling, "is not to quarrel about her among 
yourselves." 
Rose, as she listened, looked almost religiously 
calm, but as she answered there was a profane 
quaver in her voice that told him with what an 
effort she achieved that sacrifice to form for which 
he was so pusillanimously grateful. " It's very 
good of you to make the best of me ; and it's also 
very clever of you, let me add, my dear Tony 
and add with all deference to your goodness to 
succeed in implying that any other course is open 
to you. You may welcome me as a friend of the 
child or not. I'm present for her, at any rate, and 
present as I've never been before." 
Tony's gratitude, suddenly contracting, left a 
little edge for irritation. " You're present, as 
suredly, my dear Rose, and your presence is to us 
all an advantage of which, happily, we never be 
come unconscious for an hour. But do I under 
stand that the firm position among us that you 
allude to is one to which you see your way to at 
taching any possibility of permanence ? " 
She waited as if scrupulously to detach from its 
stem the flower of irony that had sprouted in this 
speech, and while she inhaled it she gave her vis 
ible attention only to the little hole in the lawn 
that she continued to prick with the point of her 
parasol. " If that's a graceful way of asking me," 
she returned at last, " whether the end of my visit 
here isn't near at hand, perhaps the best satisfac 
tion I can give you is to say that I shall probably 
stay on at least as long as Miss Martle. What I 
meant, however, just now," she pursued, "by saying 
that I'm more on the spot than heretofore, is simply 
that while I do stay I stay to be vigilant. That's 
what I hurried out to let you definitely know, in 
case you should be going home without our meet 
ing again. I told you before I went into the house 
that I trusted you I needn't recall to you for 
what. Mr. Beever after a while came in and told 
me that Miss Martle had refused him. Then I felt 
that, after what had passed between us, it was only 
fair to say to you " 
" That you've ceased to trust me ? " Tony inter 
rupted. 
"By no means. I don't give and take back." 
And though his companion's handsome head, with 
its fixed, pale face, rose high, it became appreciably 
handsomer and reached considerably higher, while 
she wore once more the air of looking at his mis 
take through the enlarging blur of tears. " As I 
believe you did, in honour, what you could for Mr. 
Beever, I trust you perfectly still." 
 
Tony smiled as if he apologised, but as if also he 
couldn't but wonder. " Then it's only fair to say 
tome ?" 
" That I don't trust Miss Martle." 
" Oh, my dear woman ! " Tony precipitately 
laughed. 
But Rose went on with all deliberation and dis 
tinctness. " That's what has made the difference 
that's what has brought me, as you say, round 
to a sense of my possible use, or rather of my clear 
obligation. Half an hour ago I knew how much 
you love her. Now I know how much she loves 
you." 
Tony's laugh suddenly dropped ; he showed the 
face of a man for whom a joke has sharply turned 
grave. " And what is it that, in possession of this 
admirable knowledge, you see ?" 
Rose faltered ; but she had not come so far sim 
ply to make a botch of it. "Why, that it's the 
obvious interest of the person we speak of not to 
have too stupid a patience with any obstacle to her 
marrying you." 
This speech had a quiet lucidity of which the 
odd action was, for an instant, to make him lose 
breath so violently that, in his quick gasp, he felt 
sick. In the indignity of the sensation he struck 
out. " Pray, why is it the person's obvious inter 
est any more than it's yours ? " 
" Seeing that I love you quite as much as she 
does? Because you don't love me quite as much 
as you love her. That's exactly ' why,' dear Tony 
Bream ! " said Rose Armiger. 
She turned away from him sadly and nobly, as 
if she had done with him and with the subject, 
and he stood where she had left him, gazing at the 
foolish greenness at his feet and slowly passing his 
hand over his head. In a few seconds, however, 
he heard her utter a strange, short cry, and, look 
ing round, saw her face to face across the inter 
val of sloping lawn with a gentleman whom he 
had been sufficiently prepared to recognise on the 
spot as Dennis Vidal. 
XXIII 
HE had, in this preparation, the full advantage 
of Rose, who, quite thrown for the moment off her 
balance, was vividly unable to give any account of 
the apparition which should be profitable to her 
self. The violence of her surprise made her catch 
the back of the nearest chair, on which she covertly 
rested, directing at her old suitor from this posi 
tion the widest eyes the master of Bounds had 
ever seen her unwittingly open. To perceive this, 
however, was to be almost simultaneously struck, 
and even to be not a little charmed, with the 
clever quickness of her recovery that of a per 
son constitutionally averse to making unmeasured 
displays. Rose was capable of astonishment, as 
she was capable of other kinds of emotion; but 
she was as little capable of giving way to it as she 
was of giving way to other kinds ; so that both of 
her companions immediately saw her moved by 
the sense that a perturbing incident could at the 
worst do her no such evil turn as she might suffer 
by taking it in the wrong way. Tony became 
aware, in addition, that the fact communicated to 
him by Mrs. Beever gave him an advantage even 
over the poor fellow whose face, as he stood there, 
showed the traces of an insufficient forecast of two 
things : one of them the influence on all his pulses 
of the sight again, after such an interval, and in 
the high insolence of life and strength, of the 
woman he had lost and still loved ; the other the 
instant effect on his imagination of his finding her 
intimately engaged with the man who had been, 
however without fault, the occasion of her perver 
sity. Vidal's marked alertness had momentarily 
failed him ; he paused in his advance long enough 
to give Tony, after noting and regretting his agi 
tation, time to feel that Rose was already as 
colourlessly bland as a sensitive woman could 
wish to be. 
All this made the silence, however brief and 
it was much briefer than my account of it vi 
brate to such a tune as to prompt Tony to speak 
as soon as possible in the interest of harmony. 
What directly concerned him was that he had last 
seen Vidal as his own duly appreciative guest, and 
he offered him a hand freely charged with re- 
 
minders of that quality. He was refreshed and 
even a little surprised to observe that the young 
man took it, after all, without stiffness ; but the 
strangest thing in the world was that as he cor 
dially brought him up the bank he had a mystic 
glimpse of the fact that Rose Armiger, with her 
heart in her throat, was waiting for some sign as 
to whether she might, for the benefit of her inter 
course with himself, safely take the ground of 
having expected what had happened having 
perhaps even brought it about. She naturally 
took counsel of her fears, and Tony, suddenly 
more elated than he could have given a reason for 
being, was ready to concur in any attempt she 
might make to save her appearance of knowing no 
reproach. Yet, foreseeing the awkwardness that 
might arise from her committing herself too 
rashly, he made haste to say to Vidal that he 
would have been startled if he had not been fore 
warned: Mrs. Beever had mentioned to him the 
visit she had just received. 
" Ah, she told you ? " Dennis asked. 
"Me only as a great sign of confidence," Tony 
laughed. 
Rose, at this, could be amazed with superiority. 
" What ? you've already been here ? " 
"An hour ago," said Dennis. "I asked Mrs. 
