"Who yer lookin' at?" cried Tim Bunker, as the Thunderbolt came near
the Zephyr.
"Good-morning, Tim," said Frank pleasantly.
"Why don't yer pull, yer lubbers?" shouted Tim.
"You have a new boat, I see."
"I'll bet we have," replied Tim, bringing the Thunderbolt round the
stern of the Zephyr.
"Isn't that Joe Braman's boat?" asked Charles.
"No, sir-ee! It's my boat," answered Tim.
"Did you buy it off him?"
"Didn't do nothin' else."
"What did you give?"
"Ten dollars, and five for fixin' her up," replied Tim with a great
deal of importance.
"She looks very well," continued Charles.
"She'll go some, you better believe."
Tony Weston could not help smiling at this conversation, and Tim Bunker
unfortunately perceived the funny expression on his face. It roused his
anger.
"Who stole the wallet?" said he.
This taunt roused a feeling of indignation in the soul of Fred Harper;
and he so far forgot the requirements of the constitution as to
reply,--
"Tim Bunker."
"Le's lick 'em," said one of the Bunkers.
"Give way!" exclaimed Frank with energy, when he saw the storm brewing.
Mindful of the discipline of the club, every member obeyed the order,
and the Zephyr darted away from the belligerent Thunderbolts.
"Pooh! Frank, I wouldn't run away from them," said Charles.
"I have no desire to quarrel with such fellows," replied Frank; "and I
hope none of you will say anything to provoke them. That was very
thoughtless of you, Fred."
"I know it; but somehow I couldn't help it; the taunt was so mean and
contemptible. If I had been on shore, I should have knocked him over."
"Article six," said Frank.
"Here they come after us," added Tony.
The boys all laughed involuntarily at the idea of the old "gundelow,"
as Fred called it, chasing them.
"They can't catch us," continued Frank.
"I guess not," said Charles.
"But I am sorry we provoked them, for I had a little plan in my head."
"What is it, Frank?"
"Way enough! Never mind it now; we are a quarter of a mile from them,
and we can easily keep out of their way."
"Frank, we are running too near the shore," interposed Tony. "The water
is shoal here, you know."
"Stern all! Give way!" exclaimed the coxswain. "I was watching the
Bunkers so closely that I did not mind where we were going."
But it was too late. The Zephyr had not lost her headway, and darted
forward, burying her keel in the mud-bank at the bottom of the lake,
off the mouth of a brook.
"By gracious!" exclaimed Charles Hardy; "we are in for it now."
"And the Bunkers are upon us," added Frank, very much perplexed by the
difficulties which suddenly surrounded them.
"What shall be done?" asked Tony.
"Let them come on," replied Fred. "We can't get rid of them now."
"I don't want to fight with them," added Frank.
The Thunderbolt was approaching them, not very rapidly, it was true;
but a few minutes would involve them in a quarrel, which Frank and a
large majority of the club were very anxious to avoid. Tim Bunker was
standing up in the stern-sheets of his boat, watching them with
malignant interest.
"Hurrah! they are aground!" cried Tim, as soon as he understood the
nature of the calamity which had befallen the Zephyr. "We have them
now; they can't run away, the cowardly long faces!"
"Come aft, some of you," said Frank, when he heard these threatening
words. "The water is deep enough under the stern. We have only run into
a mud-bank."
On the starboard side of the boat there was plenty of water, and if
they could move her back a rod they could easily escape.
The boys obeyed the order of the coxswain; but the Zephyr had been
forced so deeply into the mud that her bow still stuck fast.
"Half a dozen of you set your oars in the mud, and push!" continued
Frank, highly excited by the danger that menaced them.
But it was of no use, they could not start her.
"They are upon us," said Tony.
"What shall we do?" asked Frank, sadly perplexed.
"We must fight," said Fred.
"No; I am not willing to do that."
"Shall we sit here and let them pound us as much as they have a mind
to?" demanded Fred. "But you are coxswain, Frank; and I, for one, shall
do just what you say."
"So shall I!" said another.
"And I!"
And so they all said.
Frank was more and more embarrassed as the circumstances multiplied the
difficulties around him. He was charged with the direction of the whole
club, and the responsibility of his position rested heavily upon his
mind. He had been taught at the fireside of his pious home to avoid a
quarrel at almost any sacrifice; and he was painfully conscious that
the indiscreet words of Fred Harper had provoked the anger of the
Bunkers. Poor fellow! What could he do? He was not willing to order
them to fight, even in self-defence; and he knew that their foes would
whip them severely if they did not. The Thunderbolt was within a few
rods of them, and five minutes more would decide the question.
"We are in a bad fix!" said Charles nervously. "What are you going to
do, Frank?"
"Tony, take your boat-hook, and see how deep the water is on the
mud-bank."
"Only about a foot," replied Tony, as he obeyed the order.
"Is the mud deep?"
"Not very," replied Tony, pushing the boat-hook down.
"I want two volunteers," said Frank hurriedly.
"I!" cried Tony.
"I!" repeated half a dozen others.
"Tony and Fred, roll up your trousers, and jump into the water. You can
easily push her off."
"Agreed!" cried the two volunteers, as they hastened to execute the
order.
"Six of you take your oars; back her as they push; the other four stay
in the stern-sheets to settle her down aft."
"Ay, ay!" exclaimed the boys.
"Now for it! Stern all! Give way!"
The effect was instantly perceived; the boat was moved back about a
foot.
"Once more, all together!" said Frank.
Another effort backed her about two feet more, and the case began to
look hopeful.
"Again, quick! they are upon us! Leap in, Tony and Fred, when she is
free."
"Heave again!" said Tony.
Their exertions were now crowned with entire success, and the Zephyr
darted back into deep water; but an unfortunate occurrence rendered all
their labor futile. As the boat slid off the mud-bank, Tony and Fred,
in their attempt to spring on board, embarrassed each other's
movements, so that the former lost his hold, and remained standing in
the mud and water.
At this instant the Thunderbolt reached the spot; and Tim steered
directly for poor Tony, whose situation he discovered the moment the
Zephyr was free.
"Hit him!" screamed Tim. "Pound him with yer oars! Drownd him!"
Frank's blood seemed to freeze in his veins, as he perceived the
imminent peril of his friend. He knew the Bunkers would not spare him,
and that his life was even in danger.
Fortunately the Thunderbolt grounded, or Tony would inevitably have
been borne under her bottom. Tim seized an oar, and with the ferocity
of a madman sprang forward to execute his vengeance on the helpless
boy.
"Let him alone!" shouted Frank with frantic earnestness. "Up oars! Let
fall! Give way!"
Frank was fully roused, and his orders were delivered with rapidity and
energy. Seizing the tiller-ropes, he steered the boat as she gathered
headway, so that her sharp bow struck the Thunderbolt on her broadside,
staving in her gunwale, and upsetting her.
The Bunkers thought this was rather sharp practice, as they floundered
about in the water. They had not given Frank Sedley credit for half so
much determination. They had never seen anything in him that indicated
"grit" before. He was a peaceable boy, always avoiding a quarrel; but
when the very life of his friend was in peril, he was found to be as
bold and courageous as the best of them.
The bow of the Zephyr was swung round so that Tony could get in.
Washing off the mud from his legs, he adjusted his trousers.
In the meantime the Bunkers had righted their boat, and resumed their
places. The bath they had had quite cooled their belligerent heat;
though, if it had not, Frank had taken the precaution to back the
Zephyr out of their reach.
"You'll catch it for this!" exclaimed Tim Bunker, as his crew were
bailing out the Thunderbolt with their hats.
"I am sorry for what has happened, Tim," replied Frank, "but I could
not help it."
"Couldn't help it, yer----" I will not soil the pages of my book by
writing the expression that Tim made use of. "Yes, yer could help it.
What d'yer run inter me for?"
"You threatened to drown Tony, and if your boat had not got aground you
would have run him down."
"That I would, long face! If ever I catch either of yer, I will lick
yer within an inch of yer life--mind that!"
"I am sorry for it, Tim."
"Yer lie, yer ain't!"
"It was all my fault, Tim," interposed Fred; "and I will pay for the
damage done your boat."
"I guess yer better."
"How much will you take, and call it square?"
"Dollar and a half," growled Tim, glancing at the fractured gunwale.
Fred had not so much money with him, but the sum was immediately raised
in the club.
"Now, Tim, we will forgive and forget; what do you say?" asked Fred.
"I don't want nothin' on yer; give me the money, and I don't care what
yer do."
Frank ordered the crew to pull up to the Thunderbolt, and Fred handed
Tim the money.
"I'll pay yer for this; see 'f I don't," said the unforgiving Bunker as
the Zephyr backed away.
CHAPTER XV
CENTRE ISLAND
Frank Sedley was very much disturbed by the events of the forenoon. His
conscience assured him, however, that he had done nothing wrong. He had
not tried to provoke a quarrel with the Bunkers, and the unpleasant
occurrences of the past hour were wholly owing to their misfortune in
getting aground. He would not have been justified, he felt, in leaving
Tony at the mercy of his relentless foes.
Fred Harper had done wrong in replying to the taunt of Tim, and this
would make a case for the decision of their Director.
"We must keep away from them hereafter," said he, as the Zephyr came
about, and the crew gave way again.
"That will be the best way," added Tony.
"So I think," said Charles; "we shall be all the time getting into
scrapes if we go near them."
"We can go near them without meddling," interposed Fred Harper.
"But, Fred, you remember what made all the fuss."
"It was my fault, I know."
"I don't want to be hard with you while I am coxswain; but if any
member says or does anything while we are on the lake to get us into a
scrape, I shall consider it my duty to land him immediately at the
boat-house. What do you say to that?"
No boy spoke for a moment; but at last Tony said,--
"That would be perfectly fair."
"I want to have it understood," continued Frank. "My father will not
let us come out alone again if we are likely to have such a time as
this has been."
"Why need you tell him anything about it, Frank?" asked Charles.
"Because it is right that he should know it. Suppose we should conceal
it, and then he should find it out?"
"That would only make a bad matter worse," replied Tony.
"For one, I am satisfied to have any fellow that tries to get us into a
scrape put ashore," said Fred Harper.
"So am I," added Tony.
All the rest of the club expressed themselves willing to comply with
this arrangement.
"Now, be careful, all of you," continued Frank, "and we shall have no
more trouble."
"But while the Bunkers are on the lake, we can't help meeting them,"
said Sam Harper.
"We need not say anything to them."
"But that would not be civil."
"We can answer them kindly if they say anything to us," replied Phil
Barker.
"They won't forget the smash-up," suggested Mark Leman.
"We can easily keep out of their way," added Fred.
"Where are you going now, Frank?" asked Charles Hardy.
"Isn't it almost twelve?" inquired the coxswain.
"Half-past eleven," returned Fred Harper, who carried a watch. "You
said you had a plan, Frank."
"I was thinking of asking Mrs. Weston and Mary to take a sail with us."
"Good!" replied half a dozen voices.
"We will take them over to the island."
The proposition was agreed to, and Frank steered the boat into the
little cove near the widow Weston's cottage.
"Tony and Charles shall be a committee to go and invite them," said
Frank, as the bow of the Zephyr touched the land.
The two jumped ashore to discharge the duty assigned them.
"Where's the Thunderbolt?" asked Fred, rising from his seat.
"There she goes over to the north shore."
"Putting in to repair damages."
"Where do you suppose Tim got the money to buy that boat with?" asked
Fred, looking seriously at Frank.
"I don't know," replied the latter; but a gleam of intelligence
penetrated his mind. "I hadn't thought of it before."
"I don't know either, but I can guess," said Fred.
"You might guess wrong."
"Fifteen dollars is a great deal of money for a boy like him to have.
His father works in one of the mills at Rippleton."
"Here comes Tony with his sister!"
"Where is your mother, Tony?"
"She couldn't go, but she said Mary might."
"Stop a moment, Tony, and we will bring the stern round by that rock,"
said Frank. "Stern all! Give way! Way enough! That will do; now pull on
the larboard and back the starboard oars. Give way!"
The stern of the Zephyr came up to the rock, and the gallant coxswain
assisted Mary to a seat by his side. Tony and Charles resumed their
places at the oars.
"How pretty your boat is!" exclaimed Mary, delighted with the
appearance of the Zephyr.
"Very pretty indeed. Give way!"
"But won't it tip over?" cried Mary, as the boat darted out of the
cove.
"Oh, no; there is not the least danger."
"And you guide it with those strings?" asked the wondering girl.
"Yes; they are fastened to that crosspiece, you see; and when I pull
them, it moves the rudder."
"What is the rudder, Frank?"
"You can see only the upper end of it; but it is a flat piece of wood,
which acts upon the water, and turns the boat," replied the obliging
coxswain, illustrating his explanation by means of his hands.
"Oh, my! how swift it goes!"
"Not very fast now."
"Why, it goes like a racehorse."
The boys smiled at Mary's enthusiasm.
"Let her drive a little, Frank," suggested Fred Harper.
Frank commenced swaying his body back and forth, increasing in rapidity
till the boys put forth their utmost exertion. Mary held on to the
gunwale of the boat, as her speed augmented, and she seemed almost to
fly through the water.
"Isn't it beautiful!" exclaimed Mary.
Frank was so intent upon the movements of the excited crew that he
scarcely noticed they had nearly reached the north shore.
"Way enough!" said he.
"I should think they would be very tired," added Mary.
"Perhaps they are; we came over very quick; the distance is more than a
mile."
"Twig the Bunkers!" said Charles.
The Zephyr was within a short distance of the landing in front of Joe
Braman's house. The Thunderbolt had just put in there, and as they
approached Joe and Tim were examining the nature of the damages the
boat had sustained.
"What does he say, Tony?" asked Fred.
"He says he can easily fix it."
"Give way!" said Frank, giving the rowers slow time.
Steering the boat round by Joe Braman's landing, they saw Joe go into
the house, and return with a hammer and some nails, with which he
proceeded to nail a piece of board over the fracture in the side of the
Thunderbolt.
"I can't fix it any better to-day; I'm going to Boston in the
two-o'clock train."
"Will that hold?" asked Tim.
"Yes; she won't leak. Now just row me over to Rippleton."
"There is the villains of long faces," said Tim, pointing at the
Zephyr. "Jump in, fellers, and just throw some of them stones into the
boat. We'll give it to 'em yet."
"Joe's going to Boston," said Fred.
"So he says."
The Bunkers threw the stones into their boat, and then got in
themselves. In imitation of the discipline of the Zephyr, the oars were
first placed in a perpendicular position, and then dropped into the
water.
"Pull," said Tim, steering directly towards the Zephyr.
"Most twelve," suggested Fred Harper, with a significant glance at
Frank.
"Give way!" replied the latter, smiling.
"Want to race?" shouted Tim.
"With the greatest pleasure."
"Come alongside, then, and we will take a fair start."
"No, you don't!" said Frank in a low tone, apprehending an attack from
his quarrelsome rival. "I will give you twenty rods the start,"
continued he aloud.
"You darssent come," sneered Tim.
Joe Braman was seen to speak to Tim, and instantly the Thunderbolt was
headed towards the Zephyr.
"Pull with all your might!" cried Tim Bunker.
"Drive 'em into that 'ere cove, and then you can fix 'em," said Joe.
But Frank gave the cove a "wide berth." A very little exertion on the
part of the club was sufficient to keep them out of the reach of the
Bunkers, and they continued their course leisurely towards Centre
Island.
Joe Braman saw that the chase was hopeless; and at his suggestion the
Thunderbolt abandoned the pursuit, and steered towards Rippleton.
"Those are dreadful bad boys," said Mary Weston, when, to her intense
relief, she saw them give up the chase.
"That they are; but our boat is so much swifter than theirs that we can
easily keep out of their way."
"Do you suppose they really meant to stone you?"
"I have no doubt of it."
"Nearly twelve," said Fred Harper, looking at his watch.
"Give way, my lads; we will be there in time."
The clock on the distant church was striking twelve when they touched
at the island. The Zephyr was turned round and backed in shore, so that
Mary could land conveniently.
"How do you do, Mary? I am glad to see you," said Captain Sedley, as he
helped her on shore. "And, Frank, your mother is coming over. The wind
was so light, we could not sail. Will you row her over?"
"Oh, yes, father."
"I suppose you are more ready and willing than the boys who pull the
boat."
"We are all ready and willing," shouted the boys.
"Hurrah! so we are," added Charles Hardy.
"She is waiting in the boat-house."
The Zephyr pushed off again, and in a very few minutes returned with
Mrs. Sedley as passenger. Frank was delighted to show his mother how
skilful the club had become, and she was much pleased with her
excursion.
Uncle Ben secured the boat to a tree, and the boys all landed.
Everything was ready for their reception. The table, which was covered
with every description of "nice things," was laid under the shade of a
tall oak in the miniature forest.
Captain Sedley sat at one end, and Uncle Ben at the other. Mrs. Sedley
and Mary were on the right. The Director prefaced the entertainment
with a few remarks, and then invited them to do justice to the feast
that was set before them.
"All ready!" exclaimed Captain Sedley with a loud voice.
The boys all wondered what made him speak so very loud; and Frank
perceived a mysterious smile on the lips of his mother, and he was
quite sure it meant something.
Suddenly, and to the intense surprise of all the boys, a band, which
had been stationed in the grove near them, struck up "Hail Columbia."
"Hurrah!" cried Charles Hardy in a burst of enthusiastic delight.
The music was an unexpected treat; and as the Rippleton Brass Band
poured forth its most inspiring strains, there were no bounds to the
delight of the boys. But the music did not prevent their doing ample
justice to the viands set before them.
After the collation was finished, Frank told his father all the
circumstances of their morning excursion. Captain Sedley did not blame
Fred very much for the taunt he had used, considering the provocation.
He was satisfied that the boat club organization would correct such
indiscretions in due time. He decided, however, that Fred should submit
to some penalty, to be affixed at another time, and that Frank was
right in not leaving Tony at the mercy of the Bunkers.
Frank continued his story, and incidentally remarked that the Bunkers
had just rowed Joe Braman to Rippleton, where he intended to take the
cars for Boston.
Captain Sedley mused a moment.
"The cars start at two o'clock," said he, consulting his watch. "Boys,
I must go to Boston, and you must row me down to the village as quickly
as you can."
"Zephyrs, ahoy!" shouted Frank.
The club were in their seats in a moment, and the Zephyr darted away
towards Rippleton.
CHAPTER XVI
THE GEOGRAPHY OF WOOD LAKE
Captain Sedley reached the depot just in time to take the two-o'clock
train; and the club returned to Centre Island, where another hour was
spent very pleasantly in listening to the music of the band, and in
such amusements as the ingenuity of boys can devise.
But at last they grew tired of the land. The beautiful Zephyr, resting
so lightly and gracefully on the water, seemed to invite them to more
congenial sports.
"Mother, won't you let us row you round the lake?" asked Frank. "We
want to go on an exploring voyage."
"With pleasure; but the band is engaged for all the afternoon."
"Can't we take them in the boat?"
"I'm afraid it is not large enough; there are thirteen musicians."
"That would be first-rate--music on the water!" exclaimed Charles
Hardy.
"What do you think, Uncle Ben?" asked Mrs. Sedley.
"I don't think it would be safe, marm."
"I am afraid not."
"Oh, yes, it would!" cried Charles, disappointed at the thought of
resigning the plan.
"There is not room enough in the Zephyr for them. But there's a little
breeze springing up, and I'll take them in the sailboat."
"That will do just as well," replied Mrs. Sedley.
"But you can't keep up with us, Uncle Ben," said Charles.
"Then you must go slower."
"Zephyrs, ahoy!" cried Frank.
The club hastened to the boat, and seated themselves. The musicians
found ample room in the large sailboat.
"Stop a minute, mother, till we go about and bring the stern in shore,"
said Frank, as he gave the word to elevate the oars.
Uncle Ben and his party had already got under way, and the band
commenced playing "Wood Up," as the sailboat slowly gathered headway.
The Zephyr backed in, and Mrs. Sedley and Mary Weston were assisted to
their seats by the gallant young coxswain.
"Give way!" said Frank; and the club boat shot out from the land.
"How fine the music sounds on the water!" said Mary.
"Beautiful," replied Mrs. Sedley. "I am sorry your mother is not with
us, Mary."
"She could not come before dinner."
"Would she join us now, do you think?"
"I guess she would."
"We can go and see, at any rate," said Frank. "Uncle Ben is steering
that way."
"Do, Frank; I have something I wish to say to her."
"Bunkers!" exclaimed Fred Harper.
"Where?"
"Coming up from Rippleton."
"I hope they will keep away from us," added Frank, whose forenoon
experience was still remembered.
"They will want to hear the music."
"You must keep near Uncle Ben, Frank."
The Zephyr was rapidly approaching the Sylph, as the sailboat was
called.
"I wish they would play 'Old Folks at Home,'" said Charles.
"We can ask them to do so."
Suddenly Frank stood up in his place.
"Way enough!" said he with a smile.
"What are you going to do?" asked his mother.
"I am going to execute a manoeuvre; and, boys, I want you to be
prompt in your movements."
"Ay, ay!" shouted the club.
"Now, then, give way!"
Frank swayed his body for a few moments with great rapidity, and of
course the stroke of the rowers corresponded to his motions. The Zephyr
darted forward with a speed which surprised Mrs. Sedley.
"Way enough!" cried Frank, when the boat came within a few rods of the
Sylph.
"Be careful, my son; you will run against her," interposed Mrs. Sedley,
as she involuntarily grasped the gunwale of the boat.
The dripping oars were all extended at the same height from the water,
at the command of the coxswain.
"Up oars!" continued he.
"You will certainly run against them, Frank," repeated Mrs. Sedley.
"Pray don't be careless."
"There is nothing to fear, mother."
Indeed, the Zephyr was approaching fearfully near the Sylph, and even
Uncle Ben began to feel a little uneasy.
"Port your helm, Frank!" shouted the veteran.
"Keep her steady, Uncle Ben."
Frank, looking through the two rows of perpendicular oars, steered the
Zephyr alongside her companion, and passed within a very few inches of
her.
"Play 'Old Folks at Home,' if you please," said he, as the boat darted
by the sluggish Sylph.
"That was a little too close, my son," said Mrs. Sedley.
"We are perfectly safe, mother, are we not?"
"We are; but, Frank, you should never expose yourself, and especially
not others, to needless peril."
"We were in no danger."
"I think you were."
"The Zephyr is under perfect control; she feels the slightest turn of
the rudder."
"Suppose Uncle Ben's boat had swerved a little from her course?"
"There was no fear of that."
"You do not know. If it had, we might have been drowned, many of us at
least."
Frank looked serious.
"Ask Uncle Ben what he thinks about it."
"Let fall," said Frank.
The boys began to pull again, and the coxswain steered so as to bring
the Zephyr in a circle round the Sylph.
"Now we will keep alongside, but at a safe distance," said he, as he
laid her course parallel with that of his companion.
The band was preparing to play the tune which Frank had requested. The
Sylph was making very good progress through the water, and the rowers
kept pulling with a very slow stroke.
"You were careless, Frank," said Uncle Ben, when the band stopped
playing.
"Do you think so, Uncle Ben?"
"Very careless; in the navy they would have put you in irons for it.
There arn't no need of risking the lives of your crew in that way. If
it had been to save the life of a feller-creter, or anything of that
sort, there would have been some sense in it."
"I didn't think there was any danger," returned Frank, not a little
troubled by the veteran's censure.
"I'm sailin' right afore the wind, you see, and the boat swings fore
and aft, like a French dancing-master. If she had a swayed only a
leetle grain, we might all have gone to the bottom."
"I never will be so careless again."
"You were all-fired careless, Frank," said Charles Hardy.
Fred Harper could not help turning round and looking the speaker full
in the face to reprove him for his interference.
Frank felt the rebuke of his friend, and was not a little hurt by the
reproach, coming as it did from one whom he had used with so much
lenity--for whom he had so strenuously interceded with his father.
"Hush up! Charley," said Fred in a low tone. "Don't you know any better
than that?"
The band now struck up "Old Folks at Home."
"Let us sing," said Frank.
"So I say," replied Tony.
"Wait till they come to the chorus," added Fred.
At the right moment the boys commenced the chorus, and the effect was
very pleasing. Mrs. Sedley and Mary's voices were heard with the
others, and all were delighted.
"Here's the cove," said Frank, when the band ceased playing. "We were
going on a voyage of discovery this afternoon, to name the bays and
points of land. What shall we call this cove?"
"Weston Bay," suggested Fred.
"Agreed!" answered a dozen members.
"And that mud-bank over there, where we got aground this morning, we
will call Bunker's Shoal," continued Fred.
"I think not," said Mrs. Sedley. "That would be casting a reflection
upon those boys."
"What shall we call it?"
"Black Shoal," replied Tony. "The mud on it, I know from personal
experience, is very black."
"Black Shoal it is," replied Frank, directing the boat into the little
bay.
The invitation of Mrs. Sedley was quite sufficient to induce Mrs.
Weston to join the "exploring expedition;" and the committee that had
been deputed to wait upon her soon returned, escorting her to the boat.
"Dear me! won't it tip over?" exclaimed the poor woman, when she had
placed one foot in the boat.
"She is perfectly safe," replied Frank, assisting her to a seat.
The boat pushed off again, and joined the Sylph. The band commenced
playing a popular march; and all the party, with the exception of Mrs.
Weston, who had her suspicions as to the stability of the beautiful
Zephyr, were in the highest state of enjoyment.
Farther up the lake there was a projecting headland, at the end of
which, separated from the shore by a narrow passage of water, not more
than ten feet in width, was a small, rocky island. This island and its
vicinity were the next points of interest deserving the attention of
the voyagers, and thither Frank steered the boat.
"Boys, you all study geography, do you not?" asked Mrs. Sedley.
"All of us, mother," replied Frank.
"Did it ever occur to you that all the natural divisions of water, on a
small scale, could be seen in Wood Lake?"
"Can they?" asked Charles. "I would not have believed it."
"I never thought of it before," added Frank.
"Years ago, before I was married, I used to teach school," continued
Mrs. Sedley; "and my scholars always found it difficult to remember the
definitions of the natural divisions of the earth. What do you think
the reason was?"
"I suppose they did not half learn them," replied Fred.
"They did not understand them. When we spoke of a gulf, for example,
they thought of something a great way off--as far as the Gulf of Mexico
or the Gulf of St. Lawrence."
"I am sure I never thought of them as anything that I had ever seen, or
was ever likely to see," added Charles, who always had something to
say, and who tried to get the good will of others by appearing to be
humble and teachable.
The other boys were equally tractable, but from another motive. Mrs.
Sedley's geography lesson was full of interest to them; and as they
pulled slowly, they gave all their attention to what she said.
"I took them out one day to a pond near the school-house, where I
pointed out almost all the divisions of water, and then on a hill, to
show them the divisions of land."
"But you could not find them all."
"All but one or two; there was no volcano."
"Was there a desert?"
"A small one."
"Hurrah! we can find them all," cried Charles. "I missed just such a
question last week in school."
"I made a volcano on the Fourth of July," said Fred Harper.
"Indeed! how?"
"I took a handful of powder, wet it, and then placed it on a board.
Then I covered it over with a coat of wet clay, leaving a little hole
at the top, with some dry powder on it."
"That was the crater," added Charles.
"Yes; and then I touched it off. It was in the evening, and it looked
just like Mount Vesuvius in the panorama."
"Now, boys," continued Mrs. Sedley, "who can tell me what an ocean is?"
"The largest body of water," replied several.
"What shall represent the ocean here?"
"The lake."
"Very well; what is a sea?"
"A portion of water smaller than an ocean, and nearly surrounded by
land."
"We are in one now," said Frank.
He had steered the Zephyr into a corner of the lake which was partly
enclosed by the projecting headland and island and the main shore.
"What sea shall we call it?" said Fred.
The boys looked around them for some object that would suggest a name.
CHAPTER XVII
OVERBOARD
There was no visible object which seemed to suggest a name for the
miniature sea; but just then the band began to play "Washington's
March."
"Call it Washington Sea, boys," said Mrs. Sedley.
The name was given, but the geography lesson could not proceed while
the music continued.
"Stand by to lay on your oars!" Frank commanded. "Oars!"
The oarsmen levelled their oars, feathering the blades, and listening
to the march. The Bunkers, attracted by the music of the band, followed
the Sylph at a respectful distance. The presence of Uncle Ben and Mrs.
Sedley was a restraint upon them, and they conducted themselves with
tolerable decorum. The band ceased playing, and Mrs. Sedley continued
her instructions.
"What is a gulf or bay?"
"A portion of the sea extending into the land."
"Can you give me an example?"
"Weston Bay," replied Fred, laughing.
"And perhaps, before the expedition concludes its voyage, we shall find
something which may be called a gulf."
"I know where there is a gulf," said Charles.
"Now, Frank, you may go through the strait," said Fred.
"Is it safe? I don't know how deep the water is."
"I am glad to see you are careful," said Mrs. Sedley. "You can ask
Uncle Ben."
"Sylph, ahoy!" shouted Frank, rising.
"What boat's that?" roared Uncle Ben, in reply.
"The Zephyr, of and from Rippleton," returned the coxswain. "Can you
tell me what depth of water there is in this passage?"
"Where's your chart?"
"We must have a chart of the lake," suggested Fred.
"That we must. Who shall draw it?"
"Fred Harper."
"We have no chart. Will you give me the depth of water inside the
island?" continued Frank.
"Short fathom," replied Uncle Ben.
"We are none the wiser," interposed Charles. "How much is a fathom?"
"Six feet," answered Tony.
"But he don't say how much short."
"Can we go through in safety, Uncle Ben?"
"Ay, ay; but trail your oars."
Frank let the crew pull several smart strokes, and then ordered them to
trail. The Zephyr darted through the narrow passage.
"Now for the name of the strait," said Frank.
"You seem to be at a loss for names; I think you had better call these
divisions after the members of the club," suggested Mrs. Sedley.
"So we can; the memory of great travellers and navigators has been
handed down to their posterity by geographical names,--Hudson Bay,
Mount Franklin, Cook's Straits, for example," said Fred Harper,
laughing heartily.
The proposition received a ready assent; and the strait was called
Graham Strait, after the boy who pulled the second oar.
"But the island?" said Charles.
"Paul Spencer pulls the third oar; we will call it Spencer Island."
The position of the boat was a favorable one for observing the
conformation of the country, and Mrs. Sedley improved the opportunity
to point out the various divisions of the land.
Half-way between Centre Island and the north shore was another island;
and after coasting along by the banks of the lake, applying names to
miniature sounds, bays, gulfs, and seas, the Zephyr arrived at its
southerly side.
"Here is a channel," said Frank; "a passage of water wider than a
strait."
"Fred's turn; we must call it Harper Channel," replied Tony.
"And the island?--we are out of names," continued Frank.
"We will call it Mary's Island, after Mary Weston."
"Agreed!" cried a dozen boys at once.
"I thank you for the compliment," said Mary, blushing.
The excursion was continued, the boys rowing leisurely, and pausing
frequently to listen to the music of the band, and discuss the
geographical formation of the lake and its shores. They passed entirely
round the lake, and had given so many names to the various divisions of
land and water, that it seemed improbable they could ever remember
them.
As they came round to the boat-house, Mrs. Sedley was landed, and the
club rowed up to Weston Bay, to leave the widow and her daughter. Both
the passengers were delighted with their excursion, and were profuse of
their thanks to Frank and his companions for their kindness and
consideration.
"What shall we do now?" said Charles, as they pushed off.
"Hadn't we better give up for to-day?" suggested Frank.
"Let us go down to Rippleton for your father," added Fred.
"I will do that," answered Frank; and the Zephyr dashed away towards
the village.
They had scarcely passed the boat-house before they discovered the
Thunderbolt, directly ahead of them. Uncle Ben had landed the band at
Rippleton, and had housed the Sylph, so that the Bunkers would no
longer be restrained by his presence and that of Mrs. Sedley. But there
was no way to avoid them, and Frank continued his course with some
misgivings as to the consequences.
"Bunkers ahead!" said he.
"Never mind them, Frank," added Fred Harper. "We won't say anything to
them."
"Tim will get his revenge upon us for this morning if he can,"
suggested the coxswain.
"We can keep out of his way, though I don't like the idea of running
away from them," replied Fred.
"I like it better than I do the idea of fighting with them. But the
lake is narrow near the village," said Frank.
"We can row two rods to their one."
"They have improved a great deal by their day's practice. They are
resting on their oars, waiting for us."
"Let them wait; we will mind nothing about them."
The Zephyr continued on her course. It was necessary for her to pass
within a short distance of the Thunderbolt, and Frank feared they would
retaliate upon them for their discomfiture in the forenoon.
"Let every member of the club mind his oar," said he, as the boat
approached the vicinity of the Bunkers; "I will watch them; I want you
to mind what I say, and work quick when I speak."
"We will," answered the boys.
"I suspect, if they mean anything, that they intend to rush upon us
when we pass them. Yes, there is Tim bringing her head round so that
she lies broadside to us, and every one of them has his oar ready to
pull," Frank explained.
"Can't you cut across the lake, and avoid them?" asked Tony.
"We must pass them somewhere; and they can cut us off, whatever course
we take."
"Smash them if they come too near," said Fred.
"No, no, Fred; that wouldn't do. When I tell you to stop and back her,
do it promptly, and we can easily get away from them. Pull steady."
The boys rowed leisurely, and the Zephyr in a short time reached a
position which was exposed to the assault of the Thunderbolt.
"Pull," cried Tim Bunker, with energy.
Her course was at right angles with that of the Zephyr. Tim had
apparently made a nice calculation in regard to his intended movements.
He had started so as to come up with his rival when she reached the
point in her course directly ahead of him.
The Bunkers pulled with all their might, and the two boats were rapidly
nearing each other. Tim's plan had been well conceived, and the
collision seemed inevitable. Frank saw that he had rightly interpreted
the intentions of the Bunkers, but he still continued his course.
Suddenly, as the Thunderbolt was on the point of pouncing upon her
prey, Frank, with startling energy, gave the command,--
"Way enough! Hold water! Stern all!"
Every boy, expecting the orders, was ready to execute them. The oars
bent under the violent exertion they made to check the farther progress
of the boat.
When the collision seemed unavoidable, Tim abandoned the helm, and
leaped forward into the bow of the boat. He had a large stick in his
hand; and it was evidently his intention to use it upon poor Tony, for
his glance was fixed upon him with savage ferocity.
Frank's plan worked well. He had withheld the order to stop and back
her till the last moment, so that Tim should have no time to change the
course of the Thunderbolt, and thus derange his plan. As it was, it was
a very narrow escape, and nothing but the promptness with which the
order was executed averted the impending catastrophe.
The Thunderbolt passed across the course of the Zephyr, not three feet
from her bow. Tim saw that he was foiled; and enraged at his
disappointment, he aimed a blow at Tony with the long stick, as his
boat shot past.
Tony was beyond his reach; he leaned over the gunwale of the boat in a
vain attempt to accomplish his malignant purpose. But in doing so, he
lost his foothold, and was precipitated head foremost into the lake!
He disappeared beneath the dark surface of the deep water, and his boat
passed over the spot. The Zephyr, impelled backward by the vigorous
strokes of her crew, was several rods from the place before the club
fully realized the nature of the unfortunate occurrence.
The Thunderbolt was much nearer the place where Tim had disappeared
than the Zephyr; but her crew seemed to be utterly paralyzed by the
event, and unable to render the slightest assistance. One of the
Bunkers took the helm, and endeavored to rally his companions; but in
their confusion they were incapable of handling their oars; some pulled
one way, and some another, and instead of urging the boat ahead, they
only turned it round in a circle.
"Way enough!" shouted Frank, as soon as he discovered the accident.
"Give way! Tim Bunker has fallen overboard!"
The crew, though affected to some extent as the Bunkers were, used
their oars with skill and energy. The presence of mind which Frank
displayed inspired them with courage, and the Zephyr darted forward
towards the spot where Tim had gone down.
"There he is ahead!" exclaimed Frank, with frantic earnestness; "pull
with all your might!"
"Help! Save me!" cried Tim, as he rose to the surface.
The boats were both several rods distant from him. He did not swim, but
seemed to struggle with all his strength, apparently with a spasmodic
effort, as though he had entirely lost his self-control.
"Tony, stand by with your boat-hook," shouted Frank.
But Tim struggled only for an instant on the surface, and then went
down again.
"Way enough!" said Frank, as the Zephyr approached the spot. "Hold
water! Oars!"
The boat, under the skilful management of the resolute young coxswain,
lost her headway, and lay motionless on the water near the spot where
Tim had last appeared.
"Do you see him, Tony?"
"No."
"Fred, forward with your boat-hook," continued Frank.
Fred took the boat-hook, and went forward to the bow of the Zephyr.
"There he is!" exclaimed Tony, as he caught a sight of the drowning boy
beneath the surface.
Fred dropped his boat-hook into the water intending to fasten it into
Tim's clothes.
"He sinks again!" cried Tony, throwing off his jacket and shoes.
Before any of the crew could fully understand his purpose, so quick
were his movements, he dived from the bow of the boat deep down into
the water.
The boys held their breath in the intensity of their feelings. One or
two of them had dropped their oars, and were leaving their places.
"Keep your places, and hold on to your oars!" said Frank sternly. "Ned
Graham, take the other boat-hook."
"Back her a little--one stroke," said Fred Harper. "We are passing over
the spot."
Frank ordered the boat back, as desired.
"Here they rise! Tony has him!" exclaimed Fred, as he hooked into Tim's
clothes. "Grasp the other boat-hook, Tony."
Tim was drawn into the boat, apparently dead.
Tony was so exhausted that he could not speak, and sank into the bottom
of the boat.
"Give way!" said Frank, heading the Zephyr towards Rippleton.
The sad event had been observed from the shore, and before the arrival
of the club boat quite a number of persons had collected. Scarcely a
minute elapsed before the Zephyr touched the bank, and the lifeless
body of Tim Bunker was taken out, and conveyed to the nearest house.
"How do you feel, Tony?" asked Frank, lifting the noble little fellow
from his position.
"Badly, Frank; I want to go home," replied he faintly.
Among other persons who had gathered on the shore of the lake was one
of the physicians of Rippleton. He followed the party that conveyed Tim
into the house, and applied himself vigorously to the means of
restoring him. It was a long time before there were any signs of life,
and the people in the meantime believed him dead.
While Dr. Allen was at work over Tim, Fred Harper came to request his
assistance for Tony. Fortunately Dr. Davis, another physician, arrived
at this moment, and accompanied him to the boat.
"What ails him, Dr. Davis?" asked Frank.
"Exhaustion and excitement have overcome him."
"Is it anything serious?"
"I think not. We must get his wet clothes off, and put him to bed."
"Will you go home with him? We will row you up and back again."
The physician was very willing to go, and the boat put off. The club
pulled with all their strength, and the distance to Tony's house was
accomplished in a very few moments. Mrs. Weston was greatly alarmed
when Tony was brought in, but the doctor assured her it was nothing
serious. He was put to bed, the doctor prescribed for him, and when the
boys were ready to leave, they had the satisfaction of knowing the
patient was much better.
When they reached Rippleton, they found that Tim had been restored, and
conveyed to his father's house. Captain Sedley came in the last train,
and the boys rowed him home.
CHAPTER XVIII
TIM BUNKER
Captain Sedley was much disturbed by the painful event which had
occurred; and though the club were entirely free from blame, he could
not but question the expediency of continuing the organization. The
malicious spirit of Tim Bunker had been the cause of his misfortune.
People thought he was lucky to escape with his life, and that it would
be a lesson he would remember a great many years.
Tony's praises were upon everybody's lips. He had saved the life of his
enemy, had plunged in at the risk of his own, to rescue one who had
been intent upon his injury. It was a noble and a Christian deed, so
the good men and women said, while others declared, if they had been in
Tony's place, they would have let him drown.
The noble deed was appreciated; and the day after the event, a
subscription paper was opened at the Rippleton Bank for Tony's benefit.
Before night over a hundred dollars was collected, which the cashier
presented to him, as he lay upon his bed, sick from the effects of his
exertions.
The crew of the boat club were very highly commended for their
efficient labors on the occasion. If Frank had displayed less courage
and address, or the discipline of the club had been less perfect, Tim
must certainly have been drowned. This fact was rendered the more
apparent by the contrast between the conduct of the crew of the Zephyr
and that of the Thunderbolt. With all their exertion, on account of
their want of discipline, the latter had been unable even to reach the
spot until the former had received Tim on board.
All the sympathies of the people were with the boat club. Nobody pitied
Tim; for he was a quarrelsome, disagreeable boy, and had nearly lost
his life in his attempt to gratify his malicious spite against his
noble and generous deliverer.
In a few days Tony, who had suffered more from the shock than Tim, was
able to go out again. He was everywhere received with enthusiasm; and
the first time the Zephyr visited Rippleton after the accident, people
seemed determined to make a little lion of him.
Captain Sedley's attention was now directed to the trial of Tony, which
would take place in a few days, and he was exceedingly desirous of
ascertaining how Tim was affected towards him since the rescue. But the
Thunderbolt had been laid up at Joe Braman's landing, and the Bunkers
appeared to be dispersed and separated since the accident. Captain
Sedley did not find their leader for several days, but at last he made
a visit to his father's house before Tim got up.
The young ruffian was very desirous of avoiding him; and when his
mother went up-stairs and told him who had come, he put on his clothes,
and slipped out of the house by the back door. Captain Sedley happened
to see him, however, as he was skulking off through the garden.
"Tim," said he, running after him.
The leader of the Bunkers did not dare to run away from such an
influential person as Captain Sedley; and, turning, he doggedly
approached him.
"Tim, I want to see you about the trial, which, you know, takes place
in a few days."
"I don't know nothin' about it."
"You don't?" said Captain Sedley.
"No, I don't;" and Tim, fixing his eyes upon the ground, amused himself
by kicking a hole in the soil with his foot.
"Don't you know anything about the wallet, or the money that was in
it?"
"No, I don't."
"Just think a moment."
"Don't want to think; I don't know nothin' about it," replied Tim
sulkily.
"Tony is accused of the crime, and you know what a terrible thing it
would be to have an innocent person suffer."
"I s'pose it would."
"You know Tony saved your life."
"So I needn't be evidence against him," growled Tim.
Captain Sedley was astonished at his want of even the commonest feeling
of gratitude.
"If that had been his motive, he would have let you drown."
"I wonder he didn't."
"Tim, you are utterly hardened in iniquity."
"No, I ain't."
"You have no gratitude towards your deliverer."
"Yes, I have; I am much obliged to him for what he done, and when I see
him, I'll tell him so."
"You do not seem in the least obliged to him."
"I am; and besides, the folks gave him over a hundred dollars for what
he done. I should like to jump in after a dozen on the same terms."
"You have nothing to say about the trial then, have you, Tim?"
"Don't know nothin' about it. All I can say is, I saw him stickin'
somethin' into his pocket."
"You bought the boat in which you have been sailing on the lake."
"No, I didn't; it is Joe Braman's," replied Tim stoutly.
"Didn't you tell the boys that you gave him ten dollars for it?"
"No, I didn't."
"And that you paid five dollars for having it fitted up?"
"I was only joking--tryin' to sell 'em," answered Tim, attempting to
smile and look funny.
"That was it, was it?"
"That's all."
"And you have not paid Joe Braman any money?"
"Not a cent."
"Tim," said Captain Sedley sternly, "people think that you stole the
wallet."
"Me! I hope to die if I did!"
"That you took some of the money out, and then put the wallet into
Tony's pocket, so as to fasten the guilt on him."
"No such thing!"
"Just consider, Tim. If you did, you had better confess it."
"I didn't."
"Only think that Tony saved your life."
"I've nothin' against him."
"But you ought to be for him. If you have injured him in this matter,
people will think a great deal better of you, if you confess it, and
ask his forgiveness, whatever the consequences may be to yourself."
"I hain't hurt him."
"If you are the guilty one, it will certainly come out at the trial."
"I ain't; I don't know nothin' about the wallet. I'm sure I didn't take
it--I hope to die if I did!"
"Very well, Tim; if you have made up your mind not to confess it, I
have nothing more to say."
"I ain't a going to confess it when I didn't do it," said Tim stoutly.
"But you did do it, Tim."
"No, I didn't nuther."
"I am surprised at your hardihood. Tony saved your life at the peril of
his own, and yet you are willing to see him convicted of a crime which
you committed yourself."
"Who says I did?" said Tim, not a little confused by the directness
with which Captain Sedley spoke to him.
"I say it, Tim. Once more, will you free Tony from the charge by
telling the truth?"
"I have told the truth."
"No, you haven't, Tim. Will you confess the crime, and save Tony?"
"No, I won't; I didn't do it."
"Very well," replied Captain Sedley, as he left the young reprobate.
Tim did not know what to make of it. Why Captain Sedley should lay it
to him, he could not tell, unless it was on account of what he had said
to Fred Harper about buying the Thunderbolt. He was uneasy, and spent
the forenoon in wandering about the woods back of his father's house.
He felt as though something was going to happen, though he could not
tell precisely what.
He had eaten no breakfast, and at noon he was driven home by hunger.
But he had scarcely seated himself at the dinner-table before a knock
was heard at the door.
"Go to the door, Tim," said his father.
"I don't want to go," answered Tim, with a whine.
A kind of dread had taken possession of him since his interview with
Captain Sedley in the morning, and every noise he heard seemed to
foretell that something was about to occur.
"Go, this minute!" said his father sternly.
"Don't want to."
"But you shall."
Tim, finding there was no escape, rose, and went to the door. To his
consternation he beheld Mr. Headley, the constable! He felt as though
he should drop through the floor. His heart beat so violently that he
could hardly stand up.
"I want you, Tim," said Mr. Headley.
"Me!" gasped Tim.
"Get your cap, and come along."
"What for?"
