What pleasure in the proud knowledge that 
all one's success is one's own doing, and the 
sum of it cast up to one's credit upon the long 
ledger of life ! To this exhilarating self-content 
I can lay no claim. For whatever measure of 
 

what is called success has fallen to my lot, I 
can ask no credit. I find myself in the chas 
tened position of one whose literary abilities all 
belong to one's ancestors. 

It is humbling I do not deny that it may 
be morally invigorating to feel that whatever 
is "worth mentioning" in my life is no affair 
of mine, but falls under the beautiful and ter 
rible law by which the dead men and women 
whose blood bounds in our being control our 
destinies. 

Yet (with the notable exception of my father) 
I have less than the usual store of personal ac 
quaintance with the "people who most influ 
enced me." Of my grandfather, Moses Stuart, 
I have but two recollections ; and these, taken 
together, may not be quite devoid of interest, 
as showing how the law of selection works in 
the mind of an imaginative child. 

I remember seeing the eminent Professor of 
Sacred Literature come into his dining-room 
one morning in his old house on Andover Hill 
which was built for him, and marked the cre 
ation of his department in the early days of the 
seminary history. He looked very tall and im 
posing. He had a mug in his hand, and his 
face smiled like the silver of which it was made. 

The mug was full of milk, and he handed it 
ceremoniously to the year-old baby, his name- 

sake and grandson, my first brother, whose 
high-chair stood at the table. 

Then, I remember it must have been a 
little more than a year after that seeing the 
professor in his coffin in the front hall ; that he 
looked taller than he did before, but still impos 
ing ; that he had his best coat on the one, I 
think, in which he preached ; and that he was 
the first dead person I had ever seen. 

Whenever the gray-headed men who knew 
him used to sit about, relating anecdotes of him 
as, how many commentaries he published, 
or how he introduced the first German lexicon 
into this country (as if a girl in short dresses 
would be absorbingly interested in her grand 
father's dictionaries !) I saw the silver mug 
and the coffin. 

Gradually the German lexicon in a hazy con 
dition got melted in between them. Sometimes 
the baby's mug sat upon the dictionary. Some 
times the dictionary lay upon the coffin. Some 
times the baby spilled the milk out of the mug 
upon the dictionary. But for my personal uses, 
the memoirs of the distinguished scholar began 
and ended with the mug and the coffin. 

The other grandfather was not distinguished ; 
he was but an orthodox minister of ability and 
originality, and with a vivacious personal his 
tory. Of him I knew something. From his 


own lips came thrilling stories of his connection 
with the underground railway of slavery days ; 
how he sent the sharpest carving-knife in the 
house, concealed in a basket of food, to a hidden 
fugitive slave who had vowed never to be 
taken alive, and whose master had come North 
in search of him. It was a fine thing, that 
throbbing humanity, which could in those days 
burst the reformer out of the evangelical husk, 
and I learned my lesson from it. (" Where did 
she get it ? " conservative friends used to wail, 
whenever I was seen to have tumbled into the 
last new and unfashionable reform.) 

From his own lips, too, I heard the accounts 
of that extraordinary case of house-possession 
of which (like Wesley) this innocent and unimaginative 
country minister, who had no more 
faith in "spooks " than he had in Universalists, 
was made the astonished victim. 

Night upon night I have crept gasping to 
bed, and shivered for hours with my head under 
the clothes, after an evening spent in listening 
to this authentic and fantastic family tale. How 
the candlesticks walked out into the air from 
the mantelpiece and back again ; how the chairs 
of skeptical visitors collected from all parts of 
the country to study what one had hardly then 
begun to call the " phenomena " at the parson 
age at Stratford, Connecticut, hopped after the 
 

guests when they crossed the room ; how the 
dishes at the table leaped, and the silver forks 
were bent by unseen hands, and cold turnips 
dropped from the solid ceiling ; and ghastly 
images were found, composed of underclothing 
proved to have been locked at the time in 
drawers of which the only key lay all the while 
in Dr. Phelps's pocket ; and how the mysterious 
agencies, purporting by alphabetical raps upon 
bed-head or on table to be in torments of the 
nether world, being asked what their host could 
do to relieve them, demanded a piece of squash 
pie. 

From the old man's own calm hands, within 
a year or two of his death, I received the legacy 
of the written journal of these phenomena, as 
recorded by the victim from day to day, during 
the seven months that this mysterious misfor 
tune dwelt within his house. 

It may be prudent to say, just here, that it 
will be quite useless to make any further in 
quiries of me upon the subject, or to ask of me 
a request which has been repeated till I am 
fain to put an end to it for either loan or 
copy of these records for the benefit of either 
personal or scientific curiosity. Both loaning 
and copying are now impossible, and have been 
made so by family wishes which will be sacredly 
respected. The phenomena themselves have 
 

long been too widely known to be ignored, and 
I have no hesitation in making reference to 
them. 

Perhaps it is partly on account of the tradi 
tions respecting this bit of family history that I 
am so often asked if I am a spiritualist. I am 
sometimes tempted to reply in grammar com 
prehensible to the writers of certain letters 
which I receive upon the subject : 

" No ; nor none of our folks ! " 

How the Connecticut parson on whom this 
mysterious infliction fell ever came out of it 
not a spiritualist, who can tell ? That the phe 
nomena were facts, and facts explicable by no 
known natural law, he was forced, like others 
in similar positions, to believe and admit. That 
he should study the t subject of spiritualism care 
fully from then until the end of his life, was 
inevitable. 

But, as nearly as I can make it out, on the 
whole, he liked his Bible better. 

Things like these did not happen on Andover 
Hill ; and my talks with this very interesting 
grandfather gave me my first vivid sensation of 
the possibilities of life. 

With what thrills of hope and fear I listened 
for thumps on the head of my bed, or watched 
anxiously to see my candlestick walk out into 
the air ! 



But not a thump ! Not a rap ! Never a 
snap of the weakest proportions (not explicable 
by natural laws) has, from that day to this, 
visited my personal career. Not a candlestick 
ever walked an inch for me. I have never been 
able to induce a chair to hop after me. No 
turnip has consented to drop from the ceiling 
for me. Planchette, in her day, wrote hundreds 
of lines for me, but never one that was of the 
slightest possible significance to me or to the 
universe at large. Never did a medium tell me 
anything that ever came to pass ; though one 
of tnem once made a whole winter miserable 
by prophesying a death which did not occur. 

Being destitute of objections to belief in the 
usefulness of spiritualistic mystery, in fact, 
by temperament, perhaps inclining to hope that 
such phenomena may be tamed and yoked, and 
made to work for human happiness, yet there 
seems to be something about me which these 
agencies do not find congenial. Though I have 
gone longing for a sign, no sign has been given 
me. Though I have been always ready to be 
lieve all other people's mysteries, no inexplicable 
facts have honored my experience. 

The only personal prophecy ever strictly ful 
filled in my life was I am not certain whether 
I ought to feel embarrassed in alluding to it 
made by a gypsy fortune-teller. She was young 
 f 

and pretty, the seventh child of a seventh child, 
and she lived in a Massachusetts shoe-town by 
the name of Lynn. And what was it ? Oh, 
but you must excuse me. 

The grandfather to whom these marvels hap 
pened was not, as I say, a literary man ; yet 
even he did write a little book a religious 
tale, or tract, after the manner of his day and 
profession ; and it took to itself a circulation of 
two hundred thousand copies. I remember how 
Mr. James T. Fields laughed when he heard of 
it that merry laugh peculiar to himself. 

"You can't help it," the publisher said; 
"you come of a family of large circulations." 

One day I was at school with my brother, 
a little, private school, down by what were 
called the English dormitories in Andover. 

I was eight years old. Some one came in 
and whispered to the teacher. Her face turned 
very grave, and she came up to us quietly, and 
called us out into the entry, and gently put on 
our things. 

"You are to go home," she said; "your 
mother is dead." I took my little brother's 
hand without a word, and we trudged off. I 
do not think we spoke I am sure we did not 
cry on the way home. I remember perfectly 
that we were very gayly dressed. Our mother 
liked bright, almost barbaric colors on children. 
 

The little boy's coat was of red broadcloth, and 
my cape of a canary yellow, dyed at home in 
white-oak dye. The two colors flared before 
my eyes as we shuffled along and crushed the 
crisp, dead leaves that were tossing in the 
autumn wind all over Andover Hill. 

When we got home they told us it was a 
mistake ; she was not dead ; and we were sent 
back to school. But, in a few weeks after that, 
one day we were told we need not go to school 
at all ; the red and yellow coats came off, and 
little bla:k ones took their places. The new 
baby, in his haggard father's arms, was baptized 
at his mother's funeral ; and we looked on, and 
wondered what it all meant, and what became 
of children whose mother was obliged to go to 
heaven when she seemed so necessary in An 
dover. 

At eight years of age a child cannot be ex 
pected to know her mother intimately, and it is 
hard for me always to distinguish between the 
effect produced upon me by her literary success 
as I have since understood it, and that left by 
her own truly extraordinary personality upon 
the annals of the nursery. 

My mother, whose name I arn proud to wear, 

was the eldest daughter of Professor Stuart, 

and inherited his intellectuality. At the time 

of her death she was at the first blossom of her 

very positive and widely-promising success as a 
writer of the simple home stories which took 
such a hold upon the popular heart. Her 
" Sunnyside " had already reached a circulation 
of one hundred thousand copies, and she was 
following it fast too fast by other books 
for which the critics and the publishers clamored. 
Her last book and her last baby came together, 
and killed her. She lived one of those rich and 
piteous lives such as only gifted women know ; 
torn by the civil war of the dual nature which 
can be given to women only. It was as natural 
for her daughter to write as to breathe ; but it 
was impossible for her daughter to forget that 
a woman of intellectual power could be the 
most successful of mothers. 

"Everybody's mother is a remarkable woman," my 
father used to say when he read 
overdrawn memoirs indited by devout children ; 
and yet I have sometimes felt as if even the 
generation that knows her not would feel a 
certain degree of interest in the tact and power by 
which this unusual woman achieved the difficult 
reconciliation between genius and domestic life. 

In our times and to our women such a problem 
is practical, indeed. One need not possess 
genius to understand it now. A career is 
enough. 

The author of " Sunnyside," " The Angel on 
 

the Right Shoulder," and " Peep at Number 
Five," lived before women had careers and 
public sympathy in them. Her &gt; nature was 
drawn against the grain of her times and of her 
circumstances ; and where our feet find easy 
walking, hers were hedged. A child's memo 
ries go for something by way of tribute to the 
achievement of one of those rare women of 
the elder time whose gifts forced her out, but 
whose heart held her in. 

I can remember no time when I did not understand 
that my mother must write books be 
cause people would have and read them ; but I 
cannot remember one hour in which her children 
needed her and did not find her. 

My first distinct vision of this kind of a mother
gives her by the nursery lamp, reading to 
us her own stories, written for ourselves, never 
meant to go beyond that little public of two, 
and illustrated in colored crayons by her own 
pencil. For her gift in this direction was of an 
original quality, and had she not been a writer 
she must have achieved something as an artist. 

Perhaps it was to keep the standards up, and 
a little girl's filial adoration down, that these 
readings ended with some classic Words 
worth, I remember most often " We are 
Seven," or "Lucy Gray." 

It is certain that I very early had the conviction 
that a mother was a being of power and 
importance to the world ; but that the world 
had no business with her when we wanted her. 
In a word, she was a strong and lovely symmetry 
a woman whose heart had not enfeebled 
her head, but whose head could never freeze 
her heart. 

I hardly know which of those charming ways 
in which I learned to spell the word motherhood 
impressed me most. All seemed to go on to 
gether side by side and step by step. Now she 
sits correcting proof-sheets, and now she is 
painting apostles for the baby's first Bible 
lesson. Now she is writing her new book, and 
now she is dyeing things canary-yellow in the 
white-oak dye for the professor's salary is 
small, and a crushing economy was in those 
days one of the conditions of faculty life on 
Andover Hill. Now for her practical inge 
nuity was unlimited she is whittling little 
wooden feet to stretch the children's stockings 
on, to save them from shrinking ; and now she 
is reading to us from the old, red copy of 
Hazlitt's " British Poets," by the register, upon a 
winter night. Now she is a popular writer, in 
credulous of her first success, with her future 
flashing before her ; and now she is a tired, ten 
der mother, crooning to a sick child, while the 
MS. lies unprinted on the table, and the publishers 
are wishing their professor's wife were a 
free woman, childless and solitary, able to send 
copy as fast as it is wanted. The struggle 
killed her, but she fought till she fell. 
In these different days, when, 

" Pealing, the clock of time 
Has struck the Woman's Hour," . 

I have sometimes been glad, as my time came 
to face the long question which life puts to-day 
to all women who think and feel, and who care 
for other women and are loyal to them, that I 
had those early visions of my own to look upon. 

When I was learning why the sun rose and 
the moon set, how the flowers grew and the 
rain fell, that God and heaven and art and let 
ters existed, that it was intelligent to say one's 
prayers, and that well-bred children never told 
a lie, I learned that a mother can be strong 
and still be sweet, and sweet although she is 
strong ; and that she whom the world and her 
children both have need of, is of more value to 
each, for this very reason. 

I said it was impossible to be her daughter 
and not to write. Rather, I should say, impossible
to be their daughter and not to have some 
thing to say, and a pen to say it. 

The comparatively recent close of my father's 
life has not left him yet forgotten, and it can 
hardly be necessary for me to do more than to 
 

refer to the name of Austin Phelps to recall to 
that part of our public which knew and loved 
him the quality of his work. 

"The Still Hour" is yet read, and there are 
enough who remember how widely this book 
has been known and loved on both sides of the 
ocean, and how rich was the professor's literary 
gift. His Andover lectures, which in their 
published form have become classics, stand 
without peers to-day, and are the accepted text 
books of his department. 

It has fallen to me otherwise to say so much 
of my peculiar indebtedness to my father, that 
I shall forbid myself, and spare my reader, too 
much repetition of a loving credit which it would 
not be possible altogether to omit from this 
chapter. 

He who becomes father and mother in one 
to motherless children, bears a burden which 
men shirk or stagger under ; and there was not 
a shirking cell in his brain or heart. 

As I have elsewhere said : "There was hardly 
a chapter in my life of which he was not in 
some sense, whether revealed or concealed, the 
hero." 

" If I am asked to sum in a few words the 

vivid points of his influence, I find it as hard to 

give definite form to my indebtedness to the 

Christian scholar whose daughter it is my honor 

 

to be, as to specify the particulars in which one 
responds to sunshine or oxygen. He was my 
climate. As soon as I began to think, I began 
to reverence thought and study and the hard 
work of a man devoted to the high ends of a 
scholar's life. His department was that of rhetoric, 
and his appreciation of the uses and graces 
of language very early descended like a mantle 
upon me. I learned to read and to love reading, 
not because I was made to, but because I 
could not help it. It was the atmosphere I 
breathed." 

"Day after day the watchful girl observed 
the life of a student its scholarly tastes, its 
high ideals, its scorn of worldliness and paltry 
aims or petty indulgences, and forever its 
magnificent habits of work." 

" At sixteen, I remember, there came to me 
a distinct arousing or awakening to the intel 
lectual life. As I look back, I see it in a flash 
light. Most of the important phases or crises 
of our lives can be traced to some one influence 
or event, and this one I connect directly with 
the reading to me by my father of the writings 
of De Quincey and the poems of Wordsworth. 
Every one who has ever heard him preach or 
lecture remembers the rare quality of Professor 
Phelps's voice. As a pulpit orator he was one 
of the few, and to hear him read in his own 
 

study was an absorbing experience. To this 
day I cannot put myself outside of certain 
pages of the laureate or the essayist. I do not 
read ; I listen. The great lines beginning 

" Thanks to the human heart by which we live, 
Thanks to its tenderness, its joys and fears ; 

the great passage which opens : * Then like a 
chorus the passion deepened/ and which rises 
to the aching cry : Everlasting farewells ! . . . 
Everlasting farewells ! ring in my ears as they 
left his lips." 

For my first effort to sail the sea of letters, 
it occurs to me that I ought to say that my 
father's literary reputation cannot be held 
responsible. 

I had reached (to take a step backwards in 
the story) the mature age of thirteen. I was 
a little girl in low-necked gingham dresses, I 
know, because I remember I had on one (of a 
purple shade, and incredibly unbecoming to a 
half -grown, brunette girl) one evening when my 
first gentleman caller came to see me. 

I felt that the fact that he was my Sunday- 
school teacher detracted from the importance 
of the occasion, but did not extinguish it. 

It was perhaps half -past eight, and, obediently 
to law and gospel, I had gone upstairs. 

The actual troubles of life have never dulled 
 

my sense of mortification at overhearing from 
my little room at the head of the stairs, where 
I was struggling to get into that gingham gown 
and present a tardy appearance, a voice 
distinctly excusing me on the ground that it was 
past her usual bedtime, and she had gone to 
bed. 

Whether the anguish of that occasion so far 
aged me that it had anything to do with my first 
literary undertaking, I cannot say ; but I am 
sure that it was during this particular year that 
I determined to become an individual and 
contribute to the " Youth's Companion." 

I did so. My contribution was accepted and 
paid for by the appearance in my father's post- 
office box of the paper for a year ; and my 
impression is that I wore high-necked dresses 
pretty soon thereafter, and was allowed to sit up 
till nine o clock. At any rate, these memorable 
events are distinctly intertwined in my mind. 

This was in the days when even the " Companion," 
that oldest and most delightful of chil 
dren's journals, printed things like these : 

" Julia B. loved the country because whenever she walked out she 
could see God in the face of Nature." 

I really think that the semi-column which I 
sent to that distinguished paper was a tone or 
 

two above this. But I can remember nothing 
about it, except that there was a sister who 
neglected her little brothers, and hence defeated 
the first object of existence in a woman-child. 
It was very proper, and very pious, and very 
much like what well-brought-up little girls were 
taught to do, to be, to suffer, or to write in 
those days. I have often intended to ask Mr. 
Ford if the staff discovered any signs of literary 
promise in that funny little performance. 

At all events, my literary ambitions, with 
this solitary exercise, came to a sudden 
suspension. I have no recollection of having written 
or of having wanted to write anything more for 
a long time. 

I was not in the least a precocious young 
person, and very much of a tomboy into the 
bargain. I think I was far more likely to have 
been found on the top of an apple-tree or 
walking the length of the seminary fence than 
writing rhymes or reading " solid reading." I know 
that I was once told by a queer old man in the 
street that little girls should not walk fences, 
and that I stood still and looked at him, 
transfixed with contempt. I do not think I vouch 
safed him any answer at all. But this must 
have been while I was still in the little gingham 
gowns. 

Perhaps this is the place, if anywhere, to 
 

mention the next experiment at helping along 
the literature of my native land of which I have 
any recollection. There was another little 
contribution a pious little contribution, like the 
first. When it was written, or what it was 
about, or where it was printed, it is impossible 
to remember ; but I know that it appeared in 
some extremely orthodox young people's periodical 
I think, one with a missionary predilection. 
The point of interest I find to have 
been that I was paid for it. 

With the exception of some private capital 
amassed by abstaining from butter (a method 
of creating a fortune of whose wisdom, I must 
say, I had the same doubts then that I have 
now), this was the first money I had ever earned. 
The sum was two dollars and a half. It became 
my immediate purpose not to squander this 
wealth. I had no spending money in particular 
that I recall. Three cents a week was, I be 
lieve, for years the limit of my personal income, 
and I am compelled to own that this sum was 
not expended at book-stalls, or for the benefit 
of the heathen who appealed to the generosity 
of professors daughters through the treasurer 
of the chapel Sunday-school ; but went solidly 
for cream cakes and apple turnovers alternately, 
one each week. 

Two dollars and a half represented to me 

 

a standard of munificent possession which it 
would be difficult to make most girls in their 
first teens, and socially situated to-day as I was 
then, understand. To waste this fortune in 
riotous living was impossible. From the hour 
that I received that check for "two-fifty," cream 
cakes began to wear a juvenile air, and turn 
overs seemed unworthy of my position in life. 
I remember begging to be allowed to invest 
the sum "in pictures," and that my father, 
gently diverting my selection from a frowsy and 
popular " Hope " at whose memory I shudder 
even yet, induced me to find that I preferred 
some excellent photographs of Thorwaldsen's 
" Night " and " Morning," which he framed for 
me, and which hang in our rooms to-day. 

It is impossible to forget the sense of dignity 
which marks the hour when one becomes a 
wage-earner. The humorous side of it is the 
least of it or was in my case. I felt that I 
had suddenly acquired value to myself, to my 
family, and to the world. 

Probably all people who write " for a living " 
would agree with me in recalling the first check 
as the largest and most luxurious of life. 



ANDOVER is or Andover was like the 
lady to whom Steele gave immortality in the 
finest and most famous epigram ever offered to 
woman. 

To have loved Andover ; to have been born 
in Andover I am brought up short, in these 
notes, by the sudden recollection that I was not 
born in Andover. It has always been so difficult 
to believe it, that I am liable any day to 
forget it ; but the facts compel me to infer that 
I was born within a mile of the State House. 
I must have become a citizen of Andover at the 
age of three, when my father resigned his Boston 
pulpit for the professorship of Rhetoric and 
Homiletics in Andover Seminary. I remember 
distinctly our arrival at the white mansion with 
the large, handsome grounds, the distant and 
mysterious grove, the rotund horse-chestnut 
trees, venerable and solemn, nearly a century 
old to this day a horse-chestnut always seems 
to me like a theological trustee and the sweep 
of playground so vast, so soft, so green, so 
fragrant, so clean, that the baby cockney ran 
imperiously to her father and demanded that he go 
build her a brick sidewalk to play upon. 

What, I wonder, may be the earliest act of 
memory on record ? Mine is not at all unusual 
dating only to two and a half years ; at which 
time I clearly remember being knocked down 
by my dog, in my father's area in Boston, and 
being crowed over by a rooster of abnormal 
proportions who towered between me and the 
sky, a dragon in size and capabilities. 

My father always maintained that he distinctly 
remembered hearing the death of Napoleon 
announced in his presence when he was one year 
and a half old. 

Is the humiliating difference between the 
instinctive selection of Napoleon and that of 
the rooster one of temperament or sex ? In 
either case, it is significant enough to lead one 
to drop the subject. 

Next to having been born in a university 
town, comes the advantage if it be an advan 
tage of having spent one's youth there. Mr. 
Howells says that he must be a dull fellow who 
does not, at some time or other, hate his native 
village ; and I must confess that I have not, at 
all stages of my life, held my present opinion 
of Andover. There have been times when her 
gentle indifference to the preoccupations of the 
 

world has stung me, as all serenity stings rest 
lessness. There have been times when the in 
evitable limitations of her horizon have seemed 
as familiar as the coffin-lid to the dead. 

There was an epoch when her theology 
But, nevertheless, I certainly look back upon 
Andover Hill with a very real pleasure and 
heartfelt sense of debt. 

It has been particularly asked of me to give 
some form to my recollections of a phase of 
local life which is now so obviously passing away 
thai; it has a certain historical interest. 

That Andover remains upon the map of 
Massachusetts yet, one does not dispute ; but 
the Andover of New England theology the 
Andover of a peculiar people, the Andover that 
held herself apart from the world and all that 
was therein will soon become an interesting 
wraith. 

The life of a professor's daughter in a univer 
sity town is always a little different from the 
lives of other girls ; but the difference seems to 
me unless she be by nature entirely alien to 
it in favor of the girl. Were I to sum in one 
word my impressions of the influences of 
Andover life upon a robust young mind and heart, 
I should call them gentle. 

As soon as we began to think, we saw a 
community engaged in studying thought. As soon 
 

as we began to feel, we were aware of a 
neighborhood that did not feel superficially ; at least, 
in certain higher directions. When we began 
to ask the "questions of life," which all in 
telligent young people ask sooner or later, 
we found ourselves in a village of three 
institutions and their dependencies committed to 
the pursuit of an ideal of education for which 
no amount of later, or what we call broader, 
training ever gives us any better word than 
Christian. 

Such things tell. Andover girls did not 
waltz, or suffer summer engagements at Bar 
Harbor, a new one every year ; neither did they 
read Ibsen or yellow novels ; nor did they han 
dle the French stories that are hidden from 
parents, though they were excellent French 
scholars in their day. 

I do not even know that one can call them 
more "serious" than their city sisters; for we 
were a merry lot, at least, my lot were. But 
they were, I believe, especially open-hearted, 
gentle-minded girls. 

If they were "out of the world " to a certain 
extent, they were, to another, out of the evil of 
it. As I look back upon the little drama be 
tween twelve and twenty, I might rather say, 
between two and twenty, Andover young
people seem to me to have been as truly
and naturally innocent as one may meet anywhere in 
the world. Some of these private records of 
girl-history were so white, so clear, so sweet, 
that to read them would be like watching a 
morning-glory open. The world is full, thank 
Heaven, of lovely girls ; but though other forms 
or phases of gentle society claim their full 
quota, I never saw a lovelier than those I knew 
on Andover Hill. 

One terrible tragedy, indeed, befell our little 
" set ; " for we had our sets in Andover as well 
as they of Newport or New York. 

A high-bred girl of exceptional beauty was 
furtively kissed one evening by a daring boy 
(not a native of Andover, I hasten to explain), 
and the furore which followed this 
unprecedented enormity it would be impossible to de 
scribe to a member of more complicated circles 
of society. Fancy the reception given such a 
commonplace at any of our fashionable summer 
resorts to-day ! 

On Andover Hill the event was a moral
cataclysm. Andover girls were country girls, but 
not of rustic (any more than of metropolitan) 
social training. Which of them would have 
suffered an Academy boy, walking home with 
her from a lecture or a prayer-meeting, any 
little privilege which he might not have taken 
in her father's house and with her mother's 

 

knowledge ? I never knew one. The case of 
which I speak was historic, and as far as I ever 
knew, unique, and was that of a victim, not an 
offender. 

The little beauty to whom this atrocity hap 
pened cried all night and all the next day ; she 
was reported not to have stopped crying for 
twenty-six hours. Her pretty face grew wan 
and haggard. She was too ill to go to her 
lessons. 

The teachers to whom she had promptly 
related the circumstance condoled with her ; 
the entire school vowed to avenge her ; we were 
a score of as disturbed and indignant girls as 
ever wept over woman's wrongs or scorned a 
man's depravity. 

Yet, for aught I know to the contrary, this 
abandoned young man may have grown up to 
become a virtuous member of society, possibly 
even an exemplary husband and father. I have 
never been able to trace his history ; probably 
the moral repulsion was too great. 

Yet they were no prigs, for their innocence ! 
Andover girls, in the best and brightest sense 
of the word, led a gay life. 

The preponderance of young men on the Hill 
gave more than ample opportunity for well- 
mannered good times ; and we made the most 
of them. 

 

Legends of the feminine triumphs of past 
generations were handed breathlessly down to 
us, and cherished with awe. A lady of the 
village, said to have been once very handsome, was 
credibly reported to have refused nineteen offers 
of marriage. Another, still plainly beautiful, 
was known to have received and declined the 
suits of nine theologues in one winter. Neither 
of these ladies married. We watched their 
whitening hairs and serene faces with a certain 
pride of sex, not easily to be understood by a 
man. When we began to think how many 
times they might have married, the subject as 
sumed sensational proportions. In fact, the 
maiden ladies of Andover always, I fancied, 
regarded each other with a peculiar sense of 
peace. Each knew and knew that the rest 
knew that it was (to use the Andover phrase 
ology) not of predestination or foreordination, 
but of free will absolute, that an Andover girl 
passed through life alone. This little social 
fact, which is undoubtedly true of most, if not 
all, uniyersity towns, had mingled effects upon 
impressionable girls ; for the proportion of 
masculine society was almost Western in 
its munificence. 

Perhaps it is my duty to say just here that, if 
honestly put to the question, I should admit 
that this proportion was almost too munificent 
 

for the methods of education then and still 
to an extent now in vogue. 

A la rge Academy for boys, and a flourishing 
Seminary for young men, set across the village 
streets from two lively girls schools, gave to 
one observer of this little scholastic world her 
first argument for co-education. 

I am confident that if the boys who serenaded 
(right manfully) under the windows of Abbot 
Academy or of "The Nunnery," or who found 
their lady's colors on the bouquets that were 
tossed from balconies of professors houses, had 
been put, class to class, in competition with us, 
they would have wasted less time upon us ; and 
I could not deny that if the girls who cut little 
holes in their fans through which one could 
look, undetected and unreproved, at one's 
favorite Academy boy, on some public occasion, 
had been preparing to meet or pass that boy at 
Euclid or Xenophon recitation next morning, 
he would have occupied less of their fancy. 
Intellectual competition is simpler, severer, and 
more wholesome than the unmitigated social 
plane ; and a mingling of the two may be found 
calculated to produce the happiest results. 

" Poor souls ! " said a Boston lady once to 
me, upon my alluding to a certain literary club 
which was at that time occupying the enthusiasm 
of the Hill. " Poor souls ! I suppose they 
 

are so starved for society ! " We can fancy the 
amusement with which this comment would 
have been received if it had been repeated 
but it never was repeated till this moment in 
Andover. 

For Andover had her social life, and knew 
no better, for the most part, than to enjoy it. 
It is true that many of her diversions took on 
that religious or academic character natural to 
the place. Of village parish life we knew no 
thing, for our chapel was, like others of its kind, 
rather an exclusive little place of worship. We 
were ignorant of pastoral visits, deacons, 
parochial gossip, church fairs, and what Professor 
Park used to call " the doughnut business ; " 
and, though we cultivated a weekly prayer- 
meeting in the lecture-room, I think its chief 
usefulness was as a training-school for theological 
students whose early efforts at public exhor- 
fition (poor fellows !) quaveringly besought their 
professors to grow in grace, and admonished the 
families of the Faculty circle to repent. 

But we had our lectures and our concerts 
quite distinct, as orthodox circles will under 
stand, from those missionary festivals which 
went, I never discovered why, by the name of 
Monthly Concerts and our Porter Rhets. I 
believe this cipher stood for Porter Rhetorical ; 
and research, if pushed far enough, would develop 
the fact that Porter indicated a dead pro 
fessor who once founded a chair and a debating 
society for young men. Then we had our anniversaries 
and our exhibitions, when we got our 
selves into our organdie muslins or best coats, 
and listened to the boys spouting Greek and 
Latin orations in the old, red brick Academy, 
and heard the theological students but here 
this reporter is forced to pause. I suppose I 
ought to be ashamed of it, but the fact is, that 
I never attended an anniversary exercise of the 
Seminary in my life. It would be difficult to 
say why. I think my reluctance consisted in 
an abnormal objection to Trustees. So far as 
I know, they were an innocent set of men, of 
good reputations and quite harmless. But I 
certainly acquired, at a very early age, an 
antipathy to this class of Americans, from which I 
have never recovered. 

Our anniversaries occurred, according to the 
barbaric custom of the times, in the hottest 
heat of August ; and if there be a hotter place 
in Massachusetts than Andover was, I have yet 
to simmer in it. Our houses were, of course, 
thrown open, and crowded to the shingles. 

I remember once sharing my tiny room with 

a little guest who would not have the window 

open, though the thermometer had stood above 

ninety day and night for a week ; and because 

 

she was a trustee's daughter, I must not
complain. Perhaps this experience emphasized a 
natural lack of sympathy with her father. 

At all events, I cherished a hidden antagonism
to these excellent and useful men, of 
which I make this late and public confession. 
It seemed to me that everybody in Andover 
