Owen's face, at this, showed a reviving dread, the fear of some darksome
process of her mind. "If you speak for yourself I can understand, but
why is it hideous for me?"
"Oh, I mean for myself!" Fleda said impatiently.
"I watch her, I count on her: how can I do anything else? If I count
on her to let me definitely know how we stand, I do nothing in life but
what she herself has led straight up to. I never thought of asking you
to 'get rid of her' for me, and I never would have spoken to you if I
hadn't held that I am rid of her, that she has backed out of the whole
thing. Didn't she do so from the moment she began to put it off? I had
already applied for the license; the very invitations were half
addressed. Who but she, all of a sudden, demanded an unnatural wait? It
was none of my doing; I had never dreamed of anything but coming up to
the scratch." Owen grew more and more lucid, and more confident of the
effect of his lucidity. "She called it 'taking a stand,' to see what
mother would do. I told her mother would do what I would make her do;
and to that she replied that she would like to see me make her first. I
said I would arrange that everything should be all right, and she said
she really preferred to arrange it herself. It was a flat refusal to
trust me in the smallest degree. Why then had she pretended so
tremendously to care for me? And of course, at present," said Owen, "she
trusts me, if possible, still less."
Fleda paid this statement the homage of a minute's muteness. "As to
that, naturally, she has reason."
"Why on earth has she reason?" Then, as his companion, moving away,
simply threw up her hands, "I never looked at you--not to call
looking--till she had regularly driven me to it," he went on. "I know
what I'm about. I do assure you I'm all right!"
"You're not all right--you're all wrong!" Fleda cried in despair. "You
mustn't stay here, you mustn't!" she repeated with clear decision. "You
make me say dreadful things, and I feel as if I made you say them."
But before he could reply she took it up in another tone. "Why in the
world, if everything had changed, didn't you break off?"
"I?--" The inquiry seemed to have moved him to stupefaction. "Can you
ask me that question when I only wanted to please you? Didn't you seem
to show me, in your wonderful way, that that was exactly how? I didn't
break off just on purpose to leave it to her. I didn't break off so
that there shouldn't be a thing to be said against me."
The instant after her challenge Fleda had faced him again in
self-reproof. "There isn't a thing to be said against you, and I don't
know what nonsense you make me talk! You have pleased me, and you've
been right and good, and it's the only comfort, and you must go.
Everything must come from Mona, and if it doesn't come we've said
entirely too much. You must leave me alone--forever."
"Forever?" Owen gasped.
"I mean unless everything is different."
"Everything is different--when I know!"
Fleda winced at what he knew; she made a wild gesture which seemed to
whirl it out of the room. The mere allusion was like another embrace.
"You know nothing--and you must go and wait! You mustn't break down at
this point."
He looked about him and took up his hat: it was as if, in spite of
frustration, he had got the essence of what he wanted and could afford
to agree with her to the extent of keeping up the forms. He covered her
with his fine, simple smile, but made no other approach. "Oh, I'm so
awfully happy!" he exclaimed.
She hesitated: she would only be impeccable even though she should have
to be sententious. "You'll be happy if you're perfect!" she risked.
He laughed out at this, and she wondered if, with a new-born acuteness,
he saw the absurdity of her speech, and that no one was happy just
because no one could be what she so lightly prescribed. "I don't pretend
to be perfect, but I shall find a letter to-night!"
"So much the better, if it's the kind of one you desire." That was the
most she could say, and having made it sound as dry as possible she
lapsed into a silence so pointed as to deprive him of all pretext for
not leaving her. Still, nevertheless, he stood there, playing with his
hat and filling the long pause with a strained and anxious smile. He
wished to obey her thoroughly, to appear not to presume on any advantage
he had won from her; but there was clearly something he longed for
beside. While he showed this by hanging on she thought of two other
things. One of these was that his countenance, after all, failed to bear
out his description of his bliss. As for the other, it had no sooner
come into her head than she found it seated, in spite of her resolution,
on her lips. It took the form of an inconsequent question. "When did you
say Mrs. Brigstock was to have gone back?"
Owen stared. "To Waterbath? She was to have spent the night in town,
don't you know? But when she left me, after our talk, I said to myself
that she would take an evening train. I know I made her want to get
home."
"Where did you separate?" Fleda asked.
"At the West Kensington station--she was going to Victoria. I had walked
with her there, and our talk was all on the way."
Fleda pondered a moment. "If she did go back that night you would have
heard from Waterbath by this time."
"I don't know," said Owen. "I thought I might hear this morning."
"She can't have gone back," Fleda declared. "Mona would have written on
the spot."
"Oh yes, she will have written bang off!" Owen cheerfully conceded.
Fleda thought again. "Then, even in the event of her mother's not having
got home till the morning, you would have had your letter at the latest
to-day. You see she has had plenty of time."
Owen hesitated; then, "Oh, she's all right!" he laughed. "I go by Mrs.
Brigstock's certain effect on her--the effect of the temper the old lady
showed when we parted. Do you know what she asked me?" he sociably
continued. "She asked me in a kind of nasty manner if I supposed you
'really' cared anything about me. Of course I told her I supposed you
didn't--not a solitary rap. How could I suppose you do, with your
extraordinary ways? It doesn't matter; I could see she thought I lied."
"You should have told her, you know, that I had seen you in town only
that one time," Fleda observed.
"By Jove, I did--for you! It was only for you."
Something in this touched the girl so that for a moment she could not
trust herself to speak. "You're an honest man," she said at last. She
had gone to the door and opened it. "Good-bye."
Even yet, however, he hung back; and she remembered how, at the end of
his hour at Ricks, she had been put to it to get him out of the house.
He had in general a sort of cheerful slowness which helped him at such
times, though she could now see his strong fist crumple his big, stiff
gloves as if they had been paper. "But even if there's no letter--" he
began. He began, but there he left it.
"You mean, even if she doesn't let you off? Ah, you ask me too much!"
Fleda spoke from the tiny hall, where she had taken refuge between the
old barometer and the old mackintosh. "There are things too utterly for
yourselves alone. How can I tell? What do I know? Good-bye, good-bye! If
she doesn't let you off, it will be because she is attached to you."
"She's not, she's not: there's nothing in it! Doesn't a fellow
know?--except with you!" Owen ruefully added. With this he came out of
the room, lowering his voice to secret supplication, pleading with her
really to meet him on the ground of the negation of Mona. It was this
betrayal of his need of support and sanction that made her
retreat--harden herself in the effort to save what might remain of all
she had given, given probably for nothing. The very vision of him as he
thus morally clung to her was the vision of a weakness somewhere in the
core of his bloom, a blessed manly weakness of which, if she had only
the valid right, it would be all a sweetness to take care. She faintly
sickened, however, with the sense that there was as yet no valid right
poor Owen could give. "You can take it from my honor, you know," he
whispered, "that she loathes me."
Fleda had stood clutching the knob of Maggie's little painted
stair-rail; she took, on the stairs, a step backward. "Why then doesn't
she prove it in the only clear way?"
"She has proved it. Will you believe it if you see the letter?"
"I don't want to see any letter," said Fleda. "You'll miss your train."
Facing him, waving him away, she had taken another upward step; but he
sprang to the side of the stairs and brought his hand, above the
banister, down hard on her wrist. "Do you mean to tell me that I must
marry a woman I hate?"
From her step she looked down into his raised face. "Ah, you see it's
not true that you're free!" She seemed almost to exult. "It's not
true--it's not true!"
He only, at this, like a buffeting swimmer, gave a shake of his head and
repeated his question. "Do you mean to tell me I must marry such a
woman?"
Fleda hesitated; he held her fast. "No. Anything is better than that."
"Then, in God's name, what must I do?"
"You must settle that with her. You mustn't break faith. Anything is
better than that. You must at any rate be utterly sure. She must love
you--how can she help it? I wouldn't give you up!" said Fleda. She
spoke in broken bits, panting out her words. "The great thing is to keep
faith. Where is a man if he doesn't? If he doesn't he may be so cruel.
So cruel, so cruel, so cruel!" Fleda repeated. "I couldn't have a hand
in that, you know: that's my position--that's mine. You offered her
marriage: it's a tremendous thing for her." Then looking at him another
moment, "I wouldn't give you up!" she said again. He still had hold of
her arm; she took in his blank alarm. With a quick dip of her face she
reached his hand with her lips, pressing them to the back of it with a
force that doubled the force of her words. "Never, never, never!" she
cried; and before he could succeed in seizing her she had turned and,
scrambling up the stairs, got away from him even faster than she had got
away from him at Ricks.
XVII
Ten days after his visit she received a communication from Mrs.
Gereth--a telegram of eight words, exclusive of signature and date.
"Come up immediately and stay with me here"--it was characteristically
sharp, as Maggie said; but, as Maggie added, it was also
characteristically kind. "Here" was an hotel in London, and Maggie had
embraced a condition of life which already began to produce in her some
yearning for hotels in London. She would have responded in an instant,
and she was surprised that her sister seemed to hesitate. Fleda's
hesitation, which lasted but an hour, was expressed in that young lady's
own mind by the reflection that in obeying her friend's summons she
shouldn't know what she should be "in for." Her friend's summons,
however, was but another name for her friend's appeal; and Mrs. Gereth's
bounty had laid her under obligations more sensible than any reluctance.
In the event--that is at the end of her hour--she testified to her
gratitude by taking the train and to her mistrust by leaving her
luggage. She went as if she had gone up for the day. In the train,
however, she had another thoughtful hour, during which it was her
mistrust that mainly deepened. She felt as if for ten days she had sat
in darkness, looking to the east for a dawn that had not yet glimmered.
Her mind had lately been less occupied with Mrs. Gereth; it had been so
exceptionally occupied with Mona. If the sequel was to justify Owen's
prevision of Mrs. Brigstock's action upon her daughter, this action was
at the end of a week as much a mystery as ever. The stillness, all
round, had been exactly what Fleda desired, but it gave her for the time
a deep sense of failure, the sense of a sudden drop from a height at
which she had all things beneath her. She had nothing beneath her now;
she herself was at the bottom of the heap. No sign had reached her from
Owen--poor Owen, who had clearly no news to give about his precious
letter from Waterbath. If Mrs. Brigstock had hurried back to obtain that
this letter should be written, Mrs. Brigstock might then have spared
herself so great an inconvenience. Owen had been silent for the best of
all reasons--the reason that he had had nothing in life to say. If the
letter had not been written he would simply have had to introduce some
large qualification into his account of his freedom. He had left his
young friend under her refusal to listen to him until he should be able,
on the contrary, to extend that picture; and his present submission was
all in keeping with the rigid honesty that his young friend had
prescribed.
It was this that formed the element through which Mona loomed large;
Fleda had enough imagination, a fine enough feeling for life, to be
impressed with such an image of successful immobility. The massive
maiden at Waterbath was successful from the moment she could entertain
her resentments as if they had been poor relations who needn't put her
to expense. She was a magnificent dead weight; there was something
positive and portentous in her quietude. "What game are they all
playing?" poor Fleda could only ask; for she had an intimate conviction
that Owen was now under the roof of his betrothed. That was stupefying
if he really hated Mona; and if he didn't really hate her what had
brought him to Raphael Road and to Maggie's? Fleda had no real light,
but she felt that to account for the absence of any result of their last
meeting would take a supposition of the full sacrifice to charity that
she had held up before him. If he had gone to Waterbath it had been
simply because he had to go. She had as good as told him that he would
have to go; that this was an inevitable incident of his keeping perfect
faith--faith so literal that the smallest subterfuge would always be a
reproach to him. When she tried to remember that it was for herself he
was taking his risk, she felt how weak a way that was of expressing
Mona's supremacy. There would be no need of keeping him up if there were
nothing to keep him up to. Her eyes grew wan as she discerned in the
impenetrable air that Mona's thick outline never wavered an inch. She
wondered fitfully what Mrs. Gereth had by this time made of it, and
reflected with a strange elation that the sand on which the mistress of
Ricks had built a momentary triumph was quaking beneath the surface. As
The Morning Post still held its peace, she would be, of course, more
confident; but the hour was at hand at which Owen would have absolutely
to do either one thing or the other. To keep perfect faith was to inform
against his mother, and to hear the police at her door would be Mrs.
Gereth's awakening. How much she was beguiled Fleda could see from her
having been for a whole month quite as deep and dark as Mona. She had
let her young friend alone because of the certitude, cultivated at
Ricks, that Owen had done the opposite. He had done the opposite indeed,
but much good had that brought forth! To have sent for her now, Fleda
felt, was from this point of view wholly natural: she had sent for her
to show at last how much she had scored. If, however, Owen was really at
Waterbath the refutation of that boast was easy.
Fleda found Mrs. Gereth in modest apartments and with an air of fatigue
in her distinguished face--a sign, as she privately remarked, of the
strain of that effort to be discreet of which she herself had been
having the benefit. It was a constant feature of their relation that
this lady could make Fleda blench a little, and that the effect
proceeded from the intense pressure of her confidence. If the confidence
had been heavy even when the girl, in the early flush of devotion, had
been able to feel herself most responsive, it drew her heart into her
mouth now that she had reserves and conditions, now that she couldn't
simplify with the same bold hand as her protectress. In the very
brightening of the tired look, and at the moment of their embrace, Fleda
felt on her shoulders the return of the load, so that her spirit frankly
quailed as she asked herself what she had brought up from her trusted
seclusion to support it. Mrs. Gereth's free manner always made a joke of
weakness, and there was in such a welcome a richness, a kind of familiar
nobleness, that suggested shame to a harried conscience. Something had
happened, she could see, and she could also see, in the bravery that
seemed to announce it had changed everything, a formidable assumption
that what had happened was what a healthy young woman must like. The
absence of luggage had made this young woman feel meagre even before her
companion, taking in the bareness at a second glance, exclaimed upon it
and roundly rebuked her. Of course she had expected her to stay.
Fleda thought best to show bravery too, and to show it from the first.
"What you expected, dear Mrs. Gereth, is exactly what I came up to
ascertain. It struck me as right to do that first. I mean to ascertain,
without making preparations."
"Then you'll be so good as to make them on the spot!" Mrs. Gereth was
most emphatic. "You're going abroad with me."
Fleda wondered, but she also smiled. "To-night--to-morrow?"
"In as few days as possible. That's all that's left for me now." Fleda's
heart, at this, gave a bound; she wondered to what particular difference
in Mrs. Gereth's situation as last known to her it was an allusion.
"I've made my plan," her friend continued: "I go for at least a year. We
shall go straight to Florence; we can manage there. I of course don't
look to you, however," she added, "to stay with me all that time. That
will require to be settled. Owen will have to join us as soon as
possible; he may not be quite ready to get off with us. But I'm
convinced it's quite the right thing to go. It will make a good change;
it will put in a decent interval."
Fleda listened; she was deeply mystified. "How kind you are to me!" she
presently said. The picture suggested so many questions that she
scarcely knew which to ask first. She took one at a venture. "You really
have it from Mr. Gereth that he'll give us his company?"
If Mr. Gereth's mother smiled in response to this, Fleda knew that her
smile was a tacit criticism of such a form of reference to her son.
Fleda habitually spoke of him as Mr. Owen, and it was a part of her
present vigilance to appear to have relinquished that right. Mrs.
Gereth's manner confirmed a certain impression of her pretending to more
than she felt; her very first words had conveyed it, and it reminded
Fleda of the conscious courage with which, weeks before, the lady had
met her visitor's first startled stare at the clustered spoils of
Poynton. It was her practice to take immensely for granted whatever she
wished. "Oh, if you'll answer for him, it will do quite as well!" she
said. Then she put her hands on the girl's shoulders and held them at
arm's length, as if to shake them a little, while in the depths of her
shining eyes Fleda discovered something obscure and unquiet. "You bad,
false thing, why didn't you tell me?" Her tone softened her harshness,
and her visitor had never had such a sense of her indulgence. Mrs.
Gereth could show patience; it was a part of the general bribe, but it
was also like the handing in of a heavy bill before which Fleda could
only fumble in a penniless pocket. "You must perfectly have known at
Ricks, and yet you practically denied it. That's why I call you bad and
false!" It was apparently also why she again almost roughly kissed her.
"I think that before I answer you I had better know what you're talking
about," Fleda said.
Mrs. Gereth looked at her with a slight increase of hardness. "You've
done everything you need for modesty, my dear! If he's sick with love of
you, you haven't had to wait for me to inform you."
Fleda hesitated. "Has he informed you, dear Mrs. Gereth?"
Dear Mrs. Gereth smiled sweetly. "How could he, when our situation is
such that he communicates with me only through you, and that you are so
tortuous you conceal everything?"
"Didn't he answer the note in which you let him know that I was in
town?" Fleda asked.
"He answered it sufficiently by rushing off on the spot to see you."
Mrs. Gereth met that allusion with a prompt firmness that made almost
insolently light of any ground of complaint, and Fleda's own sense of
responsibility was now so vivid that all resentments turned
comparatively pale. She had no heart to produce a grievance; she could
only, left as she was with the little mystery on her hands, produce,
after a moment, a question. "How then do you come to know that your son
has ever thought--"
"That he would give his ears to get you?" Mrs. Gereth broke in. "I had a
visit from Mrs. Brigstock."
Fleda opened her eyes. "She went down to Ricks?"
"The day after she had found Owen at your feet. She knows everything."
Fleda shook her head sadly; she was more startled than she cared to
show. This odd journey of Mrs. Brigstock's, which, with a simplicity
equal for once to Owen's, she had not divined, now struck her as having
produced the hush of the last ten days. "There are things she doesn't
know!" she presently exclaimed.
"She knows he would do anything to marry you."
"He hasn't told her so," Fleda said.
"No, but he has told you. That's better still!" laughed Mrs. Gereth. "My
dear child," she went on with an air that affected the girl as a sort of
blind profanity, "don't try to make yourself out better than you are.
I know what you are. I haven't lived with you so much for nothing.
You're not quite a saint in heaven yet. Lord, what a creature you'd have
thought me in my good time! But you do like it, fortunately, you idiot.
You're pale with your passion, you sweet thing. That's exactly what I
wanted to see. I can't for the life of me think where the shame comes
in." Then with a finer significance, a look that seemed to Fleda
strange, she added: "It's all right."
"I've seen him but twice," said Fleda.
"But twice?" Mrs. Gereth still smiled.
"On the occasion, at papa's, that Mrs. Brigstock told you of, and one
day, since then, down at Maggie's."
"Well, those things are between yourselves, and you seem to me both poor
creatures at best." Mrs. Gereth spoke with a rich humor which tipped
with light for an instant a real conviction. "I don't know what you've
got in your veins: you absurdly exaggerated the difficulties. But enough
is as good as a feast, and when once I get you abroad together--!" She
checked herself as if from excess of meaning; what might happen when she
should get them abroad together was to be gathered only from the way she
slowly rubbed her hands.
The gesture, however, made the promise so definite that for a moment her
companion was almost beguiled. But there was nothing to account, as yet,
for the wealth of Mrs. Gereth's certitude: the visit of the lady of
Waterbath appeared but half to explain it. "Is it permitted to be
surprised," Fleda deferentially asked, "at Mrs. Brigstock's thinking it
would help her to see you?"
"It's never permitted to be surprised at the aberrations of born fools,"
said Mrs. Gereth. "If a cow should try to calculate, that's the kind of
happy thought she'd have. Mrs. Brigstock came down to plead with me."
Fleda mused a moment. "That's what she came to do with me," she then
honestly returned. "But what did she expect to get of you, with your
opposition so marked from the first?"
"She didn't know I want you, my dear. It's a wonder, with all my
violence--the gross publicity I've given my desires. But she's as stupid
as an owl--she doesn't feel your charm."
Fleda felt herself flush slightly, but she tried to smile. "Did you tell
her all about it? Did you make her understand you want me?"
"For what do you take me? I wasn't such a donkey."
"So as not to aggravate Mona?" Fleda suggested.
"So as not to aggravate Mona, naturally. We've had a narrow course to
steer, but thank God we're at last in the open!"
"What do you call the open, Mrs. Gereth?" Fleda demanded. Then as the
other faltered: "Do you know where Mr. Owen is to-day?"
Mrs. Gereth stared. "Do you mean he's at Waterbath? Well, that's your
own affair. I can bear it if you can."
"Wherever he is, I can bear it," Fleda said. "But I haven't the least
idea where he is."
"Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself!" Mrs. Gereth broke out with a
change of note that showed how deep a passion underlay everything she
had said. The poor woman, catching her companion's hand, however, the
next moment, as if to retract something of this harshness, spoke more
patiently. "Don't you understand, Fleda, how immensely, how devotedly,
I've trusted you?" Her tone was indeed a supplication.
Fleda was infinitely shaken; she was silent a little. "Yes, I
understand. Did she go to you to complain of me?"
"She came to see what she could do. She had been tremendously upset, the
day before, by what had taken place at your father's, and she had posted
down to Ricks on the inspiration of the moment. She hadn't meant it on
leaving home; it was the sight of you closeted there with Owen that had
suddenly determined her. The whole story, she said, was written in your
two faces: she spoke as if she had never seen such an exhibition. Owen
was on the brink, but there might still be time to save him, and it was
with this idea she had bearded me in my den. 'What won't a mother do,
you know?'--that was one of the things she said. What wouldn't a mother
do indeed? I thought I had sufficiently shown her what! She tried to
break me down by an appeal to my good nature, as she called it, and from
the moment she opened on you, from the moment she denounced Owen's
falsity, I was as good-natured as she could wish. I understood that it
was a plea for mere mercy, that you and he between you were killing her
child. Of course I was delighted that Mona should be killed, but I was
studiously kind to Mrs. Brigstock. At the same time I was honest, I
didn't pretend to anything I couldn't feel. I asked her why the marriage
hadn't taken place months ago, when Owen was perfectly ready; and I
showed her how completely that fatuous mistake on Mona's part cleared
his responsibility. It was she who had killed him--it was she who had
destroyed his affection, his illusions. Did she want him now when he was
estranged, when he was disgusted, when he had a sore grievance? She
reminded me that Mona had a sore grievance too, but she admitted that
she hadn't come to me to speak of that. What she had come to me for was
not to get the old things back, but simply to get Owen. What she wanted
was that I would, in simple pity, see fair play. Owen had been awfully
bedeviled--she didn't call it that, she called it 'misled'--but it was
simply you who had bedeviled him. He would be all right still if I would
see that you were out of the way. She asked me point-blank if it was
possible I could want him to marry you."
Fleda had listened in unbearable pain and growing terror, as if her
interlocutress, stone by stone, were piling some fatal mass upon her
breast. She had the sense of being buried alive, smothered in the mere
expansion of another will; and now there was but one gap left to the
air. A single word, she felt, might close it, and with the question that
came to her lips as Mrs. Gereth paused she seemed to herself to ask, in
cold dread, for her doom. "What did you say to that?" she inquired.
"I was embarrassed, for I saw my danger--the danger of her going home
and saying to Mona that I was backing you up. It had been a bliss to
learn that Owen had really turned to you, but my joy didn't put me off
my guard. I reflected intensely for a few seconds; then I saw my issue."
"Your issue?" Fleda murmured.
"I remembered how you had tied my hands about saying a word to Owen."
Fleda wondered. "And did you remember the little letter that, with your
hands tied, you still succeeded in writing to him?"
"Perfectly; my little letter was a model of reticence. What I remembered
was all that in those few words I forbade myself to say. I had been an
angel of delicacy--I had effaced myself like a saint. It was not for me
to have done all that and then figure to such a woman as having done the
opposite. Besides, it was none of her business."
"Is that what you said to her?" Fleda asked.
"I said to her that her question revealed a total misconception of the
nature of my present relations with my son. I said to her that I had no
relations with him at all, and that nothing had passed between us for
months. I said to her that my hands were spotlessly clean of any attempt
to make him make up to you. I said to her that I had taken from Poynton
what I had a right to take, but had done nothing else in the world. I
was determined that if I had bit my tongue off to oblige you I would at
least have the righteousness that my sacrifice gave me."
"And was Mrs. Brigstock satisfied with your answer?"
"She was visibly relieved."
"It was fortunate for you," said Fleda, "that she's apparently not aware
of the manner in which, almost under her nose, you advertised me to him
at Poynton."
Mrs. Gereth appeared to recall that scene; she smiled with a serenity
remarkably effective as showing how cheerfully used she had grown to
invidious allusions to it. "How should she be aware of it?"
"She would if Owen had described your outbreak to Mona."
"Yes, but he didn't describe it. All his instinct was to conceal it from
Mona. He wasn't conscious, but he was already in love with you!" Mrs.
Gereth declared.
Fleda shook her head wearily. "No--I was only in love with him!"
Here was a faint illumination with which Mrs. Gereth instantly mingled
her fire. "You dear old wretch!" she exclaimed; and she again, with
ferocity, embraced her young friend.
Fleda submitted like a sick animal: she would submit to everything now.
"Then what further passed?"
"Only that she left me thinking she had got something."
"And what had she got?"
"Nothing but her luncheon. But I got everything!"
"Everything?" Fleda quavered.
Mrs. Gereth, struck apparently by something in her tone, looked at her
from a tremendous height. "Don't fail me now!"
It sounded so like a menace that, with a full divination at last, the
poor girl fell weakly into a chair. "What on earth have you done?"
Mrs. Gereth stood there in all the glory of a great stroke. "I've
settled you." She filled the room, to Fleda's scared vision, with the
glare of her magnificence. "I've sent everything back."
"Everything?" Fleda gasped.
"To the smallest snuff-box. The last load went yesterday. The same
people did it. Poor little Ricks is empty." Then as if, for a crowning
splendor, to check all deprecation, "They're yours, you goose!" Mrs.
Gereth concluded, holding up her handsome head and rubbing her white
hands. Fleda saw that there were tears in her deep eyes.
XVIII
She was slow to take in the announcement, but when she had done so she
felt it to be more than her cup of bitterness would hold. Her bitterness
was her anxiety, the taste of which suddenly sickened her. What had she
become, on the spot, but a traitress to her friend? The treachery
increased with the view of the friend's motive, a motive magnificent as
a tribute to her value. Mrs. Gereth had wished to make sure of her and
had reasoned that there would be no such way as by a large appeal to her
honor. If it be true, as men have declared, that the sense of honor is
weak in women, some of the bearings of this stroke might have thrown a
light on the question. What was now, at all events, put before Fleda was
that she had been made sure of, for the greatness of the surrender
imposed an obligation as great. There was an expression she had heard
used by young men with whom she danced: the only word to fit Mrs.
Gereth's intention was that Mrs. Gereth had designed to "fetch" her. It
was a calculated, it was a crushing bribe; it looked her in the eyes and
said simply: "That's what I do for you!" What Fleda was to do in return
required no pointing out. The sense, at present, of how little she had
done made her almost cry aloud with pain; but her first endeavor, in the
face of the fact, was to keep such a cry from reaching her companion.
How little she had done Mrs. Gereth didn't yet know, and possibly there
would be still some way of turning round before the discovery. On her
own side too Fleda had almost made one: she had known she was wanted,
but she had not after all conceived how magnificently much. She had been
treated by her friend's act as a conscious prize, but what made her a
conscious prize was only the power the act itself imputed to her. As
high, bold diplomacy it dazzled and carried her off her feet. She
admired the noble risk of it, a risk Mrs. Gereth had faced for the
utterly poor creature that the girl now felt herself. The change it
instantly wrought in her was, moreover, extraordinary: it transformed at
a touch her emotion on the subject of concessions. A few weeks earlier
she had jumped at the duty of pleading for them, practically quarreling
with the lady of Ricks for her refusal to restore what she had taken.
She had been sore with the wrong to Owen, she had bled with the wounds
of Poynton; now however, as she heard of the replenishment of the void
that had so haunted her, she came as near sounding an alarm as if from
the deck of a ship she had seen a person she loved jump into the sea.
Mrs. Gereth had become in a flash the victim; poor little Ricks had been
laid bare in a night. If Fleda's feeling about the old things had taken
precipitate form the form would have been a frantic command. It was
indeed for mere want of breath that she didn't shout: "Oh, stop
them--it's no use; bring them back--it's too late!" And what most kept
her breathless was her companion's very grandeur. Fleda distinguished as
never before the purity of such a passion; it made Mrs. Gereth august
and almost sublime. It was absolutely unselfish--she cared nothing for
mere possession. She thought solely and incorruptibly of what was best
for the things; she had surrendered them to the presumptive care of the
one person of her acquaintance who felt about them as she felt herself,
and whose long lease of the future would be the nearest approach that
could be compassed to committing them to a museum. Now it was indeed
that Fleda knew what rested on her; now it was also that she measured as
if for the first time Mrs. Gereth's view of the natural influence of a
fine acquisition. She had adopted the idea of blowing away the last
doubt of what her young friend would gain, of making good still more
than she was obliged to make it the promise of weeks before. It was one
thing for the girl to have heard that in a certain event restitution
would be made; it was another for her to see the condition, with a noble
trust, treated in advance as performed, and to be able to feel that she
should have only to open a door to find every old piece in every old
corner. To have played such a card was therefore, practically, for Mrs.
Gereth, to have won the game. Fleda had certainly to recognize that, so
far as the theory of the matter went, the game had been won. Oh, she had
been made sure of!
She couldn't, however, succeed for so very many minutes in deferring her
exposure. "Why didn't you wait, dearest? Ah, why didn't you wait?"--if
that inconsequent appeal kept rising to her lips to be cut short before
it was spoken, this was only because at first the humility of gratitude
helped her to gain time, enabled her to present herself very honestly as
too overcome to be clear. She kissed her companion's hands, she did
homage at her feet, she murmured soft snatches of praise, and yet in the
midst of it all was conscious that what she really showed most was the
wan despair at her heart. She saw Mrs. Gereth's glimpse of this despair
suddenly widen, heard the quick chill of her voice pierce through the
false courage of endearments. "Do you mean to tell me at such an hour as
this that you've really lost him?"
The tone of the question made the idea a possibility for which Fleda had
nothing from this moment but terror. "I don't know, Mrs. Gereth; how can
I say?" she asked. "I've not seen him for so long; as I told you just
now, I don't even know where he is. That's by no fault of his," she
hurried on: "he would have been with me every day if I had consented.
But I made him understand, the last time, that I'll receive him again
only when he's able to show me that his release has been complete and
definite. Oh, he can't yet, don't you see, and that's why he hasn't been
back. It's far better than his coming only that we should both be
miserable. When he does come he'll be in a better position. He'll be
tremendously moved by the splendid thing you've done. I know you wish me
to feel that you've done it as much for me as for Owen, but your having
done it for me is just what will delight him most! When he hears of it,"
said Fleda, in desperate optimism, "when he hears of it--" There indeed,
regretting her advance, she quite broke down. She was wholly powerless
to say what Owen would do when he heard of it. "I don't know what he
won't make of you and how he won't hug you!" she had to content herself
with lamely declaring. She had drawn Mrs. Gereth to a sofa with a vague
instinct of pacifying her and still, after all, gaining time; but it was
a position in which her great duped benefactress, portentously patient
again during this demonstration, looked far from inviting a "hug." Fleda
found herself tricking out the situation with artificial flowers, trying
to talk even herself into the fancy that Owen, whose name she now made
simple and sweet, might come in upon them at any moment. She felt an
immense need to be understood and justified; she averted her face in
dread from all that she might have to be forgiven. She pressed on her
companion's arm as if to keep her quiet till she should really know, and
then, after a minute, she poured out the clear essence of what in
happier days had been her "secret." "You mustn't think I don't adore him
when I've told him so to his face. I love him so that I'd die for him--I
love him so that it's horrible. Don't look at me therefore as if I had
not been kind, as if I had not been as tender as if he were dying and my
tenderness were what would save him. Look at me as if you believe me, as
if you feel what I've been through. Darling Mrs. Gereth, I could kiss
the ground he walks on. I haven't a rag of pride; I used to have, but
it's gone. I used to have a secret, but every one knows it now, and any
one who looks at me can say, I think, what's the matter with me. It's
not so very fine, my secret, and the less one really says about it the
better; but I want you to have it from me because I was stiff before. I
want you to see for yourself that I've been brought as low as a girl can
very well be. It serves me right," Fleda laughed, "if I was ever proud
and horrid to you! I don't know what you wanted me, in those days at
Ricks, to do, but I don't think you can have wanted much more than what
I've done. The other day at Maggie's I did things that made me,
afterwards, think of you! I don't know what girls may do; but if he
doesn't know that there isn't an inch of me that isn't his--!" Fleda
sighed as if she couldn't express it; she piled it up, as she would have
said; holding Mrs. Gereth with dilated eyes, she seemed to sound her for
the effect of these words. "It's idiotic," she wearily smiled; "it's so
strange that I'm almost angry for it, and the strangest part of all is
that it isn't even happiness. It's anguish--it was from the first; from
the first there was a bitterness and a kind of dread. But I owe you
every word of the truth. You don't do him justice, either: he's a dear,
I assure you he's a dear. I'd trust him to the last breath; I don't
think you really know him. He's ever so much cleverer than he makes a
show of; he's remarkable in his own shy way. You told me at Ricks that
you wanted me to let myself go, and I've 'gone' quite far enough to
discover as much as that, as well as all sorts of other delightful
things about him. You'll tell me I make myself out worse than I am,"
said the girl, feeling more and more in her companion's attitude a
quality that treated her speech as a desperate rigmarole and even
perhaps as a piece of cold immodesty. She wanted to make herself out
"bad"--it was a part of her justification; but it suddenly occurred to
her that such a picture of her extravagance imputed a want of gallantry
to the young man. "I don't care for anything you think," she declared,
"because Owen, don't you know, sees me as I am. He's so kind that it
makes up for everything!"
This attempt at gayety was futile; the silence with which, for a minute,
her adversary greeted her troubled plea brought home to her afresh that
she was on the bare defensive. "Is it a part of his kindness never to
come near you?" Mrs. Gereth inquired at last. "Is it a part of his
kindness to leave you without an inkling of where he is?" She rose again
from where Fleda had kept her down; she seemed to tower there in the
majesty of her gathered wrong. "Is it a part of his kindness that, after
I've toiled as I've done for six days, and with my own weak hands, which
I haven't spared, to denude myself, in your interest, to that point that
I've nothing left, as I may say, but what I have on my back--is it a
part of his kindness that you're not even able to produce him for me?"
There was a high contempt in this which was for Owen quite as much, and
in the light of which Fleda felt that her effort at plausibility had
been mere groveling. She rose from the sofa with an humiliated sense of
rising from ineffectual knees. That discomfort, however, lived but an
instant: it was swept away in a rush of loyalty to the absent. She
herself could bear his mother's scorn; but to avert it from his sweet
innocence she broke out with a quickness that was like the raising of an
arm. "Don't blame him--don't blame him: he'd do anything on earth for
me! It was I," said Fleda, eagerly, "who sent him back to her; I made
him go; I pushed him out of the house; I declined to have anything to
say to him except on another footing."
Mrs. Gereth stared as at some gross material ravage. "Another footing?
What other footing?"
"The one I've already made so clear to you: my having it in black and
white, as you may say, from her that she freely gives him up."
"Then you think he lies when he tells you that he has recovered his
liberty?"
Fleda hesitated a moment; after which she exclaimed with a certain hard
pride: "He's enough in love with me for anything!"
"For anything, apparently, except to act like a man and impose his
reason and his will on your incredible folly. For anything except to put
an end, as any man worthy of the name would have put it, to your
systematic, to your idiotic perversity. What are you, after all, my
dear, I should like to know, that a gentleman who offers you what Owen
offers should have to meet such wonderful exactions, to take such
extraordinary precautions about your sweet little scruples?" Her
resentment rose to a strange insolence which Fleda took full in the face
and which, for the moment at least, had the horrible force to present to
her vengefully a showy side of the truth. It gave her a blinding glimpse
of lost alternatives. "I don't know what to think of him," Mrs. Gereth
went on; "I don't know what to call him: I'm so ashamed of him that I
can scarcely speak of him even to you. But indeed I'm so ashamed of
you both together that I scarcely know in common decency where to look."
She paused to give Fleda the full benefit of this remarkable statement;
then she exclaimed: "Any one but a jackass would have tucked you under
his arm and marched you off to the Registrar!"
Fleda wondered; with her free imagination she could wonder even while
her cheek stung from a slap. "To the Registrar?"
"That would have been the sane, sound, immediate course to adopt. With a
grain of gumption you'd both instantly have felt it. I should have
found a way to take you, you know, if I'd been what Owen's supposed to
be. I should have got the business over first; the rest could come
when you liked! Good God, girl, your place was to stand before me as a
woman honestly married. One doesn't know what one has hold of in
touching you, and you must excuse my saying that you're literally
unpleasant to me to meet as you are. Then at least we could have talked,
and Owen, if he had the ghost of a sense of humor, could have snapped
his fingers at your refinements."
This stirring speech affected our young lady as if it had been the shake
of a tambourine borne towards her from a gypsy dance: her head seemed to
go round and she felt a sudden passion in her feet. The emotion,
however, was but meagrely expressed in the flatness with which she heard
herself presently say: "I'll go to the Registrar now."
"Now?" Magnificent was the sound Mrs. Gereth threw into this
monosyllable. "And pray who's to take you?" Fleda gave a colorless
smile, and her companion continued: "Do you literally mean that you
can't put your hand upon him?" Fleda's wan grimace appeared to irritate
her; she made a short, imperious gesture. "Find him for me, you
fool--find him for me!"
"What do you want of him," Fleda sadly asked, "feeling as you do to both
of us?"
"Never mind how I feel, and never mind what I say when I'm furious!"
Mrs. Gereth still more incisively added. "Of course I cling to you, you
wretches, or I shouldn't suffer as I do. What I want of him is to see
that he takes you; what I want of him is to go with you myself to the
place." She looked round the room as if, in feverish haste, for a mantle
to catch up; she bustled to the window as if to spy out a cab: she would
allow half an hour for the job. Already in her bonnet, she had snatched
from the sofa a garment for the street: she jerked it on as she came
back. "Find him, find him," she repeated; "come straight out with me, to
try, at least, to get at him!"
"How can I get at him? He'll come when he's ready," Fleda replied.
Mrs. Gereth turned on her sharply. "Ready for what? Ready to see me
ruined without a reason or a reward?"
Fleda was silent; the worst of it all was that there was something
unspoken between them. Neither of them dared to utter it, but the
influence of it was in the girl's tone when she returned at last, with
great gentleness: "Don't be harsh to me--I'm very unhappy." The words
produced a visible impression on Mrs. Gereth, who held her face averted
and sent off through the window a gaze that kept pace with the long
caravan of her treasures. Fleda knew she was watching it wind up the
avenue of Poynton--Fleda participated indeed fully in the vision; so
that after a little the most consoling thing seemed to her to add: "I
don't see why in the world you take so for granted that he's, as you
say, 'lost.'"
Mrs. Gereth continued to stare out of the window, and her stillness
denoted some success in controlling herself. "If he's not lost, why are
you unhappy?"
"I'm unhappy because I torment you, and you don't understand me."
"No, Fleda, I don't understand you," said Mrs. Gereth, finally facing
her again. "I don't understand you at all, and it's as if you and Owen
were of quite another race and another flesh. You make me feel very
old-fashioned and simple and bad. But you must take me as I am, since
you take so much else with me!" She spoke now with the drop of her
resentment, with a dry and weary calm. "It would have been better for me
if I had never known you," she pursued, "and certainly better if I
hadn't taken such an extraordinary fancy to you. But that too was
inevitable: everything, I suppose, is inevitable. It was all my own
doing--you didn't run after me: I pounced on you and caught you up.
You're a stiff little beggar, in spite of your pretty manners: yes,
you're hideously misleading. I hope you feel how handsome it is of me to
recognize the independence of your character. It was your clever
sympathy that did it--your extraordinary feeling for those accursed
vanities. You were sharper about them than any one I had ever known, and
that was a thing I simply couldn't resist. Well," the poor lady
concluded after a pause, "you see where it has landed us!"
"If you'll go for him yourself, I'll wait here," said Fleda.
Mrs. Gereth, holding her mantle together, appeared for a while to
consider.
"To his club, do you mean?"
"Isn't it there, when he's in town, that he has a room? He has at
present no other London address," Fleda said: "it's there one writes to
him."
"How do I know, with my wretched relations with him?" Mrs. Gereth
asked.
"Mine have not been quite so bad as that," Fleda desperately smiled.
Then she added: "His silence, her silence, our hearing nothing at
all--what are these but the very things on which, at Poynton and at
Ricks, you rested your assurance that everything is at an end between
them?"
Mrs. Gereth looked dark and void. "Yes, but I hadn't heard from you then
that you could invent nothing better than, as you call it, to send him
back to her."
"Ah, but, on the other hand, you've learned from them what you didn't
know--you've learned by Mrs. Brigstock's visit that he cares for me."
Fleda found herself in the position of availing herself of optimistic
arguments that she formerly had repudiated; her refutation of her
companion had completely changed its ground.
She was in a fever of ingenuity and painfully conscious, on behalf of
her success, that her fever was visible. She could herself see the
reflection of it glitter in Mrs. Gereth's sombre eyes.
"You plunge me in stupefaction," that lady answered, "and at the same
time you terrify me. Your account of Owen is inconceivable, and yet I
don't know what to hold on by. He cares for you, it does appear, and yet
in the same breath you inform me that nothing is more possible than that
he's spending these days at Waterbath. Excuse me if I'm so dull as not
to see my way in such darkness. If he's at Waterbath he doesn't care for
you. If he cares for you he's not at Waterbath."
"Then where is he?" poor Fleda helplessly wailed. She caught herself up,
however; she did her best to be brave and clear. Before Mrs. Gereth
could reply, with due obviousness, that this was a question for her not
to ask, but to answer, she found an air of assurance to say: "You
simplify far too much. You always did and you always will. The tangle of
life is much more intricate than you've ever, I think, felt it to be.
You slash into it," cried Fleda finely, "with a great pair of shears,
you nip at it as if you were one of the Fates! If Owen's at Waterbath
he's there to wind everything up."
Mrs. Gereth shook her head with slow austerity. "You don't believe a
word you're saying. I've frightened you, as you've frightened me: you're
whistling in the dark to keep up our courage. I do simplify, doubtless,
if to simplify is to fail to comprehend the insanity of a passion that
bewilders a young blockhead with bugaboo barriers, with hideous and
monstrous sacrifices. I can only repeat that you're beyond me. Your
perversity's a thing to howl over. However," the poor woman continued
with a break in her voice, a long hesitation and then the dry triumph of
her will, "I'll never mention it to you again! Owen I can just make out;
for Owen is a blockhead. Owen's a blockhead," she repeated with a
quiet, tragic finality, looking straight into Fleda's eyes. "I don't
know why you dress up so the fact that he's disgustingly weak."
Fleda hesitated; at last, before her companion's, she lowered her look.
"Because I love him. It's because he's weak that he needs me," she
added.
"That was why his father, whom he exactly resembles, needed me. And I
didn't fail his father," said Mrs. Gereth. She gave Fleda a moment to
appreciate the remark; after which she pursued: "Mona Brigstock isn't
weak; she's stronger than you!"
"I never thought she was weak," Fleda answered. She looked vaguely round
the room with a new purpose: she had lost sight of her umbrella.
"I did tell you to let yourself go, but it's clear enough that you
really haven't," Mrs. Gereth declared. "If Mona has got him--"
Fleda had accomplished her search; her interlocutress paused. "If Mona
has got him?" the girl inquired, tightening the umbrella.
"Well," said Mrs. Gereth profoundly, "it will be clear enough that Mona
has."
"Has let herself go?"
"Has let herself go." Mrs. Gereth spoke as if she saw it in every
detail.
Fleda felt the tone and finished her preparation; then she went and
opened the door. "We'll look for him together," she said to her friend,
who stood a moment taking in her face. "They may know something about
him at the Colonel's."
"We'll go there." Mrs. Gereth had picked up her gloves and her purse.
"But the first thing," she went on, "will be to wire to Poynton."
"Why not to Waterbath at once?" Fleda asked.
Her companion hesitated. "In your name?"
"In my name. I noticed a place at the corner."
While Fleda held the door open Mrs. Gereth drew on her gloves. "Forgive
me," she presently said. "Kiss me," she added.
Fleda, on the threshold, kissed her; then they went out.
XIX
In the place at the corner, on the chance of its saving time, Fleda
wrote her telegram--wrote it in silence under Mrs. Gereth's eye and then
in silence handed it to her. "I send this to Waterbath, on the
possibility of your being there, to ask you to come to me." Mrs. Gereth
held it a moment, read it more than once; then keeping it, and with her
eyes on her companion, seemed to consider. There was the dawn of a
kindness in her look; Fleda perceived in it, as if as the reward of
complete submission, a slight relaxation of her rigor.
"Wouldn't it perhaps after all be better," she asked, "before doing
this, to see if we can make his whereabouts certain?"
"Why so? It will be always so much done," said Fleda. "Though I'm poor,"
she added with a smile, "I don't mind the shilling."
"The shilling's my shilling," said Mrs. Gereth.
Fleda stayed her hand. "No, no--I'm superstitious."
"Superstitious?"
"To succeed, it must be all me!"
"Well, if that will make it succeed!" Mrs. Gereth took back her
shilling, but she still kept the telegram. "As he's most probably not
there--"
"If he shouldn't be there," Fleda interrupted, "there will be no harm
done."
"If he 'shouldn't be' there!" Mrs. Gereth ejaculated. "Heaven help us,
how you assume it!"
"I'm only prepared for the worst. The Brigstocks will simply send any
telegram on."
"Where will they send it?"
"Presumably to Poynton."
"They'll read it first," said Mrs. Gereth.
"Read it?"
"Yes, Mona will. She'll open it under the pretext of having it repeated;
and then she'll probably do nothing. She'll keep it as a proof of your
immodesty."
"What of that?" asked Fleda.
"You don't mind her seeing it?"
Rather musingly and absently Fleda shook her head. "I don't mind
anything."
"Well, then, that's all right," said Mrs. Gereth as if she had only
wanted to feel that she had been irreproachably considerate. After this
she was gentler still, but she had another point to clear up. "Why have
you given, for a reply, your sister's address?"
"Because if he does come to me he must come to me there. If that
telegram goes," said Fleda, "I return to Maggie's to-night."
Mrs. Gereth seemed to wonder at this. "You won't receive him here with
me?"
"No, I won't receive him here with you. Only where I received him
last--only there again." She showed her companion that as to that she
was firm.
But Mrs. Gereth had obviously now had some practice in following queer
movements prompted by queer feelings. She resigned herself, though she
fingered the paper a moment longer. She appeared to hesitate; then she
brought out: "You couldn't then, if I release you, make your message a
little stronger?"
Fleda gave her a faint smile. "He'll come if he can."
Mrs. Gereth met fully what this conveyed; with decision she pushed in
the telegram. But she laid her hand quickly upon another form and with
still greater decision wrote another message. "From me, this," she
said to Fleda when she had finished: "to catch him possibly at Poynton.
Will you read it?"
Fleda turned away. "Thank you."
"It's stronger than yours."
"I don't care," said Fleda, moving to the door. Mrs. Gereth, having paid
for the second missive, rejoined her, and they drove together to Owen's
club, where the elder lady alone got out. Fleda, from the hansom,
watched through the glass doors her brief conversation with the
hall-porter and then met in silence her return with the news that he had
not seen Owen for a fortnight and was keeping his letters till called
for. These had been the last orders; there were a dozen letters lying
there. He had no more information to give, but they would see what they
could find at Colonel Gereth's. To any connection with this inquiry,
however, Fleda now roused herself to object, and her friend had indeed
to recognize that on second thoughts it couldn't be quite to the taste
of either of them to advertise in the remoter reaches of the family that
they had forfeited the confidence of the master of Poynton. The letters
lying at the club proved effectively that he was not in London, and this
was the question that immediately concerned them. Nothing could concern
them further till the answers to their telegrams should have had time to
arrive. Mrs. Gereth had got back into the cab, and, still at the door of
the club, they sat staring at their need of patience. Fleda's eyes
rested, in the great hard street, on passing figures that struck her as
puppets pulled by strings. After a little the driver challenged them
through the hole in the top. "Anywhere in particular, ladies?"
Fleda decided. "Drive to Euston, please."
"You won't wait for what we may hear?" Mrs. Gereth asked.
"Whatever we hear, I must go." As the cab went on she added: "But I
needn't drag you to the station."
Mrs. Gereth was silent a moment; then "Nonsense!" she sharply replied.
In spite of this sharpness they were now almost equally and almost
tremulously mild; though their mildness took mainly the form of an
inevitable sense of nothing left to say. It was the unsaid that occupied
them--the thing that for more than an hour they had been going round and
round without naming it. Much too early for Fleda's train, they
encountered at the station a long half-hour to wait. Fleda made no
further allusion to Mrs. Gereth's leaving her; their dumbness, with the
elapsing minutes, grew to be in itself a reconstituted bond. They slowly
paced the great gray platform, and presently Mrs. Gereth took the girl's
arm and leaned on it with a hard demand for support. It seemed to Fleda
not difficult for each to know of what the other was thinking--to know
indeed that they had in common two alternating visions, one of which, at
moments, brought them as by a common impulse to a pause. This was the
one that was fixed; the other filled at times the whole space and then
was shouldered away. Owen and Mona glared together out of the gloom and
disappeared, but the replenishment of Poynton made a shining, steady
light. The old splendor was there again, the old things were in their
places. Our friends looked at them with an equal yearning; face to face,
on the platform, they counted them in each other's eyes. Fleda had come
back to them by a road as strange as the road they themselves had
followed. The wonder of their great journeys, the prodigy of this second
one, was the question that made her occasionally stop. Several times she
uttered it, asked how this and that difficulty had been met. Mrs. Gereth
replied with pale lucidity--was naturally the person most familiar with
the truth that what she undertook was always somehow achieved. To do it
was to do it--she had more than one kind of magnificence. She confessed
there, audaciously enough, to a sort of arrogance of energy, and Fleda,
going on again, her inquiry more than answered and her arm rendering
service, flushed, in her diminished identity, with the sense that such a
woman was great.
"You do mean literally everything, to the last little miniature on the
last little screen?"
"I mean literally everything. Go over them with the catalogue!"
Fleda went over them while they walked again; she had no need of the
catalogue. At last she spoke once more: "Even the Maltese cross?"
"Even the Maltese cross. Why not that as well as everything
else?--especially as I remembered how you like it."
Finally, after an interval, the girl exclaimed: "But the mere fatigue of
it, the exhaustion of such a feat! I drag you to and fro here while you
must be ready to drop."
"I'm very, very tired." Mrs. Gereth's slow head-shake was tragic. "I
couldn't do it again."
"I doubt if they'd bear it again!"
"That's another matter: they'd bear it if I could. There won't have
been, this time either, a shake or a scratch. But I'm too tired--I very
nearly don't care."
"You must sit down, then, till I go," said Fleda. "We must find a
bench."
"No. I'm tired of them: I'm not tired of you. This is the way for you
to feel most how much I rest on you." Fleda had a compunction, wondering
as they continued to stroll whether it was right after all to leave her.
She believed, however, that if the flame might for the moment burn low,
it was far from dying out; an impression presently confirmed by the way
Mrs. Gereth went on: "But one's fatigue is nothing. The idea under which
one worked kept one up. For you I could--I can still. Nothing will
have mattered if she's not there."
There was a question that this imposed, but Fleda at first found no
voice to utter it: it was the thing that, between them, since her
arrival, had been so consciously and vividly unsaid. Finally she was
able to breathe: "And if she is there--if she's there already?"
Mrs. Gereth's rejoinder too hung back; then when it came--from sad eyes
as well as from lips barely moved--it was unexpectedly merciful. "It
will be very hard." That was all, now; and it was poignantly simple. The
train Fleda was to take had drawn up; the girl kissed her as if in
farewell. Mrs. Gereth submitted, then after a little brought out: "If we
have lost--"
"If we have lost?" Fleda repeated as she paused again.
"You'll all the same come abroad with me?"
"It will seem very strange to me if you want me. But whatever you ask,
whatever you need, that I will always do."
"I shall need your company," said Mrs. Gereth. Fleda wondered an instant
if this were not practically a demand for penal submission--for a
surrender that, in its complete humility, would be a long expiation. But
there was none of the latent chill of the vindictive in the way Mrs.
Gereth pursued: "We can always, as time goes on, talk of them together."
"Of the old things?" Fleda had selected a third-class compartment: she
stood a moment looking into it and at a fat woman with a basket who had
already taken possession. "Always?" she said, turning again to her
companion. "Never!" she exclaimed. She got into the carriage, and two
men with bags and boxes immediately followed, blocking up door and
window so long that when she was able to look out again Mrs. Gereth had
gone.
XX
There came to her at her sister's no telegram in answer to her own: the
rest of that day and the whole of the next elapsed without a word either
from Owen or from his mother. She was free, however, to her infinite
relief, from any direct dealing with suspense, and conscious, to her
surprise, of nothing that could show her, or could show Maggie and her
brother-in-law, that she was excited. Her excitement was composed of
pulses as swift and fine as the revolutions of a spinning top: she
supposed she was going round, but she went round so fast that she
