then he freshly faced her. He still said 
nothing, but she knew the Countess had come 
back. There was a silence again between 
them, but with a different shade of embar- 
rassment from that of their united arrival; 
and it was still without speaking that, 
abruptly repeating one of the fine hugs of 
which he had already been so liberal, he 
whisked her back to the yellow sofa just be- 
fore the door of the room was thrown open. 
It was thus in renewed and intimate union 
with him that she was presented to a person 
whom she instantly recognized as the brown 
lady. 
The brown lady looked almost as aston- 
ished, though not quite as alarmed, as when, 
at the Exhibition, she had gasped in the face 
of Mrs. Beale. Maisie, in truth, almost 
gasped in her own ; this was with the fuller 
perception that she was brown indeed. She 
literally struck the child more as an animal 
than as a "real " lady: she might have been 
a clever frizzled poodle in a frill or a dread- 
ful human monkey in a spangled petticoat. 
She had a nose that was far too big and eyes 
that were far too small and a moustache that 
was well, not so happy a feature as Sir 
Claude's. Beale jumped up to her; while, 
to the child's astonishment, though as if in 
a quick intensity of thought, the Countess 
advanced as gaily as if, for many a day, noth- 
ing awkward had happened for any one. 
Maisie, in spite of a large acquaintance with 
the phenomenon, had never seen it so promptly 
established that nothing awkward was to be 
mentioned. The next minute the Countess 
had kissed her and exclaimed to Beale with 
bright, tender reproach : " Why, you never 
told me half! My dear child," she cried, 
" it was awfully nice of you to come ! " 
" But she has n't come she won t come ! " 
Beale exclaimed. " I 've put it to her how 
much you 'd like it, but she declines to have 
anything to do with us." 
The Countess stood smiling, and after an 
instant that was mainly taken up with the 
shock of her weird aspect Maisie felt herself 
reminded of another smile, which was not 
ugly, though also interested the kind light 
thrown, that day in the Park, from the clean, 
fair face of the Captain. Papa's Captain 
yes was the Countess; but she wasn't 
nearly so nice as the other: it all came back, 
doubtless, to Maisie' s minor appreciation of 
ladies. "Should n't you like me," said this 
one endearingly, " to take you to Spa ? " 
"To Spa?" The child repeated the name 
to gain time, not to show how the Countess 
brought back to her a dim remembrance of a 
strange woman with a horrid face, who once, 
years before, in an omnibus, bending to her 
from an opposite seat, had suddenly produced 
an orange and murmured : " Little dearie, 
won't you have it? " She had felt then, for 
some reason, a small, silly terror, though 
afterwards conscious that her interlocutress, 
unfortunately hideous, had particularly meant 
to be kind. This was also what the Coun- 
tess meant; yet the few words she had 
uttered and the smile with which she had 
uttered them immediately cleared everything 
up. Oh, no, she wanted to go nowhere with 
her, for her presence had already, in a few 
seconds, dissipated the happy impression of 
the room and put an end to the pride momen- 
tarily suggested by Beale's association with 
so much taste. There was no taste in his 
association with the short, fat, wheedling, 
whiskered person who had approached her 
and in whom she had to recognize the only 
figure wholly without attraction that had be- 
come a party to an intimate connection 
formed in her immediate circle. She was 
abashed meanwhile, however, at having ap- 
peared to weigh the place to which she had 
been invited; and she added as quickly as 
possible: "It isn't to America, then ?" 
The Countess, at this, looked sharply at 
Beale, and Beale, airily enough, asked what 
the deuce it mattered when she had already 
given him to understand that she wanted to 
have nothing to do with them. There fol- 
lowed between her companions a passage of 
which the sense was drowned for her in the 
deepening inward hum of her mere desire to 
get off; though she was able to guess later 
on that her father must have put it to his 
friend that it was no use talking, that she 
was an obstinate little pig and that, besides, 
she was really old enough to choose for her- 
self. It glimmered back to her then as well 
that the Countess had cast derision on the 
question of America and had offered her 
alternatives to Spa in the shape of any place 
she should like to go in all the rest of the 
world. It glimmered back to her indeed that 
she must have failed quite dreadfully to seem 
responsive and polite, inasmuch as, before 
she knew it, she had visibly given the im- 
pression that if they did n't allow her to go 
home she should cry. Oh, if there had ever 
been a thing to cry about, it was being found 
in that punishable little attitude toward the 
handsomest offers one had ever received ! 
The great pain of the thing was that she 
could see the Countess liked her enough to 
wish to be liked in return ; and it was from the 
idea of a return she sought to flee it was 
the idea of a return that, after a confusion of 
loud words had arisen between the others, 
brought to her lips with the tremor preced- 
ing disaster: "Can't I, please, be sent home 
in a cab ? " Yes, the Countess wanted her 
and the Countess was wounded and chilled, 
and she could n't help it, and it was all the 
more dreadful because it only made the Coun- 
tess more seductive and more impossible. 
The only thing that sustained either of them 
perhaps till the cab came Maisie presently 
saw it would come was its being in the 
air somehow that Beale had done what he 
wanted. He went out to look for a convey- 
ance ; the servants, he said, had gone to bed, 
but she should n't be kept beyond her time. 
The Countess left the room with him and 
alone in possession of it Maisie hoped she 
would n't come back. It was all the effect 
of her face the child simply couldn't look 
at it and meet its expression half-way. All 
in a moment too that queer expression had 
leaped into the lovely things all in a 
moment she had had to accept her father as 
liking some one whom, she was sure, neither 
her mother, nor Mrs. Beale, nor Mrs. Wix, 
nor Sir Claude, nor the Captain, nor even 
Mr. Perriam nor Lord Eric, could possibly 
have liked. Three minutes later, down- 
stairs, with the cab at the door, it was per- 
haps as a final confession of not having much 
to boast of that, on taking leave of her, he 
managed to press her to his bosom without 
her seeing his face. For herself, she was so 
eager to go that their parting reminded her 
of nothing not even of a single one of all 
the "nevers" that, above, as the penalty of 
not cleaving to him, he had attached to the 
question of their meeting again. There was 
something in the Countess that falsified 
everything, even the great interests in 
America, and yet more the first flush of that 
superiority to Mrs. Beale and to mamma 
which had been expressed in silver boxes. 
These were still there, but perhaps there 
were no great interests in America. Mamma 
had known an American who was not a bit 
like this one. She was not, however, of 
noble rank; her name was only Mrs. Tucker. 
Maisie's detachment would, all the same, 
have been more complete if she had not sud- 
denly had to exclaim : " Oh, dear I have n't 
any money ! " 
Her father's teeth, at this, were such a pic- 
ture of appetite without action as to be a 
match for any plea of poverty. " Make your 
stepmother pay." 
" Stepmothers don't pay ! " cried the Coun- 
tess. " No stepmother ever paid in her life ! " 
The next moment they were in the street 
together, and the next the child was in the 
cab, with the Countess on the pavement, but 
close to her, quickly taking money from a 
purse whisked out of a pocket. Her father 
had vanished, and there was even yet noth- 
ing in that to reawaken the pang of loss. 
" Here 's money," said the brown lady : "go ! " 
The sound was commanding; the cab rattled 
off; Maisie sat there with her hand full of 
coin. All that for a cab ? as they passed a 
street-lamp she bent to see how much. 
What she saw was a cluster of sovereigns. 
There must, then, have been great interests 
in America. It was still, at any rate, the 
Arabian Nights. 
XX 
THE money was far too much even for a 
fee in a fairy-tale, and in the absence of 
Mrs. Beale, who, though the hour was now 
late, had not yet returned to the Regent's 
Park, Susan Ash, in the hall, as loud as 
Maisie was low and as bold as she was bland, 
produced, on the exhibition offered under 
the dim vigil of the lamp that made the 
place a contrast to the child's recent scene 
of light, the half-crown that an unsophisti- 
cated cabman could pronounce to be the 
least he would take. It was apparently long 
before Mrs. Beale would arrive, and in the 
interval Maisie had been induced by the 
prompt Susan not only to go to bed like a 
darling dear, but, in still richer expression 
of that character, to devote to the repay- 
ment of obligations general as well as partic- 
ular one of the sovereigns in the fanciful 
figure that, on a dressing-table upstairs, was 
naturally not less dazzling to a lone orphan 
of a housemaid than to the subject of the 
manoeuvres of a quartette. This subject went 
to sleep with her property under her pillow; 
but the explanations that on the morrow 
were inevitably more complete with Mrs. 
Beale than they had been with her humble 
friend found a climax in a surrender also 
more becomingly free. There were expla- 
nations indeed that Mrs. Beale had to give 
as well as to ask, and the most striking of 
these was to the effect that it was dreadful 
for a little girl to take money from a woman 
who was simply the vilest of their sex. The 
sovereigns were examined with some atten- 
tion, the result of which, however, was to 
make Mrs. Beale desire to know what, if one 
really went into the matter, they could be 
called but the wages of sin. Her companion 
went into it merely to the point of inquiring 
what then they were to do with them ; on 
which Mrs. Beale, who had by that time put 
them into her pocket, replied with dignity 
and with her hand on the place: "We 're to 
send them back on the spot ! " Susan, the 
child soon afterwards learnt, had been invited 
to contribute to this act of restitution her 
one appropriated coin; but a closer clutch 
of the treasure showed in her private assur- 
ance to Maisie that there was a limit to the 
way she could be "done." Maisie had been 
open with Mrs. Beale about the whole of 
last night's transaction; but she now found 
herself, on the part of their indignant infe- 
rior, a recipient of remarks that she must feel 
to be scaring secrets. One of these bore 
upon the extraordinary hour it was three 
in the morning, if she really wanted to know 
at which Mrs. Beale had re-entered the 
house; another, in accents as to which 
Maisie's criticism was still intensely tacit, 
characterized that lady's appeal as such a 
" gime, " such a " shime " as one had never had 
to put up with; a third treated with some 
vigor the question of the enormous sums 
due below stairs, in every department, for 
gratuitous labor and wasted zeal. Our 
young lady's consciousness was indeed mainly 
filled for several days with the apprehension 
created by the too slow subsidence of her 
attendant's sense of wrong. These days 
would be exciting indeed if an outbreak in 
the kitchen should crown them ; and, to pro- 
mote that prospect, she had more than one 
glimpse, through Susan's eyes, of forces 
making for an earthquake. To listen to 
Susan was to gather that the spark applied 
to the inflammables and already causing 
them to crackle was the circumstance of 
one's being called a horrid low thief for re- 
fusing to part with one's own. 
The redeeming point of this tension was, 
on the fifth day, that it actually appeared to 
have had to do with a breathless perception 
in our heroine's breast that, scarcely more 
as the centre of Sir Claude's than as that of 
Susan's energies, she had soon after break- 
fast been conveyed from London to Folke- 
stone and established at a lovely hotel. 
These agents, before her wondering eyes, had 
combined to carry through the adventure and 
to give it the air of having owed its success 
to the fact that Mrs. Beale had, as Susan 
said, but just stepped out. When Sir 
Claude, watch in hand, had met this fact with 
the exclamation "Then pack Miss Farange 
and come off with us ! " there had ensued on 
the stairs a series of gymnastics of a nature 
to bring Miss Farange' s heart into her 
mouth. She sat with Sir Claude in a four- 
wheeler while he still held his watch; held 
it longer than any doctor who had ever felt 
her pulse, long enough to give her a vision of 
something like the ecstasy of neglecting such 
an opportunity to show impatience. The 
ecstasy had begun in the schoolroom and over 
the Berceuse, quite in the manner of the 
same foretaste on the day, a little while 
back, when Susan had panted up and she 
herself, after the hint about the Duchess, 
had sailed down; for what harm then had 
there been in drops and disappointments if 
she could still have, even only a moment, 
the sensation of such a name "brought up"? 
It had remained with her that her father had 
told her she would some day be in the street, 
but it clearly wouldn't be this day; and she 
felt justified of her preference as soon as her 
visitor had set Susan in motion and laid his 
hand, while she waited with him, kindly on 
her own. That was what the Captain in 
Kensington Gardens had done; her present 
situation reminded her a little of that one, 
and renewed the dim wonder of the way in 
which, from the first, such pats and pulls had 
struck her as the steps and signs of other 
people's business and even a little as the 
wriggle or the overflow of their difficulties. 
What had failed her and what had frightened 
her on the night of the Exhibition lost them- 
selves at present alike in the impression that 
what would come from Sir Claude was too 
big to come all at once. Any awe that 
might have sprung from his air of leaving 
out her stepmother was corrected by the 
force of a general rule, the odd truth that if 
Mrs. Beale now never came nor went with- 
out making her think of him, it was not, to 
balance that, the main character of his own 
contact to appear to be a reference to Mrs. 
Beale. To be with Sir Claude was to think 
of Sir Claude, and that law governed Maisie's 
mind until, through a sudden lurch of the 
cab, which had at last taken in Susan and 
ever so many bundles and almost reached 
Charing Cross, it popped again somehow 
into her dizzy head the long-lost image of 
Mrs. Wix. 
It was singular, but from this time she 
understood and she followed, followed with 
the sense of an ample filling-out of any void 
created by symptoms of avoidance and of 
flight. Her ecstasy was a thing that had yet 
more of a face than of a back to turn, a pair 
of eyes still directed to Mrs. Wix even after 
the slight surprise of their not finding her, 
as the journey expanded, either at the London 
station or at the Folkestone hotel. It took 
few hours to make the child feel that if she 
was in neither of these places she was at least 
everywhere else. Maisie had known all 
along a great deal, but never so much as she 
was to know from this moment on, and as 
she learned in particular during the couple 
of days that she was to hang in the air, as it 
were, over the sea which represented, in 
breezy blueness and with a summer charm, a 
crossing of more spaces than the Channel. 
It was given to her at this time to arrive at 
divinations so ample that I shall have no 
room for the goal if I attempt to trace the 
stages; as to which therefore I must be 
content to say that the fullest expression we 
may give to Sir Claude's conduct is a poor 
and pale copy of the picture it presented to 
his young friend. Abruptly, that morning, 
he had yielded to the action of the idea 
pumped into him for weeks by Mrs, Wix on 
lines of approach that she had been capable 
of the extraordinary art of preserving from 
entanglement with the fine network of his 
relations with Mrs. Beale. The breath of 
her sincerity, blowing without a break, had 
puffed him up to the flight by which, in the 
degree I have indicated, Maisie too was car- 
ried off her feet. This consisted in neither 
more nor less than the brave stroke of his 
getting off from Mrs. Beale as well as from 
his wife of making with the child straight 
for some such foreign land as would give a 
support to Mrs. Wix's dream that she might 
still see his errors renounced and his delin- 
quencies redeemed. What other reparation 
could have the beauty of his devoting him- 
self, under eyes that would miss no faintest 
shade of the sacrifice, to the relief and rescue, 
to what even the strange frequenters of her 
ladyship's earlier period used to call the 
real good, of the little unfortunate ? Maisie' s 
head held a suspicion of all that, during the 
last long interval, had confusedly, but quite 
candidly, come and gone in his own ; a 
glimpse, almost awe-stricken in its gratitude, 
of the miracle her old governess had wrought. 
That functionary could not, in this connec- 
tion, have been more impressive, even at 
second-hand, if she had been a prophetess 
with an open scroll or some ardent abbess 
speaking with the lips of the Church. She 
had clung day by day to their plastic asso- 
ciate, plying him with her deep, narrow pas- 
sion, doing her simple utmost to convert him, 
and so inspiring him that he had at last really 
embraced his fine chance. That the chance 
was not delusive was sufficiently guaranteed 
by the completeness with which he could 
finally figure it out that, in case of his taking 
action, neither Ida nor Beale, whose book on 
each side it would only too well suit, would 
make any sort of row. 
It sounds, no doubt, too penetrating, but 
it was by no means all through Sir Claude's 
betrayals that Maisie was able to piece to- 
gether the beauty of the special influence 
through which, for such stretches of time, 
he had refined upon propriety by keeping so 
far as possible his sentimental interests dis- 
tinct. She had ever of course in her mind 
fewer names than conceptions, but it was 
only with this drawback that she now made 
out her companion's absences to have had 
for their ground that he was the lover of her 
stepmother, and that the lover of her step- 
mother could scarce logically pretend to a 
superior right to look after her. Maisie had 
by this time embraced the implication of a 
kind of natural divergence between lovers and 
little girls. It was just this indeed that 
could throw light on the probable contents 
of the pencilled note deposited on the hall- 
table in the Regent's Park, and which would 
greet Mrs. Beale on her return. Maisie 
freely figured it as provisionally jocular in 
tone, even though to herself, on this occasion, 
Sir Claude turned a graver face than he had 
shown in any crisis but that of putting her 
into the cab when she had been horrid to 
him after her parting with the Captain. He 
might really be embarrassed, but he would 
be sure, to her view, to have muffled in some 
bravado of pleasantry the disturbance pro- 
duced at her father's by the removal of a 
valued servant. Not that there was n't a 
great deal too that would n't be in the note 
a great deal for which a more comfortable 
place was Maisie's light little brain, where 
it hummed away hour after hour and caused 
the first outlook at Folkestone to swim in 
a softness of color and sound. It became 
clear in this medium that her stepfather had 
really now only to take into account his en- 
tanglement with Mrs. Beale. Was n't he at 
last disentangled from every one and every- 
thing else? The obstacle to the rupture 
pressed upon him by Mrs. Wix in the inter- 
est of his virtue would be simply that he 
was in love, or rather, to put it more pre- 
cisely, that Mrs. Beale had left him no doubt 
of the degree in which she was. She was so 
much so as to have succeeded in making him 
accept for a time her infatuated grasp of him 
and even to some extent the idea of what they 
yet might do together with a little diplomacy 
and a good deal of patience. I may not even 
answer for it that Maisie was not aware of 
how, in this, Mrs. Beale failed to share his 
all but insurmountable distaste for their 
allowing their little charge to breathe the air 
of their gross irregularity his contention, 
in a word, that they should either cease to 
be irregular or cease to be parental. Their 
little charge, for herself, had long ago 
adopted the view that even Mrs. Wix had at 
one time not thought prohibitively coarse 
the view that she was after all, as a little 
charge, morally at home in atmospheres it 
would be appalling to analyze. If Mrs. Wix, 
however, ultimately appalled, had now set her 
heart on strong measures, Maisie, as I have 
intimated, could also work round both to the 
reasons for them and to the quite other 
reasons for that lady's not, as yet at least, 
appearing in them at first hand. 
Oh, decidedly, I shall never get you to be- 
lieve the number of things she saw and the 
number of secrets she discovered ! Why in 
the world, for instance, could n't Sir Claude 
have kept it from her except on the hypoth- 
esis of his not caring to that, when you 
came to look at it and so far as it was a 
question of vested interests, he had quite as 
much right in her as her stepmother, and a 
right that Mrs. Beale was in no position tQ 
dispute? He failed, at all events, of any 
such successful ambiguity as could keep 
her, when once they began to look across at 
France, from regarding even what was least 
explained as most in the spirit of their old 
happy times, their rambles and expeditions 
in the easier, better days of their first ac- 
quaintance. Never before had she had so 
the sense of giving him a lead for the sort of 
treatment of what was between them that 
would best carry it off, or of his being grate- 
ful to her for meeting him so much in the 
right place. She met him literally at the 
very point where Mrs. Beale was most to be 
reckoned with, the point of the jealousy that 
was sharp in that lady and of the need of their 
keeping it as long as possible obscure to her 
that poor Mrs. Wix had still a hand. Yes, 
she met him too in the truth of the matter 
that, as her stepmother had had no one else 
to be jealous of, she had made up for so gross 
a privation by directing the sentiment to a 
moral influence. Sir Claude appeared abso- 
lutely to convey in a wink that a moral influ- 
ence that could pull a string was after all a 
moral influence that could have its eyes 
scratched out ; and that, this being the case, 
there was somebody they couldn't afford to 
expose before they should see a little better 
what Mrs. Beale was likely to do. Maisie, 
true enough, had not to put it into words to 
rejoin in the coffee-room at luncheon: 
" What can she do but come to you if papa 
does take a step that will amount to legal 
desertion ? " Neither had he then, in answer, 
to articulate anything but the jollity of their 
having found a table at a window from 
which, as they partook of cold beef and apol- 
linaris for he hinted they would have to 
save lots of money they could let their 
eyes hover tenderly on the far-off white cliffs 
that so often had signalled to the embar- 
rassed English a promise of safety. Maisie 
stared at them as if she might really make 
out after a little a queer, dear figure perched 
on them a figure as to which she had 
already the subtle sense that, wherever 
perched, it would be the very oddest yet seen 
in France. But it was at least as exciting 
to feel where Mrs. Wix was n't as it would 
have been to know where she was ; and if she 
wasn't yet at Boulogne, this only thickened 
the plot. 
If she was not to be seen that day, how- 
ever, the evening was marked by an appari- 
tion before which, none the less, the savor 
of suspense folded, on the spot, its wings. 
Adjusting her respirations and attaching, 
under dropped lashes, all her thoughts to a 
smartness of frock and frill for which she 
could reflect that she had not appealed in 
vain to a loyalty, in Susan Ash, triumphant 
over the nice things their feverish flight had 
left behind, Maisie spent on the bench in 
the garden of the hotel the half-hour before 
dinner, that mysterious ceremony of the table 
d'hdte for which she had prepared with a 
'punctuality of flutter. Sir Claude, beside 
her, was occupied with a cigarette and the 
afternoon papers ; and though the hotel was 
full the garden showed the particular void 
that ensues upon the sound of the dressing- 
bell. She had almost had time to weary of 
the human scene ; her own humanity, at any 
rate, in the shape of a smutch on her scanty 
skirt, had held her so long that as soon as 
she raised her eyes they rested on a high, 
fair drapery by which smutches were put to 
shame and which had glided toward her over 
the grass without her perceiving its rustle. 
She fallowed up its stiff sheen up and up 
from the ground, where it had stopped till, 
at the end of a considerable journey, her 
impression felt the shock of the fixed face 
which, surmounting it, seemed to offer the 
climax of the dressed condition. "Why, 
mamma ! " she cried the next instant cried 
in a tone that, as she sprang to her feet, 
brought Sir Claude to his own beside her 
and gave her ladyship, a few yards off, the 
advantage of their momentary confusion. 
Poor Maisie's was immense; her mother's 
drop had the effect of one of the iron shut- 
ters that, in evening walks with Susan Ash, 
she had seen suddenly, at the touch of a 
spring, rattle down over shining shop-fronts. 
The light of foreign travel was darkened at a 
stroke; she had a horrible sense that they 
were caught; and for the first time in her 
life, in Ida's presence, she so far translated 
an impulse into an invidious act as to clutch 
straight at the hand of her responsible con- 
federate. It did n't help her that he appeared 
at first equally hushed with horror; a minute 
during which, in the empty garden, with its 
long shadows on the lawn, its blue sea over 
the hedge and its startled peace in the air, 
both her elders remained as stiff as tall tum- 
blers filled to the brim and held straight for 
fear of a spill. At last, in a tone that, in its 
unexpected softness, enriched the whole sur- 
prise, her mother said to Sir Claude: "Do 
you mind at all my speaking to her? " 
"Oh, no; do you?" His reply was so 
long in coming that Maisie was the first to 
find the right note. 
He laughed as he seemed to take it from 
her, and she felt a sufficient concession in 
his manner of addressing their visitor. 
" How in the world did you know we were 
here?" 
His wife, at this, came the rest of the way 
and sat down on the bench with a hand laid 
on her daughter, whom she gracefully drew 
to her and in whom, at her touch, the fear 
just kindled gave a second jump, but now in 
quite another direction. Sir Claude, on the 
further side, resumed his seat and his news- 
papers, and the three grouped themselves like 
a family party : his connection, in the oddest 
way in the world, almost cynically, and in a 
flash, acknowledged, and the mother patting 
the child into conformities unspeakable. 
Maisie could already feel that it was not 
Sir Claude and she who were caught. She 
had the positive sense of catching their 
relative, catching her in the act of getting 
rid of her burden with a finality that showed 
her as unprecedentedly relaxed. Oh, yes, 
the fear had dropped, and she had never been 
so irrevocably parted with as in the pressure 
of possession now supremely exerted by Ida's 
long-gloved and much-bangled arms. " I went 
to the Regent's Park " this was presently 
her ladyship's answer to Sir Claude. 
" Do you mean to-day? " 
"This morning just after your own call 
there. That's how I find you out; that's 
what has brought me." 
Sir Claude considered, and Maisie waited. 
"Whom then did you see? " 
Ida gave a sound of indulgent mockery. 
" I like your scare. I know your game. I 
did n't see the person I risked seeing but 
I had been ready to take my chance of her." 
She addressed herself to Maisie; she had 
encircled her more closely. " I asked for 
you, my dear, but I saw no one but a dirty 
parlor-maid. She was red in the face with 
the great things that, as she told me, had 
just happened in the absence of her mistress; 
and she luckily had the sense to have made 
out the place to which Sir Claude had come 
to take you. If he had n't given a false scent 
I should find you here : that was the supposi- 
tion on which I 've proceeded. " Ida had 
never been so explicit about proceeding or 
supposing, and Maisie, drinking this in, was 
aware that Sir Claude shared her fine im- 
pression of it. "I wanted to see you," his 
wife continued, "and now you can judge of 
the trouble I 've taken. I had everything 
to do in town to-day, but I managed to get 
off." 
Maisie and her companion, for a moment, 
did justice to this achievement; but Maisie 
was the first to express it. "I'm glad you 
wanted to see me, mamma." Then after 
a concentration more deep and with a plunge 
more brave: "A little more and you 'd have 
been too late." It stuck in her throat, but 
she brought it out. "We're going to 
France." 
Ida was magnificent ; Ida kissed her on the 
forehead. " That 's just what I thought likely 
it made me decide to run down. I fan- 
cied that in spite of your scramble you 'd 
wait to cross, and it added to the reason I 
have for seeing you. " 
Maisie wondered intensely what the reason 
could be, but she knew ever so much better 
than to ask. She was slightly surprised 
indeed to perceive that Sir Claude did n't, 
and to hear him immediately inquire: 
"What in the name of goodness can you 
have to say to her ? " 
His tone was not exactly rude, but it was 
impatient enough to make his wife's re- 
sponse a fresh specimen of the new softness. 
"That, my dear man, is all my own busi- 
ness." 
"Do you mean," Sir Claude asked, "that 
you wish me to leave you with her? " 
" Yes if you 'll be so good. That 's the 
extraordinary request I take the liberty of 
making." Her ladyship had dropped to a 
mildness of irony by which, for a moment, 
poor Maisie was mystified and charmed, puz- 
zled with a glimpse of something that in all 
the years had at intervals peeped out. Ida 
smiled at Sir Claude with the strange air 
she had on such occasions of defying an in- 
terlocutor to keep it up as long; her huge 
eyes, her red lips, the intense marks in her 
face, formed an illumination as distinct and 
public as a lamp set in a window. The 
child seemed quite to see in it the very lamp 
that had lighted her path; she suddenly 
found herself reflecting that it was no won- 
der the gentlemen were dazzled. This must 
have been the way mamma had first looked 
at Sir Claude; it brought back the lustre of 
the time they had outlived. It must have 
been the way she looked also at Mr. Perriam 
and Lord Eric; above all it contributed in 
Maisie' s mind to a completer view of the 
Captain. Our young lady grasped this idea 
with a quick lifting of the heart ; there was 
a stillness during which her mother flooded 
her with a wealth of support to the Captain's 
striking tribute. This stillness remained 
long enough unbroken to represent that Sir 
Claude too might literally be struggling 
again with the element that had originally 
upset him : so that Maisie quite hoped he 
would at least say something to show a recog- 
nition that she could be charming. 
What he presently said was: "Are you 
putting up for the night?" 
His wife hesitated. "Not here I've 
come from Dover." 
Over Maisie's head, at this, they still faced 
each other. " You spend the night there ? " 
" Yes I brought some things. I went to 
the hotel and hastily arranged; then I 
caught the train that whisked me on here. 
You see what a day I've had of it." 
The statement may surprise, but these 
were really as obliging if not as lucid words 
as, into her daughter's ears at least, Ida's 
lips had ever dropped ; and there was a quick 
desire in the daughter that, for the hour at 
any rate, they should duly be welcomed as a 
ground of intercourse. Certainly mamma 
had a charm which, when turned on, became 
a large explanation ; and the only danger 
now in an impulse to applaud it would be 
that of appearing to signalize its rarity. 
Maisie, however, risked this peril in the 
geniality of an admission that Ida had indeed 
had a rush ; and she invited Sir Claude to 
expose himself by agreeing with her that the 
rush had been even worse than theirs. He 
appeared to meet this appeal by saying with 
detachment enough: "You go back there 
to-night?" 
" Oh, yes there are plenty of trains. " 
Again Sir Claude hesitated; it would have 
been hard to say if the child between them 
more connected or divided them. Then he 
brought out quietly : ** It will be late for you 
to knock about. I 'll see you over." 
" You need n't trouble, thank you. I think 
you won't deny that I can help myself and 
that it is n't the first time in my dreadful life 
that I 've somehow managed it." Save for 
this allusion to her dreadful life they talked 
there, Maisie noted, as if they were only 
rather superficial friends; a special effect 
that she had often wondered at before in the 
midst of what she supposed to be intimacies. 
This effect was augmented by the almost 
casual manner in which her ladyship went 
on : "I dare say I shall go abroad. " 
" From Dover, do you mean, straight ? " 
"How straight I can't say. I'm exces- 
sively ill." This, for a minute, struck Maisie 
as but a part of the conversation ; at the end 
of which time she became aware that it ought 
to strike her as it apparently didn't strike 
Sir Claude as a part of something graver. 
It helped her to twist nearer. " Ill, mamma 
really ill?" 
She regretted her " really " as soon as she 
had spoken it ; but there could n't be a better 
proof of her mother's present polish than 
that Ida showed no gleam of a temper to 
take it up. She had taken up at other 
times much tinier things. She only pressed 
Maisie's head against her bosom and said: 
"Shockingly, my dear. I must go to that 
new place." 
"What new place?" Sir Claude inquired. 
Ida thought, but could n't recall it. " Oh, 
' Chose, ' you know where every one goes. 
I want some proper treatment. It 's all I 've 
ever asked for on earth. But that 's not what 
I came to say. " 
Sir Claude, in silence, folded one by one 
his newspapers; then he rose and stood 
whacking the palm of his hand with the 
bundle. " You 'll stop and dine with us ? " 
"Dear no I can't dine at this sort of 
hour. I ordered dinner at Dover." 
Her ladyship's tone in this one instance 
showed a certain superiority to those condi- 
tions in which her daughter had artlessly 
found Folkestone a paradise. It was yet not 
so crushing as to nip in the bud the eager- 
ness with which the latter broke out : " But 
won't you at least have a cup of tea? " 
Ida kissed her again on the brow. 
"Thanks, love. I had tea before coming." 
She raised her eyes to Sir Claude. " She is 
sweet!" He made no more answer than if 
he did n't agree ; but Maisie was at ease 
about that and was still taken up with the joy 
of this happier pitch of their talk, which put 
more and more of a meaning into the Cap- 
tain's version of her ladyship and literally 
kindled a conjecture that this admirer might, 
over there at the other place, be waiting for 
her to dine. Was the same conjecture in Sir 
Claude's mind ? He partly puzzled her, if 
it had risen there, by the slight perversity 
with which he returned to a question that his 
wife evidently thought she had disposed of. 
He whacked his hand again with his papers. 
" I had really much better take you." 
"And leave Maisie here alone?" 
Mamma so clearly didn't want it that 
Maisie leaped at the vision of a Captain who 
had seen her on from Dover and who, while 
he waited to take her back, would be hover- 
ing just at the same distance at which, in 
Kensington Gardens, the companion of his 
walk had herself hovered. Of course, how- 
ever, instead of breathing any such guess she 
let Sir Claude reply ; all the more that his 
reply could contribute so much to her own 
present grandeur. " She won't be alone 
when she has a maid in attendance." 
Maisie had never before had so much of a 
retinue and she waited also to enjoy the ef- 
fect of it on her ladyship. " You mean the 
woman you brought from town? " Ida con- 
sidered. " The person at the house spoke of 
her in a way that scarcely made her out com- 
pany for my child." She spoke as if her 
child had never wanted, in her hands, for pro- 
digious company. But she as distinctly con- 
tinued to decline Sir Claude's. " Don't be an 
old goose," she said charmingly. " Let us 
alone." 
Before them, on the grass, he looked 
graver than Maisie at all now thought the 
occasion warranted. " I don't see why you 
can't say it before me." 
His wife smoothed one of her daughter's 
curls. "Say what, dear?" 
" Why, what you came to say." 
At this Maisie at last interposed ; sh ap- 
pealed to Sir Claude. " Do let her say it to 
me." 
He looked hard for a moment at his little 
friend. " How do you know what she may 
say?" 
" She must risk it," Ida remarked. 
" I only want to protect you," he continued 
to the child. 
" You want to protect yourself that 's 
what you mean," his wife replied. " Don't 
be afraid. I won't touch you." 
" She won't touch you she won't ! " 
Maisie declared. She felt by this time that 
she could really answer for it, and something 
of the emotion with which she had listened 
to the Captain came back to her. It made 
her so happy and so secure that she could 
positively patronize mamma. She did so in 
the Captain's very language. " She 's good, 
she 's good ! " she proclaimed. 
" Oh, Lord ! " Sir Claude, at this, ejacu- 
lated. He appeared to have emitted some 
sound of derision that was smothered, to 
Maisie's ears, by her being again embraced 
by his wife. Ida released her and held her 
off a little, looking at her with a very queer 
face. Then the child became aware that 
their companion had left them and that, from 
the face in question, a confirmatory remark 
had proceeded. 
" I am good, love," said her ladyship. 
XXI 
A GOOD deal of the rest of Ida's visit was 
devoted to explaining, as it were, so extra- 
ordinary a statement. This explanation was 
more copious than any she had yet indulged 
in, and as the summer twilight gathered and 
she kept her child in the garden she was con- 
ciliatory to a degree that let her need to 
arrange things a little perceptibly peep out. 
It was not merely that she explained; she 
almost conversed : all that was wanting to 
that was that she should have positively 
chattered a little less. It was really the oc- 
casion of Maisie's life on which her mother 
was to have had most to say to her. That 
alone was an implication of generosity and 
virtue, and no great stretch was required to 
make our young lady feel that she should 
best meet her and soonest have it over by 
simply seeming struck with the propriety of 
her contention. They sat together while the 
parent's gloved hand sometimes rested 
sociably on the child's and sometimes gave a 
corrective pull to a ribbon too meagre or a 
tress too thick ; and Maisie was conscious of 
the effort to keep out of her eyes the wonder 
with which they were occasionally moved to 
blink. Oh, there would have been things to 
blink at if one had let one's self go ; and it 
was lucky they were alone together, without 
Sir Claude or Mrs. Wix or even Mrs. Beale 
to catch an imprudent glance. Though pro- 
fuse and prolonged, her ladyship was not 
exhaustively lucid, and her account of her 
situation, so far as it could be called 
descriptive, was a muddle of inconsequent 
things, bruised fruit of an occasion she had 
rather too lightly affronted. None of them 
were really thought out, and some were even 
not wholly insincere. It was as if she had 
asked outright what better proof could have 
been wanted of her goodness and her great- 
ness than just this marvellous consent to give 
up what she had so cherished. It was as if 
she had said in so many words : " There 
have been things between us between Sir 
Claude and me which I needn't go into, 
you little nuisance, because you would n't 
understand them." It suited her to convey 
that Maisie had been kept, so far as she was 
concerned or could imagine, in a holy igno- 
rance and that she must take for granted a 
supreme simplicity. She turned this way 
and that in the predicament she had sought 
and from which she could neither retreat with 
grace nor emerge with credit; she draped 
herself in the tatters of her impudence, pos- 
tured to her utmost before the last little tri- 
angle of cracked glass to which so many 
fractures had reduced the polished plate of 
filial superstition. If neither Sir Claude nor 
Mrs. Wix was there this was perhaps all the 
more a pity : the scene had a style of its own 
that would have qualified it for presentation, 
especially at such a moment as that of her 
letting it betray that she quite did think her 
wretched offspring better placed with Sir 
Claude than in her own soiled hands. There 
was at any rate nothing scant either in her 
admissions or her perversions, the mixture of 
her fear of what Maisie might undiscoverably 
think and of the support she at the same time 
gathered from a necessity of selfishness and 
a habit of brutality. This habit flushed 
through the merit she now made, in terms 
explicit, of not having come to Folkestone to 
kick up a vulgar row. She had not come to 
box any ears or to bang any doors or even 
to use any language; she had come, at the 
worst, to lose the thread of her argument in 
an occasional dumb, disgusted twitch of the 
toggery in which Mrs. Beale's low domestic 
had had the impudence to serve up Miss 
Farange. She checked all criticism, not 
committing herself even as much as about 
those missing comforts of the schoolroom on 
which Mrs. Wix had presumed. 
" I am good I'm crazily, I 'm criminally 
good. But it won't do for you any more, and 
if I've ceased to contend with him, and with 
you too, who have made most of the trouble 
between us, it 's for reasons that you 'll under- 
stand one of these days but too well one of 
these days when I hope you 'll know what it 
is to have lost a mother. I 'm awfully ill, but 
you must n't ask me anything about it. If I 
don't get off somewhere my doctor won't an- 
swer for the consequences. He's stupefied 
at what I've borne he says it has been put 
on me because I was formed to suffer. I 'm 
