was only too eager to get matters straight. And she was so bright and
gay with it all, and made Ben's visits so pleasant, that he sometimes
forgot there was any trouble.
She had said decisively that they could not marry yet awhile; and Ben
had accepted her fiat. But they did begin to plan for the journey
abroad, and had a good deal of entertainment counting the cost, and
considering where they would go.
"I should so like to see Daisy Jasper," she said.
"I will ask her to come down," answered Ben.
But Dolly invited them both up one Saturday, when Hanny and Daisy were
to be there to tea. And Daisy told Delia about meeting Nora, and how
happy she was in her new prospects.
She had been a little homesick, she wrote to Delia, but only for a few
hours at a time. Madame Clavier was as careful as any mother could be,
fussy, she thought sometimes; but no doubt it was for her good.
Daisy was very attractive to the children until Delia came, when they
deserted their new friend for stories. Delia had not lost her girlish
gift.
The Jaspers were a month making up their minds what to do, and then
decided to board until spring at least. Joe found them a very pleasant
place in their neighbourhood, to Hanny's delight. She was so glad to get
her dear friend back again, sweet and unchanged; not but what she had
found several charming girls at school, and some of them were just wild
to see that lovely Miss Jasper, so her circle was widening all the time.
Margaret thought she ought to wear long dresses. Girls not quite grown
up wore them to their gaiter-tops. Crisp, elegant button-boots had not
come in, like a good many other excellent things. And Hanny was
undeniably petite. Stretch up her very utmost, she hardly measured five
feet. Women had not, by taking thought, added an inch to their stature
by high heels. There were one or two "lifts" put in between the soles,
called spring-heels; but the hats helped out a little.
"I haven't grown an inch this year," she declared ruefully. "And I am
afraid I never will be any taller. It's queer, when all the rest of you
are large."
"You are just right," said her father. "You will be my little girl all
your life long."
Doctor Joe comforted her with the asseveration that he liked little
women, "honest and true;" and Daisy also insisted she was just right.
"For you see how admirably your head goes down on my shoulder; and if we
were the same size, we should be bumping heads. Queen Victoria is only
five feet, and she is very queenly."
"But I am not queenly."
"No, but you could be, if you set about it."
She had some frocks to wear out that could not be let down; and her
mother settled the question according to that for the present.
There was another thing that gave her a vague suspicion of being grown
up, and that was cards.
The "quality" used visiting-cards; but it would have been considered
underbred and pretentious to sow them around in the modern manner. They
were kept for state occasions. Of course Dolly and Margaret had them;
and Hanny thought Joseph B. Underhill, M. D., looked extremely elegant.
Jim had some written ones in exquisite penmanship. He had not given up
society because one girl had proved false and deceitful. He made a
point of bowing distantly to Mrs. Williamson, and flushed even now at
the thought of having been such a ninny!
Daisy Jasper's name was on her mother's cards. But you couldn't persuade
Mrs. Underhill into any such nonsense. She declared if Joe brought her
home any, she would put them in the fire. One day, however, he dropped a
small white box into Hanny's lap, as she sat in his easy-chair, studying
her lessons. It was too small for confectionery; it might be--she had
coveted a pair of bracelets.
So she looked up with an inquiring smile.
"Open it, and see if they suit."
She was sure then it was bracelets.
There was white tissue-paper and something stiff. She tumbled the
contents out in her lap. A few cards fell the plain side up. She turned
one over. In very delicate script she saw--
"Miss Nan Underhill."
"Oh!" with a cry of delight. They called her Nan altogether at
Stephen's, and the school-girls wrote her name in that manner. She often
used it in writing notes. It looked so very attractive now.
"Oh, you lovely Joe!"
"They are nice to use with your girl-friends. There are a great many
little society regulations that show refinement and good breeding, and I
want you to observe them. When you get to be a middle-aged woman, Hannah
Ann will look solid and dignified. I consulted Daisy and Mrs. Jasper,
and both approved."
"Just a thousand thanks," and she threw up her arms to bring his face
down within kissing reach.
The long skirt was settled by a rather peculiar circumstance.
We were beginning to have real literary aspirations, and some writers
who attracted attention abroad. Miss Bremer had found a great many
things to like in us; and Jenny Lind had been enthusiastic. Some
Englishmen of note had been over and found we were not a nation of
savages or red men, and that the best and highest in English literature
was not unknown to us. Several of our writers had been abroad; and there
was growing up a spirit of cordiality.
Then Thackeray was coming over to lecture on The English Humourists.
Nearly everybody went to reading him. Some because it was, as we should
say now, a "fad;" others because they wanted to appear conversant with
his works; and a few because they had learned to understand and to love
the wonderful touches of the master-pen. Boston received him with open
arms. Then he was to visit the principal cities.
Ben and Delia were tremendously interested; and most of their talk was
spiced with bits and quotations, and the telling scenes from his novels.
Delia was beginning to have a good deal of discrimination and judgment.
Sometimes, in moments of discouragement, she admitted to Ben that she
was afraid she really hadn't any genius. Her novel had been recast ever
so many times, and still languished.
Ben brought up tickets for Mr. Thackeray's second lecture. He had gone
to the first one, and meant to hear them all. Joe must take Hanny, who
would always regret it if she didn't hear him. He had seen Mr. Jasper;
and they were all going the same evening.
Joe had meant to hear him. He was fond of hearing and seeing notable
people, and kept his mind freshened up with all that was going on in the
great world.
Hanny was delighted, of course, though the fact of listening with Daisy
beside her added a great deal. They had an enthusiastic, rather
school-girlish friendship. Daisy's mind was, of course, the more
experienced. But with youthful fervor they were training themselves into
perfect accord, en rapport, so they could look at each other and
understand.
There was a really fine audience. And when the large, burly,
broad-chested Englishman stepped on the platform, he had a cordial and
enthusiastic welcome.
This evening he was at his best. His manner was clear and engaging; he
moved his audience to tears and smiles. There was satire and tenderness
and the marvellous insight that made him absolutely personify the
writers he touched upon. The audience was charmed.
Hanny could not decide upon him. She was being won against her will,
rather her preconceived notions; and yet her first feelings about him
would return to disturb her. Mr. and Mrs. Jasper were delighted beyond
expression; Joe was deeply interested, though he confessed he did not
know Thackeray as he ought. He had read only one or two of the novels
and the "Yellowplush Papers."
"I am going to read 'Vanity Fair' over again," said Hanny, when they
reached home. "I didn't like it, really and truly."
"You are hardly old enough to enjoy such things," returned Joe. "Even I
have not made up my mind, and I know I would not have liked them at
seventeen. We believe in heroes and great deeds then, and the
possibilities of life look grander to us than they do afterward. I
suppose it is right that we should want to be pleased then."
Hanny felt that she wanted to be pleased with a story, or else very
sorry for the misfortunes that no human power could seem to avert. But
when mean and shallow and selfish people caused their own trials, were
they worthy of sympathy?
They talked at school with the wide diversity of crude, girlish
opinions. The papers were full of him as well.
Ben was one of his enthusiastic admirers. And now they planned to give a
banquet,--printers and newspaper-men,--and Mr. Thackeray was to be the
guest of the occasion; there was to be a dinner, with some of the bright
literary lights, music, and dancing,--a really grand affair. Theodore
Whitney was on the committee; and Ben had a lesser position. They meant
to make it the affair of the season. Joe must surely take tickets. It
was such a shame Dolly couldn't go; and, of course, Steve wouldn't.
John and Cleanthe were not interested in such things; and, after
thinking it over, Mrs. Hoffman declined.
"I shall have to look up a girl," said Joe. "Hanny, you have never been
to a ball. Would you like to go?"
"Oh, I think a ball would be splendid! If Daisy could go, or Dolly."
"Yes, Daisy's mother or Dolly would have to go."
That gave him an idea, and he went down to see Mrs. Jasper.
"Why, I really think I would like to go myself," she said. "We do not
consider Daisy quite a grown-up lady. I should like to keep her just a
young girl for a long while; but, perhaps, that will not be possible."
"Hanny is a very young girl," returned Joe. "And I do not think father
could stand it to have her grown up. But she keeps so small, I don't
just know how we should get mother coaxed around. Both girls would enjoy
it immensely."
"Oh, she would trust her with Mr. Jasper and me, if we were to take
Daisy. Dear me--one festivity doesn't really signify. And yet--" she
blushed and smiled with a certain girlishness. "They may be dangerous; I
went to a Christmas ball when I was sixteen, and met Mr. Jasper. I was
out on a holiday,--a mere school-girl."
"I don't believe Hanny or Daisy will find any one to fall in love
with," said Joe, seriously; "they are so in love with each other."
"Oh, yes. They are planning to live together. There must be a
settlement; for both will have to bring their respective families."
Joe was a good deal amused at that.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE LITTLE GIRL GROWN UP
Mrs. Underhill said "No." It was not to be thought of for a moment.
Hanny in short frocks!
"It would have to be made long in the skirt, I suppose," returned Joe,
gravely.
"Long! What are you talking about!"
"She would enjoy seeing the dancing. And when she was an old lady, and
Thackeray dead, she could tell her children she was at a banquet with
the great novelist."
"What nonsense you do talk, Joe."
Doctor Joe laughed, gave his mother a squeeze and a kiss that brought
the bright colour to her cheek, and then went off to comfort two rich
old patients who had nothing the matter with them, except the
infirmities of age. They thought there was no one like Dr. Underhill.
Perhaps his mother thought so, too. She was taking a good deal of
comfort with him in these days, when she had cast Ben a little out of
her good graces. She had a hope that Ben's sturdy common sense would
convince him after a while that Delia would make a poor, improvident
wife. And there was a chance that, while Ben was waiting to get ready,
some one might capture Delia. She sincerely hoped it would be some one
well-to-do and deserving, and who could afford servants and a generous
household expenditure. Ben would get over it in time.
And much as she enjoyed Joe, she wanted him to marry and have a home and
family of his very own. But was any one good enough for such a sweet,
generous, noble soul!
Of course Hanny couldn't go; that was a foregone conclusion. But then
the Jaspers were going, and it wasn't like taking a young girl out in
society. Just one night would not matter. Daisy had been to several
grown-up festivities abroad, where they were ever so much more strenuous
about girls. There would be so many people, they would pass in the
throng unnoticed; and it was not like a public ball.
It was a little odd, but Miss Cynthia settled it finally. Her verdict
seemed to settle a good many things. She did not "dress-make" very
steadily now; but there were some folks who thought they couldn't have a
wedding, or a large party, without Miss Cynthia's advice and assistance.
She came to spend the day. Grandmother Van Kortlandt enjoyed her very
much, as she could not visit a great deal herself. Cynthia always had
the latest news about all the relatives. She gossiped in a bright social
fashion, with no especial ill-nature, or sharp criticism, indeed her
sharpnesses were amusing for the bit of real fun in them.
"Why, of course she ought to go," declared Miss Cynthia. "I'd like to
see the great man myself, and shake hands with him, though I am not over
fond of the English; and I do hope and pray he won't go home and make
fun of us. As for the dancing, and all that, Peggy Underhill, you went
to lots of frolics before you were as old as Hanny, and had young men
beauing you round. I don't see but you have made a good and capable wife
and mother; and it didn't hurt you a bit."
"But I was not going to school."
"It wasn't the fashion then. And now women are in Oberlin College,
studying the same things as the men; and they fall in love and get
married just as they always did. The ball, or whatever you call it,
won't hurt Hanny a bit. There will be the Jaspers, and Joe, and Ben, and
I'm sure that's enough to take care of one little girl."
"She has nothing to wear; she is still in short frocks. And the idea of
buying a ball-dress, that she won't want until next winter!"
"Now see here. Let's look over the old things. There's her blue silk,
outgrown of course. They ruffle everything now, and it will be wide
enough for that. And I can just cover the waist, and ruffle the skirt
with white tarleton. It is nearly two yards wide, and makes lovely
trimming. There's no use saving it up for Stephen's children."
They all laughed at that.
"And, Aunt Marg'ret," to grandmother, "why didn't you keep your little
girl shut up in a band-box, while all the other girls were having good
times and getting lovers? She might have been a queer, particular,
fidgety old maid, instead of having a nice family for us to quarrel
over."
"I will buy her a new dress," said grandmother.
"She doesn't want anything but a few yards of tarleton. She won't be
likely to get into the papers. She and Miss Daisy will sit and look on,
and just whisper to each other, and feel afraid to say their souls are
their own; but they'll enjoy the pretty dressing and the dancing, and
they will see how the thing is done when it comes their turn in good
earnest."
So Mrs. Underhill had to give in. Grandmother slipped five dollars in
Miss Cynthia's hand, as she was going away.
"If that falls short, I'll give you some more. And you just buy that
tarleton."
Hanny wasn't quite sure, and never said a word at school until the very
day. But she and Daisy had a thrill of delight talking it over. Miss
Cynthia came armed with the tarleton. The skirt was let down; but girls'
long dresses were not sweeping length in those days. Then it was covered
with narrow ruffles that suggested drifting clouds over an azure sky.
The bodice was not outgrown, after all. It was covered with the
tarleton, and had a fall of beautiful old lace around the shoulders, a
pretty frill at the neck, and short sleeves. Joe bought her white
gloves, and she had a blue sash.
Miss Cynthia came in to dress her; but the little girl had a quivering
fear that something had happened to her maid, for it was full eight
o'clock. She put her back hair in a French twist, much worn then, with
two big rings right on the top of her head that looked like a crown. Her
front hair she curled over an iron, and then combed it out; and it was a
mass of fluffy waves, gathered in bandeaux just above her ears. She had
her mother's beautiful pearl earrings, that had come from France with
the old French grandmother, and a handsome mother-of-pearl-topped comb
in her hair.
They put on the ball-dress. "Now look at yourself," said Miss Cynthia,
"and get used to it before I let in the folks."
Hanny stood before her mother's tall mirror. Oh, this was Miss Nan
Underhill, and she had never seen her before. There was a mystery about
her,--a sudden sense of a strange, beautiful, unseen world, a new
country she was going into, an old world left behind, an intangible
recreation that no words could explain, but that touched her with a
kind of exalted sacredness, as if a new life was unfolding all about
her. She hardly dared stir or breathe.
"For a girl with no special beauty, I think you look very well. But,
land sakes! You'll see no end of handsome girls; Margaret and Jim
carried off the beauty of this family."
Miss Cynthia's voice recalled her from the vision of coming womanhood,
that she was to live over again on her wedding night, with its holy
blessedness enshrining her within her bridal veil.
Her father's eyes shone with a softness that looked like tears. Her
mother viewed her all over with a critical air.
"I must say, Cynthia, you've done wonderfully. The dress looks very
nice. And now, Hanny, I do hope you won't be forward or silly. Mind
everything Mrs. Jasper says, and don't you and Daisy giggle. Be careful
and don't lose Margaret's handkerchief. I don't just know as you ought
to carry that."
Joe said she was lovely; and Jim really was very complimentary. He did
wish that he was going. But Jim counted the cost of everything now, for
he was trying to get out of debt.
The coach came up from the Jaspers' and Hanny was put inside. Joe
insisted on sharing the box with the driver.
When Daisy took off her wrap in the dressing-room, she had on a pale
pink silk. Part of her curls were tied up in a bunch on top of her head,
and fastened with a silver arrow and two roses. She would always wear it
in ringlets, or at least until she was so old she wouldn't mind about
her shoulders being not quite straight.
The affair was a banquet primarily. To be sure they gathered in the
Assembly room; and there was Ben, and Delia, who looked very nice and
bright in maize colour and brown.
"Oh, Hanny, you are as lovely as a picture," she whispered
enthusiastically. "But you are a little mite; there is no denying it.
I was so afraid you couldn't come, that something would happen at the
last moment. Miss Cynthia is capital."
Hanny coloured and almost sighed. She might as well give up hoping to be
tall, and accept the fact.
They went into the banquet-room, where there were two long tables. They
passed around to where a circle of men stood, some of them very fine
looking indeed. The advancing group were presented to the great
novelist, and in future years Hanny was to treasure the cordial smile
and pressure of the hand. But he was to come again when the world had
learned to pay him a finer and more discriminating admiration.
His end of the table was literary. The Jasper party were opposite, at
the other one. What brightness and wit spiced the party, they could
gather from the genial laughter. There were toasts and responses that
scintillated with gaiety and touched the border of pathos.
It was long, and of course the younger people who came for the ball were
not compelled to stay. The novelist was to leave at the close of the
dinner. And presently most of the company found their way to the dancing
room, where the band was discoursing enchanting music, and where every
one enjoyed the promenade.
But when the quadrille sets were formed and in motion, Hanny was
enraptured. Ben and Delia were among them. Delia certainly had a
frivolous side to her nature for a genius. She was very fond of fun and
pleasure and dancing, and had no lack of partners all the evening.
Some there were who danced like a fairy dream; others who made blunders
and gave the wrong hand, and betrayed various awkwardnesses. Doctor Joe
found several lady friends, and danced two or three times, then
proposed that Hanny should try, which he was sure "would inspire Daisy
into making the attempt," he said with a persuasive smile.
Hanny was very much afraid out on the large space. But Delia was in the
same set, and her bright merry eyes were full of encouragement. It was
not alarming. Indeed, in five minutes, the music had put a "spirit in
her feet," and she felt quite at home.
Then a friend of Ben's came to ask her; and Doctor Joe sat down to
persuade Daisy. While abroad, she had taken what we should now term a
series of physical culture lessons to strengthen and develop her limbs,
and to learn how to overcome her misfortune in every possible manner.
Indeed, it was hardly noticeable now, and she had outgrown the
sensitiveness of her childhood.
"Oh, mamma, do you think I could?"
"Of course she can," declared Doctor Joe. "I can't have you playing wall
flower altogether at your first ball. And if you drop down in surprise,
or faint away, I will carry you to the dressing-room at once."
He was so tender and full of nonsense, yet so much in earnest, that she
rose reluctantly. But like Hanny, with the eager joy of youth, she soon
forgot everything except the pure pleasure, and the delight of
gratifying dear Doctor Joe, who was so strong and gentle that she could
not even feel a bit nervous.
As for Hanny, she was really enchanted. The room full of people,
smiling and happy, the changing figures, the light airy dresses, the
shimmer of silks, the cloudlets of lace, the soft flying curls, for so
many people wore ringlets still, the happy smiling faces, and the throb
of the music was intoxicating. It was a strange, delightful world that
she had gone into with her first long gown and her hair done up.
She came back, flushed and excited, her pretty eyes shining, her red
lips all in a quiver.
"Now you must sit down and rest," said Mrs. Jasper. "And if you are very
obedient, you may get up in that Spanish dance. I think that quite
delightful and bewildering."
A lady sat on the other side of Mrs. Jasper, and resumed the incident
she was describing. Mr. Jasper came up with a young man.
"Here is an old friend!" he exclaimed. "Where is Daisy?"
"Somewhere with the Doctor. Oh, what a surprise!" and she took the young
man's hand.
"I wasn't sure I could get here; and it would have been very ungrateful
to Mr. Jasper, when he sent me a ticket. I wanted to see Miss Daisy
again. But I have just come on a flying business tour, and must start
to-morrow for Philadelphia. Still, I may have a little leisure when I
return. What a gay scene."
Hanny sat fanning herself, and feeling that her cheeks were scarlet. If
it only wouldn't culminate in her nose! Then Mr. Jasper turned and
introduced his young friend. Hanny moved a little, so he could sit
between her and Mrs. Jasper,--a very attractive young man, a Mr.
Andersen.
"Miss Underhill," he repeated, as Mr. Jasper turned away, "I've been
speculating on a Miss Underhill for five minutes. I wonder if you will
consider it impertinent; but perhaps you never speculate upon people,
and then it might be reprehensible. Just as I entered the room, there
was a merry group talking, and a sort of 'nut brown mayde,' all in brown
and yellow with bright hair and laughing eyes said, 'Miss Nan
Underhill.' Of course I was too well bred, and in too great a hurry to
listen to any more, or I might have found out about her. I had just an
instant interior gleam of what she must be like with that English name.
And I wonder if the fates have directed my steps to her?"
Mr. Andersen was not the tall, stern, gloomy hero of romance; he was
medium in height and figure, with a frank, eager sort of face, dark
hair, and eyes she thought black then, but afterwards came to know that
they were of the deep blue of a midnight sky in winter. He had such a
smiling mouth, and his voice had a curious, lingering cadence that
suggests that one may have heard it in a previous state.
Hanny caught the spirit of the half badinage, and the laughing light in
his face.
"I think I ought to know the ideal before I confess identity," she
replied.
"Can't I change the ideal? Or repent my vague, wild fancy?"
"Oh, was it wild? Then I must insist upon it. Miss Nan Underhill, an
English girl; of course she was tall, this vision of your imagination?"
Hanny was quite sure her face grew redder. And this ideal girl was
beautiful. Oh, dear!
"Yes, tall; a daughter of the gods, or the old Norse Vikings before they
were Anglicised, with fair hair. And you have the fair hair."
"But I am not tall! I am sorry to have you disappointed."
"I am not disappointed. What does a vagrant fancy amount to? I consider
myself fortunate in meeting Miss Underhill. Why, suppose I had gone
rambling about and missed you altogether? Have you known the Jaspers
long?"
"Oh, years and years. Before they went abroad."
"What a beautiful girl Daisy is! I am glad she is here enjoying herself.
Oh, isn't it the regulation thing to speak of the hero of the feast? Of
course when you heard he was coming to lecture you began to read his
novels--if you had not before."
"I had not read them before. There are a great many books I have not
read. But I tried at 'Vanity Fair;' and I am afraid I don't like it."
"I do not believe you will now. I can't imagine real young people liking
them. But when one has grown older and had sorrow and suffering and
experience, there are so many touches that go to one's heart. And
'Vanity Fair' is a novel without a hero. Still I always feel sorry for
poor Major Dobbins. I wonder if Amelia would have liked him better if
his name had been something else? Could you fall in love with such a
name?"
They both laughed. She raised her eyes. How exquisitely fair and sweet
and dainty she was! The soft hair had shining lights; and her eyes had a
twilight look that suggested a pellucid lake, with evening shades
blowing over it.
"A little more of something would have made him a hero, and spoiled the
book."
"But I don't like Amelia, nor Becky; and the Crawleys are horrid. And
Thackeray seems holding up everybody and laughing at them. I like to
believe in people."
"I am glad there is a time when we can believe in them: it is the
radiant time of youth. What did that little smile hide, and half betray?
Confess!"
"Are you so very old?"
The charming gravity was irresistible.
"Seven and twenty, and I am beginning to worship Thackeray. At seven and
thirty, he will be one of my passions, I know. Now and then I come to a
sentence that goes to my heart. No, do not read him yet awhile, unless
it is some of the little things. There is 'Dr. Birch and his Young
Friends;' and if you want to be amused you must read his continuation of
'Ivanhoe.' But then you will have neither heroines nor heroes left. And
if you and Miss Daisy want to laugh beyond measure, get the 'Rose and
the Ring,' that he wrote for his two little girls."
"Oh," said Hanny, "are they at home, in England?"
"Yes, with an aunt."
"Haven't they any mother?"
"They have no mother," he said gravely.
Years later, the novelist was to be one of the little girl's heroes,
when she knew all the bravery of his life, and why his little girls were
without a mother.
Joe and Daisy returned, and there was a pleasant rencontre; then Delia
and Ben came up, and they had a merry chat and a promenade.
"I wonder," as the musicians began tuning again, "if you are engaged for
all the dances. Could I be allowed one?"
He took up her card.
"I have been dancing so much already; but Mrs. Jasper said I might try
the Spanish dance."
"Oh, then try it with me! I am not too old to dance, if I have come to
adoring Thackeray. And I am to go away soon."
"To go away--where?" And she glanced up with an interest that gave him a
quick sense of pleasure.
"To Hamburg first; then to find some relations."
"In Germany? But you are not a German?" in surprise.
"I ought to be a Dane, if one's birth counts for anything; and if one's
ancestors count, then an old Dutch Knickerbocker," he returned, with a
soft, amused laugh. "But I believe I cannot boast of any English
descent, such as the son of a hundred earls. That doesn't sound as
poetic as the daughter of a hundred earls."
"Who was not one to be desired," interposed the young girl.
"Ah, you read Tennyson then? It is odd, but a good many of us begin on
poetry. I like it very much myself."
A touch of thought settled between Hanny's brows.
"Are you wondering about my mixed lineage? Part of it came from the old
Dutch governor, Jacob Leisler. My grandfather went to Germany, and ran
away with a lady of high degree, and brought her back to America, where
my father was born, and lived all his young life, until his marriage.
Then business took him abroad, and I was born; and my mother died at
Copenhagen. My father is connected with the importing house of Strang,
Zahner, & Co., of which Mr. Jasper is a member. He is married again, to
a very sweet, amiable German woman. Oh, here we are to take our places!"
Hanny hesitated an instant. She longed to have Mrs. Jasper's
approbation.
"We have been looking for you," said Ben. "Let us begin in the one set.
Here is Daisy and Joe."
Then it would be all right. She glanced up and smiled with cordial
assent.
The old-fashioned Spanish dance was a great favourite at that time, when
germans were unknown. Its graceful turns and windings, its stately
balances, until the dancers seemed all one long elegant chain, that
moved to the perfect time of the music, was indeed fascinating. People
danced then. Youth never dreamed of being bored, and walking languidly.
Every movement was delicate and refined.
Was she really in some enchanted country? When Mr. Andersen was
compelled to leave her, he glanced over or past his partner with an
expression so near a smile that Hanny's pulses quickened. When he came
back, the light touch of his hand gave her a little thrill that was
quite delicious. Now and then they had a bit of conversation.
Once he said, in his charming fashion, that was admiration rather than
criticism:--
"Why, you are very petite!"
"Yes; I am not the tall, slim English girl."
"I am very glad. We dance so well together; I wish I were not going away
so soon. And you can't guess--you will think it strange,--to American
ideas it is; but when I go back I have to hunt up a descendant of this
grandmother of high degree who has been making matrimonial overtures to
my father on my behalf."
"Oh, that is like a story! And what will you do?"
"I will think about it, and answer you when you return to me."
He gave her to the next partner, with a graceful inclination of the
head.
There were numberless evolutions before he could take her again. She
glanced up out of sweet, questioning eyes.
"I've been considering," he resumed, as if they had not parted. "You
see, it is this way. My father is very, very fond of me, though there
are other children. Then I have my mother's fortune, which he has been
very watchful of. He is a splendid, upright, honourable man. Now, if
your father asked such a thing of you,--what I mean is, if he asked you
to see some one and learn how well you could like her or him--"
She was off again. Oh, what a sweet little fairy she was! What poet
wrote about twinkling feet? Hers certainly twinkled in their daintiness.
He had not considered her prettiness at first; now it seemed as if she
was exquisitely fair, with that soft pink in her cheeks.
"Yes. Do you not believe you would go to please him, and see? And you
might not like her, and she might not like you. But sometimes people do
take sudden fancies. What do you think, looking at it out of an American
girl's eyes?"
"I should go for my father's sake."
There was such a delicate gravity in her clear eyes as she raised them a
little.
"Thank you," he returned softly. "What an odd thing to talk of in the
midst of our dancing! When you are older, you will find people making a
confidante of you very often, you seem so serious and truthful."
They were coming down to the end of the winding chain; Mr. and Mrs.
Jasper stood there. One more figure, and the cornet and horns and
violins gave three long breaths of melody and stopped.
"My dear children," said Mrs. Jasper, as she stretched out her hand.
"Daisy, you will be in bed all day to-morrow! Your mother will never
trust me with you again, Hanny; I didn't think it would be so long."
"But it was so delightful, mamma." Daisy was in a tumult of pleasure.
"We must go at once. Mr. Jasper will be back by the time we have found
our wraps. Doctor, I can't thank you for making such a patient martyr of
yourself, only you are always so good. Hanny, have you had a nice time?"
"It has been splendid," with a long, long breath, and shining lights in
her eyes.
Delia went to the dressing-room with them.
"I'm going to have two more dances," she said. "It is the first real
ball I've been to in a long while. I'm so glad you came. Ben says he
never imagined you were so pretty. Think of that, from one's own
brother! And Daisy did not shine you down, either."
Hanny kissed her with a sort of rapture. She couldn't understand; she
seemed to be walking on the azure clouds instead of solid earth.
Mr. Andersen went to the carriage with them, and said he should surely
call when he returned from Philadelphia.
Daisy leaned her head down on her mother's shoulder. She was more tired
than she would admit. Hanny's eyes were like stars, and her brain was
still filled with wonderful melodies and light airy figures trooping to
the ravishing sounds, the shimmering light and sparkle. Doctor Joe just
carried her up the steps, and opened the door with his latch-key. But
Mrs. Underhill had heard them, and she came downstairs, wrapped in a
shawl.
"Oh, Joe, how could you keep her out so late! Do you know it's almost
three o'clock?"
Then the mother folded her to her heart. It seemed as if she had been
snatched from some great danger; and now that she had her safe and
sound, she felt as if she should never let her go again.
"You're all excitement, Hanny; you tremble like a leaf. Such
dissipations are bad for growing girls."
"Oh, mother, I think I'm done growing," Hanny laughed, with a soft ring
of music in her voice. "I have wanted to be tall like Margaret; but now
I do not mind a bit. I think I shall always be father's little girl. And
the dancing was so delightful; but you can't think how queer and long
the supper was. And Mr. Thackeray really shook hands with me. He has two
little girls, and they haven't any mother. If you could have seen Daisy!
And she dances beautifully."
"Hanny, your tongue runs like a mill-race. Do keep still, child. Cynthia
has you pinned in every fashion. I hope your dress looked nice enough
for a little girl. There, I'll take care of them all. You will never
want to get up in the morning."
When she had hung the dress out of sight, she felt as if she had her
little girl once more. And the little girl fell asleep to the sound of
the most delicious music ever floating through one's brain.
CHAPTER XIX
THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE
Yes, Hanny Underhill was a little girl again in gaiter-length dresses,
and her braids tied across at the back of her head. They let her sleep
until the latest moment; and then she had to hurry off to school. But
her eyes were bright; and she could have danced along the street, if it
had been the proper thing to do.
Daisy did not fare so well. She had a headache, and was very languid.
Joe said Hanny had better not go down; and that Daisy would be all right
to-morrow. So Hanny studied her lessons, and began to read "Vanity Fair"
aloud to grandmother. But grandmother said she didn't care about such a
silly girl as Amelia; and though there were wretched women in the world,
she didn't believe any one ever was quite so scheming and heartless as
Becky.
Then Hanny told her father about the dancing, and the partners she had,
and Mr. Andersen, who was going back to Germany to marry some distant
cousin. Altogether, it was a splendid time, only she felt as if there
had been some kind of a Cinderella transformation; and that she was
safe only as long as she wore short frocks.
A week afterward, Mr. Andersen returned to the city, and Hanny was
invited down to tea at the Jaspers. They had a nice time, only the talk
was not quite so charming as when it was interspersed with dancing.
He was to go to Paris also. And now Louis Napoleon had followed in the
footsteps of his illustrious uncle, and was really Emperor of France.
What a strange, romantic history his had been!
After this, life went on with tolerable regularity. There was plenty of
amusement. Old New York did not suffer. Laura Keene thrilled them with
the "Hunchback," and many another personation. Matilda Heron was doing
some fine work in Milman's "Fazio," and the play of "The Stranger" held
audiences spell-bound. Then there were lectures for the more
sober-minded people; and you heard youngish men who were to be famous
afterward. Spirit-rappings had fallen a trifle into disfavour; and
phrenology was making converts. It was the proper thing to go to
Fowler's and have your head examined, and get a chart, which sort of
settled you until something else came along. Young ladies were going
into Combe's physiology and hygiene and cold bathing. Some very hardy
and courageous women were studying medicine. Emerson was in a certain
way rivalling Carlyle. Wendell Phillips was enchanting the cities with
his silver tongue. There had been Brooke Farm; and Margaret Fuller had
flashed across the world, married her Italian lover, who fought while
she wrote for liberty; and husband, wife, and child had met their tragic
death in very sight of her native land.
People were thinking really great thoughts; and there was a ferment of
moral, transcendental, and æsthetical philosophy. Women met to discuss
them in each other's parlours, prefiguring the era of clubs. Alice and
Ph[oe]be Cary's receptions had grown to be quite the rage; and Anne C.
Lynch was another figure in the social-literary world. Beecher was
drawing large audiences in Brooklyn, and telling the old truths in a new
fashion. There is always a great seething and tumult before the water
fairly boils and precipitates the dregs to the bottom.
But whatever comes and goes, young girls are always growing up with the
flush and fragrance and elusive fascinations of spring. To-day, a
credulous tenderness and overwhelming faith in the past; to-morrow, a
little doubtful, hesitatingly anticipative, with the watchwords of "The
True, the Good, and the Beautiful;" and still concerned in the latest
style of doing one's back hair, and if silver combs and gilt pins would
keep in fashion; and flushing celestial rosy red, yet with an odd sense
of importance, when men began to lift their hats in a gravely polite
manner, as if the laughing, hoydenish girl of yesterday, who strung
herself out four or five wide on the sidewalk with books in hand, was
the shy, refined, hesitating, utterly delicious young woman of to-day.
There were times when Hanny stood on the mysterious borderland. She used
to steal up and look at the wraith of a ball-dress hanging in the
third-floor closet, put away with the "choice" garments. The skirt
looked so long, almost uncanny. She could see the girl who had gone to
the banquet, who had danced with young men who asked "the pleasure" with
the politest inclination of the head. And, oh, the lovely dances she had
with Mr. Andersen! The bewitching Spanish movement floated through her
brain; and the young man's voice--what a curious, lingering sweetness it
had--went over her like a wave of music. Of course his German cousin
would fall in love with him,--how could she help it?--and they would
marry. They would go to Paris once a year or so, when business took him;
they would go over to London; but their real home would be in some
German town, or maybe in the castle from which the pretty grandmother
had run away with her American lover. She was so glad there were real
romances left in the world. It wasn't likely any would happen to her.
She was not tall, nor elegant, nor handsome; and though she could sing
"Bonnie Doon," "Annie Laurie," "A Rose-tree in Full Bearing," and "The
Girl I Left behind me," for her father, she was not a company singer.
But she really didn't mind. Her father would want her. She wasn't quite
resigned to being an old maid; but then she need not worry until she was
twenty-five. And when you came to that, half the relatives were fighting
for Miss Cynthia Blackfan; and Mr. Erastus Morgan had invited her over
to Paris to see the new Emperor, who was copying in every way his
granduncle who had ruled half Europe.
Then she would close the closet door and run blithely downstairs with a
bit of song. That was Miss Nan Underhill up there; and in her short
school-girl frock she was plain household Hanny.
But they had delightful times. Doctor Joe bought a new buggy, very wide
in the seat, and used to take her and Daisy out when the days were
pleasant. Then Charles and Josie came over evenings, or they went to
Mrs. Dean's, and talked and sang and discussed their favourite poems and
stories, and thought how rich the world was growing, and wondered how
their grandfathers and grandmothers had existed!
The little rue in the Underhills' cup became sweetened presently with
the balm of love and forbearance, that time or circumstances usually
brings about when truth and good sense are at the helm.
Matters had gone rather hard with Delia Whitney of late. In a certain
fashion, she had come to the parting of the intellectual ways. People
were as eager then as now to discover new geniuses. There were not so
many writing, and it was easier to gain a hearing. She had been
successful. She had been praised; her stories and poems were accepted,
published, and paid for. She had been made much of by her brother's
friends, and some of the literary women she had met.
She began to realise it was not altogether wandering at one's sweet
will, unless one had a garden of unfailing bloom in which to gather the
flowers of poetry, or even prose. There were greater heights than even
girlhood's visions. But there must be training and study to reach them,
and she had been lilting along in a desultory way, like a careless
child.
But had she any real genius? When she bent her whole mind to the
cultivation of every energy, what if she should find it was energy and
imagination merely? Her novel did not progress to her satisfaction.
Characters might be common-place; but there was to be force enough in
their delineation to keep the attention of the reader. They must be
clear-cut, vivid; and hers seemed all too much alike, with no salient
points.
"Do you suppose no one ever felt discouraged before?" asked Ben, with
his brave, sweet smile. "That's no sign."
"But if I really wasn't a genius? And I have had so many splendid plans
and plots in my brain; but when they come out, they are flat and weak. I
don't ever expect to stand on the top-most round; but I can't stay down
at the bottom always. I would rather not be anywhere."
Ben comforted her in his quiet fashion.
"Oh, what should I do without you!" she cried. "I want to achieve
something for your sake."
"You will achieve. And if you do not, there is enjoyment left. You
inspire other people."
"With a kind of girlish nonsense that passes for wit. But older minds
demand the real article."
"You have a certain brightness of talk that brings out the best in other
people. That is a rare gift, I am beginning to observe. Put the novel by
for a little while."
"But every time I take it out, it seems worse," she returned ruefully.
Then she admitted another worry.
"Aunt Patty stumbled and fell about a month ago in her room. She was
lame for some days; and I can see she isn't quite the same. Mother
thinks it was a stroke. She is old, you know, and if she should be laid
up! She clings to me so. You see, she misses Nora, who was running in
and out, and the young girls who came here, and--oh, Ben, I am afraid I
am growing stupid!"
Ben laughed and kissed her, and told her not to cross bridges until she
came to them.
Then Theodore went to Washington for a fortnight; and Ben felt that it
was hard for Delia to be bereft of that useful article, a man around the
house. When Theodore returned, there was an imperative journey to the
West. Already there were clouds rising that disquieted the wisest
statesmen who were studying how to prevent any outward clashing. Mr.
Whitney, with his savoir faire, was considered one of the best men to
send on a quasi political mission.
"You just drop in to supper every evening, Ben," he said with his
Good-bye. "Dele has a head worth that of any half-dozen women; but I
like to feel some one is looking after her. Mother is away a good deal."
The. had a misgiving Ben and Delia might want to marry; but they
couldn't possibly spare Delia. So he was very friendly and obliging to
Ben.
"Mother," oddly enough, was taking a great interest in the small end of
the woman question, that was pushing its way in among other things. Mr.
Whitney had been the most indulgent of husbands, and her sons had
accepted household discomforts with no grumbling. But she took most
kindly to the emancipation of women. She had a friend in Brooklyn who
was lecturing on the subject; and she had vague aspirations that way
herself. She was still a woman of fine presence and a fair share of
intelligence.
Bridget had married, and been superseded by an untrained Katy. Aunt
Patty was growing rather weak-hearted and childish, so Delia did have
her hands full, and but little time for writing.
Theodore had been absent hardly a week when the stroke came. One
morning, Aunt Patty was unable to move hand or foot on one side, and
could hardly speak intelligibly, though her face kept its sweet
expression. Mrs. Whitney had gone away somewhere with her friend.
When Ben heard the sad story that night, and folded the trembling,
sobbing girl to his heart, his resolve was taken. A nurse had come, to
be sure; but Delia should not bear this trial alone. He must live here,
and comfort her with his love.
He went home quite early that evening. His father and Hanny were in
Joe's study; his mother sat alone, darning stockings.
She glanced up and smiled; but when she saw his grave face, she said,
"Oh, Ben, what has happened?"
"They are in great trouble down at Beach Street. Old Aunt Boudinot has
had a stroke of paralysis. Mrs. Whitney has gone on a little journey
with a friend; and Delia is alone. Mother, I have resolved to be married
and help her bear her burthen. There is no immediate danger of Miss
Boudinot dying, I believe; but since The. is away--they need some one--"
"Ben!"
Then she looked in her boy's face. Benny Frank and Jim were still boys
to her. There was Joe to be married before it came their turn, and poor
George, if he should live to come back. But it was not a boy's face, nor
a boy's pleading eyes, that met hers. A man's grave sweetness, and sense
of responsibility, shone in the clear, deep grey orbs, and the whole
face had matured, so that she was amazed, bewildered.
"Mother dear," he began, "can't you wish me God speed, as you have the
others? I've never loved any one but Delia; I never shall. I know I can
make her happy; and isn't there some duty on my side? Am I to demand
everything, and throw out a few crumbs of comfort now and then? We have
known each other long enough to be quite sure, quite satisfied. But she
has said all along she would not marry me until she could be considered
a daughter of the house. I shall persuade her to now, unless--mother,
can't you give her a welcome?"
He put his arms about his mother's neck. Was there some mysterious
strength and manliness in him she had not realised before, even in his
very voice. When had she lost her boy? What a pang went to her inmost
heart. Yes, he was a man, and he had a right to himself. She was not a
selfish woman; but her face dropped down on his shoulder and she cried
softly.
"Mother--dear." There was a sweet, faint break in his voice, and he
kissed her brow softly.
"You have been such a good boy, Ben. I've been a little worried
sometimes about Jim; but you have gone on so straight and steadfast. I
do thank the Lord for all of you. And I have wanted you to have the
best--"
"She is the best to me, mother. Like her a little for my sake," he
pleaded tenderly.
"I do like her. If she makes you happy--"
That was all. If Delia made her son as happy as Dolly or Cleanthe--
Ben kissed his mother. Ten years ago she had thought kissing rather
foolish for anybody but the little girl. Now her big sons always kissed
her. Perhaps there was more love in the world.
They began to make plans presently. Ben was in favour of a quiet
marriage; and of course he would remain at Beach Street. Delia had
promised to care for her aunt; and there was no one else to take
charge.
"I don't know as I have been just right about it," said Mrs. Underhill.
"But Mrs. Whitney's carelessness and inefficiency have always tried me.
Still, the children have turned out well. Delia is smart, and capable;
and since you are quite resolved--"
Ben smiled then; and it went to his mother's heart. He knew he had won
the victory.
The next morning she said to him:--
"Ben, I've decided to go down and see Delia. I have never been there but
once, since they went to Beach Street. Could you stop and tell her? Give
her my love. I'm very sorry all this should happen, and she alone."
Mrs. Underhill was not given to half-hearted measures. When the work was
done, and the dinner planned out, she dressed herself and went
down-town. Delia was a little embarrassed at first; but they talked
about Aunt Boudinot, and she went up to see her. The sweet old face
lighted up, and she reached out her "best hand," in a sad sort of
fashion; but she could utter only one word at a time.
"Ben said, I must keep you to dinner, and he would come up," exclaimed
Delia, with a bright blush. It was so like old times to hear her
cheerful voice. "And you will be late at home."
Delia ran down and put on a clean cloth, and wiped the dishes over with
a dry towel, to take off the roughness Katy always left behind in her
manipulations. And she broiled the steak herself. She could do that to
perfection.
Then they arranged about the marriage. Delia certainly did need some
one. It was not worth while to make any fuss. Mrs. Whitney would surely
be back by Monday, and it was appointed for that evening.
Dolly took the news with cordial sweetness. Margaret was sorry that Ben
had not looked a little higher; but since it must be, they would make
the best of it. Hanny was delighted. Joe went down that very evening,
and gave the young people his best love.
Mrs. Whitney came home on Saturday. She considered the step very
judicious. She thought they had been engaged long enough. Then Ben and
The. were such good friends; and with The. away so much, it was
lonesome. "She was glad they had set the marriage for Monday evening,
for she had promised to go out to Buffalo on Tuesday with Mrs. Stafford.
A nurse was the proper thing for Aunt Patty. It was too bad, to be sure;
but at her time of life, one might expect almost anything. And she, Mrs.
Whitney, never had been any sort of a nurse; so it was folly for her to
undertake it." She was very sweet to Aunt Patty. She had a good deal of
the suavity that helps matters to run easily, and her sympathies were
boundless.
Delia's sisters, and their children, and a few friends were invited. All
the Underhills came, and Hanny was bridesmaid; but she wore her last
summer's embroidered muslin, which was not long in the skirt.
They missed Ben a good deal, though he ran up every now and then. And
Theodore was gone six weeks, instead of two or three. Now that Mrs.
Underhill had really "given in," she was most cordial and sympathetic to
her new daughter. Doctor Joe went down every day, though very little
could be done, since even a physician could not fight against old age.
Joe thought Delia very sweet and patient.
There were two great undertakings engrossing the public mind. One was a
grand library. Old Mr. John Jacob Astor, some years previous, had left a
large sum of money for this purpose; and there were heated discussions
as to its scope and purpose. It would be a reference library rather than
an entirely free library for general readers. But it would be a fine
addition to the city.
The other was the Crystal Palace. There had been the first famous
World's Fair at Sydenham, opened by the Prince Consort. And now, we were
trying our energy and ingenuity to have something worthy of attracting
the nations. Reservoir Square had been selected; and the great iron
braces and supports and ribs had been watched with curiously eager eyes,
as they spread out into a giant framework, and were covered with glass
that glinted in the sun like molten gold. When its graceful dome arose,
enthusiasm knew no bounds.
We had not dreamed of the great White City then. But we were only in the
early middle part of the century.
A park had been opened on the east side, out of an old tract known as
"Jones's Woods," and was quite a picnic-place for the working-people on
a holiday. There was a talk about another, and, perhaps, the inspiration
was evolved as the Fair grounds were being put in attractive order. A
short time afterward, the Central Park board was appointed, with
Washington Irving as president.
The country was wild and rough all about. Here and there, clusters of
houses began to indicate the coming city. Kip farm had not disappeared;
and people talked of Strawberry Hill and Harlem Heights; and there
remained some fortifications of the old Rock House of 1812 memory. The
old times were recalled, as people went rambling around.
Broadway still kept its vogue and elegance on the dollar side. There was
Thompson's and Taylor's, where the stylish young ladies stopped in the
afternoon for chocolate or cream and confections, and theatre parties
went after the play. But, on the whole, there were mysterious strides
up-town.
The old streets were quaint and cool in summer, with the trees that had
grown for years in ungrudged spaces. The park in Beach Street was still
lovely; and now Hanny often went over from school and stayed to tea with
Ben and Delia. Daisy came down as well; and they talked of Nora, who was
getting on famously, and who had sung at an out-of-doors fête for a
children's charity.
Delia was happy and charming; but she was very much engrossed with home
affairs. Nurses grew tired and went away; and Aunt Patty became more and
more helpless.
Then came the great event to Hanny's life, and she was quite nervous
over it. This was graduation; but when she had passed the examinations
successfully, the real care was over.
And the new clothes! The old ones had been made to do through the
spring; but now there was no question about long skirts. There were
pretty plaid summer-silks,--everybody wore them then, and they were
almost as cheap as now,--lawns, a light grey cashmere for ordinary
occasions, and a white India muslin for graduation. The very next
evening Dolly was to give her a party.
Grandmother thought it ought to be at home, instead.
"She will want one in the fall," said Dolly, "to announce that she is
really Miss Underhill, and ready for society. Home will be the place for
that. And she will be getting acquainted with young people through the
summer. She's never been anything but a little girl."
There wasn't such a fuss made about sweet girl graduates then; and,
later on, Rutgers Institute was to wheel into line and become a college;
but even now they had bouquets and baskets of flowers. And some of the
girls had lovers, and were engaged, even if there was no co-education.
The chapel was crowded with admiring friends; and the girls looked sweet
and pretty in their white gowns and flowing curls; for youth has a charm
and beauty of its own that does not depend on regular features, or
style, or any of the later accessories of life. It is an enchanted land
of sunny skies and heavenly atmospheres.
She came home out of it all with a curious new feeling. That night of
the banquet it had been almost a masquerade. Even now the blue shimmer
and clouds of white ruffles seemed to belong to some other state. She
wondered a little if she would ever wear it again.
There were some pretty gifts for her at home. Josie Dean and Charlie
Reed came around in the evening. He had passed his first year's
examinations successfully.
Doctor Joe and Jim and the elder people were talking very earnestly
about the duties and the purposes of life. Josie touched Hanny's hand,
and, with a little movement, the sign girls understand, drew her out on
the porch.
"Let us walk down the path. Oh, Hanny, I've something to tell you!" and
her voice was in a sort of delicious tremble. "May be you have
suspected. I told Charlie I must confess it to you; though we do not
mean to say much about it at present. Oh, Hanny, can't you guess?"
There were so many things; it was something joyful, certainly. She
glanced up and smiled. Josie's face was all one roseate flush.
"Oh!" with a mysterious throb.
"We are engaged, dear. I don't know when we began to love each other. We
have been so much with each other, you know. He has helped me with my
lessons; and we have sung, and played, and read, and gone to church
together. It was like having a brother. Tudie and I used to envy you
the boys. And it was not quite like a brother either, for another
feeling came in. Sometimes I wanted to run away, such a queer tremble
came over me. Then there were hours when I could hardly wait for him to
come home from the seminary. And for a while, he was so grave, I
wondered if I had offended him. And then--do you suppose any one can
tell just how it happens?--though they always do in books. All in an
instant, you know some one loves you. It's strange and beautiful and
exciting; and it seems as if the best and loveliest of all the world had
come to you. We have been engaged a whole week; and every day it grows
more mysteriously delightful."
"It is so strange," said Hanny, with a long, indrawn breath.
"And--Charlie!"
"Oh, don't you remember how we waylaid Mr. Reed one night, and begged
him to let Charlie go to singing-school? He laughed about it the other
night, though he said you were the bravest of the three. And he is
delighted with it. Then mother is so fond of Charles. Of course it will
be a two years' engagement. Mother doesn't want me to teach school now.
She thinks I ought to learn about housekeeping and sewing, and fit
myself for a minister's wife. That seems so solemn, doesn't it? Oh, I do
wonder if I can be good enough! And visiting the poor, and helping to
the right way, and being patient and sweet, and real religious! But he
will help me; and he is so good! I think he couldn't have been anything
but a minister. I do suppose Mrs. Reed knows about it in heaven. She
was so different that last year, sweeter and kinder; and we feel sure
she has gone to heaven. But we want her to know; and dear little Tudie!
You must come over and spend the day, now that school is ended; and we
will do nothing but talk about it. Oh, Hanny, I hope some day you will
have a lover! But you seem such a sort of a little girl even yet. And I
have worn long skirts a whole year."
A lover! Hanny's face was scarlet in the fragrant dusk.
"We must go in. I promised mother we would not stay late. And Charlie
has some examinations for to-morrow. You may tell your mother and Daisy
Jasper."
Joe said they needn't hurry off so; and Charles flushed as he looked at
Josie. They rose and said good-night; and Josie kissed Hanny in a
rapturous kind of fashion.
"I'll bet a sixpence those two youngsters are engaged," said Jim.
"Hanny, what was all the long talk about?"
She was not quite sure all the rest were to be taken in the confidence;
but she looked so conscious, and Jim was so positive, that she admitted
the fact.
"That's just like a theological student."
"It is a very suitable engagement. Mrs. Dean has brought Josie up
sensibly; and Charles is such a fine fellow. Of course they must all be
pleased about it," commented Mrs. Underhill.
CHAPTER XX
MISS NAN UNDERHILL
Just a few days later, Mrs. Odell came down for some advice and help,
for Janey was to be married. Her betrothed was a well-to-do young farmer
up in Sullivan County. He was coming down in August to go to the World's
Fair; and he wanted to be married and make a general holiday of it.
"I am not much judge of such matters; but Stephen's wife will go
shopping with you. I don't know what we should do without her," said
Mrs. Underhill.
That very morning two silver-embossed envelopes came for Miss Nan
Underhill. One schoolmate was to be married in church at noon, and go to
Niagara on a wedding journey. The other was an evening ceremony with a
reception afterward. Mr. James Underhill had an invitation to this also.
Was all the world getting married, or being engaged! Standing on the
threshold, Hanny shrank back in dismay. It was looking out of a tranquil
cloister into a great, unknown world; and it gave her a mysterious
