There is much the same shrinkage in both, in the matter of 
values. 
There was nothing for us to do but sit about the decks in 
the shade of the awnings and look at the distant shore. We 
lay in luminous blue water ; shoreward the water was green — 
green and brilliant ; at the shore itself it broke in a long white 
ruffle, and with no crash, no sound that we could hear. The 
town was buried under a mat of foliage that looked like a 
cushion of moss. The silky mountains were clothed in soft, 
rich splendors of melting color, and some of the cliffs were 
veiled in slanting mists. I recognized it all. It was just as I 
had seen it long before, with nothing of its beauty lost, noth- 
ing of its charm wanting. 
A change had come, but that was political, and not visible 
from the ship. The monarchy of my day was gone, and a 
republic was sitting in its seat. It was not a material change. 
The old imitation pomps, the fuss and feathers, have departed, 
and the royal trademark — that is about all that one could 
miss, I suppose. That imitation monarchy was grotesque 
enough, in my time ; if it had held on another thirty years it 
would have been a monarchy without subjects of the king's race. 
We had a sunset of a very fine sort. The vast plain of the 
sea was marked olf in bands of sharply-contrasted colors: 
great stretches of dark blue, others of purple, others of polished 
bronze; the billowy mountains showed all sorts of dainty 
browns and greens, blues and purples and blacks, and the 
rounded velvety backs of certain of them made one want to 
stroke them, as one would the sleek back of a cat. The long, 
sloping promontory projecting into the sea at the west turned 
dim and leaden and spectral, then became suffused with pink 
— dissolved itself in a pink dream, so to speak, it seemed so 
airy and unreal. Presently the cloud-rack was flooded with 
fiery splendors, and these were copied on the surface of the 
sea, and it made one drunk with delight to look upon it. 
From talks with certain of our passengers whose home was 
Honolulu, and from a sketch by Mrs. Mary H. Krout, I was 
able to perceive what the Honolulu of to-day is, as compared 
with the Honolulu of my time. In my time it was a beautiful 
little town, made up of snow-white wooden cottages deliciously 
smothered in tropical vines and flowers and trees and shrubs ; 
and its coral roads and streets were hard and smooth, and as 
white as the houses. The outside aspects of the place sug- 
gested the presence of a modest and comfortable prosperity — 
a general prosperity - perhaps one might strengthen the term 
and say universal. There were no fine houses, no fine furni- 
ture. There were no decorations. Tallow candles furnished 
the light for the bedrooms, a whale-oil lamp furnished it for 
the parlor. Native matting served as carpeting. In the parlor 
one would find two or three lithographs on the walls — portraits 
as  rule : Kamehameha IV., Louis Kossuth, Jenny Lind ; and 
may be an engraving or two : Rebecca at the Well, Moses 
smiting the rock, Joseph's servants finding the cup in Ben- 
jamin's sack. There would be a center table, with books of a 
tranquil sort on it : The Whole Duty of Man, Baxter's Saints' 
Kest, Fox's Martyrs, Tupper's Proverbial Philosophy, bound 
copies of The Missionary Herald and of Father Damon's 
Seaman's Friend. A melodeon; a music stand, with Willie, 
We have Missed You, Star of the Evening, KoU on Silver 
Moon, Are We Most There, I Would not Live Alway, and 
other songs of love and sentiment, together with an assort- 
ment of hymns. A what-not with semi-globular glass paper- 
weights, enclosing miniature pictures of ships, New England 
rural snowstorms, and the like ; sea-shells with Bible texts 
carved on them in cameo style ; native curios ; whale's tooth 
with full-rigged ship carved on it. There was nothing remin- 
iscent of foreign parts, for nobody had been abroad. Trips 
were made to San Francisco, but that could not be called going 
abroad. Comprehensively speaking, nobody traveled. 
But Honolulu has grown wealthy since then, and of course 
wealth has introduced changes; some of the old simplicities 
have disappeared. Here is a modern house, as pictured by 
Mrs. Krout : 
" Almost every house is surFounded by extensive lawns and gardens en- 
closed by walls of volcanic stone or by thick hedges of the brilliant hibiscus. 
" The houses are most tastefully and comfortably furnished ; the floors 
are either of hard wood covered with rugs or with fine Indian matting, while 
there is a preference, as in most warm countries, for rattan or bamboo furni- 
ture ; there are the usual accessories of bric-a-brac, pictures, books, and 
curios from all parts of the world, for these island dwellers are indefatigable 
travelers. 
" Nearly every house has what )g, called a lanai. It is a large apartment, 
roofed, floored, open on three sides, with a door or a draped archway opening 
into the drawing-room. Frequently the roof is formed by the thick inter- 
lacing boughs of the 7iou tree, impervious to the sun and even to the rain, ex- 
cept in violent storms. Vines are trained about the sides — the stephanotis or 
some one of the countless fragrant and blossoming trailers which abound in 
the islands. There are also curtains of matting that may be drawn to ex- 
clude the sun or rain. The floor is bare for coolness, or partially covered 
with rugs, and the lanai is prettily furnished with comfortable chairs, sofas, 
and tables loaded with flowers, or wonderful ferns in pots. 
" The lanai is the favorite reception room, and here at any social function 
the musical program is given and cakes and ices are served ; here morning 
callers are received, or gay riding parlies, the ladies in pretty divided skirts, 
worn for convenience in riding astride, — the universal mode adopted by 
Europeans and Americans, as well as by the natives. 
"The comfort and luxury of such an apartment, especially at a seashore 
villa, can hardly be imagined. The soft breezes sweep across it, heavy with 
the fragrance of jasmine and gardenia, and through the swaying boughs of 
palm and mimosa there are glimpses of rugged mountains, their summits 
veiled in clouds, of purple sea with the white surf beating eternally against 
the reefs,— whiter still in the yellow sunlight or the magical moonlight of 
the tropics." 
There: rugs, ices, pictures, lanais, worldly books, sinful 
bric-a-brac fetched from everywhere. And the ladies riding 
astride. These are changes, indeed. In my time the native 
women rode astride, but the white ones lacked the courage to 
adopt their wise custom. In my time ice was seldom seen in 
Honolulu. It sometimes came in sailing vessels from New 
England as ballast ; and then, if there happened to be a man- 
of-war in port and balls and suppers raging by consequence, 
the ballast was worth six hundred dollars a ton, as is evidenced 
by reputable tradition. But the ice-machine has traveled all 
over the world, now, and brought ice within everybody's 
reach. In Lapland and Spitzbergen no one uses native ice in 
our day, except the bears and the walruses. 
The bicycle is not mentioned. It was not necessary. We 
know that it is there, without inquiring. It is everywhere. 
But for it, people could never have had summer homes on the 
summit of Mont Blanc ; before its day, property up there had 
but a nominal value. The laddies of the Hawaiian capital 
learned too late the right way to occupy a horse — too late to 
get much benefit from it. The riding-horse is retiring from 
business everywhere in the world. In Honolulu a few years 
from now he will be only a tradition. 
We all know about Father Damien, the French priest 
who voluntarily forsook the world and went to the leper 
island of Molokai to labor among its population of sorrowful 
exiles who wait there, in slow -consuming misery, for death 
to come and release them from their troubles ; and we know 
that the thing which he knew beforehand would happen, did 
happen : that he became a leper himself, and died of that 
horrible disease. There was still another case of self-sacrifice, 
it appears. I asked after " Billy " Ragsdale, interpreter to the - 
Parliament in my time — a half- white. He was a brilliant 
young fellow, and very popular. As an interpreter he would 
have been hard to match anywhere. He used to stand up in 
the Parliament and turn the English speeches into Hawaiian 
and the Hawaiian speeches into English with a readiness 
and a volubility that were astonishing. I asked after him, 
and was told that his prosperous career was cut short in a 
sudden and unexpected way, just as he was about to marry 
a beautiful half-caste girl. He discovered, by some nearly 
invisible sign about his skin, that the poison of leprosy was in 
him. The secret was his own, and might be kept concealed 
for years ; but he would not be treacherous to the girl that 
loved him ; he would not marry her to a doom like his. And 
so he put his affairs in order, and went around to all his friends 
and bade them good-bye, and sailed in the leper ship to 
Molokai. There he died the loathsome and lingering death 
that all lepers die. 
In this place let me insert a paragraph or two from " The 
Paradise of the Pacific " (Rev. H. H. Gowen) : 
"Poor lepers ! It is easy for those who have no relatives or friends 
among them to enforce the decree of segregation to the letter, but who can 
write of the terrible, the heart-breaking scenes which that enforcement has 
brought about ? 
" A man upon Hawaii was suddenly taken away after a summary arrest, 
leaving behind him a helpless wife about to give birth to a babe. The 
devoted wife with great pain and risk came the whole journey to Honolulu, 
and pleaded until the authorities were unable to resist her entreaty that she 
might go and live like a leper with her leper husband. 
"A woman in the prime of life and activity is condemned as an incipient 
leper, suddenly removed from her home, and her husband returns to find his 
two helpless babes moaning for their lost mother. 
" Imagine it ! The case of the babies is hard, but its bitterness is a trifle 
— less than a trifle — less than nothing — compared to what the mother must 
suffer ; and suffer minute by minute, hour by hour, day by day, month by 
month, year by year, without respite, relief, or any abatement of her pain till 
she dies. 
" One woman, Luka Kaaukau, has been living with her leper husband in 
the settlement for twelve years. The man has scarcely a joint left, his limbs 
are only distorted ulcerated stumps, for four years his wife has put every 
particle of food into his mouth. He wanted his wife to abandon his wretched 
carcass long ago, as she herself was sound and well, but Luka said that she 
was content to remain and wait on the man she loved till the spirit should be 
freed from its burden. 
" I myself have known hard cases enough : — of a girl, apparently in full 
health, decorating the church with me at Easter, who before Christmas is 
taken away as a confirmed leper ; of a mother hiding her child in the 
mountains for years so that not even her dearest friends knew that she had a 
child alive, that he might not be taken away ; of a respectable white man 
taken away from his wife and family, and compelled to become a dweller in 
the Leper Settlement, where he is counted dead, even by the insurance 
companies." 
And one great pity of it all is, that these poor sufferers 
are innocent. The leprosy does not come of sins which they 
committed, but of sins committed by their ancestors, who 
esGwped the curse of leprosy ! 
Mr. Gowan has made record of a certain very striking 
circumstance. Would you expect to find in that awful Leper 
Settlement a custom worthy to be transplanted to your own 
country ? They have one such, and it is inexpressibly touching 
and beautiful. When death sets open the prison-door of life 
there, the band salutes the freed soul with a burst of glad 
music ! 
CHAPTER IV. 
A dozen direct censures are easier to bear than one morganatic compliment. 
SAILED from Honolulu. From diary: 
Sept. 2. Flocks of flying fish — slim, shapely, grace- 
ful, and intensely white. With the sun on them they 
look like a flight of silver fruit-knives. They are able to fly a 
hundred yards. 
Sej)t. 3. In 9° 50' north latitude, at breakfast. Approach- 
ing the equator on a long slant. Those of us who have never 
seen the equator are a good deal excited. I think I would 
rather see it than any other thing in the world. We entered 
the "doldrums" last night — variable winds, bursts of rain, 
intervals of calm, with chopping seas and a wobbly and 
drunken motion to the ship — a condition of things findable 
in other regions sometimes, but present in the doldrums 
always. The globe-girdling belt called the doldrums is 20 de- 
grees wide, and the thread called the equator lies along the 
middle of it. 
Sept. Jj.. Total eclipse of the moon last night. At'Y.30 it 
began to go off. At total — or about that — it was like a rich 
rosy cloud with a tumbled surface framed in the circle and 
projecting from it — a bulge of strawberry-ice, so to speak. At 
half-eclipse the moon was like a gilded acorn in its cup. 
Sept. 5. Closing in on the equator this noon. A sailor ex- 
plained to a young girl that the ship's speed is poor because we 
af e climbing up the bulge toward the center of the globe ; but 
that when we should once get over, at the equator, and start 
down-hill, we should fly. When she asked him the other day 
what the fore-yard was, he said it was the front yard, the open 
area in the front end of the ship. That man has a good deal of 
learning stored up, and the girl is likely to get it all. 
Afternoon. Crossed the equator. In the distance it looked 
like a blue ribbon stretched across the ocean. Several passengers 
kodak'd it. We had no fool cer- 
emonies, no fantastics, no horse- 
play. All that sort of thing 
has gone out. In old times a 
sailor, dressed as Neptune, used 
to come in over the bows, with 
his suite, and lather up and 
shave everybody who was cross- 
ing the equator for the first 
time, and then cleanse these 
unfortunates by swinging them 
from the yard-arm and ducking them three times in the sea. 
This was considered funny. Nobody knows why. No, that 
is not true. We do know why. Such a thing could never be 
funny on land ; no part of the old-time grotesque performances 
gotten up on shipboard to celebrate the passage of the line 
could ever be funny on shore — they would seem dreary and 
witless to shore people. But the shore people would change 
their minds about it at sea, on a long voyage. On such a 
voyage, with its eternal monotonies, people's intellects dete- 
riorate ; the owners of the intellects soon reach a point where 
they almost seem to prefer childish things to things of a ma- 
turer degree. One is often surprised at the juvenilities which 
grown people indulge in at sea, and the interest they take in 
them, and the consuming enjoyment they get out of them. 
This is on long voyages only. The mind gradually becomes 
inert, dull, blunted ; it loses its accustomed interest in intellectual 
things ; nothing but horse-play can rouse it, nothing but 
wild and foolish grotesqueries can entertain it. On short voy- 
ages it makes no such exposure of itself ; it hasn't time to slump 
down to this sorrowful level. 
The short-voyage passenger gets his chief physical exercise 
out of "horse-billiards" — shovel-board. It is a good game. 
We play it in this ship. A quartermaster chalks off a diagram 
like this — on the deck. 
The player uses a cue that is like a broom-handle with a 
quarter-moon of wood fastened to the end of it. With this he 
shoves wooden disks the size of a saucer — he gives the disk a 
vigorous shove and sends it fifteen or twenty feet along the 
deck and lands it in one of the squares if he can. If it stays 
there till the inning is played out, it will count as many points 
in the game as the figure in the square it has stopped in rep- 
resents. The adversary plays to knock that disk out and leave 
his own in its place — particularly if it rests upon the 9 or 10 
or some other of the high numbers ; but if it rests in the " 10- 
o: " he backs it up — lands his disk behind it a foot or two, to 
make it difficult for its owner to knock it out of that damag- 
ing place and improve his record. When the inning is played 
out it may be found that each adversary has placed his four 
disks where they count ; it may be found that some of them 
are touching chalk lines and not counting ; and very often it 
will be found that there lias been a general wreckage, and 
that not a disk has been left within the diagram. Anyway, 
the result is recorded, whatever it is, and the game goes on. 
The game is 100 points, and it takes from twenty minutes to 
forty to play it, according to luck and the condition of the sea. 
It is an exciting game, and the crowd of spectators furnish 
abundance of applause for fortunate shots and plenty of laugh- 
ter for the other kind. It is a game of skill, but at the same 
time the uneasy motion of the ship is constantly interfering 
with skill ; this makes it a chancy game, and the element of 
luck comes largely in. 
We had a couple of grand tournaments, to determine who 
should be "Champion of the Pacific"; they included among 
the participants nearly all the passengers, of both sexes, and 
the officers of the ship, and they afforded many days of stu- 
pendous interest and excitement, and murderous exercise — for 
horse- billiards is a physically violent game. 
The figures in the following record of some of the closing 
games in the first tournament will show, better than any 
description, how very chancy the game is. The losers here 
represented had all been winners in the previous games of the 
series, some of them by fine majorities : 
Chase, 102 Mrs. D., 57 Mortimer, 105 The Surgeon, 92 
MissC, 105 Mrs. T., 9 Clemens, 101 Taylor, 92 
Taylor, 109 Davies, 95 MissC, 108 Mortimer, 55 
Thomas, 102 Roper, 76 Clemens, 111 Miss C, 89 
Coomber, 106 Chase, 98 
And so on ; until but three couples of winners were left. 
Then I beat my man, young Smith beat his man, and Thomas 
beat his. This reduced the combatants to three. Smith and I 
took the deck, and I led off. . At the close of the first inning I 
was 10 worse than nothing and Smith had scored 7. The luck 
continued against me. When I was 57, Smith was 97 — 
within 3 of out. The luck changed then. He picked up a 
10-off or so, and couldn't recover. I beat him. 
The next game would end tournament No. 1. 
Mr. Thomas and I were the contestants. He won the lead 
and went to the bat — so to speak. And there he stood, with 
the crotch of his cue resting against his disk while the ship 
rose slowly up, sank slowly down, rose again, sank again. She 
never seemed to rise to suit him exactly. She started up once 
more; and when she was nearly ready for the turn, he let 
drive and landed his disk just within the left-hand end of the 
10. (Applause). The umpire proclaimed "a good 10," and 
the game-keeper set it down. I played : my disk grazed the 
edge of Mr. Thomas's disk, and went out of the diagram. (No 
applause.) 
Mr. Thomas played again — and landed his second disk 
alongside of the first, and almost touching its right-hand side. 
" Good 10." (Great applause.) 
I played, and missed both of them. (No applause.) 
Mr. Thomas delivered his third shot and landed his disk 
just at the right of the other two. "Good 10." (Immense 
applause.) 
There they lay, side by side, the three in a row. It did 
not seem possible that anybody could miss them. Still I did 
it. (Immense silence.) 
Mr. Thomas played his last disk. It seems incredible, but 
he actually landed that disk alongside of the others, and just 
to the right of them — a straight solid row of 4 disks. (Tu- 
multuous and long-continued applause.) 
Then I played my last disk. Again it did not seem possible 
that anybody could miss that row — a row which would have 
been 14 inches long if the disks had been clamped together ; 
whereas, with the spaces separating them they made a longer 
row than that. But I did it. It may be that I was getting 
nervous. 
I think it unlikely that that innings has ever had its 
parallel in the history of horse-billiards. To place the four 
disks side by side in the 10 was an extraordinary feat ; indeed, 
it was a kind of miracle. To miss them was another miracle. 
It will take a century to produce another man who can place 
the four disks in the 10 ; and longer than that to find a man 
who can't knock them out. I was ashamed of my performance 
at the time, but now that I reflect upon it I see that it was 
rather fine and difiicult. 
Mr. Thomas kept his luck, and won the game, and later the 
championship. 
In a minor tournament I won the prize, which was a 
Waterbury watch. I put it in my trunk. In Pretoria, South 
Africa, nine months afterward, my proper watch broke down 
and I took the Waterbury out, vound it, set it by the great 
clock on the Parliament House (8.05), then went back to my 
room and went to bed, tired from a long railway journey. 
The parliamentary clock had a peculiarity which I was not 
aware of at the time — a peculiarity which exists in no other 
clock, and would not exist in that one if it had been made 
by a sane person ; on the half-hour it strikes the succeeding 
houT then strikes the hour again at the proper time. I 
lay reading and smoking awhile ; then, when I could hold my 
eyes open no longer and was about to put out the light, the 
great clock began to 
boom, and I counted — 
ten. I reached for the Waterbury to see how it was getting 
along. It was marking 9.30. It seemed rather poor speed for 
a three-dollar watch, but I supposed that the climate was 
affecting it. I shoved it half an hour ahead, and took to my 
book and waited to see what would happen. At 10 the great 
clock struck ten again. I looked — the Waterbury was mark- 
ing half -past 10. This was too much speed for the money, and 
it troubled me. I pushed the hands back a half hour, and 
waited once more ; I had to, for I was vexed and restless 
now, and my sleepiness was gone. By and by the great clock 
struck 11. The Waterbury was marking 10.30. I pushed it 
ahead half an hour, with some show of temper. By and by 
the great clock struck 11 again. The Waterbury showed 
up 11.30, now, and I beat her brains out against the bedstead. 
I was sorry next day, when I found out. 
To return to the ship. 
The average human being is a perverse creature ; and when 
he isn't that, he is a practical joker. The result to the other 
person concerned is about the sam3: that is, he is made to suf- 
fer. The washing down of the decks begins at a very early 
hour in all ships ; in but few ships are any measures taken to 
protect the passengers, either by waking or warning them, or 
by sendmg a steward to close their ports. And so the deck- 
washers have their opportunity, and they use it. They send a 
bucket of water slashing along the side of the ship and into 
the ports, drenching the passenger's clothes, and often the pas- 
senger himself. This good old custom prevailed in this ship, 
and under unusually favorable circumstances, for in the blazing 
tropical regions a removable zinc thing like a sugar-shovel pro- 
jects from the port to catch the wind and bring it in; this 
thing catches the wash- water and brings it in, too — and in 
flooding abundance. Mrs. I., an invalid, had to sleep on the 
locker-sofa under her port, and every time she over-slept and 
thus failed to take care of herself, the deck-washers drowned 
her out. 
And the painters, what a good time they had ! This ship 
would be going into dock for a month in Sydney for repairs ; 
but no matter, painting was going on all the time somewhere 
or other. The ladies' dresses were constantly getting ruined, 
nevertheless protests and supplications went for nothing.. 
Sometimes a lady, taking an afternoon nap on deck near a 
ventilator or some other thing that didn't need painting, 
would wake up by and by and find that the humorous painter 
had been noiselessly daubing that thing and had splattered her 
white gown all over with little greasy yellow spots. 
The blame for this untimely painting did not lie with the 
ship's officers, but with custom. As far back as Noah's time 
it became law that ships must be constantly painted and fussed 
at when at sea ; custom grew out of the law, and at sea custom 
knows no death ; this custom will continue until the sea goes 
Sept. 8. — Sunday. We are moving so nearly south that 
we cross only about two meridians of longitude a day. This 
morning we were in longitude 178 west from Greenwich, and 
57 degrees west from San Francisco. To-morrow we shall be 
close to the center of the globe — the ISuth degree of west 
longitude and 180th degree of east longitude. 
And then we must drop out a day — lose a day out of our 
lives, a day never to be found again. We shall all die one day 
earlier than from the beginning of time we were foreordained 
to die. We shall be a day behindhand all through eternity. 
We shall always be saying to the other angels, " Fine day to- 
day," and they will be always retorting, " But it isn't to-day, 
it's to-morrow." We shall be in a state of confusion all the 
time and shall never know what true happiness is. 
Next Day. Sure enough, it has happened. Yesterday it 
was September 8, Sunday; to-day, per the bulletin-board at 
the head of the companion way, it is September 10, Tnesday. 
There is something uncanny about it. And uncomfortable. 
In fact, nearly unthinkable, and wholly unrealizable, when 
one comes to consider it. While we were crossing the 180th 
meridian it was Sunday in the stern of the ship where my 
family were, and Tuesday in the bow where I was. They 
were there eating the half of a fresh apple on the 8th, and 
I was at the same time eating the other half of it on the 
10th — and I could notice how stale it was, already. The 
family were the same age that they were when I had left 
them five minutes before, but I was a day older now than 
I was then. The day they were living in stretched behind 
them half way round the globe, across the Pacific Ocean 
and America and Europe ; the day I was living in stretched 
in front of me around the other half to meet it. They were 
stupendous days for bulk and stretch ; apparently much larger 
days than we had ever been in before. All previous days had 
been but shrunk-up little things by comparison. The differ- 
ence in temperature between the two days was very marked, 
their day being hotter than mine because it was closer to the 
equator. 
Along about the moment that we were crossing the Great 
Meridiaij a child was born in the steerage, and now there is 
no way to tell which day it was born on. The nurse thinks 
it was Sunday, the surgeon thinks it was Tuesday. The child 
will never know its own birthday. It will always be choosing 
first one and then the other, and will never be able to make 
up its mind permanently. This will breed vacillation and un- 
certainty in its opinions about religion, and politics, and busi- 
ness, and sweethearts, and everything, and will undermine its 
principles, and rot them away, and make the poor thing 
characterless, and its success in life impossible. Every one 
in the ship says so. And this is not all — in fact, not the 
worst. For there is an enormously rich brewer in the ship 
who said as much as ten days ago, that if the child was born 
on his birthday he would give it ten thousand dollars to 
start its little life with. His birthday was Monday, the 9th 
of September. 
If the ships all moved in the one direction — westward, 
I mean — the world would suffer a prodigious loss in the 
matter of valuable time, through the dumping overboard on 
the Great Meridian of such multitudes of days by ships' crews 
and passengers. But fortunately the ships do not all sail 
west half of them sail east. So there is no real loss. These 
latter pick up all the discarded days and add them to the 
world's stock again ; and about as good as new, too ; for of 
course the salt water preserves them. 
Noise proves nothing. Often a hen who has merely laid an egg cackles as if 
she had laid an asteroid. — Puddtihead Wilso7is New Calendar. 
WEDNESDAY, Sept. 11. In this world we often make 
mistakes of judgment. We do not as a rule get out 
of them sound and whole, but sometimes we do. At 
dinner yesterday evening — present, a mixture of Scotch, Eng- 
lish, American, Canadian, and Australasian folk — a discussion 
broke out about the pronunciation of certain Scottish words. 
This was private ground, and the non-Scotch nationalities, 
with one exception, discreetly kept still. But I am not 
discreet, and I took a hand. I didn't know anything about 
the subject, but I took a hand just to have something to do. 
At that moment the word in dispute was the word three. 
One Scotchman was claiming that the peasantry of Scotland 
pronounced it three, his adversaries claimed that they didn't — 
that they pronounced it thraw. The solitary Scot was having 
a sultry time of it, so I thought I would enrich him with my 
help. In my position I was necessarily quite impartial, and was 
equally as well and as ill equipped to fight on the one side as on 
the other. So I spoke up and said the peasantry pronounced 
the word three. not thraw. It was an error of judgment. 
There was a moment of astonished and ominous silence, then 
weather ensued. The storm rose and spread in a surprising 
way, and I was snowed under in a very few minutes. It was 
a bad defeat for me — a kind of Waterloo. It promised to 
remain so, and I wished I had had better sense than to enter 
upon such a forlorn enterprise. But just then I had a saving 
thought — at least a thought that offered a chance. While the 
storm was still raging, I made up a Scotch couplet, and then 
spoke up and said : — 
" Very well, don't say any more. I confess defeat. I 
thought I knew, but I see my mistake. I was deceived by one 
of your Scotch poets." 
"A Scotch poet ! O come ! Kame him." 
'"''Robert BurnsP 
It is wonderful the power of that name. These men looked 
doubtful — but paralyzed, all the same. They were quite 
silent for a moment ; then one of them said — with the rever- 
ence in his voice which is always present in a Scotchman's tone 
when he utters the name : 
" Does Eobbie Burns say — what does he say ? " 
" This is what he says : 
' " There were nae bairns but only three — 
Ane at the breast, twa at the knee." ' 
It ended the discussion. There was no man there profane 
enough, disloyal enough, to say any word against a thing 
which Kobert Burns had settled. I shall always honor that 
great name for the salvation it brought me in this time of my 
sore need. 
It is my belief that nearly any invented quotation, played 
with confidence, stands a good chance to deceive. There are 
people who think that honesty is always the best policy. This 
is a superstition ; there are times when the appearance of it is 
worth six of it. 
We are moving steadily southward — getting further and 
further down under the projecting paunch of the globe. Yes- 
terday evening we saw the Big Dipper and the north star sink 
below the horizon and disappear from our world. No, not 
"we," but they. They saw it — somebody saw it — and told 
me about it. But it is no matter, I was not caring for those 
things, I am tired of them, any way. I think they are well 
enough, but one doesn't want them always hanging around. 
My interest was all in the Southern Cross. I had never seen 
that. I had heard about it all my life, and it was but natural 
that I should be burning to see it. JSTo other constellation 
makes so much talk. I had nothing against the Big Dipper — 
and naturally couldn't have anything against it, since it is a 
citizen of our own sky, and the property of the United States — 
but I did want it to move out of the way and give this 
foreigner a chance. Judging by the size of the talk which the 
Southern Cross had made, I supposed it would need a sky all 
to itself. 
But that was a mistake. We saw the Cross to-night, and it 
is not large. Kot large, and not strikingly bright. But it was 
low down toward the horizon, and it may improve when it gets 
up higher in the sky. It is ingeniously named, for it looks just 
as a cross would look if it looked like something: else. But 
that description does not describe ; it is too vague, too general, 
too indefinite. It does after a fashion suggest a cross — a cross 
that is out of repair — or out of drawing ; not correctly shaped. 
It is long, with a short cross-bar, and the cross-bar is canted 
out of the straight line. 
It consists of four large stars and 
one little one. The little one is out 
of line and further damages the shape. 
It should have been placed at the inter- * 
section of the stem and the cross-bar. 
If you do not draw an imaginary line from star to star it does 
not suggest a cross — nor anything in particular. 
One must ignore the little star, and leave it out of the com- 
bination — it confuses everything. If you leave it out, then you 
can make out of the four stars a sort of cross — out of true ; or 
a sort of kite — out of true ; or a sort of coffin — out of true. 
Constellations have always been troublesome things to 
name. If you give one of them a fanciful name, it will always 
refuse to live up to it ; it will always persist in not resembling 
the thing it has been named 
for. Ultimately, to satisfy 
the public, the fanciful name 
has to be discarded for a com- 
mon-sense one, a manifestly 
descriptive one. The Great 
Bear remained the Great Bear 
— and unrecognizable as such 
— for thousands of years ; and 
people complained about it all 
the time, and quite properly ; 
but as soon as it became the 
property of the United States, 
Congress changed it to the 
Big Dipper, and now every- 
body is satisfied, and there is no more talk about riots. I 
would not change the Southern Cross to the Southern Coffin, 
I would change it to the Southern Kite ; for up there in the 
general emptiness is the proper home of a kite, but not for 
coffins and crosses and dippers. In a little while, now — I 
cannot tell exactly how long it will be — the globe will belong 
to the English-speaking race ; and of course the skies also. 
Then the constellations will be re-organized, and polished up, 
and re-named — the most of them " Victoria," I reckon, but 
this one will sail thereafter as the Southern Kite, or go out of 
business. Several towns and things, here and there, have been 
named for Her Majesty already. 
In these past few days we are plowing through a mighty 
Milky "Way of islands. They are so thick on the map that one 
would hardly expect to find room between them for a canoe ; 
yet we seldom glimpse one. Once we saw the dim bulk of a 
couple of them, far away, spectral and dreamy things ; mem- 
bers of the Home — Alofa and Fortuna. On the larger one 
are two rival native kings — and they have a time together. 
They are Catholics; so are their people. The missionaries 
there are French priests. 
From the multitudinous islands in these regions the " re- 
cruits " for the Queensland plantations were formerly drawn ; 
are still drawn from them, I believe. Vessels fitted up like 
old-time slavers came here and carried off the natives to serve 
as laborers in the great Australian province. In the beginning 
it was plain, simple manstealing, as per testimony of the mis- 
sionaries. This has been denied, but not disproven. After- 
ward it was forbidden by law to " recruit " a native without 
his consent, and governmental agents were sent in all recruiting 
vessels to see that the law was obeyed — which they did, 
according to the recruiting people ; and which they sometimes 
didn't, according to the missionaries. A man could be lawfully 
recruited for a three-years term of service ; he could volunteer 
for another term if he so chose; when his time was up he 
could return to his island. And would also have the means to 
do it ; for the government required the employer to put money 
in its hands for this purpose before the recruit was delivered to 
him. 
Captain "Wawn was a recruiting shipmaster during many 
years. From his pleasant book one gets the idea that the 
recruiting business was quite popular with the islanders, as a 
rule. And yet that did not make the business wholly dull and 
uninteresting ; for one finds rather frequent little breaks in the 
monotony of it — like this, for instance : 
"The afternoon of our arrival at Leper Island the schooner was lying 
almost becalmed under the lee of the lofty central portion of the island, about 
three-quarters of a mile from the shore. The boats were in sight at some distance. 
The recruiter-boat had run into a small nook on the rocky coast, under 
a high bank, above which stood a solitary hut backed by dense forest. The 
government agent and mate in the second boat lay about 400 yards to the 
westward. 
"Suddenly we heard the sound of firing, followed by yells from the 
natives on shore, and then we saw the recruiter-boat push out with a seem- 
ingly diminished crew. The mate's boat pulled quickly up, took her in tow, 
and presently brought her alongside, all her own crew being more or less hurt. 
It seems the natives had called them into the place on pretence of friendship. 
A crowd gathered about the stern of the boat, and several fellows even got 
into her. All of a sudden our men were attacked with clubs and tomahawks. 
The recruiter escaped the first blows aimed at him, making play with his fists 
until he had an opportunity to draw his revolver. ' Tom Sayers,' a Mare 
man, received a tomahawk blow on the head which laid the scalp open but 
did not penetrate his skull, fortunately. ' Bobby Towns,' another Mare boat- 
man, had both his thumbs cut in warding off blows, one of them being so 
nearly severed from the hand that the doctors had to finish the operation. 
Lihu, a Lifu boy, the recruiter's special attendant, was cut and pricked in 
various places, but nowhere seriously. Jack, an unlucky Tanna recruit, who 
had been engaged to act as boatman, received an arrow through his forearm, 
the head of which — a piece of bone seven or eight inches long — was still 
in the limb, protruding from both sides, when the boats returned. The re- 
cruiter himself would have got off scot-free had not an arrow pinned one of 
his fingers to the loom of the steering-oar just as they were getting off. The 
fight had been short but sharp. The enemy lost two men, both shot dead." 
The truth is, Captain Wawn furnishes such a crowd of 
instances of fatal encounters between natives and French and 
English recruiting-crews (for the French are in the business for 
the plantations of New Caledonia), that one is almost per- 
suaded that recruiting is not thoroughly popular among the 
islanders ; else why this bristling string of attacks and blood- 
curdling slaughter ? The captain lays it all to " Exeter Hall 
influence." But for the meddling philanthropists, the native 
fathers and mothers would be fond of seeing their children 
carted into exile and now and then the grave, instead of weep- 
ing about it and trying to kill the kind recruiters. 
CHAPTER YL 
He was as shy as a newspaper is when referring to its own merits. 
— Puddnfwad Wilsons New Calendar. 
GAPTAIN Wawn is crystal-clear on one point: He 
does not approve of missionaries. They obstruct his 
business. They make "Recruiting," as he calls it 
(" Slave-Catching," as they call it in their frank way) a trouble 
when it ought to be just a picnic and a pleasure excursion. 
The missionaries have their opinion about the manner in which 
the Labor Traffic is conducted, and about the recruiter's 
evasions of the law of the Traffic, and about the traffic itself : 
and it is distinctly uncomplimentary to the Traffic and to 
everything connected with it, including the law for its regula- 
tion. Captain Wawn's book is of very recent date ; I have by 
me a pamphlet of still later date — hot from the press, in fact 
— by Rev, Wm. Gray, a missionary ; and the book and the 
pamphlet taken together make exceedingly interesting reading, 
to my mind. 
Interesting, and easy to understand — except in one detail, 
which I will mention presently. It is easy to understand why 
the Queensland sugar planter should want the Kanaka recruit : 
he is cheap. Yery cheap, in fact. These are the figures paid 
by the planter : £20 to the recruiter for getting the Kanaka — 
or " catching " him, as the missionary phrase goes ; £3 to the 
Queensland government for " superintending " the importation ; 
£5 deposited with the Government for the Kanaka's passage 
home when his three years are up, in case he shall live that 
long ; about £25 to the Kanaka himself for three years' wages 
and clothing ; total payment for the use of a man three years, 
£53 ; or, including diet, £60. Altogether, a hundred dollars a 
year. One can understand why the recruiter is fond of the 
business ; the recruit 
cheap presents 
cruit's relatives, not 
self), and the re- 
costs him a few 
L (given to the re- 
to the recruit him- 
cruit is worth £20 
to the recruiter 
when delivered in 
Queensland. All 
this is clear enough ; 
but the thing that 
is not clear is, what 
there is about it all 
to persuade the re- 
cruit. He is young 
and brisk; life at 
home in his beauti- 
ful island is one 
lazy, long holiday 
to him ; or if he 
wants to work he 
can turn out a couple of bags of copra per week and sell it for 
four or five shillings a bag. In Queensland he must get up 
at dawn and work from eight to twelve hours a day in the 
canefields — in a much hotter climate than he is used to — and 
get less than four shillings a week for it. 
I cannot understand his willingness to go to Queensland. 
It is a deep puzzle to me. Here is the explanation, from the 
planter's point of view ; at least I gather from the missionary's 
pamphlet that it is the planter's : 
"When he comes from his home he is a savage, pure and simple. He 
feels no shame at his nakedness and want of adornment. When he returns 
home he does so well dressed, sporting a Waterbury watch, collars, cuffs. 
boots, and jewelry. He takes with him one or more boxes* well filled with 
clothing, a musical instrument or two, and perfumery and other articles of 
luxury he has learned to appreciate." 
For just one moment we have a seeming flash of com- 
prehension of the 
Kanaka's reason for 
exiling himself : he 
goes away to acquire 
civilization. Yes, he 
was naked and not 
ashamed, now he is 
clothed and knows 
how to be ashamed ; 
he was unenlightened, 
now he has a Water- 
bury watch; he was 
unrefined, now he has 
jewelry, and some- 
thing to make him 
smell good ; he was a 
nobody, a provincial, now he has been to far countries and 
can show off. 
It all looks plausible — for a moment. Then the mission- 
ary takes hold of this explanation and pulls it to pieces, and 
dances on it, and damages it beyond recognition. 
"Admitting that the foregoing description is the average one, the 
average sequel is this : The cuffs and collars, if used at all, are carried 
off by youngsters, who fasten them round the leg, just below the 
knee, as ornaments. The Waterbury, broken and dirty, finds its way to the 
trader, who gives a trifle for it ; or the inside is taken out, the wheels strung 
on a thread and hung round the neck. Knives, axes, calico, and handker- 
chiefs are divided among friends, and there is hardly one of these apiece. 
The boxes, the keys often lost on the road home, can be bought for 2s. 6d. 
They are to be seen rotting outside in almost any shore village on Tanna. (I 
speak of what I have seen.) A returned Kanaka has been furiously angry 
with me because I would not buy his trousers, which he declared were just 
my lit. He sold them afterwards to one of my Aniwan teachers for 9d. worth 
of tobacco — a pair of trousers that probably cost him 8s. or 10s. in Queens- 
land. A coat or shirt is handy for cold weather. The white handkerchiefs, 
the ' senet ' (perfumery), the umbrella, and perhaps the hat, are kept. The 
boots have to take their chance, if they do not happen to fit the copra trader. 
' Senet ' on the hair, streaks of paint on the face, a dirty white handkerchief 
round the neck, strips of turtle shell in the ears, a belt, a sheath and knife, 
and an umbrella constitute the rig of returned Kanaka at home the day after 
landing." 
A hat, an umbrella, a belt, a neckerchief. Otherwise 
stark naked. All in a day the hard-earned "civilization" 
has melted away to this. And even these perishable things 
must presently go. Indeed, there is but a single detail of his 
civilization that can be depended on to stay by him : according 
to the missionary, he has learned to swear. This is art, and 
art is long, as the poet says. 
In all countries the laws throw light upon the past. The 
Queensland law for the regulation of the Labor Traffic is a 
confession. It is a confession that the evils charged by the 
missionaries upon the traffic had existed in the past, and that 
they still existed when the law was made. The missionaries 
make a further charge: that the law is evaded by the re- 
cruiters, and that the Government Agent sometimes helps them 
to do it. Regulation 31 reveals two things : that sometimes a 
young fool of a recruit gets his senses back, after being per- 
suaded to sign away his liberty for three years, and dearly 
wants to get out of the engagement and stay at home with his 
own people ; and that threats, intimidation, and force are used 
to keep him on board the recruiting-ship, and to hold him to 
his contract. Regulation 31 forbids these coercions. The law 
requires that he shall be allowed to go free; and another 
clause of it requires the recruiter to set him ashore — per boat, 
because of the prevalence of sharks. Testimony from Rev. 
Mr. Gray : 
"There are ' wrinkles ' for taking the penitent Kanaka. My first experience
of the Traffic was a case of this kind in 1884. A vessel anchored 
just out of sight of our station, word was brought to me that some boys were 
stolen, and the relatives wished me to go and get them back. The facts were, 
as I found, that six boys had recruited, had ruahed into the boat, the Govern- 
ment Agent informed me. They had all ' signed ' ; and, said the Government 
Agent, 'on board they shall remain.' I was assured that the six boys were 
of age and willing to go. Yet on getting ready to leave the ship I found four 
of the lads ready to come ashore in the boat ! This I forbade. One of them 
jumped into the water and persisted in coming ashore in my boat. When 
appealed to, the Government Agent suggested that we go and leave him to 
be picked up by the ship's boat, a quarter mile distant at the time ! " 
The law and the missionaries feel for the repentant recruit 
— and properly, one may be permitted to think, for he is only 
a youth and ignorant and persuadable to his hurt — but sym- 
pathy for him is not kept in stock by the recruiter. Kev. Mr. 
Gray says: 
" A captain many years in the traffic explained to me how a penitent could 
be taken. ' When a boy jumps overboard we just take a boat and pull ahead 
of him, then lie between him and the shore. If he has not tired himself 
swimming, and passes the boat, keep on heading him in this way. The dodge 
rarely fails. The boy generally tires of swimming, gets into the boat of his 
own accord, and goes quietly on board." 
Yes, exhaustion is likely to make a boy quiet. If the dis- 
tressed boy had been the speaker's son, and the captors savages, 
the speaker would have been surprised to see how differently 
the thing looked from the new point of view ; however, it is 
not our custom to put ourselves in the other person's place. 
Somehow there is something pathetic about that disappointed 
young savage's resignation. I must explain, here, that in the 
traffic dialect, " boy " does not always mean boy ; it means a 
youth above sixteen years of age. That is by Queensland law 
the age of consent, though it is held that recruiters allow them- 
selves some latitude in guessing at ages. 
Captain Wawn of the free spirit chafes under the annoy- 
ance of "cast-iron regulations." They and the missionaries 
have poisoned his life. He grieves for the good old days, van- 
ished to come no more. See him weep ; hear him cuss between 
the lines 
" For a long time we were allowed to apprehend and detain all deserters 
who had signed the agreement on board ship, but the ' cast-iron ' regulations 
of the Act of 1884 put a stop to that, allowing the Kanaka to sign the agree- 
ment for three years' service, travel about in the ship in receipt of the regular 
rations, cadge all he could, and leave when he thought fit, so long as he did 
not extend his pleasure trip to Queensland." 
Kev. Mr. Gray calls this same restrictive cast-iron law a 
"farce." "There is as much cruelty and injustice done to 
natives by acts that are legal as by deeds unlawful. The regu- 
lations that exist are unjust and inadequate — unjust and in- 
adequate they must ever be." He furnishes his reasons for his 
position, but they are too long for reproduction here. 
However, if the most a Kanaka advantages himself by a 
three-years course in civilization in Queensland, is a necklace 
and an umbrella and a showy imperfection in the art of swear- 
ing, it must be that all the profit of the traific goes to the white 
man. This could be twisted into a plausible argument that the 
traffic ought to be squarely abolished. 
However, there is reason for hope that that can be left alone 
to achieve itself. It is claimed that the traffic will depopulate 
its sources of supply within the next twenty or thirty years. 
Queensland is a very healthy place for white people — death- 
rate 12 in 1,000 of the population — but the Kanaka death-rate 
is away above that. The vital statistics for 1893 place it at 52 ; 
for 1894 (Mackay district), 68. The first six months of the 
Kanaka's exile are peculiarly perilous for him because of the 
rigors of the new climate. The death-rate among the new men 
has reached as high as 180 in the 1,000. In the Kanaka's 
native home his death-rate is 12 in time of peace, and 15 in time 
of war. Thus exile to Queensland — with the opportunity to 
acquire civilization, an umbrella, and a pretty poor quality of 
profanity — is twelve times as deadly for him as war. Com- 
mon Christian charity, common humanity, does seem to require, 
not only that these people be returned to their homes, but that 
war, pestilence, and famine be introduced among them for their 
preservation. 
Concerning these Pacific isles and their peoples an eloquent 
prophet spoke long years ago — five and fifty years ago. In 
fact, he spoke a little too early. Prophecy is a good line of 
business, but it is full of risks. This prophet was the Right 
Rev. M. Russell, LL.D., D.C.L., of Edinburgh : 
" Is the tide of civilization to roll oaly to the foot of the Rocky Mountains, 
and is the sun of knowledge to set at last in the waves of the Pacific ? No ; 
the mighty day of four thousand years is drawing to its close ; the sun of 
humanity has performed its destined course ; but long ere its setting rays are 
extinguished in the west, its ascending beams have glittered on the isles of 
the eastern seas. . . . And now we see the race of Japhet setting forth 
to people the isles, and the seeds of another Europe and a second England 
sown in the regions of the sun. But mark the words of the prophecy : ' He 
shall dwell in the tents of Shem, and Canaan shall be his servant.' It is not 
said Canaan shall be his slave. To the Anglo-Saxon race is given the scepter of 
the globe, but there is not given either the lash of the slave-driver or the rack 
of the executioner. The East will not be stained with the same atrocities 
as the West ; the frightful gangrene of an enthralled race is not to mar the 
destinies of the family of Japhet in the Oriental world ; humanizing, not 
destroying, as they advance ; uniting with, not enslaving, the inhabitants 
with whom they dwell, the British race may," etc., etc. 
And he closes his vision with an invocation from Thomson : 
" Come, bright Improvement ! on the car of Time, 
And rule the spacious world from clime to clime." 
Yery well, Bright Improvement has arrived, you see, with 
her civilization, and her Waterbury, and her umbrella, and her 
third-quality profanity, and her humanizing-not-destroying ma- 
chinery, and her hundred-and-eighty-death-rate, and everything 
is going along just as handsome ! 
But the prophet that speaks last has an advantage over the 
pioneer in the business. Rev. Mr. Gray says : 
" What I am concerned about is that we as a Christian nation should wipe 
out these races to enrich ourselves." 
And he closes his pamphlet with a grim Indictment which 
is as eloquent in its flowerless straightforward English as is the 
hand-painted rhapsody of the early prophet : 
" My indictment of the Queensland-Kanaka Labor Traffic is this : 
"1. It generally demoralizes and always impoverishes the Kanaka, de- 
prives him of his citizenship, and depopulates the islands fitted to his home. 
"2. It is felt to lower the dignity of the white agricultural laborer in 
Queensland, and beyond a doubt it lowers his wages there. 
" 3. The whole system is fraught with danger to Australia and the islands 
on the score of health. 
"4. On social and political grounds the continuance of the Queensland 
Kanaka Labor Traffic must be a barrier to the true federation of the Aus- 
tralian colonies. 
"5. The Regulations under which the Traffic exists in Queensland are 
inadequate to prevent abuses, and in the nature of things they must re- 
main so. 
" 6. The whole system is contrary to the spirit and doctrine of the Gospel 
of Jesus Christ. The Gospel requires us to help the weak, but the Kanaka is 
fleeced and trodden down. 
"7. The bed-rock of this Traffic is that the life and liberty of a black 
man are of less value than those of a white man. And a Traffic that has 
grown out of ' slave-hunting ' will certainly remain to the end not unlike its 
origin." 
Truth is the most valuable thing we have. Let us economize it. 
— Puddnhead Wilsons New Calendar. 
FROM Diary : — For a day or two we have been plow- 
ing among an invisible vast wilderness of islands, 
catching now and then a shadowy glimpse of a mem- 
ber of it. There does seem to be a prodigious lot of islands 
this year ; the map of this region is freckled and fly -specked 
all over with them. Their number would seem to be un- 
countable. We are moving among the Fijis now — 224 islands 
and islets in the group. In front of us, to the west, the wilder- 
ness stretches toward Australia, then curves upward to Kew 
Guinea, and still up and up to Japan ; behind us, to the east, 
the wilderness stretches sixty degrees across the wastes of the 
Pacific; south of us is New Zealand. Somewhere or other 
among these myriads Samoa is concealed, and not discoverable 
on the map. Still, if you wish to go there, you will have no 
trouble about finding it if you follow the directions given by 
Robert Louis Stevenson to Dr. Conan Doyle and to Mr. J. M. 
Barrie. " You go to America, cross the continent to San 
Francisco, and then it's the second turning to the left." To 
get the full flavor of the joke one must take a glance at 
the map. 
Wednesday, September 11. — Yesterday we passed close to 
an island or so, and recognized the published Fiji character- 
istics: a broad belt of clean white coral sand around the 
island; back of it a graceful fringe of leaning palms, with 
native huts nestling cosily among the shrubbery at their 
bases ; back of these a stretch of level land clothed in tropic 
vegetation; back of that, rugged and picturesque mountains. 
A detail of the immediate foreground : a mouldering ship 
perched high up on a reef -bench. This completes the com- 
position, and makes the picture artistically perfect. 
In the afternoon we sighted Suva, the capital of the group, 
and threaded our way into the secluded little harbor — a placid 
basin of brilliant blue and green water tucked snugly in 
among the sheltering hills, A few ships rode at anchor in 
it — one of them a sailing vessel flying the American flag; 
and they said she came from Duluth! There's a journey! 
Duluth is several thousand miles from the sea, and yet she 
is entitled to the proud name of Mistress of the Commercial 
Marine of the United States of America. There is only one 
free, independent, unsubsidized American ship sailing the for- 
eign seas, and Duluth owns it. All by itself that ship is 
the American fleet. All by itself it causes the American name 
and power to be respected in the far regions of the globe. All 
by itself it certifies to the world that the most populous civil- 
ized nation in the earth has a just pride in her stupendous 
stretch of sea-front, and is determined to assert and maintain 
her rightful place as one of the Great Maritime Powers of the 
Planet. All by itself it is making foreign eyes familiar with a 
Flag which they have not seen before for forty years, outside 
of the museum. For what Duluth has done, in building, 
equipping, and maintaining at her sole expense the American 
