"There is my husband coming! Oh, what shall we do?"
CHAPTER XIX.
A BRUTE IN HUMAN SHAPE.
Jasper could not help feeling that he was in rather a critical position.
A man whose business it was to kidnap young children in order to extort
money from their friends was not likely to be very scrupulous, and the
fear of having his secret divulged might lead him to extreme measures.
"Is your husband likely to come up here?" he asked.
"I don't know; he may," answered the woman, anxiously.
"Can't you hide me?" suggested Jasper.
"Yes, yes," she said, recovering something of her presence of mind.
"There, get into that closet. I'll come and let you out when he is
gone."
She opened the door of a closet in one corner of the room. It was quite
dark inside, and except a stool, it was entirely empty.
"Sit down there," said the woman. "I must go down now."
She buttoned the door, and our hero found himself a close prisoner in
the dark. It certainly gave him a peculiar sensation. Only a week before
he had been at his Eastern home. Now he was more than a thousand miles
away, penniless, and a prisoner. But though he was peculiarly situated,
he was not discouraged. In fact, with a brave boy's love of adventure,
he felt a certain exhilaration and wondered what was coming next. His
courage and enterprise rose with the occasion, and he began to consider
what course he should take after he got out.
While he is sitting in the closet in dark captivity, we will go below
and make acquaintance with the man whose arrival had produced so great a
sensation.
Before going down, the woman said to the child:
"Don't tell anybody about the boy in the closet."
"No, I won't," said the child, obediently.
The woman hurried down stairs, but her husband was already waiting for
her.
He was a black-browed ruffian, with a rough beard of a week's growth. He
threw himself sullenly into a chair and growled:
"Where were you? You're always out of the way when I come home."
"I just went up stairs a minute, Dick," she answered.
"To see the brat, I suppose."
"Yes."
"I've a great mind to knock him on the head."
"Oh, Dick, you wouldn't injure the little innocent," she said,
earnestly.
"Wouldn't I? I would if I was paid enough, but there's nothing to be
made by killing him."
"Thank heaven!" uttered the woman, fervently.
"You haven't got the heart of a chicken!" said the man, contemptuously.
"Give me something to eat. I'm hungry."
The woman began to bustle around in obedience to his command.
"I haven't got much in the house, Dick," she said, apologetically.
"What have you got?" he growled.
"Some eggs and a little bacon. Shall I make you some tea?"
"No; bring out the whisky."
"There's none left, Dick."
The man uttered an oath expressive of disappointment.
"Well, give me some slops, then," he said. "I must have something to
drink."
"Didn't you shoot anything?" she ventured to ask.
"I haven't been hunting."
"I thought you took out your gun."
"What if I did? I don't always hunt when I take my gun. I expected to
hear from the friends of that brat this morning, but I didn't. They must
hurry up with their money if they don't want me to strangle him."
"Perhaps they didn't get your letter, Dick."
"Yes, they did. I took care of that. I s'pose they're hatching up some
plot to have me arrested. If they do, it'll be a bad day for the brat."
He looked fierce and brutal enough to execute the dark threat at which
he indirectly hinted. There was a cruel look in his eye which showed
that he would have had small scruples about injuring an innocent child,
if provoked by the desire for revenge.
While his wife was cooking the eggs he filled his pipe and began to
smoke. She made all the haste she could, knowing that her husband was
far from patient. Soon the frugal repast was ready. She set it on the
table, and said:
"It's all ready, Dick. Better eat it while it's hot."
"I'll eat it when I choose," he growled, in his usual spirit of
contradiction.
However, he was hungry, and laying aside his pipe, did as she requested.
Soon he had dispatched all the food set before him.
"There isn't enough to keep a kitten from starving," he said.
"I'm sorry, Dick."
"Much you are sorry," he growled. "A pretty wife you are."
"I wish there were more. If you'll give me some money I'll go out and
buy something."
"Money!" he snarled. "You're always wanting money. Do you think I am
made of money?"
"No, Dick; but you know I have none. I wish I knew of any way to earn
it."
"You do?"
"Yes, Dick."
"Then I suppose you'd be leaving me," he said, suspiciously.
"No, I wouldn't. You know I wouldn't, Dick."
"So you say," he answered, brutally, "How's the brat? Has it been
crying?"
"No; it is a very good child."
"I'll go up and take a look at it."
He arose from his seat, and advanced toward the door.
His wife followed him.
"Where are you going?" he asked, turning upon her.
"I'm going up, too," she answered, meekly.
"What for? Can't you trust me with the brat?"
"Yes, Dick, but it isn't much used to you. You might frighten it, and
make it cry."
"That's all right," he answered, smiling grimly. "I like to hear
children cry."
"How can you enjoy the sufferings of a child?"
"Halloo! What's that?" he said, looking sharply at her. "You dare to
find fault with me, do you?"
"I didn't mean that, Dick," she said, submissively.
"It's lucky you didn't," he said, warningly. "I don't allow none of
that, wife or no wife."
"May I go up?"
"If you want to."
So the two went up stairs together.
The wife was nervous lest the child in some way might excite the
suspicions of her husband and betray the presence of Jasper. She felt,
therefore, very ill at ease.
The child was sitting up in bed.
"Halloo, young 'un, how yer gettin' along?" asked the man, roughly.
The child did not answer, but looked frightened.
"Why don't you answer?" demanded the man, frowning.
The child looked toward the woman, and seemed on the point of crying.
"Can't you say something to the gentleman?" said the woman, soothingly.
Thus adjured, the little boy said:
"Won't you take me to my mamma?"
"Oh, yes, I'll take you as soon as your mamma sends me some money," said
the man named Dick, "and she'd better do it pretty soon, too," he
muttered.
He threw himself into a chair, and ceased to notice the child.
"Do you know, old woman," he said in a different tone, "I've heard news
that'll rather take you by suprise?"
"I hope it is good news," said his wife, anxiously.
"Well, that's as may be," he answered. "It ought to be good news for us,
but there's no saying. You know my sister?"
"Mrs. Thorne?"
"Yes. Well, she's had a stroke of luck."
"How was that?"
"Well, you see she went as governess into a family. The man was rich and
an invalid--a widower, too. What does she do but get him to marry her?"
"She has been fortunate."
"That isn't all of it. She hadn't been married but two or three months
when her husband died, leaving her a third of his property and guardian
to his son, who inherits the rest. So she's a rich woman. I say she
ought to do something for her brother Dick. Don't you say so?"
"I think she would be willing," said the wife.
"She ought to be, but she's selfish. She always was. If only I had the
money I'd go East, and see what I could get out of her."
"You'd take me with you, Dick?"
"No, I wouldn't. It'll be all I can do to raise money enough to pay my
own expenses, let alone yours. If I get anything I'll come back, and
you'll get your share. That's why I want the parents of that brat to
fork over the cash pretty quick."
"How did you learn the news about your sister, Dick?"
"An old pal of mine has just come from that way and told me all about
it."
Every word of this dialogue was beard by Jasper in his place of
concealment. He was astonished beyond measure to learn that this ruffian
was the brother of his step-mother.
"No wonder I don't like her," he thought, "if they have any traits in
common. What a fate, for my kind and gentle father to marry the sister
of such a man!"
"I'm glad of it," said his wife.
"Well, so am I, if she'll do the right thing by me; but if she don't,
then I'm sorry."
"What shall I do when you're away, Dick?"
"Get along as well as you can. Folks'll give you victuals, if you get
hard up."
"I don't like to beg."
"Wish me good luck, then, and money enough to take care of you. What are
you starin' at, young 'un?"
This he said to the child, whose eyes, as if by a species of
fascination, were fixed upon him.
"Take me home to mamma!" pleaded the child, beginning to cry.
"Shut up!" said the ruffian, harshly, striding to the bed and pinching
the boy's arm till he cried with the pain.
"Oh, don't, Dick," pleaded the woman, who was fond of children, though
she had never been a mother.
"I'll give the brat something to cry for," said her husband, and he
pinched him again.
"Oh, Dick, how can you torture the poor child?" said his wife, braver in
the little boy's defence than in her own.
"What business has it to cry, then? I'd like to choke it. If you don't
hush I'll serve you the same way."
Jasper had listened to this brutality as long as he could, but his
indignation became too hot to be repressed. Thoughtless of consequences,
he burst open the closet door and strode into the presence of the
astonished ruffian, his fists involuntarily clenched, and his eyes
kindling with indignation.
CHAPTER XX.
A STRANGE COMMISSION.
The man whom we have called Dick stopped short and gazed in astonishment
at the boy who had so fearlessly stepped upon the scene.
"Where did you come from?" he demanded, frowning.
"From that closet," answered Jasper.
"How came you there? What business have you in my house, anyway?"
demanded the ruffian.
"I entered it supposing it to be deserted," said Jasper. "While I was
below I heard that poor boy cry, and came up."
"Did you know he was here?" asked the ruffian, turning to his wife, and
speaking menacingly.
"Yes, Dick."
"Why did you let him in?"
"He came in while I was out."
"Why didn't you tell me he was here?"
"Because I didn't want him injured in any way. I was afraid you would be
angry with him."
"That is where you are right," said Dick, adding an oath. "The young
scoundrel shall pay for his impudence in entering my house like a
thief."
"You have no right to say that," said Jasper. "I have explained to you
why I came here."
"You hid in the closet, intending to come out and steal when we were out
of the way."
"What could I steal?" asked Jasper, looking around him.
"Do you mean to taunt me with my poverty?" exclaimed the ruffian,
enraged.
"No; I am poorer than you."
"You look like it."
"It is true. I was robbed in the cars by a pickpocket, and because I was
penniless and could not pay my fare I was put off at this station."
"Is this true?" demanded Dick, with a searching look.
"Yes; I wish it were not."
"How came you near this house?"
"I set out to walk to the village, and must have lost my way."
"Why did you come out of that closet?" was the next demand.
"Because I heard you abusing that little boy," said Jasper, fearlessly.
"I have a right to do what I please to my own child."
"It isn't your child."
"What do you mean by that, you impudent young jackanapes?"
Unobserved by her husband, the wife made a warning sign to Jasper not to
provoke the man, whose evil passion she so well knew.
Jasper comprehended the sign, but it did not influence him. Frank and
fearless by temperament, he thought it his duty to stand between the
little boy and this ruffian's brutality. Still he appreciated the
woman's kindness, and resolved to bear it in mind. Indeed, he saw that
she was rather to be pitied than blamed. Her natural instincts were
good, but she was under the control of a bad man.
"I heard what you were saying," said Jasper.
"You heard?"
"Yes, while I was in the closet."
"What did you hear, you young scoundrel?" demanded the ruffian.
"Enough to satisfy me that you have stolen this boy from his parents."
"It's a lie!"
"No; it is the truth. I felt sure of it before, and now I know it. You
took him in order to extort money from his friends."
"Well," said the ruffian, defiantly, "what if I did? Have you anything
to say against it?"
"Yes," said Jasper.
"I shall have to wring your neck by and by," muttered Dick. "Well, go
on. Spit out what you've got to say."
"I say it's a cruel wrong to the parents," said Jasper, boldly, "and to
the child also. But you make it worse when you try to abuse the boy."
"Come, boy, if you care so much for the brat, suppose you take his
place, and take the beating I was going to give him," suggested the
ruffian, mockingly.
"I would rather suffer than have him suffer," said Jasper, quietly; "but
perhaps you will change your mind when you hear what I have to say."
"Oh, you are going to beg off!" sneered the ruffian, with a look of
satisfaction. "I thought you'd come to your senses."
"You are mistaken as to my intention. I want to speak to you about your
sister--formerly Mrs. Thorne."
"What do you know about her?" asked the man, in extreme astonishment.
"A good deal. She is my step-mother."
"What! Are you the son of the man she married?" asked Dick, eagerly.
"I am Jasper Kent."
"That's the name. So she sent you out to me, did she? That's better than
I thought She hasn't forgotten her brother, after all."
"No; you are mistaken," said Jasper. "She never so much as told me she
had a brother."
Dick looked disappointed. Then, with sudden suspicion, he said, roughly:
"I believe you are lying. This Jasper Kent is rich--the heir of
two-thirds of his father's property. You say you are penniless."
"That is true. Both stories are true. I am my father's principal heir,
but your sister is my guardian. She has treated me in such a way that I
left the house."
"Ran away, eh?"
"No, I gave her full notice of what I should do. I told her that if I
were decently treated I would stay, but if she continued to insult me,
and give the preference in all things to her own boy, Nicholas, I would
go away."
"You haven't been such a fool as to go off and leave all your property
in her hands?"
"I shall come in possession of it when I am twenty-one. Till then I will
try to support myself."
"Come, boy, you're plucky. I'm glad you came, after all. I want to hear
more about my sister's affairs. Come down stairs, and we'll talk."
Dick appeared suddenly to have forgotten his animosity. He became even
friendly in his manner, as he gave our hero this invitation.
"Old woman," said he, addressing his wife, "can't you rake up something
for this boy to eat? I dare say he is hungry."
"I don't think we've got anything more in the house."
"I'll go out directly and get something. Come down, boy, I want to ask
you a few more questions."
They went down stairs, followed by the wife. She was happily relieved by
the unexpected good understanding between her husband and Jasper.
"Now tell me," said Dick, eagerly, when they were in the lower room,
"how much property has my sister got?"
"Probably between thirty and forty thousand dollars."
"As much as that?" said Dick, complacently. "Well, she has feathered her
nest well."
"I don't like Mrs. Kent," said Jasper. "Though she is your sister, I am
obliged to say that, but it is not at all on account of the property my
father left her. If he had given her one-half his estate I would not
have complained, as long as she treated me fairly."
"Helen was always a hard customer. She's got a will of her own,"
chuckled Dick.
"There was no hope of our getting on together," said Jasper.
"She ought to do something for me--don't you think so? I'm her only
brother."
"As to that," said Jasper, "my opinion wouldn't have any weight with
her. If you are poor and need help, it would be only natural for her to
help you."
"That's the way to talk! You won't say anything against me to her?"
"Certainly not," said Jasper. "I shall not write to her at all; and even
if I did, I wouldn't try to interfere with her disposing of her property
in any way she thinks best."
"Come, you're a trump, after all. I like you. You're plucky, too."
"Thank you."
"I'll say a good word for you to my sister when I see her."
"You'd better not," said Jasper. "If she thinks you are friendly to me
you'll stand a poor chance of any favors. Better abuse me."
Dick roared with laughter.
"I say, youngster, you're a smart 'un. I see you're friendly by your
hint. I'll abuse you to her, never fear. You must take a drink on that.
Say, old woman, where's the whisky?"
"There's not a drop in the house, Dick."
"I forgot. Curse the luck!"
Just then a man entered the house only less brutal-looking than Dick
himself.
He held a letter in his hand.
Dick seized it eagerly.
"It's from the father of the boy," he said.
The letter proved to contain fifty dollars.
    "I send this in advance," said the writer. "When the boy is safely
    delivered into my hands a hundred and fifty more will be paid to
    the one who brings him, and no questions asked.  Herman Fitch."
"Good!" said Dick, "as far as it goes. I'm ready to give up the brat,
but will his father keep faith? Perhaps he'll have the police on hand
ready to nab me."
"Haven't you anybody to send--anybody you can trust?"
Dick slapped his knee forcibly. An idea had come to him.
"I'll send him in charge of the brat," he said, pointing to Jasper.
CHAPTER XXI.
JASPER IS INTRUSTED WITH A DELICATE COMMISSION.
"Look here, boy," said Dick, "do you want a job?"
"Yes," said Jasper, "if it's honest."
"No fear of that. I want you to take that boy home to his father."
"I'll do it," said Jasper, eagerly.
"How much pay do you want?"
"None at all, except money to pay my fare in the cars."
"You're the right sort," said Dick, with satisfaction. "But there's
another matter I've got to think about. How do I know but you will
betray me?"
"How?"
"Put the police on my track."
"If you hadn't given up the boy I might," said Jasper, frankly.
Dick regarded him attentively.
"You're bold," he said. "Then you won't betray me now."
"No."
"Promise it."
"I promise--that is, if you send the boy home by me."
"All right; that's understood. Now for another matter. Read that
letter."
Jasper read the letter of Herman Fitch, already quoted.
"You see this man, the boy's father, agrees to pay one hundred and fifty
dollars when he is given up."
"I see that."
"He will give you that money--that is, if he means fair--and you will
bring it to me. Do you understand?"
"I do."
"Do you promise that?"
"I promise that, too. Where am I to find you? Here?"
"No; I'll give you an address in St. Louis."
"Does the father live in St. Louis?"
"He lives a little out of the city. His name is in the directory, so you
won't have any trouble in finding it."
"How glad he will be to see the little boy again!"
"He ought to be. You don't think he'll back out from his agreement?"
said Dick, suspiciously.
"No; he'll be so glad to see the child, he will care nothing for the
money."
"That's what I hope. When I get that money I'm going East."
"You'll take me with you, Dick?" asked his wife.
"What good'll you be?" growled Dick. "It'll cost more."
"What can I do alone, here?"
"I'll leave money for your board."
"But I'll be so lonely, Dick," she persisted.
"Oh, I'll come back! It's business I'm going for, old woman. If I can't
come back I'll send money to bring you."
"Do let me go with you, Dick."
"Oh, hush up! I can't have you always in my way. What, blubbering?
Plague take all the women, I say!"
"When do you want me to go?" said Jasper.
"There's a train this afternoon; take that, for the sooner matters are
arranged the better. Here's five dollars. It'll be more than enough to
pay your fare, but you'd better have it in case anything happens."
Jasper felt some repugnance in taking money acquired in such a way, but
it seemed necessary, and he thrust the note into his vest-pocket.
"You'll be able to carry the boy back to-night," said Dick. "To-morrow
at twelve bring the money to this address."
He handed him a greasy-looking card with the name "Mark Mortimer, No.
132 S---- Street," scrawled on it in pencil.
"Am I to ask for Mark Mortimer?" asked Jasper.
"Yes, that's me--that is, it's one of my names. Don't fail."
"I won't."
"If you should play me false, you'd better never have been born," said
the kidnapper, menacingly.
"I'll come, not on account of your threats, but because I have
promised," said Jasper, quietly.
"You're a plucky boy. You ain't one of the milk-and-water sort," said
Dick, with respect for the boy's courage.
"Thank you," said Jasper, laughing. "I am not often afraid."
"By Jove! you've got more pluck than half the men. You'd make a fine lad
for my business."
"I don't think I'd like your business, so far as I know what it is,"
said Jasper.
"Well, there's some I'd like better myself. If my sister does the right
thing by me I'll become a model citizen--run for Congress, may be. Eh,
old woman?"
"I wish you would reform, Dick," said his wife.
"Let the world give me a chance, then. Now, boy, you must be starting."
"Harry," said Jasper to the little boy, whose name he had learned, "do
you want to go with me?"
The little boy confidingly put his arms round our hero's neck.
"Will you take me to my mamma?" he asked.
"Yes, I will take you to her."
The little boy uttered a cry of delight.
"Me all ready!" he said, eagerly.
"Do you think he can walk to the depot?" asked Jasper.
"Yes; it is only a mile or so."
"Then I will start."
Part of the way he carried the little boy in his arms. They could make
but slow progress, but luckily there was plenty of time, and they
reached the depot a quarter of an hour before the train started.
The station-master looked at the two with curiosity.
"Is that boy yours?"
"He isn't my son, if that's what you mean," said Jasper, amused.
"Brother, then?"
"No; he's a friend of mine that I'm taking home to his father and
mother."
"Been makin' a visit around here?" asked the station-master.
"Yes," replied Jasper, briefly.
The arrival of two passengers, who wanted tickets, relieved him from the
questions of the curious station-master. He might have asked questions
which it would have been inconvenient to answer.
"Did you ever ride in the cars, Harry?" asked Jasper.
"I did ride in the cars when the ugly man took me from my mamma."
"Was that the only time?"
The little boy could remember no other.
Jasper led him a little away, to avoid questioning, but was back in time
to enter the cars when the train arrived. He found a vacant seat, and
gave the little boy the place next the window. There were many admiring
glances directed toward the little fellow, who was remarkably handsome.
Jasper was apprehensive lest the boy should be recognized by some one
who knew him. This would have brought suspicion upon him, and placed him
in a very embarrassing position. Fortunately, though the child's
appearance was much admired, no such recognition took place.
Two hours later they rolled into the central depot at St. Louis.
"Now," thought Jasper, "I must find out as soon as possible where Mr.
Fitch lives."
Jasper had not been much of a traveller, as we know. Finding himself now
in a strange city, he felt at first a little bewildered--the more so,
that he had a young child under his charge. He did not know in which
direction the boy's father lived, but the natural thought occurred to
him that he could find his name in the directory. He went into a
lager-beer saloon near-by and asked:
"Will you let me see your directory?"
"I got no directory," answered the burly Dutchman, who presided over the
saloon. "I can give you lager."
"Not at present," said Jasper, laughing. "We don't drink."
It occurred to him that it might be as well to get into the central part
of the city. He accordingly hailed a passing car, and got aboard with
Harry.
After awhile he judged from the appearance of the buildings that he had
reached one of the principal streets. He descended from the car, lifting
Harry carefully down and carrying him in his arms to the sidewalk. There
was a large and imposing store situated at the corner of the street.
"They must have a directory in there," thought Jasper.
He entered, holding the little boy by the hand. What was his surprise
when a richly-dressed lady, turning and catching sight of the child,
sprang to him, seized him in her arms, and began to cry and laugh
alternately. But the mystery was explained when he heard Harry say:
"Oh, mamma, I am so glad to see you!"
CHAPTER XXII.
A BUSINESS MAN'S SUSPICIONS.
Jasper stood at a little distance, witnessing the happy meeting between
the mother and child. He did not wish to interrupt their happiness.
Soon, however, the mother looked up, and then Jasper advanced, raising
his hat, politely.
"Is this Mrs. Fitch?" he asked.
"Yes," said the lady, surveying him with curiosity.
"Then I have great pleasure in restoring to you your child."
"What? Did he come with you?"
"Yes, madam."
"Did you know I was in here?"
"No; I only came in to consult the directory to learn your residence."
"How could you be so wicked as to steal my boy?" demanded Mrs. Fitch,
with pardonable indignation, judging that Jasper was the kidnapper.
"I wouldn't have done it for five thousand dollars!" said Jasper,
impetuously.
"He didn't 'teal me, mamma," said little Harry, coming opportunely to
Jasper's defense.
"Who did, then, my darling?"
"It was big, ugly man. Jasper good boy--kind to Harry."
Mrs. Fitch, prompt to remedy her injustice, held out her hand to Jasper,
which he took respectfully.
"Excuse me," she said; "but I thought, as Harry was with you, that you
had been concerned in his kidnapping."
"I never saw him till this morning," said Jasper. "Chance drew me to a
lonely house where he was confined."
"And you rescued him! How can I thank you?"
"I would have done so if I could, but I can't take the credit of it.
Your husband offered a reward, which the kidnapper thought best to
accept. He did not dare to bring him back himself, and having no one
else to employ, asked me to become his agent in restoring him. Of
course, I was very glad to do it."
"It was not chance that directed you to the haunt of these wicked men;
it was a good and merciful Providence. Did they ill-treat my darling?"
"I found him tied to the bed in which he was lying."
"How could they treat you so my dear boy!" said the mother, piteously.
"May I ask your name?"
This was, of course, addressed to Jasper.
"My name is Jasper Kent."
"Can you come out and stop at our house over night? We live about two
miles distant. I want my husband to see you and thank you for bringing
back our darling boy."
Jasper reflected that he must see Mr. Fitch, at any rate, in order to
obtain the promised reward. Moreover, he had no means of his own to pay
for a lodging, and he promptly accepted the offer.
"I will return home at once," said Mrs. Fitch. "I came in to make some
purchases, but I can't think of those now. Come, Mr. Kent."
"Take hold of my hand," said little Harry to Jasper.
Jasper smilingly took the proffered hand, and Harry, happy in the double
companionship, went out of the store.
There was a handsome carriage in waiting, with a coachman in livery
perched on the box.
"Edward," said Mrs. Fitch, her face fairly glowing with delight, "do you
see? Little Harry has come back."
"So he has, Heaven bless him!" said the coachman, heartily. "How do you
do, Master Harry?"
"I'm pooty well," answered the little boy.
"Where did you find him, ma'am, if I may be so bold?"
"This young gentleman brought him back, Edward. Now, drive right home."
"Won't you go around to the office, ma'am, and tell master?"
"No; he must have left the office by this time. We shall see him at
supper to-night."
Half an hour later the carriage drew up in front of a handsome
residence, far enough from the centre of the city to have a side yard of
considerable dimensions, in the rear of which stood a brick stable. It
was clear that Mr. Fitch was a man of wealth, so Jasper decided.
Of the sensation produced in the house by Harry's arrival I will not
speak. Jasper found himself regarded in the light of the heroic
deliverer of the little boy from captivity, though he laughingly
disclaimed the credit attaching to such a character.
They had been home but fifteen minutes when Mr. Fitch arrived. At the
moment of his arrival Jasper was in a handsome chamber on the second
floor, which had been assigned to his use, preparing himself for dinner.
Mr. Fitch was overjoyed at the recovery of his little boy, but he
listened with some incredulity to the praises lavished upon Jasper by
his wife.
"You don't seem to realize," he said, "that this young hero of yours is
a companion and acknowledged agent of a kidnapper."
"Wait till you see him," said Mrs. Fitch, confidently.
Mr. Fitch shrugged his shoulders.
"How the women are carried away by a specious appearance!" he thought.
"I am a man of the world, and cooler in my judgment."
Yet when Jasper entered the room he could not help acknowledging that
his appearance was very much in his favor. Frank and manly in his looks,
he met Mr. Fitch with gentlemanly ease.
"You are the young gentleman who brought back my little boy, I believe,"
said the father.
"Yes, sir," said Jasper. "I occupy, for the time being, the office of
agent of the man who kidnapped him."
"Who is this man?"
"I should be willing to tell you if I had not promised secrecy."
"Then," said Mr. Fitch, with slight suspicion, "you are in confidential
relations with this villain."
"Partly so, but it was forced upon me. I never met him till to-day, and
he confided in me because there seemed to be no one else that he could
trust."
"Why did he not come himself?"
"Because he thought it would be dangerous."
"Shall you meet him again?"
"Once only, to finish this business. He said you had promised a certain
sum on the boy's return, and this I agreed to carry him."
"How much commission are you to receive?" inquired Mr. Fitch.
"Nothing at all," said Jasper. "He handed me five dollars to pay the
railroad fare of little Harry and myself to St. Louis. What is left over
I shall return to him."
"Then Harry was not concealed in this city?"
"No, sir; but he was at no great distance from it."
"Are you living here?"
"I never was in St. Louis until this afternoon. I have only just come on
from the State of New York."
"To find employment, I suppose?"
"Yes, sir. It was by the merest chance that I fell over your little boy
and his captor. I was contriving plans for getting him away, when
fortunately the kidnapper received a communication from you which led to
my being here."
"Suppose you had got Harry away from this man, how could you have found
me?"
"That would have been the difficulty. I didn't know your name, or where
you lived. But I meant to come here and get one of the daily papers to
publish an account of the recovery, in the hope that the paragraph would
find its way to your notice."
"A very sensible plan," commented Mr. Fitch, approvingly. "When have you
agreed to meet the kidnapper to carry him the money?"
"To-morrow at twelve."
"And then you will proceed to carry out your own plans?"
"Yes, sir. After supper, if you can spare the time, I will tell you my
situation, and the circumstances that led me here, and ask for advice."
"Very well. I will gladly give you the best counsel I can."
After supper Jasper told his story briefly, and confirmed the favorable
impression he had already begun to make. Mr. Fitch cast aside his
lingering remnant of suspicion, and promised his good offices in
procuring him employment.
"After you have seen this man and paid him the money," he said, "come to
my counting-room, and we will talk over your affairs."
The evening was spent socially, little Harry, of course, being the
central object of interest. The little fellow appeared to have taken a
great fancy to Jasper, and was unwilling to have him go the next day. He
was not reconciled till Jasper promised to come back.
CHAPTER XXIII.
WHERE JASPER FOUND DICK.
To find the address given by the kidnapper was not difficult. It was
only necessary to look over a plan of the city, which Jasper did in Mr.
Fitch's counting-room.
"Come back when your business is over," said the merchant.
"I will," said Jasper.
He set out with one hundred and fifty dollars in his pocket for 132
S---- Street.
We will precede him.
It was a shabby house of two stories, with a wide front. It looked
dilapidated and neglected, but except that it was in an unsavory
neighborhood there was nothing to draw attention to it, or lead to the
impression that it was the haunt of lawbreakers and desperate
characters.
In a back room sat three men, one of whom we recognize as the kidnapper,
Dick, alias Mark Mortimer. Of the other two, one was under twenty-five,
with a reckless, dare-devil look, as of one who would stop at little in
his criminal schemes. He had more than once been engaged in burglary,
but as yet had escaped detection.
The third was a stout, square-built man, of middle age, with a heavy,
brutal face, such as might belong to a prize-fighter. He, too, was a
burglar, an accomplished counterfeiter, a gambler, who supplemented luck
by various swindling devices, in which he was an adept. This man was
known as Slippery Bill, while his young companion was Jack, with a
choice of last names.
The three men were playing a game of euchre, with a pack of greasy
cards. The time was half-past eleven in the forenoon.
"It's most time for the boy to come," said Dick, looking toward the
clock.
"How do you know but he'll give you the slip?" suggested Jack.
"If he did I'd break his neck!" exclaimed Dick, hastily. "But he won't.
Leastways he won't if he can help it."
"It strikes me, Dick," said Bill, "that you ought never to have asked
him to come here."
"Why not?"
"Who's to tell but he may bring company?" continued the stout man.
"What kind of company?"
"The police."
"He won't," said Dick.
"How do you know?"
"I'll trust him. He's a good 'un."
"How long have you known him, that you speak with so much confidence?"
inquired the younger man.
"Since yesterday morning," answered Dick, cornered.
The two men burst into a boisterous laugh.
"Why, Dick, you're as innocent as a baby. You haven't knowed this chap
more'n twenty-four hours, and you'll stake your life on him."
"Laugh as much as you like," said Dick, stubbornly. "I ought to speak up
for my own nephew."
"Your nephew!" exclaimed his two companions, in surprise. "What do you
mean?"
"What I say. He's my sister's son."
"A minute ago you said you never saw him till yesterday," said the stout
man, suspiciously.
"No more I did. My sister lives at the East."
"Has she sent him to you to be brought up in the way he should go?"
asked Jack, with a sneer.
"No; the boy's run away. He came across me by chance."
"That's better," said Bill, partially reassured. "He won't be likely to
betray you--not now--but he may inform against this place."
"I'll answer for him."
"Are you going to let him go as soon as he brings the money, or will he
stay with you?"
"Oh, he'll go. I can't take care of a lad like him. I've other fish to
fry."
"Suppose we keep him and train him up to our business?"
"He ain't the right sort for that."
"Shows the white feather, eh?"
"No; he's as brave as any boy I ever saw."
"What's the matter, then?"
"He's too honest and virtuous."
"What! your nephew, Dick?" and the two men laughed loudly. "That's too
thin. Don't ask us to swallow that."
"It's true."
"Why did he run away from home, then?"
"My sister's got a very rough temper--that's why."
"We can believe that," said Jack, "better than the other."
"Look here, Jack," said Dick, who was getting irritated, "you may find
that I've got the same kind of temper if you keep on badgering me about
the boy. I say he's to be trusted."
"He can be trusted under our eye. Have you any objection to our
detaining him?"
"There's no need."
"I say there is. You've let him into the knowledge of this place. He'll
blow on us some day."
"Do as you like," said Dick; "I don't care. I wash my hands of the
responsibility."
"That's all we want," said Bill. "We need a young one to help us in our
plans. If this nephew of yours is as brave as you say, he'll do. What
time was he to come here?"
"Twelve."
"Then it's a minute past the time. I don't think he'll come."
"The clock may be wrong." said Dick, but he glanced uneasily at the
clock, which now indicated a little past the hour.
His suspense was not a long one.
An old man, thin and shriveled, with a crafty eye, and a thin, squeaking
voice, here put his head in at the door.
"Is Mr. Mark Mortimer here?" he asked.
"That's me!" exclaimed Dick, jumping up eagerly.
"There's a boy wants to see you, Mr. Mark Mortimer," said the old man,
repeating the name as if he enjoyed it.
"It's my nephew," said Dick.
"Is his name Mortimer, too?" asked the proprietor of the establishment,
for such the old man was.
"Never mind," said Dick, impatiently. "Bring the boy in."
Almost directly Jasper was ushered into the room--fearlessly, but
looking about him with some curiosity.
The two men, who had not before seen him, surveyed him with equal
curiosity.
"He does you credit," said the stout man.
"He's what I was at his age," said Dick. "Now, boy, have you got the
money?"
"Yes," said Jasper.
"One hundred and fifty dollars?"
"Yes."
Dick's eyes glistened.
"Give it here. You're a trump. Did old Fitch make any difficulties?"
"No; he was glad to get the boy back."
"Did he ask you about me?"
"Yes."
"How much did you tell him?" demanded the kidnapper, hastily.
"Nothing. I told him that I had made a promise not to tell."
Dick looked triumphantly at his two companions.
"Didn't I tell you?" he said.
"You have the boy's word for it," said Jack, with a quiet sneer. "How
did you find your way here, boy?"
"I looked at a map of the city," answered Jasper.
"Where?"
"In the office of Mr. Fitch."
"Where did you pass last night?"
"At the house of Mr. Fitch."
"Where are you going when you leave here?"
"I have promised to go to Mr. Fitch's counting-room."
"You seem to be very intimate with this gentleman," said Jack.
"There's nothing strange in that," said Jasper, quietly. "It was I who
carried his boy home."
"The boy is right," said Dick, who, having obtained his money, felt
graciously disposed toward our hero, through whose agency he had
obtained it.
"What does he want of you?" asked Jack, continuing the
cross-examination.
"I hope he is going to help me to a place," answered Jasper.
"No need of going to him," said the stout man. "We'll give you
employment."
"You!" repeated Jasper, with an attentive glance, which took in the
man's disreputable appearance.
"Yes, if you deserve it. What do you say?"
"I feel obliged for your offer," said Jasper, "but having promised Mr.
Fitch to return, I would prefer to do so."
"Boys," interrupted Dick, at this point, "I'm sorry to leave this
festive crowd, but I've got other business to attend to, and must be
going."
"I'll go with you," said Jasper, who was anxious to leave the place.
"No, you don't, just yet," said Jack, rising, and striding between
Jasper and the door. "We'll have a drink all around first."
"Thank you," said Jasper, "I don't drink."
"You must drink now. It's the law of this establishment."
"All right, Jasper," said Dick. "I'll treat. You can drink what you
like, though."
Jasper felt that it would be politic to comply, and chose lemonade.
"I'll order the drinks," said Jack, and he left the room for that
purpose.
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE SLEEPING POTION.
Presently the old man already referred to appeared with the drinks. It
Is hardly necessary to say that Jasper was alone in his choice of
lemonade. The rest selected stronger liquors.
"Here's to you, Dick," said Jack, tossing off the contents of his glass,
"and may you live to treat us many times more!"
"Amen to that!" said Bill.
"Haven't you got anything to say, youngster?" asked Dick, turning to
Jasper.
"I wish you a pleasant journey," said Jasper, politely.
"As to that, it depends on my success with my sister."
"When do you leave?"
"To-night, if I can."
"What's all that about, Dick? Are you going to leave us?" asked Bill.
"I'm goin' East for the benefit of my health and my purse," said Dick,
with a grin. "Do you wish me success, mates?"
"To be sure. Is it anything we can help you in?"
"No, no. It's my private venture."
"Anything in my line?"
"No; it's a strictly virtuous and honest undertaking. I don't mind
giving you a hint of it. I've got a near relative that's come into a
fortune. Now I think I ought to come in for a share."
"To be sure!"
"Have another game of euchre, Dick?"
"I don't know--I ought to be going," said the kidnapper, hesitating.
"We'll make it poker, and the boy may take a hand."
"No," said Jasper, languidly. "I don't know how to play."
"We'll teach you."
"I don't care about it."
"You look sleepy, lad," said Dick.
"Yes, I feel so. It's strange. I didn't feel so when I came in."
"Oh, don't mind the boy's looks," said Jack. "Lay down on that settee,
if you want to, boy."
Jasper felt so heavy and drowsy that he accepted the permission and
stretched himself out, closing his eyes.
"Why am I so sleepy?" he thought, languidly. "I never was before, in the
middle of the day, except when I was sick."
He listened at first to the conversation between the players, but
gradually it sounded only like a confused hum, and at length he could
not hear it at all.
He was fast asleep.
When this became clear through his heavy breathing, Dick turned to the
younger man, and pointing to Jasper, asked:
"What have you been doing to him?"
"I put a sleeping potion into his drink," answered Jack.
"What for?"
"I mean to keep him for a while, and that saves a fuss."
"What do you want to do with him?"
"Prevent him from doing mischief."
"There's no need. He can be trusted."
"You can trust him, for you'll be a long way off. He might blow on us
any time."
Dick shrugged his shoulders.
"Oh, well, do as you please, but you're over careful. Don't hurt him."
"He'll be all right as long as he behaves himself. It's your deal."
The game was over at last, and Dick arose to go. Jasper was sleeping
soundly, and was wholly unconscious of his departure.
"Give me a hand, Bill, and we'll take the boy up stairs," said the
younger man.
"What's your plan, Jack?"
"To make him one of us. He'll come to it in time."
There was a windowless room on the second floor, in the centre of the
house, wholly dark, except when lighted by gas. It was to this room that
our hero was conveyed, and laid upon some bedding in the corner of the
room. There was a slide in the partition to admit air, and with it a few
faint rays of light. Jasper stirred a little while he was being moved,
but the sleeping potion had too much potency to allow him to wake.
"There," said Jack, in a tone of satisfaction, "he's safe now."
"He'll make a fuss when he gets up."
"Let him. He can't get out."
As they went down stairs, Jack called aside Nathan Gibson, the old man
who had charge of the house.
"Nathan," said he, "did you see the boy that was with us just now?"
"Yes."
"We've put him in the prison" (for this was the name by which the small
dark room was known). "He's not to be let out."
"Good! I understand."
"You may take him some supper at five or six o'clock. Look in before
that time to see if he's awake."
"All right!" said the old man, grinning. "What's your game?"
"It's your game as well as mine. The boy ought never to have come here.
He may blow on us."
The mean-faced little man looked by turns frightened and fierce.
"I'd slit his throat if he did!" he said.
"No need of that. We'll make him join us."
"That would be the best way; but can you?"
"We can try. Don't forget what I told you."
Nathan nodded.
Still Jasper slept, little suspecting into what a trap he had walked.
CHAPTER XXV.
JASPER FINDS HIMSELF A PRISONER.
It was after five o'clock when Jasper opened his eyes. As soon as
consciousness returned he looked around him with astonishment and
wonder.
"Where am I?"
A few rays of light entered at the sliding-door above, and to this his
eyes were naturally drawn.
Here was another puzzle. He explored his memory, and could recall no
such place as this. He had never before been in such a room.
At last he recalled the circumstances under which he fell asleep, and he
jumped to the conclusion that he was in the same house still.
"They must have put me to bed," he said to himself. "They were very
kind; but this is a queer room."
Thus far no thought that he was a prisoner had entered his mind.
He arose and began to feel his way around by the walls. He judged that
he was in a room not more than ten feet square. He could form no idea
what was the time. It might be the middle of the night, so far as he
knew.
"This is awkward," he thought. "I don't fancy being shut up like this.
Where's the door? There must be one somewhere."
He found it at last, and tried the lock, but it did not yield to his
efforts.
Then came the startling thought:
"Am I a prisoner?"
He stopped short and thought over the situation. He recalled all he
could of the men in whose company he had been at the time he went to
sleep. The longer he thought the more it seemed probable that it was as
he suspected.
Though a little startled at this view of the situation, Jasper was by no
means disposed to be despondent. His courage arose with the difficulties
of his position.
"I'll find out how matters stand," he said to himself. "I'll pound till
somebody comes."
He began to pound on the walls of the room with such effect that the old
man below heard him.
"The bird is beating against the walls of his cage," he thought. "I'll
go up and see him."
Presently Jasper heard steps ascending the stairs. Almost immediately
another sliding-door about four feet from the floor was drawn open, and
the old man's face was poked in.
"Did you knock?" he asked, grinning.
"Yes," said Jasper. "Open the door, and let me out."
"Won't you have some supper first?" asked Nathan, with a leer.
"No; I'd rather go out," said Jasper, in a tone of suspicion.
"I couldn't allow that. Oh, no!" said Nathan.
"What right have you to keep me here against my will?" exclaimed Jasper,
furiously.
"We like your company so much, my dear young man," said Nathan, nodding
his head waggishly.
"Who's 'we'?" demanded Jasper.
"Jack, and Bill, and me."
"Let me out, I say."
"Don't be agitated, my dear boy. You'll be taken good care of."
"I'd rather take care of myself. Will you open the door?"
"I couldn't, but I'll bring you up some supper directly."
The sliding-door was closed suddenly, and again Jasper found himself in
the dark, fully understanding now that he was a prisoner, but why, he
could not form a conjecture.
CHAPTER XXVI.
IN CONFINEMENT.
Soon the old man reappeared and opened the sliding-door. He carried a
small waiter containing a cup of tea, a plate of cold meat, and a slice
of white bread without butter.
"We don't want you to starve," he said. "Here's something to stay your
stomach. You're hungry, ain't you?"
Jasper admitted that he was.
"I thought so. When I was your age I was always eating. Never could get
enough."
Jasper wondered, if this were the case, why the old man had not grown
larger, but he did not say this. He took the waiter from Nathan and set
it on his lap, there being no table.
"I hope you don't mean to keep me long as a boarder," he said. "You
won't find it profitable, boarding me for nothing."
"That isn't for me to say," said Nathan. "Jack and Bill will see to
that."
"Did they tell you to confine me?"
"Yes; I told you that already."
"Will you ask them to come up and speak to me? I want to know why I am
here."
"They ain't at home now. I'll tell them when they come in."
"Thank you. Do you think that will be to-night?"
"Not likely. They'll come in so late you'll be abed and asleep."
"Don't let them go out to-morrow morning without seeing me."
"I'll tell them."
The old man waited till Jasper had finished eating, and then took the
waiter back through the window.
"Won't you let me have a light?" asked Jasper. "I don't want to stay
here in the dark."
"You'll set the house on fire," said the old man, hesitating.
"And get burned up myself? I should be fool to run such a risk as that."
This consideration suggested itself to the old man's judgment, and he
promised to bring up a lamp before long.
This he really did. Jasper found it a great relief. He was now broad
awake, the effect of the drug having passed off.
There was nothing to do, indeed, but his thoughts were busy, and he
tried hard to devise some method of escape, in case he should not be
released.
The next morning breakfast was brought to him about eight o'clock. It
was not till ten that the sliding-door was opened and the face of Jack
appeared at the opening.
"Well, boy, how do you like your quarters?" he asked, with a
disagreeable smile.
"Not at all," answered Jasper. "Why do you keep me here?"
"We had reasons for putting you here."
"What were they?"
"First and foremost, you knew too much."
"Were you afraid I should betray you?" asked Jasper.
"You might."
"I promise not to, if you will let me go."
"That's all very well, but when you get out you might break your
promise."
"Then it would be for the first time," said Jasper, proudly. "I never
break my promises."
"You talk well, boy, but it's easy to talk."
"It's all I can do. There is no way of proving what I say."
"That's so; and that's the reason I'm going to keep you."
"At that rate, you will have to keep me all my life."
"No; there's another way."
"What is it?" asked Jasper, eagerly.
"Join us, and when you're in the same box you won't go to blabbing."
"What do you mean by joining you?" asked Jasper, though he was afraid he
understood only too well.
"You ought to be smart enough to know that."
"I don't know what your business is," said our hero.
"You don't!" said Jack, ironically. "Perhaps you think we're commission
merchants, or bankers, or something of that kind, Bill and me?"
