up an industrial branch from an idea of so-called 
independence, or a thought that in years to come 
she may want to use it. She must necessarily 
displace a girl who has need of this very thing 
for a livelihood. She may have advantages for 
gaining and controlling employment that her 
poorer sister has not. She may even earn enough 
 
to support two poorer women. She can afford 
then to spend the money in wasteful luxuries, or 
hoard it up. Instead, the father should be saving 
up for the daughter." 
" But if she has a special genius ? " asked 
Thirza. 
" Then let her cultivate any real genius. Let 
her get all the higher education she can. Let her 
study the advancement of social life, of art, litera 
ture, history, and have something worth talking 
about. Let her take up Charity work in its broad 
est beneficence, but do not let her paint second or 
third rate pictures, or do poor needle-work to sell 
to her friends, thinking that she is nobly earning 
money for charities, while she wastes her own 
income on herself. There is a good deal of needed 
work in the world that must always evolve itself 
out of pure, high benevolence. Let the women of 
leisure do this in such a fashion that it shall crowd 
no poorer women out of the real working ranks. 
Let our young people marry and have simpler lives, 
though I am no advocate for improvident mar 
riages, I must confess." 
" But the women who do not marry, and have 
not fortunes " laughed Thirza. 
" Their more fortunate sisters must not interfere 
with their right to employment. But I think a 
happy and thoroughly enjoyable home is a woman's 
noblest work. And, Miss Rolfe, I think you are 
a charming home-maker. I only wonder some 
man has not found it out." 
" He did," confessed Thirza, blushing and laugh 
ing. " He is sharp and shrewd and bent on accu 
mulation. He cares nothing for the refinements 
of life, for education, beyond the three R's. He 
is loud and aggressive. He has but one aim to 
his life, to get money." 
" Then you were wise not to marry him. But 
I think you can do better. I am old-fashioned 
enough to believe wedded life when rightly under 
taken is the happiest of all states." 
"You see," Helen said, half an hour later, as 
Thirza was putting on her wraps, " papa's panacea 
for all women is marriage. He will not allow 
them any real ambition outside of that. One 
could hardly blame Mrs. Otis for adopting his 
views. But I have a great, hungry desire that 
is not marriage." 
" My dear girl, be patient. You are still so 
young," and she kissed her fondly. 
She went slowly up-stairs to her own pretty, com 
forting rooms. But during the ride, and even now, 
she was pondering the late discussion. She had a 
vague nervous feeling about Helen. The manifold 
charms of Mrs. Otis impressed her deeply. Had 
no one surmised in all the years before she met 
 
Mr. Otis, that she possessed the divine gift of 
home-making ? Clara had been married young ; 
Seth's wife was still in her teens on her wedding 
day. Yet she thought if she were a man and 
compelled to live with either of these women, she 
would go crazy. Perhaps she was getting old 
maidish. 
She opened the door softly. A tall, fine-look 
ing man stood at the end of the mantelpiece, and 
Nina Prentice near him. The woman blushed 
scarlet ; the man, noting it, smiled with a gleam of 
conscious pleasure. Between them both Thirza 
read the story. 
Miss Prentice introduced them, but he soon took 
his departure. 
" Thirza dear, do not think me deceitful above 
all women," Miss Prentice pleaded. " I told you 
once a fragment of a love story and a dispute that 
raged hotly, of a broken engagement, and the 
man's hasty marriage. That was five years ago. 
Last summer his wife died. I think he was 
punished sorely enough without any censure of 
mine, since I was equally to blame. But for her 
death, the notice of which came to me while you 
were planning your tour, I might have accom 
panied you. I confess I was too proud even to 
raise a finger. I should not belong to my sex if I 
had not wondered. To-day, the first opportunity 
 
he has had to come East, he called on a mutual 
friend to inquire about me, and I was giving her 
daughter a music lesson. Afterward we went up 
to the Art Museum. To-night he came for his 
answer." 
" And you will marry him ? " 
" I shall marry him," answered Nina Prentice. " I 
think we love each other more truly than five years 
ago. We are both wiser, better, really richer, for the 
separation and discipline. But you poor child " 
" With no one coming to woo," sang Thirza, 
laughingly. 
" Do you remember what we discussed when 
we first came here ? the possibility of a disagree 
ment. None of us had any special predilection for 
matrimony. You were the youngest. We all had 
settled opinions, and a settled occupation were 
really successful women. We have made a de 
lightful home ; it has been the envy of our com 
peers, who of course could do the same thing if 
they really set about it. Yet it has been basely 
invaded," and she laughed gaily, "and wrecked by 
the old, old story. I couldn't imagine Miss Le- 
Clear falling in love in that headlong fashion, yet 
she did. And I am the second traitor in the camp. 
My poor Thirza, what will you do ? Place your 
affections upon some other women and find them 
unstable as a reed ? " 
 
She drew Thirza down on the sofa, keeping her 
arm fondly about the slim figure. 
Thirza gave a tremulous sound, not quite a sigh. 
" If you will come to California, you may still 
share my home. It is the best amends I can offer 
you for my recreancy. He is quite willing. He 
is very proud of women of genius and ability, 
having tried the other kind. His description of 
the pretty little thing suggested that Mrs. Palmer, 
only she, it seems, must have had some pluck to 
start out on an independent career. I shall con 
stitute myself a rival to Miss Otis and bring all 
my powers of persuasion to bear upon you." 
" I wish you could have heard Mr. Otis this 
evening. You certainly would win if he could 
have the casting vote." 
" I can guess. I shall rise in his estimation. 
Will this be the fatal point in women's endeavor 
to create .homes for themselves, this element of 
uncertainty, this sympathetic side of their nature, 
so open to attack from the wiles of man ? But 
there were the Maids of Llangollen who kept the 
faith. Thirza, are you disgusted with me ? Have 
I been too easily persuaded ? I think now I have 
loved this man seven years, and for five years 
steadily have forgiven him. Four of the years 
have been very happy to me. But I am troubled 
about you. Come with us." 
 
" You forget that I have some folks. My 
mother is growing rather feeble. No, I could not 
go away at present. I think I must visit Wes- 
thorpe this summer." 
" I have a month's grace. But May is a toler 
ably long month, and one can do a good deal of 
talking in thirty-one days." 
Thirza laughed brightly at that. But it was 
late, and both went to bed. 
Thirza could not sleep. Her future seemed to 
have had an upheaval. She wanted a home, she 
was fond of all things that went to the making 
of it. She had a large social side to her nature, 
a generous side for the people she liked. But 
living alone did not look attractive. It seemed 
quite ridiculous that this experiment should last 
only two years. Changes like this would weary 
her. In spite of her courage, a touch of desola 
tion crept over her. 
Willis Barthman was a very exigent lover. He 
had said a month was all the time he could possi 
bly spare from his business without great detri 
ment, and a week of it had gone already. There 
was no need of any great parade. They could go 
to church some day just at the last- 
But Miss Prentice found herself quite a centre 
of attraction. The Otis family were warmly in 
terested. Gifts poured in upon her from pupils 
 
and friends. And then she resolved to be married 
in her own home and have a dainty reception, a 
farewell. 
Thirza liked the plan immensely. The two 
rooms were adorned with their best gear, but the 
flowers showered upon them hid nearly every 
thing. Helen Otis was charming and helpful, 
and Mrs. Otis came to matronize the occasion. 
It was quite the event of the season in their 
circle. Mr. Barthman's fine presence won golden 
opinions. 
He had warmly seconded his betrothed's wish 
that Thirza should at least spend a year or two 
with them to make amends for the despoiling of 
her own pretty home. 
The marriage was in the presence of a few 
choice friends only, but the reception was thronged 
all the afternoon, even when the bride had said 
her good-bye and been whirled away to the station. 
Mrs. Otis insisted upon Thirza spending the night 
with them, but she declared she wanted to be 
alone and think. 
Seth and Clara had been writing importunate 
letters. "Seth's wife was- very poorly and it did 
seem as if Thirza might give them a few weeks 
her own folks, too. Clara was having her house 
altered at last. Mother wasn't strong, and they 
did need her." She could always recall the night 
 
after Nina's marriage. The rooms were heavy 
with the odor of flowers ; it looked like a garden. 
She could not sleep, and she sat by the open win 
dow in a curiously expectant mood, as if with the 
dawn something would happen. 
The only thing that did happen was making up 
her mind to give up her pleasant rooms of which 
she had grown so fond. It could never be the 
same with new people. She would go to Wes- 
thorpe for the summer. After that circumstances 
should guide her. But she had a stranded sort of 
feeling, as if somewhere she must begin life over 
again. There were other women in the world 
perhaps some of them were longing as desperately 
as she to find the real clue through the labyrinth. 
CHAPTER XIV 
THE MAN'S NEED 
" YOU'VE just come in time," declared John 
Kent as he met his wife's sister at the station. 
" Laury can't live through the day. Clara went 
over last night." 
It was the middle of June, and Westhorpe was 
abloom with roses and syringa. There had been 
so much for Thirza to do. Her choicest belong 
ings had gone to the care of the Otis household, 
the others had been boxed and stored. Business 
engagements had to be planned. Then she had 
promised in the coming autumn she would be the 
guest of Mrs. Otis for a month or two, while she 
was settling her future. 
"We're all up in heaps and piles," as they drew 
near the house. Thirza shuddered at the con 
fusion. A tall boy leaned on the gate; the rest 
of the fence had been taken down, and this looked 
queer standing. 
" Mother's come home," he announced; "Aunt 
Laura's dead." 
The unemotional tone shocked Thirza. He 
gave a tug at his cap and a half nod. This was 
Jack, called so to distinguish him from his father. 
" So you have come at last," and Mrs. Kent 
kissed her sister as if it was a seal of condemna 
tion for her dilatoriness. " Poor Laura's gone, 
and she did so want to see you. Seth's about 
wild. What in the world he'll do ! Mother 
Albert's there now. I had to come home. You 
see what a mess we're in." 
Her mother had grown more than two years 
older, Thirza thought. Aunt Abby was more 
wrinkled and crooked; the children had grown, 
and all of them talked together. Clara was tired 
and cross and flung out bits of captiousness. By 
the time the supper table was cleared away and 
the children in bed, Thirza felt that a week must 
have elapsed since she left the city. 
Her mother told her all the news in the evening. 
" Laura had consumption as much as anything. 
She always kept worrying for her baby, an' now 
she's gone to him, poor thing! And what Seth'll 
do I can't see. 'Pears to me he grows more an' 
more careless like, clear discouraged, I s'pose, with 
such luck. He's took up some money, and what 
he'll do about the farm I can't see. If I was a 
younger woman I'd take hold and help him, but I 
ain't very strong now, an' I don't know how Clara'd 
ever manage with the mending if I wa'n't here." 
 
Thirza went out to the farm the next morning. 
Seth broke down when he saw her. He had 
aged unaccountably. Mrs. Albert and one of her 
married daughters were staying on until after the 
funeral. The little girls had gone back to their 
forlorn aspect, and Edith had forgotten Aunt 
Thirza, who had once roused her love. 
" Seth ain't had a bit of management," declared 
Mrs. Albert, complainingly. " All poor Laura's 
money has been frittered away. Her grand 
mother might as well have divided it among all 
the girls, and some of it would have done good. 
'Twas for her name, you know. And Seth raised 
money on a mor'gage, to pay up some debts and 
give Clara hers; and he doesn't seem to make a 
livin', let alone money. Our old house is sold, so 
I've a little money for my old age ; but it is a shame 
about all of Laura's. Some one will have to come 
here, too. I -can't stay. Mary's goin' in her new 
house, and I'm to have the ell part. I want my own 
home. So we shall be most of the summer settlin'. 
I don't see how he could afford a housekeeper. 
But Laura's folks have done their full share ; and 
we ain't any on us rich, to say, though I've got 
enough to keep me without bein' beholden." 
Thirza was glad when the melancholy rites were 
over and Mrs. Albert had gone home. But what 
was Seth to do ? 
" I couldn't even take the children to tide over," 
said Clara. " We've hardly a place for ourselves. 
I should feel it my duty to go there if I was 
single. I don't suppose you'll marry now, Thirza, 
if you haven't had chances in the city. You're 
quite getting along. And it does seem as if you 
might spare a month or two to your own kin in 
sorrow as well as to go pleasuring about. We 
haven't asked much of you. I must say I think 
you've had a pretty easy time." 
" Have I asked anything of you, or mother, or 
Seth ? " returned Thirza, with spirit. " I have 
been earning my own living." 
" And spending your legacy ! " 
" What I have spent I have made good again. 
It seems to me I have the same right to my own 
life as you or Seth. Being single does not make 
any difference. You both chose to marry. I 
have the same right of choice." 
" It does make a difference," declared Clara, illog- 
ically. " Old maids are expected to fill up the 
chinks, and have a little care for people in trouble." 
" I am not old enough to be forced into any 
chink just yet," returned Thirza, with a touch of 
spirit. " Laura's sisters stand in the same posi 
tion in regard to the children." 
" They're not single. They have families of 
their own; and their first duty is to them." 
 
There was no use arguing with Clara. A single 
woman, in her estimation, had no right to herself, 
but must be at every one's beck and call. 
Seth's disconsolate pleading touched her. She 
had thought to spend the summer in Westhorpe. 
"You do not understand," she said to her 
brother, and she felt the hopelessness of making 
him see through her eyes. " I have accepted a 
business life, and my whole heart is in it. I have 
made engagements that I must keep. It would 
be a great sacrifice to give them up for six months 
or a year. If I do remain, I must do my own 
work as well. I could only supervise. A working 
housekeeper might be less expense." 
" But I'll do everything in my power, if you will 
only stay. I've never forgotten how smoothly 
things went that summer you were here, when 
Laura was ill. I've wanted you so this summer 
in all the trouble." Seth Rolfe wiped some tears 
out of his eyes. It moved Thirza deeply. 
"If you would only stay until Mrs. Albert could 
come," he pleaded. " I can't be left alone with 
strange people. Sometimes I feel like selling out 
everything and taking a fresh start elsewhere. I 
don't seem to have any luck here at Westhorpe. 
And there's Palmer going ahead like a steam 
engine, making money in his mill and everywhere. 
Queer about his wife, that she couldn't be content. 
She didn't do anything but drive around in her 
phaeton. And that she should take to theatre 
dancing ! But she agreed that women had a right 
to do what they were best fitted for, and if the 
stories are true, she wasn't much loss as a house 
keeper. There had to be two or three servants 
all the time." 
" And if I come, there will have to be a servant 
here," rejoined Thirza. " I couldn't give up the 
work I have promised. I dare say people will 
think me extravagant." 
She gave a soft little laugh. 
" If you'll only stay ! You can't imagine how 
lost and forlorn I feel." That plea was his sheet 
anchor. 
Besides the kindliness, it would give her time to 
plan out her own life a little, and, like Seth, she 
had rather a lost feeling. So she decided to re 
main awhile, yielding to the pressure. That she 
looked up suitable help did not surprise Mrs. 
Kent, though she counselled her not to run Seth 
too much in debt. 
" I shall pay her wages myself. Seth will only 
give her her living. It would be too great a sac 
rifice to waste my time about the house." 
" And of course you have forgotten all you did 
know. But we were brought up first-class house 
keepers, and I never felt second to anybody. If 
I had been a poor manager, John Kent wouldn't 
have prospered as he has, but when a woman sets 
out not to marry, of course she doesn't keep up in 
such matters." 
Clara had not cordially forgiven her sister in the 
matter of Chris Morrow. He had married a girl 
from an adjoining town, quite an heiress, a common 
place, rather pretty girl whose complacency stood 
her in the stead of education, and who, like Chris, 
thought money the great thing. But then Thirza 
had some money as well. And Clara felt curiously 
aggrieved that Thirza should keep her youthful 
looks, that her figure should be slim and graceful, 
and that the best people of the town should pay 
her such deference. Not that she thought any one 
really better than herself. She didn't care for all 
this talk about higher education. Her girls would 
be trained to make good wives and mothers. 
Thirza's touch was soon apparent in Seth Rolfe's 
home. Order, neatness, and regularity began to 
reign. Martha White had been living at the Pal 
mers', and though she was not much of a gossip, 
now and then she spoke of some infelicity, and 
wondered how Mr. Palmer could have been so 
patient and indulgent. 
While the children were at school, Thirza devoted 
herself to her work, and took now and then a 
part of the night, for she had been interrupted 
so much. But as an offset she had been working 
steadily all the spring. She had quite a reputation 
now, and could make her own selections. She 
found herself in demand in the town. There was 
a Ladies' Club much interested in social advance 
ments. The former Book Club had merged into 
a promising Free library, to which some of the well- 
to-do men had subscribed liberally. The churches 
had received a new impetus, and the plans for 
the Academy had been a success from the start. 
They talked of this, one evening, when Palmer 
was over. He dropped in quite often. How 
much he had improved, she thought, or had she 
been a little blind to his possibilities ? 
" Ward had half a mind to go away, at one time," 
Palmer said, glancing furtively at her. " The spirit 
of unrest was strong upon him. I think he could 
make a mark somewhere." 
" But why not make it here ? I am sure he is 
giving tone and character to the town. You have 
all done much in the matter of improvement. You 
are making Westhorpe a delightful place in the 
broader sense," and her interest shone in her 
face. " When I have realized my fortune I think 
I shall come back here and spend my leisure years. 
Such a dream is the avant coureur of old age, I 
believe," giving a gay little laugh. 
She did not show any indications of advancing 
 
age, he thought. Was it the intelligence of her 
life that kept her so fresh and sweet, her definite 
ambitions, and working them out that had added 
force and breadth to her character? She was a 
really lovely woman ; why should not Bernard 
Ward win her? Or was she meant to stand 
alone, to be sufficient for herself? 
" I am glad you care enough about us to dream 
of coming back. I thought the city's gleam and 
glare had fascinated you." 
" There are infinite points of interest in a great 
city. There are schools of every sort, teachers 
of every degree. There is the richness of many 
knowledges, there is entertainment, there is amuse 
ment of which one need only take the merest sip 
if one has the courage to be resolute. But its 
changes weary one, dishearten one, I might say. 
You make friends this year, and next year they 
may be on the other side of the continent. I 
am fond of permanency." 
His eyes kindled, his whole face softened. 
" Then you could be satisfied to come back here, 
if we go on improving the town to your liking ? " 
and he gave a cordial, yet retrospective kind 
of laugh, as if his question had some meaning 
in it. 
She colored with a touch of embarrassment, and 
said gravely : " I have always loved country places. 
I would not like to think my whole life must be 
spent in the city." 
Did it not argue well for Bernard Ward ? " Do 
you ever hear from " Thirza hesitated. She 
wanted to bring him back to a remembrance of his 
own duties. He should not be tempted, through 
her, to forget. 
"From Bessie?" His tone was very low. 
" Not in a long time. The company have been 
touring in Western cities, and expect to go South 
for a while. I think there is some prospect of 
their going abroad." 
" None of her return ? " 
He rose and began to pace the floor softly. 
They were quite alone. 
" No," he answered, with a slow decisiveness. 
" The life suits her. She is perfectly happy. She 
ridicules the idea of temptations, of dangers. 
Thirza, I have had no woman friend through all 
this time. When she first went away, I wanted to 
ask you to watch over her and keep me informed, 
but they left the city, and I had to trust her sense 
of propriety. Before that she had proposed a 
divorce." 
Thirza shuddered a little, and he noted it. 
" Perhaps I can never make any one understand 
how I came to marry her. I believe I was a good 
deal charmed with her, just at first. I thought 
 
Aunt Hannah quite hard with her. Then those 
people came. Thirza, that summer and the talks 
with you two girls made a curious difference in all 
my thoughts and aims. Perhaps Ward had begun 
it. We had been such friends, and his estimate of 
my^ capabilities would have been flattering to some 
young men. I hardly believed it. I had experi 
enced no particular want, but then a great, strange, 
tangled mass of thought seemed to pervade every 
pulse of my being, as if I was on the verge of some 
wonderful illumination. I wanted knowledge of all 
kinds. I began to study, read, and plan, and the 
new business projects crossed my path. My am 
bition was roused." 
His face was transfigured with the light of en 
ergy, the force and dignity of an earnest nature 
absorbed in a serious determination to achieve 
higher resolves than any it had hitherto enter 
tained. It was a fine face, and he had improved 
immeasurably. 
" I did truly believe she loved me. I was not 
flattered ; I think I was sorry it should be so. 
And at the crisis I did not see what was to be 
done. I was afraid to send her away to fight for 
herself. I don't believe she would have gone, 
then. So I married her. I had only a vague idea 
of love, but I think I knew, even then, what wor 
ship might be." 
He was not looking at her, but engrossed with 
some inward sight that seemed to remove him 
from her half-suspicion, half-fear. 
" If we could have waited. She saw her mis 
take first, I fancy, and fretted against it. There 
was nothing in my life that gave her any pleasure. 
Thirza, believe that I tried to love her, to make 
her happy. It could not be undone. People do 
outlive dissatisfactions. Incongruous natures get 
toned to each other." 
" I do believe you," Thirza said solemnly. 
" She made a friend a woman who boarded 
at Westhorpe " 
" Mrs. Lowndes ? Yes. One of those restless 
women always searching after novelties and excite 
ments, and keeping a certain position in spite of 
some unfavorable gossip." 
"She was an injudicious friend for my poor 
Bessie. She had a relative who was an actress, 
and they made the way possible and pleasant to 
her. She likes the life. I can offer no induce 
ment for her return. She has once or twice 
pleaded for freedom. When the law's demands 
have been complied with I may entertain the idea, 
but I shall wait the appointed time, unless she 
takes the matter in her own hands." 
Thirza drew a long breath. He had not asked 
for counsel. His way was straight and plain before 
 
him. He would not burden any friend with his 
perplexities. But he longed for a certain friendli 
ness to cheer him as he walked under the shadows. 
She could give it, and she had a feeling now that 
it would not be misunderstood. He had the full 
sympathy of Westhorpe, she knew well. 
She pondered occasionally on these two women 
who had made such wrecks of their lives. Laura's 
weak and inefficient nature, with its mistaken ideas 
of wifely love, a passionate sense of motherhood 
with no practical knowledge, but a shallow self- 
complacency that she considered experience. She 
had not only wasted her own brief life, shortened 
it as well, but nearly ruined another. Would Seth 
ever recover from the influence of these years ? 
It seemed a better thing that Bessie should take 
the matter in her own hands and go away, regain 
her freedom sometime, and leave Palmer to work 
out a new destiny on the lines he was considering 
for himself. Already he was one of the rising 
men of the town. 
Mrs. Albert could not come, as she had partly 
arranged. The farm was sold, the furniture 
divided, and then one of the daughters in a neigh 
boring state fell ill and sent for her. But Thirza 
was deeply interested in the children. Edith, who 
had a curious, passionate nature, moved deeply by 
music and poetry, possessing a remarkable if un- 
trained voice, was a child with many possibilities, 
and the saddest that of being misunderstood. She 
was considered a dull scholar, yet there were some 
things she seemed to understand by a rare intui 
tion. Thirza's heart warmed curiously to her. 
Hazel was much brighter in a commonplace 
fashion. 
But Thirza found matters bad enough with 
Seth. He was very much disheartened, and it did 
not seem possible for him to hold on to the farm 
and recover himself. 
They went over the affairs in a very thorough 
manner. Nothing had prospered with him, and he 
had dropped to the depths of a man who believes 
he was born for bad luck. Once he proposed she 
should buy the farm. He would work it. 
The old place ! For a moment the thought 
thrilled her. Yet it was not the home of her 
childish imagination. She would rather be farther 
in town. And to depend upon vascillating Seth ! 
" I feel as if I would like to sell out the 
whole thing and take a fair start somewhere 
else," he said, one evening. " When a man gets 
into a rut, it's best to have a change. I never 
shall be any success here. Do you remember 
the Irvings who went to Oxford ? You went 
to school with Ruth and Fanny." 
" Yes ; Ruth was married long ago." Thirza 
 
smiled a little. "Jennie was very bright and 
capable." 
" Ruth's husband has a great tract of land 
in Pasadena. He is prospering tremendously. 
Fanny went out there and married. Mrs. Irving 
died about two years ago, I think. There's Jen 
nie, Louise, and their father left. The boys are 
all married, and they think of going out" 
The Irving girls were healthy, good-natured, 
and industrious, at least as she remembered the 
older ones. There was a long silence. Then 
he cleared his throat and said : " I've half a 
mind to try life in a new place. I'm young 
enough to take a fresh start." 
" Yes, quite young enough." She glanced him 
over. He had improved in his few months of 
widowerhood. He had gained some flesh ; he 
held up his head with more assurance. Of 
course, he would marry again, sometime. 
" I'm tired of all this. I've got down, and 
it's hard getting up. There would be the chil 
dren to consider." 
"Seth," she put her soft hand over on his, 
" will you give me Edith ? She's a peculiar 
child ; everybody wouldn't understand her, and 
you might not be able to do what is best for 
her. She will have a fine voice, and she has 
a passionate love for music. It is doubtful if 
 
I marry ; but I shall always keep a home, and 
I shall be able to educate Edith." 
" You are awful good," he said, in a broken, 
childish fashion, his voice husky with emotion. 
" I was thinking of the children. Clara couldn't 
take them ; but the Alberts might awhile, until 
I could send or come back for them. Poor 
Laura was so fond of them ! " and he gave a 
soft, regretful sigh. 
Thirza was more assured. He had gone over 
the plan before, that was evident. 
" Then give me Edith. Laura would consent 
if she could. It will be a great interest in my 
life, something to live for, to work for." 
" See here, Thirza, you ought to be married 
and have children of your own. You have so 
many sweet, motherly ways," he exclaimed, with 
deep emotion. 
" Then you wil] feel the safer in trusting her 
to me. I will care for them both, if you like, 
but Edith will be mine." 
" Then you wouldn't oppose my going ? " wistfully. 
"Perhaps it would be best." Some one must 
come to his assistance if he remained here. He 
must regain a certain respect, if he ever was 
a success again. 
"Oh, it would, I am sure." His voice rose 
buoyantly. 
 
Was the whole world bent on marrying ? She 
gave a curious inward smile. Jennie and Louise 
Irving were energetic, sensible girls. . In a new 
place and with some stirring influence he might 
redeem the years the locust had eaten. And if 
one of these girls should fancy him. Was this 
man to be a burthen on her for years to come ? 
But could she shift it to some other woman with 
out being intolerably selfish ? 
He was not a bad-tempered man. He had no 
real vices. What he needed was some one to 
keep spurring him along with a kind of winsome 
steadiness. She had seen such men even in the 
city whose wives kept them up to a certain pitch 
in the great chords of life, and the daily music 
went on with few breaks. If she had it to do, 
she would soon despise the man. 
"It is worth thinking about, Seth," she said, 
after a long pause. " You would have something 
after the place was sold and you could take a new 
start." 
" I'd like to go out with the Irvings and see 
how the land lay. But I suppose Clara and to 
sell the old place " 
" Mother might feel badly at the thought of it. 
Talk it over with John Kent, some day." 
" I will walk over there on Sunday. John's 
pretty good-natured when he's had his Sunday 
 
afternoon nap. I might take you and the chil 
dren." 
She would rather have him face the exigency 
himself. She did not go over to Clara's very often, 
for there was little pleasure in it. When her 
hours of work were ended, which she adhered to 
steadily, she found a great interest in the children, 
who began to thrive under her judicious care. 
Then there were letters from friends. The Otis 
family had gone up to an island on the coast of 
Maine, and Helen seemed very full of enjoyment, 
but longed for her. Mrs. Barthman had reached 
her new home and was in an enchanted land of 
bliss. 
Palmer and Bernard Ward were inseparables, 
she heard. She had seen very little of the latter, 
except at church, where he sang in the choir. 
But she and Palmer were growing into a rare 
friendship. Perhaps Ward could not have had 
a more judicious partisan. She was thankful that 
Palmer should have so stanch a friend. 
Ward had found excuses for not calling with 
Palmer. He would not force himself on any 
woman, he declared. 
The distance between them rather amused 
Thirza at first, then piqued her a little. Why 
could they not be friends as in the old summer ? 
Both had developed, both were richer for the ex- 
 
perience of years. He was looked up to as an 
authority on educational matters and had written 
some rather striking articles for publication. She 
was proud of his remaining at Westhorpe. 
Seth Rolfe turned over the matter of selling 
the farm, and at last broached it to his brother- 
in-law. 
" If things keep on this way, you will lose it," 
said John Kent. " But you'll have a tussle with 
the women. Clara and her mother will consider 
it almost sacrilege." 
" It's your idea, I know," Clara exclaimed indig 
nantly to Thirza. " I should think you might 
have some regard for the home of your childhood, 
if Seth has not." 
" If I were rich enough to remodel it, to keep a 
first-class farmer to work it, and have matters quite 
to my liking, it might look attractive. But at pres 
ent I cannot afford any such step. Seth surely 
is not able to keep it." 
"I've known women -that farmed successfully. 
Look at Mrs. Firman over the river ! " 
Thirza laughed. Mrs. Firman was rough and 
coarse, and generally unkempt. 
Clara turned red. " I didn't mean anything 
like that," she said. " But if you took hold and 
helped him and if he goes West or wherever it 
is, he will marry one of those Irving girls. It's a 
 
shame for him to be thinking of such a thing, and 
poor Laura hardly cold in her grave." 
" And if I help straighten up matters with my 
energy and my money, he would probably marry 
again, sometime. It seems the way of the world. 
I have a right to my own life, and I mean to keep 
it." 
" But what will Seth do when you go away ? 
And to see our old home fall into strange hands ! " 
Clara began to cry. 
Thirza drew a long, anxious breath. Was she 
really her brother's keeper ? She could imagine 
a brother, Royal Palmer for instance, that it would 
be a delight to live with. How curious that rela 
tives did not always touch the divine chord of 
harmony. What made her so different from 
Clara ? From a little girl Clara had resolved to 
marry, she remembered. She was often tired of 
her sister's complacent, unreasoning estimate of a 
commonplace husband. Clara had not forgiven 
Thirza's rejection of Chris Morrow. And she 
hated to have women saying, "I s'pose your' 
sister'll be an old maid. Girls get mighty inde 
pendent when they earn their own money." 
Mrs. Albert was the next one to bewail poor 
Seth's misfortunes. What would become of the 
children ? And poor Laura's money would go for 
nothing. Seth had been a wretched manager. 
 
But it did seem as if the children ought to have 
Laura's money. No doubt Seth would marry 
again. It was man fashion," said Mrs. Albert, 
spitefully. " And I don't know as he has any real 
right to sell the place. Laura oughtn't have signed 
that mortgage." 
Thirza often sat in the twilight considering her 
own future. A home she must have. She pos 
sessed the instincts of home-making in the highest 
sense. There were times when she wished she 
could deal them around to others. All women did 
not inherit them, although it was supposed to be 
natural gift. She had not been extravagantly 
fond of children, though this was considered an 
indication of the motherly instinct. The days 
when Clara's troop came out to the farm were 
times of weariness and vexation of spirit. But 
she was coming to have a passionate love for 
Edith, and to understand so clearly what might 
be done for her development. She longed for 
complete possession of the child, and she found 
Seth inclined to assent very readily. 
Would not this, as well as marriage, give per 
manency to a home ? Yet the city did not seem 
quite the place to bring up a child; although she 
had to confess there were many fine children in 
the city. 
A new love for Westhorpe had stolen upon her 
unaware. She had not so much leisure for work, 
yet she found her imagination vivid and at times 
brilliant. There seemed so much more food for it 
in the splendid outlook, the many changes, the 
superb coloring, and at moments she felt the true 
artist soul rise within her, and what she did then 
bore the marks of inspiration. 
It would be pleasant to live in town, to have a 
pretty cottage and flower garden, to spend summer 
and autumn here, and then go to the city for a while 
in the winter to hear some good music and be in 
all the stir and brightness. How tempting the 
picture looked ! Here she really could have a 
home there were pretty houses within her means. 
Living in Westhorpe was less expensive than in 
the city. 
The thought haunted her day and night. Sep 
tember came in with its rich fragrances and ripening 
glories. She drove around here and there and saw 
places that with a little money and taste would 
make ideal homes. Her very own house ! 
People were coming back. Miss Brinsley had 
been abroad, and on her return one of her first 
calls was paid to Thirza. They discussed the 
many changes, the improvements. 
" Westhorpe is really waking up. The Seminary 
will add to our prestige. Father is engaged heart 
and soul in its prosperity. I wish you could be 
persuaded to come back to us not settle clear 
out here," and she smiled. " I want you in town. 
I've been planning out a Club this winter. Why 
shouldn't we women join to make this a sort of 
centre for womanly advancement, as well as to let 
the cities have it all ? " 
She was so bright and enthusiastic. Nearly 
thirty and not married. She must have had op 
portunities, with her many journeys, and her 
father's house was always a centre for men of 
education and refinement. She had a certain 
power that was really fascinating. 
She had come with an invitation as well. " They 
were to have a dinner and a sort of ' evening ' after 
ward to ask in the neighborhood," she said, with a 
smile. Miss Rolfe was to be one of the dinner 
guests. There were some people she particularly 
wanted her to see. They would send her home in 
the evening, so there would be no trouble about that. 
Thirza was glad to go. The dinner party was 
quite large, and to her surprise both Bernard Ward 
and Palmer were there, though one of the clerical 
professors took her in to dinner and was very de 
voted to her. It was a delightful gathering, and 
one seemed to vie with another in the entertain 
ment. Thirza had never known anything so brill 
iant at Westhorpe, and she began to realize how 
starved she was for true mental sustenance. 
Ward watched her curiously. She had grown 
more beautiful with a kind of stately dignity, and 
a new charm, a vivid intelligence, that inspired 
those near her whether she talked or listened. 
There was quite an accession of guests presently, 
young and middle-aged; some students from the 
Seminary and a number of young lawyers. Miss 
Brinsley begged Ward to sing, and sat down to 
play his accompaniment. Thirza had almost for 
gotten how rich and beautiful his voice was, and 
she listened with a peculiar delight. 
He went to talk with some men afterward. She 
felt a little hurt that he should be so distant when 
they had been such friends. 
'A few days after this Seth had driven her in to 
Clara's. She was planning for her mother to 
come out and let her have a week in New York 
to attend to some important business. She had 
meant to stay to tea, but she found Clara tempestu 
ous, and the house in a maze of confusion, as some 
furniture was being moved over in the new part. 
Mrs. Rolfe promised to come the next week. 
" But you don't mean to go back to the city ! " she 
said beseechingly. " I don't know what Seth 
would do without you. Laura was very fond of 
him, but 'pears to me she never had any faculty 
of getting along. I never see any one so always 
behindhand ! " 
 
And the. other mother blamed Seth. Both 
might have been more stirring under different 
circumstances. 
As she turned from the sidewalk to the country 
path a man came slowly towards her with a hand 
ful of late wild flowers. She knew the scholarly 
air and figure, and gave a little half-halt as they 
exchanged greetings. 
" Are you going out home ? " with a perceptible 
accent on the word as he stood undecided. 
"Yes. What a lovely afternoon it has been. I 
almost envy you your stroll." 
" Accept the result." She did not open her 
hand readily, he thought. Then they walked on 
in silence. 
" I hear you are going to leave us. Palmer said 
you were thinking of flitting cityward. Are you 
tired of us ? " 
She drew her brows into a half-frown. "One of 
the necessities of business," she answered briefly. 
" And you are going at the most beautiful sea 
son. The autumn is richer than the spring, and 
the city drearier." How can any one deliberately 
choose the stifling city, the towering houses that 
shut out the sky?" 
There was a touch of irritation in his tone. 
She had wondered more than once why they did 
not get on better. The old summer had been so 
pleasant. The still older remembrances were 
pictures and poems, as one might say, and haunted 
her now and then. She hated to let them go, but 
so many blossoms of youth turned into sere and 
yellow leaves, or dull brown ones. All summer 
the friendship had been briery. Was it because 
he was getting to be one of the important men of 
the town and rather disdained the toiling sister 
hood ? 
"One doesn't always choose," she made answer, 
slowly. "There are duties and necessities, and 
one looks for satisfaction in them." 
"I suppose so," drily. "And what more can 
one ask than a life full of satisfactions ? " 
"Very few lives are. Do you speak from 
experience ? " And there was a half-irony in her 
tone. 
" From experience yes. Do you remember 
the other summer you were here ? You and that 
Miss Otis ? I am not sure but your talk roused 
me to a state of dissatisfaction. I thought I ought 
to try some new thing, some great thing." 
"And you reconsidered?" It was half-inquiry, 
half-assertion, but she did not turn her face toward 
him. She was not much interested, he thought. 
" Some of the great things do not bring satisfac 
tion. Happiness, I take it, is a certain harmoni 
ous adjustment of circumstances with the true 
wants of one's nature. I think I can recognize 
my own limitations. I am not ambitious." 
" Are you not ? " a little wonderingly. " Yet I 
think you have been achieving a great deal. 
Westhorpe would be loath to lose you." 
" But I suppose you would consider it ignoble 
to be among the great men in a small place ? " 
"Westhorpe, as an intelligent county town, 
ought not to be called small," she said, rather 
resentfully. 
" There is a great deal of striving and reaching 
up in the world, a great deal of pushing down. I 
might not be fortunate in gaining the highest 
round, and I did not want to be tossed about in 
vain endeavor, nor trampled under foot ; so I 
decided to remain where I was." 
" But you do not seem quite satisfied with it," 
she returned. "There are men of thirty who 
would be proud of your place, proud of having 
achieved so much early in life." 
"Yes, men are more easily content than women. 
I wonder if we shall, by and by, be called the 
weaker sex?" 
" There are some who will deserve it." 
" You are going ahead so rapidly. The old 
things are certainly passing away. The home 
will fall into disuse when the interest of its queen 
and creator is elsewhere." 
" That is the stock argument," said Thirza, 
rather annoyed. "Yet I think my brother's house 
has been as well kept this winter as if I had been 
guided by no other ambition, and I have done 
many things besides." 
" But you are tired of it now." 
She was tired of that house. Seth's complain 
ings and commonplaces had wearied her, though 
she confessed it to no one but herself. But a 
broad, generous life, an intellectual nature met 
on its own comprehension, a share in the thoughts 
