“How do you know, ma’am? I never thought I would. Neither did you think
I would. You can’t tell what you’ll do till you do it.”
Miss Galpin was distracted. She resumed hurriedly:
“I want you to be a good woman, Patience,—a good as well as a clever
woman. And how can you be good if you don’t love God?”
“Are all people good the same way?”
“Well, it all comes to the same thing in the end.” Miss Galpin blessed
the evolution of verbiage.
“Are all religious people good?”
“Certainly.”
“These girls are religious, especially the Spanish ones, and they’ve
behaved to me like devils. So have their mothers, and some of them go to
five o’clock mass.”
“Girls are undisciplined, and mothers often have a mistaken sense of
duty.”
“You are good, and Mr. Foord is good,” pursued the terrible child. “But
you’d be just as good if you weren’t religious. It’s born in you, and
you’re refined and kind-hearted. Those people are just naturally vulgar,
and religion won’t make them any better.”
Miss Galpin drew the girl suddenly to her lap and kissed her. “I’m
terribly sorry for you, dear,” she said. “I wish I understood you
better, and could help you, but I don’t. I never knew any one in the
least like you. I worry so about your future. People that are not like
other people don’t get along nicely in this world. And you have such
impulses! But I love you, Patience, and I’ll always be your friend. Will
you remember this?”
Patience was undemonstrative, but she kissed Miss Galpin warmly and
arranged her bang.
“Now, let’s talk about something else,” she said. “Are you going to get
up those private theatricals for the night that school closes?”
Miss Galpin sighed and gave up the engagement. “Yes,” she said. Then,
hesitatingly: “Do you wish to take part?”
“No, of course I don’t. I’ll have nothing more to do with those girls
than I can help. You can bet your life on that. But I can help drill
Rosita. What’s the play?”
“I’ll read it to you.” Miss Galpin took a pamphlet from a drawer and
read aloud the average amateur concoction. Rosita was to take the part
of an indolent girl with the habit of arousing herself unexpectedly. In
one act she would have to dash to the front of the stage and dance a
parlour breakdown.
“I am afraid Rosita cannot act,” said Miss Galpin, in conclusion, “but
she is so pretty I couldn’t leave her out.”
“Rosita can act,” said Patience, emphatically. “I’ve seen her imitate
every actress that has been here, and take off pretty nearly every crank
in Monterey. And Mrs. Thrailkill can teach her one of the old
Californian dances—and a song. Rosita has a lovely voice, almost as
pretty as a lark’s.”
“Really? Well, I’ll talk to Mrs. Thrailkill and persuade her to forgive
you, and then you can come here every afternoon and drill Rosita. And
now will you promise me to be a good little girl?”
“Yes, ma’am—leastways I’ll try. Good-bye,” and Patience gave her a
little peck, seized her sunbonnet, and went hurriedly out.
“I suppose,” she thought as she sauntered down the hill, “I’d better go
and have it out with Mr. Foord. It’s got to come, and the sooner it’s
over the better. Poor man, I’ll make it as easy for him as I can. It’ll
be harder on him than on me, for I’m used to it now.”
The old gentleman was walking up and down the corridor as she turned the
corner of the custom house. He looked very yellow and feeble, and
supported himself with a stick.
“Oh, Patience!” he exclaimed.
For the first time Patience felt inclined to cry, but her aversion to
display feeling controlled her. She merely approached and stood before
him, swinging her sunbonnet.
“Don’t let us talk about it,” he said hastily. “I have something else to
say to you. Sit down.”
They sat down side by side on a bench.
“You know,” the old gentleman continued, “I have a half-sister in the
east—Harriet Tremont, her name is—in Mariaville-on-Hudson, New York.
She is the best woman in the world, the most sinless creature I ever
knew, yet full of human nature and never dull. She is very religious,
has given up her life to doing good, and has some eccentric notions of
her own. She writes me dutifully twice a year, although we have not met
for thirty, and in her last letter she told me she intended to adopt a
child, rescue a soul as she called it, and furthermore that she should
adopt the child of the most worthless parents she could discover in her
work among the worthless. Since—lately—I have been thinking strongly
of sending you to her. You must get away from here. You must have a
chance in life. If you remain here you will grow up bitter and hard, and
the result with your brain and temperament may be terrible. You are
capable of becoming a very bad or a very good woman. You are still
young—but there is no time to lose. Should you care to go?”
“Of course I should,” cried Patience, enchanted with the idea of an
excursion into unknown worlds. Then her face fell. “But I shouldn’t like
to be adopted. That is too much like charity.”
“Is the ranch entirely mortgaged?”
Patience nodded.
“Well, let us look at it as a business proposition. You will be little
expense to her—she is fairly well off; and one more in the household
makes no appreciable difference. You will attend the public schools with
the view to become a teacher, and when you are earning a salary you can
repay her for what little outlay she may have made. Do you see?”
“Yes. I don’t mind if you look at it that way.”
“I’ll see your mother in a day or two. You don’t think she’ll object, do
you?”
“Object? What has she got to say about it?”
“A great deal, unfortunately. She is your legal guardian. But she
doesn’t love you, and I think can be persuaded. I shall miss you, my
dear. What shall I do without my bright little girl?”
Patience nestled up to him, and the two strangely assorted companions
remained silent for a time watching the seagulls sweep over the blue
bay. Then Mr. Foord drifted naturally into the past, and Patience grew
romantic once more.
                                   X
That night Patience felt no inclination for either bed or tower. She
wandered over the field, entered the pine forest, and walked to the
coast. The tall straight trees grew close together; their aisles were
very gloomy. From the ground arose the ominous voices of the night, and
the wind in the treetops moaned heavily. But Patience was not afraid.
She revelled in the vast dark silence, and felt that the world was all
her own.
As she left the forest she saw great clouds of spray tossed high into
the starry dark, heard the ocean rush at the outlying rocks, breaking
into mist or leaping to the shore. The sea lions were talking loudly;
the seagulls, huddled on the high points of the coast, scolded hoarsely.
On the edge of the forest was a cabin. Patience walked toward it. She
knew the old man that lived there. He was evidently awake, for the open
window was yellow with light. As she passed it on her way to the door
she glanced within. Her skin turned cold; her hair stiffened. A sheeted
corpse lay on the bed. Candles burned at head and foot. Patience, brave
as she was, abjectly feared the corpse. She believed that she could
survive a ghost, but she knew that if shut up with a dead body for ten
minutes she should go mad. To-night she would have fled shrieking were
it not that the room had a living occupant.
In a chair beside the bed sat a man gazing at the floor, his chin
dropped to his chest. He wore rough clothes, but they were the
affectations of the gentleman, not the garb of the dead man and his
friends. Nor had Patience ever seen so noble a head. The profile was
beautiful, the expression mild and intellectual, and most melancholy.
Patience forgot her terror as she wondered who the stranger could be;
but in a moment it was renewed tenfold. Down the ocean road from
Monterey came a wild hideous yell. The man by the corpse raised his head
apprehensively, rose as if to flee, then sank wearily to his chair
again. The clatter of hoofs on the hard road mounted above the thunder
of the waves. Patience staring into the dark suddenly saw the leaping
fire of torches, and a moment later tall figures riding recklessly. The
yelling was incessant and demoniac.
“The man murdered Jim and they’re lynchers,” thought Patience. She
glanced about wildly. A small tree stood near. She scampered up the
trunk like a squirrel, and hid in the branches. None too soon. In
another moment those terrible figures were screaming and gesticulating
before the hut.
The smoky flames revealed an extraordinary sight to Patience’s distended
eyes. These men were bearded like the men of modern civilisation, even
their hair was properly cut; but they wore the garments of Greece and
Japan, flowing robes of white and red; one dark sinister-looking being
upheld a glittering helmet.
Patience rubbed her eyes. Did she dream over her Byron? But no mortal,
none but the sheeted dead, could have slept and dreamed in that infernal
clamour. Only the man by the bed sat immobile. He did not raise his
head. Out of the pandemonium of sound Patience at last distinguished one
word: “Charley! Charley!” If “Charley” were the man within the hut he
gave no sign; nor when they threw back their heads and as from one
throat gave forth a rattling volume of ribald laughter.
Suddenly Patience, who, seeing no rope, began to recover her courage,
noticed that one of the men had ridden beneath her tree, taking no part
in this singular drama. Once he turned his head, and an aquiline
profile, fine and strong, with black hair falling above it, was sharply
revealed against the red glare. Impulsively Patience leaned down and
touched his shoulder. He looked up with a start, and saw a small white
face among the leaves.
“What on earth is this?” he asked. “Is it a child?” His voice was rich
and deep, with a gentle hint of brogue.
“What are they?” asked Patience. “Are they real devils, or only men? And
are they going to kill him?”
The man laughed. “I certainly should ask the same question if I had not
happened to come with them. Oh, they won’t do any murder, unless they
happen to frighten some one to death. They’re members of the Bohemian
Club of San Francisco—newspaper men and artists—who are down here on a
lark.”
“Who’s the man in there by him, and why do they yell at him so?”
“Oh, he is a solitary spirit, a man of genius. He got tired of them and
gave them the slip to-night. This is revenge.”
“They have the Estrada house on Alvarado Street,” said Patience. “I
heard they were here.” Then she noticed that her companion wore the
common garb of American civilisation. “Why aren’t you rigged up, too?”
she asked.
“Oh, I’m hardly one of them. I’m only an Eastern man—a New Yorker—and
am staying at Del Monte for a day or two. I rode over to see them this
afternoon, and they insisted upon my staying for dinner. What on earth
are you doing here by yourself at this time of night?”
Patience explained. Then she added wistfully, “I shall be frightened to
death going home through those woods alone. I’ll imagine that that
corpse and those dreadful-looking men are behind me at every step.”
“Just drop onto my horse and I’ll take you home. I’m pretty tired of all
this.” He raised his arms and lifted her down, placing her in front of
him. “Lucky I had an English saddle,” he said, and as he bent his head
Patience could see that he was smiling. “Oh!” he added abruptly, “I have
seen you before. Now—tell me where to go.”
Patience directed him, and they cantered away unobserved.
“Where did you see me?” she asked, “and how odd that you should remember
me!”
“You have wonderful eyes. Although I’m an Irishman I won’t go so far as
to say they are pretty, but they look as if they had been born to see so
much. It would be difficult to forget them. Upon me soul you are
actually trembling. Did you never have a compliment before?”
“Never! And I guess I’ll remember it longer than you remember my eyes.
Where did you see me?”
“I was standing at the window of the house in Alvarado Street when you
came along from school with a dozen or more of the girls. You all
stopped to gaze at a passing circus troupe, and—I noticed you first
because you stood a little apart from the others.”
“I usually do,” said Patience, drily.
He did not add that, attracted by the eagerness of her gaze and her
rapid changes of expression, he had asked who she was, and that a
Montereño present had related the family history and her own notable
performances in no measured terms. “She’s got bad blood in her and the
temper of Old Nick himself. She’ll come to no good, homely as she is,”
the man had concluded. “Curious enough, the boys all like her and would
spark her if they got a show; but she’s hell-set on gettin’ an education
at present and doesn’t notice them much.”
Patience made him talk on for the pleasure of hearing his voice. “Are
you a real Irishman?” she asked.
“Well, I’ve been an American for twenty years, but there’s a good deal
of Irish left in me yet, especially in me tongue.”
“I’d keep it, if I were you. It’s nicer even than the Spanish. Do you
think our voices are horrid?”
“I think that if you’d pitch yours a little lower it would be an
improvement,” he said, smiling. And Patience registered a vow which she
kept. In after years when great changes had come upon her, her voice was
envied and emulated.
As they left the forest and entered Carmel Valley Patience pointed to
her home, then suddenly took the reins from his hand and directed the
horse toward the Mission. The waning moon hung over the ocean, and the
Mission stood out boldly.
“Come up to my tower,” said Patience; “the view is something! That
will be your reward. I never took any one there before.”
“All right,” he said, “I may as well make a night of it.” He tethered
his horse and followed her up the spiral stair.
“Solomon is not here,” she said regretfully. “He’s out foraging. Now!”
The young man walked to the window and inspected the view. Patience
regarded him with rapt admiration. He was tall and strong and well
dressed. She had never dreamed that anything romantic could really
happen to her; and as she was sure that it would be her last experience
as well as her first, she suddenly felt depressed and miserable, her
imagination leaping to the finish.
He turned and met her eyes. “What are you thinking of?” he asked.
But Patience was too shy to tell him, and asked him if he liked the
view.
“It’s a jolly view and no mistake. You’re not a happy child, are you?”
he added, abruptly. With the enthusiasm and spontaneous kindness of his
Irish blood he had conceived the idea of dropping a seed in this plastic
soil, and was feeling his way toward the right spot.
“I don’t know that I am,” said Patience, haughtily. “I suppose some of
those people told you things.”
“Well, they did, that’s a fact. But you mustn’t get angry with me,
please, for upon me word I like you better than any one I’ve met in
California.”
“Don’t you live here?”
“My home is in New York, and I return to-morrow.”
“Oh! Well, I don’t see how I should interest you.”
“You do, though, and that’s all there is to it. I’m neither as cautious
as an Englishman nor as practical as an American—though God rest the
two of them; I mean nothing to their detriment. But there’s a force in
you, and force doesn’t go to waste, although it’s more often than not
misdirected. I can feel yours myself; and I’m told that you’re the
cleverest girl in the town as well as the proudest and most ambitious.
Now, what do you intend to do with yourself?”
“I suppose I’ll be a teacher; and if Mrs. Sparhawk has no objections I
may go East soon and live with a religious old lady.”
“Well, that’s not so bad; only I doubt if that life will suit you any
better than this.” He put his finger under her chin and turned her face
to the light. “I am a lawyer, you know,” he added, “and features and
lines and curves mean a good deal to me. You’ve got a good will, begad,
and like all first-class American women, you’ll keep your head up until
you drop. And you have all her faculty of beginning life over again
several times, if necessary. You’ll never rust nor mould, nor write
polemical novels if things don’t go your way. You’ve got a good strong
brain behind those eyes, and although you’ll make mistakes of various
sorts, you’ll kick them behind you when you’re done with them, begin
over and be none the worse. Remember that no mistake is irrevocable;
that there are as many to-morrows as yesterdays; that only the incapable
has a past. It is all a matter of will as far as the world is concerned,
and ideals as far as your own soul goes. No matter how often
circumstances and your own weakness compel you to let go your own
private ideals, deliberately put them back on their pedestal the moment
you have recovered balance, and make for their attainment as if nothing
had happened. Then you’ll never acquire an aged soul and never lose your
grip. Can you remember all that?”
“You bet I can.”
He laughed. “I believe you. I might add: Don’t love the wrong man, but
I’ll not throw away good advice. You’ll not be wholly guided by reason
in those matters. I will merely say, Rub the first experience in hard
and let a long while elapse before your second, or it will be the
greater mistake of the two. Your reactions will be very violent, I
should say. Well, I’ll be going now.”
“I’d rather you’d stay and talk.”
“Would you? Well, being a lawyer, I know where to stop. Besides, I’ll
have all those fellows after me if I stay too long. We’ll doubtless meet
again. The world is small these days.”
Patience followed him reluctantly down the stair, and he walked beside
her across the valley, leading his horse. When they reached the
farmhouse he shook hands with her warmly, wished her good luck, and rode
away. She ran up to her room, and, lighting a candle, transcribed his
words into an old copybook.
                                   XI
Miss Galpin expostulated with Mrs. Thrailkill to such effect that
Patience spent two hours each afternoon in the family garret rehearsing
Rosita while the astonished rats took refuge in the chimney. Patience
could not act, but she had dramatic appreciation and an intellectual
conception of any part not beyond her years. Rosita was not
intellectual, but, as Patience had discerned, the spirit of Thalia was
in her. She quickly became enamoured of her unsuspected resources and at
the prospect of exhibiting herself on a platform. Not only did she rouse
herself to something like exertion, but she faithfully followed the
instructions of her strenuous teacher and discovered a talent for posing
and little tricks of manner all her own. Her mother taught her the song
and dance, which were to be the sensation of the evening.
It was on the fourth day that Patience, returning home late in the
afternoon, met Mr. Foord in the woods. The old gentleman looked sad and
perplexed, and Patience sprang upon the step of his buggy and demanded
to know what was the matter.
“It’s very odd,” he said, “but she won’t let you go.”
“Won’t let me go?” cried Patience, furiously. “Well, I’ll go anyhow.”
“You can’t, my dear. The law won’t let you.”
“Do you mean to say that the law won’t protect me from that woman?”
“I am afraid she has the best of it.” He recalled the woman’s angry
cunning face, as he had pleaded with her, and shook his head. “You see
she was never in the town in that condition before. The men out there
are so devoted to her that—so she has informed me—they would swear to
a man that they had never seen her drunk. And, you see, she’s never
abused you—the only time she struck you she had provocation—you must
admit that. You are under her control until you are eighteen, and I
don’t see that we can do anything. I’m very sorry. I never felt so
defeated in my life.”
“But for gracious goodness sake why won’t she let me go? I’m no good to
speak of about the place, and she certainly isn’t keeping me for love.”
“Well—I think it’s revenge. She remarked that she had a chance to pay
up and she’d do it.”
“I’ll just run away, that’s all.”
“The law would bring you back, and arrest me for abduction.”
“I hate the law,” said Patience, gloomily. “Seems to me I’m always
finding something new to hate.”
“You must not hate, my child,” and he quoted the Bible dutifully,
although in entire sympathy with her. “That is what I am so afraid
of—that you will become hard and bitter. I want to save you from that.
Well, perhaps she’ll relent. I shall see her again and again. I must go
on, Patience.”
She kissed him and walked sullenly homeward. As she entered the kitchen
her mother looked up and laughed. Her face was triumphant and malignant.
“You don’t go,” she said. “Not much. I’ve got the whip hand this time
and I’ll keep it. Here you’ll stay until you’re eighteen—”
Patience turned abruptly and ran upstairs. As she locked her door she
thought with some satisfaction: “Now that I know myself I can control
myself. If I’d jumped on her then she’d have fallen in the stove.”
As her imagination had not dwelt at great length upon the proposed
change the disappointment was not as keen as it might have been, much as
she desired to leave Monterey. Moreover, she was occupied with Rosita
and the coming examinations. And did she not have her Byron? She rose at
dawn and read him. In the evening she went over to the tower and
declaimed him to the grey ocean whose passions were eternal. The owl,
who regarded Byron as a great bore, closed his eyes when she began and
went to sleep. Sometimes—when the sun rode high—she sat upon the
rubbish over Junipero Serra’s bones, and with one eye out for rats and
snakes and tarantulas, conned a new poem. She liked the contrast between
the desolation and death in the old ruin and the warm atmosphere of the
poetry. As often Byron was unheeded, and she dreamed of the mysterious
stranger who had so magnetised her that she had forgotten to ask his
name. She had only to close her eyes to hear his voice, to recall the
words which seemed forever moving in one or other chamber of her mind,
to see the profile which she admired quite as much as Byron’s. As for
the voice, it had a possessing quality which made her understand the
wherefore of the thrilling notes of the male bird in spring-time. She
invested her ambitious young lawyer with all the dark sardonic
melancholic fascinations of Lara, Conrad, Manfred, and Don Juan. The
wild sweet sting of spring was in her veins. Her mind was full of vague
illusions, very lovely and very strange, shifting of outline and wholly
inexplicable.
                                  XII
On the afternoon of the last day of school several of the girls
decorated the hall with garlands and flags. Carpenters erected a stage,
and Patience arranged the “properties.” When the great night arrived and
Monterey in its best attire crowded the room, no curtain in the sleepy
town had ever been regarded with more complacent expectation. The
Montereñas were thoroughly satisfied with their offspring, and
performances of any sort were few.
The programme was opened by Manuela, who wore an old pink satin frock of
her mother’s cut short and trimmed with a flounce of Spanish lace. Her
brown shining face looked good will upon all the world as she recited
“The Wreck of the Hesperus.” Then came a dialogue in which all the
little participants wore white frocks and crimped hair.
Meanwhile, in the dressing-room, Rosita was limp in Patience’s arms.
“Oh, Patita!” she gasped, “I can’t! I can’t! I’m frightened to death!
What shall I do?”
“Do?” cried Patience, angrily, who was so excited herself that she
pumped Rosita’s arms up and down as if the unfledged Thespian had just
been rescued from the bay. “Do? You must brace up. When you get there
you’ll be all right. And you must not get stage fright. Rosita, you
must make a success. Remember you’ve got the star part. Don’t, don’t
make a fool of yourself.”
“Oh, if you could only hold my hand,” wailed Rosita.
“Well, I can’t, and that’s the end of it. Now! brace up quick.” The
prompter was calling in a loud whisper,—
“Miss Thrailkill, be ready when I say, ‘Life.’”
“Ay, dios de mi alma,” almost sobbed Rosita.
Patience dragged her to the wings and held her there. When the cue was
spoken she gave her a hard pinch, then a shove. Rosita gasped and
disappeared.
Patience slipped round into the audience, her heart in her throat, her
eyes black with excitement. If Rosita broke down she felt that she
should have hysterics.
At first Rosita had nothing to say. Upon entering she had merely to
fling herself upon a divan in an indolent attitude whilst the others
carried on a spirited dialogue. Patience saw that she had managed to get
to the sofa without falling prone, but also observed that her bosom was
heaving. Nevertheless, when her time came she managed to drawl her
lines, although with as little expression as she told her rosary.
Patience stamped her foot audibly.
But as the play progressed it was evident that Rosita was recovering her
poise. When she finally had to come forward she moved with all the
indolent grace of her blood, and delivered her little speech with such
piquant fire that the audience applauded loudly. And with that clatter
of feet and hands a new light sprang into the Spanish girl’s eyes, an
expression half of surprise, half of transport. From that time on she
acted in a manner which astonished even her instructor.
She looked exquisitely pretty. Her white rounded neck and arms were
bare. Her black soft hair hung to her knees, unbound, caught back above
one little ear with a pink rose. Her dress was of black Spanish lace
covered with natural roses. On her tiny feet she wore a pair of black
satin slippers which had belonged to her grandmother and twinkled many a
time to the music of El Son.
When, upon being twitted with her indolence, she suddenly sprang to the
front of the stage, and after singing an old Spanish love-song to the
music of her own guitar, danced El Son with all the rhythmic grace of
the beautiful women of the old gay time, she was no longer an actress
but an impersonator. The more the delighted audience applauded the more
poetically she danced, the more significantly her long eyes flamed. Once
when the applause deafened she swayed as if intoxicated. As the dance
finished, her red lips were parted. She was panting slightly.
When the curtain fell Patience rushed into the dressing-room and
embraced her rapturously. “Rosita!” she cried, “you were simply,
mag-nif-icent.”
Rosita, who was trembling violently, hung about Patience’s neck.
“Oh, Patita!” she gasped. “I was in heaven. I never was so happy. You
don’t know what it is to have a hundred people thinking of nothing but
you and applauding as if they were mad. Oh, I’m going to act, act, act
forever! I never want to do anything else. And isn’t my skin white? I
wish I had two necks and four arms.”
                                  XIII
The next morning prizes were distributed. Patience took most of them,
but Rosita was still the sensation of the hour, although she had not
passed an examination. At noon she had a luncheon party. She sat at the
head of her table in a white dotted Swiss frock and Roman sash, and
talked faster than she had ever talked in her life before. Altogether
she was by no means the Rosita of twenty-four hours ago.
Mrs. Thrailkill had prepared a luncheon of old time Spanish dishes, and
hovered, large and brown and placid, about a table loaded with chickens
under mounds of yellow rice, tamales, and dulces. Patience, between
Manuela and a young cousin of Rosita’s, was not unhappy. Her prizes lay
on the window seat, she liked good things, and was infected with the
gaiety of the hour. True, she wore her old muslin frock and a plaid sash
made from an ancient gown of her mother’s, and the rest of the girls
looked like a bed of newly blossomed flowers; but at fifteen the spirits
rise high above trifles.
When she started for home she was as light of heart as her more favoured
mates; but in the wood a dire affliction smote her. One of her teeth
began to ache. She had seen her mother many times with head tied up and
distorted face, and had wondered scornfully how any one could make a
fuss about a mere tooth. Now, however, when her own suddenly felt as if
impaled on a needle, she uttered a loud wail, and ran toward home as
fast as her legs could carry her. She found her mother similarly
afflicted, and a bottle of drops on the kitchen table. Mrs. Sparhawk
condescended to apply the remedy, and the agony left as suddenly as it
had come.
After supper Patience went over to her tower, and as ever floated
between Carmel Valley and the stars, enveloped with warm ether, which
swirled to towers and turrets inhabited by a projection of herself which
she saw only as a lover. Unfortunately all this rapture was enacted in a
strong draught. Even Solomon uttered a sound once or twice which
resembled a sneeze. Again Patience’s tooth was punctured by a red-hot
needle. Her castles vanished. She caught her cheek with her hand,
stumbled down the winding stair, and flew across the valley, the needle
developing into a screw.
The house was quiet, the kitchen dark. She lit a candle and searched
frantically for the drops. They were not to be found. Then it occurred
to her that her mother must have taken them to her room, and she ran up
the stair.
                                  XIV
At dawn next morning Patience found herself on the summit of the
mountain behind the house. Her progress thither had skimmed the surface
of memory and left no trace.
The sea was grey, the sky was grey. A grey mist moved in the valley.
Beyond, the wood on the hill loomed in faint black outline. The birds in
the trees, the seagulls on the rocks, the very ocean itself, were locked
in the heavy sleep of early morning. Once, from the tower of the
Mission, came the plaintive hooting of the owl.
After a time Patience plucked a number of stickers from her stockings,
and wiped blood from her torn hands with a large leaf wet with dew. She
clasped her hands inertly about her knees and stared down upon the
ocean. Horror was in her sunken eyes. The skin of her face looked faded
and old. Her nose and chin were as pinched as the features of the dead.
She did not look like the same child. Nor was she.
Her eyes closed heavily, her head dropped. She roused herself. She felt
that she had no right to do anything again so natural as to sleep. But
suddenly she toppled over and lay motionless; until the sun sent its
slanting rays under her eyelids. Then she stretched herself lazily,
rubbing her eyes, and smiling as children do when waking. But the smile
froze to a ghastly grin.
She raised herself stiffly and descended the mountain, clinging to the
brush, the stones rolling from beneath her feet. She ran across the
valley and plunged into the pine woods, but did not linger in those
fragrant aisles.
When she reached the edge of the town she paused and half turned back;
but there was one thing she dreaded more than to meet the people of
Monterey, and she went on.
She skirted the town and made her way toward the Custom House by a
roundabout path. She passed a group of boys, and averted her head with a
gesture of loathing. One boy, a gallant admirer, ran after her.
“Patience!” he cried, “wait a minute.” But Patience took to her heels
and never paused until she reached the Custom House. The perplexed
knight stood still and whistled.
“Well,” he exclaimed to his jeering comrades, “I always knew Patience
Sparhawk was a crank, but this lets me out.”
Patience stood for a few moments on the rocks, then went slowly to the
library and opened the door. Mr. Foord sat by the fire. He looked up
with a smile.
“Ah, it’s you,” he said. “I’m very proud of you.—Why, what’s the
matter?”
Patience, her eyes fixed on the floor, took a chair opposite him.
“What is it, Patience?”
She did not look up. She could not. Finally she moved her face from him
and stared at the mantel.
“I’ve left home,” she said. “I’d like to stay here for a while.”
“Why, of course you can stay here. I’ll tell Lola to put a cot in her
room. But what is the matter? Has your mother been drinking again?”
“I don’t know.”
“Has she struck you again?”
“No.”
“Well, what is it, my dear child? You know that you are always more than
welcome here; but you must have some excuse for leaving home.”
“I have an excuse. I can’t tell it. Please don’t say anything more about
it. I don’t think she’ll send for me.”
“Well, well, perhaps you’ll tell me after a time. Meanwhile make
yourself at home.”
He was much puzzled, but reflected that Patience was not like other
children; and he knew Mrs. Sparhawk’s commanding talent for making
herself disagreeable. Still, he was shocked at her appearance; and as
the day wore on and she would not meet his eye, but sat staring at the
floor, his uneasy mind glimpsed ugly possibilities. At dinner she ate
little and did not raise her eyes from her plate, although she made a
few commonplace remarks.
At four o’clock Billy, the buggy, and a farm hand stopped before the
Custom House. The man handed a note to Lola, asking her to give it to
Patience.
The note read:
    You come home—hear? If you don’t, I’ll see that you do.
                     M. SPARHAWK.
Patience went out to the man, who still sat in the buggy. “Tell her,”
she said, looking at Billy, “that I’m not going home,—not now nor at
any other time. Just make her understand that I mean it.”
The man stared, but nodded and drove off.
                                   XV
At midnight Patience was awakened by a frantic clamour in the street.
“Those dreadful Bohemians,” she thought sleepily, then sat up with
thumping heart.
“They say your name, niña, no?” said Lola, whose sonorous slumbers had
also been disturbed.
Patience slipped to the floor and looked through the window. The moon
flooded the old town. The ruined fort on the hill had never looked more
picturesque, the pines above more calm. In the hollow near the blue
waters the white arms of Junipero Serra’s cross seemed extended in
benediction. The old adobes were young for the hour. One might fancy
Isabel Herrara walking down from the long house on the hill, her
reboso fluttering in the night wind, old Pio Pico, glittering with
jewels, beside her.
And in the wide street before the Custom House, surrounded by a hooting
mob, the refuse of the saloons, was a cursing gesticulating woman. Her
black hair was unbound, her garment torn. She flung her fists in the
face of those that sought to hold her.
“Patience Sparhawk!” she shrieked. “Patience Sparhawk! Come down here to
your mother. Come down here this minute. Come, I say,” and a volley of
oaths followed, greeted with a loud cackling laugh by the rabble.
Patience saw Mr. Foord, clad in his dressing-gown, go forth. She flung
on her clothes hastily and ran down the stair. Her mother and Mr. Foord
were in the kitchen.
“Oh, she’ll come back,” Mrs. Sparhawk was saying. “I’ll see to that. How
do you like a row under your windows? Well, I’ll come here every night
unless she comes home. You’ll put me in the Home of the Inebriates, will
you? Think she’ll like to have that said of her mother when she’s grown
up? Not Patience Sparhawk. I know her weak point. She’s as proud as
hell, and I’m not afraid of going to any Home of the Inebriates.”
Patience pushed open the door. “I’m going with you,” she said. “Now get
out of this house as fast as you can.”
“Oh, Patience,” exclaimed Mr. Foord. His old cheeks were splashed with
tears.
“Oh, I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry,” said Patience, her hands clenching and
quivering. “I didn’t think she’d do this, or I wouldn’t have stayed.
What a return for all your kindness!”
“Patience,” said the old gentleman, “promise me that you will come to
see me to-morrow. Promise, or I shall not let you go. She can do her
worst.”
“Well, I’ll come.”
She ordered her mother to follow her out of the back door that they
might avoid the expectant mob. Mrs. Sparhawk walked unsteadily, but
received no assistance from her daughter. If she had fallen, Patience
could not have forced herself to touch her. Had the woman been a reeling
mass of physical corruption, a leper, a small-pox scab, the girl could
not have shrunken farther from her.
They did not speak until they ascended the hill behind the town and
entered the woods. Patience never recalled that night without inhaling
the balsamic odour of the pines, the heavy perfume of forest lilies,
without seeing the great yellow stars through the uplifted arms of the
trees. It was a night for love, and its guest was hate.
No more terrible conversation ever took place between mother and
daughter. After that night they never spoke again.
                                  XVI
The next morning Patience, after breakfast, carried a pair of tongs and
a newspaper up to her room. She spread the newspaper on the table, then
with the tongs extracted Byron from beneath the bed and laid it on the
paper. She wrapped it up and tied it securely without letting her hands
come in contact with the cover. That same afternoon she carried the book
to the Custom House and threw it behind a row of tall volumes in one of
the cases. Long after, Mr. Foord found it there and wondered. He was not
at home when she arrived. When he returned she was deep in his
arm-chair, reading Gibbon’s “Rome.” He was not without tact, and
determined at once to ignore the events of the previous day and night.
“What!” he exclaimed, “are you really giving poor old Gibbon a trial at
last? And after all your abuse? But perhaps you won’t find him so dry,
after all.”
“I wish to read what is dry,” said Patience. “I’m going to take a course
in ancient history.”
“No more poetry and novels?”
“Not a line.” She spoke harshly, and compelled herself to meet Mr.
Foord’s eyes. Her own were as hard and as cold as steel. All the soft
dreaming light of the past two months had gone out of them. They were
the eyes neither of a girl nor of a woman. They looked the eyes of a
sexless intellect.
Patience had done the one thing which a girl of fifteen can do when
crushed with problems; she had twitched her shoulders and flung them
off. She comprehended that her intellect was her best friend, and
plunged her racked head into the hard facts which required utmost
concentration of mind. The sweet vague dreams of the past were turned
from in loathing. If she thought of them at all it was with fierce
resentment that she had become conscious of her womanhood. The stranger
was thrust out of memory. She went no more to the tower. The owl hooted
in his loneliness, and she drew the bed-clothes over her ears. When she
walked through the woods, to and from the town, she recited Gibbon in
synopsis. She spent the day in Mr. Foord’s library, returning home in
time to get supper. She did her household duties mechanically, and the
eyes of mother and daughter never met. The man Oscar kept out of her
way.
Miss Galpin had gone to San Francisco and would return no more: she was
to marry. Rosita was visiting in Santa Barbara. Manuela, now a young
lady, was devoting the greater part of her time to the Hotel Del Monte,
where the flower and vegetables of San Francisco gather in summer. She
went up to the tanks in the morning and to the dances in the evening;
and informed Patience, one day as they met on the street, that she was
having a perfectly gorgeous time, and had met a man who was too lovely
for words.
The long hot days and the foggy nights wore slowly away. Patience grew
thinner, her face harder. Mr. Foord did his best to divert her, but his
resources were limited. She peremptorily forbade him to allude to the
romance of Monterey, and he took her out in his old buggy and talked of
Gibbon’s “Rome.”
Once they drove through the grounds of Del Monte,—the trim artificial
grounds that are such an anomaly in that valley of memories. On the long
veranda of the great hotel of airy architecture people sat in the bright
attire of summer. Matrons rocked and gossiped; girls talked eagerly to
languid youths that sat on the railing. It was all as unreal to Patience
as the fairy-land of her childhood, when she had hunted for fays and
elves in the wood. She stared at the scene angrily, for the first time
feeling the sting of the social bee.
“A vain frivolous life those people lead,” remarked Mr. Foord, who
disapproved of The World. “A waste of time and God’s best gifts, which
makes them selfish and heartless. Empty heads and hollow hearts.”
But Patience, gazing at those girls in their gay dainty attire, the like
of which she had never seen before, experienced a sudden violent wish to
be of them, empty head, hollow heart, and all. They looked happy and
free of care. The very atmosphere of the veranda seemed full of colour
and music. Above all, they were utterly different from Patience
Sparhawk, blessed and enviable beings. Even the frivolity of the scene
appealed to her, so sick unto death of serious things.
                                  XVII
One day, late in September, Patience, as usual, left Monterey at half
past four in order to reach home in time to cook the supper. Nature had
smiled for so many successive days that she wondered if the lips so
persistently set must not soon strain back and reveal the teeth. The
sun, poised behind the pine woods, flooded them with yellow light. As
Patience walked through the soft radiance she set her teeth and recalled
the chapters of Thiers’ “French Revolution,” through which she had that
day plodded. But her head felt dull. She realised with a quiver of
terror that she was beginning to feel less like an intellect and more
like a very helpless little girl. Once she discovered her curved arm
creeping to her eyes. She flung it down and shook her head angrily. Was
she like other people?
Mingling with the fragrance of the pines it seemed to her that she smelt
smoke. She hoped that her woods were not on fire. She walked slowly,
indisposed as ever to return home, the more so to-day as she felt
herself breaking.
“I wish the sun would not grin so,” she thought. “I’ll be glad when
winter comes.”
The smell of smoke grew stronger. She left the woods. A moment later she
stood, white and trembling, looking down upon Carmel Valley. The
Sparhawk farmhouse was a blazing mass of timbers. A volume of smoke, as
straight and full as a waterspout, stood directly above it. Men were
running about. Their shouts came faintly to her.
Patience pressed her hands convulsively to her eyes. She clutched her
head as if to tear out the terrible hope clattering in her brain, then
ran down the hill and across the valley, feeling all the while as if
possessed by ten thousand devils.
“Oh, I’m bad, bad, bad!” she sobbed in terror. “I don’t, I don’t!”
As she reached the scene the roof fell in. She glanced hastily about.
The men, withdrawn to a safe distance, were gathered round the man
Oscar. One was binding his hands and face. As they saw Patience they
turned as if to run, then stood doggedly.
“Where is she?” Patience asked.
There was an instant’s pause. The crackling of the flames grew louder,
as if it would answer. Then one of the men blurted out: “Burnt up in her
bed. She was drunk. We was all in the field when the fire broke out.
When we got here Oscar tried to get at her room with a ladder, but it
was no go. Poor old Madge.”
Patience without another word turned and ran back to the woods. She ran
until she was exhausted, more horrified at herself than she had been at
any of her unhappy experiences. After a time she fell among the dry pine
needles, her good, as she expressed it, still trying to fight down her
bad. She felt that the demon possessing her would have sung aloud had
she not held it by the throat. She conjured up all the horrible details
of her mother’s death and ordered her soul to pity; but her brain
remarked coldly that her mother had probably felt nothing. She imagined
the charred corpse, but it only offended her artistic sense.
Finally she fell asleep. The day was far gone when she awoke. She lay
for a time staring at the dim arches above her, listening to the night
voices she had once loved so passionately. At last she drew a deep sigh.
“I might just as well face the truth,” she said aloud. “I’m glad, and
that’s the end of it. It’s wicked and I’m sorry; but what is, is, and I
can’t help it. We’re not all made alike.”
                                 XVIII
Patience was once more installed in Lola’s room. Mr. Foord applied for
letters of guardianship, which were granted at once. But as he had
feared, she was left without a penny. He wrote to his half-sister,
asking her if she would take charge of his ward. Miss Tremont replied in
enthusiastic affirmation. Miss Galpin invited Patience to spend two
weeks with her in San Francisco, offering to replenish the girl’s
wardrobe with several of her own old frocks made over.
Those two weeks seemed to Patience the mad whirl of excitement of which
she had read in novels. She had never seen a city before, and the very
cable cars fascinated her. To glide up and down the hills was to her the
poetry of science. The straggling city on its hundred hills, the crowded
streets and gay shop windows, the theatres, the restaurants, China Town,
the beautiful bay with its bare colorous hills, surprised her into
admitting that life appeared to be quite well worth living after all.
When she returned to Monterey she talked so fast that Mr. Foord clapped
his hands to his ears, and Rosita listened with expanded eyes.
“Ay, if I could live in San Francisco!” she said, plaintively. “I acted
all summer, Patita, but I got tired of the same people, and I want to go
to the big theatres and see the real ones do it. I’d like to hear a
great big house applauding, only I’d be so jealous of the leading lady.”
Patience was to start, immediately after Christmas, by steamer for New
York. Mr. Foord spent the last days giving her much good advice. He said
little of his own sorrow to part from her. Once he had been tempted to
keep her for the short time that remained to him, but had put the
temptation aside with the sad resignation of old age. He knew Patience’s
imperative need of new impressions in these her plastic years.
The day before she left she went over to Carmel to say good-bye to
Solomon. He flapped his wings with delight, although he could not see
her, and nestled close to her side in a manner quite unlike his haughty
habit. Patience thought he looked older and greyer, and his wings had a
dejected droop. She took him in her arms with an impulse of tenderness,
and this time he did not repulse her.
“Poor old Solomon,” she said, “I suppose you are lonely and forlorn in
your old age, but this old tower wouldn’t be what it is without you.
It’s too bad I can’t write to you as I can to my two or three other
friends, and you’ll never know I haven’t forgotten you, poor old
Solomon. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wonder if owls do suffer too. You look so
wise and venerable, perhaps you are thinking that lonely old age is
terrible—as I know Mr. Foord does.”
Solomon pecked at her mildly. Her gaze wandered out over the ocean. She
wondered if a thousand years had passed since she had dreamed her
dreams. Their very echoes came from the mountains of space.
When she went away Solomon followed her to the head of the stair. She
looked upward once and saw him standing there, with drooping wings and
head a little bent. The darkness of the stair gave him vision, and he
fluttered his wings expectantly, as she paused and lifted her face to
him. But when she did not return he walked with great dignity to his
accustomed place against the wall, nor even lifted up his voice in
protest.
The next morning Rosita accompanied her to the station and wept loudly
as the train approached. But Patience did not cry until she stood in her
stateroom with Mr. Foord.
                                BOOK II
                                   I
Patience watched the dusty hills of San Francisco, the sparkling bay
alive with sail and spar, the pink mountains of the far coast range, the
brown hills opposite the grey city, willowed and gulched and bare, the
forts on rock and points, until the wild lurching of the steamer over
the bar directed her attention to the unhappy passengers. In a short
while she had not even these to amuse her, nothing but a grey plain and
empty decks. At first she felt a waif in space; but soon a delightful
sense of independence stole over her, of freedom from all the ills and
responsibilities of life. The land world might have collapsed upon its
fiery heart, so little could it affect her while that waste of waters
slid under the horizon.
The few passengers came forth restored in a day or two. A husband and
wife and several children did not interest Patience; neither did the
captain’s wife, in whose charge she was. A young girl with a tangle of
yellow hair under a sailor hat was more inviting, but she flirted
industriously with the purser and took not the slightest notice of
Patience. Her invalid mother reclined languidly in a steamer chair and
read the novels of E. P. Roe.
The only other passenger was an elderly gentleman who read books in
white covers neatly lettered with black which fascinated Patience. She
was beginning to long for books. The invalid lent her a Roe, but she
returned it half unread. As the old gentleman had never addressed her,
did not seem to be aware of her existence, she could hardly expect a
similar courtesy from him.
She was glowering upon universal stupidity one morning when he appeared
on deck with a carpet bag, from which, after comfortably establishing
himself in his steamer chair, he took little white volume after little
white volume. Patience’s curiosity overcame her. She went forward slowly
and stood before him. He looked up sharply. His black eyes, piercing
from their shaggy arches, made her twitch her head as if to fling aside
some penetrative force. His very beard, silver though it was, had a
fierce sidewise twist. His nose was full nostrilled and drooped
scornfully. The spectacles he wore served as a sort of lens for the fire
of his extraordinary eyes.
“Well?” he said gruffly.
“Please, sir,” said Patience, humbly, “will you lend me a book?”
“Book? I don’t carry children’s literature round with me.”
“I don’t read children’s literature.”
“Oh, you don’t? Well, not ‘The Chatterbox,’ I suppose; but I have
nothing of Pansy’s nor yet of The Duchess.”
“I wouldn’t read them if you had,” cried Patience, angrily. “Perhaps
I’ve read a good many books that you haven’t re-read so long ago
yourself. I’ve read Dickens and Thackeray and Scott, and,” with a
shudder, “Gibbon’s ‘Rome’ and Thiers’ ‘French Revolution.’”
“Oh, you have? Well, I beg your pardon. Sit down, and I’ll see if I can
find something for a young lady of your surprising attainments.”
Patience, too pleased to resent sarcasm, applied herself to his elbow.
“Why are they all bound alike?” she asked.
“This is the Tauchnitz edition of notable English and American books.
How is this?” He handed her a volume of Grace Aguilar.
“No, sir! I’ve tried her, and she’s a greater bore than Jane Austen.”
“Oh, you want a love story, I suppose?” His accentuation was fairly
sardonic.
“No, I don’t,” she said with an intonation which made him turn and
regard her with interest. Then once more he explored his bag.
“Will this suit you?” He held out a copy of Carlyle’s “French
Revolution.”
Patience groaned. “Didn’t I tell you I’d just read Thiers’?”
“This isn’t Thiers’. Try it.” And he took no further notice of her.
Patience opened the volume, and in a few moments was absorbed. There was
something in the storm and blare of the style which struck a responsive
chord. She did not raise her head until dinner time. She scarcely spoke
until she had finished the volume, and then only to ask for the second.
For several days she felt as if the atmosphere was charged with
dynamite, and jumped when any one addressed her. The owner of the
Tauchnitz watched her curiously. When she had finished the second volume
she told him that she did not care for anything more at present. She
leaned over the railing most of the day, watching the waves. Toward
sunset the gentleman called peremptorily,—
“Come here.”
Patience stood before his chair.
“Well, what do you think of it?” he demanded. “Tell me exactly what your
impressions are.”
“I feel as if there was an earthquake in my skull and all sorts of
pictures flying about, and exploded pieces of drums and trumpets, and
kings and queens. I think Carlyle must have been made on purpose to
write the French Revolution. It was—as if—there was a great picture of
it made on the atmosphere, and when he was born it passed into him.”
“Upon my word,” he said, “you are a degree or two removed from the
letters of bread and milk. You are a very remarkable kid. Sit down.”
Patience took the chair beside him. “He made my head ache,” she added.
“I feel as if it had been hammered.”
“I don’t wonder. Older heads have felt the same way. What’s your name?”
“Patience Sparhawk.”
“Tell me all about yourself.”
“Oh, there isn’t much to tell,” and she frowned heavily.
“Don’t look so tragic—you alarm me. I’m convinced there is a great
deal. Come, I want to know.”
Patience gave a few inane particulars. The old gentleman snorted. “It’s
evident you’ve never been interviewed,” he said grimly. “Now, I’ll tell
you who I am, and then you won’t mind talking about yourself. There’s
nothing so catching as egotism. My name is James E. Field. I own one of
the great newspapers of New York, of which I am also editor-in-chief. Do
you know what that means? Well, if you don’t, let me tell you. It is to
be a man more powerful than the President of the United States, for he
can make presidents, which is something the president himself can’t do.
He knows more about people’s private affairs than any of intimate
relationship; he has his finger on the barometer of his readers’ brain;
he can make them sensational or sober, intellectually careless or
exacting; he can keep them in ignorance of all that is best worth
knowing of the world’s affairs, by snubbing the great events and
tendencies of the day and vitiating their brain with local crimes and
scandals, or he can illumine their minds and widen their brain cells by
not only enlarging upon what every intelligent person should wish to
know, but by making such matter of profound interest; he can ignore
science, or enlighten several hundred thousand people; he can add to the
happiness of the human race by exposing abuses and hidden crime, or he
can accept hush money and let the sore fester; he can lash the unrest of
the lower classes, or chloroform it; he can use the sledge hammer, the
rapier, and the vitriol, or give over his editorial page to windy
nothings; he can demolish political bosses, or prolong their career. In
short, his power is greater than Alexander’s was, for he is a general of
minds instead of brute force.”
“My goodness gracious!” exclaimed Patience. “What sort of a paper have
you got?”
He laughed. “Wait until you’ve lived in New York awhile and you’ll find
out. Its name is the ‘Day,’ and it has made a president or two, and made
one or two others wish they’d never been born. By the way, I didn’t tell
you much about myself, did I? The auxiliary subject carried me away. I’m
married, and have several sons and daughters, and am off for a rest—not
from the family but from the ‘Day.’ I’ve been round the world. That will
do for the present. Tell me all about Monterey.”
With consummate skill he extracted the history of her sixteen years. On
some points she fought him so obstinately that he inferred what she
would not tell. He ended by becoming profoundly interested. He was a man
of enthusiasms, which sometimes wrote themselves in vitriol, at others
in the milk of human kindness. His keen unerring brain, which Patience
fancied flashed electric search lights, comprehended that it had
stumbled upon a character waging perpetual war with the pitiless Law of
Circumstance, and that the issue might serve as a plot for one of the
mental dramas of the day.
“Your experience and the bad blood in you, taken in connection with your
bright and essentially modern mind, will make a sort of intellectual
anarchist of you,” he said. “I doubt if you take kindly to the domestic
life. You will probably go in for the social problems, and ride some
polemical hobby for eight or ten years, at the end of which time you
will be inclined to look upon your sex as the soubrettes of history.
Your enthusiasm may make you a faddist, but your common sense may aid
you in the perception of several eternal truths which the women of
to-day in their blind bolt have overlooked.”
A moment later he repented his generalisations, for Patience had
demanded full particulars. Nevertheless, he gave her many a graphic
outline of the various phases of current history, and was the most
potent educational force that she had yet encountered. She preferred him
to books and admired him without reserve, trotting at his heels like a
small dog. His unique and virile personality, his brilliant and
imperious mind, magnetised the modern essence of which she was made.
There was nothing of the old-fashioned intellectual type about him. He
might have induced the coining of the word “brainy,”—he certainly typed
it. Although he had the white hair and the accumulated wisdom of his
years, he had the eyes of youth and the fist of vigour at any age. One
day when two natives looked too long upon Patience’s blondinity, as she
and Mr. Field were exploring a banana grove during one of their brief
excursions on shore, he cracked their skulls together as if they had
been two cocoanuts.
Patience laughed as the blacks dropped sullenly behind. “How funny that
they should admire me,” she said. “I’m not pretty.”
“Well, you’re white. Besides, there is one thing more fascinating than
beauty, and that is a strong individuality. It radiates and magnetises.”
“Have I all that?” Patience blushed with delight.
He laughed good-naturedly. “Yes, I’ll stake a good deal that you have.
You may even be pretty some day; that is, if you ever get those freckles
off.”
Inherent as was her passion for nature, she enjoyed the rich beauty of
the tropics the more for the companionship of a mind skilled in
observation and interpretation. It was her first mental comprehension of
the law of duality.
As they approached New York harbour Mr. Field said to her: “I think I’ll
have to make a newspaper woman of you. When you have finished your
education, don’t think of settling down to any such humdrum career as
that of the school-teacher. Come to me, and I’ll put you through your
paces. If I’m not more mistaken than I’ve been yet, I’ll turn out a
newspaper woman that will induce a mightier blast of woman’s horn. Think
you’d like it?”
“I’d like to be with you,” said Patience, on the verge of tears.
“Sha’n’t I see you again till I’m eighteen?”
“No, I don’t want to see or hear from you again until you’ve kneaded
that brain of yours into some sort of shape by three years of hard
study. Then I’ll go to work on a good foundation. You haven’t told me if
you’ll take a try at it.”
“Of course I will. Do you think I want to be a school-teacher? I should
think it would be lovely to be a newspaper woman.”
“Well, it isn’t exactly lovely, but it is a good training in the art of
getting along without adjectives. Now look round you and I’ll explain
this harbour; and don’t you brag any more about your San Francisco
harbour.”
They entered through The Narrows, between the two toy forts. A few lone
sentries paced the crisp snow on the heights of Staten Island, and
looked in imminent danger of tumbling down the perpendicular lawns. The
little stone windows of the earthen redoubts seemed to wink confidently
at each other across the water, and loomed superciliously above the
forts on the water’s edge. Long Island, had the repose of a giant that
had stretched his limbs in sleep, unmindful of the temporary hamlets on
his swelling front. Staten Island curved and uplifted herself
coquettishly under her glittering garb and crystal woods. Far away the
faint line of the New Jersey shore, looking like one unbroken city on a
hundred altitudes, hovered faintly under its mist. The river at its base
was a silver ribbon between a mirage and a stupendous castle of seven
different architectures surmounted by a golden dome—which same was New
York and the dome of a newspaper. Then a faint fairy-like bridge,
delicate as a cobweb, sprang lightly across another river to a city of
walls with windows in them—which same was Brooklyn. Under the shadow of
the arches was a baby island fortified with what appeared to be a large
Dutch cheese out of which the mice had gnawed their way with much
regularity. The great bay, blue as liquid sapphire, was alive with craft
of every design: rowboats scuttled away from the big outgoing steamers;
sails, white as the snow on the heights, bellied in the sharp wind;
yellow and red ferry boats gave back long symmetrical curves of white
smoke; gaunt ships with naked spars lay at rest. On Liberty Island the
big girl pointed solemnly upward as if reminding the city on the waters
of the many mansions in the invisible stars. Snow clouds were scudding
upward from the east, but overhead there was plentiful gold and blue.
Patience gazed through Mr. Field’s glass, enraptured, and promised not
to brag. As they swung toward the dock he laid his hand kindly on hers.
“Now don’t think I’m callous,” he said, “because I part from you without
any apparent regret. You are going to be in good hands during the rest
of your early girlhood, and I could be of no assistance to you; and I am
a very busy man. Let me tell you that you have made this month a good
deal shorter than it would otherwise have been; and when we meet again
you won’t have to introduce yourself. There are my folks, and there goes
