A bitter laugh rang through the quiet room, and she started, for it was
her own voice.  She was to forgive!  Did he know what he was asking, and
for what things he was praying forgiveness?  Yet when he was sober he
had generally remembered what he had done when he had been drunk.  That
is to say, he had seemed to have the faculty of remembering what he
chose to recall, and of forgetting everything else.  She was to forgive
what he chose to remember!
’Oh, Helen dear, for God’s sake, do!’  She could see the last written
words of his letter before her eyes, though the sheet was folded and
bent double in her tightly closed hand.  He meant it, and it was an
appeal for mercy.  She hated herself for having laughed so cruelly a
moment earlier.  There was a cry in the words, quite different from all
he had written before them.  It did not touch her, it hardly appealed to
her at all, but somehow it gave him the right to be heard, for it was
human.
Then she went over all he said, though it hurt her.  She was not a woman
of quick impulses, and she knew that what was left of her life was in
the balance.  Even he seemed to acknowledge that, for he spoke of a
possibility of freedom for her by divorce.  To speak so easily of it, he
must have thought of it often, and that meant that it was really an easy
matter, as Colonel Wimpole had said.  It was in her power, and she had
free will.  He knew that she had a choice, and that she could either
take him back, now that he was cured, or make it utterly out of the
question for him to approach her.  He said as much, when he implored her
to give him one more chance ’before taking any step.’  She went over and
over it all, for hours. In the cool of the evening she opened the
blinds, collected her letters, and then sat down again, no nearer to a
decision than she had been at first.  A servant came and told her that
Colonel Wimpole was downstairs.  He had written a word on his card,
asking to see her again.
Her first impulse was the natural one.  She would let him come in and
she would lay the whole matter before him, as before the best friend she
had in the world, and ask him how she should act.  There was not in all
the world a man more honourable and just.  She would let him come to
her.
The words were on her lips, while the servant stood in the open door,
waiting for her answer. She checked herself with an effort.  She wrote a
line and gave it to the man.
She would not see Wimpole just then, for it would not be fair to him nor
perhaps quite just to Harmon.  Wimpole loved her, though he was quite
unaware that she knew it.  She believed firmly that when he had advised
her that very afternoon to divorce her husband, he was thinking only of
her happiness; but he had advised it, all the same, just because he
believed that Harmon might recover.  He could not change his mind now
that what he feared for her was taking place.  How could he?  He would
use every argument in his power, and he would find many good ones,
against her returning to her husband.  He could influence her against
her free will, and far more than he could guess, because she loved him
secretly as much as he loved her.  It was bitter not to see him, and
tell him, and ask his help; it was desperately hard, but as soon as she
saw that it was right, she wrote the words that must send him away,
before she could have time to hesitate.  Deep in her heart, too, there
was a thought for him. Loving her as he did, it would not be easy for
him, either, to go into the whole matter.  His honour and his love would
have to fight it out. So she sent him away.
Then Archie came into the room, vague and childish at first, but with an
odd look in his eyes, and he began to talk to her about Sylvia Strahan
in a way that frightened her, little by little, as he went on.
"Marry me to her, mother," he said at last, as though asking for the
simplest thing.  "I want to be married, and I want Sylvia.  I never saw
any other girl whom I wanted."
                              CHAPTER VII
There are times when trouble accumulates as an avalanche, or like water
in one of those natural intermittent springs that break out plentifully,
and dry up altogether in a sort of alternation.  But the spring has its
regular period, and trouble has not, and in an avalanche of disasters it
is impossible to say at any moment whether the big boulders have all
passed in the sliding drift of smaller stuff, or whether the biggest of
all may not be yet coming.
There are days in a lifetime which decide all the rest, and sometimes
explain all that has gone before, happy days, or days of tears, as the
case may be.  Perhaps they are the most interesting days to describe,
after all, for they are the ones which generally terminate a period in
existence.  But many say that in real life situations, as they are
called, never have any satisfactory termination, and that the story
which is most true of men and women is that one which has neither
beginning nor end.  The fact is that what appears to be the beginning is
often in reality the termination of a long series of events.  Novels
often end in marriage, yet real life frequently begins there.  There is
a very old proverb to that effect.
On such days all sorts of things happen that never occurred before and
perhaps never occur again, and every one who has had one or two such
short and eventful periods of confusion can remember how a host of
unforeseen trifles thrust themselves forward to disturb him.  It was as
though nothing could turn out right, as if nobody could take a message
without a mistake, as if the post and the telegraph had conspired
together to send letters and telegrams to wrong addresses, and
altogether all things, including the most sober and reliable
institutions, seem to work backwards against results instead of for
them.  Those are bad times. When they last long, people come to grief.
When they are soon over, people laugh at them.  When they decide a whole
life, as they sometimes do, people can afterwards trace the causes of
happiness or disaster to some very small lucky coincidence or
unfortunate mistake over which they themselves had no control.
When Colonel Wimpole had left Helen so abruptly, he had looked upon his
going away as a mere interruption of his visit, necessary, because he
could not be sure of controlling himself just then, but not meant to
last any length of time.  But after so suddenly learning the change in
Harmon’s condition, he would have waited till the evening before going
back, if his sister had not been so absurdly nervous about the price of
the hat, insisting that he should go at once and return the money.  He
had gone to his own room in a disturbed state of mind and had stayed
there an hour, after which Miss Wimpole, judging that he must be
sufficiently rested, had knocked at his door and urged him to go at once
to see Mrs. Harmon.  As he had no very good reason to give for refusing
to do so, he had made the attempt and had been refused admittance. He
went for a walk along the lake and came back again after an hour, and
wrote on his card a special request.
"May I see you now?  It is about a rather awkward little matter."
It was growing late.  Helen reflected that he could not stay long before
his own dinner time and hers, that he evidently had something especial
to say, and that she was certainly strong enough to keep her own counsel
for a quarter of an hour if she made up her mind to do so. Besides, it
must seem strange to him to be refused a second time; he would infer
that something was wrong and would ask questions when they next met.
She decided to see him.
His face was grave, and he was quite calm again.  As he took her hand
and spoke, there was a sort of quiet tenderness in his manner and tone,
a little beyond what he usually showed, perceptible to her, who longed
for it, though it could hardly have been noticed by any one else.
"It is rather an awkward little matter," he said, repeating the words he
had written.
Then he saw her face in the twilight, and he guessed that she had seen
the newspaper.
"You are in trouble," he said quickly.
She hesitated and turned from him, for she had forgotten that her face
must betray her distress.
"Yes," she answered, but she said no more than that.
"Can I help you?" he asked after a short pause.
"Please do not ask me."
She sat down, and Wimpole sighed audibly as he took his seat at a little
distance from her. He knew that she must have seen the paragraph about
Harmon’s recovery.
"Then I will explain my errand," he said.  "May I?"
It seemed rather a relief to have so small a matter ready to hand.
"Yes.  It will not take long, will it?" she asked rather nervously, for
she felt how his presence tempted her to confidence.  "It--it will soon
be dinner time, you know."
"I shall not stay long," said the colonel, quietly.  "It is rather an
awkward little matter.  You know Archie was with you this morning when I
saw you in the shop and got that miniature."
Helen looked at him suddenly with a change of expression, expecting some
new trouble.
"Yes, Archie was with us.  What is it?"  Her voice was full of a new
anxiety.
"It is nothing of any great importance," answered Wimpole, quickly, for
he saw that she was nervous.  "Only, he went out by himself afterwards,
and came across my sister and Sylvia in a milliner’s shop--"
"What was he doing in a milliner’s shop?" interrupted Helen, in
surprise.
"I don’t know," said the colonel.  "I fancy he saw them through the
window and went in to speak to them.  Sylvia was trying on a hat, you
know, and she liked it, and Archie, without saying anything, out of pure
goodness of heart, I suppose--"
He hesitated.  On any other day he would have smiled, but just now he
was as deeply disturbed as Helen herself, and the absurd incident of the
hat assumed a tremendous importance.
"Well?  What did he do?"  Helen’s nerves were on edge, and she spoke
almost sharply.
"He paid for the hat," answered Wimpole, with an air of profound sorrow,
and even penitence, as if it had been all his fault.  "And then he went
off, before they knew it."
Helen bit her lip, for it trembled.  He had not told the story very
clearly or connectedly, but she understood.  Archie had just been
talking to her strangely about Sylvia, and she had seen that he had
fallen in love with his old playmate, and she was afraid.  And now, she
was horribly ashamed for him.  It was so stupid, so pitifully stupid.
The colonel, guessing what greater torment was tearing at her heart, sat
still in a rather dejected attitude, waiting for her to speak, but not
watching her.
The matter which had brought him was certainly not very terrible in
itself, but it stirred and quickened all the ever-growing pain for her
son which was a part of her daily life.  It knitted its strength to that
of all the rest, to hurt her cruelly, and the torture was more than she
could bear.
She turned suddenly in her seat and half buried her face against the
back of the chair, so that Wimpole could not see it, and she bit the
coarse velvet savagely, trying to be silent and tearless till he should
go away.  But he knew what she was doing.  If he had not spoken, she
could still have kept back the scalding tears awhile.  But he did speak,
and very gently.
"Helen--dear Helen--what is it?"
"My heart is breaking," she said, almost quietly.
But then the tears came, and she shook once or twice, like an animal
that has a deep wound but cannot die.  The tears came slowly, and burned
her like drops of fire.  She kept her face turned away.
Wimpole was beside her and held her passive hand.  It twitched painfully
as it lay in his, and every agonized movement of it shot through him,
but he could not say anything at first. Besides, she knew he was there
and would help her if he could.  At last he spoke his thought.
"I will keep him from you," he said.  "He shall not come near you."
Her hand tightened upon his, instantly, and she sat up in her chair,
turning her face to him, quite white in the dusk, by the open window.
"Then you know?" she asked.
"Yes.  It is in the Paris paper to-day.  But it is only a report.  I do
not believe it is true."
She rose, mastering herself, as she withdrew her hand, and steadied
herself a moment against the chair beside him.
"It is true," she said.  "He has recovered. He has written to me."
Wimpole felt as if he had been condemned to death without warning.
"When?" he managed to ask.
"I got the letter this afternoon."
Their voices answered each other, dull and colourless in the gloom, and
for some moments neither spoke.  Helen went to the window and leaned
upon the broad marble sill, breathing the evening air from the lake, and
Wimpole followed her.  The electric lamps were lighted in the street,
glaring coldly out of the grey dusk, and many people were moving slowly
along the pavement below, in little parties, some gay, some silent.
"That is why I did not let you come up," said Helen, after a long time.
"But now--since you know--"  She stopped, still hesitating, and he tried
to see her expression, but there was not enough light.
"Yes?" he said, with a question, not pressing her, but waiting.
"Since you know," she answered at last, "you can guess the rest."
A spasm of pain half choked her, and Wimpole put out his hand to lay it
gently upon her arm, but drew it back again.  He had never done even
that much in all those years, and he would not do it now.
"I will keep him from you," he said again.
"No.  You must not do that."  Her voice was steady again.  "He will not
come to me against my will."
Wimpole turned sharply as he leaned on the window-sill beside her, for
he did not understand.
"You cannot possibly be thinking of writing to him, of letting him come
back?"
"Yes," she said.  "That is what I am thinking of doing."
She hardly dared think that she still could hesitate, now that Wimpole
was beside her.  If he had not come, it might have been different. But
he was close to her now, and she knew how long and well he had loved
her.  Alone, she could have found reasons for refusing ever to see
Harmon again, but they lost their look of honour now that this man, who
was everything to her, was standing at her elbow.  Exaggerating her
danger, she feared lest Wimpole should influence her, even
unintentionally, if she left the question open.  And he, for her own
happiness and honourably setting all thoughts of himself aside, believed
that he ought to use whatever influence he had, to the utmost.
"You must not do it," he said.  "I implore you not to think of it.  You
will wreck your life."
She did not move, for she had known what he would say.
"If you are my friend," she answered, after a pause, "you should wish me
to do what is right."
It was a trite commonplace, but she never tried to be original, at any
time, and just then the words exactly expressed her thought.  He
resented it.
"You have done more than enough of that sort of right already.  It is
time you thought a little of yourself.  I do not mean only of your
happiness, but of your safety.  You are not safe with that man.  He will
drink again, and he may kill you."
She turned her white face deliberately towards him in the gloom.
"And do you think I am afraid of that?" she asked slowly.
There was a sort of reproach in the tone, and a great good pride with
it.  Wimpole did not know what to say, and merely bent his head gravely.
"Besides," she added, "he is in earnest.  He is sorry.  He was mad then,
and he asks me to forgive him now.  How can I refuse?  He was really
mad, really insane.  No one can deny it. Shall I?"
"You can forgive him without going back to him.  Why should you risk
your life?"
"It is the only way of showing him that I forgive him, and my life will
not be in danger."
"Do you think that you can ever be happy again, if you go back to him?"
asked Wimpole.
"My happiness is not the question.  The only thing that matters is to do
right."
"It seems to me that right is more or less dependent on its results--"
"Never!" cried Helen, almost fiercely, and drawing back a little against
the side of the window.  "If one syllable of that were true, then we
could never know whether we were doing right or not, till we could judge
the result. And the end would justify the means, always, and there would
be no more right and wrong at all in the world."
"But when you know the results?" objected Wimpole.  "It seems to me that
it may be different."
"Then it is fear!  Then one is afraid to do right because one knows that
one risks being hurt!  What sort of morality would that be? It would be
contemptible."
"But suppose that it is not only yourself who may be hurt, but some one
else?  One should think of others first.  That is right, too."  He could
not help saying that much.
Helen hesitated a moment.
"Yes," she answered presently.  "But no one else is concerned in this
case."
"I will leave your friends out of the question," said Wimpole.  "Do you
think it will do Archie any good to live under the same roof with his
father?"
Helen started perceptibly.
"Oh, why did you say that!" she exclaimed in a low voice, and as she
leaned over the window-sill again she clasped her hands together in a
sort of despairing way.  "Why did you say that!" she repeated.
Wimpole was silent, for he had not at first realized that he had found a
very strong argument.  As yet, being human, she had thought only of
herself, in the first hours of her trouble. He had recalled all her past
terrors for her unfortunate son, and the memory of all she had done to
keep him out of his father’s way in old days.  He had been a mere boy,
then, and it had been just possible, because his half-developed mind was
not suspicious.  Now that he was grown up, it would be another matter.
The prospect was hideous enough, if Harmon should take a fancy to the
young man, and make him his companion, and then fall back into his old
ways.
"Why did you say it?  Why did you make me think of that?"  Helen asked
the questions almost piteously.  "I should have to send Archie
away--somewhere, where he would be safe."
"How could he be safe without you?"  The argument was pitilessly just.
But, after all, her life and happiness were at stake.  Wimpole saw right
in everything that could withhold her from the step to which she had
evidently made up her mind.
"And if I refuse to go back to my husband, what will become of him?" she
asked, still clasping her hands hard together.
"He could be properly taken care of," suggested Wimpole.
"And would that be forgiveness?"  Helen turned to him again
energetically.
"It would be wisdom, at all events."
"Ah, now you come back to your argument!" Her voice changed.  "You are
pressing me to do what is wise, not what is right.  Don’t do that!
Please don’t do that!"
"Do you forgive him?" asked the colonel, very gravely.
Again she paused before answering him.
"Why should you doubt it?" she asked in her turn.  "Don’t you see that I
wish to go back to him?"
"You know what I mean.  It is not the same thing.  You are a very good
woman, and by sheer force of goodness you could make an enormous
sacrifice for the sake of what you thought right."
"And would not that be forgiveness?"
"No.  If you freely forgave him, it would be no sacrifice, for you would
believe in him again. You would have just the same faith in Harmon which
you had on the day you married him.  If forgiveness means anything, it
means that one takes back the man who has hurt one, on the same real,
inward terms with oneself on which one formerly lived with him.  You
cannot do that, for it would not be sane."
"No, I cannot quite do that," Helen answered, after a moment’s thought.
"It would not be true to say that I had even thought I could. But then,
if you put it in that way, it would be hard to forgive any one, and it
would generally be foolish.  There is something wrong about your way of
looking at it."
"I am not a woman," said Wimpole, simply. "That is what is the matter.
At the same time, I do not see how you, as a woman, are ever going to
reconcile what you believe to be your duty to Harmon with what is
certainly your duty to your son."
"I must," said Helen.  "I must."
"Then you must do it before you write to Harmon, for afterwards it will
be impossible. You must decide first what you will do with Archie to
keep him out of danger.  When you have made up your mind about that, if
you choose to sacrifice yourself, nobody can prevent you.  At least you
will not be ruining him, too."
He saw no reason for not putting the case plainly, since what he said
was true.  Yet as he felt his advantage, he knew that by pressing it he
was increasing her perplexity.  In all his life he had never been in so
difficult a position.  She stood close beside him, her arm almost
touching his, and he had loved her all his life, as few men love, with
an honesty and purity that were more than quixotic.  What there was
left, he could have borne for her sake, even to seeing her united again
with Henry Harmon.  But the thought of the risk she was running was more
than he could bear.  He would use argument, stratagem, force, anything,
to keep her out of such a life; and when he had succeeded in saving her,
he would be capable of denying himself even the sight of her, lest his
conscience should accuse him of having acted for himself rather than for
her alone.
He remembered Harmon’s face as he had last seen it, coarse, cunning,
seamed with dissipation, and he looked sideways at Helen, white, weary,
bruised, a fast fading rose of yesterday, as she had called herself.
The thought of Harmon’s touch was more than he could bear.
"You shall not do it!" he exclaimed, after a long silence.  "I will make
it impossible."
Almost before he spoke the last words, he had repented them.  Helen drew
herself up and faced him, one hand on the window-sill.
"Colonel Wimpole," she said, "I know that you have always been my best
friend.  But you must not talk in that way.  I cannot allow even you to
come between me and what I think is right."
He bent his head a little.
"I beg your pardon," he answered, in a low voice.  "I should have done
it--not said it."
"I hope you will never think of it again," said Helen.
She left the window, and felt in the dark for matches, on the table, to
light a small candle she used for sealing letters.  It cast a faint
light up to her sad face.  Wimpole had stayed by the window, and watched
her now, while she looked towards him over the little flame.
"Please go, now," she said gravely.  "I cannot bear to talk about this
any longer."
                              CHAPTER VIII
After the door had closed, Helen stood a moment by the table,
motionless.  Then she sat down by the feeble light of the taper and
wrote upon a sheet of paper her husband’s address and one
word--’forgiven.’  She looked at the writing fixedly for a minute or
two, and then rang the bell.
"Have this telegram sent at once, please, and bring me a lamp and
dinner," she said to the servant.
With the lamp came Archie, following it with a sort of interest, as
children do.
"You must have been in the dark ever so long, mother," he said, and just
then he saw her white face.  "You are not looking all right," he
observed.
Helen smiled, from force of habit, rather wearily.  The servant began to
set the table, moving stealthily, as though he were meditating some
sudden surprise which never came. He was a fairly intelligent Swiss,
with an immense pink face and very small blue eyes.
Helen watched him for a moment, and sighed. The man was intellectually
her son’s superior, and she knew it.  Any one else might have smiled at
the thought, as grotesque, but it had for her the cruel vividness of a
misfortune that had saddened all of her life which her husband had not
embittered.  She envied, for her son, the poor waiter’s little powers of
mental arithmetic and memory.
"What’s the matter, mother?" asked Archie, who sat looking at her.
"Nothing, dear," she answered, rousing herself, and smiling wearily
again.  "I am a little tired, perhaps.  It has been a hot day."
"Has it?  I didn’t notice.  I never do--at least, not much.  I say,
mother, let’s go home! I’m tired of Europe, and I know you are.  Let’s
all go home together--we and the Wimpoles."
"We shall be going home soon," said Helen.
"I thought you meant to go to Carlsbad first. Wasn’t it to Carlsbad we
were going?"
"Yes, dear.  But--here comes dinner--we will talk about it by and by."
They sat down to table.  In hotels abroad Helen always dined in her
rooms, for she was never quite sure of Archie.  He seemed strangely
unconscious of his own defect of mind, and was always ready to enter
boldly into conversation with his neighbours at a foreign hotel dinner
table.  His childish ignorance had once or twice caused her such
humiliation as she did not feel called upon to bear again.
"I don’t know why we shouldn’t talk about it now," began Archie, when he
had eaten his soup in silence, and the servant was changing his plate.
"We shall be alone, after dinner," answered his mother.
"Oh, the waiter doesn’t care!  He’ll never see us again, you know, so
why shouldn’t we say anything we like before him?"
Mrs. Harmon looked at her son and shook her head gravely, which was an
admonition he always understood.
"Did you see anything you liked, to-day?" she asked incautiously, by way
of changing the conversation.
"Rather!" exclaimed Archie, promptly.  "I met Sylvia Strahan--jukes!"
Helen shuddered, as she saw the look in his face and the glitter in his
eyes.
"I wish you could remember not to say ’jukes’ every other minute,
Archie," she said, for the thousandth time.
"Do you think Sylvia minds when I say ’jukes’?" asked the young man,
suddenly.
"I am sure she thinks it a very ugly and senseless word."
"Does she?  Really?"  He was silent for a few moments, pondering the
question.  "Well," he resumed at last, in a regretful tone, "I’ve always
said it, and I like it, and I don’t see any harm in it.  But, of course,
if Sylvia doesn’t like it, I’ve got to give it up, that’s all.  I’m
always going to do what Sylvia likes, now, as long as I live.  And what
you like, too, mother," he added as an apologetic and dutiful
afterthought. "But then, you’re pretty sure to like the same things,
after all."
"You really must not go on in this way about Sylvia, my dear," said
Helen.  "It is too absurd."
Archie’s heavy brows met right across his forehead as he looked up with
something like a glare in his eyes, and his voice was suddenly thick and
indistinct, when he answered.
"Don’t call it absurd, mother.  I don’t understand what it is, but it’s
stronger than I am. I don’t want anything but Sylvia.  Things don’t
amuse me any more.  It was only to-day--"
He stopped, for he was going to tell her how he had found no pleasure in
his toys, neither in the blocks, nor in the tin soldiers, nor in the
little papier-mâché lady and gentleman in the painted cart.  But he
thought she did not know about them, and he checked himself in a sudden
shame which he had never felt before.  A deep red blush spread over his
dark face, and he looked down at his plate.
"I’m a man, now," he said, through his teeth, in a rough voice.
After that, he was silent for a time, but Helen watched him nervously.
She, too, saw that he was a man, with almost less than a boy’s mind, and
her secret terror grew.  She could not eat that evening, but he did not
notice her. They dined quickly and then they sat down together, as they
usually did, quite near to each other and side by side.  She could
sometimes teach him little things which he remembered, when everything
was quiet.  He generally began to talk of something he had seen, and she
always tried to make him understand it and think about it.  But this
evening he said nothing for a long time, and she was glad of his
silence.  When she thought of the telegram she had sent, she had a sharp
pain at her heart, and once or twice she started a little in her chair.
But Archie did not notice her.
"I say, mother," he began, looking up, "what becomes of all the things
one forgets?  Do they--do they go to sleep in one’s head?"
Mrs. Harmon looked at him in surprise, for it was by far the most
thoughtful question he had ever asked.  She could not answer it at once,
and he went on.
"Because you always tell me to try and remember, and you think I could
remember if I tried hard enough.  Then you must believe the things are
there.  You wouldn’t expect me to give you what I hadn’t got, would you?
That wouldn’t be fair."
"No, certainly not," answered his mother, considerably puzzled.
"Then you really think that I don’t forget. You must think I don’t
remember to remember. Something like that.  I can’t explain what I mean,
but you understand."
"I suppose so, my dear.  Something like that.  Yes, perhaps it is just
as you say, and things go to sleep in one’s head and one has to wake
them up.  But I know that I can often remember things I have forgotten
if I try very hard."
"I can’t.  I say, mother, I suppose I’m stupid, though you never tell me
so.  I know I’m different from other people, somehow.  I wish you would
tell me just what it is.  I don’t want to be different from other
people.  Of course I know I could never be as clever as you, nor the
colonel.  But then you’re awfully clever, both of you.  Father used to
call me an idiot, but I’m not.  I saw an idiot once, and his eyes turned
in, and he couldn’t shut his mouth, and he couldn’t talk properly."
"Are you sure that your father ever called you an idiot, Archie?"
Helen’s lips were oddly pale, and her voice was low.  Archie laughed in
a wooden way.
"Oh, yes!  I’m quite sure," he said.  "I remember, because he hit me on
the back of the head with the knob of his stick when he said so. That
was the first time.  Then he got into the way of saying it.  I wasn’t
very big then."
Helen leaned back and closed her eyes, and in her mind she saw the word
’forgiven’ as she had written it after his name,--’Henry Harmon, New
York.  Forgiven.’  It had a strange look.  She had not known that he had
ever struck the boy cruelly.
"Why did you never tell me?" she asked slowly.
"Oh, I don’t know.  It would have been like a cry-a-baby to go running
to you.  I just waited."
Helen did not guess what was coming.
"Did he strike you again with the knob of his stick?" she asked.
"Lots of times, with all sorts of things. Once, when you were off
somewhere for two or three days on a visit, he came at me with a poker.
That was the last time.  I suppose he had been drinking more than
usual."
"What happened?" asked Helen.
"Oh, well, I’d grown big then, and I got sick of it all at once, you
know.  He never tried to touch me again, after that."
Helen recalled distinctly that very unusual occasion when she had been
absent for a whole week, at the time of a sister’s death.  Harmon had
seemed ill when she had returned, and she remembered noticing a great
change in his manner towards the boy only a few months before he had
become insane.
"What did you do?" she asked.
"I hit him.  I hit him badly, a good many times.  Then I put him to bed.
I knew he wouldn’t tell."
Archie smiled slowly at the recollection of beating his father, and
looked down at his fist. Helen felt as though she were going mad
herself. It was all horribly unnatural,--the father’s cruel brutality to
his afflicted son, the son’s ferocious vengeance upon his father when he
had got his strength.
"You see," continued Archie, "I knew exactly how many times he had hit
me altogether, and I gave all the hits back at once.  That was fair,
anyhow."
Helen could not remember that he had ever professed to be sure of an
exact number from memory.
"How could you know just how many times--"  She spoke faintly, and
stopped, half sick.
"Blocks," answered Archie.  "I dropped a little blot of ink on one of my
blocks every time he hit me.  I used to count the ones that had blots on
them every morning.  When they all had one blot each, I began on the
other side, till I got round again.  Some had blots on several sides at
last.  I don’t know how many there were, now; but it was all right, for
I used to count them every morning and remember all day.  There must
have been forty or fifty, I suppose.  But I know it was all right.  I
didn’t want to be unfair, and I hit him slowly and counted.  Oh,"--his
eyes brightened suddenly,--"I’ve got the blocks here.  I’ll go and get
them, and we can count them together.  Then you’ll know exactly."
Helen could not say anything, and Archie was gone.  She only half
understood what the blocks were, and did not care to know.  There was an
unnatural horror in it all, and Archie spoke of it quite simply and
without any particular resentment.  She was still half dazed when he
came back with the mysterious box in which he kept his toys.
He set it down on the floor at her feet and knelt beside it, feeling for
the key in his pocket.
"I don’t care if you see all the things now," he said.  "They don’t
amuse me any more."
Nevertheless, she saw the blush of shame rising to his forehead as he
bent down and put the key into the lock.
"I don’t care, after all," he said, before he lifted the lid.  "It’s
only you, mother, and you won’t think I was a baby just because they
amused me.  I don’t care for them any more, mother.  Indeed I don’t; so
I may as well make a clean breast of it and tell you.  Besides, you must
see the blocks.  All the blots are there still, quite plain, and we can
count them, and then you’ll always remember, though I shan’t. Here they
are.  I’ve carried them about a long time, you know, and they’re getting
pretty old, especially the soldiers.  There isn’t much paint left on
them, and the captain’s head’s gone."
Helen leaned forward, her elbow on her knees, her chin resting on her
hand, her eyes dim, and her heart beating oddly.  It seemed as though
nothing were spared her on that day.
Archie unpacked the toys in silence, and arranged the blocks all on one
side in a neat pile, while on the other he laid the soldiers and the
little cart, with the few remaining toys.  Helen’s eyes became riveted
on the bits of wood.  There were about twenty of them, and she could
plainly distinguish on them the little round blots which Archie had
made, one for each blow he had received.  He began to count, and Helen
followed him mechanically.  He was very methodical, for he knew that he
was easily confused.  When he had counted the blots on each block, he
put it behind him on the floor before he took another from the pile.  He
finished at last.
"Sixty-three--ju--!"  He checked himself. "I forgot.  I won’t say
’jukes’ any more.  I won’t.  There were sixty-three in all, mother.
Besides, I remember now.  Yes; there were sixty-three.  I remember that
it took a long time, because I was afraid of not being fair."
Again he smiled at the recollection, with some satisfaction, perhaps, at
his conscientious rectitude.  With those hands of his, it was a wonder
that he had not killed his father.  Helen sat like a stone figure, and
watched him unconsciously, while her thoughts ground upon each other in
her heart like millstones, and her breath half choked her.
He swept all the blocks back in front of him, and, by force of habit, he
began to build a little house before he put them away.  She watched his
strong hands, that could do such childish things, and the bend of his
athletic neck.  His head was not ill-shaped nor defective under the
thick short hair.
"Did he always strike you on the head, Archie?" she asked suddenly.
He knocked the little house over with a sweep of his hand and looked up.
"Generally," he said quietly.  "But it doesn’t matter, you know.  He
generally went for the back of my head because it didn’t make any mark,
as I have such thick hair, so I hit him in the same place.  It’s all
right.  It was quite fair.  I say, mother, I’m going to throw these
things away, now that you know all about them. What’s the good of
keeping them, anyway? I’m sure I don’t know why I ever liked them."
"Give them to me," answered Helen.  "Perhaps some poor child might like
them."
But she knew that she meant to keep them.
"Well, there isn’t much paint on those tin soldiers, you know.  I don’t
believe any child would care for them much.  At least not so much as I
did, because I was used to them.  Of course that made a difference.  But
you may have them, if you like.  I don’t want them any more.  They’re
only in the way."
"Give them to me, for the present."
"All right, mother."  And he began to pack the toys into the box.
He did it very carefully and neatly, for the habit was strong, though
the memory was weak. Still Helen watched him, without changing her
attitude.  He sighed as he put in the last of the tin soldiers.
"I suppose I shall really never care for them again," he said.
He looked at them with a sort of affection and touched some of the
things lightly, arranging them a little better.  Then he shut the lid
down, turned the key, and held it out to his mother.
"There you are," he said.  "Anyhow, the blocks helped me to remember.
Sixty-three, wasn’t it, mother?"
"Sixty-three," repeated Helen, mechanically.
Then, for the second time on that evening, she turned her face to the
cushion of her chair, and shook from head to foot, and sobbed aloud. She
had realized what the number meant. Sixty-three times, in the course of
years, had Henry Harmon struck his son upon the head. It was strange
that Archie should have any wits at all, and it was no wonder that they
were not like those of other men.  And it had all been a secret, kept by
the child first, then by the growing boy, then by the full-grown man,
till his thews and sinews had toughened upon him and he had turned and
paid back blow for blow, all at once.  And last of all the father had
struck her, with a thought of revenge, perhaps, as well as in passion,
because he dared not raise his hand against his strong son.
Again she saw the words of her telegram, ’Henry Harmon, New York.
Forgiven,’ and they were in letters of fire that her tears could not
quench.  She had not known how much she was forgiving.  Archie knelt
beside her in wonder, for he had never seen her cry in his life. He
touched her arm lovingly, trying to see her face, and his own softened
strangely, growing more human as it grew more childlike.
"Don’t, mother!  Please don’t cry like that! If I had thought you would
cry about it, I’d never have told you.  Besides, it couldn’t have hurt
him so very much--"
"Him!"
Helen’s voice rang out, and she turned, with a fierce light in her angry
eyes.  In a quick movement her arms ran round Archie’s neck and drew him
passionately to her breast, and she kissed his head, again and again,
always his head, upon the short, thick hair, till he wondered, and
laughed.
When they were quiet again, sitting side by side, her battle began once
more, and she knew that it must all be fought over on different ground.
She had forgiven Henry Harmon, as well as she could, for her own wrongs;
but there were others now, and they seemed worse to her than anything
she had suffered.  It was just to think so, too, for she knew that at
any time she could have left Harmon without blame or stain.  It had been
in her power, but she had chosen not to do it.
But the boy had been powerless and silent through long years.  She had
never even guessed that his father had ever struck him cruelly.  At the
merest suspicion of such a thing she would have turned upon her husband
as only mothers do turn, tigresses or women. But Archie had kept his
secret, while his strength quietly grew upon him, and then he had paid
the long score with his own hands. Out of shame, Harmon had kept the
secret, too.
Yet she had said in one word that she forgave him, and the word
determined the rest of her life.  A suffering, a short, sad respite, and
then suffering again; that was to sum the history of her years.  She
must suffer to the end, more and more.
And all at once it seemed to her that she could not bear it.  For
herself she might have forgiven anything.  She had pardoned all for
herself, from the first neglect to the scar on her forehead.  But it was
another matter to forgive for Archie.  Why should she?  What justice
could there be in that?  What right had she to absolve Harmon for his
cruelty to her child?
She must ask Archie if he forgave his father. She could no longer decide
the question alone, and Archie had the best of rights to be consulted.
Wimpole’s words came back to her, asking whether it could do Archie any
good to be under the same roof with his father; and all at once she saw
that her whole married life had been centred in her son much more than
in herself.
Besides, he must be told that his father had recovered, for every one
must know it soon, and people would speak of it before him, and think it
very strange if he were ignorant of it.  She hid from herself the
underthought that Archie must surely refuse to live with his father,
after all that had passed, and the wild hope of escape from what she had
undertaken to do, which the suggestion raised.
She sat silent and thoughtful, her tears drying on her cheeks, while her
son still knelt beside her.  But without looking at him, she laid her
hand on his arm, and her grasp tightened while she was thinking.
"What is it, mother?  What is it?" he asked again and again.
At last she let her eyes go to his, and she answered him.
"Your father is well again.  By this time he must have left the asylum.
Shall we go back to him?"
"I suppose we must, if he’s all right," answered Archie, promptly.
Helen’s face fell suddenly, for she had expected a strong refusal.
"Can you forgive him for all he did to you?" she asked slowly.
"I don’t see that there’s much to forgive. He hit me, and I hit him just
as often; so we’re square.  He won’t hit me now, because he’s afraid of
me.  I hate him, of course, and he hates me.  It’s quite fair.  He
thinks I’m stupid, and I think he’s mean; but I don’t see that there’s
anything to forgive him.  I suppose he’s made so.  If he’s all right
again, I don’t see but what we shall have to go and live with him again.
I don’t see what you’re going to do about it, mother."
Helen buried her face in her hands, not sobbing again, but thinking.
She did not see ’what she was going to do about it,’ as Archie expressed
the situation.  If she had not already sent the telegram, it would have
been different.  The young man’s rough phrases showed that he had not
the slightest fear of his father, and he was ignorant of what she
herself had suffered.  Much she had hidden from him altogether, and his
dulness had seen nothing of the rest.  He supposed, if he thought
anything about it, that his mother had been unhappy because Harmon drank
hard, and stayed away from home unaccountably, and often spoke roughly
and rudely when he had been drinking.  To his unsensitive nature and
half-developed mind these things had seemed regrettable, but not so very
terrible, after all. Helen had been too loyal to hold up Harmon as an
example of evil to his son, and the boy had grown up accustomed to what
disgusted and revolted her, as well as ignorant of what hurt her; while
his own unfinished character was satisfied with a half-barbarous
conception of what was fair so far as he himself was concerned.  He had
given blow for blow and bruise for bruise, and on a similar
understanding he was prepared to return to similar conditions. Helen saw
it all in a flash, but she could not forgive Harmon.
"I can’t!  I can’t!" she repeated aloud, and she pressed Archie’s arm
again.
"Can’t--what, mother?" he asked.  "Can’t go back?"
"How can I, after this?  How can I ever bear to see him, to touch his
hand,--his hand that hurt you, Archie,--that hurt you so much more than
you ever dream of?"
There were tears in her voice again, and again she pressed him close to
her.  But he did not understand.
"Oh, that’s all right, mother," he answered. "Don’t cry about me!  I
made it all right with him long ago.  And I don’t suppose he hurt me
more than I dreamed of, either.  That’s only a way of talking, you know.
It used to make me feel rather stupid.  But then, I’m stupid anyway; so
even that didn’t matter much."  And Archie smiled indifferently.
"More than you think, more than you know!" She kissed his hair.  "It was
that--it may have been that--it must have been--I know it was--"
She was on the point of breaking down again.
"What?" he asked with curiosity.  "What do you mean?  I don’t
understand."
Helen’s voice sank low, and she hardly seemed to be speaking to her son.
"Your father made you what you are," she said, and her face grew cold
and hard.
"What?  Stupid?" asked Archie, cheerfully. Then his face changed, too.
"I say, mother," he went on, in another voice, "do you think I’m so dull
because he hit me on the head?"
Helen repented her words, scarcely knowing why, but sure that it would
have been better not to speak them.  She did not answer the question.
"That’s what you think," said Archie.  "And it’s because I’m not like
other people that you say it’s absurd of me to want to marry Sylvia
Strahan, isn’t it?  And that’s my father’s doing? Is that what you
think?"
He waited for an answer, but none came at once.  Helen was startled by
the clear sequence of ideas, far more logical than most of his
reasonings.  It seemed as if his sudden passion for Sylvia had roused
his sluggish intelligence from its long torpor.  She could not deny the
truth of what he said, and he saw that she could not.
"That’s it," he continued.  "That’s what you think.  I knew it."
His brows knitted themselves straight across his forehead, and his eyes
were fixed upon his mother’s face, as he knelt beside her.  She had not
been looking at him, but she turned to him slowly now.
"And that’s why you ask whether I can forgive him," he concluded.
"Can you?"
"No."
He rose to his feet from his knees easily, by one movement, and she
watched him.  Then there was a long silence and he began to walk up and
down.
Helen felt as if she had done something disloyal, and that he had given
the answer for which she had been longing intensely, as an escape from
her decision, and as a means of freedom from bondage to come.  She could
ask herself now what right she had to expect that Archie should forgive
his father.  But, instead, she asked what right she could have had to
give Archie so good a reason for hating him, when the boy had not
suspected that which, after all, might not be the truth.  She had made
an enormous sacrifice in sending the message of forgiveness for her own
wrongs, but it seemed to her, all at once, that in rousing Archie’s
resentment for his own injuries she had marred the purity of her own
intention.
Indeed she was in no state to judge herself, for what Archie had told
her was a goad in her wound, with a terror of new pain.
"You cannot forgive him," she said mechanically and almost to herself.
"Why should I?" asked Archie.  "It means Sylvia to me.  How can I
forgive him that?"
And suddenly, without waiting for any answer, he went out and left her
alone.
After a long time, she wrote this letter to her husband:
DEAR HENRY,--I am very glad to hear of your recovery, and I have
received your letter to-day, together with the doctor’s.  I have
telegraphed the one word for which you asked, and you have probably got
the message already. But I must answer your letter as well as I can, and
say a great many things which I shall never say again.  If we are to
meet and try to live together, it is better that I should speak plainly
before I see you.
You asked a great deal of me, and for myself I have done what you asked.
I do not say this to make it seem as though I were making a great
sacrifice and wished you to admit it.  We were not happy together; you
say that it was your fault, and you ask me to forgive you.  If I
believed that you had been in full possession of your senses till you
were taken ill, I do not think that forgiveness could be possible.  You
see, I am frank.  I am sure that you often did not know what you said
and did, and that when you did know, you could not always weigh the
consequences of your words and actions.  So I will try to forget them.
That is what you mean by being forgiven, and it is the only meaning
either you or I can put upon the word.  I will try to forget, and I will
bear no malice for anything in the past, so far as I am concerned.
Never speak of it, when we meet, and I never will.  If you really wish
to try the experiment of living together again, I am willing to attempt
it, as an experiment.
But there is Archie to be considered, and Archie will not forgive you.
By a mere chance, to-day, after I had sent my telegram, he told me that
you used to strike him cruelly and often because his dulness irritated
you. You struck him on the head, and you injured his brain, so that his
mind has never developed fully and never can.
I do not think that if I were a man, as he is, I could forgive that.
Could you?  Do you expect that I should, being his mother?  You cannot.
You and he can never live under the same roof again.  It would perhaps
be harder for you, feeling as you must, than for him; but in any case it
is not possible, and there is only one arrangement to be made.  We must
put Archie in some place where he shall be safe and healthy and happy,
and I will spend a part of the year with you and a part with him.  I
will not give him up for you, and I am not willing to give you up for
him.  Neither would be right. You are my husband, whatever there may
have been in the past; but Archie is my child.  It will be harder for me
than for him, too.
You say that I might have got a divorce from you, and you do me the
justice to add that you believe I have never thought of it.  That is
true, but it is not a proof of affection.  I have none for you.  I told
you that I should speak plainly, and it is much better.  It would be an
ignoble piece of comedy on my part to pretend to be fond of you.  I was
once.  I admired you, I suppose, and I liked you well enough to marry
you, being rather ignorant of the world and of what people could feel.
If you had really loved me and been kind to me, I should have loved you
in the end.  But, as it turned out, I could not go on admiring you long,
and I simply ceased to like you.  That is our story, and it is a sad
one.  We made the great mistake, for we married without much love on
either side, and we were very young.
But it was a marriage, just the same, and a bond which I never meant to
break and will not break now. A promise is a promise, whatever happens,
and a vow made before God is ten times a promise.  So I always mean to
keep mine to you, as I have kept it.  I will do my best to make you
happy, and you must do your part to make it possible.
After all, that is the way most people live.  True love, lasting
lifetimes and not changing, exists in the world, and it is the hope of
it that makes youth lovely and marriage noble.  Few people find it, and
the many who do not must live as well as they can without it. That is
what we must do.  Perhaps, though the hope of love is gone, we may find
peace together.  Let us try.
But not with Archie.  There are things which no woman can forgive nor
forget.  I could not forgive you this if I loved you with all my heart,
and you must not expect it of me, for it is not in my power.  The harm
was not done to me, but to him, and he is more to me than you ever were,
and far more to me than myself. I will only say that.  There can be no
need of ever speaking about it, but I want you to understand; and not
only this, but everything.  That is why I write such a long letter.
It must all be perfectly clear, and I hope I have made it so.  It was I
who suffered for the great mistake we made in marrying, but you are
sorry for that, and I say, let us try the experiment and see whether we
can live together in peace for the rest of our lives.  You are changed
since your illness, I have no doubt, and you will make it as easy as you
can.  At least, you will do your best, and so shall I.
Have I repeated myself in this letter?  At least, I have tried to be
clear and direct.  Besides, you know me, and you know what I mean by
writing in this way. I am in earnest.
God bless you, Henry.  I hope this may turn out well.  HELEN.
It was ten o’clock when she had finished. She laid her hand upon the
bell, meaning to send her letter to the post office by a servant; but
just then the sound of laughing voices came up to her through the open
window, and she did not ring.  Looking out, she saw that there were
still many people in the street, for it was a warm evening.  It was only
a step from her hotel to the post office, and if she went herself she
should have the satisfaction of knowing positively that the letter was
safe.  She put on a hat with a thick veil, and went out.
                               CHAPTER IX
Colonel Wimpole looked positively old that evening when he went down to
dinner with his sister and Sylvia.  His face was drawn and weary and the
lids hung a little, in small wrinkles; but down in his grey eyes there
was a far-off gleam of danger-light.
Sylvia looked down when she met him, and she was very silent and grave
at first.  At dinner she sat between him and Miss Wimpole, and for some
time she scarcely dared to glance at him.  He, on his part, was too much
preoccupied to speak much, and she thought he was displeased.
Nevertheless, he was more than usually thoughtful for her.  She
understood by the way he sat, and even by the half-unconscious shrinking
of the elbow next to her, that he was sorry for her.  At table, seated
close together, there is a whole language in one’s neighbour’s elbow and
an unlimited power of expression in its way of avoiding collisions. Very
perceptive people understand that.  Primarily, in savage life, the bold
man turns his elbows out, while the timid one presses them to his sides,
as though not to give offence with them.  Society teaches us to put on
some little airs of timidity as a substitute for the modesty that few
feel, and we accordingly draw in our elbows when we are near any one.
It is ridiculous enough, but there are a hundred ways of doing it, a
hundred degrees of readiness, unwillingness, pride, or consideration for
others, as well as sympathy for their troubles or in their successes,
all of which are perfectly natural to refined people, and almost
entirely unconscious. The movement of a man’s jaws at dinner shows much
of his real character, but the movement of his elbows shows with fair
accuracy the degree of refinement in which he has been brought up.
Sylvia was sure that the colonel was sorry for her, and the certainty
irritated her, for she hated to be pitied, and most of all for having
done something foolish.  She glanced at Wimpole’s tired face, just when
he was looking a little away from her, and she was startled by the
change in his features since the early afternoon. It needed no very keen
perception to see that he was in profound anxiety of some kind, and she
knew of nothing which could have disturbed him deeply but her own
conduct.
Under the vivid light of the public dining table, he looked old.  That
was undeniable, and it was really the first time that Sylvia had
definitely connected the idea of age with him.  Just beyond him sat a
man in the early prime of strength, one of those magnificent specimens
of humanity such as one sees occasionally in travelling but whom one
very rarely knows in acquaintance.  He could not have been more than
twenty-eight years old, straight in his seat, broad-shouldered, with
thick, close, golden hair and splendid golden beard, white forehead and
sunburned cheeks, broad, well-modelled brows and faultless nose, and
altogether manly in spite of his beauty.  As he leaned forward a little,
his fresh young face appeared beside the colonel’s tired profile, in
vivid contrast.
For the first time, Sylvia realized the meaning of Wimpole’s words,
spoken that afternoon.  He might almost have been her grandfather, and
he was in reality of precisely the same age as her father.  Sylvia
looked down again and reflected that she must have made a mistake with
herself. Youth can sometimes close its eyes to grey hair, but it can
never associate the idea of love with old age, when clearly brought to
its perceptions.
For at least five minutes the world seemed utterly hollow to Sylvia, as
she sat there.  She did not even wonder why she had thought the colonel
young until then.  The sudden dropping out of her first great illusion
left a void as big and as hollow as itself.
She turned her head, and looked once more, and there, again, was the
glorious, unseamed youth of the stranger, almost dazzling her and making
the poor colonel look more than ever old, with his pale, furrowed cheeks
and wrinkled eyelids.  She thought a moment, and then she was sure that
she could never like such a terribly handsome young man; and at the same
instant, for the first time in her life, she felt that natural, foolish,
human pity which only extreme youth feels for old age, and she wondered
why she had not always felt it, for it seemed quite natural, and was
altogether in accordance with the rest of her feelings for the colonel,
with her reverence for his perfect character, her admiration for his
past deeds, her attachment to his quiet, protective, wise, and
all-gentle manliness.  That was her view of his qualities, and she had
to admit that though he had them all, he was what she called old.  She
had taken for love what was only a combination of reverence and
attachment and admiration. She realized her mistake in a flash, and it
seemed to her that the core had withered in the fruit of the universe.
Just then the colonel turned to her, holding his glass in his hand.
"We must not forget that it is your birthday, my dear," he said, and his
natural smile came back.  "Rachel," he added, speaking to his sister
across the young girl, "let us drink Sylvia’s health on her eighteenth
birthday."
Miss Wimpole usually took a little thin Moselle with the cold water she
drank.  She solemnly raised the glass, and inclined her head as she
looked first at Sylvia and then at the colonel.
"Thank you," said Sylvia, rather meekly.
Then they all relapsed into silence.  The people at the big table talked
fast, in low tones, and the clattering of dishes and plates and knives
and forks went on steadily and untunefully all around.  Sylvia felt
lonely in the unindividual atmosphere of the Swiss hotel.  She hated the
terribly handsome young man, with a mortal hatred, because he made the
colonel look old.  She could not help seeing him whenever she turned
towards Wimpole.  At last she spoke softly, looking down at her plate.
"Uncle Richard," she said, to call his attention.
He was not really her uncle, and she almost always called him ’colonel,’
half playfully, and because she had hated the suggestion of age that is
conveyed by the word ’uncle.’  Wimpole turned to her quietly.
"Yes, my dear," he said.  "What is it?"
"I suppose I was very foolish to-day, wasn’t I?" asked Sylvia, very low
indeed, and a bright blush played upon her pretty face.
The colonel was a courteous man, and was also very fond of her.
"A woman need never be wise when she is lovely," he said in his rather
old-fashioned way, and he smiled affectionately at the young girl. "It
is quite enough if she is good."
But she did not smile.  On the contrary, her face became very grave.
"I am in earnest," she said, and she waited a moment before saying more.
"I was very foolish," she continued, thoughtfully.  "I did not
understand--or I did not realize--I don’t know.  You have been so much
to me all my life, and there is nobody like you, of course.  It seemed
to me--I mean, it seems to me--that is very much like really caring for
some one, isn’t it?  You know what I mean.  I can’t express it."
"You mean that it is a good deal like love, I suppose," answered the
colonel, speaking gravely now.  "Yes, I suppose that love is better when
people believe each other to be angels.  But it is not that sort of
thing which makes love what it is."
"What is it, then?"  Sylvia was glad to ask any question that helped to
break through the awkwardness and embarrassment she felt towards him.
"There are a great many kinds of love," he said; "but I think there is
only one kind worth having.  It is the kind that begins when one is
young, and lasts all one’s life."
"Is that all?" asked Sylvia, innocently, and in a disappointed tone.
"All!"  The colonel laughed softly, and a momentary light of happiness
came into his face, for that all was all he had ever had.  "Is not that
enough, my dear?" he asked.  "To love one woman or man with all one’s
heart for thirty or forty years?  Never to be disappointed? Never to
feel that one has made a mistake? Never to fear that love may grow old
because one grows old oneself?  Is not that enough?"
"Ah, yes!  That would be, indeed.  But you did not say all those other
things at first."
"They are just what make a life-long love," answered the colonel.  "But
then," he added, "there are a great many degrees, far below that. I am
sure I have seen people quite really in love with each other for a
week."
Sylvia suddenly looked almost angry as she glanced at him.
"That sort of thing ought not to be called love at all!" she answered
energetically.  "It is nothing but a miserable flirtation,--a miserable,
wretched, unworthy flirtation."
"I quite agree with you," said Wimpole, smiling at her vehemence.
"Why do you laugh?" she asked, almost offended by his look.  His smile
