name maintained itself as a kind of symbol 
of the success that, up to this time, had 
attended something or other she couldn't 
have said what that she humoured herself 
with calling, without words, her relation 
with him. 
XI 
She would have admitted indeed that it 
consisted of little more than the fact that his 
absences, however frequent and however 
long, always ended with his turning up 
again. It was nobody 's business in the 
world but her own if that fact continued to 
be enough for her. It was of course not 
enough just in itself; what it had taken on 
to make it so was the extraordinary posses 
sion of the elements of his life that memory 
and attention had at last given her. There 
came a day when this possession, on the 
girl 's part, actually seemed to enjoy, between 
them, while their eyes met, a tacit recogni 
tion that was half a joke and half a deep 
solemnity. He bade her good-morning 
always now ; he often quite raised his hat to 
her. He passed a remark when there was 
time or room, and once she went so far as 
to say to him that she had not seen him for 
ages. Ages was the word she consciously 
and carefully, though a trifle tremulously, 
used; ages was exactly what she meant. 
To this he replied in terms doubtless less 
anxiously selected, but perhaps on that 
account not the less remarkable, Oh yes, 
hasn' t it been awfully wet? That was a 
specimen of their give and take ; it fed her 
fancy that no form of intercourse so tran 
scendent and distilled had ever been estab 
lished on earth. Everything, so far as they 
chose to consider it so, might mean almost 
anything. The want of margin in the cage, 
when he peeped through the bars, wholly 
ceased to be appreciable. It was a drawback 
only in superficial commerce. With Captain 
Everard she had simply the margin of the 
universe. It may be imagined, therefore, 
how their unuttered reference to all she 
knew about him could, in this immensity, 
play at its ease. Every time he handed in 
a telegram it was an addition to her knowl 
edge : what did his constant smile mean to 
mark if it didn' t mean to mark that? He 
never came into the place without saying to 
her in this manner: Oh yes, you have me 
by this time so completely at your mercy 
that it doesn' t in the least matter what I 
give you now. You've become a comfort, I 
assure you! 
She had only two torments ; the greatest 
of which was that she couldn t, not even 
once or twice, touch with him on some indi 
vidual fact. She would have given anything 
to have been able to allude to one of his 
friends by name, to one of his engagements 
by date, to one of his difficulties by the solu 
tion. She would have given almost as much 
for just the right chance it would have 
to be tremendously right to show him in 
some sharp, sweet way that she had perfectly 
penetrated the greatest of these last and now 
lived with it in a kind of heroism of sym 
pathy. He was in love with a woman to 
whom, and to any view of whom, a lady- 
telegraphist, and especially one who passed 
a life among hams and cheeses, was as the 
sand on the floor; and what her dreams 
desired was the possibility of it somehow 
coming to him that her own interest in him 
could take a pure and noble account of such 
an infatuation and even of such an impro 
priety. As yet, however, she could only rub 
along with the hope that an accident, sooner 
or later, might give her a lift toward pop 
ping out with something that would surprise 
and perhaps even, some fine day, assist him. 
What could people mean, moreover 
cheaply sarcastic people by not feeling all 
that could be got out of the weather? She 
felt it all, and seemed literally to feel it 
most when she went quite wrong, speaking 
of the stuffy days as cold, of the cold ones 
as stuffy, and betraying how little she knew, 
in her cage, of whether it was foul or fair. 
It was, for that matter, always stuffy at 
Cocker's, and she finally settled down to the 
safe proposition that the outside element was 
changeable. Anything seemed true that 
made him so radiantly assent. 
This indeed is a small specimen of her 
cultivation of insidious ways of making 
things easy for him ways to which of course 
she couldn't be at all sure that he did real 
justice. Real justice was not of this world: 
she had had too often to come back to that ; 
yet, strangely, happiness was, and her traps 
had to be set for it in a manner to keep them 
unperceived by Mr. Buckton and the coun 
ter-clerk. The most she could hope for apart 
from the question, which constantly flick 
ered up and died down, of the divine chance 
of his consciously liking her, would be that, 
without analysing it, he should arrive at a 
vague sense that Cocker 's was well, attrac 
tive; easier, smoother, sociably brighter, 
slightly more picturesque, in short more pro 
pitious in general to his little affairs, than 
any other establishment just thereabouts. 
She was quite aware that they couldn't be, 
in so huddled a hole, particularly quick ; but 
she found her account in the slowness sh^ 
certainly could bear it if he could. The 
great pang was that, just thereabouts, post- 
offices were so awfully thick. She was 
always seeing him, in imagination, in other 
places and with other girls. But she would 
defy any other girl to follow him as she fol 
lowed. And though they weren t, for so 
many reasons, quick at Cocker's, she could 
hurry for him when, through an intimation 
light as air, she gathered that he was 
pressed. 
When hurry was, better still, impossible, 
it was because of the pleasantest thing of 
all, the particular element of their contact 
she would have called it their friendship 
that consisted of an almost humourous treat 
ment of the look of some of his words. They 
would never perhaps have grown half so 
intimate if he had not, by the blessing of 
heaven, formed some of his letters with a 
queerness ! It was positive that the queer- 
ness could scarce have been greater if he 
had practised it for the very purpose of bring 
ing their heads together over it as far as was 
possible to heads on different sides of a cage. 
It had taken her in reality but once or 
twice to master these tricks, but, at the cost 
of striking him perhaps as stupid, she could 
still challenge them when circumstances 
favoured. The great circumstance that 
favoured was that she sometimes actually 
believed he knew she only feigned perplex 
ity. If he knew it, therefore, he tolerated 
it; if he tolerated it he came back; and if 
he came back he liked her. This was her 
seventh heaven ; and she didn' t ask much of 
his liking she only asked of it to reach the 
point of his not going away because of her 
own. He had at times to be away for 
weeks; he had to lead his life; he had to 
travel there were places to which he was 
constantly wiring for rooms : all this she 
granted him, forgave him; in fact, in the 
long run, literally blessed and thanked him 
for. If he had to lead his life, that pre 
cisely fostered his leading it so much by 
telegraph : therefore the benediction was to 
come in when he could. That was all she 
asked that he shouldn't wholly deprive her. 
Sometimes she almost felt that he couldn't 
have done so even had he been minded, on 
account of the web of revelation that was 
woven between them. She quite thrilled 
herself with thinking what, with such a lot 
of material, a bad girl would do. It would 
be a scene better than many in her ha penny 
novels, this going to him in the dusk of 
evening at Park Chambers and letting him 
at last have it. I know too much about a 
certain person now not to put it to you 
excuse my being so lurid that it 's quite 
worth your while to buy me off. Come, 
therefore, buy me! There was a point 
indeed at which such flights had to drop 
again the point of an unreadiness to name, 
when it came to that, the purchasing 
medium. It wouldn t, certainly, be any 
thing so gross as money, and the matter 
accordingly remained rather vague, all the 
more that she was not a bad girl. It was 
not for any such reason as might have 
aggravated a mere minx that she often 
hoped he would again bring Cissy. The 
difficulty of this, however, was constantly 
present to her, for the kind of communion 
to which Cocker 's so richly ministered rested 
on the fact that Cissy and he were so often 
in different places. She knew by this time 
all the places Suchbury, Monkhouse, White - 
roy, Finches and even how the parties, on 
these occasions, were composed; but her 
subtlety found ways to make her knowledge 
fairly protect and promote their keeping, as 
she had heard Mrs. Jordan say, in touch. 
So, when he actually sometimes smiled as 
if he really felt the awkwardness of giving 
her again one of the same old addresses, all 
her being went out in the desire which her 
face must have expressed that he should 
recognise her forbearance to criticise as one 
of the finest, tenderest sacrifices a woman 
had ever made for love. 
XII 
She was occasionally worried, all the 
same, by the impression that these sacrifices, 
great as they were, were nothing to those 
that his own passion had imposed ; if indeed 
it was not rather the passion of his confed 
erate, which had caught him up and was 
whirling him round like a great steam-wheel. 
He was at any rate in the strong grip of a 
dizzy, splendid fate ; the wild wind of his life 
blew him straight before it. Didn't she 
catch in his face, at times, even through 
his smile and his happy habit, the gleam of 
that pale glare with which a bewildered 
victim appeals, as he passes, to some pair 
of pitying eyes? He perhaps didn' t even 
himself know how scared he was; but she 
knew. They were in danger, they were in 
danger, Captain Everard and Lady Bradeen : 
it beat every novel in the shop. She 
thought of Mr. Mudge and his safe senti- 
ment; she thought of herself and blushed 
even more for her tepid response to it. It 
was a comfort to her at such moments to 
feel that in another relation a relation sup 
plying that affinity with her nature that Mr. 
Mudge, deluded creature, would never sup 
ply she should have been no more tepid 
than her ladyship. Her deepest soundings 
were on two or three occasions of finding 
herself almost sure that, if she dared, her 
ladyship 's lover would have gathered relief 
from speaking to her. She literally fancied 
once or twice that, projected as he was 
toward his doom, her own eyes struck him, 
while the air roared in his ears, as the one 
pitying pair in the crowd. But how could 
he speak to her while she sat sandwiched 
there between the counter-clerk and the 
sounder? 
She had long ago, in her comings and 
goings, made acquaintance with Park 
Chambers and reflected, as she looked up at 
their luxurious front, that they, of course, 
would supply the ideal setting for the ideal 
speech. There was not a picture in London 
that, before the season was over, was more 
stamped upon her brain. She went round 
about to pass it, for it was not on the short 
way ; she passed on the opposite side of the 
street and always looked up, though it had 
taken her a long time to be sure of the 
particular set of windows. She had made 
that out at last by an act of audacity that, at 
the time, had almost stopped her heart 
beats and that, in retrospect, greatly quick 
ened her blushes. One evening, late, she 
had lingered and watched watched for 
some moment when the porter, who was in 
uniform and often on the steps, had gone in 
with a visitor. Then she followed boldly, 
on the calculation that he would have taken 
the visitor up and that the hall would be 
free. The hall was free, and the electric 
light played over the gilded and lettered 
board that showed the names and numbers 
of the occupants of the different floors. 
What she wanted looked straight at her 
Captain Everard was on the third. It was 
as if, in the immense intimacy of this, they 
were, for the instant and the first time, face 
to face outside the cage. Alas, they were 
face to face but a second or two: she was 
whirled out on the wings of a panic fear 
that he might just then be entering or issu 
ing. This fear was indeed, in her shameless 
deflections, never very far from her, and 
was mixed in the oddest way with depres 
sions and disappointments. It was dreadful, 
as she trembled by, to run the risk of looking 
to him as if she basely hung about ; and yet 
it was dreadful to be obliged to pass only at 
such moments as put an encounter out of 
the question. 
At the horrible hour of her first coming 
to Cocker 's he was always it was to be 
hoped snug in bed ; and at the hour of her 
final departure he was of course she had 
such things all on her fingers -ends dressing 
for dinner. We may let it pass that if she 
could not bring herself to hover till he was 
dressed, this was simply because such a 
process for such a person could only be 
terribly prolonged. When she went in the 
middle of the day to her own dinner she 
had too little time to do anything but go 
straight, though it must be added that for 
a real certainty she would joyously have 
omitted the repast. She had made up her 
mind as to there being on the whole no 
decent pretext to justify her flitting casually 
past at three o clock in the morning. That 
was the hour at which, if the ha penny 
novels were not all wrong, he probably came 
home for the night. She was therefore 
reduced to merely picturing that miraculous 
meeting toward which a hundred impossibili 
ties would have to conspire. But if nothing 
was more impossible than the fact, nothing 
was more intense than the vision. What 
may not, we can only moralise, take place in 
the quickened, muffled perception of a girl 
of a certain kind of soul? All our young 
friend 's native distinction, her refinement of 
personal grain, of heredity, of pride, took 
refuge in this small throbbing spot; for 
when she was most conscious of the abjec- 
tion of her vanity and the pitifulness of her 
little nutters and manoeuvres, then the con 
solation and the redemption were most sure 
to shine before her in some just discernible 
sign. He did like her! 
XIII 
He never brought Cissy back, but Cissy 
came one day without him, as fresh as before 
from the hands of Marguerite, or only, at 
the season 's end, a trifle less fresh. She 
was, however, distinctly less serene. She 
had brought nothing with her and looked 
about with some impatience for the forms 
and the place to write. The latter conveni 
ence, at Cocker's, was obscure and barely 
adequate, and her clear voice had the light 
note of disgust which her lover 's never 
showed as she responded with a There? 
of surprise to the gesture made by the 
counter-clerk in answer to her sharp 
inquiry. Our young friend was busy with 
half-a-dozen people, but she had despatched 
them in her most business-like manner by 
the time her ladyship flung through the bars 
the light of reappearance. Then the direct 
ness with which the girl managed to receive 
this missive was the result of the concen 
tration that had caused her to make the 
stamps fly during the few minutes occupied 
by the production of it. This concentra 
tion, in turn, may be described as the effect 
of the apprehension of imminent relief. It 
was nineteen days, counted and checked off, 
since she had seen the object of her homage; 
and as, had he been in London, she should, 
with his habits, have been sure to see him 
often, she was now about to learn what 
other spot his presence might just then 
happen to sanctify. For she thought of 
them, the other spots, as ecstatically 
conscious of it, expressively happy in it. 
But, gracious, how handsome was her 
ladyship, and what an added price it gave 
him that the air of intimacy he threw out 
should have flowed originally from such a 
source ! The girl looked straight through the 
cage at the eyes and lips that must so often 
have been so near his own looked at them 
with a strange passion that, for an instant, 
had the result of filling out some of the gaps, 
supplying the missing answers, in his cor 
respondence. Then, as she made out that 
the features she thus scanned and associated 
were totally unaware of it, that they glowed 
only with the color of quite other and not 
at all guessable thoughts, this directly 
added to their splendour, gave the girl the 
sharpest impression she had yet received of 
the uplifted, the unattainable plains of 
heaven, and yet at the same time caused 
her to thrill with a sense of the high com 
pany she did somehow keep. She was with 
the absent through her ladyship and with 
her ladyship through the absent. The only 
pang but it didn' t matter was the proof 
in the admirable face, in the sightless pre 
occupation of its possessor, that the latter 
hadn't a notion of her. Her folly had gone 
to the point of half believing that the other 
party to the affair must sometimes mention 
in Eaton Square the extraordinary little 
person at the place from which he so often 
wired. Yet the perception of her visitor 's 
blankness actually helped this extraordinary 
little person, the next instant, to take 
refuge in a reflection that could be as proud 
as it liked. How little she knows, how 
little she knows! the girl cried to herself; 
for what did that show after all but that 
Captain Everard 's telegraphic confidant was 
Captain Everard 's charming secret? Our 
young friend 's perusal of her ladyship 's 
telegram was literally prolonged by a 
momentary daze: what swam between her 
and the words, making her see them as 
through rippled, shallow, sun shot water, 
was the great, the perpetual flood of How 
much  I  know how much  I  know! This 
produced a delay in her catching that, on 
the face, these words didn' t give her what 
she wanted, though she was prompt enough 
with her remembrance that her grasp was, 
half the time, just of what was not on the 
face. Miss Dolman, Parade Lodge, Parade 
Terrace, Dover. Let him instantly know 
right one, Hotel De France, Ostend. Make 
it seven nine four nine six one. Wire me 
alternative Burfield's." 
The girl slowly counted. Then he was at 
Ostend. This hooked on with so sharp a 
click that, not to feel she was as quickly 
letting it all slip from her, she had abso 
lutely to hold it a minute longer and to do 
something to that end. Thus it was that 
she did on this occasion what she never did, 
threw off an Answer paid? that sounded 
officious, but that she partly made up for by 
deliberately affixing the stamps and by 
waiting till she had done so to give change. 
She had, for so much coolness, the strength 
that she considered she knew all about Miss 
Dolman. 
Yes paid. She saw all sorts of things 
in this reply, even to a small, suppressed 
start of surprise at so correct an assump 
tion ; even to an attempt, the next minute, 
at a fresh air of detachment. How much, 
with the answer?" The calculation was not 
abstruse, but our intense observer required 
a moment more to make it, and this gave 
her ladyship time for a second thought. 
Oh, just wait! The white, begemmed 
hand bared to write rose in sudden nervous 
ness to the side of the wonderful face which, 
with eyes of anxiety for the paper on the 
counter, she brought closer to the bars of 
the cage. I think I must alter a word! 
On this she recovered her telegram and 
looked over it again; but she had a new, 
obvious trouble, and studied it without 
deciding and with much of the effect of 
making our young woman watch her. 
This personage, meanwhile, at the sight 
of her expression, had decided on the spot. 
If she had always been sure they were in 
danger, her ladyship 's expression was the 
best possible sign of it. There was a word 
wrong, but she had lost the right one, and 
much, clearly, depended on her finding it 
again. The girl, therefore, sufficiently 
estimating the affluence of customers and 
the distraction of Mr. Buckton and the 
counter-clerk, took the jump and gave it. 
Isn' t it Cooper 's? 
It was as if she had bodily leaped cleared 
the top of the cage and alighted on her 
interlocutress. Cooper 's? the stare was 
heightened by a blush. Yes, she had made 
Juno blush. 
This was all the more reason for going 
on. I mean instead of Burfield 's. 
Our young friend fairly pitied her; she 
had made her in an instant so helpless, and 
yet not a bit haughty nor outraged. She 
was only mystified and scared. Oh, you 
know ? 
Yes, I know! Our young friend smiled, 
meeting the other 's eyes, and, having made 
Juno blush, proceeded to patronise her. 
To do it she put out a competent hand. 
Her ladyship only submitted, confused and 
bewildered, all presence of mind quite gone ; 
and the next moment the telegram was in 
the cage again and its author out of the shop. 
Then quickly, boldly, under all the eyes 
that might have witnessed her tampering, 
the extraordinary little person at Cocker 's 
made the proper change. People were 
really too giddy, and if they were, in a cer 
tain case, to be caught, it shouldn't be the 
fault of her own grand memory. Hadn't it 
been settled weeks before? for Miss Dol 
man it was always to be Cooper 's. 
XIV 
But the summer holidays brought a 
marked difference; they were holidays for 
almost every one but the animals in the cage. 
The August days were flat and dry, and, 
with so little to feed it, she was conscious of 
the ebb of her interest in the secrets of the 
refined. She was in a position to follow the 
refined to the extent of knowing they had 
made so many of their arrangements with 
her aid exactly where they were ; yet she 
felt quite as if the panorama had ceased 
unrolling and the band stopped playing. A 
stray member of the latter occasionally 
turned up, but the communications that 
passed before her bore now largely on rooms 
at hotels, prices of furnished houses, hours 
of trains, dates of sailings and arrange 
ments for being met : she found them for 
the most part prosaic and coarse. The only 
thing was that they brought into her stuffy 
corner as straight a whiff of Alpine mead 
ows and Scotch moors as she might hope 
ever to inhale; there were moreover, in 
especial, fat, hot, dull ladies who had out 
with her, to exasperation, the terms for sea 
side lodgings, which struck her as huge, and 
the matter of the number of beds required, 
which was not less portentous: this in 
reference to places of which the names 
Eastbourne, Folkestone, Cromer, Scarbor 
ough, Whitby tormented her with some 
thing of the sound of the plash of water that 
haunts the traveller in the desert. She had 
not been out of London for a dozen years, 
and the only thing to give a taste to the 
present dead weeks was the spice of a chronic 
resentment. The sparse customers, the 
people she did see, were the people who 
were just off off on the decks of flut 
tered yachts, off to the uttermost point of 
rocky headlands where the very breeze was 
then playing for the want of which she said 
to herself that she sickened. 
There was accordingly a sense in which, 
at such a period, the great differences of the 
human condition could press upon her more 
than ever; a circumstance drawing fresh 
force, in truth, from the very fact of the 
chance that at last, for a change, did squarely 
meet her the chance to be off, for a bit, 
almost as far as anybody. They took their 
turns in the cage as they took them both in 
the shop and at Chalk Farm, and she had 
known these two months that time was to 
be allowed in September no less than 
eleven days for her personal, private holi 
day. Much of her recent intercourse with 
Mr. Mudge had consisted of the hopes and 
fears, expressed mainly by himself, involved 
in the question of their getting the same 
dates a question that, in proportion as the 
delight seemed assured, spread into a sea of 
speculation over the choice of where and 
how. All through July, on the Sunday 
evenings and at such other odd times as he 
could seize, he had flooded their talk with 
wild waves of calculation. It was prac 
tically settled that, with her mother, some- 
where on the south coast (a phrase of 
which she liked the sound) they should put 
in their allowance together ; but she already 
felt the prospect quite weary and worn with 
the way he went round and round on it. It 
had become his sole topic, the theme alike 
of his most solemn prudences and most 
placid jests, to which every opening led for 
return and revision and in which every little 
flower of a foretaste was pulled up as soon as 
planted. He had announced at the earliest 
day characterizing the whole business, from 
that moment, as their plans, under which 
name he handled it as a syndicate handles a 
Chinese, or other, Loan he had promptly 
declared that the question must be thor 
oughly studied, and he produced, on the 
whole subject, from day to day, an amount 
of information that excited her wonder and 
even, not a little, as she frankly let him 
know, her disdain. When she thought of 
the danger in which another pair of lovers 
rapturously lived, she inquired of him anew 
why he could leave nothing to chance. 
Then she got for answer that this profundity 
was just his pride, and he pitted Ramsgate 
against Bournemouth and even Boulogne 
against Jersey for he had great ideas with 
all the mastery of detail that was some day, 
professionally, to carry him far. 
The longer the time since she had seen 
Captain Everard, the more she was booked, 
as she called it, to pass Park Chambers ; and 
this was the sole amusement that, in the 
lingering August days and the long, sad 
twilights, it was left her to cultivate. She 
had long since learned to know it for a 
feeble one, though its feebleness was per 
haps scarce the reason for her saying to 
herself each evening as her time for de 
parture approached: No, no not to-night. 
She never failed of that silent remark, any 
more than she failed of feeling, in some 
deeper place than she had even yet fully 
sounded, that one 's remarks were as weak as 
straws and that, however one might indulge 
in them at eight o clock, one 's fate infallibly 
declared itself in absolute indifference to 
them at about eight-fifteen. Remarks were 
remarks, and very well for that; but fate 
was fate, and this young lady 's was to pass 
Park Chambers every night in the working 
week. Out of the immensity of her knowl 
edge of the life of the world there bloomed 
on these occasions a specific remembrance 
that it was regarded in that region, in 
August and September, as rather pleasant 
just to be caught for something or other in 
passing through town. Somebody was 
always passing and somebody might catch 
somebody else. It was in full cognisance of 
this subtle law that she adhered to the most 
ridiculous circuit she could have made to get 
home. One warm, dull, featureless Friday, 
when an accident had made her start from 
Cocker 's a little later than usual, she became 
aware that something of which the infinite 
possibilities had for so long peopled her 
dreams was at last prodigiously upon her, 
though the perfection in which the condi 
tions happened to present it was almost 
rich enough to be but the positive creation 
of a dream. She saw, straight before her, 
like a vista painted in a picture, the empty 
street and the lamps that burned pale in the 
dusk not yet established. It was into the 
convenience of this quiet twilight that a 
gentleman on the doorstep of the Chambers 
gazed with a vagueness that our young 
lady 's little figure violently trembled, in the 
approach, with the measure of its power to 
dissipate. Everything indeed grew in a 
flash terrific and distinct; her old uncertain 
ties fell away from her, and, since she was 
so familiar with fate, she felt as if the very 
nail that fixed it were driven in by the hard 
look with which, for a moment, Captain 
Everard awaited her. 
The vestibule was open behind him and 
the porter as absent as on the day she had 
peeped in; he had just come out was in 
town, in a tweed suit and a pot hat, but 
between two journeys duly bored over his 
evening and at a loss what to do with it. 
Then it was that she was glad she had never 
met him in that way before: she reaped 
io6   
with such ecstacy the benefit of his not being 
able to think she passed often. She jumped 
in two seconds to the determination that he 
should even suppose it to be the first time 
and the queerest chance : this was while she 
still wondered if he would identify or notice 
her. His original attention had not, she 
instinctively knew, been for the young 
woman at Cocker s; it had only been for 
any young woman who might advance with 
an air of not upholding ugliness. Ah, but 
then, and just as she had reached the door, 
came his second observation, a long, light 
reach with which, visibly and quite 
amusedly, he recalled and placed her. They 
were on different sides, but the street, nar 
row and still, had only made more of a stage 
for the small momentary drama. It was not 
over, besides, it was far from over, even on 
his sending across the way, with the pleas- 
antest laugh she had ever heard, a little lift 
of his hat and an Oh, good-evening! It 
was still less over on their meeting, the 
next minute, though rather indirectly and 
awkwardly, in the middle of the road a 
situation to which three or four steps of her 
own had unmistakably contributed and 
then passing not again to the side on which 
she had arrived, but back toward the portal 
of Park Chambers. 
I didn't know you at first. Are you 
taking a walk? 
Oh, I don't take walks at night! I'm 
going home after my work. 
Oh! 
That was practically what they had mean 
while smiled out, and his exclamation, to 
which, for a minute, he appeared to have 
nothing to add, left them face to face and in 
just such an attitude as, for his part, he 
might have worn had he been wondering if 
he could properly ask her to come in. Dur 
ing this interval, in fact, she really felt his 
question to be just How properly ? It 
was simply a question of the degree of 
properness. 
XV 
She never knew afterwards quite what she 
had done to settle it, and at the time she 
only knew that they presently moved, with 
vagueness, but with continuity, away from 
the picture of the lighted vestibule and the 
quiet stairs and well up the street together. 
This also must have been in the absence of 
a definite permission, of anything vulgarly 
articulate, for that matter, on the part of 
either ; and it was to be, later on, a thing of 
remembrance and reflection for her that the 
limit of what, just here, for a longish min 
ute, passed between them was his taking in 
her thoroughly successful deprecation, 
though conveyed without pride or sound or 
touch, of the idea that she might be, out of 
the cage, the very shopgirl at large that she 
hugged the theory she was not. Yes, it was 
strange, she afterwards thought, that so 
much could have come and gone and yet not 
no   
troubled the air either with impertinence 
or with resentment, with any of the horrid 
notes of that kind of acquaintance. He 
had taken no liberty, as she would have 
called it ; and, through not having to betray 
the sense of one, she herself had, still more 
charmingly, taken none. Yet on the spot, 
nevertheless, she could speculate as to what 
it meant that, if his relation with Lady 
Bradeen continued to be what her mind had 
built it up to, he should feel free to proceed 
in any private direction. This was one of 
the questions he was to leave her to deal 
with the question whether people of his 
sort still asked girls up to their rooms when 
they were so awfully in love with other 
women. Could people of his sort do that with 
out what people of her sort would call being 
false to their love ? She had already a vision 
of how the true answer was that people of 
her sort didn' t, in such cases, matter didn' t 
count as infidelity, counted only as some 
thing else: she might have been curious, 
since it came to that, to see exactly what. 
Strolling together slowly in their summer 
twilight and their empty corner of Mayfair, 
they found themselves emerge at last 
opposite to one of the smaller gates of the 
Park; upon which, without any particular 
word about it they were talking so of other 
things they crossed the street and went in 
and sat down on a bench. She had gathered 
by this time one magnificent hope about 
him the hope that he would say nothing 
vulgar. She knew what she meant by that ; 
she meant something quite apart from any 
matter of his being false. Their bench 
was not far within; it was near the Park 
Lane paling and the patchy lamplight and 
the rumbling cabs and busses. A strange 
emotion had come to her, and she felt 
indeed excitement within excitement ; above 
all a conscious joy in testing him with 
chances he didn' t take. She had an intense 
desire he should know the type she really 
was without her doing anything so low as 
tell him, and he had surely begun to know 
it from the moment he didn' t seize the 
opportunities into which a common man 
would promptly have blundered. These 
were on the mere surface, and their relation 
was behind and below them. She had 
questioned so little on the way what they 
were doing that as soon as they were seated 
she took straight hold of it. Her hours, her 
confinement, the many conditions of service 
in the post-office, had with a glance at his 
own postal resources and alternatives 
formed, up to this stage, the subject of their 
talk. Well, here we are, and it may be 
right enough; but this isn' t the least, you 
know, where I was going. 
You were going home? 
Yes, and I was already rather late. I 
was going to my supper. 
You haven't had it? 
No, indeed! 
Then you haven't eaten ? 
He looked, of a sudden, so extravagantly 
concerned that she laughed out. All day? 
Yes, we do feed once. But that was long 
ago. So I must presently say good-bye. 
Oh, deary me. r he exclaimed, with an 
intonation so droll and yet a touch so light 
and a distress so marked a confession of 
helplessness for such a case, in short, so 
unrelieved that she felt sure, on the spot, 
she had made the great difference plain. 
He looked at her with the kindest eyes and 
still without saying what she had known he 
wouldn t. She had known he wouldn't say 
Then sup with me  but the proof of it made 
her feel as if she had feasted. 
I'm not a bit hungry, she went on. 
Ah, you must be, awfully! he made 
answer, but settling himself on the bench as 
if, after all, that needn't interfere with his 
spending his evening. I've always quite 
wanted the chance to thank you for the 
trouble you so often take for me. 
Yes, I know, she replied; uttering the 
words with a sense of the situation far 
deeper than any pretence of not fitting his 
allusion. She immediately saw that he was 
surprised and even a little puzzled at her 
frank assent; but, for herself, the trouble 
H4 IN T HE CAGE 
she had taken could only, in these fleeting 
minutes they would probably never come 
back be all there like a little hoard of gold 
in her lap. Certainly he might look at it, 
handle it, take up the pieces. Yet if he 
understood anything he must understand all. 
I consider you've already immensely 
thanked me. The horror was back upon 
her of having seemed to hang about for some 
reward. It 's awfully odd that you should 
have been there just the one time ! 
The one time you've passed my place? 
Yes; you can fancy I haven't many min 
utes to waste. There was a place to-night I 
had to stop at. 
I see, I see" he knew already so much 
about her work. It must bean awful grind 
for a lady. 
It is; but I don't think I groan over it any 
more than my companions and you've seen 
they're not ladies! She mildly jested, but 
with an intention. One gets used to 
things, and there are employments I should 
have hated much more. She had the finest 
conception of the beauty of not, at least, 
boring him. To whine, to count up her 
wrongs, was what a barmaid or a shopgirl 
would do, and it was quite enough to sit 
there like one of these. 
If you had had another employment, he 
remarked after a moment, we might never 
have become acquainted. 
It 's highly probable and certainly not 
in the same way. Then, still with her heap 
of gold in her lap and something of the pride 
of it in her manner of holding her head, she 
continued not to move she only smiled at 
him. The evening had thickened now ; the 
scattered lamps were red; the Park, all 
before them, was full of obscure and ambig 
uous life ; there were other couples on other 
benches, whom it was impossible not to see, 
yet at whom it was impossible to look. But 
I've walked so much out of my way with you 
only just to show you that that with this 
she paused ; it was not, after all, so easy to 
express that anything you may have 
thought is perfectly true. 
u6   
4 Oh, I've thought a tremendous lot! her 
companion laughed. Do you mind my 
smoking? 
Why should I? You always smoke there. 
At your place? Oh, yes, but here it 's 
different. 
No, she said, as he lighted a cigarette, 
that 's just what it isn' t. It 's quite the same. 
Well, then, that 's because "there" it 's so 
wonderful! 
Then you're conscious of how wonderful 
it is? she returned. 
He jerked his handsome head in literal 
protest at a doubt. Why, that 's exactly 
what I mean by my gratitude for all your 
trouble. It has been just as if you took a 
particular interest. She only looked at him 
in answer to this, in such sudden, immediate 
embarrassment, as she was quite aware, 
that, while she remained silent, he showed 
he was at a loss to interpret her expression. 
You have haven't you? taken a particular 
interest? 
Oh, a particular interest! she quavered 
out, feeling the whole thing her immediate 
embarrassment get terribly the better of 
her, and wishing, with a sudden scare, all 
the more to keep her emotion down. She 
maintained her fixed smile a moment and 
turned her eyes over the peopled darkness, 
unconfused now, because there was some 
thing much more confusing. This, with a 
fatal great rush, was simply the fact that 
they were thus together. They were near, 
near, and all that she had imagined of that 
had only become more true, more dreadful 
and overwhelming. She stared straight 
away in silence till she felt that she looked 
like an idiot; then, to say something, to say 
nothing, she attempted a sound which ended 
in a flood of tears, 
XVI 
Her tears helped her really to dissimulate, 
for she had instantly, in so public a situa 
tion, to recover herself. They had come 
and gone in half a minute, and she imme 
diately explained them. It 's only because 
I'm tired. It 's that it 's that! Then she 
added a trifle incoherently: I shall never 
see you again. 
Ah, but why not? The mere tone in 
which her companion asked this satisfied 
her once for all as to the amount of imagi 
nation for which she could count on him. It 
was naturally not large: it had exhausted 
itself in having arrived at what he had 
already touched upon the sense of an 
intention in her poor zeal at Cocker's. But 
any deficiency of this kind was no fault in 
him ; he wasn' t obliged to have an inferior 
cleverness to have second-rate resources 
and virtues. It had been as if he almost 
really believed she had simply cried for 
fatigue, and he had accordingly put in some 
kind, confused plea You ought really to 
take something: won't you have something 
or other somezvhere? to which she had 
made no response but a headshake of a 
sharpness that settled it. Why shan't we 
all the more keep meeting? 
I mean meeting this way only this way. 
At my place there that I've nothing to do 
with, and I hope of course you ll turn up, 
with your correspondence, when it suits 
you. Whether I stay or not, I mean ; for I 
shall probably not stay. 
You're going somewhere else? he put it 
with positive anxiety. 
Yes; ever so far away to the other end 
of London. There are all sorts of reasons 
I can't tell you; and it 's practically settled. 
It 's better for me, much; and I've only 
kept on at Cocker 's for you. 
For me? 
Making out in the dusk that he fairly 
blushed, she now measured how far he had 
been from knowing too much. Too much, 
she called it at present ; and that was easy, 
since it proved so abundantly enough for 
her that he should simply be where he was. 
As we shall never talk this way but to-night 
never, never again! here it all is; I ll say 
it; I don't care what you think; it doesn' t 
matter ; I only want to help you. Besides, 
you're kind you're kind. I've been think 
ing, then, of leaving for ever so long. But 
you've come so often at times and you've 
had so much to do, and it has been so pleas 
ant and interesting, that I've remained, I've 
kept putting off any change. More than 
once, when I had nearly decided, you've 
turned up again and I've thought, "Oh, no!" 
That 's the simple fact! She had by this 
time got her confusion down so completely 
that she could laugh. This is what I meant 
when I said to you just now that I "knew." 
I've known perfectly that you knew I took 
trouble for you; and that knowledge has 
been for me, and I seemed to see it was for 
you, as if there were something I don't 
know what to call it! between us. I mean 
something unusual and good something not 
a bit horrid or vulgar. 
She had by this time, she could see, pro 
duced a great effect upon him; but she 
would have spoken the truth to herself if she 
had at the same moment declared that she 
didn' t in the least care: all the more that 
the effect must be one of extreme perplexity. 
