                        THE MAISON DE FOUS.
This question of what he ought to do disturbed Ben not a little.
As an honorable boy he did not wish to benefit any longer than was
absolutely necessary by a deception which involved injustice and
fraud. He was living very comfortably, it is true, and his allowance
was a handsome one. He sent half of it to his mother, and this was
sufficient to provide all that was needed for her and his sister's
comfort. He had done this innocently, hitherto, but now that his
eyes were opened, his knowledge would make him an accomplice in the
conspiracy.
In his uncertainty he decided upon what was not, perhaps, the most
judicious course, to ask Major Grafton directly in regard to the
matter.
An opportunity soon came.
"Major Grafton," Ben began, "how long since did Philip die?"
The major regarded him suspiciously. The question put him on his
guard.
"A few months ago," he answered indifferently.
"Were you--his guardian?"
"You seem curious this morning, Philip," answered the major, coldly.
If Ben had been older and more experienced he would have been
able to get at the truth indirectly, but it was his nature to be
straightforward.
"I heard something yesterday that disturbed me," he said.
Major Grafton threw himself back in an easy-chair and fixed his eyes
searchingly on the boy.
"Tell me what you heard," he said, shortly, "and from whom."
"I was sitting on a bench near the lake when two ladies began
speaking about you--and me."
"Tell me what they said," broke in Grafton, impatiently.
"The truth must be told," thought Ben, "even if Major Grafton gets
offended."
"They said that Philip had a large fortune, and you were his
guardian. When he died the money was to go to some cousins in New
York. They said that you had concealed his death, and so continued
to draw the income of the property, and were palming off me for him.
They seemed to think I was your nephew, and was in the plot."
Major Grafton was a good deal disturbed by what Ben had told him. Of
course there was a strong chance that the truth would come out some
time, but he had hoped to keep it concealed for some years, perhaps.
"These ladies seem to have a large share of imagination," he said,
with a forced laugh. "From one fabrication you may judge all. You
know whether you are my nephew or not, and whether you are engaged
in any plot?"
"No, sir, of course not."
"The whole thing is ridiculous; I don't think you need trouble
yourself any more about it."
But Ben was not satisfied, and Major Grafton could see this from his
look.
"That was my reason for asking whether Philip had any property," he
continued, with an inquiring look.
"I must satisfy him in some way," thought the major, "or he will
compromise me."
"I wouldn't like to think I was keeping any property away from the
rightful owners," proceeded Ben.
"You can put yourself at ease," said the major, carelessly. "Those
ladies, whoever they are, know almost nothing about the matter.
Philip did have a little property, yielding scarcely enough for his
own expenses. At his death it fell to me. His grandfather was an
intimate friend of mine, and made the arrangement in gratitude for
my care of the boy."
"Then there were no cousins in New York?" asked Ben, doubtfully.
"Not that I am aware of. That is a lie out of whole cloth. There
is no one more unscrupulous than a female gossip. Did you speak to
either of the ladies?"
"No, sir."
"That was right. You might have made mischief and seriously offended
me. Do you often write home?"
"Every week, sir."
"I have no objection to that, but I must caution you against
repeating this nonsensical and absurd story. I have taken a great
deal of interest in you on account of your resemblance to poor
Philip, to whom I was tenderly attached. It is on that account I
engaged you to accompany me. You would not be likely to do as well
in New York?"
"No, sir; no one would think of paying me as liberally as you do."
"I am glad you appreciate the advantages of your position. I hope
you won't lose it by any foolishness," added Grafton, significantly.
Ben felt that there was no more to say, but he was far from
satisfied. He was thoroughly persuaded within himself that the story
was true, and that Major Grafton was acting a fraudulent part. How
could he find out?
He had not forgotten his visit to the office of Mr. Codicil, just
before they left New York. He had seen enough, then, to be aware
that between Major Grafton and the lawyer there were business
relations, and he suspected that they referred to the boy whose
place he had taken. This would seem to bear out and confirm the
story told by the two ladies. Now, if he should write a letter to
Mr. Codicil he might ascertain all he needed to know, and if all
was as he suspected he could refuse having any further part in the
conspiracy. He did not remember the exact location of Mr. Codicil's
office, but he did remember his first name, and he judged rightly
that a letter simply directed to the lawyer, and addressed New York,
would be likely to reach him.
Major Grafton, after the interview between Ben and himself, watched
our hero with ever-increasing suspicion. He felt that he was in the
boy's power. An indiscreet revelation would overthrow the fabric of
fraud which in his self-interest he had erected, and reduce him to
earning a precarious living at the gaming-table. In the case of an
average boy he would have been secure, from the boy's regard for
his own interest; but he saw that Ben was a conscientious boy, of
honorable impulses, and this disgusted him.
"The boy is dangerous," he decided. "I must place him where he can
do no mischief."
When a man is thoroughly unprincipled he can always find ways and
means for the carrying out of his iniquitous plans. Major Grafton
experienced no difficulty in devising a method for staving off the
threatened danger.
One day after a leisurely breakfast, during which Major Grafton had
been unusually chatty and affable, he said:
"Philip, I have a pleasure in store for you."
"What is it, sir?"
"We are going to take a long drive into the country."
"Thank you, sir. I shall enjoy it."
Fifteen minutes afterward an open carriage drove into the court-yard
of the hotel.
"Is this the carriage I ordered?" asked Major Grafton.
"It is for M. de Grafton," said the driver.
"But you are not the man I spoke to."
"No, it was my brother. He is obliged to stay at home; his wife is
taken suddenly sick."
"Very well; you will no doubt answer the purpose equally well.
Philip, take a seat inside."
Ben did so.
"Where shall I drive, monsieur?"
Major Grafton indicated the direction.
They drove over a broad, smooth road on the eastern shore of the
lake. It was a charming drive, not alone on account of the smooth
waters of the lake which were in constant view, but also on account
of the distant mountains and the picturesque Swiss habitations which
regaled their eyes.
They kept on uninterruptedly for nearly two hours, until Ben began
to marvel at the length of the drive.
Finally they came in sight of a large, picturesquely situated house,
surrounded by trees.
"We will descend here, Philip," said Major Grafton. "I want you to
see this chateau."
"Is there anything interesting connected with it?" asked Ben.
"Yes, I believe Voltaire once lived here," answered Grafton.
"I always thought he lived at the Chateau de Ferney."
"He also lived here for a few months," said Major Grafton, shortly.
"I think Calvin also lived here once."
Ben entered without suspicion. A suave, black-whiskered man welcomed
them. He seemed to recognize Major Grafton, and was voluble in his
protestations of joy at meeting them.
"Is this the boy you spoke of?" he asked.
"Yes," answered Grafton. "Philip," he said, "remain in this room a
few minutes while I speak with M. Bourdon."
"Certainly, sir."
He waited fifteen, twenty, thirty minutes, and no one came back.
Finally the door opened and the black-whiskered man made his
appearance--alone.
"Where is Major Grafton?" asked Ben.
The other smiled craftily.
"He is gone, M. Philippe."
"Gone! and without me?"
"You are to live with me, my son."
"I don't understand you. What sort of a place is this?"
"It is a maison de fous."
Ben was horror-struck. He knew now that he was in a lunatic asylum.
He could guess why he was placed there.
                           CHAPTER XXV.
                            IN A TRAP.
For a sane person to find himself suddenly incarcerated in a lunatic
asylum is enough to excite a thrill of horror in the most stolid.
Ben shuddered and started back, pale and sick with apprehension. He
was a brave boy, but it required more courage than he possessed to
preserve his coolness under such circumstances.
"What does it mean?" he ejaculated.
"It means, my friend," answered M. Bourdon, with a sardonic smile,
"that you are not quite right here," and he tapped his forehead
significantly.
He spoke English correctly, but with an accent, having, when a young
man, passed several years in England.
"It is a lie!" exclaimed Ben, indignantly, his terror giving place
to anger. "My mind is not in the least affected."
M. Bourdon shrugged his shoulders, with another aggravating smile.
"They all say so," he answered.
"I am as sane as you are!" continued Ben, hotly.
"Well, well, I may be a little touched myself--who knows?" said M.
Bourdon, or the doctor, as we may call him, in a tone of banter.
It was hard for Ben to restrain himself, so impressed was he by the
outrage of which he was the victim. It would have been a relief to
attack the doctor, and seek deliverance by forcible means, but a
glance at the well-knit frame of M. Bourdon, and the certainty of
his being able to summon assistance, deterred him and led him to
control his rash impulse. One thing he could do, and that was to
ascertain, if possible, Major Grafton's motive in subjecting him to
imprisonment.
"What proof have you that I am insane?" he asked, more calmly.
"Your appearance."
"You have not had time to examine me."
"The doctors are able to judge from very slight examination," said
M. Bourdon, smiling.
"Did Major Grafton tell you I was insane?" asked Ben.
"You mean the gentleman who came here with you?"
"Yes."
"He has assured me of it."
"What did he say? How did he tell you I had shown signs of insanity?"
"He said you had tried to drown yourself in the lake, and, being
foiled in that, had made an attempt to poison him. Surely this is
enough to warrant his sending you to me."
"Did he utter these infamous falsehoods?" demanded Ben, startled.
"Of course you pronounce them falsehoods, my young friend, and
doubtless you believe what you say. I am quite sure you have no
recollection of what you did. This is one of your sane periods. At
this moment you are as sane as I am."
"You admit that?" said Ben, in surprise.
"Certainly, for it is true. Your insanity is fitful--paroxysmal.
Half an hour hence you may stand in need of a strait-jacket. If you
were always as clear in mind as at present there would be no need of
detaining you. I would open my door and say, 'Go, my young friend.
You do not need my care.' Unfortunately, we do not know how long
this mood may last."
The doctor spoke smoothly and plausibly, and it was hard for Ben to
tell whether he was really in earnest or not. He regarded M. Bourdon
intently, and thought he detected a slight mocking smile, which
excited his doubt and distrust anew. To appeal to such a man seemed
well-nigh hopeless, but there was nothing else to do.
"Are you the doctor?" he asked.
"Yes; I am Dr. Bourdon," was the reply.
"And you are at the head of this establishment?" continued Ben.
"I have that honor, my young friend," answered Bourdon.
"Then I wish to tell you that Major Grafton has deceived you. He
has an object to serve in having me locked up here."
"Doubtless," answered the doctor, with an amused smile, taking a
pinch of snuff.
"He is afraid I would reveal a secret which would strip him of his
income," continued Ben.
"And that secret is----?" said the doctor, not without curiosity.
Ben answered this question as briefly and clearly as he could.
The doctor listened with real interest, and it might have been
satisfactory to Ben had he known that his story was believed. M.
Bourdon was a shrewd man of the world, and it struck him that this
knowledge might enable him to demand more extortionate terms of
Major Grafton.
"Don't you believe me?" asked Ben, watching the face of his listener.
"I hear a great many strange stories," said the doctor. "I have to
be cautious about what I believe."
"But surely you will believe me, knowing that I am perfectly sane?"
"That is the question to be determined," said M. Bourdon, smiling.
"Won't you investigate it?" pleaded Ben. "It is a crime to keep me
here, when I am of sound mind."
"Whenever I am convinced of that I will let you go. Meanwhile you
must be quiet, and submit to the rules of my establishment."
"How long do you expect to keep me here?" asked Ben.
"As long as you require it and your board is paid."
Ben looked despondent, for this assurance held out very little hope
of release. Still he was young, and youth is generally hopeful.
Something might turn up. Ben was determined that something should
turn up. He was not going to remain shut up in a mad-house any
longer than he could help. He remained silent, and M. Bourdon
touched a little bell upon a small table beside the door.
The summons was answered by a stout man with rough, black locks, who
looked like a hotel porter.
"Francois," said the doctor, in the French language, "conduct this
young man to No. 19."
"At once, Monsieur le Docteur," answered the attendant. "Come with
me, young man."
He signed to Ben to follow him, and our hero, realizing the utter
futility of resistance, did so.
"Go ahead, monsieur," said Francois, when they came to a staircase.
Ben understood him very well, though he spoke in French, thanks to
his assiduous study of the last four weeks.
They walked along a narrow corridor, and Francois, taking from his
pocket a bunch of keys, carefully selected one and opened the door.
"Entrez monsieur."
Ben found himself in an apartment about the size of a hall bedroom,
with one window, and a narrow bedstead, covered with an exceedingly
thin mattress. There was no carpet on the floor, and the furniture
was very scanty. It consisted of but one chair, a cheap bureau, and
a washstand. And this was to be Ben's home--for how long?
"I must get acquainted with this man," thought Ben. "I must try to
win his goodwill, and perhaps he may be able to help me to escape."
"Is your name Francois?" he asked, as the man lingered at the door.
"Oui, monsieur."
"And how long have you been here--in this asylum?"
"How long, monsieur? Five years, nearly."
"There is some mistake about my being here, Francois. I don't look
crazy, do I?"
"No, monsieur; but----"
"But what?"
"That proves nothing."
"There is a plot against me, and I am put here by an enemy. I want
you to be my friend. Here, take this."
Ben produced from his pocket a silver franc piece and offered it
to Francois, who took it eagerly, for the man's besetting sin was
avarice.
"Thanks, monsieur--much thanks!" he said, his stolid face lighting
up. "I will be a friend."
"Francois!"
At the call from below Francois hastily thrust the coin into his
pocket, nodded significantly to Ben, and, retiring, locked the door
behind him.
                           CHAPTER XXVI.
                    INTRODUCES TWO CELEBRITIES.
What a change a short half-hour may make in the position and
feelings of any person! Little did Ben imagine, when he set out on a
drive in the morning with Major Grafton, that he was on his way to
one of the most hopeless of prisons.
It was hard even now for him to realize his position. He looked
from the window, and with a glance of envy saw in a field, not far
away, some Swiss peasants at work. They were humble people, living
a quiet, uneventful, laborious life; yet Ben felt that they were
infinitely better off than he, provided he were doomed to pass the
remainder of his life in this refuge. But of this he would not
entertain the idea. He was young, not yet seventeen, and life was
full of pleasant possibilities.
"I am a Yankee," he thought, "and I don't believe they will succeed
in keeping me here long. I will keep a bright lookout for a chance
to escape."
Half an hour later Ben heard the key grate in the lock, and, fixing
his eyes on the entrance, he saw Francois enter.
"Monsieur, dinner is ready," he said.
Ben, notwithstanding his disagreeable situation, felt that he, too,
was ready for the dinner. He was glad to find that it was not to be
served to him in his own room. He would have a chance of seeing the
other inmates of the house.
"Where is it?" he asked.
"Follow me," answered Francois, of course in French.
He led the way, and Ben followed him into a lower room, long
and narrow, which was used as the dining-room. There were no
side-windows, and it would have been quite dark but for a narrow
strip of window near the ceiling.
Around a plain table sat a curious collection of persons. It was
easy to see that something was the matter with them, for I do
not wish to have it understood that all the inmates of the house
were, like our hero, perfectly sane. M. Bourdon was not wholly a
quack, but he was fond of money, and, looking through the eyes of
self-interest, he was willing to consider Ben insane, although he
knew very well that he was as rational as himself.
"Sit here, monsieur," said Francois.
Ben took the seat indicated, and naturally turned to survey his
immediate neighbors.
The one on the right-hand was a tall, venerable-looking man, with
white hair and a flowing beard, whose manner showed the most perfect
decorum. The other was a thin, dark-complexioned man, of bilious
aspect, and shifty, evasive eyes. Neither noticed Ben at first, as
the dinner appeared to engross their first attention. This consisted
of a thin broth and a section of a loaf of coarse bread as the first
course. Ben had been accustomed to more luxurious fare, and he was
rather surprised to see with what enjoyment his neighbors partook
of it. Next came a plate of meat, and this was followed by a small
portion of grapes. There was nothing more. It was clear that M.
Bourdon did not consider rich fare good for his patients.
"I think I would rather dine at the hotel," thought Ben; but the
diet was not by any means the worst thing of which he complained.
"If I were free I would not mind how poor and plain my fare was," he
thought.
His companions finished dinner before him, and had leisure to bestow
some attention upon him.
"My little gentleman, do you come from Rome?" asked the venerable
old gentleman on his right.
"No, sir," answered Ben.
"I am sorry. I wished to ask you a question."
"Indeed, sir. Perhaps I might answer it even now. I have been in
Florence."
"No; that will not do; and yet, perhaps you may have met persons
coming from Rome?"
"I did, monsieur."
"Then perhaps they told you how things were going on."
"Very well, I believe, monsieur."
"No, that could not be," said the old gentleman, shaking his head.
"I am sure nothing would go well without me."
"Do you, then, live in Rome?" asked Ben, curiously.
"Surely!" exclaimed the old man. "Did you not know that the Pope
lived in Rome?"
"But what has that to do with you, sir?"
"A great deal. Know, my little gentleman, that I--to whom you are
speaking--am the Pope."
This was said with an air of importance.
"There's no doubt about his being insane," thought Ben.
"How, then, do you happen to be here?" asked our hero, interested to
see what his companion would say.
"I was abducted," said the old gentleman, lowering his voice, "by an
emissary of the King of America. M. Bourdon is a cousin of the king,
and he is in the plot. But they won't keep me here long."
"I hope not," said Ben, politely.
"The King of Spain has promised to send an army to deliver me. I
only received his letter last week. You will not tell M. Bourdon,
will you?"
"Certainly not," answered Ben.
"It is well; I thought I could rely upon your honor."
"My friend," said another voice, that of his left-hand neighbor,
"you are losing your time in talking with that old fool. The fact
is, he isn't right here," and he touched his head.
The Pope appeared deeply absorbed in thought, and did not hear this
complimentary remark.
"He thinks he is the Pope. He is no more the Pope than I am."
Ben nodded non-committally.
"He ought to be here. But I--I am the victim of an infamous horde of
enemies, who have placed me here."
"Why should they do that, sir?"
"To keep me out of my rights. It is the English Government that has
done it. Of course, you know who I am."
"No, sir, I don't think I do."
"Look well at me!" and the dark man threw himself back in his chair
for inspection.
"I am afraid I don't recognize you, monsieur," said Ben.
"Bah! where are your eyes?" said the other, contemptuously. "I am
Napoleon Bonaparte!"
"But I thought you died at St. Helena," said Ben.
"Quite a mistake, I assure you. The English Government so asserted,
but it was a deception. They wished my memory to die out among my
faithful French. They buried my effigy, but smuggled me off in a
vessel late at night. They placed me here, and here they mean to
keep me--if they can. But some day I shall escape; I shall re-enter
France; I shall summon all to my banner, and at the head of a great
army I shall enter Paris. Do you know what I will do then?"
"What will you do, sir?" asked Ben, with some curiosity.
"I shall descend upon England with an army of five millions of
men," said the dark man, his eyes flashing, "and burn all her cities
and towns."
"That will be rather severe, won't it?" asked Ben.
"She deserves it; but I may do worse."
"How can that be?"
"Do you see that man over on the other side of the table--the short,
red-haired man?"
"Yes, I see him."
"He is a chemist and has invented a compound a thousand times more
powerful than dynamite. I am negotiating for it, and, if I succeed,
I mean to blow the whole island out of the water. What do you think
of that, eh?" he continued, triumphantly.
"I think in that case I shall keep away from England," answered Ben,
keeping as straight a face as he could.
"Ah, you will do well."
When dinner was over, the boarders passed out of the room, Ben among
them. He was destined not to go out quietly.
Suddenly a wild-looking woman darted toward him and threw her arms
around his neck, exclaiming:
"At last I have found you, my son, my son!"
Ben struggled to release himself, assisted by Francois, who did not
scruple to use considerable force.
"None of your tricks, madam!" he cried, angrily.
"Will you take from me my boy?" she exclaimed, piteously.
"There is some mistake. I am not your son," said Ben.
The woman shook her head sadly.
"He disowns his poor mother," she said, mournfully.
On the whole, Ben was rather glad to return to his chamber.
"I don't like my fellow-boarders," he thought. "I sha'n't stay in
the maison de fous any longer than I am obliged to."
                          CHAPTER XXVII.
                        A MIDNIGHT ESCAPE.
For three days Ben passed a dull, uniform existence, being most of
the time confined to his chamber. To a boy of active temperament it
was most irksome. If he only had something to read, the hours would
pass more swiftly. Fortunately, on the second day, he bethought
himself of Francois, who seemed friendly.
"Francois," he said, "can't you get me something to read?"
"I don't know," said the attendant, doubtfully. "What would monsieur
like?"
"Anything you can find. I would prefer a story."
"I will try, monsieur."
The next time Francois made his appearance he held in his hand a
tattered edition of a popular novel.
"Will that do?" he asked.
Ben had never heard of the book, but on opening its pages it looked
attractive, and he answered:
"Yes, Francois, I am much obliged to you."
He thought it politic, remembering that he might need other favors,
to put a franc piece into the hand of the friendly attendant.
Francois brightened up. His wages were so small that these little
gratuities were very welcome.
"Would monsieur like something else?" he inquired.
"There is one thing I would like very much, Francois," answered Ben.
"What is that, monsieur?"
"To get out of this place."
"But monsieur is insane."
"I am no more insane than you are. Do I look insane?"
"No; but one cannot always tell."
"I would give a hundred francs to any one who would get me out of
this," said Ben, not, however, expecting to produce much impression
on the mind of his auditor.
"A hundred francs!" repeated Francois, his eyes sparkling.
But in a moment he looked sober.
"It would not do. I should be discharged," he said.
"Think it over, Francois," said Ben.
The attendant did not answer, but the suggestion had borne fruit.
It may be asked how Ben had so much money. It may be explained that
he was about to send a remittance home, having received a payment
from Major Grafton, but his unexpected arrival at the refuge had
prevented him. He had with him two hundred francs, or about forty
dollars in gold.
Something happened on the third day which worked favorably for Ben's
hopes of securing the active assistance of Francois. About dusk a
boy appeared at the gate of the asylum, and asked to see Francois.
When the two were brought together, he said:
"I came from your wife. She wishes you to come home. The
child--little Marie--is very sick."
Poor Francois was much disturbed. In a little cottage five miles
away lived his wife and his only child, Marie. The poor fellow was
deeply attached to his child, for it must be remembered that the
poor and simple-minded are quite as apt to have as strong affections
as the richer and more favored.
"Is she very bad, Jean?" he asked, quite pale.
"Yes," answered Jean. "I think she is out of her head. She keeps
moaning. Her poor mother is very much frightened."
"I will ask if I can come," said Francois, and he straightway sought
out the doctor.
"I would like to speak to you, M. Bourdon," he said.
"Speak quick, then, for I am busy," said the doctor, gruffly, for
something had happened to disturb him.
"Jean Gault has just told me that my little Marie is very sick, and
my wife wants me to come home. If I could go now, I would come back
in the morning."
"Well, you can't go," said the doctor, harshly.
"But, Monsieur le Docteur, do you understand that my child--my
little Marie--is very sick? She moans, and is out of her head, and I
may never see her again, if I don't go."
"Plague take your little Marie!" said M. Bourdon, brutally. "What
have I to do with her? I want you to stay here. You know very well
that you can't be spared."
"But," protested Francois, indignantly, "do you think because I am
poor that I have no feeling? You are very much mistaken. I cannot
stay away and let poor Marie die without seeing her."
"You can't go, at all events," said M. Bourdon, roughly.
"I cannot go?"
"No; or, if you do, you will lose your place. I cannot have my men
going away on every silly pretext. I don't believe your child is
sick at all."
"But Jean Gault is below. He has brought word from my wife."
"I dare say it is all planned between you."
"Then you will not let me go?"
"No, I won't. If you go, you lose your place. I shall not take you
back. Do you understand?"
"Yes, I understand," said Francois, slowly.
"Then you can go. We have had words enough about this."
If the doctor had not been irritated he would have been careful how
he dealt with Francois, who was the most valuable man in his employ.
But when we are irritated we lose sight of what is politic, and are
apt to make grievous mistakes, as M. Bourdon certainly did on this
occasion.
Francois sought out little Jean.
"Jean," he said, "go home and tell my wife that I will come some
time to-night. The doctor has forbidden me to go, but I shall go,
all the same. Be sure you tell no one else."
"Very well, Francois," answered the boy.
"Tell my wife I may be late, but I will surely come."
The boy went away, and Francois went up to Ben's room.
"Monsieur, I have something to say to you," he commenced.
"What is it, Francois?"
"You said you would give a hundred francs to any one who would get
you out of this?"
"Yes, Francois," answered Ben, quickly.
"Have you so much money with you, then?" asked Francois, doubtfully.
"See here!" and Ben took out five napoleons, which he displayed in
his open palm.
The attendant's eyes sparkled.
"And you will give them to me, if perchance I set you free?"
"Yes."
"Listen, then. I would not do it, but my little Marie is very sick,
and my wife wants me to come home. Perhaps she may die;" and the
poor fellow suppressed a sob. "But M. Bordon--that is the doctor--he
says I shall not go. He said 'Plague take your child!'" continued
Francois, wrathfully.
"Poor Francois," said Ben compassionately.
"Ah! you feel for me, little monsieur," said Francois, gratefully.
"The doctor has a heart like a stone. He says if I go I shall not
come back; but I do not care, I cannot stay away. I will go, and you
shall go with me. Can you walk five miles?"
"I can walk ten--fifteen, if necessary," said Ben, promptly.
"Then be ready at midnight. We will go together. It will not do to
go earlier. Then the doctor will be asleep. Every one else will be
asleep, and we can go away unobserved. M. Bourdon will be sorry that
he did not let me go. I promised to come back." And Francois's eyes
sparkled with honest indignation.
Ben's heart beat high with hope.
"You will come to my room at midnight?" he said.
"Yes, monsieur."
"I will be ready."
"One thing, monsieur. Do not have your shoes on. You can carry them
in your hand. We must not make any noise when we are going down
stairs, or we may be caught."
"That is well thought of, Francois. Depend upon me. I will be ready."
It will easily be supposed that Ben did not go to bed. He sat
waiting patiently hour after hour till, as midnight struck, his door
was softly opened, and Francois appeared.
"Now," said the attendant, "follow me, and make no noise."
Ben, in his stocking feet, followed the attendant down stairs.
Producing a large key, Francois opened the outside door, then closed
it softly, and they stood outside under a star-lit sky.
                          CHAPTER XXVIII.
                           BEN'S FLIGHT.
As good luck would have it, Ben and Francois departed without being
observed. On emerging from the asylum they at first ran, after
putting on their shoes, but when a quarter of a mile had been
traversed they dropped into a walk.
"Well, we got away safely," said Ben.
"Yes; the doctor was asleep. We shall not be missed till morning."
"And then it shall be my fault if I am caught. Where is your home,
Francois?"
"Five miles away."
"Yes, but is it on my way?"
"Where would monsieur go?"
"To Paris."
"To Paris!" ejaculated Francois, with wonderment. "That is a great
way off, is it not?"
"Yes, I think it must be a thousand miles away."
"But monsieur is a boy; he cannot walk so far."
"No," answered Ben, laughing. "I don't propose to. Is there any
railroad station near your house?"
"Yes, monsieur; only five minutes off."
"That will do very well."
"And has monsieur money enough?"
"Not to go all the way to Paris, but half-way there, perhaps."
"And is not monsieur afraid he will starve--without money?"
"I think I can get along," said Ben, slowly, for it dawned upon him
that it would not be a very pleasant thing to be penniless in a
foreign country.
"I will give back half the money monsieur has given me," said
Francois, in a friendly tone.
"No, Francois; you will need it all. I am not afraid."
After a walk of an hour and a half the two pedestrians reached a
small village set among the hills. Francois began to walk faster,
and to look more eager.
"Does monsieur see that cottage?" he said.
Ben's eyes rested on an humble cottage just out of the village.
"Yes."
"It is mine. Will monsieur come with me?"
"Yes, I will go to see if your little girl is alive."
Soon they were at the door. There was a light burning in the main
room. A plain, neat woman opened the door.
"Thank Heaven!" she exclaimed, "it is Francois."
"Is--is Marie alive?"
"Yes, my husband. She has had a change for the better."
"Heaven be praised!"
"And who is this young gentleman?"
"A friend," answered Francois, after some hesitation.
"Then I'm glad to see him. Welcome, monsieur."
"Come in, monsieur," said Francois.
"I think I had better go to the station."
"The cars will not start till seven o'clock. Monsieur will need
repose."
"But I don't wish to incommode you."
"My wife will give you a blanket, and you can lie here."
Ben accepted the invitation, and stretched himself out on a settee.
"I will wake you in time," said Francois. "Be tranquil."
                           CHAPTER XXIX.
                          BEN IS MISSED.
Meanwhile M. Bourdon slept the sleep of the just--or the unjust--not
dreaming of the loss his establishment had sustained. He did not
open his eyes till five o'clock.
Usually at that hour Francois was stirring, as he had morning duties
to perform. But M. Bourdon did not hear him bustling around as
usual. At first this did not strike him, but after awhile he began
to wonder why.
"The lazy dog!" he said to himself. "He is indulging himself this
morning, and his work will suffer."
He went to the door of his chamber and called "Francois!"
Francois slept in an upper room, but still the asylum was not a
lofty building, and he should have heard.
"He must be fast asleep, as usual," grumbled M. Bourdon. "I must go
up and rouse him. It would be well if I had a horsewhip."
Slipping on a part of his clothing, the doctor crept up stairs.
He knocked at the door of his dilatory servant.
"Francois! Francois, I say. Are you dead?"
There was no answer.
"I suppose he has locked his door," muttered the doctor, as he tried
the latch.
But no! the door opened, and, to his dismay, the room was empty. The
bed had not been disturbed.
The doctor's face was dark with anger.
"The ingrate has left me, after all. He has gone to his child, who
is not sick at all, I dare say. Well, he will repent it. I will not
take him back."
Here the doctor paused. It would be exceedingly inconvenient to lose
Francois, who, besides being a capable man, accepted very small pay.
"At any rate I will lower his wages!" he said. "He shall regret the
way he has served me."
It was a temporary inconvenience. Still there was an outside man
whom he could impress into the service as a substitute, and in a day
or two Francois would be glad to return. It was not, perhaps, so
serious a matter, after all.
But M. Bourdon changed his mind when he found the front door
unlocked.
"Who had escaped, if any?"
This was the question he asked himself. In great haste he went from
one room to another, but all seemed to be occupied. It was only when
he opened Ben's room that he ascertained that the one whom he would
most regret to lose had decamped. Ben's bed, too, was but little
disturbed. He had slept on the outside, if he had slept at all, but
not within the bed, as was but too evident.
"Has any one seen the boy?" demanded M. Bourdon of an outdoor
servant who slept outside, but was already on duty.
"Not I, Monsieur le Docteur."
"Then he must have escaped with Francois! Put my horse in the
carriage at once."
Ten minutes later M. Bourdon was on his way to the cottage of
Francois.
Fifteen minutes before he arrived Francois had aroused our young
hero.
"It is time to get up, little monsieur," he said. "In half an hour
the cars will start."
Refreshed by his sound sleep, Ben sprang up at once--he did not need
to dress--and was ready for the adventures of the day.
"Where is the station, Francois?" he said.
"I will go with monsieur."
"No; if the doctor should come, delay him so that he cannot overtake
me."
"Perhaps it is best."
Ben followed the directions of his humble friend, and soon brought
up at the station. He purchased a third-class ticket for a place
fifty miles away, and waited till it was time for the train to start.
Meanwhile M. Bourdon had driven up to the cottage of Francois.
The door was opened to him by Francois himself.
"Where is that boy? Did he come away with you?" he asked, abruptly.
"What boy?" asked Francois, vacantly.
"The one who came a few days since. You know who I mean."
Francois shrugged his shoulders.
"Is he gone?" he asked.
"Of course he is, fool."
Just then the wife of Francois came to the door. Unfortunately her
husband had not warned her, nor did she know that Ben had been an
inmate of the asylum.
"Where is the boy who came here last night with your husband?" asked
M. Bourdon, abruptly.
"Gone to the station," answered the woman, unsuspiciously.
The doctor jumped into his carriage, and drove with speed to the
station.
                           CHAPTER XXX.
                    M. BOURDON'S LITTLE SCHEME.
Meanwhile Ben had entered a third-class carriage--it behooved him to
be economical now--and sat down. He was congratulating himself on
his fortunate escape, when M. Bourdon dashed up to the station.
He entered the building, and was about passing to the platform, when
he was stopped. "Your ticket, monsieur."
Just then came the signal for the train to start.
"Never mind the ticket!" shouted the doctor. "Don't stop me. One of
my patients is running away."
"I can't help it," said the guard, imperturbably. "Monsieur cannot
pass without a ticket."
"But I don't want to go anywhere," roared M. Bourdon. "I want to see
the passengers."
To the railway attendant this seemed a very curious request. He
began to think the doctor, with his excitable manner, was insane. At
any rate, he was obliged to obey the rules.
"Go back and buy a ticket, monsieur," he said, unmoved.
"But I don't want to go anywhere," protested M. Bourdon.
"Then go back!" And the official, placing his hand on the doctor's
sacred person, thrust him forcibly aside.
"Fool! Dolt!" screamed M. Bourdon, who could hear the train starting.
"You must be crazy!" said the guard, shrugging his shoulders.
It was too late now. The train had actually gone, and M. Bourdon
turned back, foiled, humiliated and wrathful. He regretted bitterly
now that he had not let Francois off the evening before, as in that
case Ben would not have had a chance to escape. Now he must lose the
generous sum which Major Grafton had agreed to pay for his ward.
It was more than he received for any other of his patients, for
M. Bourdon, recognizing Ben's sanity, shrewdly surmised that the
guardian had some special design in having his ward locked up, and
took advantage of it to increase the weekly sum which he charged.
And now all this was lost.
But no! A happy thought struck the worthy doctor. Ben had escaped,
it is true, but why could not he go on charging for him just as
before? His escape was not known to Major Grafton, and probably
would not be discovered for a long time at least. The major was not
very likely to visit the asylum, as an interview between him and his
young victim would be rather embarrassing to him.
Yes, that was the course he would pursue. He would from time to time
send in a report of his patient, and regularly collect his board,
while he would be at no expense whatever for him. It was necessary,
however, to take Francois into his confidence, and he drove back to
the cottage of the humble attendant.
Francois was watching outside. He was afraid the doctor would
succeed in capturing the boy, in whom he had begun to feel a strong
interest. When he saw M. Bourdon drive up alone he smiled to
himself, though his features remained outwardly grave.
"Did you find him, sir?" he asked, respectfully.
"No," answered M. Bourdon, roughly. "The train had just started."
"And was he a passenger?"
"Doubtless."
"What will you do, Monsieur le Docteur?" Francois asked, curiously.
"Francois," said M. Bourdon, suddenly, "I am sorry for you."
"Why?" asked Francois, considerably surprised. "Is it because my
little Marie is sick?"
"Plague take your little Marie! It is because you have helped the
boy to escape."
"How could I help him, sir?"
"Some one must have unlocked the door of his room. Otherwise, he
could not have got out."
"I don't know, monsieur," said Francois, assuming ignorance.
"When did you first see him?"
"I had walked about a quarter of a mile," said Francois,
mendaciously, "when he ran up and overtook me. I told him to go
back, but he would not. He followed me, and came here."
"This story is by no means ingenious," said the doctor, shaking his
head. "When you stand up in a court of justice you will see how the
lawyers will make you eat your words. And very likely they will send
you to prison."
"Oh, no! Don't say that!" said poor Francois, much frightened. "What
would become of my poor wife and child?"
"You should have thought of them before this."
"Oh, Monsieur le Docteur, you will save me from prison!" exclaimed
poor, simple-minded Francois.
"On one condition."
"Name it, monsieur."
"Let no one know that the boy has escaped."
"I will not, if you desire it."
"You see, it will be bad for me as well as for you. It was very
important to keep him--very important, indeed--and his friends will
call me to account. But they need not know it, if you remain silent."
"No one shall hear me say a word, Monsieur le Docteur," said
Francois, promptly.
"That is well. In that case I will overlook your disobedience, and
allow you to return to your place."
"Oh, monsieur is too good!" said Francois, who did not by any means
anticipate such magnanimous forgiveness.
"When can you come back?"
"When monsieur will."
"Come, then, this evening. It will be in time. I will allow you to
spend the day with your family, since your child is sick."
The doctor turned his horse's head, and drove back to the asylum.
Three days after he wrote to Major Grafton:
    "MY DEAR SIR: Your ward is rather sullen, but quiet. He
    was at first disposed to make trouble, but the firm and
    effective discipline of the institution has had the usual
    result. I allow him to amuse himself with reading, as this
    seems to be the best way of keeping him quiet and contented.
    His insanity is of a mild kind, but it is often precisely
    such cases that are most difficult to cure. You may rely,
    Monsieur Grafton, upon my taking the best care of the
    young gentleman, and, as you desired, I will especially
    guard against his obtaining writing materials, lest, by a
    misrepresentation of his condition, he might excite his
    friends.
    "I thank you for your promptness in forwarding my weekly
    payments. Write me at any time when you desire a detailed
    account of your ward's condition."
    M. Bourdon signed this letter, after reading it over to
    himself, with a complacent smile. He reflected that it did
    great credit to his ingenuity.
    "Some men would have revealed the truth," he said to
    himself, "and lost a fine income. I am wiser."
In due time this letter reached Major Grafton.
"That is well," he said to himself. "I am rather sorry for the
boy, but he has brought it on himself. Why must he be a fool, and
threaten to blab? He was living in luxury, such as he has never been
accustomed to before, and he might rest content with that. In me
surely he had an indulgent master. I rarely gave him anything to do.
He could live on the fat of the land, see the world at no expense to
himself, and have all the advantages of a rich man's son. Well, he
has made his own bed, and now he must lie in it. On some accounts it
is more agreeable to me to travel alone, and have no one to bother
me."
To avert suspicion, Major Grafton left the Hotel des Bergues and
took up his quarters at another hotel. At the end of two weeks he
left for Italy, having arranged matters satisfactorily by sending M.
Bourdon a month's payment in advance, an arrangement that suited the
worthy doctor remarkably well.
                           CHAPTER XXXI.
                       A WANDERER IN FRANCE.
A boy toiled painfully over a country road but a few miles from
the city of Lyons. His clothes bore the marks of the dusty road
over which he was travelling. It was clear by his appearance that
he was not a French boy. There is no need of keeping up a mystery
which my young readers will easily penetrate. This boy was our
hero, Ben Baker. He was now more than half way to Paris, and might
have reached that gay city days since but for his limited supply of
money. When he gave Francois a hundred francs he nearly exhausted
his limited capital, but there was no help for it.
He had travelled a hundred miles on the railway, far enough to be
beyond the danger of pursuit and the risk of a return to the asylum,
which he could not think of without a shudder. Now he would walk,
and so economize. He had walked another hundred miles, and had
reached this point in his journey. But his scanty funds were now
reduced to a piece of two sous, and he was between three and four
thousand miles from home. This very day he had walked fifteen miles,
and all he had eaten was a roll, which he had purchased in a baker's
shop in a country village through which he had passed in the early
morning.
Hopeful as Ben was by temperament, he looked sober enough as he
contemplated his position. How was he ever to return home, and what
prospect was there for him in Europe? If he had been in any part of
America he would have managed to find something to do, but here he
felt quite helpless.
He had walked fifteen miles on an almost empty stomach, and the
result was that he was not only tired but sleepy. He sat down by the
way-side, with his back against the trunk of a tree, and before he
was conscious of it he had fallen asleep.
How long he had been asleep he did not know, but he was roused
suddenly by a touch. Opening his eyes, he saw a man fumbling at his
watch-chain. The man, who was a stout and unprepossessing-looking
man of about thirty-five, wearing a blouse, jumped back with a
hasty, confused exclamation.
"What are you doing?" demanded Ben, suspiciously.
He spoke first in English, but, remembering himself, repeated the
question in French.
"Pardon, monsieur," said the man, looking uncomfortable.
Ben's glance fell on his chain and the watch, which had slipped from
his pocket, and he understood that the man had been trying to steal
his watch. In spite of his poverty and need of money he had not yet
parted with the watch, though he suspected the time would soon come
when he should be compelled to do so.
"You were trying to steal my watch," said Ben, severely.
"No, monsieur, you are wrong," answered the tramp, for that was
what he would be called in America.
"How came my watch out of the pocket, and why were you leaning over
me?" continued Ben.
"I wanted to see what time it was," answered the man, after a
minute's hesitation.
"I think it is fortunate I awoke when I did," said Ben.
His new acquaintance did not choose to notice the significance of
the words.
"Monsieur," he said, "I am a poor man. Will you help me with a few
sous?"
Ben could not help laughing. It seemed too ridiculous that any one
should ask money of him. He took the two-sous piece from his pocket.
"Do you see that?" he asked.
"Yes, monsieur."
"It is all the money I have."
The man looked incredulous.
"And yet monsieur is well dressed, and has a gold watch."
"Still I am as poor as you, for I am more than three thousand miles
from home, and have not money enough to get there, even if I sell my
watch."
"Where does monsieur live?" asked the tramp, looking interested.
"In America."
"Will monsieur take my advice?"
"If it is good."
"There is a rich American gentleman at the Hotel de la Couronne, in
Lyons. He would, perhaps, help monsieur."
The idea struck Ben favorably. This gentleman could, at any rate,
give him advice, and he felt that he needed it.
"How far is Lyons away?"
"Scarcely a league."
"Straight ahead?"
"Yes, monsieur."
"Then I will go there."
"And I, too. I will guide monsieur."
"Thank you. I will reward you, if I have the means."
                          CHAPTER XXXII.
                        A STRANGE MEETING.
The Hotel de la Couronne is situated in one of the finest parts
of Lyons. As Ben stood before it, he began to doubt whether he
had not better go away with his errand undone. After all, this
American gentleman, if there were one in the hotel, would be likely
to feel very little interest in a destitute boy claiming to be
a fellow-countryman. He might even look upon him as a designing
rogue, with a fictitious story of misfortune, practising upon his
credulity. Ben's cheek flushed at the mere thought that he might be
so regarded.
So he was on the point of going away; but he was nerved by his very
desperation to carry out his original plan.
He entered the hotel, and went up to the office.
"Will monsieur look at some apartments?" asked the landlord's son, a
man of thirty.
"No, monsieur--that is, not at present. Is there an American
gentleman at present staying in the hotel?"
"Yes. Is monsieur an American?"
Ben replied in the affirmative, and asked for the name of his
countryman.
"It is Monsieur Novarro," was the reply.
"Novarro!" repeated Ben to himself. "That sounds more like a Spanish
or an Italian name."
"Is that the gentleman monsieur desires to see?"
"From what part of America does Mr. Novarro come?"
The register was applied to, and the answer given was "Havana."
"Havana!" said Ben, disappointed. "Then he will take no interest in
me," he thought. "There is very little kindred between a Cuban and
an American."
"Would monsieur like to see M. Novarro?"
"I may as well see him," thought Ben, and he answered in the
affirmative.
"There is M. Novarro, now," said the landlord's son; and Ben,
turning, saw a tall, very dark-complexioned man, who had just
entered.
"M. Novarro, here is a young gentleman who wishes to see you--a
countryman of yours."
The Cuban regarded Ben attentively, and not without surprise.
"Have we met before?" he asked, courteously.
"No, sir," answered Ben, relieved to find that the Cuban spoke
English; "and I am afraid I am taking a liberty in asking for you."
"By no means! If I can be of any service to you, my friend, you may
command me."
"It is rather a long story, Mr. Novarro," Ben commenced.
"Then we will adjourn to my room, where we shall be more at our
ease."
Ben followed his new acquaintance to a handsome private parlor on
the second floor and seated himself in a comfortable arm-chair,
indicated by the Cuban.
"I will first mention my name," said Ben. "It is Benjamin Baker."
"Baker!" exclaimed the Cuban, in evident excitement. "Who was your
father?"
"My father was Dr. John Baker, and lived in Sunderland, Connecticut."
"Is is possible!" ejaculated the Cuban; "you are his son?"
"Did you know my father?" asked Ben, in amazement.
"I never saw him, but I knew of him. I am prepared to be a friend
to his son. Now tell me your story."
                          CHAPTER XXXIII.
                     AN ASTOUNDING DISCOVERY.
Ben told his story so far as it concerned his engagement by Major
Grafton and his visit to Europe. Of his mother and her circumstances
and of his uncle he had scarcely occasion to speak, considering
that his auditor would hardly feel interested in his own personal
history. The Cuban, who had a grave, kindly aspect, listened with
close attention to his narrative. When Ben ceased speaking he said:
"My young friend, there is one thing that puzzles me in this story
of yours."
"What is it, sir?" asked Ben, anxiously. He feared that the stranger
did not believe him.
