remark. But she soon saw what it meant.
She was quite startled by the decision to which the Spaniard came.
"Miss Stuart," he began, in a low, trembling voice, "this is indeed a
reward for my helping you. I cannot tell you how much I appreciate it.
It shows me that those I helped were worth helping. And it makes me all
the more sorry."
"Sorry?"
"Yes, sorry that it cannot be."
The girl gave a slight gasp.
"What cannot be?"
"I cannot marry you. I will not."
The officer paused for a moment, then he went on.
"It is plain to me," he said, "that you have worshiped this cadet. I do
not blame you, after what I have just seen of him. I have heard of his
bravery, too, and he is worthy of you--more so than I am. As I say, Miss
Stuart, you love him; and you do not love me. You make this proposal to
me from a sense of duty, and I cannot think of accepting it. You would
never be happy again."
The girl started to protest, but the lieutenant held up his hand to stop
her.
"No," he said, "there are more reasons, even stronger ones, I could not
think of going to the United States. I could not think of turning
traitor to my country. You forget, since I have helped you, that I am
still a Spaniard; and while this war continues I shall remain with my
countrymen."
"But they will kill you!"
"They may do what they please with me. It is not for me to say. I have
done my duty; I will not become a traitor."
The officer was silent for a moment, sadly staring ahead in the
darkness.
"You Americans forget how we Spaniards feel," he began slowly. "You
think us foolish to fight for a dying country. I know that it is dying;
for I am not one of those who blind their eyes and boast. I know that we
are bankrupt and disorganized, our men dying, and our enemies closing
in on us. We cannot keep up with modern nations. But, Miss Stuart, it is
still Spain, my native land; my friends are there, my memories are
there. And Spain's enemies are mine."
There was a gleam in the proud Castilian's eyes as he said that; but
then he sank back with a sigh.
"It is useless," he said, "foolish, if you will. And I am tired of the
struggle, tired of weeping at my country's trials, her follies. I shall
be glad to leave. I can die without a murmur. When I go back to Havana I
shall have no one to care about me, and it will soon be over."
The man stopped abruptly.
"I am through," he said.
"You say you have no one to care for you," said the girl. "I will care
for you."
But the officer only shook his head.
"I should ruin your hopes," he said. "You must not think of me at all.
If I came I should have no way of taking care of you; I will stay in
Cuba. And remember that I have done this to make you happy--because I
love you. If I leave you unhappy I shall know that I have died for
nothing."
And there the matter ended. The calm officer only shook his head to all
of Bessie's arguments; he had his mind made up, and was as firm as
adamant.
It seemed strange that the girl should be trying to persuade him to
marry her; but in her earnestness she never thought of that. The man's
sacrifice quite appalled her; she felt that she was not worth it, and
she did all she could to persuade him of her sincerity.
But Lieutenant Hernandez was unmoved.
"I know that you love him," he said, "and I know that your heart is
ready to break at the thought of leaving him. I can see it in the way
you look at him. I knew it when you fainted when I spoke of his danger.
And I do not blame you, for he is a braver man than I. But I will not be
coward enough to separate you. You would hate me."
"Hate you?"
"Yes, and every decent American, too. What else has any man for a
traitor? I should kill myself for shame. No, no!"
And the girl realized to her despair what he said was true; but oh! how
her heart went out to that man!
The officer rose to his feet just then, as if to close the painful
discussion. Bessie Stuart rose, too, and she held out her hand to him.
He took and kissed it reverently; then his face still calm and
dignified, he stepped to the door.
"It is best," he said, "that I should go."
"Can you not wait to see us start?" asked the girl.
"You will find a boat on the shore just in front of you," began the
other. "And you had best start as soon as it is light. But there is
nobody about here, and you are not in any danger. As to my staying, I
will watch you from the woods, a short ways back. It would not be well
for me to stay here, for I am human----"
The man paused a moment as he gazed into the girl's beautiful face.
"I am very weak," he said, with a sad smile. "I might accept the reward
you offer."
And with that he bowed, then turned resolutely on his heel and strode
away into the darkness.
As he did so he passed Clif; and Clif, as he saw him leave rushed toward
the dark figure that stood in the doorway of the hut.
What had been Clif's agony of mind may be imagined. When he saw the
lieutenant going away it had flashed over him that perhaps he refused
the act of treason implied in his going to America.
And Clif's heart began to throb once more with the wild hope he had
tried so hard to suppress.
"Bessie!" he panted. "Bessie! What did he say?"
"He has gone back to Havana," was the answer.
For an instant the two stood staring at each other, their hearts
throbbing with an emotion they were ashamed to call joy. Clif saw the
girl's slender figure trembling.
And he sprang forward and caught her in his arms just as she fainted
dead away.
CHAPTER XX.
AN UNEXPECTED PERIL.
How the long hours between then and sunrise passed away those two hardly
knew. Bessie Stuart, exhausted by her long nervous strain, sank into a
restless slumber. And Clif sat with his eyes fixed on the gradually
lightening doorway.
Clif wanted to feel happy, but he scarcely dared. For he had before his
mind the thought of that lonely Spanish officer, waiting somewhere in
the distance to see them depart and leave him to his fate.
It was a solemn thought, and it made Clif tremble. He almost wished that
the man had not rescued him.
But then again he thought of Ignacio and his frenzied cruelty, and he
felt that he would have died himself to save any man from such a fate as
that.
And now it was done and there was no undoing it. There was no way of
aiding the lieutenant, no way of persuading him, nothing but death for
him to face.
But as Clif sat there through the early hours of the morning and gazed
upon that silent figure by his side he felt that his love for that girl
was consecrated by that hero's sacrifice. There was a light of high
purpose in the brave man's eyes; he was accepting his life and hers at
the cost of another's, and the terms were such as made him feel the
meaning of his existence. It was to be no child's play, no blind hunt
for pleasure or wealth or fame, but a life with a purpose and meaning,
a struggle for the right.
"I think his face will always be watching me," thought Clif.
And there were moments in his after life when the thought that that
quiet Spaniard's eyes were watching made him shrink from the base things
of life.
The light that shone in from the eastern sky gradually grew brighter and
brighter, and Clif awakened from his solemn reverie to the duty that lay
before him then.
He had Bessie Stuart to protect, and to lead from that position of
peril.
It would indeed be a frightful calamity, he thought, if that sacrifice
of Lieutenant Hernandez should avail nothing. If that girl should fall
once more into the clutches of the Spaniards.
"For they are not all like that man," thought the lad.
And so he waited nervously until the light was bright enough. And then
very gently he awakened her and assisted her to rise.
The girl was weak and exhausted, but she gathered her strength for this
last final effort.
"We have not far to go," Clif said. "And we will soon be safe."
The two halted for a moment at the doorway of the hut and gazed out.
In the faint gray light they could not make out the line of the shore
beyond, but they heard the noise of the breakers and knew that it was
not far away.
And so half carrying his friend, Clif set out in the direction of the
sound. Once only he turned again.
That was to take a parting look in the direction he knew Lieutenant
Hernandez to be.
But he could make out only a dim line of woods behind him. No one could
be seen, and the place was lonely and silent and gray.
But Clif fancied those quiet eyes were watching him from the distance.
There was no time to be lost, however, for no one knew when they might
chance to meet with some of the enemy; they were in the midst of a
thickly settled country.
And so they made their way swiftly down to the shore.
There they found a rowboat, drawn up on the beach a little beyond them.
Clif was startled to see a figure standing by it.
But it proved to be only a boy, and he hailed them and then disappeared.
Clif knew that he had been sent there to guard the boat; it was more of
the lieutenant's thoughtfulness.
The sight of that guarantee of safety revived Bessie Stuart's spirits
considerably; her step grew quicker and in a few moments they reached
the spot.
There were a pair of oars in the boat, which was a small one. Without a
word, Clif set to work to put it off from the shore.
That was as hard a task as could have been given him; for great waves
were rolling upon the beach. But Clif was an athlete and a sailor
besides; and the realization of their danger nerved his arm.
He seated the girl in the bow and ran the boat out with a rush; he
caught a favorable moment. He plunged on until the water was up to his
waist, and then he leaped into the boat and seized the oars just as
another great wave swept them in toward shore again.
But Clif pulled for his life and held his own; and when the current set
out again, he breasted the line of breakers and reached the sea beyond.
Bessie Stuart sat perfectly motionless, grasping the gunwale, until she
saw that they were safe. Then she gave a slight gasp and closed her eyes
wearily.
Clif had but one object, and that was to get as far from the coast of
Cuba as he could; every stroke that he rowed put him further away from
that dreaded shore.
And he knew, though he could not see them then, that far out to sea lay
the vessels of the blockading squadron. Once in sight of them and the
anxious fugitives were safe.
And so Clif put every ounce of muscle he had into that task. Not a word
more was spoken; but the man's lips were set in a desperate resolve and
his broad back heaved as he fought his way on.
There was a heavy sea, and progress was frightfully slow. Now that they
were so near to safety, to be recaptured would be frightful indeed.
But yet the cadet knew that Spanish soldiers on the shore might catch
sight of them at any moment, and come rushing down the beach to open
fire.
Clif had rescued one man from just such a plight as that; and so as he
rowed he glanced nervously along the shore.
But he saw no one, and no one saw him. The light brightened until he
could make out everything along the coast, but there was no sign of any
one's having noticed them.
An so with his heart growing lighter at every moment Clif tugged at the
oars and forced the frail boat ahead through the waves. It was but
natural that his relief should be great, for his adventures upon that
island had been terrible ones indeed.
A warship is far from a safe place of residence, especially in war time.
But Clif felt that if he once got under the American flag again all his
worry would be at an end.
And so every stroke nearer was a cause for joy.
For perhaps five minutes he rowed on in silence. By that time he was
some distance from shore, though their progress was slow in the heavy
sea.
But they felt that they were safe. They felt that there was no longer
anything to be feared. And there was a silent prayer of thanksgiving in
Clif Faraday's heart.
And such being his feelings, the reader may imagine the horror and
consternation that swept over him a moment later.
For an appalling discovery was made, one that seemed fairly to freeze
Clif's blood.
He was struggling with his back toward Bessie Stuart. And the joy that
was in his heart was turned to horror by hearing the girl give a shrill
scream.
The cadet whirled about.
He saw the girl, her face transfixed and white as a sheet, pointing with
a trembling finger off to starboard.
Clif followed the direction of her gaze; what he saw made his brain
reel, made him almost totter backward into the boat.
Not half a mile away, coming straight down the coast and bearing down
upon them at full speed, was a vessel, a low gunboat.
And high above her bow was floating a Spanish flag.
Clif stared at the frightful apparition as if he had seen a ghost.
What it meant to him may be imagined--the failure of all their
hopes--their capture and death!
And there was not the slightest possibility of escape!
Perfectly wild with terror the agonized cadet whirled about, gazing
seaward, with a faint hope of the possibility of there being seen by
some American vessel.
But the gray horizon was not light enough for them to be sighted. And
all hope was gone.
Bessie Stuart continued pointing to the vessel as if she were paralyzed
by fright.
"Row! Row!" she shrieked.
And Clif seized the oars frantically. But he knew that it was utterly
useless. The gunboat was coming on like a race horse.
And scarcely had he taken two strokes before the matter was settled
finally. For there came a puff of white smoke from the Spaniard's bow.
And almost at the same instant with a deafening, blinding crash, a solid
shot struck the tiny rowboat.
It plunged through, almost tearing the frail craft in half, hurling
splinters about and sending the two horrified occupants tumbling into
the water!
CHAPTER XXI.
RECAPTURED BY THE ENEMY.
Clif was so heartbroken at that sudden ending of all his hopes, that he
scarcely cared whether he was drowned or not. But he saw Bessie Stuart
struggling in the seething waters, and toward her he struck out
desperately.
It took the cadet but a moment to reach her side. The shattered wreck of
the wooden boat was floating near, and to that he struggled, helping her
on.
And they reached it, in what it sounds like mockery to call safety. The
girl scarcely knew whether it were best to hold on or to drown.
But instinctively she clung to the side as the great waves swept over
them; and the two fixed their eyes upon the approaching vessel.
She came on swiftly, sheering the water with her sharp bow. And Clif
could see half a dozen men standing in the bow watching them.
"Perhaps they have heard of our escape," he growled, "and come after
us."
The vessel was not coming from Havana, but the cadet knew that a
telegram might have sent it out.
At any rate, they were recaptured; and the horrors of Morro were before
them again.
Steadily the gunboat drew nearer; the two half-drowned Americans were
reached in a minute or two.
And the vessel slowed up and a rope was thrown to them. Clif desperate
from despair, seized it and drew himself close.
A couple of Spanish sailors leaned down from the low side and lifted
first the half unconscious girl and then the cadet up to the deck.
And then, weak and pale and dripping wet, they confronted a tall,
ugly-looking Spaniard with an officer's chevrons.
He stared at them curiously.
"Who are you?" he demanded.
And Clif, grim with desperation, looked him in the eye and answered
boldly:
"We are Americans," said he.
"Prisoners?"
"Yes."
"From where?"
"Morro Castle."
The Spaniard looked the amazement he felt.
"Morro Castle!" he echoed. "Humph! How did you get out?"
"Take us back there and you'll find out," was Clif's defiant answer.
And with that he turned toward the girl to wipe her dripping hair from
her face.
He expected that the man would continue questioning them. But he was
mistaken. The Spanish gunboat had done a risky thing, running out as it
had, and her officers were anxious to get back.
The man turned away and hurried off. A sailor with a pair of handcuffs
approached Clif, and the cadet quietly allowed his wrists to be secured.
Bessie Stuart was fortunately spared that indignity. The sailor gruffly
ordered them to go below.
The vessel, meanwhile, had resumed her trip. She had been running along
close to the coast under cover of the darkness of the previous night.
And now she turned to steal back.
Clif's heart was heavy, and he was miserable beyond description.
But he turned and silently followed the sailor to the companionway.
They did not go below at once, however, for just then something occurred
that made the sailor stop.
The man who had first spoke to Clif, the captain, apparently, had been
sweeping the shore with his glass. And just then he gave a startled
exclamation.
Everybody heard him, and the Spanish sailor stopped and turned to look.
Clif was so listless and despairing that he did not take the trouble to
do likewise; but when he heard the exclamations of the men he felt his
heart give a leap.
They were staring at a man on the shore.
"What in the world can be the matter with that fellow?" cried the
captain.
"Santa Maria! he is calling to us!" exclaimed another.
"He must be crazy," declared a third.
The captain, with his glass could see more plainly than the others, and
his astonishment grew greater.
"Why, he's a Spanish officer--a lieutenant, I think! And he is trying to
hail us. What can it mean?"
"Perhaps he's got dispatches!" suggested some one.
It flashed over Clif in an instant what that meant, and Bessie Stuart
heard him give a muffled exclamation of delight.
For he could see a blue-uniformed figure running down the shore and
waving its arms wildly.
"It's Lieutenant Hernandez!" he panted.
And there was a wild gleam of hope in his eyes as he realized what that
meant.
He might rescue them again!
Feverishly Clif watched to see what the gunboat would do. The captain
continued staring and muttering exclamations of astonishment.
"I wonder if he does want us," he cried. "Por dios, I do think that's
it."
And a second later he made up his mind and whirled about.
"Hard a port!" he roared.
And Clif's heart leaped with joy as he heard that order.
The sailor was so much interested in that strange incident that he let
his prisoners remain on deck while he stood and stared. The Spanish
vessel raced swiftly in toward shore.
And the stranger as soon as he saw that stopped his frantic
gesticulating and stood still to wait.
The captain ran in as close as he dared, and then stopped. He stepped
into the bow.
"What do you want?" he roared.
"Send a boat," the man shouted back. "I must come aboard. Quick!"
The captain muttered an exclamation of astonishment under his breath;
but his curiosity alone would have been sufficient to move him. The
gunboat's wherry boat was quickly gotten away.
As for Clif, he was simply wild with delight. For he could see that it
was Lieutenant Hernandez after all.
Bessie Stuart was so overcome by the sudden shock of the discovery that
she was scarcely able to stand, breathlessly the two watched the rowboat
speeding in.
The lieutenant waded out as far as he could, and when the boat reached
him he climbed into the bow. In a few moments he was speeding back to
the gunboat.
And when he stepped on board he found the captain staring at him.
"Lieutenant Hernandez!" he gasped.
"Yes," said the other with a bow.
But he scarcely glanced at the man until his eager eyes had sought out
Clif and Bessie. When he saw them alive and unhurt a look of relief
swept over his face.
And then he turned to the captain.
"What in the world is the matter?" the man cried.
The other nodded toward the two Americans.
"It is about them," he said.
"What about them?"
"Why did you stop them?"
"Stop them! Why they are Americans, and they were prisoners in Morro."
"I know that," said the officer. "But they were released."
"What!"
"Yes. And I was charged with the duty of seeing them safe on board the
American ships."
The Spanish captain stared in amazement.
"Carramba!" he muttered. "Why didn't they say so?"
"I don't see that you gave them a chance," said the other. "You fired on
them too soon."
"But I had no idea of this!" cried the other.
To doubt that story never once entered his head; he seemed to know who
the lieutenant was.
"What in the world am I to do?" he asked, after a moment.
"I don't see that there is but one thing," said the other.
"Take them back to Havana and let them be sent from there?" asked the
captain.
"No," said the lieutenant, quietly. "That will not do; for the
government has pledged its word that they shall be on the ships by
daybreak. To make haste is very important."
"But what else?"
"Give them your small boat."
"Carramba! I haven't got but one! And how will I ever get it back?"
The lieutenant was puzzled for a moment.
But suddenly he hit on a daring scheme.
"Captain," he said, "my orders are from General Blanco himself. He
charged me above all things to see these people safe at once, even if I
had to go out to the ships with them. I don't see that there is but one
thing we can do."
"What is it?"
"We will have to hoist a flag of truce and take them out on this
vessel."
The captain started.
"Can we trust the Americans?" he gasped.
"They are expecting us," said the lieutenant quietly.
And then for a minute the captain was silent; when he spoke it was to
the man at the wheel.
"Steer us out to the Yankee fleet," he said. "It will have to be done,
and run up that white flag."
       *       *       *       *       *
Perhaps ten minutes after that the blockading squadron sighted a Spanish
gunboat coming toward them with a flag of truce.
The New York steamed to meet it; and the vessel came alongside and
without a word of explanation the two prisoners were sent aboard.
Clif and Bessie both gazed longingly at the noble-hearted lieutenant as
he stood on the deck and watched them leave. Their look said plainer
than words, "Come with us!"
But he only shook his head; and when he saw the two disappear upon the
deck of the big cruiser, and when the gunboat was well on her way back
to shore he turned with a slight groan and went below.
Clif and Bessie wondered with anxiety and sorrow what would be his fate.
They dreaded for him the worst tortures of Castle Morro, but the heroic
Spaniard escaped that--in a way that Clif learned a few days later.
CHAPTER XXII.
CUTTING A CABLE.
The cadet's report was soon made. Under ordinary circumstances he would
have been ordered to report back to the Uncas, but that stanch little
gunboat was then miles beyond the western horizon. Moreover, the admiral
had other work for the cadet.
As to Miss Stuart; there was a parting between her and Clif that was
such as should be between acknowledged lovers, but it was a parting of
the most decided kind, for his duty lay in the war, hers on land. She
was sent to Key West on a cruiser that was then leaving the squadron to
recoal.
What the young man and the girl said to each other cannot concern us
here, for we have now to do with Faraday's experience as a sailor. His
love affair had to await the events of war, and so may the story of it.
Clif's next service began on the morning following his escape. A small
boat left the flagship and headed for Point Rubalcava on the Cuban
coast. It was bent upon a dangerous mission; so hazardous, in fact, that
volunteers had been called for to man the boat.
The first one to offer his services had been Clif Faraday. There was no
lack of followers among the brave American tars. Fifty offered
themselves a moment after the cadet stepped forward, and the task was to
select from them twelve men to form the boat's crew.
"It is necessary to cut the cable as a war measure," said Rear Admiral
Sampson, when the selection had been made. "You will proceed cautiously
toward shore and grapple for the cable. If you find it, cut it. If not,
you must go ashore and locate the landing place of the wire. Are you
ready for the service?"
"Ay, ay, sir!" came the ready response.
Rear Admiral Sampson looked upon the brave, eager faces of the men for a
moment with evident satisfaction.
"There is danger of discovery, and attack from the shore batteries," he
added. "Success will depend upon your quickness and skill."
The men well knew the danger that lay before them, but there was no sign
of faltering upon their faces. Rather, there was an eagerness for
instant action that was not lost upon the commanding officer.
"Then go!" he exclaimed, heartily.
The boat was lowered, and quietly set out upon its mission.
It was in charge of a lieutenant, and Clif Faraday, in recognition of
his being the first to volunteer, was placed beside him in the stern to
steer the boat through the rough waters.
It was still dark, though the eastern sky gave promise of the near
approach of day. The time had been selected to enable the boat to near
the shore without great danger of detection in the dim light. But by the
time they should succeed in grappling the cable there would be
sufficient light to enable them to complete their task.
"All seems quiet on shore," said Clif, after a time, to the lieutenant,
as they both peered forward at the coast line now looming up before
them. "The Spaniards don't seem to be looking for us."
"True," responded the lieutenant. "It looks that way. But you can't
sometimes always tell. They may have a surprise for us."
"If they don't shoot any straighter than they have been doing," said
Clif with a laugh, "they'll never touch us."
"That's true, too," assented the lieutenant. "But still you must
remember----"
"The Maine!" interrupted Clif.
"Yes, remember the Maine! But, as I was saying, these fellows might
possibly aim at something else beside our boat and hit us accidentally.
At any rate, I hope they don't see us. We are not out to capture a fort
armed as we are with nothing but revolvers, and in this open boat we
would be an easy prey to decent marksmanship."
"Still, the boys like action," said Clif.
"We may have plenty of it yet," replied the lieutenant, with a suspicion
of uneasiness in his tone.
Meanwhile the boat, guided by Clif's hand, had drawn nearer the shore.
They could see plainly the outlines of the fortifications, which had
been recently battered by shell from American gunboats, and which they
knew the Spaniards had attempted to repair. But as far as they could see
all was quiet there.
The boat was following what was supposed to be the course of the cable,
and the men were constantly seeking to secure it with their grappling
irons. The crew proceeded cautiously but expeditiously with its work,
the boat passing to and fro across what they supposed was the line of
the cable.
"How is it, Wilson?" at last said the lieutenant, speaking to one of the
men who was leaning over the side of the boat. "Struck anything yet?"
"Not yet, sir," was the response.
Nearer and nearer to the shore came the boat, the men coolly continuing
their labors, seemingly as unmindful of danger as though the coast was
not lined by hostile forces. The sun peeped above the face of the water
to the eastward, and the darkness slowly receded before it. Every
detail of the frowning fortification ashore was now plainly visible to
the boat's crew.
Clif looked intently along the shore, but there was no hostile movement
to be seen. But he realized that the fast growing light of the rising
sun must betray their presence to the enemy, if any such were on watch.
"What a fine target we would make for them, too," he thought. "And close
range at that."
His thoughts were interrupted by an exclamation from one of the men who
had been previously addressed by the lieutenant.
"Hurrah!" cried the man. "I've got it!"
The boat was quickly brought to a standstill, and willing hands assisted
him. In a few moments the heavy cable appeared above the surface of the
water and was drawn up to the boat.
"Now, men, quick with the saws!" cried the lieutenant, excitedly. "Quick
work, and we'll be done and away before the Spaniards discover us!"
It required quick work, indeed--quicker than any of the brave boat's
crew then thought.
The lieutenant had no more than given his orders when an interruption,
startling and unwelcome, occurred. He had been anxiously scanning the
outlines of the fortifications and congratulated himself that no
movement was visible in that quarter. The Spaniards were napping, he
thought, and all was well.
But the reverse was the case, as he quickly discovered. No sooner had
one of the sailors began to saw away at the cable than suddenly and
without warning a shower of bullets rained around them in the water and
the ominous boom of a cannon from the shore told they had been
discovered.
"A masked battery to the left!" cried Clif. "They have ambushed us!"
This was true. The fortifications which had alone received the
lieutenant's attention remained silent, while from the left a concealed
battery kept up a raking fire upon the small boat and the intrepid crew.
The Spaniards had not yet gotten the range, it is true, but it was a
tight place to be in--in an open boat, unarmed, helpless and exposed to
the raking fire from shore.
But the men in that boat were full of nerve. Not once did they falter
while shells and shot whistled and burst over their heads, beyond them
and even among them.
"Hurry up, Wilson," cried the lieutenant to the sailor sawing the cable.
"That cable must be cut before we leave the spot."
"Ay, ay, sir," responded the other. "If it kills every man of us!"
It began to look as if that would be their fate. The Spanish shot and
shell, which at first fell harmlessly into the water, now dropped nearer
and nearer. Clif heard an awful buzzing and whizzing sound in the air,
and seemed to feel something hit him in the face and head. It was not
his first time under fire, and he knew that a shell had passed near
them.
The fire from shore increased in rapidity and with more accuracy. From
another quarter, a jut of land nearer to the boat, came a fusilade from
Mauser rifles, and their bullets passed near the heads of the American
crew.
It was a hot place, but the men worked coolly on, determined that their
orders should be executed at all hazards. By rapid work one piece of the
cable was cut, but that was not enough. Another cut must be made at
least fifty feet away, so that the Spaniards could not repair it by
splicing. As the last strands parted and the free end of the cable fell
back into the water, it was discovered that the sailor held the shore
end in his grasp, and that to complete their work they must now draw
closer to the fire of their enemies.
"Fifty feet nearer shore!" exclaimed the lieutenant, and the crew
grasped the oars and unflinchingly began to carry out the order.
The shots of the Spaniards began to tell. Bullets splintered the sides
of the boat, and they had not moved but a few feet from the spot when
another volley severely wounded two of the men.
Wilson, the man who had been so active, fell into the bottom of the boat
severely wounded in the shoulder, and another sailor who was near where
Clif sat, was shot in the thigh. But the boat kept on, rowing nearer and
nearer.
Clif resigned the tiller to the lieutenant, while he bound up the men's
wounds and comforted them as best he could. Then he jumped back to the
tiller.
This was an unfortunate move for him, for in that position he and the
lieutenant were the most conspicuous figures in the boat, and the
Spanish riflemen were making every effort to pick off the officer. A
bullet, intended for the lieutenant, struck Clif in the arm as he took
his place.
"Are you wounded?" shouted the officer above the din, noticing that Clif
momentarily paled.
"It is nothing," replied Clif, resolutely clinching his teeth and
continuing to guide the boat.
Just then the welcome sound of the firing of cannon to seaward reached
their ears.
"It is the New York!" cried Clif. "She is taking a hand in the
scrimmage!"
It was true. With deadly accuracy, the flagship was hurling shrapnel
shell over the heads of the bluejackets into the battery on shore.
And thus between the two fires the little band in their frail boat
continued coolly with their labors, Clif assisting those who became
wounded wholly unmindful of the fact that he himself was bleeding
freely.
But it was soon over. The terrible havoc of the well-directed shrapnel
shot from the New York quickly silenced the masked battery and dispersed
the gunners and the cutting of the cable received no further
interruption from the Spanish forces.
They were enthusiastically received upon their return to the flagship,
bearing a section of the cable to be cut up as souvenirs. The wounded
were tenderly cared for, and Clif himself examined the nature of his own
injury. Fortunately, though it had bled freely, it was but a slight
flesh wound, which gave him no uneasiness after being properly bandaged.
This operation was just completed, when a jaunty young ensign appeared,
and turning to Clif, said:
"Cadet Faraday, you are requested to report to the rear admiral at
once."
Clif saluted and promptly followed the officer.
CHAPTER XXIII.
A PERILOUS DETAIL.
Clif did not have long to speculate upon the cause of the summons. The
ensign led the way to the rear admiral's cabin, knocked, and with Clif
closely following, entered. He then saluted and went out again, leaving
the cadet alone with the officer.
Rear Admiral Sampson noticed the paleness of Clif's face, and
thoughtfully directed him to sit down.
"I hear that you were wounded while cutting the cable," he said at once.
"You were under hot fire while it lasted, and I am proud of the way the
men behaved. I am told that you did not give up the tiller in spite of
your injuries."
Clif, though pleased to receive the praise of the rear admiral, bore
himself modestly. It did not seem to him that he had done any brave act.
"My wound was slight, sir," he said quickly. "It has been properly
dressed, and gives me no trouble."
"I am glad to hear that," replied the officer, "for I have an especial
mission upon which I desire to send you, but of course would not think
of your going if it should endanger your health. Other danger you do not
seem to fear."
Clif reassured the officer that he was ready and able to undertake any
mission intrusted to him.
"It is briefly this," continued the rear admiral. "While you were out
with the boat, I received a communication by the dispatch boat saying
that a courier from the Cuban chief, Gomez, is to be at a certain spot
near, the coast to-night, bearing important dispatches from the
insurgents. It is necessary that we send some one to meet him, and your
previous experience on Cuban soil and your knowledge of the Spanish
language recommend you as the leader of the party. Are you prepared to
go? There may be danger----"
Clif eagerly interrupted him. To his mind it seemed a great honor, as it
really was to be placed in command of so important a mission, and he
counted no danger great enough to cause him to hesitate.
He told the rear admiral as much, forgetting in his eagerness for active
service, that he was but a cadet.
"Then it is settled," said the rear admiral. "To-night the New York will
reach a spot nearly opposite the place of meeting, and you will be ready
with a party of ten, whom you may select. Here is a diagram of that part
of the coast, indicating the appointed spot where the courier is to be
met."
He handed Clif a roughly drawn map, which the latter examined curiously.
"I know the spot well," he exclaimed, after looking at the diagram for a
moment.
"All the better," said the rear admiral.
Then after some further directions and instructions from the officer,
Clif saluted and took his leave, happy in the thought that he had been
singled out for such important duty and that he would have this
opportunity of active work.
He was really glad, though he would hardly admit it to himself, to be
permitted to seek some rest during the day, for his wound was painful,
if not serious.
It was late at night when, with a picked company of ten men, all armed,
Clif parted company with the flagship and steered his boat toward the
shore. The New York had dropped them near the appointed spot, but it had
been deemed prudent not to take the ship near enough to attract
attention to the intended destination of Clif and his crew. They
therefore had considerable distance yet to row before touching land.
"I know the coast pretty well along here," thought Clif, as he set in
the stern, tiller ropes in hand. "We'll get there all right."
Success depended upon their own efforts, for the New York slowly steamed
away along the coast and in the opposite direction.
Clif and his party sped along without any uneasiness. It was night and
darkness favored them. There was no reason to think that their presence
there was suspected or their purpose known.
Still, for all this evident security, Clif kept a sharp lookout for any
of the enemy who might be prowling along like himself, or, worse still,
who might be scouring those waters with one of those silent little
terrors, a torpedo boat.
All went peacefully until they were within less than half a mile of
their destination, and quite near shore. Then suddenly a rifle shot rang
out upon the shore, and sounds of voices came to their ears.
The Spaniards had discovered them!
"Perhaps not," thought Clif, hopefully. "Silence everybody," he said,
addressing the men, "and listen."
Instantly the men ceased rowing, and every one strained his ears to hear
the sounds from shore.
That there was a company of the enemy at that point was evident, from
the noise of many voices and the confused sounds that were borne to the
listeners' ears.
"They have discovered us," whispered Clif to the one nearest him. "I
caught a few words of Spanish that convinces me that the sentry has
heard our oars. Not a sound now! They can't see us in the dark, and will
think it all a mistake."
It was a waiting game that Clif had set out to play, and it seemed the
only thing that could help them under the circumstances. It was out of
the question to think of attacking the Spaniards, superior at least in
numbers. There was other work for the night.
Silently the American crew waited, listening for every sound. Soon these
voices died out, and Clif concluded that they could venture to move once
more.
"Row quietly," was his whispered order. "I'd like to give them a volley,
but that would spoil our plans."
The men cautiously plied the oars and were soon steering softly toward
their appointed place of landing. But quietly as they moved, the sound
was borne ashore and they had not proceeded many boat lengths before
another shot echoed across the water.
"To thunder with the Spaniard," exclaimed Clif, out of patience with the
fresh outbreak. "He's firing at random. Go ahead. We'll meet them
further down the shore if they're not satisfied."
This sentiment met the approval of the men, and they bent to the oars
with vigor and spirit.
They were gliding swiftly across the water, and had nearly reached their
landing place, when Clif heard a noise that put him on the alert.
"Do you hear that?" he exclaimed, after hastily stopping the rowers.
The men rested on their oars and listened.
"Sounds like the throbbing of an engine, sir," at last said one of the
men. "It's a boat, sure."
"Yes, but friend or foe?" exclaimed Clif. "It's not the New York. She
went in the other direction, and I don't know of any more of our boats
in this place."
"Perhaps the New York is coming back," ventured one of the men.
"No," replied Clif. "She's not been here for at least three hours. By
that time we will be ready to return to her."
"It must be a blockade runner," suggested one of the men.
"Well, I don't see as it makes any difference," said Clif, finally. "If
it is, we can't stop her. She can't be after us, for I am sure no one of
the enemy knows our mission. There is our landing place. We must hurry
or we will be late."
With this he turned the prow of the boat toward shore, and gave orders
to proceed. A few minutes later the boat grated upon the beach and the
sailors sprang ashore.
There was no one to dispute their landing. The coast at this point was
wild and uninhabited, and but a short distance inland was the spot
appointed for the meeting with the insurgent courier.
Clif hid the boat among some bushes and quickly led the men up the steep
bank toward a clump of trees.
"This is the spot," he exclaimed as they reached it, "and we are
evidently ahead of time."
No one was in sight, as far as the eye could penetrate the darkness.
There was barely enough light from the moon just emerging from behind a
cloud to enable the sailors to take some notice of the surroundings.
Where they stood, near the sparse clump of trees, it was smooth and
level, but close to one side of them rose a ridge of ground forming a
natural rampart. It almost seemed as though Spanish forms might at any
instant appear upon it behind threatening guns.
Seaward the view was unobstructed, and as Clif turned his gaze in that
direction, he could see the moonbeams reflected on the heaving bosom of
the waters. He saw another sight an instant after that caused him to
utter an exclamation of surprise.
Far out to seaward the beam of a searchlight suddenly shot across the
water. It swept from side to side in a gradually widening radius, until
after a few moments its glare fell upon a steamer whose hulk rose up
between it and the shore.
"It is one of our ships chasing a blockade runner," cried Clif. "She was
trying to sneak out, but is caught in the act."
The little party on shore watched with eager eyes the chase as shown by
the bright beam from the warship's searchlight. In the excitement of the
novel sight that was afforded them they for the moment forgot why they
were there.
Then a strange and mysterious thing happened. As they watched the
pursued vessel they suddenly saw a flash from a gun on the side facing
the land.
"What fools!" cried Clif. "Firing toward the land instead of at our
ship. The fool Spaniards must be rattled worse than usual. That
beats----"
He did not finish the sentence. As he spoke the shell fired from the
ship crashed through the trees and landed almost at his feet. The fuse
was burning and spluttering, and it seemed ready to explode on the
instant, carrying death and destruction to the little party.
It was a perilous moment. Several of the men instinctively dodged and
seemed on the point of running away.
Clif saw his peril in an instant and the only hope of averting it.
Without a moment's hesitation he sprang forward and picked up the shell
as it seemed about to burst. With a mighty effort he hurled the
spluttering missile over the ridge of earth that he had noticed to one
side, and then, with an involuntary sigh of relief, he instinctively
huddled with the balance of the party in an expectant attitude, waiting
for the explosion on the other side of the rampart.
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE CUBAN COURIER.
But the explosion never came.
The party waited breathlessly, expecting to hear a deafening sound from
the shell, and to see the earth thrown up in showers about them. From a
safe place of vantage they felt it was a sight worth seeing and felt
personally aggrieved when, after waiting an unconscionable time, all was
quiet on the other side of the natural rampart of earth.
Clif had been surprised and puzzled in the first place to see the ship
firing away from its antagonist instead of toward it, and was now more
than ever perplexed. To add to the mystery, the ship did not fire
another shot, either at its pursuer or in the opposite direction.
Its only purpose now seemed to be to get away from the American ship. It
seemed to stand a good chance of doing it, too; for it was evidently a
very swift boat, and the pursuing vessel was still far away.
"That's the queerest thing that ever happened," exclaimed Clif, when a
sufficient time had elapsed to enable the shell to explode if it was
ever going to. "What possessed them to fire over here, and what's the
matter with the shell? I'll investigate the latter, at any rate; it's
within easy reach."
Though it seemed as though more than enough time had passed to give the
shell a good opportunity, still Clif, for reasons of prudence, concluded
not to be too exacting on the thing, but to give it a fair chance. He
didn't want to crowd it too close.
So he waited a while longer, and then cautiously climbed up the side of
the embankment and peered over.
There in the moonlight he could see the shell lying quietly upon the
ground. There was no smoke now rising from it, and the fuse had
evidently burned itself out. It seemed a harmless enough piece of steel
now.
He waited but an instant, and then vaulted over on the other side. His
curiosity had been aroused regarding the matter and he for the time
being lost all interest in the chase at sea, as well as the appointed
meeting under those trees on shore.
When he picked up the shell he was more surprised and mystified than
ever.
"What does this mean?" he exclaimed aloud. "A round shell of the
old-fashioned type instead of the conical ones used nowadays! Why, a
shell like this has not been used in any navy for ages!"
He had been too excited at the moment of picking up the spluttering
shell to note its shape or size, but now he saw at a glance that the one
he held in his hand was obsolete and out of date. It was well enough for
the old-fashioned smooth-bore guns, but those of modern make had no use
for them.
As he puzzled over the mystery surrounding the projectile he suddenly
heard a whistle from the other side of the embankment. He recognized it
as the signal from the insurgent courier, and at once was alive to the
importance of carrying out the instructions that had been given him.
He hastily dropped the shell upon the ground and sprang up and over the
ridge of earth.
He gave an answering whistle and soon a form cautiously appeared from
among some bushes not far away.
"Alto quien va?" called Clif before the newcomer had advanced a step.
This was the challenge, meaning, "Who goes there?"
The response came promptly:
"Cuba!"
This is the countersign of the insurgents, and Clif knew that it was the
courier who had reached the appointed rendezvous.
He called out to him to advance, and in the moonlight appeared the
figure of an insurgent soldier, a mambis, as he is called in that
country, a figure with which American tars were to become more familiar
as the war progressed.
His equipment was typical of the insurgent soldier. Beside a pair of
linen trousers and a knitted woolen shirt, he wore a short blouse,
called mambisa. This was a small shirt-like vest, with pockets front and
back, opening at the belt, a handy way of carrying their cartridges
devised by them through necessity during the previous ten-years war. A
panama hat turned up in front and fastened with a silver star, completed
his attire; for as to his feet, they were innocent of a covering.
"Rather a summery outfit," thought Clif as he took it in with a glance.
But he knew that it was sufficient for the needs of the insurgents in
that climate, and that brave hearts beat under the unpretentious
mambisa, and brave deeds were done by the poorly equipped soldiers of
the army of liberation.
The newcomer was effusive in his greeting.
"I bring you greeting from our brave general, Gomez," he exclaimed in
Spanish. "Greetings to our noble friends and allies."
Clif received him cordially, but lost little time in preliminaries. Much
more time had already been consumed than he had calculated upon, and he
was anxious to have his business over with and return to the flagship
with the important dispatches for which he had come.
"I am honored by your words," he said, in reply to the other. "Cuban
liberty is assured by force of American arms, and at the same time we
have our own score to settle with Spain."
"It will be done," said the Cuban.
"But to business," continued Clif. "You have some papers for me, have
you not?"
"Yes," replied the courier, raising his blouse and drawing forth a
package of papers from its place of concealment. "Important dispatches
from our general for your gallant rear admiral. Besides much information
concerning the Spanish fortifications and troops, there are details of
our own plans and preparations which it would be ruinous to have fall
into Spanish hands."
"I'll see that the Spanish don't get them," he said, with a confident
air.
"Be cautious," exclaimed the Cuban. "The enemy have made one effort to
intercept them. I was pursued a mile back from here, but my knowledge of
the country enabled me to give them the slip. It was that encounter that
delayed me."
This was a danger that had not been reckoned on. Every preparation for
the transfer of the papers had been arranged with utmost secrecy.
"But did the Spaniards know of your mission here?" asked Clif, in some
surprise.
"I know not," replied the other. "It is incredible how they could have
discovered it, but I do know that I encountered a detachment of their
troops and that they pursued me."
"Then they may be following you to this point," exclaimed Clif.
"I think not," replied the Cuban. "I made a wide detour and know the
ways of the land too well to leave any trail."
"Nevertheless," said Clif, "our business is transacted, and the sooner
we go our respective ways the better. These papers are now in my care,
and I shall run no risk of their falling into the hands of our enemies."
"You are a wise officer," exclaimed the courier. "And before we part
allow me to present you this. It may interest you."
With this he drew from his mambisa a paper which he quickly unfolded. It
proved to be a sheet about ten by fourteen inches, and Clif could see,
as he examined it by what light the moon afforded, that there was
printing on both sides.
"This," said the courier, somewhat proudly, "is the first copy of 'Las
Villas' ever printed. It is set up and printed at General Gomez's
headquarters under his own direction. It contains, besides orders, and
an address from our beloved general, an account of your intrepid Dewey's
victory at Manila. Ah! that was a magnificent victory!"
"Yes," assented Clif, "and there will be others."
"The American battleships are invincible!" exclaimed the Cuban, with
enthusiasm. "With such noble allies we cannot fail to secure our
liberty. We are no longer instruments, but members of the regular army
of Cuba. God bless America!"
The Cuban seemed in a fair way to continue his rhapsodies indefinitely,
but Clif, having secured the papers for which he came, was now intent
upon delivering them as soon as possible to the rear admiral.
He therefore intimated as much to the courier, and the latter took his
departure.
Clif watched him disappear among the trees in the direction by which he
had approached.
"Now, men," said he, addressing his companions, "to the boat. The New
York will soon be back ready to receive us."
But they had not taken more than a few steps toward the shore when Clif
suddenly stopped as if remembering something.
"Hold on just a minute!" he exclaimed. "That shell! I have special
reasons for wanting to carry that along. It will take but a minute to
find it."
As he started toward the ridge of earth beyond which he had thrown it,
they were all startled to hear the sounds of musketry apparently near at
hand. One volley was quickly followed by another.
Clif sprang upon the embankment for which he had started, and looked off
beyond the clump of trees in the direction from which the sounds came.
He was in that position but a moment or two. A half-dozen reports in
quick succession greeted his appearance--one bullet passing through his
cap.
He dropped on his feet to the ground beside his companions.
"The Spaniards!" he exclaimed, hurriedly. "At least a hundred of them.
From what I saw they were hurrying in this direction and not far away."
They were on the alert on the instant. The sounds that reached their
ears told them unmistakably that the force of the enemy far outnumbered
their own, and were rapidly approaching.
Should they await an attack or run for the boat?
CHAPTER XXV.
"IN THE NAME OF HUMANITY AND THE SAILORS OF THE MAINE!"
"They must have followed the courier in spite of his cleverness,"
exclaimed Clif. "And if they have tracked him, they know we are here.
The question is, shall we meet them here or take to the boat and run the
risk of being shot down without a chance to defend ourselves? The danger
is yours as well as mine. What do you say?"
But before the men could make reply a rousing cheer from the Spanish
soldiers rang out upon the air.
The little band of Americans expected to see the forms of their enemies
appear among the trees at every second in an impetuous charge upon them.
They had no doubt that the cheers were the signal for the attack.
But to their amazement the sounds of approaching steps died out. Clif's
practiced ear told him that the enemy had halted; but at the same time
he recognized marks of enthusiasm among the Spanish forces.
What could it mean?
"Do they think they can scare us off by yelling at us?" exclaimed Clif,
contemptuously. "They don't know us, if they think so--that's all!"
The group of Americans listened intently. There was no doubt of it, the
Spaniards had halted after their vociferous cheers.
Clif decided to find out what it meant. If the Spaniards were preparing
a surprise for him, he intended finding it out.
Cautiously he climbed upon the little rampart of earth and looked away
beyond the trees where he had first seen the approach of the enemy. In
the moonlight he could plainly distinguish the forms of the soldiers.
There were not as many as he had at first supposed--they numbered not
more than fifty.
In the midst of them he recognized a figure that explained the cause of
their mysterious conduct, and at the same time aroused his fighting
instinct.
He quickly rejoined his companions, his eyes ablaze with the fire of
combat.
"They have captured the courier," he explained to his waiting
companions. "That was why they cheered so lustily. A lot of jubilation
over the capture of one man!"
"They don't have such good luck very often," exclaimed one of the men.
"They fired enough shots to repulse a whole regiment of insurgents,"
exclaimed Clif, "but it was all for the benefit of this one mambesi. I
don't believe they saw me at all, but that bullet through my cap was one
of their stray shots."
"But they must know we are here," exclaimed the men.
"I doubt it," replied Clif, "else why do they halt so near and not
charge on us? Shall we force the fight and go to the rescue of our Cuban
friend?"
"How many are there of them?" asked one of the men.
"Only about fifty."
"And there are eleven of us here! We can set them on the run! Let's do
it."
"We have done almost as much on other occasions," said Clif, "but now we
are armed with only our revolvers. They are five to one."
"We have plenty of ammunition," spoke up the men, eagerly. "You know we
took an extra supply."
"But there is another thing we must bear in mind," said Clif, who had
been doing some quick thinking. "I'd like nothing better than to give
them a lively tussle. But here are these important dispatches. They must
not fall into Spanish hands. The New York will soon be due. If we delay
we might miss her."
"That's so," exclaimed the men. "But we can fire one volley at them
anyhow."
"One volley would do no good. It would simply betray our presence.
Either we must fight to the end, or else sneak off to our boat before
they discover us."
The idea of having a lot of the enemy so near at hand and not offering
them battle, went against the grain of all of them. They were not
deterred by the superior numbers of the Spaniards, but Clif's words
about the importance of seeing the dispatches safely in the rear
admiral's hand had some restraining effect upon their ardor.
Clif, with all his bravery, was naturally prudent, but was strongly
tempted to make one effort to release the captive Cuban. He was their
