"At Crampton."
"How far away?"
"Twelve miles."
"In what direction?"
"It is four miles beyond Claremont," answered the farmer.
"Where you live?"
"Yes."
"Then we will go there first."
"But how shall we carry this gentleman?" asked the farmer, who could
not get over a feeling of deference for the celebrated outlaw.
[Illustration: "NOW TIE HIM, MASON, WHILE I KEEP HIM COVERED WITH THE
REVOLVER."]
"We'll put him into the back part of the buggy."
By the united efforts of both, the outlaw, like a trussed fowl, was
deposited bodily in the rear of the carriage, where he lay in a most
uncomfortable position, jolted and shaken whenever the road was rough
or uneven. It was a humiliating position, and he felt it.
"You'll repent this outrage," he said fiercely.
"Doesn't thee like it?" asked Luke, relapsing into his Quaker dialect.
"Curse you and your Quaker lingo!" retorted Fox, his black eyes
sparkling vindictively.
"It wouldn't do thee any harm to turn Quaker thyself," suggested Luke.
"I'll be bruised to death before the ride is over," growled the
outlaw.
"There is one way of saving you the discomfort of the ride."
"What is that?"
"I might shoot you through the head. As the reward is the same whether
I deliver you alive or dead, I have almost determined to do it."
The outlaw was made still more uncomfortable by these words. He had
wholly misunderstood Luke at first, and the revelation of his real
character had impressed him not only with respect, but with fear. He
did not know of what this pseudo Quaker might be capable. He longed in
some way to get out of his power. Force was impracticable, and he
resolved to resort to finesse.
"Look here, my friend," he began.
"So you regard me as a friend? Thank you, brother Fox; I won't forget
it."
"Oh, bother your nonsense! I suppose you are after the thousand
dollars offered for my apprehension."
"You have guessed right the first time. I am not a rich man, and I
don't mind telling you that a thousand dollars will be particularly
acceptable just about now."
"So I supposed. You don't feel particularly unfriendly to me?"
"Oh, no. I might under different circumstances come to love you like a
brother."
"Or join my band?"
"Well, no; I draw the line there. As a Quaker I could not consistently
join a band of robbers."
"Who are you?" asked Fox abruptly. "You weren't raised around here."
"No."
"Where, then?"
"I come from Iowa."
"What is your name?"
"My friend, I haven't any visiting cards with me. You can think of me
as the Quaker detective."
"Then I will come to business. You want a thousand dollars?"
"You are correct there."
"Then I will show you a way to get it."
"I know one way already."
"You mean by delivering me up?"
"Yes."
"That would not suit me. Let me go, and I will give you a thousand
dollars."
"Have you got it with you?"
"No, but I can arrange to give it to you within a week. You see,"
added the outlaw dryly, "I have been prosperous in my business, and
can snare that sum in return for the favor you are going to do me in
giving me my liberty."
"I am afraid, friend Fox, that my chance of securing the money in that
way would be very slender."
"I am a man of my word. What I promise, that I will do."
"If you have so much money, why did you want to take the five hundred
dollars of my friend here?"
"It was all in the way of business. Well, what do you say?"
"That I won't trust you. If I should take your thousand dollars for
releasing you I should be as bad as you are."
"Very well; drive on, then," said the outlaw sullenly.
In less than an hour Ezekiel Mason's home was reached. When they drove
into the yard it made quite a sensation. Mrs. Mason and the hired man
stood staring at them with mouths agape.
"Who have you got there, Ezekiel?" asked his wife.
"One of the Fox brothers!" answered the farmer in an important tone.
"Me and my friend here took him."
Luke smiled, and so did the prisoner, uncomfortable though he was.
"It would have taken a dozen like that fool to have captured me," he
said in a low voice, but only Luke heard him.
CHAPTER XI.
UNDER WATCH AND WARD.
The farm-house was built after the model of many similar houses in New
England. It was of two stories, with the front door in the centre and
a room on each side. Over the two stories was an unfurnished attic.
"Have you a secure place to keep our friend here?" asked Luke.
The farmer paused before he answered.
"I might put him in the attic," he said.
But here his wife interfered.
"I couldn't sleep if he were in the house," she said.
"Why not?" asked Luke. "You see he is securely bound, and will be as
helpless as a child. Will you show me the attic?"
"Follow me," said the farmer.
They went up two flights of stairs, and found themselves in a long
room, the whole width of the house. Through the centre rose the
chimney. The sloping roof was not plastered. The only furniture
consisted of a cot-bedstead and a chair.
"Is the attic occupied by any of the family?" asked Luke.
"Not generally. When I hire an extra hand at harvest-time he sleeps
there."
"But at present there is no one occupying it?"
"No."
"Then I suggest that the bed will prove a good resting-place for our
friend below. I have no doubt he has often found himself in lodgings
less comfortable."
"But," said Mrs. Mason, nervously, "if he should get free during the
night he might murder us all in our beds."
"There is little chance of that. When your husband bound him, he did a
good job. I wouldn't undertake to get free myself, if I were bound as
securely."
"That's so!" said the farmer, pleased with the compliment. "He can't
get away nohow."
Over in the corner there were a couple of horse-blankets, which seemed
to offer a comfortable resting-place. Luke Robbins eyed them
thoughtfully.
"I have an idea," he said. "Let the outlaw lie there, and one of us can
occupy the bed. Then he won't be able to try any of his tricks."
"I would rather not sleep there," observed the farmer nervously. "I
couldn't sleep in the same room with one of the Fox brothers."
"Then if you couldn't sleep there you are just the man we want. You
will always be on the watch, and can frustrate any attempt to escape."
"No, no," said Ezekiel Mason, hurriedly. "Kate could not close her
eyes if she thought I were alone with John Fox."
"No," answered Mrs. Mason, with a shudder, "I won't let Ezekiel sleep
in the same room with that bold, bad man."
"I wouldn't be afraid myself," said the farmer, trying to keep up his
reputation for courage, "but I don't want my wife to be anxious."
Luke Robbins smiled, for he understood very well the timidity of his
host. "Then," he said, "as I have no wife to be anxious about me,
perhaps I had better sleep here."
"Yes, that will be much better," rejoined the relieved farmer. "You
are a brave man. Mr. Fox won't get the better of you."
"Not if I can help it," said Luke. "Will that suit you, Mrs. Mason?"
"Why don't you take him on to the jail at once?" asked the woman. "I
shall feel worried if he spends the night in this house."
"I hear that he has escaped from jail no less than three times. If he
should do so to-night he would at once come here, and perhaps bring
some of his band with him. He knows there is a good sum of money in
the house."
"I shall be glad when it is paid out," said the farmer's wife.
"Don't worry, Mrs. Mason. I have promised your husband that no harm
should come to him and that the money should be secure, and I will
keep my word."
"So you did," said Ezekiel, brightening up, "and I will pay you what I
agreed, if you keep your promise."
"Friend Mason," responded Luke, "I am playing for higher stakes than
five dollars. All depends on my keeping this outlaw secure. I mean to
do it."
Having settled matters, they went down stairs again, where they found
their prisoner waiting impatiently for their reappearance.
"Well," he said, "have you decided to let me go?"
"I am sorry to disappoint you, my friend," answered Luke, "but I don't
see my way clear to do so."
"I promised you a thousand dollars if you would release me."
"Yes, but I haven't any confidence in that promise."
"You need not fear. In three days I would bring or send the money to
you here."
"Couldn't you oblige me with a check on the bank where you
keep your money?" asked Luke, smiling.
"I keep my money in several banks," returned the outlaw.
"Where, for instance?"
"I had some in the bank at Lee's Falls, but I drew it out the other
day."
"So I heard. Have you any money in the Emmonsville bank?"
"Yes, but I am not quite ready to take it yet. I can give you an order
on the bank, if that will suit."
"Thank you; I doubt if the order would be honored."
"All this talk amounts to nothing," said Fox, impatiently. "I tell you
that if you release me I will bring or send you the money."
"And how soon would you want it back again?"
"Whenever I saw my way clear to taking it," said the outlaw, boldly.
"I like that talk. It looks square. I'll think over your offer, friend
Fox, and let you know in the morning what I decide to do."
The outlaw frowned. He evidently did not like the prospect of
remaining in captivity over night.
"What are you going to do with me to-night?" he asked.
"We have a comfortable place provided," answered Luke. "Mr. Mason, if
you will give your assistance, we will show our guest where we propose
to put him."
"Unbind me, and I will save you the trouble."
"No doubt, but there are some objections to that."
The outlaw was lifted from the wagon and carried up stairs to the
attic. His ankles as well as his wrists were securely tied, so that he
was unable to walk.
"Friend Fox," said Luke, politely, "there is a bed, and there is a
shake-down," pointing to the blankets on the floor. "You can take your
choice. I hope you will like your hotel."
"I shall like it better if it provides refreshments," replied Fox. "I
am simply famished."
"I am sure Mrs. Mason will furnish you with a meal. I will speak to
her."
The outlaw seated himself on the bed, and the cord about his wrists
was loosened so that he might be able to eat. This might have been
regarded as dangerous, as affording him an opportunity to escape, but
for two reasons.
In a chair opposite sat Luke Robbins, with a revolver in his hand,
watching his prisoner sharply.
"If you make any attempt to escape," he said quietly, "I shall shoot.
Now you understand, and will be guided accordingly."
In spite of his unpleasant situation, the outlaw could not help
admiring the coolness and resolution of his guard.
"You would make a capital accession to my band," he remarked.
"If that is meant for a compliment," said Luke, dryly, "I thank you."
"You had better think it over. Join my band, and I will make it worth
your while."
He fixed his eyes earnestly upon his captor, to see whether he had
made any impression upon him.
"When I start on any road," he said, "I like to know where it is
coming out."
"Well, this road will lead to wealth."
"I don't read it that way."
"How, then?"
"It will more likely lead to a violent death--or the gallows."
"I have been on that path for ten years, and I am alive, and--"
"A prisoner."
"Yes, at present; but I can tell you this, my Quaker friend, that the
tree has not yet grown that will furnish a gallows for John Fox."
"Perhaps so, but I don't feel sure of it."
The outlaw's predicament did not appear to interfere with his
appetite. He ate his dinner with evident relish, and left nothing on
the plate. When he had completed his meal, Luke called the farmer and
requested him to tie his wrists again.
"You can do it better than I," he said. "Besides, I shall need to
stand guard."
I was well that he did so, for John Fox, if there had been the least
chance of success, would have overpowered the farmer and effected his
escape. But with the eye of Luke Robbins upon him, and the pistol in
his hand ready to go off at an instant's notice, there was nothing to
do but to submit to being rebound.
CHAPTER XII.
THE OUTLAW'S ESCAPE.
The outlaw was left for several hours alone in the attic of the
farmer's house. He felt far from comfortable, and he experienced great
mortification at the thought that he had been captured by a Quaker.
"I might as well have been captured by a woman," he said to himself.
"I shall never hold up my head again--that is," he added, after a
pause, "unless I circumvent him and get away."
Fox dragged himself to the window and looked out.
"If only my brother knew where I was," he reflected, "he would soon
turn the tables on those clodhoppers."
But, as he knew, his brother was twenty miles away, on a different
expedition.
John Fox was a man of expedients. In his long career as an outlaw he
had more than once been "in a hole," but he had never failed by some
means or other to extricate himself. This was what he decided to do at
present, if it were possible.
It was not for some time that he bethought himself of a knife that he
had in his pocket. If he could get it out so as to use it, he would be
able to cut the ropes that bound him and escape--that is, if he were
not interfered with.
He looked out of the window again, and saw Luke Robbins and the farmer
walking up the road.
"They think I am safe," soliloquized Fox, "but perhaps they may find
themselves mistaken."
He reflected with satisfaction that there was no one in the house but
Mrs. Mason and himself. She was a timid, nervous woman, who would wilt
at a look from him. Yet as matters stood he was helpless even against
her.
As it was uncertain how long his two jailers would be absent, it
behooved him to escape as soon as possible. There was of course a
difficulty in the way, as his hands were securely tied together at the
wrists, and he could not, therefore, thrust them into his pocket and
obtain the knife. But possibly by rolling over he might manage to make
it slip out. It seemed the only possible way to accomplish his object,
so he at once set to work. Rolling over and over, he at length found
himself in such a position that the knife--a large jack-knife--slipped
from the gaping mouth of the pocket.
"Ha, that is the first step towards success," he cried triumphantly.
Next he must pick up the knife and open it. This was easier than the
first step. His hands were tied at the wrists, but his fingers were
free to work. It seemed a simple thing to open the knife, but it took
him some time. At last, however, he succeeded.
"That is the second step towards liberty," he said in a jubilant tone.
The next thing was to cut the cord that bound his wrists. That was
difficult. In fact, it took him longer than both the first steps
together. It chanced, unfortunately for him, that the knife had not
been sharpened for a long time. Then the cord was stout and thick, and
even had his hands been free, it would have taken him some time to cut
it. As matters stood, he was placed at great disadvantage.
"If they should come back it would be maddening," he reflected, and as
the thought came to him he looked out of the window. But nowhere were
the two men visible. They had evidently no fear of his escape.
"They are fools! They don't know me!" said the outlaw to himself.
He resumed his efforts to cut the cord. It was slow work, but
perseverance, even in a bad cause, is apt to be crowned with success,
and this was the case here. After twenty minutes, the last strand
parted, and, with a feeling of relief, John Fox stretched out his
hands, free once more.
His feet were still tied, but with his hands at liberty, there was
very little difficulty in cutting the rope that tied them.
In less that five minutes the outlaw rose to his feet a free man.
He smiled--a smile of exultation and triumph.
"My Quaker friend will be surprised to find me gone. He will
understand John Fox a little better. He will have to wait a little
longer for his thousand dollars."
John Fox was himself again, but for the first time in ten years,
except when he was the temporary tenant of a jail, he was unarmed.
"What has that fellow done with my revolver?" he asked himself. "If it
is any where in the house I won't go off without it."
Half an hour earlier and he would have been content with his liberty.
Now he wanted his revolver, and his thoughts recurred to the money
which the farmer had drawn that morning from the bank. It was five
hundred dollars, as Luke had rather incautiously let out.
John Fox was not without hopes of securing both. The coast was clear,
and only Mrs. Mason was left in the house. He might terrify her, and
so secure the articles he had set his heart upon. But, clearly, there
was no time to be lost, as Luke and the farmer might return at any
minute.
The outlaw went down stairs, stepping as lightly as he could.
On the lower floor Mrs. Mason was in the kitchen, preparing the
evening meal. She had at first been reluctant to remain alone in the
house with the outlaw, but Luke had reassured her by the statement
that he was securely bound, and could not possibly get away. So, upon
the whole, she was calm, and had no fear of being molested.
She turned from the stove at the sound of a footfall. There was the
notorious outlaw standing in the doorway with an ironical smile upon
his face.
The terrified woman sank back into a chair and regarded John Fox with
a scared look.
"You here!" she exclaimed.
"Yes, Mrs. Mason, it is I."
"How did you get free? My husband told me that you were bound."
"So I was, and I will do your husband the justice to say that he
understands his business. I had trouble to break loose."
"How ever could you have done it?" asked the amazed woman.
"I won't go into details, for there isn't time. Now listen to me and
obey my commands. Your Quaker friend took my revolver away. I want you
to get it and give it to me."
"I can't do it, sir, for I don't know where it is." Mrs. Mason's tone
was a terrified one.
"That won't do," said John Fox, sternly. "It is somewhere in the
house. Look for it."
"Indeed, sir, you are mistaken. I am sure that Mr.--the Quaker
gentleman has taken it with him."
"I don't believe anything of the kind. He had no doubt a revolver of
his own, and would not care to carry two."
"You may be right, sir, but I don't know where it is."
The outlaw felt that time was precious, and that it would not do to
indulge in prolonged discussion with the woman.
"Is there any revolver in the house?" he demanded impatiently. "I
should prefer my own, but I will take any."
"I will look, sir, if you wish me to."
"Wait a moment. There is something else I must have. Where is that
five hundred dollars your husband drew from the bank this morning?"
"I don't know."
"Tell the truth, or it will be the worse for you."
"I am ready to tell the truth, but I don't know."
"Where does your husband usually keep any money he may have in the
house?"
"In the desk in the next room."
"Probably he has put the money there. Is the desk locked?"
"Yes."
"Have you the key?"
"Here it is, sir," and Mrs. Mason meekly passed him a small-sized key.
"Good! I see you are growing sensible. Now come with me."
Together they entered the room, and Mrs. Mason pointed to the desk.
It was an ordinary upright desk. John Fox opened it with the key. He
was at first afraid the woman had given him the wrong one, but she
would not have dared to deceive him. The desk opened, the outlaw began
at once to search eagerly for the money.
There was a multiplicity of small drawers which he opened eagerly, but
he found no cash except four silver half-dollars and some smaller
silver.
"It isn't here!" he said in a tone of sullen disappointment, turning a
baffled look upon the farmer's wife.
"No, sir, I didn't think it was there."
"Where do you think it is? Do you think your husband has it with him?"
"No, sir."
"Where then can it be? Surely you must have some suspicion. Don't dare
to trifle with me."
"Indeed I wouldn't, sir. I think the Quaker gentleman has it."
"Curse him!" exclaimed the outlaw angrily. "He's forever standing in
my way. Have you any other money in the house?"
"No, sir."
"I have a great mind to kill you!" said Fox, with a look of ferocity.
The terrified woman uttered a scream of dismay that excited the fierce
outlaw still more. He sprang toward her and seized her by the throat.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE OUTLAW'S MISTAKE.
John Fox had been so occupied with his terrified victim that he quite
forgot the possibility of his two captors returning.
It so happened that both were approaching the house when they heard
Mrs. Mason's cry of terror.
"What's that?" exclaimed the farmer in alarm.
"I believe that scoundrel has got loose," answered Luke.
He quickened his pace and entered the house just in time to become a
witness of the outlaw's brutality.
It was no time to hesitate or parley. He sprang upon the robber,
dashed him to the ground, and put his foot upon his breast.
"What deviltry are you up to, you miserable man?" he demanded. Then
turning to Mrs. Mason, he asked, "Why did he attack you?"
"He wanted my husband's money--and a revolver," answered the trembling
woman.
"I have a great mind to give him the contents of the revolver," said
Luke, sternly.
John Fox was not a coward--on the contrary, he was a man of boldness
and courage, but as he looked up at the stern face of the Quaker
detective he quailed, almost for the first time in his life. He tried
to rise, but the heavy foot of Luke Robbins was on his breast.
"Let me up!" he growled.
"You don't deserve to get up. You should lie there forever, for your
cowardice in attacking a woman."
"I would rather it had been you!" said John Fox, bitterly.
"You are safe in attacking a woman," said the detective in scornful
sarcasm.
The outlaw was stung by his assailant's scorn.
"I have attacked many better men than you," he replied, "and some have
not lived to tell the tale."
"So you own up to being a murderer? I am ready to believe you. I have
a great mind to shoot you where you lie," and Luke pointed his
revolver at the prostrate outlaw.
"That would be the act of a coward," said John Fox, hastily, his cheek
turning pale, for he felt that death might be close at hand.
"Not exactly that, for I have mastered you in a fair fight, but there
is one thing that holds back my hand. Do you know what it is?"
"Well?"
"I should cheat the gallows of its due. Here, farmer!"
Ezekiel Mason, pale and trembling, was standing on the threshold.
"What is it?" he asked.
"Go and get another rope."
The farmer left the house, and going to an out-house, returned with a
stout clothes line.
"Tie him again while I hold him," was Luke's command. "Tie him as
securely as before--more so, if possible. How did you get loose?"
"Find out for yourself," said the outlaw sullenly.
"I mean to, and I don't intend that you shall escape the second time."
Meanwhile John Fox was execrating his folly in not escaping when he
had the chance. If he had not waited for the revolver and money, he
might by this time have been out of danger.
Yet he was not without hope. What he had done once he might do again.
He still had the knife in his pocket. It was ready for use, and he
meant to use it.
No doubt he would be taken back to the attic, and probably pass the
night there. If Luke Robbins should be his companion, all the better.
After cutting his bonds, the knife could be put to another use, and
might end the life of the man who had inflicted such humiliation upon
him.
He did not speak, but his eyes betrayed him. There was such a
revengeful gleam in them that Luke read their meaning without trouble.
"If I am ever at the mercy of that ruffian," he thought, "I wouldn't
give much for my chance of keeping a whole skin."
When the outlaw lay securely bound, Luke summoned the farmer.
"Watch him for five minutes, Mr. Mason," he said. "I am going to the
attic to learn, if I can, how he got loose."
Ezekiel Mason looked uncomfortable, but did not object. He was half
afraid of John Fox even in his helpless condition.
"Have you a revolver?"
"Yes."
"Then take it out, and if he makes an effort to escape, shoot him
without a moment's hesitation."
It gratified the outlaw to see how much afraid of him the farmer was,
even in his helpless condition. But he could not flatter himself that
he had inspired any terror in Luke Robbins. Against his will he was
compelled to pay tribute to the resolute courage of the Quaker
detective. As he met the gaze of the farmer he smiled to himself
sardonic ally.
"You've got the advantage of me," he said.
"I am bound and helpless, while you are free and are armed. Still you
are afraid of me."
"Why should I be?" asked Mason, but his tone was not firm.
"Yes, why should you be? I'll tell you. If ever I have you where I am
now, I'll give you fifteen minutes to say your prayers."
"Oh, what a terrible man!" said Mrs. Mason, with a shudder.
"You wouldn't kill him?" she ejaculated.
"Yes, I would. But there is one way of escape."
"What is that?"
"Loose these bonds and let me go before your Quaker friend comes down
stairs, and your life will be safe, and your wife's."
Ezekiel Mason shook his head feebly.
"I don't dare to do it," he said.
"Do as you please, but the time will come when you will be sorry that
you refused. What are you afraid of? You are armed, while I have no
weapon."
"I am afraid of Luke."
"You needn't be. He would find fault with you, but that would be all."
Ezekiel Mason was weak, but not weak enough to yield to the
persuasions of his prisoner. Besides, he knew that Luke would come
down from the attic directly.
In fact he was already close at hand. He brought in his hand the cut
fragments of the cord with which the outlaw had originally been bound.
"This tells the story," he said, holding up the rope so that the
farmer and his wife could see it. "This rope has been cut. The man has
a knife."
John Fox darted a malignant look at him, but said nothing.
"You are smart, John Fox," Luke went on, "smarter than I thought. It
must have cost you considerable trouble to cut the rope. Where is your
knife?"
John Fox did not reply.
Luke Robbins knelt down and thrust his hand unceremoniously into the
outlaw's pocket.
He drew out the knife which had done Fox so much service.
"This will be safer with me than with you," he said.
"Would you rob me?" demanded the outlaw.
"Yes, of anything it is not proper for you to have."
To John Fox the disappointment was bitter. He was, if anything, more
securely tied than before, and it would be quite impossible to loosen
the rope or free himself without the help of the knife. His hope of
getting loose during the night and killing Luke was at an end.
For the first time he felt hopeless, and once more he execrated his
folly in not making good his escape as soon as he came down stairs.
"Did he say anything while I was up stairs?" asked Luke.
"Yes."
"What was it?"
"He wanted me to set him free."
"Did he offer you money?"
"No, but he threatened that he would some time take my life."
"He is a terrible man!" said Mrs. Mason, shuddering. "I shall not feel
safe to-night with him in the house."
"I don't propose to let him stay in the house all night."
The prisoner, the farmer and his wife looked at Luke inquiringly.
"I think, farmer," said Luke, "you'd better harness up, and we will
take our friend here to the jail in Crampton."
"What, to-night?"
"Yes, the sooner he is safely disposed of the better at any rate, we
will have shifted the responsibility to the authorities."
"Yes, it will be better," said Mrs. Mason.
The buggy was made ready, and the outlaw, very much against his will,
was packed in the back part of it. Towards nightfall the warden of the
prison at Crampton was startled by the arrival of the farmer and Luke,
bringing with them the notorious outlaw whose name was in every
mouth--John Fox. He hardly knew whether to be sorry or glad, for no
prison yet had been secure enough to hold him any length of time.
"I will leave my name," said Luke, "and I shall hereafter claim the
reward for his capture."
CHAPTER XIV.
ERNEST HAS AN ADVENTURE.
Luke Robbins remained at the farm-house over night and till the middle
of the next day. At that hour the sum of money which Mason had
withdrawn from the bank was transferred to the party for whom it was
intended, and Luke's mission was at an end.
He received from the farmer the stipulated five dollars and started on
his return to Emmonsville, Ezekiel Mason driving him the greater part
of the way.
Luke arrived at the bank half an hour before it closed and reported
his success, including the capture of John Fox. He was congratulated,
but noticed that the officers of the bank looked grave.
"Is anything the matter?" he asked.
"Yes," answered the cashier. "At one o'clock yesterday we sent your
young friend Ernest with a thousand dollars in United States bonds to
the bank at Lee's Falls. He did not return last night, and we have
received no tidings from him."
"What do you fear?" asked Luke, hurriedly.
"We fear that he may have been captured by some of the Fox gang, and
be at present in confinement, or else--"
"What?"
"Killed or wounded," added the cashier.
"He could not have met John Fox, for I held him in custody."
"There was the other brother, James, who was at large."
"James is the tall brother?"
"Yes."
"Then," said Luke, "I shall have to hunt him, too. Will you grant me
leave of absence?"
"Gladly. We want to recover the bonds, but we care still more for the
safety of the boy."
Indeed, Ernest had become popular with the bank officials, as well as
with the residents of Emmonsville. The cashier spoke truly when he
said he cared more for the boy's safety than for the recovery of the
bonds.
"Can you tell me anything that will help me in my expedition?" asked
Luke. "Have you any idea where the Fox gang would be likely to carry
Ernest?"
"It is generally supposed that the band have a secret rendezvous
somewhere within a dozen miles, but no one has been able to discover
where it is."
"And you think that Ernest would be carried there?"
"Yes, they would hardly bring themselves to kill a young boy. He
would, of course, be easily overpowered by a grown man, so that there
would be no excuse for murderous violence."
"This spoils all my pleasure at capturing John Fox," said Luke,
ruefully. "I should be willing to have him go free if only I could get
the boy back. How did the boy go?"
"He walked."
"But it was a long distance."
"Yes, about ten miles. We at first thought of providing him with a
saddle-horse, but there was one objection."
"What was that?"
"He would have been more likely to be suspected of being out on some
mission. But on foot he would not be apt to attract attention. A boy
of sixteen is not very apt to be a custodian of money."
"True."
Leaving Luke Robbins to start on his search for Ernest, we will go
back to the time when the boy messenger left the bank on the day
previous.
The United States bonds were inclosed in an envelope and carried in an
inner pocket, which had been expressly made by an Emmonsville tailor
on his first connecting himself with the bank. The pocket was
unusually deep, so as to accommodate a long parcel.
This was the most important commission on which Ernest had been
employed, and he was pleased with the confidence reposed in him. He
did not dread the long walk, for he was a strong and active boy.
Besides, he was authorized to accept a ride if one should be offered
him.
He would, of course, arrive at Lee's Falls after the bank was closed,
but he was instructed to call at the residence of the cashier and
leave the bonds.
Ernest had walked three miles when he met with an adventure.
On the borders of a small pond he caught sight of a small Indian boy
playing. He was probably not more than three years of age. A stick he
was playing with fell into the pond, and the little fellow reached
over to recover it. In doing so he lost his balance and fell into the
water; there was a scream and a splash, and Ernest no sooner saw the
accident than he ran up, threw off his coat and vest lest he should
wet the bonds, and plunged into the pond.
The young bank messenger was an expert swimmer, and in an instant had
seized the child and placed him out of danger. The little Indian boy
clung to him instinctively, feeling safe with his young protector.
"Where do you live, little boy?" asked Ernest.
"Out yonder," answered the child.
Ernest had not been quite sure whether he would be able to understand
or speak English, but having been brought up among white people, he
was as familiar with English as most white boys of his age.
Ernest looked in the direction pointed out by the boy. At the distance
of a hundred rods he saw a rude log house, which seemed to contain but
one room. Smoke was curling from a chimney projecting from the roof.
Outside sat an Indian, about forty years of age, smoking a pipe.
He seemed busily thinking, having the grave face characteristic of the
average Indian. He did not immediately notice the approach of his
little son. But when they were near, the Indian boy uttered a cry,
pronouncing some Indian word which possibly meant "father."
Then the red man looked up, and his grave face changed as he
recognized his boy in the company of a young white stranger.
He rose hastily from his seat, and advanced quickly to meet the two
who were approaching.
"What has happened?" he asked in clear and distinct English.
"Your little boy fell into the water," explained Ernest.
"And you saved him?"
"Yes," answered Ernest, modestly. "I saw him fall, and jumped in after
him."
"Was the water deep?"
"About so deep," said Ernest, placing his hand about five feet from
the ground.
"Then he would have been drowned if you had not been near?"
"Yes, if he could not swim."
"He is too young to swim. But you are wet," added the Indian, noticing
for the first time the condition of Ernest's clothes.
"Yes, a little."
"Come in," said the Indian abruptly.
He led the way into the log cabin.
There was a stove in the centre of the room, and the air was so heated
as to be uncomfortable. As he led the child in, a stout Indian woman
came forward with a cry and took him in her arms. Her husband rapidly
explained what had happened. She instantly stripped the clothes from
the child, and put on a dry change.
"Now," said the Indian, turning to Ernest, "take off your wet
clothes."
Though Ernest knew that it was wise to do so, he felt bashful about
removing them in presence of the woman. But his Indian host brought
from a nail, on which they hung, a pair of buckskin breeches of his
own, and offered them to Ernest for his temporary use.
Ernest no longer hesitated, but made the substitution.
As the Indian was four or five inches taller than himself, the legs
covered his feet. He laughed as he saw how they looked, and the
Indian's serious face relaxed a little from the same cause.
"Now I will dry your clothes," he said.
He took a chair and, hanging the wet garments over the back, placed it
very near the stove. Ernest hardly liked to lose so much time, but he
knew that it would not be safe to wear the trousers in their soaked
condition.
"You speak English very well," he said, turning to the Indian.
"Yes, I have spent much time with white people," was the answer.
"Do you support yourself by hunting?" went on Ernest.
"Yes, I am a hunter, but I go with rich white people from the cities,
and with Englishmen, who want a guide."
"And do they pay you well?" asked Ernest, not quite sure whether he
was not showing too much curiosity.
"Yes, they pay me well. I have some money in the bank."
Then Ernest remembered having seen the Indian one day at the bank. He
was told at the time that his name was John Castro, and that he had
several hundred dollars on deposit.
CHAPTER XV.
A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.
While Ernest's clothes were drying the Indian woman was bustling about
the stove. The boy did not suspect her object till she placed on the
table a plate of Indian cakes hot from the oven, and he was invited to
partake.
It was the first time he had ever been a guest in an Indian family,
and he hesitated, but saw that his refusal to partake might hurt the
feelings of his new friends. He seated himself at the table and found
the cakes really very good.
When his clothes were dry he rose to go.
"Won't you stay all night?" asked Castro.
"Thank you. I cannot spare the time. I must push on."
"Where are you going?" asked the Indian.
"To Lee's Falls."
"I will go with you a short distance."
So they set out together.
At length John Castro stopped.
"That is your way," he said. "I wish you a pleasant journey. I will
not forget what you have done for my little son. If ever you are in
trouble, send for John Castro."
"I thank you."
The Indian shook hands with him gravely, and turned back towards his
cabin.
All this had taken time. Ernest had no watch with him, but he
estimated that the adventure had cost him two hours. However, he had
saved a boy's life.
Again, he had made a friend. The friend was an Indian, but Ernest was
wise enough to consider that no friend, however humble, is to be
despised.
It was clear that he would reach his destination late, and he began to
wish that some carriage would overtake him in which he might ask for a
ride.
But he walked two miles farther without encountering any team. At
last, however, he heard the rumble of wheels, and turning round to see
whether there was room in the vehicle, he saw that it was a buggy
driven by a tall, thin man with dark hair, swarthy face, and a long,
aquiline nose.
The driver eyed Ernest sharply and brought the buggy to a standstill.
"Where are you going, boy?" he asked.
"To Lee's Falls."
"Where have you come from?"
"From Emmonsville."
"It is a long walk."
"Yes. Do you think you could give me a lift?"
"Perhaps so. Jump in."
Ernest lost no time in availing himself of the invitation. He was
footsore and weary, and it was with a sensation of relief that he
seated himself beside the driver.
The latter, who had been going at good speed, pulled his horse down to
a walk and showed indications of becoming sociable.
"Where were you going in Lee's Falls?" he asked.
Ernest felt that it would be imprudent to mention that his destination
was the bank, so he answered guardedly, "I am going to see the town. I
may stop over night."
"At the hotel?"
"Yes."
"It is not much of a place to see," said the driver, watching his
companion curiously.
"It is larger than Emmonsville, isn't it?"
"Yes. How long have you been in Emmonsville?"
"Not long."
"Where do you live there?"
"At Mrs. Larkins'."
"Do you go to school?"
"No."
Ernest began to think that his companion was decidedly inquisitive,
and something told him that he would do well to be on his guard. Why
should he ask so many questions of a boy with whom he had no
acquaintance?
Meanwhile the horse was travelling very slowly, and it seemed to
Ernest that he would go over the road quite as fast if he had
continued to walk. However, it was easier riding, and this was a
consideration. He began to think it was his turn to ask questions.
"Are you going all the way to Lee's Falls?" he asked.
"I may go nearly there."
"I am very much obliged to you for giving me a lift. I was quite
tired."
The driver smiled.
"Perhaps I have an object," he said.
Ernest looked an inquiry.
"The pleasure of your company," explained his companion, with a smile.
"Thank you," answered Ernest.
"Now I come to look at you, I think I have seen you before," continued
the driver.
"Where?"
"In Emmonsville--at the bank."
Ernest became alarmed. There was a significance in his companion's
tone which excited his alarm. But he did not dare show his feelings.
He remained outwardly calm, though inwardly disturbed.
"Very probably," he said; "I have been there."
His companion laughed. He was playing with the boy as a cat plays with
a captive mouse. Ernest began to consider whether he could not think
of some pretext for getting out of the buggy.
Suddenly the buggy stopped.
"I will get out here," said Ernest, quickly.
"Not quite yet. I have not got through questioning you."
"I am in a hurry," said Ernest.
"You must wait till your hurry is over. Now tell me truly, are you not
bound for the Lee's Falls bank?"
Ernest was startled.
"You see I know more about you than you suppose. You are the bank
messenger."
It seemed useless to deny it. The important question now was, was his
secret packet in danger?
"I have sometimes acted as bank messenger," he said warily.
"And you are acting in that capacity now. What are you taking to the
Lee's Falls bank?"
Ernest turned pale. His worst fears were confirmed.
"Why do you ask?" he said.
"Because I want to know."
"What business can it be of yours?" demanded Ernest, boldly.
"Don't be impudent, boy! Hand me the package of money."
"I have no package of money."
"Then you have bonds."
Ernest remained silent.
"I see that I have hit it. Now hand over the bonds, if you value your
life."
He spoke sternly, and looked so fierce that the boy messenger became
more and more alarmed. He saw that he must give up the package, but
determined to hold out in his resistance as long as possible.
"The package is not mine, and I have no right to surrender it," he
said.
"I'll take the responsibility, boy. You can't be blamed, for you can't
help your self."
As he spoke, he passed his hand over Ernest's vest, which he saw
projected more than was usual, and discovered the hiding-place of the
important package.
Instantly he had torn open the vest and drawn out the envelope.
"I thought I should find it," he said in a tone of triumph.
Ernest felt very much dejected. It was a mortification to lose the
first large sum with which he had been intrusted.
"Will you tell me who you are?" he asked abruptly.
"First, let me know who you think I am."
As the driver spoke he eyed Ernest sharply. "Is your name Fox?" asked
the young  messenger.
His companion laughed.
"I know Mr. Fox," he answered.
"You are either Fox or a member of his band."
"You seem to be a sharp boy; I won't tell you whether you are right or
not."
"I suppose I may go now."
"Where do you want to go?"
Ernest hesitated. This was a question which he could not at once
answer. To go on to Lee's Falls without the packet would do little
good. Yet the bank officers there ought to know that the bonds
intended for them had been stolen. Besides, he was too far from
Emmonsville to return that night.
"I will go to Lee's Falls," he said.
"Not at present; I have other views for you." As he spoke the robber
turned his horse to the right. Wholly ignorant as to where he was to
be carried, Ernest sank back in his seat and resigned himself as well
as he could to the situation.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE OUTLAW'S HOME,
Where he was to be carried or what was to be his fate Ernest could not
conjecture, nor did he speculate much. It was enough for him to know
that he was in the power of one of the notorious outlaws.
There was considerable difference between his appearance and that of
the man at his side. He was silent and depressed, while James Fox, for
it was he, seemed in excellent spirits. He turned to the boy with the
remark, "You don't say much."
"No, for it would be no good."
"Brace up, boy! There is no occasion to look as if you were going to a
funeral."
"Give me back the bonds and I will look lively enough."
"Come now, don't be foolish. These bonds don't belong to you."
"They were given into my care."
"Very well! You took as good care of them as you could."
"I shall be held responsible for them."
"No, you won't. I shall send your employers a letter, letting them
know that you did the best you could to keep them out of my hands. But
perhaps they never heard of me," and he laughed.
"If your name is Fox, they have heard of you."
"There is no need to beat about the bush. My name is Fox--James Fox."
"What made you take up such a business, Mr. Fox?" asked Ernest,
gravely.
"Well, I like that! You, a kid, undertake to lecture me."
"You were once a kid yourself."
The outlaw's face grew grave suddenly, and his tone became thoughtful.
"Yes, I was a kid once. At sixteen--is that your age?"
"Yes."
"Well, at sixteen I was as innocent as you. I had a good mother then.
If she had lived, perhaps I would have turned out different. Why, it
seems a great joke, doesn't it? I attended Sunday-school till I was
fifteen."
"You haven't forgotten it, then?"
"No, nor the lessons I learned there. But it is of no use to recall
those days. Are you afraid that you will come to harm?"
Ernest looked intently in the brigand's face.
"No," he said, after a pause. "I think you won't do me any more harm.
But you can do me a great favor."
"What is that--return you the bonds?"
"I would ask that if I thought you would do it, but I don't expect it.
I should like to have you release me and let me go home."
"I can't do that, for I want you to visit me. You may not think it,
but I always like young people. It will be quite a pleasure to me to
have you for a visitor."
"Thank you, but I am afraid that I shall become an unwilling guest."
"Besides, it will be a pleasure to my little boy to meet you. He does
not often meet other boys."
"Have you a son?" asked Ernest in surprise.
The outlaw's face softened.
"Yes," he answered. "He is a sweet little boy, as I can say, even if
he is my son. His name is Frank. Would you like to see his picture?"
"Yes," answered Ernest with interest.
James Fox drew from an inner pocket a small card photograph of a young
boy with a very winning face. Ernest was attracted, for, unlike many
boys of his age, he liked younger children. He looked at the picture
long and earnestly.
"It is a sweet face," he said at last.  "Isn't it?" asked the proud
father.
"Is his mother living?"
"No."
"Was there no difficulty in getting it taken?"
"I suppose you mean on account of my profession. Well, there might be
around here, but this was taken in Minneapolis--about a year ago. It
was one of the few visits that Frank has made with me."
"Are you going to bring him up to your business?"
"Take care, boy," said the outlaw, frowning. "Don't be impertinent."
"I don't mean to be. Do you think the question an improper one?"
"Well, perhaps I have no right to think so. Somehow the business,
though it seems all right for me, I couldn't think of for my boy. No,
I shall soon place him at school where no one will know that he is
related to the celebrated outlaw. I want him brought up to lead an
honest life."
"I am glad you do. I respect you for that."
"My lad, you seem to be one of the right sort. As you will see my son,
I want you to promise me that you won't say a word about the business
I am engaged in."
"I will make that promise. Then the boy doesn't know?"
"No; he has no suspicion. He is too young to think much about that.
Perhaps if he had associated with other boys much he would have found
out."
While this conversation was going on they had entered a wood, and the
road became wilder and rougher. Indeed, it was hardly a road, but
rather a lane, narrow and grass-grown.
Ernest began to wonder in what sort of a home his companion lived. His
evident affection for his son gave Ernest a different feeling towards
him. It was plain that he had a softer side to his nature, bandit
though he was.
Ernest had never read the story of Jekyll and Hyde, but he felt
instinctively that the man beside him had a double nature. On the road
he was an outlaw, with corresponding traits, a rough and unscrupulous
man, but at home, and in the presence of his son, as Ernest judged, he
was a warm-hearted and affectionate father.
In truth, the young bank messenger looked forward with interest to a
meeting with the boy who was so dear to the heart of a man whom the
world generally supposed to be a stranger to the softer emotions.
At length they reached a rocky hillside. Here the outlaw pulled up his
horse and jumped from the buggy. Ernest looked at him in a questioning
way.
"You can get out," he said. "We have arrived."
Ernest alighted and looked about him. He naturally expected to see a
dwelling of some kind, but there was none in sight. If it was at a
distance, why should they not have driven to it?
James Fox looked at him with a smile, enjoying his perplexity.
From his pocket he drew a handkerchief.
"Come here, my boy," he said.
Ernest did not quite understand what he proposed to do, but he felt
better acquainted with the outlaw now, and he knew that there was no
cause for apprehension. He accordingly approached without question.
James Fox bandaged his eyes so that he could see nothing. Then he took
him by the hand and led him forward.
Ernest could not tell what was being done, but he found himself
walking on a rocky path, hand in hand with his guide. How long he
walked he could not tell. It might have been two hundred feet. Then
his guide stopped, and of course he stopped, too.
Next the handkerchief was removed, and he found himself in what seemed
a rocky cavern. At any rate it was a large room, of irregular shape,
but the stone floor had been made smooth, and was covered by a soft
carpet. It was furnished like a sitting-room in a private house. There
were comfortable chairs, including a rocking-chair, and a capacious
arm-chair. On one side of the room was an inviting-looking couch.
Of course there would have been perfect darkness but for artificial
light. On a table was a large student's lamp, and in a niche in the
wall was another. Besides this, there was a lantern hanging from the
roof of the chamber, but this was not lighted.
Ernest looked about him with curiosity and surprise. It was something
new to him, and recalled a story he had once read, in which a
cave-dwelling was described.
"Well, what do you think of it?" asked the outlaw, smiling.
"It is wonderful," said Ernest.
"You did not know where I was bringing you?"
"No. It is a cave, is it not?"
"Well, it looks like it."
"There are other rooms, are there not?"
"Yes, but this is my private apartment; my parlor, you may call it.
This is my sleeping-room."
He drew aside the hangings on the further side and revealed an inner
chamber, of less size.
On a bed Ernest's attention was drawn to the figure of a sleeping boy
evidently the original of the picture which the outlaw had shown him.
"That is your son?" asked Ernest.
"Yes, that is Frank."
The outlaw's stern countenance softened as he regarded the sleeping
boy.
Suddenly the boy stirred; he opened his eyes, and when he recognized
his father a glad smile lighted up his innocent face.
"Papa!" he said, and James Fox bent over and kissed him.
CHAPTER XVII.
IN THE ROBBER'S CAVE.
After kissing his father the young boy looked inquisitively at Ernest.
"Who is that boy, papa?" he asked.
"I have brought him here to stay with you. Shall you like to have his
company?"
"Yes, papa. You know it is very lonely while you are away. What is his
name?"
The outlaw looked at Ernest significantly. He took the hint and
answered, "My name is Ernest Ray."
"How old are you, Ernest?" went on the boy.
"Sixteen."
"I am only ten."
"Are you ready to get up, Frank?" asked his father.
"Yes," answered the young boy briskly. "I got sleepy because I was
alone. Where did papa find you, Ernest?"
"Oh, I met him outside, and he took me to ride."
James Fox looked approval of this answer.
"I am glad you came with him. You seem like a nice boy, Ernest."
"So do you, Frank."
By this time Frank had slid from the bed and put his hand in Ernest's.
"Come here," he said, "and I will show you my books."
Led by his small companion, Ernest went up to a bookcase which he had
not before observed in the main room. About thirty books stood on the
shelves.
