"Did he? Well, it might have been some other general."
"I guess it was. You don't seem to know much about history."
"No, I don't. I spent all my time studyin' 'stronomy when I went to
school."
"What's your whole name?"
"Tom Trotter. I guess you've heard of my father. He's Judge Trotter of
the Supreme Court?"
"I am afraid you don't tell the truth very often."
"No, I don't. It ain't healthy. Do you?"
"Of course I do."
This conversation was not heard by Mr. Talbot, who had taken a seat on
one of the park benches, and was busily engaged in reading the morning
World.
By this time Tom began to think it was his time to ask questions.
"Where did you come from?" he inquired.
"How do you know but I live in the city?"
"'Cause you ain't got New York style."
"Oh!" said Edgar rather mortified. Then he added in a tone which he
intended to be highly sarcastic: "I suppose you have."
"Well, I guess. You'd ought to see me walk down Fifth Avener Sunday
mornin' with my best girl."
"Do you wear the same clothes you've got on now?"
"No, I guess not. I've got a little Lord Fauntleroy suit of black
velvet, with kid gloves and all the fixin's. But you ain't told me where
you live yet."
"I live in Syracuse. My father's one of the most prominent citizens of
that city."
"Is it the man you was walkin' with?"
"Yes; there he is sitting on that bench."
"He ain't much to look at. You look just like him."
"Really, I think you are the most impudent boy I ever met!" said Edgar
with asperity.
"Why, what have I said? I only told you you looked like him."
"Yes, but you said he wasn't much to look at!"
"I guess he's rich, and that's better than good looks."
"Yes, my father is quite wealthy," returned Edgar complacently.
"I wish I was rich instead of good lookin'."
"You good looking!"
"That's what everybody says. I ain't no judge myself."
Tom looked roguishly at Edgar, and his aristocratic patron was obliged
to confess that he had a pleasant face, though it was marred by a black
spot on each cheek, probably caused by the contact of his hands.
"You're a queer boy," said Edgar. "I don't know what to make of you."
"Make a rich man of me, and we'll go to Europe together. My doctor says
I ought to travel for my health."
"Edgar, haven't you got your shoes blacked yet?" asked his father from
the bench.
Tom struck the box sharply with his brush to show that the job was
completed.
"Just got done, governor," he said familiarly.
"Here is your money," said Edgar, producing some pennies from his
pockets.
"There's only four," observed Tom with a critical glance.
"Only four! Haven't you dropped one?"
"No. That's all you gave me."
"Father, have you got a cent?"
Mr. Talbot's hand dived into his pocket, and he brought out a penny, but
it was a Canadian coin.
"I don't know as I can pass this," said Tom. "They're very particular at
the Windsor Hotel, where I am boarding."
"You can save it till you go traveling in Canada," suggested Edgar, with
unusual brightness for him.
"That's so," answered Tom, who appreciated a joke. "I'll stop in
Syracuse on the way and pay you a visit."
"How does he know about our living in Syracuse?" asked Mr. Talbot.
"I told him I lived there."
"He said you was a big bug up there."
"I hope you didn't use that expression, Edgar," said his father.
"Oh well, that's what he meant. Won't you have a shine yourself,
governor?"
"No; I don't think I shall need it."
"Where'd you get that shine you've got on?"
"In Syracuse."
"Tell 'em they don't understand shinin' boots up there."
"Hadn't you better go up there and give them some lessons?" suggested
Edgar.
"Well, I don't mind, if I can get free board at your house."
"Do you think we would have a bootblack living in our house?"
"Don't waste any time on him, Edgar. He is a street boy, and his manners
are fitted to his station."
"Thank you, governor. That's the biggest compliment I've had for a long
time."
Mr. Talbot laughed.
"Really, boy, you are very grotesque."
"That's another compliment," said Tom, taking off his hat and bowing
with mock politeness.
"Hallo, Tom!"
Tom turned to meet the smile of a District Telegraph messenger, who was
crossing the park to Broadway.
"How's yourself, Mark?" he said. "I'd offer to shake hands, but I've
been doin' a little business for these gentlemen, and my gloves ain't
handy."
No. 79, following the direction of Tom's nod, glanced at Mr. Talbot and
Edgar, and instantly a look of surprise came over his face.
"Why, Uncle Solon, is that you?" he exclaimed.
Solon Talbot looked embarrassed, and seemed in doubt whether to
acknowledge his relationship to the humble telegraph boy.
"Are you Mark Mason?" he asked.
"Yes; don't you know me?"
"I haven't seen you for two years, you know."
"And this is Edgar!" continued the telegraph boy. "You've grown so I
would hardly know you."
"I hope you are well," said Edgar coldly.
"Thank you. Uncle Solon, where are you staying?"
"Ahem! I am stopping up town."
"Shall you be in the city long?"
"I don't think so."
"Mother would like very much to see you. She would like to ask about
grandfather's estate."
"Ah--um--yes! Where do you live?"
"No. 174 St. Mark's Place, near First Avenue."
"We'll call if we can. Edgar, we'll have to hurry away."
As they walked toward the other side of the park at a brisk pace, Tom
asked: "You don't mean to say that's your uncle, Mark?"
"Yes; that is, he married my mother's sister."
"And that young swell is your cousin?"
"Yes."
"He is rich, isn't he?"
"I suppose so."
"Why don't he do something for you and your mother?"
"He was always a very selfish man. But we don't ask any favors--mother
and I don't. All we ask is justice."
"What do you mean by that?"
"My grandfather, that is mother's father and Mrs. Talbot's, died two
years ago, and Uncle Solon was the administrator. We supposed he had
left a good deal of money, but all we have received from his estate is
seventy-five dollars."
"Do you think the old feller's been playin' any game on you?"
"I don't know what to think."
"I tell you what, Mark, he deserves a good lickin' if he's cheated you,
and I'd like to give it to him."
"Well, Tom, I must be going. I can't stop talking here, or I'll get into
trouble at the office."
CHAPTER II.
WHERE MARK LIVED.
THERE is a large tenement house on St. Mark's Place, between Third
Avenue and Avenue A. The suites of rooms consist, as is the general New
York custom in tenement houses, of one square apartment used as kitchen,
sitting room and parlor combined, and two small bedrooms opening out of
it.
It was in an apartment of this kind on the third floor back, that Mark
Mason's mother and little sister Edith lived. It was a humble home, and
plainly furnished, but a few books and pictures saved from the wreck of
their former prosperity, gave the rooms an air of refinement not to be
found in those of their neighbors.
Mrs. Mason was setting the table for supper and Edith was studying a
lesson in geography when the door opened and Mark entered.
His mother greeted him with a pleasant smile.
"You are through early, Mark," she said.
"Yes, mother. I was let off earlier than usual, as there was an errand
up this way that fortunately took very little time."
"I'm glad you've come home, Mark," said Edith, "I want you to help me in
my map questions."
"All right, Edie, but you will have to wait till after supper. I've got
something to tell mother."
"What is it, Mark?"
"I saw two old acquaintances of ours from Syracuse this forenoon."
"Who were they?" asked Mrs. Mason eagerly.
"Uncle Solon and Edgar."
"Is it possible? Where did you see them?"
"In City Hall Park. Edgar had just been having his boots blacked by Tom
Trotter."
"Did you speak to them?"
"Yes."
"How did they appear?"
"Well, they didn't fall on my neck and embrace me," answered Mark with a
smile. "In fact they seemed very cool."
"And yet Solon Talbot is my brother-in-law, the husband of my only
sister."
"And Edgar is my own cousin. He's an awful snob, mother, and he looks as
like his father as one pea looks like another."
"Then he is not very handsome. I wish I could see them. Did you invite
them to call?"
"Yes."
"And what did Solon--Mr. Talbot--say?"
"He said he might call, but he was in a great hurry."
"Did you remember to give him our address?"
"Yes, mother; I said you would like to see him about grandfather's
estate."
"I certainly would. It seems strange, very strange--that father should
have left so little money."
"We only got seventy-five dollars out of it."
"When I expected at least five thousand."
"I suspect there's been some dishonesty on the part of Uncle Solon. You
know he is awfully fond of money."
"Yes, he always was."
"And Tom Trotter says that Edgar told him his father was very rich."
"It seems strange the change that has taken place. When I first knew
Solon Talbot I was a young lady in society with a high position, and he
was a clerk in my father's store. He was of humble parentage, though
that, of course, is not to his discredit. His father used to go about
sawing wood for those who chose to employ him."
"You don't mean it! You never told me that before."
"No, for I knew that Solon would be ashamed to have it known, and as I
said before it is nothing to his discredit."
"But it might prevent Edgar from putting on such airs. He looked at me
as if I was an inferior being, and he didn't care to have anything to
say to me."
"I hope you don't feel sensitive on that account."
"Sensitive? No. I can get along without Edgar Talbot's notice. I mean
some time to stand as high or higher than Uncle Solon, and to be quite
as rich."
"I hope you will, Mark, but as we are at present situated it will be
hard to rise."
"Plenty of poor boys have risen, and why not I?"
"It is natural for the young to be hopeful, but I have had a good deal
to depress me. Did you remember that the rent comes due the day after
to-morrow?"
"How much have you towards it, mother?"
"Only five dollars, and it's eight. I don't see where the other three
dollars are coming from, unless,"--and here her glance rested on the
plain gold ring on her finger.
"Pledge your wedding-ring, mother!" exclaimed Mark. "Surely you don't
mean that?"
"I would rather do it than lose our shelter, poor as it is."
"There must be some other way--there must be."
"You will not receive any wages till Saturday."
"No, but perhaps we can borrow something till then. There's Mrs. Mack
up-stairs. She has plenty of money, though she lives in a poor way."
"There isn't much hope there, Mark. She feels poorer than I do, though I
am told she has five thousand dollars out at interest."
"Never mind. I am going to try her."
"Eat your supper first."
"So I will. I shall need all the strength I can get from a good meal to
confront her."
Half an hour later Mark went up-stairs and tapped at the door of the
rooms above his mother's.
"Come in!" said a feeble quavering voice.
Mark opened the door and entered. In a rocking chair sat, or rather
crouched, a little old woman, her face seamed and wrinkled. She had
taken a comforter from the bed and wrapped it around her to keep her
warm, for it was a chilly day, and there was no fire in her little
stove.
"Good evening, Mrs. Mack," said Mark. "How do you feel?"
"It's a cold day," groaned the old lady. "I--I feel very uncomfortable."
"Why don't you have a fire then?"
"It's gone out, and it's so late it isn't worth while to light it
again."
"But it is worth while to be comfortable," insisted Mark.
"I--I can keep warm with this comforter around me, and--fuel is high,
very high."
"But you can afford to buy more when this is burned."
"No, Mark. I have to be economical--very economical. I don't want to
spend all my money, and go to the poor-house."
"I don't think there's much danger of that. You've got money in the
savings bank, haven't you?"
"Yes--a little, but I can't earn anything. I'm too old to work, for I am
seventy-seven, and I might live years longer, you know."
"Don't you get interest on your money?"
"Yes, a little, but it costs a good deal to live."
"Well, if the interest isn't enough, you can use some of the principal.
I can put you in the way of earning twenty-five cents."
"Can you?" asked the old woman eagerly. "How?"
"If you'll lend me three dollars till Saturday--I get my wages
then--I'll pay you twenty-five cents for the accommodation."
"But you might not pay me," said the old woman cautiously, "and it would
kill me to lose three dollars."
Mark wanted to laugh, but felt that it would not do.
"There isn't any danger," he said. "I get two weeks' pay on Saturday. It
will be as much as nine dollars, so you see you are sure of getting back
your money."
"I--I don't know. I am afraid."
"What are you afraid of?"
"You might get run over by the horse cars, or a truck, and then you
couldn't get your money."
"I will be careful for your sake, Mrs. Mack," said Mark good-humoredly.
"You'll get your money back, and twenty-five cents more."
The old woman's face was a study--between avarice on the one hand and
timidity on the other.
"I--I'm afraid," she said.
She rocked to and fro in her chair in her mental perturbation, and Mark
saw that his errand was a failure.
"If you change your mind, let me know," he said.
As he reached the foot of the stairs he was treated to a surprise.
There, just in front of his mother's door stood Solon Talbot and Edgar.
CHAPTER III.
AN UNEXPECTED CALL.
"IN what room does your mother live?" asked Solon Talbot.
"This is our home," said Mark, proceeding to open the door.
Edgar Talbot sniffed contemptuously.
"I don't see how you can live in such a mean place," he remarked.
"It is not a matter of choice," returned Mark gravely. "We have to live
in a cheap tenement."
By this time the door was opened.
"Mother," said Mark, preceding the two visitors, "here are Uncle Solon
and Edgar come to call on you."
Mrs. Mason's pale cheek flushed, partly with mortification at her humble
surroundings, for when she first knew Solon Talbot he was only a clerk,
as she had said, and she was a society belle.
There was another feeling also. She had a strong suspicion that her
brother-in-law had defrauded her of her share in her father's estate.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Talbot," she said, extending her hand. "And
this is Edgar! How you have grown, Edgar."
"Yes, ma'am," responded Edgar stiffly.
Both Mrs. Mason and Mark noticed that he did not call her "aunt." Her
nephew's coldness chilled her.
"I am sorry to see you in such a poor place," she said, smiling faintly.
"I suppose rents are high in New York," said Solon Talbot awkwardly.
"Yes, and our means are small. How is my sister Mary?"
"Quite well, thank you."
"Did she send me any message?"
"She did not know I was going to call."
"How long it seems since I saw her!" sighed Mrs. Mason.
"I suppose you heard that I was in town."
"Yes; Mark told me."
"I was not sure whether I could call, as I am here on a hurried business
errand."
"I am glad you have called. I wished to ask you about father's estate."
"Just so! It is very surprising--I assure you that it amazed me very
much--to find that he left so little."
"I can't understand it at all, Solon. Only a year before he died he told
me that he considered himself worth fifteen thousand dollars."
"People are often deluded as to the amount of their possessions. I have
known many such cases."
"But I have only received seventy-five dollars, and there were two
heirs--Mary and myself. According to that father must have left only one
hundred and fifty dollars."
"Of course he left more, but there were debts--and funeral expenses and
doctor's bills."
"I understand that, but it seems so little."
"It was very little, and I felt sorry, not only on your account, but
on Mary's. Of course, as my wife, she will be provided for, but it would
have been comfortable for her to inherit a fair sum."
"You can imagine what it is to me who am not amply provided for. I
thought there might be five thousand dollars coming to me."
Solon Talbot shook his head.
"That anticipation was very extravagant!" he said.
"It was founded on what father told me."
"True; but I think your father's mind was weakened towards the end of
his life. He was not really responsible for what he said."
"I disagree with you there, Solon. Father seemed to me in full
possession of his faculties to the last."
"You viewed him through the eyes of filial affection, but I was less
likely to be influenced in my judgments."
"Five thousand dollars would have made me so happy. We are miserably
poor, and Mark has to work so hard to support us in this poor way."
"I thought telegraph boys earned quite a snug income," said Solon
Talbot, who looked uncomfortable.
He was dreading every moment that his sister-in-law would ask him for
pecuniary assistance. He did not understand her independent nature. Her
brother-in-law was about the last man to whom she would have stooped to
beg a favor.
"Mark sometimes makes as high as five dollars a week," said Mrs. Mason
in a tone of mild sarcasm.
"I am sure that is very good pay for a boy of his age."
"It is a small sum for a family of three persons to live upon, Solon."
"Um, ah! I thought perhaps you might earn something else."
"Sometimes I earn as high as a dollar and a half a week making shirts."
Mr. Talbot thought it best to drop the subject.
"I am deeply sorry for you," he said. "It is a pity your husband didn't
insure his life. He might have left you in comfort."
"He did make application for insurance, but his lungs were already
diseased, and the application was refused."
"I may be able to help you--in a small way, of course," proceeded Solon
Talbot.
Mark looked up in surprise. Was it possible that his close-fisted uncle
was offering to assist them.
Mrs. Mason did not answer, but waited for developments.
"I have already paid you seventy-five dollars from your father's
estate," resumed Mr. Talbot. "Strictly speaking, it is all you are
entitled to. But I feel for your position, and--and your natural
disappointment, and I feel prompted to make it a hundred dollars by
paying you twenty-five dollars more. I have drafted a simple receipt
here, which I will get you to sign, and then I will hand you the money."
He drew from his wallet a narrow slip of paper, on which was written
this form:
"Received from Solon Talbot the sum of One Hundred Dollars, being the
full amount due me from the estate of my late father, Elisha Doane, of
which he is the administrator."
       *       *       *       *       *
Mr. Talbot placed the paper on the table, and pointing to a black line
below the writing, said, "Sign here."
"Let me see the paper, mother," said Mark.
He read it carefully.
"I advise you not to sign it," he added, looking up.
"What do you mean?" exclaimed Solon Talbot angrily.
"I mean," returned Mark firmly, "that mother has no means of knowing
that a hundred dollars is all that she is entitled to from grandfather's
estate."
"Didn't I tell you it was?" demanded Talbot frowning.
"Uncle Solon," said Mark calmly, "I am only a boy, but I know that one
can't be too careful in business matters."
"Do you dare to doubt my father's word?" blustered Edgar.
"Our business is with your father, not with you," said Mark.
"What is it you want?" asked Solon Talbot irritably.
"I want, or rather mother does, to see a detailed statement of
grandfather's property, and the items of his debts and expenses."
Solon Talbot was quite taken aback by Mark's demand. He had supposed the
boy knew nothing of business.
"Really," he said, "this impertinence from my own nephew is something I
was by no means prepared for. It is a poor return for my liberal offer."
"Your liberal offer?"
"Yes, the twenty-five dollars I offered your mother is out of my own
pocket--offered solely out of consideration for her poverty. Do I
understand," he asked, addressing his sister-in-law, "that you decline
my offer?"
Mrs. Mason looked doubtfully at Mark. Twenty-five dollars in their
present circumstances would be a boon, and, in addition to Mark's
earnings, would tide them over at least three months. Was it right, or
wise, to decline it?
Mark's face showed no signs of wavering. He was calm and resolute.
"What do you think, Mark?" asked his mother.
"You know what I think, mother. We have no knowledge that the estate has
been fairly administered, and you would be bartering away our rights."
"I think I won't sign the receipt, Solon," said Mrs. Mason.
Solon Talbot looked very angry.
"Then," he replied, "I cannot give you the twenty-five dollars. Edgar,
we will go."
"Give my love to Mary," faltered Mrs. Mason.
Solon Talbot deigned no answer, but strode from the room with an angry
look.
"Mother, I am convinced that Uncle Solon was trying to swindle us," said
Mark.
"I hope we have done right, Mark," rejoined his mother doubtfully.
"What is this, mother?" asked Mark, as he picked up from the floor a
letter partially torn.
"It must have been dropped by Solon Talbot."
CHAPTER IV.
A NIGHT AT DALY'S.
"I WILL read this letter to see if it is of any importance," said Mark.
"In that case I will forward it to Syracuse."
He read as follows:
       *       *       *       *       *
"WALL STREET EXCHANGE.
"DEAR SIR: In reference to the mining stock about which you inquire, our
information is that the mine is a valuable one, and very productive. The
stock is held in few hands, and it is difficult to obtain it. You tell
me that it belongs to an estate of which you are the administrator. I
advise you to hold it awhile longer before you seek to dispose of it. We
are about to send an agent to Nevada to look after some mining interests
of our own, and will authorize him also to look up the Golden Hope mine.
"Yours truly,
"CRANE & LAWTON,
"STOCK AND MINING BROKERS."
       *       *       *       *       *
Mother and son looked at each other significantly.
Finally Mark said, "This mining stock must have belonged to
grandfather."
"Yes; I remember now his alluding to having purchased a hundred shares
of some mine."
"The brokers say they are valuable. Yet Uncle Solon has never said
anything about them. Mother, he means to defraud us of our share in this
property, supposing that we will hear nothing about it."
"How shameful!" exclaimed Mrs. Mason indignantly. "I will sit right down
and write him a letter taxing him with his treachery."
"No, mother; I don't want you to do anything of the kind."
"You don't want us to submit to imposition? That don't sound like you,
Mark."
"I mean that he shall give us whatever is our due, but I don't want him
to suspect that we know anything of his underhand schemes. He hasn't
sold the mining stock yet."
"What do you want me to do?"
"Leave the matter in my hands, mother. I will keep the letter, and it
will always be evidence against him. He is shrewd, and will get full
value for the stock. Then we can make him hand you your share."
"If you think that is best, Mark," said Mrs. Mason doubtfully. "I
haven't much of a head for business."
"I think I have, mother. There is nothing I like better."
"Did you see Mrs. Mack about a loan? I didn't think to ask you, as your
uncle came in with you when you returned from up-stairs."
"Yes, I saw her, but it was of no use."
"Then she won't lend us the money?"
"No, she is afraid to, though I offered her twenty-five cents interest.
I told her that I should have nine dollars coming in on Saturday, but
she thought something might prevent my getting it."
"Then I had better pawn my ring. The landlord won't wait even a day for
his money."
"Don't be in a hurry, mother. The rent is not due till day after
to-morrow, and something may happen between now and then to put me in
funds."
"Perhaps you are right, Mark."
Five minutes later there was a knock at the door. Opening it, Mark saw
another telegraph boy in the entrance. He had a paper in his hand.
"You're to go there," he said, handing Mark a card. "Put on your best
clothes. It's a lady to take to the theater."
"All right, Jimmy. I'll be ready in a jiffy. Do you know what theater?"
"No, I don't. The lady will tell you."
"Mother, I'll be home late," said Mark. "I must put on some clean
clothes. Is my collar dirty?"
"Yes, you had better put on a clean one. I don't like your being out so
late. I thought you were through for the day."
"I'll get extra pay, mother, and every little helps."
"I say, Mark," said Jimmy, "you'd better wear your dress suit and
diamond scarf-pin."
"I would, Jimmy, only I lent 'em both to a bootblack of my acquaintance
who's going to attend a ball on Fifth Avenue to-night."
Jimmy laughed.
"You've always got an answer ready, Mark," he said. "Well, so long! Hope
you'll have a good time."
"Where does the lady live, Mark?" asked Mrs. Mason.
"At No. 90 West Forty-Fifth Street. I haven't much time to spare. I must
go as soon as I can get ready."
It was half-past seven o'clock before Mark rang the bell at a fine brown
stone house on West Forty-Fifth Street. The door was opened by a colored
servant, who, without speaking to Mark, turned his head, and called out:
"The messenger's come, Miss Maud."
"I'm so glad," said a silvery voice, as a young lady of twenty,
already dressed for the street, came out of a room on the left of the
hall. Mark took off his hat politely.
"So you are the messenger boy?" she said. "You are to take me to Daly's
Theater."
"Yes, miss. So I heard."
"Let us go at once. We will take the horse cars at Sixth Avenue, and get
out at Thirtieth Street."
Before she had finished they were already in the street.
"I must explain," she said, "that my uncle bought two tickets this
morning and expected to accompany me, but an important engagement has
prevented. I was resolved to go, and so I sent for a messenger. Perhaps
you had better take the tickets."
"All right, Miss----."
"Gilbert. As you are to be my escort I will ask your name."
"Mark Mason."
"Shall I call you Mark, or Mr. Mason?" she asked with a roguish smile.
"I would rather you would call me Mark."
"Perhaps, as you are taking the place of my uncle, it would be proper to
call you Uncle Mark," she laughed.
"All right, if you prefer it," said Mark.
"On the whole I won't. I am afraid you don't look the character. Are you
quite sure you can protect me?"
"I'll try to, Miss Gilbert."
"Then I won't borrow any trouble."
Maud Gilbert had carefully observed Mark, and as he was an
attractive-looking boy she felt satisfied with the selection made for
her.
"I am glad you didn't wear your uniform," she said. "I forgot to speak
about that."
"When I heard what I was wanted for I thought it would be better to
leave off the uniform," said Mark.
"That was right. Now I can pass you off as a young friend. If I meet any
young lady friend, don't call me Miss Gilbert, but call me Maud. Perhaps
you had better call me that at any rate."
"I will--Maud."
"That's right, and I will call you--let me see, Cousin Mark. I don't
want my friends to think I had to send for an escort to a telegraph
office."
When they entered Daly's Miss Gilbert met an old school friend--Louisa
Morton.
"Why, Maud, are you here?" said her friend. "How delightful! And who is
this young gentleman?"
"My cousin, Mark Mason."
"Indeed! Well, I congratulate you on having such a nice escort. If he
were a few years older I might try to make you jealous."
Maud laughed gaily.
"Oh, you can't get him away. He is devoted to me. Aren't you, Cousin
Mark?"
Mark was about to say "You bet," but it occurred to him that this would
not be comme il faut, so he only said, "You are right, Maud."
"Where are your seats? I hope they are near ours."
They proved to be in the same row, but on the other side of the center
aisle.
As Mark and the young lady took seats two pairs of astonished eyes noted
their entrance. These belonged to Edgar and his father, who sat two rows
behind. Edgar was the first to catch sight of them.
"Look, father!" he said, clutching his father's arm. "There is Mark
Mason and a beautiful girl just taking their seats. What does it mean?"
"I don't know," returned Mr. Talbot. "She seems to be a fashionable
young lady."
"How in the world did he get acquainted with such people? She treats him
as familiarly as if he were a brother or cousin."
"It is very strange."
"Please take the opera-glass, Mark," Edgar heard Miss Gilbert say. "You
know I must make you useful."
For the rest of the evening the attention of Edgar and his father was
divided between the play and Miss Gilbert and Mark. For the benefit
chiefly of her friend, Maud treated her young escort with the utmost
familiarity, and quite misled Solon Talbot and Edgar.
When the play was over Mark carefully adjusted Miss Gilbert's wraps. As
he passed through the aisle he saw for the first time Edgar and his
father looking at him with astonished eyes.
"Good evening," he said with a smile. "I hope you enjoyed the play."
"Come, Mark, it is growing late," said Maud.
Mark bowed and passed on.
"Well, if that doesn't beat all!" ejaculated Edgar. "They seemed very
intimate."
When Mark bade Miss Gilbert good night after ringing the bell at her
home, she pressed a bank note into his hand.
"Thank you so much," she said. "Keep the change, and when I want another
escort I will send for you."
By the light of the street lamp Mark inspected the bill and found it was
a five.
"That will give me over three dollars for myself," he said joyfully. "So
the rent is secure."
The next day about two o'clock he was in the office of a prominent
banker to whom he had carried a message, when a wild-looking man with
light brown hair and wearing glasses, rushed in, and exclaimed
dramatically to the astonished banker, "I want a hundred thousand
dollars! Give it to me at once, or I will blow your office to atoms."
He pointed significantly to a small carpet bag which he carried in his
left hand.
The broker turned pale, and half rose from his chair. He was too
frightened to speak, while two clerks writing in another part of the
office seemed ready to faint.
CHAPTER V.
MARK AS A HERO.
THE situation was critical. That the wild-eyed visitor was demented,
there was hardly a doubt, but his madness was of a most dangerous
character.
The eyes of all were fixed with terror upon the innocent-looking valise
which he held in his left hand, and in the mind of all was the terrible
thought, DYNAMITE!
"Well, will you give me the money?" demanded the crank fiercely.
"I--I don't think I have as much money in the office," stammered the
pallid banker.
"That won't work," exclaimed the visitor angrily. "If you can't find it
I will send you where you won't need money," and he moved his arm as if
to throw the valise on the floor.
"I--I'll give you a check," faltered Luther Rockwell, the banker.
"And stop payment on it," said the crank with a cunning look. "No, that
won't do."
"Give me half an hour to get the money," pleaded Rockwell desperately.
"Perhaps twenty minutes will do."
"You would send for a policeman," said the intruder. "That won't do, I
must have the money now. Or, if you haven't got it, bonds will answer."
Luther Rockwell looked helplessly toward the two clerks, but they were
even more terrified than he. There was one to whom he did not look for
help, and that was the telegraph boy, who stood but three feet from the
crank, watching him sharply. For a plan of relief had come into the mind
of Mark Mason, who, though he appreciated the danger, was cooler and
more self-possessed than any one else in the office.
Standing just behind the crank, so that he did not attract his
attention, he swiftly signaled to the clerks, who saw the signal but did
not know what it meant. Mark had observed that the dangerous satchel was
held loosely in the hands of the visitor whose blazing eyes were fixed
upon the banker. The telegraph boy had made up his mind to take a
desperate step, which depended for its success on rapid execution and
unfaltering nerves.
Luther Rockwell was hesitating what reply to make to his visitor's
demand when Mark, with one step forward, snatched the valise from the
unsuspecting visitor and rapidly retreated in the direction of the two
clerks.
"Now do your part!" he exclaimed in keen excitement.
The crank uttered a howl of rage, and turning his fierce, bloodshot eyes
upon Mark dashed towards him.
The two clerks were now nerved up to action. They were not cowards, but
the nature of the peril had dazed them. One was a member of an athletic
club, and unusually strong.
They dashed forward and together seized the madman. Mr. Rockwell, too,
sprang from his seat, and, though an old man, joined the attacking
party.
"Quick!" he shouted to Mark. "Take that valise out of the office, and
carry it where it will do no harm. Then come back!"
Mark needed no second bidding. He ran out of the office and down-stairs,
never stopping till he reached the nearest police station. Quickly he
told his story, and two policemen were despatched on a run to Mr.
Rockwell's office.
They arrived none too soon. The crank appeared to have the strength of
three men, and it seemed doubtful how the contest between him and the
three who assailed him would terminate.
The two policemen turned the scale. They dexterously slipped handcuffs
over his wrists, and at last he sank to the floor conquered. He was
panting and frothing at the mouth.
Luther Rockwell fell back into his seat exhausted.
"You've had a trying time, sir!" said one of the policemen respectfully.
"Yes," ejaculated the banker with dry lips. "I wouldn't pass through it
again for fifty thousand dollars. I've been as near a terrible death as
any man can be--and live! But for the heroism of that boy--where is he?"
The question was answered by the appearance of Mark Mason himself, just
returned from the police station.
"But for you," said the banker gratefully, "we should all be in
eternity."
"I too!" answered Mark.
"Let me get at him!" shrieked the crank, eying Mark with a demoniac
hatred. "But for him I should have succeeded."
"Was there really dynamite in the bag?" asked one of the policemen.
"Yes," answered Mark. "The sergeant opened it in my presence. He said
there was enough dynamite to blow up the biggest building in the city."
"What is going to be done with it?" asked the banker anxiously.
"The policemen were starting with it for the North River."
"That's the only safe place for it."
"If you have no further use for this man we'll carry him to the
station-house," said one of the officers.
"Yes, yes, take him away!" ejaculated the banker with a shudder.
Struggling fiercely, the crank was hurried down the stairs by the two
official guardians, and then Mr. Rockwell, who was an old man, quietly
fainted away.
When he came to, he said feebly, "I am very much upset. I think I will
go home. Call a cab, my boy."
Mark soon had one at the door.
"Now, I want you to go with me and see me home. I don't dare to go by
myself."
Mark helped the old gentleman into his cab, and up the stairs of his
dwelling. Mr. Rockwell paid the cab driver adding, "Take this boy back
to my office. What is your name, my boy?"
"Mark Mason, No. 79."
Luther Rockwell scribbled a few lines on a leaf torn from his memorandum
book, and gave it to Mark.
"Present that at the office," he said. "Come round next week and see
me."
"Yes, sir," answered Mark respectfully, and sprang into the cab.
As he was riding through Madison Avenue he noticed from the window his
uncle Solon and Edgar walking slowly along on the left hand side. At the
same moment they espied him.
"Look, father!" cried Edgar in excitement. "Mark Mason is riding in that
cab."
"So he is!" echoed Mr. Talbot in surprise.
Catching their glance, Mark smiled and bowed. He could understand their
amazement, and he enjoyed it.
Mechanically Mr. Talbot returned the salutation, but Edgar closed his
lips very firmly and refused to take any notice of his cousin.
"I don't understand it," he said to his father, when the cab had passed.
"Doesn't it cost a good deal to ride in a cab in New York?"
"Yes. I never rode in one but once, and then I had to pay two dollars."
"And yet Mark Mason, who is little more than a beggar, can afford to
ride! And last evening he was at the theater in company with a
fashionable young lady. Telegraph boys must get higher pay than he
said."
"Perhaps, Edgar," suggested his father with an attempt at humor, "you
would like to become a telegraph boy yourself."
"I'd scorn to go into such a low business."
"Well, I won't urge you to do so."
Meanwhile Mark continued on his way in the cab. As he passed City Hall
Park Tom Trotter, who had just finished shining a gentleman's boots,
chanced to look towards Broadway. As he saw his friend Mark leaning back
in the cab, his eyes opened wide.
"Well, I'll be jiggered!" he exclaimed. "How's that for puttin' on
style? Fust thing you know Mark Mason will have his name down wid de
Four Hundred!"
It did not occur to Mark to look at the paper given him by Mr. Rockwell
till he got out of the cab.
This was what he read:
       *       *       *       *       *
MR. NICHOLS: Give this boy ten dollars.
LUTHER ROCKWELL.
       *       *       *       *       *
His eyes flashed with delight.
"This is a lucky day!" he exclaimed. "It's worth while running the risk
of being blown up when you're so well paid for it."
Nichols, the chief clerk, at once complied with his employer's
directions.
"You're a brave boy, 79," he said. "If it hadn't been for you, we'd all
have been blown higher than a kite. How did you leave Mr. Rockwell?"
"He seems pretty well upset," answered Mark.
"No wonder; he's an old man. I don't mind saying I was upset myself, and
I am less than half his age. You were the only one of us that kept his
wits about him."
"Somehow I didn't think of danger," said Mark. "I was considering how I
could get the better of the crank."
"You took a great risk. If the valise had fallen, we'd have all gone up,
and he pointed significantly overhead. I am glad Mr. Rockwell has given
you something. If he had given you a hundred dollars, or a thousand, it
wouldn't have been too much."
"He told me to call at the office next week."
"Don't forget to do it. It will be to your interest."
CHAPTER VI.
"THE EVENING GLOBE."
WHILE Mark was passing through these exciting scenes Mrs. Mason went
about her daily duties at home, anxiously considering how the rent was
to be paid on the following day. Mark had not told her of his gift from
Maud Gilbert, intending it as a surprise.
As she was washing the breakfast dishes, there was a little tap at the
door. To her surprise, the visitor turned out to be Mrs. Mack, of the
floor above, to whom Mark had applied for a loan without success. As
Mrs. Mack seldom left her room, Mrs. Mason regarded her with surprise.
"Come in and sit down, Mrs. Mack," she said kindly.
She had no regard for the old woman, but felt that she deserved some
consideration on account of her great age.
Mrs. Mack hobbled in and seated herself in a rocking-chair.
"I hope you are well," said Mrs. Mason.
"Tollable, tollable," answered the old woman, glancing curiously about
the room, as if making an inventory of what it contained.
"Can't I give you a cup of tea? At your age it will be strengthening."
"I'm not so very old," said the old woman querulously. "I'm only
seventy-seven, and my mother lived to be eighty-seven."
"I hope you will live as long as you wish to. But, Mrs. Mack, you must
make yourself comfortable. Old people live longer if they live in
comfort. Will you have the tea?"
"I don't mind," answered Mrs. Mack, brightening up at the prospect of
this unwonted luxury.
She did not allow herself tea every day, on account of its cost. There
are many foolish people in the world, but among the most foolish are
those who deny themselves ordinary comforts in order to save money for
their heirs.
The tea was prepared, and the old woman drank it with evident enjoyment.
"Your boy came up yesterday to borrow three dollars," she began then,
coming to business.
"Yes, he told me so."
"He said he'd pay me Saturday night."
"Yes, he gets two weeks' pay then."
"I--I was afraid he might not pay me back, and I can't afford to lose so
much money. I'm a poor old woman."
"Mark would have paid you back. He always pays his debts."
"Yes; I think he is a good boy. If I thought he would pay me back, I--I
think I would lend him the money. He offered to pay me interest."
"Yes; he would pay you for the favor."
"If--if he will pay me four dollars on Saturday night I will lend him
what he wants."
"What!" ejaculated Mrs. Mason. "Do you propose to ask him a dollar for
the use of three dollars for two or three days?"
"It's--it's a great risk!" mumbled Mrs. Mack.
"There is no risk at all. To ask such interest as that would be sheer
robbery. We are poor and we can't afford to pay it."
"I am a poor old woman."
"You are not poor at all. You are worth thousands of dollars."
"Who said so?" demanded Mrs. Mack in alarm.
"Everybody knows it."
"It's--it's a mistake, a great mistake. I--I can't earn anything. I'm
too old to work. I don't want to die in a poorhouse."
"You would live a great deal better in a poorhouse than you live by
yourself. I decline your offer, Mrs. Mack. I would rather pawn my
wedding ring, as I proposed to Mark. That would only cost me nine cents
in place of the dollar that you demand."
The old woman looked disappointed. She had thought of the matter all
night with an avaricious longing for the interest that she expected to
get out of Mark, and she had no thought that her offer would be
declined.
"Never mind about business, Mrs. Mack!" said Mrs. Mason more kindly, as
she reflected that the old woman could not change her nature. "Won't you
have another cup of tea, and I can give you some toast, too, if you
think you would like it."
An expression of pleasure appeared on the old woman's face.
"If--it's handy," she said. "I don't always make tea, for it is too much
trouble."
It is safe to say that Mrs. Mack thoroughly enjoyed her call, though she
did not effect the loan she desired to make. When she rose to go, Mrs.
Mason invited her to call again.
"I always have tea, or I can make it in five minutes," she said.
"Thank you kindly, ma'am; I will come," she said, "if it isn't putting
you to too much trouble."
"Mother," said Edith, after the visitor had hobbled up-stairs, "I
wouldn't give tea to that stingy old woman."
"My dear child, she is old, and though she is not poor, she thinks she
is, which is almost as bad. If I can brighten her cheerless life in any
way, I am glad to do so."
About one o'clock a knock was heard at the door. Mrs. Mason answered it
in person, and to her surprise found in the caller a brisk-looking young
man, with an intelligent face. He had a note-book in his hand.
"Is this Mrs. Mason?" he inquired.
"Yes, sir."
"Your son is a telegraph boy?"
"Yes."
"No. 79?"
"Yes, sir. Has anything happened to him?" she asked in quick alarm.
"I bring no bad news," answered the young man with a smile. "Have you a
photograph or even a tintype of your son, recently taken?"
"I have a tintype taken last summer at Coney Island."
"That will do. Will you lend it to me till to-morrow?"
"But what can you possibly want with Mark's picture?" asked the mother,
feeling quite bewildered.
"I represent the Daily Globe, Mrs. Mason. His picture is to appear in
the evening edition."
"But why should you publish Mark's picture?"
"Because he has distinguished himself by a heroic action. I can't stop
to give you particulars, for I ought to be at the office now, but I will
refer you to the paper."
With the tintype in his hand the reporter hurried to the office of the
journal he represented, leaving Mrs. Mason in a state of wondering
perplexity.
Within an incredibly short time hundreds of newsboys were running
through the streets crying "Extry! Extra! A dynamite crank at the office
of Luther Rockwell, the great banker!"
Mark Mason was returning from a trip to Brooklyn, when a newsboy thrust
the paper in his face.
"Here, Johnny, give me that paper!" he said.
The boy peered curiously at him.
"Ain't you Mark Mason?" he asked.
"Yes; how did you know me?"
"Your picture is in the paper."
Mark opened the paper in natural excitement, and being a modest boy,
blushed as he saw his picture staring at him from the front page,
labeled underneath "The Heroic Telegraph Boy." He read the account,
which was quite correctly written, with a mixture of emotions, among
which gratification predominated.
"But where did they get my picture?" he asked himself.
There was also a picture of the dynamite crank, which was also tolerably
accurate.
"I must take this home to mother," said Mark, folding up the paper.
"Won't she be surprised!"
About the same time Solon Talbot and Edgar were in the Grand Central
Depot on Forty-Second Street. Their visit was over, and Mr. Talbot had
purchased the return tickets.
"You may buy a couple of evening papers, Edgar," said his father.
One of them selected was the Evening Globe.
Edgar uttered an exclamation as he opened it.
"What's the matter, Edgar?" asked his father.
"Just look at this! Here's Mark Mason's picture in the paper!"
"What nonsense you talk!" said Solon Talbot.
"No, I don't. Here is the picture, and here is his name!" said Edgar
triumphantly.
Solon Talbot read the account in silence.
"I see," said another Syracuse man coming up, "you are reading the
account of the daring attempt to blow up banker Rockwell's office!"
"Yes," answered Solon.
"That was a brave telegraph boy who seized the bag of dynamite."
"Very true!" said Solon, unable to resist the temptation to shine by the
help of the nephew whom he had hitherto despised. "That boy is my own
nephew!"
"You don't say so!"
"Yes; his mother is the sister of my wife."
"But how does he happen to be a telegraph boy?"
"A whim of his. He is a very independent boy, and he insisted on
entering the messenger service."
"Be that as it may, you have reason to be proud of him."
Edgar said nothing, but he wished that just for this once he could
change places with his poor cousin.
"I'd have done the same if I'd had the chance," he said to himself.
CHAPTER VII.
THE GREAT MR. BUNSBY.
"So you have become quite a hero, Mark," said his mother smiling, as
Mark entered the house at half-past six.
"Have you heard of it then, mother?" asked the messenger boy.
"Yes, a little bird came and told me."
"I suppose you saw the Evening Globe."
"Yes, I sent Edith out to buy a copy."
"But how did you know it contained anything about me?"
"Because a reporter came to me for your picture."
"That explains it. I couldn't understand how they got that."
"It makes me shudder, Mark, when I think of the risk you ran. How did
you dare to go near that terrible man?"
"I knew something must be done or we should all lose our lives. No one
seemed to think what to do except myself."
"You ought to have been handsomely paid. The least Mr. Rockwell could do
was to give you five dollars."
"He gave me ten, and told me to call at the office next week."
"Then," said his mother relieved, "we shall be able to pay the rent."
"That was provided for already. The young lady I escorted to the theater
last evening gave me three dollars over the regular charges for my
services."
"Why didn't you tell me before, Mark?"
"I ought to have done so, but I wanted it to be an agreeable surprise.
So you see I have thirteen dollars on hand."
"It is a blessed relief. Oh, I mustn't forget to tell you that Mrs. Mack
came in this morning to offer to lend me three dollars."
"What! has the old woman become kind-hearted all at once?"
"As to that, I think there is very little kindness in offering three
dollars at thirty-three per cent. interest for three days. She was
willing to lend three dollars; but demanded four dollars in return."
"It is lucky we shall not have to pay such enormous interest. Now,
mother, what have you got for supper?"
"Some tea and toast, Mark."
"We must have something better. I will go out and buy a sirloin steak,
and some potatoes. We will have a good supper for once."
At the entrance to the street Mark found Tom Trotter.
Tom's honest face lighted up with pleasure.
"I see you've got into de papers, Mark," he said.
"Yes, Tom."
"I wouldn't believe it when Jim Sheehan told me, but I went and bought
de Evening Globe, and there you was!"
"I hope you'll get into the papers some time, Tom."
"There ain't no chance for me, 'cept I rob a bank. Where you goin',
Mark?"
"To buy some steak for supper. Have you eaten supper yet?"
"No."
"Then come along with me, and I'll invite you to join us."
"I don't look fit, Mark."
"Never mind about your clothes, Tom. We don't generally put on dress
suits. A little soap and water will make you all right."
"What'll your mudder say?"
"That any friend of mine is welcome."
So Tom allowed himself to be persuaded, and had no reason to complain
of his reception. The steak emitted appetizing odors as it was being
broiled, and when at length supper was ready no one enjoyed it more than
Tom.
"How do you think my mother can cook, Tom?" asked Mark.
"She beats Beefsteak John all hollow. I just wish she'd open a eaten'
house."
"I'll think about it, Tom," said Mrs. Mason smiling. "Would you be one
of my regular customers?"
"I would if I had money enough."
It is hard to say which enjoyed the supper most. The day before Mrs.
Mason had been anxious and apprehensive, but to-day, with a surplus fund
of thirteen dollars, she felt in high spirits.
This may seem a small sum to many of our readers, but to the frugal
little household it meant nearly two weeks' comfort.
The table was cleared, and Mark and Tom sat down to a game of checkers.
They had just finished the first game when steps were heard on the
stairs, and directly there was a knock at the door.
"Go to the door, Mark," said his mother.
Mark opened the door and found himself in the presence of a stout man,
rather showily dressed, and wearing a white hat.
"Is this Mark Mason?" asked the visitor.
"Yes, sir."
The visitor took out a copy of the Evening Globe, and compared Mark
with the picture.
"Yes, I see you are," he proceeded. "You are the telegraph boy that
disarmed the dynamite crank in Mr. Rockwell's office."
"Yes, sir."
"Allow me to say, young man, I wouldn't have been in your shoes at that
moment for ten thousand dollars."
"I wouldn't want to go through it again myself," smiled Mark.
All the while he was wondering why the stout man should have taken the
trouble to come and see him.
"Perhaps you'll know me when I tell you that I'm Bunsby," said the stout
visitor drawing himself up and inflating his chest with an air of
importance.
"Of Bunsby's Dime Museum?" asked Mark.
"Exactly! You've hit it the first time. Most people have heard of me,"
he added complacently.
"Oh yes, sir, I've heard of you often. So have you, Tom?"
"Yes," answered Tom, fixing his eyes on Mr. Bunsby with awe-struck
deference, "I've been to de museum often."
"Mr. Bunsby," said Mark gravely, "this is my particular friend, Tom
Trotter."
"Glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Trotter," said Mr. Bunsby, offering
his hand.
Tom took it shyly, and felt that it was indeed a proud moment for him.
To be called Mr. Trotter by the great Bunsby, and to have his hand
shaken into the bargain, put him on a pinnacle of greatness which he had
never hoped to reach.
"Won't you walk in, Mr. Bunsby? This is my mother, Mrs. Mason, and this
is my sister Edith."
