round !" 
XIX 
Many things, at Mertle, were strange for her interlocu- 
tor, but nothing perhaps as yet had been so strange as the 
sight of this arrangement for little Aggie's protection — 
an arrangement made in the interest of her remaining as 
a young person of her age and her monde, as her aunt 
would have said, should remain. The strangest part of 
this impression too was that the provision might really 
have its happy side and his lordship really understand 
better than any one else his noble friend's whole theory of 
perils and precautions. The child herself, the spectator 
of the incident was sure enough, understood nothing, but 
the understandings that surrounded her, filling all the 
air, made it a heavier compound to breathe than any Mr. 
Longdon had yet tasted. This heaviness had grown, for 
him, through the long, sweet summer day, and there was 
something in his at last finding himself ensconced with 
the Duchess that made it supremely oppressive. The 
contact was one that, none the less, he would not have 
availed himself of a decent pretext to avoid. With so 
many fine mysteries playing about him, there was relief, 
at the point he had reached, rather than alarm, in the 
thought of knowing the worst ; which it pressed upon 
him, somehow, that the Duchess must not only supreme- 
ly know, but must, in any relation, most naturally com- 
municate. It fluttered him rather that a person who had 
an understanding with Lord Petherton should so single 
him out as to wish for one also with himself : such a per- 
son must either have great variety of mind or have a 
  
wonderful idea of Ms variety. It was true indeed that 
Mr. Mitchett must have the most extraordinary under- 
standing, and yet with Mr. Mitchett he now found him- 
self quite pleasantly at his ease. Their host, however, 
was a person sui generis, whom he had accepted, once for 
all, the inconsequence of liking in pursuance of the need 
he occasionally felt to put it on record that he was not 
narrow-minded. Perhaps at bottom he most liked Mitchy 
because Mitchy most liked Nanda ; there hung about him 
still, moreover, the faded fragrance of the superstition 
that hospitality not declined is one of the things that 
"oblige." It obliged the thoughts, for Mr. Longdon, as 
well as the manners, and, in the especial form in which 
he was now committed to it, Avould have made him, had 
he really thought any ill, ask himself what the deuce 
then he was doing in the man s house. All of which 
didn't prevent some of Mitchy's queer condonations — if 
condonations in fact they were — from not wholly, by 
themselves, soothing his vague unrest, an unrest which 
never had been so great as at the moment he heard the 
Duchess abruptly say to him: "Do you knoAV my idea 
about Nanda ? It's my particular desire that you should 
— the reason, really, why I've thus laid violent hands on 
you. Nanda, my dear man, should marry the very first 
moment. '  
This was more interesting than he had expected, and 
the effect produced by his interlocutress, and doubtless 
not lost on her, was shown in his suppressed start. 
" There has been no reason why I should attribute to 
you any judgment of the matter ; but I've had one my- 
self, and I don't see why I shouldn't say frankly that it's 
very much the one you express. It would be a very good 
thing." 
"A very good thing, but none of my business ?"— the 
Duchess's briskness was not unamiable. 
It was on this circumstance that her companion for an 
 
instant perhaps meditated. '' It's probably not in my in- 
terest to say that — I should give you too easy a retort. 
It would strike any one as quite as much your business 
as mine." 
'  Well, it ought to be somebody's, you know. One 
would suppose it to be her mother's — her father's ; but in 
this country the parents are even more emancipated than 
the children. Suppose, really, since it appears to be no- 
body's affair, that you and I do make it ours. We needn't 
either of us," she continued,   be concerned for the 
other's reasons, though I'm perfectly ready, I assure 
you, to put my cards on the table. You've your feel- 
ings — we know they're beautiful. I, on my side, have 
mine — for which I don't pretend anything but that 
they're strong. They can dispense with being beautiful 
when they're so perfectly settled. Besides, I may men- 
tion, they're rather nice than otherwise. Edward and I 
have a cousiyiage, though for all he does to keep it up — ! 
If he leaves his children to play in the street, I take it 
seriously enough to make an occasional dash for them 
before they're run over. And I want for Nanda simply 
the man she herself wants — it isn't as if I wanted for her 
a dwarf or a hunchback or a coureur or a drunkard. 
Vanderbank's a man whom any woman, don't you think ? 
might be — whom more than one woman is — glad of for 
herself : heau comme lejour, awfully conceited and awfully 
patronizing, but clever and successful and yet liked, and 
without, so far as I know, any of the terrific appendages 
which, in this country, so often diminish the value of 
even the pleasantest people. He hasn't five horrible un- 
married sisters for his wife to have always on a visit. The 
way your women don't marry is the ruin, here, of society, 
and I've been assured in good quarters — though I don't 
know so much about that — the ruin also of conversation 
and of literature. Isn't it precisely just a little to keep 
Nanda herself from becoming that kind of appendage — 
  
say to poor Harold, say, one of these days, to her yonnger 
brother and sister — that friends like you and me feel the 
importance of bestirring ourselves in time ? Of course 
she's supposedly young, but she's really any age you 
like : your London world so fearfully batters and bruises 
them." 
She had gone fast and far, but it had given Mr. Long- 
don time to feel himself well afloat. There were so 
many things in it all to take up that he laid his hand 
— of which, he was not unconscious, the feebleness ex- 
posed him — on the nearest.  '  Why, I'm sure her mother 
— after twenty years of it — is fresh enough." 
   Fresh ? You find Mrs. Brook fresh ?" 
The Duchess had a manner that, in its all-knowing- 
ness, rather humiliated than encouraged ; but he was all 
the more resolute for being conscious of his own reserves. 
"It seems to me it's fresh to look about thirty." 
"That indeed would be perfect. But she doesn't — 
she looks about three. She simply looks a baby." 
" Oh Duchess, you're really too particular !" he re- 
turned, feeling that, as the trodden worm will turn, anx- 
iety itself may sometimes tend to wit. 
She met him in her own way. "I know what I mean. 
My niece is a person / call fresh. It's warranted, as they 
say in the shops. Besides," she went on, "if a married 
woman has been knocked about, that's only a part of her 
condition. Ella Va Men voulu, and if you're married 
you're married; it's the smoke — or call it the soot ! — of 
the fire. You know, yourself," she roundly pursued, 
"that Nanda's situation appalls you." 
"Oh,  '  appalls '!" he restrictively murmured. 
It even tried a little his companion's patience. " There 
you are, you English — you'll never face you're own music. 
It's amazing what you'd rather do with a thing — any- 
thing not to shoot or to make money with — than look 
at its meaning. If I wished to save the girl as you wish 
 
it, I should know exactly from what. But why differ 
about reasons," she asked, "when we're at one about the 
fact ? I don't mention the greatest of Vanderbank's 
merits," she added — "his having so delicious a friend. 
By whom, let me hasten to assure you," she laughed, "I 
don't in the least mean Mrs. Brook ! She is delicious, if 
you like, but believe me when I tell you, caro mio — if 
you need to be told — that for effective action on him 
you're worth twenty of her." 
What was most visible in Mr. Longdon was that, how- 
ever it came to him, he had rarely before, all at once, 
had so much given him to think about. Again the only 
way to manage was to take what came uppermost. " By 
effective action you mean action on the matter of his pro- 
posing for N'anda ?" 
The Duchess's assent was noble. "You can make 
him propose — you can make, I mean, a sure thing of it. 
You can doter the bride." Then as with the impulse to 
meet benevolently and more than half-way her compan- 
ion's imperfect apprehension : " You can settle on her 
something that will make her ti parti." His apprehen- 
sion was perhaps imperfect, but it could still lead some- 
how to his flushing all over, and this demonstration the 
Duchess as quickly took into account. " Poor Edward, 
you know, won't give her a penny." 
Decidedly, she went fast, but Mr. Longdon, in a mo- 
ment, had caught up. " Mr. Vanderbank — your idea is — 
would require on the part of his wife something of that 
sort ?" 
" Pray, who wouldn't — in the world we all move in — 
require it quite as much ? Mr. Vanderbank, I'm assured, 
has no means of his own at all, and if he doesn't believe 
in impecunious marriages it's not I who shall be shocked 
at him. For myself, I simply despise them. He has 
nothing but a poor official salary. If it's enough for one, 
it would be little for two, and would bo still less for half 
  
a dozen. They're just the people to have  that blessed 
pair, a fine old English family." 
Mr. Longdon was now fairly abreast of it.  ' What it 
comes to then, the idea you're so good as to put before 
me, is to bribe him to take her." 
The Duchess remained bland, but she fixed him. 
''You say that as if you were scandalized, but if you try 
Mr. Van with it, I don't think he'll be. And you won't 
persuade me," she went on finely, ''that you haven't, 
yourself, thought of it." She kept her eyes on liim, and 
the effect of them, soon enough visible in his face, was 
such as presently to make her exult at her felicity. 
" You're of a limpidity, dear man ! — you've only to be 
nudged and you confess. Consciously or unconsciously 
— the former, really, I'm inclined to think — you've 
wanted him for her." She paused an instant to enjoy 
her triumph ; after which she continued : " And you've 
wanted her for him. I make you out, you'll say — for I see 
you coming — one of those horrible benevolent busybodies 
who are the worst of the class, but you've only to think 
a little — if I may go so far — to see that no 'making' at 
all is required. You've only one link with the Brooks, 
but that link is golden. How can we, all of us, by this 
time, not have grasped and admired the beauty of your 
feeling for Lady Julia ? There it is — I make you wince : 
to speak of it is to profane it. Let us by all means not 
speak of it then, but let us act on it." He had at last 
turned his face from her, and it now took in, from the 
vantage of his high position, only the loveliness of the 
place and the hour, which included a glimpse of Lord 
Petherton and little Aggie, who, down in the garden, 
slowly strolled in familiar union. Each had a hand in 
the other's, swinging easily as they went ; their talk was 
evidently of flowers and fruits and birds ; it was quite 
like father and daughter. And one could see half a 
mile off, in short, that they weren't flirting. Our friend's 
 
bewilderment came in odd, cold gusts ; these were un- 
reasoned and capricious ; one of them, at all events, 
during his companion's pause, must have roared in his 
ears. AYas it not therefore through some continuance 
of the sound that he heard her go on speaking ? '' Of 
course you know the poor child's own condition." 
It took him a good while to answer. '  Do you know 
it ?" he asked with his eyes still away. 
''If your question's ironical," she laughed,  ''your 
irony's perfectly wasted. I should be ashamed of myself 
if, with my relationship and my interest, I hadn't made 
sure. Nanda's fairly sick — as sick as a little cat — with 
her passion." It was with an intensity of silence that 
Mr. Longdon appeared to accept this ; he was even so 
dumb for a minute that the oddity of the image could 
draw from him no natural sound. The Duchess once 
more, accordingly, recognized an opportunity. '  It has 
doubtless already occurred to you that, since your senti- 
ment for the living is the charming fruit of your senti- 
ment for the dead, there would be a sacrifice to Lady 
Julia's memory more exquisite than any other." 
At this, finally, Mr. Longdon turned.  '  The effort — 
on the lines you speak of — for Nanda's happiness ?" 
She fairly glowed with hope.  '  And, by the same to- 
ken, such a piece of poetic justice ! Quite the loveliest, 
it would be, I think, one had ever heard of." 
So, for some time more, they sat confronted. "I 
don't quite see your difficulty," he said at last. "I do 
happen to know, I confess, that Nanda herself extremely 
desires the execution of your project." 
His friend's smile betrayed no surprise at this effect of 
her eloquence.  'You're bad at dodging. Nanda's de- 
sire is, inevitably, to stop off, for herself, every question 
of any one but Vanderbank. If she wants me to succeed 
in arranging with Mr. Mitchett, can you ask for a plainer 
sign of her private predicament ? But you've signs 
enough, I see" — she canght herself tip: "we may take 
them all for granted. Tve seen perfectly from the first 
that the only difficulty would come from her mother — 
but also that that would be stiff." 
The movement with w iich Mr. Longdon removed his 
glasses might have denoted a certain fear to participate 
in too much of what the Duchess could see. " IVe 
not been ignorant that Mrs. Brookenham favors Mr. 
Mitchett." 
But he was not to be let off with that. '  Then you've 
not been blind, I suppose, to her reason for doing so." 
He might not have been blind, but his vision, at this, 
scarce showed sharpness, and it determined in his inter- 
locutress the shortest of short-cuts. '' She favors Mr. 
Mitchett because she wants 'old Van' herself." 
He was evidently conscious of looking at her hard. 
" In what sense — herself ?" 
"Ah, you must supply the sense; I can give you only 
the fact — and it's the fact that concerns us. Voyons," she 
almost impatiently broke out ; " don't try to create un- 
necessary obscurities by being unnecessarily modest. 
Besides, I'm not touching your modesty. Supply any 
sense whatever that may miraculously satisfy your fond 
English imagination : I don't insist in the least on a bad 
one. She does want him for herself — that's all I say. 
' Pourquoi faire f you ask — or rather, being too shy, 
don't ask, but would like to if you dared, or didn't fear 
I'd be shocked. I can't be shocked, but, frankly, I can't 
tell you either. The situation belongs, I think, to an 
order I don't understand. I understand either one thing 
or the other — I understand taking a man up or letting 
him alone. But I don't, really, get at Mrs. Brook. You 
must judge, at any rate, for yourself. He could, of 
course, tell you if he would— but it wouldn't be right 
that he should. So the one thing we have to do with is 
that she's in fact against us. I can only work Mitchy 
 
through Petherton, but Mrs. Brook can work him 
straight. On the other hand that s the way you, my dear 
man, can work Vanderbank. ' 
One thing, evidently, beyond the rest, as a result of 
this vivid demonstration, disengaged itself to Mr. Long- 
don's undismayed sense, but his consternation needed a 
minute or two to produce it. '' I can absolutely assure 
you that Mr. Vanderbank entertains no sentiment for 
Mrs. Brookenham — " 
'' That he may not keep under by just setting his teeth 
and holding on ? I never dreamed that he does, and 
have nothing so alarming in store for you — rassurez-vous 
Men! — as to propose that he shall be invited to sink a 
feeling for the mother in order to take one up for the 
child. Don't, please, flutter out of the whole question 
by a premature scare. I never supposed it's he who 
wants to keep her. He's not in love with her — be com- 
forted ! But she's amusing — highly amusing. I do her 
perfect justice. As your women go, she's rare. If she 
were French she'd be a femme d'esprit. She has in- 
vented a nuance of her own, and she has done it all by 
herself, for Edward figures in her drawing-room only as 
one of those queer extinguishers of fire in the corridors 
of hotels. He's just a bucket on a peg. The men, the 
young and the clever ones, find it a house — and Heaven 
knows they're right — with intellectual elbow-room, with 
freedom of talk. Most English talk is like a quadrille in 
a sentry-box. You'll tell me we go further in Italy, and 
I won't deny it, but in Italy we have the common-sense 
not to have little girls in the room. The young men 
hang about Mrs. Brook and the clever ones ply her with 
the uproarious appreciation that keeps her up to the 
mark. She's in a prodigious fix — she must sacrifice 
either her daughter or what she once called to me her 
intellectual habits. Mr. Vanderbank, you've seen for 
yourself, is one of the most cherished, the most con- 
  
firmed, of these. Three months ago — it couldn't be any 
longer kept off — Nanda began definitely to  ' sit ' — to be 
there and look, by the tea-table, modestly and conven- 
iently abstracted." 
 ''I beg your pardon — I don't think she looks that, 
Duchess," Mr. Longdon lucidly broke in. How much 
she had carried him with her in spite of himself was be- 
trayed by the very terms of his dissent.  ''I don't think 
it would strike any one that she looks 'convenient.'" 
His companion, laughing, gave a shrug. ''Try her 
and perhaps you'll find her so !" But his objection had 
none the less pulled her up a little. " I don't say she's a 
hypocrite, for it would certainly be less decent for her to 
giggle and wink. It's Mrs. Brook's theory moreover, isn't 
it ? that she has, from five to seven at least, lowered the 
pitch. Doesn't she pretend that she bears in mind every 
moment the tiresome difference made by the presence of 
sweet virginal eighteen ?" 
" I haven't, I'm afraid, a notion of what she pretends !" 
Mr. Longdon had spoken with a curtness to which his 
friend's particular manner of overlooking it only added 
significance. "They've become," she pursued, "super- 
ficial or insincere or frivolous, but at least they've be- 
come, with the way the drag's put on, quite as dull as 
other people." 
He showed no sign of taking this up; instead of it 
he said abruptly: "But if it isn't Mr. Mitchett's own 
idea ?— " 
His fellow-visitor barely hesitated. " It would be his 
own if he were free — and it would be Lord Petherton's 
for him. I mean by his being free Nanda's becoming 
definitely lost to him. Then it would be impossible for 
Mrs. Brook to continue to persuade him, as she does 
now, that by a waiting game he'll come to his chance. 
His chance will cease to exist, and he wants so, poor 
darling, to marry. You've really now seen my niece," 
he went on. "That's another reason why I hold yon> 
can help me." 
"Yes — I've seen her." 
"Well, there she is." It was as if, in the pause that 
followed this, they sat looking at little absent Aggie with 
a wonder that was almost equal. "The good God has 
given her to me," the Duchess said at last. 
"It seems to me then that she herself is, in her re- 
markable loveliness, really your help." 
" She will be doubly so if you give me proofs that you 
believe in her." And the Duchess, appearing to consider 
that with this she had made herself clear and her inter- 
locutor plastic, rose in confident majesty. " I leave it to 
you." 
Mr. Longdon did the same, but with more considera- 
tion now. " Is it your expectation that I will speak to 
Mr. Mitchett ?" 
"Don't flatter yourself he won't speak to you I" 
Mr. Longdon made it out. "As supposing me, you 
mean, an interested party ?" 
She clapped her gloved hands with joy. " It's a de- 
light to hear you practically admit that you are one ! 
Mr. Mitchett will take anything from you — above all 
perfect candor. It isn't every day one meets your kind, 
and he's a connoisseur. I leave it to you — I leave it to 
you." 
She spoke as if it were something she had thrust bodily 
into his hands and wished to hurry away from. He put 
his hands behind him — straightening himself a little, half 
kindled, still half confused. "You're all extraordinary 
people !" 
She gave a toss of her head that showed a limited en- 
thusiasm. "You're the best of us, caro  — you and 
Aggie : for Aggie's as good as you. Mitchy's good too, 
however — Mitchy's beautiful. You see it's not only his 
money. He's a gentleman. So are you. There aren't 
  
so many. But we mnst move fast,'' she added more 
sharply. 
'  What do yon mean by fast ?" 
"What should I mean but what I say? If Nanda 
doesn't get a husband early in the business — " 
" Well ?" said Mr. Longdon, as she appeared to pause 
with the weight of her idea. 
" Why, she won't get one late — she won't get one at 
all. One, I mean, of the kind she'll take. She'll have 
been in it long for their taste." 
She had moved, looking off and about her — little Ag- 
gie always on her mind — to the flight of steps, where she 
again hung fire ; and had really succeeded in producing 
in him the manner of keeping up with her to challenge 
her. " Been in what ?" 
She went down a few steps while he stood with his face 
full of perceptions strained and scattered. " Why, in 
the maV aria they themselves have made for her !" 
XX 
Late that night, in the smoking-room at Mertle, as the 
smokers — talkers and listeners alike — were about to dis- 
perse, Mr. Longdon asked Vanderbank to stay, and then 
it was that the young man, to whom all the evening he 
had not addressed a word, could make out why, a little 
unnaturally, he had prolonged his vigil. " I've some- 
thing particular to say to you, and I've been waiting. I 
hope you don't mind. It's rather important." Vander- 
bank expressed on the spot the liveliest desire to oblige 
him and, quickly lighting another cigarette, mounted 
again to the deep divan with which a part of the place 
was furnished. The smoking-room at Mertle was not un- 
worthy of the general nobleness, and the fastidious spec- 
tator had clearly been reckoned on in the great leather- 
 
covered lounge that, raised by a step or two above the 
floor, applied its back to two quarters of the wall and en- 
joyed, most immediately, a view of the billiard - table. 
Mr. Longdon continued for a minute to roam with the 
air of dissimulated absence that, during the previous 
hour and among the other men, his companion's eye had 
not lost ; he pushed a ball or two about, examined the 
form of an ash-stand, swung his glasses almost with vio- 
lence and declined either to smoke or to sit down. Van- 
derbank, perched aloft on the bench and awaiting de- 
velopments, had a little the look of some prepossessing 
criminal who, in court, should have changed places with 
the judge. He was unlike many a man of marked good 
looks in that the effect of evening dress was not, with a 
perversity often observed in such cases, to overemphasize 
his fineness. His type was rather chastened than height- 
ened, and he sat there moreover with a primary discretion 
quite in the note of the deference that, from the first, 
with this friend of the elder fashion, he had taken as im- 
posed. He had a strong sense for shades of respect and 
was now careful to loll scarcely more than with an offi- 
cial superior. " If you ask me," Mr. Longdon present- 
ly continued,   why, at this hour of the night — after 
a day at best too heterogeneous — I don't keep over till 
to-morrow whatever I may have to say, I can only tell 
you that I appeal to you now beXiause Fve something 
on my mind that I shall sleep the better for being 
rid of." 
There was space to circulate in front of the dais, where 
he had still paced and still swung his glasses ; but with 
these words he had paused, leaning against the billiard- 
table, to meet the interested urbanity of the reply they 
produced. ''Are you very sure that, having got rid of 
it, you will sleep ? Is it a pure confidence," Vanderbank 
said, " that you do me the honor to make to me ? Is it 
something terrific that requires a reply, so that I shall 
  
have to take account, on my side, of the rest I may de- 
prive you of ?'" 
   Don't take account of anything — I'm myself a man 
who always takes too much. It isn't a matter about 
which I press you for an immediate answer. You can 
give me no answer, probably, without a good deal of 
thought. Fve thought a good deal — otherwise I wouldn't 
speak. I only want to put something before you and 
leave it there." 
' I never see you," said Vanderbank, ''that you don't 
put something before me." 
''That sounds," his friend returned, "as if I rather 
overloaded — what's the sort of thing you fellows nowa- 
days say ? — your intellectual board. If there's a conges- 
tion of dishes, sweep everything, without scruple, away. 
I've never put before you anything like this." 
He spoke with a weight that, in the great space, where 
it resounded a little, made an impression — an impression 
marked by the momentary pause that fell between them. 
He partly broke the silence, first, by beginning to walk 
again, and then Vanderbank broke it as through the ap- 
prehension of their becoming perhaps too solemn. "Well, 
you immensely interest me, and you really couldn't 
have chosen a better time. A secret — for we shall 
make it that, of course, sha'n't we ? — at this witching 
hour, in this great old house, is all that my visit here 
will have required to make the whole thing a rare re- 
membrance. So, I assure you, the more you put before 
me the better." 
Mr. Longdon took up another ash-tray, but with the 
air of doing so as a direct consequence of Vanderbank's 
tone. After he had laid it down, he put on his glasses ; 
then, fixing his companion, he brought out : " Have you 
no idea at all — ?" 
" Of what you have in your head ? Dear Mr. Long- 
don, how should I have ?" 
 '' Well, I'm wondering if I shouldn't perhaps have a 
little in your place. There's nothing that, in the cir- 
cumstances, occurs to you as likely for me to want to 
say r 
Vanderbank gave a laugh that might have struck an 
auditor as slightly uneasy.  ''When you speak of Hhe 
circumstances' you do a thing that — unless you mean 
the simple thrilling ones of this particular moment — al- 
ways, of course, opens the door of the lurid for a man of 
any imagination. To such a man you've only to sa)  
 Boh!' in a certain tone for his conscience to jump. 
That's at any rate the case with mine. It's never quite on 
its feet — so it's now, already, on its back." He stopped 
a little — his smile was a trifle strained. " Is what you 
want to put before me something awful I've done ?" 
  ' Excuse me if I press this point" — Mr. Longdon 
spoke kindly, but if his friend's want of ease grew his 
own thereby diminished. '  Can you think of nothing at 
all ?" 
 'Do you mean that I've done ?" 
"No, but that — whether you've done it or not — I may 
have become aware of." 
There could have been no better proof than Vander- 
bank's expression, on this, of his having mastered the 
secret of humoring without appearing to patronize. " I 
think you ought to give me a little more of a clew." 
Mr. Longdon took off his glasses. " Well — the clew's 
Nanda Brookenham." 
" Oh, I see." Vanderbank had responded quickly, but 
for a minute he said nothing more, and the great marble 
clock that gave the place the air of a club ticked louder 
in the stillness. Mr. Longdon waited with a benevolent 
want of mercy, yet with a look in his face that spoke of 
what depended for him — though indeed very far within 
— on the upshot of his patience. The hush, for that 
matter, between them, became a conscious, public meas- 
  
nre of the young man's honesty. He evidently at last 
felt it as such, and there would have been for an observer 
of his handsome, controlled face a study of some sharp 
things. '' I judge that you ask me for an utterance," he 
finally said,  ' that very few persons, at any time, have 
the right to expect of a man. Think of the people — 
and very decent ones — to whom, on many a question, 
one can only reply at best that it's none of their busi- 
ness.'" 
'  I see you know what I mean," said Mr. Longdon. 
 '' Then you know also the distinguished exception I 
make of you. There isn't another man with whom I'd 
talk of it." 
"And even to me you don't ! But I'm none the less 
obliged to you," Mr. Longdon added. 
" It isn't only the gravity," his friend went on ; '' it's 
the ridicule that inevitably attaches — " 
The manner in which Mr. Longdon indicated the empty 
room was in itself an interruption.  '' Don't I sufficiently 
spare you ?" 
" Thank you, thank you," said Vanderbank. 
" Besides, it's not for nothing." 
" Of course not !" the young man returned ; but with a 
look of noting, the next moment, a certain awkwardness 
in his concurrence. " But don't spare me now." 
'  I don't mean to." Mr. Longdon had his back to the 
table again, on which he rested with each hand on the 
rim.  '' I don't mean to," he repeated. 
His companion gave a laugh that betrayed at least the 
drop of a tension. "Yet I don't quite see what you can 
do to me." 
"It's just what, for some time past, I've been trying to 
think." 
" And at last you've discovered ?" 
" Well — it has finally glimmered out a little in this 
extraordinary place." 
 
Vanderbauk frankly wondered. '' In consequence of 
anything particular that has happened ?" 
Mr. Longdon had a pause. " For an old idiot who no- 
tices as much as I, something particular is always hap- 
pening. If you're a man of imagination — " 
'  Oh/' Vanderbank broke in,   I know how much more, 
in that case, you're one ! It only makes me regret." he 
contmued, '' that I've not attended more, since yesterday, 
to what you've been about." 
'  I've been about nothing but what, among you people, 
I'm always about. I've been seeing, feeling, thinking. 
That makes no show, of course I'm aware, for any one 
but myself, and it's wholly my own affair. Except in- 
deed," he added, " so far as I've taken into my head to 
make, on it all, this special appeal. There are things 
that have come home to me." 
"Oh, see, I see" — Vanderbank showed the friendliest 
alertness. ' I'm to take it from you then, with all the 
avidity of my vanity, that I strike you as the person best 
able to understand what they are." 
Mr. Longdon appeared to wonder an instant if his in- 
telligence now had not almost too much of a glitter ; he 
kept the same position, his back against the table, and 
while Vanderbank, on the settee, pressed, upright, against 
the wall, they recognized in silence that they were try- 
insf each other. " You're much the best of them. I've 
my ideas about you. You've great gifts." 
"Well then, we're worthy of each other. When Greek 
meets Greek — !" and the young man laughed as, a little 
with the air of bracing himself, he folded his arms. 
" Here we are." 
His companion looked at him a moment longer, then, 
turning away, went slowly round the table. On the fur- 
ther side of it he stopped again and, after a minute, with 
a nervous movement, set a ball or two in motion. " It's 
beautiful — but it's terrible !" he finally murmured. He 
  
had not his eyes on Vanderbank, who for a minute said 
nothing, and he presently went on : '' To see it, and not 
to want to try to help — well, I can't do that." Vander- 
bank still neither spoke nor moved, remained as if he 
might interrupt something of high importance to him, 
and his friend, passing along the opposite edge of the 
table, continued to produce in the stillness, without the 
cue, the small click of the ivory. '  How long — if you 
don't mind my asking — have you known it ?" 
Even for this, at first, Vanderbank had no answer — none 
but to rise from his place, come down to the floor and, 
standing there, look at Mr. Longdon across the table. 
He was serious now, but without being solemn. " How 
can one tell ? One can never be sure. A man may fancy, 
may wonder, but with a girl, a person so much younger 
than himself and so much more helpless, he feels a — 
what shall I call it ?" 
 '  A delicacy ?" Mr. Longdon suggested. 
" It may be that ; the name doesn't matter ; at all 
events he's embarrassed. He wants not to be an ass on 
the one side, and yet not some other kind of brute on the 
other." 
Mr. Longdon listened with consideration — with a beau- 
tiful little air indeed of being, in his all but finally con- 
tracted state, earnestly open to information on such points 
from a magnificent young man.  '  He doesn't want, you 
mean, to be fatuous ? — and he doesn't want to be cruel ?" 
Vanderbank, visibly preoccupied, produced a faint, kind 
smile. " Oh, you know !" 
 '' I ? I should know less than any one." 
Mr. Longdon had turned away from the table on this, 
and the eyes of his companion, who after an instant had 
caught his meaning, watched him move along the room 
and approach another part of the divan. The conse- 
quence of the passage was that Vanderbank's only re- 
joinder was presently to say : ''I can't tell you how long 
 
Fve imagined — have asked myself. She's so charming — 
so interesting, and I feel as if I had known her always. 
I've thought of one thing and another to do — and then, 
on purpose, I haven't thought at all. That has, mostly, 
seemed to me best." 
"Then I gather/' said Mr. Longdon, "that your in- 
terest in her — " 
"Hasn't the same character as her interest in mef  
Vanderbank had taken him up responsively, but, after 
speaking, looked about for a match and lighted a new 
cigarette. " I'm sure you understand," he broke out, 
" what an extreme effort it is to me to talk of such 
things." 
" Yes, yes. But it's just effort, only ? It gives you no 
pleasure ? I mean the fact of her passion," Mr. Longdon 
explained. 
Vanderbank had really to think a little. " However 
much it might give me, I should probably not be a fellow 
to gush. I'm a self-conscious stick of a Briton." 
" But even a stick of a Briton — !" Mr. Longdon hesi- 
tated. "I've gushed, in short, to you." 
"About Lady Julia ?" the young man frankly asked. 
" Is that what you call it ?" 
" Say then we're sticks of Britons. You're not in 
any degree at all in love ?" 
There fell between them, before Vanderbank replied, 
another pause, of which he took advantage to move once 
more round the table. Mr. Longdon meanwhile had 
mounted to the high bench and sat there as if the judge 
were now in his proper place. At last his companion 
spoke. " What you're coming to is of course that you've 
conceived a desire." 
" That's it — strange as it may seem. But, believe me, 
it has not been precipitate. I've watched you both." 
" Oh, I knew you were watching her" said Vander- 
bank. 
  
"To such a tune that I've made up my mind. I want 
her so to marry — '  But on the odd little quaver of 
longing with which he brought it out the old man fairly 
hung. 
"Well?" said Vanderbank. 
''Well, so that on the day she does she'll come into 
the interest of a considerable sum of money — already 
very decently invested — that I've determined to settle 
upon her." 
Vanderbank's instant admiration flushed across the 
room. " How awfully jolly of you — how beautiful !" 
"Oh, there's a way to show practically your apprecia- 
tion of it." 
But Vanderbank, for enthusiasm, scarcely heard him. 
"I can't tell you how admirable I think you." Then 
eagerly, " Does Nanda know it ?" he demanded. 
Mr. Longdon, after an hesitation, spoke with compara- 
tive dryness. "My idea has been that, for the present, 
you alone shall." 
Vanderbank also hesitated. " No other man ?" 
His companion looked still graver. "I need scarcely 
say that I depend on you to keep the fact to your- 
self." 
" Absolutely, then, and utterly. But that won't pre- 
vent what I think of it. Nothing, for a long time, has 
given me such joy." 
Shining and sincere, he had held for a minute Mr. 
Longdon's eyes. "Why, you do care for her." 
" Immensely. Never, I think, so much as now. That 
sounds of a grossness, doesn't it ?" he laughed. " But 
your announcement really lights up the mind." 
His friend, for a moment, almost glowed with his 
pleasure. " The sum I've settled upon would be, I may 
mention, substantial, and I should of course be prepared 
with a clear statement — a very definite pledge — of my 
intentions." 
 
" So much the better ! Only " — Vanderbank suddenly 
pulled himself up — ''to get it she must marry ?" 
"It's not in my interest to allow you to suppose she 
needn't, and it's only because of my intense wish for her 
marriage that I've spoken to you." 
"And on the ground also, with it" — Vanderbank so 
far concurred — "of your quite taking for granted my 
only having to put myself forward ?" 
If his friend seemed to cast about, it proved but to be 
for the fullest expression. Nothing, in fact, could have 
been more charged than the quiet way in which he pres- 
ently said : "My dear boy, I back you." 
Vanderbank, clearly, was touched by it. " How ex- 
traordinarily kind you are to me !" Mr. Longdon's si- 
lence appeared to reply that he was willing to let it go for 
that, and the young man next went on : "' What it comes 
to then — as you put it — is that it's a way for me to 
add something handsome to my income." 
Mr. Longdon sat for a little with his eyes attached to 
the green field of the billiard-table, vivid in the spread- 
ing, suspended lamp-light. "I think I ought to tell you 
the figure I have in mind." 
Another person present might have felt rather taxed 
either to determine the degree of provocation represent- 
ed by Vanderbank's considerate smile, or to say if there 
was an appreciable interval before he rang out : " I think, 
you know, you oughtn't to do anything of the sort. Let 
that alone, please. The great thing is the interest — the 
great thing is the wish you express. It represents a view 
of me, an attitude toward me — !" He pulled up, drop- 
ping his arms and turning away, before the complete 
image. 
" There's nothing in those things that need overwhelm 
you. It would be odd if you hadn't, yourself, about your 
value and your future, a feeling quite as lively as any 
feeling of mine. There is mine, at all events. I can't 
  
help it. Accept it. Then of the other feeling — how she 
moves me — I won't speak." 
'  You sufficiently show it !" 
Mr. Longdon continued to watch the bright circle on 
the table, lost in which a moment he let his friend's an- 
swer pass.  'I won't begin to you on Nanda." 
'' Don't !' said Vanderbank. But in the pause that en- 
sued each, in one way or another, might have been think- 
ing of her for himself. 
It was broken by Mr. Longdon's presently going on : 
'  Of course what it superficially has the air of is my of- 
fering to pay you for taking a certain step. It's open to 
you to be grand and proud — to wrap yourself in your 
majesty and ask if I suppose you bribeable. I haven't 
spoken without having thought of that." 
'  Yes," said Vanderbank sympathetically,  'but it isn't 
as if you proposed to me, is it ? anything dreadful. If 
one cares for a girl one's deucedly glad she has money. 
The more of anything good she has the better. I may 
assure you," he added with the brightness of his friendly 
intelligence and quite as if to show his companion the 
way to be least concerned —  ' I may assure you that, once 
I were disposed to act on your suggestion, I would make 
short work of any vulgar interpretation of my motive. I 
should simply try to be as magnificent as yourself." He 
smoked, he moved about ; then he came up in another 
place. " I dare say you know that dear old Mitchy, un- 
der whose blessed roof we're plotting this midnight trea- 
son, would marry her like a shot and without a penny." 
''I think I know everything — I think I've thought of 
everything. Mr. Mitchett," Mr. Longdon added, ''is 
impossible." 
Vanderbank appeared for an instant to wonder. 
"Wholly then through her attitude ?" 
"Altogether." 
Again he hesitated. "You've asked her ?" 
 
''I've asked her." 
Once more Vanderbank faltered. ''And that's how 
you know ?" 
"About your chance ? That's how I know." 
The young man, consuming his cigarette with concen- 
tration, took again several turns. "And your idea is to 
give one time ?" 
Mr. Longdon had, for a minute, to turn his idea over. 
" How much time do you want ?'  
Vanderbank gave a head-shake that was both restric- 
tive and indulgent. "I must live into it a little. Your 
offer has been before me only these few minutes, and it's 
too soon for me to commit myself to anything whatever. 
Except," he added gallantly, "my gratitude." 
Mr. Longdon, at this, on the divan, got up, as Vander- 
bank had previously done, under the spring of emotion ; 
only, unlike Vanderbank, he still stood there, his hands in 
his pockets and his face, a little paler, directed straight. 
There was disappointment in him even before he spoke. 
"You've no strong enough impulse — ?" 
His friend met him with admirable candor. " Wouldn't 
it seem that if I had I would by this time have taken the 
jump ?" 
"Without waiting, you mean, for anybody's money ?" 
Mr. Longdon, for a little, cultivated a doubt. " Of course 
she has seemed — till now — tremendously young." 
Vanderbank looked about once more for matches and 
occupied a time with relighting. " Till now — yes. But 
it's not," he pursued, "only because she's so young that 
— for each of us, and for dear old Mitchy too — she's so 
interesting." Mr. Longdon had now stepped down, and 
Vanderbank's eyes followed him till he stopped again. 
" I make out that, in spite of what you said to begin 
with, you're conscious of a certain pressure." 
" In the matter of time ? Oh yes, I do want it done. 
That," the old man simply explained, "is why I myself 
  
 am on the screw." He spoke with the ring of impatience. "I want her got out." 
"'Out'?" 
"Out of her mother's house." 
Vanderbank laughed, though, more immediately, lie 
had colored. "Why, her mother's house is just where I 
see her !" 
"Precisely; and if it only were not, we might get on 
faster." 
Vanderbank, for all his kindness, looked still more 
amused. " But if it only were not, as you say, I seem to 
see that you wouldn't have your particular vision of ur-   
gency." 
Mr. Longdon, through adjusted glasses, took him in 
with a look that was sad as well as sharp, then jerked the 
glasses off. "Oh, you understand me." 
"Ah," said Vanderbank, "I'm a mass of corruption !" 
" You may perfectly be, but you shall not," Mr. Long- 
don returned with decision, "get off on any such plea. 
If you're good enough for me, you're good enough, as 
you thoroughly know, on whatever head, for any one." 
" Thank you." But Vanderbank, for all his happy ap- 
preciation, thought again. " We ought, at any rate to re- 
member, oughtn't we ? that we should have Mrs. Brook 
against us." 
His companion faltered but an instant. "Ah, that's 
another thing I know. But it's also exactly why. Why 
I want Nanda away." 
"I see, I see." 
The response had been prompt, yet Mr. Longdon 
seemed suddenly to show that he suspected the super- 
ficial. "Unless it's with Mrs. Brook you're in love." 
Then on his friend's taking the idea with a mere head- 
shake of negation, a repudiation that might even have 
astonished by its own lack of surprise, "Or unless Mrs. 
Brook's in love with you," he amended. 
 
Vanderbank had for this any decent gayety.  ' Ah, 
that of course may perfectly be !" 
" But is it ? That's the question." 
He continued light. " If she had declared her passion 
shouldn't I rather compromise her — ?" 
'  By letting me know ?" Mr. Longdon reflected. ''I'm 
sure I can't say — it's a sort of thing for which I haven't 
a measure or a precedent. In my time women didn't de- 
clare their passion. I'm thinking of what the meaning 
is of Mrs. Brookenham's wanting you — as I've heard it 
called — herself." 
Vanderbank, still with his smile, smoked a minute. 
" That's what you've heard it called ?" 
''Yes, but you must excuse me from telling you by 
whom." 
He was amused at his friend's discretion. "It's un- 
imaginable. But it doesn't matter. We all call every- 
thing — anything. The meaning of it, if you and I put 
it so, is — well, a modern shade." 
" You must deal then yourself," said Mr. Longdon, 
" with your modern shades." He spoke now as if the 
case simply awaited such dealing. 
But at this his young friend was more grave. " Yoio 
could do nothing ? — to bring, I mean, Mrs. Brook round." 
Mr. Longdon fairly started. " Propose, on your be- 
half, for her daughter ? With your authority — to-mor- 
row. Authorize me, and I instantly act." 
Vanderbank's color again rose — his flush was complete. 
" How awfully you want it !" 
Mr. Longdon, after a look at him, turned away. " How 
awfully you don't !" 
The young man continued to blush. "No — you must 
do me justice. You've not made a mistake about me — 
I see in your proposal all, I think, that you can desire I 
should. Only yoii  see it much more simply — and yet I 
can't just now explain. If it were so simple I should say 
  
to you in a moment ' Do speak to them for me ' — I should 
leave the matter with delight in your hands. But I re- 
quire time, let me remind you, and you haven t yet told 
me how much I may take." 
This appeal had brought them again face to face, and 
Mr. Longdon's first reply to it was a look at his watch, 
 at's one o'clock." 
'' Oh, I require " — Vanderbank had recovered his pleas- 
ant humor — " more than to-night !" 
Mr. Longdon went off to the smaller table that still 
offered to view two bedroom candles. '  You must take 
of course the time you need. I won't trouble you — I 
won't hurry you. I'm going to bed." 
Vanderbank, overtaking him, lighted his candle for 
him; after which, handing it and smiling: '   Shall we 
have conduced to your rest ?" 
Mr. Longdon looked at the other candle. ' You're not 
coming to bed ?" 
" To my rest we shall not have conduced. I stay up a 
while longer." 
"Good." Mr. Longdon was pleased. "You won't 
forget then, as we promised, to put out the lights ?" 
"If you trust me for the greater you can trust me for 
the less. Good-night." 
Vanderbank had put out his hand. "Good-night." 
But Mr. Longdon kept him a moment. "You donH care 
for my figure ?" 
"Not yet — not yet. Please" Vanderbank seemed 
really to fear it, but on Mr. Longdon's releasing him 
with a little drop of disappointment they went togeth- 
er to the door of the room, where they had another 
pause. 
" She's to come down to me — alone — in September." 
Vanderbank hesitated. " Then may I come ?" 
His friend, on this footing, had to consider. " Shall 
you know by that time ?" 
 
" I'm afraid I can't promise — if you must regard my 
coming as a pledge." 
Mr. Longdon thought on; then raising his eyes: "I 
don't quite see why you won't suffer me to tell you — " 
 '' The detail of your intention ? I do then. You've 
said quite enough. If my visit positively must commit 
me," Vanderbank pursued,  'I'm afraid I can't come." 
Mr. Longdon, who had passed into the corridor, gave a 
dry, sad little laugh. " Come then — as the ladies say — 
'as you are'!" 
On which, rather softly closing the door, Vanderbank 
remained alone in the great empty, lighted billiard-room. 
END OP BOOK FIFTH 
MRS. BROOK 
BOOK SIXTH 
MRS. BROOK 
XXI 
Presentii g himself in Buckingham Orescent three 
days after the Sunday spent at Mertle, Vanderbank found 
Lady Fanny Cashmore in the act of taking leave of Mrs. 
Brook, and found Mrs. Brook herself in the state of 
muffled exaltation that was the mark of all her inter- 
course — and most of all perhaps of her farewells — with 
Lady Fanny. This splendid creature gave out, as it 
were, so little that Vanderbank was freshly struck with 
all Mrs. Brook could take in, though nothing, for that 
matter, in Buckingham Crescent, had been more fully 
formulated than the imperturbable grandeur of the al- 
most total absence, on the part of the famous beauty, of 
articulation. Every aspect of the phenomenon had been 
freely discussed there and endless ingenuity lavished on 
the question of how exactly it was that so much of what 
the world would in another case have called complete 
stupidity could be kept by a mere wonderful face from 
boring one to death. It was Mrs. Brook who, in this re- 
lation as in many others, had arrived at the supreme ex- 
pression of the law, had thrown off, happily enough, to 
whomever it might have concerned :  ' My dear thing, it 
all comes back, as everything always does, simply to per- 
sonal pluck. It's only a question, no matter when or 
where, of having enough. Lady Fanny has the courage 
  
of all her silence — so much therefore that it sees her 
completely through and is what really makes her inter- 
esting. Not to be afraid of what may happen to you 
when you've no more to say for yourself than a steamer 
without a light — that truly is the highest heroism, and 
Lady Fanny's greatness is that she is never afraid. She 
takes the risk every time she goes out — takes, as you 
may say, her life in her hand. She just turns that glo- 
rious mask upon you and practically says : 'No, I won't 
