forting him in discouragements, spurring him up when he 
flagged a little. I am very selfish, am I not? " 
" I do not call that selfishness. There are cases where 
one seems called upon to devote one's life and aims for 
another, but this does not appear so urgent. And you 
are quite ready to be forgotten, to see him transfer his 
affections to some one else," half jealously. 
" It would not trouble me at all. Yet I should con- 
sider it quite as foolish in him." 
"And you remember he is a handsome fellow. At 
five and twenty he will be a fascinating man." 
" And at five and twenty I shall feel half a century old 
and as if I were his grandmother." 
Both laughed then, and they went over to the sofa and 
sat down side by side. She had not felt so thoroughly 
friendly since they were at Melchias. It was very pleas- 
ant to have her so near, and if she felt old within, there 
was enough left to rejuvenate her. He would not have 
minded if she had looked every day of five and twenty, 
but he had to confess she did not, and he also confessed 
in his secret soul that he loved youth with all its incon- 
sistencies. 
The maid tapped at the door. 
" Shall I make the tea? " she asked. 
" You will have a cup of tea? " and Gertrude turned 
inquiringly to Mr. Murray. "I have done the honors 
before," laughing and coloring a little. 
"I shall be much pleased to take tea with you," he 
made answer. 
"There is one guest," she whispered to Mary. " Set 
out the tea-table for two." 
CHAPTER XIII. 
A LOVER ON THE WINNING SIDE. 
IT was very pretty and cozy down here by the window 
and the corner. The table would have answered for 
three. She and Mrs. Townsend often used it for break- 
fast. They could dispense with the maid, and discuss 
any subject without hesitation. Gertrude dismissed her 
now. 
She made a charming hostess, though the color kept 
coming and going, and he thought he had never seen her 
look so really pretty. Her manners had all the dainty 
society touches that she took to so naturally. They talked 
on indifferent subjects, she relating some bright incidents 
of last winter, and describing people they had met with 
graphic touches and much discrimination. 
She would be a very pleasant companion for the rest 
of his life, and he could give her much delight and com- 
fort. As he had said to Princess he could be quite a 
foolish lover when he let himself go, and he was not so 
old but that he wanted a great deal of love, and felt ca- 
pable of giving a great deal in return. He had plenty of 
time for the indulgence now. And all his life it had 
seemed as if when he had taken a fancy that indicated 
future ripening, he was sent off to the ends of the earth, 
or it was at the fag end of some journey and he was com- 
ing home. Once he had carried a memory in his heart 
for months, to find the girl lost to him through a very 
satisfactory engagement, and full of love's enthusiasm. 
He had never been very deeply touched, and no one had 
died for love of him, so his conscience was clear. He 
had grown more sympathetic and generous toward hu- 
man nature, one of the qualities gained by a wide knowl- 
edge of life. He had never counted much on perfection, 
children in large families soon mend of such beliefs and 
cease to make the demand. His father had stood to him 
for the embodiment of noble manhood, and with all the 
cultured people he had met he had never seen any cause 
to change his mind. 
He studied Gertrude with more than a lover's eye. 
He had come to the time when comfort is the great 
thing. Not that having enjoyed all the pleasures himself 
he was tired of them and would want to shut a woman 
out of the experience. He still loved variety, and peo- 
ple with all their fads and follies amused him, and young 
people with their heroic beliefs interested him. 
They sat a long while over the table. She had grown 
to be an attractive talker in that she mostly left herself 
out of the question. Now and then he managed to 
bring out some quality or a bit of temper, or a flash of 
wit. And he was considering whether he should surprise 
her to-night or let her go on and have a young girl's 
dream of friendship. 
There was a little feeling about Sherburne, poor fel- 
low. 
"We have not settled the most important matter 
yet," he said, as they went back to the reception-room. 
" It will be hardly fair to allow Sherburne to go on un- 
der a mistaken notion. But your answer would be defi- 
nite this time." 
" I hate to think about it." 
She had been so deliciously comfortable the last hour 
that it was like being dragged back over a stubble field, 
and the lines of her face betrayed it. 
"But you must consider it, my child, and you must 
act." 
That had a lovely, fatherly sound, and this man was 
so much wiser than her own father, who would have beat 
about and offered some impossible solution. 
" I can't act alone," she said, rather pettishly. 
" Give him the chance, then. By the indications of 
last evening he will be ready enough to take it. It is not 
wise to let it go on unless you do mean to marry him in 
the distant future." 
"But I do not." 
" There is no temptation ? " 
"I am not old enough to be tempted by such a pros- 
pect. I like my present life better." 
"I must say it seems to suit you admirably." 
"And it offers some permanency." 
" That would make waiting easier. I want you to un- 
derstand that you are giving up what most girls would 
consider a fair prospect." 
"You forget that I am not in love," she returned, 
sharply, with a slight frown of annoyance. 
" I do sincerely believe you are not," he said, with a 
tender gravity that touched her ; for he was fully con- 
vinced. 
" Then the sooner the crisis comes the better for both 
parties. ' ' 
She sat silent. Her eyes were softened with a mys- 
terious pity. He was sorely tempted to turn it into joy. 
But he rose without yielding to it. His love should 
stand out by itself and not be mixed up with any other 
matter. 
" I have made you an unconscionable visit," he said, 
taking up his hat. 
"And given me a pleasant evening with all the good 
advice." There was a mischievous glint in her eyes and 
a half smile lurking about her tempting lips. " I shall 
follow the advice," with a touch of seriousness quite 
charming. 
" And you may depend upon me for the rear guard." 
Then they said a cordial good-night. She settled 
among the cushions and gave way to a delicious reverie. 
She was so sure of her friend now. She would rather 
have his respect and friendship than to have snapped him 
up in that half proposal, and have a few unwelcome 
questioning glances as if she had maneuvred for him. 
Marriage was not quite everything as her mother thought. 
Then she gave a soft little laugh at the awful disappoint- 
ment her mother would experience if she knew of this 
second slighted opportunity. 
Mrs. Townsend returned soon after. 
" I've had just a delightful, restful time," she said 
with a gratified sound in her voice. " There was no one 
else, of course. And we talked over old days when you 
could really enjoy, and the whole study of life was not 
to be amused by some strange new thing." 
"Mr. Murray came in," said Gertrude. " And he 
took tea with me. Tea is a quaintly enjoyable institu- 
tion." 
"Yes. Then you were not lonesome." 
"I do not believe I should have been lonesome any 
way," returned Gertrude, who felt at that moment she 
could go on to old age without another lonesome hour. 
But it was a rather trying week with many nervous 
moments in it. Mr. Murray did not drop in, she guessed 
he was staying away purposely. She did not go to walk 
at any hour when there was the slightest chance of meet- 
ing Sherburne. On Friday evening she summoned cour- 
age to go around to Mrs. Kenneth's. The professor 
and Bertram had gone to the Draytons' to meet some fa- 
mous people. 
She lingered after the clock struck nine and finally 
rose. There was a quick step in the study room and the 
next instant a delighted exclamation. 
"I have fortunately come in time," Sherburne ex- 
claimed. " I just wanted a book I had left here. Good- 
evening, Mrs. Kenneth. Good-evening, Ruth. You 
won't get the professor home before midnight. Uncle 
Bert has just gone down there. How people can be so 
much interested in what happened thousands of years 
ago ! I like things of to-day. And now I'll take you 
home on my way back," to Gertrude. 
" Do not hurry away on my account." 
" O no. I'm keeping good hours. I have turned over 
a bright new leaf and Uncle Bert has written a commen- 
dation on it." 
He was so brilliant and smiling that he seemed to make 
an atmosphere in the room. 
" That is an excellent account to hear about you," re- 
joined Mrs. Kenneth. 
They walked down the stairs and out in the street. 
Gertrude's heart sank within her. 
''Don't go straight home. I have so much to say. 
Didn't I tell you I could work when there was a purpose 
in view? I've gone on finely. And I've kept myself 
well in hand, though I have wanted to go out and way- 
lay you somewhere. But I thought I would save all my 
joy until to-morrow night." 
"You will not see me," she said, gravely; "I am 
going to the theatre." 
" With whom ? " in a peremptory tone. 
"That cannot and must not make any difference to 
you," she answered, decisively. " I am glad we met to- 
night. You seem to have forgotten the talk we had be- 
fore you went home. I was in earnest then." 
"But you said we might be friends. I am only going 
to ask for friendship until I really have some prospects of 
my very own to offer you. I have only been studying 
half-heartedly and wasn't quite sure my bent was for 
medicine after all. There are some things about it I 
don't like and shall not like until I get to be a high-up 
man expounding theories. And if you make yourself do 
it for the sake of the woman you love " 
"Stop," Gertrude interrupted. " You take up a life 
profession because it is the desire of your inmost soul and 
not for any woman's sake. A man must have courage 
and strength enough of his own to stand quite alone. 
Suppose I said I did not want you to study medicine." 
"Well, there is law. Father would be awfully glad 
to have me reconsider. And there is a splendid connec- 
tion." 
" You must put me out of the question, out of your 
life. I told you the truth when I said I did not love 
you. You have taken up your hope on a flimsy basis. 
I am sorry, but I have not changed my mind in the 
slightest." 
" But you were willing to wait," rather resentfully. 
"I may not be married in years, perhaps not at all. 
It will not be because I am waiting for any special per- 
son, and I shall not promise you anything. You have to 
fit yourself for a place in life, you owe some duty to your 
parents ; and when you have achieved this it will be time 
to think of the woman you would like to share it with. 
You will contrast her with me then and be surprised that 
you ever fancied me." 
"You are mistaken. I shall never care for any one in 
this way again," he flung out, angrily. 
" I sincerely hope not. A man ought not to care for a 
woman who insists that she does not love him. Why 
should you want to win a woman against her will ? " 
"Well, there would be the triumph. Such things 
have been done," he returned in an imperious tone. 
" I do not think I could be won in that way." 
"O my darling, forgive me! No, not against your 
will. Love must always be a free gift. But you will not 
try. That vexes me." 
" I am quite sure I could not persuade myself to love. 
Then there would be the years of feverish expectation 
that would interfere to distract your attention from what 
was really worthy, from your highest aims. And in two 
years' time I might meet my ideal. Then, would you 
want to marry a woman whose truest love was another's ? " 
"But you couldn't if you had promised," he said, 
confidently. 
" Will you understand that I shall make no promises? " 
His persistence began to rouse her temper. 
"But if you wait " 
"I shall be quite free. I may marry in a month's 
time," with a kind of fling in her voice. 
"Then you have a lover," jealously. 
" I have no lover. But some one may fancy me," 
with a touch of exaltation in her tone. "There was a 
man in Denver, an ex-congressman and a mine owner, 
that did fancy me." 
" But you did not love him," triumphantly. 
" And I do not love you." 
Sherburne's hopes fell again. As he was willing to 
wait and work, why could she not accept the offering 
since she had admitted she might wait. 
"It would be this way," he said. " You should be 
free. If you met some one to your fancy, why I sup- 
pose I should accept the fact after awhile. I shouldn't 
murder either of you," with a short laugh. "It would 
go very hard with me, but it wouldn't be quite like being 
thrown over in the very beginning, and having my life 
upset." 
•" I should think it would be much easier." 
" Ah, but I love you. And it is a fair field while you 
haven't any lover." 
She wondered a little if she might not drop into a des- 
perate flirtation if that would cure him. 
They had passed the house and gone around the block. 
Now she halted at the stoop. 
" You must give me up entirely or not see me at all," 
she exclaimed, decisively. 
"I shall do neither." 
She touched the bell and disappeared within, not even 
saying good-night. 
She had forgiven him before, she would again. He 
was determined to succeed. 
"What can you do with a very persistent lover who 
will take no refusal ? I have not had much experience 
in lovers. My first one gave me up cheerfully, because 
there was some one he liked better and I was deprived of 
the honor of declining him. But if declining is such 
difficult work, I pray all the rest may give me up, even if 
I suffer from mortification." 
Gertrude threw her hat on the sofa and herself on the 
hassock at Mrs. Townsend's feet. 
" Is it Sherburne Beaumanoir ? " 
"Yes," in a tone of vexation. 
" I surmised that it "would come to this. It is a boyish 
fancy, and a 'boy's will is the wind's will.' The wind 
may blow furiously for a time,_ but it does stop. The 
river goes steadily on." 
" And I'd rather take my sail along the river than to be 
blown about by the wind. I shouldn't want to be talking 
and persuading and encouraging and considering. I 
want a future ready-made, if I have any. I am afraid I 
have been spoiled by things coming to me so easily. 
Can I do anything more than say ' no '? " 
" And act the ' No ' out whenever you have a chance. 
I am very sorry. It is the wildest folly for such a young 
fellow to fall into an engagement, and later on he is apt 
to thank the girl whose good sense kept him out of it." 
She went to the theatre with a party of young people, 
and when she returned the guests had departed. Sher- 
burne had not come in. Mr. Murray had been, of 
course. 
"There is an invitation for you. A famous Russian 
violinist with a tongue-twisting name, and a singer of 
note. I think you can be trusted with such an old fel- 
low without a chaperone. I have an engagement and a 
supper afterward, so if I am not home until late, you 
may lay it to dissipation and not suspect me of running 
off with some fine fellow." 
She looked at the tickets and Mr. Murray's card on 
which the invitation was written in pencil. Tuesday even- 
ing. How long it seemed since last Sunday, as if she 
had not seen him for a month. And he was in the habit 
of dropping in often, any time of day or evening. What 
would he say, she wondered. Perhaps he had seen Sher- 
burne. But it was hardly likely this subject would be 
discussed between them. 
Miss Ensign came in Tuesday afternoon. 
" We were wondering if you were ill or anything," she 
exclaimed. " Mrs. Kenneth misses you so when you do 
not run in nearly every day. You see and hear so many 
things " 
" And talk so much," appended Gertrude. 
" We like the talk," smilingly. " O, I have had such 
a delightful letter from Princess. She is having a lovely 
time in Washington and it seems that she almost made 
herself famous singing at a musicale. I do wish she 
could come up here. But they are all there together. 
What happy times they do have." 
Ruth sighed a little. She liked Gertrude very much, 
but she had not come as near to her as to the other girls. 
Gertrude was in readiness with her gloves in her hand 
when Mr. Murray came. Mrs. Townsend had only time 
for a word or two. 
" We shall be tolerably early," he said, " but we will 
not mind that. I rarely go until a thing is half through." 
"But why? Does it bore you ? " 
"O no, I am generally at the other place. Cities 
may not divide the honor of my being born in them, but 
entertainments often divide my criticisms, and presence." 
" And you take a whole evening for this. Is it so ex- 
traordinary? " 
" I take the evening for you." 
Gertrude flushed. 
People were slowly gathering. Their seats were at 
the end where they would not be disturbed by new- 
comers. Mr. Murray studied his program for a few mo- 
ments, paying special attention to the names of the per- 
formers. 
"Have you seen Sherburne?" he asked, presently, in 
a very low tone. 
" Last Friday evening." 
" And you told him " 
" I tried to make him understand. I should like to 
know how well I succeeded." 
" He was not in Saturday evening." 
" I told him I should not be there." 
" Did you think he would come? " 
" I had not supposed he would the week before." 
" Then one cannot count on him as a certain factor in 
any case ? " 
There was a smile of amusement as Murray uttered this. 
" I should like not to count on him in any case. But 
it seems hard to make him understand." 
Then they dropped the young man. The violinist 
was exceptionally fine and had to play an encore. The 
young singer had a sweet, well-trained voice. There 
were other things, a brilliant piano duet and a fantasy. 
Between times they had little asides. The color kept 
fluttering up and down Gertrude's face. She had not 
minded his glances very much before, she had become 
accustomed to being almost stared at, but this sent 
strange little shivers over her which were neither heat 
nor cold but a vague sort of deliciousness. And he was 
saying odd suggestive things that did not mean anything 
of course, but occasionally she wished he would not. 
Others might use this sort of society flattery, but he had 
no need. She hoped they had come to something better, 
to friendship. 
It was not a tiresomely long concert. He made a few 
notes and some approving nods, and then wrapped her 
fur cape about her and put up the collar, elbowing a 
way through the crowd for her. What a manly, fine- 
looking person he was. She recalled the fact that these 
solicitous attentions were natural to him when he was on 
his best behavior and not afflicted with laziness. He 
was not putting on anything special to-night, she told 
herself. 
But it was a new thing to be almost carried up the 
stairs, and then have him fumble with the key and come 
to his assistance, and feel her hand crumpled up in his 
as she opened the door. 
He turned up the gas just a little. How warm it felt 
after the keenness outside, and the suggestive softness 
through the ground globe made shadows in the corners 
and gave a weird look to the pile of cushions as if some 
one might be hiding there. 
"Take off your wraps," he said. "I am going to 
stay until Mrs. Townsend comes home. She has never 
entrusted you to my care before, and I want to return 
you in good order. Were you paid for going? " 
"Why, yes — since I had none of the expense," she 
answered, laughingly. 
"And the little tickets were complimentary." 
"There were car fares," sententiously. 
"Yes. Gertrude, you will make an admirable wife 
for a poor man. You must insist upon having a house- 
hold account book. A penny saved is as good as a 
penny earned, I have heard, so be careful of the pen- 
nies." 
" When I find the poor man." 
" Is your heart so set upon poverty? That is youthful 
and romantic, but rather unwise at the end of the cen- 
tury, when money seems such a factor." 
He had dropped on the sofa. She stood beside him, 
wondering a little at his mood. He caught her hand 
and drew her down. 
"Gertie," he said, "considerably more than a year 
ago there was some incipient love-making. He was a 
rather oldish fellow, and she was a young girl who had 
seen nothing of the world, and who, if she had been just 
a tint more scheming would have heard him through, 
and maybe accepted him. But she refused him as any 
good honorable girl would have who wasn't quite certain 
what either of them meant. It was one of those wise 
blunders that sometimes occur when people are not sure 
of themselves or each other. And now the old fellow is 
a year older, and the girl has had some experience and a 
young lover, and she knows there is more than one man 
in the world. Do you think she can love well enough to 
bridge over all the years between and be happy with 
him? " 
Gertrude Maurice sat upright, stiff and surprised, and 
simply looked at Mr. Murray. 
"Will I do — Gertie?" he said, softly, and his arm 
was about her, drawing her down to his shoulder. 
" O, you don't mean — " there was a little convulsive 
catch in her voice. 
"I mean that I love you and want you. I mean a 
great many more things that you will go on finding out 
year by year, if you conclude to take me. Some you 
will like, some won't suit you at all, but you see I am an 
oldish fellow and can't fly around like a weather cock at 
every young girl's whim. But taking it all in all, if you 
think you can love me we may get along fairly. I shall 
want a great deal of love — quite as much as any young 
fellow." 
" O ! " with a soft cry. Then she hid her face. Did 
he really want her ? If she had asked her gift out of all 
the world, it would have been this. A week ago she had 
settled to a delightful friendship, and thought the world 
had nothing more to give her. 
" Gertrude? " 
" O, I think now you must know, that you must 
have known it all along. One day — on the sand sat Mel- 
chias Island. It was just a look. I could not think you 
would come to care for me. I envied the girl for whom 
you would care. And that night on the boat — I was not 
sure how much you meant, and I didn't want any one to 
say I had taken a mean advantage of your lovely hospi- 
tality. I would rather have given you up." 
" And now you don't mind what any one thinks? " 
There was a strand of mirthfulness in his tone. 
"I am afraid I don't." 
He drew the flushed face up to his and gave her her 
first lover's kisses. 
" Gertrude," he began, seriously, some moments later, 
"I want you to consider this subject of age. When I 
am sixty you will be at the finest period of a woman's 
life. And it is only fair to warn you there is very little 
chance of widowhood. My father is hale and hearty, 
and I feel within me the certain premonitions of old age. 
I shall want to be loved and coddled and cared for — I 
dare say I shall be jealous and unreasonable. I won't 
begin by painting those years in rose color, even if we 
have violets in their sweetness all along first. And this is 
a grave question." 
" But you are not old ! " she protested. " And did it 
ever occur to you that I am not young for twenty years ? 
Or else I have lived in some other life and have vague 
experiences of it ? " 
"I want you young. That's a bit of my unreason- 
ableness. And I want you sweet and fond and bright to 
take me back to that magical land. I want love enough 
to make up for all these years. And I will promise to be 
better than the Browning lover, I will love you the whole 
year round, not merely < half the year.' " 
She laughed delightedly. 
" Do you think Princess will like it ? " she asked, pres- 
ently. " She loves you so." 
" She has given me permission." 
" I wonder if I had never come into your life after 
that night on the boat — " she said, hesitatingly. 
"Ah, but you were not going out. I will tell you 
now — Mrs. Townsend wrote to me while we were at the 
island. I thought the place would suit you better than 
the teaching you abhorred. I did not think of myself 
just then, that came a little later. I saw her that day in 
New York. She had written to Mrs. St. John and re- 
ceived her commendation, and made an appointment to 
meet you. She taxed me with a suspicious fondness, 
and on condition that I was not to interfere, neither see 
you nor write to you for a year, she engaged to keep you 
tolerably safe, unless some enchanting young man came 
along." 
"They were rather middle aged," said Gertrude, 
mirthfully. "There were two of them, one rich, and 
famous in his own estimation." 
"And I am famous in other people's estimation. That 
makes a great difference." 
" And you knew all the while? " 
" I was not going to let you out into the great world 
with no watchful care. And if the young man had ap- 
peared I should have hurried to the fray at once." 
"I am glad you cared for me then." It was delight- 
ful to have been loved unknowingly. 
" So you have this arrears to make up to me." 
She nestled closer. The care and interest was very 
sweet. They both forgot about the young man of con- 
fident hopes. 
It was just midnight when Mrs. Townsend returned. 
"Con Murray," she began, "you must go home at 
once. You need not even stop for an explanation. This 
is taking a mean advantage of my absence, and depriv- 
ing my secretary of her natural rest. You know what I 
said about them when they began to have lovers." 
"I shall see about having my house put in order at 
once. To-morrow at ten you may expect me. Can I 
stay to luncheon?" 
They all laughed. 
When he was gone Mrs. Townsend put her arm about 
Gertrude. 
"You will have a fine husband, dear, but I wish he 
was ten years younger." 
Gertrude thought she would not have him changed in 
the slightest respect. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
A DISCORD OF UNREASON. 
OVER their cozy breakfast Gertrude confessed her 
unsatisfactory attempt to convince her young ad- 
mirer that he had nothing to hope for and that even 
friendship now would be irksome. 
"I really did not think him in earnest, at least not 
marrying earnest. He will soon recover from his fancy. 
And the best step will be to announce your engagement 
at once." 
Gertrude turned a vivid scarlet. Was it actually true 
that she was engaged to the one man she felt she could 
love with fervent devotion, the man she had sometimes 
speculated upon, but never in the depth of her heart be- 
lieved she could win. 
"You see the idea is not new to me," continued her 
friend. "I like Con Murray extremely, but I did not 
mean he should shut you out of opportunities for 
judging whether younger men had not some subtle charm 
for you. I am not sure even / would like the disparity. 
People nearer of an age are more apt to have similar 
tastes and enjoyments. But his profession will keep him 
in touch with the younger ideas of life, the work and 
thoughts of to-day. And there is one particular mistake 
I hope you will avoid." 
A tint of color crept up in Mrs. Townsend's face, and 
she gave an airy sort of nod and smile as if she was not 
quite sure how her advice would be received. 
" O tell me whatever you think will benefit me and 
help me to make him happy." 
" My dear, let him try to make you happy for awhile. 
Young wives often offer too much devotion. But what I 
wished to say was that you must get used to seeing other 
women admire him, and you must not turn unduly jeal- 
ous. Women have been used to making much of him. 
They do have favors to ask of him and I think he is par- 
ticularly friendly to struggling feminines. There are 
many silly women in the world who have a fancy they 
can understand this or that particular man and make him 
happier than his wife does. There are others who make 
a bid for any man's admiration. And the wife who turns 
cold and silent and proud surely loses. Keep your right 
to try for his admiration as well as his love. A little ex- 
perience will teach you when to claim as well as when 
to refrain, and do not be too self-willed to make the en- 
deavor. You will find men are not perfection, but then 
neither are women." 
They both strayed away from the subject on which 
they had started. The mail came in and they were still 
sitting over the fruit when Mr. Murray entered. 
He walked around and kissed Gertrude with an air of 
proprietorship that quite amazed her, and drawing a 
chair sat down beside her. 
"Do you suppose I could have some coffee? I was 
up at six this morning, in the dark and dreary world be- 
fore there was any smiling sun. And it does not smile 
very cordially now." 
"That can make little difference to you in your pres- 
ent beatific state. You are a spoiled child and I ought 
to take you in training for Gertrude's sake. But you may 
have the coffee this morning." 
"Thank you at least twenty times." 
" You are moderate. I am glad to see you are not in 
an exaggerated frame of mind." 
Mrs. Townsend rang for the coffee. Gertrude felt 
oddly embarrassed, but Mr. Murray soon dropped into a 
half teasing and wholly delightful mood. Mrs. Town- 
send insisted with great apparent earnestness that she 
could not give up her secretary until the year expired. 
" But I have another to commend to you. A young 
woman who despises men and has forsworn matrimony." 
"I have no faith in women who despise men. They 
have generally been crossed in love and are soured, or 
have an eye on the next chance." 
" Then I will come myself and write your letters. I 
will allow Gertrude to pour tea or coffee on Saturday 
evenings, whichever is the least arduous." 
" Or renders her the least attractive." 
" Exactly. How quickly you guessed my meaning." 
"I knew you had some Bluebeard propensities." 
He nodded and laughed. 
"Now I am going to give you just half an hour. 
You may wander out to the reception-room." 
" And no chaperon ! How utterly delightful you are ! 
Gertrude, fortunately we will not go to Paris until next 
year; New York will be satisfactory to us." 
They walked out of the cozy drawing-room. Was he 
really her lover ? 
Mrs. Townsend looked after them in an amused fash- 
ion. She had a half feeling of elation that her protege 
had captured this man whom many a society girl had 
angled for. Yet she had not pinned much faith on his 
first fancy, and was pleased that Gertrude had not gone 
headlong into admiration for him. 
"I wonder," Gertrude said, after awhile, "if you can 
understand that I feel truly sorry for Sherburne, and have 
a vague misgiving that he will take the tidings of the " 
"The engagement," he appended, and she paused and 
colored in embarrassment. 
" Harder than any of us have thought. Will you 
tell him?" 
" I will do it as soon as possible. He has a good deal 
of temper and may flare up at first. But he must see — 
and I think he has some common sense." 
Gertrude gave a little sigh. " I wish it had not 
happened." Could she have averted it? His prefer- 
ence had flattered her. Any young girl it seemed to her 
might fall enthusiastically in love with him, if she had 
no other ideal. And she sincerely hoped it was one of 
the evanescent fancies. 
It was a strong one, however. He was the embodiment 
of young romance, and a first love with such inexperi- 
enced natures seems to pervade every fibre of heart and 
brain. He had a stubborn belief that devotion must win 
in the end even if it dethroned common sense for a 
season. Her charming friendliness he felt certain sprang 
from a deeper interest, and her way of holding aloof had 
piqued his vanity. A girl who had dropped into a flirta- 
tion, and had no quality but sweetness would soon have 
satiated him, and the fancy died from lack of that fine 
sustenance that holds a promise of better things to come. 
And now he was resolved not to give her up. He had 
a youthful belief that love must conquer from its very 
persistency, since he was quite sure she loved no one else. 
But the struggle made him impatient and a little irri- 
table. He could not study with the zest of the last fort- 
night, for he was continually planning how he could meet 
her again, and storing up arguments. He might throw 
up his present aims and find a business opening that 
would enable him to marry sooner. His brain was a 
chaos of half-formed plans. 
"I confess Sherburne puzzles me, and tries me as 
well," said Doctor Carew to his wife. "He has so 
much force and energy, so much quickness and ability, 
but I am afraid he is more brilliant than stable. Just 
when he raises your hopes and you feel he has reached 
a definite purpose, you find he has dropped down to the 
verge of indifference. I do wonder if his heart is sin- 
cerely in the profession he has chosen." 
"But remember how really young he is," returned 
Mrs. Carew. " His air and manner and general knowl- 
edge of the world make him seem older. There are 
many qualities so like his father. One can't help having 
high hopes for him." 
" And some of the young fellows who seem to promise 
most, never do anything especial. Now Ned isn't a bril- 
liant chap, but he has a great deal of persistence and is 
going to take his next degree with honors. I should like 
to have him in charge. And if I felt less responsibility 
for Sherburne, I might take it more lightly." 
" I am afraid you were born not to take things lightly," 
Lyndell said, with a smile. And the thought came into 
her mind as to how nearly his own sons would satisfy 
him in years to come ? How much real and lasting in- 
fluence did any individual exert? 
The world seemed mostly going at cross purposes with 
Sherburne Beaumanoir. How could he manage to see 
Gertrude again ? He made excuses to pass the house, 
he dropped in at the Kenneths'. Bertram wearied him 
with questions, he was so eager for every bit of knowl- 
edge, or else he had to recount some remarkable fact or 
discovery. He rebuffed Aunt Lyndell's attempts to draw 
him out of his abstracted mood. 
Uncle Con sent him an invitation to come and take 
supper with him at his rooms. lie had a bit of news for 
him. 
"Another piece of luck I dare say," the boy mused. 
" I wish I could strike luck somewhere. Three or four 
years is a long while to wait." 
But he went, and had a warm welcome. There was a 
real fire burning in the grate, and though the place was 
littered up bachelor fashion, it looked cozy and hospitable. 
"What have you been doing with yourself the last 
fortnight?" asked Uncle Con. "I have hardly seen 
you." 
"I have been busy about various matters," was the 
brief reply. He had not desired to see any one. 
" I hope you have not been gay and dissipated." 
" I have not been very gay." 
"Well, a little seriousness is good now and then." 
The waiter came in and began to prepare the table. 
Uncle Con eyed his guest. What made the usually 
bright fellow so serious ? 
"I hope you are in no money trouble, Sherburne," he 
began, kindly. 
"It isn't a present but a future contingency," and he 
gave a faint smile. "Uncle Con, do you know of any- 
thing in which in a few years a fellow could be realizing 
a fair salary? " 
" At business?" 
" Yes, I suppose it would have to be business. I am 
afraid I have not the genius to write a striking novel, or 
hit upon some invention to supply a long-felt want." 
"There needs to be some training. Are you tired of 
medicine? " 
" Perhaps not tired. It is so long to wait. And then 
there are several years spent in acquiring a practice." 
"And in business there ought to be several years' 
training, unless one has the money to secure a favorable 
partnership." 
The supper came in, a sort of high tea. They did not 
need the waiter and he was dismissed. Uncle Con 
started another subject, to find his nephew still abstracted 
to a certain degree. 
He suddenly roused. "Uncle Con," he began, 
"what was your news? Have you been writing a suc- 
cessful play ? ' ' 
"One could not be certain of the success in the 
writing. Plays have an uncertain first night. But I 
thought you might be interested in another outcome, 
which I hope will not be as uncertain. A change in my 
life " 
" O, are you going away again? Uncle Con, I almost 
envy you. It must be delightful to do just what one 
wishes." 
"I haven't always followed out my own fancies. I 
have been doing a good deal of what other people wished. 
We have to, in this life. Things are seldom ready-made 
for us." 
Sherburne seemed considering. "I don't know what 
you could do to surprise people in general," he ex- 
claimed, " unless you married." 
"Then I shall surprise them. That is exactly what I 
purpose to do." 
"And I envy you there," in a rapid, grudging tone. 
" If I could be five years older and have a competence? " 
Was the young fellow really dreaming of that ? Mr. 
Murray was surprised at his earnestness. He had 
treated the matter lightly in his thoughts. He had seen 
so many young loves. 
" Yes," he replied, to his former affirmation, " I have 
resolved to marry and have a real home of my own. I 
shall keep open house for all the nephews and nieces. 
And now you may guess. It is some one you have seen, 
some one you know quite well." 
Sherburne glanced intently at his uncle. There was a 
pretty widow he had met at Mrs. Townsend's who had a 
curious fashion of claiming Uncle Con — there was Mrs. 
Townsend. O no, that could not be. There were two 
charming western women who had been visiting in the 
city, and Uncle Con had taken them to the theatres and 
introduced them in several congenial circles. One, the 
elder, was an energetic newspaper woman. 
" You are such a general admirer of the sex that one 
would be a little puzzled to select any particular per- 
son." 
"You think so?" Uncle Con gave a soft delighted 
sort of laugh. " Yet you need not go very far. It is 
some one we have known for a year and a half, the girls 
longer than that." 
A sudden sharp breathless pang seized Sherburne. He 
looked steadily at his uncle, his eyes dilating, his lips 
losing their youthful gayety and settling into definite 
lines of obstinacy and doubt. A certain revelation crept 
in slowly, though he was trying to fight it every inch of 
the way. She had confessed to having an ideal, though 
she had strenuously denied the real lover. What mad- 
ness, what bewilderment had seized her ! 
" You must tell me," he said, huskily, and his eyes 
dropped. He seemed bracing for a blow and the bril- 
liant coloring faded. 
" It is Miss Maurice. I liked her a good deal the sum- 
mer at Melchias island. She was young and had seen 
nothing of the world, so I preferred she should go away 
with Mrs. Townsend. If she had met some one to her 
fancy that would have been the end of it. And it would 
not have been the first untimely fancy of my life, either." 
There was a sound in his voice meant for solace to the 
young fellow, who was impervious to comfort or reason 
just now. And the tender light in the elder's face mad- 
dened him. 
"I suppose she thinks you a good catch," he said, in 
what he meant for sarcasm, but the curl of the lip made 
it insolence. • " You have a fine position and your wife 
will be well received among attractive people and have a 
good many indulgences. Then your fortune is already 
established. She will not have to wait years, as she 
would if she took some* young man who had his to 
make." 
"You do her scant justice, I think. She could marry 
richer men if she cared for mere money." 
"The position counts for something. * And it must 
gratify a woman's vanity to capture a man who is made 
as much of by women as you are." 
Uncle Con laughed. He would have been angry if 
he had not known the other side of the case, for it 
seemed intended disrespect. 
"Of course it isn't for love," Sherburne flung out 
angrily. " She might love a young man, but when she 
deliberately chooses between youth and love, and a man 
double her age and all the material things of life — it is 
easy to see what has swayed her." 
Mr. Murray was displeased. 
" Do you know of her having done this, Sherburne? " 
he asked, incisively. " If you do not I cannot allow you 
to traduce the woman who has accepted me. For after 
all, I am not rich enough to be any overwhelming temp- 
tation. And I do think she is truthful enough to have 
declined my proffer if her affections were elsewhere en- 
gaged." 
That was the sting of it. He was not indignant at 
being betrayed, he could not accuse Gertrude Maurice of 
that ; he was angry that she had not loved him, and 
with the unreasonable faith of youth he was quite sure 
that in time he might have won her regard but for this 
interference on his uncle's part. 
" She liked me. She did the first day we met. I 
can't explain — I'm not used to dissecting people's 
feelings and writing them up. She has been — well, I had 
grounds to think she would have come to love me pres- 
ently. And I love her. I shall never love any one so 
much again. I shall never have faith in a woman's smiles 
or her sweet tones, if these can deceive. I suppose one 
cannot blame her for doing the best she could for herself. 
If you had not come — And Uncle Con, you are twice 
her age ! " 
He had that triumph over his rival — splendid youth. 
And boy-like, he made the most of it in his flashing eyes. 
" Not quite," returned Mr. Murray, with an aspect of 
imperturbable good humor. ''And I shall never be so 
near it again. She will be growing up to me. In ten 
years more I shall not be double her age." 
" But — it is a shame ! " 
" I should like to be set back ten years for her sake, 
yet they have been rich, satisfying years to me. But, 
Sherburne, suppose you go and present your case to her. 
Set it forth with all the advantages of youth. If you 
win I will relinquish her, though I confess I love her as 
well." 
" It would be of no use." Sherburne could not bring 
himself to admit that twice she had refused his overtures. 
He was too sore and angry and obstinate to be just to 
her. 
" I suppose a woman is the best judge of whom she is 
capable of loving," said the elder. 
Sherburne pushed away his chair and rose with an in- 
dignant gesture. All the rest of life would have a shadow 
over it, a sorrow through it. She could have been in- 
spiration to him and helped him to attain position, to work 
for prosperity, for her. What was the use of being rich 
and great if no one cared ! Just now there was no one 
in his world but Gertrude Maurice. What would the 
other achievements be to a lonely man. 
"Sherburne," said his uncle, with grave sympathy, 
"let us discuss the matter with a little reason. You 
really ought not to burthen your young manhood with 
an engagement. In a few years from this your ideal 
will change. Honestly I think you can find a more fit- 
ting mate when your time of real love comes. You will 
learn that youth has more than one fancy. If Gertrude 
had loved' you I should have cared enough about your 
future to take it in hand and smooth the path for you. 
You know your father would have felt hurt and disap- 
pointed in a step like this, while he is doing his best for 
you, has indeed given up his heart's desire that you 
should follow out your own bent." 
Sherburne stood by the window looking down on the 
street. He could not accept any friendly overtures from 
the man who was to marry Miss Maurice. All the de- 
lightful times were at an end. He had been deceived — 
since they both believed the same way they would make 
merry over his poor flouted love. • 
" My dear boy " 
That angered him afresh. At twenty, one had a right 
to a man's feelings and dignity. 
" Don't, Uncle Con ! Nothing can better it ! I can't 
talk about it. I — well I had better say good-night at 
once." 
" But we are not going to part this way." 
"I can't congratulate you. I suppose you will be 
happy enough without it. I've just got to fight it out 
and endure it. I can't stand anything more." 
He picked up his hat and took his coat on his arm, 
and the next instant had vanished. 
Mr. Murray gave a soft, half-amused whistle and 
looked at the door a moment as if the angry fellow might 
return. 
"He takes it harder than I imagined," he mused. 
Had Gertrude unconsciously or from love of amusement 
encouraged him ? Of course she knew when he proposed 
to visit her at home that she was a source of interest to 
him. Many girls would have enjoyed the flirtation. He 
could not see that she had been seriously at fault. Had 
his position biased her? She was doing very well, he 
knew that, but he wanted an unselfish regard. Was he 
quite sure he was getting it? 
Sherburne stopped in the hall to put on his overcoat. 
The night was sharp and cold as he emerged into it. He 
had a desperate feeling that he would like to do some- 
thing out of the ordinary course. Drinking he abhorred. 
There was a very respectable place where young men 
went to play, and in the private rooms there was regular 
gambling. But he had only a little money with him, 
and he had promised his mother that he would shun such 
places. 
So he tramped around scarcely noting whither he 
went. Then it came into his mind that he would go 
and have it out with Miss Maurice while he was in the 
humor. She had taken all the joy out of his life — why 
should she not know it ! 
Yet he hesitated a moment on the stoop. A lady and 
gentleman ascended the steps — he had seen them a time 
or two, and they all went in together. 
There were several other guests in the parlor. He sat 
down in a small reception-room and awaited Miss Mau- 
rice. It was some time before she came ; she had occu- 
pied the moments in working herself up to a desperate 
mood. 
He bowed with a cold politeness. It was extremely 
awkward, and somehow she had no heart for platitudes. 
" I am glad you have happened in," she began, with 
evident embarrassment. " There was something I wanted 
you to know." 
" Then I have been fortunate. I was not sure I would 
be welcome." 
• The voice had a touch of irony in it, and his demeanor 
was extremely lofty. It suddenly roused her sense of 
fun, and she wanted to laugh. That might have demol- 
ished the tragic aspect. 
"I want to tell you that — " she colored vividly in the 
pause, " that I am engaged. It is best that you should 
know it at once, as it will not be a long engagement." 
"You are very honorable." 
"You said that — while I was free — you should keep 
hoping." What made him take it so calmly, unless he 
had already been informed ? 
There was another long, awkward silence. She was 
really vexed with him. 
" I gave up my hope an hour or more ago," he said, 
at length, in a cold tone. He meant to be as impressive 
as possible. " I was taking supper with my uncle. It 
shocked and surprised me. I had not supposed you 
could be tempted with the goods of this world, merely." 
"I was not tempted by anything," she returned, with 
some spirit. " I will say now that I have long admired 
your uncle. Once I might have answered a suggestion 
in a manner to make it a proposal, and that was in our 
first acquaintance, and a time when temptation to such a 
step would have been doubly strong, as I was looking for 
a standing place in the world's great army and nothing 
seemed to promise a foothold. If I was not tempted 
then I am not likely to be tempted now when I have a 
secure position." 
" You mean me to infer that you love him," Sherburne 
commented, with the scornful incredulity of youth. 
" I love him," Gertrude Maurice said, simply. " For 
a year and more I have been comparing him with other 
men I have seen. It was a vague ideal in my mind, and 
I gave it no personality until we returned to the city. 
But when I met him again I knew what influence had 
shaped my ideal." 
" Well, you have idealized him to the most extravagant 
end. Let me tell you that you will be bitterly disap- 
pointed. I can see how a girl might marry a man double 
