business, and that he wanted uncle Silas to take him into his upholstery
shop; and he never, so long as he lived, understood his father's tragic
silence over the choice. He had broken the succession in a line of
priests; but it seemed to him that he had simply told what he wanted to
do for a living. So he went away to the city, and news came flying back
of his wonderful fitness for the trade. He understood colors, fabrics,
design; he had been sent abroad for ideas, and finally he was dispatched
to the Chicago house, to oversee the business there. Thus it was many
years before Dilly met him again; but they remained honestly faithful,
each from a lovely simplicity of nature, but a simplicity quite
different in kind. Jethro did not grow rich very fast (uncle Silas saw
to that), but he did prosper; and he was ready to marry his girl long
before she owned herself ready to marry him. She took care of a
succession of aged relatives, all afflicted by a strange and interesting
diversity of trying diseases; and then, after the last death, she
settled down, quite poor, in a little house on the Tiverton Road, and
"went out nussin'," the profession for which her previous life had
fitted her. With a careless generosity, she made over to her brother the
old farmhouse where they were born, because he had a family and needed
it. But he died, and was soon followed by his wife and child; and now
Dilly was quite alone with the house and the family debts. The time had
come, wrote Jethro, for them to marry. She was free, at last, and he had
enough. Would she take him, now? Dilly answered quite frankly and from a
serenity born of faith in the path before her and a certainty that no
feet need slip. She was ready, she wrote. She hoped he was willing she
should sell the old place, to pay Tom's debts. That would leave her
without a cent; but since he was coming for her, and she needn't go to
Chicago alone, she didn't know that there was anything to worry about.
He would buy her ticket. There was an ineffable simplicity about Dilly.
She had no respect whatever for money, save as a puzzling means to a few
necessary ends. And now the place had been sold, and Jethro was coming
in a month. Meanwhile Dilly was to pack up the few family effects she
could afford to keep, and the rest would go by auction.
Little as she was accustomed to dread experiences which came in the
inevitable order of nature, she did think of the last day and night in
the old house as something of an ordeal. People felt that the human
meant very little to Dilly; but that was not true. It was only true that
she held herself remote from personal intimacies; but all the fine,
invisible bonds of race and family took hold of her like irresistible
factors, and welded her to the universe anew.
As she started out from her little house, this summer morning, and began
her three-mile walk to the old homestead, she felt as if some solemn
event in her life were about to happen; her heart beat higher, and
brought about the suffocating feeling of a hand laid upon the throat.
She was a slight creature, with a delicate face and fine black hair. Her
slender body seemed all made for action, and the poise of an assured
motion dwelt in it and wrapped about its angularity like a gracious
charm. She was walking down a lane, her short skirts brushed by the
morning dew. She chose to go 'cross lots, not because in this case it
was nearer than the road, but because it seemed impossible to go another
way. Yet never in her life had she seen less of the outward garment of
things than she was seeing this morning. A flouting bobolink flew from
stake to stake in front of her, and bubbled out in melody. She heard a
scythe swishing in a neighboring field, and the musical call of the
mowing-machine afar, and she did not look up. Dumb to the beautiful
outer world, she was broad awake to human souls: the souls of the
Joyces, alive so long before her and stretching back into an unknown
past. They had lived, one after another, in the old house, since
colonial times; and now, after this quiet act of a concluding drama,
Dilly was going to lower the curtain, and sweep them from the stage.
Her mind was peopled with figures. She thought of Jethro, too. He seemed
to be coming ever nearer and nearer. She could hear his tread marching
into her life, and could see his face. It was very moving, as she
remembered it. A long line of scholarly forbears had dowered him with a
refinement and grace quite startling in this unornamented spot, and some
old Acadian ancestor had lent him beauty. His eyes were dark, and they
held an unfathomable melancholy. The line of his forehead and nose ran
haughtily and yet delicate; and even after years of absence, Dilly
sometimes caught her breath when she thought of the way his head was set
upon his shoulders. She had never in her life seen a man or woman who
was entirely beautiful, and he saturated her longing like a prodigal
stream.
She was a little dazed when she climbed the low stone wall, crossed the
road, and came into the grassy wilderness of the Joyce back yard. Nature
had triumphed riotously, as she will when niggardly thrift is away. The
grass lay rich and shining, lodged by last night's shower, and gate and
cellar-case were choked by it. The cinnamon roses bloomed in a spicy
hardiness of pink, and the gnarled apple-trees had shed their broken
branches, and were covered with little green buttons of fruit. Dilly
stopped to look about her, and her eyes filled. The tears were hot; they
hurt her, and so recalled her to the needs of life.
"There!" she said, "I mustn't do so!"--and she walked straight forward
through the open shed, and fitted her key in the lock. The door sagged;
but she pushed it open and stepped in. The deserted kitchen lay there in
desolate order, and the old Willard clock slept upon the wall. Dilly
hastily pushed a chair before it (this was the only chair old Daniel
Joyce would allow the children to climb in) and wound the clock. It
began ticking slowly, with the old, remembered sound. Somehow it seemed
beautiful to Dilly that the clock should speak with the voice of all
those years agone; it was a kind of loyalty which appealed to the soul
like a piercing miracle. Then she ran through to the sitting-room, and
started the old eight-day in the corner; and the house breathed and was
alive again. She threw open the windows, all save those on the Dilloway
side (lest kindly neighbors should discover she was at home), and the
soft rose-scented air flooded the rooms like an invisible presence, and
bore out the smell of age upon gracious wings. Now, Dilly worked fast
and steadily, lest some human thing should come upon her. She tied up
bedclothes, and opened long-closed cupboards. She made careful piles of
clothing from the attic; and finally, her mind a little tired, she sat
down on the floor and began looking over papers and daguerreotypes from
her father's desk. Just as she had lost herself in the ancient history
of which they were the signs, there came a knock at the back door. So
assured had become her idea of a continued housekeeping, that the
summons did not seem in the least strange. The house lived again; it had
thrown open its arms to human kind.
"Come in!" she called; and a light step sounded in the kitchen and
crossed the sill. It was a man, dark-eyed and very handsome. "Oh!"
murmured Dilly, catching her breath and holding both hands clasped upon
the papers in her lap. "Jethro!"
The stranger was much moved, and his black eyes deepened. He looked at
her kindly, perhaps lovingly, too. "Yes," he said, at last. "So you'd
know me?"
Dilly got lightly up, and the papers fell about her in a shower; yet she
made no motion toward him. "Oh, yes," she said softly, "I should know
you. You ain't changed at all."
That was not true. He looked ten years older than his real age; yet time
had only dowered him with a finer grace and charm. All the lines in his
face were those of gentleness and truth. His mouth had the old delicate
curves. One meeting him that day might have said, with a throb of
involuntary homage, "How beautiful he must have been when he was young!"
But to Dilly he bore even a more subtile distinction than in that
far-away time; he had ripened into something harmonizing with her own
years. He came forward a little, and held out both hands; but Dilly did
not take them, and he dropped the left one. Then she laid her fingers
lightly in his, and they greeted each other like old acquaintances. A
flush rose in her smooth brown cheek. Her eyes grew bright with that
startled questioning which is of the woods. He looked at her the more
intently, and his breath quickened. She had none of the blossomy charm
of more robust womanhood; but he recognized the old gypsy element which
had once bewitched him, and felt he loved her still.
"Well," he said, and his voice shook a little, "are you glad to see me?"
Dilly moved back, and sat down in her mother's little sewing-chair by
the desk. "I don't know as I can tell," she answered. "This is a strange
day."
Jethro nodded. "I meant to surprise you," he said. "So I never wrote I
was coming on so soon. I was real disappointed to find your house shut
up; but the neighbors told me where you'd gone, and what you'd gone for.
Then I walked over here."
Dilly's face brightened all over with a responsive smile. "Did you come
through the woods?" she asked. "What made you?"
"Why, I knew you'd go that way," he answered. "I thought you'd get
wool-gathering over some weed or another, and maybe I'd overtake you."
They both laughed, and the ice was broken. Dilly got briskly up and
gathered a drawer-full of papers into her apron.
"I can't stop workin'," she said. "I want to fix it so's not to stay
here more'n one night. Now you talk! I know what these are. I can run
'em over an' listen too."
"I think't was real good of you to turn in the place to Tom's folks,"
said Jethro, also seating himself, and, as Dilly saw with a start, as if
it were an omen, in her father's great chair. "Not that you'll ever need
it, Dilly. You won't want for a thing. I've done real well."
Dilly's long fingers assorted papers and laid them at either side, with
a neat precision. She looked up at him then, and her eyes had again the
quick, inquiring glance of some wild creature in a situation foreign to
its habits.
"Well," she said, "well! I guess I don't resk anything. An' if I
did--why, I'd resk it!"
Jethro bent forward a little. He was smiling, and Dilly met the glance,
half fascinated. She wondered that she could forget his smile; and yet
she had forgotten it. Like running water, it was never twice the same.
"Dilly," said he, much moved, "you'll have a good time from this out, if
ever a woman did. You'll keep house in a brick block, where the cars run
by your door, and you can hire two girls."
"Oh, my!" breathed Dilly. A quick look of trouble darkened her face, as
a shadow sweeps across the field.
"What is it?" asked Jethro, in some alarm. "Don't you like what I said?"
Dilly smiled, though her eyes were still apprehensive.
"It ain't that," she answered slowly, striving in her turn to be kind.
"Only I guess I never happened to think before just how't would be. I
never spec'lated much on keepin' house."
"But somebody'd have to keep it," said Jethro good-naturedly, smiling on
her. "We can get good help. You'll like to have a real home table, and
you can invite company every day, if you say so. I never was close,
Dilly,--you know that. I sha'n't make you account for things."
Dilly got up, and, still holding her papers in her apron, walked
swiftly to the window. There she stood, a moment, looking out into the
orchard, where the grass lay tangled under the neglected, happy trees.
Her eyes traveled mechanically from one to another. She knew them all.
That was the "sopsyvine," its red fruitage fast coming on; there was the
Porter she had seen her father graft; and down in the corner grew the
August sweet. Life out there looked so still and sane and homely. She
knew no city streets,--yet the thought of them sounded like a pursuit.
She turned about, and came back to her chair.
"I guess I never dreamt how you lived, Jethro," she said gently. "But it
don't make no matter. You're contented with it."
"I ain't a rich man," said Jethro, with some quiet pride; "but I've got
enough. Yes, I like my business; and city life suits me. You'll fall in
with it, too."
Then silence settled between them; but that never troubled Dilly. She
was used to long musings on her walks to and from her patients, and in
her watching beside their beds. Conversation seemed to her a very
spurious thing when there is nothing to say.
"What you thinking about?" he asked suddenly.
Dilly looked up at him with her bright, truth-telling glance. "I was
thinkin'," she answered, with a clarity never ruthless, because it was
so sweet,--"I was thinkin' you make me homesick, somehow or another."
Jethro looked at her doubtfully, and then, as she smiled at him, he
smiled also.
"I don't believe it's me," he said, confidently. "It's because you're
going over things here. It's the old house."
"Maybe," said Dilly, nodding and tying her last bundle of papers. "But I
don't know. I never had quite such feelin's before. It's the nearest to
bein' afraid of anything I've come acrost. I guess I shall have to run
out into the lot an' take my bearin's."
Jethro got up, put his hands in his pockets, and walked about the room.
He was very gentle, but he did at heart cherish the masculine theory
that the unusual in woman is never to be judged by rules.
"But it is a queer kind of a day," owned Dilly, pushing in the last
drawer. "Why, Jethro!" She faced him, and her voice broke in excitement.
"You don't know, I ain't begun to tell you, how queer it seems to me.
Why, I've dreaded this day for weeks! but when it come nigh, it begun to
seem to me like a joyful thing. I felt as if they all knew of it: them
that was gone. It seemed as if they stood 'round me, ready to uphold me
in what I was doin'. I shouldn't be surprised if they were all here now.
I don't feel a mite alone."
Her voice shook with excitement; her eyes were big and black. Jethro
came up to her, and laid a kindly hand on her shoulder. It was a fine
hand, long and shapely, and Dilly, looking down at it, remembered, with
a strange regretfulness, how she had once loved its lines.
"There, poor girl!" he said, "you're tired thinking about it. No wonder
you've got fancies. I guess the ghosts won't trouble us. There's nothing
here worse than ourselves." And again, in spite of the Joyces, Dilly
felt homesick and alone.
There came a soft thudding sound upon the kitchen floor, and she turned,
alert, to listen. This was Mrs. Eli Pike in her carpet slippers; she had
stood so much over soap-making that week that her feet had taken to
swelling. She was no older than Dilly, but she had seemed matronly in
her teens. She looked very large, as she padded forward through the
doorway, and her pink face and double chin seemed to exude kindliness as
she came.
"There, Dilly Joyce! if this ain't jest like you!" she exclaimed. "Creep
in here an' not let anybody know! Why, Jethro, that you? Recognize you!
Well, I guess I should!"
She included them both in a neighborly glance, and Dilly was very
grateful. Yet it seemed to her that now, at last, she might break down
and cry. The tone of olden friendliness was hard to bear, when no other
voices answered. She could endure the silent house, but not the
intercourse of a life so sadly changed.
"There!" continued Mrs. Pike, with a nod, "I guess I know! You're tired
to pieces with this pickin' and sortin', an' you're comin' over to
dinner, both on ye. Eli's dressed a hin. I had to wring her neck. He
wouldn't ha' done it; you know that, Dilly! An' I've been beatin' up
eggs. Now don't you say one word. You be there by twelve. Jethro, you
got a watch? You see 't she starts, now!" And Mrs. Pike marched away
victorious, her apron over her head, and waving one hand before her as
she went. She had once been stung by bees, on just such a morning as
this, and she had a set theory that they infested all strange dooryards.
Dilly felt as if even the Joyces could not save her day in its solemn
significance unless, indeed, they should appear in their proper persons.
She thought of her bread and butter and boiled eggs, lying in her little
bundle, and the simple meal seemed as unattainable as if it were some
banquet dreamed of in delirium. It was of one piece with cars going by
the house, and two maid-servants to correct. To Dilly, a car meant a
shrieking monster propelled by steam: yet not even that drove her to
such insanity of revulsion as the two servants. They alone made her
coming life seem like one eternal school, with the committee ever on
the platform, and no recess. But she worked very meekly and soberly, and
Jethro took off his coat and helped her; then, just before twelve, they
washed their hands and went across the orchard to Mrs. Pike's.
The rest of the day seemed to Dilly like a confused though not an
unfamiliar dream. She knew that the dinner was very good, and that it
choked her, so that Mrs. Pike, alert in her first pride of housekeeping,
was quite cordially harsh with her for not eating more; and that Jethro
talked about Chicago; and Eli Pike, older than his wife and graver, said
"Do tell!" now and again, and seemed to picture in his mind the outlines
of city living. She escaped from the table as soon as possible, under
pretext of the work to be done, and slipped back to the empty house; and
there Jethro found her, and began helping her again.
The still afternoon settled down in its grooves of beauty, and its very
loveliness gave Dilly a pain at the heart. She remembered that this was
the hour when her mother used to yawn over her long seam, or her
knitting, and fall asleep by the window, while the bees droned outside
in the jessamine, and a humming-bird--there had always been one, year
after year, and Dilly could never get over the impression that it was
the same bird--hovered on his invisible perch and thrilled his wings
divinely. Then the day slipped over an unseen height, and fell into a
sheltered calm. The work was not done, and they had to go over to Mrs.
Pike's again to supper, and to spend the night. Dilly longed to stretch
herself on the old kitchen lounge in her own home; but Mrs. Pike told
her plainly that she was crazy, and Jethro, with a kindly authority,
bade her yield. And because words were like weapons that returned upon
her to hurt her anew, she did yield, and talked patiently to one and
another neighbor as they came in to see Jethro, and to inquire when he
meant to be married.
"Soon," said Jethro, with assurance. "As soon as Dilly makes up her
mind."
All that evening, Eli Pike sat on the steps, where he could hear the
talk in the sitting-room without losing the whippoorwill's song from the
Joyce orchard, and Dilly longed to slip out and sit quietly beside him.
He would know. But she could only be civil and grateful, and when half
past eight came, take her lamp and go up to bed. Jethro was given the
best chamber, because he had succeeded and came from Chicago; but Dilly
had a little room that looked straight out across the treetops down to
her own home.
At first, after closing the door behind her, she felt only the great
blessedness of being alone. She put out the light and threw herself, as
she was, face downwards on the bed. There she lay for long moments,
suffering; and this was one of the few times in her life when she was
forced to feel that human pain which is like a stab in the heart. For
she was one of those wise creatures who give themselves long spaces of
silence, and so heal them quickly of their wounds, like the sage little
animals that slip away from combat, to cure their hurt with leaves.
Presently, a great sense of rest enfolded her, a rest ineffably precious
because it was so soon to be over. It was like great riches lent only
for a time. Outside this familiar quiet was the world, thrilled by a
terrifying life pressing upon her and calling. She longed to put her
hands before her eyes, and shut out the possibility of meeting its
garish glory; she did cover her ears, lest its cry should pierce them
and she could not resist. And so she lay there shivering, until a
strange inviting that was peace and not commotion seemed to approach her
from another side, and her inner self became conscious of unheard
voices. They were not clamorous, but sweet, and they drowned her will,
and drew her to themselves. She got softly up, and, going to the
darkened window, looked out across the orchard. There, in the greenness,
lay the old house. It called on her to come. It seemed to Dilly that she
could not make haste enough to be there. She slipped softly down the
narrow stairway, and across the kitchen, where the shadows of the
moonlit windows lay upon the floor. A great excitement thrilled her
blood; and though quite safe from discovery, she was not wholly at ease
until she had entered the orchard path, and knew her feet were wet with
dew, and heard the whippoorwill, so near now that she might have
startled him from his neighboring tree. No other bird note could have
fitted her mood so well. The wild melancholy of his tone, his home in
the night, and the omens blended with his song seemed to remove him from
the world as she herself was removed; and she hastened on with a fine
exaltation, fitted her key again in the lock, and shut the door behind
her.
As soon as Dilly had entered the sitting-room, where the old desk stood
in its place, and the clock was ticking, she felt as if all her
confusion and trouble were over. She smiled to herself in the darkness.
She had come home, and it was very good. They had begun with the attic,
in their rearranging, and this room remained unchanged. It had been her
wish to keep it, in its sweet familiarity, unaltered till the last. She
drew forward her father's chair, and sat down in it, with luxurious
abandonment, to rest. Her mother's little cricket was by her side, and
she put her feet on it and exhaled a long sigh of content. Her eyes
rested on the dark cavern which was the fireplace; and there fell upon
her a sweet sense of completed bliss, as if it were alight and she could
watch the dancing flames. And suddenly Dilly was aware that the Joyces
were all about her.
She had been sure, in her coming through the woods, that they knew and
cared; now she was certain that, in some fashion, they recognized their
bondage and loyalty to the place, as she recognized her own, and that
they upheld her to her task. She thought them over, as she sat there,
and saw their souls more keenly than if she had met them, men and women,
face to face. There was the shoe-maker among them, who, generations
back, was sitting on his bench when news came of the battle of
Lexington, and who threw down hammer and last, and ran wildly out into
the woods, where he stayed three days and nights, calling with a loud
voice upon Almighty God to save him from ill-doing. Then he had drowned
himself in a little brook too shallow for the death of any but a
desperate man. He had been the disgrace of the Joyces; they dared not
think of him, and they know, even to this day, that he is remembered
among their townsmen as the Joyce who was a coward, and killed himself
rather than go to war. But here he stood--was it the man, or some secret
intelligence of him?--and Dilly, out of all his race, was the one to
comprehend him. She saw, with a thrill of passionate sympathy, how he
had believed with all his soul in the wickedness of war, and how the
wound to his country so roused in him the desire of blood that he fled
away and prayed his God to save him from mortal guilt,--and how, finding
that he saw with an overwhelming delight the red of anticipated
slaughter, and knew his traitorous feet were bearing him to the ranks,
he chose the death of the body rather than sin against the soul. And
Dilly was glad; the blood in her own veins ran purer for his sake.
There was old Delilah Joyce, who went into a decline for love, and
wasted quite away. She had been one of those tragic fugitives on the
island of being, driven out into the storm of public sympathy to be
beaten and undone; for she was left on her wedding day by her lover, who
vowed he loved her no more. But now Dilly saw her without the pathetic
bravery of her silken gown which was never worn, and knew her for a
woman serene and glad. That very day she had unfolded the gown in the
attic, where it had lain, year upon year, wrapped about by the poignant
sympathy of her kin, a perpetual reminder of the hurts and faithlessness
of life. It had become a relic, set aside from modern use. She felt now
as if she could even wear it herself, though silk was not for her, or
deck some little child in its shot and shimmering gayety. For it came
to her, with a glad rush of acquiescent joy, that all his life, the man,
though blinded by illusion, had been true to her whom he had left; and
that, instead of being poor, she was very rich. It was from that moment
that Dilly began to understand that the soul does not altogether weld
its own bonds, but that they lie in the secret core of things, as the
planet rushes on its appointed way.
There was Annette Joyce, who married a Stackpole, and, to the disgust of
her kin, clung to him through one debauch after another, until the world
found out that Annette "couldn't have much sense of decency herself, or
she wouldn't put up with such things." But on this one night Dilly found
out that Annette's life had been a continual laying hold of Eternal
Being, not for herself, but for the creature she loved; that she had
shown the insolence and audacity of a thousand spirits in one, besieging
high heaven and crying in the ear of God: "I demand of Thee this soul
that Thou hast made." And somehow Dilly knew now that she was of those
who overcome.
So the line stretched on, until she was aware of souls of which she had
never heard; and she knew that, faulty as their deeds might be, they had
striven, and the strife was not in vain. She felt herself to be one drop
in a mighty river, flowing into the water which is the sum of life; and
she was content to be absorbed in that great stream. There was human
comfort in the moment, too; for all about her were those whom she had
seen with her bodily eyes, and their presence brought an infinite cheer
and rest. Dilly felt the safety of the universe; she smiled lovingly
over the preciousness of all its homely ways. She thought of the
twilights when she had sat on the doorstone, eating huckleberries and
milk, and seeing the sun drop down the west; she remembered one night
when her little cat came home, after it had been lost, and felt the warm
touch of its fur against her hand. She saw how the great chain of things
is held by such slender links, and how there is nothing that is not most
sacred and most good. The hum of summer life outside the window seemed
to her the life in her own veins, and she knew that nothing dwells apart
from anything else, and that, whether we wot of it or not, we are of one
blood.
The night went on to that solemn hush that comes before the dawn. Dilly
felt the presence of the day, and what it would demand of her; but now
she did not fear. For Jethro, too, had been with her; and at last she
understood his power over her and could lay it away like a jewel in a
case, a precious thing, and yet not to be worn. She saw him, also, in
his stream of being, as she was swept along through hers, and knew how
that old race had given him a beauty which was not his, but
theirs,--and how, in the melancholy of his eyes, she loved a soul long
passed, and in the wonder of his hand the tender lines of other hands,
waving to fiery action. He was an inheritor; and she had loved, not him,
but his inheritance.
Now it was the later dusk of night, and the cocks crowed loudly in a
clear diminuendo, dying far away. Dilly pressed her hands upon her eyes,
and came awake to the outer world. She looked about the room with a warm
smile, and reviewed, in feeling, her happy night. It was no longer hard
to dismantle the place. The room, the house, the race were hers forever;
she had learned the abidingness of what is real. When she closed the
door behind her, she touched the casing as if she loved it, and,
crossing the orchard, she felt as if all the trees could say: "We know,
you and we!"
As she entered the Pike farmyard, Eli was just going to milking, with
clusters of shining pails.
"You're up early," said he. "Well, there's nothin' like the mornin'!"
"No," answered Dilly, smiling at him with the radiance of one who
carries good news, "except night-time! There's a good deal in that!" And
while Eli went gravely on, pondering according to his wont, she ran up
to smooth her tumbled bed.
After breakfast, while Mrs. Pike was carrying away the dishes, Dilly
called Jethro softly to one side.
"You come out in the orchard. I want to speak to you."
Her voice thrilled with something like the gladness of confidence, and
Jethro's own face brightened. Dilly read that vivid anticipation, and
caught her breath. Though she knew it now, the old charm would never be
quite gone. She took his hand and drew him forward. She seemed like a
child, unaffected and not afraid. Out in the path, under the oldest tree
of all, she dropped his hand and faced him.
"Jethro," she said, "we can't do it. We can't get married."
He looked at her amazed. She seemed to be telling good news instead of
bad. She gazed up at him smilingly. He could not understand.
"Don't you care about me?" he asked at length, haltingly; and again
Dilly smiled at him in the same warm confidence.
"Oh, yes," she said eagerly. "I do care, ever and ever so much. But it's
your folks I care about. It ain't you. I've found it all out, Jethro.
Things don't al'ays belong to us. Sometimes they belong to them that
have gone before; an' half the time we don't know it."
Jethro laid a gentle hand upon her arm. "You're all tired out," he said
soothingly. "Now you give up picking over things, and let me hire
somebody. I'll be glad to."
But Dilly withdrew a little from his touch. "You're real good, Jethro,"
she answered steadily. She had put aside her exaltation, and was her old
self, full of common-sense and kindly strength. "But I don't feel tired,
an' I ain't a mite crazed. All you can do is to ride over to town with
Eli--he's goin' after he feeds the pigs--an' take the cars from there.
It's all over, Jethro. It is, truly. I ain't so sorry as I might be; for
it's borne in on me you won't care this way long. An' you needn't, dear;
for nothin' between us is changed a mite. The only trouble is, it ain't
the kind of thing we thought."
She looked in his eyes with a long, bright farewell glance, and turned
away. She had left behind her something which was very fine and
beautiful; but she could not mourn. And all that morning, about the
house, she sang little snatches of song, and was content. The Joyces had
done their work, and she was doing hers.
THE WAY OF PEACE
It was two weeks after her mother's funeral when Lucy Ann Cummings sat
down and considered. The web of a lifelong service and devotion still
clung about her, but she was bereft of the creature for whom it had been
spun. Now she was quite alone, save for her two brothers and the cousins
who lived in other townships, and they all had homes of their own. Lucy
Ann sat still, and thought about her life. Brother Ezra and brother John
would be good to her. They always had been. Their solicitude redoubled
with her need, and they had even insisted on leaving Annabel, John's
daughter, to keep her company after the funeral. Lucy Ann thought
longingly of the healing which lay in the very loneliness of her little
house; but she yielded, with a patient sigh. John and Ezra were
men-folks, and doubtless they knew best.
A little more than a week had gone when school "took up," rather earlier
than had been intended, and Annabel went away in haste, to teach. Then
Lucy Ann drew her first long breath. She had resisted many a kindly
office from her niece, with the crafty innocence of the gentle who can
only parry and never thrust. When Annabel wanted to help in packing away
grandma's things, aunt Lucy agreed, half-heartedly, and then deferred
the task from day to day. In reality, Lucy Ann never meant to pack them
away at all. She could not imagine her home without them; but that,
Annabel would not understand, and her aunt pushed aside the moment,
reasoning that something is pretty sure to happen if you put things off
long enough. And something did; Annabel went away. It was then that Lucy
Ann took a brief draught of the cup of peace.
Long before her mother's death, when they both knew how inevitably it
was coming, Lucy Ann had, one day, a little shock of surprise. She was
standing before the glass, coiling her crisp gray hair, and thinking
over and over the words the doctor had used, the night before, when he
told her how near the end might be. Her delicate face fell into deeper
lines. Her mouth dropped a little at the corners; her faded brown eyes
were hot with tears, and stopping to wipe them, she caught sight of
herself in the glass.
"Why," she said aloud, "I look jest like mother!"
And so she did, save that it was the mother of five years ago, before
disease had corroded the dear face, and patience wrought its tracery
there.
"Well," she continued, smiling a little at the poverty of her state, "I
shall be a real comfort to me when mother's gone!"
Now that her moment of solitude had struck, grief came also. It glided
in, and sat down by her, to go forth no more, save perhaps under its
other guise of a patient hope. She rocked back and forth in her chair,
and moaned a little to herself.
"Oh, I never can bear it!" she said pathetically, under her breath. "I
never can bear it in the world!"
The tokens of illness were all put away. Her mother's bedroom lay cold
in an unsmiling order. The ticking of the clock emphasized the
inexorable silence of the house. Once Lucy Ann thought she heard a
little rustle and stir. It seemed the most natural thing in the world,
coming from the bedroom, where one movement of the clothes had always
been enough to summon her with flying feet. She caught her breath, and
held it, to listen. She was ready, undisturbed, for any sign. But a
great fly buzzed drowsily on the pane, and the fire crackled with
accentuated life. She was quite alone. She put her hand to her heart, in
that gesture of grief which is so entirely natural when we feel the stab
of destiny; and then she went wanly into the sitting-room, looking about
her for some pretense of duty to solace her poor mind. There again she
caught sight of herself in the glass.
"Oh, my!" breathed Lucy Ann. Low as they were, the words held a fullness
of joy.
Her face had been aging through these days of grief; it had grown more
and more like her mother's. She felt as if a hand had been stretched out
to her, holding a gift, and at that moment something told her how to
make the gift enduring. Running over to the little table where her
mother's work-basket stood, as it had been, undisturbed, she took out a
pair of scissors, and went back to the glass. There she let down her
thick gray hair, parted it carefully on the sides, and cut off lock
after lock about her face. She looked a caricature of her sober self.
But she was well used to curling hair like this, drawing its crisp
silver into shining rings; and she stood patiently before the glass and
coaxed her own locks into just such fashion as had framed the older
face. It was done, and Lucy Ann looked at herself with a smile all
suffused by love and longing. She was not herself any more; she had gone
back a generation, and chosen a warmer niche. She could have kissed her
face in the glass, it was so like that other dearer one. She did finger
the little curls, with a reminiscent passion, not daring to think of the
darkness where the others had been shut; and, at that instant, she felt
very rich. The change suggested a more faithful portraiture, and she
went up into the spare room and looked through the closet where her
mother's clothes had been hanging so long, untouched. Selecting a purple
thibet, with a little white sprig, she slipped off her own dress, and
stepped into it. She crossed a muslin kerchief on her breast, and pinned
it with the cameo her mother had been used to wear. It was impossible to
look at herself in the doing; but when the deed was over, she went again
to the glass and stood there, held by a wonder beyond her will. She had
resurrected the creature she loved; this was an enduring portrait,
perpetuating, in her own life, another life as well.
"I'll pack away my own clo'es to-morrer," said Lucy Ann to herself.
"Them are the ones to be put aside."
She went downstairs, hushed and tremulous, and seated herself again, her
thin hands crossed upon her lap; and there she stayed, in a pleasant
dream, not of the future, and not even of the past, but face to face
with a recognition of wonderful possibilities. She had dreaded her
loneliness with the ache that is despair; but she was not lonely any
more. She had been allowed to set up a little model of the tabernacle
where she had worshiped; and, having that, she ceased to be afraid. To
sit there, clothed in such sweet familiarity of line and likeness, had
tightened her grasp upon the things that are. She did not seem to
herself altogether alive, nor was her mother dead. They had been fused,
by some wonderful alchemy; and instead of being worlds apart, they were
at one. So, John Cummings, her brother, stepping briskly in, after tying
his horse at the gate, came upon her unawares, and started, with a
hoarse, thick cry. It was in the dusk of evening; and, seeing her
outline against the window, he stepped back against the wall and leaned
there a moment, grasping at the casing with one hand. "Good God!" he
breathed, at last, "I thought 't was mother!"
Lucy Ann rose, and went forward to meet him.
"Then it's true," said she. "I'm so pleased. Seems as if I could git
along, if I could look a little mite like her."
John stood staring at her, frowning in his bewilderment.
"What have you done to yourself?" he asked. "Put on her clo'es?"
"Yes," said Lucy Ann, "but that ain't all. I guess I do resemble mother,
though we ain't any of us had much time to think about it. Well, I am
pleased. I took out that daguerreotype she had, down Saltash way, though
it don't favor her as she was at the end. But if I can take a glimpse of
myself in the glass, now and then, mebbe I can git along."
They sat down together in the dark, and mused over old memories. John
had always understood Lucy Ann better than the rest. When she gave up
Simeon Bascom to stay at home with her mother, he never pitied her much;
he knew she had chosen the path she loved. The other day, even, some one
had wondered that she could have heard the funeral service so unmoved;
but he, seeing how her face had seemed to fade and wither at every word,
guessed what pain was at her heart. So, though his wife had sent him
over to ask how Lucy Ann was getting on, he really found out very
little, and felt how painfully dumb he must be when he got home. Lucy
Ann was pretty well, he thought he might say. She'd got to looking a
good deal like mother.
They took their "blindman's holiday," Lucy Ann once in a while putting a
stick on the leaping blaze, and, when John questioned her, giving a
low-toned reply. Even her voice had changed. It might have come from
that bedroom, in one of the pauses between hours of pain, and neither
would have been surprised.
"What makes you burn beech?" asked John, when a shower of sparks came
crackling at them.
"I don't know," she answered. "Seems kind o' nat'ral. Some of it got
into the last cord we bought, an' one night it snapped out, an' most
burnt up mother's nightgown an' cap while I was warmin' 'em. We had a
real time of it. She scolded me, an' then she laughed, an' I
laughed--an' so, when I see a stick or two o' beech to-day, I kind o'
picked it out a-purpose."
John's horse stamped impatiently from the gate, and John, too, knew it
was time to go. His errand was not done, and he balked at it.
"Lucy Ann," said he, with the bluntness of resolve, "what you goin' to
do?"
Lucy Ann looked sweetly at him through the dark. She had expected that.
She smoothed her mother's dress with one hand, and it gave her courage.
"Do?" said she; "why, I ain't goin' to do nothin'. I've got enough to
pull through on."
"Yes, but where you goin' to live?"
"Here."
"Alone?"
"I don't feel so very much alone," said she, smiling to herself. At that
moment she did not. All sorts of sweet possibilities had made themselves
real. They comforted her, like the presence of love.
John felt himself a messenger. He was speaking for others that with
which his soul did not accord.
"The fact is," said he, "they're all terrible set ag'inst it. They say
you're gittin' along in years. So you be. So are we all. But they will
have it, it ain't right for you to live on here alone. Mary says she
should be scairt to death. She wants you should come an' make it your
home with us."
"Yes, I dunno but Mary would be scairt," said Lucy Ann placidly. "But I
ain't. She's real good to ask me; but I can't do it, no more'n she could
leave you an' the children an' come over here to stay with me. Why,
John, this is my home!"
Her voice sank upon a note of passion. It trembled with memories of dewy
mornings and golden eves. She had not grown here, through all her youth
and middle life, like moss upon a rock, without fitting into the hollows
and softening the angles of her poor habitation. She had drunk the
sunlight and the rains of one small spot, and she knew how both would
fall. The place, its sky and clouds and breezes, belonged to her: but
she belonged to it as well.
John stood between two wills, his own and that of those who had sent
him. Left to himself, he would not have harassed her. To him, also,
wedded to a hearth where he found warmth and peace, it would have been
sweet to live there always, though alone, and die by the light of its
dying fire. But Mary thought otherwise, and in matters of worldly
judgment he could only yield.
"I don't want you should make a mistake," said he. "Mebbe you an' I
don't look for'ard enough. They say you'll repent it if you stay, an'
there'll be a hurrah-boys all round. What say to makin' us a visit?
That'll kind o' stave it off, an' then we can see what's best to be
done."
Lucy Ann put her hands to her delicate throat, where her mother's gold
beads lay lightly, with a significant touch. She, like John, had an
innate gentleness of disposition. She distrusted her own power to judge.
"Maybe I might," said she faintly. "Oh, John, do you think I've got to?"
"It needn't be for long," answered John briefly, though he felt his eyes
moist with pity of her. "Mebbe you could stay a month?"
"Oh, I couldn't do that!" cried Lucy Ann, in wild denial. "I never could
in the world. If you'll make it a fortnight, an' harness up yourself,
an' bring me home, mebbe I might."
John gave his word, but when he took his leave of her, she leaned
forward into the dark, where the impatient horse was fretting, and made
her last condition.
"You'll let me turn the key on things here jest as they be? You won't
ask me to break up nuthin'?"
"Break up!" repeated John, with the intensity of an oath. "I guess you
needn't. If anybody puts that on you, you send 'em to me."
So Lucy Ann packed her mother's dresses into a little hair trunk that
had stood in the attic unused for many years, and went away to make her
visit. When she drove up to the house, sitting erect and slender in her
mother's cashmere shawl and black bonnet, Mary, watching from the
window, gave a little cry, as at the risen dead. John had told her
about Lucy Ann's transformation, but she put it all aside as a crazy
notion, not likely to last: now it seemed less a pathetic masquerade
than a strange bypath taken by nature itself.
The children regarded it with awe, and half the time called Lucy Ann
"grandma." That delighted her. Whenever they did it, she looked up to
say, with her happiest smile,--
"There! that's complete. You'll remember grandma, won't you? We mustn't
ever forget her."
Here, in this warm-hearted household, anxious to do her service in a way
that was not her own, she had some happiness, of a tremulous kind; but
it was all built up of her trust in a speedy escape. She knit mittens,
and sewed long seams; and every day her desire to fill the time was
irradiated by the certainty that twelve hours more were gone. A few more
patient intervals, and she should be at home. Sometimes, as the end of
her visit drew nearer, she woke early in the morning with a sensation of
irresponsible joy, and wondered, for an instant, what had happened to
her. Then it always came back, with an inward flooding she had scarcely
felt even in her placid youth. At home there would be so many things to
do, and, above all, such munificent leisure! For there she would feel no
need of feverish action to pass the time. The hours would take care of
themselves; they would fleet by, while she sat, her hands folded,
communing with old memories.
The day came, and the end of her probation. She trembled a good deal,
packing her trunk in secret, to escape Mary's remonstrances; but John
stood by her, and she was allowed to go.
"You'll get sick of it," called Mary after them. "I guess you'll be glad
enough to see the children again, an' they will you. Mind, you've got to
come back an' spend the winter."
Lucy Ann nodded happily. She could agree to anything sufficiently
remote; and the winter was not yet here.
The first day in the old house seemed to her like new birth in Paradise.
She wandered about, touching chairs and tables and curtains, the
manifest symbols of an undying past. There were loving duties to be
done, but she could not do them yet. She had to look her pleasure in the
face, and learn its lineaments.
Next morning came brother Ezra, and Lucy Ann hurried to meet him with an
exaggerated welcome. Life was never very friendly to Ezra, and those who
belonged to him had to be doubly kind. They could not change his luck,
but they might sweeten it. They said the world had not gone well with
him; though sometimes it was hinted that Ezra, being out of gear, could
not go with the world. All the rivers ran away from him, and went to
turn some other mill. He was ungrudging of John's prosperity, but still
he looked at it in some disparagement, and shook his head. His cheeks
were channeled long before youth was over; his feet were weary with
honest serving, and his hands grown hard with toil. Yet he had not
arrived, and John was at the goal before him.
"We heard you'd been stayin' with John's folks," said he to Lucy Ann.
"Leastways, Abby did, an' she thinks mebbe you've got a little time for
us now, though we ain't nothin' to offer compared to what you're used to
over there."
"I'll come," said Lucy Ann promptly. "Yes, I'll come, an' be glad to."
It was part of her allegiance to the one who had gone.
"Ezra needs bracin'," she heard her mother say, in many a sick-room
gossip. "He's got to be flattered up, an' have some grit put into him."
It was many weeks before Lucy Ann came home again. Cousin Rebecca, in
Saltash, sent her a cordial letter of invitation for just as long as she
felt like staying; and the moneyed cousin at the Ridge wrote in like
manner, following her note by a telegram, intimating that she would not
take no for an answer. Lucy Ann frowned in alarm when the first letter
came, and studied it by daylight and in her musings at night, as if some
comfort might lurk between the lines. She was tempted to throw it in
the fire, not answered at all. Still, there was a reason for going. This
cousin had a broken hip, she needed company, and the flavor of old
times. The other had married a "drinkin' man," and might feel hurt at
being refused. So, fortifying herself with some inner resolution she
never confessed, Lucy Ann set her teeth and started out on a visiting
campaign. John was amazed. He drove over to see her while she was
spending a few days with an aunt in Sudleigh.
"When you been home last, Lucy Ann?" asked he.
A little flush came into her face, and she winked bravely.
"I ain't been home at all," said she, in a low tone. "Not sence August."
John groped vainly in mental depths for other experiences likely to
illuminate this. He concluded that he had not quite understood Lucy Ann
and her feeling about home; but that was neither here nor there.
"Well," he remarked, rising to go, "you're gittin' to be quite a
visitor."
"I'm tryin' to learn how," said Lucy Ann, almost gayly. "I've been
a-cousinin' so long, I sha'n't know how to do anything else."
But now the middle of November had come, and she was again in her own
house. Cousin Titcomb had brought her there and driven away, concerned
that he must leave her in a cold kitchen, and only deterred by a looming
horse-trade from staying to build a fire. Lucy Ann bade him good-by,
with a gratitude which was not for her visit, but all for getting home;
and when he uttered that terrifying valedictory known as "coming again,"
she could meet it cheerfully. She even stood in the door, watching him
away; and not until the rattle of his wheels had ceased on the frozen
road, did she return to her kitchen and stretch her shawled arms
pathetically upward.
"I thank my heavenly Father!" said Lucy Ann, with the fervency of a
great experience.
She built her fire, and then unpacked her little trunk, and hung up the
things in the bedroom where her mother's presence seemed still to cling.
"I'll sleep here now," she said to herself. "I won't go out of this no
more."
Then all the little homely duties of the hour cried out upon her, like
children long neglected; and, with the luxurious leisure of those who
may prolong a pleasant task, she set her house in order. She laid out a
programme to occupy her days. The attic should be cleaned to-morrow. In
one day? Nay, why not three, to hold Time still, and make him wait her
pleasure? Then there were the chambers, and the living-rooms below. She
felt all the excited joy of youth; she was tasting anticipation at its
best.
"It'll take me a week," said she. "That will be grand." She could hardly
wait even for the morrow's sun; and that night she slept like those of
whom much is to be required, and who must wake in season. Morning came,
and mid-forenoon, and while she stepped about under the roof where dust
had gathered and bitter herbs told tales of summers past, John drove
into the yard. Lucy Ann threw up the attic window and leaned out.
"You put your horse up, an' I'll be through here in a second," she
called. "The barn's open."
John was in a hurry.
"I've got to go over to Sudleigh, to meet the twelve o'clock," said he.
"Harold's comin'. I only wanted to say I'll be over after you the night
before Thanksgivin'. Mary wants you should be sure to be there to
breakfast. You all right? Cephas said you seemed to have a proper good
time with them."
John turned skillfully on the little green and drove away. Lucy Ann
stayed at the window watching him, the breeze lifting her gray curls,
and the sun smiling at her. She withdrew slowly into the attic, and sank
down upon the floor, close by the window. She sat there and thought, and
the wind still struck upon her unheeded. Was she always to be subject to
the tyranny of those who had set up their hearth-stones in a more
enduring form? Was her home not a home merely because there were no men
and children in it? She drew her breath sharply, and confronted certain
problems of the greater world, not knowing what they were. To Lucy Ann
they did not seem problems at all. They were simply touches on the
individual nerve, and she felt the pain. Her own inner self throbbed in
revolt, but she never guessed that any other part of nature was
throbbing with it. Then she went about her work, with the patience of
habit. It was well that the attic should be cleaned, though the savor of
the task was gone.
Next day, she walked to Sudleigh, with a basket on her arm. Often she
sent her little errands by the neighbors; but to-day she was uneasy, and
it seemed as if the walk might do her good. She wanted some soda and
some needles and thread. She tried to think they were very important,
though some sense of humor told her grimly that household goods are of
slight use to one who goes a-cousining. Her day at John's would be
prolonged to seven; nay, why not a month, when the winter itself was not
too great a tax for them to lay upon her? In her deserted house, soda
would lose its strength, and even cloves decay. Lucy Ann felt her will
growing very weak within her; indeed, at that time, she was hardly
conscious of having any will at all.
It was Saturday, and John and Ezra were almost sure to be in town. She
thought of that, and how pleasant it would be to hear from the folks: so
much pleasanter than to be always facing them on their own ground, and
never on hers. At the grocery she came upon Ezra, mounted on a
wagon-load of meal-bags, and just gathering up the reins.
"Hullo!" he called. "You didn't walk?"
"Oh, I jest clipped it over," returned Lucy Ann carelessly. "I'm goin'
to git a ride home. I see Marden's wagon when I come by the
post-office."
"Well, I hadn't any expectation o' your bein' here," said Ezra. "I meant
to ride round to-morrer. We want you to spend Thanksgivin' Day with us.
I'll come over arter you."
"Oh, Ezra!" said Lucy Ann, quite sincerely, with her concession to his
lower fortunes, "why didn't you say so! John's asked me."
"The dogs!" said Ezra. It was his deepest oath. Then he drew a sigh.
"Well," he concluded, "that's our luck. We al'ays come out the leetle
end o' the horn. Abby'll be real put out. She 'lotted on it. Well,
John's inside there. He's buyin' up 'bout everything there is. You'll
git more'n you would with us."
He drove gloomily away, and Lucy Ann stepped into the store, musing. She
was rather sorry not to go to Ezra's, if he cared. It almost seemed as
if she might ask John to let her take the plainer way. John would
understand. She saw him at once where he stood, prosperous and hale, in
his great-coat, reading items from a long memorandum, while Jonathan
Stevens weighed and measured. The store smelled of spice, and the clerk
that minute spilled some cinnamon. Its fragrance struck upon Lucy Ann
like a call from some far-off garden, to be entered if she willed. She
laid a hand on her brother's arm, and her lips opened to words she had
not chosen:--
"John, you shouldn't ha' drove away so quick, t' other day. You jest
flung out your invitation an' run. You never give me no time to answer.
Ezra's asked me to go there."
"Well, if that ain't smart!" returned John. "Put in ahead, did he? Well,
I guess it's the fust time he ever got round. I'm terrible sorry, Lucy.
The children won't think it's any kind of a Thanksgivin' without you.
Somehow they've got it into their heads it's grandma comin'. They can't
seem to understand the difference."
"Well, you tell 'em I guess grandma's kind o' pleased for me to plan it
as I have," said Lucy Ann, almost gayly. Her face wore a strange,
excited look. She breathed a little faster. She saw a pleasant way
before her, and her feet seemed to be tending toward it without her own
volition. "You give my love to 'em. I guess they'll have a proper nice
time."
She lingered about the store until John had gone, and then went forward
to the counter. The storekeeper looked at her respectfully. Everybody
had a great liking for Lucy Ann. She had been a faithful daughter, and
now that she seemed, in so mysterious a way, to be growing like her
mother, even men of her own age regarded her with deference.
"Mr. Stevens," said she, "I didn't bring so much money with me as I
might if I'd had my wits about me. Should you jest as soon trust me for
some Thanksgivin' things?"
"Certain," replied Jonathan. "Clean out the store, if you want. Your
credit's good." He, too, felt the beguilement of the time.
"I want some things," repeated Lucy Ann, with determination. "Some
cinnamon an' some mace--there! I'll tell you, while you weigh."
It seemed to her that she was buying the spice islands of the world; and
though the money lay at home in her drawer, honestly ready to pay, the
recklessness of credit gave her an added joy. The store had its market,
also, at Thanksgiving time, and she bargained for a turkey. It could be
sent her, the day before, by some of the neighbors. When she left the
counter, her arms and her little basket were filled with bundles. Joshua
Marden was glad to take them.
"No, I won't ride," said Lucy Ann. "Much obliged to you. Jest leave
the things inside the fence. I'd ruther walk. I don't git out any too
often."
She took her way home along the brown road, stepping lightly and
swiftly, and full of busy thoughts. Flocks of birds went whirring by
over the yellowed fields. Lucy Ann could have called out to them, in
joyous understanding, they looked so free. She, too, seemed to be flying
on the wings of a fortunate wind.
All that week she scrubbed and regulated, and took a thousand capable
steps as briskly as those who work for the home-coming of those they
love. The neighbors dropped in, one after another, to ask where she was
going to spend Thanksgiving. Some of them said, "Won't you pass the day
with us?" but Lucy Ann replied blithely:--
"Oh, John's invited me there!"
All that week, too, she answered letters, in her cramped and careful
hand; for cousins had bidden her to the feast. Over the letters she had
many a troubled pause, for one cousin lived near Ezra, and had to be
told that John had invited her; and to three others, dangerously within
hail of each, she made her excuse a turncoat, to fit the time. Duplicity
in black and white did hurt her a good deal, and she sometimes stopped,
in the midst of her slow transcription, to look up piteously and say
aloud:--
"I hope I shall be forgiven!" But by the time the stamp was on, and the
pencil ruling erased, her heart was light again. If she had sinned, she
was finding the path intoxicatingly pleasant.
Through all the days before the festival, no house exhaled a sweeter
savor than this little one on the green. Lucy Ann did her miniature
cooking with great seriousness and care. She seemed to be dwelling in a
sacred isolation, yet not altogether alone, but with her mother and all
their bygone years. Standing at her table, mixing and tasting, she
recalled stories her mother had told her, until, at moments, it seemed
as if she not only lived her own life, but some previous one, through
that being whose blood ran with hers. She was realizing that ineffable
sense of possession born out of knowledge that the enduring part of a
personality is ours forever, and that love is an unquenched fire, fed by
memory as well as hope.
On Thanksgiving morning, Lucy Ann lay in bed a little later, because
that had been the family custom. Then she rose to her exquisite house,
and got breakfast ready, according to the unswerving programme of the
day. Fried chicken and mince pie: she had had them as a child, and now
they were scrupulously prepared. After breakfast, she sat down in the
sunshine, and watched the people go by to service in Tiverton Church.
Lucy Ann would have liked going, too; but there would be inconvenient
questioning, as there always must be when we meet our kind. She would
stay undisturbed in her seclusion, keeping her festival alone. The
morning was still young when she put her turkey in the oven, and made
the vegetables ready. Lucy Ann was not very fond of vegetables, but
there had to be just so many--onions, turnips, and squash baked with
molasses--for her mother was a Cape woman, preserving the traditions of
dear Cape dishes. All that forenoon, the little house throbbed with a
curious sense of expectancy. Lucy Ann was preparing so many things that
it seemed as if somebody must surely keep her company; but when
dinner-time struck, and she was still alone, there came no lull in her
anticipation. Peace abode with her, and wrought its own fair work. She
ate her dinner slowly, with meditation and a thankful heart. She did not
need to hear the minister's careful catalogue of mercies received. She
was at home; that was enough.
After dinner, when she had done up the work, and left the kitchen
without spot or stain, she went upstairs, and took out her mother's
beautiful silk poplin, the one saved for great occasions, and only left
behind because she had chosen to be buried in her wedding gown. Lucy Ann
put it on with careful hands, and then laid about her neck the wrought
collar she had selected the day before. She looked at herself in the
glass, and arranged a gray curl with anxious scrutiny. No girl adorning
for her bridal could have examined every fold and line with a more
tender care. She stood there a long, long moment, and approved herself.
"It's a wonder," she said reverently. "It's the greatest mercy anybody
ever had."
The afternoon waned, though not swiftly; for Time does not always gallop
when happiness pursues. Lucy Ann could almost hear the gliding of his
rhythmic feet. She did the things set aside for festivals, or the days
when we have company. She looked over the photograph album, and turned
the pages of the "Ladies' Wreath." When she opened the case containing
that old daguerreotype, she scanned it with a little distasteful smile,
and then glanced up at her own image in the glass, nodding her head in
thankful peace. She was the enduring portrait. In herself, she might
even see her mother grow very old. So the hours slipped on into dusk,
and she sat there with her dream, knowing, though it was only a dream,
how sane it was, and good. When wheels came rattling into the yard, she
awoke with a start, and John's voice, calling to her in an inexplicable
alarm, did not disturb her. She had had her day. Not all the family
fates could take it from her now. John kept calling, even while his wife
and children were climbing down, unaided, from the great carryall. His
voice proclaimed its own story, and Lucy Ann heard it with surprise.
"Lucy! Lucy Ann!" he cried. "You here? You show yourself, if you're all
right."
Before they reached the front door, Lucy Ann had opened it and stood
there, gently welcoming.
"Yes, here I be," said she. "Come right in, all of ye. Why, if that
ain't Ezra, too, an' his folks, turnin' into the lane. When 'd you plan
it?"
"Plan it! we didn't plan it!" said Mary testily. She put her hand on
Lucy Ann's shoulder, to give her a little shake; but, feeling mother's
poplin, she forbore.
Lucy Ann retreated before them into the house, and they all trooped in
after her. Ezra's family, too, were crowding in at the doorway; and the
brothers, who had paused only to hitch the horses, filled up the way
behind. Mary, by a just self-election, was always the one to speak.
"I declare, Lucy!" cried she, "if ever I could be tried with you, I
should be now. Here we thought you was at Ezra's, an' Ezra's folks
thought you was with us; an' if we hadn't harnessed up, an' drove over
there in the afternoon, for a kind of a surprise party, we should ha'
gone to bed thinkin' you was somewhere, safe an' sound. An' here you've
been, all day long, in this lonesome house!"
"You let me git a light," said Lucy Ann calmly. "You be takin' off your
things, an' se' down." She began lighting the tall astral lamp on the
table, and its prisms danced and swung. Lucy Ann's delicate hand did not
tremble; and when the flame burned up through the shining chimney, more
than one started, at seeing how exactly she resembled grandma, in the
days when old Mrs. Cummings had ruled her own house. Perhaps it was the
royalty of the poplin that enwrapped her; but Lucy Ann looked very
capable of holding her own. She was facing them all, one hand resting on
the table, and a little smile flickering over her face.
"I s'pose I was a poor miserable creatur' to git out of it that way,"
said she. "If I'd felt as I do now, I needn't ha' done it. I could ha'
spoke up. But then it seemed as if there wa'n't no other way. I jest
wanted my Thanksgivin' in my own home, an' so I throwed you off the
track the best way I could. I dunno's I lied. I dunno whether I did or
not; but I guess, anyway, I shall be forgiven for it."
Ezra spoke first: "Well, if you didn't want to come"--
