with which I had been well content up to this time, that life was a
continual ecstasy. I discovered, early in December, that, as Mr. Wegg
was to immortalize himself by saying a quarter-century later--"all print
was open" to me. By the middle of February I had gone three times
through the inimitable classic, Cobwebs-to-catch-Flies, and read at
least six other books through twice, besides being up to my eyes and
over the head of my understanding in Sandford and Merton, that most
fascinating of prosy impossibilities. Beside the classic I have named,
and Rosamond, Harry and Lucy, Berquin's Children's Friend, Mrs.
Sherwood's Little Henry and His Bearer and Fairchild Family, Anna
Ross and Helen Maurice, we had no books that were written expressly
for children. No prepared pap being at hand, we expressed real
nourishment for the mind--relishful juices that made intellectual bone
and muscle--from the strong meat upon which our elders fed.
Did we comprehend all, or one-third of what we read, or heard read?
Less, probably, than one-sixth, but we got far more than would seem
credible to one who has been led up a graciously inclined plane of
learning. Our manner of receiving and digesting mind-food was very much
like Bud's way of testing unknown substances that might be edible. We
rejected what hurt our teeth. What we got we kept.
The current of my outer life was quiet to apparent dulness. After
breakfast Mary 'Liza and I had our lessons with my mother in "the
chamber." In another year we would have a governess, but the mothers of
that time always taught their children to read and write, to spell and
cipher through Emerson's First Arithmetic. I have known several who
never sent their boys and girls to school, even preparing the lads for
college. We had our reading, beginning with a chapter in the Bible,
then, our spelling and writing, and sums. After these, my mother read
aloud from Grimshaw's History of England, simplifying the language
when she considered it necessary, which was not often, while Mary 'Liza
made up the first set of chemises (in the vernacular "shimmys,") she had
undertaken for herself, and I knit twenty rounds on a stocking. My
mother put in a "mark" of black silk every morning from which I could
count the rounds upward. Mary 'Liza had knit a dozen pairs in all. In
the tops of six, she had knit in openwork her initials "M. E. B." I had
no ambitions in that direction. My views on the subject of ornamental
initials and sampler autographs were put into pregnant English at a
subsequent date by the elder Weller. He professed to have received at
second-hand from the charity-boy, set to con the alphabet, what the
retired stage-driver applied to matrimony--to wit, that it was not worth
while to go through so much to get so little. Knitting delighted not me,
nor stitching either.
Lessons and work over, the day began for me in joyful earnest. The rest
of the morning and all the evening were mine to use, or abuse, as I
liked. We applied "evening" to the hours between the three o'clock
dinner and bedtime. We may have caught the phrase from our Bible
readings. The morning and the evening were the day.
Early in the fall I had begged permission from my mother to utilize a
deserted chicken-house as a play-room. It was long and narrow; one side
was barred with upright slats that admitted light and air to the former
inmates; one end was taken up by the door; the other and the back were
solid boards, the house having been built in the angle of a fence. My
mother had the interior cleaned and whitewashed. I think she was glad to
provide a decent "den" for me nearer home than the Old Orchard and the
more distant woods, and she was losing hold of her hope of making me
into a pattern daughter. It gives me a twinge to recollect how
thanklessly I accepted what must have been an act of self-denial on her
part, perhaps even a compromise with conscience. Mam' Chloe--by my
mother's orders, as I know now--hunted up some breadths of faded carpet
in the garret, Uncle Ike beat the dust out of them, then nailed them up
along the slatted side to keep the wind away. These I called my "arras,"
having picked up the word from hearing my father read Shakespeare aloud
at night after we were in the trundle-bed. Other breadths covered the
rough flooring, and I had a castle of which I was the undisputed
mistress--a court where I reigned, a queen.
Enthroned in a backless chair, I was, by turns, Mrs. Burwell (my own
mother), Helen Maurice's Aunt Felix, Rosamond's mother, Rebecca, the
Lady Rowena (my father began Ivanhoe in January), Mrs. Fairchild,
Deborah, Mrs. Murray of Anna Ross, Naomi, and Ophelia. Once, I "did"
Job by wrapping a meal-sack--for sackcloth--about me, and, sitting upon
the ground, throwing ashes over my head and into the air, the while
four colored boys, previously instructed, burst in one by one, with news
of the mischief wrought by Sabean, lightning, Chaldean, and cyclone. A
dramatization of Queen Esther, upon which I had set my heart, was, at
last, given up because I could not be King Ahasuerus and Queen Esther at
one and the same time.
When the castle was too bleak for even child-comfort, Aunt 'Ritta, the
cook, let us heat bricks in the kitchen fire, and showed us how to wrap
them in rags to keep in the warmth. Clad in my red cloak, a wadded hood
of the same color tied over my ears, and my feet upon a swathed brick, I
was in no danger of taking cold.
Mary 'Liza put her neat little nose in at the door one raw day when she
was walking for exercise, and wondered, gently, "how I could stand it."
"I am afraid the smell would give me a headache, and the cold would give
me a sore throat," she said still gently.
I never had either from the time the leaves fell until they came again.
Except when, about once a month, some matron from a near or distant
plantation brought one or more of her children with her when she drove
over to "spend the day" with my mother, I had no white playfellow near
my own age. Mary 'Liza "was not fond of playing," although she would do
it when we had company who could be entertained in no other way. As a
rule, when not engaged with lessons and chemises, she took care in a
matronly way of Dorinda, Rozillah's successor, and "behaved."
On the Sundays when we did not go to church because the weather was bad,
or there was no preaching within twenty miles of us, or my mother was
not well, or the roads were impassable with mire or frost, Mary 'Liza
and I learned two questions in the Shorter Catechism, and she learned
the references as well. We also committed a hymn to memory, and five
verses of a psalm. Beyond this, no religious exercise was binding upon
us, and there was a great deal of the day to be got rid of. Mary 'Liza
read the memoirs of Mary Lothrop and Nathan W. Dickerman, seated
upright on her cricket at one corner of the chamber fireplace, and in
the evening, if the day were pleasant, took her Bible to Mam' Chloe's
room or even as far as "the quarters," and read aloud to the servants
whole chapters out of Jeremiah and Paul's Epistles. They used to predict
that she would marry a preacher (which, by the way, she did in the
fulness of time, a red-headed widower preacher, with five boys).
I liked to go to church, because I saw there people dressed in their
prettiest clothes, and they sang hymns. Prayers and sermon were
attendant and unavoidable evils. My legs went to sleep, and a big girl
"going on six" was too old to follow suit. We read none but good books
on Sunday. Little Henry and His Bearer, Anna Ross, and Helen
Maurice were allowed; the memoirs I have named were advised. The
Fairchild Family "partook too much of the nature of fiction to be
quite suitable for Sabbath reading." So Rev. Cornelius Lee, our pastor,
had decided when the doubtful volume was submitted to him. After that,
it was locked up Saturday night, along with Sandford and Merton and
Miss Edgeworth's Moral Tales.
I minded the deprivation less after I converted the playhouse into a
family chapel, and held services there on stay-at-home Sundays. My
audience comprised all the small negroes on the place,--about twenty in
number,--and they were willing attendants. A barrel was set, the whole
head up, at the upper end of the room; upon this was my chair. I sat in
it during the singing, and mounted upon it while reading and exhorting.
Subtle reverence, which I could not analyze, held me back from "offering
prayer." What we were doing was only "making believe" after all, and
belief in the All-seeing Eye, the All-hearing Ear, the Judge of idle
words and blasphemous thoughts, was as old as my knowledge of my own
being. But sing we could and did, and I read from the Scriptures of the
Old and the New Testaments, usually from the narrative portions, with a
psalm or two to "beat the upward flame" in our hearts.
And then I would preach a sermon.
Our chapel had been in good running order for over two months, when on a
certain drizzly Sunday early in March, I arose discreetly upon my
ticklish pulpit to announce through my nose, "We will commence our
services by singing the three-hundredth-and-thirty-third hymn--'Come
thou Fount of every blessing.'"
As mine was the only hymn-book in the assembly, the mention of the
number was a bit of supererogatory business. The omission of the formula
would have been a breach of chapel etiquette. I raised the tune, and
every other pair of lungs there joined in without fear of criticism or
favor of his neighbors' ears. Some of the duller and lesser children
smothered or decapitated a word here and there in the main body of the
hymn. All knew the chorus, and it shook the unceiled roof:--
   "Away, away, away to glory!
   My name's written on the throne.
   My home's in yonder worl' o' glory,
   Where my Redeemer reigns alone."
Warmed by the vigorous preliminary, I read the sixth chapter of
Revelation, still through my nose, catching my breath audibly at the end
of each clause. This oratorical touch was copied with ludicrous accuracy
from Rev. Wesley Greene, a circuit-rider who had conducted an
"arbor-meeting" at Fine Creek meeting-house last summer. Our negroes
were all Baptists, and considered themselves remiss, as devout hearers
of aught that partook of the nature of a religious service, if they did
not respond at intervals with groans and pious ejaculations. Their
children, as gravely imitative as juvenile Simiæ, came up nobly to their
parts in our exercises.
The acknowledged leader in the responses, and my Grand Vizier in the
ordering of my small kingdom, my stage-manager and lieutenant-general,
was a girl of twelve, Mariposa by name. She received the fanciful title
from a young visitor to the plantation who had studied Spanish.
"Mariposa" meant butterfly, she told the baby's mother, who gratefully
accepted the compliment to her newly born daughter. The mother and her
mates called her "Mary Posy." The mistress, who was fond of the madcap
sponsor, retained the original pronunciation.
Mariposa was as black as tar, and to-day was clothed in a yellow
homespun frock. Her hair was twisted and bound into two upright tags
that projected above her temples. Altogether, she was not unlike a
gigantic black-and-tan moth, a resemblance heightened by the
aforementioned antennæ, albeit lessened by the baby she always carried
on some portion of her wiry frame. She was the toughest, most supple,
and most versatile creature I ever saw, of any color or clime. The baby
was disposed decorously across her knees on this occasion, and she was
one of the five auditors who had brought along their own crickets or
chairs. She had confiscated some older woman's splint-bottomed
rocking-chair and lugged it to the very front, as she had a right to do.
I had heard Mam' Chloe say of one of Rev. Wesley Greene's sermons, "I
tell you, Miss Ma'y, the Sperrit struck him that day, an' he jes'
r'arred!"
Something struck my worthy lieutenant during my reading of the white,
red, black, and pale horses of the Apocalypse and their awesome riders,
and the others following her lead, my voice was drowned by the
"Hum-hums!" and "Glorys!" and "Hallelujahs!" and "Bless de Lords!"
arising from all sides.
"It isn't polite for folks in the seats to talk louder than the
preacher," I had to admonish them in my natural voice and manner. "I
hope you won't be so noisy while I'm preaching."
Nevertheless, when I gave out my text, the struck Mariposa, rolling
from side to side with the motion of a "weaving" horse on her
rocking-chair--that squeaked dismally--was so wrought upon by the ring
of unknown and high-sounding syllables as to set up a dreary drone like
the hum of an exaggerated bumblebee, and to keep it up. This did not
disconcert me. I had expected to stir the imagination of my hearers, for
my own was aglow.
Mary 'Liza, in reciting her geography lesson on Friday, had several
times spoken of "Van Diemen's Land." Without the remotest conception of
where or what it was--whether continent, or island, or town--I fastened,
in fancy, upon her words, and constructed a hypothesis relative to the
mysterious locality. Why I should have strung it upon the same strand of
condemnation and doom with Sodom and Gomorrah, Tyre and Sidon, Capernaum
and Chorazin, I may have known then. I have no idea now why this was
done, or the derivation of the inclusive curse.
Van Diemen's Land, thus damned, fell naturally into line with the "Come
and see!" of the "living creatures," and the "Death and Hell," and the
prophecy of killing with sword and with famine and the wild beasts of
the field. I was in a quiver of excitement that made my head and heart
hot, and my feet and hands cold, as I fairly shouted my text:--
"For oh! Van Diemen's Land shall be no more!"
Mariposa's rhythmic hum was broken into irregular bars by groans and
gruntings and sighings--all, I was gratified to note, modulated to the
standard of civility I had indicated. I had made a hortatory hit, and it
was encored. I spread wide my hands, in one of which was the New
Testament, and reiterated the text with greater unction and volume:--
"For, oh, my brethren! Van Diemen's Land shall be no more!"
The chair careened under my ill-advised energy; the barrel toppled
forward, and I shot, like a rocket, clear over Mariposa's head, breaking
my fall somewhat upon another girl and baby, and landing in the middle
of the congregation, with my nose against one of the swathed bricks.
I seldom cried when hurt, Cousin Molly Belle having told me long ago
that a brave soldier made no noise when his head was shot off. But I
screamed lustily now in the belief that my nose was broken and I
bleeding to death. The deluge of gore was frightful to inexperienced
eyes.
My father's voice, kindly authoritative, bidding me "be still!" hushed
my roaring. As tears and blood were stanched, I saw his face bending
over me, full of concern that yet fought with amusement I did not
comprehend. I could not doubt that he pitied me, when he carried me,
bloody and dirty as I was, into the chamber, and stood by while my
mother and Mam' Chloe set me to rights. The shock of the fall and the
fright left me sick and trembling. The trundle-bed was drawn out to half
its width and I was laid upon it, wrapped in my little dressing-gown, a
bottle of camphor in my nerveless hand.
"I am afraid you were playing on Sunday," said my mother, more in sorrow
than in anger.
"Indeed, and indeed, mother, I was not playing!" I broke forth,
earnestly, my swollen nose making the pious twang involuntary and full
of unction. "I was preaching!"
My father walked to the fireplace to hide the laugh he could no longer
suppress.
"It is true, my dear!" my over-quick ears caught his remark as she
followed him. "I heard the singing, and went to see what was going on."
His voice sank into a low, rapid recitation, and I lost the rest until
it rose upon another laugh.
"She and Van Diemen's Land went down together!"
Chapter IV
Oiled Calico
[Illustration]
A few days after the disaster in the family chapel, my mother's cousin,
Mrs. Bray, came to see us, bringing her daughter Lucy. Their home had
been in Henrico County, but Mr. Bray had "the western fever." My mother
and Aunt Eliza Carter said so in my hearing before the Brays' visit, and
when they arrived I was surprised to see him looking so well and strong
and that he had a hearty appetite. They were on their way to Ohio,
travelling in their own carriage, and having also along with them a huge
covered wagon, drawn by four fine horses, and packed full of furniture.
This wagon was rolled into an empty carriage-house and kept there,
locked up, while they stayed.
They had planned to spend Sunday with us, just to say "Good-by," and to
move on, on Monday. On Saturday night, Cousin Mary Bray was taken ill,
and before morning the tiniest baby I ever saw was born. It was very
weak, too, and cried like a kitten all the time it was awake. The mother
had to be kept perfectly quiet. The dogs were sent to "the quarters,"
and everybody went about on tiptoe and talked in whispers. It was very
dreadful until Monday morning, when an enchanting change was made in
domestic arrangements.
The house was a rambling building, with three separate staircases--none
of them back stairs--and two wings, besides what I made my father laugh
by calling "the tail," in which was "the chamber." Cousin Mary Bray's
room was in the second story of the south wing, which was connected by a
corridor with the main house. In the north wing was a lumber room that
had once been used as a bedroom, and had a good fireplace. Mam' Chloe
set a couple of men to pile trunks, old chairs, bedsteads, and the like,
in one corner, and two maids to sweeping and cleaning up the dust; and
when half of the room was empty and "broom-clean," had a fire kindled,
and our playthings and ourselves taken over to that end of the house. In
the corner farthest from the fire were heaped a mattress, a feather-bed,
some old blankets and comfortables, and this became, forthwith, our
favorite resort. Even Mary 'Liza entered into the fun of climbing upon
the pile that let us sink down, down, ever so far, and, pulling the
blankets over us, making believe that we were in a big covered wagon,
and going to Ohio. Our dolls, and a few other toys, went with us, and we
munched ginger cakes and apples, and played that it was night and we
were to sleep in the wagon, and that the wind howling under the eaves
was wolves, roaring 'round and 'round the camp-fire, looking for little
girls to eat. Mary 'Liza was Mr. Bray, I was Cousin Mary, Lucy was just
herself, and she did her part well.
On Tuesday, which I heard Mam' Chloe say to my mother in a solemn sort
of way was "the third day," our dinner was brought upstairs. We set the
table for ourselves by covering a packing-box with an old sheet, and
putting our plates and mugs and the dishes holding our food upon it.
Mary 'Liza was at the foot of the table, I at the head, and Lucy sat up,
prim and well-behaved, at the side, saying, "Yes, ma'am," to me and,
"No, thank you, sir," to Mary 'Liza. We were making merry over the feast
when the door opened and my mother came in with her maid Marthy, who had
a plate in her hand with three round cakes on it. Pound-cake, baked in
little pans, and warm from the oven! I danced and screamed for joy. Mary
'Liza sat still, her hands in her lap, and said, "Thank you," when her
cake was put on her plate. Lucy laughed all over her face without saying
anything, but when my mother sat down on a chair to rest after climbing
the stairs, the child ran to her and put both arms around her neck and
laid her cheek on her shoulder.
I can see her now--the picture was so pretty! Her hair was dark brown
and waved naturally away from her forehead, making her face rather oval
than round; her gray eyes were clear and large, and, when she was not
smiling or talking, there was a serious shadow far down in them. She had
a dear little mouth, and I liked to make her laugh that I might see the
dimples come and go in her cheeks.
Her frock was a new material to Mary 'Liza and me,--bright red, with a
tiny black clover leaf dotting it. They called the stuff "oiled calico,"
and, by putting my nose close to it, I could distinguish an odor that
was something like oil. What we knew as "Turkey red," many years later,
resembled it somewhat, but the oiled calico was much finer and softer.
My mother lifted the slight figure to her lap, and I pressed close to
her other side, nibbling my cake, crumb by crumb, to make it last
longer. I had a habit of swallowing my goodies as soon as I got them.
Mary 'Liza always put aside part of hers "until next time."
At Christmas I had made a valiant effort to be economical and
forehanded, and got the plantation carpenter to knock together a
savings-bank for me, with a hole in the top. Into this I put half of the
candy, raisins, and almonds given to me in the holidays and for a
fortnight afterward. The self-denial went hard with me, but I consoled
myself each night with the anticipation of opening day. The end of the
fortnight arrived at last. I promised my sable cohort such a spread in
the playhouse as it and they had never beheld. Barratier, Mariposa's
brother, borrowed a hammer and chisel from "the shop," and pried off the
lid. All crowded close to peep in. The box was almost full. Sticks of
peppermint candy, with ribbons of red and white winding about them (a
barber's pole reminds me of them to this hour); lollipops, also of
peppermint, that would just go into my mouth and let the roof down and
the teeth meet; cubes of amber lemon candy; and, most delicately
delicious of all, squares of pink rose-candy that dissolved upon the
tongue and smelt like the Vale of Cashmere to the very last grain;
bunches of raisins, which we--and Jacky Horner--called "plums"; almonds,
palm-nuts, filberts; small ginger cakes of a cut and size that Aunt
'Ritta would not make for us unless she were in a particularly good
humor;--the sight called forth a round-eyed and round-mouthed
"Aw-w-w!" from the heads packed in a solid circle, as necks craned
eagerly forward.
For five heavenly minutes I was a fairy-godmother, a Lady Bountiful,
with whom the ability to give was coequal with the desire. I made them
sit down in rows on the carpeted boards. I hope there was not sacrilege
in thinking, as I gave the order, how and where a similar command had
been spoken. Beginning with the babies, I put a bit of candy upon each
greedy palm, bidding my pensioners wait until I gave the signal to eat
it. Then I took a pink cube between my thumb and finger, waved it
theatrically above my head, and popped it into my mouth. Every other
mouth opened simultaneously.
Even now I hurry over the telling. The treasure-chest was of green pine
boards. The contents were so strongly impregnated with turpentine that
not a morsel was eatable. The weest pickaninny spat it out and squalled
because the turpentine burned his tongue.
I could dwell tearfully--possibly profitably--upon the moral of the
adventure, had I not left Lucy Bray all this time on my mother's lap,
and myself fingering the oiled calico in covetous admiration.
"Mother," I said, "I wish, next time you go to Richmond, you would buy
me a frock like this. Don't you think it is pretty?"
"Very pretty, Molly. But I do not like to have you wear cotton in the
winter. I am afraid you might catch fire. Haven't you a worsted frock
that you can put on to-morrow, Lucy? It would be safer while you
children are up here so much alone."
Lucy was an old-fashioned little body from being the only child for so
long and being so much with her mother. Instead of answering directly,
she stopped to think, a pucker drawn between her brows with the effort.
"I don't believe I have, Cousin Mary," she said slowly. "'Most all my
best clothes are packed up, and the trunks are in the wagon. We didn't
mean to stay here more than two days, you know. It wouldn't be worth
while to unpack the trunks, I s'pose? Mamma will be well enough to go on
to Ohio pretty soon, won't she?"
"I hope so, dear."
My mother drew her up to her and kissed the brown head. She, too, was
thoughtful. I supposed that she was wondering if she would better
unpack those trunks. I was not glad that Cousin Mary Bray was sick, but
I was in no hurry for her to get well enough to travel. I had never had
another visitor whose ways of playing suited me as well as Lucy's. She
was a year older than I, and a year younger than Mary 'Liza, and she got
along beautifully with both of us. Then there was her cat, Alexander the
Great, that she was taking to Ohio with her. He was the biggest cat any
of us had ever known, with a coat of the longest, softest fur you can
imagine, all pure gray, without a white or black hair on him, and he had
lots of fun and sense. Mary 'Liza wanted, at first, to make believe that
he was a hungry wolf, but Lucy would not hear of it until I proposed he
should be a tame wolf we had taken when he was a baby and trained to
defend us. He really seemed to understand what was expected of him, and
when we lay down in the feather-bed and huddled close together under
the covers, and whispered, as the wind screamed around the corners of
the house:--
"There they are again! Don't you s'pose they'll be afraid of the fire?
Wolves always are, you know,"--and Lucy would answer:--
"Faithful Alexander will take care of us."
Alexander would prowl up and down the room and stalk around the bed,
never offering to get upon it, until we called out to one another:--
"Another morning, and we are still safe!"
Then, he would leap into Lucy's arms, and purr, and tickle her nose with
his whiskers, until she couldn't speak for laughing. She had had him
ever since he was born, and he slept on the foot of her bed at night.
While she sat in my mother's lap, he was winding himself in and out
between her feet, his tail carried aloft like a soldier's plume, and
purring almost as loudly as a watchman's rattle. My mother looked down,
presently, at him, and checked the absent-minded passes of her hand
over Lucy's hair.
"Give him some milk, Marthy," she said, smiling. "I wish you had a coat
like his, Lucy. I shouldn't be afraid then of your taking cold, or of
your going too near the fire. Marthy! to-morrow you must hunt up a
fender to put here, and see if one of your Miss Mary 'Liza's last
winter's frocks won't fit Miss Lucy. It would do very well for her to
play in. We must take good care of her while--this bad weather lasts."
I fancy she would have finished the sentence differently but for fear of
saddening the child by intimating that her mother might be ill for a
long time. She kissed Lucy in putting her down, and patted my shoulder,
telling me to "be a good girl and very kind to my cousin."
"I am glad you all are so comfortable and happy here," she added. "I
could not have you downstairs just now. Carry these things down, Marthy,
and run up every little while to see how the young ladies are getting
on. Be sure and keep up a good fire, Mary 'Liza, my dear. I trust you to
look after the other children."
When she had gone I went to the window and flattened my nose against the
glass to peer into the storm. It was a dormer-window, and the March snow
was drifted high upon the roof on both sides of it, and upon the jutting
eaves above it, until I looked out, as through a tunnel, into the
jutting tree-tops. Beyond was a mad whirl of snowflakes that hid the
nearest hills. The wind whined and scolded, and now and then arose into
a hoarse bellow. I shivered, and slipped my cold hands up the sleeves of
my stuff frock. We had circassian frocks for every day, and merino for
Sundays. Our under petticoats were of flannel, and we wore, outside of
these, quilted skirts interlined with wool. My mother had a nervous
dread of fire.
A shriek of laughter turned me to the more cheerful scene behind me.
Alexander the Great was chasing his own tail as violently as if he had
just discovered it and considered it as an offence to his dignity. Lucy
was clapping her hands to egg him on, and Mary 'Liza had sat down upon
the pile of bedding to laugh at her ease. Before leaving the room Marthy
had piled wood upon the andirons as high as she could reach up the
chimney-throat without grazing her hands in withdrawing them, as was the
rule in fire-architecture on Virginia plantations. The March wind,
finding its way through many a crack and cranny, beat at the flames
until they flared this way and that. The cat dashed dizzily across the
hearth, and Lucy, with a cry of alarm, darted forward to snatch him from
the dangerous neighborhood. She caught hold of him, and pulled him away,
and the draught whipped her skirts into the hottest heart of the fire.
It was the work of an instant. The oily dressing of the cotton fabric
may have made it the more inflammable. Rooted to the floor by horror, I
saw a column of flame flash past me to the door, and heard the piercing
wail grow fainter down the stairs.
My mother heard it in the distant room where the sick woman was sleeping
quietly, the tiny baby on her arm. Shutting the door as she came out,
the hostess flew across the house to the north wing, and met the burning
child on the stairs. Eluding her by keeping close to the wall, she
gained the upper room, saw, at one wild glance that her own little ones
were safe, tore a blanket from the bed, overtook Lucy at the stair-foot,
and smothered the flames with it.
[Illustration]
Chapter V
What Was Done With Musidora
[Illustration]
The details of Lucy Bray's death were told to me by others. My childish
recollection held every feature of that first awful scene as tenaciously
as if the flames had kindled upon me, and not upon my hapless
playfellow. What followed is a hazy kaleidoscope, lurid and vague, until
my scattered thoughts settled to the perception that I was making a long
visit at Uncle Carter's and sharing Cousin Molly Belle's room and bed.
She made me a new rag-doll-baby while I was there. That was the first
thing that "brought me round," as Aunt Eliza phrased it. For one whole
day when it was raining and blowing out of doors, I had eyes and
thoughts for nothing except the evolution of that miraculous doll-baby,
as she grew and glowed into an entity under the fingers of my
best-beloved crony. She was a blonde after she ceased to be a blank. Her
eyes were blue, her cheeks were shaded carmine; she had a real nose
raised above the dead level of her countenance, stuffed artistically,
and kept in shape by well-applied stitches. Finally,--and half a century
thereafter I thrill in thinking of it,--an intellectual cranium was
covered with a cunningly fashioned wig of Cousin Molly Belle's own silky
auburn hair.
This last and transcendent touch was added after I went to bed one
night. The superb creation, arrayed in a lovely light purple French
calico frock that could be taken off at night and put on in the morning,
and sure enough underclothes, all tucked and trimmed, smiled from my
pillow into my eyes when I unclosed them at the touch of the morning
light.
I christened my beauty "Mollabella," and would not change the name for
her maker's gentle remonstrances and all my college cousin Burwell's
teasing.
Musidora had lapsed, little by little, into chronic invalidism, spending
much of her time in bed. She was uncomely to any eyes but mine, and I
would not subject her to unkind criticism. Her case was made hopeless by
the officious kindness of Argus, a Newfoundland puppy, in bringing her
to the playhouse one day after I had purposely left her tucked up snugly
under three blankets inside of my reversed cricket by the dining-room
fire. The attention was well meant, and he could not be expected to know
that to drag sickly Musidora by the left leg through the mud until the
infirm member parted company with the body, and to finish the journey
with the head between his teeth, was not a happy device by which to win
her owner's regard. I forgave him, in time, but Musidora was, after
this last misadventure, a problem. I wondered much, sadly and silently,
what other little girls did with doll-babies who died natural deaths.
Not like Rozillah, who was never mentioned in my hearing, unless I were
very naughty indeed, and heroic treatment was indicated.
The day after my return home, the question was solved.
In the fortnight of my absence great changes had befallen our household.
Lucy and her mother and the tiny scrap of a baby had died, and been laid
under the snow in the Burwell burying-ground on the hillside beyond the
Old Orchard. Mr. Bray had gone to Ohio along with the big covered wagon.
Alexander the Great went with him in the carriage. With tears in her
sweet eyes, my mother told me how fond the father was of Lucy's pet, and
how strangely the cat had acted in staying on Lucy's grave all the time
until Mr. Bray took him away by force and carried him off in the
carriage with him.
From my retinue of vassals I had, in the chicken playhouse, a fuller and
more circumstantial account of all that had passed during those gloomy
days. The pleasant weather that succeeded the March snowstorm had given
place to a cold, sweeping rain. I scampered as fast as I could across
the yard to my castle, my red cloak over my head, and we had to shut the
door to exclude the slant sheets of rain. All gathered in the upper end
of the room where my chair stood, the only seat there except the floor.
To the accompaniment of hissing rain and angry winds, the gruesome
particulars of the triple funeral were narrated. Mariposa--with the baby
on her lap--was chief spokeswoman, but nearly every one present had some
item of his own, authentic or imaginary, to add. All were sure that the
three whose fate had aroused the whole county to a passion of pity and
regret were angels in heaven.
[Illustration: THE BIRTH OF MOLLABELLA.
"I had eyes and thoughts for nothing except the evolution of that
miraculous doll-baby."]
"Mammy, she say, s'long as po' Miss Lucy was bu'n' so bad, 'twas
mussiful fur to let her go," said Mariposa, rolling the baby over on
his pudgy stomach, and patting his back to "bring up the wind." "She
say, ef one o' we-alls was to get bu'nt or cripple', or pufformed, or
ennything like that, she's jes' pray all night an' all day--'Good Lord,
take 'em! Heavenly Marster! put 'em out o' they mizzry!' An' Ung'
Jack, he say, seems ef everything that's put in the groun' comes up
beautifuller 'n 'twas when it went in. He tell how the seeds, they
tu'n into flowers, an' apples an' watermillions, an' all that, an' how
folks tu'n inter angills."
I cried myself to sleep that night. My mother, kept wakeful, doubtless,
by her own sad thoughts, heard the sobs I tried to stifle with the
bedclothes, and came to me with talk of the dear Saviour who had taken
little Lucy to his arms, and of her happiness in being forever with the
Lord.
I did not tell her--what child would?--that, while I missed and grieved
for the companion of those three happy days, a deeper heartache forced
up the tears.
For I knew now what must be done with Musidora.
I had taken her to bed with me that night for the first time in many
weeks. Mary 'Liza was amused, in an amiable way, when she saw the bundle
done up in red flannel--Musidora's rheumatism was awful!--that I
hugged up to me.
"I never let Dorinda sleep with me," she observed. "I am afraid of
hurting her. But I suppose you can't hurt Musidora. Why don't you give
her to one of the colored children? She is really a sight."
"Nobody asked you to look at her!" retorted I, crossly, putting my hand
over the unfeatured face. "Mam' Chloe says, 'Handsome is as handsome
does.' Anyhow, my doll-baby doesn't say mean things to folks."
The little bout raised the tear-level nearer to the escape-pipe. It was
easy to cry when Mary 'Liza's breathing assured me that she was asleep.
It also confirmed my resolution to have the poor, deformed dear dead
and buried without useless delay.
I cannot decide what moved me to bear her off secretly to the
seldom-used staircase in the north wing to prepare her for her last long
sleep. I escaped thither the next morning, as soon as lessons were over,
and seated myself half-way up the steep staircase. It was scarred in
many places by fire and smoke. No amount of scrubbing could quite efface
the traces of the catastrophe. I looked at them for a long time before
beginning my sad task, and did not shrink from the sight. My state of
mind was distinctly morbid. Children were not reckoned to have nerves at
that date, and little notice was taken of their silent moods. That I
should voluntarily seek a solitary quarter of the house, which was
shunned by others, never entered my mother's or my nurse's mind.
I had abundance of time in which to be as miserable as I thought I ought
to be, and diligently nursed such sickly, sentimental fancies as ought
to be foreign to a healthy young mind, while I divested maimed and
sightless Musidora of her flannel mufflings and dressed her in a clean
night-gown. Without saying what I meant to do with it I had begged a
square of white cambric from Mam' Chloe, and set about notching it with
a pair of blunt scissors. Mariposa had described a winding-sheet
minutely to me, and I meant that my dead doll-baby should be decently
laid out. The notching took a tedious time, and the bows of the blunt
scissors left purple furrows upon thumb and fingers. Uncle Ike had given
me an empty raisin box. I lined it with Musidora's own mattress and
quilt, spread the "pinked" cambric on them, laid the remains (no
figurative phrase in this connection) upon this bed, folding the one arm
left to the unfortunate across her breast, and wrapped the edges of the
winding-sheet over her face. With difficulty I coaxed the points of four
projecting nails left in the lid into corresponding holes in the box,
and having no hammer, sat down upon the top to make them fast, bouncing
up and down a few times to make a good job of it.
I sat still awhile after closing the casket, and rehearsed mentally the
order of the obsequies. I had, thus far, made no arrangements for them
beyond instructing the colored children to meet me in the Old Orchard
under the big sweeting when the sun reached the "noonmark" my father
had, to please me, cut in the fence by the playhouse door. They would be
there in force and on time. I would get myself and burden out of the end
door of the north wing and steal around the yard fence to the back of
the garden without being seen. I knew how Mary 'Liza would smile and
hitch up her straight, clean nose at the box and its contents, and I had
a boding fear lest grown people might disapprove of and forbid the
funeral.
Upon that my heart was fully set. The grief of losing the ceremony would
be harder to endure than the delicious mournfulness with which I had
systematically imbued my soul. I chose four boys of uniform size for
pall-bearers; Barratier was to have a spade ready and to dig the grave,
and when it was filled in we would sing a hymn. Mourning garments were
the knotty point. I, as Musidora's mother, could not appear at her
funeral in the crimson circassian frock I wore at present. That would
upset everything.
A happy thought struck me. I recollected to have seen in the
lumber-room, hanging upon some pegs high upon the wall, a row of old
bonnets, and a black one among them. Other black things could be had for
the hunting. I was a fanciful child, too used to conjuring up weird
situations and make-believe happenings to be easily scared by what other
children might dread. Nor was I then, or ever, a physical coward. As
soon as the idea of visiting that upper room came to me I acted upon it.
Tripping up the narrow stairs, I pushed hard against the door. It stuck
in the frame, and I was fearing it might be locked when it gave way
suddenly and I almost fell into the chamber. It was a dreary place,
although the spring sunshine poured broadly from wall to wall. The
charred brands of the fire that had wrought such woe were cold in the
corners of the hearth, having toppled, head-foremost and backward, over
the andirons after burning through in the middle. The old blankets and
comfortables were huddled upon the mattress and trailed upon the floor,
as my mother had left them in snatching one to throw about Lucy. A ball
with which Alexander the Great had played was in a corner. But for the
dead fire and the living sunshine and the stillness that met me on the
threshold like a draught of icy air, we might have left the place not
three minutes ago.
I learned, subsequently, that my mother had been sadly prostrated by the
terrible threefold disaster, and had never had the nerve to re-visit
the place where it began. None of the servants would have gone near it
of their own free will. A queer, unfamiliar tremor I did not recognize
as superstitious dread contracted my heart, and arrested me just within
the doorway. The box, from which we had eaten our dinner, was in the
middle of the floor, the three crickets pushed a little way back from
it, and half-way between the fireplace and a window in the gable was the
rocking-chair my mother had occupied while she held Lucy on her lap.
Faded calico covered the seat, a valance of the same hung about the
legs; two of the upright spindles were missing from the back. I took in
every feature of the haunted room before I rushed over to the wall where
the bonnets hung, climbed upon a chair, grabbed the black bonnet, and
espying a black silk apron dependent from another peg, jerked it down,
and ran off shakily, with my booty. The queer trembling had got into my
legs, and as I went downstairs I steadied myself against the wall,
avoiding, as I had not thought of doing as I went up, the scorched
streaks on the walls and the stains on the steps. Even after I stood in
the safe shelter of the garden fence, my heart beat so loudly that I put
the raisin box down upon the grass, and pulled myself together.
The sunshine was genial to my chilled frame; through the palings I could
see double rows of hyacinths, tulips, and butter-and-eggs, edging the
walks, and bushes of lilacs and snowballs almost in bloom, just as they
had looked before I went up to the lumber-room. The serene naturalness
of it all restored my wits to me; I unrolled the apron which I had
wrapped about the bonnet, and reawakened, as from a nightmare, to the
business of the hour.
When I presented myself to the group awaiting me under the big sweeting,
a low, but fervent, groan of admiration broke forth as from one breast.
The bonnet covered my head generously, jutting six inches beyond my
nose. The crêpe curtain at the back descended to my shoulder-blades and
flapped at the sides like the wings of a dejected crow. I had made a
mourning-cloak of the apron by tying it, hind part before, about my
neck, whence it drooped to my heels. Mariposa said--respectful of the
genius manifest in my caparison--that I looked "mos' ezzac'ly like a
real, sure-'nough widder." The boys were impressed into gravity becoming
the occasion, and obeyed, with never a snicker or a grimace, my
instructions as to the conduct of the ceremony.
I walked directly behind the coffin; Mariposa, with the baby on her left
hip, marched next, arm-in-arm with another girl, who carried her baby--a
very young one--over her shoulder, its head wobbling helplessly as she
walked. The rest came after us, two-and-two, through the Old Orchard,
out through the draw-bars at the lower end, and into the graveyard
beyond.
It was a retired, and not an unlovely spot. A brick wall, splashed with
ochre and gray lichens, enclosed six generations of dead Burwells and
their next of kin. A locked gate kept out trespassers. Long streamers of
brier and wild berry bushes, purple and ashy with the mantling sap
drawn upward by the March sunshine, were matted over the older graves; a
spreading "honey-shuck" tree arose near the middle of the badly kept
square, and smaller trees flourished here and there. An apple tree,
flushed with blossoms, leaned over the wall above the place selected for
Musidora's grave.
Barratier struck his perpendicular spade into the black soil in a truly
workmanlike manner, utilizing the foundation of the wall as one side of
the oblong pit. The coffin was lowered into place by means of
tow-strings, provided by thoughtful Mariposa. There was no reason, save
her punctilio of "doin' things jes' like folks," why Barratier, or I,
for that matter, should not have stooped and laid the casket in the
eighteen-inch-deep hole with our bare hands. But lowered it was in
funereal style, and covered with apple blossoms, before the bearers
returned the black earth to the excavation and mounded it into proper
shape. I stood at the head of the grave, my handkerchief at my eyes,
trying with all my might to feel sorry enough to cry. The excitement of
the conventional ceremonies, and the complacent consciousness of being
the principal actor in it, and doing the thing creditably, drew the
sting out of what would have been real grief had the flutter of my
spirits allowed me to think. I believe that, if maturer mourners would
be as frank as I, we should find that my experience was not singular,
nor my reluctant composure unnatural.
Mariposa had her emotions better in hand. She sobbed volubly, wiping
away real tears with the baby's calico slip, and three other girls
accomplished commendable snivels. An embarrassing halt brought down my
handkerchief and hushed audible mourning. The affair was not over. Every
eye was riveted expectantly upon me, and I had forgotten what came next.
Mariposa plucked my cloak and whispered in my ear:--
"Thar oughter be a pra'ar now!"
The propriety of the suggestion was obvious. I had seen pictures of
funerals and knew how the officiating clergyman appeared in committing
"dust to dust, ashes to ashes." But there was the fear aforementioned of
breaking a Commandment by addressing the Almighty in a make-believe
service.
"'Tain't a fun'ral 'thout thars a pra'ar!" Mariposa muttered
insistently.
Nerved by the exigency, I lifted both hands and eyes toward the sky:--
"World without end, Amen and Amen!"
"A-a-men!" groaned my faithful lieutenant. Her emphasis assured me
that the inspiration I had obeyed was a felicitous touch. She pressed
still closer to me, mindful of my dignity, and prompted me further, in
an artistic mutter, without using her lips.
"The services o' this solemn 'casion will be close' by er hymn."
I uttered it as if she had not given the cue, and "lined out" the hymn I
had pitched upon as eminently appropriate for the "solemn 'casion."
   "When I can read my title clear
   To mansions in the skies."
Mariposa raised the tune and carried it, the rest of the band screaming
in her wake.
   "I'll bid farewell to every fear
   And wipe my weeping eyes,"
I continued in a nasal sing-song.
The chorus was plain sailing before a spanking breeze;
   "And wipe my weeping eye-eye-eyes!
   And wipe my weeping eye-er-ese!
   I'll bid farewell to every fear
   And wipe my weeping eyes."
Like the echo of the final screech a fearsome wail arose from within the
enclosure,--a long-drawn cry, repeated while we stared into one
another's blanched faces, too affrighted for words.
Mariposa was the first to recover the use of her tongue and limbs.
"Th' ghos' o' the little baby!" she yelled, and took to her nimble
heels at a rate that made it impossible for the fleetest of her fellow
fugitives to overtake her.
I was left all alone.
[Illustration]
Chapter VI
[Illustration]
Leaning against the outside of the brick wall, too stunned to join in my
companions' stampede, I yet did not lose my senses. Neither did I cry
out or whimper. Children have gone into convulsions and become idiotic
for less cause. I was phenomenally healthy, and, as I have said, no
coward. Before the hindmost deserter gained the draw-bars my reason was
on the return path. I had the signal advantage above my comrades of not
believing in ghosts. My father had asserted to me positively, once and
again, that no such things existed, and put himself to much trouble to
explain natural phenomena that are often misinterpreted by the ignorant
and superstitious into supernatural manifestations. His orders were
strict that the servants should never retail ghost stories in our
hearing; and he was obeyed by the elder negroes. Mam' Chloe, whatever
may have been her reserved rights of private judgment, backed him up
dutifully with the epigram:--
"Folks that's gone to the bad place can't get out to come back, an'
them that's in heaven don't want to."
The cry I had heard certainly sounded like the weak wail of Cousin Mary
Bray's skinny little baby, but God and the dear angels would never let
the helpless, tiny mite wander back to earth alone. My mother had said
to me, last night, that it would never cry any more.
"It was in pain all the while it was here," she reminded me. "It never
awoke that it did not begin to cry. Think how sweet it must be for it
not to suffer now. I think that God sent for it to come to heaven
because He was so sorry for it."
Strength flowed into my soul with the recollection. My mother never said
what was not exactly true. Happy, safe, and saving faith of childhood in
a parent's wisdom, a parent's word, a parent's power!
Curious, rather than frightened, I stepped over Musidora's grave, and
hurried around to the locked gate. Two unsodded mounds were near the
entrance. One was long, and one short. Stretched upon this last was
something that moved slightly and cried again, yet more piteously, when
I called to it. The sight sent me flying like a flushed partridge
through the Old Orchard to the garden fence, over it and up the middle
walk of the garden. While yet afar off, I saw my father standing there
talking with the gardener. Evidently the scattered horde had not spread
an alarm. My father turned at my loud panting, and eyed me with
astonishment. Without pausing to consider why he should be amazed, I
caught hold of him and shrieked my news:--
"Father! father! it is Alexander the Great come back to look for Lucy!"
My father seldom scolded. He more rarely punished without inquiry. He
was stern now and spoke sharply.
"What is the meaning of this nonsense, Molly? You are forever getting up
some new sensation. There is such a thing as having too much
'make-believe.' I would rather have a little sensible truth now and
then."
"But, father, really and truly--" chokingly, for his words were as drawn
swords to my loving heart.
He pushed my hand away from his arm.
"When you look and behave less like a crazy child, I will hear what you
have to say. Where did you get those things?"
I wished that the ground would open and swallow me away from his cold,
contemptuous eye. I had forgotten my ridiculous costume entirely. The
shame and humiliation of having exposed myself to his just criticism,
the added disgrace of the grinning gardener's enjoyment of the figure I
had cut--the absurd coal-scuttle of a bonnet hanging down my back, the
black silk apron streaming behind me like a half-inflated
balloon--overwhelmed me with speechless confusion. I hung my head in an
agony.
"Where did you get them, I say?" repeated my father.
"Up in the lumber-room," I stammered, faintly and sheepishly.
"Go, put them back where you found them! Then, come to me. As I was
saying, James--"
He went on with his directions to the gardener.
I slunk away, forgetful of everything except my personal discomfiture,
dodging from one clump of shrubbery to another, lest I should be seen
from the windows of the house, going almost on all-fours in exposed
stretches of walk or garden-beds, and so making my retreat to the side
door of the north wing. I had stripped off the hateful masquerade
habiliments and rolled them into a compact bundle, but anybody who met
me would ask what I was carrying under my arm, and I could bear no more
that day. Unable to contain myself a minute longer, I sank down in the
solitude of the steep staircase leading to the lumber-room, and had my
cry--if not out--so nearly to the end that I felt adequate to making my
judge see reason,--if only he would not look at me as if he were ashamed
of his daughter! Was it very wrong to take those things on the sly?
Would I be punished for it? Had he told my mother yet? And did Mary
'Liza know about it? I could never, never tell her that I had worn the
nasty bonnet and cloak as mourning to Musidora's funeral. I would be
whipped first.
Crying again in anticipation of the dilemma, I trudged slowly up the
steps, and pushed back the door, which stuck fast again although I did
not recollect shutting it.
"Just's if somebody was leaning against it!" said I, pettishly, and
flung my whole weight against the lower panel.
The door flew back and I fell headlong, face downward, on the floor, the
bundle flying ahead of me clear to the hearth. I picked myself up,
rubbed my smarting palms and, in a vile humor, recovered the detestable
cause of all the trouble. I boxed the lop-ears of the bonnet, and gave
the apron a vicious shake, in restoring them to their respective pegs.
Then, I backed down from the chair on which I had been standing, and
started for the door. A feeble cry stopped me as if a shot had passed
through me.
The room was in afternoon shadow, and the blinds of the larger of the
two windows had blown shut. The cry quavered out again, and at the same
instant I saw--or verily believed that I saw with my natural
eyes--Cousin Mary Bray seated in the rocking-chair between the hearth
and the window, holding a baby in her arms. She was rocking gently back
and forth, her face was pale and peaceful, and she wore a sort of dim
gray dress. Thus much I had seen when my father called loudly to me from
the bottom of the steps:--
"Molly! what are you doing up there? Come down directly! do you hear?"
The apparition disappeared on the instant, and as I moved toward the
door, I stumbled over something soft that mewed miserably. In a second I
had it in my arms,--a rack of bones covered with muddy, tangled gray
fur,--and rushed down the stairs.
"I told you so, father! don't you see? It is Alexander the Great. Now,
isn't it?"
Will it be believed that the commotion attendant upon the recognition of
the wanderer, the talk, conjectures and questions, the nursing and
feeding, and cosseting the creature who was at the point of death from
starvation and fatigue--put all thought of revealing what I had beheld
in the haunted chamber out of my head, until, when I recalled it in all
its vividness, I simply could not speak of it? It was all like a swift,
bad dream, the telling of which might revive the unpleasant sensation
it created in passing. I do not pretend to explain a child's reserve on
subjects which have gone very far into the deeps of a consciousness that
never lets them go. Perhaps the solution is partly in the poverty of a
vocabulary which lags painfully behind the development of thought and
emotion. Certain it is that I was a woman grown before I ever confided
to a living soul what I thought sat in the rocking-chair in the haunted
room, brooding peacefully above a quieted baby.
Lucy's cat--guided by what instinct only his Creator and ours knows--had
found his way to her grave over two hundred miles of fen, field, and
forest. Not finding her there, he had tracked me to the room where she
had last played with him. When carried to other parts of the house, he
cried piteously all day and all night. When the north wing was locked
against him, he went back to the grave and could not be coaxed away.
Finally, my mother proposed that he be allowed to stay there, until
cold weather. He was the plantation-pet all summer, growing plump, but
never playful, with nourishing food and rest. His meals were sent to him
twice a day, but he partially supported himself by catching birds and
field-mice in the burying-ground, which he never left. We got used to
his presence there after a while, and his habit of patrolling the top of
the wall, several times a day, for exercise, or under the impression
that he was guarding the short green mound where he slept every night.
As the winter approached repeated efforts were made to tempt him to the
house, and when they were ineffectual my father took him there in his
own arms. The cat refused food and sleep, keeping the household awake
with his cries, and in the morning flew so savagely at his jailers that
we were obliged to let him go.
The fiercest tempest known in mid-Virginia for forty years beset us on
the anniversary of Lucy's death, and raged for three days. When the
drifts in the graveyard melted, we found Alexander the Great dead at his
post.
[Illustration]
Chapter VII
Just For Fun
[Illustration]
The floor of the summer-house at Uncle Carter's was of lovely white
sand, and did not soil my clean pink gingham frock, although I sat down
flat upon it. Under one of the three benches that furnished it, I had
dug a vault yesterday. It was modelled upon the description given in
The Fairchild Family of one belonging to a nobleman's estate. My
self-education was essentially Squeersian. When I read a thing, I
forthwith went and did it. The gardener had lent me a trowel, and I had
found a thin, flat stone that served as a cover. Digging was easy work
in the top-dressing of sand and the substratum of loose, dry soil.
There were eight niches in the vault--two on a side. When all was
finished, I sallied forth in quest of occupants. My vault was stocked by
nightfall. In one niche was a dead sparrow my cousin Burwell had shot by
mistake and thrown away. In a second was a frog on which a horse or cow
had trod, crippling it so badly that Uncle Carter mercifully killed it
with a blow of his stick. The poultry-yard and an epidemic of pip
supplied me with two more silent tenants. A mouse-trap strangled a
fifth, the gardener's mole-trap yielded up a sixth. Nos. 7 and 8 were
land-terrapins ("tar'pens," in negro dialect), which I knew must be dead
when I found them, although I could discern no sign of violence. Their
shells were shut so tightly that I could not force a straw between the
upper and lower, and no amount of kicking and thumping elicited any sign
of life.
An innovation upon the Fairchild pattern was the deposit in the bottom
of the vault of a tumbler full of flies which Aunt Eliza told the
dining room servant to throw into the kitchen fire. A primitive snare
for these destroyers of the housewife's peace was made by filling a
tumbler within an inch of the brim with strong soap-suds, and fitting
upon the top a round cover of thick "sugar-loaf paper," with a hole in
the middle. Molasses was smeared all around this hole upon the under
side of the paper, and an alluring drop or two on the top attracted
attention to the larger supply of sweets. At least a quart of flies, per
day, were caught in this way in the height of the season before window
and door screens were invented.
I waylaid the man and tumbler in the back porch.
"Are they dead, sure enough?" I whispered.
"Dead as a door-nail, little mistis."
"Give 'em to me, please! I'll bury them."
He complied, good-naturedly. I poured the contents of the glass into the
vault, and strewed fine dry sand over them an inch deep. Then I fitted
on the flat stone, and said nothing to anybody of my new branch of
industry.
I was tired of being called "an old-fashioned child!" My mother's oft
and resigned ejaculation--"What next, I wonder!" was to my ears a
covert reproach for not being "steady" and "a comfort," like Mary 'Liza.
Even my less critical father's shout of laughter at any unusual freak or
experiment abraded my moral cuticle sometimes. At home the colored
children would have entered heartily into my mortuary enterprise,--yes!
and kept my counsel. The reticence of the serf exceeds in dumb
doggedness that of a misunderstood child. But I did not play with Uncle
Carter's little negroes. Every Southern child comprehended the
distinction between "home-folks" and other people's servants.
Not that I was ever lonely. What I called "things" were an unfailing
resource to me. An ant-hill was entertainment for a whole forenoon; I
watched bees and their hives by the hour; my vault kept me busy and
happy all day. If Cousin Molly Belle suspected what I was about, she
asked no questions, and refrained from spying upon me. When dressed
clean in the afternoon, for the second time since breakfast,--the
manufacture of mud-pies, puddings, and cakes, and the baking of several
batches in the sun, having engrossed the morning,--I took The Fairchild
Family out into the summer-house and reread, for the tenth time, the
account of the opening of the family vault.
Why, I reasoned within myself, should innocent dumb creatures be thrown
away like dead leaves, when they have stopped living? It would be kind
in me, or in anybody, to bury them in vaults, and to write Bible verses
and all that on their tombstones. I would dig another vault to-morrow
and look around for things to put into it,--and still another the next
day. I had, in imagination, honeycombed the space under the benches with
catacombs, and my book was clean forgotten, before I saw a movement in
the sandy flooring, close to the edge of the flat stone sealing the
mouth of the vault. I leaned forward to inspect it more nearly. The
stone had been undermined at one side, and a hole left there, through
which a line of flies, gray with dust, was feebly crawling into the
sunshine. There seemed to be a thousand of them, all dusty, but some
more active than others. As soon as they were quite clear of the hole,
they dispersed in various directions, some alighting upon twigs and
blades of grass, some flying up to the benches, where they sat cleaning
their bodies and wings with their feet and mouths.
I worked my hands into the hole and raised the stone. A cloud of
resurrected flies arose in my astonished face. The vault was quick with
them. The dry sand, warmed by the sun, that I had sifted over them, had
acted as a hot blanket upon the chilled body of a dying man. When I got
rid of the swarm I examined the vault. Both of the terrapins were
missing. The sapping and mining was their work. Through the tunnel thus
excavated they had regained their liberty, and released a mighty host of
fellow-captives.
"The rest of you are dead, anyhow!" said I, aloud, intensely chagrined
at the cheat practised upon my benevolent nature, and I shoved the stone
back over the violated vault.
A shadow fell upon the white sand. Looking up, I saw a young gentleman
in the door of the summer-house, smiling down at me. At the first glance
I took him for my cousin Burwell, who was at home on his vacation. A
second undeceived me. I scrambled to my feet and stared hard at the
stranger who stood with his hands behind him, still smiling, but not
saying a word. He was nattily dressed in a blue cloth coat and trousers,
and a white waistcoat. A white satin stock of the latest style encircled
a slender neck; he wore shiny boots, a leghorn hat was set jauntily
above a crop of black curls. I was never shy, having been accustomed
from my birth to meeting strangers and to "entertaining company" when
called upon to do so. Yet I was strangely embarrassed by the merry eyes
fixed silently upon me.
"How do you do, sir!" I said, dropping a little courtesy, as well-bred
children still did in that part of the civilized world.
Still without speaking, the stranger drew nearer and stooped to kiss me.
This was going several steps too far. I clapped one hand over my mouth
and pushed him away with the other.
"Cousin Molly Belle! oh, Cousin Molly Belle!" I screamed between my
fingers.
She was the only member of the family at home, my uncle, aunt, and their
two sons having gone on an all-day visit to a plantation some miles
away.
"Why, Namesake! don't you know me?"
Her voice answered in my very ear, her arm held me as I ceased
