man."
"At any rate I am willing to try it. Where is the hotel?"
"It is the Somerset House, on lower Broadway. It is not a fashionable
hotel, but comfortable and of good reputation. I am somewhat acquainted
with the office clerk, who was an old schoolmate of mine, and at my
request he has given you this position."
"I hope I shall give satisfaction. I shall be a green hand."
"The duties are easily understood and learned. If you show that you are
desirous of succeeding you will make a good impression, and you will get
on well."
"When am I to commence work?" asked Rupert.
"I will take you down town with me to-morrow morning, and introduce you
to Mr. Malcolm, the clerk. I suppose you will be expected to go to work
directly."
"I should prefer that."
"One thing I must tell you. You will have to secure a room outside, as
the employees are not expected to sleep in the hotel. All the rooms are
reserved for guests."
"What will my hours be?"
"From seven in the morning till seven in the evening. By this
arrangement you will have your evenings to yourself."
Rupert went to bed in good spirits. He was of an active temperament, and
enjoyed occupation. It would be pleasant to him also to feel that he was
earning his own living.
In the morning Mr. Sylvester went down town with him.
The Somerset House was a hotel of moderate size, only five stories in
height, which is low for a city hotel. I may as well say here that I
have not given the correct name of the hotel for obvious reasons. So far
as our story is concerned, the name I have chosen will do as well as any
other.
"Those who frequent this hotel are not of the fashionable class,"
explained Mr. Sylvester, "but it is largely patronized by traveling
salesmen and people from the country. The rates are moderate, and those
come here who would not feel able to afford the Fifth Avenue or hotels
of that grade."
The entrance was neat, and Rupert was well pleased with the aspect of
his new place of employment.
At some distance from the doorway was the office, and behind the reading
room.
"Mr. Malcolm," said Sylvester to a pleasant-looking man of thirty-five,
who stood behind a counter, "this is the young man I mentioned to you.
He will be glad to fill the position of bell-boy, and from my
acquaintance with him I feel quite sure he will suit you. His name is
Rupert Rollins."
The clerk smiled pleasantly.
"We shall soon know each other better," he said. "I hope you are strong,
for you will have a good deal of exercise here."
"I think I can stand it," said Rupert. "I shall soon get used to it."
"I have a plan of the rooms here," went on the clerk. "Take it and go
upstairs and look about you on the different floors. It will be
necessary that you should learn the location of the rooms."
"I will leave you now, Rupert," said Mr. Sylvester. "You can come back
to my house to-night, and to-morrow you can look up a room near the
hotel."
For the first few days Rupert got very tired. He would have to go
upstairs perhaps thirty or forty times during the day, sometimes to the
fifth floor. There was an elevator in the Somerset Hotel, but the
bell-boys were not allowed to use it.
When a guest registered and was assigned to a room on one of the upper
floors he was conducted to the elevator, but the bell-boy, carrying his
valise, was obliged to walk upstairs, and meet him at the landing-place.
Often Rupert felt that there was an injustice in this, and that no harm
would be done if he were also allowed to use the elevator. However, he
was not foolish enough make any complaint, but by his pleasant manners
and cheerful alacrity won the good opinion of Mr. Malcolm, the clerk.
The Somerset Hotel was on the European and American systems combined. If
a guest preferred simply to lodge at the hotel he could do so, and take
his meals either at the hotel restaurant or in any other.
One day a guest registered who was assigned to No. 143, on the fifth
floor.
To Rupert was assigned the duty of carrying up the valise. He found it
unusually heavy, and more than once as he climbed the stairs he felt
that he would be glad to reach his destination. At the elevator landing
he met the owner of the valise, a middle-aged man with a brown,
sunburned face.
"You found it rather a heavy tug, didn't you?" he asked, with a smile.
"Your clothes seem to be heavy," returned Rupert.
"It isn't clothes merely," said the stranger. "I come from Colorado, and
I have some specimens of quartz inside. Here, give me the valise, and
lead the way to my room."
Rupert did so.
When they reached No. 143 the stranger drew a fifty cent piece from his
pocket and handed it to Rupert.
"Take it," he said. "You deserve something for carrying such a load."
"Thank you, sir," said Rupert. "I don't find many guests so liberal."
"Shall I tell you why I am so liberal? It is because when I was a boy,
rather older than you, I was for four months a bell-boy in a Chicago
hotel."
"Were you, indeed, sir?" said Rupert, with interest. "Did you retire on
a fortune?"
"No; fees were few and far between. However, I saved a little and
borrowed a little more, and made my way first to Nevada, and afterwards
to Colorado. I have been pretty well prospered, and now I come home to
see my old father and mother in Maine."
"I hope you will find them well."
"Thank you, my boy, I heartily hope so. It is seventeen years since I
have seen their dear old faces, and it will be a good day for me when we
meet again."
"Are your father and mother both living?"
"Both at last accounts."
"Then you are luckier than I am. My father is dead."
"That is unfortunate. You are young to have lost a parent."
"Can I do anything for you, sir? Have you all that you need?"
"Yes," answered the guest, with a look at the washstand. "What I want
first is water and towels, for I have just got in from a long railroad
journey. Those seem to be provided. If I want anything else I will
ring."
"Fifty cents!" repeated Rupert. "I wish I could be as well paid every
time I carry a valise up stairs. Then I should get rich fast."
During the second week a tall, thin man with long hair flowing down over
his coat collar registered at the Somerset.
"No. 119," said the clerk. "Front!"
Rupert answered the summons.
"Take this gentleman's valise to No. 119."
Rupert thought the stranger a very singular-looking man. His long,
unkempt locks were of yellowish hue, and his eyes were shifty and
evasive. But of course in a hotel frequented by all sorts of people, no
special attention was paid to any particular guest.
Rupert met him upstairs and conducted him to his room.
"Take the valise inside," said the guest.
Rupert did so, when he was startled by the guest locking the door,
making him a prisoner.
"Now, boy," he said, his eyes lighted with an insane gleam, "you must
prepare to die!"
"What?" exclaimed Rupert, startled. "What do you mean?"
"I am commanded by God to offer you up as a sacrifice, even as Abraham
offered up his son Isaac."
As he spoke he drew a knife from his breast and advanced toward the
hapless bell-boy.
CHAPTER X.
A BELL-BOY'S EXPERIENCES.
It was evident that the guest whom Rupert had conducted to his room was
a maniac of the most dangerous character. The man's face was terrible to
look upon. His small, ferret-like eyes seemed to dilate with ferocious
cunning. He was a man not perhaps robust or strong, but too strong for a
boy of sixteen. And Rupert was alone with him.
It was terrible to think that he was to become the victim of such a man.
Apart from the pain of death, it was made more terrible at the hands of
an insane man.
What should he do?
Rupert had read somewhere that to openly combat an insane person is
dangerous. It is advisable to humor his delusions. Fortunately he had
read a story recently in which a man had escaped death by this very
means. It was a desperate chance, but Rupert resolved to make use of
it. Instead of showing the fear he really felt, he forced himself to
appear calm.
"You are mistaken," he said; "the boy you are to sacrifice is under the
bed."
The maniac was just about to lunge with his knife, but Rupert's words
made him pause.
"Look under the bed and you will see him," continued the bell-boy.
The bed was at the other end of the room. The maniac went over to it,
and, getting on his knees, began to peer underneath.
Here was Rupert's opportunity. He sprang to the door, turned the key,
but did not dare to stop to lock it on the outside, and dashed into the
entry. The door of the next room chanced to be open. He darted inside,
and bolted himself in.
He was just in time. The maniac, discovering the ruse, rose to his feet,
and, knife in hand, ran into the hall with a blood-curdling cry. He
looked in vain for Rupert, who was nowhere to be seen. The staircase was
near. He ran down, flight after flight, till he reached the office
floor, and made a great sensation as he dashed through it with his drawn
knife.
Here, however, he had some one more formidable than a boy to contend
with. Two burly porters sprang upon him, and felled him to the floor.
The knife was taken from him, and the clerk, horror-struck, leaning over
him, asked, "What did you do with the boy?"
"I tried to kill him, but he escaped," said the lunatic. "But I will
have him yet!"
"Call two policemen," said Mr. Malcolm. "One of you go upstairs and find
the bell-boy."
Rupert remained in his temporary refuge, not daring to come out. He
heard his unpleasant acquaintance leaving the adjoining room, but was
apprehensive that he might return. At length he heard some one calling,
"Rupert, where are you?" and recognized it as the voice of one of the
other bell-boys. He opened the door and came out.
"Where is the insane man?" he asked quickly.
"He was captured in the office, and his knife taken from him. How did
you escape from him?"
"Wait till I go down stairs and I will tell you."
When Rupert reached the office he was eagerly questioned. He gave the
particulars of his unpleasant interview with the crank.
"I congratulate you on your presence of mind," said the clerk. "You had
a narrow escape from a terrible fate."
"Where is he now?"
"On his way to the station-house. You need not be afraid that he will
come back. He is sure to be locked up."
Later in the day the proprietor of the hotel sent for Rupert.
"My boy," he said, "you ran a terrible risk this morning. It was in my
service, and I feel that I ought in some way to express my appreciation
of your remarkable courage and presence of mind. Here are fifty dollars,
which I hope you will find of service."
It was not alone the gift, but the kind words, that gratified Rupert. He
was able to buy a new suit for best, and a few other articles of which
he had need.
During the day he had a call from a man connected with one of the daily
papers, who wished his photograph to reproduce in connection with an
account of the incident. This, however, Rupert declined to give, not
caring for notoriety. The account of the crank's onset, however,
appeared, and a good many curious visitors were attracted to the
Somerset Hotel.
Among these was Julian Lorimer. Rupert's name had not been mentioned in
the account, and Julian was surprised to meet him.
"How came you here?" he asked.
"I am employed here," answered Rupert, quietly.
"What are you?"
"A bell-boy."
"Is that so? Can you tell me who it was that was nearly killed by a
crazy crank yesterday?"
"I was the one."
"You don't say so!" exclaimed Julian, in amazement. "Was he really so
dangerous?"
"He came near killing me."
"Humph! That was rather unpleasant. Do you get good pay here?"
"Yes, very good--enough to support me."
"It isn't much of a position, though."
"If you will find me a better one I will give this up," said Rupert,
smiling.
"I am expecting to go into a wholesale house soon."
"I hope you will succeed in getting such a place. It is rather hard
getting business positions now."
"Oh, my father is well known in the city. He can find me one."
"That will be in your favor."
Here Rupert was called off by a summons from the office, and the
interview terminated. He had not told Julian of the handsome gift
received from the proprietor, as he knew that his old schoolfellow had
no real interest in his welfare.
One who is employed in an American hotel has an excellent opportunity to
study human nature. It is free to all comers, and among those who sit in
the lobby or use the reading room there are always some who are not
guests. The larger proportion of these are respectable persons, but some
are adventurers who may be on the lookout for victims.
One young man, stylishly dressed and sporting an eyeglass and a cane,
Rupert had more than once noticed. He came in from time to time, bought
a sheet of paper and an envelope at the news stand, and wrote a letter
at one of the tables in the reading room. Rupert, whose acquaintance
with the city was limited, decided from his dress that he belonged to
some prominent family. It was noteworthy, however, that he always
entered alone. He sometimes, however, entered into conversation with one
of the guests of the hotel. Those from the country seemed to have his
preference.
This surprised Rupert, who wondered what attraction rural visitors could
have for a young man of his elegant appearance.
One day an old man of sixty registered from a town in Orange County. His
face was weather-beaten, and he looked like a farmer. His clothing was
rusty, and appeared to have been worn for several years.
He might have been taken for a poor man, but Rupert had seen him draw
out a large wallet full of bills, and judged that, if not rich, he was
in comfortable circumstances.
It so happened that the young man already referred to had also seen the
wallet, and he at once began to pay attention to the rural visitor.
Watching his opportunity, he sat down beside him in the reading room one
afternoon.
"It is a pleasant day, sir," he said, sociably.
"So 'tis, so 'tis," said the old man, feeling flattered by attention
from a young man of such distinguished appearance.
"I suppose you live in the country?"
"Yes, I am from Orange County."
"The finest part of the State. If my business did not keep me in the
city I should like very much to make my residence there."
"What might your business be?" asked the old man, with natural
curiosity.
"I am a broker, sir, in Wall Street. Of course you have heard of Wall
Street."
"Oh, yes," answered the old man, proud of his familiarity with the name
of this famous street. "Is it a pooty good business?"
"Well, that depends on circumstances. Sometimes I make money hand over
hand, but for the last month I give you my word I probably haven't made
over two hundred dollars."
"Two hundred dollars in a month!" repeated the farmer. "Why, that's
doing first rate, I call it."
The young man shrugged his shoulders.
"Not for a broker," he said. "Why if I make less than five hundred I
don't call it much."
"Five hundred dollars a month?" asked the farmer, much impressed.
"Yes."
"Why, that's six thousand dollars a year."
"Exactly. You are good in arithmetic," said the young man, languidly.
"Is--is there any chance to go into that business?" asked the Orange
County man, eagerly.
"My friend, I would hardly advise you to go into it. You are rather old
to begin a new business."
"That's so, but I don't ask for myself. I've got a son--he's my
youngest son--a young man of twenty-five, who's anxious to get something
to do in the city. He ain't much good on a farm--don't seem to like it.
He's read a good many books and stories about New York city, and he
wants to come here. I wish I could get him a chance to learn the broker
business. You haven't a place in your office now, have you?"
The young swell laughed in his sleeve.
"I've hooked the old man," he said to himself. "Now if I work my cards
right, I shall be able to make something out of him."
"My friend," he said, "I can't tell you at once, but I will think it
over, and--see you to-morrow morning."
He had not intended to finish his sentence thus, but just then he espied
at the door of the reading room a small, quiet-looking man whose glance
rested for a moment upon him. He knew--he had reason to know--that this
was Richard Darke, a well-known detective.
He rose from his seat and sauntered to the door, and in two minutes he
was one of the motley crowd that throng Broadway.
CHAPTER XI.
RUPERT RECEIVES A COMMISSION.
The detective, as he left the reading room, passed Rupert, who was just
entering.
"Let me see," he said, tapping Rupert on the shoulder, "you are the
bell-boy who came near being murdered by a crank?"
"Yes, sir."
"You escaped very cleverly. You are evidently a sharp boy. Keep your
eyes open, don't you?"
"Yes, sir; except when I'm asleep."
"We detectives have to keep our eyes open all the time, but we can't be
everywhere at once. Now I feel a little inclined to make you my
deputy--not permanently, but for a time."
"All right, sir."
"Have you noticed rather a flashy young man, looking like a dude, with
an eyeglass and cane?"
"Yes, sir; he is frequently in the hotel."
"You know, of course, that he isn't a guest?"
"Yes, sir. We bell-boys know who are guests and who are not."
"Possibly you may have wondered what his business is here?"
"Yes, sir."
"He is a confidence man. His business is to pick up victims, and make
what he can out of them. Do you see that old gentleman over by the
window?"
"Yes, sir."
"He is an honest and probably well-to-do old farmer, I judge. That
fellow has been having a talk with him. When he saw me he had business
elsewhere. But he hasn't given up his scheme for bleeding the old man.
Probably he will have another interview with him to-morrow. Now I should
like to have you keep your eye on the two. Find out if you can what the
man is after. I can't, for he knows me by sight. I want to foil his
schemes and save the old man from loss. Here is my address."
The detective placed in Rupert's hand a small, plain card, bearing the
name,
     RICHARD DARKE.
Below he put his address, which need not be given here.
"Don't say anything about this," he said, "except to me. Should you
mention it to anyone else in the hotel the fellow would soon see that he
was watched, and we might fail to catch him. I am reposing considerable
confidence in a boy."
"Yes, sir, but you will not regret it."
"I believe you," said the detective, cordially. "I'll see you again
soon."
"One moment, Mr. Darke. What is the young man's name?"
"He has several. The one he uses most frequently is Clarence Clayton."
"I will remember it, sir."
Clarence Clayton left the Somerset Hotel in good spirits. He felt like
an angler who was on the point of landing a fine fish.
"I wonder if old Darke saw me talking with that old Granger," he
soliloquized. "I hope not. Probably he knows me, though thus far I have
escaped having my picture in the Rogues' Gallery. Those old fellows know
everybody. Fortunately there is no regular detective at the Somerset,
and I shall be able to finish my negotiations with my country friend
before he drops in again."
Mr. Clarence Clayton was getting low in funds. Somehow fortune had not
favored him of late, and the sums he had realized out of recent victims
were very small. Yet he felt so confident of success in the present
instance that he sauntered up to the Sinclair House, at the corner of
Broadway and Eighth Street, and going into the restaurant, which has a
high reputation for choice viands, he ordered an appetizing repast at a
cost of a dollar.
He was scarcely half through when a young man, got up in very much the
same style, came in and sat down opposite him.
"Ha, Clayton!" he said, "so you're in luck."
"How do, Mortimer? What makes you think so?"
"Your extravagant spread. It isn't permitted to failures like your
humble servant to dine in such princely style."
"Then why come here at all?"
"I am only going to order fish balls and coffee, but I want those good,
and shall get them good here. Have you made a ten-strike?"
"No; business is dull with me, but I think I'm on the track of a fair
thing."
"What is it, and where?"
"Wouldn't you like to know, Mortimer?" said Clarence, putting one finger
waggishly on one side of his nose. "There isn't enough in it for two."
"Oh, I don't want to interfere with you, of course. I thought I'd like
to know whereabouts you are operating at present."
"What do you say to the Windsor Hotel?"
"Isn't that rash? Don't the detective know you?"
"He can't be everywhere, the worthy man. Your friend Clarence knows what
he is about. You won't interfere with me?"
"Of course not."
In spite of this assurance Mortimer made it in his way to drop into the
Windsor Hotel later in the evening, but of course he did not see
Clarence Clayton, who had put him on the wrong scent.
A good dinner was not the end of Clayton's extravagance. He dropped into
the Star Theatre, and enjoyed an attractive play, though it cost him a
dollar.
"Josiah Onthank will pay for it, I hope," he said, for he had
ascertained from the hotel register the name of his Orange County
friend. "It will cost something," he laughed, "to get his son into my
office in Wall Street. Oh, Clarence, you're a sly one, you are!"
Rupert was free from his duties at seven o'clock, but, remembering the
commission he had received, he sought out the farmer and opened a
conversation with him.
"How do you like New York?" he asked.
"It's a big city," answered the farmer. "I haven't been here before for
twenty years."
"Have you ever traveled on the Elevated cars?"
"No, I'm a little mite afeard to travel so high in the air. Suppose the
train should go through?"
"I don't think there's any danger, sir. The road is strongly built."
"I s'pose I'm timid, but I guess I won't ventur'. My son Ephraim
wouldn't mind. I came to the city mostly on his account. He wanted me to
see if there wasn't an opening here. He's got sick of the farm and wants
to be a city man. Are you at work here?"
"Yes, I'm a bell-boy in this hotel."
"Does it pay you well?"
"Yes, sir. I get five dollars a week and my board."
"That's good for a boy like you. It's more than I pay my hired man, and
he's twenty-eight. Is your work hard?"
"I have to run upstairs and down a good deal. I got pretty tired at
first."
"I met quite a slick young man here this afternoon; he says he's a
broker in Wall Street. He knows how to make money."
"Does he, sir?" inquired Rupert, getting interested.
"Yes; he says he made two hundred dollars last month, and he thinks
that pretty small."
"I should think it a good deal to make."
"He doesn't have to work very hard, either. Ephraim would like being a
broker. He always did like to dress up, but at home he can't do it till
evenin' after he has milked the cows and finished the chores."
"Did the gentleman mention his name to you?"
"Yes, he said his name was Clarence Clayton. He thinks he may be able to
take my son Ephraim into his office."
"Did he tell you where his office was?"
"Well, down in Wall Street somewhere. I s'pose there's a good deal of
money made in Wall Street."
"And a good deal lost, too," suggested Rupert.
"When are you going to see Mr. Clayton again?"
"To-morrow morning. He's goin' down to show me his office, and he'll
think it over whether he can take Ephraim or not."
"I suppose he is a rich man."
"I expect he is. He dresses fine. Ephraim would like to dress that way,
but he hasn't the shape for it. I should feel proud to have him doin' as
well as Mr. Clayton."
"I hope you won't mind my giving you a little advice, Mr. Onthank, even
if I am a boy."
"Go ahead, sonny! I'm sure you mean well."
"Don't make any arrangements with Mr. Clayton to take your son till you
have had a chance to talk over the matter with some one. I have a
friend, a very experienced man, and I am sure his advice would be worth
taking."
"You don't think there's anything wrong about Mr. Clayton, do you?"
asked the farmer, startled.
"I don't say that, but if he wants you to pay him some money for giving
your son a a place, don't do it till you have mentioned it to me."
"I won't. There won't be no harm in that."
"And don't tell him who it is you are going to consult. Supposing he
wasn't all right, it would put him on his guard."
"Thank you, sonny, you are a young boy, but I guess you've got a level
head."
"I hope so," laughed Rupert.
"Do you know where there's a good place to take supper--a good country
supper? I've been to the hotel eatin' houses, but it don't exactly suit
my country taste."
"Yes, Mr. Onthank, I think I can find a place that will suit you."
Rupert took the farmer to a plain restaurant not far away, where he got
some cream toast, a good cup of strong tea, and a piece of apple pie.
"That's good," said the farmer, with a sigh of satisfaction. "It's
better than all them fancy dishes I get at some places. There ain't
nothing like plain home livin'."
Rupert didn't part from Mr. Onthank till nine o'clock, when the farmer
expressed a wish to go to bed.
"I always go to bed at nine o'clock when I'm to home," he said. "Folks
here in York seem to sit up all night."
CHAPTER XII.
CLAYTON'S SCHEME.
About ten o'clock in the forenoon Clarence Clayton entered the Somerset
Hotel and looked about for the Orange County farmer. Clayton was clean
shaved, his shoes were brilliantly polished, and there was a rose in his
buttonhole.
"My dear old friend," he said, with effusion, as he espied Josiah
Onthank sitting near the door, "I hope you are feeling in the best of
health this fine morning."
"Thank you, Mr. Clayton. I feel pooty smart. Why, you're all dressed up.
You look as if you'd just come out of a bandbox."
"Men in my position have to be particular about their appearance. Now if
I was in the country I wouldn't care, but I have an appointment with Mr.
Vanderbilt this morning, and, of course, I must be particular."
"Do you know Mr. Vanderbilt?" asked Mr. Onthank, considerably
impressed.
"Intimately. I dined at his house last week."
Mr. Clayton took in with a quick glance the dress and outward appearance
of his rustic friend. Mr. Onthank certainly did not look as if he had
just stepped out of a bandbox. His clothing was dusty, and his shoes
were innocent of blacking.
"My friend," he said, "if you will pardon the suggestion, it would be
well to have your boots blacked."
"I didn't bring any blacking with me," responded the farmer. "Besides, I
had 'em blacked last Sunday."
"As you are going to Wall Street, and may meet some of the prominent
people of the city, it will be well to have them blacked this morning.
Leave it to me. I will find a boy who will do it for a nickel."
"I always black my own boots when I am to home."
"In the city we employ bootblacks."
"Five cents seems pooty good pay for blackin' boots. It don't take
more'n five minutes."
"Oh, well, the poor boys need the money. I look upon it in that light."
"To be sure!" and Mr. Onthank began to look upon his companion as a very
kind-hearted man.
Out in the street they came upon a boy who was quite ready to undertake
the job. Before he got through, however, he began to think there wasn't
much profit in it. The farmer's shoes were of cowhide, and absorbed a
great deal of blacking. Still the boy was an expert, and made them look
better than they ever had before.
"That's worth a dime," he said.
"I won't pay it," declared the farmer. "Ten cents for blackin' a pair of
boots! Why it's ridiculous!"
There might have been an angry discussion, but Clayton drew a dime from
his pocket and put it into the boy's outstretched palm.
"Very likely he's got a mother to support," he said. "Besides, he's made
your boots look fine."
"That's so," assented the farmer, looking complacently at the boy's
work. "He seems to know his business. Mrs. Onthank would be surprised if
she could see me now."
He walked along with unwonted pride, ever and anon glancing delightedly
at his renovated boots.
"I can't make 'em look like that," he said. "They look better than they
did when they was new, but ten cents is an awful price to pay."
They walked along Broadway till they reached Wall Street, down which
they turned.
Mr. Onthank was considerably impressed by the tall and stately buildings
on Broadway.
"Is your office near here, Mr. Clayton?" he asked.
"Yes, quite near."
Near the junction of Wall and New Streets Clayton led the way into a
handsome office, occupied by a firm of well-known brokers.
"This is my office," he said. "Don't ask me any questions till we come
out."
They entered the room, but many were entering, and no particular notice
was taken of them.
"There's a sight of clerks," said the farmer. "You must do a big
business."
"We do. Wait here a minute till I speak to my cashier."
He went up to a window, and in a tone inaudible to Mr. Onthank asked the
price of a particular stock. Of course an answer was given, so that they
appeared to be conferring together. Then he rejoined his Orange County
friend, and they walked slowly to the end of the counter.
"Now we'll go out," said Clayton. "I have one or two calls to make on
the street."
"Do you trust your clerks to do the work while you are away?"
"Oh, yes, they understand their duties. Things will go on like
clockwork. You see we have a perfect system."
"You don't do business alone, do you?"
"No, there are several of us in the firm. I may say frankly that I only
have one-fourth interest in the business. Still I am well paid, very
well paid."
"I s'pose you have to pay a big rent."
"Ten thousand dollars a year."
"You don't say! Why, you can get a big store where I live for only
twelve dollars a month."
"Very likely; but there is a good deal of difference between the country
and the city. Now let us walk along Broadway, down to the Battery. We
will sit down there, and I will tell you what I can offer your son."
In a few minutes they were sitting on one of the benches, looking out to
Governor's Island.
"It's a great privilege to live in New York, Mr. Onthank. I think your
son would enjoy it."
"I know he would. Why, Ephraim would give all his old boots to be at
work here."
"If they were all cowhide boots like yours the offer wouldn't be very
tempting," thought Clayton.
"Yes," he said, "I can easily believe it. May I ask what wages your son
would expect."
"Well, I reckon twenty-five to thirty dollars a month would satisfy
him."
"Twenty-five to thirty dollars a month! Why, my dear friend, what are
you thinking of?"
"I thought he couldn't live in the city in good style for less," said
the farmer, deprecatingly.
"Of course, of course, but you don't understand me. I wouldn't think of
offering him less than seventy-five dollars a month, to begin with."
"Gosh! you don't mean it?" said the farmer, his eyes opened wide.
"Certainly I do. That is the minimum salary I pay my clerks."
"Why, Ephraim would feel as rich as a king with that salary. When can
you make room for him?" he added anxiously.
"I must ask a few questions first. Has your son a fair education?"
"He attended the district school till he was fifteen."
"Then I suppose he is well up in the fundamental rules of arithmetic?"
"What's them?"
"I suppose he can add, subtract and multiply."
"Oh, yes."
"And write a fair hand?"
"He's pooty good at writin'."
"I presume he will do. Now, Mr. Onthank, I will tell you how I am
placed. There will be a vacancy next week, but a merchant up town wants
me very much to take his son. He will pay a liberal premium."
"What's that?"
"We always expect our clerks to pay a premium on entering our service.
How much money have you brought with you?"
"I've got two hundred dollars in my wallet. But what has that to do with
it?"
"A great deal, my friend. The premium must be paid down at once, and
that guarantees your son the place."
"How much do you ask?"
"The merchant I refer to is willing to pay two hundred dollars, but
between ourselves I don't favor engaging his son. I have been told that
he drinks. I hope your son doesn't drink?"
"Ephraim drinks cider at Thanksgivin', but he never drinks anything
stronger."
"I am glad to hear it. Intemperance is very objectionable in our
business. Now about the premium. I will agree to take your son for a
hundred and fifty dollars, though I have never before accepted less than
two hundred."
"A hundred and fifty dollars is a good deal of money," said Ezekiel,
cautiously.
"So it is, but think of the advantages. Think of his getting
seventy-five dollars a month, to begin with. Why in six months I shall
probably raise him to a hundred dollars a month."
Ezekiel Onthank was dazzled, and Clayton saw that he was. He felt that
he had almost landed the fish for which he was angling.
"I guess I'll take a day to think on't," said the farmer.
"I would advise you to accept at once. The other party may get in ahead
of you."
"Can't you give us the refusal of it for a day?"
"Really I don't see how I can."
"A hundred and fifty dollars is a good deal of money, and I want to
think it over."
"My dear friend, I don't see the need of it. Such situations are not to
be had every day. Why, the young man's salary the first year, supposing
he were promoted in six months, would amount to over a thousand dollars.
Deducting the premium, that would leave your son nearly nine hundred
dollars. That's a good income, isn't it?"
"Yes, so 'tis. Why our minister only gets six hundred dollars a year,
and he's a man of forty-odd."
"Exactly. You see what a brilliant prospect Ephraim will have. Really I
ought to insist on the full premium of two hundred dollars."
Clayton did his utmost to induce the farmer to decide at once, but Mr.
Onthank had promised Rupert not to do anything without talking the
matter over with him, and he kept his word.
"Well," said Clayton, "I'll give in to you. I'll give you twenty-four
hours to think over the matter, but of course I must ask you to pay me
something for the favor. Give me five dollars on account of the premium,
and you shall have a day to make up your mind."
This Mr. Onthank finally agreed to, and when the matter was settled they
walked back to the Somerset Hotel.
"You had better not say much about our negotiation," Clayton advised,
"till the matter is decided."
CHAPTER XIII.
CLAYTON'S DISAPPOINTMENT.
Josiah Onthank never for a moment doubted the good faith of the clever
swindler who was dazzling him with the prospect of a fine situation for
his son. He was a man well to do, and over and above his farm was easily
worth five thousand dollars in bonds and money interest.
Still he was reluctant to part with a hundred and fifty dollars, for
this seemed to him a good deal of money. Yet if it would secure his son
a position in the city with a large income it would be worth while. At
any rate he would lay the matter before Rupert, and ask his advice.
During the afternoon he had a chance to speak with the bell-boy.
"I've got something to tell you," he said.
"All right, sir."
"I've seen the young man I spoke to you about."
"Did he make you any offer?"
"Yes; he promised to give my son a place in his office at seventy-five
dollars a month."
"Where is his office?"
"In Wall Street. It's big and fine. He must do a raft of business."
"He is very kind to give your son a place."
"Yes, but he wants a premium of a hundred and fifty dollars. That's what
bothers me. A hundred and fifty dollars is a pile of money. What do you
think of it?"
"If you could really get a place for your son at seventy-five dollars a
month--a permanent place--it would be worth the money."
"So 'twould, so 'twould. Then you'd advise me to pay the money?"
"He wants it in advance, doesn't he?"
"Yes."
"Did you get into the office?"
"Yes."
"How do you know it is his?"
"He told me so," answered Mr. Onthank, in surprise.
"Is that all the evidence you have?"
"He went and spoke to one of the men--his cashier, he told me. You don't
think there's anything wrong, do you?"
"I think, Mr. Onthank, the man is trying to swindle you."
"You don't say!" ejaculated the farmer.
"Have you given him any money?"
"No. Yes, come to think on't, I have. I gave him five dollars for a
refusal of the place. He said another man was after it."
"You haven't lost much yet. If you should give him a hundred and fifty
dollars you would lose it all."
"What makes you think so? He seems like a gentleman."
"My information comes from a private detective."
"Well, well, I guess I've been a fool," said the farmer, in a tone of
disappointment and mortification. "What do you advise me to do?"
"I will consult with the detective first, and tell you."
The next day Clarence Clayton made his appearance. Though, not quite so
sanguine as at first, he still hoped to carry out his original plan and
obtain possession of the bulk of the farmer's money.
He found Mr. Onthank waiting for him in the reading room.
"Well, my friend," he said, "I presume you have made up your mind to
secure a position for your son?"
"You don't think you could let me have it for less?" asked Mr. Onthank,
who had been instructed what to say.
"I don't see how I can. Nor can I give you long to decide. The other
party is waiting for me at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, and if you don't come
to terms he will."
"You see it's rather a risk," said the farmer. "Suppose I pay my money
and you don't keep your part of the agreement."
"You seem to be very suspicious, Mr. Onthank," returned Clayton,
assuming indignation. "I am well known in the city as a man of the
highest honor."
"Just so," said the farmer. "Still, I should like to have you give me a
paper, agreein' to give Ephraim a position. Then I should feel safe."
"I see no objection to that," said Clayton. "I'll make it out here."
He sat down at the table, and in a few minutes handed Ezekiel Onthank
the following agreement:
     "In consideration of a hundred and fifty dollars paid to me by Mr.
     Ezekiel Onthank, of Orange County, New York, I hereby promise to
     give his son Ephraim a place in my Wall Street office, with a
     salary to begin with of seventy-five dollars per month. The
     engagement is to commence on the first of next month.
     CLARENCE CLAYTON."
"Is that satisfactory, Mr. Onthank?" he asked.
"I reckon so," said the farmer, reading the document slowly. "Do you
want the money to-day?"
"Certainly."
"Then I will go and get it."
Mr. Clayton leaned back in his chair in a pleasant frame of mind. He
chuckled to himself as he thought of the ease with which he had imposed
upon his rural dupe.
"Mr. Onthank thinks he is sharp," he soliloquized. "He may change his
opinion after awhile."
The farmer did not keep him waiting long. He re-entered the reading
room, but not alone. Richard Darke was with him.
Clarence Clayton started to his feet in dismay. He recognized the
detective at once.
"Sit down, Mr. Clayton," said Darke, smoothly. "I see you have been
doing a stroke of business with my friend, Mr. Onthank."
Clayton did not speak. He did not know what to say.
"Let me see the paper, Mr. Onthank."
The farmer handed it to the detective, who read it aloud slowly.
"You agree to give his son a situation in your Wall Street office? By
the way, where is the office?" and the detective bent a penetrating
glance on the face of the adventurer.
"I believe I made a little mistake," muttered Clayton. "Give me back the
paper, and I will correct it."
"It is quite immaterial. It will do as it stands. You have not told me
where your office is."
"I took him into it."
"Have you given him any money, Mr. Onthank?"
"I gave him five dollars yesterday."
"What for?"
"To get the refusal of the place."
"Very good. I see Mr. Clayton is a man of business. On the whole,
however, I don't think you have got full value for your money. Young
man, I will trouble you to return the five dollars to my country
friend."
"I--I am afraid I haven't got it with me," said Clayton, uncomfortably.
"How much have you?"
After searching his pockets the adventurer produced two dollars.
"Will it be convenient for you to remain in the city and prosecute this
man?" asked the detective, turning to the farmer.
"No--no. I want to leave town this afternoon."
"Then I am afraid we shall have to let him go. The three dollars you
have lost you must consider paid for experience. If it makes you more
cautious in future it will be well expended."
"So 'twill, so 'twill," said the farmer. "Much obleeged to ye, squire,
for gettin' me out of a scrape."
"You are still more indebted to the young bell-boy," indicating Rupert.
"Let me suggest that you can't do better than to offer him the money you
have saved from our sharp friend here."
"I'll do better than that," said the farmer. "I will give him ten
dollars. He has saved me from making a fool of myself."
"You see, Clayton," said the detective, "that it is better to be honest
than a knave. The bell-boy has made more in this affair than you."
"Can I go?" asked Clayton, crestfallen.
"Yes, and don't let me see you here again. I shall have my eye on you,
and the next time you won't get off so easily."
Clayton lost no time in availing himself of this permission. In sadness
and disappointment he left the hotel, inwardly resolving never to enter
it again.
"Why wasn't I satisfied with the five dollars?" he asked himself.
"Confound that young bell-boy! He has spoiled my game. But for him I
would be able to live in clover for a couple of months."
The farmer started on his return to Orange County in the afternoon.
Before going he handed Rupert a ten-dollar bill.
The bell-boy was surprised. He knew nothing of Mr. Darke's
recommendation, and did not expect such liberality from Ezekiel Onthank,
whom he looked upon as a poor man.
"I don't think I ought to take it, Mr. Onthank," he said.
"You needn't hesitate, sonny. I can afford it. I don't wear as good
clothes as the young sprig that tried to swindle me, but I ain't a poor
man by no means. If you ever have time to pay me a visit in Orange
County I'll make you welcome and see that you have a good time."
"Thank you, Mr. Onthank. If I should hear of a good situation for your
son I will let you know, and I won't charge a hundred and fifty dollars
for it, either. I haven't got an office in Wall Street, though."
"That was a good joke. That 'ere Clayton was a pooty smart rascal, after
all."
"Ho, ho!" laughed the farmer.
"Shall you invite him to visit you in Orange County, Mr. Onthank?"
"I guess he wouldn't accept. We live plain, and he's a rich Wall Street
broker. But we'll be glad to see you at any time."
CHAPTER XIV.
THE YOUNG NEWSBOY.
Rupert had engaged a room on Bleecker Street. It is not a fashionable
locality, but the time was when A. T. Stewart and other men of social
standing lived upon it.
Rupert's room, a small hall bedroom, cost him two dollars per week. It
was rather large for a hall room, and was clean and well furnished,
beyond the average of such rooms in that locality. The house was kept by
a widow, a Mrs. Stetson, a good, hard-working woman, who deserved a
better fate than the position of a lodging-house keeper.
Usually Rupert reached his room about eight o'clock in the evening. He
left the hotel at seven, and stopped for supper on the way. Arrived at
his room he generally spent an hour in reading or studying (he had
undertaken to review his arithmetic, thinking that some time he might
obtain a situation where a good knowledge of that science might be
needed).
He had nearly reached the house where he lodged on the evening after the
departure of Mr. Onthank from the Somerset Hotel, when his attention was
drawn to a boy of ten with a bundle of the "Evening News" under his arm.
He was shedding tears quietly. Rupert had a warm heart and was always
kind to younger boys.
He was touched by the little fellow's evident distress and spoke to him.
"What is the matter, Johnny?" he asked.
"I can't sell my papers," answered the boy.
"How many have you got left?"
"Twelve copies."
"How many did you have in the first place?"
"Twenty."
"Then you have only sold eight?"
"Yes, sir."
"So that you are behindhand unless you sell more. Have you a father and
mother living?"
The boy answered in the affirmative.
"I shouldn't think they would let you go out selling papers so late."
"They are very poor," answered the boy, in a sorrowful tone.
"Doesn't your father work?"
"Yes, he works for Mr. Lorimer, on Third Avenue."
Rupert's attention was aroused. This Lorimer, as the reader has already
been told, was his father's former partner, and, as Rupert believed, the
cause of his failure.
"If your father has a position I should think he would be able to
support his family."
"Mr. Lorimer only pays him five dollars a week," explained the boy.
"Only five dollars a week!" repeated Rupert, in amazement. "Doesn't he
pay more to his other salesmen?"
"Yes, but he knew father was poor, so he told him he must work for that
or leave the store."
Rupert was not altogether surprised to hear this, as he knew that
Lorimer was a mean man who had no consideration for the poor.
"Where do you live?" he asked.
"In that big house," answered the boy, pointing to a tall tenement, one
of the shabbiest on the street. "We live on the fifth floor, but I guess
well have to move out to-morrow."
"Why?"
"Father hasn't been able to save enough to pay the rent."
"What rent do you pay?"
"Six dollars. Father has only got three dollars toward it."
"What is your name?"
"Harry Benton."
"Well, Harry, I am not very rich, but I can help you a little. I will
take all your papers, to begin with."
The little boy's face brightened.
"You are very kind," he said.
"And now you may take me to your home. Perhaps I can think of some way
to relieve your father."
"Come this way, then," said Harry.
Rupert followed him to the entrance of the tenement house.
"I don't know but you'll be tired going up so many stairs," he said.
"We live on the top floor."
"I'm not a very old man yet," laughed Rupert. "I guess I can stand it if
you can."
The halls were dark and dingy, and there was an unwholesome
tenement-house odor. Through one open door Rupert caught sight of a
drunken man lying prone on the floor. Evidently the occupants of the
house were for the most part of a low class. But when Rupert followed
his little guide into the home of his parents on the upper floor, he
found respectable, and not squalid, poverty. There was an air of
neatness pervading the room, while Harry's parents looked thoroughly
honest. Mr. Benton gazed inquiringly at Rupert.
"I hope you'll excuse my intrusion," said Rupert, politely, "but your
little boy seemed in trouble and I ventured to come upstairs with him."
"I couldn't sell my papers," explained Harry. "He took all I had left,"
indicating Rupert.
"You were very kind to my little boy," said Mrs. Benton, gratefully.
"Won't you sit down? This is my husband."
Mr. Benton was a man of medium size. His features were worn and sad.
"Pray take a seat," he said. "We haven't many callers and fewer friends.
We can appreciate kindness, as we meet with it so seldom."
"Harry tells me you are in the employ of Mr. Lorimer on Third Avenue."
"Yes."
"He says you are poorly paid."
"Five dollars a week can hardly be considered liberal," returned Mr.
Benton, with a faint smile.
"Mr. Lorimer is a very mean man."
"Do you know him?"
"Yes. He was my father's partner in Buffalo."
"Your father is not in business with him now?"
"My poor father died. I have every reason to think that Mr. Lorimer
swindled him out of a large sum of money, and brought on his financial
ruin."
"I am sorry to hear it," said Benton, gravely.
"Does he pay other salesmen as poorly as he pays you?"
"There may be two or three others as poorly paid, but I think that he
knew of my poverty and took advantage of it. At any rate he called me to
the office one day, and told me that I must accept a reduction from
eight dollars to five or leave his service. You can imagine how I
decided. With my wife and child to be supported I had no choice. That
was a month since, and my life has been a hard struggle from that time.
I have been obliged to let Harry sell papers in the streets, though the
poor boy cannot earn more than from ten to fifteen cents a day in that
way."
"Harry told me that you would have difficulty in paying your rent."
"Yes," answered Mr. Benton, despondently. "We lack three dollars of the
sum required, and our landlord is a hard man. I am afraid we shall be
turned into the street."
"If you will allow me I will lend you the amount you need."
"But I am afraid I shall not be able to repay you."
"I will take my risk of that."
"Then I will not refuse. It will lift a burden from my mind. But how can
you afford to be so kind? You don't look rich."
"I am a bell-boy in a hotel, but I am pretty well paid, and I received
to-day a handsome present from a guest. It is because I am poor myself
that I can sympathize with the poor. Besides, you have suffered from the
meanness of the man who ruined my poor father. That alone gives you a
claim upon me."
"I should like to know the name of my new friend."
"My name is Rupert Rollins."
"I shall remember it. I hope you will come to see us sometimes."
"I shall be glad to do so."
"Are none of your family living?"
"Yes, I have a mother and sister in Rutherford, a few miles from the
city. They are pleasantly situated, and mother is earning her living as
a housekeeper. But I won't intrude on you longer to-night. I will call
again soon."
It seemed strange to Rupert that he should again be reminded of his
father's old partner. Mr. Lorimer apparently had not changed for the
better since he had removed from Buffalo to New York. He was the same
mean, selfish man he had always been. Yet he seemed to be prosperous,
while his victims were suffering the ills of poverty.
Rupert could not understand it. It was a difficult problem for him to
solve. This is not surprising, for it has puzzled a great many older and
wiser persons than Rupert.
"Well," he reflected, "I have parted with three dollars out of ten that
Mr. Onthank gave me. But no matter. The three dollars will do more good
to the Bentons than to me. I can spare it, and I would not care to have
it back."
An idea came to Rupert. The hall bedroom which he occupied was lonely
and not homelike. If he could only make his home with a refined family
like the Bentons he would find it much more agreeable. If they, with the
help of the eight dollars a month, which his rent cost him, could take a
small flat, it would be a good arrangement all round.
At present there were difficulties in the way, as they were unable to
raise even the small rent which they were paying now. Still
circumstances might change. He resolved to keep up the acquaintance, and
watch for some way of helping Mr. Benton to a better position. Even ten
dollars a week would be a poor salary for a good dry-goods salesman, yet
upon this he would be able to live comfortably.
Rupert had the curiosity to enter a drug store and look up the name of
Mr. Lorimer in the directory. He ascertained that the dry-goods merchant
lived on Lexington Avenue, between Thirty-fourth and Thirty-fifth
Streets. This was a desirable location, and the house, as he afterwards
learned, was a handsome, high-stoop residence, probably worth
twenty-five thousand dollars.
But Rupert did not envy his father's old partner. "I would rather be
poor and honest," he reflected, "than live in a fine house, surrounded
by luxury, gained by grinding the faces of the poor."
CHAPTER XV.
MR. SYLVESTER'S BIRTHDAY.
The next day Rupert received a letter at the Somerset Hotel. It was
signed by Frank Sylvester, and ran thus:
     "DEAR RUPERT: To-morrow is my birthday. Come and spend the evening
     with me. I will wait dinner till you come.
     "Your Friend,
     "FRANK SYLVESTER."
Rupert decided at once to accept the invitation. He had learned to like
Sylvester, as indeed he had reason to do.
He was in doubt as to whether there would be much company, but he was
not provided with a nice suit, so that he need not be ashamed of his
appearance. Arrived at his friend's residence, he found to his surprise
that there was but one other guest besides himself, a Mr. Maxwell, a
stout, pleasant-looking man of forty-five.
"Rupert," said Sylvester, "this is my cousin, John Maxwell. He is not
an idler like myself, but is a partner in a large dry-goods house down
on Grand Street. John, this is a special friend of mine. When we first
met he was able to do me a service which I shall long remember. I am
rather young to adopt him, having only reached the age of twenty-five."
"Quarter of a century," laughed Maxwell.
"That sounds older, to be sure. At any rate I look upon him as a younger
brother, and so have invited him here to my birthday dinner, as a
relative."
"You don't seem to have many relatives, Mr. Sylvester," said Rupert. "I
thought there might be quite a party."
"Most of my relatives live in the West. However, I am satisfied to have
you here and my Cousin John."
"If you are Frank's brother, I suppose I am your cousin also, Rupert,"
said Mr. Maxwell.
"I shall feel proud to have you regard me so, Mr. Maxwell."
"May I ask if you are in the same business as Frank?"
"Doing nothing at all," laughed Sylvester.
"I am a bell-boy at the Somerset Hotel," answered Rupert.
He watched Maxwell to see if the revelation of his position would affect
that gentleman's opinion of him.
"I hope you are well paid."
"Yes; I receive five dollars a week and my board."
"That is better than you would do with us."
"Mr. Maxwell," said Rupert, with a sudden thought, "I wish I knew you
better."
