watched his face eagerly, for this brought Jed within a few feet of him.
"Mother," he said, "if that boy isn't Jed, it is his twin brother."
"But, Percy," said his mother, who was a practical woman, "I never heard
that the boy had a twin brother."
"Oh, pshaw! I meant that he is exactly like him."
"But this boy is Ralph Clinton. The bill says so."
"I know it," said Percy, with a puzzled expression. "I don't understand
it at all."
"The boy you mean is probably in bed at the Scranton poorhouse."
"Perhaps he is. I don't see, for my part, how he could be here, or know
how to act."
The play proceeded. It was in five acts, and Jed was not called upon to
appear again till the last one. He proved himself up to the requirements
of the part, and evidently produced a favorable impression on the
audience.
"Mother," said Percy, "I would like to wait at the stage door till the
actors come out."
"But, Percy, it is already late. We ought to be starting for home."
"But, mother, you know father is Overseer of the Poor, and if this boy
is Jed, he has run away from the Scranton poorhouse, and father will be
held responsible."
"Why should he?"
"Because the paupers are under his charge. If one of them runs away he
will be blamed."
"Well, if you think we ought to stop," said the lady undecidedly. "But I
don't see what you expect to accomplish."
"I want to see that boy face to face. I want to speak to him, and find
out for certain who he is."
"Well, don't be any longer than you can help."
"I won't."
Meanwhile Jed and Harry Bertram were conversing in the greenroom.
"You did yourself proud, my boy," said Bertram. "You acted as well as
Clinton, and in some respects better."
"I am glad to hear you say so, Mr. Bertram," said Jed, gratified.
"I could hardly believe that this was your first appearance on the
stage. Weren't you frightened at all?"
"Not a bit. I enjoyed it."
"Did you see any of your Scranton friends in the audience?"
"I saw none of my Scranton friends," answered Jed, "but I saw two
Scranton acquaintances."
"Who were they?"
"Percy Dixon, son of the Overseer of the Poor, and his mother."
"Where were they sitting?"
"In the third row from the stage."
"Do you think they recognized you?"
"I saw Percy watching me very closely I am sure he noticed my
resemblance to his old acquaintance Jed, but he couldn't understand how
it was possible for me to be the same boy."
"Then you baffled him?"
"I don't know. I shouldn't wonder if he would be waiting outside to get
a view of me."
"And if he does?"
"He will do all he can to get me back to the poorhouse."
"Then I'll tell you what to do. Go out of the stage door arm in arm with
me, and I will address you as Ralph. If he speaks, appear not to know
him."
"That will be a capital joke," said Jed taking in the humor of the
situation.
"Between us, I think we can bluff him off."
Jed had appeared in the last act in his street costume, and had no
preparations to make, but Bertram had to exchange his stage for his
ordinary dress. When they were ready they emerged from the stage door
arm in arm. A glance showed Jed that Percy was waiting to intercept
him. He did not appear to notice Percy, but passed on.
Percy hastened forward, and touched him on the arm.
"Look here, I want to speak to you," he said.
"Speak on, my boy," said Jed, assuming the style of his new profession.
"How did you come here?" demanded Percy bluntly.
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that you are Jed Gilman."
"My dear Ralph, what does this person mean?" said Bertram.
"He evidently mistakes me for some one he knows," said Jed coolly. "May
I ask your name, young man?"
"You know me well enough," said Percy angrily, for Jed had not tried to
change his voice. "I am Percy Dixon."
"Percy Dixon?" repeated Jed. "Where have I met you?"
"Where have you met me?" retorted Percy. "At the Scranton poorhouse."
"Do you reside there?" asked Jed with admirable composure.
"Do I live at the poorhouse?" repeated Percy, exasperated. "Of course I
don't."
Mrs. Dixon had heard this colloquy, as she was sitting in the carriage
only six feet away.
"Percy," she said, "I told you you had made a mistake."
"I don't believe I have," said Percy in a sulky tone.
"For whom do you take me, Mr. Dixon?" asked Jed.
"For Jed Gilman, a poorhouse boy."
"I feel very much complimented," said Jed smoothly. "I hope Jed is a
nice boy."
"No, he isn't. He is an impudent young rascal."
"Then how dare you compare my friend Ralph to a boy like that?" demanded
Bertram savagely. "You must be crazy, or do you mean to deliberately
insult him?"
Poor Percy was overwhelmed. He wasn't half so certain now that he was
right. True, there was a wonderful resemblance between the young actor
and Jed, but then it seemed impossible that Jed should have left the
poorhouse suddenly (and Percy remembered seeing him that very afternoon
at his own home) and developed into a member of a dramatic company.
"I may have made a mistake," he said doubtfully.
"I am glad you realize this possibility," said Bertram. "Did you witness
the play this evening?"
"Yes, sir."
"Do you think your friend Jed----"
"He is not my friend."
"Well, do you think that Jed, whatever he is, could act like my friend
Ralph?"
"No, I don't think he could," Percy admitted.
"Probably this Jed is a very ordinary boy?"
"I should say so. Ordinary is no name for it. He is stupid."
"Then you will see for yourself that it is not very likely that he
should become an accomplished actor all at once. If it were you it might
be different. You are evidently a young man of social position, while
this Jed is a poor boy, and I presume without education."
"Yes, he is very ignorant," answered Percy, falling into the trap. "Is
it--hard to learn to act?" he added.
"Not if you have talent and education. Do you think of trying the
stage?"
"I might some time," said Percy, flattered by the question.
"If you do, I hope you will succeed. Now, Mr. Dixon, I must bid you good
night, as my friend Ralph and myself are fatigued with our acting and
must get to bed."
"Good evening!" said Jed, raising his hat gravely.
"Good evening!" returned Percy, more puzzled than ever.
He jumped into the carriage and started to drive home.
"Then it wasn't Jed?" said his mother.
"I suppose not," answered Percy, "but I never in all my life saw such a
resemblance."
"Very likely," replied Mrs. Dixon placidly. "There was a woman in
Trenton who looked just like me, so that no one could tell us apart."
"Yes," admitted Percy; "I must be mistaken. This boy had a very nice
suit on, while Jed was dressed in rags."
When they reached home Squire Dixon was abed and asleep. Percy came down
late to breakfast.
"By the way, Percy," said his father, as he helped him to breakfast,
"Fogson has just been over to report that the boy Jed has mysteriously
disappeared. He never went back after bringing me the message yesterday
afternoon."
Percy dropped his knife and fork and stared at his father in open-eyed
amazement.
"Then it was Jed, after all!" he exclaimed.
CHAPTER XIII.
FOGSON IN PURSUIT.
"What do you mean, Percy?" asked Squire Dixon, referring to his son's
exclamation at the close of the preceding chapter. "Do you know anything
of Jed?"
"Yes; I saw him last evening at Duncan."
"But what took him there? What was he doing?"
"He was on the stage. He was playing in 'The Gold King.'"
"What do you mean by this absurd statement?" demanded his father
angrily.
"It is true. Ask mother if it isn't."
"I think Percy is right," said Mrs. Dixon. "The young actor bears a
wonderful resemblance to the boy Jed."
"But Jed doesn't know anything about acting."
"That is why I thought I was mistaken. But if Jed has run away it must
be he."
"Why didn't you manage to speak to him after the play?"
"I did, and he denied that he was Jed. He calls himself Ralph Clinton."
"Really, this is a most surprising circumstance," said the squire. "The
boy is a hardened young villain. His running away from those who are
lawfully set over him in authority is a most audacious and highhanded
outrage."
"That's what I think," chimed in Percy. "What shall you do about it?
Shan't you go after him?"
"I think it my duty to do so. As soon as breakfast is over, ask Mr.
Fogson to come round here. Tell him I have news of the fugitive."
Three-quarters of an hour later Simeon Fogson was admitted into the
august presence of the Overseer of the Poor.
"I hear you have news of Jed Gilman," he said. "That is what your son
Percy tells me."
"It is true, Mr. Fogson. The young scapegrace has joined a company of
actors. What is he coming to?"
"To the gallows, I think," answered Fogson. "But how did you learn
this?"
"Percy saw him on the stage last evening."
"And he actually played a part?"
"Yes."
"In his ragged suit?"
"No," answered Percy. "He had a telegraph boy's suit first, and
afterwards a nice brown suit--as nice as mine."
"Where did he get 'em?" asked Fogson.
"That's the question!" returned the squire solemnly. "There is a strange
mystery about the boy's goings on. Have you observed anything queer in
his conduct of late?"
"I have noticed that he has been unusually impudent. Ha, I have it!"
said Fogson, suddenly, slapping his thigh.
"What have you?" asked Percy.
"There was an actor stayed at the poorhouse night before last--an actor
named Bertram. It is he that has lured Jed astray."
"There was an actor by that name in the play last evening."
"Then that settles it. Squire Dixon, what shall I do?"
"I think, Mr. Fogson, you had better go at once to Duncan--I will lend
you my buggy--and secure the boy, tying him hand and foot, if necessary,
and take him back to the poorhouse."
Simeon Fogson smiled grimly. It was an errand that suited him.
"I will do so," he said, "and I will lose no time."
"Don't ask for Jed Gilman," suggested Percy. "Ask for Ralph Clinton.
That's the name he goes by now."
Mr. Fogson drew out a stub of a lead-pencil and put down this name. In
twenty minutes he was on his way, and an hour later he drew up in front
of the hotel in Duncan.
He left the buggy and entered the public room of the inn.
"Is there such a boy as Ralph Clinton here?" he asked the clerk.
"Yes; do you want to see him?"
"I should like very much to see him," answered Fogson grimly.
"He is in No. 12. Jim, show the gentleman up. He is sick."
Fogson nodded.
"I dare say," he added significantly. "I guess his acting made him
sick."
"Yes, that's what I heard. Is he your son?"
"No, but I am his guardian."
Fogson was quite elated at so easily getting on the track of the
fugitive.
"Sick!" he repeated to himself, as he ascended the staircase. "I guess
he'll be sick before he gets through with me."
The servant knocked at No. 12, and a boy's voice was heard to say "Come
in!"
The door was opened, and Fogson, rushing in, grasped the arm of a boy
sitting in a rocking-chair.
"I've got you, you young rascal!" he exclaimed.
"What do you mean, you lunatic?" demanded the boy in a clear voice,
higher pitched than was Jed's.
Then for the first time Fogson, who was shortsighted, found out that the
boy was not Jed, but a youth of lighter complexion and slighter
physique.
He fell back in confusion.
"I was told you were Ralph Clinton," he explained, looking rather
foolish.
"I am Ralph Clinton."
"But I want Jed Gilman."
"Then why don't you look for Jed Gilman? What have I got to do with
him?"
"Do you act with the Gold King Company?"
"Yes, when I am well."
"Did you act last evening?"
"No; there was another boy that took my place."
"That's the one I want. He ran away from me."
"Are you his father?"
"No, I'm his guardian."
"I don't like your looks," said Ralph, who was a very free-spoken young
man. "I don't blame him for running away from you."
Fogson scowled.
"I believe you're as bad as he," he growled. "There's one thing
sure--I'm going to get the boy back. Where is he?"
"On the road, I expect. He will take my place till I get well."
"Not much, he won't. Have the rest of the actors left Duncan?"
"You'd better ask down stairs. I'm not going to help you get the boy
back."
Fogson had nothing to do but to go down again to the public room. The
clerk told him that the company were to play that evening at Bolton,
twelve miles away, and were probably there now, having taken the morning
train.
"Twelve miles away!" thought Fogson in dismay. "I can't drive so far as
that. Squire Dixon wouldn't like to have me drive his horse so many
miles. What shall I do?"
This was a question easier asked than answered. If he had not been
burdened with the horse and buggy he would have taken the next train for
Bolton. As it was, he didn't feel at liberty to do this.
He wished Squire Dixon were at hand, so that he might ask his advice,
for he felt quite unable to decide for himself what was best to be done.
As he stood beside his team in a state of indecision he heard the sound
of approaching wheels, and looking up, recognized Dr. Redmond's
carriage.
"What brings you to Duncan, Mr. Fogson?" asked the doctor with a
peculiar smile.
"I've come after that rascal Jed."
"Is he here?" asked the doctor innocently.
"He has run away from the poorhouse and joined some strolling players.
He played in the theatre last evening."
"Did he, indeed?" asked the doctor, really surprised. "He must be a
smart boy to take up acting so suddenly."
"He is a very impudent boy."
"Is he? Then I should think you would be glad to get rid of him."
"I don't mean to let him off so easily. I'm going to bring him back to
the poorhouse, and when I get hold of him I'll----"
Mr. Fogson nodded his head significantly. It was clear that he intended
that the way of the transgressor should be hard.
"It strikes me, Mr. Fogson, that you are acting in a very foolish
manner," said the doctor.
"Why am I?"
"I will tell you. Jed has got tired of being supported by the town, and
he has taken the matter into his own hands. In other words, he proposes
to relieve the town of the expense of his maintenance. The town will
doubtless be glad to have one dependent less on its hands. You appear to
want to get him back, and make the town once more responsible for his
support. Is it not so?"
Fogson looked blank. The matter had never presented itself to him in
that light before.
"You certainly won't make yourself very popular by this action,"
proceeded Dr. Redmond. "As a good citizen you ought to be glad that the
town's expenses are lessened."
"Would you have me let the boy go?" Fogson ejaculated.
"Certainly, I would. Jed is able to support himself, and there is no
earthly reason for keeping him in the poorhouse. I advise you to
represent the matter to Squire Dixon, and see what he thinks about it."
Mr. Fogson drove home slowly. He found it hard to have Jed escape from
his clutches, but Squire Dixon, upon consultation, reluctantly decided
that perhaps it was best to drop the matter then and there. No one was
more disappointed over this decision than Percy Dixon.
CHAPTER XIV.
JED'S LUCK.
Jed continued to act in the part assigned to him. He knew that he was
liable to be superseded at any time by Ralph Clinton, but he did not
care to borrow trouble.
As a matter of fact, however, he was allowed to play till the end of the
season, but this was not very far off. Warm weather had set in, and
audiences became small.
One day Harry Bertram called Jed aside.
"Well, Jed," he said, "I am afraid we must part."
"Why, Mr. Bertram?"
"The weather has become so warm that we are no longer paying expenses.
Mr. Mordaunt has decided to close the season on Saturday night."
Jed looked blank. He didn't know what would come next.
"I thought we might hold out another week, and we might if the weather
had remained comfortable, but people won't come to see 'The Gold King'
or any other play when the thermometer stands at eighty degrees."
"What shall you do, Mr. Bertram?"
"Fall back on my trade, if possible."
"What is that?"
"I am a telegraph operator, and I may be able to fill in the summer in
some Western Union office. I have to work at summer prices, but as long
as I make my board and lodging I shall be content."
"I wish I had a trade," said Jed thoughtfully.
"You don't feel like going back to your old home?"
"In the Scranton poorhouse? Not much!" answered Jed energetically. "I'll
starve first. Have you got any place engaged?"
"No, but I have worked two summers at Sea Spray, an Atlantic coast
summer resort. I shall go there and see if there is an opening."
"Is it far away?"
"About fifty miles. I'll tell you what, Jed, you had better come with
me. Something may turn up for you."
"What is the fare, Mr. Bertram?"
"About a dollar and a half. You will have some money coming to you. You
haven't been paid anything yet, have you?"
"No; I didn't suppose I was entitled to any."
"You will get something. I will speak to the treasurer and arrange
matters for you."
Accordingly on Saturday evening, after the last performance, Jed was
made happy by receiving twelve dollars, or at the rate of four dollars
per week for the time he had been employed.
"Mr. Mordaunt directs me to say that he would pay you more if the
business would permit," said the treasurer.
"Tell him this is more than I expected," said Jed elated.
"That isn't professional," remarked Bertram smiling. "Actors generally
claim to be worth a good deal more than they are paid."
"I haven't been on the stage long enough to be professional," said Jed.
Early on Monday morning Jed and his friend Bertram took the cars for
Sea Spray. As they neared the coast, the ocean breeze entered cool and
refreshing through the open windows. Presently the cars stopped, only
two hundred feet from the bluff, and Jed for the first time gazed with
delight at the Atlantic billows rolling in on the beach.
"This is beautiful!" he exclaimed. "I hope I can stay here all summer."
"Have you never seen the sea before?"
"No; I have never travelled before. All my life has been spent at
Scranton."
"Take a walk with me along Ocean Avenue, and I will see what chance
there is of my obtaining employment."
Harry Bertram made his way to the principal hotel, where he knew there
was a Western Union office. He told Jed to sit down in the reading-room
while he sought for information.
In ten minutes he came back with a smile of satisfaction on his face.
"I am in great luck," he said. "The operator here has just been summoned
home by the serious illness of his father in Chicago. He was
considering whom he could get to take his place when I presented myself.
The result is that I am engaged to take charge of the telegraph office
at twelve dollars a week and my board."
"Then you are provided for."
"Yes. I can get through the summer very well."
"I should think so. You will have the twelve dollars a week clear."
"No; I must get a room outside. However, my predecessor has recommended
his--in a private house about a quarter of a mile from the shore--at
only four dollars a week."
"Then I suppose we must part," said Jed with a tinge of sadness.
"No, Jed. You shall room with me, and your room will cost you nothing.
As to meals, I can see you through till you secure some work."
"But I don't want to be a burden upon you, Mr. Bertram."
"I don't mean that you shall be, any longer than is necessary. It will
go hard if a boy like you can't find something to do that will buy his
meals at a crowded watering-place."
"Thank you, Mr. Bertram. I have money enough left to buy my meals for
two weeks at least."
"If we were at a regular office I could employ you as messenger, but
most of the messages will come to guests in the hotel."
"I don't know exactly what I can do, but I am ready to do anything."
"Except black boots," said Bertram with a smile.
"I don't think I should like to do that if there is anything else to be
found."
"I couldn't think of allowing a member of our honorable profession to
undertake such menial employment."
Harry Bertram went to work that evening. Jed kept him company in the
office a part of the time, and during the three succeeding days went
from one hotel to another to see if he could obtain anything to do.
But every position had been filled for the season. Jed began to fear
that there was no work for him at Sea Spray.
On the fourth morning, as he was sitting with Bertram, a gentleman whom
he had several times seen--a guest of the house--approached them.
"Is this boy your brother?" he asked of Bertram.
"No, but he is my valued friend. In fact, I may call myself his guardian
for the time being."
"Yes," assented Jed with a smile.
"He does not assist you?"
"No, he knows nothing of telegraphy."
"Would you like employment?" asked the gentleman, turning to Jed.
"I am very anxious to get work," said Jed quickly.
"Then I think I may be able to meet your wishes. How old are you?"
"Sixteen."
"You may have seen a boy of ten walking about with me?"
"Yes, sir."
"He is my son. He and I are here alone, but until yesterday I had a
nurse in my employ whose sole business was to look after Chester. I
felt entire confidence in her, but discovered last evening that she had
purloined some jewelry belonging to me. Of course I discharged her
instantly, and in consequence am obliged to find some one in her place.
"Chester objects to another nurse. It hurts his boyish pride to have a
woman accompanying him everywhere. It appears to me that a boy old
enough to look after him will suit him much better. But perhaps you
would not like being encumbered with a small boy?"
"I should like it very much, sir," said Jed. "I like young boys, and I
am sure I should like your son."
"Come up stairs, then. I will see how he likes you."
Jed followed his new acquaintance up to a suite of two rooms on the
second floor. A young boy was at the window. He looked inquiringly at
his father and Jed.
"Come here, Chester," said the former. "Are you quite sure you don't
want another nurse?"
"Yes," answered the boy. "Some of the boys in the hotel call me 'sissy'
because I have a girl always with me."
"Would you prefer this boy?"
Chester took a long, close look at Jed, who met his glance with a smile.
"Yes," said the little boy confidently. "I shall like him much better
than a girl."
"That settles it," said Mr. Holbrook in a tone of satisfaction. "What is
your name?"
"Jed Gilman."
"What was your last employment?"
"I took the boy's part in 'The Gold King.'"
"Are you an actor?" asked Chester, much interested.
"Not much of one."
"You must have some talent," remarked Mr. Holbrook, "or Mr. Mordaunt,
who is a manager of reputation, would not have employed you. Is your
season over?"
"Yes, sir."
"I think you will suit me. I am obliged to be in New York every day on
business, and this leaves Chester alone. I wish you to act as his
companion, to go with him on the beach and in bathing, and to look
after him while I am away. Are you boarding here?"
"No, sir; I could not afford it."
"I shall arrange to have you take meals here with Chester, but after
eight o'clock in the evenings you will be your own master. Now as to the
matter of compensation. Will ten dollars a week satisfy you?"
"Ten dollars a week and my meals?"
"Yes."
"I didn't expect so much."
"I like to pay liberally, and expect to be well served."
"When shall I commence, sir?"
"At once. I want to take the next train for the city. As I go down
stairs I will tell them that you are to take your meals here. Now,
Chester, I will leave you with your new friend, as I have barely time to
reach the next train for New York."
CHAPTER XV.
TWO ODD ACQUAINTANCES.
"Ten dollars a week!" repeated Harry Bertram, to who Jed communicated
his good luck. "Why, that is famous!"
"Ten dollars a week and my meals!"
"Better still. That is better than acting."
"I don't know how I shall suit Mr. Holbrook."
"You will suit him if you suit the boy."
By this time Chester made his appearance.
"I want to walk on the beach," he said. "Come, Jed."
And the boy put his hand confidingly in that of Jed.
They descended the steps that led from the bluff to the beach, and
walked leisurely up and down on the sand. Presently Chester expressed a
wish to sit down, and before long was engaged with a small wooden spade
in making a sand fortification.
Relieved from duty, since his young charge could come to no harm, Jed
had leisure to watch the crowds passing him in both directions.
Presently a thin, dark-complexioned man, of perhaps thirty-five, after
walking up and down the beach, came to a stop, and, apparently without
motive, seated himself on the sand beside Chester and his youthful
guardian.
"A pleasant day," he remarked, looking at Jed.
"Yes," answered Jed politely.
He was not favorably impressed by the stranger's appearance, but
recognized the claims of courtesy.
"Is this little boy your brother?"
"No," answered Jed.
"I thought perhaps you brought him down to the beach."
"I did."
"I have seen him about before--with a girl."
"That was Clara, my old nurse," said Chester, who caught the drift of
the conversation. "I haven't got any nurse now," he added proudly. "I
saw you talking to Clara one day," he added, after a closer examination
of the stranger's features.
"Oh, no, my little boy!" said the man, seeming annoyed. "I don't know
Clara, as you call her."
"Then you look just like the man that was talking with her."
The stranger opened his mouth and smiled unpleasantly.
"I dare say there are people that look like me," he said, "though I
can't say I ever met one. What is your name, my little friend?"
"I am not your friend," said Chester, who did not appear favorably
impressed by his new acquaintance.
"My little enemy, then."
"My name is Chester Holbrook."
"And how old are you?"
"Ten years old. How old are you?"
Again the man's lips opened in an unpleasant smile.
"You have an inquiring mind, Chester," he said. "I am--thirty years
old."
"You look older than that."
"I am afraid that is not polite, Chester," said Jed gently.
"Why isn't it?" asked Chester innocently.
"People don't like to be thought older than they are."
"Oh, never mind," said the dark man. "A child is licensed to say what he
pleases. So he is your charge?"
"Yes, sir."
"I don't think I have seen you here before. Have you known Mr. Holbrook
long?"
"No." Then upon the impulse of the moment Jed inquired, "Do you know
him?"
The man's face changed, and he looked a shade embarrassed.
"Why do you think I know him?" he asked.
"I don't think it, but as you seemed interested in the boy, I asked you
the question."
"Oh, that's it. I have seen Mr. Holbrook, and I may have spoken to him.
I can't be sure on the subject, as I meet a good many people. Are you
going in bathing?"
"Do you want to bathe, Chester?" asked Jed.
"No; papa told me not to go to-day, as I have a cold."
"I thought perhaps I would have had your company in the surf. Well, I
must be going or I shall be late for the bath."
The stranger got up slowly and sauntered away.
"I don't like that man. Do you, Jed?" asked Chester.
"Not very much. I never saw him before."
"I have seen him. I saw him one day last week."
"Did you see him on the beach?"
"Yes; he came up and talked with Clara."
"But he said you were mistaken about that."
"I was not mistaken," said Chester positively. "I remember him very
well."
"Do you remember what he was talking about?" asked Jed, struck by what
the boy said.
"Yes; he was asking questions about me."
"He seems a good deal interested in you. Perhaps he is especially fond
of small boys."
Chester shook his head.
"I don't think he is," he answered.
When the bathing hour was over they ascended the steps and took seats in
a summer house on the bluff.
Ten minutes later a tall woman, with piercing black eyes and a swarthy
complexion, entered the arbor and sat down beside them.
"Do you want your fortune told?" she asked of Jed.
He shook his head.
"I don't believe in fortune-tellers," he said.
"Don't you? Let me convince you of my power. Give me your hand."
There seemed a fascination about the woman, and almost involuntarily he
suffered her to take his hand.
"You look prosperous," she began abruptly, "but your life has been full
of poverty and privation. Is this true?"
"Yes," answered Jed, impressed in spite of himself by the woman's words.
"Shall I tell you where your early years were passed?"
"No," answered Jed, with a quick look at Chester. He did not care to
have the boy hear that his life had been passed in the Scranton
poorhouse.
"You are right. The knowledge could do no good and might embarrass you.
You admit that I have told the truth?"
"Yes."
"Then shall I tell you of the future?"
Jed did not answer, but the woman took his assent for granted and went
on. "You will be rich--some day."
"Shall I? I am glad to hear that. But I don't know where the wealth is
to come from."
"It is not necessary for you to know. It will be enough if it comes."
"I agree with you there," said Jed, smiling. "Will it be soon?"
"That is a question which I might answer, but I will not."
"I don't care to know, as long as I am to be prosperous some day. Shall
I ever go back to--to the place where my earlier years were passed?"
"You may, but not to live. That part of your life is over."
"I am glad of that at any rate. One question more. Shall I meet my--any
one belonging to me--any one to whom I am related?"
Jed fixed his eyes anxiously upon the fortune-teller, for skeptical as
he was at first, he was beginning to have some confidence in her claims
to knowledge.
"Yes."
"When?"
"Don't seek to know more. Let me look at this boy's hand. Do you want me
to tell your fortune, my pretty?"
Chester laughed.
"Yes," he said. "Perhaps you can tell me if I will ever be a soldier. I
would like to be a General."
"No; you will never be a soldier, but you will have a fight before you."
"A fight? What kind of a fight?"
The fortune-teller turned to Jed and said rapidly, "This boy is
threatened with a serious danger. He has an enemy."
"How can a young boy have an enemy?"
"There are few who do not have enemies," said the woman sententiously.
"Can you describe the enemy?"
"He is a dark man, not tall, but taller than you. He is thin."
"I met such a man on the beach," said Jed, surprised. "I met him only
this morning. Is he the one you mean?"
"When you meet such a man beware of him!" said the woman, and without
waiting for a reply she rose from her seat and walked away rapidly.
"What a funny old woman!" said Chester. "I am hungry. Let us go up to
the hotel. It is time for lunch."
Jed's face became thoughtful. What he had heard left a deep impression
upon his mind.
CHAPTER XVI.
MISS HOLBROOK, SPINSTER.
It was at first on Jed's mind to tell Mr. Holbrook of his encounter with
the young man upon the beach and his subsequent conversation with the
fortune-teller and her predictions in regard to Chester. But he was
afraid of being laughed at.
Moreover, as the days passed the impression made upon his mind became
weaker, and was only recalled when from time to time he saw the young
man on the sands or walking on the bluff.
He got on very well with Chester. The boy became strongly attached to
him, much to the satisfaction of his father.
"So you like Jed, do you?" said Mr. Holbrook one evening, on his return
from the city.
"Yes, papa, I like him ever so much."
"Do you like him as much as Clara?"
"Why, I don't like her at all."
Time wore on till the middle of August. Jed enjoyed his generous meals
and the sea bathing which he shared in company with his young charge. He
still lodged with Harry Bertram, but he shared the expense of the room.
But a change was coming, and an unwelcome one.
"Chester," said his father one evening, "I am going away for a week or
ten days."
"Take me with you, papa!"
"No, I cannot. I am called to Chicago on business, and you will be much
better off here at the beach."
"Jed will stay with me?"
"Yes, and I have sent for your Aunt Maria to come and look after you
while I am gone."
"But I don't like Aunt Maria," objected the little boy. "She's always
scolding me. She doesn't like boys."
"Perhaps not," said Mr. Holbrook with a smile. "If Maria had married it
might have been different, but I believe few maiden ladies are fond of
children."
"Then why do you have her come here, papa? Jed can take care of me."
"I have great confidence in Jed, Chester, but you will need some one to
look after your clothes and oversee you in other ways."
"Isn't there any one else you can send for, papa? I don't like old
maids."
"Don't trouble me with your objections, Chester. It will only be for a
little while, remember. I am sure you can get along with your aunt for
ten days."
"I will try to," answered the boy with a look of resignation.
The next day Miss Maria Holbrook came to Sea Spray with her brother. She
was a tall, slender lady of middle age, with a thin face, and looked as
if she were dissatisfied with a large proportion of her
fellow-creatures.
Chester looked at her, but did not show any disposition to welcome her
to the beach.
"You may kiss me, Chester," said the lady with an acid smile.
"Thank you, Aunt Maria, but I am not particular about it."
"Well, upon my word!" ejaculated the spinster. "My own brother's child,
too!"
"Kiss your aunt, Chester," said his father.
"No, it is not necessary," put in Miss Holbrook sharply. "I don't want
any hypocritical caresses. Robert, I am afraid you are spoiling that
boy."
"Oh, no, Maria, not quite so bad as that. Chester is a middling good
boy."
Miss Maria Holbrook sniffed incredulously.
"I am afraid you judge him too leniently," she said.
"Well, you can tell better after you have had time to observe him. It is
two years now since you have seen Chester."
"Let us hope that my first impressions may be modified," said the
spinster in a tone that indicated great doubt whether such would be the
case.
"Jed, you may go. Chester will not need you any more this evening," said
Mr. Holbrook.
"Thank you, sir," said Jed, and walked away.
"Who is that boy?" asked the spinster abruptly, looking at him through
her eyeglasses.
"He is in charge of Chester while I am in the city."
"Why, he is only a boy!"
"Is that against him?"
"I thought Chester had a nurse."
"So he did, but she proved dishonest."
"Then why didn't you engage another?"
"Because Chester felt sensitive about having a girl following him. The
other boys in the hotel laughed at him."
"Let them laugh!" said Miss Holbrook severely. "Are you to have your
plans changed by a set of graceless boys?"
"As to that, Maria, I find this boy more satisfactory, both to Chester
and myself."
"Humph! What is his name?"
"Jed."
"A very plebeian name."
"It isn't exactly fashionable, but names are not important."
"I beg your pardon. I think names are important."
"Perhaps that is the reason you have never changed yours, Maria. You
might have been Mrs. Boggs if you had been less particular."
"I would rather remain unmarried all my life. But where did you pick up
this boy?"
"I met him in the hotel."
"Was he boarding here?"
"No; I think he was boarding somewhere in the village."
"Do you know anything of his family?"
"No."
"Do you know anything of his antecedents?" continued Miss Holbrook.
"Yes; he played a part last season in the 'Gold King.'"
"Heavens and earth!" ejaculated the spinster, holding up her hands in
horror. "Do you mean to tell me that you have placed your son in the
charge of a young play actor?"
Mr. Holbrook laughed.
"Why not?"
"I am surprised that you should ask. You know as well as I do the
character of actors."
"I know that some of them are very estimable gentlemen. As to Jed, he
has not been long on the stage, I believe."
"Do you know anything of his family? Is he respectably connected?"
"I didn't think it important to inquire. It seems to me that the boy's
own character is much more to the point. I have found Jed faithful and
reliable, without bad habits, and I feel that Chester is safe in his
hands."
"Oh you men, you men!" exclaimed Miss Holbrook. "You don't seem to have
any judgment."
"I suppose," said Mr. Holbrook with good-natured sarcasm, "that all the
good judgment is monopolized by the old maids. What a pity they have no
children to bring up."
"Brother!" said Miss Holbrook in a freezing tone.
"I beg your pardon, Maria, but please credit me with a little good
sense."
Miss Holbrook went up to the room assigned her with an offended
expression, and had nothing further to say about Jed that evening.
The next morning Jed reported for duty just as Mr. Holbrook was leaving
for his journey.
"Look after Chester while I am gone, Jed," said Mr. Holbrook
pleasantly. "This is my sister, Miss Maria Holbrook, who will take my
place here while I am gone."
Jed took off his hat politely, and Miss Holbrook honored him with a
slight inclination of her head and a forbidding look.
"Good-by, Maria! I will telegraph you on my arrival in Chicago."
"Good-by, brother! You need have no apprehensions about Chester while I
am here."
"I shall rest quite easy. Between you and Jed I am sure he will come to
no harm."
Miss Holbrook pursed up her mouth at the conjunction of her name with
Jed's, but said nothing.
"Shall I go and take a walk with Jed?" asked Chester.
"Yes, in a moment. I wish to speak to the young man first."
"What young man?"
"Jedediah."
"Jedediah!" echoed Chester with a merry laugh. "How funny that sounds!"
"I apprehend that Jedediah is your right name," said Miss Holbrook
severely.
"I suppose so," answered Jed.
"You suppose so?"
"I mean that I have always been called Jed. I don't remember ever having
been called by the full name."
"Don't your parents call you so?"
"My parents are not living."
"When did they die?"
Jed looked troubled.
"When I was a baby," he answered gravely.
"Indeed! Then who brought you up?"
"Mr. and Mrs. Avery."
"Were they any relations of yours?"
"No, but they were very kind to me."
"Come along, Jed! There's the steamboat just leaving the pier!" called
Chester impatiently.
Without waiting to be further questioned Jed answered the call of his
young charge. He was glad to get away, for he felt that the spinster
might ask him some questions which he would find it difficult to answer.
CHAPTER XVII.
JED MEETS AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
Jed was not long in finding that Chester's aunt looked upon him, if not
with hostility, at least with distrust. This was an unpleasant
discovery. Mr. Holbrook had always appeared to have confidence in him,
and approved his management of his son.
While Chester and Jed were walking on the beach Miss Holbrook took a
seat upon the bluff and watched them through her spectacles, as Jed
could not help seeing.
"I say, Jed," asked the little boy, "how do you like Aunt Maria?"
"I don't feel very well acquainted with her yet," answered Jed
cautiously.
"I don't like her!" said Chester emphatically.
"Why not?"
"Oh, she's always scolding and finding fault. Papa says it's because
she's an old maid."
Jed smiled.
"I wish papa had not sent for her," went on Chester. "We could get along
well enough without her."
"I think we should get along very well together, Chester."
"I am sure we should. Have you got any old maid aunts?"
"Not that I know of," replied Jed soberly, as he had forced upon him the
thought of his solitary condition.
"Then you are lucky. I'll give you Aunt Maria if you want her."
"Perhaps she might not consent to be given away, Chester."
Half an hour later Jed met with a surprise, and one not altogether
agreeable.
"Hello! you here!" exclaimed an amazed voice that sounded familiar to
Jed.
He looked up and saw Percy Dixon approaching.
"Oh, it's you, Percy?" he said. "When did you arrive?"
"This morning. Father and I are staying at the Spray House." This was
the largest hotel, and Percy mentioned the name with evident pride.
"It is a nice hotel," responded Jed.
"I should say so. Why, it's the most expensive one here. But you haven't
told me how you came here."
"I have been here for some weeks."
"Where do you live?"
"I have a room in the village, but I take my meals at the Spray House."
"You take your meals at the Spray House?" ejaculated Percy.
"Yes."
"How can you afford it?"
"This boy's father pays my board. I look after Chester."
"What's your name?" asked Chester, who was by no means bashful.
"Percy Dixon," answered Percy politely, for he judged that Chester
belonged to a rich family.
"So you know Jed?"
"Yes. I have that honor," returned Percy with a curl of the lip. "When
did you leave off acting?" he asked, turning to Jed.
"At the end of the season. Few dramatic companies play during the
summer."
"Are you going to play with them again?"
"I don't know yet. The boy whose place I took may be ready to take his
own part in the fall."
"I saw your old friends Mr. and Mrs. Fogson just before I came away,"
said Percy significantly. "Wouldn't you like to know how they are?"
"No; I feel no particular interest in them."
"They are interested in you. Fogson says he's bound to get you back some
time."
"I don't care to talk of them," said Jed coldly.
"Are you going in bathing?" asked Chester.
"Yes, I think so. Do you go in?"
"Shall we go in, Jed?" asked the little boy.
"Yes, if you like, Chester."
The three boys repaired to the bathing-houses and prepared for their
bath.
As they walked up to the hotel together afterwards, Percy remarked: "It
seems strange to see you in such a place as this."
"I suppose so."
"It's funny how you get on. How did you get the chance to take care of
the little boy?"
Jed explained.
"Is Chester's father rich?"
"I presume so, from what I hear."
"Is he here now?"
"No; he is in Chicago for a week or ten days."
"And is there no one except you to take care of the boy?"
"There is an aunt of Chester's in the hotel--his father's sister. There
she is now!" and Jed pointed out Miss Maria Holbrook.
Percy noticed her attentively, and was observed in turn by the spinster,
who privately resolved to seek some information about Jed from one who
appeared to know him.
After dinner, while on the piazza, Miss Holbrook noticed Percy sitting
but a few feet distant.
"Ahem!" she began. "Young man, will you do me the favor to move your
chair a little nearer?"
Percy did so gladly. He wished for a chance to become acquainted with
Jed's employers.
"Thank you. May I ask your name?"
"Percy Dixon."
"I noticed that you seemed to be acquainted with the boy who is in
charge of my young nephew Chester."
"Yes, ma'am, I know him."
"Have you known him long?"
"As far back as I can remember."
"Did you live in the same town?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Where?"
"Scranton."
"You must pardon my curiosity, but my brother--Chester's father--engaged
this boy without apparently knowing much about him, except that he had
been on the stage."
"He wasn't on the stage long."
"Perhaps not, but probably he didn't get any good from it. What is your
opinion of him. Though, as you are his friend----"
"I am not his friend!" said Percy bluntly.
"Then you haven't a high opinion of him?" said Miss Holbrook eagerly.
"No; I never liked him."
"I don't like him myself, though I can't tell exactly why not, and I am
bound to say that Chester and his father seem infatuated with him."
"I think you are quite right, Miss Holbrook."
"I can't help thinking there is some mystery about him."
"You are right, Miss Holbrook. There is a mystery about him."
"I was sure of it," exclaimed the spinster. "What is the character of
his relations?"
"He has none that I know of."
"I believe he told me his parents were dead, and that he was brought up
by a Mr. and Mrs. Avery."
"Ho, ho!" laughed Percy.
"Why do you laugh?"
"At his being brought up by Mr. and Mrs. Avery."
"Isn't it true, then?"
"Yes; but he probably didn't tell you that Mr. and Mrs. Avery had
charge of the Scranton poorhouse."
"What!" ejaculated the spinster.
"It is as I say. Until a few weeks since Jed was an inmate of the
Scranton poorhouse."
"And this boy is actually in charge of my nephew!" exclaimed Miss
Holbrook, overwhelmed with horror.
"Yes; I was very much surprised to see Jed in such company."
"My poor brother must be quite unaware of this astounding fact!"
"No doubt, Miss Holbrook. Jed is cunning. He wouldn't be very apt to
tell your brother that he is a pauper."
"A pauper! What a horrid thought! And that boy has actually the
effrontery to push himself in among people of position. I can hardly
believe it."
"If you have any doubt about it, Miss Holbrook, just write a note to Mr.
Simeon Fogson, and ask him what he thinks of Jed Gilman."
"But I thought it was Mr. Avery who kept the poorhouse."
"He did; but when my father became Overseer of the Poor," said Percy
with conscious pride, "he removed the Averys and put in Mr. and Mrs.
Fogson, whom he considered more fit for the office. The Averys were weak
people and pampered the paupers."
"Mr. Simeon Fogson, Scranton," Miss Holbrook entered on her tablets.
"Really, Mr. Dixon, I am very much obliged to you for the important
information you have given me, and so ought my brother to be. He has
been very careless and indiscreet in engaging a boy of unknown
antecedents, but it is fortunate that Chester has an aunt who is keenly
alive to his interests."
As she rose to go to her room to write to Mr. Fogson, Percy smiled.
"Jed Gilman will find that his goose is cooked," he said to himself.
"Won't he be astonished when the thunderbolt falls?"
CHAPTER XVIII.
MR. FOGSON RECEIVES A LETTER.
Let us go back to the Scranton poorhouse. Mr. Fogson was sawing wood
near the house. It was a task which Jed had been accustomed to do, but
in his absence it devolved upon Mr. Fogson, who was very much
disinclined to that form of labor, but still more to paying for having
it done.
He had thought of requiring Isaac Needham, one of the paupers, to do the
sawing; but the old man, who was over seventy-five, proved physically
unable to do the work, and very much against his will Mr. Fogson found
himself compelled to undertake it himself.
"Drat that Jed!" he muttered, as he stopped to mop his forehead with his
red cotton handkerchief. "It's an outrage for him to throw his work on
me. I wish I had him here this blessed minute and could give him a taste
of the strap."
At this point a neighbor's boy, Joe Coakley, entered the yard.
"Here's a letter for you, Mr. Fogson," he said. "I guess it's from a
lady."
With considerable surprise Mr. Fogson took the letter in his hand. The
envelope was square, and of fine paper, while the address was in a
lady's handwriting.
Mr. Fogson examined the postmark curiously.
"Sea Spray!" he repeated. "Why, that's a fashionable watering-place. Who
can have written me from there?"
Just then Mrs. Fogson came out from the side door.
"What letter have you there?" she asked.
"It is from a lady, Mrs. F.," answered her husband with a grin.
"What business has a lady writing to you?" demanded Mrs. Fogson
suspiciously.
"Really I don't know, as I have not read the letter."
"Give it to me!"
"No, thank you. I read my own letters."
"Mr. Fogson, if you are engaged in a private correspondence with any
lady I intend to find out all about it."
"Don't be a fool, Mrs. F.; I don't know who the writer is, and I have
never had a letter from her before."
By this time he had opened the envelope, and his face quickly assumed an
expression of interest.
"It's about Jed," he exclaimed. "I'll read it to you."
This was the letter:
     MY DEAR SIR:
     I am informed that you can give me information as to the past
     history of Jedediah Gilman. Some weeks ago my brother, Robert
     Holbrook, a well-known merchant of New York, engaged the boy as a
     companion and personal attendant of his young son Chester, without
     knowing much about him or taking the trouble to inquire. Having
     seen the boy, I have doubts as to whether he is a suitable
     companion for a boy in my nephew's high social station. I learn
     from young Mr. Percy Dixon, of your town, that you can give me full
     information as to the boy's antecedents. I shall feel indebted to
     you if you will take the trouble to communicate with me by letter.
     My brother is now in Chicago, and I am in temporary charge of my
     nephew. I feel that it is my duty to inquire into the character of
     a boy who by his intimate association with him may, if he is
     unworthy, do incalculable harm to his young and trustful nature.
          Yours very truly,
            MARIA HOLBROOK,
              Spray Hotel,
                Sea Spray, N. J.
"Well, upon my word!" ejaculated Mrs. Fogson. "So that young villain has
wormed his way into the confidence of a rich New York merchant!"
"Like a snake in the grass," suggested Simeon Fogson.
"Exactly. It makes me shudder to think what an impostor he is. It is
providential that Percy Dixon should find him out and show him up."
"I'll show him up!" said Fogson, nodding. "I'll just write to Miss
Holbrook, and tell her of his goin's on. I reckon he won't keep his
place long after they get my letter."
"You'd better let me write the letter, Simeon."
"No, Mrs. F., the letter was addressed to me, and I'm goin' to answer
it."
"Just as you like, Mr. Fogson, but you are well aware that you are weak
in your spelling."
"Never mind, Mrs. F., I reckon I can make myself understood."
"Just as you like, Fogson. Only make it strong enough."
"You can trust me for that."
CHAPTER XIX.
DISCHARGED.
In a front room on the second floor of the Spray Hotel sat Miss Maria
Holbrook with a letter in her hand. It was written on the cheapest
note-paper, and inclosed in a plebeian brown envelope.
Of course it will be understood that it was the epistolary effort of Mr.
Simeon Fogson.
"Just as I thought!" soliloquized the lady. "This boy seems to be a
