he saw fit, “I believe you knew an old man who moved away from here
recently?”

“Old Jerry? Yes, I knew him well. He lived here ever since I did, and
what took him away so sudden I can’t tell.”

“I am sorry not to find him, for I know of something to his advantage.”

“He didn’t leave word where he was going, more’s the pity. I wish he
had, for I’d like to have called to see him and the bye some time.”

“There was a boy, then, who lived with him? I believe I have heard him
mentioned before.”

“Yes, sir, and a nice bye he was, and a smart one. He was rale kind to
the old man, Paul was, and I don’t think old Jerry could have got along
without him.”

“He was employed in a store, wasn’t he?” asked Barclay, assuming less
knowledge than he possessed.

“No, indade. Paul is a telegraph bye, and has been for ’most two years.
He’s a favorite with the company, I’m thinkin’, as he ought to be, for
he always attinds to his duties, and is up early and late.”

“So he’s a telegraph boy!” said Barclay, musingly. “I should like to
see him, especially as you speak so well of him. He has a number,
hasn’t he? I notice the boys have a number on their caps.”

“Yes, sir. Paul is Number 91.”

“Number 91?” returned Barclay, briskly. “I think I can remember that.
I’m much obliged to you, my good lady.”

“Shure, and you’re a very polite gintleman,” said Mrs. O’Connor, who
was flattered at being called a lady.

“Why shouldn’t I be polite to a lady like you?” said Barclay. “Perhaps
you can give me a little more information.”

“Shure, and I will if I can, sir.”

“At what office can I find this Paul--Number 91, as you call him? I
should like to speak to him about my aged relative.”

“I can’t just recollect the number, sir, but the office where Paul goes
is on Broadway, same side as the St. Nicholas Hotel, and not far away
from it.”

“Thank you very much. You are really the most obliging lady I have met
for a long time.”

“Shure, sir, you flatter me. You must have kissed the blarney stone,
I’m a thinkin’!”

“No, ma’am, I haven’t; but I hope I know enough to be polite to a lady.
You don’t seem like a stranger to me, for you are the image of a lady I
used to know on the other side of the water, the Countess of Galway.”

Mrs. O’Connor smiled and simpered, for she had never before been
compared to a countess.

“And can I do any more for you, sir?” she said.

“No, thank you. You have given me all the information I require. Good
day!”

As Barclay walked away, Mrs. O’Connor followed him with her eyes.

“He isn’t dressed very nice,” she said to herself, “but in his manners
he’s a perfect gintleman. I’d like to see that Countess of Galway, that
I look so much like.”




CHAPTER XV. BARCLAY GETS INTO BUSINESS.


“You’re getting on finely, old fellow,” said James Barclay to himself,
as he left the tenement house, and steered toward Broadway. “I managed
that old woman skillfully, and got all the information I want. I think,
Jerry Barclay, you won’t long elude me. I shall have no trouble now in
finding the telegraph boy, and then I shall soon be face to face with
the old man.”

Arrived at Printing House Square, he struck across the City Hall Park,
the other side of which is skirted by Broadway.

Sitting on one of the benches was a man rather showily dressed, with a
red blotched face, and an indefinable expression that stamped him as
one who lived by his wits, rather than by honest toil. As Barclay’s
glance rested upon him, he uttered an exclamation of surprise.

“Bill Slocum, is that you?” he said.

“Jim Barclay, as I’m a sinner,” said the other, rising and extending
a rough hand, on one of whose fingers sparkled a ring, set with what
might have been a diamond, but was probably paste. “And how is the
world using you, old pal?”

“Rough,” answered Barclay. “The old man’s gone back on me, and my own
wife made a great fuss because I wanted to borrow a dollar. Sometimes I
think I was better off in our old boarding place up the river.”

Bill Slocum was one of his fellow boarders up at Sing Sing.

“The world owes you a living, Barclay,” said his friend.

“So it does, but how’s a chap going to collect his claim? That’s what
I’d like to know.”

“O, well, there’s ways if you only know how,” said Slocum, rather
enigmatically.

“How are you makin’ it yourself?” asked Barclay, curiously.

“I get enough to eat and drink and wear. I ain’t in no anxiety about
livin’.”

“How do you do it?”

“Just look at that!”

Bill Slocum drew from his pocket a roll of bills, and held it up for
his companion to see. It was a thick roll, and amounted to a fair sum,
even if the denominations were small.

“How’d you get all that?” asked Barclay.

“There’s more where they come from,” answered Slocum.

“Are there any for me?” asked Barclay, eagerly.

“Yes, if I introduce you.”

“You’ll do it, Slocum, won’t you?”

“Yes, if you want me to. But, first, a word in your ear.”

He rose from his seat, and withdrew to a place where he would not be
heard.

“They’re flimsies,” he said, briefly.

“Oh!” ejaculated Barclay, looking a trifle disappointed.

He understood that they were not genuine bills, but counterfeit.

“Well, and what if they are?” said Slocum, reading his expression.

“There’s a risk about it.”

“Nothin’ venture, nothin’ have, as my old grandmother used to say.
Just be foxy, and you won’t get caught. I’m making a good living off of
it, myself.”

“What commission do you get for passing them?”

“Fifty cents on a dollar. That’s liberal, isn’t it?”

“Yes, that is liberal,” Barclay admitted. “Have you made anything
today?”

“Have I? Well, I reckon I have.”

“How much?”

“I’ve passed a ten and a five.”

“And that gives you seven and a half for your share?”

“Right you are, Barclay. Your knowledge of arithmetic does credit to
your education. It’s plain your respected parent took great pains with
your trainin’.”

“My respected parent,” repeated Barclay, frowning, “is about the
meanest old skinflint you’ll find within a hundred miles. I found
him out yesterday, and let him know that I was going to call again
today, to raise a loan, but when I called the old fox was gone bag and
baggage.”

“A shabby way to treat his offspring. I pity you, Jim. So you are left
to the tender mercies of the world.”

“I don’t find ’em very tender,” growled Barclay. “Do you see that?” and
he drew from his pocket about forty cents in change.

“Yes, but it doesn’t dazzle me.”

“It’s all the money I have in the world.”

“Then you’d better join me.”

Barclay hesitated.

“I don’t quite like it. I don’t care about going up the river again too
soon.”

“You needn’t, if you are careful. I’ll give you a few points. If one of
your bills is found out, you are at once searched to see if you have
any more.”

“There’s the danger.”

“So there is, but you can guard against it. When I am preparing to
offer a bill, I put a number of good bills in my vest pocket, where
they will be certain to be found at once. The other counterfeits I put
in a secret inside pocket where they are not likely to be discovered.
Then when it is found that all the other bills are good, I say that
some rascal must have passed the bad bill on me, taking advantage of my
innocence and ignorance of the world.”

This seemed to Barclay an excellent joke, and he laughed long and loud.

“Excuse me, Bill, but you don’t look it.”

“I can when it’s necessary.”

After a little more conversation Barclay, who was already half
convinced, yielded to the temptation, and agreed to accompany his
friend to the secret office of the counterfeiters, and enroll himself
as one of their agents. Slocum offered to conduct him within at once.

The interview proved a satisfactory one, and Barclay was readily
accepted, being vouched for by his friend and companion. It may be said
also that his appearance was in his favor, though it would hardly have
recommended him for any honest business.

When Barclay came out of the office, and again found himself on
Broadway, his spirits were perceptibly raised. He was no longer
impecunious, but carried with him fifty dollars in counterfeit bills.

“Well, good by, Jim,” said Slocum. “It is best for us to part, and not
work near each other. Then again, it is best not to recognize each
other when we meet, so that if one gets into a scrape the other need
not be molested.”

“All right, Slocum. Success to you!”

James Barclay walked up Broadway, when all at once he uttered a half
exclamation indicative of astonishment.

He was nearly face to face with a telegraph boy, in whom he recognized
the resolute lad who had foiled him in his attempt at burglary. But
this was not all. On the boy’s cap he recognized, with amazement, the
distinctive inscription:

  A. D. T.
  91.




CHAPTER XVI. AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.


“Number 91!” ejaculated James Barclay in surprise.

The surprise was reflected on Paul’s face when on looking up he
recognized James Barclay.

“I think we have met before,” said the burglar, grimly.

“Yes,” answered Paul, smiling.

“You are the boy that lives with my father?”

“Yes, if you are the son of Jerry Barclay,” Paul admitted, seeing that
denial was useless.

“It’s queer how things come about,” said Barclay, reflectively.

“I think you will have to excuse me,” said Paul, “for I am sent on an
errand, and it won’t do for me to stop.”

“Where are you bound?”

“To the Astor House.”

“Are you going to walk?”

“Yes.”

“Then I will go with you, if you don’t mind.”

Paul was by no means desirous of Barclay’s company, but there seemed no
way to shake him off. The street was free to all.

“You can come with me if you like,” he said.

“Then I’ll go. I’ve got something to say to you. But first I’ll say
that I don’t bear any ill will against you for what you did the other
night. You only did your duty.”

“That’s true. I’m glad you look upon it in that light.”

“I admire your pluck, blest if I don’t. All the same I was
disappointed.”

“Don’t you think it would be better to go into some other line of
business, Mr. Barclay?”

“Yes, I do, but that was all that was open to me at that time. Now,
I’ve got into something different.”

Paul looked curious, but didn’t ask what that business was. He
concluded that Barclay would tell him if he felt disposed.

“I’m a confidential agent,” continued Barclay, “and it’s likely to pay
me well. Where has my father moved to?”

Paul hesitated.

“I see you don’t want to tell me. My father moved to get out of my way,
I expect.”

“Yes, he did.”

“I don’t know as I blame him much, being the kind of man he is. I’m his
son, but money is his god. I asked for money, and he didn’t want to
give it to me.”

“That’s what he said.”

“Well, I was in need of money then. Now I’m not. Do you see that?”

He drew from his vest pocket the roll of counterfeit notes which had
been intrusted to him, and showed it to Paul.

“That doesn’t look as if I was in want of money, does it?”

“No, it doesn’t,” Paul admitted. In truth he was surprised at this
unexpected wealth on the part of his companion, and it occurred to him
to wonder whether he had engaged in another burglary in which he had
been more successful.

“No, I didn’t get it in the way you think,” he said, answering Paul’s
suspicious thought. “I got it in the way of business. Now will you tell
me where my father lives?”

“I can’t without his permission.”

“Then tell him that I don’t want any money from him. I am able to pay
my own way now.”

“He says he is poor.”

“Do you believe him, 91?” asked Barclay.

“I think he must have some money,” answered Paul, cautiously.

“So do I, decidedly. But he can keep it. Tell him that. I only want to
see him about some family matters. It ain’t strange if a son wants to
have a chat with his father after twelve years, is it?”

“No, I should say not.”

“Tell the old man that I am willing to give him five dollars as a sign
of good faith. If he will give me five, I’ll hand him ten.”

“I’ll tell him that,” said Paul, rather surprised, and asking himself
whether James Barclay was in earnest.

“You couldn’t give me small bills for a ten, could you?” asked Barclay,
meaning to push his business by Paul’s help.

“No, I couldn’t. I don’t carry any money about with me except a little
silver.”

“Never mind; I’ll get it somewhere else. Will you let me know tomorrow
what my father says?”

“Yes.”

“I’ll call at your office about ten o’clock.”

“I may be away, but if I am not you can see me.”

“How long have you been with my father?”

“Ever since I was five or six years old.”

“What made him take you? He isn’t so very charitable.”

“There was some money that went with me, I have heard.”

“I’ve no doubt of it. The old man is keen to look out for Number One.
He prefers that to looking out for Number Ninety One.”

Paul laughed at the joke, though he didn’t think it very brilliant.

“Do you expect he will leave you his money?” questioned Barclay, with a
sharp glance at Paul.

“No, I have no claims upon him.”

“That’s true, but you might take advantage of his being weak and old.”

“What do you take me for?” asked Paul indignantly.

Barclay laughed.

“I don’t take you for an angel, and a few thousands might be a
temptation to you as well as the next man.”

“Do you think your father has as much money as that?”

“Why shouldn’t he? He has been always scrimping and saving and never
spending.”

“Well, it’s nothing to me,” said Paul. “If you ask my opinion, I think
he’ll never make a will, and whatever he has will go to his natural
heir. I suppose that’s you.”

“Yes, it’s me. If I’m dead, I’ve got a wife and two children.”

They had reached Barclay Street, and the Astor House was close at hand.

“I must leave you now,” said Paul. “I go into the hotel.”

“Very well. Don’t forget to tell my father what I told you.”

“I will do so.”

That evening Paul, in redemption of his promise, said to the miser:

“I saw your son, today, Jerry.”

The old man’s face wore a startled expression.

“You saw--James?” he faltered.

“Yes.”

“Did he know you lived with me?”

“Yes, but I don’t know how he found out. Perhaps he asked at our former
lodgings.”

“What--what did he say?”

“He asked where you had moved.”

“You didn’t tell him?” said Jerry, in alarm.

“No, I said I could not without your permission.”

“Good boy, Paul. Don’t tell him--ever. He--he would come here and ask
for money. It would be very foolish, for I am wretchedly poor. Why
didn’t you tell him that Paul?”

“I don’t think he would believe me if I did. But you are mistaken, he
says, about his wanting money. He showed me a roll of bills, and said
he had a good position.”

“He asked me for fifty dollars when he came to see me. He is a bold,
bad man!”

“Now he says he is willing to give you money. He says if you will give
him five dollars back he will give you a ten dollar bill.”

“Did he say that?” asked old Jerry, eagerly.

“He told me to tell you that.”

Old Jerry’s face wore a look of perplexity. He hated to give up a
chance of five dollars, but at the same time he felt afraid of his son.
He could not believe him to be in earnest, for such liberality was by
no means characteristic of him.

“Did he--seem to be in earnest?” he asked Paul.

“Yes, he seemed to be, but you know him better than I do. He said he
wanted to have a chat with you, as he had not seen you for so many
years. What shall I say to him?”

Old Jerry didn’t immediately reply. Avarice and greed struggled in his
mind with an instinctive fear of his son.

“I--I’ll think of it,” he answered. “I can’t tell just yet.”

“Shall I say that to him?”

“Yes--and--Paul--”

“Well.”

“Don’t let him follow you home and find me out. He’ll try to do it. He
is a--a bad man, as he was a bad boy.”

“I will do as you say, Jerry.”

Paul was not sorry to carry back this message, for he, too, mistrusted
James Barclay, and felt that his desire to see his father covered some
sinister design.




CHAPTER XVII. A QUEER COMPACT.


James Barclay was very much in earnest in wishing to find his father’s
new habitation, for he was convinced that the old man possessed a
moderate fortune, and he felt that, sooner or later, it would come to
him. If in any way he could persuade old Jerry to put it in his hands
now, he would be handsomely provided for.

He was not to see Paul until the next morning. He secured lodgings at a
low hotel on the Bowery, where twenty five cents per night was charged.
The accommodation corresponded with the price, but Barclay, fresh from
Sing Sing, was not inclined to be fastidious, and congratulated himself
that again he was a free man.

He was not unmindful of his business, but was on the lookout for a
chance to exchange his counterfeit bills for good ones.

He strolled into a drinking saloon, and called for a drink. By his side
a man, from the country, apparently, was just paying for a glass of
whisky, and in so doing displayed a wallet filled with bills. Barclay
felt interested in him at once.

“My friend,” he said, “won’t you drink with me? I hate to drink alone.”

“You’re very polite, stranger, but I--hic--I guess I’m about full.”

“O, you can stand another glass, I am sure.”

“Well, I don’t mind,” hiccoughed the countryman. “You’re
a--gen--gentleman.”

“So are you,” said Barclay, with a wink at the barkeeper. “What’ll you
have?”

The countryman expressed a wish for whisky straight, and was served
with a glass.

Then the two sat down, and engaged in conversation. It was evident from
the thick utterance of the gentleman of the rural districts, that he
was no longer master of himself.

“By the way,” said Barclay, carelessly, “will you do me a favor?”

“I can’t lend you any money,” answered the other, with a remnant of
prudence. “I promised my wife I wouldn’t.”

“O, I don’t want a loan,” said Barclay. “Bless you, I’ve got money
enough. But I see you’ve got a number of bills. Couldn’t you change a
ten for me?”

The countryman saw no harm in this, and counted out ten dollars in
small bills, for which he accepted a nice crisp ten dollar bill, which
looked handsome, but, as we know, was not worth the paper it was
printed upon.

“Won’t you take another drink in acknowledgment of the favor?” asked
Barclay. “It has saved my going to the bank.”

The countryman was already so dizzy, that he had the good sense to
refuse, after trying to balance himself on his feet without success.

“Then I’ll bid you good day,” said Barclay, who, for obvious reasons,
desired now to terminate the acquaintance.

“Goo’ day,” said the other, in a husky voice.

“That was very well done!” soliloquized Barclay, as he counted the good
money and put it by itself in an upper vest pocket. “The fellow’s so
drunk that he’ll never know where he got the bad tenner. That’ll do for
one day’s work.”

The next morning, a little before the time agreed upon with Paul, he
was crossing the City Hall Park, when he unexpectedly met the telegraph
boy.

“Good morning, Number 91,” he said. “I was just coming up to the office
to look for you.”

“Then you are saved the trouble.”

“Yes; and now what word from my father? Where can I find him?”

“He does not seem willing to see you,” answered Paul.

James Barclay frowned angrily.

“I believe you’re doing this, you young rascal, keeping me and the old
man apart, so you can get hold of his money yourself.”

“You are welcome to think what you like, Mr. Barclay,” said Paul, with
spirit. “Good morning!”

“Curse the kid!” muttered Barclay, following the telegraph boy with a
vindictive glance.

“That’s what I say, too, boss!”

Barclay turned quickly, and found the speaker to be a bootblack, a boy
about Paul’s size. It was Tom Rafferty, a boy introduced in the first
chapter, with whose attempted imposition upon a smaller boy in the same
line of business Paul had forcibly interfered.

“So you know the kid?” he said, inquiringly.

“I’d ought to,” answered Tom. “Shine yer boots, boss?”

“Yes, I’ll have a shine,” answered Barclay, thinking he might make this
boy of service.

“So you don’t like Number 91?”

“No, I don’t,” was the emphatic reply.

“What’s the matter with him?”

“He thinks himself above me, jest because he is a telegraph boy, and I
am a bootblack.”

“Have you known him long?”

“Ever since he was so high,” said Tom, indicating the height of a boy
of six.

“Do you know the old man he lives with?”

“Know old Jerry? Of course I do. Used to live in the same house, when
dad was livin’.”

“So the boy has always lived with him?”

“Ever since I knowed him.”

“Humph! Where do they live now?”

“Round in Pearl Street.”

“No, they don’t. They’ve moved.”

“I didn’t know it. Must ’ave moved lately.”

“Yes, it was. Now, boy--what’s your name?”

“Tom Rafferty.”

“Then, Tom, would you like a job?”

“Wouldn’t I!”

“I want to find out where the boy and the old man live. I’ve got some
business with the old man, but he don’t want to see me.”

“Wouldn’t Paul tell you?”

“No.”

“What’s it worth, boss?” asked Tom, with an eye to business.

“It depends on how soon you can find out. How can you find out?”

“I’ll foller Paul when he goes home from the office.”

“That’ll do. Do you think you can find out for me tonight, so as to let
me know tomorrow morning?”

“I reckon I can, boss.”

“Meet me here tomorrow morning, and tell me where they live, and I’ll
give you a dollar.”

Tom had not been expecting more than a quarter, and was very well
pleased with Barclay’s liberality.

“I’ll do it, boss!” he said, striking the box, to indicate that the
shine was completed. Apart from the money that was promised him, he
was glad to thwart Paul, who didn’t want his customer to ascertain the
address.

“I’ll meet you here about nine o’clock, and have another shine,” said
Barclay, as he slipped ten cents--double pay--into Tom’s hand.

“You’ll find me on hand, and right side up with care,” said Tom.
“You’re a gentleman I like to fall in with.”

James Barclay walked away, well pleased with the arrangement he had
made.

“There’s more’n one way of finding out what you want to know,” he
soliloquized. “The old man ain’t sharp, or else he thinks I ain’t.
I’ll give him a call when that troublesome telegraph boy is about
his business. Me and the old man will have considerable business to
discuss. He’s going to give me a share of his money, or I’ll shake the
life out of him. It ain’t pleasant to discipline your dad, but when he
don’t treat you like he ought, it’s the only way.”

Tom Rafferty, towards the close of the afternoon, loitered in the
neighborhood of the telegraph office where Paul was employed. When
Number 91 left the office and betook himself homeward, he did not
notice that he was followed at the distance of a few rods by Tom
Rafferty.

But such was the case.




CHAPTER XVIII. JAMES BARCLAY OBTAINS A CLEW.


No commission could have been more congenial to Tom Rafferty than to
track Paul and the miser. He had never liked Paul, whom he charged
with putting on airs, because he was better dressed than himself, but
his aversion had deepened to hatred since the telegraph boy’s forcible
interference in favor of little Jack. He saw a way now to annoy Paul,
for he was satisfied that James Barclay was no friend of Jerry or
Number 91.

He hovered round the telegraph office till Paul was dismissed, and
then, unobserved by him, sauntered along behind him. At Grand Street,
Paul crossed Broadway and proceeded eastward to where Ludlow Street
opens out of it, and proceeded in a southerly direction for about five
minutes. Had he turned back, he might have suspected Tom’s motive in
following him, but he was absorbed in his own thoughts, and never
looked behind him. At length he entered an open doorway and went
upstairs. Tom carefully noted the number, and then, with a look of
triumph, went back to his usual lounging place at the City Hall Park.

The next morning, at the hour fixed, James Barclay entered the park and
looked about for Tom. Tom, who was also on the lookout for him, put
himself in his way.

“Shine yer boots, boss?” he asked, with a grin.

“Oh, you’re the boy I saw yesterday,” said Barclay, recognizing him.
“Well, what luck have you had?”

“I follered him, and found out where he lives, boss.”

“Good!” said Barclay, brightening up. “Where is it?”

“Where’s the dollar you was to give me?” asked Tom, cautiously.

“Here it is!” said Barclay, producing a silver dollar.

“Give it here, boss.”

“First tell me where my--where the telegraph boy lives.”

“If I should, you might put it back in your pocket,” said Tom,
cunningly.

Barclay did not resent this imputation upon his good faith, for his
sense of honor was not very keen, and he would only have regarded such
a trick as smart. In this case, however, he was so anxious to learn
where his father lived that he had no idea of cheating his confidential
messenger.

“No, boy, I’m on the square,” he answered. “Here, take the money and
tell me the number.”

Tom took the dollar, chucked it in the air, catching it dexterously
as it came down, and then pocketed it with an air of satisfaction. He
was neither provident nor industrious, and it was rare that he found
himself in possession of so large a sum.

“No. 105 Ludlow Street,” he said. “That’s the number.”

“Are you sure of that? Did you see the old man?” demanded Barclay,
eagerly.

“No, I didn’t see him, but I knowed he was there, for he and Paul live
together,” answered Tom.

“That’s near Grand Street, isn’t it?”

“You’ve hit it boss. Shine yer boots?”

“Go ahead!”

While this operation was being performed, Tom, whose curiosity was
excited, began to question in his turn.

“You ain’t no relation to Paul, be you?” he asked.

“What business is it of yours?” demanded Barclay, frowning.

“Didn’t know yer wanted to keep it secret,” said Tom, abashed.

“Have you known the old man long?”

“I’ve knowed old Jerry ever since I was a small kid.”

“How does he make his living?”

“He begs in the streets, when he can get away from Paul. Number 91 is
so proud he won’t let him when he knows it.”

“I should think he would rather have the old man beg, so he wouldn’t
have to give him so much money.”

“So should I. I wouldn’t mind. Old Jerry could make enough begging to
support himself, easy.”

“Evidently you are a different chap from this telegraph boy,” observed
Barclay, not without sarcasm.

“I hope so,” said Tom Rafferty. “I don’t put on no airs.”

“And he does?”

“You’d better believe it. And after all he’s only a telegraph boy. I
could go on the telegraph myself, if I wanted to.”

“Why don’t you?”

“I’d rather have my liberty, and be my own boss. I guess I make as much
money, any way.”

“You could dress better, and be cleaner,” suggested Barclay, surveying
the ragged costume and soiled face and hands of the bootblack.

“What’s the use of being clean?” asked Tom, with calm philosophy. “You
don’t feel no better. Besides, you’re sure to get dirty again. It’s all
foolishness.”

“Right you are, my boy,” said Barclay, with a smile. “There isn’t much
of that foolishness about you.”

Here the boy struck the box smartly with his brush, as a sign that the
job was completed.

Barclay put down his foot and prepared to go.

“You haven’t paid, boss,” said the bootblack.

“I gave you a dollar.”

“That was for something else. You haven’t paid for the shine.”

“You ought to throw that in,” said Barclay.

“Don’t do business that way, boss.”

“Here’s your money, then,” said Barclay, throwing a nickel on the
ground at his feet. He had intended all the time to give it, but amused
himself by teasing the boy. “Supposing I should want you again, shall I
find you here?”

“Yes, boss; this is my office,” answered Tom, humorously. “If it’s more
convenient, you kin call at my house on Fifth Avenue.”

James Barclay left the park in a state of high satisfaction. It was
important to his schemes to find his father, and now there seemed to be
no further difficulty in the way. Then, too, he rather plumed himself
on his success as a detective. Old Jerry, prompted probably by Paul,
had removed his residence with the object of avoiding him and putting
him off the track. But it had all proved useless. Thanks, as he assured
himself, to his remarkable sharpness, he had foiled the old man and
found out what he had attempted to conceal.

“How glum he will look when he sees me coming into his room!” he
chuckled to himself. “It’ll be worth five dollars to see his scared
face. Serves him right, too, for tryin’ to deceive his own flesh and
blood.”

It was no little additional satisfaction that Paul, too, against whom
he had a grudge for his interference with his attempt at burglary,
would be disappointed and discomfited.

Should he go at once to call on his father? By the City Hall clock it
lacked a quarter of ten. There was no hurry, for he had his address,
and could find him any time. He wanted to make another call first, and
decided to do so. What this call was, is not essential to my story. It
is sufficient to say that it occupied him two hours, and that it was a
little past twelve when he reached the new residence of his father in
Ludlow Street.

There was a woman standing at the door.

“Is there an old man and a telegraph boy living here?” asked Barclay.

“Yes,” answered the woman. “Head of the stairs on the third floor.”

“Thank you, ma’am. I’m much obliged.”

James Barclay ascended the stairs, smiling to himself all the way.




CHAPTER XIX. OLD JERRY RECEIVES A VISIT.


Though old Jerry was more sensible than some misers in resisting the
temptation of keeping all his money at home, where he might feast his
eyes in the contemplation of it, he had a little hoard of gold pieces
which he secreted in his room, and which from time to time he took out
and counted with gloating eyes.

This very day he had taken them from their place of concealment, and,
spreading them on the bed, was counting them over with trembling
fingers when his son quietly opened the door, and entered the room.

The old man looked around, pale and alarmed, and clutched at the gold
in the hope of hiding it before the intruder, whoever it might be,
could catch a glimpse of it. But he was nervous, and had only thrust a
part of the gold hurriedly into his pocket when James entered.

Over the old man’s face there crept an expression of dire dismay. There
was no one in the world whom he less wished to see than his son.

The latter’s keen glance detected his father’s employment, and did not
fail to observe the half dozen gold pieces still remaining on the bed
spread, though old Jerry, as quickly as possible, gathered them up, and
thrust them into his pocket.

“Good morning, dad!” said James, in a jocular tone. “I am afraid you
are not glad to see me.”

Old Jerry stared at him in mute consternation.

“Considering that I am your only son, you might give me a better
welcome,” said James, carefully closing the door, and sinking into a
chair.

“Go away, go away!” said the old man, hoarsely. “You--you are a bold,
bad man, and I don’t want to see you.”

“Come, dad, that is unkind!” said James Barclay, in a bantering tone.
“You mustn’t forget that I am your son.”

“I wish I could forget it,” muttered the old man.

“I am not so bad as you think I am, father. Seeing that we are all that
is left of the family, it’s only right that we should live friendly.
I’m glad to see you are not so poor as you pretend.”

“You--you are mistaken, James,” whined old Jerry. “I am very poor.”

“That don’t go down, dad. What were you doing when I came in?”

Old Jerry looked confused.

“How many gold pieces have you got there? Let me count them.”

“Three--or four,” stammered Jerry, unable to deny the statement
entirely.

“Three or four!” repeated James, mockingly. “Thirty or forty, more
likely.”

“You--you are quite wrong, James,” said Jerry, in nervous alarm.
“It’s--it’s all I have in the world.”

“Perhaps it is, and perhaps it isn’t. When I was here before, you
pretended you didn’t have any money at all. What are you going to do
with it?”

“I am keeping it to--to bury me,” answered Jerry.

“Then you’d better give it to me. You can’t bury yourself, you know.
I’ll see you buried all right when the time comes.”

“I couldn’t do it, James. I must keep it as long as I live. When I
die--”

“It comes to me, I suppose.”

“Ye--es.”

“Then I might as well have it now, don’t you think so, dad?”

“Go away! I don’t feel well. I want to be left alone,” stammered Jerry,
with a terrified look at the stout, broad shouldered visitor, whom he
could hardly believe to be his son, so great was the difference between
the burly strength of the one, and the shrinking weakness of the other.

“Look here, dad, you ain’t treating me well. You don’t seem to consider
that I am your only son. Are you saving up your money for that young
telegraph brat that lives with you?”

“Paul is a good boy,” mumbled Jerry. “He doesn’t scare and trouble me
like you, James.”

“That isn’t answering my question. Are you going to leave him all your
money?”

“I--I have very little--to leave, James,” returned the old man, lapsing
into his usual whine. “There won’t be anything left when my funeral
expenses are paid.”

“What there is will go to me, will it?”

“I--I suppose so,” faltered Jerry.

“Then I think you’d better make your will and say so. Otherwise that
boy will claim all.”

“Paul is a good boy. I--I should starve but for what he brings me every
week.”
