her to select as a confidant."
"Maybe so, sir; but she knows I'm her friend."
"You like the young lady, then? Perhaps you would like to marry her
yourself?"
"As if she'd take any notice of a poor boy like me. I told her if her
uncle sent her away, I'd take care of her and be a brother to her."
"How would Mr. Tim Bolton--that's his name, isn't it?--like that?"
"I wouldn't take her to where he lives."
"I think, myself, it would hardly be a suitable home for a young lady
brought up on Madison Avenue. There is certainly no accounting for
tastes. Miss Florence----"
"That's her name, is it?"
"Yes; didn't she tell you?"
"No; but it's a nice name."
"She declines my hand, and accepts your protection. It will certainly
be a proud distinction to become Mrs. Dodger."
"Don't laugh at her!" said Dodger, suspiciously.
"I don't propose to. But I think we may as well return to the
library."
"Well," said Mr. Linden, as his nephew returned with Dodger.
"I have examined the boy, and found nothing on his person," said
Curtis; "I confess I am puzzled. He appears to have a high admiration
for Florence----"
"As I supposed."
"She has even confided to him her dislike for me, and he has offered
her his protection."
"Is this so, miss?" demanded Mr. Linden, sternly.
"Yes, uncle," faltered Florence.
"Then you can join the young person you have selected whenever you
please. For your sake I will not have him arrested for attempted
burglary. He is welcome to what he has taken, since he is likely to
marry into the family. You may stay here to-night, and he can call for
you in the morning."
John Linden closed the secretary, and left the room, leaving Florence
sobbing. The servants, too, retired, and Curtis was left alone with
her.
"Florence," he said, "accept my hand, and I will reconcile my uncle to
you. Say but the word, and----"
"I can never speak it, Curtis! I will take my uncle at his word.
Dodger, call for me to-morrow at eight, and I will accept your
friendly services in finding me a new home."
"I'll be on hand, miss. Good-night!"
"Be it so, obstinate girl!" said Curtis, angrily. "The time will come
when you will bitterly repent your mad decision."
Chapter VII.
Florence Leaves Home.
Florence passed a sleepless night. It had come upon her so suddenly,
this expulsion from the home of her childhood, that she could not
fully realize it. She could not feel that she was taking her last look
at the familiar room, and well-remembered dining-room, where she had
sat down for the last time for breakfast. She was alone at the
breakfast table, for the usual hour was half-past eight, and she had
appointed Dodger to call for her at eight.
"Is it true, Miss Florence, that you're going away?" asked Jane, the
warm-hearted table girl, as she waited upon Florence.
"Yes, Jane," answered Florence, sadly.
"It's a shame, so it is! I didn't think your uncle would be so
hard-hearted."
"He is disappointed because I won't marry my Cousin Curtis."
"I don't blame you for it, miss. I never liked Mr. Waring. He isn't
half good enough for you."
"I say nothing about that, Jane; but I will not marry a man I do not
love."
"Nor would I, miss. Where are you going, if I may make so bold?"
"I don't know, Jane," said Florence, despondently.
"But you can't walk about the streets."
"A trusty friend is going to call for me at eight o'clock; when he
comes admit him."
"It is a--a young gentleman?"
"You wouldn't call him such. He is a boy, a poor boy; but I think he
is a true friend. He says he will find me a comfortable room
somewhere, where I can settle down and look for work."
"Are you going to work for a living, Miss Florence?" asked Jane,
horrified.
"I must, Jane."
"It's a great shame--you, a lady born."
"No, Jane, I do not look upon it in that light. I shall be happier for
having my mind and my hands occupied."
"What work will you do?"
"I don't know yet. Dodger will advise me."
"Who, miss?"
"Dodger."
"Who is he?"
"It's the boy I spoke of."
"Shure, he's got a quare name."
"Yes; but names don't count for much. It's the heart I think of, and
this boy has a kind heart."
"Have you known him long?"
"I saw him yesterday for the first time."
"Is it the young fellow who was here last night?"
"Yes."
"He isn't fit company for the likes of you, Miss Florence."
"You forget, Jane, that I am no longer a rich young lady. I am poorer
than even you. This Dodger is kind, and I feel that I can trust him."
"If you are poor, Miss Florence," said Jane, hesitatingly, "would you
mind borrowing some money of me? I've got ten dollars upstairs in my
trunk, and I don't need it at all. It's proud I'll be to lend it to
you."
"Thank you, Jane," said Florence, gratefully. "I thought I had but one
friend. I find I have two----"
"Then you'll take the money? I'll go right up and get it."
"No, Jane; not at present. I have twenty dollars in my purse, and it
will last me till I can earn more."
"But, miss, twenty dollars will soon go," said Jane, disappointed.
"If I find that I need the sum you so kindly offer me, I will let you
know, I promise that."
"Thank you, miss."
At this point a bell rang from above.
"It's from Mr. Curtis' room," said Jane.
"Go and see what he wants."
Jane returned in a brief time with a note in her hand.
"Mr. Curtis asked me if you were still here," she explained, "and when
I told him you were he asked me to give you this."
Florence took the note, and, opening it, read these lines:
    "Florence: Now that you have had time to think over your plan
    of leaving your old home, I hope you have come to see how
    foolish it is. Reflect that, if carried out, a life of
    poverty and squalid wretchedness amid homely and uncongenial
    surroundings awaits you; while, as my wife, you will live a
    life of luxury and high social position. There are many young
    ladies who would be glad to accept the chance which you so
    recklessly reject. By accepting my hand you will gratify our
    excellent uncle, and make me the happiest of mortals. You
    will acquit me of mercenary motives, since you are now
    penniless, and your disobedience leaves me sole heir to Uncle
    John. I love you, and it will be my chief object, if you will
    permit it, to make you happy.
                                                 "Curtis Waring."
Florence ran her eyes rapidly over this note, but her heart did not
respond, and her resolution was not shaken.
"Tell Mr. Waring there is no answer, Jane, if he inquires," she said.
"Was he tryin' to wheedle you into marryin' him?" asked Jane.
"He wished me to change my decision."
"I'm glad you've given him the bounce," said Jane, whose expressions
were not always refined. "I wouldn't marry him myself."
Florence smiled. Jane was red haired, and her nose was what is
euphemistically called retrousse. Even in her own circles she was
not regarded as beautiful, and was hardly likely to lead a rich man to
overlook her humble station, and sue for her hand.
"Then, Jane, you at least will not blame me for refusing my cousin's
hand?"
"That I won't, miss. Do you know, Miss Florence"--and here Jane
lowered her voice--"I've a suspicion that Mr. Curtis is married
already?"
"What do you mean, Jane?" asked Florence, startled.
"There was a poor young woman called here last month and inquired for
Mr. Curtis. She was very sorrowful-like, and poorly dressed. He came
up when she was at the door, and he spoke harshlike, and told her to
walk away with him. What they said I couldn't hear, but I've a
suspicion that she was married to him, secretlike for I saw a wedding
ring upon her finger."
"But, Jane, it would be base and infamous for him to ask for my hand
when he was already married."
"I can't help it, miss. That's just what he wouldn't mind doin'. Oh,
he's a sly deceiver, Mr. Curtis. I'd like to see him foolin' around
me."
Jane nodded her head with emphasis, as if to intimate the kind of
reception Curtis Waring would get if he attempted to trifle with her
virgin affections.
"I hope what you suspect is not true," said Florence, gravely. "I do
not like or respect Curtis, but I don't like to think he would be so
base as that. If you ever see this young woman again, try to find out
where she lives. I would like to make her acquaintance, and be a
friend to her if she needs one."
"Shure, Miss Florence, you will be needin' a friend yourself."
"It is true, Jane. I forgot that I am no longer a young lady of
fortune, but a penniless girl, obliged to work for a living."
"What would your uncle say if he knew that Mr. Curtis had a wife?"
"We don't know that he has one, and till we do, it would not be
honorable to intimate such a thing to Uncle John."
"Shure, he wouldn't be particular. It's all his fault that you're
obliged to leave home, and go into the streets. Why couldn't he take
no for an answer, and marry somebody else, if he can find anybody to
have him?"
"I wish, indeed, that he had fixed his affections elsewhere,"
responded Florence, with a sigh.
"Shure, he's twice as old as you, Miss Florence, anyway."
"I shouldn't mind that so much, if that was the only objection."
"It'll be a great deal better marryin' a young man."
"I don't care to marry any one, Jane. I don't think I shall ever
marry."
"It's all very well to say that, Miss Florence. Lots of girls say so,
but they change their minds. I don't mean to live out always myself."
"Is there any young man you are interested in, Jane?"
"Maybe there is, and maybe there isn't, Miss Florence. If I ever do
get married I'll invite you to the wedding."
"And I'll promise to come if I can. But I hear the bell. I think my
friend Dodger has come."
"Shall I ask him in, miss?"
"No. Tell him I will be ready to accompany him at once."
She went out into the hall, and when the door was opened the visitor
proved to be Dodger. He had improved his appearance so far as his
limited means would allow. His hands and face were thoroughly clean;
he had bought a new collar and necktie; his shoes were polished, and
despite his shabby suit, he looked quite respectable. Getting a full
view of him, Florence saw that his face was frank and handsome, his
eyes bright, and his teeth like pearls.
"Shure, he's a great deal better lookin' than Mr. Curtis," whispered
Jane. "Here, Mr. Dodger, take Miss Florence's valise, and mind you
take good care of her."
"I will," answered Dodger, heartily. "Come, Miss Florence, if you
don't mind walking over to Fourth Avenue, we'll take the horse cars."
So, under strange guidance, Florence Linden left her luxurious home,
knowing not what awaited her. What haven of refuge she might find she
knew not. She, like Dodger, was adrift in New York.
Chapter VIII.
A Friendly Compact.
Florence, as she stepped on the sidewalk, turned, and fixed a last sad
look on the house that had been her home for so many years. She had
never anticipated such a sundering of home ties, and even now she
found it difficult to realize that the moment had come when her life
was to be rent in twain, and the sunlight of prosperity was to be
darkened and obscured by a gloomy and uncertain future.
She had hastily packed a few indispensable articles in a valise which
she carried in her hand.
"Let me take your bag, Miss Florence," said Dodger, reaching out his
hand.
"I don't want to trouble you, Dodger."
"It ain't no trouble, Miss Florence. I'm stronger than you, and it
looks better for me to carry it."
"You are very kind, Dodger. What would I do without you?"
"There's plenty that would be glad of the chance of helping you," said
Dodger, with a glance of admiration at the fair face of his companion.
"I don't know where to find them," said Florence, sadly. "Even my
uncle has turned against me."
"He's an old chump!" ejaculated Dodger, in a tone of disgust.
"Hush! I cannot hear a word against him. He has always been kind and
considerate till now. It is the evil influence of my Cousin Curtis
that has turned him against me. When he comes to himself I am sure he
will regret his cruelty."
"He would take you back if you would marry your cousin."
"Yes; but that I will never do!" exclaimed Florence, with energy.
"Bully for you!" said Dodger. "Excuse me," he said, apologetically. "I
ain't used to talkin' to young ladies, and perhaps that ain't proper
for me to say."
"I don't mind, Dodger; your heart is in the right place."
"Thank you, Miss Florence. I'm glad you've got confidence in me. I'll
try to deserve it."
"Where are we going?" asked the young lady, whose only thought up to
this moment had been to get away from the presence of Curtis and his
persecutions.
They had now reached Fourth Avenue, and a surface car was close at
hand.
"We're going to get aboard that car," said Dodger, signaling with his
free hand. "I'll tell you more when we're inside."
Florence entered the car, and Dodger, following, took a seat at her
side.
They presented a noticeable contrast, for Florence was dressed as
beseemed her station, while Dodger, in spite of his manly, attractive
face, was roughly attired, and looked like a working boy.
When the conductor came along, he drew out a dime, and tendered it in
payment of the double fare. The money was in the conductor's hand
before Florence was fully aware.
"You must not pay for me, Dodger," she said.
"Why not?" asked the boy. "Ain't we friends?"
"Yes, but you have no money to spare. Here, let me return the money."
And she offered him a dime from her own purse.
"You can pay next time, Miss Florence. It's all right. Now, I'll tell
you where we are goin'. A friend of mine, Mrs. O'Keefe, has a lodgin'
house, just off the Bowery. I saw her last night, and she says she's
got a good room that she can give you for two dollars a week--I don't
know how much you'd be willing to pay, but----"
"I can pay that for a time at least. I have a little money, and I must
find some work to do soon. Is this Mrs. O'Keefe a nice lady?"
"She ain't a lady at all," answered Dodger, bluntly. "She keeps an
apple-stand near the corner of Bowery and Grand Street; but she's a
good, respectable woman, and she's good-hearted. She'll be kind to
you, and try to make things pleasant; but if you ain't satisfied----"
"It will do for the present. Kindness is what I need, driven as I am
from the home of my childhood. But you, Dodger, where do you live?"
"I'm goin' to take a small room in the same house, Miss Florence."
"I shall be glad to have you near me."
"I am proud to hear you say that. I'm a poor boy, and you're a rich
lady, but----"
"Not rich, Dodger. I am as poor as yourself."
"You're a reg'lar lady, anyway. You ain't one of my kind, but I'm
going to improve and raise myself. I was readin' the other day of a
rich man that was once a poor boy, and sold papers like me. But
there's one thing in the way--I ain't got no eddication."
"You can read and write, can't you, Dodger?"
"Yes; I can read pretty well, but I can't write much."
"I will teach you in the evenings, when we are both at leisure."
"Will you?" asked the boy, with a glad smile. "You're very kind--I'd
like a teacher like you."
"Then it's a bargain, Dodger," and Florence's face for the first time
lost its sad look, as she saw an opportunity of helping one who had
befriended her. "But you must promise to study faithfully."
"That I will. If I don't, I'll give you leave to lick me."
"I shan't forget that," said Florence, amused. "I will buy a ruler of
good hard wood, and then you must look out. But, tell me, where have
you lived hitherto?"
"I don't like to tell you, Miss Florence. I've lived ever since I was
a kid with a man named Tim Bolton. He keeps a saloon on the Bowery,
near Houston Street. It's a tough place, I tell you. I've got a bed in
one corner--it's tucked away in a closet in the day."
"I suppose it is a drinking saloon?"
"Yes, that's what it is."
"And kept open very late?"
"Pretty much all night."
"Is this Tim Bolton any relation of yours?"
"He says he's my father; but I don't believe it."
"Have you always lived with him?"
"Ever since I was a small kid."
"Have you always lived in New York?"
"No; I was out in Australia. Tim was out in the country part of the
time, and part of the time he kept a saloon in Melbourne. There was
thieves and burglars used to come into his place. I knew what they
were, though they didn't think I did."
"How terrible for a boy to be subjected to such influences."
"But I've made up my mind I won't live with Tim no longer. I can earn
my own livin' sellin' papers, or smashin' baggage, and keep away from
Tim. I'd have done it before if I'd had a friend like you to care for
me."
"We will stand by each other, Dodger. Heaven knows I need a friend,
and if I can be a friend to you, and help you, I will."
"We'll get out here, Miss Florence. I told Mrs. O'Keefe I'd call at
her stand, and she'll go over and show you your room."
They left the car at the corner of Grand Street, and Dodger led the
way to an apple-stand, presided over by a lady of ample proportions,
whose broad, Celtic face seemed to indicate alike shrewd good sense
and a kindly spirit.
"Mrs. O'Keefe," said Dodger, "this is the young lady I spoke to you
about--Miss Florence Linden."
"It's welcome you are, my dear, and I'm very glad to make your
acquaintance. You look like a rale leddy, and I don't know how you'll
like the room I've got for you."
"I cannot afford to be particular, Mrs. O'Keefe. I have had a--a
reverse of circumstances, and I must be content with an humble home."
"Then I'll go over and show it to you. Here, Kitty, come and mind the
stand," she called to a girl about thirteen across the street, "and
don't let anybody steal the apples. Look out for Jimmy Mahone, he
stole a couple of apples right under my nose this mornin', the young
spalpeen!"
As they were crossing the street, a boy of fourteen ran up to Dodger.
"Dodger," said he, "you'd better go right over to Tim Bolton's. He's
in an awful stew--says he'll skin you alive if you don't come to the
s'loon right away."
Chapter IX.
The New Home.
"You can tell Tim Bolton," said Dodger, "that I don't intend to come
back at all."
"You don't mean it, Dodger?" said Ben Holt, incredulously.
"Yes, I do. I'm going to set up for myself."
"Oh, Dodger," said Florence, "I'm afraid you will get into trouble for
my sake!"
"Don't worry about that, Miss Florence. I'm old enough to take care of
myself, and I've got tired of livin' with Tim."
"But he may beat you!"
"He'll have to get hold of me first."
They had reached a four-story tenement of shabby brick, which was
evidently well filled up by a miscellaneous crowd of tenants; shop
girls, mechanics, laborers and widows, living by their daily toil.
Florence had never visited this part of the city, and her heart sank
within her as she followed Mrs. O'Keefe through a dirty hallway, up a
rickety staircase, to the second floor.
"One more flight of stairs, my dear," said Mrs. O'Keefe,
encouragingly. "I've got four rooms upstairs; one of them is for you,
and one for Dodger."
Florence did not reply. She began to understand at what cost she had
secured her freedom from a distasteful marriage.
In her Madison Avenue home all the rooms were light, clean and
luxuriously furnished. Here---- But words were inadequate to describe
the contrast.
Mrs. O'Keefe threw open the door of a back room about twelve feet
square, furnished in the plainest manner, uncarpeted, except for a
strip that was laid, like a rug, beside the bedstead.
There was a washstand, with a mirror, twelve by fifteen inches, placed
above it, a pine bureau, a couple of wooden chairs, and a cane-seated
rocking-chair.
"There, my dear, what do you say to that?" asked Mrs. O'Keefe,
complacently. "All nice and comfortable as you would wish to see."
"It is--very nice," said Florence, faintly, sacrificing truth to
politeness.
"And who do you think used to live here?" asked the apple-woman.
"I'm sure I don't know."
"The bearded woman in the dime museum," answered Mrs. O'Keefe, nodding
her head. "She lived with me three months, and she furnished the room
herself. When she went away she was hard up, and I bought the
furniture of her cheap. You remember Madam Berger, don't you, Dodger?"
"Oh, yes, I seen her often."
"She got twenty-five dollars a week, and she'd ought to have saved
money, but she had a good-for-nothin' husband that drank up all her
hard earnin's."
"I hope she didn't drink herself," said Florence, who shuddered at the
idea of succeeding a drunken tenant.
"Not a drop. She was a good, sober lady, if she did work in a dime
museum. She only left here two weeks ago. It isn't every one I'd be
willin' to take in her place, but I see you're a real leddy, let alone
that Dodger recommends you. I hope you'll like the room, and I'll do
all I can to make things pleasant. You can go into my room any hour,
my dear, and do your little cookin' on my stove. I s'pose you'll do
your own cookin'?"
"Well, not just at present," faltered Florence. "I am afraid I don't
know much about cooking."
"You'll find it a deal cheaper, and it's more quiet and gentale than
goin' to the eatin'-houses. I'll help you all I can, and glad to."
"Thank you, Mrs. O'Keefe, you are very kind," said Florence,
gratefully. "Perhaps just at first you wouldn't object to taking me as
a boarder, and letting me take my meals with you. I don't think I
would like to go to the eating-houses alone."
"To be sure, my dear, if you wish it, and I'll be glad of your
company. I'll make the terms satisfactory."
"I have no doubt of that," said Florence, feeling very much relieved.
"If I might be so bold, what kind of work are you going to do?"
"I hardly know. It has come upon me so suddenly. I shall have to do
something, for I haven't got much money. What I should like best would
be to write----"
"Is it for the papers you mean?"
"Oh, no; I mean for some author or lawyer."
"I don't know much about that," said Mrs. O'Keefe. "In fact, I don't
mind tellin' you, my dear, that I can't write myself, but I earn a
good livin' all the same by my apple-stand. I tell you, my dear," she
continued in a confidential tone, "there is a good dale of profit in
sellin' apples. It's better than sewin' or writin'. Of course, a young
leddy like you wouldn't like to go into the business."
Florence shook her head, with a smile.
"No, Mrs. O'Keefe," she said. "I am afraid I haven't a business turn,
and I should hardly like so public an employment."
"Lor', miss, it's nothin' if you get used to it. There's nothin' dull
about my business, unless it rains, and you get used to havin' people
look at you."
"It isn't all that are worth looking at like you, Mrs. O'Keefe," said
Dodger, slyly.
"Oh, go away wid your fun, Dodger," said the apple-woman,
good-naturedly. "I ain't much to look at, I know."
"I think there's a good deal of you to look at, Mrs. O'Keefe. You must
weigh near three hundred."
"I've a good mind to box your ears, Dodger. I only weigh a hundred and
ninety-five. But I can't be bothered wid your jokes. Can you sew, Miss
Florence?"
"Yes; but I would rather earn my living some other way, if possible."
"Small blame to you for that. I had a girl in Dodger's room last year
who used to sew for a livin'. Early and late she worked, poor thing,
and she couldn't make but two dollars a week."
"How could she live?" asked Florence, startled, for she knew very
little of the starvation wages paid to toiling women.
"She didn't live. She just faded away, and it's my belief the poor
thing didn't get enough to eat. Every day or two I'd make an excuse to
take her in something from my own table, a plate of meat, or a bit of
toast and a cup of tay, makin' belave she didn't get a chance to cook
for herself, but she got thinner and thinner, and her poor cheeks got
hollow, and she died in the hospital at last."
The warm-hearted apple-woman wiped away a tear with the corner of her
apron, as she thought of the poor girl whose sad fate she described.
"You won't die of consumption, Mrs. O'Keefe," said Dodger. "It'll take
a good while for you to fade away."
"Hear him now," said the apple-woman, laughing. "He will have his
joke, Miss Florence, but he's a good bye for all that, and I'm glad
he's goin' to lave Tim Bolton, that ould thafe of the worruld."
"Now, Mrs. O'Keefe, you know you'd marry Tim if he'd only ask you."
"Marry him, is it? I'd lay my broom over his head if he had the
impudence to ask me. When Maggie O'Keefe marries ag'in, she won't
marry a man wid a red nose."
"Break it gently to him, Mrs. O'Keefe. Tim is just the man to break
his heart for love of you."
Mrs. O'Keefe aimed a blow at Dodger, but he proved true to his name,
and skillfully evaded it.
"I must be goin'," he said. "I've got to work, or I can't pay room
rent when the week comes round."
"What are you going to do, Dodger?" asked Florence.
"It isn't time for the evenin' papers yet, so I shall go 'round to the
piers and see if I can't get a job at smashin' baggage."
"But I shouldn't think any one would want to do that," said Florence,
puzzled.
"It's what we boys call it. It's just carryin' valises and bundles.
Sometimes I show strangers the way to Broadway. Last week an old man
paid me a dollar to show him the way to the Cooper Institute. He was a
gentleman, he was. I'd like to meet him ag'in. Good-by, Miss Florence;
I'll be back some time this afternoon."
"And I must be goin', too," said Mrs. O'Keefe. "I can't depend on that
Kitty; she's a wild slip of a girl, and just as like as not I'll find
a dozen apples stole when I get back. I hope you won't feel lonely, my
dear."
"I think I will lie down a while," said Florence. "I have a headache."
She threw herself on the bed, and a feeling of loneliness and
desolation came over her.
Her new friends were kind, but they could not make up to her for her
uncle's love, so strangely lost, and the home she had left behind.
Chapter X.
The Arch Conspirator.
In the house on Madison Avenue, Curtis Waring was left in possession
of the field. Through his machinations Florence had been driven from
home and disinherited.
He was left sole heir to his uncle's large property with the prospect
of soon succeeding, for though only fifty-four, John Linden looked at
least ten years older, and was as feeble as many men past seventy.
Yet, as Curtis seated himself at the breakfast table an hour after
Florence had left the house, he looked far from happy or triumphant.
One thing he had not succeeded in, the conquest of his cousin's heart.
Though he loved himself best, he was really in love with Florence, so
far as he was capable of being in love with any one.
She was only half his age--scarcely that--but he persuaded himself
that the match was in every way suitable.
He liked to fancy her at the head of his table, after the death of his
uncle, which he anticipated in a few months at latest.
The more she appeared to dislike him, the more he determined to marry
her, even against her will.
She was the only one likely to inherit John Linden's wealth, and by
marrying her he would make sure of it.
Yet she had been willing to leave the home of her youth, to renounce
luxury for a life of poverty, rather than to marry him.
When he thought of this his face became set and its expression stern
and determined.
"Florence shall yet be mine," he declared, resolutely. "I will yet be
master of her fate, and bend her to my will. Foolish girl, how dare
she match her puny strength against the resolute will of Curtis
Waring?"
"Was there any one else whom she loved?" he asked himself, anxiously.
No, he could think of none. On account of his uncle's chronic
invalidism, they had neither gone into society, nor entertained
visitors, and in the midst of a great city Florence and her uncle had
practically led the lives of recluses.
There had been no opportunity to meet young men who might have proved
claimants for her hand.
"When did Miss Florence leave the house, Jane?" he inquired, as he
seated himself at the table.
"Most an hour since," the girl answered, coldly, for she disliked
Curtis as much as she loved and admired Florence.
"It is sad, very sad that she should be so headstrong," said Curtis,
with hypocritical sorrow.
"It is sad for her to go away from her own uncle's house," returned
Jane.
"And very--very foolish."
"I don't know about that, sir. She had her reasons," said Jane,
significantly.
Curtis coughed.
He had no doubt that Florence had talked over the matter with her
hand-maiden.
"Did she say where she was going, Jane?" he asked.
"I don't think the poor child knew herself, sir."
"Did she go alone?"
"No, sir; the boy that was here last night called for her."
"That ragamuffin!" said Curtis, scornfully. "She certainly shows
extraordinary taste for a young lady of family."
"The boy seems a very kind and respectable boy," said Jane, who had
been quite won by Dodger's kindness to her young mistress.
"He may be respectable, though I am not so sure of that; but his
position in life is very humble. He is probably a bootblack; a
singular person to select for the friend of a girl like Florence."
"There's them that stands higher that isn't half so good," retorted
Jane, with more zeal than good grammar.
"Did Miss Florence take a cab?"
"No; she just walked."
"But she took some clothing with her?"
"She took a handbag--that is all. She will send for her trunk."
"If you find out where she is living, just let me know, Jane."
"I will if she is willing to have me," answered Jane, independently.
"Look here, Jane," said Curtis, angrily, "don't forget that you are
not her servant, but my uncle's. It is to him you look for wages, not
to Miss Florence."
"I don't need to be told that, sir. I know that well enough."
"Then you know that it is to him that your faithful services are due,
not to Florence?"
"I'm faithful to both, Mr. Waring."
"You are aware that my uncle is justly displeased with my cousin?"
"I know he's displeased, but I am sure he has no good reason to be."
Curtis Waring bit his lips. The girl, servant as she was, seemed to be
openly defying him. His imperious temper could ill brook this.
"Take care!" he said, with a frown. "You seem to be lacking in respect
to me. You don't appear to understand my position in this house."
"Oh, yes, I do. I know you have schemed to get my poor young mistress
out of the house, and have succeeded."
"I have a great mind to discharge you, girl," said Curtis, with
lowering brow.
"I am not your servant, sir. You have nothing to do with me."
"You will see whether I have or not. I will let you remain for a time,
as it is your attachment to Miss Florence that has made you forget
yourself. You will find that it is for your interest to treat me
respectfully."
A feeble step was heard at the door, and John Linden entered the
breakfast-room. His face was sad, and he heaved a sigh as he glanced
mechanically at the head of the table, where Florence usually sat.
Curtis Waring sprang to his feet, and placing himself at his uncle's
side, led him to his seat.
"How do you feel this morning, uncle?" he asked, with feigned
solicitude.
"Ill, Curtis. I didn't sleep well last night."
"I don't wonder, sir. You had much to try you."
"Is--is Florence here?"
"No, sir," answered Jane, promptly. "She left the house an hour ago."
A look of pain appeared on John Linden's pale face.
"Did--did she leave a message for me?" he asked, slowly.
"She asked me to bid you good-by for her," answered Jane, quickly.
"Uncle, don't let yourself be disturbed now with painful thoughts. Eat
your breakfast first, and then we will speak of Florence."
John Linden ate a very light breakfast. He seemed to have lost his
appetite and merely toyed with his food.
When he arose from the table, Curtis supported him to the library.
"It is very painful to me--this conduct of Florence's, Curtis," he
said, as he sank into his armchair.
"I understand it fully, uncle," said Curtis. "When I think of it, it
makes me very angry with the misguided girl."
"Perhaps I have been too harsh--too stern!"
"You, uncle, too harsh! Why, you are the soul of gentleness. Florence
has shown herself very ungrateful."
"Yet, Curtis, I love that girl. Her mother seemed to live again in
her. Have I not acted cruelly in requiring her to obey me or leave the
house?"
"You have acted only for good. You are seeking her happiness."
"You really think this, Curtis?"
"I am sure of it."
"But how will it all end?" asked Linden, bending an anxious look upon
his wily nephew.
"By Florence yielding."
"You are sure of that?"
"Yes. Listen, uncle; Florence is only capricious, like most girls of
her age. She foolishly desires to have her own way. It is nothing more
serious, I can assure you."
"But she has left the house. That seems to show that she is in
earnest."
"She thinks, uncle, that by doing so she can bend you to her wishes.
She hasn't the slightest idea of any permanent separation. She is
merely experimenting upon your weakness. She expects you will recall
her in a week, at the latest. That is all of it."
Like most weak men, it made Mr. Linden angry to have his strength
doubted.
"You think that?" he said.
"I have no doubt of it."
"She shall find that I am resolute," he said, irritably. "I will not
recall her."
"Bravo, uncle! Only stick to that, and she will yield unconditionally
within a fortnight. A little patience, and you will carry your point.
Then all will be smooth sailing."
"I hope so, Curtis. Your words have cheered me. I will be patient. But
I hope I shan't have to wait long. Where is the morning paper?"
"I shall have to humor and deceive him," thought Curtis. "I shall have
a difficult part to play, but I am sure to succeed at last."
Chapter XI.
Florence Secures Employment.
For a few days after being installed in her new home Florence was like
one dazed.
She could not settle her mind to any plan of self-support.
She was too unhappy in her enforced exile from her home, and it
saddened her to think that the uncle who had always been so kind was
permanently estranged from her.
Though Mrs. O'Keefe was kind, and Dodger was her faithful friend, she
could not accustom herself to her poor surroundings.
She had not supposed luxury so essential to her happiness.
It was worse for her because she had nothing to do but give way to her
morbid fancies.
This Mrs. O'Keefe was clear-sighted enough to see.
"I am sorry to see you so downcast like, my dear young lady," she
said.
"How can I help it, Mrs. O'Keefe?" returned Florence.
"Try not to think of your wicked cousin, my dear."
"It isn't of him that I think--it is of my uncle. How could he be so
cruel, and turn against me after years of kindness?"
"It's that wicked Curtis that is settin' him against you, take my word
for it, Miss Florence. Shure, he must be wake-minded to let such a
spalpeen set him against a swate young leddy like you."
"He is weak in body, not in mind, Mrs. O'Keefe. You are right in
thinking that it is Curtis that is the cause of my misfortune."
"Your uncle will come to his right mind some day, never fear! And now,
my dear, shall I give you a bit of advice?"
"Go on, my kind friend. I will promise to consider whatever you say."
"Then you'd better get some kind of work to take up your mind--a bit
of sewin', or writin', or anything that comes to hand. I suppose you
wouldn't want to mind my apple-stand a couple of hours every day?"
"No," answered Florence. "I don't feel equal to that."
"It would do you no end of good to be out in the open air. It would
bring back the roses to your pale cheeks. If you coop yourself up in
this dark room, you'll fade away and get thin."
"You are right. I will make an effort and go out. Besides, I must see
about work."
Here Dodger entered the room in his usual breezy way. In his hand he
brandished a morning paper.
"How are you feelin', Florence?" he asked; he had given up saying Miss
Florence at her request. "Here's an advertisement that'll maybe suit
you."
"Show it to me, Dodger," said Florence, beginning to show some
interest.
The boy directed her attention to the following advertisement:
    "Wanted.--A governess for a girl of twelve. Must be a good
    performer on the piano, and able to instruct in French and
    the usual English branches. Terms must be moderate. Apply to
    Mrs. Leighton, at 127 W. ---- Street."
"There, Florence, what do you say to that? That's better than sewin'."
"I don't know, Dodger, whether I am competent."
"You play on the pianner, don't you?"
"Yes."
"Well enough to teach?"
"I think so; but I may not have the gift of teaching."
"Yes, you have. Haven't you been teachin' me every evenin'? You make
everything just as clear as mud--no, I don't mean that. You just
explain so that I can't help understandin'."
"Then," said Florence, "I suppose I am at liberty to refer to you."
"Yes; you can tell the lady to call at the office of Dodger, Esq., any
mornin' after sunrise, and he'll give her full particulars."
Florence did not immediately decide to apply for the situation, but
the more she thought of it the more she felt inclined to do so. The
little experience she had had with Dodger satisfied her that she
should enjoy teaching better than sewing or writing.
Accordingly, an hour later, she put on her street dress and went
uptown to the address given in the advertisement.
No. 127 was a handsome brown-stone house, not unlike the one in which
Florence had been accustomed to live. It was a refreshing contrast to
the poor tenement in which she lived at present.
"Is Mrs. Leighton at home?" inquired Florence. "Yes, miss," answered
the servant, respectfully. "Whom shall I say?"
"I have come to apply for the situation of governess," answered
Florence, feeling rather awkward as she made the statement.
"Ah," said the servant, with a perceptible decline in respect. "Won't
you step in?"
"Thank you."
"Well, she do dress fine for a governess," said Nancy to herself.
"It's likely she'll put on airs."
The fact was that Florence was dressed according to her past social
position--in a costly street attire--but it had never occurred to her
that she was too well dressed for a governess.
She took her seat in the drawing-room, and five minutes later there
was a rustling heard, and Mrs. Leighton walked into the room.
"Are you the applicant for the position of governess?" she asked,
surveying the elegantly attired young lady seated on the sofa.
"Yes, Mrs. Leighton," answered Florence, easily, for she felt more at
home in a house like this than in the tenement.
"Have you taught before?"
"Very little," answered Florence, smiling to herself, as she wondered
what Mrs. Leighton would say if she could see Dodger, the only pupil
she ever had. "However, I like teaching, and I like children."
"Pardon me, but you don't look like a governess, Miss----"
"Linden," suggested Florence, filling out the sentence. "Do
governesses have a peculiar look?"
"I mean as to dress. You are more expensively dressed than the average
governess can afford."
"It is only lately that my circumstances required me to support
myself. I should not be able to buy such a dress out of my present
earnings."
"I am glad to hear you say that, for I do not propose to give a large
salary."
"I do not expect one," said Florence, quietly. "You consider yourself
competent to instruct in music, French and the English branches?"
"Oh, yes."
"Do you speak French?"
"Yes, madam."
"Would you favor me with a specimen of your piano playing?"
There was a piano in the back parlor. Florence removed her gloves, and
taking a seat before it, dashed into a spirited selection from
Strauss.
Mrs. Leighton listened with surprised approval.
"Certainly you are a fine performer," she said. "What--if I should
engage you--would you expect in the way of compensation?"
"How much time would you expect me to give?"
"Three hours daily--from nine to twelve."
"I hardly know what to say. What did you expect to pay?"
"About fifty cents an hour."
Florence knew very well, from the sums that had been paid for her own
education, that this was miserably small pay; but it was much more
than she could earn by sewing.
"I will teach a month on those terms," she said, after a pause.
Mrs. Leighton looked well pleased. She knew that she was making a
great bargain.
"Oh, by the way," she said, "can you give references?"
"I can refer you to Madam Morrison," naming the head of a celebrated
female seminary. "She educated me."
"That will be quite satisfactory," said Mrs. Leighton, graciously.
"Can you begin to-morrow?"
"Yes, madam."
"You will then see your pupil. At present she is out."
Florence bowed and withdrew.
She had been afraid Mrs. Leighton would inquire where she lived, and
she would hardly dare to name the humble street which she called home.
She walked toward Fifth Avenue, when, just as she was turning the
corner, she met Mr. Percy de Brabazon, swinging a slender cane, and
dressed in the extreme of the fashion.
"Miss Linden!" he exclaimed, eagerly. "This is--aw--indeed a pleasure.
Where are you walking this fine morning? May I--aw--have the pleasure
of accompanying you?"
Florence stopped short in deep embarrassment.
Chapter XII.
A Friend, Though A Dude.
Percy de Brabazon looked sincerely glad to meet Florence, and she
herself felt some pleasure in meeting one who reminded her of her
former life.
But it was quite impossible that she should allow him to accompany her
to her poor home on the East Side.
"Thank you, Mr. de Brabazon, but my engagements this morning will
hardly permit me to accept your escort," she said.
"I suppose that means that you are going shopping; but I don't mind
it, I assure you, and I will carry your bundles," he added,
magnanimously.
"That would never do. What! the fashionable Mr. de Brabazon carrying
bundles? You would lose your social status."
"I don't mind, Miss Florence, as long as you give me--aw--an approving
smile."
"I will give it now, as I bid you good-morning."
"May I--aw--have the pleasure of calling upon you to-morrow evening,
Miss Linden?"
"It is evident that you have not heard that I am no longer residing
with my uncle."
Mr. de Brabazon looked surprised.
"No, I had not heard. May I ask--aw--where you are wesiding?"
"With friends," answered Florence, briefly. "As you are a friend and
will be likely to hear it, I may as well mention that my uncle is
displeased with me, and has practically disowned me."
"Then, Miss Florence," said Mr. de Brabazon, eagerly, "won't you
accept--aw--my heart and hand? My mother will be charmed to receive
you, and I--aw--will strive to make you happy."
"I appreciate your devotion, I do, indeed, Mr. de Brabazon," said
Florence, earnestly; "but I must decline your offer. I will not marry
without love."
"I don't mind that," said Percy, "if you'll agree to take a feller;
you'll learn in time to like him a little. I am wich--I know you don't
care for that--but I can give you as good a home as your uncle. If you
would give me hope--aw----"
"I am afraid I cannot, Mr. de Brabazon, but if you will allow me to
look upon you as a friend, I will call upon you if I have need of a
friend's services."
"Will you, weally?"
"Yes, there is my hand on it. I ought to tell you that I must now earn
my own living, and am to give lessons to a young pupil in West ----
Street, three hours daily."
"You don't mean to say you are actually poor?" said Mr. de Brabazon,
horrified.
"Yes, indeed, I am."
"Then, won't you let me lend you some money? I've got more than I
need, I have, 'pon my honor."
"Thank you, I promise to call upon you if I need it."
Mr. de Brabazon looked pleased.
"Would you mind telling me where you are going to teach, Miss
Florence?"
Florence hesitated, but there was something so sincere and friendly in
the young man's manner--dude though he was--that she consented to
grant his request.
"I am to teach the daughter of Mr. Robert Leighton."
"Why, Miss Leighton is my cousin," said Percy, in joyous excitement.
"Indeed! Had I known that I would hardly have told you."
"Don't be afwaid! I will be vewy discreet," said Mr. de Brabazon.
"Thank you, and good-morning."
Florence went on her way, cheered and encouraged in spite of herself,
by her success in obtaining employment, and by the friendly offers of
Mr. de Brabazon.
"It is wrong to get discouraged," she said to herself. "After all,
there are warm hearts in the world."
When she entered her humble home, she found Dodger already there.
There was an eagerness in his manner, and a light in his eye, that
seemed to indicate good news.
"Well, Dodger, what is it?"
"I've been waitin' half an hour to see you, Florence," he said. "I've
got some work for you."
"What is it--sewing on a button, or mending a coat?"
"No, I mean workin' for money. You can play on the pianner, can't
you?"
"Yes."
"They want a young lady to play the pianner at a dime museum, for nine
dollars a week. It's a bully chance. I just told the manager--he's a
friend of mine--that I had a young lady friend that was a stunnin'
player, and he wants you to come around and see him."
It was a preposterous idea--so Florence thought--that she should
consent to play at such a place; but she couldn't expect Dodger to
look at the matter in the same light, so she answered, very gently and
pleasantly:
"You are very kind, Dodger, to look out for me, but I shall not need
to accept your friend's offer. I have secured a chance to teach
uptown."
"You have? What'll you get?"
"I am to be employed three hours daily, at fifty cents an hour."
"Geewhillikens! that's good! You'd have to work as much as twelve
hours at the museum for the same pay."
"You see, therefore, that I am provided for--that is, if I suit."
Dodger was a little disappointed. Still, he could not help admitting
that it would be better for Florence to teach three hours, than to
work ten or twelve. As to her having any objection to appearing at a
dime museum, that never occurred to him.
Florence had sent for her trunk, and it was now in her room.
Dodger accompanied an expressman to the house, and luckily saw Jane,
who arranged everything for him.
"How's the old gentleman?" asked Dodger. "Florence wanted me to ask."
"He's feeble," said Jane, shaking her head.
"Does he miss Florence?"
"That he do."
"Why don't he send for her, then, to come back?" asked Dodger,
bluntly.
"Because Curtis Waring makes him believe she'll come around and ask
forgiveness, if he only holds out. I tell you, Dodger, that Curtis is
a viper."
"So he is," answered Dodger, who was not quite clear in his mind as to
what a viper was. "I'd like to step on his necktie."
"If it wasn't for him, my dear young mistress would be back in the
house within twenty-four hours."
"I don't see how the old gentleman can let him turn Florence out of
the house."
"He's a snake in the grass, Dodger. It may be wicked, but I just wish
something would happen to him. And how is Miss Florence lookin', poor
dear?"
"She's lookin' like a daisy."
"Does she worry much?"
"She did at first, but now she's workin' every day, and she looks more
cheerful-like."
"Miss Florence workin'! She that was always brought up like a lady!"
"She's teachin' a little girl three hours a day."
"Well, that isn't so bad!" said Jane, relieved. "Teachin' is genteel.
I wish I could see her some day. Will you tell her, Dodger, that next
Sunday is my day out, and I'll be in Central Park up by the menagerie
at three o'clock, if she'll only take the trouble to be up there?"
"I'll tell her, Jane, and I'm sure she'll be there."
A day or two afterward Curtis Waring asked: "Have you heard from my
Cousin Florence since she went away?"
"Yes, sir."
"Indeed! Where is she staying?"
"She didn't send me word."
"How, then, did you hear from her?"
"Dodger came with an expressman for her trunk."
Curtis Waring frowned.
"And you let him have it?" he demanded, sternly.
"Of course I did. Why shouldn't I?"
"You should have asked me."
"And what business have you with Miss Florence's trunk, I'd like to
know?" said Jane, independently.
"Never mind; you ought to have asked my permission."
"I didn't think you'd want to wear any of Miss Florence's things, Mr.
Waring."
"You are silly and impertinent," said Curtis, biting his lips. "Did
that boy tell you anything about her?"
"Only that she wasn't worryin' any for you, Mr. Curtis."
Curtis glanced angrily at his cousin's devoted friend, and then,
turning on his heel, left the room.
"I'll bring her to terms yet," he muttered. "No girl of seventeen
shall defy me!"
Chapter XIII.
Tim Bolton's Saloon.
Not far from Houston Street, on the west side of the Bowery, is an
underground saloon, with whose proprietor we are already acquainted.
It was kept by Tim Bolton, whose peculiar tastes and shady
characteristics well fitted him for such a business.
It was early evening, and the gas jets lighted up a characteristic
scene.
On the sanded floor were set several tables, around which were seated
a motley company, all of them with glasses of beer or whiskey before
them.
Tim, with a white apron on, was moving about behind the bar,
ministering to the wants of his patrons. There was a scowl upon his
face, for he was not fond of work, and he missed Dodger's assistance.
The boy understood the business of mixing drinks as well as he, and
often officiated for hours at a time, thus giving his guardian and
reputed father a chance to leave the place and meet outside
engagements.
A tall, erect gentleman entered the saloon, and walked up to the bar.
"Good-evening, colonel," said Tim.
"Good-evening, sir," said the newcomer, with a stately inclination of
the head.
He was really a colonel, having served in the Civil War at the head of
a Georgia regiment.
He had all the stately courtesy of a Southern gentleman, though not
above the weakness of a frequent indulgence in the strongest fluids
dispensed by Tim Bolton.
"What'll you have, colonel?"
"Whiskey straight, sir. It's the only drink fit for a gentleman. Will
you join me, Mr. Bolton?"
"Of course, I will," said Tim, as, pouring out a glass for himself, he
handed the bottle to the colonel.
"Your health, sir," said the colonel, bowing.
"Same to you, colonel," responded Tim, with a nod.
"Where's the boy?"
Col. Martin had always taken considerable notice of Dodger, being
naturally fond of boys, and having once had a son of his own, who was
killed in a railroad accident when about Dodger's age.
"Danged if I know!" answered Tim, crossly.
"He hasn't left you, has he?"
"Yes; he's cleared out, the ungrateful young imp! I'd like to lay my
hands on the young rascal."
"Was he your son?"
"He was my--stepson," answered Tim, hesitating.
"I see, you married his mother."
"Yes," said Tim, considering the explanation satisfactory, and
resolved to adopt it. "I've always treated him as if he was my own
flesh and blood, and I've raised him from a young kid. Now he's gone
and left me."
"Can you think of any reason for his leaving you?"
"Not one. I always treated him well. He's been a great expense to me,
and now he's got old enough to help me he must clear out. He's the
most ungrateful cub I ever seen."
"I am sorry he has gone--I used to like to have him serve me."
"And now what's the consequence? Here I am tied down to the bar day
and night."
"Can't you get some one in his place?"
"Yes, but I'd likely be robbed; I had a bartender once who robbed me
of two or three dollars a day."
"But you trusted the boy?"
"Yes, Dodger wouldn't steal--I can say that much for him."
"There's one thing I noticed about the boy," said the colonel,
reflectively. "He wouldn't drink. More than once I have asked him to
drink with me, but he would always say, 'Thank you, colonel, but I
don't like whiskey.' I never asked him to take anything else, for
whiskey's the only drink fit for a gentleman. Do you expect to get the
boy back?"
"If I could only get out for a day I'd hunt him up; but I'm tied down
here."
"I seed him yesterday, Tim," said a red-nosed man who had just entered
the saloon, in company with a friend of the same general appearance.
Both wore silk hats, dented and soiled with stains of dirt, coats long
since superannuated, and wore the general look of barroom loafers.
They seldom had any money, but lay in wait for any liberal stranger,
in the hope of securing a free drink.
"Where did you see him, Hooker?" asked Tim Bolton, with sudden
interest.
"Selling papers down by the Astor House."
"Think of that, colonel!" said Tim, disgusted. "Becomin' a common
newsboy, when he might be in a genteel employment! Did you speak to
him, Hooker?"
"Yes, I asked him if he had left you."
