this country, and I find it beastly dull without a companion. Come with
me!”
“But, Mr. Brooke, I am poor. I have less than two dollars in my
possession.”
“My dear fellow, what difference does that make?”
“But I can’t travel without money.”
“I offer you a position as my—private secretary, with a salary of—I
say now, I don’t know how much to pay you. We’ll call it four pounds a
week, twenty dollars in your money, if that is satisfactory.”
“But, Mr. Brooke,” exclaimed Gerald in astonishment. “I don’t
understand the duties of a private secretary, and I can’t possibly be
worth that money.”
“You won’t find your duties difficult. I call you my secretary, but
you’ll only have to keep me company.”
“I will do that with pleasure, Mr. Brooke.”
“Then it’s all settled, Gerald. Your hand upon it!”
The two clasped hands, and Gerald felt that this new friend would be a
good offset for his powerful enemy.
CHAPTER XI.
JAKE AMSDEN MAKES AN EARLY CALL, AND HAS A WARM RECEPTION.
THE next morning Gerald was up bright and early. He felt bound to
entertain his new employer, who was temporarily his guest, as royally
as possible. So he decided to make some fresh bread for breakfast, and
this would take him some time. Still all his preparations were made,
and breakfast all ready to be served before his companion awoke.
“He must be pretty tired,” thought Gerald. “I won’t wake him up, for
his business isn’t very pressing, and he will be glad of a good long
rest.”
He ate a little himself, for he had been up long enough to have a good
appetite, and seated himself on the settee in front of the cabin.
It was a charming morning, and as Gerald sat there, he felt that he had
good reason to be thankful. Yesterday he had felt alone in the world,
and had very little idea how he was going to make a living, but to-day
he found himself with a bright prospect ahead, and the promise of an
income which would have been satisfactory to many of double his age.
The state of the weather is apt to affect our spirits, and the clear
sunshine and cool bracing air had its effect on Gerald. From his seat
he could see at a distance of twenty-five miles the snowy top of
Pike’s Peak, looking on account of the clearness of the atmosphere not
more than five miles away. There were intermediate summits which, had
he been nearer, would have hidden the snowy crest of the grand old
mountain, but from where he was he could see clearly, rising above the
wooded slope.
“Colorado may be a wilderness, but it has grand scenery!” thought
Gerald. “Some time I must go to the top of Pike’s Peak. The view from
there must be great.”
He had entertained this wish before, but his father would not consent,
and, indeed as there was some danger of losing one’s way in case of a
sudden fog, his apprehensions were justified.
“How peaceful and beautiful everything looks this morning,” thought
Gerald.
But though Gerald was right, the peacefulness of the scene was soon
to be broken in upon by a human intruder on whom it produced no
impression.
As Gerald sat in quiet contemplation the figure of a man approached
rapidly. When he came nearer Gerald recognized his visitor as Jake
Amsden.
There was something hostile in Jake’s appearance, and there was an ugly
look on his face that indicated anything but friendship.
“Hallo, you young rascal!” he called out roughly, when he arrived
within earshot. “Why don’t you answer me?” he continued as Gerald
remained silent.
“I am no rascal, Mr. Amsden,” said Gerald in a dignified tone, “and I
don’t choose to be called one.”
“Oh, you’re puttin’ on frills, are you?” retorted Jake, halting where
he stood, and eying the boy with evident malevolence.
“If that’s what you call it, I am. If you will speak to me in a civil
manner I will answer you.”
“Oh, you will, will you?” sneered Amsden. “You’ll answer me any way.”
“Have you any business with me?”
“Yes, I have. You don’t think I’d come round here so early in the
mornin’ if I hadn’t?”
“I don’t know. I am not acquainted with your habits.”
“Has the gentleman gone that was stoppin’ here?”
“You mean Mr. Wentworth?”
“Like as not. I don’t know his name.”
“He went away yesterday.”
Jake Amsden appeared to receive this answer with satisfaction. He
wanted to be sure that Gerald was alone and unprotected.
“Ho ain’t comin’ back, is he?”
“Not that I know of.”
“Then you’re livin’ alone?”
“My poor father is dead as you know. Yes, I am alone in the world.”
“Look here, boy!” he commenced abruptly, “you asked me if I came on
business.”
“Yes.”
“Well, I have,” and the visitor eyed Gerald with a sinister glance.
Gerald suspected that Jake had heard of his visit to Pete Johnson’s
saloon, and wanted to hold him responsible for the loss of the stolen
wallet. He was not alarmed, knowing, as Jake Amsden did not, that he
had a friend within call.
“State your business,” he said calmly.
“I’ll do just that. Gerald Lane, you’ve played me a mean trick.”
“Go ahead! Tell me what it is.”
“You came to Pete Johnson’s and stole a wallet full of money from me
when I was asleep. Now it ain’t no use your denyin’ that you was there,
for Pete Johnson told me all about it.”
“I don’t intend to deny it. Mr. Wentworth and I called at Pete
Johnson’s saloon when you were lying under the counter.”
“No matter where I was. I’m a gentleman, and if I choose to lie
down under the counter of my friend Pete Johnson, it’s none of your
business.”
“Oh, I don’t care to interfere with you. You can lie there every night
if you like, so far as I am concerned.”
“Of course I can, but that ain’t business. Where’s that wallet you took
from me? Answer me that, you young jackanapes!”
“I took no wallet from you.”
“Then the man that was with you did.”
“That is nothing to me. Tell me, Jake Amsden, where did you get that
wallet, and the money that was in it?”
“It was my wallet.”
“And the money was yours, too, I suppose?”
“It’s none of your business any way. It was in my pocket when I lay
down and when I got up it was gone. You needn’t go to deny it, for Pete
Johnson saw it taken.”
“Look here, Jake Amsden!” said Gerald in a fearless tone, “the wallet
and money were stolen by you from Mr. Wentworth, and he only took what
belonged to him.”
“That’s a lie!”
“It’s the truth.”
“Did you see me take it?”
“No, but my father woke up in the night, and saw you bending over Mr.
Wentworth. That was when you took the wallet.”
“Your father was dreamin’! It’s all a made up story. Jake Amsden ain’t
no thief.”
“I shan’t call you any names. I only tell you the facts in the case.”
“Look here, boy, you’re mighty independent for a kid. Do you know who I
am?” and Jake, with his arms akimbo, faced Gerald threateningly.
“I know who you are very well, Mr. Amsden.”
“Mr. Amsden! Well, that’s all right. You’d better be respectful. Do
you know what I’ve come here for?”
“Suppose you tell me.”
“I’ve come here to thrash you within an inch of your life.”
“What for?” asked Gerald, who didn’t seem as much overwhelmed as Jake
Amsden anticipated.
“For robbin’ me of a wallet full of money.”
“I told you already that I had nothing to do with taking the wallet.
You must see Mr. Wentworth about that.”
“But he isn’t here.”
“You may see him again some time.”
“That don’t go down. He’s gone away, but you are here. I’m goin’ to
take it out of your hide.”
“I am only a boy, Mr. Amsden. Won’t you let me off?”
Gerald seemed alarmed, and Jake Amsden was pleased at the impression
his threats appeared to have made.
“How much money have you got about you?” he demanded.
“Not quite two dollars.”
“Didn’t your father leave you any?” asked Jake, incredulous.
“My father was a very poor man. He had no money to leave.”
“Then it’s all the wuss for you, youngster. I’m goin’ to tan your hide,
and don’t you forget it!”
Jake slipped off his coat, and advanced in a menacing way.
Gerald dodged him, and tried to escape. For a time he succeeded in
eluding the grasp of his antagonist, and the delay only infuriated
Amsden the more.
At last he managed to catch Gerald, and with a savage cry of triumph
bore him to the ground.
“Now I’ve got you!” he exclaimed, “and I’m goin’ to pound you till you
won’t know where you are.”
He pinioned Gerald to the earth, and the boy would have fared very
badly, but for the timely assistance of his guest.
Jake Amsden was preparing to carry out his threat, when something
unexpected happened, and he was under the impression that he had been
struck by a cyclone. The English tourist had been awakened by the
discussion, and comprehending from what he heard that Gerald was in a
tight place, he hastily threw on his clothes, and at the right time
darted out of the cabin, seized Jake by the collar with one hand while
with the other he planted a blow in his face, nearly stunned him, and
dragging him from Gerald hurled him forcibly upon the ground six feet
away.
“Jumpin’ Jehosaphat! What have I struck?” muttered Jake, looking around
stupidly, as he lay on his back without attempting to get up.
[Illustration: “Allow me to introduce myself,” said the Englishman. “I
am the Hon. Noel Brooke of England.”—Page 93.]
CHAPTER XII.
AN INTERNATIONAL COMBAT.
“EXCUSE my want of ceremony,” said Noel Brooke nonchalantly. “I would
have waited for an introduction but there wasn’t time.”
“Who are you?” gasped Jake Amsden.
“Allow me to introduce myself,” said the Englishman, raising his hat as
ceremoniously as if he were addressing a Chicago millionaire. “I am the
Hon. Noel Brooke, of England, at your service.”
“An Englishman? That is worse than all. That Jake Amsden should live to
be floored by an Englishman!”
“My friend, I hope that is no disgrace. There are plenty of your
countrymen who could floor me.”
“But I can’t understand it,” said Jake, rising with difficulty from his
recumbent position. “You don’t weigh within twenty-five pounds of me.”
“It isn’t always weight that counts—it’s science. I learned how to box
when I was at Eton.”
“I think I could lick you in a fair fight,” went on Jake, surveying the
trim figure of his antagonist, who was at least three inches shorter
than himself. “You hit me when I wasn’t lookin’.”
“True enough! Would you like to try it again?”
“Yes.”
“I’m ready.”
Gerald awaited the result not without anxiety. Certainly the two
did not look very well matched. Jake Amsden was a broad-shouldered,
powerfully built man of five feet ten, and would tip the scales at a
hundred and eighty pounds. Noel Brooke was three inches shorter, and
did not look to weigh over a hundred and fifty.
“I am afraid Jake will be too much for him,” he thought, “and if he is,
it will be my turn next.”
Evidently Jake was of the same opinion.
“Why, you’re a Bantam compared to me,” he said. “You’ll think you’ve
been struck by a cyclone.”
“Strike away—cyclone!” said the Englishman calmly.
Jake Amsden took him at his word. He advanced confidently, waving his
arms like a flail, and tried to overwhelm his opponent at the first
onslaught. But, intent on attack, he did not provide for defense, and
received a powerful blow for which he was unprepared, and which quite
staggered him. Now he began to get angry and renewed the attack with
even less prudence than before. The result may easily be guessed.
A blow behind the ear prostrated him, and he resumed his recumbent
position.
“That’s the end of the first round,” said the Englishman with unruffled
composure. “Will you try another?”
“No, I’ve got enough,” returned Amsden, raising himself on his elbow.
“I say, stranger, you’re a reg’lar steam engine. Do all Englishmen
fight like that?”
Noel Brooke laughed.
“Not all,” he said, “but some Americans fight better. I put on the
gloves in New York with a member of the Manhattan Athletic Club, and he
served me as I have served you.”
“I’m glad of that.”
“You have no hard feelings, I trust, my mountain friend.”
“No, but I’m glad you’ve found your match in America.”
“And you perhaps feel the same, Gerald?” said Mr. Brooke.
“I am a true American boy, Mr. Brooke,” returned Gerald.
“You are right there, and I respect you the more for it, but we won’t
let any international rivalry interfere with our friendly feelings.”
“Agreed!” said Gerald cordially.
“Now,” continued Noel Brooke, turning to Amsden, “you’ll tell me why
you attacked my young friend here.”
Jake Amsden looked a little sheepish.
“I thought he didn’t use me right,” he answered.
“Suppose you tell me the particulars. I’ll arbitrate between you.”
“He took a wallet full of bills from me when I was drunk.”
“I didn’t take it,” said Gerald. “It was the gentleman who was with me
that took it.”
“How came you with a wallet full of bills?” asked the Englishman.
“I found it.”
“Where did you find it?”
“I can’t remember exactly where.”
“Then I will help you,” put in Gerald. “You found it in our cabin
during the night, when Mr. Wentworth, our visitor, was asleep.”
“That puts rather a different face upon the matter, it strikes me,”
said the tourist.
“Mr. Wentworth owed me some money anyway,” retorted Amsden doggedly.
“He owed you money? What for?” asked Gerald in unfeigned surprise.
“He hired me to hunt for some papers that he said were in your cabin
somewhere.”
“Is this true?” demanded Gerald in amazement.
“Yes; it’s true as preachin’.”
“And was that why you came there that night?”
“Yes.”
“You came for the papers?”
“Yes.”
“How about the wallet?”
“I saw it on the floor and I thought I’d take it—payment in advance.”
“Do you believe this story, Gerald? Do you know anything about the
papers this man speaks of?” asked Mr. Brooke.
“Yes, I think his story is true as far as that goes. My father had some
papers which Mr. Wentworth tried to buy, first of my father, and next
of me. They were the records of a debt which he owed father. But I
didn’t think he would stoop to such means to obtain them.”
“What kind of a man is this Wentworth?”
“I cannot consider him an honorable man, or he would have treated us
differently.”
“What are his relations with you?”
“Unfriendly. He will do me an injury if he gets a chance. But I will
tell you more of this hereafter.”
“I have heard your story, Mr. Amsden,” said the Englishman, “and I am
obliged to decide against you. You had no right to tackle Gerald——”
“It was hard on a poor man to lose so much money,” grumbled Amsden.
“No doubt, only it happened that it was money to which you had no
rightful claim.”
“You don’t know what is it to be poor, squire.”
“I have no doubt it is very uncomfortable, but there are others who
are in the same condition. Gerald here is poor, but he doesn’t pick up
wallets belonging to other people. I advise you to go to work—there
are few Americans who don’t work—and no nation is more prosperous. Go
to work, and you won’t have so much reason to complain.”
“That’s all very well to say, but if a fellow hasn’t a cent to bless
himself with, it’s a poor lookout.”
“Are you so poor as that?”
“If gold mines were sellin’ for a nickel apiece, I couldn’t raise the
nickel,” asseverated Amsden in a melancholy tone.
“Come, that’s a pity. I didn’t know any American was ever so poor
as that. As I’ve knocked you down twice, perhaps it is only fair to
compensate you for affording me such a chance for healthful exercise.
Here, my friend, here are two silver dollars, one for each time I
floored you.”
“You’re a gentleman!” exclaimed Amsden, his face lighting up with
satisfaction as he pocketed the coins. Then, as he turned, a sudden
idea struck him, and he asked insinuatingly: “Wouldn’t you like to
knock me down ag’in, stranger?”
“No, I think not,” responded the tourist laughing. “However, we’ll
suppose I have, and here’s another dollar.”
“Thank you, squire.”
Jake Amsden departed with alacrity, making a bee-line for his friend
Pete Johnson’s saloon.
Gerald and his friend then sat down to breakfast, which, it is
needless to say, they both heartily enjoyed. As they rose from the
table a knock was heard at the cabin door.
Gerald answered it in some surprise, for visitors and calls were
infrequent, and found outside a man of about forty, holding by the hand
a boy of twelve.
CHAPTER XIII.
A VICTIM OF INJUSTICE.
THE man who stood before Gerald was dressed like a mechanic in a
working suit somewhat the worse for wear, but he had an honest,
intelligent face that inspired confidence. He had an anxious look,
however, as if he were in some mental trouble.
“Good morning,” said Gerald courteously. “Won’t you come in and share
our breakfast?”
On hearing this invitation the boy’s face brightened up.
“You are very kind, and I accept thankfully,” said the father. “Oscar
and myself are both hungry, for we have eaten nothing since one o’clock
yesterday.”
“Come in then,” said Gerald hospitably.
“I ought perhaps first to explain how I happen to be here in such a
plight.”
“I shall be glad to hear your story, and so will my friend, Mr.
Brooke, but you must breakfast first. Then you will feel probably in
much better condition for talking.”
Though Gerald and his guest had eaten heartily there was enough left
for the two new arrivals, and it was very evident that both thoroughly
enjoyed their meal.
“I hope I haven’t taken up your time,” said the visitor as he pushed
back his chair from the table. “And now, as in duty bound, I will tell
you my story.”
“Don’t think we require it,” said Gerald courteously. “The slight favor
we have done you gives us no right to ask your confidence.”
“Still you look friendly and I am glad to tell you about myself. I am,
as you will judge from my appearance, a working-man, and have ever
since I attained my majority been employed in woolen mills. The last
place where I was employed was at Seneca, in the factory of——”
“Bradley Wentworth?” asked Gerald quickly.
“Yes. Do you know him?” inquired the stranger in surprise.
“Yes; he has been making me a visit here. If you had come here
twenty-four hours earlier you would have seen him.”
“Then I am glad I was delayed.”
“Why? Has he wronged you?”
“I don’t know whether I can rightly say that, but he has treated
me without mercy. Let me explain. Fifteen years ago I was employed
in an Eastern factory. Among my fellow-workmen was one I thought
my friend. We were so intimate that we occupied the same room at a
factory boarding-house. All went well. I received excellent wages,
and had money laid by. My companion, as I soon found, was given to
extravagance, and frequently indulged in drink, so that he found it
hard work to make both ends meet. Then he began to borrow money of me,
but after a time I refused to accommodate him any further. He earned
the same wages as myself, and I felt that he ought to maintain himself
without help as I did.
“The result of my refusal was to make him my enemy. He said little but
looked ugly. Though I did not expect it he schemed a revenge. One day a
pocketbook containing money was missing from an adjoining room. A fuss
was made, and a search instituted, which resulted to my utter dismay
in the pocketbook being found in my trunk. It contained no money, but
a couple of papers which attested the ownership. Of course I asserted
my innocence, but no one believed me. The proof was held to be too
convincing. I was brought to trial, and sentenced to three months’
imprisonment. That imprisonment,” he continued bitterly, “has shadowed
all my life since. Of course I could not get back to the factory where
I had been employed, and I went to another State. I was left in peace
for ten months when one of my fellow-workmen made his appearance and
told the superintendent that I had served a sentence of imprisonment
for theft. I was summoned to the office, informed of the charge, and
had to admit it. I was instantly discharged. To assert my innocence was
of no avail. ‘You were found guilty. That is enough for us,’ said the
superintendent.
“I had to leave the factory. I found employment elsewhere, but was
hounded down again, and by the same man. But before denouncing me, he
came to me, and offered to keep silent if I would pay him a hundred
and fifty dollars. I raised the money, but the treacherous scoundrel
did not keep faith with me. He went to the superintendent, and told
him all, exacting that the source of the information should not be
divulged. So I was sent adrift again, knowing very well, though I
couldn’t prove it, that Clifton Haynes had betrayed me.”
“Why didn’t you thrash the scoundrel?” asked Noel Brooke indignantly.
“It would only have increased the prejudice against me,” answered the
visitor wearily.
“Well,” he continued, “I needn’t prolong the story, for it is always
the same. I went from one factory to another, but this man followed
me. When we met he had the assurance to demand another sum of money
in payment for his silence. I had no money to give him, nor would I
have done so if I had, knowing his treachery. The result was that
again I was discharged. A year ago I went to Seneca, and obtained
employment from Mr. Wentworth. Month after month passed and I began
to congratulate myself, when one unlucky day Haynes again made his
appearance. He tried to extort money from me, but though I had some, I
refused to bribe him. He went to Mr. Wentworth and denounced me. I was
discharged unceremoniously, though I told him my story and appealed to
his humanity. Then at last, in my despair and anger, I lay in wait for
Haynes, and gave him an unmerciful beating until he roared for mercy.”
“Good! good!” exclaimed the Englishman, clapping his hands, “you served
the scoundrel right.”
“I always think of it with pleasure, though I am not a revengeful man.”
“Were you arrested?” asked Gerald.
“Yes, but I escaped with a fine which I paid gladly. I am glad to say
when it got out that Haynes had dogged me so persistently none of the
men would associate with him, and he was obliged to leave the factory.”
“I wish I had been Mr. Wentworth,” said Brooke. “I would have retained
you in my employ even if you had been guilty in the first place. I
don’t believe in condemning a man utterly for one offense.”
“I wish more men were as charitable as yourself,” said John Carter, for
this, as he afterward informed Gerald, was his name.
“But how did you happen to come to Colorado?” asked Noel Brooke.
“I was tired of persecution. In fact I had been employed in so many
factories, all of which were now closed against me, that I decided to
earn a living some other way. I had a little money left, and I traveled
westward. I came to Colorado because it was a new country, and there
must be something here for an industrious man to do. It has been rather
hard on poor Oscar,” he added with an affectionate glance at his son.
“For latterly my money gave out, and we have more than once gone
hungry, as we would have done to-day but for your kindness.”
He was about to rise and leave the cabin but Gerald stopped him.
“Wait a minute, Mr. Carter,” he said. “I have an arrangement to
propose.”
Carter regarded him with a glance of inquiry.
“I have made an engagement to travel with my friend, Mr. Brooke,”
Gerald went on, “and this cabin will be untenanted. If you are willing
to occupy it you are welcome to do so. You will be sure to find some
employment, and if not you can hunt and fish. What do you say?”
“What can I say except that I am grateful? I am not afraid but that
I can make a living for myself and Oscar, and I shall not live in
constant fear that Clifton Haynes will find me out and expose me.”
“I wish he would happen along about this time,” said Noel Brooke. “I
should like nothing better than to get a chance at the fellow. One
thrashing isn’t enough for him.”
“I think you would make thorough work with him, Mr. Brooke,” said
Gerald laughing.
“I would try to at all events,” rejoined the Englishman.
“If you want any certificate attesting your prowess you have only to
refer to Jake Amsden.”
“Jake Amsden,” exclaimed John Carter in surprise. “Why, he is the man
for whose crime I suffered. He was the man who stole the wallet and put
it in my trunk to incriminate me.”
CHAPTER XIV.
JAKE AMSDEN TURNS OVER A NEW LEAF.
NOW it was the turn of Gerald and Mr. Brooke to look surprised.
“Why, I thrashed Jake Amsden within an hour,” said the tourist, “for an
attack upon Gerald.”
“He doesn’t seem to have improved then,” said Carter. “Does he live
hereabouts?”
“Yes.”
“Is he in business in this neighborhood?”
“His chief business,” answered Gerald, “is to get drunk, and when he
can’t raise money any other way he steals it.”
“Evidently he is the same man. He is the cause of all my misfortunes.”
“Here he is coming back!” said Gerald suddenly.
“Good!” exclaimed the tourist. “I have some business with him.”
Jake had evidently visited Pete Johnson’s saloon again, judging from
his flushed face and unsteady gait. Still he was in a condition to get
around.
“Stay in the cabin till I call you!” whispered Noel Brooke to Carter.
“Well,” he said, turning to meet Amsden, “have you come back for
another boxing lesson?”
“No, squire,” answered Jake.
“What then?”
“I thought you might like a guide, considerin’ this is your first visit
to Colorado. Don’t you want to go up Pike’s Peak?”
“I have engaged Gerald here to go about with me.”
“He’s a boy. He don’t know nothin’ of the country.”
“He will satisfy me as a companion better than you.”
“If you’re goin’ away, Gerald,” said Amsden with unabashed assurance,
“won’t you let me live in the cabin till you come back?”
“It has been engaged by another tenant,” answered Gerald.
“Who is it? It isn’t Pete Johnson, is it?”
“No, I don’t propose to let my cabin for a saloon.”
“You’re right, boy. You’d better let me have it.”
“But I told you that it was already promised to another party.”
“Who is it?”
“An old acquaintance of yours.”
At a signal from Noel Brooke John Carter came out, leading Oscar by the
hand. He looked earnestly at Jake Amsden. It was the first time in many
years that he had seen the man who was the prime mover in the events
that had brought about his financial ruin. He would hardly have known
Jake, so much had his appearance suffered from habitual intemperance.
Jake Amsden on his part scanned Carter with curious perplexity.
“Do I know you?” he asked.
“You knew me once. I have good reason to remember you,” answered John
Carter gravely.
Something in his voice recalled him to Amsden.
“Why, it’s Carter,” he said, “John Carter. How are you, Carter, old
fellow? It does me good to set eyes on an old friend.”
Carter was unprepared for this cordial welcome, and when Jake Amsden
approached with hand extended, he put his own behind his back.
“I can’t take your hand, Jake,” he said. “You’ve done me too much harm.”
“Oh, you mean that old affair,” said Jake in an airy tone. “I did
act meanly, that’s a fact, but we’re both older now. Let bygones be
bygones. It’s all over now.”
“It isn’t all over. That false accusation of yours has blighted my
life. It has driven me from factory to factory, and finally driven me
out here in the hope that I might begin a new life where it would no
longer be in my way.”
“I’m sorry for that, Carter,” said Jake Amsden. “’Pon my soul, I am. I
know it was a mean trick I played upon you, but it was either you or I.”
“And you ruined this man’s reputation to save your own?” said Noel
Brooke sternly.
“I didn’t think much about it, squire, I really didn’t,” said Jake.
“You see I run in a hole, and I was ready to do anything to get out.”
“It was the act of a scoundrel, Amsden. There is only one thing to do.”
“What is it? Take another lickin’?”
“No, that wouldn’t mend matters. You must sign a confession that you
committed the theft of which Carter was unjustly accused, so that he
may have this to show whenever the old charge is brought up against him
hereafter.”
“I’ll do it, squire. I’d have done it long ago if I’d known.”
“It is better late than not at all. Come into the cabin, both of you.”
His orders were obeyed, and after asking questions as to details he
wrote out a confession exonerating John Carter and laying the blame on
the right party. Gerald furnished him with pen, ink and paper.
“Now,” he said, when the document was completed, “I want you, Jake
Amsden, to sign this and Gerald and I will subscribe our names as
witnesses.”
“All right, squire, I’ll do it. You must not mind the writin’ for I
haven’t handled a pen for so long that I have almost forgotten how to
write.”
Jake Amsden affixed his signature in a large scrawling hand, and the
two witnesses subscribed after him.
“Now, Mr. Carter,” said Noel Brooke, as he handed him the paper,
“keep this carefully, and whenever that scoundrel who has made it
his business to persecute you engages again in the same work you can
show this document, and it will be a satisfactory answer to his base
charges.”
“I thank you, Mr. Brooke,” said Carter in a deep voice. “You cannot
conceive what a favor you have done me. I feel that a great burden
has been lifted from my life, and that it has passed out of the shadow
which has obscured it for so long. Now I shall be able to leave Oscar
an untarnished name!”
During the day Carter made a trip to a point two miles distant where
he had left his modest luggage, and returned to take possession of the
cabin. In the afternoon Jake Amsden made another call, and informed him
that he could obtain employment at a lumber camp not far distant.
“Are you going to work there, Mr. Amsden?” asked Gerald.
“I am offered employment,” answered Jake, “but my health won’t allow me
to do hard work, so I gave my chance to Carter.”
Gerald smiled, for he understood this was not the real objection. Jake
Amsden was naturally stronger and more robust than John Carter, but he
had for years led a life of idleness, and the mere thought of working
all day fatigued him.
John Carter felt relieved at the prospect of obtaining work and
grateful to the man whom for years he had regarded as his enemy for his
agency in securing it.
“What pay will I receive?” he asked.
“Four dollars a day.”
“Why, that is twice as much as I was paid at the factory,” he said.
“Now I can see my way clear to support Oscar and myself comfortably.
Jake Amsden, I never expected to feel grateful to you, but if I get
this job I will forget the past and feel kindly towards you from
henceforth.”
“It’s all right, Carter, old boy. I ain’t all black, you see.”
But there were certainly some pretty dark spots still on his character,
not the least of which was his compact with Bradley Wentworth
concerning the papers in Gerald’s possession, which the crafty Amsden
had by no means forgotten.
CHAPTER XV.
BRADLEY WENTWORTH’S MORNING MAIL.
BRADLEY WENTWORTH lived in quite the most pretentious house in Seneca.
It was within five minutes’ walk of the huge brick factory from which
he drew his income. All that money could buy within reasonable limits
was his. Handsome furniture, fine engravings, expensive paintings,
a stately carriage and handsome horses, contributed to make life
comfortable and desirable.
But there is generally something to mar the happiness of the most
favored. Mr. Wentworth had but one child—Victor—whom he looked upon
as his successor and heir. He proposed to send him to college, partly
to secure educational advantages, but partly also because he thought it
would give him an opportunity to make friends in high social position.
He had reached that age when a man begins to live for those who are to
come after him.
But Victor unfortunately took different views of life from his father.
He did not care much for a liberal education, and he selected his
companions from among those who, like himself, enjoyed a good time.
He was quite aware that his father was rich, and he thought himself
justified in spending money freely.
Victor was in attendance at the classical academy of Virgil McIntire,
LL.D., an institute of high rank in the town of Ilium, about fifty
miles from Seneca. He had been there about two years, having previously
studied at home under a private tutor. Being a busy man his father had
been able to visit the school but twice, and had but a vague idea as to
the progress which his son was making.
Five days after he returned home from Colorado he received a letter
from Dr. McIntire, the material portion of which is subjoined:
 “I regret to say that your son Victor is not making as good use of
 his time and advantages as I could desire. I have hitherto given you
 some reason to hope that he would be prepared for admission to Yale
 College at the next summer examination, but I greatly fear now that
 he will not be ready. He is a boy of good parts, and with moderate
 application he could satisfy you and myself in this respect; but he is
 idle and wastes his time, and seems more bent on enjoying himself than
 on making progress in his studies. I have spoken with him seriously,
 but I am afraid that my words have produced very little effect. It may
 be well for you to remonstrate with him, and try to induce him to take
 sensible views of life. At any rate, as I don’t want you to cherish
 hopes that are doomed to disappointment, I have deemed it my duty to
 lay before you the facts of the case.
  “Yours respectfully,
  “VIRGIL MCINTIRE.”
Bradley Wentworth received and read this letter in bitterness of spirit.
“Why will that boy thwart me?” he asked himself. “I have mapped out a
useful and honorable career for him. I am ready to provide liberally
for all his wants—to supply him with fine clothes as good, I dare say,
as are worn by the Astors and Vanderbilts, and all I ask in return is,
that he will study faithfully and prepare himself for admission to
college next summer. I did not fare like him when I was a boy. I had no
rich father to provide for my wants, but was compelled to work for a
living. How gladly would I have toiled had I been situated as he is! He
is an ungrateful boy!”
Bradley Wentworth was not altogether justified in his estimate of
himself as a boy. He had been very much like Victor, except that he
was harder and less amiable. He had worked, to be sure, but it was
not altogether because he liked it, but principally because he knew
that he must. He, like Victor, had exceeded his income, and it was
in consequence of this that he had forged the check for which he had
induced his fellow-clerk, Warren Lane, to own himself responsible. He
forgot all this, however, and was disposed to judge his son harshly.
By the same mail with Doctor McIntire’s letter came the following
letter from Victor:
 “DEAR FATHER:—I meant to write you last week but was too busy”—”Not
 with your studies, I’ll be bound,” interpolated his father—“besides
 there isn’t much to write about here. It is a fearfully slow
 place”—“You wouldn’t find it so if you spent your time in study,”
 reflected Mr. Wentworth—“I don’t enjoy Latin and Greek very much,
 I don’t see what good they are ever going to do a fellow. You never
 studied Latin or Greek, and I am sure you have been very successful
 in life. I have an intimate friend here, Arthur Grigson, who is going
 to spend next year in traveling. He will go all over the United States
 to begin with, including the Pacific coast. I wish you would let me
 go with him. I am sure I would learn more in that way than I shall
 from the stuffy books I am studying here under that old mummy, Dr.
 McIntire. Arthur thinks he shall be ready to start in about six weeks.
 Please give your consent to my going with him by return of mail, so
 that I may begin to get ready. He thinks we can travel a year for two
 thousand dollars apiece.
  “Your affectionate son,
  “VICTOR.”
Bradley Wentworth frowned ominously when he read this epistle.
“What a cheerful sort of letter for a father to receive,” he said to
himself, crushing the pages in his strong hands. “Victor has all the
advantages that money can command, and a brilliant prospect for the
future if he will only act in accordance with my wishes, and yet he
is ready to start off at a tangent and roam round the world with some
scapegrace companion. I wish he were more like Lane’s boy—I don’t
like him, for he is obstinate and headstrong, and utterly unreasonable
in his demands upon me, but he is steady and correct in his habits, and
if he were in Victor’s place would never give me any uneasiness.”
Gerald would have been surprised if he had heard this tribute from the
lips of his recent visitor, but he was not likely to know the real
opinion of the man who had declared himself his enemy.
Bradley Wentworth, continuing the examination of his letters, found
another bearing the Ilium postmark. It was addressed in an almost
illegible scrawl and appeared to be written by a person of defective
education. It was to this effect:
 “DEAR SIR:—Your son Victor, at least he says you are his father, and
 have plenty of money, has run up a bill of sixty-seven dollars for
 livery at my stable, and I think it is about time the bill was paid. I
 am a poor man and I can’t afford to lose so much money. I have already
 waited till I am tired, but your son’s promises ain’t worth much, and
 I am obliged to come to you for payment.
 “I shall take it as a favor if you will send me a check at once for
 the money, as I have some bills coming due next week. I don’t mind
 trusting your son if I am sure of my money in the end, and if it
 isn’t convenient for you to pay right off, you can send me your note
 on thirty days, as I am sure a gentleman like you would pay it when
 due.
  “Yours respectfully,
  “SETH KENDALL.”
This letter made Mr. Wentworth very angry. It is hard to tell whether
he was more angry with his son or with the proprietor of the livery
stable. He answered the latter first.
“MR. SETH KENDALL:—I have received your letter, and must express my
surprise at your trusting my son, knowing well that he is a minor, and
that I have not authorized his running up a bill with you. It would
serve you right to withhold all payment, but I won’t go so far as that.
Cut your demand in two, and send me a receipt in full for that sum, and
I will forward you a check. I never give a note for so small an amount.
Hereafter, if you are foolish enough to trust Victor, you must run your
own risk, as I shall decline to pay any bill that may be presented.
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”
 Mr. Wentworth next wrote to Victor a letter from which a paragraph is
 extracted:
 “I admire your audacity in asking me to let you leave school and go
 around the world with some scapegrace companion. You say it will only
 cost two thousand dollars. That probably seems to you a very small sum
 of money. When I was several years older than yourself I was working
 for seventy-five dollars a month or nine hundred dollars a year. It is
 evident that you do not understand the value of money. You speak of me
 as a rich man, and I admit that you are correct in doing so, but I do
 not propose to have you make ducks and drakes of my money.
 “I may mention, by the way, that a livery stable keeper, who signs
 himself Seth Kendall, has sent me a bill run up by you for sixty-seven
 dollars. I have written him that I didn’t authorize your running up
 such a bill, and that he must be content with fifty per cent of it, or
 else go unpaid. Hereafter I forbid your running up bills in Illium of
 any description. Bear this in mind.
  “Your father,
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”
A week later Mr. Wentworth received this telegram from Illium.
 “Your son Victor has disappeared, leaving no traces of his
 destination. Particulars by mail.
  “VIRGIL MCINTIRE.”
CHAPTER XVI.
A LETTER FROM JAKE AMSDEN.
ON receipt of the despatch reproduced at the close of the last chapter
Mr. Wentworth started immediately for Ilium, and had an interview with
Dr. McIntire.
“When did my son leave Ilium?” he asked.
“Two days ago, probably. He was not at recitations, but I received a
note saying he was sick with the influenza. This seemed natural, for
I have myself been suffering from the same malady, and therefore my
suspicions were not excited. When the next morning Victor also absented
himself I sent around to his boarding-house, and learned that he and a
school friend of his—Arthur Grigson—had not been seen for twenty-four
hours. Their trunks were left, but each had taken a valise, filled with
clothing, as may be presumed, for the bureau drawers were empty. It is
clear that the flight was premeditated. Can you furnish me with any
clew, Mr. Wentworth, to the probable cause of this escapade?”
“Only this, that Victor in his last letter asked permission to go off
on a trip with this boy, Arthur Grigson. He wished to leave school and
travel for a year.”
“That explains it. You refused, I presume?”
“Yes, emphatically.”
“Your son then has gone without leave.”
“It would seem so. What is the character of this Arthur Grigson?”
“He is from Syracuse, in New York State. I believe he has no immediate
family, but is under the charge of a guardian, who lets him do pretty
much as he pleases. Had your son any money, do you think?”
“I had just sent him fifty dollars to settle his board bill for the
month, with a margin for his own personal use.”
“Probably he used the money to travel with. It may be well to inquire
at his boarding-house if he has paid his board.”
This Mr. Wentworth did, and ascertained that the bill was still unpaid.
He returned to the principal with this information.
“What would you advise me to do?” he inquired in some perplexity.
“I will advise you, but you may not be willing to adopt my advice.”
“At any rate I shall be glad to have your views, for I am in great
doubt.”
“I would make no effort to recover the fugitive.”
“What!” exclaimed Bradley Wentworth startled, “would you have me
abandon my only son to his own devices?”
“Only for a time. You might, of course, secure the services of a
detective to pursue him, but that would be expensive and probably would
do no good.”
“But I don’t like to return home without an effort to recover Victor.”
“Listen to me, Mr. Wentworth. How old is your son?”
“Seventeen.”
“Then he ought to be able to look out for himself in a measure. I
predict that it won’t be long before you hear from him.”
“What leads you to think so?”
“Victor left school with only fifty dollars in his pocket. That sum
won’t last long. His companion no doubt had more, for his guardian
foolishly supplied him with money very liberally. But, at any rate,
it won’t be long before the two boys will be at the end of their
resources. Then the natural thing will be for each to write for money
to get home. When you receive your son’s letter you will, of course,
learn where he is, and can seek him out and take him home.”
“Your advice is most judicious, Dr. McIntire,” said Mr. Wentworth
brightening up. “I shall adopt it. I shan’t be sorry if the young
scapegrace gets into trouble and suffers for his folly.”
“I hope, Mr. Wentworth, you don’t blame me in the matter.”
“No, Dr. McIntire, I blame no one but the boy himself. Your suggestions
have entirely changed my intentions. I did propose to advertise a
reward to any one who would send me information of the missing boy, but
now I shall do nothing of the kind. I will trust to time and the want
of money to restore Victor to his senses.”
Mr. Wentworth settled all Victor’s debts in Ilium, and when his task
was finished returned to Seneca.
“The boy needn’t think I am going to make a fuss about him. It would be
making him of altogether too much importance. I think I can afford to
wait quite as well as he can.”
“Did you see Mr. Victor?” inquired the housekeeper when he returned
home.
“No, Mrs. Bancroft.”
“I thought you went to Ilium, sir.”
“So I did.”
“And did not call on Mr. Victor?”
“Victor isn’t at Ilium. He has gone away on a little journey with a
school companion.”
Mrs. Bancroft looked surprised.
“Will he be gone long?” she ventured to inquire.
“It is not decided,” answered Wentworth. From his manner the
housekeeper understood that he did not care to be interrogated further.
She would like to have asked where Victor had gone, for she felt some
affection for the boy whom she had known since he wore knickerbockers,
but she reflected that when letters were received the postmark would
reveal what she desired to know. Accordingly she waited eagerly, but so
far as she could learn no letters came from the absent boy. She grew
anxious, but Bradley Wentworth seemed calm and imperturbable.
“Master Victor must be all right,” she concluded, “or his father would
look anxious.”
One morning Mrs. Bancroft found in the mail a letter dated Gulchville,
Colorado, but the address was evidently written by an uneducated
person not much in the habit of holding the pen. It couldn’t be from
Victor, whose handwriting was very good, but Mrs. Bancroft reflected in
alarm that he might be sick and unable to write for himself, and had
employed an illiterate amanuensis.
She looked closely at Mr. Wentworth when he read the letter at the
breakfast table. He seemed surprised, but that was the only emotion
which the housekeeper could detect.
He laid the letter down without a word, having read it apparently with
some difficulty.
“I beg your pardon, Mr. Wentworth,” said Mrs. Bancroft, “but does the
letter give any news of Master Victor?”
“No; what should make you think it did, Mrs. Bancroft?”
“I noticed that it was postmarked in Colorado.”
“True, but I don’t expect Victor to go so far, I have acquaintances in
Colorado.”
That was the only information vouchsafed to Mrs. Bancroft.
“I’m a poor woman,” she said to herself, “but I’d freely give ten
dollars to know just where Master Victor is. I’m afraid he’s a little
wild, and don’t like study, but I haven’t forgotten what a nice
little boy he was, and how he used to kiss the old housekeeper. He’s
got a good heart, has Victor. It’s very mysterious his going away so
sudden-like. Mr. Wentworth evidently doesn’t want me to know where he
is. Maybe he’s sent him to one of them strict military schools, where
he’ll be ruled with a rod of iron. I only wish I could see him for just
five minutes.”
The mysterious letter (not to keep the reader in doubt) was written
by our old acquaintance Jake Amsden, and we will reproduce it here,
correcting the orthography, which deviated considerably from the
standards set by the best writers.
  “MR. WENTWORTH,
 DEAR SIR:—I think you will be interested to know that the boy, Gerald
 Lane, has gone away from Gulchville. I don’t know where he has gone,
 but he went with an Englishman named Brooke or Brooks. I think the
 Englishman is going to travel round Colorado, and has taken Gerald as
 a guide. He would have done a good deal better to take me, for Gerald
 is only a kid, and doesn’t know much about the State, while I have
 traveled all over it. Oh, I almost forgot to say that he has let his
 cabin to a Mr. Carter, whom I used to know a good many years ago.
 That shows he means to come back again. When he does come back I will
 let you know.
 “I hope you will consider this letter worth five dollars for I am very
 short of money and times are so hard that I can’t get anything to do.
  “Yours to command,
  “JAKE AMSDEN, ESQ.”
Why Mr. Amsden signed himself Esq. is not altogether clear. As he had
expressed a hope to go to Congress some day he perhaps wanted to keep
up his dignity.
Mr. Wentworth returned the following answer to this letter:
  “JAKE AMSDEN,
 “I am glad to receive information about Gerald Lane. I enclose five
 dollars. When you hear anything more about him, particularly when he
 returns, write me again.
  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”
He did not, however, address this to Jake Amsden, Esq., rather to the
disappointment of his gifted correspondent. But Jake found substantial
consolation in the five dollars enclosed, which soon found its way into
the coffers of Pete Johnson.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE BACKWOODS HOTEL.
THREE weeks later Noel Brooke and Gerald, after a long day’s ride,
halted their horses in front of a rude, one-story dwelling at the foot
of a precipitous hill in Western Colorado.
“I hope this is a hotel, Gerald,” said the tourist. “I am tired and
hungry.”
“So am I. We have had a rough ride to-day.”
“No doubt our poor horses think so,” went on Brooke, gently stroking
the neck of his patient steed. The weary animal signified the pleasure
which the caress gave him, and turning his head looked at his rider
with almost human intelligence.
“Shall I dismount and inquire, Mr. Brooke?” asked Gerald.
“Yes, if you please.”
Gerald knocked on the door, which after a slight delay, was opened by a
tall, gaunt woman attired in a soiled calico dress which hung limply
about her thin and bony figure.
“Madam,” said Gerald, lifting his hat with quite unnecessary
politeness, for the woman before him knew nothing of social
observances, “is this a hotel?”
“Well,” drawled the woman, “we sometimes put up travelers here.”
“I am glad to hear it. My friend and I have ridden far to-day, and
would like to have supper and a bed.”
“That’ll be a dollar apiece,” said the woman abruptly.
“We are willing to pay it; and can we get some provision for our
horses?”
“This ain’t no horse tavern, but you can tie ’em to a tree and let ’em
forage for themselves.”
“That will do,” answered Gerald. “Mr. Brooke,” he added, “this lady
consents to entertain us.”
“I shall esteem it a favor,” said Noel Brooke, alighting from his horse.
“Did you tell him what I charged?” asked the backwoods landlady.
“We are to pay a dollar each,” explained Gerald, turning to his
companion.
“That is satisfactory,” said the tourist.
“You may give it to me now,” said the new landlady with commendable
caution.
“Just as you please, madam.”
Noel Brooke took out a large wallet that seemed well filled with bills,
and selecting a two-dollar note passed it over.
The landlady extended her hand eagerly, and taking the bill examined
it minutely, and finally, as if satisfied with her scrutiny, thrust it
into a probable pocket in the interior recesses of her dress. She was
evidently fond of money, judging from her manner, and Gerald noticed
that she fixed a covetous look on the large and well-filled wallet from
which Mr. Brooke had selected the bank bill. It gave him a momentary
feeling of uneasiness, but he reflected that there was little danger
from a solitary woman, and did not mention his feeling to the tourist.
“What do you want for supper?” asked the woman in a quick, jerky way.
“Almost anything, provided it is hearty and there is enough of it,
madam.”
“I’ve got some antelope steak and corn cakes, and I’ll boil some
potatoes if you want ’em.”
“That will do admirably. But where did you get antelope meat? You
didn’t shoot the animal yourself?”
“No, my man shot him.”
That settled the question that had arisen in Gerald’s mind. The woman
had a husband.
“I might have known that you didn’t shoot him yourself.”
“And maybe you’d be mistaken. I’ve dropped more’n one fine antelope, if
I am a woman—Bess, bring me my rifle.”
Bess, undoubtedly the woman’s daughter, was quite a contrast to her
thin, bony mother, for, though not over the average height of women,
she would easily have tipped the scales at a hundred and eighty
pounds. She had a round, fat face, rather vacant in expression, but
good-natured, and in that respect much more attractive than her
mother’s. She brought out a large rifle, which her mother took from her
and raised to her shoulder in fine, sportsmanlike fashion.
“Please don’t mistake me for antelope, madam,” said Noel Brooke hastily.
This excited the risibilities of Bess, who broke into a loud and noisy
fit of laughter.
“What yer cacklin’ at, Bess?” demanded her mother.
“No, I won’t shoot yer,” she added, turning to Brooke. “You wouldn’t be
half so good eatin’ as an antelope.”
Here Bess went off into another fit of laughter, in which Gerald and
his companion joined, for the girl’s evident enjoyment was contagious.
“I am glad to hear that, madam.”
“What do you call me madam for?” inquired the woman suspiciously.
“Because I don’t know your name.”
“My name’s Sal Peters.”
“I shall remember, Mrs. Peters.”
“Bess, you can go and tell the man where to tie his hoss.”
The girl led the way to the rear of the building, where about a hundred
feet back was a sapling with a long rope attached to it.
“Hitch your hoss on to that,” said she. “And there’s another for the
young chap.”
Gerald smiled at this designation, and availed himself of the
information.
“You can set down anywhere, and when supper’s ready I’ll shout.”
“Thank you, Miss Peters,” said the tourist with an amused smile.
But Bess seemed still more amused at being called Miss Peters.
“Oh, I shall bust with laughing, I shall!” she giggled. “Miss Peters!
Oh, ain’t you funny, though?”
“Is there any place to wash?” asked Gerald, looking at his dust-soiled
hands.
Bess pointed to a little rill of water that flowed and trickled down
the hillside, and which Gerald had not yet observed.
“Thank you!”
“Towels are apparently unknown in this wilderness,” said Brooke, after
Bess had gone back to the house.
“And soap, too, I expect.”
“A little extra rubbing will make up for the last, and our
handkerchiefs may do as a substitute for the former. This seems a
primitive sort of place.”
Gerald admired the ease with which Mr. Brooke, who had undoubtedly been
brought up in the lap of luxury, adapted himself to the accommodations
of the wilderness. The young man, after refreshing himself with an
ablution, threw himself on the grass, and said contentedly: “It seems
good to rest after our long ride.”
“Yes, Mr. Brooke, that is the way I feel.”
“To tell you the truth, Gerald, I was afraid we might have to camp out
in the woods, and go to bed without our supper.”
“Our hotel isn’t exactly first class.”
“No, but if we get a plain supper and a comfortable night’s rest it
ought to satisfy us. If I cared to stop at first-class hotels I would
have remained in the larger cities. But I like better, for a time
at least, the freedom of the woods, even if it carries with it some
personal sacrifices and privations.”
“I have been thinking, Mr. Brooke, that my duties as private secretary
are not very laborious.”
“True, Gerald,” answered the tourist smiling. “In fact I have no use
for a private secretary as such, but I wanted a companion, and you
are worth more to me in that capacity than a college graduate whose
acquirements would be much greater.”
“But, Mr. Brooke, it doesn’t seem to me that I am earning the very
liberal salary you are paying me.”
“Not perhaps by your labors as secretary, but your company I rate
higher than this.”
“Thank you, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, gratified by this evidence of
appreciation.
“So that you needn’t feel any compunction at accepting your salary.”
“I know you mean what you say, and I shall hereafter feel easy on that
score. I wonder what would have been my future if you had not made your
appearance.”
“You would have got along somehow. You are a clever boy, one of those
that get on. There is one thing I reproach myself for, however.”
“What is that, Mr. Brooke?”
“I have taken you away from the congenial society of Jake Amsden.”
Gerald laughed.
“It is true,” he said, “but I will try to find compensation in yours.”
Noel Brooke rose and made a low bow.
“Really,” he said, “I can’t remember when I received such a compliment
before.”
At this moment Bess came out of the cabin and called out “Supper’s
ready, you fellers!”
“And we ‘fellers’ are ready for it,” said Noel Brooke rising briskly.
“Come along, Gerald, the inner man and the inner boy must be
replenished.”
