the winding paths which made ascent easy, and many 
a dry leafy platform where one might sit. A hundred 
times she had imagined herself in that forest with 
him; its dim vast solitude had become almost his 
permanent setting in her fancy. But as the boat 
grazed the shore, she said hurriedly, 
" Get in and let us float about. I am sure it is cold 
in there. I am so glad to see you again." 
 
As her hands were occupied, he took the seat in the 
stern at once, and she pulled out a few yards, then 
crossed her oars. 
" You see, I have obeyed orders," he said, smiling. 
" Fortunately, I am an early riser, particularly in the 
country." 
" I thought the change would do you good. It 
must be hot in Washington." 
" It is frightful." 
He looked as well as usual, however, and his thin 
grey clothes became his spare though thickset figure. 
He was smiling humorously into Betty's eyes, but 
his own were impenetrable. They might harbor the 
delight of a lover at a precious opportunity, or the 
amusement of a man of the world. But there was 
no doubt that he was glad to see her and that he 
appreciated the picture she made. 
" I hope I never may see you in anything but white 
again," he said. " You are a gracious vision to 
conjure up on stifling afternoons in the Senate." 
Betty did not want to talk about herself. " Tell 
me the news," she said. " How is that Tariff Bill 
going? " 
" A story has just leaked out that a stormy scene 
occurred in the Ways and Means Committee Room 
between our friend Montgomery and two members of 
the Committee whose names I won't mention. He 
openly accused them of accepting bribes from certain 
Trusts. It even is reported that they came to blows, 
but that is probably an exaggeration. We have had 
our sensation also. One of our fire-eaters accused 
at the top of his voice the entire Senate of bribery 
and corruption. He is new and will think better of 
 
us in time. Meanwhile he would amuse us if such 
things did not affect the dignity of the Senate with 
the outside world. Unfortunately we are obliged to 
accept whomsoever the people select to represent 
them, and can only possess our souls in patience till 
time and the Senate tone the raw ones down." 
"Is he representative, that man? And those 
hysterical members of the House, whose speeches 
make me wonder if humor is really a national 
quality? " 
" They are only too representative, unfortunately, 
but they are more hysterical than the average because 
they have the opportunity their constituents lack, of 
shouting in public. The House is America let loose. 
When a former private citizen belonging to the party 
out of power gets on his feet in it, he develops a 
species of hysteria for which there is no parallel in 
history. He seems to think that the louder he shouts 
and the more bad rhetoric he uses, the less will his 
party feel the stings of defeat. Some of them tone 
down and become conscientious and admirable legis- 
lators, but these are the few of natural largeness of 
mind. Party spirit, a magnificent thing at its best, 
warps and withers the little brain in the party out of 
power. But politics are out of place in this wilderness. There should be redskins and bows and arrows 
on all sides of us. I used to revel in Cooper's yarns, 
but I suppose you never have read them." 
Betty shook her head. "When can you come up 
here to stay?" 
" Probably not for a month yet. There will be a 
good deal more wrangling before the bill goes through. 
I don't like it in its present shape and don't expect to 
 
in its ultimate ; neither do a good many of us. But I 
shall vote for it, because the country needs a high tariff, 
and anything will be better than nothing for the pres- 
ent. Later, the whole matter will be reopened and 
war waged on the Trusts." 
" Sally says they have bought up the atmosphere." 
" They may be said to have bought up several climates. I have spent a great many hours puzzling over 
that question, for they have put an end to the old days 
when young men could go into business with the hope 
of a progressive future. Now they are swallowed up at 
once, depersonalized, and the whole matter is one of 
the great questions affecting the future development of 
the Republic." 
He was not looking at Betty ; he was staring out on 
the lake. His eyes and mouth were hard again ; he 
looked like a mere intellect, nothing more. 
As Betty watched him, she experienced a sudden 
desire to put him back on the pedestal he had occupied in the first days of their acquaintance, and to 
worship him as an ideal and forget him as a man. 
That had been a period of intellectual days and quiet 
nights. And as he looked now, he seemed to ask no 
more of any woman. 
But in a moment he had turned to her again with 
the smile and the peculiar concentration of gaze which 
made women forget he was a statesman. 
" Not another word of politics," he said. " I did 
not get up at four in the morning to meet the most 
charming woman in America and talk politics. Do you 
know that it is over three months since I saw you last? " 
" You left Washington, so, naturally, I left it too." 
"I wonder how much you mean? If I were to 
 
judge you by myself Your few notes were very 
interesting. Did you enjoy California?" 
"California was made to enjoy, but I felt very 
much alone in it." 
"Of course you did. Nature is a wicked old 
matchmaker. You have felt quite as lonely up here 
since your return." 
" Yes, I have ! But I have had a good deal to 
occupy my mind. Sally terrified me by asserting that 
Harriet and my cousin Jack Emory were in love with 
each other." 
"Who is Harriet?" 
" Oh, you have forgotten ! And you made me take 
her into the bosom of my family." 
" Oh yes ; I had forgotten her name. I hope 
she is not making trouble for you." 
" She admitted that she loves him, but insists that he 
does not love her, and I don't think he does." 
" Probably not. I should as soon think of falling in 
love with a weeping figure on a tombstone." 
"What kind of women do you fall in love with? " 
asked Betty, irresistibly. She was sure of herself now. 
The passions of women are often calmed by the pres- 
ence of their lover. Passion is so largely mental in 
them that it reaches heights in the imagination that 
reality seldom justifies and mere propinquity quells. 
For this reason they often are recklessly unfair to men, 
who are made on simpler lines. 
They had floated under the spreading arms of a 
thicket on the water's edge, and she was a brilliant 
white figure in the gloom. 
"I have no recipe," he said, smiling. "Certainly 
not with the women that weep, poor things ! " 
 
Betty wondered what his personal attitude was to 
the tears of twenty years. She knew from Sally that 
Mrs. North had long attacks of depression. But his 
mind had been occupied; that meant almost every- 
thing. And his heart? 
" Do you love anybody now? " she broke out. " Is 
there a woman in your life ? Some one who makes you 
happy?" 
The smile left his lips. It was too much to say that 
it had been in his eyes, but they changed also. 
" There is no woman in my life, as you put it. Why 
do you ask? " 
" Because I want to know." 
They regarded each other squarely. In a moment 
he said deliberately: "The greatest happiness that I 
have had in the past few months has been my friend- 
ship with you. If I were free, I should make love to 
you. If you will have the truth, I can conceive of no 
happiness so great as to be your husband. I have 
caught myself dreaming of it and over and over again. 
But as it is I am not going to make love to you. 
When the strain becomes too great, I shall leave you. 
Until then Ah, don't ! " 
Betty, who had dropped her head when he began 
to speak, had raised it slowly, and her face concealed 
nothing. 
" I, too, love you," she said in a moment. " I love 
you, love you, love you. If you knew what a relief it 
is to say it. That is the reason I would not go up 
into the forest with you just now. I was afraid. I 
have been with you there too often ! " 
For the first time she saw the muscles of his face 
relax, and she covered her face with her hands. " I 
 
shouldn't.have told you," she whispered, " I shouldn't.
have told you. I have made it harder. You will go 
away at once." 
He did not speak for some minutes. Then he 
said, 
" Can you do without what we have? " 
" Oh, no ! " she said passionately. " Oh, no ! 
no!" 
" Nor can I without the hope and the prospect of 
an occasional hour with you, of the sympathy and 
understanding which has grown up between us. I 
have conquered myself many times, relinquished many 
hopes, and I think and believe that my self-control is 
as great as a man's can be. I shall not let myself go 
with you unless you tempt me beyond endurance ; for 
as I said before, if I find that I am not strong enough, 
I shall leave you. You are a beautiful and seductive 
woman, and your power if you chose to exert it would 
madden any man. Will you forget it ? Will you help 
me?" 
She dropped her hands. "Yes," she said, "I'd 
rather suffer anything, I'd rather make myself over 
than do without you. And I couldn't! I couldn't! 
Every least thing that happens, I want to go straight 
to you about it. I know that trouble is ahead, 
although I haven't.admitted it before. I want you in 
every way ! in every way ! and I can't even have you 
in that. I never will speak like this again, but I 'd 
like you to know. If you love me, you must know 
how terrible it is. I am not a child. I am twenty- 
seven years old." 
"I know," he replied; and for a few moments he 
said no more, but looked down into the water. 
 
" I am not a believer in people parting because they 
can't have everything," he continued finally. " It is 
only the very young who do that. They take the 
thing tragically; passion and disappointment trample 
down common- sense. If love is the very best thing 
in life, it is not the only thing. Every time I have 
seen you I have wanted to take you in my arms, and 
yet I have enjoyed every moment spent in your presence. The thought of giving you up is intolerable. 
We both are old enough to control ourselves. And I 
believe that any habit can be acquired." 
" And will you never take me in your arms ? Have 
I got to go through life without that? I must say 
everything to-day I will row out into the middle of 
the lake if you like, but I must know that." 
" You can stay here. There are certain things that 
no man can say, Betty, even to the most loved and 
trusted of women. The only answer that I can make to 
your question is, that if I find I must leave you, I certainly shall take you in my arms once." 
"Are you sorry I told you I loved you? Would it 
be easier if I had not ? " 
" Probably. But I am not sorry ! Love can give 
happiness even when one is denied the expression of it." 
" I never intended to tell you. I was afraid if I did 
you would leave me at once." 
" So I should if you were not you. But I should 
think myself a fool if I did not make an attempt to 
achieve the second best. I may fail, but I shall try. 
And life is made up of compromises." 
" You are more certain of smashing the Trusts," she 
said with the humor which never bore repression for 
long. 
" In dealing with methodical scoundrels you know 
at least where you are. A man and woman never can 
be too certain of what five minutes will bring forth. 
That ends it. We never will discuss the question 
again until it comes up for the last time if it does. 
I do not mean that I shall not tell you again that I 
love you, for I shall. I have no desire that you shall 
forget it. I mean that we will not discuss possibilities 
again, nor give expression to the passionate regret we 
both must feel. Is it a compact? " 
" I will keep my part in it. I promise to be good. 
I have prided myself on my intelligence. I am not 
going to disgrace it by ruining the only happiness I 
ever shall have. I love you, and I will prove it by 
making your part as easy as I can, and by giving you 
all the happiness I am permitted to give you." 
He leaned toward her for the first time, but he did 
not touch her. 
"And I promise you this, my darling," he said 
softly : " if you ever should be in great trouble and 
should send for me as of course you would do 
I will take you in my arms then and forget myself. 
Now, change seats with me and I will row you part 
of the way home ; I shall get out a half-mile from the 
hotel. There really was no reason why you should 
have made me walk nearly the entire length of the 
lake." 
" I had fancied you in this particular part of the 
forest, and I wanted to find you here." 
"That is so like a woman," he said humorously. 
" But all of us make an occasional attempt to realize a 
dream, I suppose." 
 
VIII 
HE came over to dinner that night, and Betty, who had 
walked about in a vague dreamy state all day, dressed 
herself again in white. She woke up suddenly as she 
came into his presence, and was the life of the 
dinner. Harriet seemed absent of mind and nervous, 
but Emory's spirits were normal, and he was more 
attentive to Sally Carter than she to him. But Betty's 
interest in her friends' affairs had dropped to a very 
low ebb. She was in a new mental world, stranger 
than that entered by most women, for her hands were 
empty, but she was happy. She had reflected again 
in so far as she had been capable of reflection 
that most marriages were prosaic, and that her own 
high romance, her inestimable happiness in loving and 
being loved by a man in whom her pride was so great, 
was a lot to be envied of all women. It was not all 
the destiny she herself would have chosen, but it compassed a great deal. She would have made him wholly 
happy, been his whole happiness ; marriage between 
them never would have been prosaic, and she would 
not have cared if it were j she would have made him 
forget the deep trials and sorrows of his past and the 
worries and annoyances of the present. But this was 
not to be, and there was much she could do for him 
and would. 
They talked politics through dinner, and Mrs. Madison noted with a sigh that Betty's interest in the 
undesirable institution was unabated. She admired 
 
Senator North, however, and felt pride in his appreciation of her brilliant daughter. She expressed her 
regret amiably at not being able to meet again Mrs. 
North, who would see none but old friends in these 
days, and Senator North assured her of his wife's 
agreeable remembrance of her brief acquaintance with 
Mrs. Madison. 
" How wonderfully well people behave whose common secret would set their world by the ears," thought 
Betty. " Our worst enemies could detect nothing ; 
and on what there is heaven knows a huge scandal 
could be built." 
After dinner she played to him for an hour, while 
the others, with the exception of Mrs. Madison, who 
went to sleep, became absorbed in whist. But she did 
not see him for a moment alone, and Jack rowed him 
across the lake. 
She went to her bed, but not to sleep. She hardly 
cared if she never slept again. Night in a measure 
gave him to her, and to sleep was to forget the 
wonder that he loved her. 
It was shortly after midnight that she heard a faint 
but unmistakable creaking on the tin roof of the verandah. She sat up. Some one was about to pass her 
window. She sprang out of bed, crossed the room 
softly, and lifted the edge of the curtain. A figure was 
almost crawling past. It was a woman's figure ; the 
stars gave enough light to define its outlines at close 
range. She had a shawl over her head, but her 
angular body was unmistakable. She was Miss 
Trumbull. 
Betty dropped the curtain and stared into the 
darkness. 
 
" Whom is she watching? " she thought. "Whom 
is she watching?" 
She went back to bed and listened intently. In 
half an hour she heard the same sound again. 
"She is going back to her room," thought Betty. 
"What has she seen?" 
The next morning she sent for Miss Trumbull to 
come to her room. She had no intention of asking 
her to sit down, but the woman did not wait to be 
invited. She took a chair and fanned herself with 
a palm leaf that she picked from the table. 
"Lawsy, but it's hot," she said. "I had a long 
argument with Miss Walker yesterday about New York 
State bein' hotter 'n down South, and she wouldn't.
believe it. But I usually know what I 'm talkin' 
about, and hotter it is. I near lost my temper, for I 
guess I know when it's hot " 
" What were you doing on the roof of the verandah 
last night? " askecl Betty, abruptly. 
Miss Trumbuli turned the dark ugly red of her embarrassed condition. 
"I " she stammered. 
" I saw you. Whom were you watching? " 
" I warn't watchin' anybody. I was takin' a walk. 
I couldn't sleep." 
" You know perfectly well that the roof of a verandah is not intended to be walked on. Your curiosity 
is insufferable. I suppose it has become professional. 
Or are you hoping for blackmail? If so, the hotel is 
the place for you." 
This time Miss Trumbull turned purple. 
"I like money as well as anybody, I guess," she 
stuttered ; ' but I 'd never sell a secret to get it. I 
ain't low down and despisable if I am poor." 
"Then you admit it is mere curiosity? I would 
rather you stole." 
" Well, I don't steal, thank heaven. And I don't 
see any harm in tryin' to know what 's goin' on in the 
world." 
" Read the newspapers and let your neighbours 
alone, at all events the people in this house. I have 
twice seen you reading over the addresses of the 
letters of the outgoing mail. Don't you ever do it 
again. You are a good housekeeper, but if I find you 
attending to anything but your own business, once 
more, you go on the moment. That is all I have to 
say." 
The woman left the room hurriedly. An hour or 
two later Betty met Harriet on the terrace. 
" I am sorry to appear to be always admonishing 
you," she said, " but I must ask you to have nothing 
more to do with Miss Trumbull." 
" I don't want to have anything more to do with 
her, honey. She has taken to arguing with me in that 
long self-satisfied drawl, and I have 'most got to hate 
her. I wouldn't.mind so much if she was ever right, 
but she is a downright fool, and I reckon all fools are 
pretty much alike. And I have a horrible idea that 
she suspects something. I have seen her staring at 
my finger-nails two or three times. And I am 'most 
sure some one has gone through the little trunk I keep 
my letters in. Of course the key is always in my 
purse, but she may have had one that fits, and the 
things are not like I left them, I am 'most sure." 
" She probably envies your finger-nails, and the 
trunk, doubtless, was upset in travelling. Besides, I 
don't think she's malignant. Like most underbred 
 
persons, she is curious, and she has cultivated the trait 
until it has become a disease." 
" But there 's no knowing what she might do if she 
took a dislike to me. She 's not bad-hearted at all, 
but she could be spiteful, and I can't and won't stand 
her any longer. I reckon I 'd like to go to Europe, 
anyhow. I feel as if every one was guessing my secret. 
Over there you say they don't mind those things, and 
I 'd enjoy being in that kind of a place." 
" Go, by all means. I'll write at once and inquire 
about a chaperon " 
" Oh, I don't want to go just yet. September will 
do. I reckon these mountains are about as cool at 
this time of the year as anywhere, and they make me 
feel strong." She added abruptly: "Does Sally 
suspect?" 
Betty nodded. "Yes, she surprised the truth out 
of me. I am more sorry " 
Harriet had gripped her arm with both hands. Her 
face was ghastly. "She knows? She knows?" she 
gasped. " Then she will tell him. Oh ! why was I 
ever born?" 
Betty made her sit down and took her head in her 
arms. Harriet was weeping with more passion than 
she ever had seen her display. 
"You believe me always, don't you?" she said. 
" For Miss Trumbull I cannot answer, but for Sally I 
can positively. She never would do a mean and 
ignoble thing." 
" She loves him ! " 
"That is the more reason for not telling him. Cannot you understand high-mindedness ? " 
 " Oh, yes. You are high-minded, and he that is 
the reason I should die if he found out; for he hates, 
he loathes deceit. Oh, I've grown to hate this 
country. I love you, but I 'd like to forget that it was 
ever on the map. I wish I was coal black and had 
been born in Africa." 
" Why don't you go there and live, set up a sort of 
court?" asked Betty, seized with an inspiration. 
" And live among niggers ? I despise and abhor 
niggers ! If one put his dirty black paw on me, I 'd 
'most kill him ! " 
Betty turned away her head to conceal a smile ; but 
Harriet, who was wholly without humor, continued : 
" Betty, honey, I want you to promise me that if I 
ever do anything to disappoint you, you'll forgive me. 
I love you so I couldn't.bear to have you despise me." 
"What have you been doing?" asked Betty, 
anxiously. 
" Nothing, honey," replied Harriet, promptly. " I 
mean if I did." 
"Don't do anything that requires forgiveness. It 
makes life so much simpler not to. And remember 
the promise you made me." 
" Oh, I don't reckon I'll ever forget that." 
IX 
SENATOR NORTH started for Washington that afternoon. 
Betty did not see him again. He did not write, but 
she hardly expected that he would. He had remarked 
once that two-thirds of all the trouble in the world 
came out of letters, and Betty, with Miss Trumbull in 
 
mind, was inclined to agree with him. He would not 
return for a fortnight. 
On Friday, very late, Senator Burleigh arrived. He 
was on the Finance Committee, but had written that he 
should break his chains for this brief holiday if he 
never had another. He had sent her two boxes of 
flowers since her return, and had written her a large 
number of brief, emphatic, but impersonal letters during her sojourn in California. 
He looked big and breezy and triumphant as he 
entered the living-room, and he sprinkled magnetism 
like a huge watering-pot. Betty knew by this time 
that all men successful in American politics had this 
qualification, and had come in contact with it so often 
since her introduction to the Senate that it had ceased 
to have any effect on her except when emanating from 
one man. 
" Are you not frightfully tired ? " she asked. " What 
a journey ! " 
" Anything, even a fourteen hours' train journey, is 
heaven after Washington in hot weather. The asphalt 
pavements are reeking, and your heels go in when you 
forget to walk on your toes and stick. But it is 
enchanting up here." 
His eyes dwelt with frank delight on her fresh blue 
organdie. " Oh, Washington does not exist," he exclaimed. " I thought constantly of you when we were 
struggling over that Tariff Bill in Committee, and I 
wanted to put all the fabrics you like on the free list, 
as a special compliment to you." 
" The unwritten history of a Committee Room ! Law 
does not seem like law at all when one knows the 
makers of it. But you must be starved. If you will 
follow me blindly down the hall, I promise that you 
will really be glad you came." 
Miss Trumbull had attended personally to the supper, and he did it justice, although he continued to 
talk to Betty and to let his eyes express a more fervent 
admiration than had been their previous habit. 
" There 's no hope for me," thought Betty, when 
Emory had taken him to his room. " He has made 
up his mind to propose during this visit. If I can 
only stave it off till the last minute ! " 
As she went up the stair, she met Miss Trumbull, 
who was coming down. 
"Your supper was very good," she said kindly. 
" Thank you for sitting up." 
That was enough for the housekeeper, who appeared 
to have conceived a worship of the hand that had 
smitten her. It had seemed to Betty in the last few 
days that she met her admiring eyes whichever way 
she turned. Miss Trumbull put out her hand and 
fumbled at the lace on Miss Madison's gown. 
" Tell me," she drawled wheedlingly, " that 's your 
beau, ain't it? I guessed he was when those flowers 
come, and the minute I set eyes on him, I said to myself, ' That 's the gentleman for Miss Madison. My ! 
but you'll make a handsome couple." 
" Oh ! " exclaimed Betty. " Oh ! " Then she 
laughed. The woman was too ridiculous for further 
anger. " Good-night," she said, and went on to her 
room. 
 
BETTY had organized a picnic for the following day, 
inviting several acquaintances from the hotel ; and they 
all drove to a favorite spot in the forest. Mrs. Madison's maid had charge of many cushions, and disposed 
her tiny mistress who looked like a wood fairy in 
lilac mull comfortably on a bed of pine needles. 
Major Carter felt young once more as he grilled steaks 
at a camp-fire, and Harriet enchanted him with her 
rapt attention while his memory rioted in deeds of 
war. 
Senator Burleigh had never appeared so well, Betty 
thought. There was an out-of-door atmosphere about 
him at any time ; no doubt he had been a mighty wind 
in the Senate more than once during the stormy passage 
of the Tariff Bill ; but with all out- doors around him he 
looked nothing less than a mountain king. His large 
well-knit frame, full of strength and energy, was at its 
triumphant best in outing tweeds and Scotch stockings ; 
his fair handsome face was boyish, despite its almost 
fierce determination, as he pranced about, intoxicated 
with the mountain air. 
" If you ever had spent one summer in Washington, 
you would understand," he said to Betty. "This is 
where I 'd like to spend the rest of my life. I 'd like 
to think I 'd never see a city or the inside of a house 
again." 
" Then you 'd probably hew down the forest, which 
would be a loss to the State : you would have to do 
something with your superfluous energy. And what 
would you do with your brain? Mere reading, when 
your arm ached from chopping, never would content 
you." 
" No, that is the worst of civilization. It either produces discontented savages like myself or goes too far 
and turns the whole body into brain. I have managed 
to get a sort of steam-engine into my head which gives 
me little rest and would wear out my body if I didn't.
happen to have the constitution of a buffalo. But I 
doubt if I shall be what North is, sixteen years hence. 
That man is the best example of equilibrium I have 
ever seen. His mental activity is enormous, but his 
control over himself is so absolute that he never wastes 
an ounce of force. I 've seen him look as fresh at the 
end of a long day of debate as he was when he got on 
his feet. He never lets go of himself for a moment." 
That was the only time Betty heard Senator North's 
name mentioned during Burleigh's visit, for the younger 
man was much more interested in himself and the 
object of his holiday. 
" I think if it hadn't.been for this Extra Session I 
should have followed you to California," he said 
abruptly. " I didn't.know how much I depended for 
my entire happiness upon my frequent visits to your 
house until I came back after the short vacation and 
found you gone." 
" It would have been jolly to have had you in California. But you must feel that your time has not been 
thrown away. Are you satisfied with the Tariff Bill?" 
" I liked it fairly well as we re-wrote it, but I don't 
expect to care much about it after it comes out of 
conference. But there are no politics in the Adiron- 
 
dacks, and when a weary Senator is looking at a woman 
in a pale green muslin " 
" You look anything but weary. I expect you will 
tramp over half the Adirondacks before you go back. 
And I am sure you will eat one of those beefsteaks. 
Come, they are ready." 
But although she managed to seat him between 
Sally Carter and an extremely pretty girl, he was at her 
side again the moment the gay party began to split 
into couples. 
" Will you come for a walk ? " he asked. " I do 
want to roam about on the old trails the Indians 
made, and to get away from these hideous emblems of 
modern civilization sailor hats. Thank heaven you 
don't wear a sailor hat." 
Betty shot a peremptory glance at Sally Carter, who 
nodded and started to follow with a small dark attache 
who had pursued herself and her million for five determined years. He was titled if not noble, a clever 
operator of a small brain, and a high-priest of teas. 
He knew the personnel of Washington Society so 
thoroughly that he never had been known to waste a 
solitary moment on a portionless girl, and he had 
successfully cultivated every art that could commend 
him to the imperious favourites of fortune. Betty 
Madison had disposed of him in short order, but 
Miss Carter, although she refused him periodically, 
allowed him to hang on, for he amused her and read 
her favorite authors. They had not walked far when 
he seized the picturesque opportunity to press his suit, 
and Miss Carter, while scolding him soundly, forgot the 
rapid walkers in front. 
Betty, as she tramped along beside the large swinging presence the forest seemed to embrace as its own, 
wondered why she did not love him, wondered if she 
should, had she never met the other man. Doubtless, 
for he possessed all the attributes of the conquering 
hero, and she would have excavated the ideals of her 
romantic girlhood, brushed and recut their garments, 
and then deliberately set fire to her imagination. If 
the responsive spark had held sullenly aloof, awaiting its 
time, she, knowing nothing of its existence, would soon 
have ceased to remember the half- conscious labors of 
the initial stage of her affections, and doubtless would 
have married this fine specimen of American manhood, 
and been happy enough. But the responsive spark 
had struck, and illumined the deepest recesses of her 
heart in time to burn contempt into any effort of her 
brain, now or hereafter. The question did assail 
her as Burleigh talked of his summer outings among 
the stupendous mountains of his chosen State could 
she turn to him in time were she suddenly and permanently separated from the other? She shook her 
head in resentment at the treasonable thought; but 
her brain had received every advantage of the higher 
civilization for twenty-seven years, and worked by itself. She was young and she had much to give ; in 
consequence, much to receive. She could find the 
highest with one man only, for with him alone would 
her imagination do its final work. But Nature is inexorable. She commands union ; and as the years 
went by and one memory grew dimmer who knew ? 
But the thought gave her a moment of sadness so 
profound that she ceased to hear the voice of the 
man beside her. She had had moments of deep insight before, and again she stared down into the 
 
depths where so many women's agonized memories 
lie buried. 
She suddenly felt a warm clasp round her hand, and 
for a second responded to it gratefully, for hers had 
turned cold. Then she realized that she was in the 
present, and withdrew her hand hurriedly. 
" Forgive me," he said. " I simply couldn't help 
it. I could in Washington, and I felt that I must wait. 
But up here I want to marry you. You know 
that, do you not?" 
Betty glanced over her shoulder. There was to be 
no interruption. She was mistress of herself at once. 
" I cannot marry you," she said. " I almost wish 
I could, but I cannot." 
He swung into the middle of the path and stood 
still, looking down upon her squarely. There was 
nothing of the suppliant in his attitude. He looked 
unconquerable. 
" I did not expect to win you in a moment," he 
said. " I should not have expected it if I had waited 
another year. I knew from the beginning that it would 
be hard work, for if a woman does not love at once it 
takes a long time to teach her what love is. I have 
tried to make you like me, and I think I have succeeded. That is all I can hope for now. You have 
been surfeited and satiated with admiration, and you 
regard all men as having been born to burn incense 
before you. I love you for that too. I should hate a 
woman who even had it in her to love a man out of 
gratitude. You have your world at your feet, and I 
want mine at my feet. You have won yours without 
effort, for you were born with the crown and sceptre of 
fascination, I have to fight for mine. But the same 
 
instinct is in us both, the same possibilities on different 
lines. I am not making you the broken passionate 
appeal of the usual lover, because so long as I know 
you do not love me I could not place myself at the 
mercy of emotion I have no thought of making a 
fool of myself. But when I do win you then ah ! 
that will be another matter." 
She shook her head, but smiling, for she never had 
liked and admired him more. She knew of what 
passion he was capable, and how absurd he would have 
looked if lashed by it while her cool eyes looked on. 
His self-control made him magnificent. 
" I never shall marry," she said, and then laughed, 
in spite of herself, at the world-old formula. Burleigh 
laughed also. 
" There isn't.time enough left before chaos comes 
again to argue with a woman a question which means 
absolutely nothing. I am going to marry you. I have 
accomplished everything big I have ever strived for. 
I never have wanted to marry any other woman, and I 
want to marry you more than I wanted to become a 
Senator of the United States. Nothing could discourage me unless I thought you loved another man, but 
so far as I can see there is no other suitor in the field. 
You appear to have refused every proposing man in 
Washington. Is there any one on the other side ? " he 
asked anxiously. 
" No one. I have no suitor beside yourself ; but " 
" I don't understand that word, any more than I 
understand the word 'fail,' " he said in his rapid trucu- 
lent tones. Then he added more gently : " I am afraid 
you think I should be a tyrant, but no one would tyrannize over you, for you are any man's equal, and he 
 
never would forget it. I could not love a fool. I 
want a mate. And I should love you so much that I
never should cease atoning for my fractious and other 
unpleasant qualities " 
" You have none ! I cannot do less than tell you 
I think you are one of the finest men this country has 
produced, and that I am as proud of you as she will 
be " 
" Let me interrupt you before you say ' but.' That I 
have won so high an opinion from you gives me the 
deepest possible gratification. But I want much more 
than that. Let us go on with our walk. I'll say no 
more at present." 
XI 
HE did not allude to the subject again by so much as 
a tender glance, and Betty, who knew the power 
of man to exasperate, appreciated his consideration. 
She wondered how deep his actual knowledge of 
women went, how much of his success with them he 
owed to the strong manly instincts springing from a 
subsoil of sound common-sense which had carried him 
safely past so many of the pitfalls of life. 
Nor did his high spirits wane. He stayed out of 
doors, in the forest or on the lake, until midnight, and 
was up again at five in the morning. Betty was fond 
of fresh air and exercise, but she had so much of both 
during the two days of his visit that she went to bed 
on the night of his departure with a sense of being 
drugged with ozone and battered with energy. The 
 
next day she did not rise until ten, and was still enjoying the dim seclusion of her room when Sally tapped 
and entered. Miss Carter looked nervous, and her 
usually sallow cheeks were flushed. 
" I 've come to say something I 'm almost ashamed 
to say, but I can't help it," she began abruptly. 
"I'm going away. I can't, I can't sit down at the 
table any longer with her, and treat her as an equal. 
I writhe every time she calls me f Sally.' I know it 's 
a silly senseless prejudice no, it isn't. Black blood 
is loathsome, horrible ! and the less there is of it the 
worse it is. I don't mind the out-and-out negroes. I 
love the dear old darkies in the country ; and even the 
prosperous colored people are tolerable so long as they 
don't presume ; but there is something so hideously 
unnatural, so repulsive, so accursed, in an apparently 
white person with that hidden evidence in him of 
slavery and lechery. Paugh ! it is sickening. They 
are walking shameless proclamations of lust and crime. 
I 'm sorry for them. If by any surgical process the 
taint could be extracted, I 'd turn philanthropic and 
devote half my fortune to it ; but it can't be, and I 'm 
either not strong-minded enough, or have inherited 
too many generations of fastidiousness and refinement 
to bring myself to receive these outcasts as equals. 
I feel particularly sorry for Harriet. She shows her 
cursed inheritance in more ways than one, but without 
it, think what she would be, a high-bred, intellectual, 
charming woman. She just escapes being that now, 
but she does escape it. The taint is all through her. 
And she knows it. In spite of all you 've done for 
her, of all you've made possible for her, she'll be 
unhappy as long as she lives." 
 
" She certainly will be if everybody discovers her 
secret and is as unjust as you are." Betty, like the 
rest of the world, had no toleration for the weaknesses herself had conquered. " We cannot undo 
great wrongs, but it is our duty to make life a little less 
tragic for the victims, if we can." 
" I can't. I've tried, I've struggled with myself 
as I've never struggled before, ever since I learned 
the truth. It sickens me. It makes me feel the weak, 
contemptible, common clay of which we all are made, 
and our only chance of happiness is to forget that. 
But I've said all I've got to say about myself. I 'm 
going, and that is the end of it. I'll wear a mask till 
the last minute, for I wouldn't.hurt the poor thing's 
feelings for the world. And I 'd die sixteen deaths 
before I'd betray her. But, Betty, get rid of her. 
She wants to go to Europe. Let her go. Keep her 
there. For as sure as fate her secret will leak out in 
time. She breathes it. If I felt it, others will, and 
certainty soon follows suspicion. Jack would have 
felt it long since if he were not blinded and intoxicated by her beauty; but you can't count on men. 
He'll soon forget her if you send her away in time, 
and for your own sake as well as his get rid of her. 
You don't want people avoiding your house ! " 
"She is going. She has no desire to stay, poor 
thing ! Of course, I know how you feel. I felt that 
way myself at first, but I conquered it. Others won't, 
I suppose, and it is best that she should go where such 
prejudices don't exist. I spoke to her again a day 
or two ago about it for your idea that Jack loves her 
has made me nervous, although I can see no evidence 
of it and I suggested that she should go at once ; but 
 
she seems to have made up her mind to September, 
and I cannot insist without wounding her feelings. I 
wish Jack would go away, but he always is so much 
better up here than anywhere else that I can't suggest 
that, either." 
" Well, I 'm going now to tell papa he must pre- 
pare his mind for Bar Harbor. Say that you forgive 
me, Betty, for I love you." 
"Oh, yes, I forgive you," said Betty, with a half 
laugh, " for a wise man I know once said that our 
strongest prejudice is a part of us." 
XII 
AFTER Major Carter and Sally left, Betty had less 
freedom, for her mother was lonely; moreover, she 
dared not leave Emory and Harriet too much together. 
The danger still might be averted if she did her duty 
and stood guard. She never had seen Jack look so 
well as he looked this summer. The very gold of his 
hair seemed brighter, and his blue eyes were often 
radiant. His beauty was conventional, but Betty could 
imagine its potent effect on a girl of Harriet Walker's 
temperament and limited experience. But he had 
appeared to prefer Sally's society to Harriet's, and his 
spirits dropped after her departure. 
It was only when Harriet offered to read to Mrs. 
Madison and settled down to three hours' steady work 
a day, that Betty allowed herself liberty after the early 
morning. From five till eight in the evening and for 
an hour or two before breakfast she roamed the forest 
 
or pulled indolently about the lake. The hours suited 
her, for the hotel people were little given to early 
rising ; and although they boated industriously by day, 
they preferred the lower and more fashionable lake, 
and dined at half-past six. 
Life with her no longer was a smooth sailing on a 
summer lake. There was a roar below, as if the lake 
rested lightly on a subterranean ocean ; and the very 
pines seemed to have developed a warning note. 
Harriet looked like a walking Fate, nothing less. 
Since Sally's abrupt departure she had not smiled, and 
Betty knew that instinct divined and explained the 
sudden aversion of a girl who did so much to add to 
the cheerfulness of her friends. Emory also looked 
more like his melancholy self, and wandered about with 
a volume of Pindar and 'an expression of discontent. 
Did he love Harriet? and were her spirits affecting 
his? Since Harriet's promise Betty felt that she had 
no right to speak. He had weathered one love affair, 
he could weather another. When Harriet was safe in 
Europe, she would turn matchmaker and marry him 
to Sally Carter. Betty thought lightly of the disappointments of men, having been the cause of many. 
So long as Jack did not dishonor himself and his house 
by marriage with a proscribed race, nothing less really 
mattered. But she played his favourite music and strove 
to amuse him. 
She rallied him one day about the change in his 
spirits since the departure of Sally Carter, and he 
admitted that he missed her, that he always felt his 
best when with her. 
" Not that I love her more than I do you," he added, 
fearing that he had been impolite. " But she strikes 
 
just that chord. She always makes me laugh. She is 
a sort of sun and warms one up " 
" The truth of the matter is that she strikes more 
chords than you will admit. She 's just the one woman 
you ought to marry. If you 'd make up your mind to 
love her, you'd soon find it surprisingly easy, and 
wonder why it never had occurred to you before." 
Betty thought she might as well begin at once. 
He shook his head, and his handsome face flushed. 
It was not a frank face ; he had lived too solitary and 
introspective a life for frankness ; but he met Betty's 
eyes unflinchingly. 
"She is not in the least the woman for me. She 
lacks beauty, and I could not stand a woman who was 
gay and and staccato all the time. It is delightful to meet, but would be insufferable to live with." 
" What is your ideal type ? " 
He rose and raised her hand to his lips with all his 
old elaborate gallantry. " Oh, Betty Madison ! Betty 
Madison ! " he exclaimed. " That you should live to 
ask me such a question as that? " 
" I 'd like to box his ears if he did not mean that," 
thought Betty. "I particularly should dislike his 
attempting to blind me in that way." 
And herself? She asked this question more than 
once as she rowed toward the northern end of the lake 
in the dawn, or in the heavier shadows at the close of 
the day. Could it last? And how long? And did he 
believe that it could last ? Or was he, with the practical instinct of a man of the world, merely determined 
to quaff that fragrant mildly intoxicating wine of mental 
love-making, until the gods began to grin? 
She had many moods, but when a woman is sure 
 
that her love is returned and is not denied the man's 
occasional presence, she cannot be unhappy for long, 
perhaps never wholly so. For while there is love there 
is hope, and while there is hope tears do not scald. 
Betty dared not let her thought turn for a moment to 
Mrs. North. Her will was strong enough to keep her 
mind on the high plane necessary to her self-respect. 
She would not even ask herself if he knew how low the 
sands had dropped in that unhappy life. The horizon 
of the future was thick with flying mist. Only his 
figure stood there, immovable, always. 
" And it is remarkable how things do go on and on 
and on," she thought once. "They become a habit, 
then a commonplace. It is because they are so mixed 
up with the other details of life. Nothing stands out 
long by itself. The equilibrium is soon restored, and 
unless one deliberately starts it into prominence again, 
it stays in its proper place and swings with the rest." 
She knew her greatest danger. She had it in her to 
be one of the most intoxicating women alive. Was 
this man she loved so passionately to go on to the end 
of his life only guessing what the Fates forbade him ? 
The years of the impersonal attitude to men which she 
had thought it right to assume had made her anticipate 
the more keenly the freedom which one man would 
bring her. She frankly admitted the strength of her 
nature, she almost had admitted it to him ; should she 
always be able to control the strong womanly vanity 
which would give him something more than a passing 
glimpse of the woman, making him forget the girl? 
If she did anything so reprehensible, it would be the 
last glimpse he would take of her, she reflected with 
a sigh. 
 
She wondered that passion and the spiritual part of 
love should be so hopelessly entangled. She was 
ready to live a life of celibacy for his sake; she 
delighted in his mind, and knew that had it been 
commonplace she could not have loved him did he 
have every other gift in the workshop of the gods ; she 
worshipped his strength of character, his independence, 
his lofty yet practical devotion to an ideal ; she loved 
him for his attitude to his wife, the manly and uncomplaining manner with which he accepted his broken 
and shadowed home life, when his temperament de- 
manded the very full of domestic happiness, and the 
heavy labors of his days made its lack more bitter ; and she sympathized keenly in his love for and 
pride in his sons. There was nothing fine about him 
that she did not appreciate and love him the more 
exaltedly for; and yet she knew that had he been 
without strong passions she would have loved him for 
none of these things. For of such is love between 
man and woman when they are of the highest types 
that Nature has produced. Betty hated the thought 
of sin as she hated vulgarity, and did not contemplate 
it for a moment, but if she had roused but the calm 
affection of this man she would have been as miserable 
as for the hour, at least, she was happy. 
XIII 
BETTY was determined that Saturday and Sunday 
should be her own, free of care. She sent Emory 
to New York to talk over an investment with her man 
 
of business, and she provided her mother with eight 
new novels. As Harriet loved the novel only less than 
she loved the studies which furnished her ambitious 
mind, Betty knew that she would read aloud all day 
without complaint. Miss Trumbull, of whom she had 
seen little of late, and who had looked sullen and 
haughty since Harriet with untactful abruptness had 
placed her at arm's length, she requested to superintend in person the cleaning of the lower rooms. 
Her mind being at rest, she arose at four on the 
morning of Saturday. 
She rowed across the lake this time and picked up 
Senator North about a half-mile from the hotel. His 
hands were full of fishing-tackle. 
"Will you take me fishing?" he said. "Can you 
give me the whole morning? I hear there is better 
fishing in the lake above, and a farmhouse where we 
can get breakfast. Do you know the way?" 
She nodded, and he took the oars from her and 
rowed up the lake. 
" My wife always sleeps until noon," he said. " We 
can have seven hours if you will give them to me." 
" Of course I'll give them to you. I may as well 
admit that I intended to have them. I made an elab- 
orate disposition of my household to that end." 
They were smiling at each other, and both looked 
happy and free of desire for anything but seven long 
hours of pleasant companionship. The morning, 
bright and full of sound, mated itself with the superficial moods of man, and was not cast for love-making. 
" Well, what have you been doing? " he asked. " I 
have had you in a permanent and most refreshing 
vision, floating up and down this lake, or flitting through 
the forest, in that white frock. I know that Burleigh 
was here " 
" I did not wear white for him." 
" Ah ! He has looked very vague, not to say mooning, since his return. I am thankful he is not seeing 
you exactly as I do. How is the lady of the 
shadows ? " 
" Sally's Southern gorge rose so high, after she discovered the taint, that she left precipitately. She 
couldn't.sit at the table with even a hidden drop of 
negro blood." 
" You Southerners will solve the negro problem by 
inspiring the entire race with an irresistible desire to 
cut its throat. If a tidal wave would wash Ireland out 
