the wallowing Rhine-daughter.
"Are you sure you can?" she asked.
"Perfectly certain," breathed Jones.
"I am rather heavy----"
The infatuated man laughed.
"Well, then, I'll carry the swan," she said calmly; and, seizing that
dignified and astonished bird, she walked demurely off the prow of the
gaudy boat into the arms of Jones.
To Ellis and the grey-eyed dragon, and to Professor Rawson, who had
crawled to a dry spot on the ridge, there was a dreadful fascination in
watching that swaying pyramid of Jones, Lohengrin, and swan tottering
landward, knee-deep through the flood. The pyramid swayed dangerously at
times; but the girl in the tin armour clasped Jones around the neck and
clung to the off leg of the swan, and Jones staggered on, half-strangled
by the arm and buffeted by the flapping bird, until his oozing shoes
struck dry land.
"Hurrah!" cried Ellis, his enthusiasm breaking out after an agonizing
moment of suspense; and Miss Sandys, forgetting her plight, waved her
lizard claws and hailed rescuer and rescued with a clear-voiced cheer as
they came up excited and breathless, hustling before them the outraged
swan, who waddled furiously forward, craning its neck and snapping.
"What is that?" muttered Jones aside to Ellis as the dragon and
Lohengrin embraced hysterically. He glanced toward the Rhine-maiden, who
was hiding behind a tree.
"Rhine wine with the cork pulled," replied Ellis, gravely. "Go up to
camp and get her your poncho. I'll do what I can to make things
comfortable in camp."
The girl in armour was saying, "You poor, brave dear! How perfectly
splendid it was of you to plunge into the flood with all that pasteboard
dragon-skin tied to you--like Horatius at the bridge. Molly, I'm simply
overcome at your bravery!"
And all the while she was saying this, Molly Sandys was saying: "Helen,
how did you ever dare to try to save the boat, with those horrid swans
flapping and nipping at you every second! It was the most courageous
thing I ever heard of, and I simply revere you, Helen Gay!"
Jones, returning from camp with his poncho, said: "There's a jolly fire
in camp and plenty of provisions;" and sidled toward the tree behind
which Professor Rawson was attempting to prevent several yards of
cheese cloth from adhering too closely to her outline.
"Go away!" said that spinster, severely, peering out at him with a
visage terminating in a length of swan-like neck which might have been
attractive if feathered.
"I'm only bringing you a poncho," said Jones, blushing.
Ellis heard a smothered giggle behind him, but when he turned Molly
Sandys had shrunk into her dragon-skin, and Helen Gay had lowered the
vizor of her helmet.
"I think we had better go to the camp-fire," he said gravely. "It's only
a step."
"We think so, too," they said. "Thank you for asking us, Mr. Ellis."
So Ellis led the way; after him slopped the dragon, its scaled tail
dragging sticks and dead leaves in its wake; next waddled the swan,
perforce, prodded forward by the brown-eyed maid in her tin armor.
Professor Rawson, mercifully disguised in a rubber poncho, under which
her thin shins twinkled, came in the rear, gallantly conducted by Jones
in oozing shoes.
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XVI
THE SIMPLEST SOLUTION OF AN ANCIENT PROBLEM
In the silence befitting such an extraordinary occasion the company
formed a circle about the camp-fire.
Presently Professor Rawson looked sharply at the damp dragon. "Child!"
she exclaimed, "you ought to take that off this instant!"
"But--but I haven't very much on," protested Molly Sandys with a shiver.
"I'm only dressed as a--a page."
"It can't be helped," retorted the professor with decision; "that dragon
is nothing but soaking pulp except where the tail is on fire!"
Ellis hastily set his foot on the sparks, just as Molly Sandys jumped.
There was a tearing, ripping sound, a stifled scream, and three-quarters
of a page in blue satin and lisle thread, wearing the head and shoulders
of a dragon, shrank down behind Professor Rawson's poncho-draped figure.
"Here's my poncho," cried Ellis, hastily; "I am awfully sorry I ripped
your gown--I mean your pasteboard tail--but you switched it into the
fire and it was burning."
"Have you something for me?" inquired Miss Gay, coloring, but calm; "I'm
not very comfortable, either."
Jones's enraptured eyes lingered on the slim shape in mail; he hated to
do it, but he brought a Navajo blanket and draped in it the most
distractingly pretty figure his rather nearsighted eyes had ever
encountered.
"There," explained Ellis, courteously, "is the shanty. I've hung a
blanket over it. Jones and I will sleep here by the fire."
"Sleep!" faltered Molly Sandys. "I think we ought to be starting----"
"The forests are flooded; we can't get you back to the Summer School
to-night," said Ellis.
Professor Rawson shuddered. "Do you mean that we are cut off from
civilization entirely?" she asked.
"Look!" replied Ellis.
The ridge on which the camp lay had become an island; below it roared a
spreading flood under a column of mist and spray; all about them the
water soused and washed through the forest; below them from the forks
came the pounding thunder of the falls.
"There's nothing to be alarmed at, of course," he said, looking at Molly
Sandys.
The grey eyes looked back into his. "Isn't there, really?" she asked.
"Isn't there?" questioned Miss Gray's brown eyes of Jones's pleasant,
nearsighted ones.
"No," signalled the orbs of Jones through his mud-spattered eyeglasses.
"I'm hungry," observed Professor Rawson in a patient but plaintive
voice, like the note of a widowed guinea-hen.
So they all sat down on the soft pine-needles, while Ellis began his
culinary sleight-of-hand; and in due time trout were frying merrily,
bacon sputtered, ash-cakes and coffee exhaled agreeable odors, and
mounds of diaphanous flapjacks tottered in hot and steaming fragrance on
either flank.
There were but two plates; Jones constructed bark platters for Professor
Rawson, Ellis and himself; Helen Gay shared knife and fork with Jones;
Molly Sandys condescended to do the same for Ellis; Professor Rawson had
a set of those articles to herself.
And there, in the pleasant glow of the fire, Molly Sandys, cross-legged
beside Ellis, drank out of his tin cup and ate his flapjacks; and Helen
Gay said shyly that never had she tasted such a banquet as this forest
fare washed down with bumpers of icy, aromatic spring water. As for
Professor Rawson, she lifted the hem of her poncho and discreetly dried
that portion of the Rhine-maiden's clothing which needed it; and while
she sizzled contentedly, she ate flapjack on flapjack, and trout after
trout, until merriment grew within her and she laughed when the younger
people laughed, and felt a delightful thrill of recklessness tingling
the soles of her stockings. And why not?
"It's a very simple matter, after all," declared Jones; "it's nothing
but a state of mind. I thought I was leading a simple life before I came
here, but I wasn't. Why? Merely because I was not in a state of mind.
But"--and here he looked full at Helen Gay--"but no sooner had I begun
to appreciate the charm of the forest"--she blushed vividly "no sooner
had I realised what these awful solitudes might contain, than,
instantly, I found myself in a state of mind. Then, and then only, I
understood what heavenly perfection might be included in that frayed and
frazzled phrase, 'The Simple Life.'"
"I understood it long ago," said Ellis, dreamily.
"Did you?" asked Molly Sandys.
"Yes--long ago--about six hours ago"--he lowered his voice, for Molly
Sandys had turned her head away from the firelight toward the cooler
shadow of the forest.
"What happened," she asked, carelessly, "six hours ago?"
"I first saw you."
"No," she said calmly; "I first saw you and took your picture!" She
spoke coolly enough, but her color was bright.
"Ah, but before that shutter clicked, convicting me of a misdemeanor,
your picture had found a place----"
"Mr. Ellis!"
"Please let me----"
"No!"
"Please----"
A silence.
"Then you must speak lower," she said, "and pretend to be watching the
stream."
Professor Rawson gleefully scraped her plate and snuggled up in her
poncho. She was very happy. When she could eat no more she asked Jones
what his theory might be concerning Wagner's influence on Richard
Strauss, and Jones said he liked waltzes, but didn't know that the man
who wrote The Simple Life had anything to do with that sort of thing.
And Professor Rawson laughed and laughed, and quoted a Greek proverb;
and presently arose and went into the shanty, dropping the blanket
behind her.
"Don't sit up late!" she called sleepily.
"Oh, no!" came the breathless duet.
"And don't forget to feed the swan!"
"Oh, no!"
A few minutes later a gentle, mellow, muffled monotone vibrated in the
evening air. It was the swan-song of Professor Rawson.
Ellis laid fresh logs on the blaze, lighted a cigarette, and returned to
his seat beside Molly Sandys, who sat, swathed in her poncho, leaning
back against the base of a huge pine.
"Jones is right," he said; "the simple life--the older and simpler
emotions, the primal desire--is a state of mind."
Molly Sandys was silent.
"And a state of--heart."
Miss Sandys raised her eyebrows.
"Why be insincere?" persisted Ellis.
"I'm not!"
"No--no--I didn't mean you. I meant everybody----"
"I'm somebody----"
"Indeed you are!"--much too warmly; and Molly Sandys looked up at the
evening star.
"The simple life," said Ellis, "is an existence replete with sincerity.
Impulse may play a pretty part in it; the capacity for the enjoyment of
simple things grows out of impulse; and impulse is a child's reasoning.
Therefore, impulse, being unsullied, unaffected in its source, is to be
respected, cherished, guided into a higher development, so that it may
become a sweet reasonableness, an unerring philosophy. Am I right, Miss
Sandys?"
"I think you are."
"Well, then, following out my theorem logically, what is a man to do
when, without an instant's warning, he finds himself----"
There was a pause, a long one.
"Finds himself where?" asked Molly Sandys.
"In love."
"I--I don't know," she said, faintly. "Doesn't the simple life teach him
what is--is proper--on such brief acquaintance----"
"I didn't say the acquaintance was brief. I only said the love was
sudden."
"Oh--then I--I don't know----"
"M-Mo-Mi-M-M----"
He wanted to say "Molly," and he didn't want to say "Miss Sandys," and
he couldn't keep his mouth shut, so that was the phonetic result--a
muttering monotone which embarrassed them both and maddened him till he
stammered out: "The moment I saw you I--I can't help it; it's the
simplest thing to do, anyhow--to tell you----"
"Me!"
"You, M-M-Mo-Mi-M----" He couldn't say it.
"Try," she whispered, stifling with laughter.
"Molly!" Like a cork from a popgun came the adored yet dreaded name.
Molly turned scarlet as Miss Gay and Jones looked up in pure amazement
from the farther side of the camp-fire.
"Don't you know how to make love?" she whispered in a fierce little
voice; "don't you? If you don't I am going off to bed."
"Molly!" That was better--in fact, it was so low that she could scarcely
hear him. But she said: "Doesn't Helen Gay look charming in her tin
armour? She is the dearest, sweetest girl, Mr. Ellis. She's my cousin.
Do you think her pretty?"
"Do you know," whispered Ellis, "that I am in dead earnest?"
"Why, I--I hope so."
"Then tell me what chance I stand. I am in love; it came awfully
quickly, as quickly as you snapped that kodak--but it has come to
stay----"
"But I am not in--love.
"That is why I speak. I can't endure it to let you go--Heaven knows
where----"
"Only to New York," she said, demurely, and, in a low voice, she named
the street and the number. "In an interval of sanity you shall have an
opportunity to reflect on what you have said to me, Mr. Ellis. Being
a--a painter--and a rather famous one--for so young a man--you are, no
doubt, impulsive--in love with love--not with a girl you met six hours
ago."
"But if I am in love with her?"
"We will argue that question another time."
"In New York?"
She looked at him, a gay smile curving her lips. Suddenly the clear,
grey eyes filled; a soft, impulsive hand touched his for an instant,
then dropped.
"Be careful," she said, unsteadily; "so far, I also have only been in
love with love."
Stunned by the rush of emotion he rose to his feet as she rose, eye
meeting eye in audacious silence.
Then she was gone, leaving him there--gone like a flash into the
camp-hut; he saw the blanket twitching where she had passed behind it;
he heard the muffled swan-song of her blanket-mate; he turned his
enchanted eyes upon Jones. Jones, his elbows on the ground, chin on his
palms, was looking up into the rapt face of Helen Gay, who sat by the
fire, her mailed knees gathered up in her slim hands, the reflection of
the blaze playing scarlet over her glittering tin armour.
"Why may I not call you Helen?" he was saying.
"Why should you, Mr. Jones?"
The infatuated pair were oblivious of him. Should he sneeze? No; his
own case was too recent; their attitude fascinated him; he sat down
softly to see how it was done.
"If--some day--I might be fortunate enough to call you more than
Helen----"
"Mr. Jones!"
"I can't help it; I love you so--so undauntedly that I have got to tell
you something about it! You don't mind, do you?"
"But I do mind."
"Very much?"
Ellis thought: "Is that the way a man looks when he says things like
that?" He shuddered, then a tremor of happiness seized him. Molly Sandys
had emerged from the hut.
Passing the fire, she came straight to Ellis. "It's horrid in there.
Don't you hear her? It's muffled, I know, because she's taken the swan
to bed with her, and it's asleep, too, and acting as though Professor
Rawson's head were a nest-egg. I am not sleepy; I--I believe I shall sit
up by this delightful fire all night. Make me a nest of blankets."
Jones and Helen were looking across the fire at them in silence; Ellis
unrolled some blankets, made a nest at the foot of the pine full in the
fire-glow. Swathed to her smooth white throat, Molly sank into them.
"Now," she said, innocently, "we can talk. Helen! Ask Mr. Jones to make
some coffee. Oh, thank you, Mr. Jones! Isn't this perfectly delicious!
So simple, so primitive, so sincere"--she looked at Ellis--"so jolly. If
the simple life is only a state of mind I can understand how easy it is
to follow it to sheerest happiness." And in a low voice, to Ellis: "Can
you find happiness in it, too?"
Across the fire Helen called softly to them: "Do you want some toasted
cheese, too? Mr. Jones knows how to make it."
A little later, Jones, toasting bread and cheese, heard a sweet voice
softly begin the Swan-Song. It was Helen. Molly's lovely, velvet voice
joined in; Ellis cautiously tried his barytone; Jones wisely remained
mute, and the cheese sizzled a discreet tremolo. It was indeed the
swan-song of the heart-whole and fancy-free--the swan-song of the
unawakened. For the old order of things was passing away--had passed.
And with the moon mounting in silvered splendor over the forest, the
newer order of life--the simpler, the sweeter--became so plain to them
that they secretly wondered, as they ate their toast and cheese, how
they could have lived so long, endured so long, the old and dull
complexity of a life through the eventless days of which their hearts
had never quickened to the oldest, the most primitive, the simplest of
appeals.
And so, there, under the burnished moon, soberly sharing their toasted
cheese, the muffled swan-song of the incubating maiden thrilling their
enraptured ears, began for them that state of mind in the inviolate
mystery of which the passion for the simpler life is hatched.
"If we only had a banjo!" sighed Helen.
"I have a jew's-harp," ventured Jones. "I am not very musical, but every
creature likes to emit some sort of melody."
Ellis laughed.
"Why not?" asked Helen Gay, quickly; "after all, what simpler instrument
can you wish for?" And she laughed at Jones in a way that left him
light-headed.
So there, in the moonlight and the shadows of the primeval pines,
Jones--simplest of men with simplest of names--produced the simplest of
all musical instruments, and, looking once into the beautiful eyes of
Helen, quietly began the simplest of all melodies--the Spanish Fandango.
And for these four the simple life began.
       
I waited for a few moments, but Williams seemed to consider that there
was nothing more to add. So I said:
"Did they marry those two girls?"
He glanced at me in a preoccupied manner without apparently
understanding.
"Did they marry 'em?" I repeated, impatiently.
"What? Oh, yes, of course."
"Then why didn't you say so?"
"I didn't have to say so. Didn't you notice the form in which I ended?"
"What's that got to do with it? You're not telling me a short story,
you're telling me what really happened. And what really happens never
ends artistically."
"It does when I tell it," he said, with a self-satisfied smile. "Let
Fate do its worst; let old man Destiny get in his work; let Chance fix
up things to suit herself. I wait until that trio finishes, then I
step in and tell the truth in my own way. And, by gad! when I get
through, Fate, Chance, and Destiny set up a yell of impotent fury and
Truth looks at herself in the mirror in delighted astonishment, amazed
to discover in herself attractions which she never suspected."
"In other words," said I, "Fate no longer has the final say-so."
"Not while the short-story writer exists," he grinned. "It's up to him.
Fate slaps your face midway in a pretty romance. All right. But when I
make a record of the matter I pick, choose, sort, re-assort my box of
words, and when things are going too rapidly I wink at Fate with my
tongue in my cheek and round up everybody so amiably that nobody knows
exactly what did happen--and nobody even stops to think because
everybody has already finished the matter in their own minds to their
own satisfaction."
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XVII
SHOWING HOW IT IS POSSIBLE FOR ANY MAN TO MAKE OF HIMSELF A CHUMP
After a while I repeated: "They did marry, didn't they?"
"What do you think?"
"I'm perfectly certain they did."
"Well, then, what more do you want?" he laughed.
"Another of your reminiscences disguised as fiction," I said, tinkling
my spoon on the edge of my tumbler to attract the waiter.
"Two more," I said, lighting a caporal cigarette, the penetrating aroma
of which drifted lazily through forgotten years, drawing memory with it
in its fragrant back-draught.
"Do you remember Seabury's brother?" he asked.
"Beaux Arts? Certainly. Architect, wasn't he?"
"Yes, but he came into a lot of money and started for home to hit a
siding."
"Little chump," I said; "I remember him. There was a promising architect
spoiled."
"Oh, I don't know. He is doing a lot to his money."
"Good?"
"Of course. Otherwise I should have said that his money is doing a lot
to him."
"Cut out these fine shades and go back to galley-proof," I said,
sullenly. "What about him, anyway?"
Williams said, slowly: "A thing happened to that man which had no right
to happen anywhere except in a musical comedy. But," he shrugged his
shoulders, "everybody's lives are really full of equally grotesque
episodes. The trouble is that the world is too serious to discover any
absurdity in itself. We writers have to do that for it. For example,
there was Seabury's brother. Trouble began the moment he saw her."
"Saw who?" I interrupted.
"Saw her! Shut up!"
I did so. He continued:
       
They encountered one another under the electric lights in the wooden
labyrinth which forms the ferry terminal of the Sixth Avenue Elevated
Railroad, she hastening one way, he hurrying the opposite. There was
ample room for them to pass each other; it may have been because she was
unusually pretty, it may have been his absent-mindedness, but he made
one of those mistakes which everybody makes once in a lifetime: he
turned to the left, realised what he was doing, wheeled hastily to the
right--as she, too, turned--only to meet her face to face, politely
dodge, meet again, lose his head and begin a heart-breaking
contra-dance, until, vexed and bewildered, she stood perfectly still,
and he, redder than she, took the opportunity to slink past her and
escape.
"Hey!" said a sarcastic voice, as, blinded with chagrin, he found
himself attempting to force a locked wooden gate. "You want to go the
other way, unless you're hunting for the third rail."
"No, I don't," he said, wrathfully; "I want to go uptown."
"That's what I said; you want to go the other way, even if you don't
know where you want to go," yawned the gateman disdainfully.
Seabury collected his scattered wits and gazed about him. Being a New
Yorker, and acquainted with the terminal labyrinth, he very quickly
discovered his error, and, gripping suit-case and golf-bag more firmly,
he turned and retraced his steps at the natural speed of a good New
Yorker, which is a sort of a meaningless lope.
Jammed into the familiar ticket line, he peered ahead through the yellow
glare of light and saw the charming girl with whom he had danced his
foolish contra-dance just receiving her ticket from the boxed automaton.
Also, to his satisfaction, he observed her disappear through the
turnstile into the crush surging forward alongside of the cars, and,
when he presently deposited his own ticket in the chopper's box, he had
no more expectation of ever again seeing her than he had of doing
something again to annoy and embarrass her.
But even in Manhattan Destiny works overtime, and Fate gets busy in a
manner that no man knoweth; and so, personally though invisibly
conducted, Seabury lugged his suit-case and golf-bag aboard a train,
threaded his way into a stuffy car and took the only empty seat
remaining; and a few seconds later, glancing casually at his right-hand
neighbour, he blushed to find himself squeezed into a seat beside his
unusually attractive partner in the recent contra-dance.
That she had already seen him, the calm indifference in her blue eyes,
the poise of her flushed face, were evidence conclusive.
He shrank back, giving her all the room he could, set his bag of
golf-clubs between his knees, and looked innocent. First, as all New
Yorkers do, he read the line of advertisements opposite with the usual
personal sense of resentment; then he carelessly scanned the people
across the aisle. As usual, they resembled everybody he had never
particularly noticed; he fished out the evening paper, remembered that
he had read it on the ferryboat, stuck it into his golf-bag, and
contemplated the battered ends of his golf-clubs.
Station after station flashed yellow lamps along the line of car
windows; passengers went and passengers took their places; in one of the
streets below he caught a glimpse of a fire engine vomiting sparks and
black smoke; in another an ambulance with a squalid assemblage crowded
around a policeman who was emerging from a drug store.
He had pretty nearly succeeded in forgetting the girl and his
mortification; he cast a calmly casual glance over his well-fitting
trousers and shoes. The edge of a shoe-lace lay exposed, and he
leisurely remedied this untidy accident, leaning over and tying the lace
securely with a double knot.
Fourteenth, Eighteenth, Twenty-third, ran the stations. He gathered his
golf-bag instinctively and sat alert, prepared to rise and leave the car
with dignity.
"Twenty-eighth!" It was his station. Just as he rose the attractive girl
beside him sprang up, and at the same instant his right leg was jerked
from under him and he sat down in his seat with violence. Before he
comprehended what had happened, the girl, with a startled exclamation,
fell back into her seat, and he felt a spasmodic wrench at his foot
again.
Astonished, he struggled to rise once more, but something held him--his
foot seemed to be caught; and as he turned he encountered her bewildered
face and felt another desperate tug which brought him abruptly into his
seat again.
"What on earth is the matter?" he asked.
[Illustration: "'I--I don't know,' she stammered; 'my shoe seems tied to
yours.'"]
"I--I don't know," she stammered; "my shoe seems to be tied to yours."
"Tied!" he cried, bending down in a panic, "wasn't that my shoe-lace?"
His golf-bag fell, he seized it and set it against the seat between
them. "Hold it a moment," he groaned. "I tied your shoe-lace to mine!"
"You tied it!" she repeated, furiously.
"I saw a shoe-lace--I thought it was mine--I tied it fast--in a
d-d-double knot----"
"Untie it at once!" she said, crimson to the roots of her hair.
"Great Heavens, madam! I didn't mean to do it! I'll fix it in a
moment----"
"Don't," she whispered, fiercely; "the people opposite are looking at
us! Do you wish to hold us both up to ridicule?" He straightened up,
thoroughly flurried.
"But--this is my station--" he began.
"It is mine, too. I'd rather sit here all night than have those people
see you untie your shoe from mine! How--how could you----"
"I've explained that I didn't mean to do it," he returned, dropping into
the breathless undertone in which she spoke. "Happening to glance down,
I saw a shoe-lace end and thought my shoe was untied----"
She looked at him scornfully.
"And I tied it tight, that's all. I'm horribly mortified; this is the
second time I've appeared to disadvantage----"
"People in New York usually turn to the right; even horses----"
"I doubt," he said, "that you can make me feel much worse than I feel
now, but it's a sort of a horrible relief to know what a fool you think
me."
She said nothing, sitting there, cooling her hot face in the breeze
from the forward door; he, numb with chagrin, stole an apprehensive
glance at the passengers opposite. Nobody appeared to have observed
their plight, and he ventured to say so in a low voice.
"Are you certain?" she asked, her own voice not quite steady.
"Perfectly. Look! Nobody is eying our feet."
Her own small feet were well tucked up under her gown; she instinctively
drew them further in; he felt a little tug; they both coloured
furiously.
"This is simply unspeakable," she said, looking straight ahead of her
through two bright tears of mortification.
"Suppose," he whispered, "you edge your foot a trifle this way--I think
I can cut the knot with my penknife--" He glanced about him stealthily.
"Shall I try?"
"Not now. Wait until those people go."
"But some of them may live in Harlem."
"I--I can't help it. Do you suppose I'm going to let you lean over
before all those people and try to untie our shoes?"
"Do you mean to sit here until they're all gone?" he asked, appalled.
"I do. Terrible as the situation is, we've got to conceal it."
"Even if some of them go to the end of the line?"
"I don't care!" She turned on him with a hint of that pretty fierceness
again. "Do you know what you've done? You've affronted and mortified me
and humiliated me beyond endurance. I have a guest to dine with me: I
shall not arrive before midnight!"
"Do you suppose," he said miserably, "that anything you say can add to
my degradation? Can't you imagine how a man must feel who first of all
makes a four-footed fool of himself before the most attractive girl
he----"
"Don't say that!" she cried, hotly.
"Yes, I will! You are! And I dodged and tumbled about like a headless
chicken and ran into the wrong gate. I wish I'd climbed out on the third
rail! And then, when I hoped I'd never see you again, I found myself
beside you, and--Good Heavens! I lost no time in beginning my capers
again and doing the most abandoned deed a man ever accomplished on
earth!"
She appeared to be absorbed in contemplation of a breakfast-food
advertisement; her color was still high; at times she worried her under
lip with her white teeth, but her breath rose and fell under the fluffy
bosom of her gown with more regularity, and the two bright tears in her
eyes had dried unshed. Wrath may have dried them.
"I wish it were possible," he said very humbly, "for you to see the
humour----"
"Humour!" she repeated, menacingly.
"No--I didn't mean that, I meant the--the----"
"You did! You meant the humour of the situation. I will answer you. I do
not see the humour of it!"
"You are quite right," he admitted, looking furtively at the edge of her
gown which concealed his right foot. "It is, as you say, simply ghastly
to be tied together by the feet. Don't you suppose I could--without
awakening suspicion--cut the--the laces with a penknife?"
"I beg you will attempt nothing whatever until this car is empty."
"Certainly," he said. "I will do anything in the world I can to spare
you."
She did not reply, and he sat there nervously balanced on the edge of
his seat, watching the lights of Harlem flash into view below. He had
been hungry; he was no longer. Appetite had been succeeded by a gnawing
anxiety. Again and again warm waves of shame overwhelmed him,
alternating with a sort of wild-eyed pity for the young girl who sat so
rigidly beside him, face averted. Once a mad desire to laugh seized him;
he wondered whether it might be a premonition of hysteria, and
shuddered. It did not seem as though he could possibly endure it
another second to be tied by the foot to this silently suffering and
lovely companion.
"Do you think," he said, hoarsely, "at the next station that if we rose
together--and kept step----"
She shook her head.
"A--a sort of lock-step," he explained, timidly.
"I would if I thought it possible," she replied under her breath; "but I
dare not. Suppose you should miss step! You are likely to do anything if
it's only sufficiently foolish."
"You could take my arm and pretend you are my lame sister," he ventured.
"Suppose the train started. Suppose, by any one of a thousand possible
accidents, you should become panic-stricken. What sort of a spectacle
would we furnish the passengers of this car? No! No! No! The worst of it
is almost over. My guest is there--astounded at my absence. Before I am
even half-way back to Twenty-eighth Street she will have become
sufficiently affronted to leave the house. I might as well go on to the
end of the road." She turned toward him hastily: "Where is the end of
this road?"
"Somewhere in the Bronx, I believe," he said, vaguely.
"That is hours from Twenty-eighth Street, isn't it?"
"I believe so."
The train whirled on; stations were far between, now. He sat so silent,
so utterly broken and downcast, that after a long while she turned to
him with a hint of softness in her stern reserve.
"Of course," she said, "I do not suppose you deliberately intended to
tie our feet together. I am not absurd. But the astonishment, the horror
of finding what you had done exasperated me for a moment. I'm cool
enough now; besides, it is perfectly plain that you are the sort of man
one is--is accustomed to know."
"I hope not!" he said, devoutly.
"Oh, I mean--" She hesitated, and the glimmer of a smile touched her
eyes, instantly extinguished, however.
"I understand," he said. "You mean that it's lucky your shoe-laces are
tied to the shoe-lace of a man of your own sort. I hope to Heaven you
may find a little comfort in that."
"I do," she said, with the uncertain violet light in her eyes again.
"It's bad enough, goodness knows, but I--I am very sure you did not
mean----"
"You are perfectly right; I mean well, as they say of all chumps. And
the worst of it is," he added, wildly, "I never before knew that I was
a chump! I never before saw any symptoms. Would you believe me, I never
in all my life have been such an idiot as I was in those first few
minutes that I crossed your path. How on earth to account for it; how to
explain, to ask pardon, to--to ever forget it! As long as I live I shall
wake at night with the dreadful chagrin burning my ears off. Isn't it
the limit? And I--I shouldn't have felt so crushed if it had been
anybody excepting you----"
"I do not understand," she said gravely.
"I do," he muttered.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XVIII
THE MASTER KNOT OF HUMAN FATE
The conversation dropped there: she gazed thoughtfully out upon the
Teutonic magnificence of One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street by
gaslight; he, arms folded, relapsed into bitter contemplation of the
breakfast-food. So immersed he became in the picture of an unctuous
little boy stuffing himself to repletion under the admiring smirk of a
benevolent parent that he forgot his manacles, and attempting to stretch
his cramped leg, returned to his senses in a hurry.
"I think," she suggested, quietly, "that, if you care to stretch, I
wouldn't mind it, either. Can you do it discreetly?"
"I'll try," he said in a whisper. "Shall I count three?"
She nodded.
"One, two, three," he counted, and they cautiously stretched their legs.
"I now know how the Siamese twins felt," he said, sullenly. "No wonder
they died young."
She laughed--a curious, little laugh which was one of the most agreeable
sounds he had ever heard.
"I take it for granted," he said, "that you will always cherish for me a
wholesome and natural hatred."
"I shall never see you again," she replied, simply.
That silenced him for a while; he fished about in his intellect to find
mitigating circumstances. There was none that he knew of.
"Suppose--under pleasanter auspices, we should some day meet?" he
suggested.
"We never shall."
"How do you know?"
"It is scarcely worth while speculating upon such an improbability," she
said, coldly.
"But--suppose----"
She turned toward him. "You desire to know what my attitude would be
toward you?"
"Yes, I do."
"It would be one of absolutely amiable indifference--if you really wish
to know," she said so sweetly that he was quite sure his entire body
shrank at least an inch.
"By the way," she added, "the last passenger has left this car."
"By Jove!" he exclaimed, sitting bolt upright. "Now's our time. Would
you mind----"
"With the very greatest pleasure," she said, quickly; "please count one,
two, three."
He counted; there came a discreet movement, and from under the hem of
her gown there appeared a dainty shoe, accompanied by a larger masculine
companion. He bent down, his fingers seemed to be all thumbs, and he
grew redder and redder.
"Perhaps I can do it," she said, stripping off her gloves and bending
over. A stray tendril of bright hair brushed his cheek as their heads
almost came together.
"Goodness, what a dreadful knot!" she breathed, her smooth fingers busy.
The perfume of her hair, her gloves, her gown thrilled him; he looked at
her face, now flushed with effort; his eyes fell on her delicate hands,
her distractingly pretty foot, in its small, polished shoe.
"Patience," she said, calmly; "this knot must give way----"
"If it doesn't----"
"Madness lies that way," she breathed. "Wait! Don't dare to move your
foot!"
"We are approaching a station; shall I cut it?" he asked.
"No--wait! I think I have solved it. There!" she cried with a breathless
laugh. "We are free!"
There was not an instant to lose, for the train had already stopped;
they arose with one accord and hurried out into the silvery Harlem
moonlight--which does not, perhaps, differ from normal moonlight,
although it seemed to him to do astonishing tricks with her hair and
figure there on the deserted platform, turning her into the loveliest
and most unreal creature he had ever seen in all his life.
"There ought to be a train pretty soon," he said cheerfully.
She did not answer.
"Do you mind my speaking to you now that we are----"
"Untethered?" she said with a sudden little flurry of laughter. "Oh, no;
why should I care what happens to me now, after taking a railroad
journey tied to the shoe-strings of an absent-minded stranger?"
"Please don't speak so--so heartlessly----"
"Heartlessly? What have hearts to do with this evening's lunacy?" she
asked, coolly.
He had an idea, an instinctive premonition, but it was no explanation to
offer her.
Far away up the track the starlike headlight of a train glittered: he
called her attention to it, and she nodded. Neither spoke for a long
while; the headlight grew larger and yellower; the vicious little train
came whizzing in, slowed, halted with a jolt. He put her aboard and
followed into a car absolutely empty save for themselves. When they had
gravely seated themselves side by side she looked around at him and said
without particular severity: "I can see no reason for our going back
together; can you?"
"Yes," he answered with such inoffensive and guileless conviction that
she was silent.
He went on presently: "Monstrous as my stupidity is, monumental ass as I
must appear to you, I am, as a matter of fact, rather a decent
fellow--the sort of man a girl need not flay alive to punish."
"I do not desire to punish you. I do not expect to know you----"
"Do you mean 'expect,' or 'desire'?"
"I mean both, if you insist." There was a sudden glimmer in her clear
eyes that warned him; but he went on:
"I beg you to give me a chance to prove myself not such a clown as you
think me."
"But I don't think about you at all!" she explained.
"Won't you give me a chance?"
"How?"
"Somebody you--we both know--I mean to say----"
"You mean, will I sit here and compare notes with you to find out
whether we both know Tom, Dick, and Harry? No, I will not."
"I mean--so that--if you don't mind--somebody can vouch for me----"
"No," she said, decisively.
"I mean--I would be so grateful--and I admire you tremendously----"
"Please do not say that."
"No--I won't, of course; I don't admire anybody very much, and I didn't
dream of being offensive--only--I--now that I've known you----"
"You don't know me," she observed, icily.
"No, of course, I don't know you at all; I'm only talking to you----"
"A nice comment upon us both," she observed; "could anything be more
pitifully common?"
"But being tied together, how could we avoid talking about it?" he
pleaded. "When you're tied up like that to a person, it's per--permitted
to speak, you know----"
"We talked entirely too much," she said with decision. "Now we are not
tied at all, and I do not see what decent excuse we can have for
conversing about anything.... Do you?"
"Yes, I do."
"What excuse?" she asked.
"Well, for one thing, a sense of humour. A nice spectacle we should be,
you in one otherwise empty car, I in another, bored to death----"
"Do you think," she said, impatiently, "that I require anybody's society
to save myself from ennui?"
"No--but I require----"
"That is impertinent!"
"I didn't mean to be; you must know that!" he said.
She looked out of the window.
"I wonder," he began in a cheerful and speculative tone, taking courage
from her silence--"I wonder whether you know----"
"I will not discuss people I know with you," she said.
"Then let us discuss people I know," he rejoined, amiably.
"Please don't."
"Please let me----"
"No."
"Are you never going to forgive me?" he asked.
"I shall forget," she said, meaningly.
"Me?"
"Certainly."
"Please don't----"
"You are always lingering dangerously close to the border of
impertinence," she said. "I do not wish to be rude or ungracious. I have
been unpardonably annoyed, and--when I consider my present false
situation--I am annoyed still more. Let me be unmistakably clear and
concise; I do not feel any--anger--toward you; I have no feeling
whatever toward you; and I do not ever expect to see you again. Let it
rest so. I will drop you my best curtsey when you lift your hat to me at
Twenty-ninth Street. Can a guilty man ask more?"
"Your punishment is severe," he said, flushing.
"My punishment? Who am I punishing, if you please?"
"Me."
"What folly! I entertain no human emotions toward you; I have no desire
to punish you. How could I punish you--if I wished to?"
"By doing what you are doing."
"And what is that?" she asked rather softly.
"Denying me any hope of ever knowing you."
"You are unfair," she said, biting her lip. "I do not deny you that
'hope,' as you choose to call it. Consider a moment. Had you merely seen
me on the train you could not have either hoped or even desired ever to
know me. Suppose for a moment--" she flushed, but her voice was cool and
composed "suppose you were attracted to me--thought me agreeable to look
at? You surely would never have dreamed of speaking to me and asking
such a thing. Why, then, should you take unfair advantage of an accident
and ask it now? You have no right to--nor have I to accord you what you
say you desire."
She spoke very sweetly, meeting his eyes without hesitation.
"May I reply to you?" he asked soberly.
"Yes--if you wish."
"You will not take it as an affront?"
"Not--not if--" She looked at him. "No," she said.
"Then this is my reply: Wherever I might have seen you I should
instantly have desired to know you. That desire would have caused you no
inquietude; I should have remained near you without offense, perfectly
certain in my own mind that somehow and somewhere I must manage to know
you; and to that end--always without offense, and without your
knowledge--I should have left the train when you did, satisfied myself
where you lived, and then I should have scoured the city, and moved
heaven and earth to find the proper person who might properly ask your
permission to receive me. That is what I should have done if I had
remained thirty seconds in the same car with you.... Are you offended?"
"No," she said.
They journeyed on for some time, saying nothing; she, young face bent,
sensitive lips adroop, perhaps considering what he said; he, cradling
his golf-sticks, trying to keep his eyes off her and succeeding very
badly.
"I wonder what your name is?" she said, looking up at him.
"James Seabury," he replied so quickly that it was almost pathetic.
She mused, frowning a little: "Where have I heard your name?" she asked
with an absent-minded glance at him.
"Oh--er--around, I suppose," he suggested, vaguely.
"But I have heard it. Are you famous?"
"Oh, no," he said quickly. "I'm an architect, or ought to be. Fact is,
I'm so confoundedly busy golfing and sailing and fishing and shooting
and hunting that I have very little time for business."
"What a confession!" she exclaimed, laughing outright; and the beauty
that transfigured her took his breath away. But her laughter was brief,
her eyes grew more serious than ever: "So you are not in business?"
"No."
"I am employed," she said calmly, looking at him.
"Are you?" he said, astonished.
"So, you see," she added gaily, "I should have very little time to see
anybody----"
"You mean me?"
"Yes, you, for example."
"You don't work all the while, do you?" he asked.
"Usually."
"All the time?"
"I dine--at intervals."
"That's the very thing!" he said with enthusiasm.
She looked at him gravely.
"Don't you see," he went on, "as soon as you'll let me know you my
sister will call, and then you'll call, and then my sister will
invite----"
She was suddenly laughing again--a curious laugh, quite free and
unguarded.
"Of course, you'll tell your sister how we met," she suggested; "she'll
be so anxious to know me when she hears all about it."
"Do you suppose," he said coolly, "that I don't know one of my own sort
whenever or however I happen to meet her?"
"Men cannot always tell; I grant you women seldom fail in placing one
another at first glance; but men rarely possess that instinct....
Besides, I tell you I am employed."
"What of it? Even if you wore the exceedingly ornamental uniform of a
parlor-maid it could not worry me."
"Do you think your sister would hasten to call on a saleswoman at
Blumenshine's?" she asked carelessly.
"Nobody wants her to," he retorted, amused.
"Or on a parlor-maid--for example?"
"Let her see you first; you can't shock her after that.... Are you?" he
inquired gently--so gently, so pleasantly, that she gave him a swift
look that set his heart galloping.
"Do you really desire to know me?" she asked. But before he could answer
she sprang up, saying: "Good gracious! This is Twenty-eighth Street! It
seems impossible!"
He could not believe it, either, but he fled after her, suit-case and
golf-bag swinging; the gates slammed, they descended the stairs and
emerged on Twenty-eighth Street. "I live on Twenty-ninth Street," she
said; "shall we say good-bye here?"
"I should think not!" he replied with a scornful decision that amazed
her, but, curiously enough, did not offend her. They walked up
Twenty-eighth Street to Fifth Avenue, crossed, turned north under the
white flare of electricity, then entered Twenty-ninth Street slowly,
side by side, saying nothing.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XIX
THE TIME AND THE PLACE
She halted at the portal of an old-fashioned house which had been turned
into an apartment hotel--a great brownstone mansion set back from the
street. A severely respectable porter in livery appeared and bowed to
her, but when his apoplectic eyes encountered Seabury's his shaven jaw
dropped and a curious spasm appeared to affect his knees.
She did not notice it; she turned to Seabury and, looking him straight
in the face, held out her hand.
"Good-night," she said. "Be chivalrous enough to find out who I
am--without sacrificing me.... You--you have not displeased me."
He took her hand, held it a moment, then released it.
"I live here," he said calmly.
A trifle disconcerted, she searched his face. "That is curious," she
said uneasily.
"Oh, not very. I have bachelor apartments here; I've been away from town
for three months. Here is my pass-key," he added, laughing, and to the
strangely paralyzed porter he tossed his luggage with a nod and a
pleasant: "You didn't expect me for another month, William, did you?"
"That explains it," she said smiling, a tint of excitement in her pretty
cheeks. "I've been here only for a day or two."
They were entering now, side by side; he followed her into the elevator.
The little red-haired boy, all over freckles and gilt buttons, who
presided within the cage, gaped in a sort of stupor when he saw Seabury.
"Well, Tommy," inquired that young gentleman, "what's the matter?"
"What floor?" stammered Tommy, gazing wildly from one to the other.
"The usual one, in my case," said Seabury, surprised.
"The usual one, in my case," said the girl, looking curiously at the
agitated lad. The cage shot up to the third floor; they both rose, and
he handed her out. Before either could turn the elevator hurriedly
dropped, leaving them standing there together. Then, to the
consternation of Seabury, the girl quietly rang at one of the only two
apartments on the floor, and the next instant a rather smart-looking
English maid opened the door.
Seabury stared; he turned and examined the corridor; he saw the number
on the door of the elevator shaft; he saw the number over the door.
"There seems to be," he began slowly, "something alarming the matter
with me to-night. I suppose--I suppose it's approaching dementia, but do
you know that I have a delusion that this apartment is mine?"
"Yours!" faltered the girl, turning pale.
"Well--it was once--before I left town. Either that or incipient lunacy
explains my hallucination."
The maid stood at the door gazing at him in undisguised astonishment.
Her pretty mistress looked at her, looked at Seabury, turned and cast an
agitated glance along the corridor--just in time to catch a glimpse of
the curly black whiskers and the white and ghastly face of the
proprietor peering at them around the corner. Whiskers and pallor
instantly vanished. She looked at Seabury.
"Please come in a moment, Mr. Seabury," she said calmly. He followed her
into the familiar room decorated with his own furniture, and lined with
his own books, hung with his own pictures. At a gesture from her he
seated himself in his own armchair; she sat limply in a chair facing
him.
"Are these your rooms?" she asked unsteadily.
"I thought so, once. Probably there's something the matter with me."
"You did not desire to rent them furnished during your absence?"
"Not that I know of."
"And you have returned a month before they expected you, and I--oh, this
is infamous!" she cried, clenching her white hands. "How dared that
wretched man rent this place to me? How dared he!"
A long and stunning silence fell upon them--participated in by the
British maid.
Then Seabury began to laugh. He looked at the maid, he looked at her
angry and very lovely young mistress, looked at the tables littered with
typewriters and stationery, he caught sight of his own dining-room with
the little table laid for two. His gayety disconcerted her--he rose,
paced the room and returned.
"It seems my landlord has tried to turn a thrifty penny by leasing you
my rooms!" he said, soberly. "Is that it?"
She was close to tears, controlling her voice and keeping her
self-possession with a visible effort. "I--I am treasurer and secretary
for the new wing to--to St. Berold's Hospital," she managed to say.
"We--the women interested, needed an office--we employ several
typewriters, and--oh, goodness! What on earth will your sister think!"
"My sister? Why, she's at Seal Harbor----"
"Your sister was there visiting my mother. I came on to town to see our
architects; I wired her to come. She--she was to dine with me here
to-night! Sherry was notified!"
"My sister?"
"Certainly. What on earth did she think when she found me installed in
your rooms? And that's bad enough, but I invited her to dine and go over
the hospital matters--she's one of the vice presidents--and then--then
you tied our feet together and it's--what time is it?" she demanded of
her maid.
"It is midnight, mem," replied the maid in sepulchral tones.
"Is that man from Sherry's still there?"
"He is, mem."
Her mistress laid her charming head in her hands and covered her
agreeable features with a handkerchief of delicate and rather valuable
lace.
The silence at last was broken by Seabury addressing the maid: "Is that
dinner spoiled?"
"Quite, sir."
Her mistress looked up hastily: "Mr. Seabury, you are not going to----"
"Yes, I am; this is the time and the place!" And he rose with decision
and walked straight to the kitchen, where a stony-faced individual sat
amid the culinary ruins, a statue of despair.
"What I want you to do," said Seabury, "is to fix up a salad and some of
the cold duck, and attend to the champagne. Meanwhile I think I'll go
downstairs; I have an engagement to kill a man."
However, a moment later he thought better of it; she was standing by
the mirror--his own mirror--touching her eyes with her lace handkerchief
and patting her hair with the prettiest, whitest hands.
"Kill him? Never: I'll canonize him!" muttered Seabury, enchanted.
Behind him he heard the clink of glass and china, the pleasant sound of
ice. She heard it, too, and turned.
"Of all the audacity!" she said in a low voice, looking at him under her
level brows. But there was something in her eyes that gave him
courage--and in his that gave her courage.... Besides, they were
dreadfully hungry.
       
"You refuse to tell me?"
"I do," she said. "If you have not wit enough to find out my name
without betraying me to your sister you do not deserve to know my
name--or me."
It was nearly two o'clock, they had risen, and the gay little flowery
table remained between them; the salad and duck were all gone. But the
froth purred in their frail glasses, breaking musically in the
candle-lit silence.
"Will you tell me your name before I go?"
"I will not." Her bright eyes and fair young face defied him.
"Very well; as soon as I learn it I shall be more generous--for I have
something to tell you; and I'll do it, too!"
"Are you sure you will?" she asked, flushing up.
"Yes, I am sure."
"I may not care to hear what you have to say, Mr. Seabury."
They regarded one another intently, curiously. Presently her slender
hand fell as by accident on the stem of her wine-glass; he lifted his
glass: very, very slowly. She raised hers, looking at him over it.
"To--what I shall tell you--when I learn your name!" he said,
deliberately.
Faint fire burned in her cheeks; her eyes fell, then were slowly raised
to his; in silence, still looking at one another, they drank the toast.
       
"Dammit!" I said, impatiently, "is that all?"
"Yes," he said, "that will be about all. I'm going home to bed."
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XX
DOWN THE SEINE
My daughter Alida and my daughter Dulcima had gone to drive with the
United States Ambassador and his daughter that morning, leaving me at
the Htel with instructions as to my behaviour in their absence, and
injunctions not to let myself be run over by any cab, omnibus,
automobile, or bicycle whatever.
Considerably impressed by their solicitude, I retired to the
smoking-room, believing myself safe there from any form of vehicular
peril. But the young man from Chicago sauntered in and took a seat close
beside me, with benevolent intentions toward relieving my isolation.
I preferred any species of juggernaut to his rough riding over the
English language, so I left him murkily enveloped in the fumes of his
own cigar and sauntered out into the street.
The sky was cloudless; the air was purest balm. Through fresh clean
streets I wandered under the cool shadows of flowering chestnuts, and
presently found myself on the quay near the Pont des Arts, leaning over
and looking at the river slipping past between its walls of granite.
In a solemn row below me sat some two dozen fishermen dozing over their
sport. Their long white bamboo poles sagged, their red and white
quill-floats bobbed serenely on the tide. Truly here was a company of
those fabled Lotus-eaters, steeped in slumber; a dreamy, passionless
band of brothers drowsing in the sunshine.
Looking east along the grey stone quays I could see hundreds and
hundreds of others, slumbering over their fishpoles; looking west, the
scenery was similar.
"The fishing must be good here," I observed to an aged man, leaning on
the quay-wall beside me.
"Comme a," he said.
I leaned there lazily, waiting to see the first fish caught. I am an
angler myself, and understand patience; but when I had waited an hour by
my watch I looked suspiciously at the aged man beside me. He was asleep,
so I touched him.
He roused himself without resentment. "Have you," said I, sarcastically,
"ever seen better fishing than this, in the Seine?"
"Yes," he said; "I once saw a fish caught."
"And when was that?" I asked.
"That," said the aged man, "was in 1853."
I strolled down to the lower quay, smoking. As I passed the row of
anglers I looked at them closely. They all were asleep.
Just above was anchored one of those floating lavoirs in which the
