

XVII.

There was reason and there was justice in what she said, though they
were so chaotic in form, and Ewbert could not refuse to acquiesce.

After all, he had done what he could, and he would not abandon himself
to a useless remorse. He rather set himself to study the lesson of old
Hilbrook's life, and in the funeral sermon that he preached he urged
upon his hearers the necessity of keeping themselves alive through some
relation to the undying frame of things, which they could do only by
cherishing earthly ties; and when these were snapped in the removal of
their objects, by attaching the broken threads through an effort of the
will to yet other objects: the world could furnish these inexhaustibly.
He touched delicately upon the peculiarities, the eccentricities, of the
deceased, and he did cordial justice to his gentleness, his blameless,
harmless life, his heroism on the battlefields of his country. He
declared that he would not be the one to deny an inner piety, and
certainly not a steadfast courage, in Hilbrook's acceptance of whatever
his sincere doubts implied.

The sermon apparently made a strong impression on all who heard it. Mrs.
Ewbert was afraid that it was rather abstruse in certain passages, but
she felt sure that all the university people would appreciate these. The
university people, to testify their respect for their founder, had come
in a body to the obsequies of his kinsman; and Mrs. Ewbert augured the
best things for her husband's future usefulness from their presence.




THE MAGIC OF A VOICE.




I.

There was a full moon, and Langbourne walked about the town, unable to
come into the hotel and go to bed. The deep yards of the houses gave out
the scent of syringas and June roses; the light of lamps came through
the fragrant bushes from the open doors and windows, with the sound of
playing and singing and bursts of young laughter. Where the houses stood
near the street, he could see people lounging on the thresholds, and
their heads silhouetted against the luminous interiors. Other houses,
both those which stood further back and those that stood nearer, were
dark and still, and to these he attributed the happiness of love in
fruition, safe from unrest and longing.

His own heart was tenderly oppressed, not with desire, but with the
memory of desire. It was almost as if in his faded melancholy he were
sorry for the disappointment of some one else.

At last he turned and walked back through the streets of dwellings to
the business centre of the town, where a gush of light came from the
veranda of his hotel, and the druggist's window cast purple and yellow
blurs out upon the footway. The other stores were shut, and he alone
seemed to be abroad. The church clock struck ten as he mounted the steps
of his hotel and dropped the remnant of his cigar over the side.

He had slept badly on the train the night before, and he had promised
himself to make up his lost sleep in the good conditions that seemed to
offer themselves. But when he sat down in the hotel office he was more
wakeful than he had been when he started out to walk himself drowsy.

The clerk gave him the New York paper which had come by the evening
train, and he thanked him, but remained musing in his chair. At times he
thought he would light another cigar, but the hand that he carried to
his breast pocket dropped nervelessly to his knee again, and he did not
smoke. Through his memories of disappointment pierced a self-reproach
which did not permit him the perfect self-complacency of regret; and yet
he could not have been sure, if he had asked himself, that this pang did
not heighten the luxury of his psychological experience.

He rose and asked the clerk for a lamp, but he turned back from the
stairs to inquire when there would be another New York mail. The clerk
said there was a train from the south due at eleven-forty, but it seldom
brought any mail; the principal mail was at seven. Langbourne thanked
him, and came back again to beg the clerk to be careful and not have him
called in the morning, for he wished to sleep. Then he went up to his
room, where he opened his window to let in the night air. He heard a dog
barking; a cow lowed; from a stable somewhere the soft thumping of the
horses' feet came at intervals lullingly.


II.

Langbourne fell asleep so quickly that he was aware of no moment of
waking after his head touched the fragrant pillow. He woke so much
refreshed by his first sound, soft sleep that he thought it must be
nearly morning. He got his watch into a ray of the moonlight and made
out that it was only a little after midnight, and he perceived that it
must have been the sound of low murmuring voices and broken laughter in
the next room which had wakened him. But he was rather glad to have been
roused to a sense of his absolute comfort, and he turned unresentfully
to sleep again. All his heaviness of heart was gone; he felt curiously
glad and young; he had somehow forgiven the wrong he had suffered and
the wrong he had done. The subdued murmuring went on in the next room,
and he kept himself awake to enjoy it for a while. Then he let himself
go, and drifted away into gulfs of slumber, where, suddenly, he seemed
to strike against something, and started up in bed.

A laugh came from the next room. It was not muffled, as before, but
frank and clear. It was woman's laughter, and Langbourne easily inferred
girlhood as well as womanhood from it. His neighbors must have come by
the late train, and they had probably begun to talk as soon as they got
into their room. He imagined their having spoken low at first for fear
of disturbing some one, and then, in their forgetfulness, or their
belief that there was no one near, allowed themselves greater freedom.
There were survivals of their earlier caution at times, when their
voices sank so low as scarcely to be heard; then there was a break from
it when they rose clearly distinguishable from each other. They were
never so distinct that he could make out what was said; but each voice
unmistakably conveyed character.

Friendship between girls is never equal; they may equally love each
other, but one must worship and one must suffer worship. Langbourne read
the differing temperaments necessary to this relation in the differing
voices. That which bore mastery was a low, thick murmur, coming from
deep in the throat, and flowing out in a steady stream of indescribable
coaxing and drolling. The owner of that voice had imagination and humor
which could charm with absolute control her companion's lighter nature,
as it betrayed itself in a gay tinkle of amusement and a succession of
nervous whispers. Langbourne did not wonder at her subjection; with the
first sounds of that rich, tender voice, he had fallen under its spell
too; and he listened intensely, trying to make out some phrase, some
word, some syllable. But the talk kept its sub-audible flow, and he had
to content himself as he could with the sound of the voice.

As he lay eavesdropping with all his might he tried to construct an
image of the two girls from their voices. The one with the crystalline
laugh was little and lithe, quick in movement, of a mobile face, with
gray eyes and fair hair; the other was tall and pale, with full, blue
eyes and a regular face, and lips that trembled with humor; very demure
and yet very honest; very shy and yet very frank; there was something
almost mannish in her essential honesty; there was nothing of feminine
coquetry in her, though everything of feminine charm. She was a girl who
looked like her father, Langbourne perceived with a flash of divination.
She dressed simply in dark blue, and her hair was of a dark mahogany
color. The smaller girl wore light gray checks or stripes, and the
shades of silver.

The talk began to be less continuous in the next room, from which there
came the sound of sighs and yawns, and then of mingled laughter at
these. Then the talk ran unbrokenly on for a while, and again dropped
into laughs that recognized the drowse creeping upon the talkers.
Suddenly it stopped altogether, and left Langbourne, as he felt,
definitively awake for the rest of the night.

He had received an impression which he could not fully analyze. With
some inner sense he kept hearing that voice, low and deep, and rich with
whimsical suggestion. Its owner must have a strange, complex nature,
which would perpetually provoke and satisfy. Her companionship would be
as easy and reasonable as a man's, while it had the charm of a woman's.
At the moment it seemed to him that life without this companionship
would be something poorer and thinner than he had yet known, and that he
could not endure to forego it. Somehow he must manage to see the girl
and make her acquaintance. He did not know how it could be contrived,
but it could certainly be contrived, and he began to dramatize their
meeting on these various terms. It was interesting and it was
delightful, and it always came, in its safe impossibility, to his
telling her that he loved her, and to her consenting to be his wife. He
resolved to take no chance of losing her, but to remain awake, and
somehow see her before she could leave the hotel in the morning. The
resolution gave him calm; he felt that the affair so far was settled.

Suddenly he started from his pillow; and again he heard that mellow
laugh, warm and rich as the cooing of doves on sunlit eaves. The sun was
shining through the crevices of his window-blinds; he looked at his
watch; it was half-past eight. The sound of fluttering skirts and flying
feet in the corridor shook his heart. A voice, the voice of the mellow
laugh, called as if to some one on the stairs, "I must have put it in my
bag. It doesn't matter, anyway."

He hurried on his clothes, in the vain hope of finding his late
neighbors at breakfast; but before he had finished dressing he heard
wheels before the veranda below, and he saw the hotel barge drive away,
as if to the station. There were two passengers in it; two women, whose
faces were hidden by the fringe of the barge-roof, but whose slender
figures showed themselves from their necks down. It seemed to him that
one was tall and slight, and the other slight and little.


III.

He stopped in the hall, and then, tempted by his despair, he stepped
within the open door of the next room and looked vaguely over it, with
shame at being there. What was it that the girl had missed, and had come
back to look for? Some trifle, no doubt, which she had not cared to
lose, and yet had not wished to leave behind. He failed to find anything
in the search, which he could not make very thorough, and he was going
guiltily out when his eye fell upon an envelope, perversely fallen
beside the door and almost indiscernible against the white paint, with
the addressed surface inward.

This must be the object of her search, and he could understand why she
was not very anxious when he found it a circular from a nursery-man,
containing nothing more valuable than a list of flowering shrubs. He
satisfied himself that this was all without satisfying himself that he
had quite a right to do so; and he stood abashed in the presence of the
superscription on the envelope somewhat as if Miss Barbara F. Simpson,
Upper Ashton Falls, N. H., were there to see him tampering with her
correspondence. It was indelicate, and he felt that his whole behavior
had been indelicate, from the moment her laugh had wakened him in the
night till now, when he had invaded her room. He had no more doubt that
she was the taller of the two girls than that this was her name on the
envelope. He liked Barbara; and Simpson could be changed. He seemed to
hear her soft throaty laugh in response to the suggestion, and with a
leap of the heart he slipped the circular into his breast pocket.

After breakfast he went to the hotel office, and stood leaning on the
long counter and talking with the clerk till he could gather courage to
look at the register, where he knew the names of these girls must be
written. He asked where Upper Ashton Falls was, and whether it would be
a pleasant place to spend a week.

The clerk said that it was about thirty miles up the road, and was one
of the nicest places in the mountains; Langbourne could not go to a
nicer; and there was a very good little hotel. "Why," he said, "there
were two ladies here overnight that just left for there, on the
seven-forty. Odd you should ask about it."

Langbourne owned that it was odd, and then he asked if the ladies lived
at Upper Ashton Falls, or were merely summer folks.

"Well, a little of both," said the clerk. "They're cousins, and they've
got an aunt living there that they stay with. They used to go away
winters,--teaching, I guess,--but this last year they stayed right
through. Been down to Springfield, they said, and just stopped the night
because the accommodation don't go any farther. Wake you up last night?
I had to put 'em into the room next to yours, and girls usually talk."

Langbourne answered that it would have taken a good deal of talking to
wake him the night before, and then he lounged across to the time-table
hanging on the wall, and began to look up the trains for Upper Ashton
Falls.

"If you want to go to the Falls," said the clerk, "there's a through
train at four, with a drawing-room on it, that will get you there by
five."

"Oh, I fancy I was looking up the New York trains," Langbourne returned.
He did not like these evasions, but in his consciousness of Miss Simpson
he seemed unable to avoid them. The clerk went out on the veranda to
talk with a farmer bringing supplies, and Langbourne ran to the
register, and read there the names of Barbara F. Simpson and Juliet D.
Bingham. It was Miss Simpson who had registered for both, since her name
came first, and the entry was in a good, simple hand, which was like a
man's in its firmness and clearness. He turned from the register decided
to take the four-o'clock train for Upper Ashton Falls, and met a
messenger with a telegram which he knew was for himself before the boy
could ask his name. His partner had fallen suddenly sick; his recall was
absolute, his vacation was at an end; nothing remained for him but to
take the first train back to New York. He thought how little prescient
he had been in his pretence that he was looking the New York trains up;
but the need of one had come already, and apparently he should never
have any use for a train to Upper Ashton Falls.


IV.

All the way back to New York Langbourne was oppressed by a sense of loss
such as his old disappointment in love now seemed to him never to have
inflicted. He found that his whole being had set toward the unseen owner
of the voice which had charmed him, and it was like a stretching and
tearing of the nerves to be going from her instead of going to her. He
was as much under duress as if he were bound by a hypnotic spell. The
voice continually sounded, not in his ears, which were filled with the
noises of the train, as usual, but in the inmost of his spirit, where it
was a low, cooing, coaxing murmur. He realized now how intensely he must
have listened for it in the night, how every tone of it must have
pervaded him and possessed him. He was in love with it, he was as
entirely fascinated by it as if it were the girl's whole presence, her
looks, her qualities. The remnant of the summer passed in the fret of
business, which was doubly irksome through his feeling of injury in
being kept from the girl whose personality he constructed from the sound
of her voice, and set over his fancy in an absolute sovereignty. The
image he had created of her remained a dim and blurred vision throughout
the day, but by night it became distinct and compelling. One evening,
late in the fall, he could endure the stress no longer, and he yielded
to the temptation which had beset him from the first moment he renounced
his purpose of returning in person the circular addressed to her as a
means of her acquaintance. He wrote to her, and in terms as dignified as
he could contrive, and as free from any ulterior import, he told her he
had found it in the hotel hallway and had meant to send it to her at
once, thinking it might be of some slight use to her. He had failed to
do this, and now, having come upon it among some other papers, he sent
it with an explanation which he hoped she would excuse him for troubling
her with.

This was not true, but he did not see how he could begin with her by
saying that he had found the circular in her room, and had kept it by
him ever since, looking at it every day, and leaving it where he could
see it the last thing before he slept at night and the first thing after
he woke in the morning. As to her reception of his story, he had to
trust to his knowledge that she was, like himself, of country birth and
breeding, and to his belief that she would not take alarm at his
overture. He did not go much into the world and was little acquainted
with its usages, yet he knew enough to suspect that a woman of the world
would either ignore his letter, or would return a cold and snubbing
expression of Miss Simpson's thanks for Mr. Stephen M. Langbourne's
kindness.

He had not only signed his name and given his address carefully in hopes
of a reply, but he had enclosed the business card of his firm as a token
of his responsibility. The partner in a wholesale stationery house ought
to be an impressive figure in the imagination of a village girl; but it
was some weeks before any answer came to Langbourne's letter. The reply
began with an apology for the delay, and Langbourne perceived that he
had gained rather than lost by the writer's hesitation; clearly she
believed that she had put herself in the wrong, and that she owed him a
certain reparation. For the rest, her letter was discreetly confined to
an acknowledgment of the trouble he had taken.

But this spare return was richly enough for Langbourne; it would have
sufficed, if there had been nothing in the letter, that the handwriting
proved Miss Simpson to have been the one who had made the entry of her
name and her friend's in the hotel register. This was most important as
one step in corroboration of the fact that he had rightly divined her;
that the rest should come true was almost a logical necessity. Still, he
was puzzled to contrive a pretext for writing again, and he remained
without one for a fortnight. Then, in passing a seedsman's store which
he used to pass every day without thinking, he one day suddenly
perceived his opportunity. He went in and got a number of the catalogues
and other advertisements, and addressed them then and there, in a
wrapper the seedsman gave him, to Miss Barbara F. Simpson, Upper Ashton
Falls, N. H.

Now the response came with a promptness which at least testified of the
lingering compunction of Miss Simpson. She asked if she were right in
supposing the seedsman's catalogues and folders had come to her from
Langbourne, and begged to know from him whether the seedsman in question
was reliable: it was so difficult to get garden seeds that one could
trust.

The correspondence now established itself, and with one excuse or
another it prospered throughout the winter. Langbourne was not only
willing, he was most eager, to give her proof of his reliability; he
spoke of stationers in Springfield and Greenfield to whom he was
personally known; and he secretly hoped she would satisfy herself
through friends in those places that he was an upright and trustworthy
person.

Miss Simpson wrote delightful letters, with that whimsical quality which
had enchanted him in her voice. The coaxing and caressing was not there,
and could not be expected to impart itself, unless in those refuges of
deep feeling supposed to lurk between the lines. But he hoped to provoke
it from these in time, and his own letters grew the more earnest the
more ironical hers became. He wrote to her about a book he was reading,
and when she said she had not seen it, he sent it her; in one of her
letters she casually betrayed that she sang contralto in the choir, and
then he sent her some new songs, which he had heard in the theatre, and
which he had informed himself from a friend were contralto. He was
always tending to an expression of the feeling which swayed him; but on
her part there was no sentiment. Only in the fact that she was willing
to continue this exchange of letters with a man personally unknown to
her did she betray that romantic tradition which underlies all our young
life, and in those unused to the world tempts to things blameless in
themselves, but of the sort shunned by the worldlier wise. There was no
great wisdom of any kind in Miss Simpson's letters; but Langbourne did
not miss it; he was content with her mere words, as they related the
little events of her simple daily life. These repeated themselves from
the page in the tones of her voice and filled him with a passionate
intoxication.

Towards spring he had his photograph taken, for no reason that he could
have given; but since it was done he sent one to his mother in Vermont,
and then he wrote his name on another, and sent it to Miss Simpson in
New Hampshire. He hoped, of course, that she would return a photograph
of herself; but she merely acknowledged his with some dry playfulness.
Then, after disappointing him so long that he ceased to expect anything,
she enclosed a picture. The face was so far averted that Langbourne
could get nothing but the curve of a longish cheek, the point of a nose,
the segment of a crescent eyebrow. The girl said that as they should
probably never meet, it was not necessary he should know her when he saw
her; she explained that she was looking away because she had been
attracted by something on the other side of the photograph gallery just
at the moment the artist took the cap off the tube of his camera, and
she could not turn back without breaking the plate.

Langbourne replied that he was going up to Springfield on business the
first week in May, and that he thought he might push on as far north as
Upper Ashton Falls. To this there came no rejoinder whatever, but he did
not lose courage. It was now the end of April, and he could bear to wait
for a further verification of his ideal; the photograph had confirmed
him in its evasive fashion at every point of his conjecture concerning
her. It was the face he had imagined her having, or so he now imagined,
and it was just such a long oval face as would go with the figure he
attributed to her. She must have the healthy palor of skin which
associates itself with masses of dark, mahogany-colored hair.


V.

It was so long since he had known a Northern spring that he had
forgotten how much later the beginning of May was in New Hampshire; but
as his train ran up from Springfield he realized the difference of the
season from that which he had left in New York. The meadows were green
only in the damp hollows; most of the trees were as bare as in
midwinter; the willows in the swamplands hung out their catkins, and the
white birches showed faint signs of returning life. In the woods were
long drifts of snow, though he knew that in the brown leaves along their
edges the pale pink flowers of the trailing arbutus were hiding their
wet faces. A vernal mildness overhung the landscape. A blue haze filled
the distances and veiled the hills; from the farm door-yards the smell
of burning leaf-heaps and garden-stalks came through the window which he
lifted to let in the dull, warm air. The sun shone down from a pale sky,
in which the crows called to one another.

By the time he arrived at Upper Ashton Falls the afternoon had waned so
far towards evening that the first robins were singing their vespers
from the leafless choirs of the maples before the hotel. He indulged the
landlord in his natural supposition that he had come up to make a timely
engagement for summer board; after supper he even asked what the price
of such rooms as his would be by the week in July, while he tried to
lead the talk round to the fact which he wished to learn.

He did not know where Miss Simpson lived; and the courage with which he
had set out on his adventure totally lapsed, leaving in its place an
accusing sense of silliness. He was where he was without reason, and in
defiance of the tacit unwillingness of the person he had come to see;
she certainly had given him no invitation, she had given him no
permission to come. For the moment, in his shame, it seemed to him that
the only thing for him was to go back to New York by the first train in
the morning. But what then would the girl think of him? Such an act must
forever end the intercourse which had now become an essential part of
his life. That voice which had haunted him so long, was he never to hear
it again? Was he willing to renounce forever the hope of hearing it?

He sat at his supper so long, nervelessly turning his doubts over in his
mind, that the waitress came out of the kitchen and drove him from the
table with her severe, impatient stare.

He put on his hat, and with his overcoat on his arm he started out for a
walk which was hopeless, but not so aimless as he feigned to himself.
The air was lullingly warm still as he followed the long village street
down the hill toward the river, where the lunge of rapids filled the
dusk with a sort of humid uproar; then he turned and followed it back
past the hotel as far as it led towards the open country. At the edge of
the village he came to a large, old-fashioned house, which struck him as
typical, with its outward swaying fence of the Greek border pattern, and
its gate-posts topped by tilting urns of painted wood. The house itself
stood rather far back from the street, and as he passed it he saw that
it was approached by a pathway of brick which was bordered with box.
Stalks of last year's hollyhocks and lilacs from garden beds on either
hand lifted their sharp points, here and there broken and hanging down.
It was curious how these details insisted through the twilight.

He walked on until the wooden village pathway ended in the country mud,
and then again he returned up upon his steps. As he reapproached the
house he saw lights. A brighter radiance streamed from the hall door,
which was apparently open, and a softer glow flushed the windows of one
of the rooms that flanked the hall.

As Langbourne came abreast of the gate the tinkle of a gay laugh rang
out to him; then ensued a murmur of girls' voices in the room, and
suddenly this stopped, and the voice that he knew, the voice that seemed
never to have ceased to sound in his nerves and pulses, rose in singing
words set to the Spanish air of La Paloma.

It was one of the songs he had sent to Miss Simpson, but he did not need
this material proof that it was she whom he now heard. There was no
question of what he should do. All doubt, all fear, had vanished; he had
again but one impulse, one desire, one purpose. But he lingered at the
gate till the song ended, and then he unlatched it and started up the
walk towards the door. It seemed to him a long way; he almost reeled as
he went; he fumbled tremulously for the bell-pull beside the door, while
a confusion of voices in the adjoining room--the voices which had waked
him from his sleep, and which now sounded like voices in a dream--came
out to him.

The light from the lamp hanging in the hall shone full in his face, and
the girl who came from that room beside it to answer his ring gave a
sort of conscious jump at sight of him as he uncovered and stood
bare-headed before her.


VI.

She must have recognized him from the photograph he had sent, and in
stature and figure he recognized her as the ideal he had cherished,
though her head was gilded with the light from the lamp, and he could
not make out whether her hair was dark or fair; her face was, of course,
a mere outline, without color or detail against the luminous interior.

He managed to ask, dry-tongued and with a heart that beat into his
throat, "Is Miss Simpson at home?" and the girl answered, with a high,
gay tinkle:

"Yes, she's at home. Won't you walk in?"

He obeyed, but at the sound of her silvery voice his heart dropped back
into his breast. He put his hat and coat on an entry chair, and prepared
to follow her into the room she had come out of. The door stood ajar,
and he said, as she put out her hand to push it open, "I am Mr.
Langbourne."

"Oh, yes," she answered in the same high, gay tinkle, which he fancied
had now a note of laughter in it.

An elderly woman of a ladylike village type was sitting with some
needlework beside a little table, and a young girl turned on the
piano-stool and rose to receive him. "My aunt, Mrs. Simpson, Mr.
Langbourne," said the girl who introduced him to these presences, and
she added, indicating the girl at the piano, "Miss Simpson."

They all three bowed silently, and in the hush the sheet on the music
frame slid from the piano with a sharp clash, and skated across the
floor to Langbourne's feet. It was the song of La Paloma which she had
been singing; he picked it up, and she received it from him with a
drooping head, and an effect of guilty embarrassment.

She was short and of rather a full figure, though not too full. She was
not plain, but she was by no means the sort of beauty who had lived in
Langbourne's fancy for the year past. The oval of her face was squared;
her nose was arched; she had a pretty, pouting mouth, and below it a
deep dimple in her chin; her eyes were large and dark, and they had the
questioning look of near-sighted eyes; her hair was brown. There was a
humorous tremor in her lips, even with the prim stress she put upon them
in saying, "Oh, thank you," in a thick whisper of the voice he knew.

"And I," said the other girl, "am Juliet Bingham. Won't you sit down,
Mr. Langbourne!" She pushed towards him the arm-chair before her, and he
dropped into it. She took her place on the hair-cloth sofa, and Miss
Simpson sank back upon the piano-stool with a painful provisionality,
while her eyes sought Miss Bingham's in a sort of admiring terror.

Miss Bingham was easily mistress of the situation; she did not try to
bring Miss Simpson into the conversation, but she contrived to make Mrs.
Simpson ask Langbourne when he arrived at Upper Ashton Falls; and she
herself asked him when he had left New York, with many apposite
suppositions concerning the difference in the season in the two
latitudes. She presumed he was staying at the Falls House, and she said,
always in her high, gay tinkle, that it was very pleasant there in the
summer time. He did not know what he answered. He was aware that from
time to time Miss Simpson said something in a frightened undertone. He
did not know how long it was before Mrs. Simpson made an errand out of
the room, in the abeyance which age practises before youthful society in
the country; he did not know how much longer it was before Miss Bingham
herself jumped actively up, and said, Now she would run over to Jenny's,
if Mr. Langbourne would excuse her, and tell her that they could not go
the next day.

"It will do just as well in the morning," Miss Simpson pitifully
entreated.

"No, she's got to know to-night," said Miss Bingham, and she said she
should find Mr. Langbourne there when she got back. He knew that in
compliance with the simple village tradition he was being purposely left
alone with Miss Simpson, as rightfully belonging to her. Miss Bingham
betrayed no intentionality to him, but he caught a glimpse of mocking
consciousness in the sidelong look she gave Miss Simpson as she went
out; and if he had not known before he perceived then, in the vanishing
oval of her cheek, the corner of her arched eyebrow, the point of her
classic nose, the original of the photograph he had been treasuring as
Miss Simpson's.


VII.

"It was her picture I sent you," said Miss Simpson. She was the first
to break the silence to which Miss Bingham abandoned them, but she did
not speak till her friend had closed the outer door behind her and was
tripping down the brick walk to the gate.

"Yes," said Langbourne, in a dryness which he could not keep himself
from using.

The girl must have felt it, and her voice faltered a very little as she
continued. "We--I--did it for fun. I meant to tell you. I--"

"Oh, that's all right," said Langbourne. "I had no business to expect
yours, or to send you mine." But he believed that he had; that his
faithful infatuation had somehow earned him the right to do what he had
done, and to hope for what he had not got; without formulating the fact,
he divined that she believed it too. Between the man-soul and the
woman-soul it can never go so far as it had gone in their case without
giving them claims upon each other which neither can justly deny.

She did not attempt to deny it. "I oughtn't to have done it, and I ought
to have told you at once--the next letter--but I--you said you were
coming, and I thought if you did come--I didn't really expect you to;
and it was all a joke,--off-hand."

It was very lame, but it was true, and it was piteous; yet Langbourne
could not relent. His grievance was not with what she had done, but what
she was; not what she really was, but what she materially was; her
looks, her figure, her stature, her whole presence, so different from
that which he had been carrying in his mind, and adoring for a year
past.

If it was ridiculous, and if with her sense of the ridiculous she felt
it so, she was unable to take it lightly, or to make him take it
lightly. At some faint gleams which passed over her face he felt himself
invited to regard it less seriously; but he did not try, even
provisionally, and they fell into a silence that neither seemed to have
the power of breaking.

It must be broken, however; something must be done; they could not sit
there dumb forever. He looked at the sheet of music on the piano and
said, "I see you have been trying that song. Do you like it?"

"Yes, very much," and now for the first time she got her voice fairly
above a whisper. She took the sheet down from the music-rest and looked
at the picture of the lithographed title. It was of a tiled roof lifted
among cypresses and laurels with pigeons strutting on it and sailing
over it.

"It was that picture," said Langbourne, since he must say something,
"that I believe I got the song for; it made me think of the roof of an
old Spanish house I saw in Southern California."

"It must be nice, out there," said Miss Simpson, absently staring at the
picture. She gathered herself together to add, pointlessly, "Juliet says
she's going to Europe. Have you ever been?"

"Not to Europe, no. I always feel as if I wanted to see my own country
first. Is she going soon?"

"Who? Juliet? Oh, no! She was just saying so. I don't believe she's
engaged her passage yet."

There was invitation to greater ease in this, and her voice began to
have the tender, coaxing quality which had thrilled his heart when he
heard it first. But the space of her variance from his ideal was between
them, and the voice reached him faintly across it.

The situation grew more and more painful for her, he could see, as well
as for him. She too was feeling the anomaly of their having been
intimates without being acquaintances. They necessarily met as strangers
after the exchange of letters in which they had spoken with the
confidence of friends.

Langbourne cast about in his mind for some middle ground where they
could come together without that effect of chance encounter which had
reduced them to silence. He could not recur to any of the things they
had written about; so far from wishing to do this, he had almost a
terror of touching upon them by accident, and he felt that she shrank
from them too, as if they involved a painful misunderstanding which
could not be put straight.

He asked questions about Upper Ashton Falls, but these led up to what
she had said of it in her letters; he tried to speak of the winter in
New York, and he remembered that every week he had given her a full
account of his life there. They must go beyond their letters or they
must fall far back of them.


VIII.

In their attempts to talk he was aware that she was seconding all his
endeavors with intelligence, and with a humorous subtlety to which he
could not pretend. She was suffering from their anomalous position as
much as he, but she had the means of enjoying it while he had not. After
half an hour of these defeats Mrs. Simpson operated a diversion by
coming in with two glasses of lemonade on a tray and some slices of
sponge-cake. She offered this refreshment first to Langbourne and then
to her niece, and they both obediently took a glass, and put a slice of
cake in the saucer which supported the glass. She said to each in turn,
"Won't you take some lemonade? Won't you have a piece of cake?" and then
went out with her empty tray, and the air of having fulfilled the duties
of hospitality to her niece's company.

"I don't know," said Miss Simpson, "but it's rather early in the season
for cold lemonade," and Langbourne, instead of laughing, as her tone
invited him to do, said:

"It's very good, I'm sure." But this seemed too stiffly ungracious, and
he added: "What delicious sponge-cake! You never get this out of New
England."

"We have to do something to make up for our doughnuts," Miss Simpson
suggested.

"Oh, I like doughnuts too," said Langbourne. "But you can't get the
right kind of doughnuts, either, in New York."

They began to talk about cooking. He told her of the tamales which he
had first tasted in San Francisco, and afterward found superabundantly
in New York; they both made a great deal of the topic; Miss Simpson had
never heard of tamales. He became solemnly animated in their exegesis,
and she showed a resolute interest in them.

They were in the midst of the forced discussion, when they heard a quick
foot on the brick walk, but they had both fallen silent when Miss
Bingham flounced elastically in upon them. She seemed to take in with a
keen glance which swept them from her lively eyes that they had not been
getting on, and she had the air of taking them at once in hand.

"Well, it's all right about Jenny," she said to Miss Simpson. "She'd a
good deal rather go day after to-morrow, anyway. What have you been
talking about? I don't want to make you go over the same ground. Have
you got through with the weather? The moon's out, and it feels more like
the beginning of June than the last of April. I shut the front door
against dor-bugs; I couldn't help it, though they won't be here for six
weeks yet. Do you have dor-bugs in New York, Mr. Langbourne?"

"I don't know. There may be some in the Park," he answered.

"We think a great deal of our dor-bugs in Upper Ashton," said Miss
Simpson demurely, looking down. "We don't know what we should do without
them."

"Lemonade!" exclaimed Miss Bingham, catching sight of the glasses and
saucers on the corner of the piano, where Miss Simpson had allowed
Langbourne to put them. "Has Aunt Elmira been giving you lemonade while
I was gone? I will just see about that!" She whipped out of the room,
and was back in a minute with a glass in one hand and a bit of
sponge-cake between the fingers of the other. "She had kept some for me!
Have you sung Paloma for Mr. Langbourne, Barbara?"

"No," said Barbara, "we hadn't got round to it, quite."

"Oh, do!" Langbourne entreated, and he wondered that he had not asked
her before; it would have saved them from each ether.

"Wait a moment," cried Juliet Bingham, and she gulped the last draught
of her lemonade upon a final morsel of sponge-cake, and was down at the
piano while still dusting the crumbs from her fingers. She struck the
refractory sheet of music flat upon the rack with her palm, and then
tilted her head over her shoulder towards Langbourne, who had risen with
some vague notion of turning the sheets of the song. "Do you sing?"

"Oh, no. But I like--"

"Are you ready, Bab?" she asked, ignoring him; and she dashed into the
accompaniment.

He sat down in his chair behind the two girls, where they could not see
his face.

Barbara began rather weakly, but her voice gathered strength, and then
poured full volume to the end, where it weakened again. He knew that she
was taking refuge from him in the song, and in the magic of her voice he
escaped from the disappointment he had been suffering. He let his head
drop and his eyelids fall, and in the rapture of her singing he got back
what he had lost; or rather, he lost himself again to the illusion which
had grown so precious to him.

Juliet Bingham sounded the last note almost as she rose from the piano;
Barbara passed her handkerchief over her forehead, as if to wipe the
heat from it, but he believed that this was a ruse to dry her eyes in
it: they shone with a moist brightness in the glimpse he caught of them.
He had risen, and they all stood talking; or they all stood, and Juliet
talked. She did not offer to sit down again, and after stiffly thanking
them both, he said he must be going, and took leave of them. Juliet gave
his hand a nervous grip; Barbara's touch was lax and cold; the parting
with her was painful; he believed that she felt it so as much as he.

The girls' voices followed him down the walk,--Juliet's treble, and
Barbara's contralto,--and he believed that they were making talk
purposely against a pressure of silence, and did not know what they were
saying. It occurred to him that they had not asked how long he was
staying, or invited him to come again: he had not thought to ask if he
might; and in the intolerable inconclusiveness of this ending he
faltered at the gate till the lights in the windows of the parlor
disappeared, as if carried into the hall, and then they twinkled into
darkness. From an upper entry window, which reddened with a momentary
flush and was then darkened, a burst of mingled laughter came. The girls
must have thought him beyond hearing, and he fancied the laugh a burst
of hysterical feeling in them both.


IX.

Langbourne went to bed as soon as he reached his hotel because he found
himself spent with the experience of the evening; but as he rested from
his fatigue he grew wakeful, and he tried to get its whole measure and
meaning before him. He had a methodical nature, with a necessity for
order in his motions, and he now balanced one fact against another none
the less passionately because the process was a series of careful
recognitions. He perceived that the dream in which he had lived for the
year past was not wholly an illusion. One of the girls whom he had heard
but not seen was what he had divined her to be: a dominant influence, a
control to which the other was passively obedient. He had not erred
greatly as to the face or figure of the superior, but he had given all
the advantages to the wrong person. The voice, indeed, the spell which
had bound him, belonged with the one to whom he had attributed it, and
the qualities with which it was inextricably blended in his fancy were
hers; she was more like his ideal than the other, though he owned that
the other was a charming girl too, and that in the thin treble of her
voice lurked a potential fascination which might have made itself
ascendently felt if he had happened to feel it first.

There was a dangerous instant in which he had a perverse question of
changing his allegiance. This passed into another moment, almost as
perilous, of confusion through a primal instinct of the man's by which
he yields a double or a divided allegiance and simultaneously worships
at two shrines; in still another breath he was aware that this was
madness.

If he had been younger, he would have had no doubt as to his right in
the circumstances. He had simply corresponded all winter with Miss
Simpson; but though he had opened his heart freely and had invited her
to the same confidence with him, he had not committed himself, and he
had a right to drop the whole affair. She would have no right to
complain; she had not committed herself either: they could both come off
unscathed. But he was now thirty-five, and life had taught him something
concerning the rights of others which he could not ignore. By seeking
her confidence and by offering her his, he had given her a claim which
was none the less binding because it was wholly tacit. There had been a
time when he might have justified himself in dropping the affair; that
was when she had failed to answer his letter; but he had come to see her
in defiance of her silence, and now he could not withdraw, simply
because he was disappointed, without cruelty, without atrocity.

This was what the girl's wistful eyes said to him; this was the reproach
of her trembling lips; this was the accusation of her dejected figure,
as she drooped in vision before him on the piano-stool and passed her
hand soundlessly over the key-board. He tried to own to her that he was
disappointed, but he could not get the words out of his throat; and now
in her presence, as it were, he was not sure that he was disappointed.


X.

He woke late, with a longing to put his two senses of her to the proof
of day; and as early in the forenoon as he could hope to see her, he
walked out towards her aunt's house. It was a mild, dull morning, with a
misted sunshine; in the little crimson tassels of the budded maples
overhead the bees were droning.

The street was straight, and while he was yet a good way off he saw the
gate open before the house, and a girl whom he recognized as Miss
Bingham close it behind her. She then came down under the maples towards
him, at first swiftly, and then more and more slowly, until finally she
faltered to a stop. He quickened his own pace and came up to her with a
"Good-morning" called to her and a lift of his hat. She returned neither
salutation, and said, "I was coming to see you, Mr. Langbourne." Her
voice was still a silver bell, but it was not gay, and her face was
severely unsmiling.

"To see me?" he returned. "Has anything--"

"No, there's nothing the matter. But--I should like to talk with you."
She held a little packet, tied with blue ribbon, in her intertwined
hands, and she looked urgently at him.

"I shall be very glad," Langbourne began, but she interrupted,--

"Should you mind walking down to the Falls?"

He understood that for some reason she did not wish him to pass the
house, and he bowed. "Wherever you like. I hope Mrs. Simpson is well?
And Miss Simpson?"

"Oh, perfectly," said Miss Bingham, and they fenced with some questions
and answers of no interest till they had walked back through the village
to the Falls at the other end of it, where the saw in a mill was
whirring through a long pine log, and the water, streaked with sawdust,
was spreading over the rocks below and flowing away with a smooth
swiftness. The ground near the mill was piled with fresh-sawed, fragrant
lumber and strewn with logs.

Miss Bingham found a comfortable place on one of the logs, and began
abruptly:

"You may think it's pretty strange, Mr. Langbourne, but I want to talk
with you about Miss Simpson." She seemed to satisfy a duty to convention
by saying Miss Simpson at the outset, and after that she called her
friend Barbara. "I've brought you your letters to her," and she handed
him the packet she had been holding. "Have you got hers with you?"

"They are at the hotel," answered Langbourne.

"Well, that's right, then. I thought perhaps you had brought them. You
see," Miss Bingham continued, much more cold-bloodedly than Langbourne
thought she need, "we talked it over last night, and it's too silly.
That's the way Barbara feels herself. The fact is," she went on
confidingly, and with the air of saying something that he would
appreciate, "I always thought it was some young man, and so did
Barbara; or I don't believe she would ever have answered your first
letter."

Langbourne knew that he was not a young man in a young girl's sense; but
no man likes to have it said that he is old. Besides, Miss Bingham
herself was not apparently in her first quarter of a century, and
probably Miss Simpson would not see the earliest twenties again. He
thought none the worse of her for that; but he felt that he was not so
unequally matched in time with her that she need take the attitude with
regard to him which Miss Bingham indicated. He was not the least gray
nor the least bald, and his tall figure had kept its youthful lines.

Perhaps his face manifested something of his suppressed resentment. At
any rate, Miss Bingham said apologetically, "I mean that if we had known
it was a serious person we should have acted differently. I oughtn't
to have let her thank you for those seedsman's catalogues; but I thought
it couldn't do any harm. And then, after your letters began to come, we
didn't know just when to stop them. To tell you the truth, Mr.
Langbourne, we got so interested we couldn't bear to stop them. You
wrote so much about your life in New York, that it was like a visit
there every week; and it's pretty quiet at Upper Ashton in the winter
time."

She seemed to refer this fact to Langbourne for sympathetic
appreciation; he said mechanically, "Yes."

She resumed: "But when your picture came, I said it had got to stop;
and so we just sent back my picture,--or I don't know but what Barbara
did it without asking me,--and we did suppose that would be the last of
it; when you wrote back you were coming here, we didn't believe you
really would unless we said so. That's all there is about it; and if
there is anybody to blame, I am the one. Barbara would never have done
it in the world if I hadn't put her up to it."

In those words the implication that Miss Bingham had operated the whole
affair finally unfolded itself. But distasteful as the fact was to
Langbourne, and wounding as was the realization that he had been led on
by this witness of his infatuation for the sake of the entertainment
which his letters gave two girls in the dull winter of a mountain
village, there was still greater pain, with an additional embarrassment,
in the regret which the words conveyed. It appeared that it was not he
who had done the wrong; he had suffered it, and so far from having to
offer reparation to a young girl for having unwarrantably wrought her up
expect of him a step from which he afterwards recoiled, he had the duty
of forgiving her a trespass on his own invaded sensibilities. It was
humiliating to his vanity; it inflicted a hurt to something better than
his vanity. He began very uncomfortably: "It's all right, as far as I'm
concerned. I had no business to address Miss Simpson in the first
place--"

"Well," Miss Bingham interrupted, "that's what I told Barbara; but she
got to feeling badly about it; she thought if you had taken the trouble
to send back the circular that she dropped in the hotel, she couldn't do
less than acknowledge it, and she kept on so about it that I had to let
her. That was the first false step."

These words, while they showed Miss Simpson in a more amiable light, did
not enable Langbourne to see Miss Bingham's merit so clearly. In the
methodical and consecutive working of his emotions, he was aware that it
was no longer a question of divided allegiance, and that there could
never be any such question again. He perceived that Miss Bingham had not
such a good figure as he had fancied the night before, and that her eyes
were set rather too near together. While he dropped his own eyes, and
stood trying to think what he should say in answer to her last speech,
her high, sweet voice tinkled out in gay challenge, "How do, John?"

He looked up and saw a square-set, brown-faced young man advancing
towards them in his shirt-sleeves; he came deliberately, finding his way
in and out among the logs, till he stood smiling down, through a heavy
mustache and thick black lashes, into the face of the girl, as if she
were some sort of joke. The sun struck into her face as she looked up at
him, and made her frown with a knot between her brows that pulled her
eyes still closer together, and she asked, with no direct reference to
his shirt-sleeves,--"A'n't you forcing the season?"

"Don't want to let the summer get the start of you," the young man
generalized, and Miss Bingham said,--

"Mr. Langbourne, Mr. Dickery." The young man silently shook hands with
Langbourne, whom he took into the joke of Miss Bingham with another
smile; and she went on: "Say, John, I wish you'd tell Jenny I don't see
why we shouldn't go this afternoon, after all."

"All right," said the young man.

"I suppose you're coming too?" she suggested.

"Hadn't heard of it," he returned.

"Well, you have now. You've got to be ready at two o'clock."

"That so?" the young fellow inquired. Then he walked away among the
logs, as casually as he had arrived, and Miss Bingham rose and shook
some bits of bark from her skirt.

"Mr. Dickery is owner of the mills," she explained, and she explored
Langbourne's face for an intelligence which she did not seem to find
there. He thought, indifferently enough, that this young man had heard
the two girls speak of him, and had satisfied a natural curiosity in
coming to look him over; it did not occur to him that he had any
especial relation to Miss Bingham.

She walked up into the village with Langbourne, and he did not know
whether he was to accompany her home or not. But she gave him no sign of
dismissal till she put her hand upon her gate to pull it open without
asking him to come in. Then he said, "I will send Miss Simpson's letters
to her at once."

"Oh, any time will do, Mr. Langbourne," she returned sweetly. Then, as
if it had just occurred to her, she added, "We're going after
May-flowers this afternoon. Wouldn't you like to come too?"

"I don't know," he began, "whether I shall have the time--"

"Why, you're not going away to-day!"

"I expected--I--But if you don't think I shall be intruding--"

"Why, I should be delighted to have you. Mr. Dickery's going, and
Jenny Dickery, and Barbara. I don't believe it will rain."

"Then, if I may," said Langbourne.

"Why, certainly, Mr. Langbourne!" she cried, and he started away. But he
had gone only a few rods when he wheeled about and hurried back. The
girl was going up the walk to the house, looking over her shoulder after
him; at his hurried return she stopped and came down to the gate again.

