below me.

One day a cock crew and I fell a-trembling all alone, I knew not why.
That night a new sound woke me, and I felt the presence of another
person. Moonlight silvered the window of a room which I knew; but I
was very quiet and waited for the sun, lest the phantoms I divined
should trick me.

Then came a morning--perhaps the next, but I am not sure--when I knew
I was in a bed and very tired, too tired to see aught but the sheets
and the sunlit curtains beyond. That night, however, I heard rain
falling on a roof and fell asleep, watching the window for the hidden
moon.

When I first recognized the room, my memory served me a trick, and I
thought of the school-room below where the others were imprisoned
--Silver Heels, Peter, and Esk. Slyly content to doze abed here in Sir
William's room, I understood that I must have been lying sick a long,
long time, but could not remember when I had fallen ill. One thing
sure: I did not mean they should know that I was better; I closed my
eyes when I felt a presence near, lying still as a mouse until alone
again.

Sometimes my thoughts wandered to the others in the school-room with
Mr. Yost, for I did not remember he had been scalped by the Lenape,
and I pitied Silver Heels and Esk and fat Peter a-thumbing their
copy-books and breathing chalk-dust. Faith, I was well off in the
great white bed, here in Sir William's room.

I could see his fish-rods on the wall, looped with silk lines and
scarlet feather-flies; his hunting-horn, too, and his whip and spurs
hanging from hooks beneath a fox's-mask and brush. There hung his
fowling-pieces above the mantel, pouch and horn dangling from crossed
ramrods; there rose his book-case with the eared-owl atop and the
Chinese jar full o' pipes, long as my arm and twice as strong--a
conceit which sent a weak wave of mirth through my body I could not
move.

Soft! They are coming to watch me now. So I slyly close my eyes till
they go away or give me the drinks they brew to make me sleep. I know
them; were I minded I might gather strength to spit out their
sense-stealing stuffs. But I swallow and dream and wake to a new sun
or to mark the waxing moon, now near its full.

Our Doctor Pierson was here to-day and caught me watching him. They'll
soon have me in the school-room now, though I do still play possum all
I can, eating my gruel, which a strange servant brings, and pretending
not to see her. Yet I am wondering why the maid is so silent and that
her gown is so dark and stiff.

Later that day I saw Colonel Guy Johnson come into the room and look
at me, but I did not mean he should think me awake, and so closed my
eyes and lay quiet. When Sir William should come, however, I would
open my eyes, for I had been desiring to see him since I saw his rods
and guns. It fretted me at times that he neglected me, knowing my love
for him.

Once, as I lay dozing, Peter crept into the room and stared at me. He
had grown tall and gross and heavy-eyed, so that I scarce knew him,
nor had he a trace of Sir William in his slinking carriage, which was
all Mohawk, and the worst Mohawk at that. I was glad when he ceased
thumbing the bedposts and left me.

The next day I saw Doctor Pierson beside me and asked for Sir William.
He said that Sir William was away and that I was doing well. We often
spoke after that, and he was ever busy with my head, which no longer
ached save when he fingered it.

Then one night I awoke with a cry of terror and found myself sitting
upright, bathed in chilly sweat, shouting that the Cayugas were abroad
and that I must hold them back by the throat till Sir William could
arrive and restrain them.

Lights soon moved into the room; I saw Doctor Pierson and Guy Johnson,
but the dammed-up floods of memory had broken loose like an old wound,
and the past came crowding upon me till I fell back on the pillows,
convulsed and gasping, while the strong hands of the doctor began
their silent work, tapping head and body, till somebody gave me a
draught and I drowsed perdu.

Day broke--the bitterest day of life I was to know. I felt it,
listening to the rain; I felt it, in the footsteps that passed my
door--footsteps I did not know. Why was the house so silent? Why did
all go about so quietly, dressed in black? Was there some one dead in
the house below? Where was Silver Heels? Why had she never come to me?
How came I here? Where was Jack Mount and Cade Renard? And Sir
William, where was he that he came not near me--me who had lain sick
unto death in his service and for his sake?

Dread numbed me; I strove to call, but my dumb lips froze; I strove to
rise, and found my body wrecked in bed without power, without sense, a
helpless, inert thing between two sheets.

Why was I here? Why was I alive if aught had harmed Silver Heels? God!
And I safe here in bed? Where was she? Where was she? Dead? Why do
they not tell me? Why do they not kill me as I lie here if I have
returned without her?

I must have cried aloud in my agony, for the doctor came running and
leaned over me.

"Tell me! Tell me!" I stammered. "Why don't you tell me?" and strove
to strike him, but could not use my arms.

"Quiet, quiet," he said, watching me; "I will tell you what you wish
to know. What is it then, my poor boy?"

"I--want--Felicity," I blurted out.

"Felicity?" he repeated, blankly. "Oh--Miss--ahem!--Miss Warren?"

I glared at him.

"Miss Warren has gone with Sir John Johnson to Boston," he said,
dryly.

My eyes never left him.

"Is that why you cried out?" he asked, curiously. "Miss Warren left us
a week ago. Had you only known her she would have been happy, for she
has slept for weeks on the couch yonder."

"Why--why did she go?"

"I cannot tell you the reasons," he said, gravely.

"When will she return?"

"I do not know."

With a strength that came from God knows where, I dragged myself
upright and caught him by the hand.

"She is dead!" I whispered. "She is dead, and all in this house know
it save I who love her!"

A strange light passed over the doctor's face; he took both my hands
and looked at me carefully. Then he smiled and gently forced me back
to the pillows.

"She is alive and well," he said. "On my honour as a man, lad, I set
your heart at rest. She is in Boston, and I do know why, but I may not
meddle with what concerns this family, save in sickness--or death."

I watched his lips. They were solemn as the solemn word he uttered. I
knew death had been in the house; I had felt that for days. I waited,
watching him.

"Poor lad," he said, holding my hands.

My eyes never left his.

"Ay," he said, softly, "his last word was your name. He loved you
dearly, lad."

And so I knew that Sir William was dead.




CHAPTER XIX


Day after day I lay in my bed, staring at the ceiling till night
blotted it out. Then, stunned and exhausted, I would lie in the dark,
crying in my weakness, whimpering for those I loved who had left me
here alone. There was no strength left in me, body or mind; and,
perhaps for that reason, my suffering was too feeble to waste what was
left of me, for I had not even the strength of the fretful who do
damage themselves with every grimace.

Certain it was that my thinned blood was growing gradually warmer, and
its currents flowed with slightly increasing vigour day by day. The
fever, which had come only partly from my wounds, had doubtless been
long in me, and had fermented my blood as the opportunity offered when
Wraxall nigh drained my every vein with his butcher's blade.

The emaciation of my body was extreme, my limbs were pithless reeds,
my skull grinned through the tensely stretched skin, and my eyes were
enormous.

Yet, such sturdy fibre have I inherited from my soldier father that
grief itself could not retard the mending of me, and in the little
French mirror I could almost see my sunken muscles harden and grow
slowly fuller. Like a pear in a hot-frame, I was plump long before my
strength could aid me or my shocked senses gather to take counsel for
the future.

The dreadful anguish of my bereavement came only at intervals,
succeeded by an apathy which served as a merciful relief. But most I
thought of Silver Heels, and why she had left me here, and when she
might return. Keen fear lurked near to stab me when, rousing from
blank slumber, my first thought was of her. Then I would lie and
wonder why she had gone, and tell myself I loved her above all else,
or whimper and deem her cruel to leave me.

One late afternoon the doctor came with a dish of China oranges,
which I found relief in sucking, my gums being as yet somewhat hot and
painful. He made a hole in an orange and I sucked it awhile, watching
him meditatively. He wore crape on his arm--the arm that Quider had
broken, and which now he could not bend as formerly.

"Why does not my Aunt Molly come to see me?" I asked, quietly.

"Dear lad," said the doctor, raising his eyebrows, "did you not know
she had gone to Montreal?"

"How should I know it," I asked, "when you tell me nothing?"

"I will tell you what I am permitted," he answered, gently.

"Then tell me when my cousin Felicity is coming back? Have you not
heard from Sir John Johnson?"

"Yes--I have heard," replied the doctor, cautiously.

I waited, my eyes searching his face.

"Sir John returns to-morrow," he said.

A thrill set my blood leaping. I felt the warm colour staining my
pinched face.

"To-morrow!" I repeated.

The doctor regarded me very gravely.

"Miss Warren will remain in Boston," he said.

The light died out before my eyes; presently I closed them.

"How long?" I asked.

"I do not know."

The orange, scarcely tasted, rolled over the bed and fell on the
floor. I heard him rise to pick it up.

I opened my eyes and looked at the distant pines through the window.

"Doctor," I muttered, "I am heartsick for a familiar face. Where are
the people who have lived in this house? It is scarce four months that
I have been away, yet all is changed and strange--new servants
everywhere, no old, friendly faces--nay, even Peter has grown so gross
and sullen that I scarce knew him. Where is Esk? Is there not one soul
unchanged?"

"Have I changed?" he asked.

"Yes--you are gray! gray!--and smaller; and you stoop when you sit."

After a moment he said: "These are times to age all men. Have you
yourself not aged in these five months? You went away a fresh-faced
lad, scarce weaned from your alley-taws and the chalky ring! You
return a man, singed already by the first breath of a fire which will
scorch this land to the bedded rock!"

Presently I asked, "Is war certain?"

He nodded, looking at the floor.

"And--and the Six Nations?" I asked again.

"On our side surely," he said, in a low voice.

"On our side?" I repeated.

He looked at me suddenly, stern mouth tightly shut. A cold light
touched his gray eyes and seemed to harden every feature.

"When I say 'our side' I assume you to be loyal, Mr. Cardigan," he
said, curtly.

The change in his shrewd, kindly face amazed me. Was it possible for
old friends to turn so quickly? Was this coming strife to poison the
world with its impending passions?

"If you have become tainted with rebel heresy since you left us, thank
God you have returned in time to purge your mind," he said, sternly.
"Sir William has gone--Heaven rest his brave soul!--but Sir John is
alive to take no uncertain stand in the face of this wicked rebellion
which all true loyal hearts must face."

I looked at him serenely. Who but I should know what Sir William had
thought about the coming strife. Those sacred confidences of the past
had cleared my mind, and made it up long since. Had I not, in Sir
William's service, braved death for the sake of these same rebels? I
understood my mission better now. I had gone in the cause of
humanity--a cause which was not embraced by the loyal subjects of our
King. I had failed, but failure had brought wisdom. Never could I set
my back against the firm rock of loyalty to fight for a name that now
meant nothing to me. I had quenched my thirst at bitter waters; I had
learned that men could beggar themselves for principle and die for a
tuppenny tax with pockets full.

"Lad," said the doctor, kindly, "the two rough woodsmen who brought
you home did what their rude skill permitted to save your life. They
washed your wounds and bound them with balsam and linen; they bore you
faithfully for miles and miles through the valley of death itself.
But, lad, they could not have saved you had not something intervened
between you and that keen blade which searched your life to slay it!"

He rose and took something from the chest of drawers in the corner. It
was a British flag, all torn and hacked and covered with black stains.

"It was found rolled up beneath your hunting-shirt," he said,
solemnly. "Look on it, lad! For this torn flag, which your father died
defending, held back that deadly knife, shielding the vital spark
beneath its folds. A hair's-breadth more and you had died at the first
stab. The flag was your strength and shield: let it become your
salvation! It was your father's flag: exalt it!"

He spread the flag reverently upon the bed. I touched its folds, stiff
with my own blood. It was the flag of Cresap's fort which I had taken,
seeing it abandoned by all.

"I shall always honour it," I said, half unconsciously.

"And the men who bear it!" he added.

"That is very different," I said, wearily, and turned my head on the
pillow.

When I looked again he was folding the flag and placing it in the
chest of drawers, smiling quietly to himself. Doubtless he thought me
loyal to the King whose armies bore the flag my father died for. But I
was too tired to argue further.

"There is one man I would like to see," I said, "and that is Mr.
Duncan. Will you send to the guard-house and beg him to come to me,
doctor?"

"Ay, that I will, lad," he said, cheerily, picking up his hat and case
of drugs. "And, by-the-way, your regiment of Border Horse will be here
in a month. You will doubtless be content to see the gallant troopers
in whose ranks you will one day serve, please God."

"Perhaps," I said, closing my eyes.

I must have fallen into a light sleep, for when I unclosed my eyes I
saw Mr. Duncan beside me, looking down into my face. I smiled and
raised one hand, and he took it gently in both of his strong,
sun-browned hands.

"Well, well, well," he muttered, smiling, while the tears stood in his
pleasant eyes; "here is our soldier home again--that same soldier whom
I last saw in the guard-house, having his poll clipped by honest
Wraxall, à la coureur-de-bois--eh?"

I motioned feebly for him to find a chair beside my bed, and he sat
down, still holding my hand in his.

"Now," I said, "explain to me all that has happened. The doctor tells
me what I ask, but I have had little inclination to hear much. I like
you, Mr. Duncan. Tell me everything."

"You mean--about Sir William?" he asked, gently.

"Yes--but that last of all," I muttered, choking.

After a silence he straightened up, unhooked his sword, and laid it
against the wall. Then, settling comfortably back in his chair, he
clasped his hands over his white gaiters and looked at me.

"You must know," he said, "that Colonel Guy Johnson is now
superintendent of Indian affairs in North America for his Majesty. He
has appointed as deputies Colonel Claus and Colonel John Butler--"

"Who?" I exclaimed.

"Colonel Butler," repeated Mr. Duncan; "you remember him, don't you?"

"Yes, I remember him," I replied; "where is he?"

"He and Joseph Brant are organizing the loyalists and Indians north of
us," said Mr. Duncan, innocently. "This border war in Virginia has set
the Six Nations afire. Many of our Mohawks have slipped away to join
Logan and Sowanowane against this fellow Cresap who murdered Logan's
children; the others are restless and sullen. There was but one man in
the world who could have controlled them--"

He paused.

"I know it," said I. "You mean Sir William."

"Ay, Mr. Cardigan, I mean Sir William. Well, well, there is no help
now. It is Sir John Johnson's policy to win over the savages to our
side; but I often think Sir William knew best how to manage them. It
will be dreadful, dreadful! I for one wish no such allies as are
gathering north of us under Joseph Brant and Colonel Butler."

"Why do you not say as much to Sir John?" I asked.

"I? What weight would my opinion carry? I have said often to those who
ask me that I would give all I possess to see the savages remain
neutral in this coming strife."

"Do you also believe it is coming?"

"Surely, surely," he said, lifting his hand solemnly. "Mr. Cardigan,
you have been away, and have also been too ill to know what passes at
our very doors. You are ignorant of the passion which has divided
every town, village, and hamlet in Tryon County--ay, the passion which
has turned neighbours to bitterest foes--the passion which has turned
kinship to hatred--which sets brother against brother, son against
father!

"Our village of Johnstown yonder seethes and simmers with Tory against
Whig, loyalist against rebel. Houses are barricaded; arms stored,
stolen, and smuggled; seditious words uttered, traitorous songs sung,
insults flung in the faces of the King's soldiers. We of the Royal
Americans receive the grossest epithets; curses and threats are flung
in our teeth; sentries on guard are mocked and reviled; officers
jeered at in tavern and street.

"I do not believe such fierceness would betray itself if the question
here were but the old Boston grievance--the ancient protest against
taxing people without the people's consent. No, it is not the wrangle
between Parliament and colonies that has brought the devil's own
confusion into Tryon County; it is the terrible possibility that one
or the other side may let loose the savages. We of Tryon County know
what that means. Small wonder then, I say, that the rebels curse us
for swine and dogs and devils incarnate because we are slowly gaining
the good-will of the Six Nations."

He wiped his face with a laced hanker and pressed his temples,
frowning.

"Yet," he said, "the rebels, too, would doubtless use the savages
against us if they could win them over. Sir John says so. That is why
he sent Thayendanegea and Colonel Butler to recruit in the north. They
say that Captain Walter Butler is with Cresap. I don't know; I have
not seen him in months."

"I know," said I, quietly.

"Doubtless you met him then at Cresap's camp?"

"Doubtless."

Mr. Duncan waited a moment, then laughed.

"You were ever a man to keep your own counsel," he said.

"What have you heard from Cresap's men?" I asked.

"Nothing save that the war is a fierce one. An express came in
yesterday with news that the Cayugas had been terribly whipped by the
backwoodsmen under Andy Lewis, somewhere near the Great Kanawha. The
express rider got it from some of Cresap's men, but it may not be
true."

After a silence I asked him what month of the year it now was. I had
noticed yellow leaves outside.

"October," he said, pityingly; "did you not know it?"

I tried to realize the space of time which had been wiped out from my
memory.

"When did Sir William--die?" I muttered, painfully.

Mr. Duncan looked at me with tears in his eyes.

"On Monday, the 11th of July."

"Tell me--all," I motioned, with quivering lips.

"It is history," he said, simply. "I will tell you what I heard and
what I witnessed.

"On the 1st of July we received news of the murder of Bald Eagle, a
friendly Delaware chief. Rumour had it that one of my Lord Dunmore's
agents had slain the old man, but that, of course, is preposterous. It
is hard to sift truth out of rumours. Why, the wildest statements were
openly made in some taverns that young Walter Butler had murdered the
old man. What reason could Walter Butler have to slay a friendly chief
in Pennsylvania?"

"Go on," I said, grimly.

"Well, then, this murder was committed while the poor old man was
sitting in his canoe on one of the streams near Fort Pitt. After
tearing the scalp from the old man the murderer set him afloat in his
canoe. The ghastly progress of the dead was seen by Indians and
whites, and the news, following the report of the outrage on Logan by
that creature Daniel Greathouse, roused the Six Nations to fury.

"You know that even after the Logan outrage Sir William had held back
the warriors of the Long House; but this fresh crime drove them
frantic. They might still have held off had not Bald Eagle been
scalped, but you know, Mr. Cardigan, that the Six Nations always
regard the scalping of a murdered person as a national act, not an
individual one, and always accept it as a declaration of war."

"I know," I said.

"The sachems of the Long House," continued Mr. Duncan, "immediately
notified Sir William that they desired to see him without delay. When
you think, Mr. Cardigan, that the murders of Logan's children and of
Bald Eagle touched every clan tie in the Six Nations, nothing could
prove more clearly the marvellous influence of Sir William over the
savages than the fact that their first impulse was not to seize
hatchet and knife and begin an indiscriminate butchery of our people,
but to solicit a conference with Sir William, so that they might state
their wrongs calmly and ask his advice. Lord! Lord! A great man died
in last July; and who can take his place?"

Again he wiped his brow and clasped his gaitered knees with his hands.

"In two days," he resumed, "two hundred Onondagas came here, with
intelligence that four hundred more were on their way. Then they came
in hordes--Mohawks, Senecas, Cayugas, and Oneidas. From morning till
night Sir William was engaged in talking with them, persuading and
promising and exerting himself tirelessly to hold the gathering
tempest in check.

"He was even then far from well; his old trouble had returned; he
could scarcely drag himself up here to this room when night came. Yet
he said to me, after an exhausting conference with the Oneidas, 'Mr.
Duncan, I have daily to combat with thousands of white men who, by
their avarice, cruelty, or indiscretions, are constantly counteracting
all my judicious measures with the Indians. It is not the Indians I
blame. I shall persevere: the occasion requires it; and I shall never
be without hope till I find myself without that influence which has
never yet forsaken me.'

"'That influence is built up on your personal honour,' I said; 'it can
never forsake you.'

"He smiled--you know his rare smile, Mr. Cardigan--"

Mr. Duncan almost broke down; my eyes were dry and throbbing.

"On the 7th of July," he resumed, "we had a thousand Indians assembled
here at the Hall. The sachems and chiefs were earnestly pleading for
the congress. Sir William was sick abed and suffering pitifully, but
he rose and refused to listen to Doctor Pierson, saying that the
congress should never be delayed by anything but his own death.

"The weather was frightfully hot; nearly the whole of the first day
was occupied by the speech of Senhowane, a Seneca chief, who made out
a bitter case against the white people of Cresap's command. A Cayuga
war-chief followed the Seneca, speaking until the moon rose.

"The next day was the Sabbath. Sir William lay abed all day, unable to
see for the frightful pains in his head. Yet the next day, at
half-past nine in the morning, Sir William was at the fire, belts in
hand.

"Never, never, Mr. Cardigan, had any one heard him speak with such
eloquence. Sick unto death as he was, he stood there in the burning
July sun, hour after hour, in the cause of peace. He spoke with all
the fire and vivacity of youth; his words held the savages' grave and
strained attention until the end."

Mr. Duncan paused, staring at space as though to fix that last scene
in his mind forever.

"I was commanding the escort," he said. "My men saluted as the Indians
left the congress. When the last chief had disappeared, I saw that Sir
William was in distress, and ran to him. He lurched forward into my
arms. I held him a moment. He tried to speak, but all he could say
was, 'Tell Michael I am proud--of--him,' and then fell back full
weight. We got him to the Hall and laid him on the library couch. A
gillie rode breakneck for Sir John, who was at the old fort nine miles
away. Mistress Molly had gone to Schenectady; there remained no one of
his own kin here."

Mr. Duncan leaned forward, with his face in his hands.

"Sir John came too late," he said; "Sir William died utterly alone."

As I lay there I could hear the robins chirping outside, just as I had
so often heard them from the school-room. Could this still be the same
summer? Years and years seemed to have slipped away in these brief
months between May and October.

"Where is he buried?" I asked.

"In the vault under the stone church he built in the village. When you
can walk--we will go."

"I shall walk very soon now," said I.

After a moment I asked who had succeeded Sir William.

"In title and estate Sir John succeeds him," said Mr. Duncan, "but the
King has conferred the intendancy of Indian affairs on Colonel Guy
Johnson."

"Is he as close a friend as ever of Colonel Butler and Joseph?"

"Quite. Joseph Brant is a special deputy, too."

"Then God save our country," I replied, calmly, and closed my eyes.

Lying there, thinking, I saw for a moment into that red horror called
the future--which now, thank God, is already the past.

"When Sir John returns from Boston you will hear the will read," said
Mr. Duncan.

"When does he return?" I asked, opening my eyes.

"To-morrow, we hope."

"Why did he go?"

"I do not know," said Mr. Duncan, frankly.

"Why did he take Miss Warren?"

"I'm sure I do not know," he answered.

"Will she return with him?"

"I cannot say--but I suppose she will," replied Mr. Duncan, looking
curiously at me.

"The doctor says she will not return with Sir John."

"Ah!"

"Why?"

"Lord, lad, I don't know!" he exclaimed, amused.

"Did Miss Warren see me while I was ill?"

"Ay, that she did," he cried. "She never left you; they could not drag
her away to eat enough to keep a bird alive. She hung over you, she
followed the doctor, holding to his sleeve and asking questions till
the good man nigh lost his senses. And all the time Sir John was
fuming and impatient to be off to Boston, but Miss Warren would not
go until the doctor was able to promise on his sacred honour that you
were not only out of danger, but that you would recover completely in
mind and body."

"And then?" I muttered.

"Why, then Sir John would no longer be denied, and she must needs
journey with him to Boston. I know that she herself did not understand
why she was going, except that some legal affairs required her
presence."

"And she left no word for me?"

"None with me. I heard her ask Sir John how soon you would be able to
read if she wrote you, but Sir John shook his head without reply. Then
she asked the doctor, and I think he told Miss Warren she might write
in October if she remained in Boston as long as that. So, doubtless,
the express is already galloping up the old post-road with your
letter, Mr. Cardigan."

Presently--for I was becoming very tired--I asked about the two
forest-runners who had brought me hither, not mentioning their names
for prudence sake.

"I don't know where they are," said Mr. Duncan, rising to buckle on
his sword. "The little, mild-spoken man disappeared the day that Sir
John and Miss Warren left for Boston. The other, the big, swaggering
fellow, abandoned by his running-mate, seemed astonished, and hunted
about the village for a week, swearing that there was foul play
somewhere, and that his comrade would never willingly have deserted
him. Then our magistrate, Squire Bullock, was stopped and robbed on
the King's highway--ay, and roundly cursed for a Tory thief--by this
same graceless giant in buckskin who brought you here. They sought for
him, but you know how those fellows travel. He may be in Quebec now,
for aught I know--the impudent rascal."

After a moment I said, "Miss Warren, you say, cared for me while I lay
ill?"

"Like a mother--or fond sister."

I closed my eyes partly.

He looked down at me and pressed my hand.

"I have tired you," he said, gently.

"No, you have given me life," I answered, smiling.




CHAPTER XX


Long before Sir John returned, or, indeed, long before we had any word
from him, I was dressed and making hourly essays at walking, first in
the house, then through the door-yard to the guard-house, where I
would sit in the hot sun and breathe the full-throated October winds.
Keen and sweet as apple-wine, the air I drank warmed and excited me;
my eyes grew clear and strong, my lean cheeks filled, my wasted limbs
once more began to bear me with the old-time lightness and delight.

Too, I found myself at times nosing the wind with half-closed eyes,
like a young hound too long kennelled, or sometimes listening, yet
lost in reverie, as hounds listen on winter nights, drowsing by the
dull fire.

A hundred little zephyrs that knew me whispered to me through open
windows. At night I caught the faint echo of the breezes' laughter
under the eaves; sometimes I heard the big wind stirring the dark
pines, so far away that none but I could hear it playing with the baby
breezes.

They were little friendly breezes, the spirits of spirits, with
dainty, familiar voices, too delicate to frighten the birds they
sometimes gossiped with. Even the slate-gray deer-mouse, with his
white belly, feared not my little friends, the winds; for oft I heard
him, in the creamy October moonlight, tuning his tiny elfin song to
the night wind's fluting.

On warm, spicy days Mr. Duncan and I would seek the stone church,
sitting silent for hours in the purple and crimson rays of the stained
window, watching the golden dust-bands slanting on the tomb.

The resentment of bitter grief had died out in my heart; sorrow had
been purged of selfishness; I felt the calm presence of the dead at my
elbow where'er I went. Strength and quiet came to me in voiceless
communion; high resolve, patience, and hope were bred within me under
the serene glow of those jewelled panes. On the gray-stone slab at my
feet, dreaming, I read the story of a noble life, "Keep faith with all
men," and here, in silence, I sought to read and understand the
changeless laws which shelter souls and mark the mile-stones of a
blameless life.

When the southwest sun hung gilding the clover, over miles of upland I
passed, as I had roamed with him, twisting the bronzing sweet-fern
from its woody stem, touching the silken milk-weed to set free its
floss, halting, breast-deep in crimsoning sumach, to mark the
headlong, whirling covey drive through the thorns into the purple
dusk.

His hounds bayed from their kennels; there was no one to cast them
free; and the red fox throttled the fowls by moonlight; and the lynx
squalled in the swamp. His horses trampled the stables till the oak
floors, reverberating, hummed thunder; there was no one to bit and
bridle them; the moorland clover swayed untrodden in the wind, and the
dun stag stamped the crag.

Night and day the river rushed to the sea; night and day the brooks
prattled to their pebbles, the slim salmon lay in the pools, the lithe
trout stemmed the gravel-rifts; but never a line whistled in the
silence, and never a scarlet feather-fly sailed on the waters among
the autumn leaves.

Yet, though land and water were lonely without him, I was not lonely,
for he walked with me always over the land he had known, and his voice
was in the soft, mild winds he loved so well.

With the memory of Silver Heels it was different. Every scented stem
of sweet-fern was redolent of her; every grass-blade quivered for her;
the winds called her all day long; the brooks whispered, "Where is
Silver Heels?"

Through our old play-grounds, in the orchard, on the stairs, through
the darkened school-room I followed, haunting the vanished
footsteps--gay, light, flying feet of the child I had loved so long,
unknowing.

Her stocks stood outside the nursery door; the brass key was on the
nail. In her dim chamber hung the scent of lavender, while through the
half-closed shutters a faint freshness crept, stirring the ghostly
curtains of her bed.

Wistfulness, doubt, tenderness, and sadness came and went like
sun-spots on an April day. I waited with delicious dread for her
return; I fretted, doubted, hoped, all in the same quick heart-beat,
which was not all pain. Only that ghost of happiness which men call
hope I knew in those long autumn days alone among the haunts of varied
yesterdays.

When the golden month drew near its end, amid the dropping glory of
the maple-leaves, one sun-drenched morning I awoke to hear the drums
and pipes skirling the march of "Tryon County Men":

     "Hark to the horn in the dawn o' the morn!
       Rally, whoever ye be;
     For it's down Derry Down, and it's over the lea,
     And it's saddle and bridle as sure as you're born!
     Scattered and trampled and torn is the corn
       As we ride to the war in the morning;
         Down Derry Down!
         Down Derry Down!
       For we ride to the war in the morning!"

"Officer o' the guard! Turn out the guard!" bawled the sentry under my
window. As I looked out the drums came crashing past, and behind them
tramped the Highlanders, kilts and sporrans swinging, firelocks aslant
and claymore blades shining in the sun.

It was the new regiment organized by Sir John, picked men all, and
fierce partisans of the King, weeded from the militia regiment lately
disbanded at Johnstown by order of Governor Tryon.

Behind them, fifes squealing the "Huron," came the reorganized
battalion of yeomanry, now stripped clean of rebel suspects, and
rechristened "Johnson's Greens;" stout, brawny yokels with hats askew
and the green cockade veiled in crape, their hunting-shirts caped
triple and fringed deep in green wool, their powder-horns tasselled
and chased in silver gilt.

I watched them swinging north into the purple hills for their month's
training, the new order having arrived some eight days since from
Governor Tryon.

Leaning there in the casement, wrapped in my dressing-gown, I saw
Colonel Guy Johnson ride up to the block-house, dismount, and call
out Mr. Duncan. Then began a great bustle among the soldiers, for what
reason I did not understand, until a knocking at my door brought a
gillie with Colonel Guy Johnson's compliments, and would I dress in my
uniform to receive Sir John, who was expected for breakfast.

My heart began to beat madly; could it be possible that Sir John had
brought Silver Heels, after all? Doctor Pierson had said that she
would remain for the present in Boston; but perhaps Doctor Pierson did
not know everything that went on in the world.

To crush back hope from sheer dread of disappointment was a thankless
task and too much for me. I dressed in my red uniform, tied my silver
gorget, hung my sword, and drew on my spurred boots. Standing by the
mirror, pensive, I thought of my delight in these same clothes when
first I wore them for Sir William. Alas! alas! The gilt lace dulled
under my eyes as I looked; the gorget tarnished; the spurs rang sadly
in the silence. I twisted a strip of crape in my hilt, shook out the
black badge on my sleeve, and went down-stairs, very soberly, in the
livery of the King I must one day desert. Perhaps I was now wearing it
for the last time. Well, such things matter nothing now; true hearts
can beat as freely under a buckskin shirt as beneath the jewelled
sashes of the great.

As I reached the porch Mr. Duncan came hurrying past, buttoning his
gloves.

"Sir John is in the village," he said, returning my salute, "and he
has an escort of your regiment at his back. My varlets yonder need
pipe-clay, but I dare not risk delay."

"Where is Colonel Guy?" I asked, but at that moment he came out of the
stable in full uniform, and Mr. Duncan and I joined him at salute. He
barely noticed me, as usual, but gave his orders to Mr. Duncan and
then looked across the fields towards the village.

"Is Felicity with Sir John?" I inquired.

"No," he answered, without turning.

My throat swelled and my mouth quivered. Where was she, then? What did
all this mean?

"By-the-by," observed Colonel Guy, carelessly, "Sir John has chosen
another aide-de-camp in your place. You, of course, will join your
regiment at Albany."

I looked at him calmly, but he was again gazing out across the fields.
So Sir John, who had never cared about me, had rid himself of me. This
brought matters to a climax. Truly enough, I was now wearing my red
uniform for the last time.

I looked across the yellowing fields where, on the highway, a troop of
horse had come up over the hill and were now galloping hither in a
veil of sparkling dust. I watched them indifferently; the drums at the
guard-house were sounding, beating the major-general's salute of two
ruffles; the horsemen swept up past the ranks of presented firelocks
and halted before the Hall.

And now I saw Sir John in full uniform of his rank, badged with
mourning, yet all a-glitter with medals and orders, slowly dismount,
while gillie Bareshanks held his stirrup. Alas! alas! that he must be
known by men as the son of his great father!--this cold, slow man,
with distrustful eyes and a mouth which to see was to watch. His very
voice seemed to sound a warning in its emotionless monotony; his lips
said, "On guard, lest we trick you unawares."

Sir John greeted Colonel Guy, holding his hand and dropping into low
conversation for a few moments. Then, as I gave him the officers'
salute, he rendered it and offered his hand, asking me how I did.

I had the honour to report myself quite recovered, and in turn
inquired concerning his own health, the health of Aunt Molly, and of
Silver Heels; to which he replied that Mistress Molly with Esk and
Peter was in Quebec; that Felicity was well; that he himself suffered
somewhat from indigestion, but was otherwise in possession of perfect
health.

He then presented me to several officers of my own regiment, among
them a very young cornet, who smiled at me in such friendly fashion
that my lonely heart was warm towards him. His name was Rodman
Girdwood, and he swaggered when he walked; but so frankly did he
ruffle it that I could not choose but like him and smile indulgence on
his guileless self-satisfaction.

"They don't like me," he said, confidentially, as I took him to my own
chamber so that he might remove the stains of travel. "They don't
like me because I talk too much at mess. I say what I think, and I say
it loud, sir."

"What do you say--loud?" I asked, smiling.

"Oh, everything. I say it's a damned shame to send British troops into
Boston; I say it's a doubly damned shame to close the port and starve
the poor; I say that Tommy Gage is in a dirty business, and I, for
one, hope the Boston people will hold on until the British Parliament
find their senses. Oh, I don't care who hears me!" he said, throwing
off his coat and sword and plunging into the water-basin.

His servant came to the door for orders, but Girdwood bade him let him
alone and seek a pot o' beer in the kitchen.

"I trust I have not shocked your loyalty, Mr. Cardigan," he said,
using a towel vigorously.

"Oh no," I laughed.

"I don't mean to be discourteous," he added, smoothing his ruffled
lace; "but sometimes I feel as though I must stand up on a hill and
shout across the ocean to Parliament, 'Don't make fools of
yourselves'!"

I was laughing so heartily that he turned around in humorous surprise.

"I'm afraid you are one of those disrespectful patriots," he said. "I
never heard a Tory laugh at anything I said. Come, sir, pray repeat
'God save the King'!"

"God save"--we began together, then ended--"our country!"

I looked at him gravely. He, too, had grown serious. Presently he held
out his hand. I took it in silence.

"Well, well," he said, "I had little thought of finding a comrade in
our new cornet."

"Nor I in the Border Horse," said I, quietly.

He turned to the mirror and began retying his queue ribbon. After a
twist or two the smile came back to his lips and the jauntiness to his
carriage.

"It's all in a lifetime," he said. "Lord, but I'm hungry, Cardigan!
Honest Abraham, I haven't broken a crust since we left Schenectady!"

"Come on, then," I said; "we subalterns must not keep our superiors,
you know."

"They wouldn't wait for us, anyway," he said, following me
down-stairs to the breakfast-room, into which already Sir John and his
suite were crowding.

The breakfast was short and dreary. Sir John's unsympathetic presence
had never yet warmed even his familiars to gayety. Those who were
under his orders found him severe and unbending; his equals, I think,
distrusted him; but his superiors saw in him a latent energy which
they believed might be worth their control some day, and so studied
him carefully, prepared for anything from fidelity to indifference,
and even, perhaps, treachery.

Benning, major in the Border Horse, strove indeed to liven the
breakfast with liberal libations and jests, neither of which were
particularly encouraged by Sir John. As for Colonel Guy Johnson, he
brooded in his dish, a strange, dark, silent man who had never, to my
knowledge, shown a single human impulse for either good or evil. He
was a faultless executor of duty intrusted, obeying to the letter, yet
never offering suggestions; a scrupulously clean man in speech and
habit; a blameless husband, and an inoffensive neighbour. But that was
all, and I had sooner had a stone idol as neighbour than Colonel Guy
Johnson.

The living Johnsons seemed to be alike in nature. I do not even now
understand why I thought so, but I sometimes believed that they had,
deep in them, something of that sombre ferocity which burned in the
Butlers. Yet to me they had exhibited nothing but the most passionless
reserve.

When the gloomy breakfast was ended, Colonel Guy Johnson conducted his
guests to the porch, where they made ready for the inspection of our
two stone block-houses and the new artillery in the barracks, sent
recently by Governor Tryon at Sir John's request.

Supposing I was to follow, as I no longer remained aide-de-camp to the
major-general, I started off with Rodman Girdwood, but was recalled by
a soldier, who reported that Sir John awaited me in the library.

Sir John was sitting at the great oak table as I entered, and he
motioned me to a seat opposite. He held in his hands a bundle of
papers, which he slowly turned over and over in his fingers.

He first informed me that he had selected another aide-de camp, not
because he expected to find me unsatisfactory, but because it was most
desirable that young, inexperienced officers should join the colours
as soon as possible. He said that the times were troublous and
uncertain; that sedition was abroad in the land; that young men needed
the counsel of loyal authority, and the example and discipline of
military life. He expected me, he said, to return to Albany with the
squadron which had served him as escort.

