promised to teach me. They are all so kind. And they 
will come down here for me.’’ 
Was Claire so kind? Did Angel mean to like her very 
much ? 
“The swing is put up properly,” said Viny. “It is so 
delicious and shady. Will you come? You can fly 
almost up to the tops of the trees like a bird.” 
.Sylvie ran away eagerly. 
Gervaise paced up and down the veranda. Claire’s 
bewitching tones sounded in his ears, and he could see 
her soft, alluring eyes. It was the first time any one out 
of his own circle had moved him to admiration. 
“Angel,” pausing suddenly before her as she was 
mastering a difficult stitch in embroidery. “Angel, that 
marriage may prove to be an awkward thing after all. 
I suppose the Perrier estates were in the mind of the 
Marquise. What children we all were then? And now 
there may be no Du Chatilly, nor Brienne, either. But 
if Sylvie should grow up thinking, believing ” 
“She will understand presently. Barbe and I have de- 
cided to let her talk as little as possible about it. There 
is nothing but waiting until she is older.” 
“Of course — if I can find Hugh — and then suppose he 
should repudiate the matter? It was only by the priest, 
and we are not of that faith. Angel, who kept the con- 
tract — the parchment we all signed?” 
Angelique looked up in surprise. “Why, I do not 
know. The priest rolled it up — I can see his long, thin 
fingers now,” and a shiver went over her. “Barbe must 
have it.” 
If Hugh should not be alive, and if Sylvie insisted — 
But he was quite free. There really was no question of 
honor or fidelity. 
Angel asked Barbe an hour or so later. 
“The parchment that we all signed ! And no one read 
it, either aloud or to himself. What a piece of work! 
I am quite sure the priest took it with him. But why 
he should want to It’s queer business and if Sieur 
Hugh comes to us it must be as he wills. A child’s 
fancy may change many times. Let us not worry. It 
is ill carrying loads to the top of the hill that are meant 
for the valley.” 
As for Angelique she looked simply ravishing in the 
white frock with the lace about her shoulders, and the 
broad sash that shortened the waist and gave an exquisite 
contour to the girlish bust. Viny, who was lady’s maid 
as well, had done her dark hair in a great coil on the top 
of her head and fastened a rose spray that drooped dowm 
on her shoulder. Sylvie was wild with delight, and 
danced about her with a child’s gayety. 
The house in the Rue Royale had all the windows 
aglow and sent golden gleams out through the veranda 
vines. In one comer were stationed the four violins 
that were discoursing sweet music even now. There 
were several rooms that could be thrown into one ; there 
was some grand faded furniture, and quaint old pictures 
in costumes of a hundred years agone. The floors were 
polished ; there was a wealth of flowers everywhere. 
Madame Henriade had been a widow for years. 
Married out of hand to a man she had only seen twice, 
she had, for seven years, been a docile wife. Since then 
she had revelled in her liberty, but it was not license. 
A little, brown, wrinkled elderly woman was her constant 
companion, and she had somehow wrested from society 
a certain right to entertain Americans as well as her com- 
patriots, the French, and the Spanish grandees beside the 
Creole gentlemen ; but she was careful not to clash. Every- 
body who came was suave and amiable under Madame’s 
laughing, languishing eyes, even if they quarrelled the 
next day in the street. To be invited was an honor no 
one thought of refusing. And having heard M. Lava- 
lette’s enthusiastic description of these refugees and the 
dangers they had passed, she must see the pretty girl and 
the attractive young man. 
Only two or three times in her young life had 
Angelique partaken of pleasures. Never quite like this. 
Even the elder women who had come with daughters and 
nieces were gay and vivacious, and had odd little stories 
to tell that were clean and wholesome and full of fun. 
For enjoyment was the watchword. Madame had the 
rare art of keeping her guests alive — of never allowing 
the interest to flag. Cards had more amusement here 
than elsewhere. But Madame never allowed gaming 
at these evenings. 
If Madame Lavalette was a delightful hostess, what 
word or commendation could do justice to Madame 
Henriade, the young fellow thought? There was some- 
thing magnetic in the touch of her hand. It was not 
lily-white — she was not fair herself — but of that soft hue 
which is not olive, but a kind of sun-brown, with the rich 
red blood shining through. The little hand was brown 
and dimpled, and had the softness of velvet. When she 
talked with it you could easily translate its meanings. 
“I am charmed to see you,’’ she said, with smiles in 
which you could feel the earnestness. “You have been 
quite a hero, in my mind.” 
“Indeed, I did nothing heroic,” he protested. “It was 
our good Dutch Captain who gave up all he had and 
beggared himself for our lives. And we just accepted.” 
“Then I should like to see him, too,” smiling. “It is 
not so many who escape those terrible pirates. One can 
hardly believe any good of them. And your pretty 
cousin — how could they let her escape ?” 
“Oh, that was the captain’s thought, as well. Yes, he 
and Madame Champe engineered it through most suc- 
cessfully. But we might have perished even then if a 
kindly American captain had not seen our signal of dis- 
tress. It seems an adventurous world, Madame. And I 
have a still further quest on my mind. The cousin, who 
is the head of the house, is somewhere here in America 
and I must go in search of him.” 
“Ah, that is like the lost needle in the hay, unless you 
know. Ought I to give you my best hope? You are 
over young ” 
He laughed lightly. “How many of the explorers and 
discoverers were quite as young! Oh, Madame, there 
are such wonderful tales told of them that it fires one’s 
blood. Are the heroic times gone? Are the heroes in 
the graves of De Bienville, and Du Salle and Tonti?” 
“You shall come and talk of them some day and tell 
me of your cousin. Now, I must find the prettiest girl 
for you to dance with, for you have a dancing mark in 
your shapely figure.” 
“That would be impossible, Madame, where all are 
so pretty,” and he smiled as he made an inclination of 
the head. “But I asked the favor of Mademoiselle 
Claire ” 
“Ah, I see !” nodding in a satisfied way. “Mam’selle 
Claire is an astute general ; she leads. Go your way, then, 
and come back to me. Now I must provide for your 
cousin, who is French to her finger-tips.” 
Angelique already had some bees buzzing about the 
fresh sweetness. How fascinating it all was ! Women 
in quaint and pretty gowns and soft laces; a sprinkling 
of officers, for though it was sometimes half suspected 
plots were hatched in the vine-clad corners and secrets 
leaked out, it could never be said that Madame evaded 
any courtesy due government officials. 
Ah, how delightful to dance with the fervor of youth ! 
Gervaise was thrilled with happiness in every pulse 
when Claire smiled upon him, which she did with such 
fascinating innocence. And when she danced with some 
one else he was plunged into momentary darkness and 
anguish. But then, here was another bewitching de- 
moiselle who talked her half-French with the sweetest 
Spanish accent, and mixed up both languages in a dis- 
tracting manner, while her soft dark eyes pleaded for in- 
dulgence. 
‘T must learn Spanish,” he announced, laughingly. 
“But you talk such exquisite French, M’sieu. We are 
always glad, for, see, it is to be the language of our be- 
loved province some day.” 
Gervaise shook his head. “There are all the French. 
And the Creoles — then the Americans ” 
“But they are English and ” she made a gesture of 
disdain. “They are pushing upstarts. Let them keep 
their side of the river. They cannot dance. They are 
boors !” 
The violins blew out some soft wailing notes on the 
perfumed air. The young girls went meekly back to 
mother and aunts with an air of having done their duty 
to their hostess. Ah, what beguiling demureness ! Then 
a preliminary flourish — another measure to thrill the 
pulses — and young men were beseeching again, young 
girls studying the faces of their chaperons, then floating 
off in waves of delight. 
The refreshments were of the simplest order. Small 
tables were brought out on the verandas, and the gay chat 
charmed the young fellow. There were girls besides 
Claire Lavalette he found. 
‘Was it very nice?” asked Sylvie of Angel the next 
morning. “Did you dance. And I hope Mam’selle 
Claire did not have any prettier frock than yours.” 
“It was beautiful — some thin pink stuff with black lace. 
And there were so many splendid frocks and fine ladies. 
Madame Henriade is enchanting, did you not think so, 
Gervaise?” 
“She is perfect, and so cordial. Barbe, we are asked to 
go and take a little dinner with her, quite by ourselves, 
and a walk. She is coming to pay you a call.” 
“Is she prettier than Madame ?” 
“She is quite different. Madame Lavalette is im- 
posing; Madame Henriade is a little smaller, quite slim, 
indeed, and very graceful. And her hands really talk ; 
she can express so much with them. She is not fair, and 
real French, not Creole. They talk in a such a queer 
fashion and get their sentences mixed. But Madame 
Henriade is perfect.” 
Sylvie sighed to think she was not grown-up. 
“And does Claire dance beautifully?” 
“Yes,” answered Gervaise. “But they all do. I hope 
some one will ask us soon again. And did you remark 
that tall thin young Creole that danced twice with you, 
Angel? He is related to the brave young De Noyan, 
who was in the uprising against the Spanish in ’69. 
And to think that he had just married the lovely 
daughter of Lanfreniere. They tell such a pathetic 
story about him. Friends had planned for his escape, 
and, while the Governor General would not listen to any 
word of pardon, it was said he would wink at the flight. 
But heroic De Noyan replied that he would live and die 
with his associates, and that their only crime had been 
love of their own country. But he came of the De 
Bienville heroes.” 
‘T liked him very much. I wonder they are not afraid 
to talk so plainly. Ah, how thoroughly French they are 
at heart ! But there is something in the air — one can 
feel it.” 
It was a little curious that New Orleans should have 
struck the first blow against the Spanish power, and have 
dreamed of a republic in the New World. On the 
Atlantic coast there was disaffection among many of the 
colonies at the exactions of England, growing more 
burdensome, as the people expanded and imbibed the 
principles of self-government. And though the leaders 
of that long-ago episode paid the price in their lives, it 
was good seed well sown. All along here and there 
were Spanish settlements; they held Mexico and the 
islands of the Gulf, and many a fair land they had 
drenched in blood. A century and a half later their last 
stronghold was to be wrested from them, and the new 
nation to dominate the fairest portion of America, that 
holds romances enough for all time. 
“I wish you would talk about the pretty people, 
instead,” began Sylvie, petulantly. “And the Rue Royale 
sounds like a palace. Isn't the Governor’s house a 
palace ?” 
Angelique laughed. “Not at all like Paris,” she 
answered. “Oh, Gervaise, do you suppose they will de- 
stroy those beautiful old places? I have not half seen 
Paris myself. And one can’t help dreaming that one 
day we shall all go back ” 
“No, I shall stay here,” declared the child. “I like the 
garden and the beautiful fields and the figs and apricots. 
And Father Antoine is so funny.” 
'‘Have a cafe lest Father Antoine converts you,” said 
Gervaise, with teasing pleasantry. 
“I like Viny, but I told her I didn’t believe in the beads 
that she prays to. They are all saints. As if a saint 
would come and live in a bead ! Why, you could smash 
it all to fragments ; you could bury it in the ground, and 
then where would your saint be?” 
“You are a daring little rebel ! But you know we 
agree to let other people think their way. And we knew 
many fine Catholics in France. Then, we have come 
here for refuge, in a certain way, and we must respect the 
laws and customs.” 
“You talk so — so grand I cannot understand you,” she 
returned, with an air of weariness that would have done 
credit to twenty. 
“But you must be a sweet little lady, or you will not 
grow up a big sweet one. They smiled so last evening, 
they said such pretty, gentle things ” 
“Well, if you want to like them so much better than 
you do me, because I am not big and nobody asks me to 
dances ” 
She was half crying as she flounced away. 
Gervaise bit his lip to keep from laughing, yet he 
looked grave and perplexed. She might deride Viny’s 
religion — Viny who was good-natured and adored her 
just as she had adored some others, that being a part of her 
business in life that slaves learned unconsciously ; but 
Father Antoine! He was learning that there was, after 
all, little real liberty of religion under the Spaniard. 
Emigrants who came were allowed their own faith rather 
grudgingly; children born in the province were to be 
baptized in the Church, and educated in the faith and the 
Spanish language. He had found some Huguenots who 
kept to the old faith, and who worshipped in their homes 
and were not molested. But it was the Spaniard’s 
country. 
Gervaise caught Sylvie and turned her about. 
“You naughty little thing,” he said, good-humoredly. 
“Come, kiss and be friends. And you need not even be 
jealous of Mam’selle Claire. The bees hovered about 
her as if she had been made solid of M. de Bore’s sugar. 
I had only two dances that she promised beforehand.” 
“I am not jealous of — of anybody.” There were 
dainty little signs of her yielding. 
“And this afternoon we will all go out and see the queer 
things in the town. Angelique wants to do some shop- 
ping. And I heard Barbe say you must have some new 
frocks.” 
What feminine creature could resist that? She smiled 
and her pretty face dimpled. 
“Is it true?” she cried to Angelique. “Are we to go 
shopping?” 
“Yes. But we must get over some lessons first.” 
“Sylvie went cheerfully. In one corner of the veranda 
where the rain could be shut out by glass doors 
Angelique had arranged a pretty nest. Gervaise and 
Jaques had made her a very convenient desk out of 
some boxes, and a sewing stand with some shelves. The 
young fellow had picked up a few old books, and bor- 
rowed some of M. Lavalette. He was very much in 
earnest, learning both English and Spanish, and had 
found an old Frenchman, who kept a doctor’s office in 
order and gave lessons to eke out the small salary. In 
turn Gervaise imparted his knowledge to Angelique. 
And since there was no school for Sylvie, and a governess 
seemed beyond their reach at present, she taught her and 
found it a really pleasant occupation. 
There were some shops already in the principal streets, 
but those who knew did not depend altogether on these. 
The Spaniard had placed many restrictions on trade that 
were most vexatious, but there was an undercurrent that 
possibly was winked at, or a privilege paid for, perhaps. 
Goods of all kinds were smuggled in. There were so 
many ways in the innumerable bayous where a small boat 
could find shelter in the mass of over-hanging green, and 
take out bales and bundles adroitly covered by some one in 
waiting. It was not only the delta Creoles that coquetted 
with the pirate vessels at Barataria, which brought in 
rich stores from captured vessels, to be resold in the town 
under the very nose of the authorities. 
Madame Lavalette piloted them. Angelique had really 
seen nothing of the town. Here was the plaza, where 
Almonaster had torn down the barracks after the sweep- 
ing fire and rebuilt the old Cabildo, now a handsome and 
pretentious edifice with arched doorways and broad 
paved space, or court, that led to the real entrance, and 
here old New Orleans’ residents greeted each other and 
discussed business or news or pleasure, and watched the 
passers-by. It was two stories, with large circular-head 
windows and iron balconies, and an ornamental cornice 
rising high above. A little further on, two rows of stores 
built of brick with broad tiled roofs and dormer-windows, 
and gay and bright Spanish awnings. This was the 
fashionable retail quarter of the town, and remained so 
for years. 
From the Place d’Armes the streets gave a bright, busy 
aspect for a short distance, then subsided into dwelling 
houses of stucco, a few of brick and still many of wood. 
Some in the glory of new whitewash glaring in the yel- 
low sun ; others toned down to all softened shades of 
ivory until almost brown. Here was the theatre, where 
ladies and children went of an afternoon. There were 
women out promenading, the negro waiting-maid with 
fan and satchel walking gravely behind, now and then 
lifting Madame’s skirt over some puddle. Pretty, gayly 
attired children with their turbaned nurses, some of them 
ordering in autocratic style, or lading the black hands 
with fruit or budgets. Sylvie looked on entranced. 
“And now they came to a curious rambling row with 
the pitch of the roofs all one way, in some instances 
giving a sharp outline to the street, and a curious second- 
floor balcony at the side with a long, shaky stairs to the 
ground. Then a little one-story shanty, one would almost 
call it, only alongside, perhaps for two hundred feet, a 
high wall with a doorway and wire pickets on the top, 
half hidden by beautiful overhanging trees. Gay laughs 
and the tinkling of a guitar told of a charming house- 
hold in the flowered court so secluded. Then a dark, 
unpretentious one-story place with a window beside the 
door, where various stuffs were lying, faded by the 
morning sunshine. 
They walked through rather a narrow passage with a 
counter on one side where there were piles of common 
goods — gay ginghams, jeans, and Madras headkerchiefs 
(greatly admired by the better-class slaves and free 
women of color), coarse cottonades and muslins. 
“We want to inspect some of your nice goods, M’sieu 
Basnage,” said Madame Lavalette, and she led the way 
through an apartment that presented an appearance not 
unlike a modern junk-shop. This again opened on a sort 
of enclosed court that could be shut at will, but was now 
open to the garden, full of fragrant herbs and flowers. 
“Owf, oui, Madame” answered the dark, wrinkled little 
man, whose black eyes sparkled as he rubbed his hands 
together. “Madame is mos’ welcome. And Madame’s 
frien’s,” glancing rather suspiciously. 
' L. of C. go 
“Yes. They are who were taken by pirates, 
and lost all they had except a little that was left behind. 
Very nice, trustworthy people, M’sieu Basnage.” 
“Ah,” with a long, sympathetic intonation. “Dose 
pirates are terreeble,” and he shook his head lugubri- 
ously. “And dey haf anoder name not so bad — what 
you call — privateers? But it is sad, sad, Madame!” 
“So you must give us good bargains, M’sieu Basnage.” 
“Owf, oui/' with a low obeisance. For Madame Lava- 
lette was one of his very best customers. 
Excellent bargains they certainly were, for Barbe had 
shopped not a little for her pretty young mistress, and 
made not a few purchases for the dead Marquise, and 
was a woman of experience. But Angelique was dazzled 
by the display of elegant goods, and no longer wondered 
at the handsome attire she had seen at Madame 
Henriade’s. M’sieu Basnage was very obliging, and ex- 
tremely moderate in his prices. Then, he would send the 
parcels home that very evening; and so they threaded 
their way through the narrow passage again, and almost 
held their noses at the smell of the commoner goods 
reeking with dye-stuffs. 
“Now I am going to the convent to see Zenobie. Little 
one, wilt thou not come and get thy heart’s desire?” and 
Madame smiled at Sylvie. 
The child’s heart was rent almost in twain. . Curiosity 
to see the strange place swept over her like a great wave 
and almost brought out a smile of assent. But she was 
not going to like Zenobie, and she would not lend her 
small countenance to nuns or convents. So she stiffened 
her back. 
“Thanks, Madame, but not to-day. I will go home 
with tante Barbe.” 
“Oh, but you could all come. There are many visitors. 
Except — the young man/’ laughing with peculiar soft- 
ness. 
Sylvie took his hand. She was quite sure and safe in 
the protection of one who could not be allowed within. 
“Madame will excuse us now/’ returned Barbe, in her 
quiet manner. “And accept our thanks. It has been a 
delightful excursion. We shall be most glad to renew it 
at some other opportunity.” 
Zenobie was doing very well, and would be confirmed 
next week. After her first communion she would come 
home as usual. There was a talk about the dress and 
veil, and then Zenobie was allowed a little walk in the 
garden with ma mere. The child was eager to hear about 
these new people who had stayed at Madame Milhet’s. 
For Laure had played off the beauty and sweetness of 
Angelique and Sylvie, and the charming young man. 
“Claire may like the young lady, Angelique,” she said 
to Laure afterward, “but I am just going to hate that 
little upstart, Sylvie! Nurse said she was cross to 
Felice, and she is a Huguenot — a bad, wicked girl, and I 
shall have nothing to do with her. You may like her as 
much as you please, Laure !” 
CHAPTER VIII. 
A YOUNG man walked up the path — a good-looking, 
jaunty fellow of eighteen or so, quite mature, as Southern- 
ers are wont to be — and yet with all the charm of youth- 
fulness, a happy smiling face, curling black hair, and 
dusky black eyes, with a soft shading on his short upper 
lip. He had a slender bamboo cane in his hand with 
which he switched the heads of some tall grasses. A 
mocking-bird in the hedge began a roulade, and he 
whistled an accompaniment. 
“Mo’sieu Aubreton — is he at home?” 
The voice was soft and rich. Jaques looked up from 
the young trees he was pruning and met the smile. Then 
he glanced up to the balcony. 
“Mam’selle Angelique, is Gervaise up there?” 
“No,” answered the clear girl’s voice. “He and Sylvie 
went for a walk.” 
“Will you be seated, M’sieu? I think he will be back 
presently.” 
“Which way did they go ?” 
“Down toward the creek I believe.” 
“I will saunter on. I may meet him.” 
There was a path through the wilderness that some day 
might be made wide enough for a road. All manner of 
things were in a riotous tangle ; there were many such 
places about. Sometimes the friendly Indians made a 
clearing and erected a wigwam, and all around the trees 
would be charred. Willowbrakes and reedy ponds, 
wild ducks, herons, and birds of almost every description 
settled themselves as soon as their natural enemies re- 
moved. Stray bands of Chickasaws, friendly enough if 
one did not trust them too far, or they were not incited 
by the English to venture upon depredations. Over 
westward, large plantations ; up above, settlements of 
Canadian French, or friendly English, who no longer felt 
bound to their own government — they had been neglected 
by it until their friendship was bought by the mighty 
hand of trade. 
Gervaise was very fond of rambling about. The great 
river on one side, the mighty lake on the other; the 
bustling activity, the busy crowds, were only a stone’s- 
throw, it seemed, from the quiet of this wilderness. 
Sylvie started up hosts of birds from the marshy wilds 
by throwing a stone or stick, and laughed to hear the 
screams and calls. 
“They are scolding back,” she cried, gleefully. “Oh, 
Gervaise, look at the beautiful white ones, with their long 
necks. And oh, the babies !” 
The two swans, with their progeny, were floating 
majestically on a space that widened out to a miniature 
lake. Great lilies were abloom at its edges — white, 
yellow, and a pinkish tint. They both stood silent. 
A curious, low, flute-like whistle startled Gervaise. 
He had already heard so many weird and horrible stories 
of runaway slaves, and treacherous Indians hiding in the 
morasses. But no — it might be some strange bird. 
“Is it some one calling to the swans?” inquired the 
child. For the head of the flock suddenly wheeled about, 
stretched out his long neck, and emitted a peculiar hissing 
sound through his pink bill. 
“A snake, more likely. Sylvie, I ought not have 
brought you here ” 
“And not to see the swans ! Oh, if I had some bread 
to feed them with !” 
“You couldn’t get near them. Come.” 
Sylvie gave a defiant curl to her lips and clasped her 
hands behind her. A figure appeared around the clump 
of willows. 
“Aha !” cried a merry voice. 
Gervaise smiled and advanced a few steps. 
“De Longpre,” he exclaimed. “Is it happy accident 
or design ? But you never could have followed our wind- 
ing way.” 
“Something of both. I went to your house. You see 
I can find my way easily. And as I came nearer I 
thought I heard voices. If you had been alone I should 
have gone straight up to Lavalette. 
He laughed a little as he said this, and Gervaise, in 
spite of himself, colored. 
“Your sister?” 
Sylvie had looked shyly out from under her broad hat. 
“No. There are three of us related, and not very 
nearly. I don’t know that I could trace it myself. 
Second or third cousins.” 
“Then is she not even Mademoiselle’s sister?” 
“No; not even that,” was the answer. 
“I belong to Gervaise,” said the child, proudly, as she 
came and slipped her hand in his. 
“A pretty piece of property, truly. Six or eight years 
may tell a different story. I had an errand for fair, 
and it is wonderful that I should find you so easily. I 
am sent from Madame Henriade. She wishes to see you. 
It is to join a pleasure party.” 
“A pleasure party?” in joyous surprise. 
“Yes. You have not been down Point Grasse, Lake 
Pontchartrain. Madame has an old relative, General 
Vilaneuve. Report has it that he adores Madame ; but 
he is quite old enough — no, perhaps not quite for a 
grandfather,” laughing gayly. “Every year he has a 
birthday. It makes one old too fast,” with an airy toss 
of the head. “When I am say — forty, I shall have a 
birthday only once in five years.” 
“Does a birthday make you older every time?” queried 
the child, who had been listening intently, and struck by a 
new thought. 
“I believe they have that bad habit.” 
“Then if you could have two in one year ” it was 
a new way of growing up, and pleased her. 
“It might do very well for little ones like you.” 
“That is what I want it for; just for myself.” 
“And why do you want all these added years ?” 
Sylvie hung her head and glanced shyly at Gervaise, 
who gave a half frown. 
“But about this party?” began the young fellow. 
“Ah, Madame Henriade has to manage — what do you 
call it — chaperon it. And the General is fond of young 
people.” 
“I am such a stranger ” 
“She is giving you a chance. My fine fellow, I was 
jealous this morning when I heard her so enthusiastic. 
And I told her so. ‘Mon fils' she said, ‘have I not been 
considerate of you, finding pretty girls for your partners. 
And now you can choose for yourself.' Which is true. 
She is charming.” 
Henri de Longpre did not add another of her com- 
mendations : “He is a young refugee ; well-bred, well- 
mannered. We need every one to crowd out these push- 
ing Americans. We must bring him into our circle. He 
has the flavor of Paris.” 
Gervaise laughed with some embarrassment. 
“It was delightful — the evening at her house. She 
was most kind.” 
“And I am to bring you back with me.” 
“What ! — to the Rue Royale?” 
“Yes, at once.” 
“Then I must return. You are quite mysterious. 
Come, Sylvie.” 
“No, there is no mystery. Only she does not wish the 
invitation to be quite second-hand. I merely come with 
the message. I proffered my services. Otherwise you 
would have had a little note sent by a messenger.” 
'‘Come, Sylvie,” he said again, without looking back, 
and took a few steps with De Longpre. 
Sylvie was affronted. She made a sudden plunge in 
the thicket. 
“Where is the child? Sylvie !” 
She was shaking with mischievous laughter. From a 
little opening she saw him turn toward the pool, and look 
up and down, in perplexity. 
“Why, it is odd! One might easily get lost in this 
wild.” De Longpre glanced around. 
Gervaise was vexed. “Sylvie,” he cried, authorita- 
tively. “Come hither at once.” 
There was no answer. Then he began to stir among 
the bushes. De Longpre followed his example. 
“I have her. Here she is!” he cried. “Oh, you little 
Mischief! You are a wood nymph wild.” 
The Mischief evaded his hand and ran. There was 
but one clear space, down to the little lake. Up around 
the side of it — she would lead them a chase, for she was 
fleet as a deer. 
Alas! the path was clear, to be sure. But just as she 
turned, her foot caught in a root that had been washed bare 
by frequent inundations, and the impetus sent her face- 
downward in the pool, just as an instant more he must 
have caught her frock. 
The splash startled the swans and there was a great 
outcry. The water that had been tolerably clear was a 
muddy ooze. 
“Just here, Aubreton. Oh, she does not rise. She is 
fast in something. Here, I will wade out ” 
“No, no !” Gervaise stepped into the water. 
“Take this stick. It may be deeper than you think, 
and these places are treacherous.” 
Aubreton felt his way carefully, and then touched 
something that was still making a swirl in the water. 
He stooped and brought up Sylvie, but she did not even 
struggle. 
“Oh, my God, she cannot be dead all in a moment,” 
he cried, holding up a drooping figure. 
“Wash off her face. She went down in the soft mud. 
And she may have struck something.” 
With the skirt of her frock Gervaise washed the mud 
from eyes and mouth and clinging hair ; but she lay there 
limp and still. He chafed the little hands. What did 
one do to a drowned person ? 
“Let us take her home as soon as possible.” 
Gervaise looked at his friend’s white suit and the 
muddy burden before them. 
“No,” he said. “Go as quick as you can and bring 
M’sieu Jaques, and — a hammock. Meanwhile, I may 
bring her to.” 
De Longpre was off like a flash. Gervaise took off 
the pretty apron that had been white but a moment ago, 
and washed it tolerably clean; then bathed her, chafed 
her, rolled her over on a grassy spot. There was no 
bruise on her forehead. Her nose was full of the soft 
ooze; her mouth he had already washed out. Oh, what 
if she were dead — the dear, pretty little thing! and he 
kissed her tenderly — put his hot, flushed cheek to hers. 
Was that a sigh? Then there was a sudden red flash — 
gone in a moment — but it gave him hope. Her heart 
was beating. There was a little flutter in her neck and 
the eyelids — another sigh. 
“Sylvie, Sylvie,” he cried, with ardent longing. 
She was not dead. The sudden quivers ran over her 
and stopped ; started again. Then she opened her eyes 
— beautiful as the sky above. 
“Angel ” she murmured. Then a moment or two 
she studied Gervaise, and struggled to rise. 
“Oh, what is the matter? What makes me so wet and 
cold ? And I feel so queer,” with a great, rending shiver. 
He had not the heart to scold her, though she richly 
deserved it. The sweet face was so pitiful. 
“You fell into the pool ” 
“Oh, oh ! Gervaise ” she threw herself in his arms, 
and began to cry in a heart-breaking fashion. 
He tried to comfort her by endearing terms such as 
Barbe used. But she sobbed on until she was quite 
exhausted, and looked pale as a lily. He was half afraid 
after all. And in all his glowing young life he had never 
seen any one really die — though the Marquise had some- 
times looked dreadful, but not in this lily-whiteness. 
He cuddled the wet little thing in his arms and hushed 
her with a soft, low sound that was not singing. She 
went fast asleep, so soundly — and he was not sure it was 
right; he must study up on some of these things — that, 
when Jaques and the hammock came, they put her 
in it without even waking her, while he was briefly tell- 
ing over the adventure. 
“I would not let your friend come, for he really was 
exhausted. Barbe took him in hand. What a sight you 
are, to be sure. Master Gervaise !” 
“Master!” Gervaise laughed and Jaques colored. 
“Yes. Luckily we do not have to go over public 
ways. Though I have seen people quite as bad down 
on the levee, and they did not seem to mind it.” 
“No doubt. To my thinking, all the mud in the world 
must have been gathered up and dumped here. How do 
you suppose it is, over on the other coast — the States or 
Colonies? And though Amsterdam, and some of the 
other Dutch places are very wet, it is a clean sort of wet. 
I should not have built my town hereabouts.” 
They shouldered their burden, and went their way. 
It was very warm now. Once Gervaise insisted on stop- 
ping to see if Sylvie was still alive. That roused her. 
“Oh, what are you doing?” she cried. “And where 
have I been? I feel stiff and cramped. Let me get out 
and walk. I won’t be carried like a baby !” 
She made it quite impossible for them to carry her and 
they put her down. They were nearing home, so they 
yielded. She looked at her muddy frock, her wet shoes 
and stockings ; and her face was scarlet with shame as 
remembrance rushed over her. 
“Gervaise,” softly, and with compelling sweetness, 
“was I very naughty? I ran a little ways — I — I ” 
and the tears gathered in her lovely pleading eyes again. 
They were enough to undo any one. 
“You did not mean to fall in the pool ! I can believe 
you there. Perhaps that was the punishment for running 
away when I called you to come. That was the 
naughtiness.” 
The charming penitence faded a little in her face, and 
the lips, red enough, now quivered. 
“We were going to have the whole morning, you know 
— you said so. And then he ” nodding her head 
toward the house. 
“You jealous little baggage !” laughingly. 
“I shall not like him. And if he takes you away ” 
“I am going myself, willingly,” with a touch of stern- 
ness. 
“Oh, you do not like me when you meet other people. 
And yet I cannot help loving you. There is no one else 
but Angel and Barbe. Jaques does not care much for 
little girls. And Viny is black ” 
‘T love you when you are not naughty. You are very 
sweet when you are good. And I am not sure I could 
have saved you but for De Longpre. I was sorely in need 
of help.’' 
“Saved me!” There was an incredulity in the eyes, 
and the whole face made a protest. 
“Yes. You went down in the soft mud, on your face. 
You would have strangled very soon. Then you would 
have died.” 
“Oh, I don’t want to die,” shivering with terror. 
“And there are horrid snakes, and — are there any 
alligators ” 
“Not there, dear. Do not think of it.” 
“And did you jump in after me? That is why you 
are so wet and muddy. Oh, I am so glad !” and she 
seized one hand with both of hers, pressing rapturous 
kisses on it. 
He felt a little sorry and annoyed at the eager grati- 
tude, and the utter lack of penitence. 
“Oh, I can’t go up that way I” she cried, suddenly. I 
look like — oh, a thousand times worse than that — what 
was it sat on a rock and combed her hair? You were 
reading about it ! Jaques, run and open the side gate — 
I won’t go and meet everybody ” 
“Yes, do, if you please, Jaques.” Gervaise did not 
exactly care to meet everybody either. There was a 
gate in the high fence always fastened on the inside. 
Jaques went, and they two walked rapidly down to 
the place — almost hidden by trees and vines. They 
could hear the sound of voices on the lower veranda. 
Angelique and Viny hurried along with Jaques. 
'We said a good dozen times Ed grease this old bolt 
with something, if no more than a pork rind. And now 
I’ll do it this very day,” said Jaques, tugging at the 
rusted bar. 
It flew back suddenly and nearly tipped over the man, 
who paused to catch his breath. 
De Longpre’s story had been very vivid, with much 
Spanish translated into French, which made it seem 
more voluble and added to the possibilities of danger. 
Angelique clasped the little girl to her heart now with a 
transport of gratitude ; and Viny’s patois was picturesque 
and pathetic with much invocation of saints. 
'‘But I’m so wet and muddy,” and Sylvie began to cry, 
looking at them helplessly. 
“There, dear, you shall be bathed and dressed ” 
Viny picked her up in her arms and ran up the back 
staircase, uttering words of endearment with every 
breath. 
Gervaise meanwhile made himself presentable, and 
joined his friend, who had been explaining his errand 
and his excuse for carrying off the young man at once. 
“Don’t be too indulgent with Sylvie,” he said now, 
with his usual gayety. “She is very wilful and heed- 
less.” 
Barbe could not forbear kissing her as if she had been 
snatched from some great peril. 
“But you were a very naughty little girl to make so 
much trouble and cause such a fright ! I’m sure I hardly 
know what should be done to you. You ought to be 
punished in some way.” 
“I didn’t mean to fall in the pool, dear Barbe,” and 
her soft arms were about the elder’s neck — her rose-leaf 
cheek, with the delicacy of childhood, pressed against the 
mature one. “Something caught my foot. And, oh. 
III 
Barbe, there were such beautiful swans — baby swans. I 
should like to have them caught and brought here. I 
do not believe they belong to any one else. And such 
great lilies !” 
“But if there had been no one, you would never have 
risen to the surface ” and Barbe shuddered at the 
thought of her beautiful darling buried in the muddy 
pool — torn and disfigured by reptiles. 
“Ah, but I wouldn’t have run then. And we often 
play at running away — Gervaise and I. He lets me 
catch him, for his legs are so long he could get away — 
couldn’t he?” 
“Child, child, what a bother you are ! What shall I 
do with you? When I was a little girl, I was whipped 
when I had been naughty.” 
Sylvie looked very grave ; and after a moment’s pause, 
said, with bewitching gentleness : 
“You may whip me if you want to, Barbe, but I don’t 
believe Gervaise would like it. And — at the convent — 
they kneel on the hard stones and say ever so many 
prayers, and only have bread and water. Barbe,” with 
sudden energy, “I will sew all the afternoon and not 
break my needle nor put in long stitches. And you know 
I hate to sew ” There was a piteous strand in her 
voice, and a pleading light in her eyes. 
“That will be excellent. I should be sorry to have 
you worse than the little Catholic girls, when your re- 
ligion is so much better.” 
“But there are such beautiful saints, Barbe ” 
“And we have saints, too. Oh, child, no end of saints 
and martyrs, as you will learn some day. But we do not 
pray to them. God is taking care of them, and they have 
no more sorrow in heaven. We must thank God for that, 
and be brave and good ourselves — then we shall meet 
them. And your blessed mamma.” 
They went to the dining-room. Viny was setting out 
dishes of fruit, and various confections from Marti’s 
skilful hands. Angelique was looking over a Spanish 
primer. She held out her arms. 
“We must remember it was largely her own fault,” 
remarked Barbe, severely. 
“But we are glad to have her back, and not much the 
worse.” Angelique was strangely moved by the beauti- 
ful, beseeching light in the eyes and the dazzle of the 
golden brown lashes — the small mouth that seemed all 
aquiver with emotion. 
“And I am going to be so good — you will see; I shall 
sew all the long afternoon.” 
“The meal is ready, Madame,” announced Marti. 
The meals had rather puzzled Barbe. At Brienne they 
had been following the earlier Court fashion ; luncheon 
was at eleven and dinner at two, with an elaborate supper 
at six. Here that meal was often called dinner. 
“Where is Gervaise?” asked Sylvie, rather timidly. 
“Oh, has he gone with M’sieu de Longpre ?” 
“I wonder — if ladies are tabooed?” Angelique gave 
a half vexed, half ironical laugh. 
“Then Mam’selle Claire cannot go. It is a great 
house on a lake, and there is to be sailing and dancing; 
I heard them talking. Will the young men dance to- 
gether ? That would be funny !” 
“Not any more than girls dancing together.” 
“And they do at the convent. There are no men or 
boys. But Laure doesn’t dance. She thinks it sinful 
in any one who is going to be a nun ! Oh, I am glad I am 
not to be a nun! It must be very dreary just to teach 
children, and count beads, and say prayers, and not to 
think anything but grave thoughts.” 
“There are plenty of other things. They take care 
of the sick in the hospital ; they visit the poor and teach 
them how to keep their houses and bring up their chil- 
dren, I am not saying all of the adoration is right ; and 
I never could believe beads had any virtue as a go-be- 
tween you and God — or relics, or bones of dead peo- 
ple ” said Barbe. 
“I don’t understand” — and a knot of thoughtfulness 
gathered in Angelique’s forehead — “why we were all to 
be taken to the convent ! The Catholics had no right to 
Brienne.” 
“Jaques heard the plot.” Barbe raised her brows and 
glanced at Sylvie underneath her drooping lids. “There 
was another priest who came with Father Mambert, and 
they talked in the end of the corridor — as I told you. 
Jaques did not set out to listen, but he thought he had a 
right when he heard part of their plan. Whether that 
ceremony was of any account — well, we cannot tell until 
Sieur Hugh comes back,” and Barbe sighed. 
A quick throb of delight warmed Angelique’s heart 
and sent a rosy glow to her face. More than once she 
hugged the hope to her inmost soul that Hugh de Brienne 
would repudiate it utterly. 
“Things were beginning to be so disturbed, you know. 
Ah, yes, it is a good thing to be out of it all, and let all 
the fine estates go;” yet Barbe sighed. “Only, there 
really is no new France. The English have taken Canada, 
and all the colonies are united, it seems ; and here we are 
under Spanish rule. Sometimes I think La Belle France 
will go straight on to destruction, as that grand old Rome 
did that had once conquered nearly the whole world.” 
Sylvie was interested in the deft and pretty fashion 
that Viny was preparing her orange, and crusting it 
over with sugar. Then, she could pull the skin off the 
plums so dexterously that the child laughed to see the 
pale green mass with pink and purple veins lie tempt- 
ingly on her plate. 
‘I never thought much about the government of 
countries,” Angelique began, with an awed air. ‘Tt is 
such a strange, big world ; it frightens me. And one 
can see so much prosperity depends on the wisdom of 
rulers.” 
“But women are not to govern it, child. That is the 
business of men. They study it out.” 
“But women have governed kings, even, and made 
them do many unwise things,” said the girl, sadly. 
Some of the unwise things, as well as the women, were 
not to be discussed with a young girl. Barbe was silent. 
“Angel, did you think M’sieu de Longpre handsome ?” 
Sylvie crowded down the last sweet morsel of plum, but 
her voice had a rather smothered sound. 
“Very good-looking — yes. And elegant manners.” 
“Handsomer than Gervaise ?” 
“Why — that is quite largely as one thinks. Why do 
you wish for a comparison?” 
“What is a comparison?” 
“I believe it is examining the relations of things, with a 
view of discovering their likeness or unlikeness; and 
whether one is better than the other.” 
Sylvie stared, and was swamped in thought for some 
seconds. 
“Gervaise is best,” she said, triumphantly, “so, of 
course, he must be the handsomer. Laure talked of 
M’sieu de Longpre. His name is Henri. He has a 
sister — Hortense.” 
“It is highly improper for little girls to talk so much 
about young men. If that is what they learn in con- 
vents ” 
‘'And then they have to do penance.” 
“Miss Laure is not a good companion for you. I hope 
Mam’selle Zenobie will be better.” 
“Ah, but I am not going to like Zenobie.” 
“You are a spoiled child. I wish we could find a 
gouvernante for you. You need some training,” re- 
turned Barbe, sharply. 
But she was very good all the afternoon. She sewed, 
and it was a great hardship; she read a Spanish lesson, 
and then she went out in the garden with Viny and 
listened to tales of the Indians, that certainly were not as 
pleasant as talks about the young men. 
It was dusk when Gervaise returned. They had not 
only had a talk and an elegant refreshment of fruit, but 
they had strayed about the old town and learned many 
queer things. They had been through the Cabildo ; and, 
' as it was Friday, the Governor was present, as there were 
some important matters on hand. The Alcaldes had the 
ordinary small trials in their chambers — little disputes 
and debts. But to-day, the scene was quite imposing by 
the presence of the Alfercz Real, or Royal Standard- 
bearer, which was still held by that public-spirited Don 
Almonaster. Below him sat various officers, in all the 
pomp and grandeur of their gorgeous robes. And though 
Gervaise could not follow the subject in hand, he thought 
the judicial robes very imposing. 
“And, to-morrow, there will be some marionettes at the 
theatre, to gratify the women and children,” he said. 
“The little old theatre is not very grand, but they have 
some quite good things, I hear. The men go mostly in 
the evening.” 
“But what are ” Sylvie looked puzzled. 
ii
Marionettes ? A kind of puppets or dolls, managed 
by wires, and they do many funny things. You would 
like to go?” smiling to her. 
She looked askance at Barbe. 
“She doesn’t deserve it,” said Barbe. 
Sylvie glanced up with pleading eyes. 
“Angelique will like it, too — will you not, Angel ?” 
To go to a theatre was something quite new. Ange- 
lique’s face was almost as eager as Sylvie’s. 
“To-morrow, then. And so many are out that after- 
noon. Then, we must take some sails and some drives. 
Oh, there is so much to see,” with enthusiastic youth- 
fulness. 
“And Madame Henriade — what was the plan?” 
“That is ten days ofif. Oh, it is going to be quite 
grand. And I was to ask you, Barbe, what day, early in 
the week, it would please you to receive Madame?” 
Barbe looked startled. Being the head of the family, 
when one had not been born to the purple, had its draw- 
backs. 
“Oh, you need not look frightened, my good Barbe. 
Madame is charming and affable, and French,” laugh- 
ingly. “I wonder that Spain can really hold the country. 
And on the Bayou Teche there is a settlement called Little 
Paris. We must go and see that. Perhaps if we do 
settle, we may prefer that.” 
“But we ought to know about Sieur Hugh.” 
The search did not appeal so strongly to Gervaise as 
it had a fortnight ago. After various vicissitudes, 
Michigan had become a part of the colonies ; and Detroit, 
where Cadillac’s brilliant dream of a great city had 
clothed itself in possibility, was no longer French, but a 
mixture of all settlers. And to search for Hugh seemed 
an almost useless proceeding. He would not say so now ; 
it might look idle and cowardly. So he only gave a sigh 
of acquiescence. 
The little old theatre went its way long ago, yet it had 
some gay triumphs in its day. Gaming was the great pas- 
time for the men, as dancing and balls were for the 
young and the women. Of balls there were all 
sorts, from the fine private alYairs that were very select, 
through numerous gradations where halfbreeds con- 
gregated, and indulged in drinking and fighting. 
Intellectual amusement there was none, although 
there were some fine families and educated house- 
holders who had valuable libraries. But Spain had 
never been famous for the higher advancement of 
her people, and though the colony, in some respects, 
had been more profitable than under the earlier French 
auspices, the inhabitants felt that it had been a conquest ; 
and they were in the hands of a power they detested. 
The theatre was largely filled with women and chil- 
dren, many attended by the colored nurse, and most of 
them decked out in their best attire. As for the plays, they 
were of the puerile sort — pantomime, with amusing in- 
cidents ; fights, baffling each other, gaining an advantage, 
laying traps, yet everything having a mirthful sequence 
that called forth much merriment ; even the worsted and 
left-for-dead on the field coming to life again. 
There were so many pretty, bright-eyed children that 
Angelique enjoyed the audience more than the plays. 
Then, there were dances, with an accompaniment of 
