deposit. The jewel-bag was delivered when I presented my printed slip;
I picked it up and marched back, savagely biting my mustache and
striving to control my increasing exasperation. Never before had I
endured insolence from a superior officer.
Mornac was questioning Speed as I entered, and that young man, who has
much self-control to learn, was already beginning to answer with
disrespectful impatience, but my advent suspended matters, and Mornac
took the bag of jewels from my hands and examined it. He seemed to be
in no hurry to empty it; he lolled in his chair with an absent-minded
expression like the expression of a cat who pretends to forget the
mouse between her paws. Danger was written all over him; I squared my
shoulders and studied him, braced for a shock.
The shock came almost immediately, for, without a word, he suddenly
emptied the jewel-bag on the desk before him. The bag contained
little pebbles wrapped in tissue-paper.
I heard Speed catch his breath sharply; I stared stupidly at the
pebbles. Mornac made a careless, sweeping gesture, spreading the
pebbles out before us with his restless, ringed fingers.
"Suppose you explain this farce?" he suggested, unmoved.
"Suppose you explain it!" I stammered.
He raised his delicately arched eyebrows. "What do you mean?"
"I mean that an hour ago that bag contained the diamonds from the
crucifix of Louis XI! I mean that I handed them over to you on my
arrival at this bureau!"
"Doubtless you can prove what you say," he observed, and his silver
penknife snapped shut like the click of a trap, and he lay back in his
padded chair and slipped the knife into his pocket.
I looked at Speed; his sandy hair fairly bristled, but his face was
drawn and tense. I looked at Mornac; his heavy, black eyes met mine
steadily.
"It seems to me," he said, "that it was high time we abolished the
Foreign Division, Imperial Military Police."
"I refuse to be discharged!" I said, hoarsely. "It is your word
against mine; I demand an investigation!"
"Certainly," he replied, almost wearily, and touched a bell. "Bring
that witness," he added to the soldier who appeared in answer to the
silvery summons.
"I mean an official inquiry," I said--"a court-martial. It is my
right where my honor is questioned."
"It is my right, when you question my honor, to throw you into Mont
Valérien, neck and heels," he said, showing his teeth under his silky,
black mustache.
Almost stunned by his change of tone, I stood like a stone. Somebody
entered the room behind me, passed me; there was an odor of violets in
the air, a faint rustle of silk, and I saw Mornac rise and bow to his
guest and conduct her to a chair.
His guest was the young Countess de Vassart.
She looked up at me brightly, gave me a pretty nod of recognition,
then turned expectantly to Mornac, who was still standing at her
elbow, saying, "Then it is no longer a question of my exile,
monsieur?"
"No, madame; there has been a mistake. The government has no reason
to suspect your loyalty." He turned directly on me. "Madame, do you
know this officer?"
"Yes," said the Countess, smiling.
"Did you see him receive a small sack of diamonds in Morsbronn?"
The Countess gave me a quick glance of surprise. "Yes," she said,
wonderingly.
"Thank you, madame; that is sufficient," he replied; and before I
could understand what he was about he had conducted the Countess to
the next room and had closed the door behind him.
"Quick!" muttered Speed at my elbow; "let's back out of this trap.
There's no use; he's one of them, and he means to ruin you."
"I won't go!" I said, in a cold fury; "I'll choke the truth out of
him, I tell you."
"Man! Man! He's the Emperor's shadow! You're done for; come on while
there's time. I tell you there's no hope for you here."
"Hope! What do I care?" I said, harshly. "Why, Speed, that man is a
common thief."
"What of it?" whispered Speed. "Doesn't everybody know that the
conspiracy runs close to the throne? What do you care? Come on, I tell
you; I've had enough of this rotten government. So have you. And
we've both seen enough to ruin us. Come on!"
"But he's got those diamonds! Do you think I can stand that?"
"I think you've got to," muttered Speed, savagely. "Do you want to
rot in Cayenne? If you do, stay here and bawl for a court-martial!"
"But the government--"
"Let the government go to the devil! It's going fast enough, anyhow.
Come, don't let Mornac find us here when he returns. He may be coming
now--quick, Scarlett! We've got to cut for it!"
"Speed," I said, unsteadily, "it's enough to make an honest man
strike hands with Buckhurst in earnest."
Speed took my arm with a cautious glance at the door of the next room,
and urged me toward the corridor.
"The government has kicked us out into the street," he muttered; "be
satisfied that the government didn't kick us into Biribi. And it will
yet if you don't come."
"Come? Where? I haven't any money, and now they've got my honor--"
"Rubbish!" he whispered, fairly dragging me into the hallway. "Here!
No--don't go to your rooms. Leave everything--get clear of this
rat-pit, I tell you."
He half pushed, half dragged me to the parade; then, dropping my arm,
he struck a jaunty pace through the archway, not even glancing at the
sentinels. I kept pace with him, scarcely knowing what I did.
In the Rue de Seine I halted suddenly, crying out that I must go back,
but he seized me with a growl of "Idiot! come on!" and fairly shoved
me through the colonnades of the Institute, along the quay, down the
river-wall, to a dock where presently a swift river-boat swung in for
passengers. And when the bateau mouche shot out again into mid-stream,
Speed and I stood silently on deck, watching the silver-gray façades
of Paris fly past above us under the blue sky.
We sat far forward, quite alone, and separated from the few passengers
by the pilot-house and jointed funnel. And there, carelessly lounging,
with one of his lank legs crossed over the other and a cigar between
his teeth, my comrade coolly recounted to me the infamous history of
the past week:
"Jarras put his honest, old, square-toed foot in it by accident; I
don't know how he managed to do it, but this is certain: he suddenly
found himself on a perfectly plain trail which could only end at
Mornac's threshold.
"Then he did a stupid thing--he called Mornac in and asked him, in
perfect faith, to clear up the affair, never for a moment suspecting
that Mornac was the man.
"That occurred the day you started to catch Buckhurst. And on that
day, too, I had found out something; and like a fool I told Jarras."
Speed chewed his cigar and laughed.
"In twenty-four hours Jarras was relieved of his command; I was
requested not to leave the Luxembourg--in other words, I was under
arrest, and Mornac took over the entire department and abolished the
Foreign Division 'for the good of the service,' as the Official had
it next day.
"Then somebody--Mornac probably--let loose a swarm of those shadowy
lies called rumors--you know how that is done!--and people began to
mutter, and the cafés began to talk of treason among the foreign
police. Of course Rochefort took it up; of course the Official
printed a half-hearted denial which was far worse than an avowal. Then
the division was abolished, and the illustrated papers made filthy
caricatures of us, and drew pictures of Mornac, sabre in hand,
decapitating a nest full of American rattlesnakes and British cobras,
and Rochefort printed a terrible elaboration of the fable of the
farmer and the frozen serpent."
"Oh, that's enough," I said, sick with rage and disgust. "Let them
look out for their own country now. I pity the Empress; I pity the
Emperor. I don't know what Mornac means to do, but I know that the
Internationale boa-constrictor is big enough to swallow government,
dynasty, and Empire, and it is going to try."
"I am certain of one thing," said Speed, staring out over the sun-lit
water with narrowing eyes. "I know that Mornac is using Buckhurst."
"Perhaps it is Buckhurst who is using Mornac," I suggested.
"I think both those gentlemen have the same view in end--to feather
their respective nests under cover of a general smash," said Speed.
"It would not do for Mornac to desert the Empire under any
circumstances. But he can employ Buckhurst to squeeze it dry and then
strike an attitude as its faithful defender in adversity."
"But why does Buckhurst desire to go to Paradise?" I asked.
The boat swung into a dock near the Point du Jour; a few passengers
left, a few came aboard; the boat darted on again under the high
viaduct of masonry, past bastions on which long siege cannon glistened
in the sunshine, past lines of fresh earthworks, past grassy
embankments on which soldiers moved to the rumble of drums.
"I know something about Paradise," said Speed, in a low voice.
I waited; Speed chewed his cigar grimly.
"Look here, Scarlett," he said. "Do you know what has become of the
crown jewels of France?"
"No," I said.
"Well, I'll tell you. You know, of course, that the government is
anxious; you know that Paris is preparing to stand siege if the
Prussians double up Bazaine and the army of Châlons in the north. But
you don't know what a pitiable fright the authorities are in. Why,
Scarlett, they are scared almost to the verge of idiocy."
"They've passed that verge," I observed.
"Yes, they have. They have had a terrible panic over the safety of
the crown jewels--they were nervous enough before the robbery. And
this is what they've done in secret:
"The crown jewels, the bars of gold of the reserve, the great
pictures from the Louvre, the antiques of value, including the Venus
of Milo, have been packed in cases and loaded on trains under heavy
guard.
"Twelve of these trains have already left Paris for the war-port of
Lorient. The others are to follow, one every twenty-four hours at
midnight.
"Whether these treasures are to be locked up in Lorient, or whether
they are to be buried in the sand-dunes along the coast, I don't know.
But I know this: a swift cruiser--the Fer-de-Lance--is lying off
Paradise, between the light-house and the Ile de Groix, with steam up
night and day, ready to receive the treasures of the government at the
first alarm and run for the French possessions in Cochin-China.
"And now, perhaps, you may guess why Buckhurst is so anxious to hang
around Paradise."
Of course I was startled. Speed's muttered information gave me the
keys to many doors. And behind each door were millions and millions
and millions of francs' worth of plunder.
Our eyes met in mute interrogation; Speed smiled.
"Of course," said I, with dry lips, "Buckhurst is devil enough to
attempt anything."
"Especially if backed by Mornac," said Speed.
Suddenly the professional aspect of the case burst on me like a shower
of glorious sunshine.
"Oh, for the chance!" I said, brokenly. "Speed! Think of it! Think
how completely we have the thing in hand!"
"Yes," he said, with a shrug, "only we have just been kicked out of
the service in disgrace, and we are now going to be fully occupied in
running away from the police."
That was true enough; I had scarcely had time to realize our position
as escaped suspects of the department. And with the recognition of my
plight came a rush of hopeless rage, of bitter regret, and
soul-sickening disappointment.
So this was the end of my career--a fugitive, disgraced, probably
already hunted. This was my reward for faithful service--penniless,
almost friendless, liable to arrest and imprisonment with no hope of
justice from Emperor or court-martial--a banned, ruined, proscribed
outcast, in blind flight.
"I've thought of the possibility of this," observed Speed, quietly.
"We've got to make a living somehow. In fact, I'm to let--and so are
you."
I looked at him, too miserable to speak.
"I had an inkling of it," he said. A shrewd twinkle came into his
clear, Yankee eyes; he chewed his wrecked cigar and folded his lank
arms.
"So," he continued, tranquilly, blinking at the sparkling river, "I
drew out all my money--and yours, too."
"Mine!" I stammered. "How could you?"
"Forged an order," he admitted. "Can you forgive me, Scarlett?"
"Forgive you! Bless your generous heart!" I muttered, as he handed me
a sealed packet.
"Not at all," he said, laughing; "a crime in time saves nine--eh,
Scarlett? Pocket it; it's all there. Now listen. I have made
arrangements of another kind. Do you remember an application for
license from the manager of a travelling American show--a Yankee
circus?"
"Byram's Imperial American Circus?" I said.
"That's it. They went through Normandy last summer. Well, Byram's
agent is going to meet us at Saint-Cloud. We're engaged; I'm to do
ballooning--you know I worked one of the military balloons before
Petersburg. You are to do sensational riding. You were riding-master
in the Spahis--were you not?"
I looked at him, almost laughing. Suddenly the instinct of my vagabond
days returned like a sweet wind from the wilds, smiting me full in the
face.
"I tamed three lions for my regiment at Constantine," I said.
"Good lad! Then you can play with Byram's lions, too. Oh, what the
devil!" he cried, recklessly; "it's all in a lifetime. Quand même,
and who cares? We've life before us and an honest living in view, and
Byram has packed two of his men back to England and I've tinkered up
their passports to suit us. So we're reasonably secure."
"Will you tell me, Speed, why you were wise enough to do all this
while I was gone?" I asked, in astonishment.
"Because," said Speed, deliberately, "I distrusted Mornac from the
hour he entered the department."
A splendid officer of police was spoiled when Mornac entered the
department.
Presently the deck guard began to shout: "Saint-Cloud! Saint-Cloud!"
and the little boat glided up alongside the floating pier. Speed rose;
I followed him across the gang-plank; and, side by side, we climbed
the embankment.
"Do you mean to say that Byram is going travelling about with his
circus in spite of the war?" I whispered.
"Yes, indeed. We start south from Chartres to-morrow."
Presently I said: "Do you suppose we will go to Lorient
or--Paradise?"
"We will if I have anything to say about it," replied Speed, throwing
away his ragged cigar.
And I walked silently beside him, thinking of the young Countess and
of Buckhurst.
PART SECOND
IX
THE ROAD TO PARADISE
On the 3d of November Byram's American Circus, travelling slowly
overland toward the Spanish frontier, drew up for an hour's rest at
Quimperlé. I, however, as usual, prepared to ride forward to select a
proper place for our night encampment, and to procure the necessary
license.
The dusty procession halted in the town square, which was crowded, and
as I turned in my saddle I saw Byram stand up on the red-and-gold
band-wagon and toss an armful of circulars and bills into the throng.
The white bits of paper fluttered wide and disappeared in the sea of
white Breton head-dresses; there was a rhythmic clatter of wooden
shoes, an undulation of snowy coiffes, then a low murmur as the people
slowly read the circulars aloud, their musical monotone accompanying
the strident nasal voice of Byram, who stood on the tarnished
band-wagon shouting his crowd around him.
"Mossoors et madams! Ecooty see voo play! J'ai l'honnoor de vous
presenter le ploo magnifique cirque--" And the invariable réclame
continued to the stereotyped finis; the clown bobbed up behind Byram
and made his usual grimaces, and the band played "The Cork Leg."
The Bretons looked on in solemn astonishment: my comrade, Speed,
languidly stood up on the elephant and informed the people that our
circus was travelling to Lorient to fill a pressing engagement, and if
we disappointed the good people of Lorient a riot would doubtless
result, therefore it was not possible to give any performance before
we reached Lorient--and the admission was only ten sous.
Our clown then picked up the tatters of his threadbare comic speech.
Speed, munching a stale sandwich, came strolling over to where I stood
sponging out my horse's mouth with cool water.
"We'll ride into Paradise in full regalia, I suppose," he observed,
munching away reflectively; "it's the cheapest réclame."
I dashed a bucket of water over my horse's legs. "You'd better look
out for your elephant; those drunken Bretons are irritating him," I
said. "Mahouts are born, not made."
Speed turned; the elephant was squealing and thrusting out a
prehensile trunk among the people. There would be trouble if any fool
gave him tobacco.
"Hi!" cried Speed, "tobah! Let the mem-log alone! Ai! he's snatched
a coiffe! Drop it, Djebe! C'hast buhan! Don't be afraid, mesdames; the
elephant is not ugly! Chomit oll en ho trankilite!"
The elephant appeared to understand the mixture of Hindu, French, and
Breton--or perhaps it was the sight of the steel ankus that Speed
flourished in his quality of mahout. The crowd pressed forward again,
reassured by the "Chomit oll en ho trankilite!"
Speed swallowed the last crumb of his sandwich, wiped his hands on his
handkerchief, and shoved them into his shabby pockets; the ankus
dangled from his wrist.
We were in seedy circumstances; an endless chain of bad luck had
followed us from Chartres--bad weather, torrents of rain, flooded
roads, damaging delays on railways already overcrowded with troops
and war material, and, above all, we encountered everywhere that
ominous apathy which burdened the whole land, even those provinces
most remote from the seat of war. The blockade of Paris had paralyzed
France.
The fortune that Byram had made in the previous year was already gone;
we no longer travelled by rail; we no longer slept at inns; we could
barely pay for the food for our animals.
As for the employés, the list had been cut down below the margin of
safety, yet for a month no salaries had been paid.
As I stood there in the public square of Quimperlé, passing the
cooling sponge over my horse's nose, old Byram came out of the hotel
on the corner, edged his way through the stolid crowd that surrounded
us gaunt mountebanks, and shuffled up to me.
"I guess we ain't goin' to push through to-night, Scarlett," he
observed, wiping his sweating forehead on the sleeve of his linen
duster.
"No, governor, it's too far," I said.
"We'll be all right, anyway," added Speed; "there's a change in the
moon and this warm weather ought to hold, governor."
"I dunno," said Byram, with an abstracted glance at the crowd around
the elephant.
"Cheer up, governor," I said, "we ought at least to pay expenses to
the Spanish frontier. Once out of France we'll find your luck again
for you."
"Mebbe," he said, almost wearily.
I glanced at Speed. This was the closest approach to a whine that we
had heard from Byram. But the man had changed within a few days; his
thin hair, brushed across his large, alert ears, was dusty and
unkempt; hollows had formed under his shrewd eyes; his black
broadcloth suit was as soiled as his linen, his boots shabby, his
silk hat suitable only for the stage property of our clown.
"Don't ride too far," said Byram, as I set foot to stirrup, "them
band-wagon teams is most done up, an' that there camuel gits meaner
every minute."
I wheeled my horse out into the road to Paradise, cursing the
"camuel," the bane of our wearied caravan.
"Got enough cash for the license?" asked Byram, uneasily.
"Plenty, governor; don't worry. Speed, don't let him mope. We'll be
in Lorient this time to-morrow," I called back, with a swagger of
assumed cheerfulness.
Speed stepped swiftly across the square and laid his hand on my
stirrup.
"What are you going to do if you see Buckhurst?"
"Nothing."
"Or the Countess?"
"I don't know."
"I suppose you will go out of your way to find her if she's in
Paradise?"
"Yes."
"And tell her the truth about Buckhurst?"
"I expect to."
After a moment's silence he said: "Don't do anything until I see you
to-night, will you?"
"All right," I replied, and set my horse at a gallop over the old
stone bridge.
The highway to the sea which winds down through acres of yellow gorse
and waving broom to the cliffs of Paradise is a breezy road, swept by
the sweet winds that blow across Brittany from the Côte d'Or to the
Pyrenees.
It is a land of sea-winds; and when in the still noontide of midsummer
the winds are at play far out at sea, their traces remain in the
furrowed wheat, in the incline of solitary trees, in the breezy trend
of the cliff-clover and the blackthorn and the league-wide sweep of
the moorlands.
And through this land whose inland perfume always savored the unseen
sea I rode down to Paradise.
It was not until I had galloped through the golden forest of Kerselec
that I came in sight of the ocean, although among the sunbeams and the
dropping showers of yellow beech-leaves I fancied I could hear the
sound of the surf.
And now I rode slowly, in full sight of the sea where it lay, an
immense gray band across the world, touching a looming horizon, and in
throat and nostril the salt stung sweetly, and the whole world seemed
younger for the breath of the sea.
From the purple mystery of the horizon to the landward cliffs the
ocean appeared motionless; it was only when I had advanced almost to
the cliffs that I saw the movement of waves--that I perceived the
contrast between inland inertia and the restless repose of the sea,
stirring ceaselessly since creation.
The same little sparkling river I had crossed in Quimperlé I now saw
again, spreading out a wide, flat current which broke into waves where
it tumbled seaward across the bar; I heard the white-winged gulls
mewing, the thunderous monotone of the surf, and a bell in some unseen
chapel ringing sweetly.
I passed a stone house, another; then the white road curved under the
trees and I rode straight into the heart of Paradise, my horse's hoofs
awaking echoes in the silent, stone-paved square.
Never had I so suddenly entered a place so peaceful, so quiet in the
afternoon sun--yet the silence was not absolute, it was thrilling with
exquisite sound, lost echoes of the river running along its quay of
stone, half-heard harmonies of the ocean where white surf seethed over
the sands beyond the headland.
There was a fountain, too, dripping melodiously under the trees; I
heard the breathless humming of a spinning-wheel from one of the low
houses of gray stone which enclosed the square, and a young girl
singing, and the drone of bees in a bed of resida.
So this was Paradise! Truly the name did not seem amiss here, under
the still vault of blue above; Paradise means peace to so many of
us--surcease of care and sound and the brazen trample of nations--not
the quiet of palace corridors or the tremendous silence of a
cathedral, but the noiselessness of pleasant sounds, moving shadows of
trees, wordless quietude, simplicity.
A young girl with a face like the Madonna stole across the square in
her felt shoes.
"Can you tell me where the mayor lives?" I asked, looking down at her
from my horse.
She raised her white-coiffed head with an innocent smile: "Eman' barz
ar sal o leina."
"Don't you speak French?" I asked, appalled.
"Ho! ia; oui, monsieur, s'il faut bien. The mayor is at breakfast in
his kitchen yonder."
"Thank you, my child."
I turned my horse across the shady square to a stone house banked up
with bed on bed of scarlet geraniums. The windows were open; a fat man
with very small eyes sat inside eating an omelet.
He watched me dismount without apparent curiosity, and when I had tied
my horse and walked in at the open door he looked at me over the rim
of a glass of cider, and slowly finished his draught without blinking.
Then he said, "Bonjour."
I told him that I wanted a license for the circus to camp for one
night; that I also desired permission to pitch camp somewhere in the
vicinity. He made out the license, stamped it, handed it to me, and I
paid him the usual fee.
"I've heard of circuses," he said; "they're like those shows at
country fairs, I suppose."
"Yes--in a way. We have animals."
"What kind?"
"Lions, tigers--"
"I've seen them."
"--a camel, an elephant--"
"Alive?"
"Certainly."
"Ma doué!" he said, with slow emotion, "have you a live elephant?"
I admitted that fact.
Presently I said, "I hope the people of Paradise will come to the
circus when we get to Lorient."
"Eh? Not they," said the mayor, wagging his head. "Do you think we
have any money here in Paradise? And then," he added, cunningly, "we
can all see your elephant when your company arrives. Why should we pay
to see him again? War does not make millionaires out of the poor."
I looked miserably around. It was quite true that people like these
had no money to spend on strolling players. But we had to live
somehow, and our animals could not exist on air, even well-salted
air.
"How much will it cost to have your town-crier announce the coming of
the circus?" I inquired.
"That will cost ten sous if he drums and reads the announcement from
here to the château."
I gave the mayor ten copper pennies.
"What château?" I asked.
"Dame, the château, monsieur."
"Oh," said I, "where the Countess lives?"
"The Countess? Yes, of course. Who else?"
"Is the Countess there?"
"Oui, dame, and others not to my taste."
I asked no more questions, but the mayor did, and when he found it
might take some time to pump me, he invited me to share his omelet and
cider and afterwards to sit in the sun among his geraniums and satisfy
his curiosity concerning the life of a strolling player.
I was glad of something to eat. After I had unsaddled my horse and led
him to the mayor's stable and had paid for hay and grain, I returned
to sit in the mayor's garden and sniff longingly at his tobacco smoke
and answer his impertinent questions as good-naturedly as they were
intended.
But even the mayor of Paradise grew tired of asking questions in time;
the bees droned among the flowers, the low murmur of the sea stole in
on our ears, the river softly lapped the quay. The mayor slept.
He was fat, very fat; his short, velvet jacket hung heavy with six
rows of enormous silver buttons, his little, round hat was tilted over
his nose. A silver buckle decorated it in front; behind, two little
velvet ribbons fluttered in futile conflict with the rising
sea-breeze.
Men in embroidered knee-breeches, with bare feet thrust into
straw-filled sabots, sat sunning on the quay under the purple
fig-trees; one ragged fellow in soiled velvet bolero and embossed
leggings lay in the sun, chin on fists, wooden shoes crossed behind
him, watching the water with the eyes of a poacher.
This mild, balmy November weather, this afterglow of summer which in
my own country we call Indian summer, had started new blossoms among
the climbing tea-roses, lovely orange-tinted blossoms, and some of a
clear lemon color, and their fragrance filled the air. Nowhere do
roses blow as they blow near the sea, nowhere have I breathed such
perfume as I breathed that drowsy afternoon in Paradise, where in
every door-yard thickets of clove-scented pinks carpeted the ground
and tall spikes of snowy phlox glimmered silver-white in the
demi-light.
Where on earth could a more peaceful scene be found than in this
sea-lulled land, here in the subdued light under aged, spreading oaks,
where moss crept over the pavements and covered the little fountain as
though it had been the stony brink of a limpid forest spring?
The mayor woke up toward five o'clock and stared at me with owlish
gravity as though daring me to say that he had been asleep.
"Um--ah--ma fois oui!" he muttered, blowing his nose loudly in a
purple silk bandanna. Then he shrugged his shoulders and added:
"C'est la vie, monsieur. Que voulez-vous?"
And it was one kind of life after all--a blessed release from the
fever of that fierce farandole which we of the outer world call
"life."
The mayor scratched his ear, yawned, stretched one leg, then the
other, and glanced at me.
"Paris still holds out?" he asked, with another yawn.
"Oh yes," I replied.
"And the war--is it still going badly for us?"
"There is always hope," I answered.
"Hope," he grumbled; "oh yes, we know what hope is--we of the coast
live on it when there's no bread; but hope never yet filled my belly
for me."
"Has the war touched you here in Paradise?" I asked.
"Touched us? Ho! Say it has crushed us and I'll strike palms with
you. Why, not a keel has passed out of the port since August. Where is
the fishing-fleet? Where are the sardine sloops that ought to have
sailed from Algiers? Where are the Icelanders?"
"Well, where are they?" I suggested.
"Where? Ask the semaphore yonder. Where are our salt schooners for
the Welsh coast? I don't know. They have not sailed, that's all I
know. You do well to come with your circus and your elephant! You can
peddle diamonds in the poor-house, too, if it suits your taste."
"Have the German cruisers frightened all your craft from the sea?" I
asked, astonished.
"Yes, partly. Then there's an ugly French cruiser lying off Groix,
yonder, and her black stacks are dribbling smoke all day and all
night. We have orders to keep off and use Lorient when we want a
port."
"Do you know why the cruiser warns your fishing-boats from this
coast?" I inquired.
"No," he said, shortly.
"Do you know the name of the cruiser?"
"She's a new one, the Fer-de-Lance. And if I were not a patriot and
a Breton I'd say: 'May Sainte-Anne rot her where she lies; she's
brought a curse on the coast from Lorient to the Saint-Julien
Light!--and the ghosts of the Icelanders will work her evil yet.'"
The mayor's round, hairless face was red; he thumped the arm of his
chair with pudgy fists and wagged his head.
"We have not seen the end of this," he said--"oh no! There's a curse
coming on Paradise--the cruiser brought it, and it's coming. Hé! did a
Bannalec man not hear the were-wolf in Kerselec forest a week since?
Pst! Not a word, monsieur. But old Kloark, of Roscoff, heard it
too--oui dame!--and he knows the howl of the Loup-Garou! Besides, did
I not with my own eyes see a black cormorant fly inland from the sea?
And, by Sainte-Éline of Paradise! the gulls squeal when there's no
storm brewing and the lançons prick the dark with flames along the
coast till you'd swear the witches of Ker-Is were lighting
death-candles from Paradise to Pont-Aven."
"Do you believe in witches, monsieur the mayor?" I asked, gravely.
He gave me a shrewd glance. "Not at all--not even in bed and the
light out," he said, with a fat swagger. "I believe in magic? Ho!
foi non! But many do. Oui dame! Many do."
"Here in Paradise?"
"Parbleu! Men of parts, too, monsieur. Now there's Terrec, who has
the evil eye--not that I believe it, but, damn him, he'd better not
try any tricks on me!
"Others stick twigs of aubépine in their pastures; the apothecary is
a man of science, yet every year he makes a bonfire of dried gorse and
drives his cattle through the smoke. It may keep off witches and
lightning--or it may not. I myself do not do such things."
"Still you believe the cruiser out at sea yonder is going to bring
you evil?"
"She has brought it. But it's all the same to me. I am mayor, and
exempt, and I have cider and tobacco and boudin for a few months
yet."
He caressed his little, selfish chin, which hung between his mottled
jowls, peered cunningly at me, and opened his mouth to say something,
but at that moment we both caught sight of a peasant running and
waving a packet of blue papers in the air. "Monsieur the mayor!
Monsieur the mayor!" he called, while still far away.
"Cré cochon de malheur!" muttered the mayor, turning pale. "He's got
a telegram!"
The man came clattering across the square in his wooden shoes.
"A telegram," repeated the mayor, wiping the sudden sweat from his
forehead. "I never get telegrams. I don't want telegrams!"
He turned to me, almost bursting with suppressed prophecy.
"It has come--the evil that the black cruiser brings us! You laughed!
Tenez, monsieur; there's your bad luck in these blue morsels of
paper!"
And he snatched the telegram from the breathless messenger, reading it
with dilating eyes.
For a long while he sat there studying the telegram, his fat
forefinger following the scrawl, a crease deepening above his
eyebrows, and all the while his lips moved in noiseless repetition of
the words he spelled with difficulty and his labored breathing grew
louder.
When at length the magistrate had mastered the contents of his
telegram, he looked up with a stupid stare.
"I want my drummer. Where's the town-crier?" he demanded, as though
dazed.
"He has gone to Lorient, m'sieu the mayor," ventured the messenger.
"To get drunk. I remember. Imbecile! Why did he go to-day? Are there
not six other days in this cursed week? Who is there to drum? Nobody.
Nobody knows how in Paradise. Seigneur, Dieu! the ignorance of this
town!"
"M'sieu the mayor," ventured the messenger, "there's Jacqueline."
"Ho! Vrai. The Lizard's young one! She can drum, they say. She stole
my drum once. Why did she steal it but to drum upon it?"
"The little witch can drum them awake in Ker-Is," muttered the
messenger.
The mayor rose, looked around the square, frowned. Then he raised his
voice in a bellow: "Jacqueline! Jacqueline! Thou Jacqueline!"
A far voice answered, faintly breaking across the square from the
bridge: "She is on the rocks with her sea-rake!"
The mayor thrust the blue telegram into his pocket and waddled out of
his garden, across the square, and up the path to the cliffs.
Uninvited, I went with him.
X
THE TOWN-CRIER
The bell in the unseen chapel ceased ringing as we came out on the
cliffs of Paradise, where, on the horizon, the sun hung low, belted
with a single ribbon of violet cloud.
Over acres of foaming shoals the crimson light flickered and spread,
painting the eastern cliffs with sombre fire. The ebb-tide, red as
blood, tumbled seaward across the bar, leaving every ledge a glowing
cinder under the widening conflagration in the west.
The mayor carried his silver-buttoned jacket over his arm; the air had
grown sultry. As we walked our gigantic shadows strode away before us
across the kindling stubble, seeming to lengthen at every stride.
Below the cliffs, on a crescent of flat sand, from which sluggish,
rosy rivulets crawled seaward, a man stood looking out across the
water. And the mayor stopped and called down to him: "Ohé, the
Lizard! What do you see on the ocean--you below?"
"I see six war-ships speeding fast in column," replied the man,
without looking up.
The mayor hastily shaded his eyes with one fat hand, muttering: "All
poachers have eyes like sea-hawks. There is a smudge of smoke to the
north. Holy Virgin, what eyes the rascal has!"
As for me, strain my eyes as I would, I saw nothing save the faintest
stain of smoke on the horizon.
"Hé, Lizard! Are they German, your six war-ships?" bawled the mayor.
His voice had suddenly become tremulous.
"They are French," replied the poacher, tranquilly.
"Then Sainte-Éline keep them from the rocks!" sang out the mayor.
"Ohé, Lizard, I want somebody to drum and read a proclamation.
Where's Jacqueline?"
At that instant a young girl, a mere child, appeared on the beach,
dragging a sea-rake over the ground behind her. She was a lithe
creature, bare-limbed and ragged, with the sea-tan on throat and knee.
The blue tatters of her skirt hung heavy with brine; the creamy skin
on her arms glittered with wet spray, and her hair was wet, too,
clustering across her cheeks in damp elf-locks.
The mayor glanced at her with that stolid contempt which Finistère
Bretons cherish toward those women who show their hair--an immodesty
unpardonable in the eyes of most Bretons.
The girl caught sight of the mayor and gave him a laughing greeting
which he returned with a shrug.
"If you want a town-crier," she called up, in a deliciously fresh
voice, scarcely tinged with the accent, "I'll cry your edicts and
I'll drum for you, too!"
"Can your daughter beat the drum?" asked the mayor of the poacher,
ignoring the girl's eager face upturned.
"Yes," said the poacher, indifferently, "and she can also beat the
devil with two sticks."
The girl threw her rake into a boat and leaped upon the rocks at the
base of the cliff.
"Jacqueline! Don't come up that way!" bawled the mayor, horrified.
"Hey! Robert! Ohé! Lizard! Stop her or she'll break her neck!"
The poacher looked up at his daughter then shrugged his shoulders and
squatted down on his ragged haunches, restless eyes searching the
level ocean, as sea-birds search.
Breathless, hot, and laughing, the girl pulled herself up over the
edge of the cliff. I held out my hand to aid her, but she pushed it
away, crying, "Thank you all the same, but here I am!"
"Spawn of the Lizard," I heard the mayor mutter to himself, "like a
snake you wriggle where honest folk fall to destruction!" But he spoke
condescendingly to the bright-eyed, breathless child. "I'll pay six
sous if you'll drum for me."
"I'll do it for love," she said, saucily--"for the love of drumming,
not for your beaux yeux, m'sieu le maire."
The mayor looked at her angrily, but, probably remembering he was at
her mercy, suppressed his wrath and held out the telegram. "Can you
read that, my child?"
The girl, still breathing rapidly from her scramble, rested her hands
on her hips and, head on one side, studied the blue sheets of the
telegram over the mayor's outstretched arm.
"Yes, I can read it. Why not? Can't you?"
"Read? I the mayor of Paradise!" repeated the outraged magistrate.
"What do you mean, lizard of lizards! gorse cat!"
"Now if you are going to say such things I won't drum for you," said
the child, glancing at me out of her sea-blue eyes and giving a shake
to her elf-locks.
"Yes, you will!" bawled the angry mayor. "Shame on your manners,
Jacqueline Garenne! Shame on your hair hanging where all the world can
see it! Shame on your bare legs--"
"Not at all," said the child, unabashed. "God made my legs, m'sieu
the mayor, and my hair, too. If my coiffe does not cover my hair,
neither does the small Paris hat of the Countess de Vassart cover her
hair. Complain of the Countess to m'sieu the curé, then I will listen
to you."
The mayor glared at her, but she tossed her head and laughed.
"Ho fois! Everybody knows what you are," sniffed the mayor--"and
nobody cares, either," he muttered, waddling past me, telegram in
hand.
The child, quite unconcerned, fell into step beside me, saying,
confidentially: "When I was little I used to cry when they talked to
me like that. But I don't now; I've made up my mind that they are no
better than I."
"I don't know why anybody should abuse you," I said, loudly enough
for the mayor to hear. But that functionary waddled on, puffing,
muttering, stopping every now and then in the narrow cliff-path to
strike flint to tinder or to refill the tiny bowl of his pipe, which a
dozen puffs always exhausted.
"Oh, they all abuse us," said the child, serenely. "You see, you are
a stranger and don't understand; but you will if you live here."
"Why is everybody unkind to you?" I asked, after a moment.
"Why? Oh, because I am what I am and my father is the Lizard."
"A poacher?"
"Ah," she said, looking up at me with delicious malice, "what is a
poacher, monsieur?"
"Sometimes he's a fine fellow gone wrong," I said, laughing. "So I
don't believe any ill of your father, or of you, either. Will you drum
for me, Jacqueline?"
"For you, monsieur? Why, yes. What am I to read for you?"
I gave her a hand-bill; at the first glance her eyes sparkled, the
color deepened under her coat of amber tan; she caught her breath and
read rapidly to the end.
"Oh, how beautiful," she said, softly. "Am I to read this in the
square?"
"I will give you a franc to read it, Jacqueline."
"No, no--only--oh, do let me come in and see the heavenly wonders!
Would you, monsieur? I--I cannot pay--but would--could you let me
come in? I will read your notice, anyway," she added, with a quaver in
her voice.
The flushed face, the eager, upturned eyes, deep blue as the sea, the
little hands clutching the show-bill, which fairly quivered between
the tanned fingers--all these touched and amused me. The child was mad
with excitement.
What she anticipated, Heaven only knows. Shabby and tarnished as we
were, the language of our hand-bills made up in gaudiness for the
dingy reality.
"Come whenever you like, Jacqueline," I said. "Ask for me at the
gate."
"And who are you, monsieur?"
"My name is Scarlett."
"Scarlett," she whispered, as though naming a sacred thing.
The mayor, who had toddled some distance ahead of us, now halted in
the square, looking back at us through the red evening light.
"Jacqueline, the drum is in my house. I'll lend you a pair of sabots,
too. Come, hasten little idler!"
We entered the mayor's garden, where the flowers were glowing in the
lustre of the setting sun. I sat down in a chair; Jacqueline waited,
hands resting on her hips, small, shapely toes restlessly brushing the
grass.
"Truly this coming wonder-show will be a peep into paradise," she
murmured. "Can all be true--really true as it is printed here in this
bill--I wonder--"
Before she had time to speculate further, the mayor reappeared with
drum and drum-sticks in one hand and a pair of sabots in the other. He
flung the sabots on the grass, and Jacqueline, quite docile now,
slipped both bare feet into them.
"You may keep them," said the mayor, puffing out his mottled cheeks
benevolently; "decency must be maintained in Paradise, even if it
beggars me."
"Thank you," said Jacqueline, sweetly, slinging the drum across her
hip and tightening the cords. She clicked the ebony sticks, touched
the tightly drawn parchment, sounding it with delicate fingers, then
looked up at the mayor for further orders.
"Go, my child," said the mayor, amiably, and Jacqueline marched
through the garden out into the square by the fountain, drum-sticks
clutched in one tanned fist, the scrolls of paper in the other.
In the centre of the square she stood a moment, looking around, then
raised the drum-sticks; there came a click, a flash of metal, and the
quiet square echoed with the startling outcrash. Back from roof and
wall bounded the echoes; the stony pavement rang with the racket.
Already a knot of people had gathered around her; others came swiftly
to windows and doorsteps; the loungers left their stone benches by the
river, the maids of Paradise flocked from the bridge. Even Robert the
Lizard drew in his dripping line to listen. The drum-roll ceased.
"Attention! Men of Finistère! By order of the governor of Lorient,
all men between the ages of twenty and forty, otherwise not exempt,
are ordered to report at the navy-yard barracks, war-port of Lorient,
on the 5th of November of the present year, to join the army of the
Loire.
"Whosoever is absent at roll-call will be liable to the punishment
provided for such delinquents under the laws governing the state of
siege now declared in Morbihan and Finistère. Citizens, to arms!
"The enemy is on the march! Though Metz has fallen through treachery,
Paris holds firm! Let the provinces rise and hurl the invader from the
soil of the mother-land!
"Bretons! France calls! Answer with your ancient battle-cry,
'Sainte-Anne! Sainte-Anne!' The eyes of the world are on Armorica! To
arms!"
The girl's voice ceased; a dead silence reigned in the square. The men
looked at one another stupidly; a woman began to whimper.
"The curse is on Paradise!" cried a hoarse voice.
The drummer was already drawing another paper from her ragged pocket,
and again in the same clear, emotionless voice, but slightly drawling
her words, she read:
"To the good people of Paradise! The manager of the famous American
travelling circus, lately returned from a tour of the northern
provinces, with camels, elephants, lions, and a magnificent company of
artists, announces a stupendous exhibition to be held in Lorient at
greatly reduced prices, thus enabling the intelligent and appreciative
people of Paradise to honor the Republican Circus, recently known as
the Imperial Circus, with their benevolent and discerning patronage!
Long live France! Long live the Republic! Long live the Circus!"
A resounding roll of the drum ended the announcements; the girl slung
the drum over her shoulder, turned to the right, and passed over the
stone bridge, sabots clicking. Presently from the hamlet of Alincourt
over the stream came the dull roll of the drum again and the faint,
clear voice:
"Attention! Men of Finistère! By order of the governor of Lorient,
all men--" The wind changed and her voice died away among the trees.
The maids of Paradise were weeping now by the fountain; the men
gathered near, and their slow, hushed voices scarcely rose above the
ripple of the stream where Robert the Lizard fished in silence.
It was after sunset before Jacqueline finished her rounds. She had
read her proclamation in Alincourt hamlet, she had read it in
Sainte-Ysole, her drum had aroused the inert loungers on the
breakwater at Trinité-on-Sea. Now, with her drum on her shoulder and
her sabots swinging in her left hand, she came down the cliffs beside
the Chapel of Our Lady of Paradise, excited and expectant.
Of the first proclamation which she had read she apparently understood
little. When she announced the great disaster at Metz in the north,
and when her passionless young voice proclaimed the levée en
masse--the call to arms for the men of the coast from Sainte-Ysole to
Trinité Beacon--she scarcely seemed to realize what it meant, although
all around her women turned away sobbing, or clung, deathly white, to
sons and husbands.
But there was certainly something in the other proclamation which
thrilled her and set her heart galloping as she loitered on the
cliff.
I walked across to the Quimperlé road and met her, dancing along with
her drum; and she promptly confided her longings and desires to me as
we stood together for an instant on the high-road. The circus! Once,
it appeared, she had seen--very far off--a glittering creature turning
on a trapeze. It was at the fair near Bannalec, and it was so long ago
that she scarcely remembered anything except that somebody had pulled
her away while she stood enchanted, and the flashing light of
fairyland had been forever shut from her eyes.
At times, when the maids of Paradise were sociable at the well in the
square, she had listened to stories of the splendid circus which came
once to Lorient. And now it was coming again!
We stood in the middle of the high-road looking through the dust haze,
she doubtless dreaming of the splendors to come, I very, very tired.
The curtain of golden dust reddened in the west; the afterglow lit up
the sky once more with brilliant little clouds suspended from
mid-zenith. The moorland wind rose and tossed her elf-locks in her
eyes and whipped her skirt till the rags fluttered above her smooth,
bare knees.
Suddenly, straight out of the flaming gates of the sunset, the miracle
was wrought. Celestial shapes in gold and purple rose up in the gilded
dust, chariots of silver, milk-white horses plumed with fire.
Breathless, she shrank back among the weeds, one hand pressed to her
throbbing throat. But the vision grew as she stared; there was
heavenly music, too, and the clank of metal chains, and the smothered
pounding of hoofs. Then she caught sight of something through the dust
that filled her with a delicious terror, and she cried out. For there,
uptowering in the haze, came trudging a great, gray creature, a
fearsome, swaying thing in crimson trappings, flapping huge ears. It
shuffled past, swinging a dusty trunk; the sparkling horsemen cantered
by, tin armor blazing in the fading glory; the chariots dragged after,
and the closed dens of beasts rolled behind in single file, followed
by the band-wagon, where Heaven-inspired musicians played frantically
and a white-faced clown balanced his hat on a stick and shrieked.
So the circus passed into Paradise; and I turned and followed in the
wake of dust, stale odors, and clamorous discord, sick at heart of
wandering over a world I had not found too kind.
And at my heels stole Jacqueline.
XI
IN CAMP
We went into camp under the landward glacis of the cliffs, in a field
of clover which was to be ploughed under in a few days. We all were
there except Kelly Eyre, who had gone to telegraph the governor of
Lorient for permission to enter the port with the circus. Another
messenger also left camp on private business for me.
It was part of my duty to ration the hay for the elephant and the
thrice-accursed camel. The latter had just bitten Mr. Grigg, our
clown--not severely--and Speed and Horan the "Strong Man" were
hobbling the brute as I finished feeding my lions and came up to
assist the others.
"Watch that darn elephant, too, Mr. Grigg," said Byram, looking up
from a plate of fried ham that Miss Crystal, our "Trapeze Lady," had
just cooked for him over our gypsy fires of driftwood.
"Look at that elephant! Look at him!" continued Byram, with a trace
of animation lighting up his careworn face--"look at him now chuckin'
hay over his back. Scrape it up, Mr. Scarlett; hay's thirty a ton in
this war-starved country."
As I started to clean up the precious hay, the elephant gave a curious
grunt and swung his trunk toward me.
"There's somethin' paltry about that elephant," said Byram, in a
complaining voice, rising, with plate of ham in one hand, fork in the
other. "He's gittin' as mean as that crafty camuel. Make him move,
Mr. Speed, or he'll put his foot on the trombone."
"Hô Djebe! Mâil!" said Speed, sharply.
The elephant obediently shuffled forward; Byram sat down again, and
wearily cut himself a bit of fried ham; and presently we were all
sitting around the long camp-table in the glare of two smoky petroleum
torches, eating our bread and ham and potatoes and drinking Breton
cider, a jug of which Mr. Horan had purchased for a few coppers.
Some among us were too tired to eat, many too tired for conversation,
yet, from habit we fell into small talk concerning the circus, the
animals, the prospects of better days.
The ladies of the company, whatever quarrels they indulged in among
themselves, stood loyally by Byram in his anxiety and need. Miss
Crystal and Miss Delany displayed edifying optimism; Mrs. Horan
refrained from nagging; Mrs. Grigg, a pretty little creature, who was
one of the best equestriennes I ever saw, declared that we were living
too well and that a little dieting wouldn't hurt anybody.
McCadger, our band-master, came over from the other fire to say that
the men had finished grooming the horses, and would I inspect the
picket-line, as Kelly Eyre was still absent.
When I returned, the ladies had retired to their blankets under their
shelter-tent; poor little Grigg lay asleep at the table, his tired,
ugly head resting among the unwashed tin plates; Speed sprawled in his
chair, smoking a short pipe; Byram sat all hunched up, his head sunk,
eyes vacantly following the movements of two men who were washing
dishes in the flickering torch-light.
He looked up at me, saying: "I guess Mr. Speed is right. Them lions
o' yourn is fed too much horse-meat. Overeatin' is overheatin'; we've
got to give 'em beef or they'll be clawin' you. Yes, sir, they're all
het up. Hear 'em growl!"
"That's a fable, governor," I said, smiling and dropping into a
chair. "I've heard that theory before, but it isn't true."
"The trouble with your lions is that you play with them too much and
they're losing respect for you," said Speed, drowsily.
"The trouble with my lions," said I, "is that they were born in
captivity. Give me a wild lion, caught on his native heath, and I'll
know what to expect from him when I tame him. But no man on earth can
tell what a lion born in captivity will do."
The hard cider had cheered Byram a little; he drew a cherished cigar
from his vest-pocket, offered it to me, and when I considerately
refused, he carefully set it alight with a splinter from the fire. Its
odor was indescribable.
"Luck's a curious phenomena, ain't it, Mr. Scarlett?" he said.
I agreed with him.
"Luck," continued Byram, waving his cigar toward the four quarters of
the globe, "is the rich man's slave an' the poor man's tyrant. It's
also a see-saw. When the devil plays in luck the cherubim git
spanked--or words to that effec'--not meanin' no profanity."
"It's about like that, governor," admitted Speed, lazily.
Byram leaned back and sucked meditatively at his cigar. The new moon
was just rising over the elephant's hindquarters, and the poetry of
the incident appeared to move the manager profoundly. He turned and
surveyed the dim bivouac, the two silent tents, the monstrous,
shadowy bulk of the elephant, rocking monotonously against the sky.
"Kind of Silurian an' solemn, ain't it," he murmured, "the moon
shinin' onto the rump of that primeval pachyderm. It's like the dark
ages of the behemoth an' the cony. I tell you, gentlemen, when them
fearsome an' gigantic mamuels was aboundin' in the dawn of creation,
the public missed the greatest show on earth--by a few million
years!"
We nodded sleepily but gravely.
Byram appeared to have recovered something of his buoyancy and native
optimism.
"Gentlemen," he said, "let's kinder saunter over to the inn and have
a night-cap with Kelly Eyre."
This unusual and expensive suggestion startled us wide awake, but we
were only too glad to acquiesce in anything which tended to raise his
spirits or ours. Dog tired but smiling we rose; Byram, in his
shirt-sleeves and suspenders, wearing his silk hat on the back of his
head, led the way, fanning his perspiring face with a red-and-yellow
bandanna.
"Luck," said Byram, waving his cigar toward the new moon, "is bound
to turn one way or t'other--like my camuel. Sometimes, resemblin' the
camuel, luck will turn on you. Look out it don't bite you. I once made
up a piece about luck:
                        "'Don't buck
                        Bad luck
                        Or you'll get stuck--'
I disremember the rest, but it went on to say a few other words to
that effec'."
The lighted door of the inn hung ajar as we crossed the star-lit
square; Byram entered and stood a moment in the doorway, stroking his
chin. "Bong joor the company!" he said, lifting his battered hat.
The few Bretons in the wine-room returned his civility; he glanced
about and his eye fell on Kelly Eyre, Speed's assistant balloonist,
seated by the window with Horan.
"Well, gents," said Byram, hopefully, "an' what aire the prospects
of smilin' fortune when rosy-fingered dawn has came again to kiss us
back to life?"
"Rotten," said Eyre, pushing a telegram across the oak table.
Byram's face fell; he picked up the telegram and fumbled in his coat
for his spectacles with unsteady hand.
"Let me read it, governor," said Speed, and took the blue paper from
Byram's unresisting, stubby fingers.
"O-ho!" he muttered, scanning the message; "well--well, it's not so
bad as all that--" He turned abruptly on Kelly Eyre--"What the devil
are you scaring the governor for?"
"Well, he's got to be told--I didn't mean to worry him," said Eyre,
stammering, ashamed of his thoughtlessness.
"Now see here, governor," said Speed, "let's all have a drink first.
Hé ma belle!"--to the big Breton girl knitting in the corner--"four
little swallows of eau-de-vie, if you please! Ah, thank you, I knew
you were from Bannalec, where all the girls are as clever as they are
pretty! Come, governor, touch glasses! There is no circus but the
circus, and Byram is it's prophet! Drink, gentlemen!"
But his forced gayety was ominous; we scarcely tasted the liqueur.
Byram wiped his brow and squared his bent shoulders. Speed, elbows on
the table, sat musing and twirling his half-empty glass.
"Well, sir?" said Byram, in a low voice.
"Well, governor? Oh--er--the telegram?" asked Speed, like a man
fighting for time.
"Yes, the telegram," said Byram, patiently.
"Well, you see they have just heard of the terrible smash-up in the
north, governor. Metz has surrendered with Bazaine's entire army. And
they're naturally frightened at Lorient.... And I rather fear that the
Germans are on their way toward the coast.... And ... well ... they
won't let us pass the Lorient fortifications."
