the modest adequacy of Mrs. Kenton in the po 
litical experiences of modern Europe, as well as 
the clear judgments of Kenton in various matters, 
sometimes beyond Breckon himself, mystified him 
no less than Ellen 's taste. 
Even with the growth of his respect for their in 
telligence and his love of their kindliness, he had 
not been able to keep a certain patronage from 
mingling, and it was not till they evinced not only 
an entire ability, but an apparent wish to get on 
without his approval, without his acquaintance even, 
that he had conceived a just sense of them. The like 
is apt to happen with the best of us, when we 
are also the finest, and Breckon was not singular 
in coming to a due consciousness of something valu 
able only in the hour of its loss. He did not know 
that the loss was only apparent. He knew that 
he had made a distinct sacrifice for these people, 
and that, when he had prepared himself to befriend 
them little short of self-devotion, they showed them 
selves indifferent, and almost repellent. In the 're 
vulsion of feeling, when Ellen gave him her mother 's 
message, and frankly offered him reparation on be 
half of her whole family, he may have overdone his 
gratitude, but he did not overdo it to her perception. 
They walked up and down the promenade of the 
Amstel, in the watery North Sea moon, while bells 
after bells noted the hour unheeded, and when they 
parted for the night it was with an involuntary 
pressure of hands, from which she suddenly pulled 
hers, and ran down the corridor of her state-room 
and Lottie s. 
He stood watching the narrow space in which 
she had vanished, and thinking how gentle she was, 
and how she had contrived somehow to make him 
feel that now it was she who had been consoling 
him, and trying to interest him and amuse him. 
He had not realized that before; he had been used 
to interesting and amusing her, but he could not 
resent it; he could not resent the implication of 
superiority, if such a thing were possible, which 
 
her kindness conveyed. The question with Breckon 
was whether she had walked with him so long be 
cause she wished, in the hour, to make up as fully 
as possible for the day 's neglect, or because she 
had liked to walk up and down with him. It 
was a question he found keeping itself poignant 
ly? yet pleasantly, in his mind, after he had got 
into his berth under the solidly slumberous Boyne, 
and inclining now to one solution and now to the 
other, with a delicate oscillation that was charming. 
The Amstel took her time to get into Rotterdam, 
and when her passengers had gone ashore the next 
forenoon the train that carried Breckon to The 
Hague in the same compartment with the Kentons 
was in no greater hurry. It arrived with a deliber 
ation which kept it from carrying them on to 
Amsterdam before they knew it, and Mrs. Kenton 
had time to place such parts of the wars in the 
Rise of the Dutch Republic as she could attach 
to the names of the stations and the general feat 
ures of the landscape. Boyne was occupied with 
improvements for the windmills and the canal-boats, 
which did not seem to him of the quality of the 
Michigan aerometers, or the craft with which he 
was familiar on the Hudson River and on the canal 
that passed through Tuskingum. Lottie, with 're 
spect to the canals, offered the frank observation 
that they smelt, and in recognizing a fact which 
travel almost universally ignores in Holland, she 
watched her chance of popping up the window be 
tween herself and Boyne, which Boyne put down 
 
with mounting rage. The agriculture which tri 
umphed everywhere on the little half - acre plots 
lifted fifteen inches above the waters of the en 
vironing ditches, and the black and white cattle 
everywhere attesting the immemorial Dutch ideal 
of a cow, were what at first occupied Kenton, and 
he was tardily won from them to the question of 
fighting over a country like that. It was a con 
cession to his wife 's impassioned interest in the 
overthrow of the Spaniards in a landscape which 
had evidently not changed since. She said it was 
hard to realize that Holland was not still a republic, 
and she was not very patient with Breckon 's defence 
of the monarchy on the ground that the young 
Queen was a very pretty girl. 
" And she is only sixteen," Boyne urged. 
" Then she is two years too old for you," said 
Lottie. 
" No such thing!" Boyne retorted. " I was fifteen 
in June." 
" Dear me ! I should never have thought it," said 
his sister. 
Ellen seemed hardly to look out of the window 
at anything directly, but when her father bade her 
see this thing and that, it seemed that she had 
seen it already. She said at last, with a quiet sigh, 
" I never want to go away." 
She had been a little shy of Breckon the whole 
morning, and had kept him asking himself whether 
she was sorry she had walked so long with him 
the night before, or, having offered him due rep- 
 
aration for her family, she was again dropping him. 
Now and then he put her to the test by words ex 
plicitly directed at her, and she replied with the 
dreamy passivity which seemed her normal mood, 
and in which he could fancy himself half forgotten, 
or remembered with an effort. 
In the midst of this doubt she surprised him he 
reflected that she was always surprising him by 
asking him how far it was from The Hague to the 
sea. He explained that The Hague was in the sea 
like all the rest of Holland, but that if she meant 
the shore, it was no distance at all. Then she said, 
vaguely, she wished they were going to the shore. 
Her father asked Breckon if there was not a hotel 
at the beach, and the young man tried to give him 
a notion of the splendors of the Kurhaus at Scheven- 
ingen; of Scheveningen itself he despaired of giv 
ing any just notion. 
" Then we can go there," said the judge, ignor 
ing Ellen, in his decision, as if she had nothing to 
do with it. 
Lottie interposed a vivid preference for The 
Hague. She had, she said, had enough of the sea 
for one while, and did not want to look at it again 
till they sailed for home. Boyne turned to his father 
as if a good deal shaken by this reasoning, and it 
was Mrs. Kenton who carried the day for going first 
to a hotel in The Hague and prospecting from there 
in the direction of Scheveningen; Boyne and his 
father could go down to the shore and see which 
they liked best. 
 
" I don 't see what that has to do with me," said 
Lottie. No one was alarmed by her announce 
ment that if she did not like Scheveningen she 
should stay at The Hague, whatever the rest did; 
in the event fortune favored her going with her 
family. 
The hotel in The Hague was very pleasant, with 
a garden behind it, where a companionable cat 
had found a dry spot, and where Lottie found the 
cat and made friends with it. But she said the 
hotel was full of Cook 's tourists, whom she recog 
nized, in spite of her lifelong ignorance of them, by 
a prescience derived from the conversation of Mr. 
Pogis, and from the instinct of a society woman, 
already rife in her. She found that she could not 
stay in a hotel with Cook 's tourists, and she took 
her father 's place in the exploring party which 
went down to the watering-place in the afternoon, 
on the top of a tram-car, under the leafy roof of 
the adorable avenue of trees which embowers the 
track to Scheveningen. She disputed Boyne 's im 
pressions of the Dutch people, whom he found look 
ing more like Americans than any foreigners he had 
seen, and she snubbed Breckon from his supposed 
charge of the party. But after the start, when she 
declared that Ellen could not go, and that it was 
ridiculous for her to think of it, she was very good 
to her, and looked after her safety and comfort with 
a despotic devotion. 
At the Kurhaus she promptly took the lead in 
choosing rooms, for she had no doubt of staying 
 
there after the first glance at the place, and she 
showed a practical sense in settling her family, 
which at least her mother appreciated when they 
were installed the next day. 
Mrs. Kenton could not make her husband admire 
Lottie 's faculty so readily. " You think it would 
have been better for her to sit down with Ellen 
on the sand and dream of the sea," she reproached 
him, with a tender resentment on behalf of Lottie. 
" Everybody can 't dream." 
" Yes, but I wish she didn 't keep awake with such 
a din," said the judge. After all, he admired Lot 
tie 's judgment about the rooms, and he censured 
her with a sigh of relief from care as he sank back 
in the easy-chair fronting the window that looked 
out on the North Sea ; Lottie had already made him 
appreciate the view till he was almost sick of it. 
" What is the matter ?" said Mrs. Kenton, sharp 
ly. " Do you want to be in Tuskingum ? I suppose 
you would rather be looking into Kichard 's back 
yard." 
"No," said the judge, mildly, "this is very 
nice." 
"It will do Ellen good, every minute. I don 't 
care how much she sits on the sands and dreams. 
I 'll love to see her." 
The sitting on the sand was a survival of Mrs. 
Kenton 's preoccupations of the sea-side. As a mat 
ter of fact, Ellen was at that moment sitting in one 
of the hooded wicker arm-chairs which were scatter 
ed over the whole vast beach like a growth of mon- 
 
strous mushrooms, and, confronting her in cosey 
proximity, Breckon sat equally hidden in another 
windstuhl. Her father and her mother were able 
to keep them placed, among the multitude of wind- 
stuhls, by the presence of Lottie, who hovered near 
them, and, with Boyne, fended off the demure, 
wicked - looking little Scheveningen girls. On a 
smaller scale these were exactly like their demure, 
wicked - looking Scheveningen mothers, and they 
approached with knitting in their hands, and with 
large stones folded in their aprons, which they had 
pilfered from the mole, and were trying to sell 
for footstools. The windstuhl men and they were 
enemies, and when Breckon bribed them to go away, 
the windstuhl men chased them, and the little girls 
ran, making mouths at Boyne over their shoulders. 
He scorned to notice them ; but he was obliged to 
report the misconduct of Lottie, who began mak 
ing eyes at the Dutch officers as soon as she could 
feel that Ellen was safely off her hands. She was 
the more exasperating and the more culpable to 
Boyne, because she had asked him to walk up the 
beach with her, and had then made the fraternal 
promenade a basis of operations against the Dutch 
military. She joined her parents in ignoring Boyne 's 
complaints, and continued to take credit for all 
the pleasant facts of the situation; she patron 
ized her family as much for the table d hote at 
luncheon as for the comfort of their rooms. She 
was able to assure them that there was not a Cook 's 
tourist in the hotel, where there seemed to be nearly 
 
every other kind of fellow-creature. At the end 
of the first week she had acquaintance of as many 
nationalities as she could reach in their native or 
acquired English, in all the stages of haughty toler 
ation, vivid intimacy, and cold exhaustion. She 
had a faculty for getting through with people, or of 
ceasing to have any use for them, which was perhaps 
her best safeguard in her adventurous flirting ; while 
the simple aliens were still in the full tide of fan 
cied success, Lottie was sick of them all, and deep 
in an indiscriminate correspondence with her young 
men in Tuskingum. 
The letters which she had invited from these 
while still in New York arrived with the first of 
those readdressed from the judge 's London banker. 
She had more letters than all the rest of the family 
together, and counted a half-dozen against a poor 
two for her sister. Mrs. Kenton cared nothing about 
Lottie 's letters, but she was silently uneasy about 
the two that Ellen carelessly took. She wondered 
who could be writing to Ellen, especially in a cover 
bearing a handwriting altogether strange to her. 
"It isn 't from Bittridge, at any rate," she said 
to her husband, in the speculation which she made 
him share. " I am always dreading to have her 
find out what Richard did. It would spoil every 
thing, I 'm afraid, and now everything is going so 
well. I do wish Richard hadn t, though, of course, 
he did it for the best. Who do you think has 
been writing to her ?" 
"Why don 't you ask her?" 
 
" I suppose she will tell me after a while. I don 't 
like to seem to be following her up. One was 
from Bessie Pearl, I think." 
Ellen did not speak of her letters to her mother, 
and after waiting a day or two, Mrs. Kenton could 
not refrain from asking her. 
" Oh, I forgot," said Ellen. " I haven 't read them 
yet." 
" Haven 't read them !" said Mrs. Kenton. Then, 
after reflection, she added, " You are a strange girl, 
Ellen," and did not venture to say more. 
"I suppose I thought I should have to answer 
them, and that made me careless. But I will read 
them." Her mother was silent, and presently Ellen 
added : " I hate to think of the past. Don 't you, 
momma ?" 
"It is certainly very pleasant here," said Mrs. 
Kenton, cautiously. "You 're enjoying yourself 
I mean, you seem to be getting so much stronger." 
" Why, momma, why do you talk as if I had been 
sick?" Ellen asked. 
" I mean you 're so much interested." 
"Don 't I go about everywhere, like anybody?" 
Ellen pursued, ignoring her explanation. 
"Yes, you certainly do. Mr. Breckon seems to 
like going about." 
Ellen did not respond to the suggestion except 
to say : " We go into all sorts of places. This morn 
ing we went up on that schooner that 's drawn up 
on the beach, and the old man who was there was 
very pleasant. I thought it was a wreck, but Mr. 
 
Breckon says they 're always drawing their ships 
that way up on the sand. The old man was patching 
some of the wood-work, and he told Mr. Breckon 
he can speak a little Dutch that they were going 
to drag her down to the water and go fishing as 
soon as he was done. He seemed to think we were 
brother and sister." She flushed a little, and then 
she said: "I believe I like the dunes as well as 
anything. Sometimes when those curious cold 
breaths come in from the sea we climb up in the 
little hollows on the other side and sit there out of 
the draft. Everybody seems to do it." 
Apparently Ellen was submitting the propriety 
of the fact to her mother, who said : " Yes, it seems 
to be quite the same as it is at home. I always 
supposed that it was different with young people 
here. There is certainly no harm in it." 
Ellen went on, irrelevantly. " I like to go and 
look at the Scheveningen women mending the nets 
on the sand back of the dunes. They have such 
good gossiping times. They shouted to us last 
evening, and then laughed when they saw us watch 
ing them. When they got through their work they 
got up and stamped off so strong, with their bare, 
red arms folded into their aprons, and their skirts 
sticking out so stiff. Yes, I should like to be like 
them." 
"You, Ellen!" 
"Yes; why not?" 
Mrs. Kenton found nothing better to answer than, 
" They were very material looking," ^ H 
THt 
TY 
 
" They are very happy looking. They live in the 
present. That is what I should like: living in the 
present, and not looking backwards or forwards. 
After all, the present is the only life we ve got, 
isn 't it?" 
"I suppose you may say it is," Mrs. Kenton ad 
mitted, not knowing just where the talk was leading, 
but dreading to interrupt it. 
"But that isn 't the Scheveningen woman 's only 
ideal. Their other ideal is to keep the place clean. 
Saturday afternoon they were all out scrubbing the 
brick sidewalks, and clear into the middle of the 
street. We were almost ashamed to walk over the 
nice bricks, and we picked out as many dirty places 
as we could find." 
Ellen laughed, with a light-hearted gayety that 
was very strange to her, and Mrs. Kenton, as she 
afterwards told her husband, did not know what 
to think. 
"I couldn 't help wondering," she said, "whether 
the poor child would have liked to keep on living 
in the present a month ago." 
"Well, I 'm glad you didn 't say so," the judge 
answered. 
XX 
FROM the easy conquest of the men who looked 
at her Lottie proceeded to the subjection of the 
women. It would have been more difficult to put 
these down, if the process had not been so largely, 
so almost entirely subjective. As it was, Lottie ex 
changed snubs with many ladies of the continental 
nationalities who were never aware of having of 
fered or received offence. In some cases, when they 
fearlessly ventured to speak with her, they behaved 
very amiably, and seemed to find her conduct suffi 
ciently gracious in return. In fact, she was ap 
proachable enough, and had no shame, before Boyne, 
in dismounting from the high horse which she rode 
when alone with him, and meeting these ladies oh 
foot, at least half-way. She made several of them 
acquainted with her mother, who, after a timorous 
reticence, found them very conversable, with a range 
of topics, however, that shocked her American sense 
of decorum. One Dutch lady talked with such man 
ly freedom, and with such untrammelled intimacy, 
that she was obliged to send Boyne and Lottie about 
their business, upon an excuse that was not apparent 
to the Dutch lady. She only complimented Mrs. 
Kenton upon her children and their devotion to 
 
each other, and when she learned that Ellen was also 
her daughter, ventured the surmise that she was 
not long married. 
"It isn 't her husband," Mrs. Kenton explained, 
with inward trouble. " It 's just a gentleman that 
came over with us," and she went with her trouble 
to her own husband as soon as she could. 
" I 'm afraid it isn 't the custom to go around alone 
with young men as much as Ellen thinks," she 
suggested. 
"He ought to know," said the judge. "I don 't 
suppose he would if it wasn t." 
" That is true," Mrs. Kenton owned, and for the 
time she put her misgivings away. 
" So long as we do nothing wrong," the judge 
decided, "I don 't see why we should not keep to 
our own customs." 
" Lottie says they 're not ours, in New York." 
" Well, we are not in New York now." 
They had neither of them the heart to interfere 
with Ellen 's happiness, for, after all, Breckon was 
careful enough of the appearances, and it was only 
his being constantly with Ellen that suggested the 
Dutch lady 's surmise. In fact, the range of their 
wanderings was not beyond the dunes, though once 
they went a little way on one of the neatly bricked 
country roads that led towards The Hague. As yet 
there had been no movement in any of the party 
to see the places that lie within such easy tram- 
reach of The Hague, and the hoarded interest of the 
past in their keeping. Ellen chose to dwell in the 
 
actualities which were an enlargement of her own 
present, and Lottie 's active spirit found employment 
enough in the amusements at the Kurhaus. She 
shopped in the little bazars which make a Saratoga 
under the colonnades fronting two sides of the 
great space before the hotel, and she formed a criti 
cal and exacting taste in music from a constant 
attendance at the afternoon concerts ; it is true that 
during the winter in New York she had cast for 
ever behind her the unsophisticated ideals of Tus- 
kingum in the art, so that from the first she was 
able to hold the famous orchestra that played in 
the Kurhaus concert - room up to the highest 
standard. She had no use for anybody who had 
any use for rag-time, and she was terribly severe 
with a young American, primarily of Boyne 's ac 
quaintance, who tried to make favor with her by 
asking about the latest coon-songs. She took the 
highest ethical ground with him about tickets in 
a charitable lottery which he had bought from the 
portier, but could not move him on the lower level 
which he occupied. He offered to give her the 
picture which was the chief prize, in case he won 
it, and she assured him beforehand that she 
should not take it. She warned Boyne against him, 
under threats of exposure to their mother, as not 
a good influence, but one afternoon, when the 
young Queen of Holland came to the concert 
with the queen-mother, Lottie cast her prejudices 
to the winds in accepting the places which the 
wicked fellow - countryman offered Boyne and 
 
herself, when they had failed to get any where 
they could see the queens, as the Dutch called 
them. 
The hotel was draped with flags, and banked with 
flowers about the main entrance where the queens 
were to arrive, and the guests massed themselves 
in a dense lane for them to pass through. Lottie 
could not fail to be one of the foremost in this 
array, and she was able to decide, when the queens 
had passed, that the younger would not be consider 
ed a more than average pretty girl in America, and 
that she was not very well dressed. They had all 
stood within five feet of her, and Boyne had appro 
priated one of the prettiest of the pretty bends which 
the gracious young creature made to right and left, 
and had responded to it with an empressement 
which he hoped had not been a sacrifice of his 're 
publican principles. 
During the concert he sat with his eyes fixed 
upon the Queen where she sat in the royal box, with 
her mother and her ladies behind her, and wondered 
and blushed to wonder if she had noticed him when 
he bowed, or if his chivalric devotion in applaud 
ing her when the audience rose to receive her had 
been more apparent than that of others; whether 
it had seemed the heroic act of setting forth at 
the head of her armies, to beat back a German in 
vasion, which it had essentially been, with his in 
stantaneous return as victor, and the Queen 's ab 
dication and adoption of republican principles under 
conviction of his reasoning, and her idolized conse- 
 
cration as the first chief of the Dutch republic. 
His cheeks glowed, and he quaked at heart lest 
Lottie should surprise his thoughts and expose them 
to that sarcastic acquaintance, who proved to be 
a medical student resting at Scheveningen from 
the winter 's courses and clinics in Vienna. He had 
already got on to many of Boyne 's curves, and had 
sacrilegiously suggested the Queen of Holland when 
he found him feeding his fancy on the modern 
heroical romances; he advised him as an American 
adventurer to compete with the European princes 
paying court to her. So thin a barrier divided that 
malign intelligence from Boyne 's most secret 
dreams that he could never feel quite safe from him, 
and yet he was always finding himself with him, 
now that he was separated from Miss Rasmith, and 
Mr. Breckon was taken up so much with Ellen. On 
the ship he could put many things before Mr. 
Breckon which must here perish in his breast, 
or suffer the blight of this Mr. Trannel 's rail 
lery. The student sat near the Kentons at table, 
and he was no more reverent of the judge 's 
modest convictions than of Boyne 's fantastic pre 
occupations. The worst of him was that you could 
not help liking him: he had a fascination which 
the boy felt while he dreaded him, and now and 
then he did something so pleasant that when 
he said something unpleasant you could hardly be 
lieve it. 
At the end of the concert, when he rose and stood 
with all the rest, while the royal party left their 
 
 
box, and the orchestra played the Dutch national 
hymn, he said, in a loud whisper, to Boyne : " Now 's 
your time, my boy! Hurry out and hand her into 
her carriage !" 
Boyne fairly reeled at the words which translated 
a passage of the wild drama playing itself in his 
brain, and found little support in bidding his tor 
mentor, " Shut up !" The retort, rude as it was, 
seemed insufficient, but Boyne tried in vain to think 
of something else. He tried to punish him by sepa 
rating Lottie from him, but failed as signally in 
that. She went off with him, and sat in a windstuhl 
facing his the rest of the afternoon, with every effect 
of carrying on. 
Boyne was helpless, with his mother against it, 
when he appealed to her to let him go and tell Lottie 
that she wanted her. Mrs. Kenton said that she saw 
no harm in it, that Ellen was sitting in like manner 
with Mr. Breckon. 
" Mr. Breckon is very different, and Ellen knows 
how to behave," he urged, but his mother remained 
unmoved, or was too absent about something to 
take any interest in the matter. In fact, she was 
again unhappy about Ellen, though she put on 
such an air of being easy about her. Clearly, so 
far as her maternal surmise could fathom the case, 
Mr. Breckon was more and more interested in Ellen, 
and it was evident that the child was interested in 
him. The situation was everything that was accept 
able to Mrs. Kenton, but she shuddered at the cloud 
which hung over it, and which might any moment 
 
involve it. Again and again she had made sure 
that Lottie had given Ellen no hint of Richard 's 
ill-advised vengeance upon Bittridge ; but it was not 
a thing that could be kept always, and the question 
was whether it could be kept till Ellen had accepted 
Mr. Breckon and married him. This was beyond 
the question of his asking her to do so, but it 
was so much more important that Mrs. Kenton 
was giving it her attention first, quite out of the 
order of time. Besides, she had every reason, as 
she felt, to count upon the event. Unless he was 
trifling with Ellen, far more wickedly than Bit 
tridge, he was in love with her, and in Mrs. Ken- 
ton 's simple experience and philosophy of life, being 
in love was briefly preliminary to marrying. If she 
went with her anxieties to her husband, she had 
first to reduce him from a buoyant optimism con 
cerning the affair before she could get him to 
listen seriously. When this was accomplished he 
fell into such despair that she ended in lifting him 
up and supporting him with hopes that she did 
not feel herself. What they were both united in 
was the conviction that nothing so good could hap 
pen in the world, but they were equally united in 
the old American tradition that they must not lift 
a finger to secure this supreme good for their 
child. 
It did not seem to them that leaving the young 
people constantly to themselves was doing this. They 
interfered with Ellen now neither more nor less 
than they had interfered with her as to Bittridge, 
or tlian they would have interfered with her in 
the case of any one else. She was still to be 
left entirely to herself in such matters, and Mrs. 
Kenton would have kept even her thoughts off her 
if she could. She would have been very glad to 
give her mind wholly to the study of the great 
events which had long interested her here in their 
scene, but she felt that until the conquest of Mr. 
Breckon was secured beyond the hazard of Ellen 's 
morbid defection at the supreme moment, she could 
not give her mind to the history of the Dutch 're 
public. 
" Don 't bother me about Lottie, Boyne," she said. 
" I have enough to think of without your nonsense. 
If this Mr. Trannel is an American, that is all that 
is necessary. We are all Americans together, and I 
don 't believe it will make remark, Lottie 's sitting on 
the beach with him." 
"I don 't see how he 's different from that Bit- 
tridge," said Boyne. "He doesn 't care for any 
thing ; and he plays the banjo just like him." 
Mrs. Kenton was too troubled to laugh. She said, 
with finality, " Lottie can take care of herself," and 
then she asked, " Boyne, do you know whom Ellen 's 
letters were from ?" 
" One was from Bessie Pearl " 
" Yes, she showed me that. But you don 't know 
who the other was fror. 
"Xo; she didn 't tell me. You know how close 
Ellen is." 
"Yes," the mother sighed, "she is very odd." 
 
Then she added, "Don 't you let her know that I 
asked you about her letters." 
" No," said Boyne. His audience was apparently 
at an end, but he seemed still to have something on 
his mind. " Momma," he began afresh. 
" Well ?" she answered, a little impatiently. 
"Nothing. Only I got to thinking, Is a person 
able to control their their fancies?" 
" Fancies about what ?" 
" Oh, I don 't know. About falling in love." 
Boyne blushed. 
" Why do you want to know ? You musn 't think 
about such things, a boy like you! It 's a great 
pity that you ever knew anything about that Bit- 
tridge business. It 's made you too bold. But it 
seems to have been meant to drag us down and 
humiliate us in every way." 
"Well, I didn 't try to know anything about it," 
Boyne retorted. 
" No, that 's true," his mother did him the justice 
to recognize. "Well, what is it you want to 
know?" Boyne was too hurt to answer at once, 
and his mother had to coax him a little. She did 
it sweetly, and apologized to him for saying what 
she had said. After all, he was the youngest, and 
her baby still. Her words and caresses took effect 
at last, and he stammered out, " Is everybody so, or 
is it only the Kentons that seem to be always put 
ting well, their affections where it 's perfectly use 
less?" 
His mother pushed him from her. "Boyne, 
 
are you silly about that ridiculous old Miss Eas- 
mith?" 
"No!" Boyne shouted, savagely, "I 'm not!" 
"Who is it, then?" 
"I shaVt tell you!" Boyne said, and tears of 
rage and shame came into his eyes. 
XXI 
IN his exile from his kindred, for it came prac 
tically to that, Boyne was able to add a fine gloom 
to the state which he commonly observed with 
himself when he was not giving way to his morbid 
fancies or his morbid fears, and breaking down in 
helpless subjection to the nearest member of his 
household. Lottie was so taken up with her student 
that she scarcely quarrelled with him any more, and 
they had no longer those moments of union in 
which they stood together against the world. His 
mother had cast him off, as he felt, very heartless 
ly, though it was really because she could not give 
his absurdities due thought in view of the hopeful 
seriousness of Ellen 's affair, and Boyne was aware 
that his father at the best of times was ignorant 
of him when he was not impatient of him. These 
were not the best of times with Judge Kenton, and 
Boyne was not the first object of his impatience. 
In the last analysis he was living until he could 
get home, and so largely in the hope of this that 
his wife at times could scarcely keep him from 
taking some step that would decide the matter 
between Ellen and Breckon at once. They were 
tacitly agreed that they were waiting for nothing 
 
else, and, without making their agreement explicit, 
she was able to quell him by asking what he expected 
to do in case there was nothing between them ? Was 
he going to take the child back to Tuskingum, 
which was the same as taking her back to Bittridge \ 
It hurt her to confront him with this question, and 
she tried other devices for staying and appeasing 
him. She begged him now, seeing Boyne so for 
lorn, and hanging about the hotel alone, or moping 
over those ridiculous books of his, to go off with 
the boy somewhere and see the interesting places 
within such easy reach, like Leyden and Delft. 
If he cared nothing for the place where William 
the Silent was shot, he ought to see the place that 
the Pilgrims started from. She had counted upon 
doing those places herself, with her husband, and it 
was in a sacrifice of her ideal that she now urged 
him to go with Boyne. But her preoccupation with 
Ellen 's affair forbade her self-abandon to those high 
historical interests to which she urged his devotion. 
She might have gone with him and Boyne, but then 
she must have left the larger half of her divided 
mind with Ellen, not to speak of Lottie, who refused 
to be a party to any such excursion. Mrs. Kenton 
felt the disappointment and grieved at it, but not 
without hope of repairing it later, and she did not 
cease from entreating the judge to do what he could 
at once towards fulfilling the desires she postponed. 
Once she prevailed with him, and really got him 
and Boyne off for a day, but they came back early, 
with signs of having bored each other intolerably, 
 
and after that it was Boyne, as much as his father, 
who relucted from joint expeditions. Boyne did 
not so much object to going alone, and his father 
said it was best to let him, though his mother had 
her fears for her youngest. He spent a good deal 
of his time on the trams between Scheveningen and 
The Hague, and he was understood to have explored 
the capital pretty thoroughly. In fact, he did go 
about with a valet de place, whom he got at a cheap 
rate, and with whom he conversed upon the state 
of the country and its political affairs. The valet 
said that the only enemy that Holland could fear 
was Germany, but an invasion from that quarter 
could be easily repulsed by cutting the dikes and 
drowning the invaders. The sea, he taught Boyne, 
was the great defence of Holland, and it was a waste 
of money to keep such an army as the Dutch had; 
but neither the sea nor the sword could drive out 
the Germans if once they insidiously married a 
Prussian prince to the Dutch Queen. 
There seemed to be no getting away from the 
Queen, for Boyne. The valet not only talked about 
her, as the pleasantest subject which he could find, 
but he insisted upon showing Boyne all her palaces. 
He took him into the Parliament house, and showed 
him where she sat while the queen-mother read 
the address from the throne. He introduced him 
at a bazar where the shop-girl who spoke English 
better than Boyne, or at least without the central 
Ohio accent, wanted to sell him a miniature of the 
Queen on porcelain. She said the Queen was such 
 
a nice girl, and she was herself such a nice girl 
that Boyne blushed a little in looking at her. He 
bought the miniature, and then he did not know 
what to do with it; if any of the family, if Lottie, 
found out that he had it, or that Trannel, he should 
have no peace any more. He put it in his pocket, 
provisionally, and when he came giddily out of the 
shop he felt himself taken by the elbow and placed 
against the wall by the valet, who said the queens 
were coming. They drove down slowly through 
the crowded, narrow street, bowing right and left 
to the people flattened against the shops, and again 
Boyne saw her so near that he could have reached 
out his hand and almost touched hers. 
The consciousness of this was so strong in him 
that he wondered whether he had not tried to do 
so. If he had he would have been arrested he knew 
that; and so he knew that he had not done it. He 
knew that he imagined doing so because it would 
be so awful to have done it, and he imagined being 
in love with her because it would be so frantic. At 
the same time he dramatized an event in which 
he died for her, and she became aware of his hope 
less passion at the last moment, while the anarchist 
from whom he had saved her confessed that the 
bomb had been meant for her. Perhaps it was a 
pistol. 
He escaped from the valet as soon as he could, 
and went back to Scheveningen limp from this ex 
perience, but the queens were before him. They had 
driven down to visit the studio of a famous Dutch 
 
painter there, and again the doom was on Boyne 
to press forward with the other spectators and wait 
for the queens to appear and get into their carriage. 
The young Queen 's looks were stamped in Boyne 's 
consciousness, so that he saw her wherever he turned, 
like the sun when one has gazed at it. He thought 
how that Trannel had said he ought to hand her 
into her carriage, and he shrank away for fear he 
should try to do so, but he could not leave the place 
till she had come out with the queen -mother 
and driven off. Then he went slowly and breath 
lessly into the hotel, feeling the Queen 's miniature 
in his pocket. It made his heart stand still, and 
then bound forward. He wondered again what he 
should do with it. If he kept it, Lottie would be 
sure to find it, and he could not bring himself to 
the sacrilege of destroying it. He thought he would 
walk out on the breakwater as far as he could 
and throw it into the sea, but when he got to the 
end of the mole he could not do so. He decided 
that he would give it to Ellen to keep for him, and 
not let Lottie see it; or perhaps he might pretend 
he had bought it for her. He could not do that, 
though, for it would not be true, and if he did he 
could not ask her to keep it from Lottie. 
At dinner Mr. Trannel told him he ought to 
have been there to see the Queen; that she had 
asked especially for him, and wanted to know if 
they had not sent up her card to him. Boyne medi 
tated an apt answer through all the courses, but 
he had not thought of one when they had come 
 
to the corbeille de fruits, and he was forced to go 
to bed without having avenged himself. 
In taking rooms for her family at the hotel, Lot 
tie had arranged for her emancipation from the 
thraldom of rooming with Ellen. She said that had 
gone on long enough; if she was grown up at all, 
she was grown up enough % to have a room of her 
own, and her mother had yielded to reasoning which 
began and ended with this position. She would 
have interfered so far as to put Lottie into the 
room next her, but Lottie said that if Boyne was 
the baby he ought to be next his mother; Ellen 
might come next him, but she was going to have 
the room that was furthest from any implication 
of the dependence in which she had languished; 
and her mother submitted again. Boyne was not 
sorry; there had always been hours of the night 
when he felt the need of getting at his mother for 
reassurance as to forebodings which his fancy con 
jured up to trouble him in the wakeful dark. It 
was understood that he might freely do this, and 
though the judge inwardly fretted, he could not 
deny the boy the comfort of his mother 's encour 
aging love. Boyne 's visits woke him, fcut he slept 
the better for indulging in the young nerves that 
tremor from impressions against which the old 
nerves are proof. But now, in the strange fatality 
which seemed to involve him, Boyne could not go 
to his mother. It was too weirdly intimate, even 
for her; besides, when he had already tried to seek 
her counsel she had ignorantly repelled him. 
 
The night after his day in The Hague, when he 
could bear it no longer, he put on his dressing- 
gown and softly opened Ellen 's door. "Are you 
awake, Ellen ?" he whispered. 
"Yes. What is it, Boyne?" her gentle voice 
asked. 
He came and sat down by her bed and stole his 
hand into hers, which she put out to him. The 
watery moonlight dripped into the room at the 
edges of the shades, and the long wash of the sea 
made itself regularly heard on the sands. 
"Can 't you sleep?" Ellen asked again. "Are 
you homesick ?" 
"Not exactly that. But it does seem rather 
strange for us to be off here so far, doesn 't it ?" 
"Yes, I don 't see how I can forgive myself for 
making you come," said Ellen, but her voice did 
not sound as if she were very unhappy. 
"You couldn 't help it," said Boyne, and the 
words suggested a question to him. "Do you be 
lieve that such things are ordered, Ellen ?" 
" Everything is ordered, isn 't it ?" 
"I suppose so. And if they are, we 're not to 
blame for what happens." 
" Not if we try to do right." 
" Of course. The Kentons always do that," said 
Boyne, with the faith in his family that did not 
fail him in the darkest hour. "But what I mean 
is that if anything comes on you that you can 't 
foresee and you can 't get out of " The next 
step was not clear, and Boyne paused. He asked, 
 
"Do you think that we can control our feelings, 
Ellen?" 
"About what?" 
" Well, about persons persons that we like." He 
added, for safety, " Or dislike." 
" I 'm afraid not," said Ellen, sadly. " We ought 
to like persons and dislike them for some good rea 
son, but we don t." 
"Yes, that 's what I mean," said Boyne, with a 
long breath. " Sometimes it seems like a kind of 
possession, doesn 't it ?" 
" It seems more like that when we like them," 
Ellen said. 
"Yes, that 's what I mean. If a person was to 
take a fancy to some one that was above him, that 
was richer, or older, he wouldn 't be to blame for 
it, would he?" 
" Was that what you wanted to ask me about ?" 
Boyne hesitated. "Yes," he said. He was in 
for it now. 
Ellen had not noticed Boyne 's absorption with 
Miss Rasmith on the ship, but she vaguely remem 
bered hearing Lottie tease him about her, and she 
said now, " He wouldn 't be to blame for it if he 
couldn 't help it, but if the person was much older it 
would be a pity." 
" Oh, she isn 't so very much older," said Boyne, 
more cheerfully than he had spoken before. 
"Is it somebody that you have taken a fancy to, 
Boyne?" 
"I don 't know, Ellen. That 's what makes it so 
 
kind of awful. I can 't tell whether it 's a real fancy, 
or I only think it is. Sometimes I think it is, and 
sometimes I think that I think so because I am 
afraid to believe it. Do you understand that, 
Ellen?" 
"It seems to me that I do. But you oughtn 't 
to let your fancy run away with you, Boyne. What 
a queer boy !" 
"It 's a kind of fascination, I suppose. But 
whether it 's a real fancy or an unreal one, I can 't 
get away from it." 
" Poor boy !" said his sister. 
"Perhaps it 's those books. Sometimes I think 
it is, and I laugh at the whole idea; and then 
again it 's so strong that I can 't get away from it. 
Ellen!" 
"Well, Boyne?" 
"I could tell you who it is, if you think that 
would do any good if you think it would help 
me to see it in the true light, or you could help me 
more by knowing who it is than you can now." 
" I hope it isn 't anybody that you can 't respect, 
Boyne?" 
" No, indeed ! It 's somebody you would never 
dream of." 
" Well ?" Ellen was waiting for him to speak, but 
he could not get the words out, even to her. 
" I guess I 'll tell you some other time. Maybe I 
can get over it myself." 
" It would be the best way if you could." 
He rose and left her bedside, and then he came 
 
back. " Ellen, I ve got something that I wish you 
would keep for me." 
" What is it? Of course I will." 
"Well, it 's something I don 't want you to let 
Lottie know I ve got. She tells that Mr. Trannel 
everything, and then he wants to make fun. Do you 
think he 's so very witty ?" 
" I can 't help laughing at some things he says." 
" I suppose he is," Boyne ruefully admitted. " But 
that doesn 't make you like him any better. Well, 
if you won 't tell Lottie, I 'll give it to you now." 
"I won 't tell anything that you don 't want me 
to, Boyne." 
" It 's nothing. It 's just a picture of the Queen 
on porcelain, that I got in The Hague. The guide 
took me into the store, and I thought I ought to get 
something." 
" Oh, that 's very nice, Boyne. I do like the Queen 
so much. She 's so sweet !" 
" Yes, isn 't she ?" said Boyne, glad of Ellen 's ap 
proval. So far, at least, he was not wrong. " Here 
it is now." 
He put the miniature in Ellen 's hand. She lifted 
herself on her elbow. " Light the candle and let me 
see it." 
" No, no !" he entreated. " It might wake Lottie, 
and and Good-night, Ellen." 
" Can you go to sleep now, Boyne ?" 
" Oh yes. I 'm all right. Good-night." 
" Good-night, then." 
Boyne stooped over and kissed her, and went to 
 
the door. He came back and asked, "You don 't 
think it was silly, or anything, for me to get it?" 
" No, indeed ! It 's just what you will like to have 
when you get home. We ve all seen her so often. 
I 'll put it in my trunk, and nobody shall know about 
it till we 're safely back in Tuskingum." 
Boyne sighed deeply. " Yes, that 's what I meant. 
Good-night." 
" Good-night, Boyne." 
" I hope I haven 't waked you up too much ?" 
" Oh no. I can get to sleep easily again." 
" Well, good-night." Boyne sighed again, but not 
so deeply, and this time he went out. 
XXII 
MRS. KENTON woke with the clear vision which is 
sometimes vouchsafed to people whose eyes are 
holden at other hours of the day. She had heard 
Boyne opening and shutting Ellen 's door, and her 
heart smote her that he should have gone to his 
sister with whatever trouble he was in rather than 
come to his mother. It was natural that she should 
put the blame on her husband, and " Now, Mr. 
Kenton," she began, with an austerity of voice which 
he recognized before he was well awake, "if you 
won 't take Boyne off somewhere to-day, I will. I 
think we had better all go. We have been here a 
whole fortnight, and we have got thoroughly rested, 
and there is no excuse for our wasting our time any 
longer. If we are going to see Holland, we had 
better begin doing it." 
The judge gave a general assent, and said that 
if she wanted to go to Flushing he supposed he could 
find some garden-seeds there, in the flower and vege 
table nurseries, which would be adapted to the 
climate of Tuskingum, and they could all put in the 
day pleasantly, looking round the place. Whether 
it was the suggestion of Tuskingum in relation to 
Flushing that decided her against the place, or 
 
whether she had really meant to go to Leyden, she 
now expressed the wish, as vividly as if it were 
novel, to explore the scene of the Pilgrims sojourn 
