there is nothing which frightens away the average desirable husband so
much as anything of that sort in the young lady of his affections, and
every married woman knows it very well.
The excellent Countess used to wish that her daughter would grow up more
like other girls, and in the sincere belief that a little womanly vanity
must certainly counteract a desire for super-feminine mental
cultivation, she honestly tried to interest Cecilia in such frivolities
as dress, dancing, and romantic fiction. The result was only very
partially successful. Cecilia was dressed to perfection, without seeming
to take any trouble about it, and she danced marvellously before she had
ever been to a ball; but she cared nothing for the novels she was
allowed to read, and she devoured serious books with increasing
intellectual voracity.
Her stepfather laughed, and said that the girl was a genius and ought
not to be hampered by ordinary rules; and his wife, who had at first
feared lest he should dislike the child of her first husband, was only
too glad that he should, on the contrary, show something like paternal
infatuation for Cecilia, since no children of his own were born to him.
He was a man, too, of wide reading and experience, and having
considerable political insight into his times. Before Cecilia was eleven
years old he talked to her about serious matters, as if she had been
grown up, and often wished that the child should be at table and in the
drawing-room when men who were making history came informally to the
embassy. Cecilia had listened to their talk, and had remembered a very
large part of what she had heard, understanding more and more as she
grew up; and by far the greatest sorrow of her life had been the death
of her stepfather.
She was a modern Italian girl, and her mother was a Roman who had been
brought up in something of the old strictness and narrowness, first in a
convent, and afterwards in a rather gloomy home under the shadow of the
most rigid parental authority. Exceptional gifts, exceptional
surroundings, and exceptional opportunities had made Cecilia Palladio an
exception to all types, and as unlike the average modern Italian young
girl as could be imagined.
The sun had already set as the mother and daughter drove away, but it
was still broad day, and a canopy of golden clouds, floating high over
the city, reflected rosy lights through the blue shadows in the crowded
streets. The Countess Fortiguerra was pleasantly aware that every man
under seventy turned to look after her daughter, from the smart old
colonel of cavalry in his perfect uniform to the ragged and haggard
waifs who sold wax matches at the corners of the streets. She was not in
the least jealous of her, as mothers have been before now, and perhaps
she was able to enjoy vicariously what she herself had never had, but
had often wished for, the gift of nature which instantly fixes the
attention of the other sex.
"Why did you not tell me?" asked Cecilia, after a silence that had
lasted five minutes.
The Countess pretended not to understand, coloured a little, and tried
to look surprised.
"Why did you not tell me that you and the Princess wish me to marry her
nephew?"
This was direct, and an answer was necessary. The Countess laughed
soothingly.
"Dear child!" she cried, "it is impossible to deceive you! We only
wished that you two might meet, and perhaps like each other."
"Well," answered Cecilia, "we have met."
The answer was not encouraging, and she did not seem inclined to say
more of her own accord, but her mother could not restrain a natural
curiosity.
"Yes," she said, in a conciliatory tone, "but how do you like him?"
Cecilia seemed to be hesitating for a moment.
"Very much," she answered, unexpectedly, after the pause.
The Countess was so much pleased that she coloured again. She had never
been able to hide what she felt, and she secretly envied people who
never blushed.
"I am so glad!" she said. "I was sure you would like each other."
"It does not follow that because I like him, he likes me," answered
Cecilia, quietly. "And even if he does, that is not a reason why we
should marry. I may never marry at all."
"How can you say such things!" cried the Countess, not at all satisfied.
Cecilia shrank a little in her corner of the deep phaeton and
instinctively drew the edges of her little silk mantle together over her
chest, as if to protect herself from something.
"You know," she said, almost sharply.
"I shall never understand you," her mother sighed.
"Give me time to understand myself, mother," answered the young girl,
suddenly unbending. "I am only eighteen; I have never been into the
world, and the mere idea of marrying----"
She stopped short, and her firm lips closed tightly.
"No, I do not understand," said the Countess. "The thought of marriage
was never disagreeable to me, even when I was quite young. It is the
natural object of a woman's life."
"There are exceptions, surely! There are nuns, for instance."
"Oh, if you wish to go into a convent----"
"I have no religious vocation," Cecilia answered gravely. "Or if I have,
it is not of that sort."
"I am glad to hear it!" The Countess was beginning to lose her temper.
"If you thought you had, you would be quite capable of taking the veil."
"Yes," the young girl replied. "If I wished to be a nun, and if I were
sure that I should be a good nun, I would enter a convent at once. But I
am not naturally devout, I suppose."
"In my time," said the Countess, with emphasis, "when young girls did
not take the veil, they married."
As an argument, this was weak and lacked logic, and Cecilia felt rather
pitiless just then.
"There are only two possible ways of living," she said; "either by
religion, if you have any, and that is the easier, or by rule."
"And pray what sort of rule can there be to take the place of religion?"
"Act so that the reason for your actions may be considered a universal
law."
"That is nonsense!" cried the Countess.
"No," replied Cecilia, unmoved, "it is Kant's Categorical Imperative."
"It makes no difference," retorted her mother. "It is nonsense."
Cecilia said nothing, and her expression did not change, for she knew
that her mother could not understand her, and she was not at all sure
that she understood herself, as she had almost confessed. Seeing that
she did not answer, the excellent Countess took the opportunity of
telling her that her head had been turned by too much reading, though it
was all her poor, dear stepfather's fault, since he had filled her head
with ideas. What she meant by "ideas" was not clear, except that they
were of course dangerous in themselves and utterly subversive of social
order, and that the main purpose of all education should be to
discourage them in the young.
"They should be left to old people," she concluded; "they have nothing
else to think of."
Cecilia had heard very little, being absorbed in her own reflections,
but as her mother often spoke in the same way, the general drift of what
she had said was unmistakable. The two were very unlike, but they were
not unloving. In her heart the Countess took the most unbounded pride in
her only child's beauty and cleverness, except when the latter opposed
itself to her social inclinations and ambitions; and the young girl
really loved her mother when not irritated by some speech or action that
offended her taste. That her mother should not always understand her
seemed quite natural.
They had almost reached their door, the great pillared porch of the
mysterious Palazzo Massimo, in which they had an apartment, for they did
not live in the villa where the garden party was to be given. Cecilia's
gloved hand went out quietly to the Countess's and gently pressed it.
"Let me think my own thoughts, mother," she said; "they shall never hurt
you."
"Yes, dear, of course," answered the elder woman meekly, her little
burst of temper having already subsided.
Cecilia left her early that evening and went to her own room to be
alone. It was not that she was tired, nor painfully affected by a
strange sensation she had felt during the afternoon; but she realised
that she had reached the end of the first stage in life, and that
another was going to begin, and it was part of her nature to seek for a
complete understanding of everything in her existence. It seemed to her
unworthy of a thinking being to act or to feel, without clearly defining
the cause of every feeling and action. Youth dreams of an impossible
completeness in carrying out its self-set rules of perfection, and is
swayed and stunned, and often paralysed, when they are broken to pieces
by rebellious human nature.
The room was very large and dim, for Cecilia had put out the electric
light, and had lit two big wax candles, of the sort that are burned in
churches. The blinds and shutters of the windows were open, and the
moonlight fell in two broad floods upon the pale carpet, half across the
floor. The white bed with its high canopy of lace looked ghostly against
the furthest wall, like a marble sepulchre under a mist. The light blue
damask on the walls was dark in the gloom, and there was not much
furniture to break the long surfaces. The dusky air was cool and pure,
for Cecilia detested perfumes of all sorts.
She sat motionless in a high carved seat, just in the moonlight, one
hand upon an arm of the chair, the other on her breast. She had gathered
her hair into a knot, low at the back of her head, and the folds of a
soft white robe just followed the outlines of her figure. The table on
which the candles stood was a little behind her, and away from the
window, and the still yellow light only touched her hair in one or two
places, sending back dull golden reflections.
The strange young face was very quiet, and even the lids rarely moved as
she steadily stared into the shadow. There was no look of thought, nor
any visible effort of concentration in her features; there was rather an
air of patient waiting, of perfect readiness to receive whatever should
come to her out of the depths. So, a beautiful marble face on a tomb
gazes into the shadows of a dim church, and gazes on, and waits, neither
growing nor changing, neither satisfied nor disappointed, but calm and
enduring, as if expecting the resurrection of the dead and the life of
the world to come. But for the rare drooping of the lids, that rested
her sight, the girl would have seemed to be in a trance; she was in a
state of almost perfect contemplation that approached to perfect
happiness, since she was hardly conscious that her strongest wishes were
still unsatisfied.
She had been in the same state before now--last week, last month, last
year, and again and again, as it seemed to her, very long ago; so long,
that the time seemed like ages, and the intervals like centuries, until
it all disappeared altogether in the immeasurable, and the past, the
present, and the future were around her at once, unbroken, always
ending, yet always beginning again. In the midst floated the soul, the
self, the undying individuality, a light that shot out long rays, like a
star, towards the ever present moments in an ever recurring life of
which she had been, and was, and was to be, most keenly conscious.
So far, the truth, perhaps; the truth, guessed by the mystics of all
ages, sometimes hidden in secret writings, sometimes proclaimed to the
light in symbols too plain to be understood, now veiled in the reasoned
propositions of philosophers, now sung in sublime verse by inspired
seers; present, as truth always is, to the few, misunderstood, as all
truths are, by the many.
But beside the truth, and outshining it, came the illusion, clear and
bright, and appealing to the heart with the music of all the changes
that are illusion's life. Sitting very still in the moonlight, Cecilia
saw pictures in the shadow, and herself walking in the mazes of many
dreams; and she watched them, till even her eyelids no longer drooped
from time to time, and her breathing ceased to stir the folds of white
upon her bosom.
Even then, she knew that she herself was not dreaming, but was calling
up dreams which she saw, which could be nothing but visions after all,
and would end in a darkness beyond which she could see nothing, and in
which she would feel real physical pain, that would be almost
unbearable, though she knew that she would gladly bear it again and
again, for the sake of again seeing the phantasms of herself drawn in
mystic light upon the shadow.
They came and followed one upon another, like days of life. There was
the beautiful marble court with its deep portico, its pillars, and its
overhanging upper story, all gleaming in the low morning sun; she could
hear the water softly laughing its way through the square marble-edged
basins, level with the ground, she could smell the spring violets that
grew in the neatly trimmed borders, she knew the faces of the statues
that stood between the columns, and smiled at her. She knew herself,
young, golden-haired, all in white, a little pale from the night's vigil
before the eternal fire, just entering the court as she came back from
the temple, and then standing quite still for a moment, facing the
morning sun and drinking in long draughts of the sweet spring air. From
far above, the matin song of birds came down out of the gardens of
Cæsar's palace, and high over the court the sounds of the Forum began to
ring and echo, as they did all day and half the night.
It was herself, her very self, that was there, resting one hand upon a
fluted column and looking upwards, her eyes, her face, her figure, real
and unchanged after ages, as they were hers now; and in her look there
was the infinite longing, the readiness to receive, which she felt still
and must feel always, to the end of time.
Now, the dream would move on, slowly and full of details. The lithe
dream figure would rest in the small white room at the upper end of the
court, and resting, would dream dreams within that dream; and, looking
on, she herself would know what they were. They would be full of a deep
desire to be free for ever from earth and body and life, joined for all
eternity with something pure and high that could not be seen, but of
which her soul was a part, mingled with the changing things for a time,
but to be withdrawn from them again, maiden and spotless as it had come
amongst them, a true and perfect Vestal.
The precious treasures in the secret places of the little temple would
pass away, the rudely carved wooden image of Pallas would crumble to
dust, the shields that had come down from heaven would fall to pieces in
green corrosion, the sacred vessels would be broken or come to a base
use, the fire would go out and Vesta's hearth would be cold for ever.
At the mere thought, the sleeping face in the vision would tremble and
grow pale for a moment, but soon would smile again, for the fire had
been faithfully tended all the night long.
But it would all pass away, even the place, even Rome herself, and in
the sphere of divine joy the sleeper would forget even to dream, and
would be quite at rest, until the mid-hour of day, when a companion
would come softly to the door and wake her with gentle words and kindly
touch, to join the other Vestals at the thrice-purified table in the
cool hall.
So the warm hours would pass, and later, if she chose, the holy maiden
might go out into the city, whithersoever she would, borne in a high,
open litter by many slaves, with a stern lictor walking before her, and
the people would fall back on either side. If she chanced to meet one of
the Prætors, or even the Consul himself, their guards would salute her
as no sovereign would be saluted in Rome; and should she see some
wretched thieving slave being led to death on the cross upon the
Esquiline, her slightest word could reverse all his condemnation, and
blot out all his crimes. For she was sacred to the Goddess, and above
Consuls and Prætors and judges. But none of those things would touch her
heart nor please her vanity, for all her pure young soul was bent on
freedom from this earth, divine and eternal, as the end of a sinless
life.
The eyes in the dream, the eyes of the girl who stood by the column,
drinking the morning air, had never met the eyes of a man with the wish
that a glance might linger to a look. But she who watched the dream knew
that the time was at hand, and that the dark cloud of fear was already
gathering which was to darken her sun and break by and by in an unknown
fear. She knew it, she, the waking Cecilia Palladio; but the other
Cecilia, the Vestal of long ago, guessed nothing of the future, and
stood there breathing softly, already refreshed after the night's
watching. It would all happen, as it always happened, little by little,
detail after detail, till the dreaded moment.
But it did not. The dream changed. Instead of crossing the marble court,
and lingering a moment by the water, the Vestal stood by the column,
against the background of shade cast by the portico. She was listening
now, she was expecting some one, she was glancing anxiously about as if
to see whether any one were there; but she was alone.
Then it came, in the shadow behind her, the face of a man, moving
nearer--a rugged Roman head, with deep-set, bold blue eye, big brows, a
great jaw, reddish hair. It came nearer, and the girl knew it was
coming. In an instant more, she would spring forward across the court,
crying out for protection.
No, she did not move till the man was close to her, looking over her
shoulder, whispering in her ear. Cecilia saw it all, and it was so real
that she tried to call out, to shriek, to make any sound that could save
her image from destruction, for the kiss that was coming would be death
to both, and death with unutterable shame and pain. But her voice was
gone, and her lips were frozen. She sat paralysed with a horror she had
never known before, while the face of the phantom girl blushed softly,
and turned to the strong man, and the two gazed into each other's eyes a
moment, knowing that they loved.
She felt that it was her other self, and that she had the will to
resist, even then, and that the will must still be supreme over the
illusion. Never, it seemed to her, had she made such a supreme effort,
never had she felt such power concentrated in her strong determination,
never in all her life had she been so sure of the result when she had
willed anything with all her might. Every fibre of her being, every
nerve in her body, every throbbing cell of her brain was strained to
breaking. The two faces were quite close, the longing lips had almost
met--nothing could hinder, nothing could save; the phantasms did not
know that she was watching them.
Suddenly something changed. She no longer saw herself in a vision, she
was herself there, somewhere, in the dark, in the light--she did not
know--and there was no will, nor thought, nor straining resistance any
more, for Lamberto Lamberti held her in his arms, her, Cecilia Palladio,
her very living self, and his lips were upon hers, and she loved him
beyond death, or life, or fear, or torment. Surely she was dying then,
for the darkness was whirling with her, spinning itself into myriads of
circles of fiery stars, tearing her over the brink of the world to
eternity beyond.
One second more and it must have ended so. Instead, she was leaning back
in her chair, between the moonlight and the steadily burning candles, in
her own room, alone. From head to foot she trembled, and now and then
drew a short and gasping breath. Her parted lips were moist and very
cold. She touched them, and they felt like flowers at night, wet with
dew. She pushed the hair from her forehead, and her brow was strangely
damp.
She sprang to her feet with a cry of terror, and stared at the door, for
she was quite sure that she had heard it close softly. It was a heavy
door, that turned noiselessly on its hinges and fitted perfectly, and
she knew the soft click of the well-made French lock when the spring
quietly pushed the bevelled latch-bolt into the socket. In an instant
she had crossed the room and had turned the handle to draw it in. But
the door was locked, beyond all doubt--she had turned the key before she
had sat down in the chair. She felt intensely cold, and an icy wave
seemed to lift her hair from her forehead. Her hand instinctively found
the white button, close beside the door-frame, which controlled all the
electric lamps, and pushed it in, and the room was flooded with light.
She must have imagined that she had heard the sound that had frightened
her.
Half dazed, she moved slowly to the windows, and closed the inner
shutters, one by one, shutting out the cold moonlight, then stood by the
chair a moment, looked at it, and glanced in the direction whence the
vision had come to her out of the shadow.
She did not know how it happened, but presently she was lying on her
bed, her face buried in the pillows, and she was tearing her heart out
in a tearless storm of shame and self-contempt.
What right had that man whom she had so often seen in her dreams to be
alive in the real world, walking among other men, recognising her, as
she had felt that he did that very afternoon? What right had he to come
to her again in the vision and to change it all, to take her in his
violent arms and kiss her on the mouth, and burn the mark of shame into
her soul, and fill her with a pleasure more horrible than any pain? Was
this the end of all her girlish meditation, of the Vestal's longing for
higher things, of the mystic's perfect way? A man's brutal kiss not even
resisted? Was that all? It could not have been worse if on that same day
she had been alone with him in the garden, instead of with Guido d'Este,
and if he had suddenly put his arms round her, and if she had not even
turned her face from his.
It was only a dream. Yes, to-morrow she would awake, if she slept at
all, and the sunshine would be streaming in where the moonlight had
shone, and it would only be a dream, past and to be forgotten. Perhaps.
But what were dreams, then? She had not been asleep, she was quite sure.
There was not even that poor excuse. The man's phantasm had come to her
awake.
And Lamberto Lamberti was nothing to her. Beyond the startling
recognition of a face long familiar, but never seen among the living, he
was to her a man she had met but once, and did not wish to meet again.
She had been aware of his presence near her at the Princess's, and when
he had gone away she had looked at him once more with a sort of wonder;
but she had felt nothing else, she had not touched his hand, the thought
that he would ever dare to seize her roughly in his arms brought burning
blushes to her cheek and outraged all her maiden senses. She had never
seen any man whom she could suffer to touch her; her whole nature
revolted at the thought. Yet, just now, there had been neither revolt
nor resistance; she felt that she had been herself, awake, alive, and
consenting to an unknown but frightfully real contamination, from which
her soul could never again be wholly clean.
The storm subsided, and sullen waves of self-contempt swelled and sank,
as if to overwhelm her drowning soul. She understood at last the
ascetic's wrath against the mortal body and his irresistible craving for
bodily pain.
                               CHAPTER IV
Very early in the morning Cecilia fell into a dreamless sleep at last,
and awoke, unrefreshed, after nine o'clock. She felt very tired and
listless as she opened the window a little and let in the light and air,
with the sounds of the busy thoroughfare below. The weather was suddenly
much warmer, and her head was heavy.
It had all been a dream, no doubt, and was gone where dreams go; but it
had been like a fight, out of which she had come alive by a miracle,
bruised and wounded, and offended in her whole being. Never again would
she sit alone at night and look for her image in the shadow, since such
things could come of playing with visions; and she trusted that she
might never again set eyes upon Lamberto Lamberti. She was alone, but at
the thought of meeting him she blushed and bit her lip angrily. How was
it possible that he should know what she had dreamt? For years, in that
dream of the Vestal, a being had played a part, a being too like him in
face to be another man, but who had loved her as a goddess, and whom she
had loved for his matchless bravery and his glorious strength over
himself. It was a long story, that had gradually grown clear in every
detail, that had gone far beyond death to a spiritual life in a place of
light, though it had always ended in something vaguely fearful that
brought her back to the world, and to her present living self, to begin
again. She could not go over it now, but she was conscious, and to her
shame, that the spell of perfect happiness had always been broken at
last by the taint of earthly longing and regret that crept up stealthily
from the world below, an evil mist, laden with poison and fever and
mortality.
That change had been undefined, though it had been horrible and
irresistible; it had been evil, but it had not been brutal, and it had
thrilled her with the certainty of passion and pain to come, realising
neither while dreading and loving both.
She had read the writings of men who believe that by long meditation and
practised intention the real self of man or woman can be separated from
all that darkens it, though not easily, because it is bound up with
fragments, as it were, of the selves of others, with all the
inheritances of a hundred generations of good and bad, with sleeping
instincts and passions any of which may suddenly spring up and overwhelm
the rest. She had also read that the real self, when found at last,
might be far better and purer than the mixed self of every day, which
each of us knows and counts upon; but that it might also be much worse,
much coarser, much more violent, when freed from every other influence,
and that coming upon it unawares and unprepared, men had lost their
reason altogether beyond recovery.
She asked herself now whether this was what had happened to her, and no
answer came; there was only the very weary blank of a great uncertainty,
in which anything might be, or in which there might be nothing; and
then, there was the vivid burning fear of meeting Lamberto Lamberti face
to face. That was by far the strongest and most clearly defined of her
sensations.
If the Princess Anatolie could have known what Cecilia felt that
morning, she would have been exceedingly well pleased, and Cecilia's own
mother would have considered that this was a case in which the powers of
evil had been permitted to work for the accomplishment of a good end.
Nothing could have distressed the excellent Countess more than that her
daughter should accidentally fall in love with Lamberti, who was a
younger son in a numerous family, with no prospects beyond those offered
by his profession. Nothing could have interfered more directly with the
Princess's sensible intentions for her nephew. Perhaps nothing could
have caused greater surprise to Lamberti himself. On the other hand,
Guido d'Este would have been glad, but not surprised. He rarely was.
In the course of the day he left a card at the Palazzo Massimo for the
Countess Fortiguerra, and as he turned away he regretted that he could
not ask for her, and see her, and possibly see her daughter also. That
was evidently out of the question as yet, according to his social laws,
but his regret was real. It was long since any woman's face had left him
more than a vague impression of good looks, or dulness, but he had
thought a good deal about Cecilia Palladio since he had met her, and he
knew that he wished to talk with her again, however much he might resent
the idea that he was meant to marry her. She was the first young girl he
had ever known who had not bored him with platitudes or made
conversation impossible by obstinate silence.
It was true that he had not talked with her much, and at first it had
seemed hard to talk at all, but the ice had been broken suddenly, and
for a few minutes he had found it easy. As for the chilling coldness of
her last words, he could account for that easily enough. Like himself,
she had seen that a marriage had been planned for her without her
knowledge, and, like him, she had resented the trap. For a while she had
forgotten, as he had done, but had remembered suddenly when they were
about to part. She had meant to show him plainly that she had not had
any voice in the matter, and he liked her the better for it, now that he
understood her meaning.
She was like the Psyche, he thought, and it occurred to him that he
could buy a cast of the statue. He had always thought it beautiful. He
strolled through narrow streets in the late afternoon till he came to
the shop of a dealer in casts, of whom he had once bought something, and
he went in. The man had what he wanted, and he examined it carefully.
She was not like the Psyche after all, and the crude white plaster
shocked his taste for the first time. If the marble original had been in
Rome, instead of in Naples, he could have gone to see it. He left the
shop disappointed, and walked slowly towards the Farnese palace. The day
seemed endless, and there was no particular reason why all days should
not seem as long. There was nothing to do; nothing amused him, and
nobody asked anything of him. It would be very strange and pleasant to
be of use in the world.
He went home and sat down by the open window that looked across the
Tiber. The wide room was flooded with the evening light, and warm with
much colour that lingered and floated about beautiful objects here and
there. It was not a very luxuriously furnished room, but it was not the
habitation of an ascetic or puritanical man either. Guido cared more for
rare engravings and etchings than for pictures, and a few very fine
framed prints stood on the big writing table; there was Dürer's
Melancholia, and the Saint Jerome, and the Little White Horse, and the
small Saint Anthony, and Rembrandt's Three Trees, all by itself, as the
most wonderful etching in the world deserved to be; and here and there,
about the room, were a few good engravings by Martin Schöngauer, and by
Mantegna, and by Marcantonio Raimondi. The bold, careless, effective
drawing of the Italian engravers contrasted strongly with the profoundly
conscientious work of Schöngauer and Lucas van Leyden, and revealed at a
glance the incomparable mastery of Dürer's dry point and Rembrandt's
etching needle, the deep conviction of the German, and the inexhaustible
richness of the Dutchman's imagination.
A picture hung over the fireplace, the picture of a woman, at half
length and a little smaller than life, holding in exquisite hands a
small covered vessel of silver encrusted with gold, and gazing out into
the warm light with the gentlest hazel eyes. A veil of olive green
covered her head, but the fair hair found its way out, tresses and
ringlets, on each side of the face. The woman was perhaps a Magdalen,
not like any other Magdalen in all the paintings of the world, and more
the great lady of the castle of Magdalon, she of the Golden Legend. When
Andrea del Sarto painted that face, he meant something that he never
told, and it pleased Guido d'Este to try and guess the secret. As he
glanced at the canvas, glowing in the rich light, it struck him that
perhaps Cecilia Palladio was more like the woman in the picture than she
was like the Psyche. Then he almost laughed, and turned away, for he
realised that he was thinking of the girl continually, and saw her face
everywhere.
He turned away impatiently, in spite of the smile. He was annoyed by the
attraction he felt towards Cecilia, because the thought of marrying an
heiress, in order that his aunt might recover money she had literally
thrown away, was grossly repulsive; and also, no doubt, because he was
not docile, though he was good-natured, and he hated to have anything in
his life planned for him by others. He was still less pleased now that
he found himself searching for reasons which should justify him in
marrying Cecilia in spite of all this. Nothing irritates a man more than
his own inborn inconsistency, whereas he enjoys diabolical satisfaction
in convicting any woman of the same fault.
After all, said his Inclination, as if coolly arguing the case, if poor
men were only to marry poor girls, and rich men rich ones, something
unnatural would happen to the distribution of wealth, which was
undesirable for the future of society. Of course, a rich man might marry
a poor girl if he chose. That was done, and the men who did it got an
extraordinary amount of credit for being disinterested, unless they were
laughed at for falling in love with a pretty face. If anything could
prove the hopeless inequality of woman with man, it would be that! No
one thought much the worse of a penniless girl who married for money,
whereas a starving dandy who did the same thing immediately became an
object of derision.
But then, added the Inclination, with subtlety, the opinions of society
were entirely manufactured by women for their own advantage, and that
was an excellent reason for not caring what society thought. The
all-powerful, impersonal "they," of whom we only know what "they say,"
what "they wear," and what "they pretend," are feminine and plural; they
rule all that region of the world within which women do not work with
their hands, and are therefore at full liberty to exercise those gifts
of intelligence which it has pleased Providence to bestow upon them so
plentifully. They do so to some purpose.
Surely, argued Inclination, it was not very dignified of Guido to care
much, and to care beforehand, for the opinions of a pack of women,
supposing that he should come to like Cecilia enough to wish to marry
her for her own sake. And besides, though he was poor, he was not
uncomfortably so. Poverty meant not having horses and carriages, nor a
yacht, and living in bachelor's rooms, and not giving dinner parties,
and not playing cards, and not giving every woman whatever she fancied,
if it happened to be a pearl or a pigeon's blood ruby. That was poverty,
of course, but it was relative.
If his aunt did not drive him to blow out his brains in a fit of
impatience, there was no reason why Guido should not go on living, as he
lived now, to the far end of a long and sufficiently well-fed life. And
if he married Cecilia and her fortune, it would certainly not be because
he wished to give other women rubies and pearls, nor for the sake of
keeping a couple of hunters, two or three carriages, and a coach; still
less, because he could ever wish to lose money again at baccara, or
poker, or bridge. He had done all those things, and they had not amused
him long. If he ever married Cecilia, it would be because he fell in
love with her, which, thank goodness, had not happened yet. Inclination
was quite sure of that, but was willing to admit the possibility in the
future, merely for the sake of argument.
Before it was time to dress for dinner that evening, Guido received a
long letter from his aunt, written with her own hand, which probably
meant that Monsieur Leroy knew little or nothing of its contents. Guido
glanced at the pages, one after another, and saw that the whole letter
was in the writer's most affectionate manner. Then he read it carefully.
It had been so kind of him to be civil to her friends on the previous
day, said the Princess. He reminded her of his poor father, her dear
brother, who, in all his many misfortunes, had never once lost his
beautiful affability of temper and unfailing courtesy to every one about
him.
This was very pretty, but Guido had heard that his father's beautiful
affability had sometimes been ruffled so far as to allow a certain
harmless violence, such as hurling a light chair at the head of a
faithful courtier and friend who gave him advice that was too good to be
taken, or summarily boxing the ears of his son and heir when the latter
was already over thirty years old.
Guido sometimes wondered why he had not inherited some of that very
unroyal temper, which must have been such a thoroughly satisfactory
relief to the ex-king's feelings. He never felt the least desire to
dance with rage and throw the furniture about the room.
His aunt's letter was evidently meant to please him and flatter his
vanity, and she did not once refer to matters of business. She asked his
opinion about a new novel he had not read yet, and had he thought of
leaving a card on the Countess Fortiguerra? She lived in the Palazzo
Massimo. What a strange girl the daughter was, to be sure! so very
unlike other girls that it was almost disquieting to talk with her. Of
course there was nothing real behind all that superficial talk about
lectures at the Sorbonne, and Nietzsche, and all that. Everybody
pretended to have read Nietzsche nowadays, and after all the girl might
be quite sensible. One could not help wondering what she would make of
her life, with her handsome fortune, and her odd ideas, and no one to
look after her except that dear, gentle, sweet-tempered, foolish mother,
who was in perpetual adoration before her! It would be a brave man who
would marry such a girl, the Princess wrote, in spite of her money; but
there was this to be said, he would not have any trouble with his
mother-in-law.
Subtle, very subtle of the Princess, who left the subject there and
ended her letter by asking a favour of Guido. It was indeed only for the
sake of asking it, she explained, that she was writing to him at all.
Would he allow a great friend of hers to see his Andrea del Sarto? It
was the celebrated art critic, Doctor Baumgarten, of whom he had heard.
Leroy would bring him the next morning about ten o'clock, if Guido had
no objection. He need not answer; he must not take any trouble about the
matter. If he had an engagement at ten, perhaps he would leave orders
that the Doctor should be allowed to see the picture.
Guido did not think at once of any good reason for refusing such a
request. He was very fond of his Andrea del Sarto; indeed, he liked it
much better than a small Raphael of undoubted authenticity which was
hung in another part of the room. The German critic was quite welcome to
see both, and perhaps knew something about prints which might be worth
learning. He was probably writing a book. Germans were always writing
books. Guido wrote a line to thank his aunt for her letter, and to say
that her friend would be welcome at the appointed hour.
He was sealing the note when the door opened and Lamberto Lamberti came
in.
"Will you come and dine with me?" he asked, standing still before the
writing table.
"Let us dine here," answered Guido, without looking up, and examining
the little seal he had made on the envelope. "I daresay there is
something to eat." He held out the note to his servant, who stood in the
open doorway. "Send this at once," he said.
"Yes," said Lamberti, answering the invitation. "I do not care whether
there is anything to eat or not, and it is always quiet here."
"What is the matter?" asked Guido, looking at him attentively for the
first time since he had entered. "Yes," he added to his man, "Signor
Lamberti will dine with me."
The servant disappeared and shut the door. Guido repeated his question,
but Lamberti only shook his head carelessly and relit his half-smoked
cigar. Guido watched him. He was less red than usual, and his eyes
glittered in the light of the wax match. His voice had sounded sharp and
metallic, as Guido had never heard it before.
When two men are intimate friends and really trust each other they do
not overwhelm one another with questions. Each knows that each will
speak when he is ready, or needs help or sympathy.
"I have just been answering a very balmy letter from my aunt," Guido
said, rising from the table. "Sweeter than honey in the honeycomb! Read
it. It has a distinctly literary and biographical turn. The allusion to
my father's gentle disposition is touching."
Lamberti looked through the letter carelessly, dropped it on the table,
and sucked hard at his cigar.
"What did you expect?" he asked, between two puffs. "For the present you
are the apple of her eye. She will handle you as tenderly as a new-laid
egg, until she gets what she wants!"
Lamberti's similes lacked sequence, but not character.
"The Romans," observed Guido, "began with the egg and ended with the
apple. I have an idea that we are going to do the same thing at dinner,
and that there will be nothing between. But we can smoke between the
courses."
"Yes," answered Lamberti, who had not heard a word. "I daresay."
Guido looked at him again, rather furtively. Lamberti never drank and
had iron nerves, but he was visibly disturbed. He was what people
vaguely call "not quite himself."
Guido went to the door of his bedroom.
"Where are you going?" asked Lamberti, sharply.
"I am going to wash my hands before dinner," Guido answered with a
smile. "Do you want to wash yours?"
"No, thank you. I have just dressed."
He turned his back and went to the open window as Guido left the room.
In a few seconds his cigar had gone out again, and he was leaning on the
sill with both hands, staring at the twilight sky in the west. The
colours had all faded away to the almost neutral tint of straw-tempered
steel.
The outline of the Janiculum stood out sharp and black in an uneven
line. Below, there were the scattered lights of Trastevere, the flowing
river, and the silence of the deserted Via Giulia. Lamberti looked
steadily out, biting his extinguished cigar, and his features contracted
as if he were in pain.
He had come to his friend instinctively, as his friend would have come
to him, meaning to tell him what had happened. But he hesitated.
Besides, it might all have been only his imagination; in part it could
have been nothing else, and the rest was a mere coincidence. But he had
never been an imaginative man, and it was strange that he should be so
much affected by a mere illusion.
He started and turned suddenly, sure that some one was close behind him.
But there was no one, and a moment later Guido came back. Anxious not to
annoy his friend by anything like curiosity, he made a pretence of
setting his writing table in order, turned one of the lamps down a
little--he hated electric light--and then looked at the picture over the
fireplace.
"Did you ever hear of that Baumgarten, the German art critic?" he asked,
without turning round.
"Baumgarten--let me see! I fancy I have seen the name to-day." Lamberti
tried to concentrate his attention.
"You just read it in my aunt's letter," Guido answered. "You
remember--she asks if he may come to-morrow. I wonder why."
"To value your property, of course," replied Lamberti, roughly.
"Do you think so?" Guido did not seem at all surprised. "I daresay. She
is quite capable of it. She is welcome to everything I possess if she
will only leave me in peace. But just now, when she has evidently made
up her mind to marry me to this new heiress, it does not seem likely
that she would take trouble to find out what my pictures are worth, does
it?"
"It all depends on what she thinks of the chances that you will marry or
not."
"What do you think of them, yourself?" asked Guido, idly.
He was glad of anything to talk about while Lamberti was in his present
mood.
"What a question!" exclaimed the latter. "How should I know whether you
are going to fall in love with the girl or not?"
"I am half afraid I am," said Guido, thoughtfully.
His man announced dinner, and the two friends crossed the hall to the
little dining room, and sat down under the soft light of the
old-fashioned olive-oil lamp that hung from the ceiling. Everything on
the table was old, worn, and spotless. The silver was all of the style
of the first Empire, with an interlaced monogram surmounted by a royal
crown. The same device was painted in gold in the middle of the plain
white plates, which were more or less chipped at the edges. The glasses
and decanters were of that heavy cut glass, ornamented with gold lines,
which used to be made in Venice in the eighteenth century. Some of them
were chipped, too, like the plates. It had never occurred to Guido to
put the whole service away as a somewhat valuable collection, though he
sometimes thought that it was growing shabby. But he liked the old
things which had come to him from the ex-king, part of the furniture of
a small shooting box that had been left to him, and which he had sold to
an Austrian Archduke.
Lamberti took a little soup and swallowed half a glass of white wine.
"I had an odd dream last night," he said, "and I have had a little
adventure to-day. I will tell you by-and-by."
"Just as you like," Guido answered. "I hope the adventure was not an
accident--you look as if you had been badly shaken."
"Yes. I did not know that I could be so nervous. You see, I do not often
dream. I generally go to sleep when I lay my head upon the pillow and
wake when I have slept seven hours. At sea, I always have to be called
when it is my watch. Yes, I have solid nerves. But last night----"
He stopped, as the man entered, bringing a dish.
"Well?" enquired Guido, who did not suppose that Lamberti could have any
reason for not telling his dream in the presence of the servant.
Lamberti hesitated a moment, and helped himself before he answered.
"Do you believe in dreams?" he asked.
"What do you mean? Do I believe that dreams come true? No. When they do,
it is a coincidence."
"Yes. I suppose so. But this is rather more than a coincidence. I do not
understand it at all. After all, I am a perfectly healthy man. It never
occurred to you that my mind might be unbalanced, did it?"
Guido looked at the rugged Roman head, the muscular throat, the broad
shoulders.
"No," he answered. "It certainly never occurred to me."
"Nor to me either," said Lamberti, and he ate slowly and thoughtfully.
"My friend," observed Guido, "you are just a little enigmatical this
evening."
"Not at all, not at all! I tell you that my nerves are good. You know
something about archæology, do you not?"
The apparently irrelevant question came after a short pause.
"Not much," Guido answered, supposing that Lamberti wished to change the
subject on account of the servant. "What do you want to know?"
"Nothing," said Lamberti. "The question is, whether what I dreamt last
night was all imagination or whether it was a memory of something I once
knew and had forgotten."
"What did you dream?" Guido sipped his wine and leaned back to listen,
hoping that his friend was going to speak out at last.
"Was the temple of Vesta in the Forum?" enquired Lamberti.
"Certainly."
"But why did they always say that it was the round one in front of Santa
Maria in Cosmedin? I have an old bronze inkstand that is a model of it.
My mother used to tell me it was the temple of Vesta."
"People thought it was--thirty years ago. There is nothing left of the
temple but the round mass of masonry on which it stood. It is between
the Fountain of Juturna and the house of the Vestals. I have Signor
Boni's plans of it. Should you like to see them?"
"Yes--presently," answered Lamberti, with more eagerness than Guido had
expected. "Is there anything like a reconstruction of the temple or of
the house--a picture of one, I mean?"
"I think so," said Guido. "I am sure there is Baldassare Peruzzi's
sketch of the temple, as it was in his day."
"I dreamt that I saw it last night, the temple and the house, and all
the Forum besides, and not in ruins either, but just as everything was
in old times. Could the Vestals' house have had an upper story? Is that
possible?"
"The archæologists are sure that it had," answered Guido, becoming more
interested. "Do you mean to say that you dreamt you saw it with an upper
story?"
"Yes. And the temple was something like the one they used to call
Vesta's, only it was more ornamented, and the columns seemed very near
together. The round wall, just within the columns, was decorated with
curious designs in low relief--something like a wheel, and scallops, and
curved lines. It is hard to describe, but I can see it all now."
Guido rose from his seat quickly.
"I will get the number that has the drawing in it," he said, explaining.
During the few moments that passed while he was out of the room Lamberti
sat staring at his empty place as fixedly as he had stared at the dark
line of the Janiculum a few minutes earlier. The man-servant, who had
been with him at sea, watched him with a sort of grave sympathy that is
peculiarly Italian. Then, as if an idea of great value had struck him,
he changed Lamberti's plate, poured some red wine into the tumbler, and
filled it up with water. Then he retired and watched to see whether his
old master would drink. But Lamberti did not move.
"Here it is," said Guido, entering the room with a large yellow-covered
pamphlet open in his hands. "Was it like this?"
As he asked the question he laid the pamphlet on the clean plate before
his friend. The pages were opened at Baldassare Peruzzi's rough
pen-and-ink sketch of the temple of Vesta; and as Lamberti looked at it,
his lids slowly contracted, and his features took an expression of
mingled curiosity and interest.
"The man who drew that had seen what I saw," he said at last. "Did he
draw it from some description?"
"He drew it on the spot," answered Guido. "The temple was standing then.
But as for your dream, it is quite possible that you may have seen this
same drawing in a shop window at Spithoever's or Loescher's, for
instance, without noticing it, and that the picture seemed quite new to
you when you dreamt it. That is a simple explanation."
"Very," said Lamberti. "But I saw the whole Forum."
"There are big engravings of imaginary reconstructions of the Forum, in
the booksellers' windows."
"With the people walking about? The two young priests standing in the
morning sun on the steps of the temple of Castor and Pollux? The dirty
market woman trudging past the corner of the Vestals' house with a
basket of vegetables on her head? The door slave sweeping the threshold
of the Regia with a green broom?"
"I thought you knew nothing about the Forum," said Guido, curiously.
"How do you come to know of the Regia?"
"Did I say Regia? I daresay--the name came to my lips."
"Somebody has hypnotised you," said Guido. "You are repeating things you
have heard in your sleep."
"No. I am describing things I saw in my sleep. Am I the sort of man who
is easily hypnotised? I have let men try it once or twice. We were all
interested in hypnotism on my last ship, and the surgeon made some
curious experiments with a lad who went to sleep easily. But last night
I was at home, alone, in my own room, in bed, and I dreamt."
Guido shrugged his shoulders a little indifferently.
"There must be some explanation," he said. "What else did you dream?"
Lamberti's lids drooped as if he were concentrating his attention on the
remembered vision.
"I dreamt," he said, "that I saw a veiled woman in white come out of the
temple door straight into the sunlight, and though I could not see the
face, I knew who she was. She went down the steps and then up the others
to the house of the Vestals, and entered in without looking back. I
followed her. The door was open, and there was no one to stop me."
"That is very improbable," observed Guido. "There must have always been
a slave at the door."
"I went in," continued Lamberti without heeding the interruption, "and
she was standing beside one of the pillars, a little way from the door.
She had one hand on the column, and she was facing the sun; her veil was
thrown back and the light shone through her hair. I came nearer, very
softly. She knew that I was there and was not afraid. When I was close
to her she turned her face to mine. Then I took her in my arms and
kissed her, and she did not resist."
Guido smiled gravely.
"And she turned out to be some one you know in real life, I suppose," he
said.
"Yes," answered Lamberti. "Some one I know--slightly."
"Beautiful, of course. Fair or dark?"
"You need not try to guess," Lamberti said. "I shall not tell you. My
head went round, and I woke."
"Very well. But is it this absurd dream that has made you so nervous?"
"No. Something happened to me to-day."
Lamberti ate a few mouthfuls in silence, before he went on.
"I daresay I might have invented some explanation of the dream," he said
at last. "But it only made me want to see the place. I never cared for
those things, you know. I had never gone down into the Forum in my
life--why should I? I went there this morning."
"And you could not find anything of what you had seen, of course."
"I took one of those guides who hang about the entrance waiting for
foreigners. He showed me where the temple had been, and the house, and
the temple of Castor and Pollux. I did not believe him implicitly, but
the ruins were in the right places. Then I walked up a bridge of boards
to the house of the Vestals, and went in."
"But there was no lady."
"On the contrary," said Lamberti, and his eyes glittered oddly, "the
lady was there."
"The same one whom you had seen in your dream?"
"The same. She was standing facing the sun, for it was still early, and
one of her hands was resting against the brick pillar, just as it had
rested against the column."
"That is certainly very extraordinary," said Guido, his tone changing.
Then he seemed about to speak again, but checked himself.
Lamberti rested his elbows on the table and his chin on his folded
hands, and looked into his friend's eyes in silence. His own face had
grown perceptibly paler in the last few minutes.
"Guido," he said, after what seemed a long pause, "you were going to ask
what happened next. I do not know what you thought, nor what stopped
you, for between you and me there is no such thing as indiscretion, and,
besides, you will never know who the lady was."
"I do not wish to guess. Do not say anything that could help me."
"Of course not. Any woman you know might have taken it into her head to
go to the Forum this morning."
"Certainly."
"This is what happened. I stood perfectly still in surprise. She may
have heard my footstep or not; she knew some one was behind her. Then
she slowly turned her head till we could see each other's faces."
He paused again, and passed one hand lightly over his eyes.
"Yes," said Guido, "I suppose I can guess what is coming."
"No!" Lamberti cried, in such a tone that the other started. "You cannot
guess. We looked at each other. It seemed a very long time--two or three
minutes at least--as if we were both paralysed. Though we recognised
each other perfectly well, we could neither of us speak. Then it seemed
to me that something I could not resist was drawing me towards her, but
I am sure I did not really move the hundredth part of a step. I shall
never forget the look in her face."
Another pause, not long, but strangely breathless.
"I have seen men badly frightened in battle," Lamberti went on. "The
cheeks get hollow all at once, the eyes are wide open, with black rings
round them, the face turns a greenish grey, and the sweat runs down the
forehead into the eyebrows. Men totter with fear, too, as if their
joints were unstrung. But I never saw a woman really terrified before.
There was a sort of awful tension of all her features, as though they
were suddenly made brittle, like beautiful glass, and were going to
shiver into fragments. And her eyes had no visible pupils--her lips
turned violet. I remember every detail. Then, without warning, she
shrieked and staggered backwards; and she turned as I moved to catch
her, and she ran like a deer, straight up the court, past those basins
they have excavated, and up two or three steps, to the dark rooms at the
other end."
"And what did you do?" asked Guido, wondering.
"My dear fellow, I turned and went back as fast as I could, without
exactly running, and I found the guide looking for me below the temple,
for he had not seen me go into the Vestals' house. What else was there
to be done?"
"Nothing, I suppose. You could not pursue a lady who shrieked with fear
and ran away from you. What a strange story! You say you only know her
slightly."
"Literally, very slightly," answered Lamberti.
He had become fluent, telling his story almost excitedly. He now
relapsed into his former mood, and stared at the pamphlet before him a
moment, before shutting it and putting it away from him.
"It is like all those things--perfectly unaccountable, except on a
theory of coincidence," said Guido, at last. "Will you have any cheese?"
Lamberti roused himself and saw the servant at his elbow.
"No, thank you. I forgot one thing. Just as I awoke from that dream last
night, I heard the door of my room softly closed."
"What has that to do with the matter?" enquired Guido, carelessly.
"Nothing, except that the door was locked. I always lock my door. I
first fell into the habit when I was travelling, for I sleep so soundly
that in a hotel any one might come in and steal my things. I should
never wake. So I turn the key before going to bed."
"You may have forgotten to do it last night," suggested Guido.
"No. I got up at once, and the key was turned. No one could have come
in."
"A mouse, then," said Guido, rather contemptuously.
                                 CHAPTER V
Cecilia Palladio was very much ashamed of having uttered a cry of terror
at the sight of Lamberti, and still more of having run away from him
like a frightened child. To him it seemed as if she had really shrieked
with fear, whereas she fancied that she had scarcely found voice enough
to utter an incoherent exclamation. The truth lay somewhere between the
two impressions, but Cecilia now felt that she could easily have
accounted for being startled into crying out, but that it would always
be impossible to explain her flight. She had run the whole length of the
Court, which must be fifty yards long, before realising what she was
doing, and had not paused for breath till she was out of his sight and
within the second of the three rooms on the left. There were no gates to
the rooms then, as there are now, and she could not have given any
reason for her entering the second instead of the first, which was the
nearest. The choice was instinctive.
She certainly had not gone there to join the elderly woman servant who
had come to the Forum with her. That excellent and obedient person was
waiting where Cecilia had made her sit down, not far from the entrance
to the Forum, and would not move till her mistress returned. The young
girl hated to be followed about and protected at every step, especially
by a servant, who could have no real understanding of what she saw.
"I shall only be seen by foreigners and Cook's Tourists," she had said,
"and they do not count as human beings at all!"
Therefore the middle-aged Petersen, who was a German, and therefore a
species of foreigner herself, had meekly sat down upon the comparatively
comfortable stone which Cecilia had selected for her, and which was one
of the steps of the Julian Basilica. She was called Frau Petersen, Mrs.
Petersen, or Madame Petersen, according to circumstances, by the
servants of different nationalities who were successively in the
employment of the Countess Fortiguerra, for she was a superior woman and
the widow of a paymaster in the Bavarian army, and so eminently
respectable and well educated that she had more than once been taken for
Cecilia's governess.
Petersen was excessively near-sighted, but her nose was not adapted by
its nature and position for wearing eyeglasses; for it was not only a
flat nose without anything like a prominent bridge to it, but it was
placed uncommonly low in her face, so that a pair of eyeglasses pinched
upon it would have found themselves in the region of Petersen's
cheek-bones. Even when she wore spectacles, they were always slipping
down, which was a great nuisance; so she resigned herself to seeing less
than other people, except when something interested her enough to make
the discomfort of glasses worth enduring.
This sufficiently explains why she noticed nothing unusual in Cecilia's
looks when the latter came back to her, pale and disturbed; and she had
not heard her mistress's faint cry, the distance being too great for
that, not to mention the fact that the huge ruins intercepted the sound.
Cecilia was glad of that, as she drove home with Petersen.
"Signor Lamberti has called," said the Countess Fortiguerra the next day
at luncheon. "I see by his card that he is in the Navy. You know he is
one of the Marchese Lamberti's sons. Shall we ask him to dinner?"
"Did you like him?" enquired Cecilia, evasively.
"He is not very good-looking," observed the Countess, whose judgment of
unknown people always began with their appearance, and often penetrated
no farther. "But he may be intelligent, for all that," she added, as a
concession.
"Yes," said Cecilia, thoughtfully, "perhaps."
"I think we might ask him to dinner, then," answered the Countess, as if
she had given an excellent reason for doing so.
"Is it not rather early, considering that we have only met him once?"
Cecilia ventured to ask.
"I used to know his mother very well, though she was older than I. It is
pleasant to find that he is so intimate with Signor d'Este. We might ask
them together."
"After the garden party," suggested Cecilia. "Of course, as you and the
Marchesa were great friends, that is a reason for asking the other, but
Signor d'Este--really! It would positively be throwing me at his head,
mother!"
"He expects it, my dear," answered the Countess, with more precision
than tact. "I mean," she added hastily, "I mean, that is, I did not
mean----"
Cecilia laughed.
"Oh yes, you did, mother! You meant exactly that, you know. You and that
dreadful old Princess have made up your minds that I am to marry him,
and nothing else matters, does it?"
"Well," said the Countess, without any perceptible hesitation, "I cannot
help hoping that you will consent, for I should like the match very
much."
She knew that it was always better to be quite frank with her daughter;
and even if she had thought otherwise, she could never have succeeded in
being diplomatic with her. While her second husband had been alive, her
position as an ambassadress had obliged her to be tactful in the world,
and even occasionally to say things which she had some difficulty in
believing, being a very simple soul; but with Cecilia she was quite
unable to conceal her thoughts for five minutes. If the girl loved her
mother, and she really did, it was largely because her mother was so
perfectly truthful. Cynical people called her helplessly honest, and
said that her veracity would have amounted to a disease of the mind if
she had possessed any; but that since she did not, it was probably a
form of degeneration, because all perfectly healthy human beings lied
naturally. David had said in his heart that all men were liars, and his
