canal, so overhung, admirable, and the flutter toward them of the loose
white curtain an invitation to she scarce could have said what. But
there was no mystery after a moment; she had never felt so invited to
anything as to make that, and that only, just where she was, her
adventure. It would be--to this it kept coming back--the adventure of
not stirring. "I go about just here."
"Do you mean," Lord Mark presently asked, "that you're really not well?"
They were at the window, pausing, lingering, with the fine old faded
palaces opposite and the slow Adriatic tide beneath; but after a
minute, and before she answered, she had closed her eyes to what she
saw and unresistingly dropped her face into her arms, which rested on
the coping. She had fallen to her knees on the cushion of the
window-place, and she leaned there, in a long silence, with her
forehead down. She knew that her silence was itself too straight an
answer, but it was beyond her now to say that she saw her way. She
would have made the question itself impossible to others--impossible
for example to such a man as Merton Densher; and she could wonder even
on the spot what it was a sign of in her feeling for Lord Mark that
from his lips it almost tempted her to break down. This was doubtless
really because she cared for him so little; to let herself go with him
thus, suffer his touch to make her cup overflow, would be the
relief--since it was actually, for her nerves, a question of
relief--that would cost her least. If he had come to her moreover with
the intention she believed, or even if this intention had but been
determined in him by the spell of their situation, he mustn't be
mistaken about her value--for what value did she now have? It throbbed
within her as she knelt there that she had none at all; though, holding
herself, not yet speaking, she tried, even in the act, to recover what
might be possible of it. With that there came to her a light: wouldn't
her value, for the man who should marry her, be precisely in the ravage
of her disease? She mightn't last, but her money would. For a man in
whom the vision of her money should be intense, in whom it should be
most of the ground for "making up" to her, any prospective failure on
her part to be long for this world might easily count as a positive
attraction. Such a man, proposing to please, persuade, secure her,
appropriate her for such a time, shorter or longer, as nature and the
doctors should allow, would make the best of her, ill, damaged,
disagreeable though she might be, for the sake of eventual benefits:
she being clearly a person of the sort esteemed likely to do the
handsome thing by a stricken and sorrowing husband.
She had said to herself betimes, in a general way, that whatever habits
her youth might form, that of seeing an interested suitor in every bush
should certainly never grow to be one of them--an attitude she had
early judged as ignoble, as poisonous. She had had accordingly in fact
as little to do with it as possible and she scarce knew why at the
present moment she should have had to catch herself in the act of
imputing an ugly motive. It didn't sit, the ugly motive, in Lord Mark's
cool English eyes; the darker side of it at any rate showed, to her
imagination, but briefly. Suspicion moreover, with this, simplified
itself: there was a beautiful reason--indeed there were two--why her
companion's motive shouldn't matter. One was that even should he desire
her without a penny she wouldn't marry him for the world; the other was
that she felt him, after all, perceptively, kindly, very pleasantly and
humanly, concerned for her. They were also two things, his wishing to
be well, to be very well, with her, and his beginning to feel her as
threatened, haunted, blighted; but they were melting together for him,
making him, by their combination, only the more sure that, as he
probably called it to himself, he liked her. That was presently what
remained with her--his really doing it; and with the natural and proper
incident of being conciliated by her weakness. Would she really have
had him--she could ask herself that--disconcerted or disgusted by it?
If he could only be touched enough to do what she preferred, not to
raise, not to press any question, he might render her a much better
service than by merely enabling her to refuse him. Again, again it was
strange, but he figured to her for the moment as the one safe
sympathiser. It would have made her worse to talk to others, but she
wasn't afraid with him of how he might wince and look pale. She would
keep him, that is, her one easy relation--in the sense of easy for
himself. Their actual outlook had meanwhile such charm, what surrounded
them within and without did so much toward making appreciative
stillness as natural as at the opera, that she could consider she
hadn't made him hang on her lips when at last, instead of saying if she
were well or ill, she repeated: "I go about here. I don't get tired of
it. I never should--it suits me so. I adore the place," she went on,
"and I don't want in the least to give it up."
"Neither should I if I had your luck. Still, with that luck, for one's
all--! Should you positively like to live here?"
"I think I should like," said poor Milly after an instant, "to die
here."
Which made him, precisely, laugh. That was what she wanted--when a
person did care: it was the pleasant human way, without depths of
darkness. "Oh it's not good enough for that! That requires picking.
But can't you keep it? It is, you know, the sort of place to see you
in; you carry out the note, fill it, people it, quite by yourself, and
you might do much worse--I mean for your friends--than show yourself
here a while, three or four months, every year. But it's not my notion
for the rest of the time. One has quite other uses for you."
"What sort of a use for me is it," she smilingly enquired, "to kill me?"
"Do you mean we should kill you in England?"
"Well, I've seen you and I'm afraid. You're too much for me--too many.
England bristles with questions. This is more, as you say there, my
form."
"Oho, oho!"--he laughed again as if to humour her. "Can't you then buy
it--for a price? Depend upon it they'll treat for money. That is for
money enough."
"I've exactly," she said, "been wondering if they won't. I think I
shall try. But if I get it I shall cling to it." They were talking
sincerely. "It will be my life--paid for as that. It will become my
great gilded shell; so that those who wish to find me must come and
hunt me up."
"Ah then you will be alive," said Lord Mark.
"Well, not quite extinct perhaps, but shrunken, wasted, wizened;
rattling about here like the dried kernel of a nut."
"Oh," Lord Mark returned, "we, much as you mistrust us, can do better
for you than that."
"In the sense that you'll feel it better for me really to have it over?"
He let her see now that she worried him, and after a look at her, of
some duration, without his glasses--which always altered the expression
of his eyes--he re-settled the nippers on his nose and went back to the
view. But the view, in turn, soon enough released him. "Do you remember
something I said to you that day at Matcham--or at least fully meant
to?"
"Oh yes, I remember everything at Matcham. It's another life."
"Certainly it will be--I mean the kind of thing: what I then wanted it
to represent for you. Matcham, you know," he continued, "is symbolic. I
think I tried to rub that into you a little."
She met him with the full memory of what he had tried--not an inch, not
an ounce of which was lost to her. "What I meant is that it seems a
hundred years ago."
"Oh for me it comes in better. Perhaps a part of what makes me remember
it," he pursued, "is that I was quite aware of what might have been
said about what I was doing. I wanted you to take it from me that I
should perhaps be able to look after you--well, rather better. Rather
better, of course, than certain other persons in particular."
"Precisely--than Mrs. Lowder, than Miss Croy, even than Mrs. Stringham."
"Oh Mrs. Stringham's all right!" Lord Mark promptly amended.
It amused her even with what she had else to think of; and she could
show him at all events how little, in spite of the hundred years, she
had lost what he alluded to. The way he was with her at this moment
made in fact the other moment so vivid as almost to start again the
tears it had started at the time. "You could do so much for me, yes. I
perfectly understood you."
"I wanted, you see," he despite this explained, "to fix your
confidence. I mean, you know, in the right place."
"Well, Lord Mark, you did--it's just exactly now, my confidence, where
you put it then. The only difference," said Milly, "is that I seem now
to have no use for it. Besides," she then went on, "I do seem to feel
you disposed to act in a way that would undermine it a little."
He took no more notice of these last words than if she hadn't said
them, only watching her at present as with a gradual new light. "Are
you really in any trouble?"
To this, on her side, she gave no heed. Making out his light was a
little a light for herself. "Don't say, don't try to say, anything
that's impossible. There are much better things you can do."
He looked straight at it and then straight over it. "It's too monstrous
that one can't ask you as a friend what one wants so to know."
"What is it you want to know?" She spoke, as by a sudden turn, with a
slight hardness. "Do you want to know if I'm badly ill?"
The sound of it in truth, though from no raising of her voice, invested
the idea with a kind of terror, but a terror all for others. Lord Mark
winced and flushed--clearly couldn't help it; but he kept his attitude
together and spoke even with unwonted vivacity. "Do you imagine I can
see you suffer and not say a word?"
"You won't see me suffer--don't be afraid. I shan't be a public
nuisance. That's why I should have liked this: it's so beautiful in
itself and yet it's out of the gangway. You won't know anything about
anything," she added; and then as if to make with decision an end: "And
you don't! No, not even you." He faced her through it with the
remains of his expression, and she saw him as clearly--for
him--bewildered; which made her wish to be sure not to have been
unkind. She would be kind once for all; that would be the end. "I'm
very badly ill."
"And you don't do anything?"
"I do everything. Everything's this," she smiled. "I'm doing it now.
One can't do more than live."
"Ah than live in the right way, no. But is that what you do? Why
haven't you advice?"
He had looked about at the rococo elegance as if there were fifty
things it didn't give her, so that he suggested with urgency the most
absent. But she met his remedy with a smile. "I've the best advice in
the world. I'm acting under it now. I act upon it in receiving you, in
talking with you thus. One can't, as I tell you, do more than live."
"Oh live!" Lord Mark ejaculated.
"Well, it's immense for me." She finally spoke as if for amusement;
now that she had uttered her truth, that he had learnt it from herself
as no one had yet done, her emotion had, by the fact, dried up. There
she was; but it was as if she would never speak again. "I shan't," she
added, "have missed everything."
"Why should you have missed anything?" She felt, as he sounded this,
to what, within the minute, he had made up his mind. "You're the person
in the world for whom that's least necessary; for whom one would call
it in fact most impossible; for whom 'missing' at all will surely
require an extraordinary amount of misplaced good will. Since you
believe in advice, for God's sake take mine. I know what you want."
Oh she knew he would know it. But she had brought it on herself--or
almost. Yet she spoke with kindness. "I think I want not to be too much
worried."
"You want to be adored." It came at last straight. "Nothing would worry
you less. I mean as I shall do it. It is so"--he firmly kept it up.
"You're not loved enough."
"Enough for what, Lord Mark?"
"Why to get the full good of it."
Well, she didn't after all mock at him. "I see what you mean. That full
good of it which consists in finding one's self forced to love in
return." She had grasped it, but she hesitated. "Your idea is that I
might find myself forced to love you?"
"Oh 'forced'--!" He was so fine and so expert, so awake to anything the
least ridiculous, and of a type with which the preaching of passion
somehow so ill consorted--he was so much all these things that he had
absolutely to take account of them himself. And he did so, in a single
intonation, beautifully. Milly liked him again, liked him for such
shades as that, liked him so that it was woeful to see him spoiling it,
and still more woeful to have to rank him among those minor charms of
existence that she gasped at moments to remember she must give up. "Is
it inconceivable to you that you might try?"
"To be so favourably affected by you--?"
"To believe in me. To believe in me," Lord Mark repeated.
Again she hesitated. "To 'try' in return for your trying?"
"Oh I shouldn't have to!" he quickly declared. The prompt neat accent,
however, his manner of disposing of her question, failed of real
expression, as he himself the next moment intelligently, helplessly,
almost comically saw--a failure pointed moreover by the laugh into
which Milly was immediately startled. As a suggestion to her of a
healing and uplifting passion it was in truth deficient; it wouldn't
do as the communication of a force that should sweep them both away.
And the beauty of him was that he too, even in the act of persuasion,
of self-persuasion, could understand that, and could thereby show but
the better as fitting into the pleasant commerce of prosperity. The way
she let him see that she looked at him was a thing to shut him out, of
itself, from services of danger, a thing that made a discrimination
against him never yet made--made at least to any consciousness of his
own. Born to float in a sustaining air, this would be his first
encounter with a judgement formed in the sinister light of tragedy. The
gathering dusk of her personal world presented itself to him, in her
eyes, as an element in which it was vain for him to pretend he could
find himself at home, since it was charged with depressions and with
dooms, with the chill of the losing game. Almost without her needing to
speak, and simply by the fact that there could be, in such a case, no
decent substitute for a felt intensity, he had to take it from her that
practically he was afraid--whether afraid to protest falsely enough, or
only afraid of what might be eventually disagreeable in a compromised
alliance, being a minor question. She believed she made out besides,
wonderful girl, that he had never quite expected to have to protest
about anything beyond his natural convenience--more, in fine, than his
disposition and habits, his education as well, his personal moyens,
in short, permitted. His predicament was therefore one he couldn't
like, and also one she willingly would have spared him hadn't he
brought it on himself. No man, she was quite aware, could enjoy thus
having it from her that he wasn't good for what she would have called
her reality. It wouldn't have taken much more to enable her positively
to make out in him that he was virtually capable of hinting--had his
innermost feeling spoken--at the propriety rather, in his interest, of
some cutting down, some dressing up, of the offensive real. He would
meet that halfway, but the real must also meet him. Milly's sense of
it for herself, which was so conspicuously, so financially supported,
couldn't, or wouldn't, so accommodate him, and the perception of that
fairly showed in his face after a moment like the smart of a blow. It
had marked the one minute during which he could again be touching to
her. By the time he had tried once more, after all, to insist, he had
quite ceased to be so.
By this time she had turned from their window to make a diversion, had
walked him through other rooms, appealing again to the inner charm of
the place, going even so far for that purpose as to point afresh her
independent moral, to repeat that if one only had such a house for
one's own and loved it and cherished it enough, it would pay one back
in kind, would close one in from harm. He quite grasped for the quarter
of an hour the perch she held out to him--grasped it with one hand,
that is, while she felt him attached to his own clue with the other; he
was by no means either so sore or so stupid, to do him all justice, as
not to be able to behave more or less as if nothing had happened. It
was one of his merits, to which she did justice too, that both his
native and his acquired notion of behaviour rested on the general
assumption that nothing--nothing to make a deadly difference for
him--ever could happen. It was, socially, a working view like
another, and it saw them easily enough through the greater part of the
rest of their adventure. Downstairs again, however, with the limit of
his stay in sight, the sign of his smarting, when all was said,
reappeared for her--breaking out moreover, with an effect of
strangeness, in another quite possibly sincere allusion to her state of
health. He might for that matter have been seeing what he could do in
the way of making it a grievance that she should snub him for a
charity, on his own part, exquisitely roused. "It's true, you know, all
the same, and I don't care a straw for your trying to freeze one up."
He seemed to show her, poor man, bravely, how little he cared.
"Everybody knows affection often makes things out when indifference
doesn't notice. And that's why I know that I notice."
"Are you sure you've got it right?" the girl smiled. "I thought rather
that affection was supposed to be blind."
"Blind to faults, not to beauties," Lord Mark promptly returned.
"And are my extremely private worries, my entirely domestic
complications, which I'm ashamed to have given you a glimpse of--are
they beauties?"
"Yes, for those who care for you--as every one does. Everything about
you is a beauty. Besides which I don't believe," he declared, "in the
seriousness of what you tell me. It's too absurd you should have any
trouble about which something can't be done. If you can't get the right
thing, who can, in all the world, I should like to know? You're the
first young woman of your time. I mean what I say." He looked, to do
him justice, quite as if he did; not ardent, but clear--simply so
competent, in such a position, to compare, that his quiet assertion had
the force not so much perhaps of a tribute as of a warrant. "We're all
in love with you. I'll put it that way, dropping any claim of my own,
if you can bear it better. I speak as one of the lot. You weren't born
simply to torment us--you were born to make us happy. Therefore you
must listen to us."
She shook her head with her slowness, but this time with all her
mildness. "No, I mustn't listen to you--that's just what I mustn't do.
The reason is, please, that it simply kills me. I must be as attached
to you as you will, since you give that lovely account of yourselves. I
give you in return the fullest possible belief of what it would be--"
And she pulled up a little. "I give and give and give--there you are;
stick to me as close as you like and see if I don't. Only I can't
listen or receive or accept--I can't agree. I can't make a bargain. I
can't really. You must believe that from me. It's all I've wanted to
say to you, and why should it spoil anything?"
He let her question fall--though clearly, it might have seemed,
because, for reasons or for none, there was so much that was spoiled.
"You want somebody of your own." He came back, whether in good faith or
in bad, to that; and it made her repeat her headshake. He kept it up as
if his faith were of the best. "You want somebody, you want somebody."
She was to wonder afterwards if she hadn't been at this juncture on the
point of saying something emphatic and vulgar--"Well, I don't at all
events want you!" What somehow happened, nevertheless, the pity of it
being greater than the irritation--the sadness, to her vivid sense, of
his being so painfully astray, wandering in a desert in which there was
nothing to nourish him--was that his error amounted to positive
wrongdoing. She was moreover so acquainted with quite another sphere of
usefulness for him that her having suffered him to insist almost
convicted her of indelicacy. Why hadn't she stopped him off with her
first impression of his purpose? She could do so now only by the
allusion she had been wishing not to make. "Do you know I don't think
you're doing very right?--and as a thing quite apart, I mean, from my
listening to you. That's not right either--except that I'm not
listening. You oughtn't to have come to Venice to see me--and in fact
you've not come, and you mustn't behave as if you had. You've much
older friends than I, and ever so much better. Really, if you've come
at all, you can only have come--properly, and if I may say so
honourably--for the best friend, as I believe her to be, that you have
in the world."
When once she had said it he took it, oddly enough, as if he had been
more or less expecting it. Still, he looked at her very hard, and they
had a moment of this during which neither pronounced a name, each
apparently determined that the other should. It was Milly's fine
coercion, in the event, that was the stronger. "Miss Croy?" Lord Mark
asked.
It might have been difficult to make out that she smiled. "Mrs.
Lowder." He did make out something, and then fairly coloured for its
attestation of his comparative simplicity. "I call her on the whole
the best. I can't imagine a man's having a better."
Still with his eyes on her he turned it over. "Do you want me to marry
Mrs. Lowder?"
At which it seemed to her that it was he who was almost vulgar! But she
wouldn't in any way have that. "You know, Lord Mark, what I mean. One
isn't in the least turning you out into the cold world. There's no cold
world for you at all, I think," she went on; "nothing but a very warm
and watchful and expectant world that's waiting for you at any moment
you choose to take it up."
He never budged, but they were standing on the polished concrete and he
had within a few minutes possessed himself again of his hat. "Do you
want me to marry Kate Croy?"
"Mrs. Lowder wants it--I do no wrong, I think, in saying that; and she
understands moreover that you know she does."
Well, he showed how beautifully he could take it; and it wasn't obscure
to her, on her side, that it was a comfort to deal with a gentleman.
"It's ever so kind of you to see such opportunities for me. But what's
the use of my tackling Miss Croy?"
Milly rejoiced on the spot to be so able to point out. "Because she's
the handsomest and cleverest and most charming creature I ever saw, and
because if I were a man I should simply adore her. In fact I do as it
is." It was a luxury of response.
"Oh, my dear lady, plenty of people adore her. But that can't further
the case of all."
"Ah," she went on, "I know about 'people.' If the case of one's bad,
the case of another's good. I don't see what you have to fear from any
one else," she said, "save through your being foolish, this way, about
me."
So she said, but she was aware the next moment of what he was making of
what she didn't see. "Is it your idea--since we're talking of these
things in these ways--that the young lady you describe in such
superlative terms is to be had for the asking?"
"Well, Lord Mark, try. She is a great person. But don't be humble." She
was almost gay.
It was this apparently, at last, that was too much for him. "But don't
you really know?"
As a challenge, practically, to the commonest intelligence she could
pretend to, it made her of course wish to be fair. "I 'know' yes, that
a particular person's very much in love with her."
"Then you must know by the same token that she's very much in love with
a particular person."
"Ah I beg your pardon!"--and Milly quite flushed at having so crude a
blunder imputed to her. "You're wholly mistaken."
"It's not true?"
"It's not true."
His stare became a smile. "Are you very, very sure?"
"As sure as one can be"--and Milly's manner could match it--"when one
has every assurance. I speak on the best authority."
He hesitated. "Mrs. Lowder's?"
"No. I don't call Mrs. Lowder's the best."
"Oh I thought you were just now saying," he laughed, "that everything
about her's so good."
"Good for you"--she was perfectly clear. "For you," she went on, "let
her authority be the best. She doesn't believe what you mention, and
you must know yourself how little she makes of it. So you can take it
from her. I take it--" But Milly, with the positive tremor of her
emphasis, pulled up.
"You take it from Kate?"
"From Kate herself."
"That she's thinking of no one at all?"
"Of no one at all." Then, with her intensity, she went on. "She has
given me her word for it."
"Oh!" said Lord Mark. To which he next added: "And what do you call her
word?"
It made Milly, on her side, stare--though perhaps partly but with the
instinct of gaining time for the consciousness that she was already a
little further "in" than she had designed. "Why, Lord Mark, what should
you call her word?"
"Ah I'm not obliged to say. I've not asked her. You apparently have."
Well, it threw her on her defence--a defence that she felt, however,
especially as of Kate. "We're very intimate," she said in a moment; "so
that, without prying into each other's affairs, she naturally tells me
things."
Lord Mark smiled as at a lame conclusion. "You mean then she made you
of her own movement the declaration you quote?"
Milly thought again, though with hindrance rather than help in her
sense of the way their eyes now met--met as for their each seeing in
the other more than either said. What she most felt that she herself
saw was the strange disposition on her companion's part to disparage
Kate's veracity. She could be only concerned to "stand up" for that.
"I mean what I say: that when she spoke of her having no private
interest--"
"She took her oath to you?" Lord Mark interrupted.
Milly didn't quite see why he should so catechise her; but she met it
again for Kate. "She left me in no doubt whatever of her being free."
At this Lord Mark did look at her, though he continued to smile. "And
thereby in no doubt of your being too?" It was as if as soon as he
had said it, however, he felt it as something of a mistake, and she
couldn't herself have told by what queer glare at him she had instantly
signified that. He at any rate gave her glare no time to act further;
he fell back on the spot, and with a light enough movement, within his
rights. "That's all very well, but why in the world, dear lady, should
she be swearing to you?"
She had to take this "dear lady" as applying to herself; which
disconcerted her when he might now so gracefully have used it for the
aspersed Kate. Once more it came to her that she must claim her own
part of the aspersion. "Because, as I've told you, we're such
tremendous friends."
"Oh," said Lord Mark, who for the moment looked as if that might have
stood rather for an absence of such rigours. He was going, however, as
if he had in a manner, at the last, got more or less what he wanted.
Milly felt, while he addressed his next few words to leave-taking, that
she had given rather more than she intended or than she should be able,
when once more getting herself into hand, theoretically to defend.
Strange enough in fact that he had had from her, about herself--and,
under the searching spell of the place, infinitely straight--what no
one else had had: neither Kate, nor Aunt Maud, nor Merton Densher, nor
Susan Shepherd. He had made her within a minute, in particular, she was
aware, lose her presence of mind, and she now wished he would take
himself off, so that she might either recover it or bear the loss
better in solitude. If he paused, however, she almost at the same time
saw, it was because of his watching the approach, from the end of the
sala, of one of the gondoliers, who, whatever excursions were appointed
for the party with the attendance of the others, always, as the most
decorative, most sashed and starched, remained at the palace on the
theory that she might whimsically want him--which she never, in her
caged freedom, had yet done. Brown Pasquale, slipping in white shoes
over the marble and suggesting to her perpetually charmed vision she
could scarce say what, either a mild Hindoo, too noiseless almost for
her nerves, or simply a barefooted seaman on the deck of a
ship--Pasquale offered to sight a small salver, which he obsequiously
held out to her with its burden of a visiting-card. Lord Mark--and as
if also for admiration of him--delayed his departure to let her receive
it; on which she read it with the instant effect of another blow to her
presence of mind. This precarious quantity was indeed now so gone that
even for dealing with Pasquale she had to do her best to conceal its
disappearance. The effort was made, none the less, by the time she had
asked if the gentleman were below and had taken in the fact that he had
come up. He had followed the gondolier and was waiting at the top of
the staircase.
"I'll see him with pleasure." To which she added for her companion,
while Pasquale went off: "Mr. Merton Densher."
"Oh!" said Lord Mark--in a manner that, making it resound through the
great cool hall, might have carried it even to Densher's ear as a
judgement of his identity heard and noted once before
BOOK EIGHTH
I
Densher became aware, afresh, that he disliked his hotel--and all the
more promptly that he had had occasion of old to make the same
discrimination. The establishment, choked at that season with the
polyglot herd, cockneys of all climes, mainly German, mainly American,
mainly English, it appeared as the corresponding sensitive nerve was
touched, sounded loud and not sweet, sounded anything and everything
but Italian, but Venetian. The Venetian was all a dialect, he knew; yet
it was pure Attic beside some of the dialects at the bustling inn. It
made, "abroad," both for his pleasure and his pain that he had to feel
at almost any point how he had been through every thing before. He had
been three or four times, in Venice, during other visits, through this
pleasant irritation of paddling away--away from the concert of false
notes in the vulgarised hall, away from the amiable American families
and overfed German porters. He had in each case made terms for a
lodging more private and not more costly, and he recalled with
tenderness these shabby but friendly asylums, the windows of which he
should easily know again in passing on canal or through campo. The
shabbiest now failed of an appeal to him, but he found himself at the
end of forty-eight hours forming views in respect to a small
independent quartiere, far down the Grand Canal, which he had once
occupied for a month with a sense of pomp and circumstance and yet also
with a growth of initiation into the homelier Venetian mysteries. The
humour of those days came back to him for an hour, and what further
befell in this interval, to be brief, was that, emerging on a traghetto
in sight of the recognised house, he made out on the green shutters of
his old, of his young windows the strips of white pasted paper that
figure in Venice as an invitation to tenants. This was in the course of
his very first walk apart, a walk replete with impressions to which he
responded with force. He had been almost without cessation, since his
arrival, at Palazzo Leporelli, where, as happened, a turn of bad
weather on the second day had kept the whole party continuously at
home. The episode had passed for him like a series of hours in a
museum, though without the fatigue of that; and it had also resembled
something that he was still, with a stirred imagination, to find a name
for. He might have been looking for the name while he gave himself up,
subsequently, to the ramble--he saw that even after years he couldn't
lose his way--crowned with his stare across the water at the little
white papers.
He was to dine at the palace in an hour or two, and he had lunched
there, at an early luncheon, that morning. He had then been out with
the three ladies, the three being Mrs. Lowder, Mrs. Stringham and Kate,
and had kept afloat with them, under a sufficient Venetian spell, until
Aunt Maud had directed him to leave them and return to Miss Theale. Of
two circumstances connected with this disposition of his person he was
even now not unmindful; the first being that the lady of Lancaster Gate
had addressed him with high publicity and as if expressing equally the
sense of her companions, who had not spoken, but who might have been
taken--yes, Susan Shepherd quite equally with Kate--for inscrutable
parties to her plan. What he could as little contrive to forget was
that he had, before the two others, as it struck him--that was to say
especially before Kate--done exactly as he was bidden; gathered himself
up without a protest and retraced his way to the palace. Present with
him still was the question of whether he looked a fool for it, of
whether the awkwardness he felt as the gondola rocked with the business
of his leaving it--they could but make, in submission, for a
landing-place that was none of the best--had furnished his friends with
such entertainment as was to cause them, behind his back, to exchange
intelligent smiles. He had found Milly Theale twenty minutes later
alone, and he had sat with her till the others returned to tea. The
strange part of this was that it had been very easy, extraordinarily
easy. He knew it for strange only when he was away from her, because
when he was away from her he was in contact with particular things that
made it so. At the time, in her presence, it was as simple as sitting
with his sister might have been, and not, if the point were urged, very
much more thrilling. He continued to see her as he had first seen
her--that remained ineffaceably behind. Mrs. Lowder, Susan Shepherd,
his own Kate, might, each in proportion, see her as a princess, as an
angel, as a star, but for himself, luckily, she hadn't as yet
complications to any point of discomfort: the princess, the angel, the
star, were muffled over, ever so lightly and brightly, with the little
American girl who had been kind to him in New York and to whom
certainly--though without making too much of it for either of them--he
was perfectly willing to be kind in return. She appreciated his coming
in on purpose, but there was nothing in that--from the moment she was
always at home--that they couldn't easily keep up. The only note the
least bit high that had even yet sounded between them was this
admission on her part that she found it best to remain within. She
wouldn't let him call it keeping quiet, for she insisted that her
palace--with all its romance and art and history--had set up round her
a whirlwind of suggestion that never dropped for an hour. It wasn't
therefore, within such walls, confinement, it was the freedom of all
the centuries: in respect to which Densher granted good-humouredly that
they were then blown together, she and he, as much as she liked,
through space.
Kate had found on the present occasion a moment to say to him that he
suggested a clever cousin calling on a cousin afflicted, and bored for
his pains; and though he denied on the spot the "bored" he could so far
see it as an impression he might make that he wondered if the same
image wouldn't have occurred to Milly. As soon as Kate appeared again
the difference came up--the oddity, as he then instantly felt it, of
his having sunk so deep. It was sinking because it was all doing what
Kate had conceived for him; it wasn't in the least doing--and that had
been his notion of his life--anything he himself had conceived. The
difference, accordingly, renewed, sharp, sore, was the irritant under
which he had quitted the palace and under which he was to make the best
of the business of again dining there. He said to himself that he must
make the best of everything; that was in his mind, at the traghetto,
even while, with his preoccupation about changing quarters, he studied,
across the canal, the look of his former abode. It had done for the
past, would it do for the present? would it play in any manner into the
general necessity of which he was conscious? That necessity of making
the best was the instinct--as he indeed himself knew--of a man somehow
aware that if he let go at one place he should let go everywhere. If he
took off his hand, the hand that at least helped to hold it together,
the whole queer fabric that built him in would fall away in a minute
and admit the light. It was really a matter of nerves; it was exactly
because he was nervous that he could go straight; yet if that
condition should increase he must surely go wild. He was walking in
short on a high ridge, steep down on either side, where the
proprieties--once he could face at all remaining there--reduced
themselves to his keeping his head. It was Kate who had so perched him,
and there came up for him at moments, as he found himself planting one
foot exactly before another, a sensible sharpness of irony as to her
management of him. It wasn't that she had put him in danger--to be in
real danger with her would have had another quality. There glowed for
him in fact a kind of rage at what he wasn't having; an exasperation, a
resentment, begotten truly by the very impatience of desire, in respect
to his postponed and relegated, his so extremely manipulated state. It
was beautifully done of her, but what was the real meaning of it unless
that he was perpetually bent to her will? His idea from the first, from
the very first of his knowing her, had been to be, as the French called
it, bon prince with her, mindful of the good humour and generosity,
the contempt, in the matter of confidence, for small outlays and small
savings, that belonged to the man who wasn't generally afraid. There
were things enough, goodness knew--for it was the moral of his
plight--that he couldn't afford; but what had had a charm for him if
not the notion of living handsomely, to make up for it, in another way?
of not at all events reading the romance of his existence in a cheap
edition. All he had originally felt in her came back to him, was indeed
actually as present as ever--how he had admired and envied what he
called to himself her pure talent for life, as distinguished from his
own, a poor weak thing of the occasion, amateurishly patched up; only
it irritated him the more that this was exactly what was now, ever so
characteristically, standing out in her.
It was thanks to her pure talent for life, verily, that he was just
where he was and that he was above all just how he was. The proof of
a decent reaction in him against so much passivity was, with no great
richness, that he at least knew--knew, that is, how he was, and how
little he liked it as a thing accepted in mere helplessness. He was,
for the moment, wistful--that above all described it; that was so large
a part of the force that, as the autumn afternoon closed in, kept him,
on his traghetto, positively throbbing with his question. His question
connected itself, even while he stood, with his special smothered
soreness, his sense almost of shame; and the soreness and the shame
were less as he let himself, with the help of the conditions about him,
regard it as serious. It was born, for that matter, partly of the
conditions, those conditions that Kate had so almost insolently braved,
had been willing, without a pang, to see him ridiculously--ridiculously
so far as just complacently--exposed to. How little it could be
complacently he was to feel with the last thoroughness before he had
moved from his point of vantage. His question, as we have called it,
was the interesting question of whether he had really no will left. How
could he know--that was the point--without putting the matter to the
test? It had been right to be bon prince, and the joy, something of
the pride, of having lived, in spirit, handsomely, was even now
compatible with the impulse to look into their account; but he held his
breath a little as it came home to him with supreme sharpness that,
whereas he had done absolutely everything that Kate had wanted, she had
done nothing whatever that he had. So it was in fine that his idea of
the test by which he must try that possibility kept referring itself,
in the warm early dusk, the approach of the Southern
night--"conditions" these, such as we just spoke of--to the glimmer,
more and more ghostly as the light failed, of the little white papers
on his old green shutters. By the time he looked at his watch he had
been for a quarter of an hour at this post of observation and
reflexion; but by the time he walked away again he had found his answer
to the idea that had grown so importunate. Since a proof of his will
was wanted it was indeed very exactly in wait for him--it lurked there
on the other side of the Canal. A ferryman at the little pier had from
time to time accosted him; but it was a part of the play of his
nervousness to turn his back on that facility. He would go over, but he
walked, very quickly, round and round, crossing finally by the Rialto.
The rooms, in the event, were unoccupied; the ancient padrona was there
with her smile all a radiance but her recognition all a fable; the
ancient rickety objects too, refined in their shabbiness, amiable in
their decay, as to which, on his side, demonstrations were tenderly
veracious; so that before he took his way again he had arranged to come
in on the morrow.
He was amusing about it that evening at dinner--in spite of an odd
first impulse, which at the palace quite melted away, to treat it
merely as matter for his own satisfaction. This need, this propriety,
he had taken for granted even up to the moment of suddenly perceiving,
in the course of talk, that the incident would minister to innocent
gaiety. Such was quite its effect, with the aid of his picture--an
evocation of the quaint, of the humblest rococo, of a Venetian interior
in the true old note. He made the point for his hostess that her own
high chambers, though they were a thousand grand things, weren't really
this; made it in fact with such success that she presently declared it
his plain duty to invite her on some near day to tea. She had expressed
as yet--he could feel it as felt among them all--no such clear wish to
go anywhere, not even to make an effort for a parish feast, or an
autumn sunset, nor to descend her staircase for Titian or Gianbellini.
It was constantly Densher's view that, as between himself and Kate,
things were understood without saying, so that he could catch in her,
as she but too freely could in him, innumerable signs of it, the whole
soft breath of consciousness meeting and promoting consciousness. This
view was so far justified to-night as that Milly's offer to him of her
company was to his sense taken up by Kate in spite of her doing nothing
to show it. It fell in so perfectly with what she had desired and
foretold that she was--and this was what most struck him--sufficiently
gratified and blinded by it not to know, from the false quality of his
response, from his tone and his very look, which for an instant
instinctively sought her own, that he had answered inevitably, almost
shamelessly, in a mere time-gaining sense. It gave him on the spot, her
failure of perception, almost a beginning of the advantage he had been
planning for--that is at least if she too were not darkly dishonest.
She might, he was not unaware, have made out, from some deep part of
her, the bearing, in respect to herself, of the little fact he had
announced; for she was after all capable of that, capable of guessing
and yet of simultaneously hiding her guess. It wound him up a turn or
two further, none the less, to impute to her now a weakness of vision
by which he could himself feel the stronger. Whatever apprehension of
his motive in shifting his abode might have brushed her with its wings,
she at all events certainly didn't guess that he was giving their
friend a hollow promise. That was what she had herself imposed on him;
there had been in the prospect from the first a definite particular
point at which hollowness, to call it by its least compromising name,
would have to begin. Therefore its hour had now charmingly sounded.
Whatever in life he had recovered his old rooms for, he had not
recovered them to receive Milly Theale: which made no more difference
in his expression of happy readiness than if he had been--just what he
was trying not to be--fully hardened and fully base. So rapid in fact
was the rhythm of his inward drama that the quick vision of
impossibility produced in him by his hostess's direct and unexpected
appeal had the effect, slightly sinister, of positively scaring him. It
gave him a measure of the intensity, the reality of his now mature
motive. It prompted in him certainly no quarrel with these things, but
it made them as vivid as if they already flushed with success. It was
before the flush of success that his heart beat almost to dread. The
dread was but the dread of the happiness to be compassed; only that was
in itself a symptom. That a visit from Milly should, in this projection
of necessities, strike him as of the last incongruity, quite as a
hateful idea, and above all as spoiling, should one put it grossly, his
game--the adoption of such a view might of course have an identity with
one of those numerous ways of being a fool that seemed so to abound for
him. It would remain none the less the way to which he should be in
advance most reconciled. His mature motive, as to which he allowed
himself no grain of illusion, had thus in an hour taken imaginative
possession of the place: that precisely was how he saw it seated there,
already unpacked and settled, for Milly's innocence, for Milly's
beauty, no matter how short a time, to be housed with. There were
things she would never recognise, never feel, never catch in the air;
but this made no difference in the fact that her brushing against them
would do nobody any good. The discrimination and the scruple were for
him. So he felt all the parts of the case together, while Kate showed
admirably as feeling none of them. Of course, however--when hadn't it
to be his last word?--Kate was always sublime.
That came up in all connexions during the rest of these first days;
came up in especial under pressure of the fact that each time our
plighted pair snatched, in its passage, at the good fortune of half an
hour together, they were doomed--though Densher felt it as all by his
act--to spend a part of the rare occasion in wonder at their luck and
in study of its queer character. This was the case after he might be
supposed to have got, in a manner, used to it; it was the case after
the girl--ready always, as we say, with the last word--had given him
the benefit of her righting of every wrong appearance, a support
familiar to him now in reference to other phases. It was still the case
after he possibly might, with a little imagination, as she freely
insisted, have made out, by the visible working of the crisis, what
idea on Mrs. Lowder's part had determined it. Such as the idea was--and
that it suited Kate's own book she openly professed--he had only to see
how things were turning out to feel it strikingly justified. Densher's
reply to all this vividness was that of course Aunt Maud's intervention
hadn't been occult, even for his vividness, from the moment she had
written him, with characteristic concentration, that if he should see
his way to come to Venice for a fortnight she should engage he would
find it no blunder. It took Aunt Maud really to do such things in such
ways; just as it took him, he was ready to confess, to do such others
as he must now strike them all--didn't he?--as committed to. Mrs.
Lowder's admonition had been of course a direct reference to what she
had said to him at Lancaster Gate before his departure the night Milly
had failed them through illness; only it had at least matched that
remarkable outbreak in respect to the quantity of good nature it
attributed to him. The young man's discussions of his situation--which
were confined to Kate; he had none with Aunt Maud herself--suffered a
little, it may be divined, by the sense that he couldn't put everything
off, as he privately expressed it, on other people. His ears, in
solitude, were apt to burn with the reflexion that Mrs. Lowder had
simply tested him, seen him as he was and made out what could be done
with him. She had had but to whistle for him and he had come. If she
had taken for granted his good nature she was as justified as Kate
declared. This awkwardness of his conscience, both in respect to his
general plasticity, the fruit of his feeling plasticity, within limits,
to be a mode of life like another--certainly better than some, and
particularly in respect to such confusion as might reign about what he
had really come for--this inward ache was not wholly dispelled by the
style, charming as that was, of Kate's poetic versions. Even the high
wonder and delight of Kate couldn't set him right with himself when
there was something quite distinct from these things that kept him
wrong.
In default of being right with himself he had meanwhile, for one thing,
the interest of seeing--and quite for the first time in his
life--whether, on a given occasion, that might be quite so necessary to
happiness as was commonly assumed and as he had up to this moment never
doubted. He was engaged distinctly in an adventure--he who had never
thought himself cut out for them, and it fairly helped him that he was
able at moments to say to himself that he mustn't fall below it. At his
hotel, alone, by night, or in the course of the few late strolls he was
finding time to take through dusky labyrinthine alleys and empty
campi, overhung with mouldering palaces, where he paused in disgust
at his want of ease and where the sound of a rare footstep on the
enclosed pavement was like that of a retarded dancer in a banquet-hall
deserted--during these interludes he entertained cold views, even to
the point, at moments, on the principle that the shortest follies are
the best, of thinking of immediate departure as not only possible but
as indicated. He had however only to cross again the threshold of
Palazzo Leporelli to see all the elements of the business compose, as
painters called it, differently. It began to strike him then that
departure wouldn't curtail, but would signally coarsen his folly, and
that above all, as he hadn't really "begun" anything, had only
submitted, consented, but too generously indulged and condoned the
beginnings of others, he had no call to treat himself with
superstitious rigour. The single thing that was clear in complications
was that, whatever happened, one was to behave as a gentleman--to which
was added indeed the perhaps slightly less shining truth that
complications might sometimes have their tedium beguiled by a study of
the question of how a gentleman would behave. This question, I hasten
to add, was not in the last resort Densher's greatest worry. Three
women were looking to him at once, and, though such a predicament could
never be, from the point of view of facility, quite the ideal, it yet
had, thank goodness, its immediate workable law. The law was not to be
a brute--in return for amiabilities. He hadn't come all the way out
from England to be a brute. He hadn't thought of what it might give him
to have a fortnight, however handicapped, with Kate in Venice, to be a
brute. He hadn't treated Mrs. Lowder as if in responding to her
suggestion he had understood her--he hadn't done that either to be a
brute. And what he had prepared least of all for such an anti-climax
was the prompt and inevitable, the achieved surrender--as a
gentleman, oh that indubitably!--to the unexpected impression made by
poor pale exquisite Milly as the mistress of a grand old palace and the
dispenser of an hospitality more irresistible, thanks to all the
conditions, than any ever known to him.
This spectacle had for him an eloquence, an authority, a felicity--he
scarce knew by what strange name to call it--for which he said to
himself that he had not consciously bargained. Her welcome, her
frankness, sweetness, sadness, brightness, her disconcerting poetry, as
he made shift at moments to call it, helped as it was by the beauty of
her whole setting and by the perception at the same time, on the
observer's part, that this element gained from her, in a manner, for
effect and harmony, as much as it gave--her whole attitude had, to his
imagination, meanings that hung about it, waiting upon her, hovering,
dropping and quavering forth again, like vague faint snatches, mere
ghosts of sound, of old-fashioned melancholy music. It was positively
well for him, he had his times of reflecting, that he couldn't put it
off on Kate and Mrs. Lowder, as a gentleman so conspicuously wouldn't,
that--well, that he had been rather taken in by not having known in
advance! There had been now five days of it all without his risking
even to Kate alone any hint of what he ought to have known and of what
in particular therefore had taken him in. The truth was doubtless that
really, when it came to any free handling and naming of things, they
were living together, the five of them, in an air in which an ugly
effect of "blurting out" might easily be produced. He came back with
his friend on each occasion to the blest miracle of renewed
propinquity, which had a double virtue in that favouring air. He
breathed on it as if he could scarcely believe it, yet the time had
passed, in spite of this privilege, without his quite committing
himself, for her ear, to any such comment on Milly's high style and
state as would have corresponded with the amount of recognition it had
produced in him. Behind everything for him was his renewed remembrance,
which had fairly become a habit, that he had been the first to know
her. This was what they had all insisted on, in her absence, that day
at Mrs. Lowder's; and this was in especial what had made him feel its
influence on his immediately paying her a second visit. Its influence
had been all there, been in the high-hung, rumbling carriage with them,
from the moment she took him to drive, covering them in together as if
it had been a rug of softest silk. It had worked as a clear connexion
with something lodged in the past, something already their own. He had
more than once recalled how he had said to himself even at that moment,
at some point in the drive, that he was not there, not just as he was
in so doing it, through Kate and Kate's idea, but through Milly and
Milly's own, and through himself and his own, unmistakeably--as well
as through the little facts, whatever they had amounted to, of his time
in New York.
II
There was at last, with everything that made for it, an occasion when
he got from Kate, on what she now spoke of as his eternal refrain, an
answer of which he was to measure afterwards the precipitating effect.
His eternal refrain was the way he came back to the riddle of Mrs.
Lowder's view of her profit--a view so hard to reconcile with the
chances she gave them to meet. Impatiently, at this, the girl denied
the chances, wanting to know from him, with a fine irony that smote him
rather straight, whether he felt their opportunities as anything so
grand. He looked at her deep in the eyes when she had sounded this
note; it was the least he could let her off with for having made him
visibly flush. For some reason then, with it, the sharpness dropped out
of her tone, which became sweet and sincere. "'Meet,' my dear man," she
expressively echoed; "does it strike you that we get, after all, so
very much out of our meetings?"
"On the contrary--they're starvation diet. All I mean is--and it's all
I've meant from the day I came--that we at least get more than Aunt
Maud."
"Ah but you see," Kate replied, "you don't understand what Aunt Maud
gets."
"Exactly so--and it's what I don't understand that keeps me so
fascinated with the question. She gives me no light; she's
prodigious. She takes everything as of a natural--!"
"She takes it as 'of a natural' that at this rate I shall be making my
reflexions about you. There's every appearance for her," Kate went on,
"that what she had made her mind up to as possible is possible; that
what she had thought more likely than not to happen is happening. The
very essence of her, as you surely by this time have made out for
yourself, is that when she adopts a view she--well, to her own sense,
really brings the thing about, fairly terrorizes with her view any
other, any opposite view, and those, not less, who represent that. I've
often thought success comes to her"--Kate continued to study the
phenomenon--"by the spirit in her that dares and defies her idea not to
prove the right one. One has seen it so again and again, in the face of
everything, become the right one."
Densher had for this, as he listened, a smile of the largest response.
"Ah my dear child, if you can explain I of course needn't not
'understand.' I'm condemned to that," he on his side presently
explained, "only when understanding fails." He took a moment; then he
pursued: "Does she think she terrorises us?" To which he added while,
without immediate speech, Kate but looked over the place: "Does she
believe anything so stiff as that you've really changed about me?" He
knew now that he was probing the girl deep--something told him so; but
that was a reason the more. "Has she got it into her head that you
dislike me?"
To this, of a sudden, Kate's answer was strong. "You could yourself
easily put it there!"
He wondered. "By telling her so?"
"No," said Kate as with amusement at his simplicity; "I don't ask that
of you."
"Oh my dear," Densher laughed, "when you ask, you know, so little--!"
There was a full irony in this, on his own part, that he saw her resist
the impulse to take up. "I'm perfectly justified in what I've asked,"
she quietly returned. "It's doing beautifully for you." Their eyes
again intimately met, and the effect was to make her proceed. "You're
not a bit unhappy."
"Oh ain't I?" he brought out very roundly.
"It doesn't practically show--which is enough for Aunt Maud. You're
wonderful, you're beautiful," Kate said; "and if you really want to
know whether I believe you're doing it you may take from me perfectly
that I see it coming." With which, by a quick transition, as if she had
settled the case, she asked him the hour.
"Oh only twelve-ten"--he had looked at his watch. "We've taken but
thirteen minutes; we've time yet."
"Then we must walk. We must go toward them."
Densher, from where they had been standing, measured the long reach of
the Square. "They're still in their shop. They're safe for half an
hour."
"That shows then, that shows!" said Kate.
This colloquy had taken place in the middle of Piazza San Marco,
always, as a great social saloon, a smooth-floored, blue-roofed chamber
of amenity, favourable to talk; or rather, to be exact, not in the
middle, but at the point where our pair had paused by a common impulse
after leaving the great mosque-like church. It rose now, domed and
pinnacled, but a little way behind them, and they had in front the vast
empty space, enclosed by its arcades, to which at that hour movement
and traffic were mostly confined. Venice was at breakfast, the Venice
of the visitor and the possible acquaintance, and, except for the
parties of importunate pigeons picking up the crumbs of perpetual
feasts, their prospect was clear and they could see their companions
hadn't yet been, and weren't for a while longer likely to be, disgorged
by the lace-shop, in one of the loggie, where, shortly before, they
had left them for a look-in--the expression was artfully Densher's--at
Saint Mark's. Their morning had happened to take such a turn as brought
this chance to the surface; yet his allusion, just made to Kate, hadn't
been an overstatement of their general opportunity. The worst that
could be said of their general opportunity was that it was essentially
in presence--in presence of every one; every one consisting at this
juncture, in a peopled world, of Susan Shepherd, Aunt Maud and Milly.
But the proof how, even in presence, the opportunity could become
special was furnished precisely by this view of the compatibility of
their comfort with a certain amount of lingering. The others had
assented to their not waiting in the shop; it was of course the least
the others could do. What had really helped them this morning was the
fact that, on his turning up, as he always called it, at the palace,
Milly had not, as before, been able to present herself. Custom and use
had hitherto seemed fairly established; on his coming round, day after
day--eight days had been now so conveniently marked--their friends,
Milly's and his, conveniently dispersed and left him to sit with her
till luncheon. Such was the perfect operation of the scheme on which he
had been, as he phrased it to himself, had out; so that certainly there
was that amount of justification for Kate's vision of success. He
had, for Mrs. Lowder--he couldn't help it while sitting there--the
air, which was the thing to be desired, of no absorption in Kate
sufficiently deep to be alarming. He had failed their young hostess
each morning as little as she had failed him; it was only to-day that
she hadn't been well enough to see him.
That had made a mark, all round; the mark was in the way in which,
gathered in the room of state, with the place, from the right time, all
bright and cool and beflowered, as always, to receive her descent,
they--the rest of them--simply looked at each other. It was
lurid--lurid, in all probability, for each of them privately--that they
had uttered no common regrets. It was strange for our young man above
all that, if the poor girl was indisposed to that degree, the hush of
gravity, of apprehension, of significance of some sort, should be the
most the case--that of the guests--could permit itself. The hush, for
that matter, continued after the party of four had gone down to the
gondola and taken their places in it. Milly had sent them word that she
hoped they would go out and enjoy themselves, and this indeed had
produced a second remarkable look, a look as of their knowing, one
quite as well as the other, what such a message meant as provision for
the alternative beguilement of Densher. She wished not to have spoiled
his morning, and he had therefore, in civility, to take it as
pleasantly patched up. Mrs. Stringham had helped the affair out, Mrs.
Stringham who, when it came to that, knew their friend better than any
of them. She knew her so well that she knew herself as acting in
exquisite compliance with conditions comparatively obscure,
approximately awful to them, by not thinking it necessary to stay at
home. She had corrected that element of the perfunctory which was the
slight fault, for all of them, of the occasion; she had invented a
preference for Mrs. Lowder and herself; she had remembered the fond
dreams of the visitation of lace that had hitherto always been brushed
away by accidents, and it had come up as well for her that Kate had,
the day before, spoken of the part played by fatality in her own
failure of real acquaintance with the inside of Saint Mark's. Densher's
sense of Susan Shepherd's conscious intervention had by this time a
corner of his mind all to itself; something that had begun for them at
Lancaster Gate was now a sentiment clothed in a shape; her action,
ineffably discreet, had at all events a way of affecting him as for the
most part subtly, even when not superficially, in his own interest.
They were not, as a pair, as a "team," really united; there were too
many persons, at least three, and too many things, between them; but
meanwhile something was preparing that would draw them closer. He
scarce knew what: probably nothing but his finding, at some hour when
it would be a service to do so, that she had all the while understood
him. He even had a presentiment of a juncture at which the
understanding of every one else would fail and this deep little
person's alone survive.
Such was to-day, in its freshness, the moral air, as we may say, that
hung about our young friends; these had been the small accidents and
quiet forces to which they owed the advantage we have seen them in some
sort enjoying. It seemed in fact fairly to deepen for them as they
