farther from her thoughts. Yet he wondered a little that the fortune and
adoration did not tempt her.

"Well, well, my child, we shall not be sorry to have you left in old
Detroit. Some of our pretty girls have been in haste to get away to
Quebec or to the more eastern cities. Boston, they say, is a fine place.
And at New York they have gay doings. But we like our own town and have
all the pleasure that is good for one. So I am glad to have thee stay."

"If I loved him it would be different. But I think this kind of love has
been left out of me," and she colored daintily. "All other loves and
gratitude have been put in, and oh, M'sieu, such an adoration for the
beautiful world God has made. Sometimes I go down on my knees in the
forest, everything speaks to me so,--the birds and the wind among the
trees, the mosses with dainty blooms like a pin's head, the velvet
lichens with rings of gray and brown and pink. And the little lizards
that run about will come to my hand, and the deer never spring away,
while the squirrels chatter and laugh and I talk back to them. Then I
have grown so fond of books. Some of them have strange melodies in them
that I sing to myself. Oh, no, I do not want to be a wife and have a
house to keep, neither do I want to go away."

"Thou art a strange child."

M. Loisel leaned over and kissed her on the crown of her head where the
parting shone white as the moon at its full. Lips and rosy mouths were
left for lovers in those days.

"And you will make him understand?"

"I will do my best. No one can force a damsel into marriage nowadays."

Opposition heightened Louis Marsac's desires. Then he generally had his
way with women. He did not need to work hard to win their hearts. Even
here in spite of Indian blood, maids smiled on the handsome, jaunty
fellow who went arrayed in the latest fashion, and carried it off with
the air of a prince. There was another sort of secret dimly guessed at
that would be of immense advantage to him, but he had the wariness of
the mother's side as well as the astuteness of the father.

A fortnight went by with no advantage. Pani never left her charge alone.
The rambles in the woods were given up, and the girl's heart almost died
within her for longing. She helped poor Margot nurse her children, and
if Marsac came on a generous errand they surrounded her and swarmed
over her. He could have killed them with a good will. She would not go
out on the river nor join the girls in swimming matches nor take part in
dances. Sometimes with Pani she spent mornings in the minister's study,
and read aloud or listened to him while his wife sat sewing.

"You are not easily tempted," said the good wife one day. "It is no
secret that this young trader, M. Marsac, is wild for love of you."

"But I do not like him, how then could I give him love?" and she glanced
out of proud, sincere eyes, while a soft color fluttered in her face.

"No, that could not be," assentingly.

The demon within him that Louis Marsac called love raged and rose to
white heat. If he could even carry her off! But that would be a foolish
thing. She might be rescued, and he would lose the good opinion of many
who gave him a flattering sympathy now.

So the weeks went on. The boats were loaded with provision, some of them
started on their journey. He came one evening and found Jeanne and her
protector sitting in their doorway. Jeanne was light-hearted. She had
heard he was to sail to-morrow.

"I have come to bid my old playmate and friend good-by," and there was a
sweet pathos in his voice that woke a sort of tenderness in the girl's
heart, for it brought back a touch of the old pleasant days before he
had really grown to manhood, when they sat under her oak and listened to
Pani's legendary stories.

"I wish you bon voyage, Monsieur."

"Say Louis just once. It will be a bit of music to which I shall sail up
the river."

"Monsieur Louis."

The tone was clear and no warmth penetrated it. He could see her face
distinctly in the moonlight and it was passive in its beauty.

"Thou hast not forgiven me. If I knelt--"

"Nay!" she sprang up and stood at Pani's back. "There is nothing to
kneel for. When you are away I shall strive to forget your insistence--"

"And remember that it sprang from love," he interrupted. "Jeanne, is
your heart of marble that nothing moves it? There are curious stories of
women who have little human warmth in them--who are born of strange
parents."

"Monsieur, that is wrong. Jeanne hath ever been loving and fond from the
time she put her little arms around my neck. She is kindly and
tender--the poor tailor's lonely woman will tell you. And she spent
hours with poor Madame Campeau when her own daughter left her and went
away to a convent, comforting her and reading prayers. No, she is not
cold hearted."

"Then you have taken all her love," complainingly.

"It is not that, either," returned the woman.

"Jeanne, I shall love thee always, cruel as thou hast been. And if thou
art so generous as to pray for others, say a little prayer that will
help me bear my loneliness through the cold northern winter that I had
hoped might be made warm and bright by thy presence. Have a little pity
if thou hast no love."

He was mournfully handsome as he stood there in the silvery light.
Almost her heart was moved. She said a special prayer for only one
person, but Louis Marsac might slip into the other class that was "all
the world."

"Monsieur, I will remember," bowing a little.

"Oh, lovely icicle, you are enough to freeze a man's soul, and yet you
rouse it to white heat! I can make no impression I see. Adieu, adieu."

He gave a sudden movement and would have kissed her mouth but she put
her hand across it, and Pani, divining the endeavor, rose at the same
instant.

"Mam'selle Jeanne Angelot, you will repent this some day!" and his tone
was bitter with revenge.

Then he plunged down the street with an unsteady gait and was lost in
the darkness.

"Pani, come in, bar the door. And the shutter must be fastened;" pulling
the woman hastily within.

"But the night will be hot."

"It is cooler now. There has been a fresh breeze from the river. And--I
am sore afraid."

It was true that the night dews and the river gave a coolness to the
city at night, and on the other side was the great sweep of woods and
hills.

Nothing came to disturb them. Jeanne was restless and had bad dreams,
then slept soundly until after sunrise.

"Antoine," she said to the tailor's little lad, "go down to the wharf
and watch until the 'Flying Star' sails up the river. The tide is
early. I will reward you well."

"O Mam'selle, I will do it for love;" and he set off on a trot.

"There are many kinds of love," mused Jeanne. "Strange there should be a
kind that makes one afraid."

At ten the "Flying Star" went up the river.

"Thou hast been a foolish girl, Jeanne Angelot!" declared one of the
neighbors. "Think how thou mightst have gone up the river on a wedding
journey, and a handsome young husband such as falls to the lot of few
maids, with money in plenty and furs fit for a queen. And there is, no
doubt, some Indian blood in thy veins! Thou hast always been wild as a
deer and longing to live out of doors."

Jeanne only laughed. She was so glad to feel at liberty once more. For a
month she had virtually been a prisoner.

Madame De Ber, though secretly glad, joined the general disapproval. She
had half hoped he might fancy Rose, who sympathized warmly with him. She
could have forgiven the alien blood if she had seen Rose go up the
river, in state, to such a future.

And though Jeanne was not so much beyond childhood, it was settled that
she would be an old maid. She did not care.

"Let us go out under the oak, Pani," she exclaimed. "I want to look at
something different from the Citadel and the little old houses,
something wide and free, where the wind can blow about, and where there
are waves of sweetness bathing one's face like a delightful sea. And
to-morrow we will take to the woods. Do you suppose the birds and the
squirrels have wondered?"

She laughed gayly and danced about joyously.

Wenonah sat at her hut door making a cape of gull's feathers for an
officer's wife.

"You did not go north, little one," and she glanced up with a smile of
approval.

For to her Jeanne would always be the wild, eager, joyous child who had
whistled and sung with the birds, and could never outgrow childhood. She
looked not more than a dozen years old to-day.

"No, no, no. Wenonah, why do you cease to care for people, when you have
once liked them? Yet I am sorry for Louis. I wish he had loved some one
else. I hope he will."

"No doubt there are those up there who have shared his heart and his
wigwam until he tired of them. And he will console himself again. You
need not give him so much pity."

"Wenonah!" Jeanne's face was a study in surprise.

"I am glad, Mam'selle, that his honeyed tongue did not win you. I wanted
to warn, but the careful Pani said there was no danger. My brave has
told some wild stories about him when he has had too much brandy. And
sometimes an Indian girl who is deserted takes a cruel revenge, not on
the selfish man, but on the innocent girl who has trusted him, and is
not to blame. He is handsome and double of tongue and treacherous.
See--he would have given me money to coax you to go out in the canoe
with me some day to gather reeds. Then he could snatch you away. It was
a good deal of money, too!"

"O Wenonah!" She fell on the woman's neck and kissed the soft, brown
cheek.

"He knew you trusted me, that was the evil of him. And I said to Pani,
'Do not let her go out on the river, lest the god of the Strait put
forth his hand and pull her down to the depths and take her to his
cave.' And Pani understood."

"Yes, I trust you," said the girl proudly.

"And I have no white blood in my veins."

She went down to the great oak with Pani and they sat shaded from the
afternoon sunshine with the lovely river stretching out before them. She
did not care for the old story any more, but she leaned against Pani's
bosom and patted her hand and said: "No matter what comes, Pani, we
shall never part. And I will grow old with you like a good daughter and
wait on you and care for you, and cook your meals when you are ill."

Pani looked into the love-lit, shining eyes.

"But I shall be so very, very old," she replied with a soft laugh.




CHAPTER XIV.

A HIDDEN FOE.


Ah, what a day it was to Jeanne Angelot! They had gone early in the
morning and taken some food with them in a pretty basket made of birch
bark. How good it was to be alive, to be free! The sunshine had never
been so golden, she thought, nor danced so among the branches nor shook
out such dainty sprites. How they skipped over the turf, now hold of
hands, now singly, now running away and disappearing, others coming in
their places!

"The very woods are alive," she declared in glee.

Alive they were with the song of birds, the chirp of insects, the
murmuring wind. Back of her was a rivulet fretting its way over pebbles
down a hillside, making an irregular music. She kept time to it, then
she changed to the bird song, and the rustle among the pines.

"It is so lovely, Pani. I seem to be drinking in a strange draught that
goes to my very finger tips. Oh, I wonder how anyone can bear to die!"

"When they are old it is like falling asleep. And sometimes they are so
tired it makes them glad."

"I should only be tired of staying in the house. But I suppose one
cannot help death. One can refuse to go into a little cell and shut out
the sunlight and all the beauty that God has made. It is wicked I
think. For one can pray out of doors and sing hymns. I am sure God will
hear."

They ate their lunch with a relish; Jeanne had found some berries and
some ripe wild plums. There was a hollow tree full of honey, she could
tell by the odorous, pungent smell. She would tell Wenonah and have some
of the boys go at night and--oh, how hard to rob the poor bees, to
murder and rob them! No, she would keep their secret.

She laid her head down in Pani's lap and went fast asleep; and the
Indian woman's eyes were touched with the same poppy juice. Once Pani
started, she thought she heard a step. In an instant her eyes were bent
inquiringly around. There was no one in sight.

"It was the patter of squirrels," she thought.

The movement roused Jeanne. She opened her eyes and smiled with
infantine joy.

"We have both been asleep," said the woman. "And now is it not time to
go home?"

"Oh, look at the long shadows. They are purple now, and soft dark green.
The spirits of the wood have trooped home, tired of their dancing."

She rose and gave herself a little shake.

"Pani," she exclaimed, "I saw some beautiful flowers before noon, over
on the other side of the stream. I think they were something strange. I
can easily jump across. I will not be gone long, and you may stay here.
Poor Pani! I tired you out."

"No, Mam'selle, you were asleep first."

"Was I? It was such a lovely sleep. Oh, you dear woods;" and she clasped
her hands in adoration.

Long, flute-like notes quivered through the branches--birds calling to
their mates. Pani watched the child skipping, leaping, pulling down a
branch and letting it fly up again. Then she jumped across the brook
with a merry shout, and a tree hid her.

Pani studied the turf, the ants and beetles running to and fro, the
strange creatures with heavy loads. A woodpecker ran up a tree and
pulled out a white grub. "Tinkle, tinkle, bu-r-r-r," said the little
stream. Was that another shout?

Presently Pani rose and went toward the stream. "Jeanne! Jeanne!" she
called. The forest echoes made reply. She walked up, Jeanne had gone in
that direction. Once it seemed as if the voice answered.

Yes, over yonder was a great thicket of bloom. Surely the child would
not need to go any farther. Presently there was a tangle of underbrush
and wild grapevines. Pani retraced her steps and going farther down
crossed and came up on the other side, calling as she went. The woods
grew more dense. There was a chill in the air as if the sun never
penetrated it. There was no real path and she wandered on in a thrill of
terror, still calling but not losing sight of the stream.

And now the sun dropped down. Terrified, Pani made the best of her way
back. What had happened? She had seen no sign of a wild animal, and
surely the child could not be lost in that brief while!

She must give an alarm. She ran now until she was out of breath, then
she had to pause until she could run again. She reached the farms. They
were mostly all long strips of land with the houses in reach of the
stockade for safety.

"Andre Helmuth," she cried, "I have lost the child, Jeanne. Give an
alarm." Then she sank down half senseless.

Dame Helmuth ran out from the fish she was cooking for supper. "What is
it?" she cried. "And who is this?" pointing to the prostrate figure.

"Jeanne Angelot's Pani. And Jeanne, she says, is lost. It must be in the
woods. But she knows them so well."

"She was ever a wild thing," declared the dame. "But a night in the
woods alone is not such a pleasant pastime, with panthers, and bears
have been seen. And there may be savages prowling about. Yes, Andre,
give the alarm and I will look after the poor creature. She has always
been faithful to the child."

By the time the dame had restored her, the news had spread. It reached
Wenonah presently, who hastened to the Helmuths'. Pani sat bewildered,
and the Indian woman, by skillful questioning, finally drew the story
from her.

"I think it is a band of roving Indians," she said. "I am glad now that
Paspah is at home. He is a good guide. But we must send in town and get
a company."

"Yes, yes, that is the thing to do. A few soldiers with arms. One cannot
tell how many of the Indians there may be. I will go at once," and Andre
Helmuth set off on a clumsy trot.

"And the savory fish that he is so fond of, getting spoiled. But what
is that to the child's danger? Children, come and have your suppers."

They wanted to linger about Pani, but the throng kept increasing.
Wenonah warded off troublesome questions and detailed the story to
newcomers. The dame brought her a cup of tea with a little brandy in it,
and then waited what seemed an interminable while.

The alarm spread through the garrison, and a searching party was ordered
out equipped with lanterns and well armed. At its head was Jeanne's
admirer, the young lieutenant.

Tony Helmuth had finished his supper.

"Let me go with them," he pleaded. "I know every inch of the way. I have
been up and down the creek a hundred times."

Pani rose. "I must go, too," she said, weakly, but she dropped back on
the seat.

"Thou wilt come home with me," began Wenonah, with gentle
persuasiveness. "Thou hast not the strength."

She yielded passively and clung piteously to the younger woman, her feet
lagging.

"She was so glad and joyous all day. I should not have let her go out of
my sight," the foster mother moaned. "And it was only such a little
while. Heaven and the blessed Mother send her back safely."

"I think they will find her. Paspah is good on a trail. If they stop for
the night and build a fire that will surely betray them."

She led Pani carefully along, though quite a procession followed.

"Let her be quiet now," said the younger squaw. "You can hear nothing
more from her, and she needs rest. Go your ways."

Pani was too much exhausted and too dazed to oppose anything. Once or
twice she started feebly and said she must go home, but dropped back
again on the pine needle couch covered with a blanket. Between waking
and sleep strange dreams came to her that made her start and cry out,
and Wenonah soothed her as one would a child.

All the next day they waited. The town was stirred with the event, and
the sympathy was universal. The pretty Jeanne Angelot, who had been left
so mysteriously, had awakened romantic interest anew. A few years ago
this would have been a common incident, but why one should want to carry
off a girl of no special value,--though a ransom would be raised readily
enough if such a thing could save her.

On the second day the company returned home. No trace of any marauding
party had been found. There had been no fires kindled, no signs of any
struggle, and no Indian trails in the circuit they had made. The party
might have had a canoe on Little river and paddled out to Lake St.
Clair; if so, they were beyond reach.

The tidings utterly crushed Pani. For a fortnight she lay in Wenonah's
cabin, paying no attention to anything and would have refused sustenance
if Wenonah had not fed her as a child. Then one day she seemed to wake
as out of a trance.

"They have not found her--my little one?" she said.

Wenonah shook her head.

"Some evil spirit of the woods has taken her."

"Can you listen and think, Pani?" and she chafed the cold hand she held.
"I have had many strange thoughts and Touchas, you know, has seen
visions. The white man has changed everything and driven away the
children of the air who used to run to and fro in the times of our
fathers. In her youth she called them, but the Church has it they are
demons, and to look at the future is a wicked thing. It is said in some
places they have put people to death for doing it."

Pani's dark eyes gave a glance of mute inquiry.

"But I asked Touchas. At first she said the great Manitou had taken the
power from her. But the night the moon described the full circle and one
could discern strange shapes in it, she came to me, and we went and sat
under the oak tree where the child first came to thee. There was great
disturbance in Touchas' mind, and her eyes seemed to traverse space
beyond the stars. Presently, like one in a dream, she said:--

"'The child is alive. She was taken by Indians to the petite lake, her
head covered, and in strong arms. Then they journeyed by water,
stopping, and going on until they met a big ship sailing up North. She
is in great danger, but the stars watch over her; a prisoner where the
window is barred and the door locked. There is a man between two women,
an Indian maiden, whose heart hungers for him. She comes down to meet
him and follows a trail and finds something that rouses her to fierce
anger. She creeps and creeps, and finds the key and unlocks the door.
The white maiden is afraid at first and cowers, for she reads passion in
the other's eyes. O great Manitou, save her!' Then Touchas screamed and
woke, shivering all over, and could see no further into the strange
future. 'Wait until the next moon,' she keeps saying. But the child will
be saved, she declares."

"Oh, my darling, my little one!" moaned the woman, rocking herself to
and fro. "The saints protect thee. Oh, I should have watched thee
better! But she felt so safe. She had been afraid, but the fear had
departed. Oh, my little one! I shall die if I do not see thee again."

"I feel that the great God will care for her. She has done no evil; and
the priests declare that he will protect the good. And I thought and
thought, until a knowledge seemed to come out of the clear sky. So I did
not wait for the next moon. I said, 'I have little need for Paspah,
since I earn bread for the little ones. Why should he sit in the wigwam
all winter, now and then killing a deer or helping on the dock for a
drink of brandy?' So I sent him North again to join the hunters and to
find Jeanne. For I know that handsome, evil-eyed Louis Marsac is at the
bottom of it."

"Oh, Wenonah!" Pani fell on her shoulder and cried, she was so weak and
overcome.

"We will not speak of this. Paspah has a grudge against Marsac; he
struck him a blow last summer. My father would have killed him for the
blow, but the red men who hang around the towns have no spirit. They
creep about like panthers, and only show their teeth to an enemy. The
forest is the place for them, but this life is easier for a woman."

Wenonah sighed. Civilization had charms for her, yet she saw that it was
weakening her race. They were driven farther and farther back and to the
northward. Women might accept labor, they were accustomed to it in the
savage state but a brave could not so demean himself.

Pani's mind was not very active yet. For some moments she studied
Wenonah in silence.

"She was afraid of him. She would not go out to the forest nor on the
river while he was here. But he went away--"

"He could have planned it all. He would find enough to do his bidding.
But if she has been taken up North, Paspah will find her."

That gave some present comfort to Pani. But she began to be restless and
wanted to return to her own cottage.

"You must not live alone," said Wenonah.

"But I want to be there. If my darling comes it is there she will search
for me."

When Wenonah found she could no longer keep her by persuasion or
entreaty, she went home with her one day. The tailor's widow had taken
some little charge of the place. It was clean and tidy.

Pani drew a long, delighted breath, like a child.

"Yes, this is home," she exclaimed. "Wenonah, the good Mother of God
will reward you for your kindness. There is something"--touching her
forehead in piteous appeal--"that keeps me from thinking as I ought. But
you are sure my little one will come back, like a bird to its nest?"

"She will come back," replied Wenonah, hardly knowing whether she
believed it herself or not.

"Then I shall stay here."

She was deaf to all entreaties. She went about talking to herself, with
a sentence here and there addressed to Jeanne.

"Yes, leave her," said Margot. "She was good to me in my sorrow, and
petite Jeanne was an angel. The children loved her so. She would not
go away of her own accord. And I will watch and see that no harm happens
to Pani, and that she has food. The boys will bring her fagots for fire.
I will send you word every day, so you will know how it fares with her."

Pani grew more cheerful day by day and gained not only physical
strength, but made some mental improvement. In the short twilight she
would sit in the doorway listening to every step and tone, sometimes
rising as if she would go to meet Jeanne, then dropping back with a
sigh.

The soldiers were very kind to her and often stopped to give her good
day. Neighbors, too, paused, some in sympathy, some in curiosity.

There were many explanations of the sudden disappearance. That Jeanne
Angelot had been carried off by Indians seemed most likely. Such things
were still done.

But many of the superstitious shook their heads. She had come queerly as
if she had dropped from the clouds, she had gone in the same manner.
Perhaps she was not a human child. All wild things had come at her
call,--she had talked to them in the woods. Once a doe had run to her
from some hunters and she had so covered it with her girlish arms and
figure that they had not dared to shoot. If there were bears or panthers
or wolves in the woods, they never molested her.

They recalled old legends, Indian and French, some gruesome enough, but
they did not seem meet for pretty, laughing Jeanne, who was all
kindliness and sweetness and truth. If she was part spirit, surely it
was a good spirit and not an evil one.

Then Pani thought she would go to Father Gilbert, though she had never
felt at home with him as she did with good Père Rameau. There might be
prayers that would hasten her return. Or, if relics helped, if she could
once hold them in her hand and wish--

The old missionaries who had gone a century or two before to plant the
cross along with the lilies of France had the souls of the heathen
savages at heart. Since then times had changed and the Indians were not
looked upon as such promising subjects. Father Gilbert worked for the
good and the glory of the Church. One English convert was worth a dozen
Indians. So the church had been improved and made more beautiful. There
were singers who caught the ear of the casual listener, and he or she
came again. The school, too, was improved, the sisters' house enlarged,
and a retreat built where women could spend days of sorrow and go away
refreshed. Sometimes they preferred to stay altogether.

Father Gilbert listened rather impatiently to the prolix story. He might
have heard it before, he did not remember. There were several Indian
waifs in school.

"And this child was baptized, you say? Why did you not bring her to
church?" he asked sharply.

"Good Père, I did at first. But M. Bellestre would not have her forced.
And then she only came sometimes. She liked the new school because they
taught about countries and many things. She was always honest and truth
speaking and hated cruel deeds--"

"But she belonged to the Church, you see. Woman, you have done her a
great wrong and this is sent upon you for punishment. She should have
been trained to love her Church. Yes, you must come every day and pray
that she may be returned to the true fold, and that the good God will
forgive your sin. You have been very wicked and careless and I do not
wonder God has sent this upon you. When she comes back she must be given
to the Church."

Pani turned away without asking about the relics. Her savage heart rose
up in revolt. The child was hers, the Church had not all the right. And
Jeanne had come to believe like the chapel father, who had been very
friendly toward her. Perhaps it was all wrong and wicked, but Jeanne was
an angel. Ah, if she could hold her in her old arms once more!

Father Gilbert went to see M. Loisel. What was it about the money the
Indian woman and the child had? Could not the Church take better care of
it? And if the girl was dead, what then?

M. Loisel explained the wording of the bequest. If both died it went
back to the Bellestre estate. Only in case of Jeanne's marriage did it
take the form of a dowry. In June and December it came to him, and he
sent back an account of the two beneficiaries.

Really then it was not worth looking after, Father Gilbert decided, when
there was so much other work on hand.

Madame De Ber and her coterie, for already there were little cliques in
Detroit, shrugged their shoulders and raised their eyebrows when Jeanne
Angelot was mentioned.

She was such a coquette! And though she flouted Louis Marsac to his
face, when he had really taken her at her word and gone, she might have
repented and run after him. It was hardly likely a band of roving
Indians would burthen themselves with a girl. Then she was fleet of foot
and had a quick brain, she could have eluded them and returned by this
time.

Rose De Ber had succeeded in captivating her fine lover and sent Martin
about with a bit of haughtiness that would have become a queen. It was
a fine wedding and Jeanne was lost sight of in the newer excitement.

Pani rambled to and fro, a grave, silent woman. When she grew strong
enough she went to the forest and haunted the little creek with her
plaints. The weather grew colder. Furs and rugs were brought out, and
warm hangings for winter. Martin Lavosse came in and arranged some
comforts for Pani, looked to see that the shutters would swing easily
and brought fresh cedar and pine boughs for pallets. Crops were being
gathered in, and there were merrymakings and church festivals, but the
poor woman sat alone in her room that fronted the street, now and then
casting her eyes up and down in mute questioning. The light of her life
had gone. If Jeanne came not back all would be gone, even faith in the
good God. For why should he, if he was so great and could manage the
whole world, let this thing happen? Why should he deliver Jeanne into
the hands of the man she hated, or perhaps let her be torn to pieces by
some wild beast of the forest, when, by raising a finger, he could have
helped it? Could he be angry because she had not sent the child to be
shut up in the Recollet house and made a nun of?

Slavery and servitude had not extinguished the love of liberty that had
been born in Pani's soul. She had succumbed to force, then to a certain
fondness for a kind mistress. But it seemed as if she alone had
understood the child's wild flights, her hatred of bondage. She had done
no harm to any living creature; she had been full of gratitude to the
great Manitou for every flower, every bird, for the golden sun that set
her pulses in a glow, for the moon and stars, and the winds that sang to
her. Oh, surely God could not be angry with her!




CHAPTER XV.

A PRISONER.


Jeanne Angelot climbed a slight ascent where great jagged stones had
probably been swept down in some fierce storm and found lodgment. Tufts
of pink flowers, the like of which she had not seen before, hung over
one ledge. They were not wild roses, yet had a spicy fragrance. Here the
little stream formed a sort of basin, and the overflow made the cascade
down the winding way strewn with pebbles and stones worn smooth by the
force of the early spring floods. How wonderfully beautiful it was! To
the north, after a space of wild land, there was a prairie stretching
out as far as one could see, golden green in the sunlight; to the east
the lake, that seemed to gather all sorts of changeful, magical tints on
its bosom.

She had never heard of the vale of Enna nor her prototype who stooped to
pluck

          "The fateful flower beside the rill,
           The daffodil! The daffodil!"

as she sprang down to gather the blossoms. The stir in the woods did not
alarm her. Her eyes were still over to the eastward drinking in that
fine draught of celestial wine, the true nectar of life. A bird piped
overhead. She laughed and answered him. Then a sudden darkness fell upon
her, close, smothering. Her cry was lost in it. She was picked up,
slung over some one's shoulder and borne onward by a swift trot. Her
arms were fast, she could only struggle feebly.

When at length she was placed on her feet and the blanket partly
unrolled, she gave a cry.

"Hush, hush!" said a rough voice in Chippewa. "If you make a noise we
shall kill you and throw you into the lake. Be silent and nothing shall
harm you."

"Oh, let me go!" she pleaded. "Why do you want me?"

The blanket was drawn over her head again. Another stalwart Indian
seized her and ran on with such strides that it nearly jolted the breath
out of her body, and the close smell of the blanket made her faint. When
the second Indian released her she fell to the ground in a heap.

"White Rose lost her breath, eh?"

"You have covered her too close. We are to deliver her alive. The white
brave will have us murdered if she dies."

One of them brought some water from a stream near by, and it revived
her.

"Give me a drink!" she cried, piteously. Then she glanced at her
abductors. Four fierce looking Indians, two unusually tall and powerful.
To resist would be useless.

"Whither are you going to take me?"

A grunt was the only reply, and they prepared to envelop her again.

"Oh, let me walk a little," she besought. "I am stiff and tired."

"You will not give any alarm?"

Who could hear in this wild, solitary place?

"I will be quiet. Nay, do not put the blanket about me, it is so warm,"
she entreated.

One of the Indians threw it over his shoulder. Two others took an arm
with a tight grasp and commenced a quick trot. They lifted her almost
off her feet, and she found this more wearying than being carried.

"Do not go so fast," she pleaded.

The Indian caught her up and ran again. Her slim figure was as nothing
to him. But it was better not to have her head covered.

There seemed a narrow path through these woods, a trail the Indians
knew. Now and then they emerged from the woods to a more open space, but
the sunlight was mostly shut out. Once more they changed and now they
reached a stream and put down their burthen.

"We go now in a canoe," began the chief spokesman. "If the White Rose
will keep quiet and orderly no harm will come to her. Otherwise her
hands and feet must be tied."

Jeanne drew a long breath and looked from one to the other. Their faces
were stolid. Questioning would be useless.

"I will be quiet," she made answer.

They spread the blanket about and seated her in the middle. One man took
his place behind her, one in front, and each had two ends of the
blanket to frustrate any desperate move. Then another stood up to the
paddle and steered the canoe swiftly along the stream, which was an arm
of a greater river emptying into the lake.

What could they want of her? Jeanne mused. Perhaps a ransom, she had
heard such tales, though it was oftener after a battle that a prisoner
was released by a ransom. She did not know in what direction they were
taking her, everything was strange though she had been on many of the
small streams about Detroit. Now the way was narrow, overhung with
gloomy trees, here and there a white beech shining out in a ghostly
fashion. The sun dropped down and darkness gathered, broken by the
shrill cry of a wild cat or the prolonged howl of a wolf. Here they
started a nest of waterfowl that made a great clatter, but they glided
swiftly by. It grew darker and darker but they went silently with only a
low grunt from one of the Indians now and then.

Presently they reached the main stream. This was much larger, with the
shores farther off and clearer, though weird enough in the darkness.
Stars were coming out. Jeanne watched them in the deep magnificent blue,
golden, white, greenish and with crimson tints. Was the world beyond the
stars as beautiful as this? But she knew no one there. She wondered a
little about her mother--was she in that bright sphere? There was
another Mother--

"O Mother of God," she cried in her soul, "have pity upon me! I put
myself in thy care. Guard me from evil! Restore me to my home!"

For it seemed, amid these rough savages, she sorely needed a mother's
tender care. And she thought now there had been no loving woman in her
life save Pani. Madame Bellestre had petted her, but she had lost her
out of her life so soon. There had been the schoolmaster, that she could
still think of with affection for all his queer fatherly interest and
kindness; there was M. Loisel; and oh, Monsieur St. Armand, who was
coming back in the early summer, and had some plans to lay before her.
Even M. De Ber had been kindly and friendly, but Madame had never
approved her. Poor Madame Campeau had come to love her, but often in her
wandering moments she called her Berthê.

The quiet, the lapping of the waves, and perhaps a little fatigue
overcame her at length. She dropped back against the Indian's knee, and
her soft breath rose and fell peacefully. He drew the blanket up over
her.

"Ugh! ugh!" he ejaculated, but she heard it not. "The tide is good, we
shall make the Point before dawn."

The others nodded. They lighted their pipes, and presently the Indian at
the paddle changed with one of his comrades and they stole on and on,
both wind and tide in their favor. Several times their charge stirred
but did not wake. Youth and health had overcome even anxiety.

There was dawn in the eastern sky. Jeanne roused.

"Oh, where am I?" she cried in piercing accents; and endeavored to
spring up.

"Thou art safe enough and naught has harmed thee," was the reply. "Keep
quiet, that is all."

"Oh, where do you mean to take me? I am stiff and cold. Oh, let me
change a little!"

She straightened herself and pulled the blanket over her. The same
stolid faces that had refused any satisfaction last night met her gaze
again in blankness.

There was a broad, open space of water, no longer the river. She glanced
about. A sudden arrow of gold gleamed swiftly across it--then another,
and it was a sea of flame with dancing crimson lights.

"It is the lake," she said. "Lake Huron." She had been up the
picturesque shores of the St. Clair river.

The Indian nodded.

"You are going north?" A great terror overwhelmed her like a sudden
revelation.

The answer was a solemn nod.

"Some one has hired you to do this."

Not a muscle in any stolid face moved.

"If I guess rightly will you tell me?"

There was a refusal in the shake of the head.

Jeanne Angelot at that moment could have leaped from the boat. Yet she
knew it would be of no avail. A chill went through every pulse and
turned it to the ice of apprehension.

The canoe made a turn and ran up an inlet. A great clump of trees hid a
wigwam until they were in sight of it There was a smoke issuing from
the rude chimney, and a savory smell permeated the air. Two squaws had
been squatted before the blaze of the stone-built fireplace. They both
rose and came down the narrow strip of beach. They were short, the older
one had a squat, ungainly figure of great breadth for the height, and a
most forbidding face. The other was much younger.

Jeanne did not understand the language, but from a few words she guessed
it was Huron. It seemed at first as if there was fierce upbraiding from
some cause, but it settled satisfactorily it would seem. She was helped
out of the canoe. Oh, how good it was to stand free on the ground again!

The Indian who appeared to be the leader of the party took her arm and
led her up to the inclosure, the back of which seemed rocks, one piled
upon another. The wigwam was set against them. The rude shelter outside
was the kitchen department, evidently. A huge kettle had been lifted
from the coals and was still steaming. A bark platter was piled high
with deliciously browned fish, and in spite of her terror and distrust
she felt that she was hungry.

"If I might have some water," she asked hesitatingly,--"a drink and some
to bathe my face and hands?"

The drink was offered her in a gourd cup. Then the younger woman led her
within the wigwam. There was a rough earthen bowl filled with water, a
bit of looking-glass framed in birch bark, a bed, and some rounds of
logs for seats. Around hung articles of clothing, both native made and
bought from the traders.

"I understand Chippewa," announced Jeanne looking inquiringly at the
woman.

She put her finger on her lip. Then she said, almost breathlessly, "We
are not to talk to the French demoiselle."

"But tell me, am I to stay here?"

She gave a negative shake of the head.

"Am I to go--farther north?"

An affirmative nod this time.

"Wanee! Wanee!" was called sharply from without.

Jeanne sank on her knees.

"O Holy Mother of Christ, have pity on me and save me!" she cried. For
the vague suspicion that had haunted her since waking, crystallized into
a certainty. Part of a rosary came to her:--

          "Heart of Jesus, refuge of sinners;
           Heart of Jesus, fortitude of the just;
           Heart of Jesus, comfort the afflicted."

Then she rose and made a brief toilet. She shook out her long hair,
passing her damp hands over it, and it fell in curls again. She
straightened her dress, but she still felt chill in the cool morning
air. There was a cape of gull's feathers, hanging by the flap of the
wigwam, and she reached it down making a sign to the woman asking
permission.

She nodded assentingly.

It felt good and warm. Jeanne's breakfast was spread on a board resting
on two stones. The squaw had made coffee out of some parched and ground
grains, and it had a comforting flavor. The plate of fish was set before
her and cakes of honey bread, and her coffee poured in a gourd bowl. The
birds were singing overhead, and she could hear the lap of the tide in
the lake, a soft tone of monotony. The beauty of it all penetrated her
very soul. Even the group around the great kettle, dipping in their
wooden spoons and gravely chatting, the younger woman smiling and one
might almost imagine teasing them, had a picturesque aspect, and
softened the thought of what might happen to-morrow.

They lolled on the turf and smoked pipes afterward. Jeanne paced up and
down within sight of their glances that she knew were fixed upon her in
spite of the half-closed lids. It was so good to be free in the fragrant
air, to stretch her cramped limbs and feel the soft short grass under
her feet. Dozens of wild plans flashed through her brain. But she knew
escape was impossible, and she wondered what was to be the next move.
Were they awaiting the trader, Louis Marsac?

Plainly they were not. When they were rested and had eaten again and had
drunk a thick liquid made of roots and barks and honey, they rose and
went toward the canoe, as if discussing some matter. They parleyed with
the elder woman, who brought out two blankets and a pine needle cushion,
which they threw in the boat, then a bottle of water from the spring, a
gourd cup and some provisions.

"Come," the leader said, not unkindly. "Thou hast had a rest. We must be
on our journey."

Pleading would be in vain, she recognized that. The women could not
befriend her even if they would. So she allowed herself to be helped
into the canoe, and the men pushed off amid the rather vociferous jargon
of the women. She was made much more comfortable than before, though so
seated that either brave could reach out his long arm and snatch her
from any untoward resolve.

She looked down into the shining waters. Did she really care to try
them? The hope of youth is unbounded and its trust in the future
sublime. She did not want to die. Life was a glad, sweet thing to her,
even if full of vague dreams, and she hoped somehow to be delivered from
this danger, to find a friend raised up for her. Stories of miracles and
wonderful rescues floated through her mind. Surely God would not let her
fall a prey to this man she both feared and hated. She could feel his
one hot, vicious kiss upon her lips even yet.

The woods calmed and soothed her with their grays and greens, and the
infrequent birches, tall and slim, with circles of white still about
them. Great tree boles stood up like hosts of silent Indian warriors,
ready to pounce down on one. They hugged the shore closely, sometimes it
was translucent green, and one could almost catch the darting fishes
with one's hand. Then the dense shade rendered it black, and it seemed
bottomless.

So gliding along, keeping well out of the reach of other craft, the
hours growing more tiresome to Jeanne, they passed the Point Aux Barques
and steered across Saginaw bay. Once they had stopped for a little rest
and a tramp along the shore. Then another evening dropped down upon
them, another night, and Jeanne slept from a sort of exhaustion.

The next forenoon they landed at one of the islands, where a trading
vessel of considerable size and fair equipment lay at anchor. A man on
deck with a glass had been sighting them. She had not noted him
particularly, in fact she was weary and disheartened with her journey
and her fears. But they made a sudden turn and came up to the vessel,
poled around to the shore side, when she was suddenly lifted up by
strong arms and caught by other arms with a motion so rapid she could
not have struggled if she had wished. And now she was set down almost
roughly.

"Welcome, my fair demoiselle," said a voice whose triumph was in no
degree disguised. "How shall I ever thank you for this journey you have
taken to meet me? I could have made it pleasanter for you if you would
have consented a little earlier. But a willful girl takes her own way,
and her way is sweet to the man who loves her, no matter how briery the
path may be."

Jeanne Angelot was stunned. Then her worst fears were realized. She was
in the power of Louis Marsac. Oh, why had she not thrown herself into
the river; why had she not seized the knife with which they had been
cutting venison steak yester morn and ended it all? She tried to
speak--her lips were dry, and her tongue numb as well as dumb.

He took her arm. As if deprived of resistance she suffered herself to be
led forward and then down a few steps. He opened a door.

"See," he said, "I have arranged a pretty bower for you, and a servant
to wait upon you. And now, Mam'selle Angelot, further refusal is
useless. To-morrow or next day at the latest the priest will make us man
and wife."

