perversity as yet insupposable, she should utterly belie 
herself in that relation. There was none, surely, in which, 
as Maria remembered her, she mustn't be charming ; and 
this, frankly, in spite of the stigma of failure in the tie 
in which failure always most showed. It was no test there 
— when, indeed, was it a test there? — for M. de Vionnet 
had been a brute. She had lived for years apart from him 
— which was, of course, always a horrid position ; but Miss 
Gostrey's impression of the matter had been that she could 
scarce have made a better thing of it had she done it on 
purpose to show that she was amiable. She was so 
amiable that nobody had had a word to say, which was 
 
luckily not the case for her husband. He was so im- 
possible that she had the advantage of all her merits. 
It was still history for Strether that the Comte de 
Vionnet — it being also history that the lady in question 
was a countess — should now, under Miss Gostrey's sharp 
touch, rise before him as a high, distinguished, polished, 
impertinent reprobate, the product of a mysterious order ; 
it was history, further, that the charming girl, so freely 
sketched by his companion, should have been married, out 
of hand, by a mother, another figure of striking outline, full 
of dark personal motive ; it was perhaps history most of 
all that this company was, as a matter of course, governed 
by such considerations as put divorce out of the question. 
" Ces gens-id don't divorce, you know, any more than they 
emigrate or abjure — they think it impious and vulgar" ; a 
fact in the light of which they seemed but the more richly 
special. It was all special ; it was all, for Strether's 
imagination, more or less rich. The girl at the Genevese 
school, an isolated, interesting, attaching creature, both 
sensitive, then, and violent, audacious but always forgiven, 
was the daughter of a French father and an English 
mother, who, early left a widow, had married again, had 
another try with a foreigner ; in her career with whom she 
had apparently given her child no example of comfort. 
All these people — the people of the English mother's side 
— had been of condition more or less eminent ; yet with 
oddities and disparities that had often since made Maria, 
thinking them over, wonder what they really quite rhymed 
to. It was, in any case, her belief that the mother, interested and prone to adventure, had been without conscience, had only thought of ridding herself most quickly 
of a possible, an actual encumbrance. The father, by her 
impression, a Frenchman with a name that "sounded," had 
been another matter, leaving his child, she clearly recalled, 
a memory all fondness, as well as an assured little fortune, 
which was, unluckily, later on to make her more or less 
of a prey. She had been, in particular, at school dazzlingly, 
though quite booklessly clever ; as polyglot as a little 
Jewess (which she wasn't, oh, no !) and chattering French, 
English, German, Italian, anything one would, in a way 
that made a clean sweep, if not of prizes and parchments. 
at least of every " part," whether memorised or improvised, 
in the curtained, costumed, school repertory, and, in es- 
pecial, of all mysteries of race and vagueness of reference, 
all swagger about " home," among their variegated mates. 
It would doubtless be difficult to-day, as between French 
and English, to label her and place her; she would certainly 
show, on knowledge. Miss Gostrey felt, as one of those 
convenient types who didn't keep you explaining — minds 
with doors as numerous as the many-tongued cluster of 
confessionals at St. Peter's. You might confess to her 
with confidence in Roumelian, and even Roumelian sins. 
Therefore ! But Strether's narrator covered her im- 
plication with a laugh ; a laugh by which his betrayal of a 
sense of the lurid in the picture was also perhaps sufficiently 
protected. He had a moment of wondering, while his 
friend went on, what sins might be especially Roumelian. 
She went on, at all events, to the mention of her having 
met the young thing — again by some Swiss lake — in her 
first married state, which had appeared for the few inter- 
mediate years not at least violently disturbed. She had 
been lovely at that moment, delightful to her, full o1 
responsive emotion, of amused recognitions and amusing 
reminders; and then once more, much later, after a long 
interval, equally but differently charming — touching and 
rather mystifying for the fiv e minutes of an encounter at s 
railway station en province, during which it had come out 
that her life was all changed. Miss Gostrey had under- 
stood enough to see, essentially, what had happened, and 
yet had beautifully dreamed that she was herself faultless 
There were doubtless depths in her, but she was all right 
Strether would see if she wasn't. She was another person 
however — that had been promptly marked — from the smal 
child of nature at the Geneva school ; a little persoi 
quite made over — as foreign women luere, compared with 
American — by marriage. Her situation moreover, evidently 
had cleared itself up ; there would have been — all that wa: 
possible — a judicial separation. She had settled in Paris 
brought up her daughter, steered her boat. It was no ver; 
pleasant boat, especially there, to be in ; but Marie d« 
Vionnet would have headed straight. She would have 
friends, certainly, and very good ones. There she was, a 
all events — and it was very interesting. Her knowing Mr. 
Chad didn't in the least prove she hadn't friends ; what it 
proved was what good ones he had. " I saw that," said 
Miss Gostrey, " that night at the Frangais ; it came out for 
me in three minutes. I saw her — or somebody like her. 
And so," she immediately added, " did you." 
"Oh, no; not anybody like her!" Strether laughed. 
" But you mean," he as promptly went on, " that she has 
had such an influence on him?" 
Miss Gostrey was on her feet ; it was time for them to 
go. " She has brought him up for her daughter." 
Their eyes, as so often, in candid conference, through 
their settled glasses, met over it long; after which Strether's 
again took in the whole place. They were quite alone 
there now. " Mustn't she rather — in the time then — have 
rushed it ? " 
" Ah, she won't, of course, have lost an hour. But that's 
just the good mother — the good French one. You must 
remember that of her — that, as a mother, she's French ; 
and that for them there's a special providence. It precisely, 
however — that she may not have been able to begin as far 
back as she would have liked — makes her grateful for aid." 
Strether took this in as they slowly moved to the house 
on their way out. " She counts on me then to put the 
thing through ? " 
" Yes ; she counts on you. Oh, and first of all, of course," 
Miss Gostrey added, "on her — well, convincing you." 
" Ah," her friend returned, " she caught Chad young ! " 
" Yes, but there are women who are for all ages. They're 
the most wonderful sort." 
She had laughed the words out, but they brought her 
companion, the next thing, to a stand. " Is what you mean 
that she'll try to make a fool of me? " 
"Well, I'm wondering what she zvill — with an opportunity 
— make." 
"What do you call," Strether asked, "an opportunity.  
My going to see her ? " 
" Ah, you must go to see her." Miss Gostrey v.as a trifle 
evasive. " You can't not do that. You'd have gone to 
see the other woman. I mean if there had been one — a 
different sort. It's what you came out for." 
It might be ; but Strether distinguished. " I didn't come 
out to see this sort." 
She had a wonderful look at him now. " Are you dis- 
appointed she isn't worse ? " 
He for a moment entertained the question, then found 
for it the frankest of answers. "Yes. If she were worse 
she would be better for our purpose. It would be simpler." 
"Perhaps," she admitted. " But won't this be pleasanter?" 
" Ah, you know," he promptly replied, " I didn't come 
out — wasn't that just what you originally reproached me 
with ? — for the pleasant." 
" Precisely. Therefore I say again what I said at first. 
You must take things as they come. Besides," Miss 
Gostrey added, " I'm not afraid for myself." 
" For yourself ? " 
" Of your seeing her. I trust her. There's nothing 
she'll say about me. In fact there's nothing she can!' 
Strether wondered — little as he had thought of this. 
Then he broke out. " Oh, you women ! " 
There was something in it at which she flushed. " Yes — 
there we are. We're abysses." At last she smiled. " But 
I risk her ! " 
He gave himself a shake. "Well then, so do I !" But 
he added as they passed into the house that he would see 
Chad the first thing in the morning. 
This was, the next day, the more easily effected that the 
young man, as it happened, even before he was down, 
turned up at his hotel. Strether took his coffee, by habit, 
in the public room ; but on his descending for this purpose 
Chad instantly proposed an adjournment to what he called 
greater privacy. He had himself, as yet, had nothing — 
they would sit down somewhere together; and when, after 
a few steps and a turn into the boulevard, they had, for 
their greater privacy, sat down among twenty others, our 
friend saw in his companion's move a fear of the advent of 
Waymarsh. It was the first time Chad had, to that extent, 
given this personage "away" ; and Strether found himself 
wondering of what it was symptomatic. He made out in a 
moment that the youth was in earnest as he had not yet 
seen him ; which, in its turn, threw a ray perhaps a trifle 
startling on what they had each, up to that time, been 
treating as earnestness. It was sufficiently flattering, how- 
ever, that the real thing — if this zuas at last the real 
thing — should have been determined, as appeared, pre- 
cisely by an accretion of Strether's importance. For this 
was what, quickly enough, it came to — that Chad, rising 
with the lark, had rushed down to let him know, while his 
morning consciousness was yet young, that he had made, 
literally, the afternoon before, a tremendous impression. 
Mme. de Vionnet wouldn't, couldn't rest till she should have 
some assurance from him that he would consent again to see 
her. The announcement was made, across their marble- 
topped table, while the foam of the hot milk was in their 
cups and its plash still in the air, with the smile of Chad's 
easiest urbanity ; and this expression of his face caused our 
friend's doubts to gather, on the spot, into a challenge of 
the lips. "See here" — that was all; he only, for the 
moment, said again " See here." Chad met it with all his 
air of straight intelligence, while Strether remembered 
again that fancy of the first impression of him, the happy 
young pagan, handsome and hard, but indulgent, whose 
mysterious measure, under the street-lamp, he had tried 
mentally to take. The young pagan, while a long look 
passed between them, sufficiently understood. Strether 
scarce needed at last to say the rest — " I want to know 
where I am." But he said it, and he added, before any 
answer, something more. " Are you engaged to be 
married — is that your secret ? — to the young lady ? " 
Chad shook his head with the slow amenity that was one 
of his ways of conveying that there was time for every- 
thing. " I have no secret — though I may have secrets ! I 
haven't at any rate that one. We're not engaged. No." 
" Then where's the hitch ? " 
" Do you mean why I haven't already started with you ? " 
Chad, beginning his coffee and buttering his roll, was quite 
ready to explain. " Nothing would have induced me — 
nothing will still induce me — not to try to keep you here 
as long as you can be made to stay. It's too visibly good 
for you." Strether had himself plenty to say about this, 
but it was amusing also to measure the march of Chad's 
tone. He had never been more a man of the world, and 
it was always, in his company, present to our friend that 
one was seeing how, in successive connections, a man of 
the world acquitted himself. Chad kept it up beautifully. 
" My idea — voyons ! — is simply that you should let Mme. 
de Vionnet know you, simply that you should consent to 
know her. I don't in the least mind telling you that, clever 
and charming as she is, she's ever so much in my confi- 
dence. All I ask of you is to let her talk to you. You've 
asked me about what you call my hitch, and, so far as it 
goes, she'll explain it to you. She's herself my hitch, hang 
it — if you must really have it all out. But in a sense," he 
hastened in the most wonderful manner to add, " that you'll 
quite make out for yourself She's too good a friend, confound her. Too good, I mean, for me to leave without — 
without " It was his first hesitation. 
"Without what?" 
" Well, without my arranging somehow or other the 
damnable terms of my sacrifice." 
"It will be a sacrifice then ? " 
" It will be the greatest loss I ever suffered. I owe her 
so much." 
It was beautiful, the way Chad said these things, and his 
plea was now confessedly — oh, quite flagrantly and pub- 
licly — interesting. The moment really, for Strether, took 
on an intensity. Chad owed Mme. de Vionnet so much? 
What did that do then but clear up the whole mystery ? 
He was indebted for alterations, and she was thereby in a 
position to have sent in her bill for expenses incurred in re- 
construction. What was this, at bottom, but what had been 
to be arrived at ? Strether sat there arriving at it while he 
munched toast and stirred his second cup. To do this, 
with the aid of Chad's pleasant, earnest face, was also to do 
more besides. No, never before had he been so ready to 
take him as he was. What was it that had suddenly so 
cleared up? It was just everybody's character — that is, 
everybody's but, in a measure, his own. Strether felt his 
character receive, for the instant, a smutch from all the 
wrong things he had suspected or believed. The person 
to whom Chad owed it that he could positively turn out 
such a comfort to other persons — such a person was 
sufficientl) raised above any " breath " by the nature of her 
work and the young man's steady light. All of which was 
vivid enough to come and go quickly ; though indeed in 
the midst of it Strether could utter a question. " Have I 
your w ord of honour that if I surrender myself to Mme. de 
Vionnet you'll surrender )-ourself to me?" 
Chad laid his hand firmly on his friend's. " My dear 
man, you have it." 
There was finally something in his felicity almost em- 
barrassing and oppressive ; Strether had begun to fidget, 
under it, for the open air and the erect posture. He had 
signed to the waiter that he wished to pay, and this trans- 
action took some moments, during which he thoroughly 
felt, while he put down money and pretended — it was 
quite hollow — to estimate change, that Chad's higher spirit, 
his youth, his practice, his paganism, his felicity, his 
assurance, his impudence, whatever it might be, had con- 
sciously scored a success. Well, that would serve, so far as 
it went; they covered our friend for a minute like a veil, 
through which — as if he had been muffled — he heard his 
interlocutor ask him if he mightn't take him over about 
five. " Over " was over the river, and over the river was 
where Mme. de Vionnet lived, and five was that very after- 
noon. They got at last out of the place — got out before 
he answered. He lighted, in the street, a cigarette, which 
again gave him more time. But it was already sharp for 
him that there was no use in time. " What does she 
propose to do to me? "he had presently demanded. 
Chad had no delays. "Are you afraid of her?" 
"Oh, immensely. Don't you .see it?" 
" Well," said Chad, " she won't do anything worse to you 
than make you like her." 
" It's just of that I'm afraid." 
" Then it's not fair to me." 
Strether hesitated. " It's fair to your mother." 
"Oh," said Chad, "are you afraid of her?" 
"Scarcely less. Or perhaps even more. But is this 
lady against your interests at home ?" Strether went on. 
" Not directly, no doubt ; but she's greatly in favour of 
them here." 
"And what — ' here ' — does she consider them to be? " 
"Well, good relations!" 
"And what are your good relations?" 
" That's exactly what you'll make out if you'll only go, 
as I'm supplicating you, to see her." 
Strether stared at him with a little of the wanness, no 
doubt, that the vision of more to " make out " could scarce 
help producing. " But how good are they ? " 
" Oh, awfully good." 
Again Strether had faltered, but it was brief. It was all 
very well, but there was nothing now he wouldn't risk. 
" Excuse me, but I must really — as I began by telling you 
— know where I am. Is she bad ? " 
" ' Bad ' ? "—Chad echoed it, but without a shock. " Is 
that what's implied ? " 
" When relations are good ? " Strether felt a little silly, 
and was even conscious of a foolish laugh, at having it 
imposed on him to have appeared to speak so. What 
indeed was he talking about? His stare had relaxed ; he 
looked now all round him. But something in him brought 
him back, though he still didn't know quite how to turn it. 
The two or three days he thought of, and one of them in 
particular, were, even with scruples dismissed, too ugly. 
He none the less at last found something. " Is her life 
without reproach ? " 
It struck him, directly he had found it, as pompous and 
priggish ; so much so that he was thankful to Chad for 
taking it only in the right spirit. The young man spoke 
so immensely to the point that the effect was practically 
of positive blandness. "Absolutely without reproach. A 
beautiful life. Allez done voir .'" These last words were, 
in the liberality of their confidence, so imperative that 
Strether went through no form of assent ; but before 
they separated it had been confirmed that he should be 
picked up at a quarter to five. 
IT was quite by Iialf-past five — after the two men had 
been together in Mme. de Vionnet's drawing-room not 
m.ore than a dozen minutes — that Chad, with a look at his 
watch and then another at their hostess, said genially, 
gaily, " I've an engagement, and I know you won't com- 
plain if I leave him with you. He'll interest you im- 
mensely ; and as for her," he declared to Strether, " I assure 
you, if you're at all nervous, she's perfectly safe." 
He had left them to be embarrassed or not by this 
guarantee, as they could best manage, and embarrassment 
was a thing that Strether was at first not sure Mme. de 
Vionnet escaped. He escaped it himself, to his surprise ; 
but he had grown used by this time to thinking of himself 
as brazen. She occupied, his hostess, in the Rue de 
Bellechasse, the first floor of an old house to which our 
visitors had had access from an old clean court. The court 
was large and open, full of revelations, for our friend, of 
the habit of privacy, the peace of intervals, the dignity of 
distances and approaches ; the house, to his restless sense, 
was in the high, homely style of an elder day, and the 
ancient Paris that he was always looking for — sometimes 
intensely felt, sometimes more acutely missed — was in the 
immemorial polish of the wide waxed staircase and in the 
fine boiseries, the medallions, mouldings, mirrors, great 
clear spaces, of the grayish-white salon into which he had 
been shown. He seemed to sec her, at the outset, in the 
midst of possessions not vulgarly numerous, but hereditary, 
cherished, charming. While his eyes, after a little, turned 
from those of his hostess and Chad freely talked — not in 
the least about him, but about other people, people he 
didn't know, and quite as if he did know them — he found 
himself making out, as a background of the occupant, 
some glory, some prosperity of the first Empire, some 
Napoleonic glamour, some dim lustre of the great legend ; 
elements clinging still to all the consular chairs and 
mythological brasses and sphinxes' heads and faded 
surfaces of satin striped with alternate silk. 
The place itself went further back — that he guessed, and 
how old Paris continued, in a manner, to echo there ; but 
the post-revolutionary period, the world he vaguely 
thought of as the world of Chateaubriand, of Mme. de 
Stael, of the young Lamartine, had left its stamp of harps 
and urns and torches, a stamp impressed on sundry small 
objects, ornaments and relics. He had never before, to 
his knowledge, been in the presence of relics, of any 
special dignity, of a private order — little old miniatures, 
medallions, pictures, books ; books in leather bindings, 
pinkish and greenish, with gilt garlands on the back, 
ranged, together with other promiscuous properties, under 
the glass of brass-mounted cabinets. His attention took 
them all tenderly into account. They were among the 
matters that marked Mme. de Vionnet's apartment as 
something quite different from Miss Gostrey's little 
museum of bargains and from Chad's lovely home ; he 
recognised it as founded much more on old accumulations 
that had possibly from time to time shrunken than on 
any contemporary method of acquisition or form of 
curiosity. Chad and Miss Gostrey had rummaged and 
purchased and picked up and exchanged, sifting, selecting, 
comparing ; whereas the mistress ®f the scene before him, 
beautifully passive under the spell of transmission — trans- 
mission from her father's line, he quite made up his mind — 
had only received, accepted and been quiet. When she 
had not been quiet, at least, she had been moved, at the 
most, to some occult charity for some fallen fortune. 
There had been objects she or her predecessors might even 
conceivably, on occasion, needfully have parted with ; but 
Strether couldn't suspect them of having sold old pieces 
to get " better " ones. They would have felt no difference 
as to better or worse. He could but imagine their having 
felt — perhaps in emigration, in proscription, for his sketch 
was slight and confused — the pressure of want or the 
obligation of sacrifice. 
The pressure of want — whatever might be the case with 
the other force — was, however, presumabl)' not active now, 
for the tokens of a chastened ease, after all, still abounded, 
many marks of a taste whose discriminations might 
perhaps have been called eccentric. He guessed at intense 
little preferences and sharp little exclusions, a deep 
suspicion of the vulgar and a personal view of the right. 
The general result of this was something for which he had 
no name, on the spot, quite ready, but something he would 
have come nearest to naming in speaking of it as the air 
of supreme respectability, the consciousness, small, still, 
reserved, but none the less distinct and diffused, of private 
honour. The air of supreme respectability — that was a 
strange blank wall for his adventure to have brought him 
to break his nose against. It had in fact, as he was now 
aware, filled all the approaches, hovered in the court as he 
passed, hung on the staircase as he mounted, sounded in 
the grave rumble of the old bell, as little electric as 
possible, of which Chad, at the door, had pulled the 
ancient but neatly kept tassel ; it formed, in short, the 
clearest medium of its particular kind that he had ever 
breathed. He would have answered for it at the end of a 
quarter of an hour that some of the glass cases contained 
swords and epaulettes of ancient colonels and generals ; 
medals and orders once pinned over hearts that had long 
since ceased to beat ; snuff-boxes bestowed on ministers 
and envoys ; copies of works presented, with inscriptions, 
by authors now classic. At bottom of it all, for him, was 
the sense of her rare unlikeness to the women he had 
known. This sense had grown, since the day before, the 
more he recalled her, and had been above all singularly 
fed by his talk with Chad in the morning. Everything, in 
fine, made her immeasurably new, and nothing so new as 
the old house and the old objects. There were books, two 
or three on a small table near his chair, but they had not 
the lemon-coloured covers with which his eye had begun 
to dally from the hour of his arrival and to the opportunity 
of a further acquaintance with which he had, for a fort- 
night now, altogether succumbed. On another table, 
across the room, he made out the great Revue ; but even 
that familiar face, conspicuous in Mrs. Newsome's parlours, 
scarce counted here as a modern note. He was sure, on 
the spot — and he afterwards knew he was right — that this 
was a touch of Chad's own hand. What would Mrs. 
Newsome say to the circumstance that Chad's interested 
" influence " kept her paper-knife in the Revue ? The 
interested influence, at any rate, had, as we say, gone 
straight to the point — had in fact soon left it quite behind. 
She was seated, near the fire, on a small stuffed and 
fringed chair, one of the few modern articles in the room ; 
and she leaned back in it with her hands clasped in her 
lap and no movement, in all her person, but the fine, 
prompt play of her deep young face. The fire, under the 
low white marble, undraped and academic, had burnt down 
to the silver ashes of light wood ; one of the windows, at a 
distance, stood open to the mildness and stillness, out of 
which, in the short pauses, came the faint sound, pleasant 
and homely, almost rustic, of a plash and a clatter of 
sabots from some coach-house on the other side of the 
court. Mme. de Vionnet, while Strether was there, was 
not to shift her posture by an inch. " I don't think you 
seriously believe in what you're doing," she said ; " but 
all the same, you know, I'm going to treat you quite as 
if I did." 
" By which you mean," Strether directly replied, " quite 
as if you didn't ! I assure you it won't make the least 
difference with me how you treat me." 
" Well," she said, taking that menace bravely and philo- 
sophically enough, " the only thing that really matters is 
that you shall get on with me." 
" Ah, but I don't ! " he immediately returned. 
It gave her another pause; which, however, she happily 
enough shook off. " Will you consent to go on with me a 
little — provisionally — as if you did .- " 
Then it was that he saw how she had decidedly come 
all the way ; and there accompanied it an extraordinary 
sense of her raising from somewhere below him her beau- 
tiful suppliant eyes. He might have been perched at his 
doorstep or at his window, and she standing in the road. 
For a moment he let her stand, and he couldn't, moreover, 
have spoken. It had been sad, of a sudden, with a sadness 
that was like a cold breath in his face. " What can I do," 
he finally asked,"but listen to you as I promised Chadwick?" 
"Ah, but what I'm asking you," she quickly said, "is 
not what Mr. Newsome had in mind." She spoke now, he 
saw, as if to take courageously all her risk. " This is my 
own idea and a different thing." 
It gave poor Strether, in truth — uneasy as it made him 
too — something of the thrill of a bold perception justified. 
"Well," he answered kindly enough, "I was sure just now 
that some idea of your own had come to you," 
She seemed still to look up at him, but now more 
serenely. " I made out you were sure — and that helped 
it to come. So, you see," she continued, " we do get on." 
" Oh, but it appears to me I don't at all meet your 
request. How can I when I don't understand it?" 
"It isn't at all necessary you should understand it; it will 
do quite well enough if you simply remember him. Only 
feel I trust you — and for nothing so tremendous after 
all. Just," she said with a wonderful smile, "for common 
civility." 
Strether had a long pause, while they sat again face to 
face, as they had sat, scarce less conscious, before the poor 
lady had crossed the stream. She was the poor lady for 
Strether now because, clearly, she had some trouble, and 
her appeal to him could only mean that her trouble was 
deep. He couldn't help it ; it was not his fault ; he had 
done nothing ; but by a turn of the hand she had somehow 
made their encounter a relation. And the relation profited 
by a mass of things that were not, strictl)-, in it or of it ; 
by the very air in which they sat, by the high, cold, delicate 
room, by the world outside and the little plash in the court, 
by the first Empire and the relics in the stiff cabinets, by 
matters as far off as those, and by others as near as the 
unbroken clasp of her hands in her lap and the look her 
expression had of being most natural when her eyes were 
most fixed. "You count upon me, of course, for something 
really much greater than it sounds." 
"Oh, it sounds great enough too ! " she laughed at this. 
He found himself, in time, on the point of telling her 
that she was, as Miss Barrace called it, wonderful ; but, 
catching himself up, he said something else instead. 
" What was it, Chad's idea, then, that you should say to 
me?" 
" Ah, his idea was simply what a man's idea always is — 
to put every effort off on the woman." 
"The woman ?" Strether slowly echoed. 
" The woman he likes — and just in proportion as he likes 
her. In proportion too — for shifting the trouble — as she 
likes hhny 
Strether followed it ; then with an abruptness of his 
own : " How much do you like Chad ? " 
" Just as much as that — to take all, with you, on myself" 
But she got, more quickly, away from this. " I've been 
trembling as if we were to stand or fall by what you may 
think of me ; and I'm even now," she went on wonderfully, 
" drawing a long breath — and, yes, truly, taking a great 
courage — from the hope that I don't, in fact, strike you as 
impossible." 
" That's at all events, clearly," he observed after an 
instant, " the way I don't strike you'' 
" Well," she so far assented, " as you haven't yet said 
you won't have, with me, the little patience I ask for " 
" You draw splendid conclusions ? Perfectly. But I 
don't understand them," Strether pursued. " You seem to 
me to ask for much more than you need. What at the 
worst for you, what at the best for myself, can I, after all, 
do? I can use no pressure that I haven't used. You 
come, really, late with your request. I've already done all 
that, for myself, th-e case admits of. I've said my say, and 
here I am." 
" Yes, here you are, fortunately ! " Mme. de Vionnet 
laughed. " Mrs. Newsome," she added in another tone, 
" didn't think you can do so little." 
He had a hesitation, but he brought the words out. 
" Well, she thinks so now." 
" Do you mean by that ?" But she also hung fire. 
" Do I mean what ? " 
She still rather faltered. " Pardon me if I touch on it, 
but if I am saying extraordinary things, why perhaps 
mayn't I ? Besides, doesn't it properly concern us to 
know ? " 
"To know what ? " he insisted, as, after thus beating about 
the bush, she had again dropped. 
She made the effort. " Has she given you up?" 
He was amazed afterwards to think how simply and 
quietly he had met it. " Not yet." It was almost as if he 
were a trifle disappointed — had expected still more of her 
freedom. But he went straight on. " Is that what Chad 
has told you will happen to me ? " 
She was evidently charmed with the way he took it. "If 
you mean if we've talked of it — most certainly. And 
the question is not what has had least to do with my 
wishing to see you." 
" To judge if I'm the sort of man a woman can ? " 
" Precisely," she exclaimed — "you wonderful gentleman ! 
I do judge — I have judged. A woman can't. You're safe 
— with every right to be. You'd be much happier if you'd 
only believe it." 
Strether was silent a little ; then he found himself speak- 
ing with a cynicism of confidence of which, even at the 
moment, the sources were strange to him. " I try to believe it. But it's a marvel," he exclaimed, " how you 
already get at it ! " 
" Oh," she was able to say, " remember how much I was, 
through Mr. Newsome — before I saw you — on the way to 
it. He thinks everything of your strength." 
" Well, I can bear almost anything ! " our friend briskly 
interrupted. Deep and beautiful, on this, her smile came 
back, and with the effect of making him hear what he had 
said just as she had heard it. He easily enough felt that 
it gave him away, but what, in truth, had everything done 
but that? It had been all very well to think at moments 
that he was holding her nose down and that he had coerced 
her ; what had he, by this time, done but let her see, 
practically, that he accepted their relation   What was 
their relation, moreover — though light and brief enough in 
form as yet — but whatever she might choose to make it ? 
Nothing could prevent her — certainly he couldn't — from 
making it pleasant. At the back of his head, behind 
everything, was the sense that she was — there, before him, 
close to him, in vivid, imperative form — one of the rare 
women he had so often heard of, read of, thought of, but 
never met, whose very presence, look, voice, the mere 
contemporaneous fact of whom, from the moment it was 
at all presented, made a relation of mere recognition. 
That was not the kind of woman he had ever found Mrs. 
Newsome, a contemporaneous fact who had been distinctly 
slow to establish herself; and at present, confronted with 
Mme. de Vionnet, he felt the simplicity of his original im- 
pression of Miss Gostrey. She, certainly, had been a fact 
of rapid growth ; but the world was wide, each day was 
more and more a new lesson. There were, at any rate, 
even among the stranger ones, relations and relations. " Of 
course I suit Chad's grand way," he quickly added. " He 
hasn't had much difficulty in working me in." 
She seemed to deny a little, on the young man's behalf, 
by the rise of her eyebrows, an intention of any process 
at all inconsiderate. " You must know how grieved he 
would be if you were to lose anything. He believes you 
can keep his mother patient." 
Strether wondered, with his eyes on her. " I see. That's 
then what you really want of me. And how am I to do 
it ? Perhaps you'll tell me that." 
" Simply tell her the truth." 
"And what do you call the truth ? " 
" Well, any truth — about us all — that you see yourself. 
I leave it to you." 
" Thank you very much. I like," Strether laughed with 
a slight harshness, "the way you leave things ! " 
But she insisted kindly, gently, as if it wasn't so bad. 
" Be perfectly honest. Tell her all." 
"All?" he oddly echoed. 
" Tell her the simple truth," Mme. de Vionnet developed 
in the same tone. 
" But what is the simple truth ? The simple truth is 
exactly what I'm trying to discover." 
Mme. de Vionnet looked about awhile, but presently 
she came back to him. " Tell her, fully and clearly, about 
usy 
Strether meanwhile had been staring. " You and your 
daughter ? " 
"Yes — little Jeanne and me. Tell her," she just slightly 
quavered, " you like us." 
" And what good will that do me ? Or rather " — he 
caught himself up — " what good will it do you P" 
She looked graver. " None, you believe, really?" 
Strether hesitated. "She didn't send me out to Mike' 
you." 
" Oh," she charmingly remonstrated, " she sent you out 
to face the facts." 
He admitted after an instant that there was something 
in that. " But how can I face them till I know what they 
are? Do you want him," he then braced himself to ask, 
" to marry your daughter ? " 
She gave a head-shake as noble as it was prompt. " No 
—not that." 
" And he really doesn't want to himself?" 
She repeated the movement, but now with a strange 
light in her face. " He likes her too much." 
Strether wondered. " To be willing to consider, you 
mean, the question of taking her to America?" 
"To be willing to do anything with her but be immensely 
kind and nice — really tender of her. We watch over her, 
and you must help us. You must see her again." 
Strether felt awkward. " Ah, with pleasure — she's so 
remarkably attractive." 
The mother's eagerness with which Mme. de Vionnet 
jumped at this was to come back to him later as beautiful 
in its grace. " The dear thing did please you ? " Then as 
he met it with the largest " Oh ! " of enthusiasm : " She's 
perfect. She's my joy." 
'Well, I'm sure that — if one were near her and saw 
more of her — she would be mine." 
"Then," said Mme. de Vionnet, "tell Mrs. Newsome 
that ! " 
He wondered the more. " What good will that do 
you?" As she only hesitated, however, he brought out 
something else. " Is your daughter in love with our 
friend?" 
" Ah," she rather startlingly answered, " I wish you'd 
find out ! " 
He showed his surprise. " I ? A stranger ? " 
"Oh, you won't be a stranger — presently. You shall see 
her quite, I assure you, as if you weren't." 
It remained for him, none the less, an extraordinary 
notion. " It seems to me, surely, that if her mother 
can't " 
" Ah, little girls and their mothers to-day ! " she rather 
inconsequently broke in. But she checked herself with 
something that she seemed to give out as, after all, 
more to the point. " Tell her I've been good for him. 
Don't you think I have?" 
It had its effect on him more than, at the moment, he 
quite measured. Yet he was consciously enough touched. 
"Oh, if it's all you !" 
" Well, it may not be ' all,' she interrupted, " but it's to 
a great extent. Really and truly," she added in a tone 
that was to take its place with him among things remem- 
bered. 
" Then it's very wonderful." He smiled at her from a 
face that he felt as strained, and her own face for a moment 
kept him so. 
At last she also got up. " Well, don't you think that 
for that " 
"I ought to save you?" So it was that the way to meet 
her — and the way, as well, in a manner, to get off — came 
over him. He heard himself use the exorbitant word, the 
very sound of which helped to determine his flight. " I'll 
save you if I can." 
XIV 
In Chad's lovely home, however, one evening ten days 
later, he felt himself present at the collapse of the question 
of Jeanne de Vionnet's shy secret He had been dining 
there in the company of that young lady and her mother, 
as well as of other persons, and he had gone into the petit 
salon, at Chad's request, on purpose to talk with her. The 
young man had put this to him as a favour — " I should 
like so awfully to know what you think of her. It will 
really be a chance for you," he had said, " to see the jeune 
fille — I mean the type — as she actually is, and I don't 
think that, as an observer of manners, it's a thing you 
ought to miss. It will be an impression that — whatever 
else you take — you can carry home with you, where you'll 
find again so much to compare it with." 
Strether knew well enough with what Chad wished him 
to compare it, and though he entirely assented he had not 
yet, somehow, been so deeply reminded that he was being, 
as he constantly, though mutely, expressed it, used. He 
was as far as ever from making out exactly to what end ; 
but he was none the less constantly accompanied by a 
sense of the service he rendered. He conceived, only, that 
this service was highly agreeable to those who profited by 
 it ; and he was indeed still waiting for the moment at 
 which he should catch it in the act of proving disagreeable, 
 proving in some degree intolerable, to himself. He failed 
 quite to see how his situation could clear up at all logically 
 except by some turn of events that would give him the 
pretext of disgust. He was building fr(;m day to day on 
the possibility of disgust, but each day brought forth 
meanwhile a new and more engaging bend of the road. 
That possibility was now ever so much further from sight 
than on the eve of his arrival, and he perfectly felt that, 
should it come at all, it would have to be at best inconse- 
quent and violent. He struck himself as a little nearer to 
it only when he asked himself what service, in such a life 
of utility, he was, after all, rendering Mrs. Newsome. When 
he wished to help himself to believe that he was still all 
right he reflected — and in fact with wonder — on the unim- 
paired frequency of their correspondence ; in relation to 
which what was, after all, more natural than that it should 
become more frequent just in proportion as their problem 
became more complicated ? 
Certain it is, at any rate, that he now often brought 
himself balm by the question, with the rich consciousness 
of yesterday's letter : " Well, what can I do more than that 
— what can 1 do more than tell her everything ! " To 
persuade himself that he did tell her, had told her every- 
thing, he used to try to think of particular things he had 
not told her. When at rare moments, and in the watches 
of the night, he pounced on one, it generally showed itself 
to be — to a deeper scrutiny — not quite truly of the essence. 
When anything new struck him as coming up, or anything 
already noted as reappearing, he always immediately wrote, 
as if for fear that if he didn't he would miss something; 
and also that he might be able to say to himself from time 
to time, "She knows it now, even while I worry." It was 
a great comfort to him, in general, not to have left past 
things to be dragged to light and explained ; not to have 
to produce at so late a stage anything not produced, or 
anything even veiled and attenuated at the moment. She 
knew it now ; that was what he said to himself to-night 
in relation to the fresh fact of Chad's acquaintance with 
the two ladies — not to speak of the fresher one of his own. 
Mrs. Newsome knew, in other words, that very night at 
Woollett, that he himself knew Mme. de Vionnet, and that 
he had been conscientiously to see her ; also that he had 
found her remarkably attractive, and that there would 
probably be a good deal more to tell. But she further 
knew — or would know very soon — that, again con- 
scientiously, he had not repeated his visit ; and that when 
Chad had asked him on the Countess's behalf — Strether 
made her out vividly, with a thought at the back of his 
head, a Countess — if he wouldn't name a day for dining 
with her, he had replied lucidly, " Thank you very much — 
impossible." He had begged the young man would present 
his excuses, and had trusted him to understand that it 
couldn't really strike one as quite the straight thing. He 
had not reported to Mrs. Newsome that he had promised 
to "save" Mme. de Vionnet ; but, so far as he was con- 
cerned with that reminiscence, he hadn't, at any rate, 
promised to haunt her house. What Chad had understood 
could only, in truth, be inferred from Chad's behaviour, 
which had been in this connection as easy as in every 
other. He was easy always when he understood ; he was 
easier still, if possible, when he didn't ; he had replied that 
he would make it all right ; and he had proceeded to do 
this by substituting the present occasion — as he was ready 
to substitute others — for any, for every occasion as to 
which his old friend should have a funny scruple. 
"Oh, but I'm not a little foreign girl; I'm just as 
English as I can be," Jeanne de Vionnet had said to him 
as soon as, in .e petit salon, he sank, shyly enough on his 
own side, into the place near her, vacated by Mme. Gloriani 
at his approach. Mme. Gloriani, who was in black velvet, 
with white lace and powdered hair, and whose somewhat 
massive majesty melted at any contact into the gracious- 
I ness of some incomprehensible tongue, moved away to 
! make room for the vague gentleman, after benevolent 
greetings to him which embodied, as he believed, in baffling 
; accents, some recognition of his face from a couple of 
i Sundays before. Then he had remarked — making the 
I most of the advantage of his years — that it frightened him 
quite enough' to find himself dedicated to the entertain- 
ment of a little foreign girl. There were girls he wasn't 
afraid of — he was quite bold with little Americans. Thus 
it was that she had defended herself to the end — "Oh, 
but I'm almost American too. That's what mamma has 
' wanted me to be — I mean like that, for she has wanted 
! me to have lots of freedom. She has known such good 
ilts from it." 
She was fairly beautiful to him — a faint pastel in an 
oval frame ; he thought of her already as of some lurking 
image in a long gallery, the portrait of a small old-time 
princess of whom nothing was known but that she had 
died young. Little Jeanne wasn't, doubtless, to die young, 
! 
but one couldn't, all the same, bear on her lightly enough, 
It was bearing hard ; it was bearing as he, in any case, 
wouldn't bear, to concern himself, in relation to her, with I 
the question of a young man. Odious, really, the question ! 
of a young man ; one didn't treat such a person as a maid-   
servant suspected of a " follower." And then young men, ; 
young men — well, the thing was their business simply, or 
was, at all events, hers. She was fluttered, fairly fevered   
— to the point of a little glitter that came and went in her ! 
eyes and a pair of pink spots that stayed in her cheeks —   
with the great adventure of dining out, and with the 
greater one still, possibly, of finding a gentleman whom I 
she must think of as very, very old, a gentleman with   
eye-glasses, wrinkles, a long, grizzled moustache. She   
spoke the prettiest English, our friend thought, that he 
had ever heard spoken, just as he had thought her a few 1 
minutes before to be speaking the prettiest French. He 
wondered almost wistfully if such a sweep of the lyre 
didn't react on the spirit itself; and his fancy had, in fact,   
before he knew it, begun so to stray and embroider that  
he finally found himself, absent and extravagant, sitting   
with the child in a friendly silence. Only by this time he 
felt that her flutter had fortunately dropped, and that she 
was more at her ease. She trusted him, liked him, and 
it was to come back to him afterwards that she had told 
him things. She had dipped into the waiting medium at 
last and found neither surge nor chill — nothing but the 
small splash she could herself make in the pleasant warmth, 
nothing but the safety of dipping and dipping again. At 
the end of the ten minutes he was to spend with her, his 
impression — with all it had thrown off and all it had taken 
in — was complete. She had been free, as she knew freedom, 
partly to show him that, unlike other little persons she 
knew, she had imbibed that ideal. She was delightfully 
quaint about herself, but the vision of what she had imbibed 
was what most held him. It really consisted, he was soon 
enough to feel, in just one great little matter, the fact that, 
whatever her nature, she was thoroughly — he had to cast 
about for the word, but it came — bred. He couldn't, of 
course, on so short an acquaintance, speak for her nature, 
but the idea of breeding was what she had meanwhile 
dropped into his mind. He had never yet known it so 
sharply presented. Her mother gave it, no doubt ; but 
her mother to make that less sensible gave so much else 
besides, and on neither of the two previous occasions, 
extraordinary woman, Strether felt, anything like what she 
was giving to-night. Little Jeanne was a case, an exquisite 
case of education, whereas the Countess, whom it so amused 
him to think of by that denomination, was a case, also 
exquisite, of — well, he didn't know what. 
" He has wonderful taste, our young friend " ; this was 
what Gloriani said to him on turning away from the in- 
spection of a small picture suspended near the door of the 
room. The high celebrity in question had just come in, 
apparently in search of Mile, de Vionnet, but while 
Strether had got up from beside her their fellow-guest, 
with his eye sharply caught, had paused for a long look. 
The thing was a landscape, of no size, but of the French 
school, as our friend was glad to feel he knew, and also of 
a quality — which he liked to think he should have also 
guessed ; its frame was large out of proportion to the 
canvas, and he had never seen a person look at anything, 
he thought, just as Gloriani, with his nose very near and 
quick movements of the head from side to side and bottom 
to top, examined this feature of Chad's collection. The 
artist used that word the next moment, smiling courteously, 
wiping his nippers and looking round him further — paying 
the place, in short, by the very manner of his presence and 
by something Strether fancied he could make out in this 
particular glance, such a tribute as, to the latter's sense, 
settled many things once for all. Strether was conscious 
at this instant, for that matter, as he had not yet been, of 
how, round about him, quite without him, they were con- 
sistently settled. Gloriani's smile, deeply Italian, he 
considered, and finely inscrutable, had had for him, during 
dinner, at which they were not neighbours, an indefinite 
greeting, but the quality in it was gone that had appeared 
on the other occasion to turn him inside out ; it was as if 
even the momentary link supplied by the doubt between 
them had snapped. He was conscious now of tiic final 
reality, which was that there was not so much a doubt as a 
difference altogether ; all the more that over the difference 
the famous sculptor seemed to signal almost condolingly, 
yet oh how vacantly ! as across some great flat sheet of 
water. He threw out the bridge of a charming hollow 
civility on which Strether wouldn't have trusted his own 
full weight a moment. That idea, even though but 
transient and perhaps belated, had performed the office of 
putting Strether more at his ease, and the blurred picture 
had already dropped — dropped with the sound of some- 
thing else said and with his becoming aware, by another 
quick turn, that Gloriani was now on the sofa talking with 
Jeanne, while he himself had in his ears again the familiar 
friendliness and the elusive meaning of the " Oh, oh, oh ! " 
that had made him, a fortnight before, challenge Miss 
Barrace in vain. She had always the air, this picturesque 
and original lady, who struck him, so oddly, as both 
antique and modern — she had always the air of taking up 
some joke that one had already had out with her. The 
point itself, no doubt, was what was antique, and the use 
she made of it what was modern. He felt just now that 
her good-natured irony did bear on something, and it 
troubled him a little that she wouldn't be more explicit, 
only assuring him, with the pleasure of observation so 
visible in her, that she wouldn't tell him more for the 
world. 
He could take refuge but in asking her what she had 
done with Waymarsh, though it must be added that he felt 
himself a little on the way to a clue after she had answered 
that this personage was, in the other room, engaged in 
conversation with Mme. de Vionnet. He stared a moment 
at the image of this conjunction ; then, for Miss Barrace's 
benefit, he wondered.  ' Is she too then under the 
charm ? " 
" No, not a bit " — Miss Barrace was prompt. " She 
makes nothing of him ; she's bored ; she won't help you 
with him." 
"Oh," Strether laughed, "she can't do everything." 
" Of course not — wonderful as she is. Besides, he makes 
nothing of her. She won't take him from me — though she 
wouldn't, no doubt, having other affairs in hand, even if 
she could. I've never," said Miss Barrace, " seen her fail 
with anyone before. And to-night, when she's so magni- 
ficent, it would seem to her strange — if she minded. So, 
at any rate, I have him all. Jc suis iranquille ! " 
Strether understood, so far as that went ; but he was 
feeling for his clue. " She strikes you to-night as particularly magnificent?" 
"Surely. Almost as I've never seen her. Doesn't she 
you ? Why, it's /or you." 
He persisted in his candour, "' For' me ?" 
" Oh, oh, oh ! " cried Miss Barrace, who persisted in the 
opposite of that quality. 
"Well," he acutelj' admitted, " she is different. She's 
gay." 
"She's gay!" Miss Barrace laughed. "And she has 
beautiful shoulders — though there's nothing different in 
that." 
" No," said Strether, " one was sure of her shoulders. It 
isn't her shoulders." 
His companion, with renewed mirth and the finest sense, 
between the puffs of her cigarette, of the drollery of 
things, appeared to find their conversation highly delight- 
ful. " Yes, it isn't her shoulders." 
" What then is it ? " Strether earnestly inquired. 
" Why, it's .f//  — simply. It's her mood. It's her charm." 
" Of course it's her charm, but we're speaking of the 
difference." 
"Well," Miss Barrace explained, "she's just brilliant, 
as we used to say. That's all. She's various. She's fifty 
women." 
" Ah, but only one " — Strether kept it clear — " at a time." 
" Perhaps. But in fifty times ! " 
"Oh, we shan't come to that," our friend declared ; and 
the next moment he had moved in another direction. 
  Will you answer me a plain question ? Will she ever 
divorce ? " 
Miss Barrace looked at him through all her tortoise-shell. 
" Why should she ? " 
It was not what he had asked for, he signified ; but he 
met it well enough. " To marry Chad." 
" Why should she marry Chad ? " 
" Because I'm convinced she's very fond of him. She 
has done wonders for him." 
" Well then, how could she do more? Marrying a man, 
or a woman either," Miss Barrace sagely went on, "is 
never the wonder, for any Jack and Jill can bring that 
off. The wonder is their doing such things without 
marrying." 
Strether considered a moment this proposition. "You 
mean it's so beautiful for your friends simply to go on so?" 
But whatever he said made her laugh. " Beautiful." 
He nevertheless insisted. " And that because it's dis- 
