" I should think it did ! " cried the Baroness, break- 
ing out at last, in harsh tones. " You abominable villain, 
you monster of iniquity, you snake, you viper — " 
" Hush, hush, my dear ! " interposed the Baron, real- 
izing vaguely that his v/ife's justifiable excitement was 
showing itself in unjustifiably vulgar vituperation. 
" You toad ! " yelled the Baroness, shaking her fist 
in Malipieri's face. " You reptile, you accursed ruffian, 
you false, black-hearted, lying son of Satan ! " 
She gasped for breath, and her whole frame quivered 
with fury, while her livid lips twisted themselves to 
hiss out the epithets of abuse. Volterra feared lest she 
should fall down in an apoplexy, and he rose from his 
seat quickly. He gathered her to his corpulent side 
with one arm and made her turn away towards the win- 
dow, which he opened with his free hand. 
" I should be all that, and worse, if a tenth of what 
you believe were true," Malipieri said, coming nearer 
and then standing still. 
He was very pale, and he was conscious of a cowardly 
wish that Volterra's revolver might have killed him ten 
minutes earlier. But he was ashamed of the mere 
thought when he remembered what Sabina would have 
 
to face. Volterra, while holding his wife firmly against 
the window sill, to force her to breathe the outer air, 
turned his head towards Malipieri. 
" She is quite beside herself, you see," he said 
apologetically. 
The Baroness was a strong woman, and after the first 
explosion of her fury she regained enough self-control 
to speak connectedly. She turned round, in spite of 
the pressure of her husband's arm. 
" He is not even ashamed of what he has done ! " she 
said. " He stands there — " 
The Baron interrupted her, fearing another outburst. 
"Let me speak," he said in the tone she could not 
help obeying. "What explanation have you to offer 
of Donna Sabina's presence here ? " he asked. 
As he put the question, he nodded significantly to 
Malipieri, over his wife's shoulder, evidently to make 
the latter understand that he must at least invent some 
excuse if he had none ready. The Baron did not care 
a straw what became of him, or of Sabina, and wished 
them both out of his way for ever, but he had always 
avoided scandal, and was especially anxious to avoid it 
now. 
Malipieri resented the hint much more than the 
Baroness's anger, but he was far too much in the 
wrong, innocent though he was, to show his resentment. 
He told his story firmly and coolly, and it agreed 
exactly with Sabina's. 
" That is exactly what happened last night," he con- 
cluded. " If you will go down, you will find the breach 
I made, and the first vaults full of water. I have 
nothing more to say." 
" You taught her the lesson admirably," said the 
Baroness with withering scorn. " She told me the same 
story almost word for word ! " 
" Madam," Malipieri answered, " I give you my word 
of honour that it is true." 
" My dear," Volterra said, speaking to his wife, " when 
a gentleman gives his word of honour, you are bound to 
accept it." 
" I hope so," said Malipieri. 
"Any man would perjure himself for a woman," re- 
torted the Baroness with contempt. 
" No, my dear," the Baron objected, trying to mollify 
her. " Perjury is a crime, you know." 
" And what he has done is a much worse crime ! " she 
cried. 
" Ihave not committed any crime," Malipieri answered. 
" I would give all I possess, and my life, to undo what 
has happened, but I have neither said nor done anything 
to be ashamed of. For Donna Sabina's sake, you must 
accept my explanation. In time you will believe it." 
" Yes, yes," urged Volterra, " I am sure you will, my 
dear. In any case you must accept it as the only one. 
I will go downstairs with Signor Malipieri and we will 
take the porter to the cellars. Then you can go out 
with Sabina, and if you are careful no one will ever 
know that she has been here." 
" And do you mean to let her live under your roof 
after this ? " asked the Baroness indignantly. 
 
" Her mother is now in Rome," answered Volterra 
readily. " When she is dressed, you will take her to the 
Princess, and you will say that as we are going away, 
we are reluctantly obliged to decline the responsibilitj' 
of keeping the young girl with us any longer. That is 
what you will do." 
" I am glad you admit at least that she cannot live 
with us any longer," the Baroness answered. " I am 
sure I have no wish to ruin the poor girl, who has been 
this man's unhappy victim — " 
" Hush, hush ! " interposed Volterra. " You must 
really accept the explanation he has given." 
" For decency's sake, you may, and I shall have to pre- 
tend that I do. At least," she continued, turning 
coldly to Malipieri, " you will make such reparation as 
is in your power." 
"I will do anything I can," answered Malipieri gravely. 
" You will marry her as soon as possible," the Baron- 
ess said with frigid severity. " It is the only thing you 
can do." 
Malipieri was silent. The Baron looked at him, and 
a disagreeable smile passed over his. fat features. But 
at that moment the door opened, and Sabina entered. 
Without the least hesitation she came forward to 
Malipieri, frankly holding out her hand. 
" Good morning," she said. " Before I go, I wish to 
thank you again for saving my life, and for taking care 
of me here." 
He held her hand a moment. 
" I ask your pardon, with all my heart, for having 
brought you into danger and trouble," lie an- 
swered. 
" It was not your fault," she said. " It was nobody's 
fault, and I am glad I saw the statues before any one 
else. You told me last night that you were probably 
going away. If we never meet again, I wish you to 
remember that you are not to reproach yourself for 
anything that may happen to me. You might, you 
know. Will you remember ? " 
She spoke quite naturally and without the least fear 
of Volterra and his wife, who looked on and listened 
in dumb surprise at her self-possession. She meant 
every word she said, and more too, but she had thought 
out the little speech while she was dressing, for she 
had guessed what must be happening in the study. 
Malipieri fixed his eyes on hers gratefully, but did 
not find an answer at once. 
" Will you remember ? " she repeated. 
"I shall never forget," he answered, not quite 
steadily. 
By one of those miracles which are the birthright 
of certain women, she had made her dress look almost 
fresh again. The fawn-coloured hat was restored to 
its shape, or nearly. The mud that had soiled her 
skirt had dried and she had brushed it away, though 
it had left faint spots on the cloth, here and there ; 
pins hid the little rents so cleverly that only a woman's 
eye could have detected anything wrong, and the 
russet shoes were tolerably presentable. The Baroness 
saw traces of the adventure to which the costume had 
 
been exposed, but Volterra smiled and was less in- 
clined than ever to believe the story which both had 
told, though he did not say so. 
" My wife and I," he said cordially, " quite under- 
stand what has happened, and no one shall ever know 
about it, unless you speak of it yourself. She will go 
home with you now, and will then take you to the Rus- 
sian Embassy to see your mother." 
Sabina looked at him in surprise, for she had ex- 
pected a disagreeable scene. Then she glanced at the 
Baroness's sallow and angry face, and she partly under- 
stood the position. 
" Thank you," she said proudly, " but if you do 
not mind, I will go to my mother directly. You will 
perhaps be so kind as to have my things sent to the 
Embassy, or my mother's maid will come and get 
them." 
" You cannot go looking like that," said the Baroness 
severely. 
"On the contrary," Volterra interposed, "I think 
that considering your dangerous adventure, you look 
perfectly presentable. Of course, we quite understand 
that as the Princess has returned, you should wish to 
go back to her at once, though we are very sorry to 
let you go." 
Sabina paused a moment before answering. Then 
she spoke to the Baroness, only glancing at Volterra. 
" Until to-day, you have been very kind to me," she 
said with an effort. " I thank you for your kindness, 
and I am sorry that you think so badly of me." 
" My dear young lady," cried the Baron, lying 
with hearty cordiality, "you are much mistaken! I 
assure you, it was only a momentary misapprehension 
on the part of my wife, who had not even spoken with 
Signor Malipieri. His explanation has been more than 
satisfactory. Is it not so, my dear?" he asked, turn- 
ing to the Baroness for coniirmation of his fluent as- 
surances. 
" Of course," she answered, half choking, and with a 
face like thunder ; but she dared not disobey. 
" If my mother says anything about my frock, I shall 
tell her the whole story," said Sabina, glancing at her 
skirt. 
" If you do," said the Baroness, " I shall deny it from 
beginning to end." 
" I think that it would perhaps be wiser to explain 
that in some other way," the Baron suggested. " Signor 
Malipieri, will you be so very kind as to go down first, 
and take the porter with a light to the entrance of the 
cellars? He knows Donna Sabina, you see. I will 
come down presently, for I shall stay behind and ask 
the detective to look out of the window in the next 
room, while my wife and Donna Sabina pass through. 
In that way we shall be quite sure that she will not 
be recognized. Will you do that, Signor Malipieri? 
Unless you have a better plan to suggest, of course." 
Malipieri saw that the plan was simple and apparently 
safe. He looked once more at Sabina, and she smiled, 
and just bent her head, but said nothing. He left the 
room. The detective was sitting in a corner of the 
 
room beyond, and the two men exchanged a silent nod 
as Malipieri passed. 
Everything was arranged as the Baron had planned, 
and ten minutes later the Baroness and Sabina de- 
scended the stairs together in silence and reached the 
great entrance. The two soldiers were standing by the 
open door of the lodge, and saluted in military fashion. 
Gigi, the , carpenter, sprang forward and opened the 
postern door, touching his paper cap to the ladies. 
They did not exchange a word as they walked to the 
Piazza Sant' Apollinare to find a cab. Sabina held her 
head high and looked straight before her, and the 
Baroness's invisible silk bellows were distinctly audible 
in the quiet street. 
" By the hour," said the Baroness, as they got into 
the first cab they reached on the stand. " Go to the 
Russian Embassy, in the Corso." 
CHAPTER XIX 
" So you spent last niglit in tlie rooms of a man you 
have not seen half a dozen times," said the Princess, 
speaking with a cigarette in her mouth. " And what 
is worse, those dreadful Volterra people found you 
there. No Conti ever had any common sense ! " 
What Sabina had foreseen had happened. Her 
mother had looked her over, from head to foot, to see 
what sort of condition she was in, as a horse-dealer 
looks oyer a promising colt he has not seen for some 
time ; and the Princess had instantly detected the signs 
of an accident. In answer to her question Sabina told 
the truth. Her mother had watched her face and her 
innocent eyes while she was telling the story, and 
needed no other confirmation. 
" You are a good girl," she continued, as Sabina did 
not reply to the last speech. "But you are a little 
fool. I wonder why my children are all idiots ! I 
am not so stupid after all. I suppose it must have 
been your poor father." 
The white lids closed thoughtfully over her magnifi- 
cent eyes, and opened again after a moment, as if she 
had called up a vision of her departed husband and 
had sent it away again. 
" I suppose it was silly of me to go at all," Sabina 
 
admitted, leaning back in her cliair. " But I wanted 
so much to see the statues ! " 
She felt at home. Her mother had brcught her up 
badly and foolishly, and of late had neglected her 
shamefully. Sabina knew that and neither loved her 
nor respected her, and it was not because she was 
her mother that the girl felt suddenly at ease in her 
presence, as she never could feel with the Baroness. She 
did not wish to be at all like her mother in character, 
or even in manner, and yet she felt that they belonged 
to the same kind, spoke the same language, and had an 
instinctive understanding of each other, though these 
things implied neither mutual respect nor affection. 
"That horrible old Volterra! " said the Princess, 
with emphasis. " He means to keep everything he has 
found, for himself, if he can. I have come only just in 
time." 
Sabina did not answer. She knew nothing of the 
law, and though she fancied that she might have some 
morally just claim to a share in the treasure, she had 
never believed that it could be proved. 
" Of course," the Princess continued, smoking 
thoughtfully, "there is only one thing to be done. 
You must marry this Malipieri at once, whether you 
like him or not. What sort of man is he ? " 
The faint colour rose in Sabina's cheeks and not al- 
together at the mere thought of marrying Malipieri; 
she was hurt by the way her mother spoke of him. 
" What kind of man is he ? " the Princess repeated. 
"I suppose he is a Venetian, a son of the man who 
married the Gradenigo heiress, about the time when I 
was married myself. Is he the man who discovered 
Troy ? " 
" Carthagj, I think," said Sabina. 
"Troy, Carthage, America, it is all the same. He 
discovered something, and I fancy he will be rich. 
But what is he like ? Dark, fair, good, bad, snuffy or 
smart ? As he is an archaeologist, he must be snuffy, 
a bore, probably, and what the English call a male 
frump. It cannot be helped, my dear ! You will 
have to marry him. Describe him to me." 
" He is dark," said Sabina. 
" I am glad of that. I always liked dark men — 
your father was fair, like you. Besides, as you are 
a blonde, you will always look better beside a dark 
husband. But of course he is dreadfully careless, with 
long hair and doubtful nails. All those people are." 
" No," said Sabina. " He is very nice-looking and 
neat, and wears good clothes." 
The Princess's brow cleared. 
"All the better," she said. "Well, my dear, it is 
not so bad after all. We have found a husband for 
you, rich, of good family — quite as good as yours, 
my child ! Good-looking, smart — what more do you 
expect? Besides, he cannot possibly refuse to marry 
you after what has happened. On the whole, I think 
your adventure has turned out rather well. You can 
be married in a month. Every one will think it quite 
natural that it should have been kept quiet until I 
came, you see." 
 
" But even if I wanted to marry him, he will never 
ask for me," objected Sabina, who was less surprised 
than might be expected, for she knew her mother 
thoroughly. 
The Princess laughed, and blew a cloud of smoke 
from her lips, and then showed her handsome teeth. 
"I have only to say the word," she answered. 
" When a young girl of our world has spent the night 
in a man's rooms, he marries her, if her family wishes 
it. No man of honour can possibly refuse. I suppose 
that this Malipieri is a gentleman ? " 
" Indeed he is ! " Sabina spoke with considerable 
indignation. 
"Precisely. Then he will come to me this after- 
noon and tell his story frankly, just as you have done 
— it was very sensible of you, my dear — and he will 
offer to marry you. Of course I shall accept." 
" But, mother," cried Sabina, aghast at the sudden- 
ness of the conclusion, " I am not at all sure — " 
She stopped, feeling that she was much more sure 
of being in love with Malipieri than she had been 
when she had driven to the palace with Sassi on the 
previous afternoon. 
" Is there any one you like better ? " asked the 
Princess sharply. " Are you in love with any one else ? " 
"No! But — " 
"I had never seen your father when our marriage 
was arranged," the Princess observed. 
"And you were very unhappy together," Sabina 
answered promptly. "You always say so." 
" Oh, unhappy ? I am not so sure, now. Certainly 
not nearly so miserable as half the people I know. 
After all, what is happiness, child ? Doing what you 
please, is it not ? " 
Sabina had not thought of this definition, and she 
laughed, without accepting it. In one way, everything 
looked suddenly bright and cheerful, since her mother 
had believed her story, and she knew that she was not 
to go back to the Baroness, who had not believed her 
at all, and had called her bad names. 
" And I almost always did as I pleased," the Princess 
continued, after a moment's reflection. "The only 
trouble was that your dear father did not always like 
what I did. He was a very religious man. That was 
what ruined us. He gave half his income to charities 
and then scolded me because I could not live on the 
other half. Besides, he turned the Ten Command- 
ments into a hundred. It was a perfect multiplication 
table of things one was not to do." 
Poor Sabina's recollections of her father had nothing 
of affection in them, and she did not feel called upon to 
defend his memory. Like many weak but devout men, 
he had been severe to his children, even to cruelty, 
while perfectly incapable of controlling his wife's 
caprices. 
" I remember, though I was only a little girl when he 
died," Sabina said. 
" Is Malipieri very religious ? " the Princess asked. 
"I mean, does he make a fuss about having fish on 
Fridays?" She spoke quite gravely. 
 
" I fancy not," Sabina answered, seeing nothing odd 
in her mother's implied definition of righteousness. 
"He never talked to me about religion, I am sure." 
" Thank God ! " exclaimed the Princess devoutly. 
" He always says he is a republican," Sabina remarked, 
glad to talk about him. 
" Really ? " The Princess was interested. " I adore 
revolutionaries," she said thoughtfully. " They always 
have something to say. I have always longed to meet 
a real anarchist." 
" Signer Malipieri is not an anarchist," said Sabina. 
" Of course not, child ! I never said he was. All 
anarchists are shoemakers or miners, or something like 
that. I only said that I always longed to meet one. 
People who do not value their lives are generally amus- 
ing. When I was a girl, I was desperately in love 
with a cousin of mine who drove a four-in-hand down 
a flight of steps, and won a bet by jumping on a wild 
bear's back. He was always doing those things. I 
loved him dearly." The Princess laughed. 
" What became of him ? " Sabina asked. 
"He shot himself one day in Geneva, poor boy, 
because he was bored. I was always sorry, though 
they would not have let me marry him, because he 
had lost all his money at cards." The Princess sighed. 
" Of course you want a lot of new clothes, my dear," 
she said, changing the subject rather suddenly. " Have 
you nothing but that to wear ? " 
Sabina's things had not yet come from the Via 
Ludovisi. She explained that she had plenty of clothes. 
" I fancy they are nothing but rags," her mother 
answered incredulously. " We shall have to go to 
Paris in any case for your trousseau. You cannot 
get anything here." 
" But we have no money," objected Sabina. 
" As if that made any difference ! We can always 
get money, somehow. What a child you are ! " 
Sabina said nothing, for she knew that her mother 
always managed to have what she wanted, even when 
it looked quite impossible. The girl had been brought 
up in the atmosphere of perpetual debt and borrowing 
which seemed natural to the Princess, and nothing of 
that sort surprised her, though it was all contrary to 
her own instinctively conscientious and honourable 
nature. 
Her mother had always been a mystery to her, and 
now, as Sabina sat near her, she crossed her feet, which 
were encased in a pair of the Princess's slippers, and 
looked at her as she had often looked before, wondering 
how such a reckless, scatter-brained, almost penniless 
woman could have remained the great personage which 
the world always considered her to be, and that,,too, 
without the slightest effort on her part to maintain her 
position. 
Then Sabina reflected upon the Baroness's existence, 
which was one long struggle to reach a social elevation 
not even remotely rivalling that of the Princess Conti ; 
a struggle in which she was armed with a large fortune, 
with her husband's political power, with the most 
strictly virtuous views of life, and an iron will; a 
 
struggle which could never raise her much beyond the 
point she had already reached. 
Sabina's meditations were soon interrupted by the 
arrival of her . belongings, in charge of her mother's 
maid, and the immediate necessity of dressing more 
carefully than had been possible when she had been so 
rudely roused by the Baroness. She was surprised to 
find herself so little tired by the desperate adventure, 
and without even a cold as the result of the never-to- 
be-forgotten chill she had felt in the vaults. 
In the afternoon, the Princess declared that she 
would not go out. She was sure that Malipieri would 
present himself, and she would receive him in her 
boudoir. The ambassador had given her a very pretty 
set of rooms. He was a bachelor, and was of course 
delighted to have her stay with him, and still more 
pleased that her pretty daughter should join her. It 
was late in the season, he was detained in Rome by an 
international complication, and he looked upon the 
arrival of the two guests as a godsend, more especially 
as the Princess was an old acquaintance of his and the 
wife of an intimate friend. Nothing could have been 
more delightful, and everything was for the best. The 
Princess herself felt that fortune was shining upon her, 
for she never doubted that she could lay hands on some 
of the money which the statues would bring, and she 
was sure, at least, of marrying Sabina extremely well 
in a few weeks, which was an advantage not to be 
despised. 
During the hours that followed her first conversation 
with her mother, Sabina found time to reflect upon her 
own future, and the more she thought of it, the more 
rosy it seemed. She was sure that Malipieri loved her, 
though he had certainly not told her so yet, and she 
was sure that she had never met a man whom she liked 
half so much. It was true that she had not met many, 
and none at all in even such intimacy as had estab- 
lished itself between him and her at their very first 
meeting ; but that mattered little, and last night she 
had seen him as few women ever see a man, fighting 
for her life and his own for hours together, and win- 
ning in the end. Indeed, had she known it, their situ- 
ation had been really desperate, for while Masin was in 
prison and in ignorance of what had happened, and 
Sassi lying unconscious at the hospital after a fall that 
had nearly killed him outright, it was doubtful 
whether any one else could have guessed that they 
were in the vaults or would have been able to get them 
out alive, had it been known. 
She had always expected to be married against her 
will by her mother, or at all events without any incli- 
nation on her own part. She had been taught that it 
was the way of the world, which it was better to accept. 
If the proposed husband had been a cripple, or an old 
man, she would have been capable of rebellion, of 
choosing the convent, of running away alone into the 
world, of almost anything. But if he had turned out 
to be an average individual, neither uglier, nor older, 
nor more repulsive than many others, she would prob- 
ably have accepted her fate with indifference, or at 
 
least with the necessary resignation, especially if she 
had never met Malipieri. Instead of that, it was prob- 
ably Malipieri whom she was to marry, the one of all 
others whom she had chosen for herself, and in place 
of a dreary existence, stretching out through endless 
blank years in the future, she saw a valley of light, 
carpeted with roses, opening suddenly iu the wilderness 
to receive her and the man she loved. 
It was no wonder that she smiled in her sleep as she 
lay resting in the warm afternoon, in her own room. 
Her mother had made her lie down, partly because she 
was still tired, and partly because it would be con- 
venient that she should be out of the way if Malipieri 
came. 
He came, as the Princess had expected, and between 
two and three o'clock, an hour at which he was almost 
sure to find her at home. From what Sabina had said 
to the Baroness in his presence, and from his judgment 
of the girl's character, he felt certain that she would 
tell her mother the whole story at once. As they had 
acknowledged to each other in the vaults, they were 
neither of them good at inventing falsehoods, and 
Sabina would surely tell the truth. In the extremely 
improbable case that she had not been obliged to 
say anything about the events of the night, his visit 
would not seem at all out of place. He had seen a 
good deal of Sabina during her mother's absence, and 
it was proper that he should present himself in order to 
make the Princess's acquaintance. 
He studied her face quickly as he came forward, and 
made up his mind that she expected him, though she 
looked up with an air of languid surprise as he entered. 
She leaned forward a little in her comfortable seat, and 
held out her plump hand. 
"I think I knew your mother, and my daughter has 
told me about you," she said. " I am glad to see you." 
" You are very kind," Malipieri answered, raising her 
hand to his lips, which encountered a large, cool sap- 
phire. " I have had the pleasure of meeting Donna 
Sabina several times." 
" Yes, I know." The Princess laughed. " Sit down 
here beside me, and tell me all about your strange 
adventure. You are really the man I mean, are you 
not?" she asked, still smiling. "Your mother was a 
Gradenigo ? " 
" Yes. My father is alive. You may have met him, 
though he rarely leaves Venice." 
" I think I have, years ago, but I am not sure. Does 
he never come to Rome ? " 
" He is an invalid now," Malipieri explained gravely. 
" He cannot leave the house." 
" Indeed? I am very sorry. It must be dreadful to 
be an invalid. I was never ill in my life. But now 
that we have made acquaintance, do tell me all about 
last night! Were you really in danger, as- Sabina 
thinks, or is she exaggerating?" 
" There was certainly no exaggeration in saying that 
we were in great danger, as matters have turned out," 
Malipieri answered. " Of the two men who knew that 
we were in the vault, one is Ipng insensible, with a 
 
fractured skull, in the hospital of the Consolazione, and 
the other has been arrested by a mistake and is in 
prison. Besides, both of them would have had every 
reason to suppose that we had got out." 
" Sabina did not tell me that. How awful ! I must 
know all the details, please ! " 
Malipieri told the whole story, from the time when 
Volterra had first invited him to come and make a 
search. The Princess nodded her energetic approval 
of his view that Sabina had a right to a large share in 
anything that was found. The poor girl's dowry, she 
said, had been eaten up by her father's absurd charities 
and by the bad administration of the estates which had 
ruined the whole family. Malipieri paid no attention 
to this statement, for he knew the truth, and he went 
on to the end, telling everything, up to the moment 
when Volterra had at last quitted the palace that morn- 
ing and had left him free. 
" Poor Sassi ! " exclaimed the Princess, when he had 
finished. " He was a foolish old man, but he always 
seemed very willing. Is that all ? " 
"Yes. That is all. I think I have forgotten 
nothing." 
The Princess looked at him and smiled encourag- 
ingly, expecting him to say something more, but he 
was grave and silent. Gradually, the smile faded 
from her face, till she looked away, and took a ciga- 
rette from the table at her elbow. Still he said nothing. 
She lit the cigarette and puffed at it two or three 
times, slowly and thoughtfully. 
"I hope that Donna Sabina is none the worse for 
the fatigue," Malipieri said at last. " She seemed quite 
well this morning. I wondered that she had no't 
caught cold." 
" She never caught cold easily, even as a child," an- 
swered the Princess indifferently. " This affair may 
have much more serious consequences than a cold in 
the head," she added, after a long pause. 
" I think the Volterra couple will be discreet, for 
their own sakes," Malipieri answered. 
" Their servants must know that Sabina was out all 
night." 
" They do not know that poor Sassi did not bring 
her to you here, and the Baroness will be careful to 
let them understand that she is here now, and with 
you. Those people dread nothing like a scandal. 
The secret is between them and us. I do not see how 
any one else can possibly know it, or guess it." 
" The fact remains," said the Princess, speaking out, 
" that my daughter spent last night in your rooms, and 
slept there, as if she had been in her own home. If it 
is ever known she will be ruined." 
"It will never be known, I am quite sure." 
" I am not, and it is a possibility I cannot really 
afford to contemplate." She looked fixedly at him. 
Malipieri was silent, and his face showed that he 
was trying to find some way out of the imaginary 
difficulty, or at least some argument which might 
quiet the Princess's fears. 
She did not understand his silence. If he was a 
 
man of honour, it was manifestly his duty at least 
to offer the reparation that lay in his power ; but he 
showed no inclination to do so. It was incompre- 
hensible. 
" I cannot see what is to be done," he said at last. 
" Is it possible that I must tell you, Signor Mali- 
pieri ? " asked the Princess, and her splendid eyes 
flashed angrily. 
Malipieri's met them without flinching. 
" You mean, of course, that I should offer to marry 
Donna Sabina," he said. 
" What else could an honourable man do, in your 
position ? " 
" I wish I knew." Malipieri passed his hand over 
his eyes in evident distress. 
" Do you mean to say that you refuse ? " the Prin- 
cess asked, between scorn and anger. " Are you so 
little one of us that you suppose this to be a question 
of inclination ? " 
Malipieri looked up again. 
" I wish it were. I love your daughter with all 
my heart and soul. I did, before I saved her life last 
night." 
The Princess's anger gave way to stupefaction. 
" Well — but then ? I do not understand. There 
is something else ? " 
" Yes, there is something else. I have kept the 
secret a long time, and it is not all my own." 
" I have a right to know it," the Princess answered 
firmly, and bending her brows. 
"I never expected to tell it to any one," Malipieri 
said, in a low voice, and evidently struggling with 
himself. " I see that I shall have to trust you." 
" You must," insisted the Princess. " My daughter 
has a right to know, as well as I ; and you say that 
you love her." 
" I am married." 
" Good heavens ! " 
She sank back in her chair, overwhelmed with sur- 
prise at the simple statement, which, after all, need 
not have astonished her so much, as she reflected a 
moment later. She had never heard of Malipieri until 
that day, and since he had never told any one of his 
marriage, it was impossible that her daughter should 
have known of it. She was tolerably sure that the 
latter's adventure would not be known, but she had 
formed the determination to take advantage of it 
in order to secure Malipieri for Sabina, and had been 
so perfectly sure of the result that she fell from the 
clouds on learning that he had a wife already. 
On his part, he was not thinking of what was pass- 
ing in her mind, but of what he should have thought 
of himself, had he, with his character, been in her 
position. The bald statement that he was married 
and his confession of his love for Sabina looked 
badly side by side, in the clear light of his own 
honour ; all the more, because he knew that, without 
positively or directly speaking out his heart to the 
girl, he had let her guess that he was falling in love 
with her. He had said so, though in jest, on that 
 
night when he had been alone with her in Volterra's 
house ; his going there, on the mere chance of seeing 
her alone, and the interest he had shown in her from 
their first meeting, must have made her think that 
he was in love. Moreover, he really was, and like 
most people who are consciously in love where they 
ought not to be, he felt as if everybody knew it ; and 
yet he was a married man. 
"I am legally married under Italian law," he said, 
after a pause. " But that is all. My wife bears my 
name, and lives honourably under it, but that is 
all there has ever been of marriage in my life. I can 
honestly say that not even a word of affection ever 
passed between us." 
" How strange ! " The Princess listened with inter- 
est, wondering what was coming next. 
" I never saw her but once," Malipieri continued. 
"We met in the morning, we were married at noon, 
at the municipality, we parted at the railway station 
twenty minutes later, and have never met again." 
"But you are not married at all ! " cried the Prin- 
cess. "The Church would annul such a marriage 
without making the least trouble." 
"We were not even married in church," said Mal- 
ipieri. " We were married at the municipality 
only." 
"It is not a marriage at all, then." 
"Excuse me. It is perfectly valid in law, and my 
wife has a certified copy of the register to prove 
that she has a right to my name." 
" Were you mad ? What made you do it ? It is 
utterly incomprehensible — to bind yourself for life 
to a woman you had never seen ! What possible 
motive — " 
" I will tell you," said Malipieri. " It all happened 
long ago, when I was little more than twenty-one. It 
is not a very long story, but I beg you not to tell it. 
You do not suppose me capable of keeping it a secret 
in order to make another marriage, not really legal, 
do you?" 
" Certainly not," answered the Princess. " I believe 
you to be an honourable man. I will not tell your 
story to any one." 
" You may tell Donna Sabina as much of it as you 
think she need hear. This is what happened. I 
served my time in a cavalry regiment — no matter 
where, and I had an intimate friend, nearly of my 
own age, and a Venetian. He was very much in love 
with a young girl of a respectable family, but not of 
his own station. Of course his family would not hear 
of a marriage, but she loved him, and he promised that 
he would marry her as soon as he had finished his 
military service, in spite of his own people. He would 
have been of age by that time, for he was only a few 
months younger than I, and he was willing to sacri- 
fice most of his inheritance for love of the girl. Do 
you understand ? " 
"Yes. Goon." 
"He and I were devotedly attached to each other, 
and I sympathized with him, of course, and promised 
 
to help him if he made a runaway match. He used 
to get leave for a couple of days, to go and see her, 
for she lived with her parents in a small city within 
two hours of our garrison town. You guess what 
happened. They were young, they were foolish, and 
they were madly in love." 
The Princess nodded, and Malipieri continued. 
"Not long afterwards, my friend was killed by a 
fall. His horse crushed him. It was a horrible acci- 
dent, and he lived twelve hours after it, in great pain. 
He would not let the doctors give him morphia. He 
said he would die like a man, and he did, with all 
his senses about him. While he lay dying, I was 
with him, and then he told me all the truth. The 
girl would not be able to conceal it much longer. 
There was no time to bring her to his bedside and 
marry her while he still breathed. He could not 
even leave her money, for he was a minor. He could 
do nothing for her and her parents would turn her 
into the street ; in any case she was ruined. He was 
in frightful agony of mind for her sake, he was dying 
before my eyes, powerless to help her and taking his 
suffering and his fault with him to the next world, 
and he was my friend. I did what I could. I gave 
him my word of honour that I would marry her legally, 
give her and her child my name, and provide for them 
as well as I could. He thanked me — I shall never 
forget how he looked — and he died quietly, half an 
hour afterwards. You know now. I kept my word. 
That is all." 
The Princess looked at his quiet face a moment in 
silence, and all that was best in her rose up through 
all that was artificial and worldly, and untruthful and 
vain. 
"I did not know that there were such men," she 
said simply. 
CHAPTER XX 
"So he got out," said Gigi to Toto, filling the 
latter's glass to the brim. 
" May he die assassinated ! " answered Toto. " I 
will burn a candle to the Madonna every day, in 
order that an apoplexy may seize him. He is the 
devil in person, this cursed engineer. Even the earth 
and the water will not have him. They spit him out, 
like that." 
Toto illustrated the simile with force and noise be- 
fore drinking. Gigi's cunning face was wreathed in 
smiles. 
" You know nothing," he observed. 
" What is it ? " asked Toto, with his glass in his 
hand and between two sips. 
" There was old Sassi, who was hurt, and the en- 
gineer's gaol-bird mason-servant. They were with 
him. It was all in the Messaggero this morning." 
" I know that without the newspaper, you imbecile. 
It was I that told you, for I saw all three pass under 
the window while I was locked in. Is there anything 
else you know ? " 
" Oh, yes ! There was another person with them." 
"I daresay," Toto answered, pretending blank in- 
difference. " He must have been close to the wall as 
they went by. What difference does it make since 
that pig of an engineer got out ? " 
"The other person was caught with him when the 
water rose," said Gigi, who meant to give his infor- 
mation by inches. 
" Curse him, whoever he was ! He helped the en- 
gineer and that is why they got out. No man alone 
could have broken through that wall in a night, except 
one of us." 
" The other person was only a woman, after all," 
answered Gigi. "But you do not care, I suppose." 
" Speak, animal of a Jesuit that you are ! " cried 
Toto. " Do not make me lose my soul ! " 
Gigi smiled and drank some of his wine. 
" There are people who would pay to know," he 
said, " and you would never tell me whether the sluice 
gate of the ' lost water ' is under number thirteen or 
not." 
"It is under number thirteen. Master Judas. 
Speak ! " 
" It was the little fair girl of Casa Conti who was 
caught with the engineer in the vaults." 
Even Toto was surprised, and opened his eyes and 
his mouth at the same time. 
" The little Princess Sabina ? " he asked in a low 
voice. 
Gigi shrugged his shoulders with a pitying air and 
grinned. 
" I told you that you knew nothing," he observed in 
triumph. "They were together all night, and she 
 
slept in his room, and the Senator's wife came to get 
her in the morning. The engineer took the porter off 
to the cellars before they came down, so that he should 
not see her pass ; but he forgot me, the old carpenter 
of the house, and I opened the postern for the two 
ladies to go out. The little Princess's skirt had been 
torn. I saw the pins with these eyes. It was also 
spotted with mud which had been brushed off. But 
thanks be to heaven I have still my sight, I see, and 
am not blind." 
"Are you sure it was she?" asked Toto, forgetting 
to curse anybody. 
" I saw her as I see you. Have I not seen her grow 
up, since she used to be wheeled about in a baby 
carriage in Piazza Navona, like a flowfer in a basket ? 
Her nujse made love with the 'woodpecker' who 
was always on duty there." 
The Romans call the municipal watchmen " wood- 
peckers," because they wear little pointed cocked hats 
with a bunch of feathers. They have nothing to do 
with police soldiers, nor with the carabineers. 
Toto made Gigi tell him everything he knew. At 
the porter's suggestion Volterra had sent for the 
mason, as the only man who knew anything about the 
" lost water," and Toto had agreed, with apparent re- 
luctance, to do what he could at once, as soon as he 
had satisfied himself that Malipieri had really made 
another opening by which the statues could be reached. 
Toto laid down conditions, however. He pretended 
that he must expose himself to great danger, and 
insisted upon being paid fifty francs for the job. Fur- 
thermore, be obtained from Volterra, in the presence 
of the porter as witness, a formal promise that his 
grandfather's bones should have Christian burial, with 
a fine hearse and feathers, and a permanent grave in 
the cemetery of Saint Lawrence, which latter is rather 
an expensive luxury, beyond the means of the working 
people. But the Baron made no objection. The story 
would look very well in a newspaper paragraph, as a 
fine illustration of the Senator's liberality as well as of 
his desire to maintain the forms of religion. It would 
please everybody, and what will do that is cheap at 
any price, in politics. 
The result of these negotiations had of course been 
that the water had subsided in the vaults within a few 
hours, and Toto even found a way of draining the 
outer cellars, which had been flooded to the depth of 
a couple of feet, because the first breach made by Mali- 
pieri had turned out to be an inch or two lower than 
the level of the overfiow shaft. 
When the two workmen had exchanged confidences, 
they ordered another half litre of wine, and sat in 
silence till the grimy host had set it down between 
them on the blackened table, and had retired to his 
den. Then they looked at each other. 
" There is an affair here," observed Gigi presently. 
"I suppose you mean the newspapers," said Toto, 
nodding gravely. " They pay for such stories." 
" Newspapers ! " Gigi made a face. " All journal- 
ists are pigs who are dying of hunger." 
 
Toto seemed inclined to agree with this somewhat 
extreme statement, on the whole, but he distinguished. 
There were papers, he said, which would pay as much 
as a hundred francs for a scandalous story about the 
Roman princes. A hundred francs was not a gold 
mine, it was not Peru. But it was a hundred francs. 
What did Gigi expect ? The treasure of Saint Peter's ? 
A story was a story, after all, and anybody could 
deny it. 
" It is worth more than a hundred francs," Gigi an- 
swered, with his weasel smile, "but not to the news- 
papers. The honour of a Roman princess is worth a 
hundred thousand." 
Toto whistled, and then looked incredulous, but it 
began to dawn upon him that the " affair " was of more 
importance than he had supposed. Gigi was much 
cleverer than he ; that was why he always called Gigi 
an imbecile. 
The carpenter unfolded his plan. He knew as well 
as any one that the Conti were ruined and could not 
raise any such sum as he proposed to demand, even to 
save Sabina's good name. It would apparently be nec- 
essary to extract the blackmail from Volterra by some 
means to be discovered. On the other hand, Volterra 
was not only rich, he also possessed much power, and it 
would be somewhat dangerous to incur his displeasure. 
Toto, though dull, had a certain rough common sense 
and pointed this out. He said that the Princess must 
have jewels which she could sell to save her daughter 
from disgrace. She and Donna Sabina were at the 
Russian Embassy, for the Meaaaggero said so. Gigi, 
who could write, might send her a letter there. 
" No doubt," assented the carpenter with a superior 
air. " I have some instruction, and can write a letter. 
But the jewels are paste. Half the Roman princesses 
wear sham jewellery nowadays. Do yon suppose the 
Conti have not sold everything long ago ? They had 
to live." 
" I do not see why," observed Toto. " Princes with- 
out money might as well be dead, an apoplexy on them 
all ! Well, what do you propose to do ? That old 
franc-eater of a Senator will not pay you for the girl's 
reputation, since she is not his daughter." 
" We must think," said Gigi. " Perhaps it would do 
no harm to write a letter to the Princess. The engi- 
neer is poor, of course. It is of no use to go to him." 
" All engineers are starving to death," Toto answered 
cheerfully. "I have seen them eat bread and onions 
and drink water, like us. Would they eat onions and 
dry bread if they could have meat ? It is when they 
become contractors that they get money, by cheating 
the rich and strangling the poor. I know them. They 
are all evil people." 
" This is true," assented Gigi. " I have seen several, 
before this one." 
"This one is the eternal father of all assassins," 
growled Toto. " He talked of walling me up alive." 
" That was only a joke, to frighten you into holding 
your tongue," said Gigi. " And you did." 
" A fine joke ! I wish you had been down there, 
 
hiding beside the gold statue instead of me, while two 
murderers sat by the little hole above and talked of 
walling it up for a week or ten days ! A fine joke ! 
The joke the cat makes to the mouse before eating it ! " 
" I can tell the Princess that the money must be sent 
in thousand-franc notes," said Gigi, who was not listen- 
ing. " It cannot go to the post-office registered, because 
it must be addressed to a false name. Somebody must 
bring it to us." 
" And bring the police to catch us at the same time," 
suggested Toto contemptuously. "That will not do." 
" She must bring it herself, to a safe place." 
" How ? " 
" For instance, I can write that she must take a cab 
and drive out of the city on the Via Appia, and drive, 
and drive, until she meets two men — they will be 
you and me — one with a red handkerchief hanging 
out of his coat pocket, and the other with an old green 
riband for a band to his hat. I have an old green rib- 
and that vrill do. She must come alone in the cab. 
If we see any one with her, she shall not see us. She 
will not know how far out we shall be, so she cannot 
send the police to the place. It may be one mile from 
the gate, or five. I will write that if she does not come 
alone, the story will be printed in all the papers the 
next morning." 
Toto now looked at his friend with something almost 
like admiration. 
" I did not know that you had been a brigand," he 
remarked pleasantly. "That is well thought. Only 
the Princess may not be able to get the money, and if 
she does, she had better bring it in gold. We will then 
go to America." 
Neither of the men had the least idea that a hundred 
thousand francs in gold would be an uncommonly awk- 
ward and heavy load to carry. They supposed it would 
go into their pockets. 
" If she does not come, we will try the Senator before 
we publish the story," said Gigi. " By that time we 
shall have been able to think of some way of putting 
him under the oil-press to squeeze the ' gold out of 
him." 
" In any case, this is a good affair," Toto concluded, 
filling his pipe. " Nothing is bad which ends well, 
and we may both be gentlemen in America before 
long." 
So the two ruffians disposed of poor little Sabina's 
reputation in the reeking wine shop, very much to 
