"Father," he said to Chaumonot, "here is a coil.  Monsieur le Chevalier
du Cévennes, son of the Marquis de Périgny, wishes to sign for Quebec."
The Vicomte d'Halluys lifted his head from his arms.  But none took
notice of him.
"What!" cried Brother Jacques.  "That fop? . . . in Quebec?"
"It is as I have the honor of telling you," said Du Puys.  "There is
something going on.  We shall soon learn what it is."
The Vicomte d'Halluys rose and came over to the table.  "Do I
understand you to say that the Chevalier is to sign for Quebec?"  His
tone possessed a disagreeable quality.  He was always insolent in the
presence of churchmen.
"Yes, Monsieur," said Du Puys.  "You were with him to-night.  Perhaps
you can explain the Chevalier's extraordinary conduct?  He tells me
that he has lost forty thousand livres to-night."
"He has, indeed, lost them."  The vicomte seemed far away in thought.
"Forty thousand livres?" murmured Brother Jacques.  He also forgot
those around him.  Forty thousand livres, and he had never called one
hundred his own!
"Monsieur," repeated the major, "can you account for the Chevalier's
strange behavior?"
"I can," said the vicomte, "but I refuse.  There are looser tongues
than mine.  I will say this: the Chevalier will never enter his
father's house again, either here, in Paris, or in Périgny.  There is
hot blood in that family; it clashed to-night; that is all.  Be good to
the Chevalier, Messieurs; let him go to Quebec, for he can not remain
in France."
"Has he committed a crime?" asked Du Puys anxiously.
"No, Major," carelessly, "but it seems that some one else has."
"And the Chevalier is shielding him?" asked Brother Jacques.
The vicomte gazed down at the young Jesuit, and smiled contemptuously.
"Is he shielding some one, you ask?  I do not say so.  But keep your
Jesuit ears open; you will hear something to-morrow."  Noting with
satisfaction the color on Brother Jacques's cheeks, the vicomte turned
to Captain Bouchard.  "I have determined to take a cabin to Quebec,
Monsieur.  I have some land near Montreal which I wish to investigate."
"You, Monsieur?" said the sailor.  "The only cabin-room left is next to
mine, and expensive."
"I will pay you in advance.  I must go to Quebec.  I can not wait."
"Very well, Monsieur."
The vicomte went to the door of the private assembly and knocked
boldly.  Victor answered the summons.
"D'Halluys?" cried Victor, stepping back.
"Yes, Monsieur.  Pardon the intrusion, but I have something to say to
Monsieur le Chevalier."
He bared his head, looked serenely into Victor's doubting eyes, and
turned to the Chevalier, whose face was without any sign of welcome or
displeasure.  "Monsieur," the vicomte began, "it is very
embarrassing--Patience, Monsieur de Saumaise!" for Victor had laid his
hand upon his sword; "my errand is purely pacific.  It is very
embarrassing, then, to approach a man so deeply in trouble as yourself.
I know not what madness seized you to-night.  I am not here to offer
you sympathy; sympathy is cheap consolation.  I am here to say that no
man shall in my presence speak lightly of your misfortune.  Let me be
frank with you.  I have often envied your success in Paris; and there
were times when this envy was not unmixed with hate.  But a catastrophe
like that to-night wipes out such petty things as envy and hate."
"Take care, Monsieur," said Victor haughtily.  He believed that he
caught an undercurrent of raillery.
"Why, Monsieur, what have I said?" looking from one to the other.
"Proceed, Vicomte," said the Chevalier, motioning Victor to be quiet.
He was curious to learn what the vicomte had to say.
"To continue, then: you are a man of extraordinary courage, and I have
always admired you even while I envied you.  To-night I lost to you
some fifty pistoles.  Give me the happiness of crossing out this
trifling debt," and the vicomte counted out fifty golden pistoles which
he laid on the table.  There was no particle of offense in his actions.
"To prove to you my entire good will, I will place my life into your
keeping, Monsieur le Chevalier.  Doubtless Saumaise has told you that
at present Paris is uninhabitable both to himself and to me.  The
shadows of the Bastille and the block cast their gloom upon us.  We
have conspired against the head of the state, which is Mazarin.  There
is a certain paper, which, if seen by the cardinal, will cause the
signing of our death warrants.  Monsieur de Saumaise, have you any idea
who stole your cloak?"
"It was not my cloak, Monsieur," said Victor, with a frown; "it was
loaned to me by Monsieur le Chevalier."
"Yours?" cried the vicomte, turning to the Chevalier.
"Yes."  The Chevalier thoughtfully fingered the golden coin.  One
slipped through his fingers and went jangling along the stone of the
floor.
"I was wondering where I had seen it before.  Hang me, but this is all
pretty well muddled up.  There was a traitor somewhere, or a coward.
What think you, Saumaise; does not this look like Gaston of Orléans?"
Victor started.  "I never thought of him!"
"Ah!  If Gaston has that paper, France is small, Monsieur," said the
vicomte, addressing the Chevalier, "I learn that you are bound for
Quebec.  Come, Saumaise; here is our opportunity.  Let the three of us
point westward."
Victor remained silent.  As oil rises to the surface of water, so rose
his distrust.  He could not shut out the vision of that half-smile of
the hour gone.
"Monsieur," said the Chevalier, looking up, "this is like you.  You
have something of the Bayard in your veins.  It takes a man of courage
to address me, after what has happened.  I am become a pariah; he who
touches my hand loses caste."
"Bah!  Honestly, now, Chevalier, is it not the man rather than the
escutcheon?  A trooper is my friend if he has courage; I would not let
a coward black my boots, not if he were a king."
"If ever I have offended you, pray forgive me."
"Offended me?  Well, yes," easily.  "There was Madame de Flavigny of
Normandy; but that was three years ago.  Such affairs begin and end
quickly.  My self-love was somewhat knocked about; that was all.  If
the weather permits, the Saint Laurent will sail at one o'clock.  Till
then, Messieurs," and bowing gravely the vicomte retired.
Both Victor and the Chevalier stared, at the door through which the
vicomte vanished.  Victor frowned; the Chevalier smiled.
"Curse his insolence!" cried the poet, slapping his sword.
"Lad, what an evil mind you have!" said the Chevalier in surprise.
"There is something below all this.  Did he pay you those pistoles he
lost to you in December?"
"To the last coin."
"Have you played with him since?"
"Yes, and won.  Last night he won back the amount he lost to me; and
with these fifty pistoles our accounts are square.  What have you
against the vicomte?  I have always found him a man.  And of all those
who called themselves my friends, has not he alone stood forth?"
"There is some motive," still persisted the poet.
"Time will discover it."
"Oh, the devil, Paul! he loves Madame de Brissac; and my gorge rises at
the sight of him."
"What! is all Paris in love with Madame de Brissac?  You have explained
your antipathy.  Every man has a right to love."
"I know it."
"I wonder how it happens that I have never seen this daughter of the
Montbazons?"
"You have your own affair."
"Past tense, my lad, past tense.  Now, I wish to be alone.  I have some
thinking to do which requires complete isolation.  Go to bed and sleep,
and do not worry about me.  Come at seven; I shall be awake."  The
Chevalier stood and held forth his arms.  They embraced.  Once alone
the outcast blew out the candle, folded his arms on the table, and hid
his face in them.  After that it was very still in the private
assembly, save for the occasional moaning in the chimney.
CHAPTER X
THE DILIGENCE FROM ROUEN AND THE MASQUERADING LADIES
The diligence from Rouen rolled and careened along the road to
Rochelle.  Eddies of snow, wind-formed, whirled hither and thither, or
danced around the vehicle like spirits possessed of infinite mischief.
Here and there a sickly tree stretched forth its barren arms blackly
against the almost endless reaches of white.  Sometimes the horses
struggled through drifts which nearly reached their bellies; again,
they staggered through hidden marsh pools.  The postilion, wrapped in a
blanket, cursed deeply and with ardor.  He swung his whip not so much
to urge the horses as to keep the blood moving in his body.  Devil take
women who forced him to follow the king's highway in such weather!  Ten
miles back they had passed a most promising inn.  Stop?  Not they!
Rochelle, Rochelle, and nothing but Rochelle!
"How lonely!"  A woman had pushed aside the curtain and was peering
into the night.  There was no light save that which came from the
pallor of the storm, dim and misty.  "It has stopped snowing.  But how
strange the air smells!"
"It is the sea . . .  We are nearing the city.  It is abominably cold."
"The sea, the sea!"  The voice was rich and young, but heavy with
weariness.  "And we are nearing Rochelle?  Good!  My confidence begins
to return.  You must hide me well, Anne."
"Mazarin shall never find you.  You will remain in the city till I take
leave of earthly affairs."
"A convent, Anne?  Oh, if you will.  But why Canada?  You are mad to
think of it.  You are but eighteen.  You have not even known what love
is yet."
"Have you?"
There was a laugh.  It was light-hearted.  It was a sign that the
sadness and weariness which weighed upon the voice were ephemeral.
"That is no answer."
"Anne, have I had occasion to fall in love with any man when I know man
so well?  You make me laugh!  Not one of them is worthy a sigh.  To
make fools of them; what a pastime!"
"Take care that one does not make a fool of you, Gabrielle."
"Ah, he would be worth loving!"
"But what are you going to do with the property?"
"Mazarin has already posted the seals upon it."
"Confiscated?"
"About to be.  That is why I fled to Rouen.  My mother warned me that
the cardinal had found certain documents which proved that a conspiracy
was forming at the hôtel.  Monsieur's name was the only one he could
find.  His Eminence thought that by making a prisoner of me he might
force me to disclose the names of those most intimate with monsieur.
He is searching France for me, Anne; and you know how well he searches
when he sets about it.  Will he find me?  I think not.  His arm can not
reach very far into Spain.  How lucky it was that I should meet you in
Rouen!  I was wondering where in the world I should go.  And I shall
live peacefully in that little red château of yours.  Oh! if you knew
what it is to be free!  The odious life I have lived!  He used to bring
his actress into the dining-hall.  Pah! the paint was so thick on her
face that she might have been a negress for all you could tell what her
color was.  And he left her a house near the forest park and seven
thousand livres beside.  Free!"  She drew in deep breaths of briny air.
"Gabrielle, you are a mystery to me.  Four years out of convent, and
not a lover; I mean one upon whom you might bestow love.  And that
handsome Vicomte d'Halluys?"
"Pouf!  I would not throw him yesterday's rose."
"And Monsieur de Saumaise?"
"Well, yes; he is a gallant fellow.  And I fear that I have brought
trouble into his household.  But love him?  As we love our brothers.
The pulse never bounds, the color never comes and goes, the tongue is
never motionless nor the voice silenced in the presence of a brother.
My love for Victor is friendship without envy, distrust, or
self-interest.  He came upon my sadness and shadow as a rainbow comes
on the heels of a storm.  But love him with the heart's love, the love
which a woman gives to one man and only once?"
"Poor Victor!" said Anne.
"Oh, do not worry about Victor.  He is a poet.  One of their
prerogatives is to fall in love every third moon.  But the poor boy!
Anne, I have endangered his head, and quite innocently, too.  I knew
not what was going on till too late."
"And you put your name to that paper!"
"What would you?  Monsieur le Comte would have broken my wrist, and
there are black and blue spots on my arm yet."
"Tell me about that grey cloak."
"There is nothing to tell, save that Victor did not wear it.  And
something told me from the beginning that he was innocent."
"And the Chevalier du Cévennes could not have worn it because he was in
Fontainebleau that dreadful night."
"The Chevalier du Cévennes is living in Rochelle?" asked Gabrielle.
"Yes.  Was it not gallant of him to accept punishment in Victor's
stead?"
"What else could he do, being a gentleman?"
"Why does your voice grow cold at the mention of his name?" asked Anne.
"It is your imagination, dear.  My philosophy has healed the wounded
vanity.  Point out the Chevalier to me, I should like to see the man
who declined an alliance with the house of Montbazon."
"I thought that you possessed a miniature of him?"
"It contained only the face of a boy; I want to see the man.  Besides,
I do not exactly know what has become of the picture, which was badly
painted."
"I will point him out.  Was the Comte d'Hérouville among the
conspirators?"
"Yes.  How I hate that man!"
"Keep out of his path, Gabrielle.  He would stop at nothing.  There is
madness in that man's veins."
"I do not fear him.  Many a day will pass ere I see him again, or poor
Victor, for that matter.  I wonder where he has gone?"
"I would I could fathom that heart of yours."
"It is very light and free just now."
"Am I your confidante in all things?"
"I believe so."
"The year I lived with you at the hôtel taught me that you are like
sand; a great many strange things going on below."
"What a compliment!  But give up trying to fathom me, Anne.  I love you
better when you laugh.  Must you be a nun, you who were once so gay?"
"I am weary."
"Of what?  You ask me if I am your confidante in all things; Anne, are
you mine?"
No answer.
"So.  Well, I shall not question you."  The speaker drew her companion
closer and retucked the robes; and silence fell upon the two, silence
broken only by the wind, the flapping leather curtains, and the muffled
howling of the postilion.
It was twelve o'clock when the diligence drew up before the Corne
d'Abondance.  The host came out, holding a candle above his head and
shading his eyes with his unengaged hand.
"Maître, I have brought you two guests," said the postilion, sliding
off his horse and grunting with satisfaction.
"Gentlemen, I hope."
"Ladies!" and lowering his voice, the postilion added: "Ladies of high
degree, I can tell you.  One is the granddaughter of an admiral and the
other can not be less than a duchess."
"Ladies?  Oh, that is most unfortunate!  The ladies' chamber is all
upset, and every other room is engaged.  They will be compelled to wait
fully an hour."
"That will not inconvenience us, Monsieur," said a voice from the
window of the diligence, "provided we may have something hot to drink;
wines and hot water, with a dash of sugar and brandy.  Come, my dear;
and don't forget your mask."
"How disappointing that the hôtel was closed!  Well, we can put up with
the tavern till morning."
With some difficulty the two women alighted and entered the common
assembly room, followed by the postilion who staggered under bulky
portmanteaus.  They approached the fire unconcernedly, ignoring the
attention which their entrance aroused.  The youngest gave a slight
scream as the Iroquois rose abruptly and moved away from the chimney.
"Holy Virgin!" Anne cried, clutching Gabrielle's arm; "it is an
Indian!" The vision of quiet in a Quebec convent grew vague.
"Hush! he would not be here if he were dangerous."  Gabrielle turned
her grey-masked face toward the fire and rested a hand on the broad
mantel.
Victor, who had taken a table which sat in the shadow and who was
trying by the aid of champagne to forget the tragic scene of the hour
gone, came near to wasting a glass of that divine nectar of Nepenthe.
He brushed his eyes and held a palm to his ear.  "That voice!" he
murmured.  "It is not possible!"
At this same moment the vicomte turned his head, his face describing an
expression of doubt and astonishment.  He was like a man trying to
recollect the sound of a forgotten voice, a melody.  He stared at the
two figures, the one of medium height, slender and elegant, the other
plump and small, at the grey mask and then at the black.  These were
not masks of coquetry and larking, masks which begin at the brow and
end at the lips: they were curtained.  Seized, by an impulse, occult or
mechanic, the vicomte rose and drew near.  The younger woman made a
gesture.  Was it of recognition?  The vicomte could not say.  But he
saw her lean toward her companion, whisper a word which caused the grey
mask to wheel quickly.  She seemed to grow taller, while a repelling
light flashed from the eyeholes of the grey mask.
"Mesdames," said the vicomte with elaborate courtesy, "the sight of the
Indian doubtless alarms you, but he is perfectly harmless.  Permit a
gentleman to offer his services to two ladies who appear to be
traveling alone."
Father Chaumonot frowned from his chair and would have risen but for
the restraining hand of Bouchard, who, like all seamen, was fond of
gallantry.
"Monsieur," replied the black mask, coldly and impudently, "we are
indeed alone; and upon the strength of this assertion, will you not
resume your conversation with yonder gentlemen and allow my companion
and myself to continue ours?"
"Mademoiselle," said the vicomte eagerly, "I swear to you, that your
voice is familiar to my ears."  He addressed the black mask, but he
looked searchingly at the grey.  His reward was small.  She maintained
under his scrutiny an icy, motionless dignity.
"And permit me to say," returned the black mask, "that while your voice
is not familiar, the tone is, and very displeasing to my ears.  And if
you do not at once resume your seat, I shall be forced to ask aid of
yonder priest."
"Yes, yes! that voice I have heard before!"  Then, quick as a flash, he
had plucked the strings of her mask, disclosing a round, piquant face,
now white with fury.
"Oh, Monsieur!" she cried; "if I were a man!"
"This grows interesting," whispered Bouchard to Du Puys.
"Anne de Vaudemont?" exclaimed the vicomte; "in Rochelle?"  The vicomte
stepped back confused.  He stared undecidedly at mademoiselle's
companion.  She deliberately turned her back.
Victor was upon his feet, and his bottle of wine lay frothing on the
floor.  He came forward.
"Vicomte, your actions are very disagreeable to me," he said.  The end
of his scabbard was aggressively high in the air.  He was not so tall a
man as the vicomte, but his shoulders were as broad and his chest as
deep.
Neither the vicomte nor the poet heard the surprised exclamation which
came with a muffled sound from behind the grey mask.  She swayed
slightly.  The younger threw her arms around her, but never took her
eyes from the flushed countenance of Victor de Saumaise.
"Indeed!" replied the vicomte coolly; "and how do you account for
that?" He spoke with that good nature which deceives only those who are
not banterers themselves.
"It is not necessary to particularize," proudly, "to a gentleman of
your wide accomplishments."
"Monsieur de Saumaise, your servant," said the vicomte.  "Ladies, I beg
of you to accept my apologies.  I admit the extent of my rudeness,
Mademoiselle."  He bowed and turned away, leaving Victor puzzled and
diffident.
"Mademoiselle de Vaudemont," he said, "is it possible that I see you
here in Rochelle?"  How his heart beat at the sight of that figure
standing by the mantel.
"And you, Monsieur; what are you doing here?"
"I am contemplating a journey to Spain," carelessly.
"Success to your journey," said Anne, frankly holding out a hand.  But
she was visibly distressed as she glanced at her companion.  "Is the
Vicomte d'Halluys going to Spain also?" smiling.
Victor shrugged.  "He professes to have business in Quebec.  That
beautiful Paris has grown so unhealthy!"
"Quebec?"  The woman in the grey mask spun on her heels.  "Monsieur,
did I hear you say Quebec?"
"Yes, Madame la Comtesse."
The grey mask made a gesture of dissent.  Presently she spoke.
"Monsieur, you have made a mistake.  There is no Madame la Comtesse
here."
Victor did not reply.
"Do you hear, Monsieur?"
"Yes, Madame.  Our eyes and ears sometimes deceive us, but never the
heart."
Madame flung out a hand in protest.  "Never mind, Monsieur, what the
heart says; it is not worth while."
Victor grew pale.  There was a double meaning to this sentence.  Anne
eyed him anxiously.
A disturbance at the table caught Victor's ear.  He saw that the
vicomte and the others were proceeding toward the stairs.  The vicomte
was last to mount.  At the landing he stopped, looked down at the group
by the chimney, shrugged, and went on.
Maître le Borgne came in from the kitchens.  "If the ladies will follow
me I will conduct them to their rooms.  A fire is under way.  The wines
and brandy and sugar are on the table; and the warming-pan stands by
the chimney."
"Anne," said madame, "go you to the room with the host.  I will follow
you shortly.  I have something to say to Monsieur de Saumaise."
There was a decision in her tones which caused Victor to experience a
chill not devoid of dread.  If only he could read the face behind the
mask!
Anne followed Maître le Borgne upstairs.  Victor and madame were alone.
He waited patiently for her to speak.  She devoted some moments
absently to crushing with her boot the stray pieces of charred wood
which littered the broad hearthstone.
"Victor," she said of a sudden, "forgive me!"
"Forgive you for what?"
"For innocently bringing this trouble upon you, for endangering your
head."
"Oh, that is nothing.  Danger is spice to a man's palate.  But will you
not remove your mask that I may look upon your face while you speak?"
There was a break in his voice.  This unexpected meeting seemed to have
taken the solids from under his feet.
"You have been drinking!" with agitation.
"I have been striving to forget.  But wine makes us reckless, not
forgetful."  He rumpled his hair.  "But will you not remove the mask?"
"Victor, you ought never to look upon my face again."
"Do you suppose that I could forget your face, a single contour or line
of it?"
"I have been so thoughtless!  Forgive me!  It was my hope that many
months should pass ere we met again.  But fate has willed it otherwise.
I have but few words to say to you.  I beg you to listen earnestly to
them.  It is true that in your company I have passed many a pleasant
hour.  Your wit, your gossip, your excellent verses, and your unending
gaiety dispelled many a cloud of which you knew nothing, nor shall
know.  When I fled from Paris there was a moment when I believed you to
be guilty of that abominable crime.  That grey cloak; I had seen you
wear it.  Forgive me for doubting so brave a gentleman as yourself.  I
have learned all.  You never spoke of the Chevalier du Cévennes as
being your comrade in arms.  That was excessive delicacy on your part.
Monsieur, our paths must part to widen indefinitely."
"How calmly you put the cold of death in my heart!"  The passion in his
voice was a pain to her.  Well she knew that he loved her deeply,
honestly, lastingly.  "Gabrielle, you know that I love you.  You are
free."
"Love?" with voice metallic.  "Talk not to me of love.  If I have
inspired you with an unhappy passion, forgive me, for it was done
without intent.  I have played you an evil turn."  She sank on one of
the benches and fumbled, with the strings of her mask.
"So: the dream vanishes; the fire becomes ashes.  Is it really you,
Gabrielle?  Has not the wine turned the world upside-down, brought you
here only in fancy?  This night is truly some strange dream.  I shall
wake to-morrow in Paris.  I shall receive a note from you, bidding me
bring the latest book.  The Chevalier will dine with his beautiful
unknown . . .  Gabrielle, tell me that you love no one," anger and love
and despair alternately changing his voice, "yes, tell me that!"
"Victor, I love no man.  And God keep me from that folly.  You are
making me very unhappy!"  She bent her head upon her arm.
"Oh, my vanished dream, do not weep on my account!  You are not to
blame.  I love you well.  That is God's blame, not yours, since He
molded you, gave you a beautiful face, a beautiful mind, a beautiful
heart.  Well, I will be silent.  I will go about my affairs, laughing.
I shall write rollicking verses, fight a few duels, and sign a few
papers under which the ax lies hidden! . . .  Do you know how well I
love you?" sinking beside her and taking her hand before she could
place it beyond his reach.  He put a kiss on it.  "Listen.  If it means
anything toward your happiness and content of mind, I will promise to
be silent forever." Suddenly he dropped the hand and rose.  "Your
presence is overpowering: I can not answer for myself.  You were right.
We ought not to have met again."
"I must go," she said, also rising.  She moved blindly across the room,
irresolutely.  Seeing a door, she turned the knob and entered.
It was only after the door closed that Victor recollected.  Paul and
she together in that room?  What irony!  He was about to rush after
madame, when his steps were arrested by a voice coming from the stairs.
The vicomte was descending.
"Ah, Monsieur de Saumaise," said the vicomte, "how fortunate to find
you alone!"
"Fortunate, indeed!" replied Victor.  Here was a man upon whom to wreak
his wrath, disappointment and despair.  Justice or injustice, neither
balanced on the scales of his wrath.  He crossed over to the chimney,
stood with his back to the fire and waited.
The vicomte approached within a yard, stopped; twisted his mustache,
resting his left hand on his hip.  His discerning inspection was soon
completed.  He was fully aware of the desperate and reckless light in
the poet's eyes.
"Monsieur de Saumaise, you have this night offered me four distinct
affronts.  Men have died for less than one."
"Ah!"  Victor clasped his hands behind his back and rocked on his heels.
"At the Hôtel de Périgny you called me a fool when the Chevalier struck
me with his sword.  I shall pass over that.  The Chevalier was mad, and
we all were excited.  But three times in this tavern you have annoyed
me.  Your temperament, being that of a poet, at times gets the better
of you.  My knowledge of this accounts for my patience."
"That is magnanimous, Monsieur," railingly.
"Were I not bound for a far country I might call you to account."
"It is possible, then?"
"Braver men than you find it to their benefit to respect this sword of
mine."
"Then you have a sword?"
The vicomte laughed.  It was real laughter, unfeigned.  He was too keen
a banterer himself not to appreciate this gift in the poet.  "What a
lively lad you are!" he exclaimed.  "But four affronts make a long
account for a single night."
"I am ready now and at all times to close the account."
"Do you love Paris?" asked the vicomte, adding his mite to the
bantering.
"Not so much as I did."
"Has not Rochelle become suddenly attractive?"
"Rochelle?  I do not say so."
"Come; confess that the unexpected advent of Madame de Brissac has
brought this change about."
"Were we not discoursing on affronts?"
"Only as a sign of my displeasure.  By September I dare say I shall
return to France.  I promise to look you up; and if by that time your
manner has not undergone a desirable change I shall take my sword and
trim the rude edges of your courtesy."
"September?  That is a long while to wait.  Why not come to Spain with
me?  We could have it out there.  Quebec?  Do you fear Mazarin, then,
so much as that?"
"Do you doubt my courage, Monsieur?" asked the vicomte, his eyes cold
and brilliant with points of light.
"But September?"
"Come, Monsieur; you are playing the boy.  You will admit that I
possess some courage.  'Twould be a fool's pastime to measure swords
when neither of us is certain that to-morrow will see our heads safe
upon our shoulders.  I am not giving you a challenge.  I am simply
warning you."
"Warning?  You are kind.  However, one would think that you are afraid
to die."
"I am.  There is always something which makes life worth the living.
But it is not the fear of dying by the sword.  My courage has never
been questioned.  Neither has yours.  But there is some doubt as
regards your temper and reason ability.  Brave?  To be sure you are.
At this very moment you would draw against one of the best blades in
France were I to permit you.  But when it comes man to man, Monsieur,
you have to stand on your toes to look into my eyes.  My arm is three
inches longer than yours; my weight is greater.  I have three
considerable advantages over you.  I simply do not desire your life; it
is necessary neither to my honor nor to my happiness."
"To desire and to accomplish are two different things, Monsieur."
"Not to me, Monsieur," grimly.  "When my desire attacks an obstacle it
must give way or result in my death.  I have had many desires and many
obstacles, and I am still living."
"But you may be killed abroad.  That would disappoint me terribly."
"Monsieur de Saumaise, I have seen for some months that you have been
nourishing a secret antipathy to me.  Be frank enough to explain why
our admiration is not mutual."  The vicomte seated himself on a bench,
and threw his scabbard across his knees.
"Since you have put the question frankly I will answer frankly.  For
some time I have distrusted you.  What was to be your gain in joining
the conspiracy?"
"And yours?" quietly.  "I think we both overlooked that part of the
contract.  Proceed."
"Well, I distrust you at this moment, for I know not what your purpose
is to speak of affronts and refuse to let me give satisfaction.  I
distrust and dislike you for the manner in which you approached the
Chevalier tonight.  There was in your words a biting sarcasm and
contempt which, he in his trouble did not grasp.  And let me tell you,
Monsieur, if you ever dare mention publicly the Chevalier's misfortune,
I shall not wait for you to draw your sword."
The vicomte swung about his scabbard and began lightly to tap the floor
with it.  Here and there a cinder rose in dust.  The vicomte's face was
grave and thoughtful.  "You have rendered my simple words into a Greek
chorus.  That is like you poets; you are super-sensitive; you
misconstrue commonplaces; you magnify the simple.  I am truly sorry for
the Chevalier.  Now there's a man.  He is superb with the rapier, light
and quick as a cat; a daredevil, who had not his match in Paris.  Free
with his money, a famous drinker, and never an enemy.  Yes, I will
apologize for my bad taste in approaching him to-night.  I should have
waited till morning."
"You were rude to Mademoiselle de Vaudemont."  Victor suddenly refused
to conciliate.
"Rude?  Well, yes; I admit that.  My word of honor, I could not contain
myself at the sound of her voice."
"Or of madame's?" shrewdly.
"Or of madame's."  The vicomte smoothed his mustache.
Their eyes met, and the flame in the vicomte's disquieted Victor,
courageous though he was.
"It seems to me," said the vicomte, "that you have been needlessly
beating about the bush.  Why did you not say to me, 'Monsieur, you love
Madame de Brissac.  I love her also.  The world is too small for both
of us?'"
"I depended upon your keen sense," replied Victor.
"I am almost tempted to favor you.  I could use a short rapier."
"Good!" said Victor.  "There is plenty of room.  I have not killed a
man since this year Thursday."
"And having killed me," replied the vicomte, rising, and there was a
smile on his lips, "you would be forced to seek out Monsieur le Comte
d'Hérouville, a man of devastated estates and violent temper, the
roughest swordsman since Crillon's time; D'Hérouville, whose greed is
as great and fierce as his love.  Have you thought of him, my poet?  Ah
well, something tells me that the time is not far distant when we shall
be rushing at each other's throats.  For the present, a truce.  You
love madame; so do I.  She is free.  We are all young.  Win her, if you
can, and I will step aside.  But until you win her . . .  I wish you
good night.  I am going for a tramp along the sea-walls.  I beg of you
not to follow."
The echo of the slamming door had scarce died away when Victor, raging
and potent to do the vicomte harm, flung out after him.  With his sword
drawn he looked savagely up and down the street, but the vicomte was
nowhere in sight.  The cold air, however, was grateful to the poet's
feverish cheeks and aching eyes; so he strode on absently, with no
destination in mind.  It was only when the Hôtel de Périgny loomed
before him, with its bleak walls and sinister cheval-de-frise, that his
sense of locality revived.  He raised a hand which cast a silent
malediction on this evil house and its master, swung about and hurried
back to the tavern, recollecting that Gabrielle and Paul were together.
"And all those dreams of her, they vanish like the hours.  That hope,
that joyous hope, of calling her mine shall buoy me up no more.  She
does not love me!  God save me from another such unhappy night.  We
have all been stricken with madness."  He struck at the snow-drifts
with his sword.  The snow, dry and dusty, flew up into his face.
Meanwhile, when madame entered the private assembly-room her eyes,
blurred with tears, saw only the half dead fire.  With her hand she
groped along the mantel, and finding a candle, lit it.  She did not
care where she was, so long as she was alone; alone with her unhappy
thoughts.  She sat with her back toward the Chevalier, who had fallen
into a slight doze.  Presently the silence was destroyed by a
hiccoughing sob.  She had forced the end of her kerchief against her
lips to stifle the sound, but ineffectually.
The Chevalier raised his head. . . .  A woman?  Or was his brain
mocking him?  And masked?  How came she here?  He was confused, and his
sense of emergency lay fallow.  He knew not what to do.  One thing was
certain; he must make known his presence, for he was positive that she
was unaware of it.  He rose, and the noise of his chair sliding back
brought from her an affrighted cry.  She turned.  The light of the
candle played upon his face.
"Madame, pardon me, but I have been asleep.  I did not hear you enter.
It was very careless of them to show you in here."
She rose without speaking and walked toward the door, with no uncertain
step, with a dignity not lacking in majesty.
"She sees I have been drinking," he thought.  "Pray, Madame, do not
leave.  Rather let me do that."
She made a gesture, hurried but final, and left him.
"It seems to me," mused the Chevalier, resuming his seat, "that I have
lost gallantry to-night, among other considerable things.  I might have
opened the door for her.  I wonder why she did not speak?"
CHAPTER XI
MONSIEUR LE COMTE D'HEROUVILLE TAKES THE JOURNEY TO QUEBEC
Victor ran most of the way back to the Corne d'Abondance.  Gabrielle
and Paul were together, unconscious puppets in the booth of Fate, that
master of subtile ironies!  How many times had their paths neared,
always to diverge again, because Fate had yet to prepare the cup of
misery?  How well he had contrived to bring them together: she, her cup
running bitter with disillusion and dread of imprisonment; he, dashed
from the summit of worldly hopes, his birth impugned, stripped of
riches and pride, his lips brushed with the ashes of greatness!  And on
this night, of all nights, their paths melted and became as one.  It
was true that they had never met; but this night was one of dupes and
fools, and nothing was impossible.  He cursed the vicomte for having
put the lust to kill into his head, when he needed clearness and
precision and delicacy to avert this final catastrophe.  After the
morrow all would he well; Gabrielle would be on the way to Spain, the
Chevalier on the way to New France.  But to-night!  Dupes and fools,
indeed!  He stumbled on through the drifts.  The green lantern at last:
was he too late?  He rushed into the tavern, thence into the private
assembly, his rapier still in his hand.  The cold air yet choked his
lungs, forcing him to breathe noisily and rapidly.  He cast about a
nervous, hasty glance.
"You are alone, Paul?"
"Alone?" cried the Chevalier, astonished as much by the question as by
Victor's appearance.  "Yes.  Why not? . . .  What have you been doing
with that sword?" suddenly.
"Nothing, nothing!" with energy.  Victor sheathed the weapon.  "A woman
entered here by mistake . . . ?"
"She is gone," indifferently.  "She was a lady of quality, for I could
see that the odor of wine and the disorder of the room were distasteful
to her."
"She left . . . wearing her mask?" asked the poet, looking everywhere
but at the Chevalier, who was growing curious.
"Yes.  Her figure was charming.  That blockhead of a host! . . . to
have shown her in here!"
"She was in distress?"
"Evidently.  In the old days I should have striven to console.  What is
it all about, lad?  Your hand trembles.  Do you know her?"
"I know something of her history," with half a truth.  Victor's
forehead was cold and dry to the touch of his hand.
"She is in trouble?"
"Yes."
The Chevalier arranged a log on the irons.  "Whither is she bound?"
"Spain."
"Ah!  A matter of careless politics, doubtless."
"Good!" thought the poet.  "He does not ask her name."
"Has she a pleasant voice?  I spoke to her, but she remained dumb.
Spain," ruminating.  "For me, New France.  Lad, the thought of reaching
that far country is inspiriting.  I shall mope a while; but there is
metal in me which needs but proper molding. . . .  For what purpose had
you drawn your sword?"
"I challenged the vicomte, and he refused to fight."
"On my account?" sternly.  "You did wrong."
"I can not change the heat of my blood," carelessly.
"No; but you can lose it, and at present it is very precious to me.  He
refused?  The vicomte has sound judgment."
"Oh, he and I shall be killing each other one of these fine days; but
not wholly on your account, Paul," gloom wrinkling his brow, as if the
enlightening finger of prescience had touched it.  "It is fully one
o'clock; you will be wanting sleep."
"Sleep?"  The ironist twisted his mouth.  "It will be many a day ere
sleep makes contest with my eyes . . . unless it be cold and sinister
sleep.  Sleep?  You are laughing!  Only the fatuous and the
self-satisfied sleep . . . and the dead.  So be it."  He took the tongs
and stirred the log, from which flames suddenly darted.  "I wonder what
they are doing at Voisin's to-night?" irrelevantly.  "There will be
some from the guards, some from the musketeers, and some from the
prince's troops.  And that little Italian who played the lute so well!
Do you recall him?  I can see them now, calling Mademoiselle Pauline to
bring Voisin's old burgundy."  The Chevalier continued his reminiscence
in silence, forgetting time and place, forgetting Victor, who was
gazing at him with an expression profoundly sad.
The poet mused for a moment, then tiptoed from the room.  An idea had
come to him, but as yet it was not fully developed.
"Should I have said 'good night'?  Good night, indeed!  What mockery
there is in commonplaces!  That idea of mine needs some thought."  So,
instead of going to bed he sat down on one of the chimney benches.
A sleepy potboy went to and fro among the tables, clearing up empty
tankards and breakage.  Maître le Borgne sat in his corner, reckoning
up the day's accounts.
Suddenly Victor slapped his thigh and rose.  "Body of Bacchus and horns
of Panurge!  I will do it.  Mazarin will never look for me there.  It
is simple."  And a smile, genuine and pleasant, lit up his face.  "I
will forswear Calliope and nail my flag to Clio; I will no longer write
poetry, I will write history and make it."
He climbed to his room, cast off his hostler's livery and slid into
bed, to dream of tumbling seas, of vast forests, of mighty rivers . . .
and of grey masks.
Promptly at seven he rejoined the Chevalier.  Breton was packing a
large portmanteau.  He had gathered together those things which he knew
his master loved.
"Monsieur," said the lackey, holding up a book, "this will not go in."
"What is it?" indifferently.
"Rabelais, Monsieur."
"Keep it, lad; I make you a present of it.  You have been writing,
Victor?"
Victor was carelessly balancing a letter in his hand.  "Yes.  A
thousand crowns,--which I shall own some day,--that you can not guess
its contents," gaily.
"You have found Madame de Brissac and are writing to her?" smiling.
For a moment Victor's gaiety left him.  The Chevalier's suggestion was
so unexpected as to disturb him.  He quickly recovered his poise,
however.  "You have lost.  It is a letter to my good sister, advising
her of my departure to Quebec.  Spain is too near Paris, Paul."
"You, Victor?" cried the Chevalier, while Breton's face grew warm with
regard for Monsieur de Saumaise.
"Yes.  Victor loves his neck.  And it will be many a day ere
monseigneur turns his glance toward New France in quest."
"But supposing he should not find these incriminating papers?  You
would be throwing away a future."
"Only temporarily.  I have asked my sister to watch her brother's
welfare.  I will go.  Come, be a good fellow.  Let us go and sign the
articles which make two soldiers of fortune instead of one.  I have
spoken to Du Puys and Chaumonot.  It is all settled but the daub of
ink.  Together, Paul; you will make history and I shall embalm it."  He
placed a hand upon the Chevalier's arm, his boyish face beaming with
the prospect of the exploit.
"And Madame de Brissac?" gently.
"We shall close that page," said the poet, looking out of the window.
She would be in Spain.  Ah well!"
"Monsieur," said Breton, "will you take this?"
The two friends turned.  Breton was holding at arm's length a grey
cloak.
"The cloak!" cried Victor.
"Pack it away, lad," the Chevalier said, the lines in his face
deepening, "It will serve to recall to me that vanity is a futile
thing."
"The devil! but for my own vanity and miserable purse neither of us
would have been here."  Victor made as though to touch the cloak, but
shrugged, and signified to Breton to put it out of sight.
When Breton had buckled the straps he exhibited a restlessness,
standing first on one foot, then on the other.  He folded his arms,
then unfolded them, and plucked at his doublet.  The Chevalier was
watching him from the corner of his eye.
"Speak, lad; you have something to say."
"Monsieur, I can not return to the hôtel.  Monsieur le Marquis has
forbidden me."  Breton's eyes filled with tears.  It was the first lie
he had ever told his master.
"Have you any money, Victor?" asked the Chevalier, taking out the fifty
pistoles won from the vicomte and dividing them.
"Less than fifty pistoles; here is half of them."
The Chevalier pushed the gold toward the lackey.  "Take these, lad;
they will carry you through till you find a new master.  You have been
a good and faithful servant."
Breton made a negative gesture.  "Monsieur," timidly, "I do not want
money, and I could never grow accustomed to a new master.  I was born
at the château in Périgny.  My mother was your nurse and she loved you.
I know your ways so well, Monsieur Paul.  Can I not accompany you to
Quebec?  I ask no wages; I ask nothing but a kind word now and again,
and a fourth of what you have to eat.  I have saved a little, and out
of that I will find my clothing."
The Chevalier smiled at Victor.  "We never find constancy where we look
for it.  Lad," he said to Breton, "I can not take you with me.  I am
going not as a gentleman but as a common trooper, and they are not
permitted to have lackeys.  Take the money; it is all I can do for you."
Breton stretched a supplicating hand toward the poet.
"Let him go, Paul," urged Victor.  "Du Puys will make an exception in
your case.  Let him go.  My own lad Hector goes to my sister's, and she
will take good care of him.  You can't leave this lad here, Paul.  Take
him along."
"But your future?" still reluctant to see Victor leave France.
"It is there," with a nod toward the west.
"The vicomte . . ."
"We have signed a truce till we return to French soil."
"Well, if you will go," a secret joy in his heart.  How he loved this
poet!
"It is the land of fortune, Paul; it is calling to us.  True, I shall
miss the routs, the life at court, the plays and the gaming.  But,
horns of Panurge!  I am only twenty-three.  In three years I shall have
conquered or have been conquered, and that is something.  Do not
dissuade me.  You will talk into the face of the tempest.  Rather make
the going a joy for me.  You know that at the bottom of your heart you
are glad."
"Misery loves company; we are all selfish," replied the Chevalier, "My
selfishness cries out for joy, but my sense of honesty tells me not to
let you go.  I shall never return to France.  You will not be happy
there."
"I shall be safer; and happiness is a matter of temperament, not of
time and place.  You put up a poor defense.  Look! we have been so long
together, Paul; eight years, since I was sixteen, and a page of her
Majesty's.  I should not know what to do without you.  We have shared
the same tents on the battlefield; I have borrowed your clothes and
your money, and you have borrowed my sword, for that is all I have.
Listen to me.  There will be exploits over there, and the echo of them
will wander back here to France.  Fame awaits us.  Are we not as brave
and inventive as De Champlain, De Montmagny, De Lisle, and a host of
others who have made money and name?  Come; take my hand.  Together,
Paul, and what may not fortune hold for us!"
There was something irresistible in his pleading; and the Chevalier
felt the need of some one on whom to spend his brimming heart of love.
His face showed that he was weighing the matter and viewing it from all
points.  Presently the severe lines of his face softened.
"Very well, we shall go together, my poet," throwing an arm across
Victor's shoulders.  "We shall go together, as we have always gone.
And, after all, what is a name but sounding brass?  'Tis a man's arm
that makes or unmakes his honesty, not his thrift; his loyalty, rather
than his self-interest.  We shall go together.  Come; we'll sign the
major's papers, and have done with it."
Victor threw his hat into the air.
"And I, Monsieur Paul?" said Breton, trembling in his shoes, with
expectancy or fear.
"If they will let you go, lad," kindly; and Breton fell upon his knees
and kissed the Chevalier's hand.
The articles which made them soldiers, obedient first to the will of
the king and second to the will of the Company of the Hundred
Associates, were duly signed.  Breton was permitted to accompany his
master with the understanding that he was to entail no extra expense.
Father Chaumonot was delighted; Brother Jacques was thoughtful; the
major was neutral and incurious.  As yet no rumor stirred its ugly
head; the Chevalier's reasons for going were still a matter of
conjecture.  None had the courage to approach the somber young man and
question him.  The recruits and broken gentlemen had troubles of
sufficient strength to be unmindful of the interest in the Chevalier's.
The officers from Fort Louis bowed politely to the Chevalier, but came
not near enough to speak.  Excessive delicacy, or embarrassment, or
whatever it was, the Chevalier appreciated it.  As for the civilians
who had enjoyed the hospitality of the Hôtel de Périgny, they remained
unobserved on the outskirts of the crowd.  The vicomte expressed little
or no surprise to learn that Victor had signed.  He simply smiled; for
if others were mystified as to the poet's conduct, he was not.  Often
his glance roved toward the stairs; but there were no petticoats going
up or coming down.
"Monsieur le Vicomte," said Brother Jacques, whose curiosity was eating
deeply, "will you not explain to me the cause of the Chevalier's
extraordinary conduct?"
"Ah, my little Jesuit!" said the vicomte; "so you are still burning
with curiosity?  Well, I promise to tell you all about it the first
time I confess to you."
"Monsieur, have you any reason for insulting me?" asked Brother
Jacques, coldly, his pale cheeks aflame.
"Good! there is blood in you, then?" laughed the vicomte, noting the
color.
"Red and healthy, Monsieur," in a peculiar tone.  Brother Jacques was
within an inch of being as tall and broad as the vicomte.
The vicomte gazed into the handsome face, and there was some doubt in
his own eyes.  "You have not always been a priest?"
"Not always."
"And your antecedents?"
"A nobler race than yours, Monsieur," haughtily.  "You also have grown
curious, it would seem.  I shall be associated with the Chevalier, and
I desired to know the root of his troubles in order to help him.  But
for these robes, Monsieur, you would not use the tone you do."
"La, la!  Take them off if they hamper you.  But I like not curious
people, I am not a gossip.  The Chevalier has reasons in plenty.  Ask
him why he going to Quebec;" and the vicomte whirled on his heels,
leaving the Jesuit the desire to cast aside his robes and smite the
vicomte on the mouth.
"Swashbuckler!" he murmured.  "How many times have you filched the
Chevalier of his crowns by the use of clogged dice? . . .  God pardon
me, but I am lusting for that man's life!"  His hand clutched his
rosary and his lips moved in prayer, though the anger did not
immediately die out of his eyes.  He wandered among the crowds.  Words
and vague sentences filtered through the noise.  Two gentlemen were
conversing lowly.  Brother Jacques neared them unconsciously, still at
his beads.
"On my honor, it is as I tell you.  The Chevalier . . ."
Brother Jacques raised his eyes,
"What! forfeited his rights in a moment of madness?  Proclaimed himself
to be . . . before you all?  Impossible!"
The beads slipped through Brother Jacques's fingers.  He leaned against
the wall, his eyes round, his nostrils expanded.  A great wave of pity
surged over him.  He saw nothing but the handsome youth who had spoken
kindly to him at the Candlestick in Paris.  That word!  That invisible,
searing iron!  He straightened, and his eyes flashed like points of
steel in the sunshine.  That grim, wicked old man; not a thousand times
a thousand livres would give him the key to Heaven.  Brother Jacques
left the tavern and walked along the wharves, breathing deeply of the
vigorous sea-air.
Victor encountered the vicomte as the latter was about to go aboard.
"Ah," said the vicomte; "so you ran about with a drawn sword last
night?  Monsieur, you are only a boy."  The vicomte never lost his
banter; it was a habit.
"I was hot-headed and in wine."  Victor had an idea in regard to the
vicomte.
"The devil is always lurking in the pot; so let us not stir him again."
"Willingly."
"I compliment you on your good sense.  Monsieur, I've been thinking
seriously.  Has it not occurred to you that Madame de Brissac has that
paper?"
"Would she seek Spain?" said Victor.
"True.  But supposing Mazarin should be seeking her, paper or no paper,
to force the truth from her?"
"The supposition, does not balance.  She knows no more than you or I."
"And Monsieur le Comte's play-woman?"
"Horns of Panurge!" excitedly.  "You have struck a new note, Vicomte.
I recollect hearing that she was confined in some one of the city
prisons.  The sooner the Saint Laurent sails, the better."
"Would that some one we knew would romp into town from Paris.  He might
have news."  The vicomte bit the ends of his mustache.
The opening of the tavern door cut short their conversation.  A man
entered rudely.  He pressed and jostled every one in his efforts to
reach Maître le Borgne.  He was a man of splendid physical presence.
His garments, though soiled and bedraggled by rough riding, were costly
and rich.  His spurs were bloody; and the dullness of the blood and the
brightness of the steel were again presented in his fierce eyes.  The
face was not pleasing; it was too squarely hewn, too emotional; it
indexed the heart too readily, its passions, its loves and its hates.
There was cunning in the lips and caution in the brow; but the face was
too mutable.
"The Comte d'Hérouville!" exclaimed the vicomte.  "Saumaise, this looks
bad.  He is not a man to run away like you and me."
The new-comer spoke to the innkeeper, who raised his index finger and
leveled it at Victor and the vicomte.  On seeing them, D'Hérouville
came over quickly.
"Messieurs," he began, "I am gratified to find you."
"The news!" cried the poet and the gamester.
"Devilish bad, Monsieur, for every one.  The paper . . ."
"It is not here," interrupted the vicomte.
The count swore.  "Mazarin has mentioned your name, Saumaise.  You were
a frequent visitor to the Hôtel de Brissac.  As for me, I swore to a
lie; but am yet under suspicion.  Has either of you seen Madame de
Brissac?  I have traced her as far as Rochelle."
The vicomte looked humorously at the poet.  Victor scowled.  Of the two
men he abhorred D'Hérouville the more.  As for the vicomte, he laughed.
"You laugh, Monsieur?" said D'Hérouville, coldly.  His voice was not
unpleasant.
"Why, yes," replied the vicomte.  "Has Mazarin published an edict
forbidding a man to move his diaphragm?  You know nothing about the
paper, then?"
"Madame de Brissac knows where it is," was the startling declaration.
"I ask you again, Messieurs, have you seen her?"
"She is in Rochelle," said the vicomte.  How many men, he wondered, had
been trapped, by madame's eyes?
"Where is she?" eagerly.
"He lies!" thought Victor.  "He knows madame has no paper."
"Where she is just now I do not know."
"She is to sail for Quebec at one o'clock," said the poet.
There was admiration in the vicomte's glance.  To send the count on a
wild-goose chase to Quebec while madame sauntered leisurely toward
Spain!  It was a brilliant stroke, indeed.
"What boat?" demanded D'Hérouville.
"The Saint Laurent," answered the vicomte, playing out the lie.
Victor's glance was sullen.
"Wait a moment, man!" cried the vicomte, catching the count's cloak.
"You can not mean to go running after madame in this fashion.  You will
compromise her.  Besides, I have some questions to ask.  What about De
Brissac's play-woman?"
"Died in prison six days ago.  She poisoned herself before they
examined her."  The count looked longingly toward the door.
"What!  Poisoned herself?  Then she must have loved that hoary old
sinner!"  The vicomte's astonishment was genuine.
The chilling smile which passed over the count's face was sinister.  "I
said she poisoned herself, advisedly."
"Oho!"  The vicomte whistled, while Victor drew back.
"Now, Messieurs, will you permit me to go?  It is high time you both
were on the way to Spain."  D'Hérouville stamped his foot impatiently.
"And you will go to Quebec?" asked the vicomte.
"Certainly."
"Well then, till Monsieur de Saumaise and I see you on board.  We are
bound in that direction."
"You?" taken aback like a ship's sail.
"Why not, Monsieur," said Victor, a bit of irony in his tones, "since
you yourself are going that way?"
"You took me by surprise."  The count's eye ran up and down the poet's
form.  He moved his shoulders suggestively.  "Till we meet again,
then."  And he left them.
"My poet," said the vicomte, "that was a stroke.  Lord, how he will
love you when he discovers the trick!  What a boor he makes of himself
to cover his designs!  Here is a bag of trouble, and necessity has
forced our hands into it.  For all his gruffness and seeming
impatience, D'Hérouville has never yet made a blunder or a mistake.
Take care."
"Why do you warn me?"  Victor was full to the lips with rage.
"Because, hang me, I like your wit.  Monsieur, there is no need of you
and me cutting each other's throats.  Let us join hands in cutting
D'Hérouville's.  And there's the Chevalier; I had forgotten him.  He
and D'Hérouville do not speak.  I had mapped out three dull months on
the water, and here walks in a comedy of various parts.  Let us try a
pot of canary together.  You ought to change that livery of yours.
Somebody will be insulting you and you will be drawing your sword."
Victor followed the vicomte to a table.  After all, there was something
fascinating about this man, with that devil-may-care air of his, his
banter and his courage.  So he buried a large part of his animosity,
and accepted the vicomte's invitation.
All within the tavern was marked by that activity which precedes a
notable departure.  Seamen were bustling about, carrying bundles,
stores, ammunition, and utensils.  Here and there were soldiers
polishing their muskets and swords and small arms.  There was a calling
to and fro.  The mayor of the city came in, full of Godspeed and cheer,
and following him were priests from the episcopal palace and wealthy
burghers who were interested in the great trading company.  All
Rochelle was alive.
The vicomte, like all banterers, possessed that natural talent of
standing aside and reading faces and dissecting emotions.  Three faces
interested him curiously.  The Chevalier hid none of his thoughts; they
lay in his eyes, in the wrinkles on his brow, in the immobility of his
pose.  How easy it was to read that the Chevalier saw nothing, save in
a nebulous way, of the wonderful panorama surrounding.  He was with the
folly of the night gone, with Paris, with to-day's regrets for vanished
yesterday.  The vicomte could see perfectly well that Victor's gaiety
was natural and unassumed; that the past held him but loosely, since
this past held the vision of an ax.  The analyst passed on to Brother
Jacques, and received a slight shock.  The penetrating grey eyes of the
priest caught his and held them menacingly.
"Ah!" murmured the vicomte, "the little Jesuit has learned the trick,
too, it would seem.  He is reading my face.  I must know more of this
handsome fellow whose blood is red and healthy.  He comes from no such
