with you.”

She shuddered. She could not mar this happy moment by a relation of the
dreadful fate which for a few days had hung over her and made her prefer
death. Ah, how much harder the resolve would have been had she known of
a certainty that her husband was living!

“After much tedious journeying we reached the Peoria settlement, back
from the Illinois River, where the old Chief Neepawa governs a remnant
of his tribe. They were most kindly and gave us rest and food until we
were quite restored. Afterward they brought us home. Oh, my husband, my
lord, my lover! To be with you once more is enough. I would have
suffered twice the hardships and dangers for such a blissful end!”

He felt her frame tremble in his arms and pressed her closer in a
transport of tenderness. Ah, the perfect content!

Then she bethought herself.

“The child,” she said, awakening to the more generous flow of sympathy
that love for the time had overwhelmed. “The poor little Renée! She has
looked forward every hour to meeting him again, and the disappointment
will be bitter. It is more like a woman’s love than a child’s, though
she is innocent of the deeper strivings of maidenhood. Come, let us go
to her.”

Mère Lunde had to give the young wife a warm welcome. The tears of joy
filled her faded eyes.

Renée lay on the settle, sobbing. Wawataysee bent over and would have
taken her hand.

“Go away! go away!” she cried imperiously. “I do not want you. You have
him to be glad with and I have no one, no one!”

The pathos of the tone was heartrending.

“Renée, my little dear, François is so glad.”

“Go away!” She turned her face to the wall and slapped impatiently with
her hand. “I will not listen. The Indians have Uncle Gaspard, I know.”

Mère Lunde beckoned them. “She is very wilful at times, and now her
heart is sore. But the good saints have led you both back. He has been
north many a time and come home unharmed.”

“They will kill him this time!” the child almost shrieked. “There was
that fierce Black Feather! Oh, he will never come back, never!”

The old woman waved them to the doorway and they turned and passed out.
All the garden was abloom and sweet with the fragrance of growing fruit,
tangled vines and flowers. The pale heavens had lost the light of day,
and the blue of the night was hidden by a soft gray vagueness. Birds
were singing good-night songs to each other and to sleepy nestlings.
Marchand, with his arm around his wife, drew her into a secluded spot.

“Black Feather was a Huron,” he said, “mean, tricky, avaricious. Surely
you were not in his hands?” and his grasp tightened.

“Only a little while. Oh, I would never have been taken alive to the
straits! And this young Valbonais was their captive. Oh, where has he
disappeared to? He had an uncle in St. Louis, whither he was coming when
they captured him.”

“Tell me the story. I have had hundreds of fears for you, my darling,
yet I kept trusting the All Father.”

“Oh, not to-night!” she pleaded. “Is it not enough that I am restored,
and that no evil has happened to me? Let us not mar the joy of this
meeting.”

So they sat until the white veil in the sky cleared away and all was a
heavenly blue, with stars shining so bright they took on beautiful tints
and twinkled as in a fairy dance. To the reunited hearts there had never
been such a night of joy and splendor.

Renée sobbed herself to sleep, worn out with the pangs of
disappointment. Mère Lunde would not disturb her. She set out a little
supper for the other two, and they talked in low tones. Mère Lunde told
of her wanderings, and that she had almost died of hunger and thirst.

“We who were so sadly bereft resolved to join forces,” explained
Marchand. “Gaspard Denys ought not lose everything by his generosity. So
I have watched the trade and tried to fill his place as best I could,
and Mère Lunde has kept the house, both praying and hoping. Several
prisoners have escaped or been left by the Indians, who really did not
want them and were afraid to practise the cruelties of other days lest a
severe punishment might overtake them.”

Renée was still dejected and inconsolable the next morning, and would
receive no overtures from Wawataysee. The young wife understood. Not
that Renée would have wished her any ill, but with the unreason of
feminine things she could not endure the sight of their happy faces, the
sound of the tender words they exchanged. She went out in the corner of
the garden and made her moan, and would not be seen of the friends that
came to congratulate the returned captives.

Nearly noon a young man paused at the gate, looking a little uncertain.

“It is André Valbonais!” cried Wawataysee, with delight. “I will bring
him in and you must thank him with your full heart.”

Valbonais was bright and smiling, his ragged clothes, that scarcely held
together, replaced by a comfortable suit, if not new; his hair trimmed
and in good order—a very attractive young fellow now, certainly.

“We were going to set out on a search for you,” Wawataysee began. “In
some unexpected manner we lost sight of you last night. How did you
fare?”

“Oh, not badly,” with a cheerful smile. “I knew you would go to friends
who would be overjoyed to see you, and I wandered down a street, trying
to find an inn, for I was not sure I would be allowed to stop in the
street all night. So in my inquiry I met some one who knew my uncle,
Pierre Valbonais, who, it seems, is at work in your great mill, and who
lives beyond the court-house, in the Rue des Grainges. My faith, but you
are a very hospitable folk,” and his eyes shone with a joyous light.
“This M. Pion would give me some supper and a bed, and we talked over my
adventures smoking our pipes.”

“I am glad you found a friend. It was our desire to take you in. And
your relative?” with a slight hesitation.

“I found my way to the mill, and the uncle greeted me cordially. There
is an aunt and some cousins, it seems, and I am to make my home with
them for the present. Moreover, I find there is plenty of work to do and
I shall be happy. Where is the little maid?”

Wawataysee explained Renée’s grief at finding her uncle had not returned
from his search. Then M. Marchand took him through to the shop, and was
so earnest in his gratitude that it touched Valbonais deeply.

Renée came out of her garden corner as he was going away. Her pretty
eyes were swollen with weeping.

“Oh, little one, you were so brave on the journey, amid all the
hardships, that you must not lose heart now! And I hear your uncle has
made many trips with the traders, so he knows about the Indians and is
not likely to let them take him unawares. He will return, surely.”

She cast her eyes down and made no reply. She would not be comforted
even by him.

The Renauds came over in the afternoon, and though the girls followed
her to the garden, she would not be amused with their chatter. What did
she care about a new frock or a tea-drinking on the green by the fort,
or games and plays?

“She is very disagreeable and cold,” said Elise to Sophie as they were
walking home. “I suppose because she has a ‘de’ before her name she
thinks she can put on any airs. But I am older and shall have a lover
first. Of course, M. Denys will return. He always has before.”

So everybody thought. And a child cannot be unhappy forever when every
one joins to dispel her sorrow. She thawed out very slowly. André hardly
knew what to make of her, she was so grave and indifferent.

He had found employment in the mill and felt quite elated. Madame
Valbonais liked him very much. There was one son a trapper, though he
did not take very long journeys. Then there were two bright girls who
were not averse to having such an attractive cousin.

Through them he came to know the Renauds, and Barbe he thought extremely
winsome. Before a fortnight had passed he was in the merrymakings and
dances, and having a most enjoyable time. It did not trouble him now
that he had been in more than one peril of his life.

The lieutenant-governor who had proved himself so unworthy was recalled.
M. Cruzat was fortifying the town more securely than it had ever been,
but for some time any body of Indians going back and forth roused a
feeling of distrust and fear. Pleasure parties were careful not to trust
themselves too far away.

Mère Lunde begged Wawataysee to remain with them, as M. Marchand was
taking charge of the business. When Mattawissa came in with her pretty
work and various articles, many of which went down to New Orleans, she
and the young wife made very good friends.

“She will take every one away from me,” thought the child with a
swelling heart, and she grew more reserved. Even Mère Lunde had to yield
to the sweetness of Wawataysee. Sometimes she sang really beautiful
Indian songs and described vividly the dances and entertainments, though
there were many in which only old women were allowed.

July began to ripen fruits and fill the farmers with joy at the prospect
of abundant crops. But Renée counted the weeks sadly. She was growing
pale and thinner, and roamed about like an unquiet ghost. She would not
play with the children, but rambled desolately by herself and
occasionally stole down to the end of the stockade and ventured out to
see her grandfather. He seemed nearly always at home now, sitting
outside his neglected-looking cabin smoking his pipe and patching his
clothes or making moccasins, on which he put stout soles of skin. He
would nod and occasionally push a stool to her, which was the round of a
log, and motion her to be seated.

One day he said sharply: “Has anything been heard of Gaspard Denys? Some
traders have come in.”

She knew that. They had been at the shop.

“They have not seen him,” she admitted sorrowfully.

“There would be news if he had been killed.”

“Oh! oh!” A sharp pang went to the child’s heart. To have another put
her dread into words was like confirming it.

“That might be,” said the old man. “The pitcher may go to the spring
without spout or handle, but it gets an unlucky knock at the last.”

She was silent.

“He made me give you to him. He bound me with signing a paper. Then if
you are his, what he has comes naturally to you. There is the house and
the garden. And the shop, with all its stores. Gaspard Denys has a
strong box. There may be gold and silver in it. It belongs to you.”

Renée stared at him. His skin was browner than ever, and his face
wrinkled in every direction. His hair was unkempt, his eyes were so
squinted up that they looked like two sparks merely.

“Oh,” she cried, “what should I want with it all, and no Uncle Gaspard?”

“It will be a good dot. It will make you a good marriage when the time
comes. And they must not get it away from you.”

“They? Who?” in surprise.

“That man and his half-Indian wife. Ah, I have seen people before, men
who can plan adroitly. And I tell you now he shall not have it. When the
time comes I shall turn him out neck and heels, and we will see! I shall
not have you cheated out of your rights, Renée de Longueville.”

“I don’t understand. If it is M. Marchand you mean——” and she eyed the
old man resolutely.

“Who asked him to come in there? Gaspard Denys locked up his place, and
he and that old woman opened it. They had no right, I say.”

He struck the flat stone beside him with his fist, but it did not seem
to hurt that member.

“It was Mère Lunde’s home. And she looks for him every day. Oh, if word
came that he was dead we should both die of grief!”

Her lip quivered, her eyes filled with tears.

“Bah! No one dies of grief. And I will keep you out of that man’s
clutches. I am your grandfather and I have some rights.”

Renée shuddered at the fierce old man. She had used to feel afraid of
him, but it seemed of late that she did not fear anything, the darkness
of the night nor the thunder storms, when it appeared as if the town
would be hurled into the river. What if he should really claim her,
if—if—Oh, she would a hundred times rather stay with M. Marchand, even
if he was kissing and caressing Wawataysee half the time.

“I must go,” she said, rising. She had been trying to esteem him a
little now that she was so lonely, but all the endeavor was like water
spilled on the ground, and he had broken the bowl.

“You will come again. No one shall cheat you out of your rights,”
nodding vigorously.

She turned away. First she thought she would walk along the river. It
crept lazily to-day, yellow in the yellow sunshine. But when she reached
the Rue Royale she turned into that. She did not care to pass the
Renauds’—why was it that she could not love any one any more? that her
heart seemed like lead in her bosom? So she went up to the Rue de
l’Eglise straight on to the little church. She had not been Saturday
afternoons of late. She knew the catechism and the prayers, and the
children’s drawl seemed to spoil it for her. Sometimes people prayed for
things and they came. Well, she was praying all the time for Uncle
Gaspard’s return. Maybe it ought to be asked for in the church. She
crept in softly.

The little old place was very, very plain. Even the altar and the high
altar had but few decorations at this time. There was a candle burning
and it shed a pale glow. There was a basin of holy water, and she
reverently made the sign of the cross with it. Then she knelt down on
the floor and clasped her small hands.

“O holy God,” she prayed, “O Christ, son of the holy God, listen to my
sorrow, I beseech thee. Send back Uncle Gaspard, for my life is so
lonely without him. Keep him safe from all danger.”

It seemed so different to pray here. She would come every day now. This
was God’s house.

It was strange and she did not understand it a bit, but her heart felt
lighter. The old garden was gay with bloom. Chatte came to meet her,
arched his back and waved his tail like a flag, looking at her out of
green, translucent eyes with a black bar straight up and down. She
stooped and patted him and he began to purr with delight. He was as fond
as she of sitting in Uncle Gaspard’s lap.

Mère Lunde was pounding green grapes, great, luscious wild grapes, into
a mash. Then she would strain out the seeds and make a most delicious
jam with maple sugar. How fragrant the room was with the spicy scent!
She went up and kissed her tenderly, and tears came to the woman’s eyes
at the unexpected caress.

Wawataysee sat by the open window doing some beautiful beadwork. M.
Marchand was busy sorting goods and piling them up on the shelves, and
whistling soft and low like the wood thrush. Well, why should he not be
happy, now that he had Wawataysee back? And she had been almost angry
about it—no, not angry, but hurt, and—perhaps she was selfish. Ah, think
of her grandfather being here and turning things about, making it dismal
and wretched! No, he should not order the place and turn out these two
who had been so kind. Perhaps the Governor would know what was right.
She would pray it might never happen. That would be another petition.
And without understanding how religion comforted, she was happier.




CHAPTER XII

HER ANSWER


It was strange how petitions grew. Renée used to walk gravely up to the
old church—the door was never fastened—and slip in and say her prayer.
Once a woman came who had lost her little baby.

“Oh,” she said, when they had exchanged sorrows, “I think thou wilt be
comforted. Gaspard Denys has come back times before. Many of our
husbands and brothers have returned. But my little baby cannot return. I
may live many, many years and grow old, and in all that time I shall
never see him!”

Yes, that was a great sorrow, and a long waiting.

August came in. Pears and plums were ripening, and various articles were
being put by for winter use. Sometimes the season was long and cold, and
it was well to be prepared. Men worked in the fields to gather the early
crops, and the young people had merry dances at night. The days began to
grow a little shorter already.

Some one said as she stepped out of church one afternoon: “There is a
small fleet coming down the river. Pierre Chouteau expects one of his in
next week, but that will have a dozen or more.”

“That is only Latour’s. He has been up to St. Charles,” was the answer.
“They have a great abundance of corn this season.”

Next week! Renée’s little heart beat with a great bound of joy. And
after that boats would be coming in weekly, Indians with canoes full of
furs, dried venison and fish from the lakes. If one of them brought
Uncle Gaspard!

She went down to the rise of ground, almost like an embankment, long
since worn away. She could see over the small throng. The first boat was
moored; it had bales of something. The second had some passengers, women
among them. A man was standing up, and suddenly he waved his hand. Who
was it? It was waved again.

“Oh! oh!” She dropped down. All the air was full of sparks, and the
river seemed turning round and getting mingled with the sky. When the
mist cleared away she saw a confused throng of people, some leaping
ashore, and a hurly-burly of voices. Had that brief vision been a dream?
She felt strangely weak, then she laughed without knowing why and her
eyes overflowed with tears.

A tall form came climbing up the hill with long strides, and then she
was clasped in strong arms, she felt kisses on her forehead, she was
lifted off her feet.

“Little one!” the voice said; and only one thing in her after life
sounded as sweet. “Little one, oh, thank heaven you were saved!”

Then they sat down on the grass the sun had scorched into a dried mat.

“Did you come thinking to meet me?”

“I meant to come every time after this to meet the boats. Oh, you are
alive! The fierce Indians have not killed you.”

How her voice trembled with emotion, and her hands were clasped tight
about his arm!

“They have not had much chance.” How good it was to hear the old
cheerful laugh. “And Wawataysee is safe, as well? Did Marchand recover?
I have heard no news of the dear old town, but of you I heard long ago,
and it made my heart as light as a bird mounting up to the sky. Perhaps
it will please even your gentle heart to know that Black Feather, the
treacherous Indian chief, is dead. You see, I hardly knew which
direction to take and went wrong several times. Then I heard Elk Horn
had sold some female captives to Black Feather, who had taken them up
the Illinois River. When I reached an encampment where there had been a
terrific storm I heard Black Feather had been seriously injured and had
finally been moved to an interior encampment, where there was a medicine
man. So, after a search, I found them. In spite of the medicine man the
chief had died, and they had given him a grand funeral. His followers
had dispersed. But I was told that, after the storm, some captives had
escaped and he had been so angry he had two Indians put to death. So
then I retraced my steps. Many a time I wondered if I should find you in
the forests, dead from hunger and fatigue. Whether you had gone down the
river—but you could not do that, unless some friendly boat had offered.
I passed some lodges where they had not known of any wanderers, and at
last met two Peoria Indians, who said the three escaped captives had
reached them and been taken to St. Louis.”

He pressed the child closer, looked down in the fond, eager eyes that
were shaded in a mist of emotion, and felt the eager grasp of the small
hand. How much she cared, this motherless and well-nigh fatherless girl.

“It was Wawataysee they wanted, but your fate might have been as bad.
They might have left you somewhere to starve—” Yet did not the pretty
child’s face give evidence of coming beauty? only to an Indian this was
not the rich, appealing beauty of his own tribes. And the present was so
much to the red man, the triumphs, satisfactions, joys and revenges of
to-day.

“Oh,” she said, with a long, quivering breath, “I am so glad! so glad!
It runs all over me,” and she laughed softly. “And you will never go
away again? They are building the wall all around the town and putting
sharp-pointed sticks through the top. The children do not go out on the
prairies any more; they are afraid.”

“I do not think we are in much danger. Farther to the east the Indians
are joining tribes, stirred up by the English fighting the colonists.
But we have nothing to do with their quarrels. And this attack was a
mortification to them. Few, if any, of our friendly Indians were
concerned in it. Oh, little one, thank God that you and Wawataysee are
safe.”

“But M. Marchand thanks God for Wawataysee!” she said, with a touch of
resentment.

He smiled at that. When she was older she would demand every thought of
one’s heart.

“Shall we go down now?”

“Mère Lunde will be so glad.” She arose and hopped gleefully on one
foot, holding his hand as she went part of the way around him. The last
rays of golden light in the sky made bewildering shadows and gleams
about her and she looked like a fairy sprite.

The town was already lapsing into quiet. No one had need to grumble at
the length of working days in this pastoral town and time. Others had
come in from journeys, and in more than one home feasting had begun. The
boats had been fastened securely, the river was growing dark with
shadows, and purple and gold clouds were drifting across the heavens.

“Let us go this way,” Renée said.

This way was up to the Rue de l’Eglise, and she turned into that. Here
and there a friend caught his hand and he had to pause for a few words
of cordial welcome.

“What now, little one?” as she drew him aside.

She looked up with a sweetly serious expression, though a flush of
half-embarrassment wavered over the small face.

“I went to church every afternoon to say a prayer for you that you might
come home. I thought the good God would rather hear it in His own
house—”

“Did you, my little darling?” he exclaimed, deeply touched.

“And now”—she hesitated—“I think I ought to go and thank Him. Men do
that when the Governor grants their wishes.”

“Yes, yes! And I will go, too.”

Ah! there was much to be thankful for, and he felt a little
conscience-smitten that he had not made more of a point of it.

The church was quite dark, with a candle burning on each side of the
high altar. She led him clear up to the chancel steps, and there they
knelt together. The little girl might not have understood all the fine
points of belief that the world had fought over since Christ had died
for all, and was still warring about, but her gratitude was sincere and
earnest if not spiritual, at least in a devout spirit.

Gaspard Denys was moved by something he had never experienced before,
and touched by the child’s tender, fervent faith.

Coming out, they met old Père Rierceraux, leaning on his cane. He had
been godfather to little Mary Pion, the first child baptised by Father
Meurin when there had been no church at all and only a tent in the
woods. The rude little building was a temple to him, and thither he came
every night to see that no harm was likely to befall it, and commend it
to the watchful care of God.

“It is Gaspard Denys!” he said in a voice a little broken by the weight
of years. “So thou hast come home from perils and hast devotion enough
to thank God and the saints for it. There will be merry hearts to-night,
quite unmindful of this. Ma’m’selle, I have noted thy devoutness also.
The Holy Mother have thee in her keeping.”

It was quite dusk now and the houses were lighted up. At the Pichous’
they were playing already on the fiddles. Then there was this turn.

The good news had preceded Denys. The household had come out to meet him
and there was great joy. Mère Lunde had already set a little feast, and
they wondered at the loitering.

There had never been any welcome like this in his life before, no one to
be greatly glad when he came or sorrowful when he went. It was like a
new life, and his heart expanded, his pulses thrilled with a fervent
joy. The beautiful Indian wife who smiled at him and then turned her
eyes to her husband with an exquisite tenderness; the little girl whose
gladness was so true and deep that her eyes had the soft lustre of tears
now and then, and smiles that went to his heart; Mère Lunde’s happy,
wrinkled old face, in her best coif and kerchief; and presently,
neighbors coming in with joyous greetings. For in those days they shared
each other’s joys and sorrows.

The remembrance of the cruel May day vanished. Flowers were growing over
the graves of the dead in the little churchyard. Many of the captives
had found their way back; some, indeed, lay in silent places far from
kindred. They did not forget, but they were a light-hearted people, and
their religion was not of the morbid, disquieting kind. Conscience with
them had a few salient points of right and wrong, the rest did not touch
their simple lives.

There was a gay autumn, with wine-making and brewing of spiced or plain
beer, of meat and fish salted and dried, of corn gathered and wheat
ground and the thrifty preparations for winter. All the meadow lands
were abloom with autumnal flowers, the trees were gorgeous in all the
coloring sun and winds and dew could devise, and the haze of the
resplendent Indian summer hung over it all. There were nutting parties
to the woods, but they were cautious and went well protected.

Trappers and traders came in, and the talk was of wilderness trails and
Indian villages friendly and unfriendly, of deer and mink and otter and
beaver, sable, marten and beautiful fox and wolfskins from the far
north. Many of the fleets went straight down the river to New Orleans,
others came up from there with beads and gewgaws and spun silk and
threads of various colors, calicoes and blankets and coarse thick stuffs
for tents. There was much dickering, great supplies of arms and
ammunitions, and then the crowd melted away and only familiar faces were
seen again. The country round about put on its white coverlet of snow to
keep warm the little earth children, streams and ponds were frozen over
and all was merriment again.

François Marchand and his pretty wife set up a home of their own only a
short distance away, but business had increased so much that it needed
the attention of both. Next year they would buy some boats or have them
built, and do some trading up and down the river.

André Valbonais was much pleased with his new home and the cordiality of
his relatives. He soon attracted the attention of Colonel Chouteau, for
he had considerable education, and was put in a clerkship, which
gratified him extremely. But he often ran up to the Rue de Rive to chat
with Denys and Marchand over their adventures, and to watch the pretty,
dark-eyed girl who always sat so close to her uncle and held his hand.

And then came the winter gayeties. Throngs of children went out on the
great mound when the snow had a crust on it, and the girls, gathering up
their skirts, squatted down and were given a little push, and away they
went, swift as an arrow. One would tumble over and roll down to the
bottom, throwing about numerous little fleets, but they were so well
wrapped in furs no one was ever hurt. The great achievement was to spin
the whole length without a break.

It was merry again at Christmastide, and Renée enjoyed it much more than
last year; but there was a tender devoutness in her worship. Then the
great Feast of Lights, Epiphany and all the fun and frolic. André was
chosen a king by one of the pretty girls. He was a fine dancer and a
very good-looking young fellow.

Perhaps it made Renée more light-hearted to know that Barbe had a real
lover, and that he hardly allowed her to smile at any one else. She was
not quite betrothed as yet, but there could be no objections. He
belonged to a good New Orleans family, and was in a trading house second
only to the Chouteaus’. All the Guions said it would be an excellent
match, and Barbe was plenty old enough to marry. Bachelor girls had not
come in fashion, and when one had passed twenty the younger girls really
flouted her and thought she ought to step in the background.

She danced once with Gaspard Denys. No, he had never been a real lover.
But if he had not gone to Quebec after this little girl—well, all things
might have been different. And as well Jean Gardepier as any one. She
would go to New Orleans with him when he went down on trading
expeditions, and the gayety would delight her. She would have some fine
clothes and jewels, still she sighed a little when Denys took her back
to her sister.

“And here is Elise the second,” said Madame Renaud gayly. “See what a
tall girl she has grown. You must dance once with her. Oh, how soon they
are women, and then it is lovers and husbands. Gaspard, are you going to
stay single forever?” and Madame laughed softly.

“I’m such an old fellow now! I feel like a grandfather to these young
girls,” he returned jocosely.

But Elise thought him charming, and in her turn almost envied Renée.

Years unmarked by any special events pass on almost unheeded. Trade came
and went. A few new houses were built. Young people were married, new
children were born. Families came from across the river, not liking
their English neighbors over well. Occasionally there was an Indian
alarm, but St. Louis had the good fortune to live mostly at peace with
her red neighbors, while many of the Illinois towns suffered severely.

One of the events of the summer that delighted Renée was the birth of
Wawataysee’s baby. It was a great marvel to her, though there were
plenty of babies about. It was more French than Indian. It had beautiful
large dark eyes and was a very fine specimen of babyhood. It was named
for Uncle Gaspard, who was its godfather, and Wawataysee pleaded that
Renée should be godmother.

“For you are the two people I love best after my husband,” said the
Indian woman proudly. “You are like a little sister.”

Renée was very glad to be that now. She was learning to rejoice in the
happiness of others.

Then Barbe Guion had a very pretty wedding, and the boat in which she
was going to New Orleans was trimmed with flags. It was a long journey
then, sometimes a dangerous one; less so at this season. And Barbe might
be gone a whole year. There was a great turnout to wish her godspeed.
She looked very bright and happy in her wedding gear.

Renée took Uncle Gaspard’s hand and glanced up in his face, which was
rather grave.

“Are you sorry?” she asked.

“Sorry? What a question, child! Why should I be sorry?”

“She loved you very much,” was the answer, in a low tone.

“Nonsense! I am old enough to be her father. And Barbe married of her
own free will.”

“I wish you had been my true father,” Renée subjoined gravely. And
strange to say, she pitied Barbe in her secret heart, yet she was glad
she had gone so far away.

Renée went now and then to see her grandfather. It seemed as if he grew
older and thinner and more morose, yet her sympathy went out to him
curiously. She had heard the talk that he was suspected of being in
league with the river pirates and supplying the Indians with rum, which
was against the laws. One ship had been caught, the pirates
overmastered, four of them sent to New Orleans in irons, and two had
been wounded and drowned in an attempt to swim away. She felt a good
deal troubled. He would not talk of the affair when she mentioned it.

“But you are so lonely here outside the palisade. Why do you not come
in?” she inquired.

“It suits me well enough,” he answered roughly. “I did not ask you to
stay here. And you need not come for my pleasure.”

“But if the Indians should attack you some time?”

“Bah! The Indians know me better,” with a scowl of disdain.

“Is Antoine Freneau my grandfather really?” she asked that evening as
she sat in the moonlight with Denys.

“Why, yes,” in amaze at her question.

“Then it would be wicked not to—to have some regard for him,” she
remarked unwillingly.

Gaspard did not answer at once. Antoine had dropped down year by year.
He had not always been so churlish, though his discourteous, hermit-like
ways were of long standing. He had never doubted but that he had been
the father of the girl he loved, yet she had come up as a lily out of a
quagmire. But how could Renée respect or regard him? And how little he
cared for her!

“That’s a difficult question. We shall have to ask the good père some
day. He understands these matters.”

“But—I belong to you, surely?”

“You belong to me!” He clasped her hand fervently.

“And I shall always stay here?”

“Always, until some young lover comes;” but he drew her closer, as if he
disputed her being taken away.

“You shall be my lover,” with a gay laugh. “If ever I draw a bean at the
king’s ball you shall be my king.”




CHAPTER XIII

PASSING YEARS


Renée de Longueville was fifteen and very fair to look upon, if not as
beautiful as Madame Marchand, or perhaps as some of the belles of the
town. She was slight and not very tall, and her hair had not grown much
darker. Her eyes kept their soft wondering expression, sometimes a
curious depth that told of vehement emotions, ardent joys and a capacity
for suffering. But most people looking at the gay young face when it
smiled would only have read archness and mirth and a great capacity for
enjoyment.

Some curious events had been happening. The colonies had beaten England
and won their freedom, their recognition. From the Atlantic Ocean to the
Mississippi River it was all America. This side of the river it was
Spain still, a kind of French Spain. Commandant Cruzat was well-liked
and very social. Madame was charming. There were balls at the Government
House and at the handsome old Chouteau residence, that had been improved
year by year. A long gallery ran around two sides above the first story,
and it made a delightful place for dancers. The roof was high, with both
ends cut off as it were, broken by two chimneys and two dormer windows.
Downstairs a broad piazza also, and here the gentlemen would sit and
smoke and discuss business and the changes that were going on around
them, while within, Madame Chouteau dispensed charming hospitality.

St. Louis was still in an idyllic state, gay, joyous, friendly and
hospitable, with much simplicity of living. Others besides the Chouteaus
had enlarged their borders. Gaspard Denys had built two rooms and raised
the roof of his house so as to make a storeroom and one little chamber,
where Chloe, the slave, slept. Mère Lunde still took charge of the
house, but Denys insisted she should have some help, and then no
question was made of buying one. They were well treated and had good
homes, and were not overworked.

One of the new rooms was Uncle Gaspard’s, the other Renée’s, while her
old one was transferred to Mère Lunde, who at first thought she could
never sleep on a bedstead. And Renée’s room was quite a marvel of
prettiness. Great strips of white birch bark on which dainty pictures
were worked went from floor to ceiling, while between was soft gray
plaster. Sometimes this was stained in various colors. Then there were
shelves about on which were displayed odd bits of Indian work—a bowl, a
vase, or a pretty basket. Many of these came from Mattawissa’s hands and
not a few from Wawataysee’s.

Now Madame Marchand had a dainty little girl, christened Renée. Her
gracious air, her refinement and beauty, and her romantic story as well,
had made her many friends, and M. Marchand was one of the thriving
business men, very much honored and respected. Not infrequently he and
Gaspard were called into council on some important question.

And though the palisades and gates and towers were still looked upon as
a means of defence, the inhabitants ventured to enlarge their borders
without. Several bands of friendly Indians had settled toward the
northern and western ends. Parties no longer hesitated to wander through
the woods, and the children often went out to pick wild strawberries
that grew so plentifully all about. Then there were grapes and a
delicious kind of wild plum, pears and apples, and melons cultivated in
the gardens, with various small fruits.

Renée de Longueville had come in possession of quite a fortune; at
least, Uncle Gaspard held it in trust for her. And it made her quite a
person of consequence.

Antoine Freneau had grown really afraid to carry on his illicit trade
after the capture of the Red Rover. She had stores for him, and for
weeks he trembled when he saw two or three men approaching his cabin. He
was old and he resolved he would do no more at it. This he tried to
explain to those who came for a supply. True, he brought up his whiskey
and sold it as long as it lasted, but unfortunately the Indians used to
securing their indulgence in that manner would not believe it. They
brought furs, often stolen from the traders, and insisted that he should
exchange. They always came after nightfall, and sped away again in the
dark.

Angry at length at their repeated efforts, he would not open his door.
The bar within was very strong and he felt himself secure. But the old
stanchion had decayed at the ground point, and one night it gave way at
their united efforts.

Antoine found himself defenceless against the angry mob. They bound him
and began to ransack the place. Bringing to light one jug of whiskey,
they were confident there was more. They searched every corner, every
nook, but in vain. And then they fell upon the old man, beat him and
tortured him until he was limp and lifeless they thought, when, taking a
pack of the most valuable furs, they decamped.

It was not until noon of the next day that some one in passing noted the
unusual appearance and halted at the cabin. The old man lay on the
floor. He had revived from unconsciousness, but his hands were securely
fastened behind him, his face was bruised and swollen and everything in
disorder. He gave the alarm and some kindly neighbors came to his
assistance. Then another went for Gaspard Denys.

Perhaps nothing could have happened that would have rehabilitated
Antoine Freneau in the pity and good will of his fellow-men sooner.
Unsocial and under suspicion for years, asking and taking nothing from
them, seldom giving them a good word, his helplessness appealed now to
their sympathy. Gaspard had his wounds and bruises attended to, the
house made a little orderly, and found a slave woman who would care for
him. That he had been robbed was evident. Even the puncheon floor had
been torn up, and disclosed a sort of pit in which something had
evidently been stored.

Old Doctor Montcrevier came, but he shook his head doubtfully. The old
man breathed and occasionally opened heavy, wandering eyes. But on the
third day he rallied.

“Gaspard Denys!” he moaned. “Send—tell him,” and then he lapsed away
again.

Denys came and watched with him through the night. Several times his
name escaped the old man’s lips. Gaspard gave him some brandy he had
brought.

He opened his eyes again and gazed around piteously, resting them
finally upon Gaspard.

“I cannot think,” rubbing his forehead in a dazed fashion. “They were
Indians. They wanted rum. I had none, only one jug I kept in case—in
case I should need it. I am an old man, Gaspard. They—they beat me.”

“Yes. Can you tell who they were? No strange Indians have been seen
about.”

Even here the old man’s cunning came uppermost. He would not betray
himself. He shook his head slowly.

“Some marauding parties. Perhaps from the river.”

“The river! See if they are coming!” starting up in affright.

“No one is coming,” in a reassuring tone.

“Gaspard, am I hurt much? Oh, help me! I do not want to die. I hate
death! I want to live;” and he tried to raise himself, but fell back
exhausted.

“Would you like to have the priest?” Gaspard could think of no other aid
in this extremity.

“No! no! I will not die! They come to your deathbed. Stay with me
yourself.”

“What can I do?”

He was silent a long while. His breath came slowly and with effort, and
shudders ran over him.

“Renée,” he said presently. “You have the child, Gaspard?”

“Yes; you gave her to me.”

“If you had died—your money——”

“I had made a will. Everything would have gone to her.”

“That was right—right. Gaspard, there is some gold—is any one
listening?” moving his eyes in a frightened way.

“No, no!”

“There is some gold and silver put away. You might better take it.
Thieves may come again. Carry me to the chimney.”

He was a heavy burden. Gaspard put him down on some blankets.

“See! Count the stones. The third stone.” The eyes were wild in their
eagerness.

“This!” pointing. “Take it out.”

Gaspard worked with both strength and energy. It was fitted in very
securely, but it gave way at length.

“The next one.”

When that came out a small iron box was visible, and Gaspard worked it
loose.

“Take it with you. It will be hers when I die. There is no one else. But
not until—I have the key—and—but I am not going to die!” with fierce
energy.

“No, no,” soothingly. “Take a little of this cordial.”

But the signs of death were there and Gaspard read them truly. Could he
warn? That was for the priest.

“You are very good.” His voice was much shaken, and shadows seemed to
waver over his eyes. “And I was not good to you, Gaspard Denys, in that
old time. You were but a boy. You had your fortune to make. She loved
you and I meant to wean her away—and—I did not want her to know how I
was—trading. The Count fell in love with her, though when the matter was
most settled he wrung a dowry out of me, curse him! But she was a
Countess. And he should have kept the child. What did he mean by sending
her here?”

He had made many pauses and now lay back exhausted, his face growing
grayer. Gaspard roused the nurse.

“Go up to the church,” he said, “the priest’s house, and bring some one.
Quick! The man is dying.”

It was some time before he roused again.

“Renée,” he murmured, “you will be a great lady in France. Your mother’s
mother was, and fled away because a king loved her. A king!” He laughed
shrilly and a rattle came in his throat. “And you must go back to them,
to your own kind. This wild life is not for you. As for that young
stripling, he is dancing at the Guinolee and singing love songs to
pretty girls. Thou art not the only pretty girl in St. Louis, Renée——”

Then there was a long silence. Once or twice Gaspard thought him dead,
but he started and muttered both French and Indian words. It was near
midnight when the good father came, and he shook his head sadly.

Gaspard roused Antoine a little.

“I fear it is too late,” in a regretful tone, while a look of pity
crossed his face. “Still we must try to the last moment. Antoine
Freneau, it is I, Père Lemoine. Listen! Death is near. Dost thou repent
of thy sins, which have been many, doubtless, hidden from man but not
escaping the eye of God? There may yet be mercy vouchsafed.”

The dying man clutched the blanket and stared dully, yet he seemed to
listen.

“Oh, yes, yes!” he cried suddenly. “At St. Anne’s down the river. Yes,
we both confessed——”

Whether he understood any of the service was doubtful, but the good
priest did his duty according to his conscience and the times. But
before he had ended the last prayer both knew he was dead, and had
passed without a struggle.

“I will stay the rest of the night with you,” said the priest. “And
since you have the child, I suppose you will be the proper person to
take charge. It is supposed the old man had not a little wealth—if the
marauders did not take it all away.”

The woman came in to prepare the body. Round the old man’s neck was a
strong bit of wire like cord, and a key. Gaspard took this. It fitted
the box.

After daylight they took a survey of the place. There were some firearms
stored away, blankets, furs that were motheaten and of little value,
some Indian habiliments; but it was evident the place had been pretty
thoroughly ransacked.

So they buried Antoine Freneau, and for some days it was the sensation
of the little town. Gaspard Denys now took the formal guardianship of
Renée de Longueville. He had the record of her mother’s marriage, her
birth and christening. Some of the goods were worth saving, the others
were distributed among the poorest of the Indians about.

In an old chest of curious workmanship Gaspard found a false bottom. In
this compartment were some laces and embroideries, a wedding veil that
Renée’s grandmother had doubtless worn, the certificate of her marriage
to Antoine Freneau and considerable valuable jewelry, with some unset
stones. And when they examined the strong box it proved an unexpected
fortune for Renée de Longueville.

Then the old house was suffered to go to ruin. Some Indians went
there for shelter, but soon left. They had been roused at midnight
by unearthly noises and seen the figure of old Freneau in its
grave-clothes; so the story gained credence that the place was haunted.
Even after it had fallen into an unsightly heap the mysterious noises
were heard and no one would pass it after nightfall.

Renée was very much shocked at first. She had not loved her grandfather,
but there had always been a curious pity in her tender soul for him in
what she considered his loneliness. She went in the church and prayed
for his soul, for she knew God was merciful. Had He not watched over
Uncle Gaspard and sent him safely home?

And now Renée de Longueville was quite an heiress and had some really
beautiful heirloom jewels, besides the laces and the exquisite veil. Her
grandmother’s people must have been of some account. But no one would
have imagined Antoine Freneau a handsome or attractive young man, and a
favorite among the pretty girls of Old New Orleans. The miser-like
propensities had grown with the years, and he had found, he thought, an
easy way of making money by being in league with the river pirates on
the one hand and roving bands of Indians on the other. He had skilfully
evaded detection if not always suspicion, and now that he had suffered
almost martyrdom in the end, the generous, cordial people were not the
kind to fling up these vague accusations.

So the sorrow was over and it was winter again, full of merriment and
gayety, and lovers wooing young girls. Elise Renaud had been married and
Sophie was quite a belle. Rosalie Pichou was the mother of two babies
and had a comfortable home, though her husband traded with New Orleans
and was often gone months at a time. They had to guard against the river
pirates, who frequently sallied out from some peaceful-looking covert,
hidden by woods or a bend in the stream. Occasionally there were Indians
lying in wait, but the men always went well armed, and generally in
quite a fleet, with the goods, the wheat and corn in barges or
flat-bottomed boats, with several canoes for swiftness if they saw a
chance of chastising their enemies. It was comparatively easy to go down
the river, and as each boat had a mast and sails, they sped along
beautifully in a favorable wind. But coming back was generally the
trial, as the tide was against them. Sometimes two boatmen would walk
along the river bank and pull a rope like the later towing line, while
those on the boat steered and with long poles kept the prow from running
into the bank and avoided the snags.

But before Christmas all the boats that were expected had come in; the
others would remain at New Orleans until more favorable weather. And
this year there was to be a grand ball at the Government House before
the king’s ball took place, for in the last trip up the river several
young men had arrived. One was to be secretary to the Commandant. Two
were on their way to Canada and would start when the spring opened.
