April 19th. 
I saw my soul to-day. It was a bubble, blown 
large, palpitating, whirling over a stormy sea; 
glorious with the rainbow hues it was, but peril- 
ous, abandoned. — Do you catch the feeling of 
my soul? 
Something perilous — I do not much care 
what. A traveler scaling the mountains, leaping 
upon dizzy heights; a gambler staking his for- 
tune, his freedom, his life — upon a cast! 
I will tell you about it. 
It began when I was fifteen. My great-uncle, 
my guardian, is a wholesale grocer in Chicago; 
he has a large palace and a large waistcoat. 
" Will you be a wholesale grocer? " said he. 
" No," said I, " I will not." 
I might have been a partner by this time, had 
I said Yes, and had a palace and a large waist- 
coat too. 
" Then what will you be? " asked the great- 
uncle. 
" I will be a poet," said I. 
" You mean you will be a loafer? " said he. 
" Yes," said I — disliking argument — " I will 
be a loafer." 
And so I went away, and while I went I was 
thinking, far down in my soul. And I said: " It 
must be everything or nothing; either I am a 
poet or I am not. I will act as if I were; I will 
burn my bridges behind me. If I am, I will win 
— for you can not kill a poet; and if I am not, I 
will die." 
Thus is it perilous. 
I fight the fight with all my soul; I give every 
ounce of my strength, my will, my hope, to the 
making of myself a poet. And when the time 
comes I write my poem. Then if I win, I win 
empires; and if I lose — 
" You put all your eggs into one basket," 
some one once said to me. 
" Yes," I replied, " I put all my eggs into one 
basket — and then I carry the basket myself." 
Xow I have come to the last stage of the jour- 
ney — the " one fight more, and the last." And 
can I give any idea of what is back of me, to nene 
me to that fight? I will try to tell you. 
For seven years I have borne poverty and 
meanness, sickness, heat, cold, toil — that I might 
make myself an artist. The indignities, the deg- 
radations — I could not tell them, if I spent all the 
time I have in writing a journal. I have lived in 
garrets — among dirty people — vulgar people — 
vile people; I have worn rags and unclean 
things; I have lived upon bread and water and 
things that I have cooked myself; I have seen my 
time and my strength wasted by a thousand hate- 
ful impertinences — I have been driven half mad 
with pain and rage; I have gone without friends 
— I have been hated by every one; I have 
worked at all kinds of vile drudgery — or stan'ed 
myself sick that I might avoid working. 
But I have said, " I will be an artist! " 
Day and night I have dreamed it; day and 
night I have fought for it. I have plotted and 
planned — I have plotted to save a minute. I 
have done menial work that I might have my 
brain free — all the languages that I know I have 
worked at at such times. I have calculated the 
cost of foods — I have lived on a third of the pit- 
tance I earned, that I might save two-thirds of 
my time. I once washed dishes in a filthy res- 
taurant because that took only two or three hours 
a day. 
I have said, " I will be an artist! I will fix my 
eyes upon the goal; I will watch and wait, and 
fight the fight day by day. And when at last I 
am strong, and when my message is ripe, I will 
earn myself a free chance, and then I will write 
a book. All the yearning, all the agony of this 
my life I will put into it; every hour of trial, 
every burst of rage. I will make it the hope of 
my life, I will write it with my blood — give every 
ounce of strength that I have and every dollar 
that I own; and I will win — I will win! 
" So I will be free, and the horror will be 
over." 
I have done that — I am doing that now. I 
mean to finish it if it kills me. — 
But I was sitting on the edge of the bed to- 
night, and the tears came into my eyes and I 
whispered: " But oh, you must not ask me to do 
any more! I can not do any more! It will leave 
me broken! " 
Only so much weight can a man carry. The 
next pound breaks his back. 
April 22d. 
I am happy to-night; I am a little bit drunk. 
To-day was one day in fifty. Why should it 
be? Sometimes I have but to spread my wings 
to the wind. Yesterday I might have torn my 
hair out, and that glory would not have come to 
me. But to-day I was filled with it — it lived in 
me and burned in me — I had but to go on and 
go on. 
The Captive! It was the burst of rage — the 
first glow in the ashes of despair. I was walking 
up and down the room for an hour, thundering 
it to myself. I have not gotten over the joy of it 
yet: "Thou in thy mailed insolence!" 
I wonder if any one who reads those thirty 
lines will realize that they meant eight hours of 
furious toil on my part! 
Stone by stone I build it. 
The whole possibility of a scene — that is what 
I pant for, always; that it should be all there, and 
yet not a line to spare; compact, solid, each 
phrase coming like a blow; and above all else, 
that it should be inevitable! When you stand 
upon the height of your being, and behold the 
thing with all your faculties — the thing and the 
phrase are one, and one to all eternity. 
April 24th. 
I was looking at a literary journal to-day. 
Oh, my soul, it frightens me! All these libraries 
of books — who reads them, what are they for? 
And each one of them a hope ! And I am to leap 
over them all — I — I? I dare not think about it. 
I have been helpless to-day. I can not find 
what I want — I struggled for hours, I wore my- 
self out with struggling. And I have torn up 
what I wrote. 
Blank verse is such a — such a thing not to be 
spoken of! Is there anything worse, except it 
be a sonnet? How many miles of it are ground 
out every day — sometimes that kind comes to 
me to mock me — I could have written a whole 
poem full of it this afternoon. If there are two 
lines of that sort in The Captive, I'll bum it all. 
An awful doubt came to me besides. Somebody 
had sown it long ago, and it sprouted to- 
day. " Yes, but will it be interesting? " 
Heaven help me, how am I to know if it will 
be interesting? The question made me shudder; 
I have never thought anything about making it 
interesting — I've been trying to make it true. 
Can it possibly be that the ecstasy of one soul, 
the reality of one soul, the quivering, exulting 
life of it — will not interest any other soul? 
" How can you know that what you are do- 
ing is real, anyhow? " The devil would plague 
me to death to-day. " But how many millions 
write poems and think they are wonderful! " 
— I do not believe in my soul to-day, because 
I have none. 
April 25th. 
Would you like to know where I am, and 
how I am doing all these things? I am in a 
lodging-house. I have one of three hall rooms 
in a kind of top half-story. There is room for me 
to take four steps; so it is that I " walk up and 
down " when I am excited. I have tried — I have 
not kept count of how many places — and this is 
the quietest. The landlady's husband has a car- 
penter shop down-stairs, but he is always drunk 
and doesn't work; it has also been providentially 
arranged that the daughter, who sings, is sick for 
some time. Next door to me there is a man who 
plays the 'cello in a dance hall until I know not 
what hour of the night. He keeps his 'cello at 
the dance hall. Next to him is a pale woman who 
sits and sews all day and waits for her drunken 
husband to come home. In front there is some 
kind of foolish girl who leaves her door open in 
the hope that I'll look in at her, and a couple of 
inoffensive people not worth describing. 
I get up — I never know the time in the morn- 
ing; and sometimes I lie without moving for 
hours — thinking — thinking. Or sometimes I 
go out and roam around the streets; or sit per- 
fectly motionless, gazing at the wall. When it 
will not come, I make it. I breakfast on bread 
and milk, and I eat bread and milk at all hours 
of the day when I am hungry. For dinner I cook 
a piece of meat on a little oil-stove, and for sup- 
per I eat bread and milk. The rest of the time I 
am sitting on the floor before the window, writing; 
or perhaps kneeling by the bed with my head 
buried in my arms, and thinking until the room 
reels. When I am not doing that I wander 
around like a lost soul; I can not think of any- 
thing else. — Sometimes when I am tired and 
must rest, I force myself to sit down and write 
some of this. 
I have just forty dollars now. It costs me 
three dollars a week, not including paper and 
typewriting. Thus I have ten or twelve weeks 
in which to finish The Captive — that many and 
no more. 
If I am not finished by that time it will kill 
me; to try to work and earn money in the state 
that I am in just at present would turn me into a 
maniac — I should kill some one, I know. 
I am quivering with nervous tension — every 
faculty strained to breaking; the buzz of a fly is 
a roar to me. I build up these towering castles 
of emotion in my soul, castles that shimmer in 
the sunlight: 
Banners yellow, glorious, golden ! 
And then something happens, and they fall 
upon me with the weight of mountains. 
Ten weeks! And yet it is not that which 
goads me most. 
What goads me most is that I am a captive 
in a dungeon, and am fighting for the life of my 
soul. 
I shall win, I do not fear — the fountains of 
my being will not fail me. I saw my soul a sec- 
ond time to-day; it was no longer the bubble, 
blown large, palpitating. It was a bird resting 
upon a bough. The bough was tossed and flung 
about by a tempest; and a chasm yawned below; 
but the bough held, and the bird was master of 
its wings, and sang. 
The name of the bough was Faith. 
April 27th. 
I have read a great deal of historical romance, 
and a great deal of local color fiction, and a great 
deal of original character-drawing — and I have 
wished to get away from these things. 
There is no local color, and no character- 
drawing, in The Captive. You do not know the 
name of the hero; you do not know how old he 
is, or of what rank he is, at what period or in 
what land he lives. He is described but once. 
He is " A Man." 
My philosophy is a philosophy of will. All 
virtue that I know is conditioned upon freedom. 
The object of all thinking and doing, as I see it, 
is to set men free. 
There is the tyranny of kings — the tyranny 
of force; there is the tyranny of priests — the tyr- 
anny of ignorance; there is the tyranny of soci- 
ety — the tyranny of selfishness and indolence; 
and above all, and including all, and causing all — 
there is the tyranny of self — the tyranny of sin, 
the tyranny of the body. So it is that I see the 
world. 
So it is that I see history; I can see nothing 
else in history. The tyranny of kings and 
nobles, the tyranny of the mass and the in- 
quisition, the tyranny of battle and murder 
and crime — how was a man to live in those 
ages? 
How is a man to live in this age? The tyr- 
anny of kings and of priests is gone, and from 
the tyranny of industrialism the individual can 
escape. But the lightning — is not that an inqui- 
sition? And if it comes after you, will it not find 
out all your secrets? And the tyranny of hurri- 
cane and shipwreck, of accident, disease, and 
death? Any tyranny is all tyranny, I say; and 
the existence of tyranny is its presence. 
It is conceivable that some day the sovereign 
mind may shake off its shackles, and the tyranny 
of matter be at an end. But that day is not yet; 
and meanwhile, the thing existing, how shall a 
man be free? That has been the matter of my 
deepest brooding. 
This much I have learned: 
The man may accept this life, if it please him, 
and its chances; but while he does he can never 
be a soul. So long as he accepts this life and its 
chances, he is the slave of tyranny. When the 
day comes that mind is sovereign, I will give my- 
self into the hands of this life. But meanwhile I 
will know myself for what I am. — a bubble upon 
the surface of a whirling torrent, an insect borne 
aloft upon a flying wheel. 
It is by your will that you are free; by your 
will you are one with the infinite freedom, by 
your will you are master of time and your fate, 
lord of the stars and the endless ages, thinker of 
all truth, hearer of all music, beholder of all 
beauty, doer of all righteousness. That is the 
truth which I have brought out of my deepest 
brooding. 
So long as your happiness is in anything 
about yourself — your wealth, or your fame, or 
your life — you are not free. So long as your hap- 
piness is in houses and lands, in sons and in 
daughters, you are not free. You give one atom 
of your soul to these things at your own peril; 
for when your hour comes you tear them from 
you, though they be as your eyes; and by your 
will you save your soul alive. 
Therefore I write The Captive. I put aside 
childish things — I grip my hands upon naked 
ReaHty. 
There are nine characters in The Captive: a 
tyrant, two slaves, six guests, and a man. There 
are two scenes — a dungeon, and a banquet-hall. 
A tyrant: I understand by a tyrant a man 
whose happiness is the unhappiness of others. 
I read of the discoverers of Mexico, and how they 
found a pyramid of human skulls, raised as a 
monument; that has been to me, ever since, the 
type of tyranny. The forms of tyranny vary 
through the ages, but the principle is always the 
same; a tyrant is a man who is made great by 
the toil and sorrow of others. 
The slave also remains the same through all 
time; and likewise the guest. The guest is the 
man who takes the world as he finds it, and likes 
a good dinner. The population of society is 
made up of tyrants, slaves, and guests. 
The man is a character of my own imagining. 
The first scene of The Captive is the dun- 
geon. When I was very young I was in Europe, 
and I was in a dungeon; I have never forgotten 
it. There enter the tyrant and the two slaves 
with the man. They chain him to the wall, and 
then the tyrant speaks. That first speech — I 
have written it now — I have gotten the hammer- 
thuds! Tyranny is an iron thing — you had to 
feel the tread of it, the words had to roll like thun- 
der. It is an advantage to me that I am full of 
Wagner; I always hear the music with my poet- 
ry. (I shall be disappointed if some one does not 
make an opera out of The Captive.) 
The man is there, and he is there forever. 
After that, once a day, bread and water are 
shoved in through an opening. But the door of 
the dungeon does not open again until the last 
act — when ten years have passed. 
That is all. And now the man will battle with 
that problem. Will he go mad with despair? 
Will he sink into a wild beast? Will he commit 
suicide? Or what will he do? Day by day he 
sinks back from the question, numb with agony; 
day by day the grim hand of Fate drags him to 
it; and so, until from the chaos of his soul he 
digs out, blow by blow, a faith. 
Here there will be Reality; no shams and no 
lies will do here — here is iron necessity, and cries 
out for iron truth. God — duty — will — virtue — 
let such things no more be names, let us see what 
they are! 
These are awful words. Sometimes I shrink 
from this thing as from fire, sometimes I rush to 
it with a song; I am writing about it now because 
I am worn out, and yet I can not think of any- 
thing else. 
This man will find the truth; being delivered 
from the captivity of the world and set free to be 
a soul. Superstition blinds him; doubt and de- 
spair and weakness blind him ; but still he gropes 
and strives, cries out and battles for truth; until 
at last, shut up in his own being, he tears his way 
out to the very source of it, and knows for himself 
what it is. Infinite it is, and unthinkable; glori- 
ous, all-consuming, all-suffering; food and drink, 
friendship and love, ambition and victory, joy, 
power, and eternity it is to him who £nds it; and all 
things in this world are nothing to him who iinds it. 
And so comes the victory to this soul. Hour 
by hour he catches gleams of the light; day by 
day he toils toward it, with fear and agony and 
prayer; until at last he knows his salvation — to 
rest never, and to toil always, and to dwell in this 
Presence of his God. In one desperate hour he 
flings away the world and the hope of the world, 
and vows this consecration, and lives. 
He keeps the vow; it is iron necessity that 
drives him. He finds himself, he finds his way — 
each day his step is surer. 
Each day the channels of his being deepen. 
He lays broad plans for his life — he gathers all 
knowledge, he solves all problems; lord of the 
infinite mind, he ranges all existence, and beholds 
it as the symbol of himself. Into the deeps and 
yawning spaces of it he plunges; blind, he sees 
what men have never seen; deaf, he hears what 
men have never heard — singer he is, prophet and 
poet and maker. New worlds leap into being in 
the infinite fulness of his heart, visions of endless 
glory that make his senses reel; as a column of 
incense towering to the sky is the ecstasy of his 
adoration and his joy. 
And so the long years roll by; and the un- 
conquered spirit has left tiie earth: left time and 
space and self, and dwells where never man 
has dwelt before. And then one day the door 
of the dungeon is opened, and his chains are 
shattered, and the slaves lead him up to the 
light of day. 
It is the banquet-hall; and there is the tyrant, 
and there the guests — there is the world. 
He is aged, and weak, and white, and terri- 
ble. They stare at him; and he stares at them, 
for he is dazed. They begin to mock at him, and 
then at last he realizes, and he covers his face and 
weeps — beholding the world, and the way that it 
must come. They jeer at him, they strike him; 
and when he answers not, they call to the slaves 
to torture him. 
This man has lived for ten years with himself. 
He is nothing but a will. And now they will con- 
quer him ! 
I recall the highest moment of my being. I 
saw that moment, and all the others of my life. 
I saw them as something that I could not bear to 
see, and I cried out that from that hour I would 
change them. I have not kept the vow; there 
was no one to drive me. 
But this man they drive; they pinch him and 
burn him and tear him; they crush his limbs, 
they break his bones, they grind his flesh, they 
make his brain a living fire of anguish. And he 
fights them. 
Into the deep recesses of his being goes the 
cry — for all that he has — for all that he is! For 
every ounce of his strength, for every throb of his 
will, for every vision, every truth that he knows! 
To bear this, to save him here! And so he 
wrestles, so he rises, so he gropes and gasps; and 
in the moment of his fiercest straining, with the 
throb of all his being he bursts the barrier, he 
rends the veil; and infinite passion rolls in in 
floods upon him, he clutches all existence in his 
arms; and from his lips there bursts a mad fren- 
zied shout of rapture — that makes his tortur- 
ers stand transfixed, listening, trembling with 
terror. 
And so they drag him back to his dun- 
geon; and there, unable to move, he lies upon 
the stones and pants out his ecstasy and his 
life. 
That is The Captive. 
April 29th. 
What counts in this thing is momentum — 
spiritual momentum. You are filled with it all 
the time, it never leaves you; it drives behind 
you like a gale of wind; it roars in your ears 
when you are awake, it rocks you to sleep when 
you are weary; whenever you are dull or do not 
heed it, it nags at you, it goads you, it beats into 
your face. Each day it is more, each day it is 
harder, more unattainable; but only do not stop, 
it carries you with it like a wave; you motmt 
upon each days achievement to reach the next, 
you move with the power of all the days before. 
It is momentum that counts. 
Do not stop. — I or- it all day — Do not stop! 
April 30th. 
It is weak of me, but sometimes I can not 
help but look ahead — and think that it is done! 
I could not find any words to tell the joy that 
that will be to me — to be free, after so long — to 
be free! 
I do not care anything about the fame — it 
would not be anything to me to be a great author. 
If it could be done, nothing would please me bet- 
ter than to publish it anonymously — to let no one 
ever know that it was mine. If I could only have 
the little that I need to be free, I would publish 
all that I might ever write anonymously. 
Yes, that is the thing that makes my blood 
bound. To be free! Let it only be done — let it 
only be real, as it will be — and the naked force of 
it will shake men to the depths of their souls. I 
could not write it, if I did not believe that I was 
writing words that would grip the soul of any 
man — I care not how dull or how coarse he 
might be. 
I finished the first act just now. 
May 1st. 
I am wild to-day. Oh, how can I bear this — 
why should I have to contend with such things 
as this! Is it not hard enough — the agony that 
I have to bear, the task that takes all my strength 
and more? And must I be torn to pieces by such 
hideous degradation as this? Oh, my God, if 
my life is not soon clear of these things I shall 
die! 
Oh, it is funny — yes, funny! — Let us laugh at 
it. The dance-hall musician has brought home 
his 'cello! I heard him come bumping up the 
stairs with it — God damn his soul! And there 
he sits, sawing away at some loathsome jig tunes! 
And he has two friends in there — I listen to their 
wit between the tunes. 
Here I sit, like a wild beast pent in a cage. ' I 
tell you I can bear any work in the world, but 
I can not bear things such as this. That I, who 
am seeking a new faith for men — who am writ- 
ing, or trying to write, what will mean new life to 
millions — should have my soul ripped into 
pieces by such loathsome, insulting indignities! 
Oh, laugh! — but I can't laugh — I sit here 
foaming at the lips, and crying! And suppose 
he's lost his position, and does this every day! 
Now every day I must lay aside what I am do- 
ing and sit and shudder when I hear him coming 
up the steps — and wait for him to begin this! I 
tell you, I demand to be free — I demand it! I 
want nothing in this world but to be let alone. 
I don't want anybody to wait on me. — I don't 
want anything from this hellish world but to be let 
alone! 
It is pouring rain outside, and my overcoat is 
thin; but I must go out and pace the streets and 
wait until a filthy Dutchman gets through scrap- 
ing ragtime on a 'cello. 
All day wasted! All day! Does it not seem 
that these things persecute you by system? I 
came in, cold and wet, and got into bed, and then 
he began again ! And the friends came back and 
they had beer, and more music. And I had to 
get up and put on the wet clothes once more. 
May 2d. 
I was crouching out on one of the docks last 
night. I had no place else to go. I can think 
anywhere, if it is quiet. 
A wonderful thing is the night. I bless Thee 
for the night, oh " siisse, heilige Natur "! 
It was a voice in my soul, as clear as could be. 
— She can not bear too long the sight of men, 
sweet, holy Nature: the swarming hives — the 
millions of tiny creatures, each drunk and blind 
with his own selfishness; and so she lays her 
great hand upon it all, and hides it out of her 
sight. 
Once it was all silent, and formless as the 
desert; soon it shall all be silent and formless 
again; and meanwhile — the night, the night! 
Oh, I hunger for the desert! I do not care 
for beauty — I have no time for beauty, I want the 
earth stem and forbidding. Give me some place 
where no one else would want to go — an iron 
crag where the oceans beat — a mountain-top 
where the lightning splinters on the rocks. 
I go at it again. But I am nervous — these 
things get me into such a state that I simply can 
not do anything. It was not merely yesterday — 
I have it constantly. The dirty chambermaid 
singing, or yelling down to the landlady; the 
drunken man swearing at his wife; the boys 
screaming in the street and kicking a tomato-can 
about. When I think of how much beauty and 
power has been shattered in my life by such 
things as these, it brings tears of impotent rage 
into my eyes. 
I must be free — oh, I must be free ! 
It comes strangely from the author of The 
Captive, does it not? 
I give all my life to my work, and sometimes, 
when I am broken like this, I wonder if I do not 
give too much. Once I climbed to a dizzy 
height, and I cried out a dizzy truth: 
" O God, how as nothing in Thy sight are 
my writings! " 
I do not know if I shall ever reach that height 
again. 
May 3d. 
I have not one single beautiful memory in 
my life. I have nothing in my life that, when I 
think of it, does not make me writhe. 
To all that I have lived, and known, and seen, 
I have but one word, one cry — Away! Away! 
Let me get away from it! Let me get away from 
cities, let me get away from men, let me out of 
my cage! Let me go with my God, let me for- 
get it all — put it away forever and ever! Let 
me no longer have to plot and plan, to cringe 
and whimper, to barter my vision and my hours 
for bread ! 
Who knows what I suffer — who has any idea 
of it? To have a soul like a burning fire, to be 
hungry and swift as the Autumn wind, to have a 
heart as hot as the wild bird's, and wings as eager 
— and to be chained here in this seething hell of 
selfishness, this orgy of folly. 
Ah, and then I shut my hands together. No, 
I am not weak, I do not spend my time chafing 
thus ! I have fought it out so far — 
" I was ever a fighter, so one fight more ! " 
I will go back, and I will hammer and ham- 
mer again — grimly — savagely — day by day. 
And out of the furnace of my soul I will forge a 
weapon that will set me free in the end — I think. 
May 4th. 
I wrote a little poem once. I remem- 
bered two lines of it — a nature description; they 
were not great lines, but there flashed over me 
to-day an application of them that was a stroke 
of genius, I believe. I was passing the Stock 
Exchange. It was a very busy day. I climbed 
one of the pillars, in spirit, and wrote high above 
the portals: 
Where savage beasts through forest midnight roam, 
Seeking in sorrow for each other's joy. 
May 5th. 
A dreadful thing is unbelief! A dreadful 
thing it is to be an infidel! 
— That is what all men cry nowadays — there 
is so much infidelity in the world — it is the curse 
of our modern society — it is everywhere — it is 
all-prevailing! 
I had a strange experience to-day, Sunday. 
I went into a church, and high up by the altar, 
dressed in solemn garb and ofifering prayers to 
God — I saw an infidel ! 
He preached a sermon. The theme of his 
sermon was " Liberalism." 
" These men," cried the preacher, " are blind- 
ing our eyes to our salvation, they are under- 
mining, day by day, our faith! They tell us 
that the sacred word of God is 'literature'! 
And they show us more ' literature ' ; but oh, 
my friends, what new Bible have they shown 
us!" 
As I got up and went out of that church, I 
whispered: " What a dreadful thing it is to be an 
infidel! " 
Oh Dante and Goethe and Shakespeare — oh 
Wordsworth and Shelley and Emerson! Oh 
thrice-anointed and holy spirits! What a dread- 
ful thing it is to be an infidel! 
What a dreadful thing it is to believe in a 
Bible, and not to believe in literature — to believe 
in a Bible and not to believe in a God! 
You think that this world lives upon the 
revelation of two thousand years ago! Fool — 
this world lives as your body lives by the beat- 
ing of its heart — upon the revelation and the 
efifort of each instant of its hfe. And to-day 
or to-morrow the great Revealer might send 
to some lonely thinker in his garret a new 
word that would scatter to dust and ashes 
all laws and all duties that now are known to 
men. 
There are many ways to look at the world, 
and always a deeper one. I see it as a fearful 
thing, towering, expanding, upheld by the toil 
and the agony of millions. Who will bring us 
the new hope, the new song of courage, that it go 
not down into the dust to-day? 
To do that there is the poet; to live and to 
die unheeded, and to feed for ages upon ages the 
hungry souls of men — that is to be a poet. 
Therefore will he sing, and sing ever, and die in 
the sweetness of his song. 
When I think of that — not now as I write 
it here in bare words — but in quivering reality, 
it is a hand upon my forehead, and a presence in 
the room. 
May 6th. 
Chiefest of all I think of my country! Pas- 
sionately, more than words can utter, I love this 
land of mine. If I tear my heart till it bleeds and 
pour out the tears of my spirit, it is for this con- 
secration and this hope — it is for this land of 
Washington and Lincoln. There never was any 
land like it — there may never be any like it again; 
and Freedom watches from her mountains, trem- 
bling. 
— It is a song that it needs, a song and a 
singer; to point it to its high design, to thrill it 
with the music of its message, to shake the heart 
of every man in it, and make him bum and dare! 
For the first time there is Liberty; for the first 
time there is Truth, and no shams and no lies, 
enthroned. The news of it has gone forth like 
the sound of thunder, and has shaken all the 
earth: that man at last may five, may do what he 
can and will! 
— And to what is it? Is it to the heaping up 
of ugly cities, the packing of pork and the gather- 
ing of gold? That is the thing that I toil for — 
to tear this land from the grasp of mean men 
and of merchants! To take the souls of my 
countrymen into the high mountains with me, 
to thrill them with a soaring, strong resolve! 
Living things shall come from this land of mine, 
Hving things before I die, for the hunger of it 
bums me, and will not ever let me rest. Free- 
dom! freedom! And stem justice and honor, 
and knowledge and power, and a noonday blaze 
of light! 
Arise in thy majesty, confronting the ages I 
Stretch out thine arms to the millions that shall be! 
Justice thine inheritance, God thy stay and sustenance, 
My country, to thee!
Those are feeble words. If this were a book, 
I would tear it all up. 
I wonder if any one will ever read this. As a 
matter of fact, I suppose ten people will read gos- 
sip about the book for every one who reads the 
book. 
This is just a month from the beginning. A 
month to-day! Yes — I have done my share, I 
have done a third of it — a third ! 
But the end is so much harder! 
May 9th. 
I have been for two days in the mire. I was 
disturbed, and then I was sluggish. Oh, the slug- 
gishness of my nature! 
If ever I am a great poet, I will have made 
myself that by the power of my will; that is a fact. 
I am by nature a great clod — I feel nothing, I 
care about nothing. I look at the flowers as a 
cow chewing its cud. — It is only that I will to do 
right. 
Sometimes the sight of my dulness drives me 
wild. Then again I merely gaze at it. I try 
time and again to get my mind on my work, and 
something — anything, provided it is trivial 
enough — turns me aside. Just now I saw a 
spider-web, and that made me think of Bruce, and 
thence I went by way of Walter Scott to Pales- 
tine, and when I came to I was writing a song for 
— who was the minstrel? — to sing outside of the 
prison of Coeur de Lion. 
I go wandering that way — sometimes I sit 
so for an hour; and then suddenly I leap up with 
a cry. But I may try all I please — I don't care 
anything about the work — it doesn't stir me — 
the verses I think of make me sick. And then I 
remember that I have only so many weeks 
more; and what it will mean to fail; and that 
makes me desperate, but doesn't help. 
When I have stopped at some resting-place 
in the poem, I can get going again. But now I 
have stopped in the middle of a climax; and the 
number of times that I have read that last line, 
trying to find another — Great heavens! 
But I can not find another word. I am in de- 
spair. 
I know perfectly well what I shall do, only I 
am a coward, and do not do it. I shall stay in 
this state till my rage has heaped itself up enough 
and breaks through everything at last. And 
then I shall begin to hammer myself! to swear 
at myself in a way that would make a longshore- 
man turn white. And I shall spend perhaps two 
or three hours — perhaps two or three days — 
doing that, until I am quite in a white heat; and 
then — I shall go to my work. 
That is the price I pay for being distracted. 
May nth. 
I said to myself the day before yesterday — 
with a kind of a dry sob — " I can't do it! I can't 
doit!" 
Oh how tormented I am by noises — noises! 
What am I not tormented by? Some days ago 
I was writing in a frenzy — and the landlady came 
for her rent. And the horrible creature standing 
there, talking at me! "So lonely! — don't ever 
see people! Mrs. Smithers was a-saying — " Oh, 
damn Mrs. Smithers! 
I thought I could never do it — I was really 
about to give it up. I went out on the street — I 
roamed about for hours, talking I don't know 
what nonsense to myself. And then at last I 
came home, and I knelt down there at the bedside 
and said: "Here you stay without anything to 
eat until you've written ten Hnes of that poem! " 
And that was how I did it. I stayed there, 
and I prayed. I don't often pray, but that time 
I prayed like one possessed — I was so lonely and 
so helpless — and the work was so beautiful. I 
stayed there for nine blessed hours, and then the 
clock stopped and I couldn't count after that. 
But the day came, and then the ten lines! 
And so I had my breakfast. 
These things leave you weak, but a little less 
dull. 
May 13th. 
I have been working with a kind of wild des- 
peration all day to-day. Oh it hurts — it hurts — 
but I am doing it! Whenever I read some lines 
of it that are real — whenever some great living 
phrase flashes over me — then I laugh like a man 
in the midst of a battle. 
I shall be just as a man who has been through 
a battle; haggard and wild and desperate. Oh, 
I don't think I shall ever have the courage to do 
it again! 
I did not know what it meant! I did not! It 
was giving myself into the hands of a fiend! 
All great books will be something different 
to me after this. Did Shakespeare write thus 
with the blood of his soul? Or am I weak? Did 
he ever cry out in pain, as I have? 
May 14th. 
Another day of raw torture. It is like toiling 
up a mountain side; and your limbs are of lead. 
It is like struggling in a nightmare, — that is just 
what it is hke. It is sickening. 
But then you dare not stop. It is hard to go 
on, but it is ten times as hard to start if you stop. 
I could hardly stand up this afternoon! but 
the thing was ringing in my ears — it went on 
and on — I had to go after it ! I was in the seventh 
heaven — I could see anything, dare anything, 
do anything. It made no difference how hard — 
it called to me — on — on! And I said: "Sup- 
pose I were to be tortured — could I go then? " 
And so I went and went. 
I haven't written it down yet; I felt sick. But 
I know it all. 
Oh men — oh my brothers — will you love me 
for this thing? 
May 16th. 
I did no writing yesterday or to-day. I have 
been terribly frightened. 
I wrote what I had to write the day before 
yesterday — I could not help it. But when I 
stopped my head was literally on fire, and the 
strangest mad throbbing in it — I stood still in 
fear, it felt so as if something were going to 
burst — my head seemed to weigh a ton. I 
poured cold water over it, but it made no dif- 
ference — it stayed that way all night and all 
yesterday. 
What am I to do? I dare not think — I took 
a long walk, and even now I find myself thinking 
of the book without knowing it. Imagine me 
sitting on a doorstep and playing for two hours 
with a kitten! 
Why should I be handicapped in such a way 
as this? I had never thought of such a thing. 
I was thinking about The Captive — it is my 
own. Nobody has helped me — I have told not 
one person of it. Everything in it has come out 
of my soul. 
May 17th. 
I feel better to-day, but I hardly know what 
to do. 
Meantime I was happy! — Think of a poet's 
being happy with city flowers! of a poet's being 
happy with store-flowers — prostitute-flowers — 
flowers for sale ! 
It was all about a narcissus — " Very flower of 
youth, and morning's golden hour! " — as I called 
it once. And it danced so! (It was out on the 
curbstone) — and I went off happy. 
Then I thought of a poem that is pure dis- 
tilled ecstasy to my spirit. I will write it, and be 
happy again : 
Sit thee by the ingle, when 
The sear faggot blazes bright ; 
Spirit of a winter's night ! — ... 
Sit thee there, and send abroad. 
With a mind self-overaw'd, 
Fancy, high-commission'd : — send her ! 
She has vassals to attend her ; 
She will bring, in spite of frost. 
Beauties that the earth hath lost; 
She will bring thee, all together, 
All delights of summer weather ; 
All the buds and bells of May, 
From dewy sward or thorny spray ; 
All the heaped Autumn's wealth, 
With a still, mysterious stealth ; 
She will mix those pleasures up. 
Like three fit wines in a cup. 
And thou shall quaff it ! 
Ah ! And so I went along, " sun, moon, and 
stars forgot " — laughing and half dancing. Peo- 
ple stared at me — and I laughed. And then I 
passed three pretty girls, and I laughed, and they 
laughed too. I guess they thought I was going 
to follow them. 
— But that pleasure was not in my cup, dear 
girls. 
Some of these days I hope to live in a beauti- 
ful world, where a man may speak to a pretty 
girl on the street. Badness is its own punish- 
ment, let the bad world observe. 
I would rather look at a beautiful woman 
than do anything else I know of in this world, 
except listen to music. 
May 18th. 
I often think how I shall spend my money 
after The Captive is done. I shall take a band of 
chosen youths, seekers and worshipers, and we 
shall build a house on a mountain-top and wor- 
ship the Lord in the beauty of music ! 
I shall have to begin at the beginning — I have 
never had any one to teach me music. But oh, 
if I did know! — And if Lever got hold of an 
orchestra — how I would make it go! 
And in the middle of it the astonished orches- 
tra would see the conductor take wings unto 
himself and fly off through the roof. 
A book that I mean to write some day will 
be called The Pleasures of Music, and it will sing 
the joys of being clean and strong, of cold water 
and the early morning and a free heart. It will 
show how all the unhappiness of men is that they 
live in the body and in self, and how the world is 
to be saved through music, which is not of the 
body, nor of self — which is free and infinite, 
swift as the winds, vast as the oceans, endless as 
time, and happy as whole meadows of flowers! 
The more who come to partake of it, the better 
it is; for generous is " Frau Musika," her heart 
is made wholly of love. 
— And when I have shown all these things, 
Frau Musika, I shall tell of the golden lands that 
I have visited upon the wings of thy spirit! — 
What objects are the fountains 
Of thy happy strain ! 
What fields or waves or mountains. 
What shapes of sky or plain ! 
What love of thine own kind, virhat ignorance of pain ! 
May 20th. 
I live among the poor people and that keeps 
me humble. There is not much chance for free- 
dom, I hear them say, there are not many who 
can dwell in the forests. Prove your right to it 
— prove what jou can do — the law is stem. I 
am not afraid of the challenge; I will prove what 
I can do. 
But I see one here and there with whom the 
law is not so strict, I think. 
I met a merchant the other night. I dreamed 
of him. He said: " I buy such goods as men 
need; I buy them as cheaply as I can, since life 
is grim. I sell them as cheaply as I can, since 
men are poor and suffering. I make of profit 
what I need to live humbly. I am not of the 
world's seekers; I am of the finders." 
I met also a guileless fool. 
We passed a great mansion. " I should like 
to know the man who lives there," said the 
fool. 
" Should you? " said I. 
" Is he a hero? " asked the fool. 
" Xo," said I. 
" Is he a poet? " asked the fool. 
" Xo," said I, 
" Must he not be verj- beautiful," said the 
fool, " that men judge him worthy of so much 
beauty? " 
May 21st. 
I must finish this thing this time! That cry- 
rings in my ears night after night. I am toiling 
upward — upward — I can see no sign of the end 
yet — but I must finish this time! If I had to stop 
with this thing haunting me — if I had to go out 
into that jungle of a world with this weight upon 
me — to repress myself with this fire in my heart 
— I could not bear it — I could not bear it ! 
And if I stopped and went out into that world 
again — how many weeks of agony would it cost 
me to get back to where I am now ! 
I must finish this time! 
May 22d. 
" No, ofificer, I am neither a burglar nor a 
highwayman, nor anything else worth bother- 
ing; I'm just a poet, and I'm crazy, to all prac- 
tical purposes, so please get used to me and let 
me wander about the streets at these strange 
hours of the night without worrying! " 
Poor, perplexed policeman! Poor, per- 
plexed world! Poor, perplexed mothers and 
fathers, sisters and cousins and aunts of poets! 
Mit deinen schwarzbraunen Augen 
Siehst du mich forschend an : 
" Wer bist du, ufid was fehlt dir, 
Du fremder, kranker Mann ! " 
Who does not love the poet Heine — melo- 
dious, beautiful, bitter soul? Is there any other 
poet who can mingle, in one sentence, savage 
irony and tenderness that brings tears into 
the eyes? "Who can tell the secret of his 
flower-like verses? 
Ich bin ein deutscher Dichter, 
Bekannt im deutschen Land ; 
Nennt man die besten Namen 
So wild auch der meine genannt. 
Und was mir fehlt, du Kleine, 
Fehlt manchem im deutschen Land ; 
Nennt man die schlimmsten Schmerzen, 
So wird auch die meine genannt ! 
I have never seen but one beautiful thing in 
New York, and that is its mighty river in the 
night-time. I wander down to the docks when 
my work is done, and when it is still; I sit and 
gaze at it until the city is quite gone, and all its 
restlessness, — until there is but that grave pres- 
ence, rolling restlessly, silently, as it has rolled for 
ages. It makes no comments; it has seen many 
things. 
To-night I sat and watched it till a tangled 
forest sprang up about me, and I saw a strange, 
high-bowed, storm-beaten craft glide past me, 
ghostly white, its ghostly sailors gazing ahead 
