"Here, you are to have a room to yourself, though I expect to-morrow
Uncle Jason will whisk you off. That old couple downstairs, Mr. and
Mrs. White, have Mrs. Van Dorn's room. And she's careering around Europe
like any young thing! She does surprise me. Now when you are ready come
down, for we are just dying to inspect you and see how much you have
changed."
Helen recalled the fact that a year ago she thought this the most
beautiful place imaginable. There was the tall, slim rowan-tree, full of
green berries that would hang out beads of red flame in the autumn, the
tamarack with its sprays of delicate leaves, the big, burly, black
walnut on the corner, the wild clematis and Virginia creeper, the prim
flower-beds.
"There will be plenty of time to look at them through the summer," she
thought, so she bathed her face, brushed her hair, shook out the pretty
plissé shirtwaist she had in her satchel, tied a blue ribbon round her
neck and looked as fresh as a just opened flower.
CHAPTER XVI
HOPE THROUGH A WIDER OUTLOOK
She had on nice-fitting button boots with heels only moderately high, a
dark-blue, thin summer-cloth skirt up to her ankles, with several rows
of stitching through the hem, the crumply white plissé waist that fell
like drapery about shoulders and arms, her hair was a mass of braids at
the back with a straight parting from forehead to crown, some short
curling ends about the edge of her fair brow, and the blue of her eyes
was many shades deeper than the ribbon around her neck. Mrs. Van Dorn
was no more anxious to have her a young lady than Mr. Warfield.
She was just a bright, intelligent, good-looking girl, who would never
be girlishly pretty, but something better, perhaps a handsome woman at
five-and-twenty, and always attractive from the sort of frank sweetness,
the wholesomeness of the thorough girl.
Mr. Warfield felt rather vexed at being disappointed, yet down in his
heart he was glad she was fulfilling the sort of ideal he had of her,
the girl she might become with proper training, he had often said, even
to Mrs. Dayton. He thought he should know on just what lines to develop
the best and highest in her. He held a very good opinion of a man's
training for certain natures, and hers was one. Then he felt a little
sore at not being able to keep a sort of supervision over her by letter.
But when she came and sat down by him in that unaffected manner and
looked out of such frank eyes; smiled with an every-day cordiality, as
if the smile was in constant use, he was a little nonplused.
"What have you been doing this whole year?" he asked with interest.
"Could you pass an examination for the High School?"
"Oh, do you remember how frightened I was? But some of the questions
would not cause me five minutes' thought now. I've had a magnificent
time with history and literature, and a tough time with Latin. It is one
of the things I have to delve at this summer. It seems to me most of my
life is school life. I can't stop anywhere. Something is thrust at me
all the time."
"You used to love to study," complainingly.
"I love it yet. Botany is delightful, it is so full of live wonders. I
do not care so much for chemistry. And physics----"
"They require close attention. And what accomplishments?" in a
dissatisfied tone.
"French that I am not in love with, but Mrs. Van Dorn insists upon it,
and the piano, drawing, and painting."
"A waste of time most of them," he commented severely.
"Sketching is very fascinating."
"And a camera can give you the picture twice as well."
"Some of the Seniors do beautiful work. One of them goes abroad to study
and perfect herself in art. Miss Gertrude Aldred will go after next
year."
"That may be very well for pastime, or waste-time," with a touch of
sarcasm, "but I don't suppose any of these girls could get their living
at it?"
"I don't know as they will be compelled to."
"But everybody has to be put through the same mill, I suppose?"
"Not exactly. Some studies are elective. Three of the girls go to
college. Of course many of them do not expect to turn their education
to any account. I should like to know just what I am to do with mine,"
and she laughed softly.
"I thought you once looked up to teaching as a sort of glorified
existence."
The touch of irony did not hurt her at all.
"I still think it one of the finest professions. Only--I should like to
have a school of smart, eager children, and go on and on with them. I
think it must be very hard to take up a new dull class every season."
"It is," he returned frankly. "It was one of the drawbacks, like going
down to the foot of your own class."
"So I think I shall have a boarding school and keep the girls year after
year."
"Well, are you deep in metaphysics or transcendentalism?" asked a
cheerful voice, as Mrs. Dayton's ample figure emerged from the door-way.
"You do not seem to be 'sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought.'
That is an old-fashioned quotation and was in the copy books at school
in my day, when to be thin and pale was the mark of a student. And
wasn't midnight oil another? You do not show marks of either, Helen."
"Oh, the lights are out and we have to be in bed at ten. We can rise as
early as we like in the morning, however," laughed Helen.
"Numbers of the old ideas have been exploded. Still, we must admit they
made some good scholars. The students were more in earnest, they were
not so superficial."
"But it takes a long while to learn everything thoroughly. That is where
teachers and professors have the advantage, they can spend their whole
lives over it," exclaimed Helen. "Honestly," and a rather mischievous
light flashed across her face, "I do not think the average girl is a
born student. Perhaps the boy isn't either. But there seem to be so many
things in a girl's life, so many sides to it"--and a thoughtful crease
came in her forehead.
"You have found that out early. But the successes must be able to do
several things well, and to bring knowledge into action, not have a lot
of useless matter stored up in the brain waiting for the time to make it
serviceable, and then it is not fresh, often not useful."
"Like the old clothes you pile up in the garret," interpolated Mrs.
Dayton. "They are out of date and moth-eaten. There are many things it
is not worth while to save up. I have a boarder here who has saved up
all her troubles since she was ten years old, and lives them over, takes
them out and puts them back. She is a well-informed woman, too. There is
the bell, so come in to dinner."
There were only Mr. and Mrs. White, Mrs. Carson, the woman of many
troubles, and Mr. Conway, who gave Helen a warm welcome, but was amazed
at the change in her.
They talked a little over the last summer's guests. "Miss Lessing was
married and the younger girl engaged. The Disbrowes had gone West. And
truly I wouldn't mind having Mrs. Van Dorn again. She certainly is an
uncommon woman and does enjoy life on all sides. And it is curious the
way she picks up knowledge everywhere. I dare say she sometimes mentions
facts about her own country to consuls and ministers abroad that they
have scarcely heard of," declared Mrs. Dayton.
Mr. Warfield gave a little sniff and a curl of the lip that seemed to
run all over his face in disapprobation, because he could find no
trenchant sentence to apply to Mrs. Van Dorn. But Helen glanced at her
hostess with a lovely grateful light more eloquent than words.
When they rose she lingered. "I ought to go out and dry the dishes for
Joanna," the girl said laughingly.
"Indeed, you will do no such thing," was the quick reply. "And let me
whisper a secret in your ear, though I don't know as it need be that.
Mrs. Van Dorn wrote me a note, asking me to invite you here and keep you
as much of the time as Aunt Jane would be willing to spare you. And she
inclosed a check. I'd been ready enough to do it just for the pleasure."
"She is very generous," said Helen, much moved.
"And some people think her mean. She is unduly exact, but I guess the
world would be better if more people paid their just debts instead of
buying you a dollar gift when they owed you forty or fifty. But run out
on the porch and talk to Mr. Warfield. He came purposely to see you.
I'll be out and join the fray presently," her eyes overflowing with an
amused light. "If you were older I should say--there, run along."
She checked herself just in time. It was on the tip of her tongue to
add--"he is half in love with you." But the girl's face was so
innocently frank that it would have been both ill-bred and cruel to
suggest such a thing.
On the whole, it was a pleasant evening, though Helen was not a little
puzzled by several things in Mr. Warfield's demeanor, and his resolutely
keeping to his opinion that she would have been better off at the High
School. Some way would have opened for her, he was confident.
Still, he gave her the most cordial good wishes. She had the making of a
splendid girl and woman in her. He took great credit in the
consciousness that he had seen this, and roused her from a commonplace
existence, for now, whatever happened, she could not be commonplace; as
if, indeed, the every-day lives were not often doing heroic and lovely
deeds in their every-day sphere.
He was going for nine weeks to a summer college term, on the borders of
a beautiful lake, where he would have refreshment of body as well as
mind. So he might not see her again under a year.
"I do hope they will not have you spoiled," he said with his good-by.
And as he walked down the street he muttered under his breath:
"That old woman will make a waiting maid of her in the end." He was
jealous that the old woman should be able to dictate the girl's life
just because she was rich.
She had such a happy morning with Mrs. Dayton, talking over last summer;
Joanna studied her with admiring eyes and declared that she was not
changed a bit, only had grown taller, and the mysterious alteration that
comes to a girl on the boundary line, for which she had no words.
Uncle Jason came in quite early and was delighted with his warm welcome,
more frank than Joanna's.
"My, you're growed every way!" he said, "and you're pretty as a pink,
and fine as a lady! I declare I don't know what Aunt Jane will do with
you. And the children are just crazy to see you. My! My!"
He studied her from head to foot and turned her round. His eyes
twinkled, he screwed up his face until it was a bed of wrinkles. His
hair was faded and grayer, the fringe of beard ragged. But there was
such a gladness, such an utter satisfaction that she felt doubly assured
of his love.
When she had gone to pick up a few articles Mrs. Dayton made a little
explanation that she felt would ease Helen's course. She would have a
good deal of studying to do, and Mrs. Van Dorn had made arrangements for
her to stay here part of the time, as it would be quiet, with no
interruptions to break in upon her time.
"Why, I thought it was vacation!" looking puzzled. "Mother's planned a
lot of things. And she's mortal afraid Helen will forget all about
housekeeping."
"She belongs to Mrs. Van Dorn for the two years, you know, since that
lady is taking care of her. You see now that is only fair. Helen's time
is planned out."
"Sho, now!" and he bit at the end of a wheat stem he found hanging to
his clothes.
"Helen knows a good deal about housework and if she should ever have it
to do, it will come back to her. But her heart is set upon teaching, and
I think that is about as easy a way of earning money as any, if you are
fitted for it."
Mr. Mulford said no more, but he felt there would be a clash between
Aunt Jane and Helen.
The rosy, bright-eyed girl said good-by to her dear friend, with the
promise of returning soon, and stepped into the rickety old wagon.
It seemed curious to her, but everything about looked so much smaller.
The houses appeared to have shrunk, fences were dilapidated, gates hung
by one hinge, the paths at the roadside were overgrown with weeds.
Every street and plot of ground at Westchester was so pretty and tidy,
the hills were so high and grand, and there was the beautiful river. To
be sure the great Creator of all had placed it there, had raised the
mountains to their height, but the residents had added the thriftiness
and beauty. Oh, she could never live here! She wondered how her father
had taken to it, and how Mr. Warfield endured it.
Uncle Jason was a better farmer than most of his neighbors. Aunt Jane
took the credit of that; perhaps she did deserve most of it. People and
towns seldom remain stationary; if they do not improve they retrograde.
The railroad was building up North Hope at the expense of the Center.
The house and the front fence needed painting sadly. The flower-beds
looked rather ragged, the grass wanted cutting. Sam had gone in the
spring to learn a mason's trade and only came home for over Sunday. So
Uncle Jason was short-handed.
The children made a rush, then paused. Helen sprang down with a dignity
that checked them, but she kissed them all round, and Aunt Jane, who
was wiping her arms and hands on her apron.
"I thought I'd get trigged up before anyone came," she exclaimed, "but
there's so much to do on Saturday. You might have opened the front door,
'Reely, but never mind," and they all trailed around through the
kitchen. Off the end of the dining room was a small room that Jenny had
used for sewing and odds and ends, and they went thither.
"Now take off your hat. My, didn't you bring anything but that satchel!
And here's a fan--it's hot in here, and as for flies, they eat you up!
'Reely, you and Fan set the table. How you've changed, Helen, you're
most grown up. But land! When I was fourteen I was grown up and did a
woman's work. And you're fifteen! Well, I suppose you've had a grand
good time, and forgot all the useful things you ever knew."
Aunt Jane's tone was good-humored, but it had a certain air of
authority, indicating that Helen could never outgrow her right or
proprietorship.
"No, I do not think I have forgotten much, and certainly have learned a
great deal more," she replied quietly.
"Well, book-learnin' isn't everything. I'd like to know how houses and
farms would go on if everybody kept to books."
"There's Jenny," and Helen was delighted with the break. Jenny was
sunburned but looked well, quite like a country farmer's wife, and was
gayly cordial, laughed because her mother's supper was late; they always
had theirs early on Saturday afternoon.
"You wait until you get a house full of children," said her mother with
a touch of annoyance.
The girls sat out on the old bench that had gone a little more to
splinters. Uncle Jason came in; he had not quite worked Nathan up to the
point of Sam's usefulness. Aunt Jane didn't mean to lead off with any
fuss for Helen, so supper was in the kitchen, but the tablecloth was
clean--the other had met with a big accident at noon.
Nothing was much changed except the children were a year older and
larger. Two or three of them still talked at once. Jenny sat by and had
a cup of tea. Aurelia and Fanny were a little awed by Helen's fine ways,
and began to eye her furtively. Jenny kept most of the talk and when the
meal was through took Helen out on the front stoop. What was the school
like and were there many rich girls in it? And what did Mrs. Van Dorn
mean to do with her when she was through with school?
Helen was relieved when she branched off on her own affairs. How much
the egg and butter money had amounted to, and another scheme she had
struck. She helped mother out with her sewing, but she found in the
winter she had a good deal of time on her hands, so she began to sew for
the neighbors. "You know I always did like running the machine," she
declared. "And you'd be surprised at the money I've earned. I don't see
how women can dawdle away their time so, when they've small families. I
think working in a shop is a grand good training. You must be there at a
certain hour, you must put in every moment if you are going to be a
success, and you get brisk ways if there's anything at all to you."
Joe came over presently, and the two farmers smoked and talked. Then
Jenny said she would take Helen home with her, she had such a nice spare
room, and she and Aunt Jane had some words over it, but Jenny carried
her point. It was lovely and quiet, and Helen was thankful.
Yes, she had grown away from them; while she loved them just as well,
she thought she loved Uncle Jason better. The life was so different. It
need not be so hard and,--yes, it was coarse, really untender. Aunt Jane
would have suffered anything for her children's sake, but it must be in
her way. After all these years of married life, children, and a
certain degree of hard-won prosperity, she knew better than anyone else
how the world could be managed.
'Reely and Fan were fascinated with Helen, and Jenny said she had a good
deal of common sense, and she supposed all the airish ways were just
right at school, but they seemed queer among common folks. It was
inevitable that Helen and Aunt Jane should clash, and Helen felt even at
the risk of being misunderstood and wrongfully accused, she must
establish her own standing. She had not come home to help with
housework.
"I wish I'd never let you gone over there to wait on that old woman, and
have your head filled with airs and graces that you think sets you up
above your family. I knew that day I should be sorry for it. And this is
all the thanks I get for what I've done for you, while you'll crawl on
the ground after her."
"No, I shouldn't; I do not," replied Helen with dignity. "I shall always
feel thankful to you and Uncle Jason for what you have done, and, Aunt
Jane, when I get to where I can earn money I want to pay you back for my
keep after father died----"
Helen's face was scarlet and the hot blood was racing up and down in her
pulses.
"Yes," she continued, controlling her voice by a strong effort, "I have
made that one of my duties. I can't take your way of life, Aunt Jane,
but I shall always feel grateful for the care."
"Helen Grant, do you suppose your uncle would take one penny from you,
his own sister's child! It isn't that, it's the--the----"
"Oh, Aunt Jane, I am grateful. Do not let us quarrel because our paths
lie in different directions. I must work in the way I am best fitted
for, the way I shall like above all things----"
"Oh, yes, you'll go off with that woman, and she'll get tired of you and
ship you off. You mark my words."
"Then I can take up teaching, which will be my delight. She has offered
me these two years of training and I mean to make the best of them, to
crowd in all I can, to fit myself to earn my living in the way I like
best of all. I do suppose we all have some choice."
Aunt Jane flounced out of the room. There was something burning on the
stove, and she was glad of the excuse. And all she said when Helen was
going over to North Hope, was:
"Well, come whenever you like. The house is always open to you."
Uncle Jason was very tender to her.
"Mother's a bit cranky," he said. "Even Jenny plagues her about it. I
think she's jealous of that Mrs. Van Dorn, and she has an idea of her
own about bringing up girls. But they're not all alike and some are fit
for one thing, some for another. Jenny's got the right of it. It's best
for everyone to do what he's best fitted for, or she," smiling a
little. "And it stands to reason that you might take after your own
father. You're not all Mulford."
It was very delightful to be back with Mrs. Dayton. One new couple had
come, but they were very quiet people. And the girls about began to call
on her. Ella Graham had enough of the High School.
"I just went for the name of it," she explained. "I should never teach,
and what is the use of wasting all that time and bothering your brains
for nothing? I shall get married the first good chance I have."
Lu Searing bewailed the hard work as well and wasn't sure she would keep
on. She wanted to go somewhere to boarding school, she had heard girls
had such fun getting in scrapes and out of them again. Marty Pendleton
was sick of it too, and was going to learn dressmaking. Dan Erlick had
gone to be clerk in the drug store.
"And to think how hard Mr. Warfield worked over them all!" Helen
exclaimed, indignantly. "It doesn't do him a bit of credit."
"He had four new ones this summer. Well, there does seem a good deal of
work in this world without much result," said Jenny.
Helen studied her Latin with a will, and one day to make some knotty
point clearer went to the reference department of the library. Miss
Westerly, the librarian, had seen her the summer before and been
interested in what had befallen her, and now they took up quite a
friendship. The library was open only two evenings in the week, after
eight o'clock, and Miss Westerly found it very pleasant to visit on
Mrs. Dayton's porch and talk to a girl as bright and ambitious as Helen.
She was a college graduate and a thorough student, not considering her
education finished.
"I should like so to go to college," Helen said. "But I don't know--I
should have to earn some money first."
"I have a friend who entered college at twenty-seven. She was a clerk in
a store and then an old uncle left her some money. She was born for a
student, and she graduated with honors. She is thirty-five now,
vice-principal in a large seminary at the West, and a very successful
teacher. Then I know of a girl who spent two years at college, taught
three years and then went back and finished. Some women, as well as some
men, love knowledge."
"I have half a mind to say I will go, no matter what stands in the way,"
and Helen smiled vaguely. If one could see into the future.
"Perhaps your friend may send you."
Helen wondered whether she would dare propose it.
Once a week she went out to the farm. Aunt Jane had "cooled down" a
little, for Uncle Jason had said, "If you can't get along, mother, I'll
hire someone through the heat of the summer. Nancy Bird would come in a
minute. As for thinking to put Helen to housework, washing and ironing
and all that, when someone else is taking care of her, I don't see as it
would be just the thing, no more than to call Sam home when Mr. Bartow
has given him a good lay."
"I don't see as Helen is any better than my girls, and they are going to
be brought up to work. Her father didn't make out much for all his
education."
Helen did have some nice visits with Jenny, who was rather more modern
and broader minded than her mother. She kept her house with some system,
of course, there was no one to disarrange her methods. She was blithe
and cheerful and eager to get along, but she and Joe went off driving
now and then, and she listened with slow-growing interest when he read
aloud to her.
But altogether, Helen was not sorry when she found herself on the way
back to school. She had a warmer feeling than ever for Mrs. Van Dorn and
had written her two charming letters from Mrs. Dayton's porch.
What a trouble her education seemed to some of those who had no hand in
it.
CHAPTER XVII
IN THE DELIGHTFUL CURRENT
Helen Grant came to Aldred House again on Friday afternoon. Miss Daisy,
who had been there but an hour, rushed down to welcome her.
"Oh, dear! If something had happened and you had not come," she cried,
"I should really have been broken-hearted, and I don't see what good
Samaritan could have bound up the wounds. And most things are going to
be strange and new."
"New girls?" inquiringly.
"Yes, ever so many of them. There were several Mrs. Aldred could not
take last year. She is closeted with two now, and you may as well come
upstairs at once. I have some new pictures--we will give away the old
ones. And the sweetest new willow rocker. But what do you think has
happened to Roxy Mays?"
"Marriage," cried Helen laughingly.
"No, but a fortune. And her oldest sister was married to a designer or
something who goes abroad to illustrate Russia. The old great-aunt died
suddenly, and left a good deal of money to Mr. Mays, and ten thousand
dollars to Roxy. So her mother and the other sister and she sailed the
last week in August. Of course Roxy is in high feather. And Miss Reid
and Miss Gertrude Aldred have gone to Rome under the care of a friend of
Mrs. Aldred's. Two of the girls have gone to Leipsic. Oh, dear, I wonder
if we will ever go abroad?"
"It is a lovely dream. I do hope to compass it some time," and a longing
light filled Helen's eyes.
"And there is so much to see here. We had a cousin of father's visiting
us who had spent seven years in Mexico, and knew President Diaz quite
well. He tells such interesting stories about the wonders there, the
discoveries and the traces of people who must have lived a thousand or
perhaps more years ago. Then my brother has a friend who is deep in
those marvelous exhumations in Arizona. Presently we shall be a famous
country, if we haven't castles and cathedrals."
Helen's trunk came up and she began to unpack. There were some new
gowns.
"Are you going in long skirts?" inquired Daisy.
"Not this winter. I should like to be 'only a girl' ever so long," and
Helen smiled dreamily. "It seems as if I had been only a very little
girl thirteen years or so, and now I want to be just a big girl.
Womanhood looks so strange and mysterious to me. There are so many
things to be decided then, and now you can hover about the edge, just
slip into the surf of that river called the future and then draw back.
You don't have to cross it. But some day you must, and shoulder its
responsibilities."
"How queer and solemn that sounds. And I am a whole year older, and I
ought to be ever so much ahead of you."
"You are in Latin and French. I studied up some. I met a delightful
woman,--well I saw her last summer, and oddly enough she remembered me
from the books I read,--that I never should have known about but for
Mrs. Van Dorn. She is the librarian. And we have had such a nice time.
She is a college graduate, and she has inspired me with a longing to go.
But then I want everything. Travel and music and churches and ruins and
histories of nations that have been swept away, and to climb the
pyramids, and to ask the Sphinx her mighty question----"
"Your mighty question as to what secret is in her ponderous brain?"
Both girls laughed heartily, merrily.
"Well, I must say, Helen Grant, your wishes comprise enough for a
lifetime! And you have left out Paris, and that quaint, delightful,
clean, watery Holland, and Moscow, and India."
"There is too much for one lifetime. I wonder if we do come back and
take some of the pleasures in the life afterward? But then we don't
remember what has gone before, so where is the benefit?"
"There are ever so many new girls," said Daisy presently.
"I wonder if we haven't a small share of duty towards them," remarked
Helen, considering. "I thought it lovely of you girls to come and
welcome me when I was a stranger."
"Roxy was splendid at that. I am not sure but there was some curiosity
in it. She liked to get down to the bottom of a girl's soul and life and
know all that had happened to her. And she was very amusing with her
bright comments and comparisons. I was desperately in love with her at
first," and Daisy colored warmly. "Then she said little things about
other girls that I didn't like. And you were so upright, so generous in
your criticisms, so ready to make allowance. And after all that mistake
about Miss Craven she was very unwilling to own she had been wrong.
Wasn't I fearfully jealous? Didn't I act like a fiend?"
There were tears in Daisy's eyes.
Helen gave a vague smile.
"I can see now that it was somewhat due to Roxy's influence. She kept
saying you were so bewitched about her, and that you were on the lookout
for new sensations, that you tried on friendships and then cast them
off. I think that was what she did. What a foolishly miserable girl I
was, but I did love you. And I do, I shall."
Helen kissed her fondly.
"And mamma thought it was very kind in you to take up Miss Craven. She
is curiously interested in her, wondering how she will develop. Papa
says the Craven mines are remarkable, the new one with all that hematite
is a fortune by itself. I hope she comes back."
That evening they made acquaintance with a few of the new girls. And the
next day came a crowd, new and old, Miss Craven among them.
Juliet Craven had changed wonderfully under the influence of a woman who
had always longed for a daughter and had three sons instead. There was a
brightness about her, a kind of new interest that shone in her eyes and
brought a tint to her cheeks. A little contrast would have made her
quite a pretty girl, for her features were fairly good, but she was too
much of a nondescript.
For the first time she had known personal interest and affection from a
woman who might have been her mother, and who certainly had no ulterior
object. She had outgrown some of her timidity, she stood up straighter,
as if she was more conscious of her own power, and she dared to meet the
eyes of the other girls, to answer their smiles. She was to go in most
of the classes this year, though the girls would be much younger, but
Mrs. Aldred judged that the companionship would prove beneficial.
There were several changes in the teaching corps. A Mrs. Wiley,
middle-aged and experienced, who had been employed in a girls' college
in the West, shared with Miss Grace the duties of the senior classes.
Her daughter, Miss Esther, taught in the younger day-school classes and
was a pupil in several studies. After a month matters ran along
smoothly.
Not that the girls fell into the traces without any friction. Some were
pert and self-sufficient, others consequential, and several not
remarkable for anything, taking mental culture along objective lines,
and a few ambitious, intellectual, loving study for the sake of the
sweet kernel knowledge when you had cracked the rough outer shell. There
were the bright and sweet, who had no aims above the average, and who
would get trained into nice, wholesome girls and make good wives and
mothers.
Helen enjoyed her studies immensely. The botany rambles were one of her
great pleasures, and when she went at the wonders of astronomy she was
enraptured.
"Such a student is worth having; she inspires the rest," Mrs. Wiley said
to Mrs. Aldred. "There is a girl who should go to college."
"Yes, she ought," but in her secret soul Mrs. Aldred feared that was not
Mrs. Van Dorn's design.
She was beginning to understand and love Latin, and doing very well at
French. She did not display much aptitude for drawing, though she had a
certain artistic taste in arrangement.
"But I really do not see any use of hammering away at music," she
protested. "I never shall make a fine player."
"You will make a fine singer and you want some thorough knowledge for
that," said Madame Meran.
"It was one of the branches Mrs. Van Dorn is very particular about,"
Mrs. Aldred added, in a tone that left no room for demur.
There was the usual fun and perhaps a little sly flirting among the
newer students with the young men in the law offices. Autumn was quite a
lively time, since court was in session. The girls were allowed to visit
the fairs and entertainments of their respective churches, and
occasionally spend Saturday afternoon with an outside acquaintance.
During the holidays Mrs. Dayton wrote that one of the High-School
teachers had resigned and Mr. Warfield had gained the appointment, being
much delighted with it, and would board with her. From home she heard
that Jenny had a little son and they were all very joyous. Fan was going
to spend the winter with her. Aurelia had been taken out of school as
she didn't learn anything worth while, and Aunt Jane believed in making
her girls useful.
"I don't wonder teachers get discouraged in a small country place," she
thought, "when the parents care so little for education." She was glad
Mr. Warfield had gone to the High School, where he could have a more
congenial atmosphere.
Helen often wondered in these days what her father had been like, and
how he came to drift to such a dull place as Hope Center. Twenty years
before it had been a center of several things. The Church was
flourishing. In the winter the large boys and girls came to school and
the old-fashioned alligation, mensuration, and surveying were taught and
made useful, the history of the country, parsing out of Milton's
Paradise Lost, learning as much about the older English essayists and
writers as was taught in the High School.
Now, the children, before they were fairly grown, went into shops or
learned a trade. There had been a fine debating society in the Center,
and people drove in from miles around to listen to the arguments, which
were generally on stirring questions of the day, psychological fads
being unknown, or the highest truth in them called by some other name.
Then the railroad had really cut it off. North Hope had grown at its
expense.
She thought, too, not a little about her own future. What would happen
at the close of the school year. At the first of January she and Daisy
Bell and a Miss Gardiner went into Senior B. In another year she would
graduate.
There was something in Mrs. Van Dorn's letters that appealed to her
deeply at times, an interest that gave her a curious thrill. She wrote
more earnestly herself, she realized what a great thing this had been to
her, lifting her out of the common groove and giving her a decided
standing among Hope people. And, oh! it had afforded her such splendid
experiences with cultured people, some friends who might go a long way
through life with her and enrich her path with their life.
"If you were going to college, I should want to go too," Daisy Bell said
one day. "Papa would be delighted, I am sure. And though you are
younger, I do not know so very much more," laughingly. "You always study
in such desperate earnest. We should keep step together. Oh, don't you
wish we could see into the future?"
Yes, she really did.
Her friendship with Juliet Craven touched another side of her nature.
Miss Craven had a vein of peculiar romance. She improvised in music, she
could imitate bird-songs in rare melody, she could go to depths of
feeling in a few chords that stirred one's very soul. It was absolute
genius.
"These are the things I used to sing to myself in the old home," she
would say. "Sometimes I would put words to them."
"Why, that would be poetry. Why don't you try to write them down?" Helen
inquired with newborn interest.
"There are so many things to study, to learn, to do. I am not pretty
enough to attract people, but of course, I know the money would.
Sometimes I wish I had only just enough for my own wants. Another year I
shall come into actual possession of a large sum, and three years later,
if the mines should be sold, there will be--well, I haven't any idea how
much more. Mrs. Davis' plan is to take me abroad and find someone with a
title to marry me. What could I do in that kind of life? I want
something quiet, far-reaching. I should like to make unfortunate people
happy. I wonder if there are any young girls in the world as lonely and
as unfortunate as I was! I shudder when I think I might have gone on
with grandfather until all the best years of my life were spent. Mrs.
Howard advises me to stay here and get a thorough education, and I think
that is best."
Helen was very decided in her opinion that it was by far the best. How
queer that money should be so unequally divided, Miss Craven having so
much more than she could use, Mrs. Van Dorn having so much, and some of
the girls with such rich fathers, then others just squeezing through,
she really having none at all.
Mrs. Van Dorn was doing just what Miss Craven longed to do. No, not
just. If Helen had been unpromising she realized keenly that she might
have gone back to Uncle Jason, or worked her way through the High School
as she best might. She knew now, most girls of sixteen do, that an
attractive face and manner was an excellent capital. She sometimes gave
herself a little mental hug at the thought of having just the right
share of good looks, enough to please, and not enough to be vain of,
and not the sort of fascination Roxy Mays had possessed. There were
several beautiful girls in school. Daisy Bell had many charms, a lovely,
subtle, easily-flushing complexion that was like pink and pearl,
beautiful even teeth, tender and loving eyes.
"My face is just like me," she comforted herself, looking in the glass.
"It is strong, earnest, and capable. And I do mean to do something with
life before I die. I hope God will put me in the way of it."
Toward spring there was an episode that now and then happens in a girls'
school in spite of the closest supervision. Mrs. Aldred tried to train
the girls to a high sense of honor, and allowed them a certain liberty,
though no one girl ever went out alone. Among the new scholars was a
pretty, saucy little thing, bright with her lessons and full of fun,
seemingly innocent enough. But she had adroitly managed a flirtation
with the brother of one of the day scholars. Letters had passed between
them, and she had eluded supervision and taken several strolls with him
by climbing over the fence at the back of the grounds, with the
assistance of her admirer. The daring went a little too far, and one
evening Miss Wiley saw the return of the culprit, who begged and pleaded
a little at first, and then became defiant.
"I don't care," she said angrily. "We are engaged. I knew I wouldn't be
allowed to see him alone if he called, and I had a right to his visits."
Mrs. Aldred was surprised and had a rather stormy time with the girl,
who was sent home at once.
"Now that Roxy Mays will never come back," said Daisy gravely, "I will
say to you that she did go as far as the letters once. It was with the
clerk in Adams' drug store. He gave a note to me and said it was a
prescription, and she laughed about it, saying she only did it to prove
how easily a girl could write letters and get answers, but that she was
not going to follow it up, and she knew I would not betray her. It was
the very week before school closed, and though it wasn't just right I
let it pass. She still corresponds with him, but now her mother must
know it. It doesn't seem real fun to me to break rules that way. I
sometimes wonder what would have happened if she had returned to
school!"
Helen smiled, thinking of her innocent letter to Mr. Warfield. And now
Mrs. Dayton quoted him so often she wondered if that was quite right.
But she did enjoy writing to Mrs. Van Dorn. Often there was only a few
lines from her, the rest finished by Miss Gage, who had a very
methodical manner of going over their doings.
In April an announcement was made that surprised and troubled many of
the scholars. Mrs. Aldred had decided to go to Europe, taking her
daughter Grace and chaperoning several other young ladies. Gertrude, who
had been studying hard in Paris, would join them, and they would spend
the ensuing winter in Rome. Mrs. Wiley and her daughter would take the
school, keeping it on the same lines.
"I wish you could remain another year and graduate," she said to Helen.
"I shall write to Mrs. Van Dorn about it. Then you would be fitted for
whatever might happen afterward."
"Oh, thank you!" Helen replied earnestly. "I have been troubled about
it, and thought I ought to inquire. I should be so sorry to have my
schooldays end. I have been so happy here."
No one could doubt it to look at her radiant face. Mrs. Aldred was much
gratified.
Yes, she should hate to part with Daisy now that they were growing so
dear to each other. And she felt as if she wanted a life interest in
Miss Craven, to know the sort of woman she would make and what she would
do with her fortune.
It was May when the reply came, a reply that so astounded Helen, even
after reading the letter over two or three times, that she was still
bewildered. She took it to Mrs. Aldred.
"Yes," that lady rejoined, "you may read mine. Mrs. Van Dorn keeps her
mind as fresh as a person of half her age, and she is past eighty. She
has made all the arrangements."
And the arrangements were that Mrs. Aldred should bring Helen to Paris
with the other young ladies. She was going there and would be ready to
receive her. She was very grateful for the care bestowed upon Helen, she
had been very much gratified with the girl's letters, and this must
answer until she could express the rest in person.
"And you think--I can't make it seem true," faltered Helen,--"that such
a thing should happen to me?"
"It does not altogether surprise me," Mrs. Aldred answered in a
reassuring tone. "I surmised this from the beginning. Mrs. Van Dorn took
an unusual fancy to you, and knowing you these two years I must give her
penetration great credit. For certain reasons, I regret you cannot go on
with your education. But you will learn a great deal abroad."
"I feel as if all of life is a school, and you are learning right along
to do what comes next. I have worked hard at the French, and now I see
the use of it. I dare say it will be so with other things. I wish I were
a better musician."
"Mrs. Van Dorn will care more for your voice. You can take excellent
singing lessons abroad. Helen, I do congratulate you from the bottom
of my heart. And whatever happens I shall always want to be considered
your sincere friend. I have been very much interested in your
development, and shall continue so to be."
She bent over and kissed Helen, who returned the caress with much
warmth.
"You will answer your letter to go by noon to-morrow."
Helen bowed, too much moved to speak.
It was still strange to her. One might dream of an event coming in the
future, but to have it here, to put your hand on it, as one might say,
dazed her. Daisy was at a music practice, though she did not think she
could talk it over with anyone just now.
Miss Craven stood hesitatingly in the half open doorway, with beseeching
eyes.
"If you are not too very busy--I'm in trouble about the Latin. Oh, if I
could be quick to see into things!" in a passion of regret that
emphasized every line of her face where last year it would have been
unmoved.
"I had an awful time about it, too, so we can sympathize," smiling
cheerfully. "I just wanted something to start up my energies."
"Oh, what should I do without you? Shall I ever be able to go on alone?"
"Think what you have accomplished in the two years," was the reassuring
answer.
There was a saunter around the grounds afterwards, meeting several
groups of girls and flinging bright jests at each other. Then dinner,
the study period, some conversation and it was bedtime. But Helen could
not sleep. She smiled to herself as she wondered what Mr. Warfield would
say and there was a consciousness that he would think her only half
educated. Well, could one ever be wholly educated at sixteen?--even at
sixty, professors are learning new things. And, oh, what a stir it would
make all through the Hopes!
She was up early the next morning. Daisy was asleep in her little white
bed with a smile on her face. Yes, she would hate to leave her and Miss
Craven, and several others. She slipped on her lovely Japanese silk
morning gown, she reveled in pretty garments nowadays, though they were
all befitting a girl of sixteen, and picking up her portfolio she glided
softly down to the study room.
Oh, what a morning it was! The sun was throwing out long shining rays in
the east and they glistened on the tree-tops, on the distant hills, on
the wide slopes, leaving the nooks and haunts in suggestive darkness.
Just a dainty little mist fit for dryad robes lingered about. And here
at the back, down to the small stream, dogwoods and late red maples and
horse-chestnuts were in bloom. Could there be a lovelier picture? Had
Europe anything better? And the fragrance might have come from Araby the
blest. It was all youth and freshness, and it took her back to the
summer of two years ago when everything wonderful had just dawned upon
her.
In this mood she wrote her letter. All her life long she was glad she
had not come to second thoughts, about the matter, but kept the first
thoughts of joyous youth and gladness and gratefulness. The rising bell
rang and she hurried along, wrote her last word at the next summons and
sealed her letter.
"Where have you been?" cried Daisy at the apparition in trailing gown,
as she opened her eyes.
"Writing a letter in the study." Then she hurried into skirt and waist
and joined the group going downstairs, giving bright good-mornings to
one and another.
"I can't think what ails you," cried Daisy in astonishment. "You
look--enchanted and--frightened."
"I will tell you--the first of anybody. It is so strange I hardly
believe it myself."
They were all striving their utmost, this group of girls. Examinations
were so near, pictures were to be finished, little gifts made to be
exchanged, remembrances of one's handiwork. An excursion across the
river to add pages to their lore on wild flowers which were to be
pressed and put in books. A lecture on Browning that evening down at the
town-hall, and Mrs. Wiley was to take a host of girls.
"If he only would read 'Hervé Riel'!" said Helen. And to think she might
see the very place where the ships came in safely. It would be worth
much to her.
There is always a reaction from an exalted state, and this came to Helen
Grant. By degrees she remembered what she might be giving up, what she
might be called upon to do. If Miss Gage was coming home, she would take
her place, and be companion, have the whims, the impatience, and the
restlessness to contend with. She had experienced some of it already.
Past eighty--why, that was old age, decrepitude presently, loss of
memory--some old people had to be told things over and over again. She
had never thought of real old age in connection with Mrs. Van Dorn. And
she would spend all her bright young years--there would be no further
delightful school, no graduation, no college, and she did love study
so.
Mrs. Van Dorn had given her these two splendid years, but if she asked
back ten, and she was so confident of living to ninety--oh, could she
grant it cheerfully? There would have to be some greater grace than her
own. And if God gave her this to do--if the friends of girlhood were
denied her, if Mrs. Van Dorn claimed all, would she have to submit?
It was a hard question for sixteen who had only enjoyed two years of
freedom about the things she loved best, the thing she wanted most,
education.
She told Daisy Bell, who didn't know whether to rejoice or not. It was
splendid, of course, but if she should be away for years and all their
lovely friendship come to an end!
"For I am sure I shall never find a girl I love so thoroughly, that I
depend on, that is a strong tower to me. Mamma said my letters had been
her treasures this year, I was taking so much more serious and sacred
views of life. And they will be dismal enough next winter."
"Then I am afraid I haven't done you much good," Helen smiled through
tears.
"Yes, you have. And I will try to remember all the nice talks we have
had and keep strong on them. We will appoint one hour in the day when we
shall always think of each other."
"And pray that God may give us grace to remember for years if there is
need," Helen returned solemnly.
Miss Craven was glad for her. "It must be wonderful to have a person
care that much for you," she said, "to want to keep you near her. Why,
it is almost as mothers feel, I suppose. I couldn't bear the thought of
you being away alone--if you were alone I should ask you to come and
be a sister to me. I don't know how I can get along without you, but I
must try and comfort myself with the thought of what you have been to
me. And, oh, if you should be absent years, I will come over. Why, I
should like to see the dear old lady who loves you so."
Helen felt almost convicted of ingratitude.
CHAPTER XVIII
WRIT IN AN UNKNOWN TONGUE
There were girls who envied Helen Grant, who thought they would change
places with her in a minute if they could. She wrote to Uncle Jason and
explained that it would not be possible to come home. School closed on
the 28th of June, on the 3d of July they would leave on the steamer at
New York. She sent the same message to Mrs. Dayton, with the wish that
she might be able to come and see her off, but she didn't suppose it
would be possible. She secretly hoped Mr. Warfield might make it so.
One of the schoolgirls, a graduate, would go home at once and meet them
at the steamer. The other two resided in New York. Mrs. Aldred was much
engrossed with business matters and her preparations.
The second week in June, when examinations had just begun, Mr. Castles
came up one evening. They were almost through dinner and Mrs. Aldred
closed the door of the reception room and desired that no one should
disturb her. Mr. Castles said he was the bearer of melancholy news. Mrs.
Van Dorn had died very suddenly in Paris. Miss Gage had cabled for full
instructions. Mrs. Van Dorn's body would be brought home and buried
beside her husband. Miss Gage was to have all personal belongings
inventoried and packed to come with her and the body.
"Do you know a Mr. James Fenton?" he asked.
"James Fenton. He is about as near a relation as I am. He is on the
father's side, I am on her mother's; about third cousins, I think."
"It appears this Mr. Fenton annoyed her some at Florence in the spring.
Then he called on her at Paris and had a long talk with her in the
afternoon, which Miss Gage said upset her very much. They went to a
reception in the evening at the Embassy, she seeming in her usual
health, but not quite placid. It was very warm and she fainted, it was
supposed, but the physician who was called pronounced her dead. This Mr.
Fenton insisted upon taking charge of everything, so I cabled my
instructions at once. The body will be here in a fortnight."
Mrs. Aldred was shocked beyond measure. It hardly seemed credible.
"Do you know anything about her affairs?"
"Not especially," replied Mrs. Aldred. "I once heard her say she would
not have much to leave behind. The money was from her husband, and if
she chose to live extravagantly it was no one's affairs."
"I am glad you take it philosophically," and he gave a faint smile.
"When she was about sixty-five she put nearly all her money in an
annuity so she would have no further care. She told me that she had no
near relatives."
"That was true enough."
"So she lived very handsomely at times, at others quite plainly. She
placed in my hands a sum amply sufficient for her burial, which has
never been disturbed. I collected and paid over her annuity. There may
be a few thousands beside. The income, you know, stopped with her death.
So there will be nothing for the heirs."
"I for one shall not complain. She paid generously for her protégé,
six months in advance. She sent for her and I was to take her over with
me; calling on you in all business matters."
"Yes, she notified me. It was Mrs. Van Dorn's intention to keep
this young girl with her the rest of her life. Her last letter to
me was as buoyant as that of any young person. She was certainly
wonderful--eighty-six in March. It seemed to me as if she might have
lived to be a hundred. I am afraid the talk of that man Fenton did not
do her any good."
"It is a great shock. I can hardly believe it."
"What friends has this girl, if any?"
"Oh, some relatives at a small town in a neighboring State, an uncle who
has cared for her. She is a bright, ambitious girl, and I do regret
the death for her sake. I am glad there is someone she can turn to, but
I think she has the courage to work her way up, with a helping hand now
and then."
"And you do not know about this Mr. Fenton?"
"Nothing much. I once heard her say that after Mr. Van Dorn's death he
applied to her for some money for business purposes and she refused. I
think she was not favorably impressed with him."
"Well, there will not be much for anyone to have. I think this annuity
was by her husband's advice, and it has saved her a good deal of care. I
thought it best for you to know at once and I did want to learn how the
girl was situated. Do you suppose she will be bitterly disappointed?"
"She will be very much shocked and grieved."
"It would have been the same if she had adopted her. She could have made
no provision for her future."
"No," thoughtfully.
"And now I must take a night train back, as I am very busy. I will keep
you informed as to matters."
"We sail on the 3d of July."
"The body will be here before that."
She walked down to the street with him; then took a rustic seat and
considered Helen Grant's future in so far as she could, but every moment
she felt more regret that her bright hopes should be so suddenly
quenched. She resolved to say nothing at present until she had evolved a
plan floating through her mind.
It was true Mrs. Van Dorn had not reached the period appointed by
herself. She had felt sure of ninety years. There were times when she
feared that nature was on the wane, but she still took excellent care of
herself.
This Mr. Fenton had besieged her for some money in the spring and a
liberal allowance in her will. As far as she could trace the
relationship there were but two families who had any claim on her, and
his was one. She had put him off with a sarcastic promise of taking her
will into consideration, then her quick wit intervened.
"If I should die without a will you would share equally. I think I will
let it go that way."
That was all the satisfaction he could get. She hoped never to see him
again. But he had found her in Paris, and again importuned her. She had
so much she could surely spare him a little now. She allowed herself the
gratification then of explaining the annuity to him and that she meant
to spend her income in each year. He flew into a passion and called her
some harsh names, when she had left him alone with a very curt
dismissal. She had been more provoked than excited. There were some
special reasons why she wished to attend this reception and she went.
Whether it might have been different or whether she had reached her
allotted span, only God knew.
The next few days Mrs. Aldred took especial pains with Helen. She must
be able to enter the graduating class. Helen was delighted with the
attention, and repaid it with earnest endeavor.
Mr. Castles sent word that Miss Gage had started with the body.
Helen had passed most of her examinations when Mrs. Aldred very tenderly
informed her of the sad news, and how almost incredulous she had been at
first.
"Of course, this changes all the plans," she said, when she had given
Helen time for her first anguish. "But I have been talking with Mrs.
Wiley, who is quite willing to take you for some of the younger classes,
a year or two years, and in that time you can graduate. It is best that
you should have a diploma. You are very young yet, and will be more
capable of facing the world at eighteen. I really have no fear for you,
and am confident you will succeed."
"I cannot thank you sufficiently now," Helen answered. "I am bewildered.
May I be excused from dinner?"
"Yes, and anything you desire to-morrow. You have my warmest sympathy,
and I feel that I do not want to lose sight of you in the years to
come."
It was a sad night for Helen, a sad day following; indeed, it took all
the joy out of the graduation exercises for her. Mrs. Wiley made her
proffer and Helen accepted it.
"So you see we shall not be separated after all," she said to both Daisy
and Miss Craven, and the latter began to weave some plans for the future
that she would keep to herself until the time came. Ah, if she could
repay Helen's kindnesses!
Miss Gage reached New York the first day of July. Most of the girls had
dispersed from the school. Helen was to go to the city with Mrs.
Aldred's party.
The day before a telegram from Mrs. Dayton reached her, containing this
astounding news:
"Your father has returned. You will find him staying with me."
Could it be true--after all these years?
Helen seemed to herself as one in a dream. Her sorrow for Mrs. Van Dorn
had grown with every hour and she almost abhorred herself that she
should ever have hesitated a moment about devoting her whole life to her
benefactress, who had only asked for a few years. But this new claim!
She could not ignore it. How many times she had wished for his return!
But all these years he had made no sign, expressed no desire to know
whether she were living or dead. The neglect stung her cruelly.
She had no time to consider this phase of affairs. She had about decided
to accept Mrs. Wiley's offer. There would be home and training for
another year, and she felt confident now that she could graduate. On the
other hand, there would be clothes and small current expenses even with
the strictest economy. She would be a young lady, and she shrank in
dismay from all that implied; but now she was quite at sea. There was no
one to "give the word," and pilot her through the windings.
She went to the city with Mrs. Aldred and Grace. The other voyagers were
already there. The first business on hand was a visit to the lawyer's,
where Miss Gage would meet them.
The story was substantially what the companion had written. Mrs. Van
Dorn had gone out of life in that moment of time when she had felt
confident of some years before her. She had been spared suffering and
dread.
"When all expenses are met there may be a thousand or two thousand
dollars," explained Mr. Castles. "Mr. Fenton insists upon calling for
the strictest accounting, which he has a right to do, of course, and
this means the small residue will be divided between you," bowing to
Mrs. Aldred, "and himself. I suppose she thought she would have so
little to divide it was not worth making a will. He insists the valuable
jewels shall be sold. But here is one point in which I think you will
bear me out in believing the law has no right over. Mrs. Van Dorn gave
me each year a sum to be spent on Miss Grant. It was her desire, and a
most excellent idea, I think," smiling vaguely, "that Miss Grant should
not fall into extravagant habits. There was a small amount left over
when she made the new allowance. This, I take it, belongs to Miss Helen
Grant, and I propose to pay it over to her at once. It is a private
matter."
"I agree with you perfectly," returned Mrs. Aldred, in an approving
tone; glad, indeed, that it could be so. "I wish I dared double or
quadruple it, but I have no right. This will be precious to you, Miss
Grant, as the gift of your benefactress. I know it was in her heart to
treat you as if you were a near relative, a granddaughter, as she said
in a late letter."
Helen's eyes overflowed, but she could not trust her voice.
"It is a lovely remembrance," added Mrs. Aldred with much feeling. "And
Helen is worthy of it."
The lawyer handed her the envelope, but she was too much moved to
inspect its contents.
"Now, you and Miss Gage may take the ante-room, as I am certain that
step prefigures Mr. Fenton," the lawyer announced.
Miss Gage had much to say to the young girl.
"I am so glad you wrote just that letter of gratitude," she began. "I
cannot describe Mrs. Van Dorn's delight to you. She was almost childish
over it and read it again and again, and though she was not sentimental
about keeping letters, I found this in a box of trinkets and have
brought it back to you. She was not an effusive woman, but I think she
counted a great deal on having your entire love. You see I was one of a
family who have always been very dear to each other, and who clung
together as few families do. In the autumn I was to go home, as she had
found a most excellent maid, who was also quite a practised nurse. Mrs.
Van Dorn liked society and style and had many fashionable friends who
did admire her, and then she would have a few months of simplicity,
and quiet living, which she believed preserved one's health and mental
faculties. No one would have supposed she was eighty-six--I did not know
it until Mr. Castles told me. I do very much regret she could not have
lived a few years longer; you would have had a charming time, and there
would have been no relatives to interfere."
Helen winced, but said nothing.
"She has purchased various articles the last year for you, boxes of
trinkets marked with your name and put in my hands for safe keeping.
Hardly a week before that sad day she came home one morning with the
eager interest of a young person. She had bought a beautiful inlaid box
with fine brass handles, and some new things, and bade me look up all
the others and put them in, and said laughingly it was a treasure trove
and when she was especially pleased she should bring you a gift out of
it. Mr. Castles has it, and will hand it over to you. I cannot tell you
how sorry I am you will not have this delightful time abroad. She was
counting on your enthusiasm to inspire her, to make her over, she used
to say. She had many admirable qualities. Of course, there were ways and
whims and times of depression when she looked to her companion to cheer
her. I think now they were the little advances of age that she
resolutely refused to yield to. She was very just, she abhorred plain
falsehood, though I suppose most elderly women do indulge in some
make-believes," smiling a little sadly.
It was evident from the sound of voices in the adjoining room that Mr.
Fenton was not having an agreeable time. He insisted the heirs had been
grievously wronged by this annuity business.
"As if the money was not hers to do what she chose with it," said Miss
