president," he said, "but they won't tell us who the president is
until to-morrow."
"You don't think--" I stammered.
"I don't know. But I know this: the new president sanctions the
expedition to the Graham Glacier, and directs you to choose an
assistant and begin preparations for four people."
Overjoyed, I seized his hand and said, "Hurray!" in a voice weak with
emotion. "The old dragon isn't elected this time," I added,
triumphantly.
"By-the-way," he said, "who was the other dragon with her in the park
this evening?"
I described her in a more modulated voice.
"Whew!" observed Professor Lesard, "that must be her assistant,
Professor Dorothy Van Twiller! She's the prettiest blue-stocking in
town."
With this curious remark my confrère followed me into my room and
wrote down the list of articles I dictated to him. The list included a
complete camping equipment for myself and three other men.
"Am I one of those other men?" inquired Lesard, with an unhappy smile.
Before I could reply my door was shoved open and a figure appeared at
the threshold, cap in hand.
"What do you want?" I asked, sternly; but my heart was beating high
with triumph.
The figure shuffled; then came a subdued voice:
"Mister, I guess I'll go back to the Graham Glacier along with you.
I'm Billy Spike, an' it kinder scares me to go back to them Hudson
Mountains, but somehow, mister, when you choked me and kinder walked
me off on my ear, why, mister, I kinder took to you like."
There was absolute silence for a minute; then he said:
"So if you go, I guess I'll go, too, mister."
"For a thousand dollars?"
"Fur nawthin'," he muttered--"or what you like."
"All right, Billy," I said, briskly; "just look over those rifles and
ammunition and see that everything's sound."
He slowly lifted his tough young face and gave me a doglike glance.
They were hard eyes, but there was gratitude in them.
"You'll get your throat slit," whispered Lesard.
"Not while Billy's with me," I replied, cheerfully.
Late that night, as I was preparing for pleasant dreams, a knock came
on my door and a telegraph-messenger handed me a note, which I read,
shivering in my bare feet, although the thermometer marked eighty
Fahrenheit:
    "You will immediately leave for the Hudson Mountains via
    Wellman Bay, Labrador, there to await further instructions.
    Equipment for yourself and one assistant will include
    following articles" [here began a list of camping utensils,
    scientific paraphernalia, and provisions]. "The steamer
    Penguin sails at five o'clock to-morrow morning. Kindly find
    yourself on board at that hour. Any excuse for not complying
    with these orders will be accepted as your resignation.
                "SUSAN SMAWL,
             "President Bronx Zoological Society."
"Lesard!" I shouted, trembling with fury.
He appeared at his door, chastely draped in pajamas; and he read the
insolent letter with terrified alacrity.
"What are you going to do--resign?" he asked, much frightened.
"Do!" I snarled, grinding my teeth; "I'm going--that's what I'm going
to do!"
"But--but you can't get ready and catch that steamer, too," he
stammered.
He did not know me.
VII
And so it came about that one calm evening towards the end of June,
William Spike and I went into camp under the southerly shelter of that
vast granite wall called the Hudson Mountains, there to await the
promised "further instructions."
It had been a tiresome trip by steamer to Anticosti, from there by
schooner to Widgeon Bay, then down the coast and up the Cape Clear
River to Port Porpoise. There we bought three pack-mules and started
due north on the Great Fur Trail. The second day out we passed Fort
Boisé, the last outpost of civilization, and on the sixth day we were
travelling eastward under the granite mountain parapets.
On the evening of the sixth day out from Fort Boisé we went into camp
for the last time before entering the unknown land.
I could see it already through my field-glasses, and while William was
building the fire I climbed up among the rocks above and sat down,
glasses levelled, to study the prospect.
There was nothing either extraordinary or forbidding in the landscape
which stretched out beyond; to the right the solid palisade of granite
cut off the view; to the left the palisade continued, an endless
barrier of sheer cliffs crowned with pine and hemlock. But the
interesting section of the landscape lay almost directly in front of
me--a rent in the mountain-wall through which appeared to run a level,
arid plain, miles wide, and as smooth and even as a highroad.
There could be no doubt concerning the significance of that rent in
the solid mountain-wall; and, moreover, it was exactly as William
Spike had described it. However, I called to him and he came up from
the smoky camp-fire, axe on shoulder.
"Yep," he said, squatting beside me; "the Graham Glacier used to
meander through that there hole, but somethin' went wrong with the
earth's in'ards an' there was a bust-up."
"And you saw it, William?" I said, with a sigh of envy.
"Hey? Seen it? Sure I seen it! I was to Spoutin' Springs, twenty mile
west, with a bale o' blue fox an' otter pelt. Fust I knew them geysers
begun for to groan egregious like, an' I seen the caribou gallopin'
hell-bent south. 'This climate,' sez I, 'is too bracin' for me,' so I
struck a back trail an' landed onto a hill. Then them geysers blowed
up, one arter the next, an' I heard somethin' kinder cave in between
here an' China. I disremember things what happened. Somethin' throwed
me down, but I couldn't stay there, for the blamed ground was runnin'
like a river--all wavy-like, an' the sky hit me on the back o' me
head."
"And then?" I urged, in that new excitement which every repetition of
the story revived. I had heard it all twenty times since we left New
York, but mere repetition could not apparently satisfy me.
"Then," continued William, "the whole world kinder went off like a
fire-cracker, an' I come too, an' ran like--"
"I know," said I, cutting him short, for I had become wearied of the
invariable profanity which lent a lurid ending to his narrative.
"After that," I continued, "you went through the rent in the
mountains?"
"Sure."
"And you saw a dingue and a creature that resembled a mammoth?"
"Sure," he repeated, sulkily.
"And you saw something else?" I always asked this question; it
fascinated me to see the sullen fright flicker in William's eyes, and
the mechanical backward glance, as though what he had seen might still
be behind him.
He had never answered this third question but once, and that time he
fairly snarled in my face as he growled: "I seen what no Christian
oughter see."
So when I repeated: "And you saw something else, William?" he gave me
a wicked, frightened leer, and shuffled off to feed the mules.
Flattery, entreaties, threats left him unmoved; he never told me what
the third thing was that he had seen behind the Hudson Mountains.
William had retired to mix up with his mules; I resumed my binoculars
and my silent inspection of the great, smooth path left by the Graham
Glacier when something or other exploded that vast mass of ice into
vapor.
The arid plain wound out from the unknown country like a river, and I
thought then, and think now, that when the glacier was blown into
vapor the vapor descended in the most terrific rain the world has ever
seen, and poured through the newly blasted mountain-gateway, sweeping
the earth to bed-rock. To corroborate this theory, miles to the
southward I could see the débris winding out across the land towards
Wellman Bay, but as the terminal moraine of the vanished glacier
formerly ended there I could not be certain that my theory was
correct. Owing to the formation of the mountains I could not see more
than half a mile into the unknown country. What I could see appeared
to be nothing but the continuation of the glacier's path, scored out
by the cloud-burst, and swept as smooth as a floor.
Sitting there, my heart beating heavily with excitement, I looked
through the evening glow at the endless, pine-crowned mountain-wall
with its giant's gateway pierced for me! And I thought of all the
explorers and the unknown heroes--trappers, Indians, humble
naturalists, perhaps--who had attempted to scale that sheer barricade
and had died there or failed, beaten back from those eternal cliffs.
Eternal? No! For the Eternal Himself had struck the rock, and it had
sprung asunder, thundering obedience.
In the still evening air the smoke from the fire below mounted in a
straight, slender pillar, like the smoke from those ancient altars
builded before the first blood had been shed on earth.
The evening wind stirred the pines; a tiny spring brook made thin
harmony among the rocks; a murmur came from the quiet camp. It was
William adjuring his mules. In the deepening twilight I descended the
hillock, stepping cautiously among the rocks.
Then, suddenly, as I stood outside the reddening ring of firelight,
far in the depths of the unknown country, far behind the
mountain-wall, a sound grew on the quiet air. William heard it and
turned his face to the mountains. The sound faded to a vibration which
was felt, not heard. Then once more I began to divine a vibration in
the air, gathering in distant volume until it became a sound, lasting
the space of a spoken word, fading to vibration, then silence.
Was it a cry?
I looked at William inquiringly. He had quietly fainted away.
I got him to the little brook and poked his head into the icy water,
and after a while he sat up pluckily.
To an indignant question he replied: "Naw, I ain't a-cussin' you.
Lemme be or I'll have fits."
"Was it that sound that scared you?" I asked.
"Ya-as," he replied with a dauntless shiver.
"Was it the voice of the mammoth?" I persisted, excitedly. "Speak,
William, or I'll drag you about and kick you!"
He replied that it was neither a mammoth nor a dingue, and added a
strong request for privacy, which I was obliged to grant, as I could
not torture another word out of him.
I slept little that night; the exciting proximity of the unknown land
was too much for me. But although I lay awake for hours, I heard
nothing except the tinkle of water among the rocks and the plover
calling from some hidden marsh. At daybreak I shot a ptarmigan which
had walked into camp, and the shot set the echoes yelling among the
mountains.
William, sullen and heavy-eyed, dressed the bird, and we broiled it
for breakfast.
Neither he nor I alluded to the sound we had heard the night before;
he boiled water and cleaned up the mess-kit, and I pottered about
among the rocks for another ptarmigan. Wearying of this, presently, I
returned to the mules and William, and sat down for a smoke.
"It strikes me," I said, "that our instructions to 'await further
orders' are idiotic. How are we to receive 'further orders' here?"
William did not know.
"You don't suppose," said I, in sudden disgust, "that Miss Smawl
believes there is a summer hotel and daily mail service in the Hudson
Mountains?"
William thought perhaps she did suppose something of the sort.
It irritated me beyond measure to find myself at last on the very
border of the unknown country, and yet checked, held back, by the
irresponsible orders of a maiden lady named Smawl. However, my salary
depended upon the whim of that maiden lady, and although I fussed and
fumed and glared at the mountains through my glasses, I realized that
I could not stir without the permission of Miss Smawl. At times this
grotesque situation became almost unbearable, and I often went away by
myself and indulged in fantasies, firing my gun off and pretending I
had hit Miss Smawl by mistake. At such moments I would imagine I was
free at last to plunge into the strange country, and I would squat on
a rock and dream of bagging my first mammoth.
The time passed heavily; the tension increased with each new day. I
shot ptarmigan and kept our table supplied with brook-trout. William
chopped wood, conversed with his mules, and cooked very badly.
"See here," I said, one morning; "we have been in camp a week to-day,
and I can't stand your cooking another minute!"
William, who was washing a saucepan, looked up and begged me
sarcastically to accept the cordon bleu. But I know only how to cook
eggs, and there were no eggs within some hundred miles.
To get the flavor of the breakfast out of my mouth I walked up to my
favorite hillock and sat down for a smoke. The next moment, however, I
was on my feet, cheering excitedly and shouting for William.
"Here come 'further instructions' at last!" I cried, pointing to the
southward, where two dots on the grassy plain were imperceptibly
moving in our direction.
"People on mules," said William, without enthusiasm.
"They must be messengers for us!" I cried, in chaste joy. "Three
cheers for the northward trail, William, and the mischief take
Miss--Well, never mind now," I added.
"On them approachin' mules," observed William, "there is wimmen."
I stared at him for a second, then attempted to strike him. He dodged
wearily and repeated his incredible remark: "Ya-as, there
is--wimmen--two female ladies onto them there mules."
"Bring me my glasses!" I said, hoarsely; "bring me those glasses,
William, because I shall destroy you if you don't!"
Somewhat awed by my calm fury, he hastened back to camp and returned
with the binoculars. It was a breathless moment. I adjusted the lenses
with a steady hand and raised them.
Now, of all unexpected sights my fate may reserve for me in the
future, I trust--nay, I know--that none can ever prove as unwelcome as
the sight I perceived through my binoculars. For upon the backs of
those distant mules were two women, and the first one was Miss Smawl!
Upon her head she wore a helmet, from which fluttered a green veil.
Otherwise she was clothed in tweeds; and at moments she beat upon her
mule with a thick umbrella.
Surfeited with the sickening spectacle, I sat down on a rock and tried
to cry.
"I told yer so," observed William; but I was too tired to attack him.
When the caravan rode into camp I was myself again, smilingly prepared
for the worst, and I advanced, cap in hand, followed furtively by
William.
"Welcome," I said, violently injecting joy into my voice. "Welcome,
Professor Smawl, to the Hudson Mountains!"
"Kindly take my mule," she said, climbing down to mother earth.
"William," I said, with dignity, "take the lady's mule."
Miss Smawl gave me a stolid glance, then made directly for the
camp-fire, where a kettle of game-broth simmered over the coals. The
last I saw of her she was smelling of it, and I turned my back and
advanced towards the second lady pilgrim, prepared to be civil until
snubbed.
Now, it is quite certain that never before had William Spike or I
beheld so much feminine loveliness in one human body on the back of a
mule. She was clad in the daintiest of shooting-kilts, yet there was
nothing mannish about her except the way she rode the mule, and that
only accentuated her adorable femininity.
I remembered what Professor Lesard had said about blue stockings--but
Miss Dorothy Van Twiller's were gray, turned over at the tops, and
disappearing into canvas spats buckled across a pair of slim
shooting-boots.
"Welcome," said I, attempting to restrain a too violent cordiality.
"Welcome, Professor Van Twiller, to the Hudson Mountains."
"Thank you," she replied, accepting my assistance very sweetly; "it is
a pleasure to meet a human being again."
I glanced at Miss Smawl. She was eating game-broth, but she resembled
a human being in a general way.
"I should very much like to wash my hands," said Professor Van
Twiller, drawing the buckskin gloves from her slim fingers.
I brought towels and soap and conducted her to the brook.
She called to Professor Smawl to join her, and her voice was
crystalline; Professor Smawl declined, and her voice was batrachian.
"She is so hungry!" observed Miss Van Twiller. "I am very thankful we
are here at last, for we've had a horrid time. You see, we neither of
us know how to cook."
I wondered what they would say to William's cooking, but I held my
peace and retired, leaving the little brook to mirror the sweetest
face that was ever bathed in water.
VIII
That afternoon our expedition, in two sections, moved forward. The
first section comprised myself and all the mules; the second section
was commanded by Professor Smawl, followed by Professor Van Twiller,
armed with a tiny shot-gun. William, loaded down with the ladies'
toilet articles, skulked in the rear. I say skulked; there was no
other word for it.
"So you're a guide, are you?" observed Professor Smawl when William,
cap in hand, had approached her with well-meant advice. "The woods are
full of lazy guides. Pick up those Gladstone bags! I'll do the guiding
for this expedition."
Made cautious by William's humiliation, I associated with the mules
exclusively. Nevertheless, Professor Smawl had her hard eyes on me,
and I realized she meant mischief.
The encounter took place just as I, driving the five mules, entered
the great mountain gateway, thrilled with anticipation which almost
amounted to foreboding. As I was about to set foot across the
imaginary frontier which divided the world from the unknown land,
Professor Smawl hailed me and I halted until she came up.
"As commander of this expedition," she said, somewhat out of breath,
"I desire to be the first living creature who has ever set foot
behind the Graham Glacier. Kindly step aside, young sir!"
"Madam," said I, rigid with disappointment, "my guide, William Spike,
entered that unknown land a year ago."
"He says he did," sneered Professor Smawl.
"As you like," I replied; "but it is scarcely generous to forestall
the person whose stupidity gave you the clew to this unexplored
region."
"You mean yourself?" she asked, with a stony stare.
"I do," said I, firmly.
Her little, hard eyes grew harder, and she clutched her umbrella until
the steel ribs crackled.
"Young man," she said, insolently; "if I could have gotten rid of you
I should have done so the day I was appointed president. But Professor
Farrago refused to resign unless your position was assured, subject,
of course, to your good behavior. Frankly, I don't like you, and I
consider your views on science ridiculous, and if an opportunity
presents itself I will be most happy to request your resignation.
Kindly collect your mules and follow me."
Mortified beyond measure, I collected my mules and followed my
president into the strange country behind the Hudson Mountains--I who
had aspired to lead, compelled to follow in the rear, driving mules.
The journey was monotonous at first, but we shortly ascended a ridge
from which we could see, stretching out below us, the wilderness
where, save the feet of William Spike, no human feet had passed.
As for me, tingling with enthusiasm, I forgot my chagrin, I forgot the
gross injustice, I forgot my mules. "Excelsior!" I cried, running up
and down the ridge in uncontrollable excitement at the sublime
spectacle of forest, mountain, and valley all set with little lakes.
"Excelsior!" repeated an excited voice at my side, and Professor Van
Twiller sprang to the ridge beside me, her eyes bright as stars.
Exalted, inspired by the mysterious beauty of the view, we clasped
hands and ran up and down the grassy ridge.
"That will do," said Professor Smawl, coldly, as we raced about like a
pair of distracted kittens. The chilling voice broke the spell; I
dropped Professor Van Twiller's hand and sat down on a bowlder, aching
with wrath.
Late that afternoon we halted beside a tiny lake, deep in the unknown
wilderness, where purple and scarlet bergamot choked the shores and
the spruce-partridge strutted fearlessly under our very feet. Here we
pitched our two tents. The afternoon sun slanted through the pines;
the lake glittered; acres of golden brake perfumed the forest silence,
broken only at rare intervals by the distant thunder of a partridge
drumming.
Professor Smawl ate heavily and retired to her tent to lie torpid
until evening. William drove the unloaded mules into an intervale full
of sun-cured, fragrant grasses; I sat down beside Professor Van
Twiller.
The wilderness is electric. Once within the influence of its currents,
human beings become positively or negatively charged, violently
attracting or repelling each other.
"There is something the matter with this air," said Professor Van
Twiller. "It makes me feel as though I were desperately enamoured of
the entire human race."
She leaned back against a pine, smiling vaguely, and crossing one knee
over the other.
Now I am not bold by temperament, and, normally, I fear ladies.
Therefore it surprised me to hear myself begin a frivolous causerie,
replying to her pretty epigrams with epigrams of my own, advancing to
the borderland of badinage, fearlessly conducting her and myself over
that delicate frontier to meet upon the terrain of undisguised
flirtation.
It was clear that she was out for a holiday. The seriousness and
restraints of twenty-two years she had left behind her in the
civilized world, and now, with a shrug of her young shoulders, she
unloosened her burden of reticence, dignity, and responsibility and
let the whole load fall with a discreet thud.
"Even hares go mad in March," she said, seriously. "I know you intend
to flirt with me--and I don't care. Anyway, there's nothing else to
do, is there?"
"Suppose," said I, solemnly, "I should take you behind that big tree
and attempt to kiss you!"
The prospect did not appear to appall her, so I looked around with
that sneaking yet conciliatory caution peculiar to young men who are
novices in the art. Before I had satisfied myself that neither William
nor the mules were observing us, Professor Van Twiller rose to her
feet and took a short step backward.
"Let's set traps for a dingue," she said, "will you?"
I looked at the big tree, undecided. "Come on," she said; "I'll show
you how." And away we went into the woods, she leading, her kilts
flashing through the golden half-light.
Now I had not the faintest notion how to trap the dingue, but
Professor Van Twiller asserted that it formerly fed on the tender tips
of the spruce, quoting Darwin as her authority.
So we gathered a bushel of spruce-tips, piled them on the bank of a
little stream, then built a miniature stockade around the bait, a foot
high. I roofed this with hemlock, then laboriously whittled out and
adjusted a swinging shutter for the entrance, setting it on springy
twigs.
"The dingue, you know, was supposed to live in the water," she said,
kneeling beside me over our trap.
I took her little hand and thanked her for the information.
"Doubtless," she said, enthusiastically, "a dingue will come out of
the lake to-night to feed on our spruce-tips. Then," she added, "we've
got him."
"True!" I said, earnestly, and pressed her fingers very gently.
Her face was turned a little away; I don't remember what she said; I
don't remember that she said anything. A faint rose-tint stole over
her cheek. A few moments later she said: "You must not do that again."
It was quite late when we strolled back to camp. Long before we came
in sight of the twin tents we heard a deep voice bawling our names. It
was Professor Smawl, and she pounced upon Dorothy and drove her
ignominiously into the tent.
"As for you," she said, in hollow tones, "you may explain your
conduct at once, or place your resignation at my disposal."
But somehow or other I appeared to be temporarily lost to shame, and I
only smiled at my infuriated president, and entered my own tent with a
step that was distinctly frolicsome.
"Billy," said I to William Spike, who regarded me morosely from the
depths of the tent, "I'm going out to bag a mammoth to-morrow, so
kindly clean my elephant-gun and bring an axe to chop out the tusks."
That night Professor Smawl complained bitterly of the cooking, but as
neither Dorothy nor I knew how to improve it, she revenged herself on
us by eating everything on the table and retiring to bed, taking
Dorothy with her.
I could not sleep very well; the mosquitoes were intrusive, and
Professor Smawl dreamed she was a pack of wolves and yelped in her
sleep.
"Bird, ain't she?" said William, roused from slumber by her weird
noises.
Dorothy, much frightened, crawled out of her tent, where her
blanket-mate still dreamed dyspeptically, and William and I made her
comfortable by the camp-fire.
It takes a pretty girl to look pretty half asleep in a blanket.
"Are you sure you are quite well?" I asked her.
To make sure, I tested her pulse. For an hour it varied more or less,
but without alarming either of us. Then she went back to bed and I sat
alone by the camp-fire.
Towards midnight I suddenly began to feel that strange, distant
vibration that I had once before felt. As before, the vibration grew
on the still air, increasing in volume until it became a sound, then
died out into silence.
I rose and stole into my tent.
William, white as death, lay in his corner, weeping in his sleep.
I roused him remorselessly, and he sat up scowling, but refused to
tell me what he had been dreaming.
"Was it about that third thing you saw--" I began. But he snarled up
at me like a startled animal, and I was obliged to go to bed and toss
about and speculate.
The next morning it rained. Dorothy and I visited our dingue-trap but
found nothing in it. We were inclined, however, to stay out in the
rain behind a big tree, but Professor Smawl vetoed that proposition
and sent me off to supply the larder with fresh meat.
I returned, mad and wet, with a dozen partridges and a white
hare--brown at that season--and William cooked them vilely.
"I can taste the feathers!" said Professor Smawl, indignantly.
"There is no accounting for taste," I said, with a polite gesture of
deprecation; "personally, I find feathers unpalatable."
"You may hand in your resignation this evening!" cried Professor
Smawl, in hollow tones of passion.
I passed her the pancakes with a cheerful smile, and flippantly
pressed the hand next me. Unexpectedly it proved to be William's
sticky fist, and Dorothy and I laughed until her tears ran into
Professor Smawl's coffee-cup--an accident which kindled her wrath to
red heat, and she requested my resignation five times during the
evening.
The next day it rained again, more or less. Professor Smawl complained
of the cooking, demanded my resignation, and finally marched out to
explore, lugging the reluctant William with her. Dorothy and I sat
down behind the largest tree we could find.
I don't remember what we were saying when a peculiar sound interrupted
us, and we listened earnestly.
It was like a bell in the woods, ding-dong! ding-dong! ding-dong!--a
low, mellow, golden harmony, coming nearer, then stopping.
I clasped Dorothy in my arms in my excitement.
"It is the note of the dingue!" I whispered, "and that explains its
name, handed down from remote ages along with the names of the
behemoth and the coney. It was because of its bell-like cry that it
was named! Darling!" I cried, forgetting our short acquaintance, "we
have made a discovery that the whole world will ring with!"
Hand in hand we tiptoed through the forest to our trap. There was
something in it that took fright at our approach and rushed
panic-stricken round and round the interior of the trap, uttering its
alarm-note, which sounded like the jangling of a whole string of
bells.
I seized the strangely beautiful creature; it neither attempted to
bite nor scratch, but crouched in my arms, trembling and eying me.
Delighted with the lovely, tame animal, we bore it tenderly back to
the camp and placed it on my blanket. Hand in hand we stood before it,
awed by the sight of this beast, so long believed to be extinct.
"It is too good to be true," sighed Dorothy, clasping her white hands
under her chin and gazing at the dingue in rapture.
"Yes," said I, solemnly, "you and I, my child, are face to face with
the fabled dingue--Dingus solitarius! Let us continue to gaze at it,
reverently, prayerfully, humbly--"
Dorothy yawned--probably with excitement.
We were still mutely adoring the dingue when Professor Smawl burst
into the tent at a hand-gallop, bawling hoarsely for her kodak and
note-book.
Dorothy seized her triumphantly by the arm and pointed at the dingue,
which appeared to be frightened to death.
"What!" cried Professor Smawl, scornfully; "that a dingue? Rubbish!"
"Madam," I said, firmly, "it is a dingue! It's a monodactyl! See! It
has but a single toe!"
"Bosh!" she retorted; "it's got four!"
"Four!" I repeated, blankly.
"Yes; one on each foot!"
"Of course," I said; "you didn't suppose a monodactyl meant a beast
with one leg and one toe!"
But she laughed hatefully and declared it was a woodchuck.
We squabbled for a while until I saw the significance of her attitude.
The unfortunate woman wished to find a dingue first and be accredited
with the discovery.
I lifted the dingue in both hands and shook the creature gently, until
the chiming ding-dong of its protestations filled our ears like sweet
bells jangled out of tune.
Pale with rage at this final proof of the dingue's identity, she
seized her camera and note-book.
"I haven't any time to waste over that musical woodchuck!" she
shouted, and bounced out of the tent.
"What have you discovered, dear?" cried Dorothy, running after her.
"A mammoth!" bawled Professor Smawl, triumphantly; "and I'm going to
photograph him!"
Neither Dorothy nor I believed her. We watched the flight of the
infatuated woman in silence.
And now, at last, the tragic shadow falls over my paper as I write. I
was never passionately attached to Professor Smawl, yet I would gladly
refrain from chronicling the episode that must follow if, as I have
hitherto attempted, I succeed in sticking to the unornamented truth.
I have said that neither Dorothy nor I believed her. I don't know why,
unless it was that we had not yet made up our minds to believe that
the mammoth still existed on earth. So, when Professor Smawl
disappeared in the forest, scuttling through the underbrush like a
demoralized hen, we viewed her flight with unconcern. There was a
large tree in the neighborhood--a pleasant shelter in case of rain. So
we sat down behind it, although the sun was shining fiercely.
It was one of those peaceful afternoons in the wilderness when the
whole forest dreams, and the shadows are asleep and every little
leaflet takes a nap. Under the still tree-tops the dappled sunlight,
motionless, soaked the sod; the forest-flies no longer whirled in
circles, but sat sunning their wings on slender twig-tips.
The heat was sweet and spicy; the sun drew out the delicate essence
of gum and sap, warming volatile juices until they exhaled through the
aromatic bark.
The sun went down into the wilderness; the forest stirred in its
sleep; a fish splashed in the lake. The spell was broken. Presently
the wind began to rise somewhere far away in the unknown land. I heard
it coming, nearer, nearer--a brisk wind that grew heavier and blew
harder as it neared us--a gale that swept distant branches--a furious
gale that set limbs clashing and cracking, nearer and nearer. Crack!
and the gale grew to a hurricane, trampling trees like dead twigs!
Crack! Crackle! Crash! Crash!
Was it the wind?
With the roaring in my ears I sprang up, staring into the forest
vista, and at the same instant, out of the crashing forest, sped
Professor Smawl, skirts tucked up, thin legs flying like
bicycle-spokes. I shouted, but the crashing drowned my voice. Then all
at once the solid earth began to shake, and with the rush and roar of
a tornado a gigantic living thing burst out of the forest before our
eyes--a vast shadowy bulk that rocked and rolled along, mowing down
trees in its course.
Two great crescents of ivory curved from its head; its back swept
through the tossing tree-tops. Once it bellowed like a gun fired from
a high bastion.
The apparition passed with the noise of thunder rolling on towards the
ends of the earth. Crack! crash! went the trees, the tempest swept
away in a rolling volley of reports, distant, more distant, until,
long after the tumult had deadened, then ceased, the stunned forest
echoed with the fall of mangled branches slowly dropping.
That evening an agitated young couple sat close together in the
deserted camp, calling timidly at intervals for Professor Smawl and
William Spike. I say timidly, because it is correct; we did not care
to have a mammoth respond to our calls. The lurking echoes across the
lake answered our cries; the full moon came up over the forest to look
at us. We were not much to look at. Dorothy was moistening my shoulder
with unfeigned tears, and I, afraid to light the fire, sat hunched up
under the common blanket, wildly examining the darkness around us.
Chilled to the spinal marrow, I watched the gray lights whiten in the
east. A single bird awoke in the wilderness. I saw the nearer trees
looming in the mist, and the silver fog rolling on the lake.
All night long the darkness had vibrated with the strange monotone
which I had heard the first night, camping at the gate of the unknown
land. My brain seemed to echo that subtle harmony which rings in the
auricular labyrinth after sound has ceased.
There are ghosts of sound which return to haunt long after sound is
dead. It was these voiceless spectres of a voice long dead that
stirred the transparent silence, intoning toneless tones.
I think I make myself clear.
It was an uncanny night; morning whitened the east; gray daylight
stole into the woods, blotting the shadows to paler tints. It was
nearly mid-day before the sun became visible through the fine-spun web
of mist--a pale spot of gilt in the zenith.
By this pallid light I labored to strike the two empty tents, gather
up our equipments and pack them on our five mules. Dorothy aided me
bravely, whimpering when I spoke of Professor Smawl and William Spike,
but abating nothing of her industry until we had the mules loaded and
I was ready to drive them, Heaven knows whither.
"Where shall we go?" quavered Dorothy, sitting on a log with the
dingue in her lap.
One thing was certain; this mammoth-ridden land was no place for
women, and I told her so.
We placed the dingue in a basket and tied it around the leading mule's
neck. Immediately the dingue, alarmed, began dingling like a cow-bell.
It acted like a charm on the other mules, and they gravely filed off
after their leader, following the bell. Dorothy and I, hand in hand,
brought up the rear.
I shall never forget that scene in the forest--the gray arch of the
heavens swimming in mist through which the sun peered shiftily, the
tall pines wavering through the fog, the preoccupied mules marching
single file, the foggy bell-note of the gentle dingue in its swinging
basket, and Dorothy, limp kilts dripping with dew, plodding through
the white dusk.
We followed the terrible tornado-path which the mammoth had left in
its wake, but there were no traces of its human victims--neither one
jot of Professor Smawl nor one solitary tittle of William Spike.
And now I would be glad to end this chapter if I could; I would gladly
leave myself as I was, there in the misty forest, with an arm
encircling the slender body of my little companion, and the mules
moving in a monotonous line, and the dingue discreetly jingling--but
again that menacing shadow falls across my page, and truth bids me
tell all, and I, the slave of accuracy, must remember my vows as the
dauntless disciple of truth.
Towards sunset--or that pale parody of sunset which set the forest
swimming in a ghastly, colorless haze--the mammoth's trail of ruin
brought us suddenly out of the trees to the shore of a great sheet of
water.
It was a desolate spot; northward a chaos of sombre peaks rose, piled
up like thunder-clouds along the horizon; east and south the darkening
wilderness spread like a pall. Westward, crawling out into the mist
from our very feet, the gray waste of water moved under the dull sky,
and flat waves slapped the squatting rocks, heavy with slime.
And now I understood why the trail of the mammoth continued straight
into the lake, for on either hand black, filthy tamarack swamps lay
under ghostly sheets of mist. I strove to creep out into the bog,
seeking a footing, but the swamp quaked and the smooth surface
trembled like jelly in a bowl. A stick thrust into the slime sank into
unknown depths.
Vaguely alarmed, I gained the firm land again and looked around,
believing there was no road open but the desolate trail we had
traversed. But I was in error; already the leading mule was wading out
into the water, and the others, one by one, followed.
How wide the lake might be we could not tell, because the band of fog
hung across the water like a curtain. Yet out into this flat, shallow
void our mules went steadily, slop! slop! slop! in single file.
Already they were growing indistinct in the fog, so I bade Dorothy
hasten and take off her shoes and stockings.
She was ready before I was, I having to unlace my shooting-boots, and
she stepped out into the water, kilts fluttering, moving her white
feet cautiously. In a moment I was beside her, and we waded forward,
sounding the shallow water with our poles.
When the water had risen to Dorothy's knees I hesitated, alarmed. But
when we attempted to retrace our steps we could not find the shore
again, for the blank mist shrouded everything, and the water deepened
at every step.
I halted and listened for the mules. Far away in the fog I heard a
dull splashing, receding as I listened. After a while all sound died
away, and a slow horror stole over me--a horror that froze the little
net-work of veins in every limb. A step to the right and the water
rose to my knees; a step to the left and the cold, thin circle of the
flood chilled my breast. Suddenly Dorothy screamed, and the next
moment a far cry answered--a far, sweet cry that seemed to come from
the sky, like the rushing harmony of the world's swift winds. Then the
curtain of fog before us lighted up from behind; shadows moved on the
misty screen, outlines of trees and grassy shores, and tiny birds
flying. Thrown on the vapory curtain, in silhouette, a man and a woman
passed under the lovely trees, arms about each other's necks; near
them the shadows of five mules grazed peacefully; a dingue gambolled
close by.
"It is a mirage!" I muttered, but my voice made no sound. Slowly the
light behind the fog died out; the vapor around us turned to rose,
then dissolved, while mile on mile of a limitless sea spread away
till, like a quick line pencilled at a stroke, the horizon cut sky and
sea in half, and before us lay an ocean from which towered a mountain
of snow--or a gigantic berg of milky ice--for it was moving.
"Good Heavens," I shrieked; "it is alive!"
At the sound of my crazed cry the mountain of snow became a pillar,
towering to the clouds, and a wave of golden glory drenched the figure
to its knees! Figure? Yes--for a colossal arm shot across the sky,
then curved back in exquisite grace to a head of awful beauty--a
woman's head, with eyes like the blue lake of heaven--ay, a woman's
splendid form, upright from the sky to the earth, knee-deep in the
sea. The evening clouds drifted across her brow; her shimmering hair
lighted the world beneath with sunset. Then, shading her white brow
with one hand, she bent, and with the other hand dipped in the sea,
she sent a wave rolling at us. Straight out of the horizon it sped--a
ripple that grew to a wave, then to a furious breaker which caught us
up in a whirl of foam, bearing us onward, faster, faster, swiftly
flying through leagues of spray until consciousness ceased and all was
blank.
Yet ere my senses fled I heard again that strange cry--that sweet,
thrilling harmony rushing out over the foaming waters, filling earth
and sky with its soundless vibrations.
And I knew it was the hail of the Spirit of the North warning us back
to life again.
       *       *       *       *       *
Looking back, now, over the days that passed before we staggered into
the Hudson Bay outpost at Gravel Cove, I am inclined to believe that
neither Dorothy nor I were clothed entirely in our proper minds--or,
if we were, our minds, no doubt, must have been in the same condition
as our clothing. I remember shooting ptarmigan, and that we ate them;
flashes of memory recall the steady downpour of rain through the
endless twilight of shaggy forests; dim days on the foggy tundra,
mud-holes from which the wild ducks rose in thousands; then the
stunted hemlocks, then the forest again. And I do not even recall the
moment when, at last, stumbling into the smooth path left by the
Graham Glacier, we crawled through the mountain-wall, out of the
unknown land, and once more into a world protected by the Lord
Almighty.
A hunting-party of Elbon Indians brought us in to the post, and
everybody was most kind--that I remember, just before going into
several weeks of unpleasant delirium mercifully mitigated with
unconsciousness.
Curiously enough, Professor Van Twiller was not very much battered,
physically, for I had carried her for days, pickaback. But the awful
experience had produced a shock which resulted in a nervous condition
that lasted so long after she returned to New York that the wealthy
and eminent specialist who attended her insisted upon taking her to
the Riviera and marrying her. I sometimes wonder--but, as I have said,
such reflections have no place in these austere pages.
However, anybody, I fancy, is at liberty to speculate upon the fate of
the late Professor Smawl and William Spike, and upon the mules and the
gentle dingue. Personally, I am convinced that the suggestive
silhouettes I saw on that ghastly curtain of fog were cast by
beatified beings in some earthly paradise--a mirage of bliss of which
we caught but the colorless shadow-shapes floating 'twixt sea and
sky.
At all events, neither Professor Smawl nor her William Spike ever
returned; no exploring expedition has found a trace of mule or lady,
of William or the dingue. The new expedition to be organized by
Barnard College may penetrate still farther. I suppose that, when the
time comes, I shall be expected to volunteer. But Professor Van
Twiller is married, and William and Professor Smawl ought to be, and
altogether, considering the mammoth and that gigantic and splendid
apparition that bent from the zenith to the ocean and sent a
tidal-wave rolling from the palm of one white hand--I say, taking all
these various matters under consideration, I think I shall decide to
remain in New York and continue writing for the scientific
periodicals. Besides, the mortifying experience at the Paris
Exposition has dampened even my perennially youthful enthusiasm. And
as for the late expedition to Florida, Heaven knows I am ready to
repeat it--nay, I am already forming a plan for the rescue--but though
I am prepared to encounter any danger for the sake of my beloved
superior, Professor Farrago, I do not feel inclined to commit
indiscretions in order to pry into secrets which, as I regard it,
concern Professor Smawl and William Spike alone.
But all this is, in a measure, premature. What I now have to relate is
the recital of an eye-witness to that most astonishing scandal which
occurred during the recent exposition in Paris.
IX
When the delegates were appointed to the International Scientific
Congress at the Paris Exposition of 1900, how little did anybody
imagine that the great conference would end in the most gigantic
scandal that ever stirred two continents?
Yet, had it not been for the pair of American newspapers published in
Paris, this scandal would never have been aired, for the continental
press is so well muzzled that when it bites its teeth merely meet in
the empty atmosphere with a discreet snap.
But to the Yankee nothing excepting the Monroe Doctrine is sacred, and
the unsopped watch-dogs of the press bite right and left, unmuzzled.
The biter bites--it is his profession--and that ends the affair; the
bitee is bitten, and, in the deplorable argot of the hour, "it is up
to him."
So now that the scandal has been well aired and hung out to dry in the
teeth of decency and the four winds, and as all the details have been
cheerfully and grossly exaggerated, it is, perhaps, the proper moment
for the truth to be written by the only person whose knowledge of all
the facts in the affair entitles him to speak for himself as well as
for those honorable ladies and gentlemen whose names and titles have
been so mercilessly criticised.
These, then, are the simple facts:
The International Scientific Congress, now adjourned sine die, met
at nine o'clock in the morning, May 3, 1900, in the Tasmanian Pavilion
of the Paris Exposition. There were present the most famous scientists
of Great Britain, France, Germany, Russia, Italy, Switzerland, and the
United States.
His Royal Highness the Crown-Prince of Monaco presided.
It is not necessary, now, to repeat the details of that preliminary
meeting. It is sufficient to say that committees representing the
various known sciences were named and appointed by the Prince of
Monaco, who had been unanimously elected permanent chairman of the
conference. It is the composition of a single committee that concerns
us now, and that committee, representing the science which treats of
bird life, was made up as follows:
Chairman--His Royal Highness the Crown-Prince of Monaco. Members--Sir
Peter Grebe, Great Britain; Baron de Becasse, France; his Royal
Highness King Christian, of Finland; the Countess d'Alzette, of
Belgium; and I, from the United States, representing the Smithsonian
Institution and the Bronx Park Zoological Society of New York.
This, then, was the composition of that now notorious ornithological
committee, a modest, earnest, self-effacing little band of workers,
bound together--in the beginning--by those ties of mutual respect and
esteem which unite all laborers in the vineyard of science.
From the first meeting of our committee, science, the great leveller,
left no artificial barriers of rank or title standing between us. We
were enthusiasts in our love for ornithology; we found new inspiration
in the democracy of our common interests.
As for me, I chatted with my fellows, feeling no restraint myself and
perceiving none. The King of Finland and I discussed his latest
monograph on the speckled titmouse, and I was glad to agree with the
King in all his theories concerning the nesting habits of that
important bird.
Sir Peter Grebe, a large, red gentleman in tweeds, read us some notes
he had made on the domestic hen and her reasons for running ahead of a
horse and wagon instead of stepping aside to let the disturbing
vehicle pass.
The Crown-Prince of Monaco took issue with Sir Peter; so did the Baron
de Becasse; and we were entertained by a friendly and marvellously
interesting three-cornered dispute, shared in by three of the most
profound thinkers of the century.
I shall never forget the brilliancy of that argument, nor the modest,
good-humored retorts which gave us all a glimpse into depths of
erudition which impressed us profoundly and set the seal on the bonds
which held us so closely together.
Alas, that the seal should ever have been broken! Alas, that the
glittering apple of discord should have been flung into our
midst!--no, not flung, but gently rolled under our noses by the gloved
fingers of the lovely Countess d'Alzette.
"Messieurs," said the fair Countess, when all present, excepting she
and I, had touched upon or indicated the subjects which they had
prepared to present to the congress--"messieurs mes confrères, I have
been requested by our distinguished chairman, the Crown-Prince of
Monaco, to submit to your judgment the subject which, by favor of the
King of the Belgians, I have prepared to present to the International
Scientific Congress."
She made a pretty courtesy as she named her own sovereign, and we all
rose out of respect to that most austere and moral ruler the King of
Belgium.
"But," she said, with a charming smile of depreciation, "I am very,
very much afraid that the subject which I have chosen may not meet
with your approval, gentlemen."
She stood there in her dainty Parisian gown and bonnet, shaking her
pretty head uncertainly, a smile on her lips, her small, gloved
fingers interlocked.
"Oh, I know how dreadful it would be if this great congress should be
compelled to listen to any hoax like that which Monsieur de Rougemont
imposed on the British Royal Society," she said, gravely; "and because
the subject of my paper is as strange as the strangest phenomenon
alleged to have been noted by Monsieur de Rougemont, I hesitate--"
She glanced at the silent listeners around her. Sir Peter's red face
had hardened; the King of Finland frowned slightly; the Crown-Prince
of Monaco and Baron de Becasse wore anxious smiles. But when her
violet eyes met mine I gave her a glance of encouragement, and that
glance, I am forced to confess, was not dictated by scientific
approval, but by something that never entirely dries up in the
mustiest and dustiest of savants--the old Adam implanted in us all.
Now, I knew perfectly well what her subject must be; so did every man
present. For it was no secret that his Majesty of Belgium had been
swindled by some natives in Tasmania, and had paid a very large sum of
money for a skin of that gigantic bird, the ux, which has been so
often reported to exist among the inaccessible peaks of the Tasmanian
Mountains. Needless, perhaps, to say that the skin proved a fraud,
being nothing more than a Barnum contrivance made up out of the skins
of a dozen ostriches and cassowaries, and most cleverly put together
by Chinese workmen; at least, such was the report made on it by Sir
Peter Grebe, who had been sent by the British Society to Antwerp to
examine the acquisition. Needless, also, perhaps, to say that King
Leopold, of Belgium, stoutly maintained that the skin of the ux was
genuine from beak to claw.
For six months there had been a most serious difference of opinion
among European ornithologists concerning the famous ux in the Antwerp
Museum; and this difference had promised to result in an open quarrel
between a few Belgian savants on one side and-all Europe and Great
Britain on the other.
Scientists have a deep--rooted horror of anything that touches on
charlatanism; the taint of trickery not only alarms them, but drives
them away from any suspicious subject, and usually ruins,
scientifically speaking, the person who has introduced the subject for
discussion.
Therefore, it took no little courage for the Countess d'Alzette to
touch, with her dainty gloves, a subject which every scientist in
Europe, with scarcely an exception, had pronounced fraudulent and
unworthy of investigation. And to bring it before the great
International Congress required more courage still; for the person
who could face, in executive session, the most brilliant intellects in
the world, and openly profess faith in a Barnumized bird skin, either
had no scientific reputation to lose or was possessed of a bravery far
above that of the savants who composed the audience.
Now, when the pretty Countess caught a flash of encouragement in my
glance she turned rosy with gratification and surprise. Clearly, she
had not expected to find a single ally in the entire congress. Her
quick smile of gratitude touched me, and made me ashamed, too, for I
had encouraged her out of the pure love of mischief, hoping to hear
the whole matter threshed before the congress and so have it settled
once for all. It was a thoughtless thing to do on my part. I should
have remembered the consequences to the Countess if it were proven
that she had been championing a fraud. The ruffled dignity of the
congress would never forgive her; her scientific career would
practically be at an end, because her theories and observations could
no longer command respect or even the attention of those who knew that
she herself had once been deceived by a palpable fraud.
I looked at her guiltily, already ashamed of myself for encouraging
her to her destruction. How lovely and innocent she appeared, standing
there reading her notes in a low, clear voice, fresh as a child's,
with now and then a delicious upward sweep of her long, dark lashes.
With a start I came to my senses and bestowed a pinch on myself. This
was neither the time nor the place to sentimentalize over a girlish
beauty whose small, Parisian head was crammed full of foolish, brave
theories concerning an imposition which her aged sovereign had been
unable to detect.
I saw the gathering frown on the King of Finland's dark face; I saw
Sir Peter Grebe grow redder and redder, and press his thick lips
together to control the angry "Bosh!" which need not have been uttered
to have been understood. The Baron de Becasse wore a painfully neutral
smile, which froze his face into a quaint gargoyle; the Crown-Prince
of Monaco looked at his polished fingernails with a startled yet
abstracted resignation. Clearly the young Countess had not a
sympathizer in the committee.
Something--perhaps it was the latent chivalry which exists imbedded in
us all, perhaps it was pity, perhaps a glimmering dawn of belief in
the ux skin--set my thoughts working very quickly.
The Countess d'Alzette finished her notes, then glanced around with a
deprecating smile, which died out on her lips when she perceived the
silent and stony hostility of her fellow-scientists. A quick
expression of alarm came into her lovely eyes. Would they vote against
giving her a hearing before the congress? It required a unanimous vote
to reject a subject. She turned her eyes on me.
I rose, red as fire, my head humming with a chaos of ideas all
disordered and vague, yet whirling along in a single, resistless
current. I had come to the congress prepared to deliver a monograph on
the great auk; but now the subject went overboard as the birds
themselves had, and I found myself pleading with the committee to give
the Countess a hearing on the ux.
"Why not?" I exclaimed, warmly. "It is established beyond question
that the ux does exist in Tasmania. Wallace saw several uxen, through
his telescope, walking about upon the inaccessible heights of the
Tasmanian Mountains. Darwin acknowledged that the bird exists;
Professor Farrago has published a pamphlet containing an accumulation
of all data bearing upon the ux. Why should not Madame la Comtesse be
heard by the entire congress?"
I looked at Sir Peter Grebe.
"Have you seen this alleged bird skin in the Antwerp Museum?" he
asked, perspiring with indignation.
"Yes, I have," said I. "It has been patched up, but how are we to know
that the skin did not require patching? I have not found that ostrich
skin has been used. It is true that the Tasmanians may have shot the
bird to pieces and mended the skin with bits of cassowary hide here
and there. But the greater part of the skin, and the beak and claws,
are, in my estimation, well worth the serious attention of savants. To
pronounce them fraudulent is, in my opinion, rash and premature."
I mopped my brow; I was in for it now. I had thrown in my reputation
with the reputation of the Countess.
The displeasure and astonishment of my confrères was unmistakable. In
the midst of a strained silence I moved that a vote be taken upon the
advisability of a hearing before the congress on the subject of the
ux. After a pause the young Countess, pale and determined, seconded my
motion. The result of the balloting was a foregone conclusion; the
Countess had one vote--she herself refraining from voting--and the
subject was entered on the committee-book as acceptable and a date set
for the hearing before the International Congress.
The effect of this vote on our little committee was most marked.
Constraint took the place of cordiality, polite reserve replaced that
guileless and open-hearted courtesy with which our proceedings had
begun.
With icy politeness, the Crown-Prince of Monaco asked me to state the
subject of the paper I proposed to read before the congress, and I
replied quietly that, as I was partly responsible for advocating the
discussion of the ux, I proposed to associate myself with the Countess
d'Alzette in that matter--if Madame la Comtesse would accept the offer
of a brother savant.
"Indeed I will," she said, impulsively, her blue eyes soft with
gratitude.
"Very well," observed Sir Peter Grebe, swallowing his indignation and
waddling off towards the door; "I shall resign my position on this
committee--yes, I will, I tell you!"--as the King of Finland laid a
fatherly hand on Sir Peter's sleeve--"I'll not be made responsible for
this damn--"
He choked, sputtered, then bowed to the horrified Countess, asking
pardon, and declaring that he yielded to nobody in respect for the
gentler sex. And he retired with the Baron de Becasse.
But out in the hallway I heard him explode. "Confound it! This is no
place for petticoats, Baron! And as for that Yankee ornithologist,
he's hung himself with the Countess's corset--string--yes, he has!
Don't tell me, Baron! The young idiot was all right until the Countess
looked at him, I tell you. Gad! how she crumpled him up with those
blue eyes of hers! What the devil do women come into such committees
for? Eh? It's an outrage, I tell you! Why, the whole world will jeer
at us if we sit and listen to her monograph on that fraudulent bird!"
The young Countess, who was writing near the window, could not have
heard this outburst; but I heard it, and so did King Christian and the
Crown-Prince of Monaco.
"Lord," thought I, "the Countess and I are in the frying-pan this
time. I'll do what I can to keep us both out of the fire."
When the King and the Crown-Prince had made their adieux to the
Countess, and she had responded, pale and serious, they came over to
where I was standing, looking out on the Seine.
"Though we must differ from you," said the King, kindly, "we wish you
all success in this dangerous undertaking."
I thanked him.
"You are a young man to risk a reputation already established,"
remarked the Crown-Prince, then added: "You are braver than I.
Ridicule is a barrier to all knowledge, and, though we know that, we
seekers after truth always bring up short at that barrier and
dismount, not daring to put our hobbies to the fence."
"One can but come a cropper," said I.
"And risk staking our hobbies? No, no, that would make us ridiculous;
and ridicule kills in Europe."
"It's somewhat deadly in America, too," I said, smiling.
"The more honor to you," said the Crown-Prince, gravely.
"Oh, I am not the only one," I answered, lightly. "There is my
confrère, Professor Hyssop, who studies apparitions and braves a
contempt and ridicule which none of us would dare challenge. We
Yankees are learning slowly. Some day we will find the lost key to the
future while Europe is sneering at those who are trying to pick the
lock."
When King Christian, of Finland, and the Crown-Prince of Monaco had
taken their hats and sticks and departed, I glanced across the room at
the young Countess, who was now working rapidly on a type-writer,
apparently quite oblivious of my presence.
I looked out of the window again, and my gaze wandered over the
