he said with authoritative courtesy. " Give it 
a rest — for a while." 
 
" What 's the matter with you ? " demanded 
Bernard roughly. He dropped the spaniel 
(who, cowering from him, leaped from the 
table), and turned his sullen face towards his 
superior. 
" I'm going out of town," replied Dr. Steele. 
" I can't go on with these experiments to-day." 
" But I can," urged Bernard, with an evil 
expression. " Vacation 's the time for it — no 
students around." 
" Oblige me by regarding my wishes," per- 
sisted the professor. " I prefer to be present 
when these researches are continued. Send the 
dog back to its cage." 
"All right," answered Bernard, with his 
unpleasant smile. " I understand." 
The released spaniel, moved by God knew 
what impulse, stopped as it passed by the 
young professor of physiology, and tried to 
kiss his hand. An expression which could not 
be interpreted as one of pity, and which was 
far from indicating a sense of regret, but 
which might have been called a conscious- 
ness of discomfort, brushed the face of Olin 
Steele. 
He went directly out from the medical 
 
school, and hurried to the wharf ;. whence he 
took the boat for the familiar shore where 
Miss Lauriat spent her summers. 
The day was hot, — it was July, — and 
Steele, as the little steamer tossed along the 
coast, luxuriously turned his face towards the 
salt wind. He had spent all the morning in 
his laboratory, and felt that he had earned 
his holiday. A faint memory that he had seen 
it spelled another way tapped with muffled 
fingers at his barred imagination. The word 
had some time since gone out of evidence in 
the physiologist's vocabulary ; yet he might 
have said that this, if any, if ever, was holy 
day to him. 
White of soul and fair of body, the woman 
seemed to float through the summer air be- 
fore him, and without a glance, without a 
gesture, silent and maidenly, she drew him 
on. From sounds and sights which would have 
rent her with recoil had she dreamed of them 
in her darkest dream, he turned his hurry- 
ing feet to her, complacently. Red-handed he 
sought her ; iron-willed he hunted her. 
Yet a man who has ever known and cher- 
ished the nobler ideals is haunted by their 
shadows when- he has foresworn their sub- 
stance ; chat which was left of the high and 
the fine in Olin Steele was concentrated with 
a dedication in which there was something 
to be respected, upon his passion. On all 
the altars of his soid the sacrifices were con- 
sumed — only on this one, only for her, the 
fire burned. 
Halfway up the avenue to her summer home 
he met her slowly walking down. She was in 
white from head to foot — a foamy white, with 
ivory laces that stirred in the strong wind. He 
had not seen her dressed like this before, and 
marveled at the sublimation. 
Suddenly contrasting with her mourning 
black, there was a subtle suggestion in the 
happy dress at which his head whirled gid- 
dily. He did not, could not, would not help it. 
" There is something almost bridal about 
these beautiful white costumes," he said, with- 
out preface or apology, as he held out his hand. 
" Forgive me ! " he cried, when he saw the 
expression of her lifted face. It seemed in a 
moment to have fallen away from him, and 
the hand which she had extended heartily 
dropped from his. 
 
A dozen years ago Steele would not have 
said a thing like that ; it occurred to him as 
soon as he had spoken that there was a dif- 
ferent way in which he used to dream that he 
should woo a woman. His face flushed with 
mortification at his faux pas ; Miss Lauriat 
had never seen the doctor blush before, and 
she who winced from every evidence of pain 
in other organisms as if it had been her own, 
melted instantly into a sweet pardon of this 
man to whom she felt imperiously drawn, or 
by whom she was mysteriously disenchanted a 
score of times in every hour that they passed 
together. 
These, that summer, had been already 
many. She had treated him graciously, in- 
deed, with such cordiality that Olin's spirits 
had risen, and his courage with them. He 
needed both for a wooing in which the man 
found himself more at a loss than in any un- 
dertaking on which he had ever deliberately 
entered. Deliberate he was, and determined. 
He meant to win this woman ; and he had 
always done what he had meant to do. But 
she daunted him and taunted him. When he 
advanced, she retreated. When he retraced 
a step, she seemed to stand still. She was as 
elusive as fortune, and as alluring as mystery. 
When he loved her most, he admitted to him- 
self that he understood her least. 
" I thank you for forgiving me," he said 
in a tone so gentle that in another man it 
might have been called humble. This gave 
him an advantage which he was not slow to 
perceive ; adroitly he changed the subject at 
once, and they passed up the wooded avenue, 
chatting of little things. 
As they came in sight of the piazza where 
Mrs. Jeffries, with the expression and manner 
that she reserved for Docking and Cropping 
Tails and Ears, was waiting for them, a kitten 
blew around the corner of the house, head and 
tail slantwise, steering its way in the brisk sea 
wind. So running, it dashed against Miriam, 
and climbed up the lace of her dress. It was 
a maltese kitten, and around its gray neck 
was tied a broad pink ribbon. 
" Professor Steele ! " cried Mrs. Jeffries, 
getting heavily to her feet, " you are faint — 
you are ill ! What ails you, my dear friend ? 
What can we do for you ? What can I " — 
On the palette of her sentence the words ran 
 
together like gamboge and Prussian blue, and 
became a puzzled silence, which was a new color. 
For, at sight of the kitten, Olin Steele had 
blanched as a man does who is smitten with 
ill tidings. He stood staring, as if he saw 
some little animal ghost. When Miss Lauriat 
caressed the kitten and dropped it gently 
though not affectionately to the ground, it 
began to purr loudly. The sound reverberated 
in Steele's ears. It seemed to him to come 
from a great distance. 
He recovered himself quickly, made some 
sort of apology for a passing indisposition, 
and threw the matter off as lightly as it was 
now possible to do. 
" You are over- worked ! " said Mrs. Jeffries 
tenderly. " I revere the consecration of your 
profession, Dr. Steele. You shall not go back 
to town to-night. You are not in a fit con- 
dition to discuss the painful objects of our 
society. The S. P. D. & C. T. & E. can wait 
till you are in a less sensitive state. You shall 
stay and rest until to-morrow." 
With outward languor (as that of the con- 
secrated who is exhausted by devotion to 
sacred duties) but with an inward ecstasy so 
 
powerful that he dared allow no sign of its 
whirlwind to escape his dizzy heart, Dr. 
Steele accepted the invitation. He had now 
resumed himself completely. After dinner he 
hovered over Mrs. Jeffries and the affairs of 
the S. P. D. & C. T. & E. for a conscientious 
hour. Mrs. Jeffries was making the usual 
pudding of her papers, and Miriam occupied 
herself in suggesting that Mr. Surbridge 
ought to be made counsel for the society. 
" Nobody else can handle Aunt Cornelia 
when it comes to papers," she said, looking 
over her shoulder with that mocking smile 
which was the more enchanting because it was 
always unexpected, and clearly at a certain 
variance with her gentleness and sincerity of 
manner. 
Dr. Steele studiously concerned himself with 
what Mrs. Jeffries called " the literature " of 
the society. He separated the circulars on 
Docking from the pamphlets on Cropping 
with a slow and conscientious hand before he 
observed quietly : 
"I have the highest regard for Mr. Sur- 
bridge's professional abilities — there can be 
no two opinions on that. He is a growing 
 
man, and has a future beyond doubt. But I 
confess I have sometimes wondered how so 
young a lawyer came to be in the position he 
occupies in this family ; not that it is in the 
least any business of mine." 
" His father was Mr. Lauriat's counsel," 
explained Mrs. Jeffries, warming promptly to 
the subject of her favorite. " He has inherited 
the position, and I assure you, Professor 
Steele, we count it as one of our best and 
dearest legacies. Mr. Surbridge is a lovely 
fellow. — Miriam ! there 's that kitten again. 
Do send it away. I am sure that cats are un- 
pleasant to our guest. There are people, you 
know, so constituted. Aren't there, Doctor ? " 
Mrs. Jeffries rose, and herself went out of 
the room with the maltese. Miriam and Steele 
could hear her in the hall politely adjuring 
the kitten : 
" Scat ! scat ! scat ! Why don't you scat ? " 
" You don't like cats," began Steele in his 
authoritative tone, " any better than I do. 
Why don't you have a dog ? You need some- 
thing of that kind. You need something to 
love. You are so constituted." 
Miriam walked over to the long, low win- 
 
dow, and stood looking out to sea. Her white 
dress blew straight back around her in the 
rising wind. 
" I lost one," she said in a very low voice. 
" It was a good while ago. I don't want 
another." 
" I have sometimes thought," ventured 
Steele, " if you would allow me " — 
" Scat ! scat ! " plaintively entreated Aunt 
Cornelia on the piazza. " Oh, you have scat- 
ted ! " 
" On no account, whatever." Miriam quick- 
ly turned around. 
" I beg your pardon," said Olin Steele. 
" I am going out on the piazza," observed 
Miss Lauriat coldly. " You can come if you 
like." 
He followed her, distanced and dejected. 
Mysteriously, in the lifting of an eyelid, she 
seemed to have evaded him. Yet in a moment, 
as mysteriously, she seemed to pause and re- 
trace a step or two in his direction. When 
he sat down beside her, silently and unobtru- 
sively, she gave him her sweet and natural 
smile. He began anyhow, hardly knowing 
what he said : 
 
"I have such a fine old dog of my own. 
He 's a St. Bernard — a dear fellow. I should 
like to have you see him." 
" And I should like to," replied Miriam 
heartily. 
" And my mother," ventured Steele, " she 
is an invalid. My sister is not at home ; she 
married. Mother is a lonely woman ; a very 
sweet one. I wish you knew my mother." > 
" I don't know much about mothers," said 
Miriam in an odd tone. " Mine died. I was 
three years old — 
" I am sorry for yours," she added gently. 
" It is hard — to die while you are alive like 
that." 
Her low, vibrant voice, her gentle attitude, 
all the womanliness of her, and the magic of 
her, went to Olin Steele's head like a fine, 
celestial wine — sometime, somehow, to be 
quaffed, but now for the first time tasted at 
the brim. 
" Come down to the shore with me," he 
said suddenly ; " I wish it very much." 
She might have defied, but she yielded. 
She might have daunted him — he never 
knew what she would do — but she gra- 
 
ciously deferred. She might have taunted 
and tantalized, but she melted and bent. 
The moon was at the full, and so was 
the tide. The two walked down the road 
and over the beach silently. Miriam had the 
strong step of a healthy, happy woman ; he 
could not remember that any woman had ever 
kept pace with him before. He looked at her 
with half-blind eyes. In her white laces, with 
the thrilling light on her face, she looked 
remote from him — he could not have ex- 
plained why — and yet how near ! 
" She shall be nearer," thought the man. 
He brought his lips together ; they made a 
mouth of iron. The woman's had a gentle, 
almost a helpless look in contrast. 
The beach, by chance, was quite deserted ; 
it was not a rowing beach, — there was the 
wharf for the boats ; and the summer peo- 
ple were floating dimly on the water, or clus- 
tered darkly on the rocks. 
The wind was going down, and the surf 
with it. The long throb of the third roller 
pulsated regularly, with little agitation and 
less foam, but with a steady and advancing 
force which Miriam sensitively felt. 
 
At once she loved the sea and hated it. 
Sometimes she wished never to look upon its 
face again ; yet it drew her back as the ebb- 
tide sucked the seaweed. The complexity in 
her nature vibrated before inevitable power, 
whose deficiency of mercy repelled and es- 
tranged her, even while she yielded to it. 
Oppressed by the silence that had subtly 
settled down between herself and the man, 
she broke it, half audibly : 
" It will carry you safely anywhere — and 
drown you cordially any time — that's the 
sea." 
Lifted swiftly, her candid eyes snared him 
unawares, and for one troubled moment it 
seemed to her that she saw the ocean in his 
face. 
Most illusions have their spiritual sentries 
whose subtle guardianship may be felt long 
before it is perceived by the soul. There is 
a prefiguration granted to a woman on the ap- 
proach of fate ; in this solemn prescience she 
elects or escapes her lot, with a perfect intel- 
ligence which she can never forget, but which 
she will ignore to her last hour. After such 
a moment she has no accusations to hurl in 
 
the face of life. As Lucifer of hell, so she of 
experience is compelled to answer: "Myself 
am destiny." 
Miriam stood looking quite steadily into 
the eyes of Olin Steele. The man was no- 
thing less than formidable. His passion swept 
around her as the sea heaved about the little 
boat, — it seemed to be leagues away at that 
moment, — crossing the splendor of the daz- 
zling path set from eternity between the moon 
and the sea. The sigh of the surf, the calm 
of the shore, the separateness in which they 
two stood, rose around her solemnly like a 
tide in which she must drown. 
Nothing seemed to her quite real — nothing 
except that she was loved ; she was loved as 
she had dreamed of being loved, as she had 
not hoped to be or even always wished to 
be, — by a man who would scorn denial, and 
laugh at reluctance ; who would hurl her fem- 
inine subterfuges into star-dust, and create 
the planet on which she should be his. Yes, 
and a man who had loved her without wait- 
ing to find out that or why he did, and who 
would love her, whether she yielded or defied, 
as long as he lived, or she. 
 
Before he had spoken a word Miriam knew 
what he would say. She made no effort to 
deter him, but listened gently, when, with a 
quietness that subdued her and astonished 
himself, Steele said : 
" Ever since I saw your face — that first 
day — you have been the only woman in the 
world for me." 
Miriam, casting about blindly for words, 
found none. She turned her agitated face to 
the sea. The surf was rising, and began to 
rage upon the cliff. In the unreal light the 
unreal boat had floated on and away. No- 
thing now obstructed the path between the 
sea and the moon. 
" I have never seen any other woman whom 
I wished to make my wife," said Olin Steele. 
" I did not know that a man could feel like 
this to any woman. I love you. . . . Do you 
understand ? . . . I love you." 
"How much do you love me?" asked 
Miriam in an unsteady voice. She was con- 
scious of the weakness of her words as soon 
as she had uttered them. She did not look at 
him any longer. Steele wished that he could 
have seen her head droop, or her color change. 
 
" Give me the right to show you ! " he cried. 
But Miriam shrank. 
" I cannot — I do not like to — talk about 
it. I do not wish to be what you say. I like 
it better — the way we are." 
Steele laughed. 
" Do you think you can escape me ? . . . 
Try!" ' 
Her beautiful color came now, wave upon 
wave, till her face was lost in the flood of it. 
It was as if she hesitated and swayed towards 
him. 
"Miriam ! " 
A voice that seemed to come from a great 
height, and to be freighted with supernal 
solemnity, dropped like a boulder upon the 
two. Steele wheeled as if he had been struck 
and mangled ; but Miriam — she could not 
help it — laughed. 
" Is it Azrael ? Or Gabriel ? " 
" Atropos, it seems ; " Steele ground his 
teeth. "And you can laugh." He turned upon 
her with a certain brutality ; she had never 
seen anything of the kind in him before. 
" Mir-i-um ? — Look up here. See who has 
come to spend Sunday." 
 
Miriam lifted her beautiful chin. Mrs. 
Percy B. Jeffries, affectionately attached to 
the arm of Philip Surbridge, solidly orna- 
mented the cliff-top. 
" Let us go back," Surbridge was heard to 
urge his clinging client. 
" No," said Miriam distinctly. " Do not go 
away. Come — and bring Atropos with you." 
She dashed at a tear which was creeping 
into her not very happy smile. How should 
a man know that a woman laughs lest she 
should cry, and cries because she has laughed ? 
At that moment Dr. Steele could have 
cheerfully chloroformed Mrs. Jeffries, or ex- 
perimented (without anaesthesia) upon Sur- 
bridge. 
But Olin's face was the finely finished mask 
of a man who has for years had more in his 
life to conceal than to reveal. 
He made no effort to address Miriam again 
that evening, and in the morning took so 
early a train that she was not down. But he 
wrote to her as soon as he reached town — 
madly and powerfully. It was a letter which 
would have brought almost any other woman 
whom he knew to his arms. He wrote without 
 
rereading, without pausing, without reflect- 
ing. He wrote as rivers rush, as fire burns, 
as torrents fall, as nature would and willed — 
yet reverently and even delicately ; almost as 
that sensitive boy might have written, who 
died that a physiologist should live. 
CHAPTER VI 
Miriam was moved by Steele's letter. She 
answered it gently, but, for so young a 
woman, guardedly. She wrote with a fine, 
old-fashioned courtesy, and thanked him for 
the honor that he did her ; begged his tol- 
erance for a state of feeling which made it 
difficult for her to reply with the finality that 
he had a right to expect; expressed her 
preference for the relation of friendship as 
opposed to that which he sought, with the 
naivete given to woman only at such stages 
of experience, admitted that she should be 
sorry to lose this friendship out of her life ; 
distinctly granted nothing more, yet refrained 
from insisting that nothing more could ever 
be possible. 
Olin Steele carried the letter against his 
heart like a boy. When he was alone with it, 
he scorched it with kisses. His step rang, his 
eyes assumed the look that a man wears but 
once in life, and many never. He was like 
 
one who is climbing into a high altitude 
slowly, but of his power to reach the summit 
has no troublesome doubt. 
To power, indeed, as a factor in life, he 
was inclined to give its full mathematical value. 
Sheer strength, simple advantage, seemed to 
him the basis of calculation. The solution of 
most problems he had found to lie in superi- 
ority, mental or even physical. His profes- 
sional existence depended upon the doctrine 
that dominion argued rights rather than obli- 
gations. Almost every day of the last decade 
of his life he had sacrificed the weak to the 
strong, the small to the great. He had become 
accustomed to such a transposition of the 
moral claims, and to such a disarrangement 
of spiritual values, that he had lost the deli- 
cate micrometer by which he was used to 
measure the meaning of things. 
Perhaps he had never distinctly reduced 
his views of the great relation of life to 
words ; but, if he had, they would have been 
something like these : The world is divided 
into the reigning and the subject races ; 
man, clearly, belongs to one of these ; woman, 
plainly, to the other. A man who loves a 
 
woman not easily to be won must gain her 
by some species of force — what, will depend 
upon the specimen of her race with whom he 
has to deal. The chief element in the strug- 
gle will be his personal determination. 
Into this determination Steele now hurled 
his being, as a child drops the boat he has 
carved into Niagara. Miriam Lauriat was a 
woman of intellect ; she deferred to the su- 
premacy of his. She was capable of a pro- 
found and passionate love ; she would yield 
to the torrent of his. She was in so far 
attracted to him that it rested with him- 
self — he now believed — to beleaguer her 
thoroughly, to overcome her absolutely. He 
perceived, indeed, that he had forced his op- 
portunity ; that he had spoken too soon. He 
passed the summer in a confident attempt to 
retrieve the mistake ; for this delay he was 
conscious of purposing that she should some- 
time atone to him. 
Their relation had now become an absorb- 
ing one. They had entered upon the ancient 
warfare for which history has never yet re- 
corded the protocols of peace — that between 
the loving and pursuing man and the at- 
 
tracted but reluctant woman. Steele seemed 
to himself to be steadily gaining upon her re- 
sistance. With hope in his heart and light in 
his eyes he went to her one August after- 
noon. 
He was intending to take the boat, as usual, 
but when he reached the wharf he found it 
crowded with a class of passengers who were 
not agreeable to him. He had no mind to join 
an excursion from the slums, and, suddenly 
changing his purpose, went out by train. 
When he left it at the seaside station he was 
pleased and surprised to see Miss Lauriat's 
black pair, with Matthew on the box ; in the 
carriage, however, there seemed to be other 
guests. Matthew did not stop at the station, 
and as the carriage whirled by, Steele had a 
good opportunity to see that it was filled, and 
filled to overflowing, with women and children 
of the social species that he had left behind 
him on the wharf in town. 
When he arrived at the house, tired and 
dusty from his walk, an unexpected pastel 
greeted him. Framed by the tall trees of the 
avenue where the vistas were cut out, a per- 
spective of sea met a foreground of lawn 
 
party. Rugs were spread, a tent, and tables. 
The shrill crackle of uneducated voices came 
to his ear before he had come near enough 
clearly to see Miss Lauriat's guests. These 
were twenty or thirty in number, and plainly 
they represented her tenants and proteges in 
Blind Alley. Ecstasy was in their voices, and 
adoration in their eyes. Old women were there, 
and children of assorted sizes. Cady's Molly 
was there in her red shirt waist and pink hair- 
ribbons, tastefully relieved by a yellow hat. 
Cady's Molly's father was there, and Dan 
Badger — in fact, the leading social circles 
of Blind Alley were represented. 
Miss Lauriat, in a plain white linen dress, 
moved merrily about among this pathetic 
group. Dr. Steele stood under the trees for a 
moment before he made his presence known. 
A consumptive woman, with a baby in her 
arms, and three little girls rolling over her, 
was sitting on the grass quite near him. At- 
tached to this family was a dingy white mon- 
grel of a melancholy disposition, who regarded 
Dr. Steele in cynical silence. But the woman 
looked up with the cheerful smile of her dis- 
order. 
 
" Nice ! " she said, " ain't it ? Say, did yer 
ever see anything like it, anywheres else ? " 
Dr. Steele's eyes sought Miss Lauriat's ex- 
alted face. " No," he said heartily, " no, I 
never did." 
"Say," repeated the woman, "d'you s'pose 
heaven's anything like this here?" 
"It is very possible," replied Steele fer- 
vently. 
" Because," said the woman, " if I thought 
it was " — 
" What would you do ? " asked Steele indif- 
ferently, " if you thought it were ? " 
The woman had caught the indefinable ac- 
cent of patronage in his tone, or perhaps she 
perceived that her grammar was corrected. 
(We remember that Patrick Henry talked to 
the backwoodsmen in their own dialect.) She 
glanced at Steele sharply, and did not finish 
her sentence. In fact, she took her children 
and moved away. 
Now Dr. Steele was more astonished than 
gratified to see Philip Surbridge, who had 
been teaching a little boy to ride a bicycle, 
catch up the three little girls and put them, 
with his ringing, boyish laugh, in three little 
 
swings which he personally conducted. Per- 
ceiving the doctor, he called out : 
" Ah, Steele ! We are having a beautiful 
time. You are just in season to enjoy your- 
self ! " 
Miriam turned to the doctor with a sweet 
shyness. 
" I never was so happy in my life ! " she 
said. " Most of these people haven't got into 
the country all summer ; some of them have 
never seen it. I cannot explain to you how it 
makes me feel. Everybody is here — every- 
body I asked ! " She spoke with the flattered 
gratification of a hostess whose salon is filled. 
" And Dan — and Dan, too," she added, " and 
Trixy ! " 
The crippled lad was lying in a hammock 
luxuriously reading a book on trained dogs. 
His crutch fell to the grass, and Miriam im- 
pulsively sprang and picked it up for him. 
Dan's eyes leaped to hers with the worship 
that deformity gives to beauty, and weakness 
to sympathetic strength. Dr. Steele watched 
this little episode with a puzzled expression. 
" I don't see Trixy." His gaze wandered 
about the lawn. "But then, I shouldn't know 
 
her if I did see her. Is that she ? " He pointed 
to the melancholy mongrel who was regarding 
the scene without enthusiasm. 
" I am ashamed of you ! " cried Miss Lau- 
riat, laughing, "not to recognize so famous 
an actress ! Trixy is in the coach house with 
Matthew. That poor, old, plebeian thing is not 
very clean, and Dan wouldn't let her asso- 
ciate with him. Trixy, you know, is an aristo- 
crat. The ice cream will be sent in to her on 
a cut-glass plate." 
"Is that gray dog one of the invited 
guests ? " 
" Why, of course. He came out on the 
steamer with the rest. He has a cough — 
that poor woman's dogs always do — and it 
was expected to do him good. He belongs to 
the little girls Mr. Surbridge is swinging. 
Come, Dr. Steele ! There are two boys who 
don't seem to be having a very good time. 
Would you mind playing Bear with them? 
Or perhaps Puss in the Corner. Or Wolf and 
Red Riding Hood ; or — something ! " 
"I can try," said Steele grimly. "But I 
am not sure how far I am to be flattered by 
your choice of roles." 
 
" You don't care for it," said Miriam under 
her breath. " You don't care for it at all. 
And it makes me so happy ! " 
" I care for anything that makes you happy ; 
you know I do." 
" Go, then," commanded Miriam, " and dis- 
cuss the tariff with Cady's Molly's father. It 
needs a man to entertain him. He has views 
about protection and free trade. The subject 
is beyond my depth, and I have never been 
able to keep up with it. It requires a mascu- 
line intellect." 
Steele laughed and obeyed her, awkwardly 
enough. His personal comfort was not en- 
hanced, nor the subject of the tariff advanced, 
by the reception which he met. 
" Oh, it 's you ! " said Cady's Molly's father. 
" You are the fellow that quarantined us, ain't 
you ? We fired you once. I never expected 
to see you again." 
Thus forced to feel his lack of position in 
slum society, conscious that he was unjustly 
made to suffer for a plain performance of 
duty, and therefore not in the best of hu- 
mors, Dr. Steele retreated from the lawn 
party and made his way to the piazza, where 
 
for an hour to come he solemnly discussed 
with Mrs. Jeffries the first arrest made by the 
Society for the Prevention of Docking and 
Cropping. The tail of a two weeks' puppy 
had been cut off, and the society had appealed 
to the humane sentiments of the state, and 
the majesty of the law. Dr. Steele did not 
return to the lawn party, which broke up 
directly after supper. 
In the little stir consequent on the de- 
parture of Miss Lauriat's guests, he stood 
embarrassed and apart. None of the people 
addressed him, and he was glad of it. Philip 
Surbridge went down the avenue with the 
consumptive woman on his arm ; in his other 
he carried the baby, and the three little girls 
clung to his coat-tails. 
" You 're coming back, aren't you ? " 
pleaded Mrs. Jeffries. " If you don't, there 
won't be anybody to talk to me." 
" I 'll come out to see you next week," an- 
swered Surbridge, with his tender smile. He 
did not meet Miriam's eye. " I will say good- 
night now. I think I 'll see them all safely 
back to town. They are a pretty helpless 
lot." 
 
This was in an undertone, but Miriam heard 
it, and warmly held out her hand. Dr. Steele 
watched her with compressed lips. She went 
part way down the avenue with Surbridge 
and the children. Dan Badger limped beside 
her with Trixy on his neck. The sea wind 
was shrewish, and Trixy wore her little over- 
coat with its hood. Miss Lauriat's poor people 
clung to her wistfully ; some of them kissed 
her, all blessed her, and then the turn in the 
avenue hid them. 
She came back walking rather fast, breath- 
less and beautiful. Steele went down to meet 
her. He had a paper in his hand ; it was a 
printer's proof-sheet. 
" It fell from your pocket," he began, " as 
you went down the steps. Will you pardon 
me? It was print, and I did look at it. I 
didn't read it, though. I didn't know that 
you wrote." 
Miriam flushed and held out her hand for 
the proof-sheet. 
" Let me read it, won't you ? " he entreated. 
" As long as you have seen it — well — 
yes. I do not know that I mind — that is — 
not very much." 
 
" I did not know that you were an au- 
thoress," observed Steele. 
" I am not an authoress/' flashed Miriam, 
"and no reading man ever uses that word, 
Dr. Steele. Let me have my proof-sheet, if 
you please." 
" Oh, forgive me ! " cried Steele. " I am 
always saying or doing the wrong thing." 
" And I am always forgiving you," she 
answered in an unsteady voice. 
Steele read the verses. There were but two, 
and they ran like this : 
SONG 
To the spaces between the stars 
We went, my love and I, 
Among the uttermost things. 
For my love hath wings; 
With twain he covers his face, 
With twain his feet, 
With twain he doth fly. 
To the earth and our rose-red door, 
We came, my love and I. 
Among the dear, daily things, 
He folded his wings. 
But the winged watch their time. 
And when he starts, 
Ah, how shall I fly ? 
 
He returned the proof-sheet to her. " I 
don't understand it," he said perplexedly. 
" It is graceful, but I don't think I know 
what you mean." 
Miriam put the verses back in her pocket. 
" Now your taste for painting," began Dr. 
Steele, " that appeals to me. I have never 
lost my interest in art. There are so many 
things that a man does lose, you know. I 
hope you have not given up whatever you 
were doing at the school? I like to think of 
you in that peaceful and aesthetic place." 
" I have not been there this summer," said 
Miriam, in a constrained tone. 
" Why not ? " 
Miriam made no reply. Her attraction for 
Dr. Steele had now reached a stage where she 
was conscious of wishing to harmonize with 
him in everything, and uncomfortable when 
she might not. She could not have explained 
to herself why it was that she often found it 
impossible to give him a confidence which she 
longed to offer. His presence brought her 
pleasure, but not peace. He came often ; the 
summer passed dreamily ; and she slowly be- 
gan to admit to herself — but not as yet to 
 
him — that he was becoming necessary to her. 
As the doctor's visits increased in frequency, 
those of the lawyer diminished. Miriam, who 
had been often beloved, had never counted 
Philip Surbridge among her suitors, and when 
she found that she missed him, felt quite at 
liberty to tell him so. 
Dear Philip [she wrote one day] : Aunt 
Cornelia is playing Mariana in the Moated 
Grange for your sweet sake. I mind it a little 
myself, that you stay away. 
Yours faithfully, 
Miriam Lauriat. 
Surbridge responded to this recall, but lei- 
surely, and it was the second week in Septem- 
ber before he came out to dme and spend the 
evening. Miriam was unaffectedly and heartily 
glad to see him. He took her out to row, for 
there was a rowing moon, and she sat in the 
stern, in her white boating dress, with her 
hands clasped behind her head, and looked at 
him affectionately. 
He rowed well, and she thought how square 
his shoulders were, and how sturdy his arm — 
for so studious a man. The values of his face 
 
in the strong, soft light were like those of a 
Reynolds portrait, which had the repose of an 
earlier, calmer age than ours. His very pre- 
sence quieted her ; it always had. Did he 
soothe most people in the same way? She 
sometimes asked herself the question. She 
was conscious of that old impulse to tell things 
to Philip Surbridge. It was not only that he 
belonged to one of the confessional profes- 
sions ; but he had the confessor's temperament. 
As he rowed her out from the shore she 
regarded him wistfully. There were no other 
boats about them, and they seemed to be quite 
alone with the sea and the sky. She thought 
of that other moon-bright night when she and 
Steele had stood upon the shore. But she and 
Surbridge were going straight out to sea. 
"It is the same sea, the same sky, the same 
moon," thought Miriam, " but it 's not the 
same woman." 
They talked little and lightly, with long 
silences between their quiet words. She felt 
a distinct relief from the mental turmoil of 
the summer. For this one hour it was not per- 
emptory to decide anything, and she was 
conscious of a sense of reprieve. 
 
Philip's boyish smile in itself was a comfort 
to her, as it always was, and his dark, mute 
eyes seemed to protect her from herself. He 
did not urge her confidence ; indeed, she was 
half aware that he fended it off. 
To Miriam, as to all high-minded girls, love 
had always seemed to be a demonstrable thing ; 
it never occurred to her that she could have 
any doubts about it when she should experience 
it, or that she could cast up the divine sum of 
her happiness in more than one inevitable way. 
Love was inexorable, in a sense mathematical ; 
it was of the celestial sciences ; it would be 
eternal, like the ordering of the stars, and she 
should follow its commands — brain and heart, 
soul and body, will and imagination — as the 
sea follows the moon. She was bewildered by 
the perturbation in which she had passed the 
last six months. If she had obeyed her mad- 
dest impulse, she would have cried out like a 
distressed girl to her elder brother : 
"Philip! Philip! What shall I do?" But 
in point of fact she said no such thing. 
"You are looking tired," Surbridge ob- 
served quietly ; but that was all. 
"I am tired," Miriam passionately exclaimed 
 
— as if he could help it ; as if she expected 
him to. 
She held out her hands to him girlishly. 
" If I thought I could really do anything " — 
began Surb ridge, laying down his oars. His 
manner had changed, and his tone, which at 
first was but gently troubled, rose into the 
ring of acute feeling. " But you must see 
— you cannot help understanding. It 's — 
hard ! " 
" Look out there ! " interrupted Miriam. 
" The steamer ! You are getting into her 
wake ! " 
Surbridge, veering sharply, skillfully escaped 
the serpent of foam which had begun to coil 
about their little rocking boat, as the steamer 
from the city passed them on her last trip 
out. Both looked up at the crowded deck. 
An undersized lad, who was leaning over the 
rail, seemed to be making an effort to attract 
their attention. 
" Why, there 's Dan Badger ! " cried Miriam 
quickly. " Look — look at his face. Row me 
ashore, please. Quick ! As fast as you can ! " 
Surbridge rowed rapidly and powerfully ; 
he beached the boat on a little cove below 
 
the wharf at which the steamer was somewhat 
slowly and clumsily making a landing. She 
was late, and would put about immediately 
on her return trip. Miriam jumped from the 
dory and ran up the bank without waiting 
for Surbridge. As soon as he could secure his 
boat he hurried after her. 
The crippled lad stood leaning on his crutch. 
He was trying to speak, but his words came 
thickly. His face was gray and pinched, like 
that of a little old man, and he shook from 
head to foot. Dan had neither eaten nor slept 
for twenty-four hours. 
" Where 's Trixy ? Where 's Trixy ? " Miriam 
was saying over and over. 
Dan stared at her stupidly as if he did not 
understand what she said. 
" Come, Dan," urged Surbridge very gen- 
tly, " tell us all about it." 
With a gesture never to be forgotten by 
those who witnessed it, the cripple dropped 
his crutch and threw both hands above his 
head, as one does in unendurable physical 
pain. 
" Trixy 's lost ! " 
" No ! No ! No ! " cried Miriam. 
 
" Not stolen ? " exclaimed Surbridge. 
But Dan repeated dully : " Trixy 's lost. I 
tell you Trixy 's lost. I 've hunted for her 
every wheres. Everybody 's hunted. Nobody 
can't find her." 
" Give me the circumstances," urged Sur- 
bridge, " if you can. Tell me when it hap- 
pened, and where. Try, Dan. Think how it 
was." 
" I can't," muttered Dan, " my — my head 
won't let me. It was last nig-ht — she had on 
her little coat you made her, Miss Laurie — 
it was sort of cold — and we 'd been playing 
at one of them beaches — I can't think the 
name — my head is bad. We was jest goin' 
home — you never see her play so pretty — 
I put her clown — I — think I put her down, 
and when I looked she wasn't there. I tried 
to hurry, but I 'm lame, you know. She wasn't 
there. — Sir?" 
For the first time since he had known her, 
Dan, disregarding his goddess, turned else- 
where for divine interference ; it was as if 
he felt that his extremity was a matter be- 
tween men. 
" Mr. Surbridge, sir," said Dan, " you told 
 
me once if ever me and Trixy needed a friend, 
to count on you. So here I be." 
" Come with me, Dan." Surbridge caught 
the boy quickly, for Dan swayed and tot- 
tered. " Come ! The boat starts right away. 
I will go back to town with you." 
" And, Dan ! " cried Miriam, " listen to me. 
I 'm sure Mr. Surbridge will find her. Do you 
hear me? Sure. Mr. Surbridge always finds 
everything that he tries to." 
She put her arm around the lad's neck, and 
kissed him and patted him, thinking no more 
of the people on the wharf than if they had 
been starfish on the rocks. 
She and Philip grasped hands. He did not 
even ask how she was going to find her way 
home without him, nor did she like him the 
less for that. 
She stood on the wharf watching the steamer 
till it reeled out of sight. Once Philip lifted 
his hat. He was tenderly enfolding the boy, 
whose face was hidden against the young man's 
heart. 
" Dan is crying in his arms," thought Miriam. 
CHAPTER VII 
Among the worlds of woe allotted to sentient 
life, there is one which hangs quite apart 
from the rest of the system, and holds a place 
unique in the astronomy of pain ; this may 
be called the world of the lost dog. In this 
alone the human and the animal can strictly 
be said to suffer together. In other catastro- 
phes shared by the higher and the lower races, 
each endures or perishes thinking of his own 
pang. When fate separates master and dog, 
each undergoes the pang of the other. It has 
been well written that the dog is the only 
animal who has elected to give himself ut- 
terly to the worship of man ; and man, to a 
certain extent, has returned this profound and 
pathetic attachment. It cannot be claimed that 
he has done this on even terms. " Dogs," 
said a student of the species, " have the grand- 
est of created qualities : love, gratitude, and 
fidelity." But the man, though he may never 
love as nobly as his dog, has requited the 
touching devotion that he receives with an 
affection which cannot be duplicated in the 
range of human feeling. 
Dan haunted the streets, the wharves, the 
steamers, the stations, the beaches, the ken- 
nels, the saloons, as a little crippled ghost 
