unstockaded, and protected only by loops and oaken shutters; but every
man and woman was demanded for the harvest; even the children staggered
off to the threshing-barns, laden with sheaves of red-stemmed
buckwheat, or rolled pumpkins and squashes to the wagons, or shook down
crimson apples for the men to cart away and bury.
The little Norris boy labored with the others--a thin, sallow child,
heavy-eyed and silent. He had recovered somewhat from the shock of the
tragedy he had witnessed, and strove to do what was asked of him, but
when spoken to, seemed confused and slow of comprehension; and the
tears were ever starting or smeared over his freckled face from cheek
to chin.
Being an officer, the poor, heavy-witted folk looked to me for the
counsel and wisdom my inexperience lacked. All I could do for them was
to arrange their retreat to the tavern at the first signal of danger,
and to urge that the women and children sleep there at night. My advice
was only partly followed. As the golden October days passed, with no
fresh alarm from the Sacandaga, their apathetic fatalism turned to a
timid confidence that their homes and lands might yet be spared.
Wemple sold his buckwheat on promise of pay in paper dollars, and we
milled it and barreled it, and made a deposit in Klein's sugar-bush.
Distant neighbors came a-horseback to the mill with news from
neighbors, still more distant, that Sir John had retreated northward
from the Sacandaga, toward Edward; that the Tories threatened Ballston;
that Indians had been seen near Galway; that the garrison at
Schenectady had been warned to take the field against St. Leger; that
on Champlain General Haldimand had gathered a great fleet, and his
maneuvers were a mystery to the scouts watching him. But no rumors were
carried to us concerning Ross and Butler, except that strange vessels
had been seen leaving Bucks Island.
The tension, the wearing anxiety, and harrowing chagrin that I had been
left here forgotten, waxed to a fever that drove me all day restlessly
from field to field, from house to barn, and back to the tavern, to sit
watching the road for sign of a messenger to set me free of this
dreary, hopeless place.
And on one bright, cold morning in late October, when to keep warm one
must seek the sunny lee of the tavern, I sat brooding, watching the
crimson maple-leaves falling from the forest in showers. Frost had
come, silvering the stiffened earth, and patches of it still lingered
in shady places. Oaks were brown, elms yellow; birches had shed their
leaves; and already the forest stretched bluish and misty, set with
flecks of scarlet maple and the darker patches of the pine.
On that early morning, just after sunrise, I sensed a hint of snow in
the wind that blew out of the purple north; and the premonition
sickened me, for it meant the campaign ended.
In an ugly and sullen mood I sat glowering at the blackened weeds cut
by the frost, when, hearing the sound of horses' feet on the hill, I
rose and stood on tiptoe to see who might be coming at such a pace.
People ran out to the rear to look; nearer and nearer came the dull,
battering gallop, then a rider rushed into view, leaning far forward,
waving his arm; and a far cry sounded: "Express, ho! News for Captain
Renault!"
An express! I sprang to the edge of the road as the horse thundered by;
and the red-faced rider, plastered with mud, twisted in his saddle and
hurled a packet at me, shouting: "Butler is in the Valley! Turn out!
Turn out!" sweeping past in a whirlwind of dust and flying stones.
As I caught up the packet from the grass Farris ran out and fired his
musket, then set the conch-horn to his mouth and sent a long-drawn,
melancholy warning booming through the forest.
"Close up those shutters!" I said, "and fill the water-casks!"
Men came running from barn and mill, shouting for the women and
children; men ran to the hill to look for signs of the enemy, to drive
in cattle, to close and latch the doors of their wretched dwellings, as
though bolt and bar could keep out the red fury now at last unloosened.
I saw a woman, to whose ragged skirts three children clung, toiling
across a stump-field, staggering under a flour-sack full of humble
household goods. One of the babies carried a gray kitten clasped to her
breast.
Pell-mell into the tavern they hurried, white-faced, panting, pushing
their terrified children into dark corners and under tables.
"Tell that woman to let her cow go!" I shouted, as a frightened heifer
dashed up the road, followed by its owner, jerked almost off her feet
by the tether-rope. Old Wemple seized the distracted woman by the
shoulder and dragged her back to the tavern, she weeping and turning
her head at every step.
In the midst of this howling hubbub I ripped open my despatches and
read:
    "JOHNSTOWN,
    October 25, 1781.
    "CAPT. RENAULT:
    "Sir--Pursuant to urgent orders this instant arrived by express
    from Col. Willett at Fort Rensselaer, I have the honor to inform you
    that Major Ross and Capt. Walter Butler have unexpectedly struck the
    Valley at Warren's Bush with the following forces:
        Eighth Regiment                      25
        Thirty-fourth Regiment              100
        Eighty-fourth Highlanders Regiment   36
        Sir John's Royal Greens Regiment    120
        Yagers Regiment                      12
        Butler's Rangers                    150
        Indians                             130
        Renegades                            40
    With bat-horses, baggage-wagons, and camp-trains, including forces
    amounting to a thousand rifles.
    "What portion of the invading army this flying column may represent
    is at present unknown to me.
    "The militia call is out; expresses are riding the county to warn
    every post, settlement, and blockhouse; Colonel Willett, with part
    of the garrison at Fort Rensselaer, is marching on Fort Hunter to
    join his forces with your Rangers, picking up the scouts on his
    way, and expects to strike Butler at the ford below Tribes Hill.
    "You will gather from this, sir, that Johnstown is gravely menaced,
    and no garrison left except a few militia. Indeed, our situation
    must shortly be deplorable if Colonel Willett does not deliver
    battle at the ford.
    "Therefore, if you can start at once and pick up a post of your
    riflemen at Broadalbin Bush, it may help us to hold the jail here
    until some aid arrives from Colonel Willett.
    "The town is panic-stricken. All last night the people stood on the
    lawn by Johnson Hall and watched the red glare in the sky where the
    enemy were burning the Valley. Massacre, the torch, and hatchet
    seem already at our thresholds. However, the event remains with
    God. I shall hold the jail to the last.
    "Your ob't serv't,
    "ROWLEY, Major Com'nd'g."
For one dreadful moment every drop of blood seemed to leave my body. I
sank into a chair, staring into the sunshine, seeing nothing. Then the
pale face of Elsin Grey took shape before me, gazing at me sorrowfully;
and I sprang up, shuddering, and looking about me. What in God's name
was I to do? Go to her and leave these women and babies?--leave these
dull-witted men to defend themselves? Why not? Every nerve in me
tightened with terror at her danger, every heart-beat responded
passionately to the appeal. Yet how could I go, with these white-faced
women watching me in helpless confidence; with these frightened
children gathering around me, looking up into my face, reaching
trustfully for my clenched hands?
In an agony of indecision I turned to the door and gazed down the road,
an instant only, then leaped back and slammed the great oaken portal,
shooting the bars.
Destiny had decided; Fate had cut the knot!
"Every man to a loop!" I called out steadily. "Wemple, take your sons
to the east room; Klein, you and Farris and Klock take the west and
south; Warren, look out for the west. They may try to fire the wooden
water-leader. Mrs. Farris, see that the tubs of water are ready; and
you, Mrs. Warren, take the women and children to the cellar and be
ready to dip up buckets of water from the cistern."
Silence; a trample on the stairs as the men ran to their posts; not a
cry, not a whimper from the children.
I climbed the stairs, and lying at full length beside the loop, cocked
my rifle, and peered out. Almost instantly I saw a man dodge into
Klein's house too quickly for me to fire. Presently the interior of the
house reddened behind the windows; a thin haze of smoke appeared as by
magic, hanging like a curtain above the roof. Then, with a crackling
roar that came plainly to my ears, the barn behind the house was buried
in flame, seeming almost to blow up in one huge puff of bluish-white
smoke.
I heard Wemple's ancient firelock explode, followed by the crack of his
sons' rifles, and I saw an Indian running across the pasture.
Klein's house was now curtained with blackish smoke; Wemple's, too, had
begun to burn, the roof all tufted with clear little flames, that
seemed to give out no smoke in the sunshine. An Indian darted across
the door-yard, and leaped into the road, but at the stunning report of
Warren's rifle he stopped, dropping his gun, and slowly sank, face
downward, in the dust.
Then I heard the barking scalp-yelp break out, and a storm of bullets
struck the tavern, leaving along the forest's edge a low wall of brown
vapor, which lingered as though glued to the herbage; and through it,
red as candle-flames in fog, the spirting flicker of the rifles played,
and the old tavern rang with leaden hail. Suddenly the fusillade
ceased. Far away I heard a ranger's whistle calling, calling
persistently.
Wemple's barn was now burning fiercely; the mill, too, had caught fire,
and an ominous ruddy glare behind Warren's windows brightened and
brightened.
Behind me, and on either side of me, the frenzied farmers were firing,
maddened by the sight of the destruction, until I was obliged to run
among the men and shake them, warning them to spare their powder until
there was something besides the forest to shoot at. The interior of the
tavern was thick with powder-smoke. I heard people coughing all around
me.
And now, out of rifle-range, I caught my first good view of the
marauders passing along the red stubble-fields north of Warren's
barn--some hundred Indians and Tories, marching in columns of fours,
rifles atrail, south by east. To my astonishment, instead of facing,
they swung around us on a dog-trot, still out of range, pressing
steadily forward across the rising ground. Then suddenly I
comprehended. They cared nothing for Oswaya when there was prime
killing and plunder a-plenty to be had in the Valley. They were headed
for Johnstown, where the vultures were already gathering.
Old Wemple had run down-stairs and flung open the door to watch them. I
followed, rifle in hand, and we sped hotfoot across the stump-lot and
out upon the hill. Surely enough, there they were in the distance,
hastening away to the southward at a long, swinging lope, like a pack
of timber-wolves jogging to a kill.
"Hold the tavern to-night and then strike out for Saratoga with all
your people," I said hurriedly. "They're gone, and I mean to follow
them."
"Be ye goin', sir?" quavered the old man. He turned to gaze at the
blazing settlement below, tears running down his cheeks.
"Oh, Lord! Thy will be done--I guess," he said.
Farris, Warren, and Klock came up on the run. I pointed at the distant
forest, into which the column was disappearing.
"Keep the tavern to-night," I said hoarsely; "there may be a skulking
scalp-hunter or two prowling about until morning, but they'll be gone
by sunrise. Good-by, lads!"
One by one they extended their powder-blackened, labor-torn hands, then
turned away in silence toward the conflagration below, to face winter
in the wilderness without a roof.
Rifle at trail, teeth set, I descended the hill, dodging among the
blackened stumps, and entered the woods on a steady run. I had no need
of a path save for comfort in the going, for this region was perfectly
familiar to me from the Sacandaga to the Kennyetto, and from Mayfield
Creek to the Cayadutta--familiar as Broadway, from the Battery to
Vauxhall. No Indian knew it better, nor could journey by short cuts
faster than could I. For this was my own country, and I trusted it. The
distance was five good miles to the now-abandoned settlement of
Broadalbin, or Fonda's Bush, which some still call it, and my road lay
south, straight as the bee flies, after I had once crossed the trail of
the Oswaya raiders.
I crossed it where I expected to, in a soft and marshy glade,
unblackened by the frost, where blue flowers tufted the swale, and a
clear spring soaked the moss and trickled into a little stream which, I
remembered, was ever swarming with tiny troutlings. Here I found the
print of Cayuga and Mohawk moccasins and white man's boots a-plenty;
and, for one fierce instant, burned to pick up the raw trail, hanging
on their rear to drive one righteous bullet into them when chance gave
me an opportunity. But the impulse fled as it came. Sick at heart I
pressed forward once more, going at a steady wolf-trot; and so
silently, so noiselessly, that twice I routed deer from their hemlock
beds, and once came plump on a tree-cat that puffed up into fury and
backed off spitting and growling, eyes like green flames, and every
hair on end.
Tree after tree I passed, familiar to me in happier years--here an oak
from which, a hundred yards due west, one might find sulphur
water--there a pine, marking a clean mile from the Kennyetto at its
nearest curve, yonder a birch-bordered gulley, haunted of partridge and
woodcock--all these I noted, scarcely seeing them at all, and plodded
on and on until, far away through the trees, I heard the Kennyetto
roaring in its gorge, like the wind at Adriutha.
A stump-field, sadly overgrown with choke-cherry, sumach, and
rabbit-brier, warned me that I was within rifle-hail of the Rangers'
post at Broadalbin. I swung to the west, then south, then west again,
passing the ruins of the little settlement--a charred beam here, an
empty cellar there, yonder a broken well-sweep, until I came to the
ridge above the swamp, where I must turn east and ford the stream,
under the rifles of the post.
There stood the chimney of what had once been my father's house--the
new one, "burned by mistake," ere it had been completed.
I gave it one sullen glance; looked around me, saw but heaps of brick,
mortar, and ashes, where barns, smoke-houses, granaries, and stables
had stood. The cellar of my old home was almost choked with weeds;
slender young saplings had already sprouted among the foundation-stones.
Passing the orchard, I saw the trees under which I had played as a
child, now all shaggy and unpruned, tufted thick with suckers, and
ringed with heaps of small rotting apples, lying in the grass as they
had fallen. With a whirring, thunderous roar, a brood of crested grouse
rose from the orchard as I ran on, startling me, almost unnerving me.
The next moment I was at the shallow water's edge, shouting across at a
blockhouse of logs; and a Ranger rose up and waved his furry cap at me,
beckoning me to cross, and calling to me by name.
"Is that you, Dave Elerson?" I shouted.
"Yes, sir. Is there bad news?"
"Butler is in the Valley!" I answered, and waded into the cold, brown
current, ankle-deep in golden bottom-sands. Breathless, dripping thrums
trailing streams of water after me, I toiled up the bank and stood
panting, leaning against the log hut.
"Where is the post?" I breathed.
"Out, sir, since last night."
"Which way?" I groaned.
"Johnstown way, Mr. Renault. The Weasel, Tim Murphy, and Nick Stoner
was a-smellin' after moccasin-prints on the Mayfield trail. About sunup
they made smoke-signals at me that they was movin' Kingsboro way on a
raw trail."
He brought me his tin cup full of rum and water. I drank a small
portion of it, then rinsed throat and mouth, still standing.
"Butler and Ross, with a thousand rifles and baggage-wagons, are making
for the Tribes Hill ford," I said. "A hundred Cayugas, Mohawks, and
Tories burned Oswaya just after sunrise, and are this moment pushing on
to Johnstown. We've got to get there before them, Elerson."
"Yes, sir," he said simply, glancing at the flint in his rifle.
"Is there any chance of our picking up the scout?"
"If we don't, it's a dead scout for sure," he returned gravely. "Tim
Murphy wasn't lookin' for scalpin' parties from the north."
I handed him his cup, tightened belt and breast-straps, trailed rifle,
and struck the trail at a jog; and behind me trotted David Elerson,
famed in ballad and story, which he could not read--nor could Tim
Murphy, either, for that matter, whose learning lay in things
unwritten, and whose eloquence flashed from the steel lips of a rifle
that never spoke in vain.
Like ice-chilled wine the sweet, keen mountain air blew in our faces,
filtering throat and nostrils as we moved; the rain that the frost had
promised was still far away--perhaps not rain at all, but snow.
On we pressed, first breath gone, second breath steady; and only for
the sickening foreboding that almost unnerved me when I thought of
Elsin, I should not have suffered from the strain.
Somewhere to the west, hastening on parallel to our path, was strung
out that pack of raiding bloodhounds; farther south, perhaps at this
very instant entering Johnstown, moved the marauders from the north. A
groan burst from my dry lips.
Slowing to a walk we began to climb, shoulder to shoulder, ascending
the dry bed of a torrent fairly alive with partridges.
"Winter's comin' almighty fast; them birds is a-packin' and a-buddin'
already. Down to the Bush I see them peckin' the windfall apples in
your old orchard."
I scarcely heard him, but, as he calmly gossiped on, hour after hour, a
feeling of dull surprise grew in me that at such a time a man could
note and discuss such trifles. Ah, but he had no sweetheart there in
the threatened town, menaced by death in its most dreadful shape.
"Are the women in the jail?" I asked, my voice broken by spasmodic
breathing as we toiled onward.
"I guess they are, sir--leastways Jack Mount was detailed there to
handle the milishy." And, after a pause, gravely and gently: "Is your
lady there, sir?"
"Yes--God help her!"
He said nothing; there was nothing of comfort for any man to say. I
looked up at the sun.
"It's close to noontide, sir," said Elerson. "We'll make Johnstown
within the half-hour. Shall we swing round by the Hall and keep cover,
or chance it by the road to Jimmy Burke's?"
"What about the scout?" I asked miserably.
He shook his head, and over his solemn eyes a shadow passed.
"Mayhap," he muttered, "Tim Murphy's luck will hold, sir. He's been
fired at by a hundred of their best marksmen; he's been in every bloody
scrape, assault, ambush, retreat, 'twixt Edward and Cherry Valley, and
never a single bullet-scratch. We may find him in Johnstown yet."
He swerved to the right: "With your leave, Captain Renault, we'll
fringe the timber here. Look, sir! Yonder stands the Hall against the
sky!"
We were in Johnstown. There, across Sir William's tree-bordered
pastures and rolling stubble-fields, stood the baronial hall. Sunlight
sparkled on the windows. I saw the lilacs, the bare-limbed locusts, the
orchards, still brilliant with scarlet and yellow fruit, the long stone
wall and hedge fence, the lawns intensely green.
"It is deserted," I said in a low voice.
"Hark!" breathed Elerson, ear to the wind. After a moment I heard a
deadened report from the direction of the village, then another and
another; and, spite of the adverse breeze, a quavering, gentle,
sustained sound, scarce more than a vibration, that hung persistently
in the air.
"By God!" gasped Elerson, "it's the bell at the jail! The enemy are
here! Pull foot, sir! Our time has come!"
Down the slope we ran, headed straight for the village. Gunshots now
sounded distinctly from the direction of the Court-House; and around
us, throughout the whole country, guns popped at intervals, sometimes a
single distant report, then a quick succession of shots, like hunters
shooting partridges; but we heard as yet no volley-firing.
"Tories and scalpers harrying the outlying farms," breathed Elerson.
"Look sharp, sir! We're close to the village, and it's full o' Tories."
Right ahead of us stood a white house; and, as we crossed the hay-field
behind it, a man came to the back door, leveled a musket, and
deliberately shot at us. Instantly, and before he could spring back,
Elerson threw up his rifle and fired, knocking the man headlong through
the doorway.
"The impudent son of a slut!" he muttered to himself, coolly reloading.
"Count one more Tory in hell, Davy, lad!"
Priming, his restless eyes searched the road-hedge ahead, then, ready
once more, we broke into a trot, scrambled through the fence, and
started down the road, which had already become a village street. It
was fairly swarming with men running and dodging about.
The first thing I saw clearly was a dead woman lying across a
horse-block. Then I saw a constable named Hugh McMonts running down the
street, chased closely by two Indians and a soldier wearing a green
uniform. They caught him as we fired, and murdered him in a doorway
with hatchet and gun-stock, spattering everything with the poor
wretch's brains.
Our impulsive and useless shots had instantly drawn the fire of three
red-coated soldiers; and, as the big bullets whistled around us,
Elerson grasped my arm, pulled me back, and darted behind a barn.
Through a garden we ran, not stopping to load, through another
barnyard, scattering the chickens into frantic flight, then out along a
stony way, our ears ringing with the harsh din of the jail bell.
"There's the jail; run for it!" panted Elerson, as we came in sight of
the solid stone structure, rising behind its palisades on the high
ground.
I sprang across the road and up the slope, battering at the barricaded
palings with my rifle-stock, while Elerson ran around the defenses
bawling for admittance.
"Hurry, Elerson!" I cried, hammering madly for entrance; "here come the
enemy's baggage-wagons up the street!"
"Jack Mount! Jack Mount! Let us in, ye crazy loon!" shouted Elerson.
Somebody began to unbolt the heavy slab gate; it creaked and swung just
wide enough for a man to squeeze through. I shoved Elerson inside and
followed, pushing into a mob of scared militia and panic-stricken
citizens toward a huge buckskinned figure at a stockade loophole on the
left.
"Jack Mount!" I called, "where are the women? Are they safe?"
He looked around at me, nodded in a dazed and hesitating manner, then
wheeled quick as a flash, and fired through the slit in the logs.
I crawled up to the epaulment and peered down into the dusty street. It
was choked with the enemy's baggage-wagons, now thrown into terrible
confusion by the shot from Mount's rifle. Horses reared, backed,
swerved, swung around, and broke into a terrified gallop; teamsters
swore and lashed at their maddened animals, and some batmen, carrying a
dead or wounded teamster, flung their limp burden into a wagon, and,
seizing the horses' bits, urged them up the hill in a torrent of dust.
I fumbled for my ranger's whistle, set it to my lips, and blew the
"Cease firing!"
"Let them alone!" I shouted angrily at Mount. "Have you no better work
than to waste powder on a parcel of frightened clodhoppers? Send those
militiamen to their posts! Two to a loop, yonder! Lively, lads; and see
that you fire at nothing except Indians and soldiers. Jack, come up
here!"
The big rifleman mounted the ladder and leaped to the rifle-platform,
which quivered beneath his weight.
"I thought I'd best sting them once," he muttered. "Their main force
has circled the town westward toward the Hall. Lord, sir, it was a bad
surprise they gave us, for we understood that Willett held them at
Tribes Hill!"
I caught his arm in a grip of iron, striving to speak, shaking him to
silence.
"Where--where is Miss Grey?" I said hoarsely. "You say the women are
safe, do you not?"
"Mr. Renault--sir--" he stammered, "I have just arrived at the jail--I
have not seen your wife."
My hand fell from his arm; his appalled face whitened.
"Last night, sir," he muttered, "she was at the Hall, watching the
flames in the sky where Butler was burning the Valley. I saw her there
in a crowd of townsfolk, women, children--the whole town was on the
lawn there----"
He wiped his clammy face and moistened his lips; above us, in the
wooden tower, the clamor of the bell never ceased.
"She spoke to me, asking for news of you. I--I had no news of you to
tell her. Then an officer--Captain Little--fell a-bawling for the
Rangers to fall in, and Billy Laird, Jack Shew, Sammons, and me--we had
to go. So I fell in, sir; and the last I saw she was standing there and
looking at the reddening sky----"
Blindly, almost staggering, I pushed past him, stumbling down the
ladder, across the yard, and into the lower corridor of the jail. There
were women a-plenty there; some clung to my arm, imploring news; some
called out to me, asking for husband or son. I looked blankly into face
after face, all strangers; I mounted the stairs, pressing through the
trembling throng, searching every whitewashed corridor, every room;
then to the cellar, where the frightened children huddled, then out
again, breaking into a run, hastening from blockhouse to blockhouse,
the iron voice of the bell maddening me!
"Captain Renault! Captain Renault!" called out a militiaman, as I
turned from the log rampart.
The man came hastening toward me, firelock trailing, pack and sack
bouncing and flopping.
"My wife has news of your lady," he said, pointing to a slim, pale
young woman who stood in the doorway, a shawl over her wind-blown hair.
I turned as she advanced, looking me earnestly in the face.
"Your lady was in the fort late last night, sir," she began. A fit of
coughing choked her; overhead the dreadful clangor of the bell dinned
and dinned.
Dumb, stunned, I waited while she fumbled in her soiled apron, and at
last drew out a crumpled letter.
"I'll tell you what I know," she said weakly. "We had been to the Hall;
the sky was all afire. My little boy grew frightened, and she--your
sweet lady--she lifted him and carried him for me--I was that sick and
weak from fright, sir----"
A fit of coughing shook her. She handed me the letter, unable to
continue.
And there, brain reeling, ears stunned by the iron din of the bell
which had never ceased, I read her last words to me:
    "Carus, my darling, I don't know where you are. Please God, you are
    not at Oswaya, where they tell me the Indians have appeared above
    Varicks. Dearest lad, your Oneida came with your letter. I could
    not reply, for there were no expresses to go to you. Colonel
    Willett had news of the enemy toward Fort Hunter, and marched the
    next day. We hoped he might head them, but last night there was an
    alarm, and we all went out into the street. People were hastening
    to the Hall, and I went, too, being anxious, now that you are out
    there alone somewhere in the darkness.
    "Oh, Carus, the sky was all red and fiery behind Tribes Hill; and
    women were crying and children sobbing all around me. I asked the
    Ranger, Mount, if he had news of you, and he was gentle and kind,
    and strove to comfort me, but he went away with his company on a
    run, and I saw the militia assembling where the drummers stood
    beating their drums in the torchlight.
    "Somebody--a woman--said: 'It's hatchet and scalping again, and we
    women will catch it now.'
    "And then a child screamed, and its mother was too weak to carry
    it, so I took it back for her to the jail.
    "I sat in the jailer's room, thinking and thinking. Outside the
    barred window I heard a woman telling how Butler's men had already
    slain a whole family at Caughnawaga--an express having arrived with
    news of horrors unspeakable.
    "Dearest, it came to me like a flash of light what I must do--what
    God meant me to do. Can you not understand, my darling? We are
    utterly helpless here. I must go back to this man--to this man who
    is riding hither with death on his right hand, and on his left
    hand, death!
    "Oh, Carus! Carus! my sin has found me out! It is written that man
    should not put asunder those joined together. I have defied Him!
    Yet He repays, mercifully, offering me my last chance.
    "Sweetheart, I must take it. Can you not understand? This man is my
    lawful husband; and as his wife, I dare resist him; I have the
    right to demand that his Indians and soldiers spare the aged and
    helpless. I must go to him, meet him, and confront him, and insist
    that mercy be shown to these poor, terrified people. And I must
    pay the price!
    "Oh, Carus! Carus! I love you so! Pray for me. God keep you! I must
    go ere it is too late. My horse is at Burke's. I leave this for
    you. Dear, I am striving to mend a shattered life with sacrifice of
    self--the sacrifice you taught me. I can not help loving you as I
    do; but I can strive to be worthy of the man I love. This is the
    only way!
    "ELSIN GREY."
The woman had begun to speak again. I raised my eyes.
"Your sweet lady gave me the letter--I waited while she wrote it in the
warden's room--and she was crying, sir. God knows what she has written
you!--but she kissed me and my little one, and went out into the yard.
I have not seen her since, Mr. Renault."
Would the din of that hellish bell never cease its torture? Would sound
never again give my aching brain a moment's respite? The tumult, men's
sharp voices, the coughing of the sick woman, the dull, stupid blows of
sound were driving me mad! And now more noises broke out--the measured
crash of volleys; cheers from the militia on the parapet; an uproar
swelling all around me. I heard some one shout, "Willett has entered
the town!" and the next instant the smashing roll of drums broke out in
the street, echoing back from façade and palisade, and I heard the
fifes and hunting-horns playing "Soldiers' Joy!" and the long
double-shuffling of infantry on the run.
The icy current of desperation flowed back into every vein. My mind
cleared; I passed a steady hand over my eyes, looked around me, and,
drawing the ranger's whistle from my belt, set it to my lips.
The clear, mellow call dominated the tumult. A man in deerskin dropped
from the rifle-platform, another descended the ladder, others came
running from the log bastions, all flocking around me like brown deer
herding to the leader's call.
"Fall in!" I scarce knew my own voice.
The eager throng of riflemen fell away into a long rank, stringing out
across the jail yard.
"Shoulder arms! Right dress! Right face! Call off!"
The quick responses ran along the ranks: "Right! left! right!
left!----"
"Right double!" I called. Then, as order followed order, the left
platoon stepped forward, halted, and dressed.
"Take care to form column by platoons right, right front. To the
right--face! March!"
The gates were flung wide as we passed through, and, wheeling, swung
straight into the streets of Johnstown with a solid hurrah!
A battalion of Massachusetts infantry was passing St. John's Church,
filling William Street with the racket of their drums. White
cross-belts and rifles shining, the black-gaitered column plodded past,
mounted officers leading. Then a field-piece, harness and chains
clanking, came by, breasting the hill at a gallop, amid a tempest of
cheers from my riflemen. And now the Tryon County men were passing in
dusty ranks, and more riflemen came running up, falling in behind my
company.
"There's Tim Murphy!" cried Elerson joyously. "He has your horse,
Captain!"
Down the hill from Burke's Inn came Murphy on a run, leading my horse;
behind him sped the Weasel and a rifleman named Sammons, and Burke
himself, flourishing a rifle, all greeted lustily by the brown ranks
behind me, amid shouts of laughter as Jimmy Burke, in cap and
fluttering forest-dress, fell in with the others.
"Captain Renault, sorr--" I turned. Murphy touched his raccoon cap.
"Sorr, I hov f'r to repoort thot ye're sweet lady, sorr, is wid Butler
at Johnson Hall."
"Safe?" My lips scarcely moved.
"Safe so far, sorr. She rides wid their Major, Ross, an' the
shtaff-officers in gold an' green."
I sprang to the saddle, raised my rifle and shook it, A shrill, wolfish
yelling burst from the Rangers.
"Forward!" And "Forward! forward!" echoed the sergeants, as we swung
into a quick step.
The rifles on the hill by the Hall were speaking faster and faster now.
A white cloud hid the Hall and the trees, thickening and spreading as a
volley of musketry sent its smoke gushing into the bushes. Then, in the
dun-colored fog, a red flame darted out, splitting the air with a
deafening crash, and the thunder-clap of the cannon-shot shook the
earth under our hurrying feet.
We were close to the Hall now. Behind a hedge fence running east our
militia lay, firing very coolly into the wavering mists, through which
twinkled the ruddy rifle-flames of the enemy. The roar of the firing
was swelling, dominated by the tremendous concussions of the
field-piece. I saw officers riding like mounted phantoms through the
smoke; dead men in green, dead men in scarlet, and here and there a
dead Mohawk lay in the hedge. A wounded officer of Massachusetts
infantry passed us, borne away to the village by Schoharic militia.
As we started for the hedge on a double, suddenly, through the smoke,
the other side of the hedge swarmed with men. They were everywhere,
crashing through the thicket, climbing the fence, pouring forward with
shouts and hurrahs. Then the naked form of an Indian appeared; another,
another; the militia, disconcerted and surprised, struck at them with
their gunstocks, wavered, turned, and ran toward us.
I had already deployed my right into line; the panic-stricken militia
came heading on as we opened to let them through; then we closed up; a
sheet of flame poured out into the very faces of Butler's Rangers;
another, another!
Bolt upright in the stirrups, I lifted my smoking rifle: "Rangers!
Charge!"
Beneath my plunging horse a soldier in green went down screaming; an
Indian darted past, falling to death under a dozen clubbed rifles; then
a yelling mass of green-coated soldiers, forced and crushed back into
the hedge, turned at bay; and into this writhing throng leaped my
riflemen, hatchets flashing.
"Hold that hedge, Captain Renault!" came a calm voice near me, and I
saw Colonel Willett at my elbow, struggling with his frantic horse.
A mounted officer near him cried: "The rest of the militia on the right
are wavering, Colonel!"
"Then stop them, Captain Zielie!" said Willett, dragging his horse to a
stand. His voice was lost in the swelling roar of the fusillade where
my Rangers were holding the hedge. On the extreme right, through an
open field, I saw the militia scattering, darting about wildly. There
came a flash, a roar, and the scene was blotted out in a huge fountain
of flame and smoke.
"They've blown up the ammunition-wagon! Butler's men have taken our
cannon!" yelled a soldier, swinging his arms frantically. "Oh, my God!
the militia are running from the field!"
It was true. One of those dreadful and unaccountable panics had seized
the militia. Nothing could stop them. I saw Colonel Willett spur
forward, sword flashing; officers rode into the retreating lines,
begging and imploring them to stand. The pressure on my riflemen was
enormous, and I ordered them to fall back by squads in circles to the
fringe of woods. They obeyed very coolly and in perfect order, retiring
step by step, shot by shot.
Massachusetts infantry were holding the same woods; a few Tryon militia
rallied to us, and Colonel Gray took command. "For God's sake, Renault,
go and help Willett stop the militia!" he begged. "I'll hold this
corner till you can bring us aid!"
I peered about me through the smoke, gathered bridle, wheeled through
the bushes into the open field, and hurled my horse forward along the
line of retreat.
Never had I believed brave men could show such terror. Nobody heeded
me, nobody listened. At my voice they only ran the faster, I galloping
alongside, beseeching them, and looking for Willett.
Straight into the streets of Johnstown fled the militia, crowding the
town in mad and shameless panic, carrying with them their mounted
officers, as a torrent hurls chips into a whirlpool.
"Halt! In Heaven's name, what is the matter? Why, you had them on the
run, you men of Tryon, you Ulster men!" cried Colonel Willett.
A seething mass of fugitives was blocked at the old stone church. Into
them plunged the officers, cursing, threatening, imploring, I among
them, my horse almost swept from his legs in the rushing panic.
"Don't run, lads," I said; "don't put us all to this shame! Why, what
are you afraid of? I saw nothing to scare a child on the hill. And this
is my first battle. I thought war was something to scare a man. But
this is nothing. You wouldn't leave the Rangers there all alone, would
you? They're up there drilling holes in the Indians who came to murder
your wives and children. Come on, boys! You didn't mean it. We can't
let those yagers and Greens take a cannon as easily as that!"
They were listening to Willett, too; here and there a sergeant took up
the pleading. I found an exhausted drummer-boy sitting on the steps of
the church, and induced him to stand up and beat the assembly. Officer
after officer struggled through the mob, leading out handfuls of men;
lines formed; I snatched a flag from an ensign and displayed it; a
company, at shoulder arms, headed by a drummer, emerged from the chaos,
marching in fair alignment; another followed more steadily; line after
line fell in and paraded; the fifes began to squeal, and the shrill
quickstep set company after company in motion.
"It's all right, lads!" cried Willett cheerily, as he galloped forward.
"We are going back for that cannon we lost by mistake. Come on, you
Tryon County men! Don't let the Rangers laugh at you!"
Then the first cheer broke out; mounted officers rode up, baring their
swords, surrounding the Colonel. He gave me a calm and whimsical look,
almost a smile:
"Scared, Carus?"
"No, sir."
"D'ye hear that firing to the left? Well, that's Rowley's flanking
column of levies and the Massachusetts men. Hark! Listen to that rifle
music! Now we'll drive them! Now we've got them at last!"
I caught him by the sleeve, and bent forward from my saddle:
"Do you know that the woman I am to marry is with the enemy?" I
demanded hoarsely.
"No. Good God, Carus! Have they got her?"
His shocked face paled; he laid his hand on my shoulder, riding in
silence as I told him what I knew.
"By Heaven!" he said, striking his gloved hands together, "we'll get
her yet, Carus; I tell you, we'll get her safe and sound. Do you think
I mean to let these mad wolves slink off this time and skulk away
unpunished? Do you suppose I don't know that the time has come to purge
this frontier for good and all of Walter Butler? You need not worry,
Carus. It is true that God alone could have foreseen the strange panic
that started these militiamen on a run, as though they had never
smelled powder--as though they had not answered a hundred alarms from
Oriskany to Currietown. I could not foresee that, but, by God, we've
stopped it! And now I tell you we are going to deal Walter Butler a
blow that will end his murdering career forever! Look sharp!"
A racket of rifle-fire broke out ahead; two men dropped.
We were in the smoke now. Indians rose from every thicket and leaped
away in retreat; the column broke into a run, mounted officers trotting
forward, pistol and sword in hand.
"Why, there's our cannon, boys!" cried Colonel Lewis excitedly.
A roar greeted the black Colonel's words; the entire line sprang
forward; a file of Oneidas sped along our flanks, rifles a-trail.
Through the smoke I saw the Hall now, and in a field to the east of it
a cannon which some Highlanders and soldiers in green uniforms were
attempting to drag off.
At the view the yelling onset was loosed; the kilted troops and the
green-coated soldiers took to their legs, and I saw our militia
swarming around the field-piece, hugging it, patting it, embracing it,
while from the woods beyond my Rangers cheered and cheered. Ah! now the
militia were in it again; the hedge fence was carried with a rush, and
all around us in the red sunset light shouting militia, Royal Greens,
and naked, yelling Indians were locked in a death struggle, hatchet,
knife, and rifle-butt playing their silent and awful part.
An officer in a scarlet coat galloped at me full tilt, snapped his
pistol as he passed, wheeled, and attempted to ride me down at his
sword's point, but Colonel Willett pistoled him as I parried his thrust
with my rifle-barrel; and I saw his maddened horse bearing him away, he
swaying horridly in his saddle, falling sidewise, and striking the
ground, one spurred heel entangled in his stirrup.
Sickened, I turned away, and presently sounded the rally for my
Rangers. For full twenty minutes militia and riflemen poured sheets of
bullets into the Royal Greens from the hedge fence; their flank
doubled, wavered, and broke as the roaring fire of Rowley's men drew
nearer. Twilight fell; redder and redder leaped the rifle-flames
through the smoky dusk. Suddenly their whole line gave way, and we
broke through--riflemen, militia, Massachusetts men--broke through with
a terrific yell. And before us fled Indian and Tory, yager and
renegade, Greens, Rangers, Highlanders, officers galloping madly,
baggage-wagons smashed, horses down, camp trampled to tatters and
splinters as the vengeance of Tryon County passed in a tornado of fury
that cleansed the land forever of Walter Butler and his demons of the
North!
In that furious onslaught through the darkness and smoke, where
prisoners were being taken, Indians and Greens chased and shot down, a
steady flicker of rifle-fire marked the course of the disastrous rout,
and the frenzied vengeance following--an awful vengeance now, for, in
the blackness, a new and dreadful sound broke--the fiercely melancholy
scalp-yell of my Oneidas!
Galloping across a swampy field, where the dead and scalped lay in the
ooze, I shouted the Wolf Clan challenge; and a lone cry answered me,
coming nearer, nearer, until in the smoke-shot darkness I saw the
terrific painted shape of an Indian looming, saluting me with uplifted
and reeking hatchet.
"Brother! brother!" I groaned, "by the Wolf whose sign we wear, and by
the sign of Tharon, follow her who is to be my wife--follow by night,
by day, through the haunts of men, through the still places! Go
swiftly, O my brother the Otter--swiftly as hound on trail! I charge
you by that life you owe, by that clan tie which breaks not when
nations break, by the sign of Tharon, that floats among the stars
forever, find me this woman whom I am to wed! Your life for hers, O
brother! Go!"
CHAPTER XV
BUTLER'S FORD
For four breathless days the broad, raw trail of a thousand men in
headlong flight was the trampled path we traveled. Smashing straight
through the northern wilderness, our enemy with horses, wagons, batmen,
soldiers, Indians burst into the forest, tearing saplings, thickets,
underbrush aside in their mad northward rush for the safety of the
Canadas and the shelter denied them here. Threescore Oneida hatchets
glittered in their rear; four hundred rifles followed; for the Red
Beast was in flight at last, stricken, turning now and again to snarl
when the tireless, stern-faced trackers drew too near, then running on
again, growling, impotent. And the Red Beast must be done to death.
What fitter place to end him than here in the wild twilight of shaggy
depths, unlighted by the sun or moon?--here where the cold, brawling
streams smoked in the rank air; where black crags crouched, watching
the hunting--here in these awful deeps, shunned by the deer, unhaunted
by wolf and panther--depths fit only for the monstrous terror that came
out of them, and now, wounded, and cold heart pulsing terror, was
scrambling back again into the dense and dreadful twilight of eternal
shadow-land.
One by one their pack-laden horses fell out exhausted; and we found
them, heads hanging, quivering and panting beside the reeking trail;
one by one their gaunt cattle, mired in bog and swamp, entangled in
windfalls, greeted us, bellowing piteously as we passed. The forest
itself fought for us, reaching out to jerk wheels from axle, bringing
wagon and team down crashing. Their dead lay everywhere uncared for,
even unscalped and unrobbed in the bruised and trampled path of flight;
clothing, arms, provisions were scattered pell-mell on every side; and
now at length, hour after hour, as we headed them back from trail and
highway, and blocked them from their boats at Oneida Lake, driving,
forcing, scourging them straight into the black jaws of a hungry
wilderness, we began to pass their wounded--ghastly, bloody, ragged
things, scarce animate, save for the dying brilliancy of their hollowed
eyes.
On, on, hotfoot through the rain along the smoking trail; twilight by
day, depthless darkness by night, where we lay panting in starless
obscurity, listening to the giant winds of the wilderness--vast,
resistless, illimitable winds flowing steadily through the unseen and
naked crests of forests, colder and ever colder they blew, heralding
the trampling blasts of winter, charging us from the north.
On the fifth day it began to snow at dawn. Little ragged flakes
winnowed through the clusters of scarlet maple-leaves, sifted among the
black pines, coming faster and thicker, driving in slanting, whirling
flight across the trail. In an hour the moss was white; crimson sprays
of moose-bush bent, weighted with snow and scarlet berries; the
hurrying streams ran dark and somber in their channels between
dead-white banks; swamps turned blacker for the silvery setting; the
flakes grew larger, pelting in steady, thickening torrents from the
clouds as we came into a clearing called Jerseyfield, on the north side
of Canada Creek; and here at last we were met by a crackling roar from
a hundred rifles.
The Red Beast was at bay!
Up and down, through the dense snowy veil descending, the orange-tinted
rifle-flames flashed and sparkled and flickered; all around us a shower
of twigs and branches descended in a steady rain. Then our brown rifles
blazed their deadly answer. Splash! spatter! splash! their dead dropped
into the stream; and, following, dying and living took to the dark
water, thrashing across through snowy obscurity. I heard their horses
wallowing through the fords, iron hoofs frantically battering the
rocky, shelving banks for foothold; I heard them shriek when the Oneida
tigers leaped upon them; I heard their wounded battling and screaming
as they drowned in the swollen waters!
We lay and fired at their phantom lines, now attempting to retreat at a
dog-trot in single file; and as we knocked man after man from the
plodding rank the others leaped over their writhing, fallen comrades,
neither turning nor pausing in their dogged flight. The snow slackened,
falling more thinly to the west; and, as the dazzling curtain grew
transparent, a mass of men in green suddenly rose from the whitened
hemlock-scrub and fired at our riflemen arriving in column.
Then ensued a scene nigh indescribable. With one yelling bound, Ranger
and Oneida were on them, shooting, stabbing, dragging them down; and,
as they broke cover, their mounted officers, dashing out of the
thicket, wheeled northward into galloping flight; and among them at
last I saw my enemy, and knew him.
A dozen Oneidas were after him. His horse, spurred to a gallop, crashed
through the brush, and was in the water at a leap; and he turned in
midstream and shook his pistol at them insultingly.
By Heaven, he rode superbly as the swollen waters of the ford boiled to
his horse's straining shoulders, while the bullets clipped the gilded
cocked-hat from his head and struck his raised pistol from his hand.
"Head him!" shouted Elerson; "don't let that man get clear!" Indians
and Rangers raced madly along the bank of the creek, pacing the
fugitive as he galloped.
"Take him alive!" I cried, as Butler swung his horse with a crash
straight into the willow thickets on the north. We lost him to view as
I spoke; and I sounded the rally-whistle, and ran up the bank of the
creek, leading my horse at a trot behind me.
The snowfall had ceased; the sun glimmered, then blazed out in the
clearing, flooding the whitened ground with a dazzling radiance.
Running, stumbling, falling, struggling through brush and brake and
brier-choked marsh, I saw ahead of me three Oneida Indians swiftly
cross my path to the creek's edge and crouch, scanning the opposite
shore. Almost immediately the Rangers Murphy, Renard, and Elerson
emerged from the snowy bushes beside them; and at the same instant I
saw Walter Butler ride up on the opposite side of the creek, glance
backward, then calmly draw bridle in plain sight. He was fey; I knew
it. His doom was upon him. He flung himself from his horse close to the
ford where, set in the rock, a living spring of water mirrored the sun;
then he knelt down, drew his tin cup from his belt, bent over, and
looked into the placid silver pool. What he saw reflected there Christ
alone knows, for he sprang back, passed his hand across his eyes, and
reached out his cup blindly, plunging it deep into the water.
Never, never shall I forget that instant picture as it broke upon my
view; my deadly enemy kneeling by the spring, black hair disheveled,
the sunshine striking his tin cup as he raised it to his lips; the
three naked Oneidas, in their glistening scarlet paint, eagerly raising
their rifles, while the merciless weapons of Murphy and Elerson slowly
fell to the same level, focused on that kneeling figure across the dark
waters of the stream.
A second only, then, God knows why, I could not endure to witness a
justice so close allied with murder, and sprang forward, crying out:
"Cease fire! Take him alive!" But, with the words half-sped, flame
after flame parted from those leveled muzzles; and through the whirling
smoke I saw Walter Butler fall, roll over and over, his body and limbs
contracting with agony; then on all fours again, on his knees, only to
sink back in a sitting posture, his head resting on his hand, blood
pouring between his fingers.
Into the stream plunged an Oneida, rifle and knife aloft, glittering in
the sun. The wounded man saw him coming, and watched him as he leaped
up the bank; and while Walter Butler looked him full in the face the
savage trembled, crouching, gathering for a leap.
"Stop that murder!" I shouted, plunging into the ford as Butler, aching
head still lifted, turned a deathly face toward me. One eye had been
shot out, but the creature was still alive, and knew me--knew me, heard
me ask for the quarter he had not asked for; saw me coming to save him
from his destiny, and smiled as the Oneida sprang on him with a yell
and ripped the living scalp away before my sickened eyes.
"Finish him, in God's mercy!" bellowed the Ranger Sammons, running up.
The Oneida's hatchet, swinging like lightning, flashed once; and the
severed soul of Walter Butler was free of the battered, disfigured
thing that lay oozing crimson in the trampled snow.
Dead! And I heard the awful scalp-yell swelling from the throats of
those who had felt his heavy hand. Dead! And I heard cheers from those
whose loved ones had gone down to death to satiate his fury. And now
he, too, was on his way to face those pale accusers waiting there to
watch him pass--specters of murdered men, phantoms of women, white
shapes of little children--God! what a path to the tribunal behind
whose thunderous gloom hell's own lightning flared!
As I gazed down at him the roar of the fusillade died away in my ears.
I remembered him as I had seen him there at New York in our house, his
slim fingers wandering over the strings of the guitar, his dark eyes
drowned in melancholy. I remembered his voice, and the song he sang,
haunting us all with its lingering sadness--the hopeless words, the sad
air, redolent of dead flowers--doom, death, decay!
The thrashing and plunging of horses roused me. I looked around to see
Colonel Willett ride up, followed by two or three mounted officers in
blue and buff, pulling in their plunging horses. He looked down at the
dead, studying the crushed face, the uniform, the blood-drenched snow.
"Is that Butler?" he asked gravely.
"Yes," I said; and drew a corner of his cloak across the marred face.
Nobody uncovered, which was the most dreadful judgment those silent men
could pass.
"Scalped?" motioned Colonel Lewis significantly.
"He belongs to your party," observed Willett quietly. Then, looking
around as the rifle-fire to the left broke out again: "The pursuit has
ended, gentlemen. What punishment more awful could we leave them to
than these trackless solitudes? For I tell you that those few among
them who shall attain the Canadas need fear no threat of hell in the
life to come, for they shall have served their turn. Sound the recall!"
I laid my hand upon his saddle, looking up into his face:
"Pardon," I said, in a low voice; "I must go on!"
"Carus! Carus!" he said softly, "have they not told you?"
"Told me?" I stared. "What? What--in the name of God?"
"She was taken when we struck their rear-guard at one o'clock this
afternoon! Was there no one to tell you, lad!"
"Unharmed?" I asked, steadying myself against his stirrup.
"Faint with fatigue, brier-torn, in rags--his vengeance, but--nothing
worse. That quarter-breed Montour attended her, supported her,
struggled on with her through all the horrors of this retreat. He had
herded the Valley prisoners together, guarded by Cayugas. The
executioner lies dead a mile below, his black face in the water. And
here he lies!"
He swung his horse, head sternly averted. I flung myself into my
saddle.
"This way, lad. She lies in a camp-wagon at headquarters, asleep, I
think. Mount and your Oneida guard her. And the girl, Montour, lies
stretched beside her, watching her as a dog watches a cradled child."
The hunting-horns of the light infantry were sounding the recall as we
rode through the low brush of Jerseyfield, where the sunset sky was
aflame, painting the tall pines, staining the melting snow to palest
crimson.
From black, wet branches overhead the clotted flakes fell, showering us
as we came to the hemlock shelter where the camp-wagon stood. A fire
burned there; before it crowded a shadowy group of riflemen; and one
among them moved forward to meet me, touching his fur cap and pointing.
As I reached the rough shelter of fringing evergreen Mount and Little
Otter stepped out; and I saw the giant forest-runner wink the tears
away as he laid his huge finger across his lips.
"She sleeps as sweetly as a child," he whispered. "I told her you were
coming. Oh, sir, it will tear your heart out to see her small white
feet so bruised, and the soft, baby hands of her raw at the wrists,
where they tied her at night.... Is he surely dead, sir, as they
say?"
"I saw him die, thank God!"
"That is safer for him, I think," said Mount simply. "Will you come
this way, sir? Otter, fetch a splinter o' fat pine for a light. Mind
the wheel there, Mr. Renault--this way on tiptoe!"
He took the splinter-light from the Oneida, fixed it in a split stick,
backed out, and turned away, followed by the Indian.
At first I could not see, and set the burning stick nearer. Then, as I
bent over the rough wagon, I saw her lying there very white and still,
her torn hands swathed with lint, her bandaged feet wrapped in furs.
And beside her, stretched full length, lay Lyn Montour, awake, dark
eyes fixed on mine.
She smiled as she caught my eye; then something in my face sobered her.
"He is dead?" she motioned with her lips. And my lips moved assent.
Gravely, scarcely stirring, she reached up and unbound her hair,
letting it down over her face. I understood, and, stepping to the fire,
returned with a charred ember. She held out first one hand, then the
other, and I marked the palms with the ashes, touched her forehead, her
breast, her feet. Thus, in the solemn presence of death itself, she
claimed at the tribunal of the Most High the justice denied on earth,
signing herself a widow with the ashes none but a wedded wife may dare
to wear.
Lower and lower burned the tiny torch, sank to a spark, and went out.
The black curtains of obscurity closed in; redder and redder spread the
glare from the camp-fire; crackling and roaring, the flames rose,
tufted with smoke, through which a million sparks whirled upward,
showering the void above. Dark shapes moved in the glow with a sparkle
of spur and sword as they turned; the infernal light fell on the naked
bodies of Oneidas, sitting like demons, eyes blinking at the flames.
And through the roar of the fire I heard their chanting undertone,
monotonous, interminable, saluting their dead:
    "Cover the White Throat at Carenay,
    Lest evil fall at Danascara,
    Lay the phantom away,
    Men of Thendara,
    Trails of Kayaderos
    And Adriutha
    Cover our loss!
    Tree of Oswaya,
    From Garoga
    To Caroga
    Cover the White Throat
    For the sake of the Silver Boat afloat
    In the Water of Light, O Tharon!
    This for the pledge of Aroronon
    Lest the Long House end
    And the Tree bend
    And our dead ascend in every trail
    And the Great League fail.
    Now by the brotherhood ye've sworn
    Let the Oneida mourn."
And I heard from the forest the deadened blows of mattock and spade,
and saw the glimmer of burial torches; and, through the steady chanting
of the Oneida, the solemn voice of the chaplain in prayer for dead and
living:
"Let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us. And establish Thou the
work of our hands upon us--yea, the work of our hands, establish Thou
it!"
                     *      *      *      *      *
It lacked an hour to dawn when the harsh, stringy drums rolled from the
forest and the smoky camp awoke; and I, keeping my vigil, there in the
shadow where she lay, listening and bending above her, was aware of a
bandaged hand touching me--a feverish arm about my neck, drawing my
head lower, closer, till, in the darkness, my face lay on hers, and our
tremulous lips united.
"Is all well, my beloved?"
"All is well."
"And we part no more?"
"No more."
Silence, then: "Why do they cheer so, Carus?"
"It is a lost soul they are speeding, child."
"His?"
"Yes."
She breathed feverishly, her little bandaged hands holding my face.
"Lift me a little, Carus; I can not move my legs. Did you know he
abandoned me to the Cayugas because I dared to ask his mercy for the
innocent? I think his reason was unseated when I came upon him there at
Johnson Hall--so much of blood and death lay on his soul. His own men
feared him; and, Carus, truly I do not think he knew me else he had
never struck me in that burst of rage, so that even the Cayugas
interposed--for his knife was in his hands." She sighed, nestling close
to me in the rustling straw, and closed her eyes as the torches flared
and the horses were backed along the pole.
In the ruddy light I saw Jack Mount approaching. He halted, touched his
cap, and smiled; then his blue eyes wandered to the straw where Lyn
Montour lay, sleeping the stunned sleep of exhaustion; and into his
face a tenderness came, softening his bold mouth and reckless visage.
"The Weasel drives, sir. Tim and Dave and I, we jog along to ease the
wheels--if it be your pleasure, sir. We go by the soft trail. A week
should see you and yours in Albany. The Massachusetts surgeon is here
to dress your sweet lady's hurts. Will you speak with him, Mr.
Renault?"
