us to fail of. This, as forestieri,” Mrs. Verver pursued, “would be our
pull--if our pull weren’t indeed so great all round.”
He could only keep his eyes on her. “And have you made out the very
train--?”
“The very one. Paddington--the 6.50 ‘in.’ That gives us oceans; we can
dine, at the usual hour, at home; and as Maggie will of course be in
Eaton Square I hereby invite you.”
For a while he still but looked at her; it was a minute before he spoke.
“Thank you very much. With pleasure.” To which he in a moment added:
“But the train for Gloucester?”
“A local one--11.22; with several stops, but doing it a good deal, I
forget how much, within the hour. So that we’ve time. Only,” she said,
“we must employ our time.”
He roused himself as from the mere momentary spell of her; he looked
again at his watch while they moved back to the door through which she
had advanced. But he had also again questions and stops--all as for the
mystery and the charm. “You looked it up--without my having asked you?”
“Ah, my dear,” she laughed, “I’ve seen you with Bradshaw! It takes
Anglo-Saxon blood.”
“‘Blood’?” he echoed. “You’ve that of every race!” It kept her before
him. “You’re terrible.”
Well, he could put it as he liked. “I know the name of the inn.”
“What is it then?”
“There are two--you’ll see. But I’ve chosen the right one. And I think I
remember the tomb,” she smiled.
“Oh, the tomb--!” Any tomb would do for him. “But I mean I had been
keeping my idea so cleverly for you, while there you already were with
it.”
“You had been keeping it ‘for’ me as much as you like. But how do you
make out,” she asked, “that you were keeping it FROM me?”
“I don’t--now. How shall I ever keep anything--some day when I shall
wish to?”
“Ah, for things I mayn’t want to know, I promise you shall find me
stupid.” They had reached their door, where she herself paused to
explain. “These days, yesterday, last night, this morning, I’ve wanted
everything.”
Well, it was all right. “You shall have everything.”
                             XXIII
Fanny, on her arrival in town, carried out her second idea, despatching
the Colonel to his club for luncheon and packing her maid into a cab,
for Cadogan Place, with the variety of their effects. The result of this
for each of the pair was a state of occupation so unbroken that the day
practically passed without fresh contact between them. They dined out
together, but it was both in going to their dinner and in coming back
that they appeared, on either side, to have least to communicate.
Fanny was wrapped in her thoughts still more closely than in the
lemon-coloured mantle that protected her bare shoulders, and her
husband, with her silence to deal with, showed himself not less disposed
than usual, when so challenged, to hold up, as he would have said, his
end of it. They had, in general, in these days, longer pauses and more
abrupt transitions; in one of which latter they found themselves, for a
climax, launched at midnight. Mrs. Assingham, rather wearily housed
again, ascended to the first floor, there to sink, overburdened, on the
landing outside the drawing-room, into a great gilded Venetian chair--of
which at first, however, she but made, with her brooding face, a sort of
throne of meditation. She would thus have recalled a little, with her so
free orientalism of type, the immemorially speechless Sphinx about at
last to become articulate. The Colonel, not unlike, on his side, some
old pilgrim of the desert camping at the foot of that monument, went, by
way of reconnoissance, into the drawing-room. He visited, according to
his wont, the windows and their fastenings; he cast round the place the
eye, all at once, of the master and the manager, the commandant and the
rate-payer; then he came back to his wife, before whom, for a moment, he
stood waiting. But she herself, for a time, continued to wait, only
looking up at him inscrutably. There was in these minor manoeuvres and
conscious patiences something of a suspension of their old custom of
divergent discussion, that intercourse by misunderstanding which had
grown so clumsy now. This familiar pleasantry seemed to desire to show
it could yield, on occasion, to any clear trouble; though it was also
sensibly, and just incoherently, in the air that no trouble was at
present to be vulgarly recognised as clear.
There might, for that matter, even have been in Mr. Assingham’s face a
mild perception of some finer sense--a sense for his wife’s situation,
and the very situation she was, oddly enough, about to repudiate--that
she had fairly caused to grow in him. But it was a flower to breathe
upon gently, and this was very much what she finally did. She knew he
needed no telling that she had given herself, all the afternoon, to her
friends in Eaton Square, and that her doing so would have been but
the prompt result of impressions gathered, in quantities, in brimming
baskets, like the purple grapes of the vintage, at Matcham; a process
surrounded by him, while it so unmistakably went on, with abstentions
and discretions that might almost have counted as solemnities. The
solemnities, at the same time, had committed him to nothing--to nothing
beyond this confession itself of a consciousness of deep waters. She had
been out on these waters, for him, visibly; and his tribute to the fact
had been his keeping her, even if without a word, well in sight. He had
not quitted for an hour, during her adventure, the shore of the mystic
lake; he had on the contrary stationed himself where she could signal
to him at need. Her need would have arisen if the planks of her bark had
parted--THEN some sort of plunge would have become his immediate duty.
His present position, clearly, was that of seeing her in the centre of
her sheet of dark water, and of wondering if her actual mute gaze at him
didn’t perhaps mean that her planks WERE now parting. He held himself
so ready that it was quite as if the inward man had pulled off coat and
waistcoat. Before he had plunged, however--that is before he had uttered
a question--he perceived, not without relief, that she was making for
land. He watched her steadily paddle, always a little nearer, and at
last he felt her boat bump. The bump was distinct, and in fact she
stepped ashore. “We were all wrong. There’s nothing.”
“Nothing--?” It was like giving her his hand up the bank.
“Between Charlotte Verver and the Prince. I was uneasy--but I’m
satisfied now. I was in fact quite mistaken. There’s nothing.”
“But I thought,” said Bob Assingham, “that that was just what you did
persistently asseverate. You’ve guaranteed their straightness from the
first.”
“No--I’ve never till now guaranteed anything but my own disposition to
worry. I’ve never till now,” Fanny went on gravely from her chair, “had
such a chance to see and to judge. I had it at that place--if I had, in
my infatuation and my folly,” she added with expression, “nothing
else. So I did see--I HAVE seen. And now I know.” Her emphasis, as she
repeated the word, made her head, in her seat of infallibility, rise
higher. “I know.”
The Colonel took it--but took it at first in silence. “Do you mean
they’ve TOLD you--?”
“No--I mean nothing so absurd. For in the first place I haven’t asked
them, and in the second their word in such a matter wouldn’t count.”
“Oh,” said the Colonel with all his oddity, “they’d tell US.”
It made her face him an instant as with her old impatience of his short
cuts, always across her finest flower-beds; but she felt, none the less,
that she kept her irony down. “Then when they’ve told you, you’ll be
perhaps so good as to let me know.”
He jerked up his chin, testing the growth of his beard with the back
of his hand while he fixed her with a single eye. “Ah, I don’t say that
they’d necessarily tell me that they ARE over the traces.”
“They’ll necessarily, whatever happens, hold their tongues, I hope, and
I’m talking of them now as I take them for myself only. THAT’S enough
for me--it’s all I have to regard.” With which, after an instant,
“They’re wonderful,” said Fanny Assingham.
“Indeed,” her husband concurred, “I really think they are.”
“You’d think it still more if you knew. But you don’t know--because
you don’t see. Their situation”--this was what he didn’t see--“is too
extraordinary.”
“‘Too’?” He was willing to try.
“Too extraordinary to be believed, I mean, if one didn’t see. But just
that, in a way, is what saves them. They take it seriously.”
He followed at his own pace. “Their situation?”
“The incredible side of it. They make it credible.”
“Credible then--you do say--to YOU?”
She looked at him again for an interval. “They believe in it themselves.
They take it for what it is. And that,” she said, “saves them.”
“But if what it ‘is’ is just their chance--?”
“It’s their chance for what I told you when Charlotte first turned up.
It’s their chance for the idea that I was then sure she had.”
The Colonel showed his effort to recall. “Oh, your idea, at different
moments, of any one of THEIR ideas!” This dim procession, visibly,
mustered before him, and, with the best will in the world, he could but
watch its immensity. “Are you speaking now of something to which you can
comfortably settle down?”
Again, for a little, she only glowered at him. “I’ve come back to my
belief, and that I have done so--”
“Well?” he asked as she paused.
“Well, shows that I’m right--for I assure you I had wandered far. Now
I’m at home again, and I mean,” said Fanny Assingham, “to stay here.
They’re beautiful,” she declared.
“The Prince and Charlotte?”
“The Prince and Charlotte. THAT’S how they’re so remarkable. And the
beauty,” she explained, “is that they’re afraid for them. Afraid, I
mean, for the others.”
“For Mr. Verver and Maggie?” It did take some following. “Afraid of
what?”
“Afraid of themselves.”
The Colonel wondered. “Of THEMSELVES? Of Mr. Verver’s and Maggie’s
selves?”
Mrs. Assingham remained patient as well as lucid. “Yes--of SUCH
blindness too. But most of all of their own danger.”
He turned it over. “That danger BEING the blindness--?”
“That danger being their position. What their position contains--of
all the elements--I needn’t at this time of day attempt to tell you. It
contains, luckily--for that’s the mercy--everything BUT blindness:
I mean on their part. The blindness,” said Fanny, “is primarily her
husband’s.”
He stood for a moment; he WOULD have it straight. “Whose husband’s?”
“Mr. Verver’s,” she went on. “The blindness is most of all his. That
they feel--that they see. But it’s also his wife’s.”
“Whose wife’s?” he asked as she continued to gloom at him in a manner at
variance with the comparative cheer of her contention. And then as she
only gloomed: “The Prince’s?”
“Maggie’s own--Maggie’s very own,” she pursued as for herself.
He had a pause. “Do you think Maggie so blind?”
“The question isn’t of what I think. The question’s of the conviction
that guides the Prince and Charlotte--who have better opportunities than
I for judging.”
The Colonel again wondered. “Are you so very sure their opportunities
are better?”
“Well,” his wife asked, “what is their whole so extraordinary situation,
their extraordinary relation, but an opportunity?”
“Ah, my dear, you have that opportunity--of their extraordinary
situation and relation--as much as they.”
“With the difference, darling,” she returned with some spirit, “that
neither of those matters are, if you please, mine. I see the boat
they’re in, but I’m not, thank God, in it myself. To-day, however,” Mrs.
Assingham added, “to-day in Eaton Square I did see.”
“Well then, what?”
But she mused over it still. “Oh, many things. More, somehow, than ever
before. It was as if, God help me, I was seeing FOR them--I mean for the
others. It was as if something had happened--I don’t know what, except
some effect of these days with them at that place--that had either made
things come out or had cleared my own eyes.” These eyes indeed of the
poor lady’s rested on her companion’s, meanwhile, with the lustre not
so much of intenser insight as of a particular portent that he had at
various other times had occasion to recognise. She desired, obviously,
to reassure him, but it apparently took a couple of large, candid,
gathering, glittering tears to emphasise the fact. They had immediately,
for him, their usual direct action: she must reassure him, he was made
to feel, absolutely in her own way. He would adopt it and conform to it
as soon as he should be able to make it out. The only thing was that it
took such incalculable twists and turns. The twist seemed remarkable
for instance as she developed her indication of what had come out in the
afternoon. “It was as if I knew better than ever what makes them--”
“What makes them?”--he pressed her as she fitfully dropped.
“Well, makes the Prince and Charlotte take it all as they do. It might
well have been difficult to know HOW to take it; and they may even
say for themselves that they were a long time trying to see. As I say,
to-day,” she went on, “it was as if I were suddenly, with a kind of
horrible push, seeing through their eyes.” On which, as to shake off her
perversity, Fanny Assingham sprang up. But she remained there, under the
dim illumination, and while the Colonel, with his high, dry, spare
look of “type,” to which a certain conformity to the whiteness of
inaccessible snows in his necktie, shirt-front and waistcoat gave a
rigour of accent, waited, watching her, they might, at the late hour and
in the still house, have been a pair of specious worldly adventurers,
driven for relief, under sudden stress, to some grim midnight reckoning
in an odd corner. Her attention moved mechanically over the objects of
ornament disposed too freely on the walls of staircase and landing,
as to which recognition, for the time, had lost both fondness and
compunction. “I can imagine the way it works,” she said; “it’s so easy
to understand. Yet I don’t want to be wrong,” she the next moment broke
out “I don’t, I don’t want to be wrong!”
“To make a mistake, you mean?”
Oh no, she meant nothing of the sort; she knew but too well what she
meant. “I don’t make mistakes. But I perpetrate--in thought--crimes.”
 And she spoke with all intensity. “I’m a most dreadful person. There are
times when I seem not to mind a bit what I’ve done, or what I think or
imagine or fear or accept; when I feel that I’d do it again--feel that
I’d do things myself.”
“Ah, my dear!” the Colonel remarked in the coolness of debate.
“Yes, if you had driven me back on my ‘nature.’ Luckily for you you
never have. You’ve done every thing else, but you’ve never done that.
But what I really don’t a bit want,” she declared, “is to abet them or
to protect them.”
Her companion turned this over. “What is there to protect them
from?--if, by your now so settled faith, they’ve done nothing that
justly exposes them.”
And it in fact half pulled her up. “Well, from a sudden scare. From the
alarm, I mean, of what Maggie MAY think.”
“Yet if your whole idea is that Maggie thinks nothing--?”
She waited again. “It isn’t my ‘whole’ idea. Nothing is my ‘whole’
idea--for I felt to-day, as I tell you, that there’s so much in the
air.”
“Oh, in the air--!” the Colonel dryly breathed.
“Well, what’s in the air always HAS--hasn’t it?--to come down to the
earth. And Maggie,” Mrs. Assingham continued, “is a very curious little
person. Since I was ‘in,’ this afternoon, for seeing more than I had
ever done--well, I felt THAT too, for some reason, as I hadn’t yet felt
it.”
“For ‘some’ reason? For what reason?” And then, as his wife at first
said nothing: “Did she give any sign? Was she in any way different?”
“She’s always so different from anyone else in the world that it’s hard
to say when she’s different from herself. But she has made me,” said
Fanny after an instant, “think of her differently. She drove me home.”
“Home here?”
“First to Portland Place--on her leaving her father: since she does,
once in a while, leave him. That was to keep me with her a little
longer. But she kept the carriage and, after tea there, came with me
herself back here. This was also for the same purpose. Then she went
home, though I had brought her a message from the Prince that arranged
their movements otherwise. He and Charlotte must have arrived--if they
have arrived--expecting to drive together to Eaton Square and keep
Maggie on to dinner there. She has everything there, you know--she has
clothes.”
The Colonel didn’t in fact know, but he gave it his apprehension. “Oh,
you mean a change?”
“Twenty changes, if you like--all sorts of things. She dresses, really,
Maggie does, as much for her father--and she always did--as for her
husband or for herself. She has her room in his house very much as she
had it before she was married--and just as the boy has quite a second
nursery there, in which Mrs. Noble, when she comes with him, makes
herself, I assure you, at home. Si bien that if Charlotte, in her own
house, so to speak, should wish a friend or two to stay with her, she
really would be scarce able to put them up.”
It was a picture into which, as a thrifty entertainer himself, Bob
Assingham could more or less enter. “Maggie and the child spread so?”
“Maggie and the child spread so.”
Well, he considered. “It IS rather rum,”
“That’s all I claim”--she seemed thankful for the word. “I don’t say
it’s anything more--but it IS, distinctly, rum.”
Which, after an instant, the Colonel took up. “‘More’? What more COULD
it be?”
“It could be that she’s unhappy, and that she takes her funny little
way of consoling herself. For if she were unhappy”--Mrs. Assingham had
figured it out--“that’s just the way, I’m convinced, she would take. But
how can she be unhappy, since--as I’m also convinced--she, in the midst
of everything, adores her husband as much as ever?”
The Colonel at this brooded for a little at large. “Then if she’s so
happy, please what’s the matter?”
It made his wife almost spring at him. “You think then she’s secretly
wretched?”
But he threw up his arms in deprecation. “Ah, my dear, I give them up to
YOU. I’ve nothing more to suggest.”
“Then it’s not sweet of you.” She spoke at present as if he were
frequently sweet. “You admit that it is ‘rum.’”
And this indeed fixed again, for a moment, his intention. “Has Charlotte
complained of the want of rooms for her friends?”
“Never, that I know of, a word. It isn’t the sort of thing she does. And
whom has she, after all,” Mrs. Assingham added, “to complain to?”
“Hasn’t she always you?”
“Oh, ‘me’! Charlotte and I, nowadays--!” She spoke as of a chapter
closed. “Yet see the justice I still do her. She strikes me, more and
more, as extraordinary.”
A deeper shade, at the renewal of the word, had come into the Colonel’s
face. “If they’re each and all so extraordinary then, isn’t that why one
must just resign one’s self to wash one’s hands of them--to be lost?”
 Her face, however, so met the question as if it were but a flicker of
the old tone that their trouble had now become too real for--her charged
eyes so betrayed the condition of her nerves that he stepped back,
alertly enough, to firmer ground. He had spoken before in this light
of a plain man’s vision, but he must be something more than a plain man
now. “Hasn’t she then, Charlotte, always her husband--?”
“To complain to? She’d rather die.”
“Oh!”--and Bob Assingham’s face, at the vision of such extremities,
lengthened for very docility. “Hasn’t she the Prince then?”
“For such matters? Oh, he doesn’t count.”
“I thought that was just what--as the basis of our agitation--he does
do!”
Mrs. Assingham, however, had her distinction ready. “Not a bit as a
person to bore with complaints. The ground of MY agitation is, exactly,
that she never on any pretext bores him. Not Charlotte!” And in the
imagination of Mrs. Verver’s superiority to any such mistake she gave,
characteristically, something like a toss of her head--as marked a
tribute to that lady’s general grace, in all the conditions, as the
personage referred to doubtless had ever received.
“Ah, only Maggie!” With which the Colonel gave a short low gurgle. But
it found his wife again prepared.
“No--not only Maggie. A great many people in London--and small
wonder!--bore him.”
“Maggie only worst then?” But it was a question that he had promptly
dropped at the returning brush of another, of which she had shortly
before sown the seed. “You said just now that he would by this time be
back with Charlotte ‘if they HAVE arrived.’ You think it then possible
that they really won’t have returned?”
His companion exhibited to view, for the idea, a sense of her
responsibility; but this was insufficient, clearly, to keep her from
entertaining it. “I think there’s nothing they’re not now capable of--in
their so intense good faith.”
“Good faith?”--he echoed the words, which had in fact something of an
odd ring, critically.
“Their false position. It comes to the same thing.” And she bore down,
with her decision, the superficial lack of sequence. “They may very
possibly, for a demonstration--as I see them--not have come back.”
He wondered, visibly, at this, how she did see them. “May have bolted
somewhere together?”
“May have stayed over at Matcham itself till tomorrow. May have
wired home, each of them, since Maggie left me. May have done,” Fanny
Assingham continued, “God knows what!” She went on, suddenly, with more
emotion--which, at the pressure of some spring of her inner vision,
broke out in a wail of distress, imperfectly smothered. “Whatever
they’ve done I shall never know. Never, never--because I don’t want to,
and because nothing will induce me. So they may do as they like.
But I’ve worked for them ALL” She uttered this last with another
irrepressible quaver, and the next moment her tears had come, though she
had, with the explosion, quitted her husband as if to hide it from him.
She passed into the dusky drawing-room, where, during his own prowl,
shortly previous, he had drawn up a blind, so that the light of the
street-lamps came in a little at the window. She made for this
window, against which she leaned her head, while the Colonel, with his
lengthened face, looked after her for a minute and hesitated. He might
have been wondering what she had really done, to what extent, beyond his
knowledge or his conception, in the affairs of these people, she COULD
have committed herself. But to hear her cry, and yet try not to, was,
quickly enough, too much for him; he had known her at other times quite
not try not to, and that had not been so bad. He went to her and put his
arm round her; he drew her head to his breast, where, while she gasped,
she let it stay a little--all with a patience that presently stilled
her. Yet the effect of this small crisis, oddly enough, was not to close
their colloquy, with the natural result of sending them to bed: what was
between them had opened out further, had somehow, through the sharp
show of her feeling, taken a positive stride, had entered, as it were,
without more words, the region of the understood, shutting the door
after it and bringing them so still more nearly face to face. They
remained for some minutes looking at it through the dim window which
opened upon the world of human trouble in general and which let the
vague light play here and there upon gilt and crystal and colour, the
florid features, looming dimly, of Fanny’s drawing-room. And the beauty
of what thus passed between them, passed with her cry of pain, with her
burst of tears, with his wonderment and his kindness and his comfort,
with the moments of their silence, above all, which might have
represented their sinking together, hand in hand, for a time, into the
mystic lake where he had begun, as we have hinted, by seeing her paddle
alone--the beauty of it was that they now could really talk better than
before, because the basis had at last, once for all, defined itself.
What was the basis, which Fanny absolutely exacted, but that Charlotte
and the Prince must be saved--so far as consistently speaking of them
as still safe might save them? It did save them, somehow, for Fanny’s
troubled mind--for that was the nature of the mind of women. He conveyed
to her now, at all events, by refusing her no gentleness, that he had
sufficiently got the tip, and that the tip was all he had wanted. This
remained quite clear even when he presently reverted to what she had
told him of her recent passage with Maggie. “I don’t altogether see,
you know, what you infer from it, or why you infer anything.” When he
so expressed himself it was quite as if in possession of what they had
brought up from the depths.
                             XXIV
“I can’t say more,” this made his companion reply, “than that something
in her face, her voice and her whole manner acted upon me as nothing in
her had ever acted before; and just for the reason, above all, that I
felt her trying her very best--and her very best, poor duck, is very
good--to be quiet and natural. It’s when one sees people who always ARE
natural making little pale, pathetic, blinking efforts for it--then
it is that one knows something’s the matter. I can’t describe my
impression--you would have had it for yourself. And the only thing
that ever CAN be the matter with Maggie is that. By ‘that’ I mean her
beginning to doubt. To doubt, for the first time,” Mrs. Assingham wound
up, “of her wonderful little judgment of her wonderful little world.”
It was impressive, Fanny’s vision, and the Colonel, as if himself
agitated by it, took another turn of prowling. “To doubt of fidelity--to
doubt of friendship! Poor duck indeed! It will go hard with her. But
she’ll put it all,” he concluded, “on Charlotte.”
Mrs. Assingham, still darkly contemplative, denied this with a
headshake. “She won’t ‘put’ it anywhere. She won’t do with it anything
anyone else would. She’ll take it all herself.”
“You mean she’ll make it out her own fault?”
“Yes--she’ll find means, somehow, to arrive at that.”
“Ah then,” the Colonel dutifully declared, “she’s indeed a little
brick!”
“Oh,” his wife returned, “you’ll see, in one way or another, to what
tune!” And she spoke, of a sudden, with an approach to elation--so that,
as if immediately feeling his surprise, she turned round to him. “She’ll
see me somehow through!”
“See YOU--?”
“Yes, me. I’m the worst. For,” said Fanny Assingham, now with a harder
exaltation, “I did it all. I recognise that--I accept it. She won’t
cast it up at me--she won’t cast up anything. So I throw myself upon
her--she’ll bear me up.” She spoke almost volubly--she held him with her
sudden sharpness. “She’ll carry the whole weight of us.”
There was still, nevertheless, wonder in it. “You mean she won’t mind? I
SAY, love--!” And he not unkindly stared. “Then where’s the difficulty?”
“There isn’t any!” Fanny declared with the same rich emphasis. It kept
him indeed, as by the loss of the thread, looking at her longer. “Ah,
you mean there isn’t any for US!”
She met his look for a minute as if it perhaps a little too much imputed
a selfishness, a concern, at any cost, for their own surface. Then she
might have been deciding that their own surface was, after all, what
they had most to consider. “Not,” she said with dignity, “if we properly
keep our heads.” She appeared even to signify that they would begin by
keeping them now. This was what it was to have at last a constituted
basis. “Do you remember what you said to me that night of my first REAL
anxiety--after the Foreign Office party?”
“In the carriage--as we came home?” Yes--he could recall it. “Leave them
to pull through?”
“Precisely. ‘Trust their own wit,’ you practically said, ‘to save all
appearances.’ Well, I’ve trusted it. I HAVE left them to pull through.”
He hesitated. “And your point is that they’re not doing so?”
“I’ve left them,” she went on, “but now I see how and where. I’ve been
leaving them all the while, without knowing it, to HER.”
“To the Princess?”
“And that’s what I mean,” Mrs. Assingham pensively pursued. “That’s what
happened to me with her to-day,” she continued to explain. “It came home
to me that that’s what I’ve really been doing.”
“Oh, I see.”
“I needn’t torment myself. She has taken them over.”
The Colonel declared that he “saw”; yet it was as if, at this, he a
little sightlessly stared. “But what then has happened, from one day to
the other, to HER? What has opened her eyes?”
“They were never really shut. She misses him.”
“Then why hasn’t she missed him before?”
Well, facing him there, among their domestic glooms and glints, Fanny
worked it out. “She did--but she wouldn’t let herself know it. She had
her reason--she wore her blind. Now, at last, her situation has come to
a head. To-day she does know it. And that’s illuminating. It has been,”
 Mrs. Assingham wound up, “illuminating to ME.”
Her husband attended, but the momentary effect of his attention was
vagueness again, and the refuge of his vagueness was a gasp. “Poor dear
little girl!”
“Ah no--don’t pity her!”
This did, however, pull him up. “We mayn’t even be sorry for her?”
“Not now--or at least not yet. It’s too soon--that is if it isn’t very
much too late. This will depend,” Mrs. Assingham went on; “at any rate
we shall see. We might have pitied her before--for all the good it would
then have done her; we might have begun some time ago. Now, however, she
has begun to live. And the way it comes to me, the way it comes to me--”
 But again she projected her vision.
“The way it comes to you can scarcely be that she’ll like it!”
“The way it comes to me is that she will live. The way it comes to me is
that she’ll triumph.”
She said this with so sudden a prophetic flare that it fairly cheered
her husband. “Ah then, we must back her!”
“No--we mustn’t touch her. We mayn’t touch any of them. We must keep
our hands off; we must go on tiptoe. We must simply watch and wait.
And meanwhile,” said Mrs. Assingham, “we must bear it as we can. That’s
where we are--and serves us right. We’re in presence.”
And so, moving about the room as in communion with shadowy portents, she
left it till he questioned again. “In presence of what?”
“Well, of something possibly beautiful. Beautiful as it MAY come off.”
She had paused there before him while he wondered. “You mean she’ll get
the Prince back?”
She raised her hand in quick impatience: the suggestion might have been
almost abject. “It isn’t a question of recovery. It won’t be a question
of any vulgar struggle. To ‘get him back’ she must have lost him, and to
have lost him she must have had him.” With which Fanny shook her head.
“What I take her to be waking up to is the truth that, all the while,
she really HASN’T had him. Never.”
“Ah, my dear--!” the poor Colonel panted.
“Never!” his wife repeated. And she went on without pity. “Do you
remember what I said to you long ago--that evening, just before their
marriage, when Charlotte had so suddenly turned up?”
The smile with which he met this appeal was not, it was to be feared,
robust. “What haven’t you, love, said in your time?”
“So many things, no doubt, that they make a chance for my having once or
twice spoken the truth. I never spoke it more, at all events, than when
I put it to you, that evening, that Maggie was the person in the world
to whom a wrong thing could least be communicated. It was as if her
imagination had been closed to it, her sense altogether sealed, That
therefore,” Fanny continued, “is what will now HAVE to happen. Her sense
will have to open.”
“I see.” He nodded. “To the wrong.” He nodded again, almost
cheerfully--as if he had been keeping the peace with a baby or a
lunatic. “To the very, very wrong.”
But his wife’s spirit, after its effort of wing, was able to remain
higher. “To what’s called Evil--with a very big E: for the first time in
her life. To the discovery of it, to the knowledge of it, to the crude
experience of it.” And she gave, for the possibility, the largest
measure. “To the harsh, bewildering brush, the daily chilling breath
of it. Unless indeed”--and here Mrs. Assingham noted a limit “unless
indeed, as yet (so far as she has come, and if she comes no further),
simply to the suspicion and the dread. What we shall see is whether that
mere dose of alarm will prove enough.”
He considered. “But enough for what then, dear--if not enough to break
her heart?”
“Enough to give her a shaking!” Mrs. Assingham rather oddly replied. “To
give her, I mean, the right one. The right one won’t break her heart.
It will make her,” she explained--“well, it will make her, by way of a
change, understand one or two things in the world.”
“But isn’t it a pity,” the Colonel asked, “that they should happen to be
the one or two that will be the most disagreeable to her?”
“Oh, ‘disagreeable’--? They’ll have had to be disagreeable--to show her
a little where she is. They’ll have HAD to be disagreeable to make her
sit up. They’ll have had to be disagreeable to make her decide to live.”
Bob Assingham was now at the window, while his companion slowly
revolved; he had lighted a cigarette, for final patience, and he seemed
vaguely to “time” her as she moved to and fro. He had at the same time
to do justice to the lucidity she had at last attained, and it was
doubtless by way of expression of this teachability that he let his
eyes, for a minute, roll, as from the force of feeling, over the upper
dusk of the room. He had thought of the response his wife’s words
ideally implied.
“Decide to live--ah yes!--for her child.”
“Oh, bother her child!”--and he had never felt so snubbed, for an
exemplary view, as when Fanny now stopped short. “To live, you poor
dear, for her father--which is another pair of sleeves!”
And Mrs. Assingham’s whole ample, ornamented person irradiated, with
this, the truth that had begun, under so much handling, to glow. “Any
idiot can do things for her child. She’ll have a motive more original,
and we shall see how it will work her. She’ll have to save HIM.”
“To ‘save’ him--?”
“To keep her father from her own knowledge. THAT”--and she seemed to see
it, before her, in her husband’s very eyes--“will be work cut out!”
 With which, as at the highest conceivable climax, she wound up their
colloquy. “Good night!”
There was something in her manner, however--or in the effect, at least,
of this supreme demonstration that had fairly, and by a single touch,
lifted him to her side; so that, after she had turned her back to regain
the landing and the staircase, he overtook her, before she had begun to
mount, with the ring of excited perception. “Ah, but, you know, that’s
rather jolly!”
“Jolly’--?” she turned upon it, again, at the foot of the staircase.
“I mean it’s rather charming.”
“‘Charming’--?” It had still to be their law, a little, that she was
tragic when he was comic.
“I mean it’s rather beautiful. You just said, yourself, it would be.
Only,” he pursued promptly, with the impetus of this idea, and as if it
had suddenly touched with light for him connections hitherto dim--“only
I don’t quite see why that very care for him which has carried her to
such other lengths, precisely, as affect one as so ‘rum,’ hasn’t also,
by the same stroke, made her notice a little more what has been going
on.”
“Ah, there you are! It’s the question that I’ve all along been asking
myself.” She had rested her eyes on the carpet, but she raised them as
she pursued--she let him have it straight. “And it’s the question of an
idiot.”
“An idiot--?”
“Well, the idiot that I’VE been, in all sorts of ways--so often, of
late, have I asked it. You’re excusable, since you ask it but now. The
answer, I saw to-day, has all the while been staring me in the face.”
“Then what in the world is it?”
“Why, the very intensity of her conscience about him--the very passion
of her brave little piety. That’s the way it has worked,” Mrs. Assingham
explained “and I admit it to have been as ‘rum’ a way as possible.
But it has been working from a rum start. From the moment the dear
man married to ease his daughter off, and it then happened, by an
extraordinary perversity, that the very opposite effect was produced--!”
 With the renewed vision of this fatality, however, she could give but a
desperate shrug.
“I see,” the Colonel sympathetically mused. “That WAS a rum start.”
But his very response, as she again flung up her arms, seemed to make
her sense, for a moment, intolerable. “Yes--there I am! I was really at
the bottom of it,” she declared; “I don’t know what possessed me--but I
planned for him, I goaded him on.” With which, however, the next moment,
she took herself up. “Or, rather, I DO know what possessed me--for
wasn’t he beset with ravening women, right and left, and didn’t he,
quite pathetically, appeal for protection, didn’t he, quite charmingly,
show one how he needed and desired it? Maggie,” she thus lucidly
continued, “couldn’t, with a new life of her own, give herself up to
doing for him in the future all she had done in the past--to fencing him
in, to keeping him safe and keeping THEM off. One perceived this,” she
went on--“out of the abundance of one’s affection and one’s sympathy.”
 It all blessedly came back to her--when it wasn’t all, for the
fiftieth time, obscured, in face of the present facts, by anxiety and
compunction. “One was no doubt a meddlesome fool; one always IS, to
think one sees people’s lives for them better than they see them for
themselves. But one’s excuse here,” she insisted, “was that these people
clearly DIDN’T see them for themselves--didn’t see them at all. It
struck one for very pity--that they were making a mess of such charming
material; that they were but wasting it and letting it go. They didn’t
know HOW to live--and somehow one couldn’t, if one took an interest in
them at all, simply stand and see it. That’s what I pay for”--and the
poor woman, in straighter communion with her companion’s intelligence
at this moment, she appeared to feel, than she had ever been before, let
him have the whole of the burden of her consciousness. “I always pay for
it, sooner or later, my sociable, my damnable, my unnecessary interest.
Nothing of course would suit me but that it should fix itself also on
Charlotte--Charlotte who was hovering there on the edge of our lives,
when not beautifully, and a trifle mysteriously, flitting across them,
and who was a piece of waste and a piece of threatened failure, just as,
for any possible good to the WORLD, Mr. Verver and Maggie were. It
began to come over me, in the watches of the night, that Charlotte was
a person who COULD keep off ravening women--without being one herself,
either, in the vulgar way of the others; and that this service to Mr.
Verver would be a sweet employment for her future. There was something,
of course, that might have stopped me: you know, you know what I
mean--it looks at me,” she veritably moaned, “out of your face! But all
I can say is that it didn’t; the reason largely being--once I had fallen
in love with the beautiful symmetry of my plan--that I seemed to feel
sure Maggie would accept Charlotte, whereas I didn’t quite make out
either what other woman, or what other KIND of woman, one could think of
her accepting.”
“I see--I see.” She had paused, meeting all the while his listening
look, and the fever of her retrospect had so risen with her talk that
the desire was visibly strong in him to meet her, on his side, but with
cooling breath. “One quite understands, my dear.”
It only, however, kept her there sombre. “I naturally see, love, what
you understand; which sits again, perfectly, in your eyes. You see
that I saw that Maggie would accept her in helpless ignorance. Yes,
dearest”--and the grimness of her dreariness suddenly once more
possessed her: “you’ve only to tell me that that knowledge was my reason
for what I did. How, when you do, can I stand up to you? You see,” she
said with an ineffable headshake, “that I don’t stand up! I’m down,
down, down,” she declared; “yet” she as quickly added--“there’s just one
little thing that helps to save my life.” And she kept him waiting but
an instant. “They might easily--they would perhaps even certainly--have
done something worse.”
He thought. “Worse than that Charlotte--?”
“Ah, don’t tell me,” she cried, “that there COULD have been nothing
worse. There might, as they were, have been many things. Charlotte, in
her way, is extraordinary.”
He was almost simultaneous. “Extraordinary!”
“She observes the forms,” said Fanny Assingham.
He hesitated. “With the Prince--?”
“FOR the Prince. And with the others,” she went on. “With Mr.
Verver--wonderfully. But above all with Maggie. And the forms”--she had
to do even THEM justice--“are two-thirds of conduct. Say he had married
a woman who would have made a hash of them.”
But he jerked back. “Ah, my dear, I wouldn’t say it for the world!”
“Say,” she none the less pursued, “he had married a woman the Prince
would really have cared for.”
“You mean then he doesn’t care for Charlotte--?” This was still a new
view to jump to, and the Colonel, perceptibly, wished to make sure of
the necessity of the effort. For that, while he stared, his wife allowed
him time; at the end of which she simply said: “No!”
“Then what on earth are they up to?” Still, however, she only looked at
him; so that, standing there before her with his hands in his pockets,
he had time, further, to risk, soothingly, another question. “Are the
‘forms’ you speak of--that are two-thirds of conduct--what will be
keeping her now, by your hypothesis, from coming home with him till
morning?”
“Yes--absolutely. THEIR forms.”
“‘Theirs’--?”
“Maggie’s and Mr. Verver’s--those they IMPOSE on Charlotte and the
Prince. Those,” she developed, “that, so perversely, as I say, have
succeeded in setting themselves up as the right ones.”
He considered--but only now, at last, really to relapse into woe. “Your
‘perversity,’ my dear, is exactly what I don’t understand. The state
of things existing hasn’t grown, like a field of mushrooms, in a night.
Whatever they, all round, may be in for now is at least the consequence
of what they’ve DONE. Are they mere helpless victims of fate?”
Well, Fanny at last had the courage of it, “Yes--they are. To be so
abjectly innocent--that IS to be victims of fate.”
“And Charlotte and the Prince are abjectly innocent--?”
It took her another minute, but she rose to the full height. “Yes.
That is they WERE--as much so in their way as the others. There were
beautiful intentions all round. The Prince’s and Charlotte’s were
beautiful--of THAT I had my faith. They WERE--I’d go to the stake.
Otherwise,” she added, “I should have been a wretch. And I’ve not been a
wretch. I’ve only been a double-dyed donkey.”
“Ah then,” he asked, “what does our muddle make THEM to have been?”
“Well, too much taken up with considering each other. You may call such
a mistake as that by what ever name you please; it at any rate means,
all round, their case. It illustrates the misfortune,” said Mrs.
Assingham gravely, “of being too, too charming.”
This was another matter that took some following, but the Colonel again
did his best. “Yes, but to whom?--doesn’t it rather depend on that? To
whom have the Prince and Charlotte then been too charming?”
“To each other, in the first place--obviously. And then both of them
together to Maggie.”
“To Maggie?” he wonderingly echoed.
“To Maggie.” She was now crystalline. “By having accepted, from the
first, so guilelessly--yes, so guilelessly, themselves--her guileless
idea of still having her father, of keeping him fast, in her life.”
“Then isn’t one supposed, in common humanity, and if one hasn’t
quarrelled with him, and one has the means, and he, on his side, doesn’t
drink or kick up rows--isn’t one supposed to keep one’s aged parent in
one’s life?”
“Certainly--when there aren’t particular reasons against it. That there
may be others than his getting drunk is exactly the moral of what is
before us. In the first place Mr. Verver isn’t aged.”
The Colonel just hung fire--but it came. “Then why the deuce does
he--oh, poor dear man!--behave as if he were?”
She took a moment to meet it. “How do you know how he behaves?”
“Well, my own love, we see how Charlotte does!” Again, at this, she
faltered; but again she rose. “Ah, isn’t my whole point that he’s
charming to her?”
“Doesn’t it depend a bit on what she regards as charming?”
She faced the question as if it were flippant, then with a headshake of
dignity she brushed it away. “It’s Mr. Verver who’s really young--it’s
Charlotte who’s really old. And what I was saying,” she added, “isn’t
affected!”
“You were saying”--he did her the justice--“that they’re all guileless.”
“That they were. Guileless, all, at first--quite extraordinarily. It’s
what I mean by their failure to see that the more they took for granted
they could work together the more they were really working apart. For I
repeat,” Fanny went on, “that I really believe Charlotte and the Prince
honestly to have made up their minds, originally, that their very esteem
for Mr. Verver--which was serious, as well it might be!--would save
them.”
“I see.” The Colonel inclined himself. “And save HIM.”
“It comes to the same thing!”
“Then save Maggie.”
“That comes,” said Mrs. Assingham, “to something a little different. For
Maggie has done the most.”
He wondered. “What do you call the most?”
“Well, she did it originally--she began the vicious circle. For
that--though you make round eyes at my associating her with ‘vice’--is
simply what it has been. It’s their mutual consideration, all round,
that has made it the bottomless gulf; and they’re really so embroiled
but because, in their way, they’ve been so improbably GOOD.”
“In their way--yes!” the Colonel grinned.
“Which was, above all, Maggie’s way.” No flicker of his ribaldry was
anything to her now. “Maggie had in the first place to make up to her
father for her having suffered herself to become--poor little dear,
as she believed--so intensely married. Then she had to make up to her
husband for taking so much of the time they might otherwise have spent
together to make this reparation to Mr. Verver perfect. And her way to
do this, precisely, was by allowing the Prince the use, the enjoyment,
whatever you may call it, of Charlotte to cheer his path--by
instalments, as it were--in proportion as she herself, making sure her
father was all right, might be missed from his side. By so much, at the
same time, however,” Mrs. Assingham further explained, “by so much as
she took her young stepmother, for this purpose, away from Mr. Verver,
by just so much did this too strike her as something again to be made
up for. It has saddled her, you will easily see, with a positively new
obligation to her father, an obligation created and aggravated by her
unfortunate, even if quite heroic, little sense of justice. She began
with wanting to show him that his marriage could never, under whatever
temptation of her own bliss with the Prince, become for her a pretext
for deserting or neglecting HIM. Then that, in its order, entailed
her wanting to show the Prince that she recognised how the other
desire--this wish to remain, intensely, the same passionate little
daughter she had always been--involved in some degree, and just for the
present, so to speak, her neglecting and deserting him. I quite hold,”
 Fanny with characteristic amplitude parenthesised, “that a person can
mostly feel but one passion--one TENDER passion, that is--at a
time. Only, that doesn’t hold good for our primary and instinctive
attachments, the ‘voice of blood,’ such as one’s feeling for a parent
or a brother. Those may be intense and yet not prevent other
intensities--as you will recognise, my dear, when you remember how I
continued, tout betement, to adore my mother, whom you didn’t adore, for
years after I had begun to adore you. Well, Maggie”--she kept it up--“is
in the same situation as I was, PLUS complications from which I was,
thank heaven, exempt: PLUS the complication, above all, of not having in
the least begun with the sense for complications that I should have
had. Before she knew it, at any rate, her little scruples and her little
lucidities, which were really so divinely blind--her feverish little
sense of justice, as I say--had brought the two others together as her
grossest misconduct couldn’t have done. And now she knows something or
other has happened--yet hasn’t heretofore known what. She has only
piled up her remedy, poor child--something that she has earnestly but
confusedly seen as her necessary policy; piled it on top of the policy,
on top of the remedy, that she at first thought out for herself, and
that would really have needed, since then, so much modification. Her
only modification has been the growth of her necessity to prevent her
father’s wondering if all, in their life in common, MAY be so certainly
for the best. She has now as never before to keep him unconscious that,
peculiar, if he makes a point of it, as their situation is, there’s
anything in it all uncomfortable or disagreeable, anything morally the
least out of the way. She has to keep touching it up to make it, each
day, each month, look natural and normal to him; so that--God forgive me
the comparison!--she’s like an old woman who has taken to ‘painting’ and
who has to lay it on thicker, to carry it off with a greater audacity,
with a greater impudence even, the older she grows.” And Fanny stood a
moment captivated with the image she had thrown off. “I like the idea of
Maggie audacious and impudent--learning to be so to gloss things over.
She could--she even will, yet, I believe--learn it, for that sacred
purpose, consummately, diabolically. For from the moment the dear man
should see it’s all rouge--!” She paused, staring at the vision.
It imparted itself even to Bob. “Then the fun would begin?” As it but
made her look at him hard, however, he amended the form of his inquiry.
“You mean that in that case she WILL, charming creature, be lost?”
She was silent a moment more. “As I’ve told you before, she won’t be
lost if her father’s saved. She’ll see that as salvation enough.”
The Colonel took it in. “Then she’s a little heroine.”
“Rather--she’s a little heroine. But it’s his innocence, above all,”
 Mrs. Assingham added, “that will pull them through.”
Her companion, at this, focussed again Mr. Verver’s innocence. “It’s
awfully quaint.”
“Of course it’s awfully quaint! That it’s awfully quaint, that the pair
are awfully quaint, quaint with all our dear old quaintness--by which I
don’t mean yours and mine, but that of my own sweet countrypeople, from
whom I’ve so deplorably degenerated--that,” Mrs. Assingham declared,
“was originally the head and front of their appeal to me and of my
interest in them. And of course I shall feel them quainter still,” she
rather ruefully subjoined, “before they’ve done with me!”
This might be, but it wasn’t what most stood in the Colonel’s way. “You
believe so in Mr. Verver’s innocence after two years of Charlotte?”
She stared. “But the whole point is just that two years of Charlotte are
what he hasn’t really--or what you may call undividedly--had.”
“Any more than Maggie, by your theory, eh, has ‘really or undividedly,’
had four of the Prince? It takes all she hasn’t had,” the Colonel
conceded, “to account for the innocence that in her, too, so leaves us
in admiration.”
So far as it might be ribald again she let this pass. “It takes a great
many things to account for Maggie. What is definite, at all events, is
that--strange though this be--her effort for her father has, up to now,
sufficiently succeeded. She has made him, she makes him, accept the
tolerably obvious oddity of their relation, all round, for part of
the game. Behind her there, protected and amused and, as it were,
exquisitely humbugged--the Principino, in whom he delights, always
aiding--he has safely and serenely enough suffered the conditions of his
life to pass for those he had sublimely projected. He hadn’t worked them
out in detail--any more than I had, heaven pity me!--and the queerness
has been, exactly, in the detail. This, for him, is what it was to have
married Charlotte. And they both,” she neatly wound up, “‘help.’”
“‘Both’--?”
“I mean that if Maggie, always in the breach, makes it seem to him all
so flourishingly to fit, Charlotte does her part not less. And her part
is very large. Charlotte,” Fanny declared, “works like a horse.”
So there it all was, and her husband looked at her a minute across it.
“And what does the Prince work like?”
She fixed him in return. “Like a Prince!” Whereupon, breaking short off,
to ascend to her room, she presented her highly--decorated back--in
which, in odd places, controlling the complications of its aspect, the
ruby or the garnet, the turquoise and the topaz, gleamed like faint
symbols of the wit that pinned together the satin patches of her
argument.
He watched her as if she left him positively under the impression of her
mastery of her subject; yes, as if the real upshot of the drama before
them was but that he had, when it came to the tight places of life--as
life had shrunk for him now--the most luminous of wives. He turned off,
in this view of her majestic retreat, the comparatively faint little
electric lamp which had presided over their talk; then he went up as
immediately behind her as the billows of her amber train allowed, making
out how all the clearness they had conquered was even for herself
a relief--how at last the sense of the amplitude of her exposition
sustained and floated her. Joining her, however, on the landing above,
where she had already touched a metallic point into light, he found she
had done perhaps even more to create than to extinguish in him the germ
of a curiosity. He held her a minute longer--there was another plum
in the pie. “What did you mean some minutes ago by his not caring for
Charlotte?”
“The Prince’s? By his not ‘really’ caring?” She recalled, after a
little, benevolently enough. “I mean that men don’t, when it has all
been too easy. That’s how, in nine cases out of ten, a woman is treated
who has risked her life. You asked me just now how he works,” she added;
“but you might better perhaps have asked me how he plays.”
Well, he made it up. “Like a Prince?”
“Like a Prince. He is, profoundly, a Prince. For that,” she said with
expression, “he’s--beautifully--a case. They’re far rarer, even in the
‘highest circles,’ than they pretend to be--and that’s what makes so
much of his value. He’s perhaps one of the very last--the last of the
real ones. So it is we must take him. We must take him all round.”
The Colonel considered. “And how must Charlotte--if anything
happens--take him?”
The question held her a minute, and while she waited, with her eyes on
him, she put out a grasping hand to his arm, in the flesh of which
he felt her answer distinctly enough registered. Thus she gave him,
standing off a little, the firmest, longest, deepest injunction he had
ever received from her. “Nothing--in spite of everything--WILL happen.
Nothing HAS happened. Nothing IS happening.”
He looked a trifle disappointed. “I see. For US.”
“For us. For whom else?” And he was to feel indeed how she wished him
to understand it. “We know nothing on earth--!” It was an undertaking he
must sign.
So he wrote, as it were, his name. “We know nothing on earth.” It was
like the soldiers’ watchword at night.
“We’re as innocent,” she went on in the same way, “as babes.”
“Why not rather say,” he asked, “as innocent as they themselves are?”
“Oh, for the best of reasons! Because we’re much more so.”
He wondered. “But how can we be more--?”
“For them? Oh, easily! We can be anything.”
“Absolute idiots then?”
“Absolute idiots. And oh,” Fanny breathed, “the way it will rest us!”
Well, he looked as if there were something in that. “But won’t they know
we’re not?”
She barely hesitated. “Charlotte and the Prince think we are--which is
so much gained. Mr. Verver believes in our intelligence--but he doesn’t
matter.”
“And Maggie? Doesn’t SHE know--?”
“That we see before our noses?” Yes, this indeed took longer. “Oh, so
far as she may guess it she’ll give no sign. So it comes to the same
thing.”
He raised his eyebrows. “Comes to our not being able to help her?”
“That’s the way we SHALL help her.”
“By looking like fools?”
She threw up her hands. “She only wants, herself, to look like a bigger!
So there we are!” With which she brushed it away--his conformity was
promised. Something, however, still held her; it broke, to her own
vision, as a last wave of clearness. “Moreover NOW,” she said, “I see! I
mean,” she added,--“what you were asking me: how I knew to-day, in Eaton
Square, that Maggie’s awake.” And she had indeed visibly got it. “It was
by seeing them together.”
“Seeing her with her father?” He fell behind again. “But you’ve seen her
often enough before.”
“Never with my present eyes. For nothing like such a test--that of this
length of the others’ absence together--has hitherto occurred.”
“Possibly! But if she and Mr. Verver insisted upon it--?”
“Why is it such a test? Because it has become one without their
intending it. It has spoiled, so to speak, on their hands.”
“It has soured, eh?” the Colonel said.
“The word’s horrible--say rather it has ‘changed.’ Perhaps,” Fanny went
on, “she did wish to see how much she can bear. In that case she HAS
seen. Only it was she alone who--about the visit--insisted. Her father
insists on nothing. And she watches him do it.”
Her husband looked impressed. “Watches him?”
“For the first faint sign. I mean of his noticing. It doesn’t, as I tell
you, come. But she’s there for it to see. And I felt,” she continued,
“HOW she’s there; I caught her, as it were, in the fact. She couldn’t
keep it from me--though she left her post on purpose--came home with
me to throw dust in my eyes. I took it all--her dust; but it was what
showed me.” With which supreme lucidity she reached the door of her
room. “Luckily it showed me also how she has succeeded. Nothing--from
him--HAS come.”
“You’re so awfully sure?”
“Sure. Nothing WILL. Good-night,” she said. “She’ll die first.”
BOOK SECOND: THE PRINCESS
PART FOURTH
                             XXV
It was not till many days had passed that the Princess began to accept
the idea of having done, a little, something she was not always doing,
or indeed that of having listened to any inward voice that spoke in a
new tone. Yet these instinctive postponements of reflection were the
fruit, positively, of recognitions and perceptions already active; of
the sense, above all, that she had made, at a particular hour, made
by the mere touch of her hand, a difference in the situation so long
present to her as practically unattackable. This situation had been
occupying, for months and months, the very centre of the garden of her
life, but it had reared itself there like some strange, tall tower
of ivory, or perhaps rather some wonderful, beautiful, but outlandish
pagoda, a structure plated with hard, bright porcelain, coloured and
figured and adorned, at the overhanging eaves, with silver bells that
tinkled, ever so charmingly, when stirred by chance airs. She had walked
round and round it--that was what she felt; she had carried on her
existence in the space left her for circulation, a space that sometimes
seemed ample and sometimes narrow: looking up, all the while, at the
fair structure that spread itself so amply and rose so high, but never
quite making out, as yet, where she might have entered had she wished.
She had not wished till now--such was the odd case; and what was
doubtless equally odd, besides, was that, though her raised eyes seemed
to distinguish places that must serve, from within, and especially far
aloft, as apertures and outlooks, no door appeared to give access from
her convenient garden level. The great decorated surface had remained
consistently impenetrable and inscrutable. At present, however, to her
considering mind, it was as if she had ceased merely to circle and to
scan the elevation, ceased so vaguely, so quite helplessly to stare and
wonder: she had caught herself distinctly in the act of pausing, then in
that of lingering, and finally in that of stepping unprecedentedly
near. The thing might have been, by the distance at which it kept her, a
Mahometan mosque, with which no base heretic could take a liberty; there
so hung about it the vision of one’s putting off one’s shoes to enter,
and even, verily, of one’s paying with one’s life if found there as an
interloper. She had not, certainly, arrived at the conception of paying
with her life for anything she might do; but it was nevertheless quite
as if she had sounded with a tap or two one of the rare porcelain
plates. She had knocked, in short--though she could scarce have said
whether for admission or for what; she had applied her hand to a cool
smooth spot and had waited to see what would happen. Something had
happened; it was as if a sound, at her touch, after a little, had
come back to her from within; a sound sufficiently suggesting that her
approach had been noted.
If this image, however, may represent our young woman’s consciousness of
a recent change in her life--a change now but a few days old--it must
at the same time be observed that she both sought and found in renewed
circulation, as I have called it, a measure of relief from the idea
of having perhaps to answer for what she had done. The pagoda in her
blooming garden figured the arrangement--how otherwise was it to be
named?--by which, so strikingly, she had been able to marry without
breaking, as she liked to put it, with the past. She had surrendered
herself to her husband without the shadow of a reserve or a condition,
and yet she had not, all the while, given up her father--the least
little inch. She had compassed the high city of seeing the two men
beautifully take to each other, and nothing in her marriage had marked
it as more happy than this fact of its having practically given the
elder, the lonelier, a new friend. What had moreover all the while
