in gore. By the way, I have ordered a revolver."
"What!"
"Yes, a burglar got in my place the night before last and woke me up.
If he comes back and wakes me up again I'll blow his head off."
Sylvia looked at him much as she might at a boastful child. "Yes, yes,
Arthur, but please don't take so much of that whisky."
"I think I will have a drop of it, if I may," said Loftus, who
meanwhile had been talking to Fanny. In a moment he turned to her
anew.
"Where are you going this summer?"
"To Narragansett. It is cool and cheap. Why don't you come?"
"It is such a beastly hole."
"Well, perhaps. But do you think you would think so if I were there?"
"That would rather depend on how you treated me."
"You mean, don't you, that it would rather depend on how I let you
treat me?" Fanny, as she spoke, looked Loftus in the eyes and made a
face at him.
That face, Loftus, after a momentary interlude with knife and fork,
tried to mimic. "If a chap gave you the chance you would drive him to
the devil."
On Fanny's lips a smile bubbled. She shook her pretty head. "No, not
half so far. Not even so far as the other end of Fifth avenue, where I
saw you trying to scrape acquaintance with that girl. Apropos. You
might tell me. How are matters progressing? Has the castle
capitulated?"
"I haven't an idea what you are talking about."
"That's right. Assume a virtue though you have it not. It's a good
plan."
"It does not appear to be yours."
"Appearances may be deceptive."
"And even may not be."
Sylvia interrupted them. "What are you two quarreling about?"
"Mr. Loftus does not like my hat. Don't you like it, Mr. Orr?"
"I like everything about you, everything, from the crown of your head
to the soles of your feet."
"There!" exclaimed Fanny. "That is the way I like to have a man talk."
"It is dreadfully difficult," Loftus threw in.
"You seem to find it so," Fanny threw back.
Sylvia raised a finger. "Mr. Loftus, if you do not stop quarreling
with Fanny I will make you come and sit by me."
"If I am to look upon that as a punishment, Miss Waldron," Loftus with
negligent gallantry replied, "what would you have me regard as a
reward?"
"Arthur! Arthur!" Fanny cried. "Did you hear that? This man is making
up to Sylvia."
But Annandale did not seem in the least alarmed. He was looking about
for Ferdinand. "Here," he began, when at last the waiter appeared.
"You neglect us shamefully. We want some more moselle and more
Scotch."
"None for me," said Loftus rising. "I have an appointment."
"Appointment," Fanny announced, "is very good English for
rendezvous."
"And taisez-vous, mademoiselle, is very good French for I wish it
were with yourself."
"I have not a doubt of it."
"Fanny!" Sylvia objected. "You are impossible."
"Yes," Fanny indolently replied. "Yet then, to be impossible and seem
the reverse is the proper caper for a debutante. Heigho! I wish girls
smoked here. I would give a little of my small change for a cigarette.
Are you really off, Royal. Well, my love to the lady."
CHAPTER III
THE EX-FIRST LADY
Loftus, letting himself into a hansom, sailed away. At Morris Park
that afternoon there were to be races, and up the maelstrom of Fifth
avenue came scudding motors, fleeting traps.
As the hansom descended the current Loftus nodded to this acquaintance
and to that, occasionally raising his hat as women smiled and bowed.
Occasionally, too, he contemplated what he could of himself in the
little mirror at the side of the cab. He looked triumphant and
treacherous.
Fanny, he reflected, was ideal. But exacting, ambitious even. She had
a perfect mania for matrimony. There was another girl that he had in
mind whom he fancied more reasonable. This other was Marie Durand.
In just what way he had met her was never quite clear. Fanny, who had
witnessed the preliminary skirmish, always believed that he had
picked her up. Afterward, at the time of the trial, it was so
reported. The report was false in addition to being vulgar. Marie
Durand was not of that sort. There was nothing fast or flirtatious
about her. But she was a human being. She had eyes. She had a heart.
By nature she was sensitive. Moreover, she was but nineteen. Being
human, sensitive, and not very old, having eyes to see and a heart
that throbbed, she was impressionable and, to her misfortune, Loftus
impressed her.
Loftus was rather used to impressing people. He saw the girl on Fifth
avenue, followed her home, learned her name--or thought he did--and
sent her flowers every day until he saw her again, when he presumed to
accost her. At that impertinence Marie tilted her nose and trotted on,
distant, disdainful, demure.
But not indifferent. Not oblivious either. Often she had seen him.
Occasionally on a high drag behind a piebald four-in-hand. In crowded
Fifth avenue, drags, with or without piebalds, are infrequent. This
drag Marie had seen not merely tooling along the street but pictured
in the press. With, of course, full accounts of the driver. As a
consequence she knew who he was, knew that he was one of the rich
young men of New York and that he moved and had his being in the upper
circles.
Marie's own sphere of life was obscure. She lived with her father in
Gay street. Her father, a tailor by trade, was a naturalized
Frenchman, a gaunt Gaul, who had a sallow face, walked with a stoop,
complained of his heart and adored his daughter. To him she was a
pearl, a perle, rather. For though he had been long in New York and
spoke English well, he had never quite acquired the accent.
Marie spoke English without any accent whatever. She also spoke
French, sang in it, too, sang in Italian and, with a view to the lyric
stage, or, more exactly, with the hope of studying for it abroad, was,
at the time when this drama begins, taking lessons in what is termed
the bel canto.
But her aspirations, in so far as they concerned Europe, her father
was unable to gratify. He could not let her go alone and he could not
afford to throw up what he called his beesness. Here, then, was this
girl, pretty as a picture, with a lovely contralto voice, with
aspirations entirely worldly, with wings, you might say, cooped in Gay
street, spiritually and mentally starved there.
Gay street lies back of Jefferson Market. In shape a crescent, it
curves briefly in a lost and dismal way through a region which,
though but a block or two from Fifth avenue, is almost squalid. At one
end of its short curve is a saloon, at the other an apothecary.
It was from this apothecary that Loftus learned Marie's name--or
thought he did. For inadvertently the man got things mixed as his
drugs and supplied Loftus with the name of a young woman who lived in
a house next to the one in which Loftus had seen the girl enter.
What is more interesting is the fact that, though, while he was
following her there, she had looked neither to the right nor to the
left, or anywhere save straight ahead, she had been fully aware that
he was behind her. How? We cannot tell. It is one of the mysteries of
femininity. But once safely in, boldly she peeked out. Loftus was
crossing the street. Presently he entered the shop. For what, it did
not take Marie more than a minute to conjecture.
Later in the day a motor van appeared in that street. On it was the
name of a Broadway florist. Since the memory of man never before had
such a thing happened. From the van a groom had hopped and, if you
please, with roses. That, too, was phenomenal. Yet thereafter every
day for a week there was the motor, the groom and flowers at a dollar
and a half apiece. The recipient of these attentions was Miss Rebecca
Cohen, the daughter of Mr. Abraham Cohen, who also, like Marie's
father, was a tailor.
Marie saw the van, divined the mistake, and, being as full of fun as a
kitten, greatly enjoyed the continued humor of it. For still into that
sordid street the flowers poured. Every day, to the unhallowed
surprise of Mr. Cohen and to the equal bewilderment of his offspring,
a box of radiant roses was handed out.
In that surprise and bewilderment the neighborhood joined. Scandalized
at the scandal Cohen questioned the groom, questioned the chauffeur.
He might have saved himself the trouble. Then he inquired at the
florist's. But there no one could be found who knew anything at all
about anything whatever. Already he had questioned Rebecca. It seemed
to him that in spite of her protests she must be engaged in some
fathomless intrigue. But Rebecca, whose commercial instinct was
beautifully developed, not only protested but appeased. She told her
father that the roses were worth money. Furthermore, that which is
worth money can be sold. Thereupon sold they were. But quite as
inexplicably as the van had appeared so did its visits cease. When
that happened Mr. Cohen felt and declared that he was robbed. He had
come to regard the roses as assets.
Marie meanwhile, whom the humor of the situation had amused, ended by
worrying over it. She was a good girl, as such conscientious, and it
troubled her, at first only a little and then very much, to think that
Loftus must believe that she was knowingly accepting his flowers.
Moreover, her father had commented upon them; in commenting he had
wondered. Marie began to fear that Loftus might discover the mistake
and turn in and inundate her. She did not know quite what to do. She
thought of writing to him, very distantly, in the third person, or
else anonymously. But the letter did not seem to get itself framed.
Then, from thinking of that, she fell to thinking of him.
To see him she had only to close her eyes. Once he visited her in
dream. He came accompanied by butterflies that fluttered about her and
changed into kisses on her lips. Again she fancied him much sought
after by ladies and became hotly and unaccountably vexed at the idea.
It would be so lovely to really know him, she always decided. But she
did not see at all how that ever could come about.
Yet, of course, it did come about. It came about, moreover, in a
fashion as sordid as the street she lived in.
That street, though sordid, is relatively silent. It is beyond, in
Sixth avenue, that you get a sample of real New York noise. The
slam-bang of the trains overhead, the grinding grunt of the surface
cars, the demon draymen, the clanging motors, the ceaseless crowds,
collaborate in an uproar beside which a bombardment is restful. But
though the entire thoroughfare is appalling, Jefferson Market, behind
which Gay street squats, is infernal.
Loftus loathed it. Until he pursued the girl into its horrors never
before had he been there. Nor, save for her, would he have returned.
But return he did. For recompense he beheld her. She was strolling
along, a roll of music under her arm, in the direction of Fifth
avenue.
It was there he attempted to accost her. Without deigning to seem even
aware that he had presumed to do so, she passed on and, in passing,
turned into Washington Square, where, ascending the steps of a house,
she vanished. It was then three by the clock of a beautiful day in
April.
Loftus was as well able as another to put two and two together. He
knew that young girls do not stroll about with a music roll under
their arm for the fun of it. A music roll predicates lessons, and
there where lessons are must also be a teacher.
From that teacher he was unaware of any good and valid reason why he
should not himself take lessons. But fate is not unrelenting. Of such
toil he was spared. He spared himself too any further toil that day.
He felt that he had done enough. He had quarried the girl again,
stalked her to what was obviously a boarding-house. He turned on his
heel.
The next day he was back at that house, inquiring at the door. As a
result he was shown into a shabby back parlor where he made the
acquaintance of Mme. Machin, a tired old Frenchwoman, who, with rouge
on her yellow cheeks, powder on her pointed nose, confided to him that
she had been prima donna, though whether assoluta or dissoluta she
omitted to state.
But her antecedents, her possibilities as well, Loftus divined at a
glance and, while he was at it, divining too, that, personally, she
was no better, and, financially, no better off than the law allows,
asked point-blank about the Miss Cohen who had come there at three the
day before. Learning then from the ex-first lady that the girl's name
was not Cohen but Durand, he damned the apothecary and offered a
hundred dollars to be introduced. Poverty is not a crime. But it is
rumored to be an incentive. The crime which Loftus proposed to Mme.
Machin is one which the code does not specify and the law cannot
reach. Knowing which, the woman may have been guilty of it before and,
the opportunity occurring, was guilty again--salving her conscience,
if she had a conscience, with the convenient, "Mon Dieu, il faut
vivre!"
Anyway, at the offer she did not so much as blink. She smiled very
receptively and declared that she would be charmed.
When, therefore, two days later Marie re-entered that shabby back
parlor she found Loftus there. Generally the girl and the ex-first
lady got to work at once, sometimes with the brindisi from "Lucrezia
Borgia," sometimes with arias from "Aïda." Save themselves no one was
ever present.
Now at the unexpected spectacle of the man the cream of the girl's
delicate skin suffused. It was as though there were claret in it.
She had not an idea what to do and, before she could decide,
ceremoniously, with due regard for the pomps of etiquette, Loftus
had been introduced.
If abrupt, the introduction was at least conventional, and Marie, who
had not the remotest suspicion that it was all bought and paid for and
who, if consciously startled, subconsciously was pleased, attributing
the whole thing to accident and, flushing still, smiled and sat down.
"I think," said Loftus, "that I have had the pleasure of seeing you
before."
At this inanity Marie looked first at him, then at the carpet. She
did not know at all what he was saying. But in his voice was a
deference, in his manner a sorcery and in his bearing and appearance
something that went to her head. It was all very novel and delightful,
and she flushed again.
"Yes," Loftus resumed, "and when I did see you I committed a very
grave offense. Can you forgive me?"
For countenance sake the girl turned to Mme. Machin. But the ex-first
lady, pretexting a pretext, had gone.
"Can you?" Loftus requested. "Can you forgive?"
Forgive indeed! Had she not so forgiven that she had almost wished a
renewal of that grave offense? She did not answer. It was her face
that spoke for her. But the silence Loftus affected to misconstrue.
"Couldn't you try?"
"Yes." The monosyllable fell from her softly, almost inaudibly. Yet
for his purpose it sufficed.
"Thank you. I hoped that you would. But will you let me tell you now
how I came to behave as I did?"
To this, timorously, with the slightest movement of her pretty head,
the girl assented.
"Because I could not help myself. Because at the first sight of you I
knew that I loved you. Because I felt that I could never love anyone
else."
Marie started. She was crimson. Starting, she half got from her seat.
Loftus caught at her hand. She disengaged it. But he caught at it
again.
"I love you," he continued, burning her with his words, with the
contact of his fingers, that had intertwisted with hers. "Look at me,
I love your eyes. Speak to me, I love your voice."
But the door opened. Preceded by a precautionary roulade, the ex-first
lady reappeared.
"Allons!" she remarked to the ceiling. "Et maintenant, mademoiselle,
au travail."
Loftus stood up, took Marie's hand again, held it a second, nodded at
the woman. In a moment he had gone.
"Au revoir," the ex-first lady called after him. She turned to the
girl. "A gallant monsieur. And good to look at." Then seating herself
at the piano she attacked the brindisi from "Lucrezia." "Ah! the
segreto!" she interrupted herself to exclaim, "il segreto per esser
felice--the secret of happiness! Mais! There is but one! C'est
l'amour! And with a gallant monsieur like that! And rich! C'est le
rêve! N'est ce pas, mon enfant?"
"Je vous en prie, madame," said Marie severely, or rather as severely
as she could, for she was trembling with emotion, saturated with the
love that had been thrown at her head, drenched with it, frightened
too at the apperception of the secret which the aria that her teacher
was strumming revealed.
CHAPTER IV
ENCHANTMENT
Sailing in the hansom down Fifth avenue, Loftus thought of that first
interview with the girl, of the den in which it had occurred and of
his subsequent visits there. Since the introduction he had seen her
three times, seen, too, of course, that she was not up to Fanny, but
he had seen also that she was less ambitious, more tractable in every
way. Besides, one is not loved every afternoon. To him that was the
main point, and of that point he was now tolerably sure.
Suddenly the hansom tacked, veered and landed him at the ex-first
lady's door.
"Bonjour, mon beau seigneur," the woman began when, presently, he
reached her lair. "The little one will not delay."
"And then?"
"Be tranquil. I have other cats to whip."
Mme. Machin was hatted and gloved. Loftus stuck his hand in his
pocket. Mme. Machin was too genteel to notice. From the pocket he drew
a roll of yellow bills. Mme. Machin affected entire unconcern. The
bills he put in her paw. Mme. Machin was so entirely unconscious of
the liberty that she turned to the mantel, picked up a bag of bead,
opened it, took from it a little puff with which she dusted her nose.
Then the puff went back into the bag. With it went the bills.
"I run," she announced. She moved to the door. There, looking at
Loftus over her shoulder, she stopped. "You come again?"
For reply Loftus made a gesture.
"Yes," said the woman. "Naturally. It depends. But let me know. It is
more commodious. Pas de scandale, eh?"
To this Loftus made no reply whatever. But his expression was
translatable into "what do you take me for?"
"Allez!" the ex-first lady resumed. "I have confidence."
She opened the door and through it vanished. Loftus removed his
gloves, seated himself at the piano, ran his fingers over the keys,
struck a note which suggested another and attacked the waltz from
"Faust." The appropriateness of it appealed to him. As he played he
hummed. Then, passing upward with the score, he reached the "Salve
Dimora," Faust's salute to Marguerite's home. But in the den where he
sat the aria did not fit. He went back again to the waltz. Then,
precisely as on the stage Marguerite appears, Marie entered.
Loftus jumped up, went to her, took her hand. It was trembling. He led
her to a sofa, seating himself at her side, her hand still in his.
He looked at her. She had the prettiness and timidity of a kitten, a
kitten's grace as well. Like a kitten, she could not have been vulgar
or awkward had she tried. But association and environment had wrapped
about her one of the invisible yet obvious mantles that differentiate
class from class. Loftus was quite aware of that. He was, though,
equally aware that love is a famous costumer. There are few mantles
that it cannot remove and remake. That the girl loved him he knew. The
tremor of her hand assured him more surely than words.
None the less he asked her. It seemed to him only civil. But she did
not answer. The dinginess of the den oppressed him. It occurred to him
that it might be oppressing her. Again he inquired. Only the tremor of
the hand replied.
"Tell me," he repeated.
The girl disengaged her hand. She looked down and away.
"Won't you?" he insisted.
"I ought not to," she said at last.
"But why?"
With her parasol the girl poked at the carpet. "Because it is not
right. It is not right that I should." But at once, with a little
convulsive intake of the breath, she added, "Yet I do."
Then it seemed to her that the room was turning around, that the walls
had receded, that there was but blankness. His lips were on hers. In
their contact everything ceased to be save the consciousness of
something so poignant, so new, that to still the pain of the joy of it
she struggled to be free.
Kissing her again Loftus let her go. Dizzily she got from the sofa.
The parasol had fallen. Her hat was awry. To straighten it she moved
to a mirror. Her face was scarlet. Instantly fear possessed her, fear
not of him but of herself. With uncertain fingers she tried to adjust
the hat.
"I must go."
But Loftus came to her. Bending a bit he whispered in her ear: "Don't
go--don't go ever."
Do what she might she could not manage with her hat. In the glass it
was no longer that which she saw, nor her face, but an abyss, suddenly
precipitate, that had opened there.
"No, don't go," Loftus was saying. "I love you and you love me."
It was, though, not love that was emotionalizing her then. It was
fear. A fear of that abyss and of the lower depths beneath.
"Don't go," Loftus reiterated. "Don't, that is, if you do love me; and
if you do, tell me, will you be my wife?"
At this, before her, in abrupt enchantment, the abyss disappeared.
Where its depths had been were parterres of gems, slopes of asphodel,
the gleam and brilliance of the gates of paradise.
"Your wife!" The wonder of it was in her voice and marveling eyes.
"Come." Taking her hand, Loftus led her to their former seat.
"But----"
"But what?"
"How can I be your wife? I am nobody."
"You are perfect. There is only one thing I fear--" Loftus hesitated.
Nervously the girl looked at him.
"Only one," he continued. "I am not and never shall be half good
enough for you."
"Oh!"
"Never half enough."
"Oh! How can you say that? It is not true. Could I care for you if it
were?"
"And you do?"
"Don't you know it?"
"Then don't go, don't go from me ever."
"But----"
"Yes, I know. You are thinking of your father, of whom you have told
me; perhaps, too, of my mother, of whom I told you. When she knows you
and learns to love you, as she will, we can be married before all the
world. We could now were I not dependent on her. Yet then, am I not
dependent too on you? Come with me, and afterward----"
"I cannot," the girl cried; "it would kill my father."
"You have but to wire him that you have gone to be married, and it
will be the truth."
"I cannot," the girl repeated. "Oh, what are you asking me to do?"
"I am asking you to be my wife. What is the ceremony to you? What are
a few words mumbled by a hired priest? Love, love alone, is marriage."
"No, no. To you perhaps. But not to me."
"And the ceremony shall follow as soon as we can manage. Can you not
trust me for that?"
"But----"
"Will you not trust me? If you are to put your whole life into my
keeping you should at least begin by doing that."
The girl looked at the man and then away, at vistas he could not see,
the winding slopes of asphodel, the sudden and precipitate abyss. Yet
he spoke so fair, she told herself. Surely it was to the slopes he
meant to take her, not to that blackening pit.
"Yet if you won't," Loftus continued, "it is best for both that we
should part."
"For--for always?"
"Yes."
Just why he omitted to explain. But then there are explanations that
explain nothing. Yet to her, for a moment, the threat was like a flash
in darkness. For a moment she thought that she could not let him go.
About her swarmed her dreams. Through them his kisses pierced. For a
moment only. The flash had passed. She was in darkness again. Before
her was the precipitate abyss. Shudderingly she drew from it.
But Loftus was very resolute. "If you will you have my promise."
For answer she looked at him, looked into his eyes, peered into them,
deep down, striving to see what was there, trying to mirror her soul
in his own.
"Before God and man I swear you shall be my wife."
At that, suddenly within her, fear melted away. If she had not seen
his soul she had heard it. Where fear had been was faith. Dumb with
the enchantment of a dream come true, she half arose. But his arms
went about her and in them she lay like seaweed in the tide.
CHAPTER V
MARIE CHANGES HER NAME
Gay Street knew Marie no more. Twenty-second street made her
acquaintance. There, in the Arundel, an apartment house which is just
around the corner from Gramercy Park, Loftus secured quarters for her.
These quarters, convenient for him, to her were temporary. She
regarded them as a tent on the road to the slopes. Even in that light
they were attractive. Though small, they were fastidiously furnished
and formed what agents call a "bijou." Loftus, who had whims which the
girl thought poetic, preferred "aviary." He preferred, too, that she
should change her name. Durand seemed to him extremely plebeian.
Mentally he cast about. Leroy suggested itself. It had in it an echo
of France and also of old New York. As such it appealed to him and,
therefore, to her. There and then Marie became known as Miss Leroy
and, incidentally, very busy.
Every day Annette, Juliette and Marguerite had frocks for her to try
on. There were hats to go with those frocks. There was lingerie to be
selected, stuffs immaterial as moonbeams, cambrics that could be drawn
through a ring. In addition, there was Signor Tambourini, who was to
teach her how to handle her voice, and Baron Mesnilmontant, who was to
teach her to handle a horse. When she so desired she had but to
telephone and in five minutes there was a victoria at the door. For
her sitting-room the florist who had so disturbed Mr. Cohen fetched
flowers every other day.
In the flowers there were thorns, of course. Marie worried about many
things, yet mainly because Mrs. Loftus had not yet "seen and learned
to love her." Against that, though, there were difficulties. At first
Mrs. Loftus had a dreadful cold. Then she had gone out of town to
recuperate. This was very unfortunate, but like the quarters, only
temporary. Loftus assured her of that. What he said was gospel.
The position in which the girl was placed worried her nevertheless.
She knew it was wrong. But always she consoled herself with the belief
that shortly it would be righted. On that belief she would have staked
her soul. Had he not sworn it? Precisely how she would have acted had
she realized that he had lied like a thief one may surmise and never
know. The misery of life is the necessity of becoming accustomed to
certain things. There are natures that adapt themselves more readily
than others. There are also natures that cannot adapt themselves at
all. Had Marie realized the truth it may be that she would have beaten
her head against the walls. Yet it may also be that in the end
adaptability would have come. But not happiness. Happiness consists,
if it consists in anything, in being on good terms with oneself. Had
Marie known the truth never could she have been that. In the
circumstances it was considerate of Loftus to withhold it from her.
But Loftus was a very considerate person. He hated tears, and scenes
he frankly abominated.
Loftus, though considerate, was vain. It was regrettable to him that
he could not parade Marie about. But social New York is severe. Among
its members it refuses to countenance any open disregard for what's
what. Though what occurs behind its back it is too high-bred to
notice.
Loftus, unable to parade Marie about, paraded her in. To the aviary he
brought men, some of whom having otherwise nothing to do with this
drama need not delay its recital, but, among others, he brought
Annandale and Orr.
Annandale, who could not keep a thing from Sylvia, told her about it.
The story so shocked her that she first made a point of his not going
there again and then debated whether she ought to recognize Loftus any
more. In the process she confided the story to Fanny Price, who got
suddenly red--a phenomenon rare with her and which annoyed her very
much, so much that she bit her lip, desisting only through fear of
making it bleed. What is the use of spoiling one's looks?
Marie, meanwhile, rather liked Annandale. She also rather liked Orr.
One evening both were bidden to the aviary. At the bidding Annandale
had hesitated. He did not wish to offend Sylvia. But reflecting that
she need never know, that, anyway, it was none of her business and,
besides, what the deuce! he was not tied to her apron strings, was he?
he concluded to go.
To that conclusion he was assisted by a cocktail. At the time he was
in Madison Square, where on a ground floor he occupied a set of
chambers, a suite of long, large rooms, sumptuously but soberly
furnished with things massive and plain. Here he lived in much luxury
and entire peace, save recently when he had lost a retainer and found
a burglar. The memory of that intrusion recurring, he touched a bell.
A man appeared, smug and solemn, a new valet that he had got in to
replace an old family servant whom an accident had eliminated.
"Harris, I forgot to ask. Did you get the revolver I told you to buy?"
"Yes, sir. A 32 calibre. It is in the pantry, sir."
"Put it in the drawer of my dressing-table."
"Yes, sir. Thank you, sir."
"And Harris, make me another cocktail." As the man was leaving
Annandale called after him, "Make two."
It was these that assisted Annandale to his decision. A man of means,
without immediate relatives, without ponderable cares, under their
influence he felt rather free to do as he saw fit. The bidding to the
aviary, telephoned for him to Harris, was for that evening. Yet that
evening he was also expected in Irving Place. But Marie's invitation
was for dinner, whereas he was not due at Sylvia's until later on.
It was not necessary, he told himself, to be in two places at once. He
could dovetail one with another. Then presently, having dressed, he
issued forth. But he had omitted to look at the evening papers. He was
interested in certain stocks, and to learn what they were doing he
stopped in at a neighboring club. There encountering men who asked him
to drink, he accepted--though how much he was on the morrow unable to
recall. Yet at the time the effect of the stuff, while insidious, was
not apparent. When ultimately he reached the aviary he was feeling
merely fit, a feeling which the dinner increased.
The dinner, perfect in itself, was perfectly served. The appointments
were superior and the table a delight. Loftus when he did things did
them well. Marie, in a creation of Paquin, imported by Annette, was a
pleasure to behold. She had Orr at her right, Annandale at her left.
Between them and Loftus were half a dozen other men. All were decorous
and beautifully behaved. Except for the absence of feminine guests and
one thing else, there was nothing to denote that they were not at the
house of some smart young married woman. There was not a word uttered
that could not have been bawled through a ballroom. There was not a
suggestion not eminently discreet. In this respect only did the dinner
differ from any other at which you might assist in the upper circles
of New York life.
During the preliminary courses stocks were the sole topic. There was a
boom on in the Street. Everybody was making money, including Marie,
for whom Loftus had bought a few hundred A. O. T.
Orr alone had sold. "You are all mad," he declared. "The whole city
is crazy. The country is on a debauch. Bulls cannot live forever. The
corridas of the Street are just like those of Spain. It is the climax
that differs. There the ring is swept by a supe, here it is struck by
a crisis. That crisis may come next week, next month, next year. But
it will come. It can no more desert the heavens of political economy
than the stars can deviate from their course. It is not here yet, the
bull is very lively, he is tossing everything sky high, but just when
he is at his best and fiercest, just when you are shouting yourselves
hoarse, the great espada, whose name is Time, with one swift thrust
will transfix him. That is the fate of bulls."
"We are to be transfixed, are we?" said Annandale.
Marie looked over at Loftus. "Had I not better sell?"
Orr turned to her. "No; hold on and lose. A loss, particularly a fist
loss, is always a good investment. Besides, if you will permit me to
say, you should have no heed of such things. No, Miss Leroy. You
should content yourself with continuing to be. A woman who does only
that acquires a charm almost supernatural. This was the occupation of
the young goddesses of old Greece. How delightful they were! The rose
was their model. They had learned the secret of its witchery. They
charmed and did nothing. To charm is never easy, but to do nothing is
the most difficult of all things, as it is, too, the most
intellectual. Yes," Orr added after a moment, "it is also a thing
which the rest of us sadly neglect."
"Oh, I say," Loftus threw in. "It is not so long ago that I heard you
maintaining that only imbeciles were idle, that everybody should have
something to do. You are rather contradictory, don't you think?"
"No, not a bit; and for the reason that then I was speaking of the
generality of people, and now of the exceptional few. The idleness of
the imbecile is always imbecilic, but the dreams of a poet have spells
that enthrall. Try to fancy a busy poet. You cannot. It is an anomaly
at which the imagination balks. By the same token you cannot fancy a
useful Venus. You cannot fancy Psyche occupied with anything but love.
Love is--or rather, should be--woman's sole occupation. The perfume of
Eros should be about them all."
"The perfume of Eros!" muttered Annandale, to whom the phrase
appealed. "The perfume of Eros!" he repeated and helped himself to
wine. "I say, Orr, what the dickens is that?"
"Only the motor force of the universe."
"What?"
"Yes, indeed. It is the sublimate of love. And love is the source of
human activity. It has no other. Without it civilization would
retrograde and society return to the woods. Love is the basis of
tragedy, the woof of romance, the incentive of commerce, of crime too,
of heroism as well."
"My!" said Marie, whom the brief deluge of words amazed. "My!"
"I must get that off," Annandale muttered. In the sotto voce of
thought he added, "to Sylvia." Obviously, he had had his fill. He
stood up, making an excuse, imperceptibility lurching as he did so.
It was after ten. Long since coffee had been served. Orr, too, got up.
He thanked his hostess. The other men imitated him. Loftus and Marie
were alone.
Loftus went to a window. Then he turned. "Put on your hat, little
girl, and we will go out; though, after all, I do not see that you
need bother with a hat, unless you prefer."
"I will do as you wish, dear."
Presently they were in Lexington avenue, a moment more, in Gramercy
Park. Loftus, after fumbling for his key, opened one of the little
gates. Within was silence. Occasionally, from the pavement without
came the sound of footsteps.
Loftus and Marie seated themselves on a bench near the gate through
which they had entered. Loftus was smoking. A boy passed; stopped, and
sticking his nose through the railings, called: "Hi, mister, will you
give me a light?"
Loftus made no answer. The boy called again. "Will you? And a cigar
with it?"
Then he laughed and passed on. The silence increased. In the air was a
fragrance, the clinging odor of the honeysuckle, the clean smell of
fresh turf. Beyond, the great dim houses that front the park gave the
place and the hour an accent of their own.
"I like it here," said Marie, "it is so elegant."
"Never let me hear you use that word again. It is provincial, suburban
and, worse, it is shopgirl."
"Yes, dear."
"This evening I saw you eat an ice with a spoon. Never do that. Use a
fork."
"Yes, dear."
Appeased by this docility, Loftus condescended to agree in turn with
her. He, too, liked the park. At night, when the weather was decent,
always he sat there a bit quite by himself. He had done so for years.
He told her this, adding confidentially, "It is a habit."
To Marie the habit seemed most poetic. She said so, explaining that
she was very fond of poetry.
Loftus looked up at the stars. "The only real poetry is there. By the
way, do you believe in God?"
Marie, uncertain of her lover's creeds, hesitatingly glanced at him.
"Yes--in a way. But I won't, if you object."
This self-abnegation pleased Loftus. He twisted his mustache and
smiled. "But no, you little goose, I don't object in the least. On the
contrary. It is right and proper that you should."
Gratified at this encouraging indulgence the girl's hand stole into
his. Then for awhile they sat and talked about nothing whatever,
which, of all subjects, is, perhaps, the least disagreeable. Wearying
at last even of that, they got up to go.
At the gate Marie drew back. A man was passing, swaying uncertainly,
arguing with himself.
"Why! it is Mr. Annandale," the girl in a frightened whisper murmured.
"I wonder where he got all that liquor?" Loftus queried. "Not at
Sylvia Waldron's, I'll wager."
"Sylvia Waldron! What a sweet name," said Marie. "Who is she?"
"The girl he is engaged to."
"Is she pretty?"
"Oh, tall and dark, don't you know. Not at all my style."
But now night had swallowed Annandale. Loftus and Marie passed on.
CHAPTER VI
THE YELLOW FAY
At noon the next day Annandale was not awake nor was he asleep.
Through spaces in which memories met, entangled and sank, he was
groping in search of himself. In these spaces there were things, some
formless, others half-formed, that got between consciousness and
interfered with the search.
These things pulled at him, tripped him, shoved him down to the
memories that were sinking below. The spaces themselves were very
dark. But, in the deeper depths, where memories swooned, the darkness
was punctuated by slender flames the size of pins. They burned him.
Up and away he tried to rise. When he nearly succeeded, the things
above, the things half-formed and formless that were waiting there,
pushed him back. Again he tried. But the darkness was thick, the
depths were thunderous, the things above pounded on his head, the thin
flames lapped at him.
A force took and lifted him high, very high, and suddenly dropped him.
In the abrupt descent he clutched at the things, but he was whirled
through them to receding plains and up again, higher, still higher.
There a ray filtered, in the light of which a memory staggered. He saw
himself drinking in the rooms of that girl of Loftus. From there he
passed into blankness at the end of which stood Sylvia, her face white
and drawn. The vision vanished. Then it seemed to him that he was
drinking with a fat man who had prominent teeth which he took from his
mouth and changed into dice. But where? In hell, perhaps. Annandale
was uncertain. He knew merely that he had been beastly drunk and that
his head was simply splitting.
It continued to split. Hours later, sedatives and his servant aiding,
the splitting ceased. But the blanks did not fill and though behind
them he could not look, yet the subconscious self that registers and
retains everything we do and hear and say prompted him dumbly that
behind the blanks there lurked the dismal and, perhaps, the dire.
This foreboding he attributed to his nerves. As a matter of fact they
were rather shaky. But inaction was intolerable. He tried to write a
note to Sylvia, but his hand was insufficiently steady. Failing in
that he told Harris to get some flowers, take them to Miss Waldron,
and say that he would call that evening. When later the man returned
he brought no answer to the message.
"Was Miss Waldron out?" Annandale asked.
"I could not say, sir. I gave the flowers to the maid, and said as how
you would call this evening, sir. The maid came back and said Miss
Waldron would not be at 'ome."
At this Annandale flushed. It is true he was flushed already. But the
affront was a little more than he could stand. Was he not engaged to
her? What did she mean? Yet, then, too, what had he done? He wished to
the devil he could tell. Try, though, as he might, he could not recall
a thing except a vision of the girl's face, white, drawn and angered.
The rest was not blurred, it was blank. It was extremely unfortunate,
and Annandale decided that he was both unhappy and misused.
These meditations Harris interrupted.
"Mr. Orr, sir."
Annandale, who had been far away, looked up. Then he nodded.
A moment and Orr entered, eying Annandale curiously as he came.
"What a deuce of a chap you are," he began.
"Who? I? Why? Why do you say that?"
Orr looked about the room, contemplated a wide lounge of black
leather, selected a straight-backed chair instead and seated himself,
his hat and stick in his hand.
"You know well enough," he answered. "But there," he added at a
protest from Annandale, "I don't propose to scold you. My visit is
purely official. Sylvia has asked me to inform you that the engagement
is at an end."
Had any little dog which Annandale did not possess run out from
nowhere and bit him fiercely on the leg, he could not have started
more. He stared at Orr, who stared at him.
"But! It is impossible! What have I done?"
"It would be more to the point," Orr cheerfully replied, "to ask what
you have not done. Though just what you did do Sylvia omitted to
state. She said she could not."
"Could not tell you?"
"Could not or would not."
"Then I can't," said Annandale helplessly. "I went there last evening,
I remember that. I remember, too, that she was angry. But why I do
not know. Though, to be candid, she had cause to be. I was drunk."
"You seemed all right at the Arundel," Orr objected.
"At all events, drunk or sober, I cannot recall a thing. I have tried.
I have tried hard. It has gone."
"Does it happen to you often?"
"What?"
"To forget like that?"
Annandale shook his head. He stood up and stalked about. Orr eyed him.
He saw he was not shamming.
"You know, Annandale," he said at last, "you could not get many to
accept that. But I can and do. I have seen cases of the kind before.
Will you permit me to advise you?"
"Advise me? I wish to God you would."
"Littré, who was the wisest and ugliest of men, stated that
Hippocrates recommended everybody to get tight once a month, asserting
that it was hygienic, good for the system, that it relaxed the nerves.
Littré must have known what he was talking about. He put Hippocrates
in French, into ten volumes at that! But what is good for everybody is
bad for you. Don't drink, Annandale. It will get you into mischief."
"As if it had not? Look at the box I am in. But could you not get
Sylvia to reconsider the matter? If she will, I pledge my word never
to touch another drop. Of course, I apologize for everything I did. I
am only too anxious to. You must understand that I am profoundly
humiliated at the idea that I could have done anything she did not
like. Certainly I did not intend to. Won't you say that to her?"
"Oh, I appreciate your position," said Orr. "To me the essence of
crime is the intent. But, then, you see, I am a man. Now girls are
different, and my cousin is very different even from most girls. Her
views are very strict. Even otherwise, to any decent girl, a man in
his cups is not agreeable. But then, you know, it is not merely a
question of that. It is a question of matrimony. Matrimony generally
means children. It is on them that the sins of the father are visited.
There is the rub. Sylvia, I have not a doubt, will in the end forgive
you, but were she to marry you and her children have your sins visited
on them, never would she forgive herself. That I am sure you can
realize. Anyway, for the moment argument with her would be futile.
Besides, she has gone from town."
"Gone?"
"Yes, she left for Newport today. If I were you I would not attempt
to follow. But I will write. I will tell her what you say, and I will
tell you her reply."
Orr stood up. As he did so Annandale sat down. He cared for Sylvia
Waldron, absolutely, uniquely. He felt, too, that she had cared for
him. But while Orr had been speaking he told himself that her caring
had ceased. Had any affection remained she could not have gone. It was
his fault, though. He had shocked it out of existence. At the thought
of that he felt unutterably miserable. What he felt he looked.
Orr saw his dejection. "Annandale," he said, "I hardly suppose that it
will console you now to have me tell you that nothing earthly is of
any consequence, but, if you let the idea permeate you, ultimately
perhaps it may. By the way, that is a new man you have, isn't it?"
In the wreckage amid which Annandale was floundering the question was
like a rope; he caught at it and swam up.
"Who? Harris? Yes, the other poor devil I had was run over and died in
an ambulance."
Orr tapped at his foot with his stick. "I may be in error," he said,
"but I think I have seen him before."
"Then it must have been in London. He has been here only a short time.
He tells me he used to be with Catty."
Catty was a relative of Annandale, a New York girl who had married the
Duke of Kincardine.
"Possibly," said Orr. "Well," he added, reverting to the episode that
had brought him there, "I am sorry for all this. I know you are. I
will write to Sylvia and tell her so."
"Please do."
Annandale stood up and accompanied him to the door. When he turned
life seemed blank as the blanks of the night.
CHAPTER VII
SWEET-AND-TWENTY
What Sylvia replied to Orr's communication, whether indeed she replied
at all, Annandale was not informed. He himself wrote to her. The
letter was long; it was also abject. But he got no answer. He wrote
again. The result was the same.
Then both at her and at himself he rebelled. He had supped on
humiliations. He had no appetite for more. With some bravery, yet
without bravado, he tore a leaf from his life and on it wrote Finis.
The epitaph was figurative, but he thought it final. He thought that
he could dictate to Fate. It is a mistake that many make.
Presently it surprised him to find how laborious is the task of
putting people out of your life. If you have cared for them they will
come back. In the pages of a book, in the pauses of speech, suddenly
you behold them. In sleep they will not let you be. When you awake,
there they are. However detestable their behavior may have been, in
dream they visit and caress you. It takes time and vigilance; it takes
more, it takes other faces to disperse them.
In spite of the Finis, Sylvia Waldron declined to be dismissed. She
haunted Annandale. To memories of her he could not always show the
door. Sometimes they were masked. Occasionally they reproached him.
Again they seemed to say that did he but find out how, all might yet
be well between them. But usually they came and stood gazing at him in
love and grief eternal.
Then he would start. But what could he do? Besides, there was the
Finis.
June meanwhile had come and gone. Summer with a frenzy quasi-maniacal
had battened on the town. It is said that the hottest place in the
world is a port on the Persian Gulf. But it is wrong to believe
everything we hear. When New York decides to be hot, the temperature
of the Persian port must be agreeable by comparison.
One fetid noon Annandale fled. When he stopped it was at Narragansett.
Before August comes and with it the mob, Narragansett is charming.
There is a mile of empty hotels, a stretch of sand fine as face
powder, a heaving, heavenly desert of blue and an atmosphere charged
with ozone and desire.
In August the hotels are packed. The stretch of sand is a stage. Every
day a ballet is given there. The coryphées are the prettiest girls in
the world--girls from Baltimore, girls from Philadelphia, girls from
everywhere, girls with the Occident in their eyes and lips that say
"Drink me."
At high noon, from the greenroom of the bath-houses, Sweet-and-twenty
floats down, clasps the sea to the hum of harps, breasts the waves to
the laugh of brass and re-emerges to the sound of trumpets.
After the dip, other diversions. Primarily flirtations on the lawns;
later, polo at the Country Club; at night, dancing in the ballrooms,
more flirtations on the galleries of the Casino, supper on the terrace
below.
The terrace resembles, or, more exactly, on this particular summer did
resemble, a roof garden on the ground floor. From a kiosk a band of
Hungarians distributed selections of popular rot, sometimes their own
delirious czardas. There, circled by variegated lights, fanned by the
violins, girls and men sat beneath the high, wide, flowerful umbrellas
of Japan.
Sometimes some of them, wearying of that, wandered into silences and
shadows and lingered there, occupied with the crops, with strikes and
other subjects of national interest which young people always discuss
when holding hands in the dark.
To Newport, which squats disdainfully over the way, this is all too
free and easy. To Annandale, it was distressing. Everywhere there was
love, yet none for him. He had come to the Pier, as Narragansett is
locally termed, because of Newport's propinquity. If Sylvia so much as
signaled he could join her at once.
As yet no signaling was apparent. In its place was an influx of a
reflection of fashion. The influx made Annandale swear. He hated to be
seen stalking moodily about. He hated still more to have the rupture
of his engagement discussed. The ballet on the beach irritated him. He
told himself that he had come to the wrong shop. One day he thought of
joining friends in Canada. The next he thought of joining friends who
had gone abroad. The day after he thought that still he might be
signaled.
In these uncertainties he loitered, annoyed but sober. Since the visit
from Orr he had not touched a drop. Then, it so fell about that one
evening he looked in at a dance at the Casino. Madness was in the air.
The savors of the sea, the tonic of the dip, the stare of the harvest
moon, go to the head, stir the heart, excite the pulse in a manner
really Boccaccian.
Madness is contagious. It seemed particularly catching that night. The
hall was filled, the gallery flushed. On a stage, at the end of the
ballroom, musicians were tossing out in trailing rhythm the sorcery of
"Il Bacio," the invitation of the "Cent Vierges," the muffled riot of
"El Capitan."
To these incentives couples turned. Beneath the gallery where
Annandale stood there was a vision of white arms, bare necks, slender
waists circled by the blackness of men's sleeves. Three hundred girls
and men were waltzing together, interchanging partners, clasping
hands, gazing into each other's eyes.
Behind Annandale a group had gathered. They were talking, yet of what
he did not heed. But, presently, into the conversation filtered the
freshness of another voice.
"I quite believe, you know," the voice was saying, "that a girl who
stops here this summer will stop at nothing next."
At the jest Annandale turned. There, pretty as a peach but rather more
amusing, stood Fanny Price.
"Hamlet!" she exclaimed.
Annandale resembled the Dane as little as he did the devil. He was
fully aware of that. But he was equally aware that he must seem blue.
He straightened himself and smiled. Then at once it occurred to him
that Fanny might be a signal bearer.
"How do you do?" he said. "Don't you want to come and sit on the
terrace? When did you get here?"
"Just now. I am over from Newport. They told me there that I ought to
come in disguise. They call it slumming."
"Yes," Annandale inanely and eagerly replied. Of the little speech he
had caught but one word--Newport.
"Now, if I go with you, will you give me something pink, something
with raspberries in it?"
Fanny, as she spoke, disengaged herself from the people with whom she
had come.
"You saw Sylvia, didn't you?" he asked, when at last through coils of
girls and men they reached the terrace below.
Fanny nodded. "Suppose we sit here," she said, indicating a table from
which grew a big parasol.
"Did she say anything?"
Fanny sat down. Annandale seated himself by her. "You know? Don't
you----?"
"Oh, yes," Fanny interrupted. "But then----"
"Then what?"
"Nothing. Only it is so much better so, don't you think?"
"Better!" Annandale fiercely repeated.
"Why, yes. You and Sylvia were totally unsuited for each other. She is
the best and dearest girl in the world. But--here is the waiter. Will
you tell him to fetch me a lemon squash?"
Annandale gave the order.
"With raspberries in it," Fanny called at the waiter's retreating
back. "Aren't you going to take anything?"
In deep gloom Annandale shook his head.
Fanny laughed. "Drink delights you not; no, nor woman either."
"You see----"
"Yes, yes, yes. Of course I see. But why cannot you? Why can't you see
that you and Sylvia stood as much chance of hitting it off as though
you both spoke a different language? A break was bound to come."
But now the man appeared with the squash. Fanny looked at it. "Only
two raspberries," she cried. "And such little ones."
"Bring a dish of them," said Annandale. "I suppose," he resumed as the
waiter again retreated, "I suppose she will find somebody with whom
she can hit it off."
"Yes, of course. There is me and there are other girls. But the men
will be few. They will be elderly, I think, and I think, too, tame
enough to eat out of her hand."
"You think, then, that I am out of the running?"
Fanny did not answer. She was drinking the squash. When she put it
down she put with it the subject. It bored her.
"Are you going to be here long?" she asked. Until a moment before
Annandale had been wavering. But now his mind was made up. Or he
thought it was.
"No. I am off tomorrow."
"Where to?"
"The North Woods, perhaps. I am not sure."
"If you are not sure, you cannot be in any very tearing haste. Why not
stop a day or two longer and take me about?"
Annandale looked at her. In the look was surprise; inquiry, too.
"Yes. Why not?"
Annandale's look deepened into a stare.
"Now, don't be stupid," said Fanny, to whom such stares were familiar.
"I am not trying to get up a flirtation with you. But I must have
someone to talk to."
"I like to hear you talk."
"Yes; men always like nonsense."
"Only from a pretty girl, though."
"Do you know," said Fanny, rising from beneath the big parasol, "the
waiter didn't bring the raspberries. No matter now, though. I must go
and find mother. This is no place for her to be out alone."
CHAPTER VIII
TWO IN A TURRET
From a back gallery of the Casino a narrow stair leads to a tower. Up
that stair Annandale one afternoon invited Fanny Price.
A fortnight had gone, two weeks of dressing and undressing, of
dinners, dances and dips; a succession of mellow mornings; long, green
afternoons, dusks stabbed by sudden stars and nights lit by a moon
that painted the ocean, penetrated the shadows, checkered the
underbrush with silver spots.
But now, though the mornings were as mellow and the afternoons as
green, though in the air the same madness subsisted and the nights
were as languid as before, verandas were emptying, there were wide
spaces where once were thick crowds. The end of the season had come.
In the procession of these things Annandale had put the North Woods
from him; he had put, too, the thought of journeying abroad. With
them he had put also any hope that Sylvia would signal him back.
For awhile the hope had persisted, as the light of a candle persists.
Then it had dwindled, flickered and sunk. That is the way with hope.
Though sometimes it is snuffed. You are in darkness. But through that
darkness occasionally another light will be upheld. It may not,
perhaps, be intended for you, but it may enable you to see.
Aided by another light, Annandale had begun to discern his way. He
should, of course, have remained in darkness. To darkness, were this
fiction, he would be condemned. But this is not fiction. The drama
with which these pages deal is documented from life. It was Fanny who
held the light.
During the month that had gone he had been almost constantly at her
side. The fact that one light may be replaced by another had not at
first occurred to him. Presently the ease with which such substitution
can be effected had mystified him very much. He was not prepared for
anything of the kind. He had arranged to be a gloomy, disappointed
man. He kept telling himself that if Sylvia had stuck to him he would
have been true to her his whole life through. But she had not stuck to
him, and the withdrawal of herself had left existence so empty that,
unknown even to him, Nature had been filling the vacuum which she
abhors.
In this, Nature had been greatly aided. Fanny Price was a remarkably
fetching young girl. To a man out of court and consequently out of
sorts the companionship of a pocket Venus is tonifying in the extreme.
It is not merely that, it is recuperative. It banishes the blues. It
establishes a new court, and with it a new code of its own.
The censorious allege that this is all wrong. It may be that they are
right. But Nature is not censorious. Nature is not even ethical. She
has no standards of right, no canons of wrong. What she does have is
her way. A saint may defy her. Annandale was not that by a long shot.
He was simply a human being, one that had been punished, and, as he
thought, unjustly punished, for that which might have been condoned.
Injustice humiliates. Saints may welcome humiliation, but human beings
resent it.
Over the emptiness which Sylvia had created there brooded therefore
two things. One was darkness, the other pique. In the light which
Fanny upheld it seemed to Annandale that they might be dispersed. This
idea, which he regarded as his very own, and consequently as highly
original, was not his in the least. It was Nature prompting him to
fill the vacuum which she so dislikes.
Instigated by her, Annandale invited Fanny up a stair and into a
tower, a place remote, aloof, furnished with seats for just two.
