
For the instant Rufus Cameron was startled. Then rushing to the door, he
locked it, and also locked some folding doors leading to a rear
apartment.

"I hope I didn't hurt him much," he muttered. "What a young fool he was
not to let me see the paper."

He propped Nat up in the easy chair, and placed his hand in the boy's
inside pocket. Soon he had the document in his possession, and was
looking over it rapidly.

"Just as I thought. I'm glad I got it. Now, we'll see if Shanley and I
can't outwit Mr. John Garwell."

Nat was already coming to his senses, and Rufus Cameron lost no time in
hurrying to the library of the house. Here he obtained an old document
of no consequence, but which still bore his aunt's signature. Rushing
back, he placed this in the envelope which had held the other paper of
importance.

Nat was just returning to his senses when he found himself being taken
out of the house by Rufus Cameron. The man supported him as far as the
corner and there placed him on a stone step leading to a church.

"Wha--what did you hit me for?" stammered our hero, feebly.

"I didn't mean to do that; really I didn't," said Rufus Cameron,
smoothly. "The shell slipped. I am very sorry--very sorry, indeed."

"It was a mean thing to do."

"It was an accident, I give you my word on it."

Nat felt in his pocket to learn if the document was still there.

"Did you look at that paper?" he questioned.

"No, I didn't. On second thought I have concluded to let my aunt do just
as she pleases in this matter."

Nat felt in no condition to argue. He took out the document, glanced at
it, and shoved it back into the envelope and then in his pocket.

"I'm sorry this happened. I was excited for the minute. Come and have a
drink with me. It will do you good," went on Rufus Cameron.

"I don't drink."

"Shall I show you to the car then?"

"Yes."

When Nat got up the rascal supported him, and thus they made their way
to the car line running to the Bridge. Here, our hero boarded a car, and
Rufus Cameron watched him ride out of sight.

"That was easy after all," muttered Rufus Cameron to himself. "I only
hope it don't make too much trouble in the future. I'll have to let
Shanley have this document without delay, and I'd better get out of
sight until the affair blows over."

Making his way to a neighboring café, Rufus Cameron treated himself to a
drink of strong liquor and a black-looking cigar. Then he returned to
his aunt's home. He lived with her, and was doing his best to get
certain of her properties away from her.

"Aunt Jane, what did that young man want?" he asked, as he entered her
room.

"He came to see me on private business, Rufus," was the quiet answer.
Mrs. Parloe did not fancy her nephew's habits, and had often warned him
that he must reform.

"Was there anything I could do for you?"

"No, Rufus."

"Do you know, Aunt Jane, I've been thinking of taking a trip to the
West," he went on, after a pause.

"So you said before."

"I'd go in a minute if I had the money."

"How much do you want?"

"Two or three hundred dollars at least."

"Is the money gone that I let you have last month?"

"Yes, I had to pay some back bills with that."

"You are very extravagant, Rufus."

"Oh, a young man must spend something."

"But not as much as you spend."

"I don't spend any more than the rest of the fellows in my set. I have
got to keep up appearances, you know."

"Your set is altogether too fast a one to suit me."

"Will you let me have the money?"

"How long do you expect to be gone?"

"That depends upon what you will give me. If you'll let me have five
hundred dollars, I'll make a trip of two or three months."

Mrs. Parloe thought for a moment, and at last consented to give her
nephew the five hundred. She had her check book handy, and soon the
check was passed over to the nephew.

"When shall you start?" she asked.

"I don't know. I've a good notion to start to-night. But if you want me
to do anything for you before I go----"

"There is nothing, Rufus. Only, if you want to please me, don't get into
any bad habits while you are gone."

"Oh, I'm going to turn over a new leaf when I leave Brooklyn," said the
hypocrite. "Then, I can leave to-night?"

"Yes."

"In that case, I'll pack my trunk at once," said Rufus Cameron; and a
little later he did so. Then he had the trunk taken away, bid his aunt
good-by, and was off.

"That was easy," he said to himself, when away from the house. "Now to
see Shanley and to arrange for keeping out of sight, in case John
Garwell kicks up a fuss."




CHAPTER XXI

A MISSING DOCUMENT OF VALUE


As soon as Nat returned to the office he sought out Mr. Garwell, and
handed him the document in the envelope.

"Did you have any trouble getting Mrs. Parloe's signature?" asked the
real estate broker.

"I had no trouble getting the signature, but I had trouble getting away
from the house," answered Nat.

"Trouble getting away? What do you mean?"

"I was stopped by her nephew, a man named Rufus Cameron. He handled me
rather roughly."

"Did he try to get the document away from you?" And now John Garwell was
all attention.

"He hauled me in the parlor, and demanded that I let him look at the
paper. I refused, and then he threatened me."

"And what happened after that?"

"He put his hand in my pocket and brought out a diamond ring. He said I
had stolen it."

"Of course you hadn't, Nat?"

"I had never seen the ring before. But that wasn't the worst of it. He
picked up a sea shell and hit me with it and knocked me senseless."

After that our hero told his story in detail, relating also what Rufus
Cameron had said on assisting him to the street car. The real estate
broker listened with keen interest.

"That man is a scoundrel!" he exclaimed, when Nat had concluded his
story. "I pity Mrs. Parloe. He is doing his best to get all her money
from her."

"It was a mean trick to say I took the ring," declared Nat.

"He did that thinking to get you in his power, my boy. Are you sure he
didn't look at the document?"

"I can't say what he did while I was senseless, Mr. Garwell."

"I'll take a look at the paper and see if he made any alterations in the
text."

John Garwell looked at the document and began to read it.

"Why, this is not the paper I gave you, Nat," he ejaculated.

"Not the same?"

"No. It's some old thing that I know nothing about."

"If that's the case, Mr. Cameron substituted this paper for the real
one!" exclaimed our hero. "He could easily have done that during the
time I was knocked out."

"I'll see about this without delay," said John Garwell, decisively. "I
will show that fellow that he can't carry matters with quite such a high
hand."

"What can he do with that paper, Mr. Garwell?"

"He can cause me a great deal of trouble. The paper refers to a piece of
property in which Mrs. Parloe held an interest. I have been trying to
get a free and clear title to the land for a client of mine, and another
real estate dealer named Andrew Shanley has been trying to get the land
for another party. It is a mixed-up affair, but I hoped the signing of
that paper would help to straighten out matters."

The real estate broker was as good as his word, but he was exceedingly
busy, and it was not until two in the afternoon that he could get away.
Then he went to Brooklyn, taking Nat with him.

"I would like to see Mr. Cameron," said he to the girl at Mrs. Parloe's
home.

"Mr. Cameron has gone away, sir," was the unexpected answer.

"Do you know when he will be back?"

"I'll ask Mrs. Parloe," said the girl.

She went upstairs, leaving them in the parlor below. Soon she came back.

"He has gone out west, Mrs. Parloe says, and she doesn't expect him back
for two or three months."

"Gone west," cried Nat. "When did he go?"

"He went away about noon."

"Did he take any baggage?" asked John Garwell.

"Yes, sir, a dress-suit case, and he sent an expressman around for his
trunk, too."

"Then I won't bother you any more," said the real estate broker, and
left the house, followed by Nat.

"Don't you want to ask Mrs. Parloe about this?" queried our hero.

"It would be useless to do so, Nat. It would only upset the old lady."

"She might be able to tell us just where her nephew had gone to?"

"It is not likely. He intends to keep out of the way, that is certain."

"Maybe he didn't go west at all!" said our hero, suddenly.

"Such a thing is possible."

"Did you say he was in league with this other real estate broker?"

"I don't know about that, although I know he and this Shanley are
friends."

"I wonder if it wouldn't be a good idea for me to watch around this
Shanley's office for him?"

"Ha! That is an idea." John Garwell smiled broadly. "Nat, you are
growing clever."

"Even if I couldn't get the paper, I could prove that he had not gone
west, as he told his aunt, and I could follow him, and find out where he
was stopping."

"Well, you can do the watching if you wish. I will give you Andrew V.
Shanley's address. His place of business is between here and the
Bridge."

"Shall I go there at once?"

"If you wish."

The address was written on a slip of paper, and a little later Nat and
his employer separated. John Garwell gazed after our hero curiously.

"He is improving wonderfully," he mused. "He isn't half as green as when
I first met him."

Nat had been told what car to take, and ten minutes sufficed to bring
him to the block upon which Andrew Shanley's office was located, on the
third floor of a large office building. He went upstairs, and managed to
get a peep into the office, and found Rufus Cameron was not there.

"Of course he may have been here already," he told himself. "But I've
got to take my chances about that. I'll stay here until the place shuts
up."

Going below again, he took a station across the street and began to wait
patiently for the appearance of Rufus Cameron.

As luck would have it, he had waited less than half an hour when he saw
Mrs. Parloe's nephew step from a car at the corner, and approach the
office building.

"Mr. Cameron, I want to see you!" he exclaimed, coming forward, and
confronting the man.

Rufus Cameron had not expected to meet Nat again so soon, and for the
moment he was dumfounded.

"Wha--what do you want?" he stammered, halting.

"You know well enough what I want," answered our hero, sharply. "I want
that document you stole from me."

"Stole from you!"

"That is what I said, Rufus Cameron."

"I--I don't know what you are talking about."

"You do know, and unless you give up the paper I am going to have you
arrested right now."

At these words Rufus Cameron turned pale. As said before, he was a good
deal of a coward, and being caught so unexpectedly threw him somewhat
from his mental balance.

"You--you can't have me arrested!"

"Yes, I can."

"How did you come to look for me here?"

"Mr. Garwell sent me here. He is up to your tricks."

"Did he tell you to--to have me arrested?"

"Never mind what he told me. I want that paper, and I want it right
now."

"I--I haven't got any paper. I--I don't know what you are talking
about."

"Yes, you have got that paper. You took it from me after you knocked me
down in your aunt's parlor. Isn't that so?"

As Nat finished he nodded, as if talking to somebody behind Rufus
Cameron. At once the guilty fellow turned his head to learn who was
listening to the conversation. As he did this, Nat thrust his hand in
the rascal's breast pocket, and brought forth the document which had
caused all the trouble.




CHAPTER XXII

AT THE ELEVATED STATION


"Hi, stop that!" roared Rufus Cameron, making a clutch for the document.
But before he could reach it Nat was at a safe distance. Our hero
glanced at the paper, to make certain that it was the right one, and
then put it in his pocket, and buttoned up his jacket.

"Now, Mr. Rufus Cameron, I guess we are square," said Nat, in something
a tone of triumph.

"You young thief, give me back that document," cried the man, savagely.

"Not much! I am going to give it to Mr. Garwell."

"That isn't his document."

"Yes, it is."

"I say it isn't. If you don't give me the paper, I'll call a policeman."

"Do it, and I'll have you arrested for knocking me over with the sea
shell and robbing me."

Rufus Cameron glared at our hero. He was baffled and did not know what
to do next. Presently a crafty look came into his eyes.

"See here, you're a pretty smart boy," he said, in a calmer tone.

"Thank you for nothing."

"What is John Garwell going to give you for getting that paper?"

"Nothing--at least I don't expect anything."

"You're a fool to work for nothing," sneered Rufus Cameron. "You'll
never get rich doing that."

"If I don't it will be my own affair."

"Do you understand this business at all, boy?"

"I understand some of it."

"Don't you know that John Garwell is trying to defraud my aunt out of a
lot of money?"

"I certainly know nothing of the kind."

"It's a fact. I am only trying to protect my aunt's interests. She is
rather queer in her head at times, and doesn't know what she is doing."

"She wasn't queer when she signed this paper."

"Yes, she was. But we will let that pass. Give me the paper, and I'll
pay you handsomely for it. You can tell Garwell that you couldn't locate
me."

"How much will you give?" asked Nat, although he had no intention of
accepting the rascal's offer.

"I'll give you--five dollars."

"That isn't much. The paper is worth more."

"No, it isn't."

"I won't give it up for five dollars."

"Well, we'll make it ten dollars. Come, hand the paper over. It's easy
money for you."

"The paper is worth every bit of a hundred dollars," said our hero, just
to draw the rascal out, and learn if possible how valuable Rufus Cameron
really considered the document.

"A hundred dollars! Nonsense! But I'll tell you what I'll do. I'm sorry
I knocked you down at my aunt's house. I'll give you twenty-five
dollars."

"When will you pay me?"

"Now," and Rufus Cameron brought forth a roll of bills.

"You can keep your money, Rufus Cameron."

"Eh?"

"I wouldn't touch a penny of it. Do you know what I think? I think you
are a first-class scoundrel."

"What! This to me?" stormed the fellow, shoving his money back into his
pocket.

"Yes, that to you. I am sorry Mrs. Parloe has such a rascal for a
relative. Now, I am going to bid you good-day." And Nat began to move
away.

"Come back here, you young villain!" cried Rufus Cameron.

He made a dash for our hero, but Nat was too quick for him. The boy ran
across the street and around a corner, and in a moment more was out of
sight. Rufus Cameron shook his fist in impotent rage.

"The jig's up!" he muttered. "What a mess! I thought I'd get a thousand
dollars out of Shanley for that paper!"

Nat did not slacken his pace until he had reached the river. Then he ran
aboard a ferry boat, and journeyed thus to New York, thinking that
possibly his enemy would watch the cars.

When our hero reached the office he found that the regular force of
clerks had already left, but his employer was still at his desk,
finishing up some business of importance.

"Hullo! you are back quickly," exclaimed John Garwell.

"Yes, sir, and there's the document," answered Nat, and placed the paper
on the desk.

John Garwell stared in amazement.

"Why, how did this happen?" he queried.

"It was blind luck, I guess," said Nat, and sitting down, he told his
tale.

"You certainly were lucky. So that rascal wanted to bribe you?"

"Yes. I half felt like knocking him down for it." And Nat's eyes
flashed.

"It would have served him right." The real estate broker looked the
document over. "Yes, this is all right." He opened the sheet. "Hullo,
here is a memorandum of some kind."

The memorandum was on a sheet of plain white paper. It contained a name
and address and some figures.

"Eureka!" almost shouted the real estate broker. "This is luck, truly."

"What have you found, Mr. Garwell?"

"An address I have been hunting for for over a year. Now I can put that
real estate deal through without further trouble. I knew Shanley or this
Cameron had that address, but, of course, they wouldn't give it to me."

"I'm glad I got it for you."

"I imagine Rufus Cameron will be very angry when he learns that he has
lost this address."

"It's his own fault."

There was nothing more for Nat to do that day, so he went home, and in
the evening attended the night school where he had taken up shorthand
and typewriting. He was making rapid progress, and he applied himself
diligently.

On the following day, John Garwell was away from the office until the
middle of the afternoon, and he also went off the next morning. On his
return, his face wore a satisfied look.

"Well, that thing is settled," he said, on dropping into his chair. "And
what a row I did have with Mr. Andrew V. Shanley!"

"You mean about that property?" queried Nat, looking up from his work at
a side desk.

"Yes. I have sold the property and got my commissions, amounting to four
thousand dollars in all. Shanley was as mad as a hornet."

"Did he mention Rufus Cameron?"

"No, but I did, and told him just what a dirty sneak the fellow was.
After that Shanley shut up pretty quick."

"Do you suppose Rufus Cameron can do anything more in the matter?"

"No. But he will have it in for you, Nat, I am afraid."

"Oh, I guess I can take care of myself," answered our hero, calmly.

"This Shanley has tried to trip me up several times," went on John
Garwell, leaning back in his office chair. "He tries to find out what I
am doing, and then he does his best to steal the business away from me."

"Maybe this will teach him a lesson."

"Possibly; but I am afraid not, Nat."

Several days passed, and Nat kept at work steadily. During that time he
received a letter from his uncle, in which Abner Balberry stated that he
had arrived home once more, and found everything on the farm all right.

"Uncle Abner isn't such a bad sort after all," thought Nat, "Only he
ought to drop some of his miserly habits. Perhaps, now that he is
married again, he will."

One day our hero had to go up to One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street on
an errand.

"Take an elevated train," said his employer, and handed him the
necessary carfare.

It did not take Nat long to reach the elevated station. Purchasing a
ticket, he dropped it in the box, and walked out on the platform.

Only a few people were present, for it was the quiet hour of the
morning. Among the number was a thick-set, trampish-looking fellow, who
was smoking a short clay pipe. The man was more than half intoxicated,
and lurched from side to side as he walked along the platform.

"That fellow had better look out for himself," thought our hero. "If he
isn't careful, he may fall out on the tracks and get hurt."

As our hero had some time to wait for a train, he passed the man several
times. The face of the fellow looked familiar, and Nat wondered where he
had seen him before.

"I've certainly met him somewhere," thought the boy. "But where? I don't
think it was in New York."

Presently the elevated train came into sight and those on the platform
prepared to get aboard when it should stop for them.

The man lurched forward as before, and of a sudden fell sprawling
directly in front of the train.




CHAPTER XXIII

TOM NOLAN'S CONFESSION


A cry of horror went up from those who saw the mishap, and some women
present turned their heads away, expecting that the semi-intoxicated
individual would be killed.

Nat's heart leaped into his throat, but he did not lose his presence of
mind. He was but a few feet from the man, and as quick as a flash he
jumped forward, caught the fellow up, and dragged him out of harm's way.

"Wha--what yer doin'?" stammered the fellow, gazing unsteadily at our
hero.

"Do you want to be killed?" asked Nat, sharply.

"They won't--won't dare to kill me," said the fellow. "I'm a--a--good
citizen."

"He ought to be locked up," said a man standing near.

"It was a brave deed," said one of the ladies.

"Who's goin' to lock me up?" demanded the tramp, for he was nothing
less. And he began to show fight, at which the majority of the crowd
turned away, and hurried to board the train. Nat hesitated for a second,
and then concluded to let the train go on and take the next one.

"Say, you pulled me from the track, didn't you?" said the man, after
another look at Nat.

"I did."

"Noble boy. I ought to reward you."

"I don't want any reward."

"Humph! Don't worry, my dear friend--Tom Nolan ain't got no money to
reward you with." And the semi-drunken man indulged in a senseless
chuckle.

"See here, haven't I met you before?" demanded Nat, looking at the man
more closely than ever.

"Maybe yer have, an' maybe yer haven't."

"Where do you come from?"

"Me? I'm an Ohio man, I am, and I ain't ashamed to own it. Ohio's best
State in the Union."

"So you are from Ohio. Were you ever in and around Brookville and
Caswell?" went on our hero, suddenly.

"Sure. I spent two months in that district not very long ago. But I had
to git out, I did." And the tramp chuckled again.

"What made you get out?" And now Nat was all attention.

"Folks didn't like me around."

"Didn't you treat them fairly?"

"Sure I did, but they thought their barns was too good for Tom Nolan to
sleep in."

"And that's why they chased you away, eh?"

"Thet's it, my young friend. It was this way--to tell the plain truth.
One night I went to sleep in a barn with my pipe in my mouth. Fust thing
I knowed some hay got afire. A man came runnin' to put the fire out, and
I had to leg it to git away."

"Was that up between Caswell and Brookville?"

"You've struck it, but--but--what's this to you, anyway?" and now Tom
Nolan began to look disturbed.

"It's a good deal to me. That was my uncle's barn, and I was accused of
setting it on fire."

"Gee shoo! Yer don't say! Say, I've put my foot into it, ain't I?"

"You certainly have."

"But, say, honest, I--I didn't mean to set the shebang afire--not on my
life, I didn't."

"You were smoking, and fell asleep."

"Thet's the honest truth o' the matter, my young friend. I'm a tramp,
an' down on my luck, but I ain't no barn burner, not me!"

"Well, you had better come with me," said Nat, decidedly.

"What are yer goin' to do?"

"I want a witness to what you just said."

"Goin' to have me--me locked up?"

"No, it's not worth it. I only want to prove to my uncle that I am not
guilty, that's all."

The tramp followed Nat down into the street and then over to John
Garwell's office.

"Why, what does this mean, Nat?" demanded his employer, in astonishment,
for visits from tramps were unusual.

Our hero lost no time in telling his story.

"I want my uncle Abner to know that I am innocent, that's all," he
continued. "It won't do any good to hold this chap, for the barn wasn't
hurt much, anyway."

"I'll settle this," said Mr. Garwell, and called in a stenographer, who
took down what the tramp had to say. Then the confession was
typewritten, and Tom Nolan signed it, and John Garwell added his
signature as a witness.

"There, Nat, that is all right now," said the real estate broker. "You
can send that to your uncle when you please, and we can keep a copy."

"This is all I want," said our hero to the tramp. "You may go now."

"Don't want no more o' me?" asked Tom Nolan.

"Nothing whatever."

"Say, ain't this confession good fer a quarter?"

"I'll give you a quarter if you'll promise not to spend it for drink."

"I'll promise," said the tramp, and Nat handed him twenty-five cents.
Tom Nolan thanked him, and shuffled off; and that was the last our hero
saw or heard of him.

"I'm sorry I lost so much time," said Nat to his employer. "But I wanted
to square myself with Uncle Abner if I could."

"I don't blame you, Nat. I have no doubt it is a great worry off your
mind."

"It is. Now, Uncle Abner will know I told him the plain truth."

That night Nat wrote Abner Balberry a long letter, telling of his
meeting with the tramp. He enclosed the signed confession, and he had
the letter registered, so that it might not get lost in the mails. A few
days later came a reply, in which Nat's uncle said he remembered seeing
the tramp around on the day of the fire, and stating that he was very
sorry that he had ever thought his nephew guilty.

Nat's work frequently took him out of town, and on one occasion he had
to go to Albany, a trip which he enjoyed thoroughly, as it gave him a
chance to visit the State Capitol.

"Nat," said John Garwell one day, "didn't you once tell me, that your
father and grandfather had come from New York and Brooklyn?"

"Yes, sir."

"Was your grandfather ever interested in some property around Central
Park?"

"I don't know but what he was. But he got rid of his belongings, so I
was told, when he moved away."

"Did you ever see any of the papers?"

"Yes, sir, some years ago. They were in a trunk up in my uncle Abner's
garret."

"What was your grandfather's full name?"

"Chester Stout Nason. His mother was a Stout."

"And your father's full name?"

"William Henry Nason."

"Did he have any brothers?"

"No, sir--only a sister, who was Uncle Abner's first wife."

"I see. Are those papers still in the trunk you just mentioned?"

"They ought to be. They were packed away with some old account
books--bad debts, I once heard father call them. Father had an idea he
could collect some of the debts some day. But I guess they are
outlawed."

"More than likely. I'd like to see those papers regarding that land near
Central Park."

"Why, Mr. Garwell? Do you think there is anything in it for me?" cried
our hero, quickly.

"I'm not prepared to say that until I see the papers. I am looking up
six parcels of land, which a certain company want for the purpose of
putting up a big hotel. Some of the old deeds mention a Chester S. Nason
as holding a half-interest in one of the plots of ground--the interest
being assigned to him in payment of a claim he had on one Maurice LeRoy.
Did you ever hear of such a man?"

"No, sir."

"Well, supposing you get those papers for me, and let me examine them."

"Shall I send to Uncle Abner for them?"

"I think it might be better for you to go home and sort out the papers
yourself. I'll explain just what I am after. Besides, if the papers are
valuable, you had better not trust them to the mails. I'll pay your
railroad fares."

"All right, I'll go home for them whenever you say, Mr. Garwell. I hope
the papers do prove valuable," and Nat smiled broadly.

"Don't raise false hopes, Nat. There may be nothing in it. But there is
nothing like being sure."

"Is the tract of land valuable?"

"Very. It is located in the most fashionable territory around Central
Park."

"When do you want me to go home?"

"You can start to-morrow if you wish. There is no rush of business on
just at present. I presume you will be back within four or five days?"

"I'll come back as soon as possible."

"Take your time. A couple of days on the farm will do you good. It will
be like a touch of old times."

"That is true," answered Nat.

The opportunity to go back to the farm pleased him. He packed his
dress-suit case that night, and left on the ten-o'clock train in the
morning. He was dressed in his best and had quite a city air about him.
Certainly he could no longer be called a "greeny."

Nat spent the night at Cleveland, and took the train to Brookville in
the morning. Almost the first person he met in the town was Sam Price.

"Hullo, are you back?" cried the country boy, shaking hands.

"Back for a few days, Sam."

"You look fine, Nat."

"I feel fine. How are you getting along?"

"Pretty good. Life on the farm is rather slow. Somebody told me you were
tired of the city."

"It isn't true, Sam."

"Fred Guff says he wants to go to the city, too, but his mother won't
let him."

"I suppose Fred helps my uncle Abner?"

"Yes, but your uncle don't get along with him very well. Fred's too slow
for him."

Sam had driven to town with his buckboard, and he readily agreed to give
Nat a ride over to Abner Balberry's farm. They were soon on the way, and
less than an hour brought them in sight of the place.

"Some young man is coming, ma!" cried Fred, who was sitting on the
doorstep, munching an apple. "Sam Price is driving him."

"Wonder what he wants here?" said Mrs. Balberry, shading her eyes with
her hands. "Mercy sakes! It's Nat!"

"Nat!" repeated the boy. "Huh! if it's him I guess he's sick of the
city. I thought he wouldn't make a go of it."

"Don't you be too sure of that," said the mother, shortly. "Nat has more
ginger in him than you have."

By this time Nat was at the horseblock. He leaped off the buckboard,
and advanced to greet Mrs. Balberry and her son.

"How do you do?" he cried, cheerily. "Aren't you surprised to see me?"

"I certainly am," answered Mrs. Balberry, as she shook hands.

"Got tired of the city, eh?" came from Fred. "I knew it wouldn't last."

"Do you think you could do anything in the city?" demanded our hero,
sharply.

"Of course I could."

"It's hard work to get along in New York."

"I don't care--I wouldn't make a failure of it if I went. I guess you
wasn't smart enough for them New Yorkers," added Fred, maliciously.

"What makes you think that, Fred?"

"If it wasn't so you wouldn't be back."

"Have you given up your place with Mr. Garwell?" asked Mrs. Balberry.

"No, I'm home on a vacation of a couple of days, that's all."

"Oh, then you are going back?" came from Fred, and his face fell.

"Certainly I am. I have a first-class position, with a promise of
advancement, so it would be sheer foolishness for me to give it up."

"Ma said you were with a real estate man."

"Yes."

"That can't pay much."

"It pays very well."

"How much?"

"Ten dollars a week, at present. But I am to get more soon."

"You don't mean to say they pay you ten dollars a week," cried Fred.

"That is my regular salary."

"Then I'm going to the city to-morrow," said Fred, decidedly.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE PAPERS IN THE TRUNK


Nat now asked for his uncle and was told that his relative was at the
barn. Placing his dress-suit case in the house, he walked down to the
barn. In the meantime Sam Price had driven off.

"Uncle Abner, where are you?"

"Who's thet a-callin' me?" came from the farmer, as he looked forth from
one of the horse stalls.

"I've come to ask you for a job," went on Nat, lightly.

"Nat! How be you?" Abner came and shook hands. "Want a job? Is it all up
in New York?"

"No, uncle, I was only fooling. I came home for a vacation of a couple
of days, that's all."

"Well, you're welcome, Nat. But it must cost money to travel so far for
jest two days' vacation."

"I came for another purpose, too. Do you remember those old papers in
the trunk in the garret?"

"Those thet belonged to your father an' grandfather?"

"Yes. Well, I am going to look them over and see if they are of any
value."

"Ain't nuthin' of any use, Nat. I looked over 'em myself, one rainy day
when I didn't have nuthin' else to do."

"Mr. Garwell thinks some of them might be valuable."

"Does he know about 'em?"

"He only knows what I told him."

"The old debts is all outlawed."

"But there are other papers--something about some land grandfather had
an interest in."

"I don't know nuthin' about that. It's so long ago, I don't believe they
are worth a cent."

"Well, it won't do any harm to look them over, and show them to Mr.
Garwell," returned our hero.

It was approaching the noon hour, and in honor of Nat's arrival, Mrs.
Balberry prepared an extra good dinner, of which the boy partook freely.
It was plainly to be seen that the former widow was the ruler of the
house, and that she compelled Abner Balberry to be far more liberal than
had been his habit in years gone by.

"Have another piece of pie, Nat," said the lady of the house,
graciously.

"Thank you, but I've had enough," answered Nat.

"Better save what's left for to-morrow," suggested Abner Balberry.

"If Nat wants another piece, he shall have it," was the lady's quick
answer.

"Oh, certainly! certainly!"

