leading into the princess' boudoir open and close.  She turned to
behold the princess herself.
"Why, Gretchen, where are you going?"--noting the grey walking-dress,
the grey hat, the sensible square-toed shoes.
"I am going to visit a sick nurse," replied her Highness, avoiding the
other's eye.
"But shall you have time to dress for dinner?"
"That depends.  Besides, the official dinners are a great bore."  Her
Highness came forward, caught the dark head of the English girl between
her gloved hands, pressed it against her heart, bent and kissed it.
"What a lovely girl you are, Betty! always unruffled, always
even-tempered.  You will grow old very gracefully."
"I hope so; but I do not want to grow old at all.  Can't I go with
you?"--eagerly.
"Impossible; etiquette demands your presence here to-night.  If I am
late my rank and my errand will be my excuse.  What jolly times we used
to have in that quaint old boarding-school in St. John's Wood!  Do you
remember how we went to your noble father's country place one
Christmas?  I went incognita.  There was a children's party, and two
boys had a fisticuff over you.  Nobody noticed me those days.  I was
happy then."  The princess frowned.  It might have been the sign of
repression of tears.  Betty, with her head against the other's bosom,
could not see.  "I shall be lonely without you; for you can not stay on
here for ever.  If you could, it would be different.  I shall miss you.
Somehow you possess the faculty of calming me.  I am so easily stirred
into a passion; my temper is so surface-wise.  Some day, however, I
shall come to England and spend a whole month with you.  Will not that
be fine?"
"How melancholy your voice is!" cried Betty, trying without avail to
remove her Highness' hands.
"No, no; I want to hold you just so.  Perhaps I am sentimental
to-night.  I have all the moods, agreeable and disagreeable. . . .  Do
you love anybody?"
"Love anybody?  What do you mean?"--rising in spite of the protesting
hands.  "Do I look as if I were in love with anybody?"
They searched each other's eyes.
"Oh, you islanders!  Nobody can fathom what is going on in your hearts.
You never make any mistakes; you always seem to know which paths to
pursue; you are always right, always, always.  I'd like to see you
commit a folly, Betty; it's a wicked wish, I know, but I honestly wish
it.  There is certainly more Spanish blood in my veins than German.  I
am always making mistakes; I never know which path is the right one; I
am always wrong.  Do you believe it possible for a woman of birth and
breeding to fall in love with a man whom she has known only three days?"
"Three days!  Are you crazy, Hildegarde?"
"Call me Gretchen!"--imperiously.
"Gretchen, what has come over you?"
"I asked you a question."
"Well,"---a bit of color stealing into her cheeks,--"it is possible,
but very foolish.  One ought to know something of a man's character,"
went on Betty, "before permitting sentiment to enter into one's
thoughts."
"That is my own opinion, wise little white owl."  Her Highness took her
friend in her arms and kissed her, held her at arm's length, drew her
to her heart and again kissed her.  It was like a farewell.  Then she
let her go.  "If there is anything you need, make yourself at home with
my cases."  And her Highness was gone.
Betty gazed at the door through which dear Gretchen had passed, gazed
thoughtfully and anxiously.
"How oddly she acted!  I wonder--"  She made as though to run to the
door, but stopped, as if ashamed of the doubt which flashed into her
mind and out again.
The little clock on the mantel chimed forth the seventh hour, and she
rang for her maid.  It was time that she began dressing.
(Thus, for the present, I shall leave her.  There are several reasons
why my imagination should take this step; for, what should I know of a
woman's toilet, save in the general mysterious results?  However, I
feel at liberty to steal into the duke's dressing-room.  Here, while I
am not positive what happened, at least I can easily bring my
imagination to bear upon the picture.)
The duke was rather pleased with himself.  He liked to put on his state
uniform, with its blue-grey frock, the white doeskin trousers which
strapped under the patent-leather boots, the gold braid, the silver
saber and the little rope of medals strung across his full, broad
breast.  It was thus he created awe; it was thus he became truly the
sovereign, urbane and majestic.
His valet was buckling on the saber belt, when there came a respectful
tap on the door.
"Enter," said the duke, frowning.  One can not assert any particular
degree of dignity with a valet at one's side.
But it was only a corridor attendant who entered.  He approached the
duke's valet and presented a letter.
"For his serene Highness."  He bowed and backed out, closing the door
gently.
At once the valet bowed also and extended the letter to his master.
Formality is a fine thing in a palace.
"Ah, a letter," mused the duke, profoundly innocent of the viper which
was about to sting him.  "My glasses, Gustav; my eye-glasses!"
The valet hurried to the dresser and returned with the duke's state
eye-glasses.  These the duke perched deliberately upon the end of his
noble nose.  He opened the letter and read its contents.  The valet,
watching him slyly, saw him grow pale, then red, and finally
purple,--wrath has its rainbow.  His hands shook, the glasses slipped
from his palpitating nose.  And I grieve to relate that his serene
Highness swore something marvelous to hear.
"Damnation!" he said, or some such word.  "The little fool!"  Then,
suddenly remembering his dignity and the phrase that no man is a hero
to his valet, he pointed to his glasses, at the same time returning the
letter to its envelope, this letter which had caused this momentary
perturbation.  "Call the minister of police.  You will find him in the
smoking-room off the conservatory.  Make all haste!"
The valet flew out of the door, while the duke began pacing up and down
the room, muttering and growling, and balling his fists, and jingling
his shining medals.  He kicked over an inoffensive hassock and his
favorite hound, and I don't know how many long-winded German oaths he
let go.  (It's a mighty hard language to swear in, especially when a
man's under high pressure.)
"The silly little fool!  And on a night like this!  Curse it!  This is
what comes of mixing Spanish blood with German, of letting her aunt's
wishes overrule mine in the matter of education.  But she shall be
brought back, even if I have to ask the assistance of every sovereign
in Europe.  This is the end.  And I had planned such a pleasant evening
at cards!"  The duke was not wholly unselfish.
In less than ten minutes' time the valet returned with the minister of
police.  The duke immediately dismissed the valet.
"Your serene Highness sent for me?" asked the minister, shaking in his
boots.  There had been four ministers of police in three years.
"Yes.  Read this."
The minister took the letter.  He read it with bulging eyes.  "Good
heavens, it must be one of her Highness' jokes!"
"It will be a sorry joke for you if she crosses any of the frontiers."
"But--"
"But!" roared the duke.  "Don't you dare bring up that word scandal!
Seek her.  Turn everybody out,--the army, the police, everybody.  When
you locate her, telegraph, and have a special engine awaiting me at the
station.  And if you play a poor game of cards to-night I'll take away
your portfolio.  Remember, if she passes the frontier, off goes your
official head!"
"And the fellow, who is he?"
"The good Lord only knows!  That girl! . . .  Witness these grey hairs.
Put the rascal in irons; I'll attend to his case when I arrive. . . .
Where is Steinbock?"
"He was arrested this morning in Berlin; I have already applied for his
extradition."
"Good!  Now, be off with you!  Leave no stone unturned.  The expense is
nothing; I will gladly pay it out of my private purse."
"I'll find her," said the minister grimly.  His portfolio hung in the
balance.
All at once the duke struck his hands together jubilantly.
"What is it?" asked the minister.  "A clue?"
"Nothing, nothing!  Be gone; you are wasting time."
The minister of police dashed out of the room as if pursued by a
thousand devils.  He knew the duke's mood; it was not one to cross or
irritate.  No sooner was he gone than the duke left his apartments and
sought those of his niece.  It might be a joke; it would do no harm to
find out positively.  But the beautiful suite was empty; even her
Highness' maid was gone.  He then knocked on the door which led into
Betty's boudoir, not very gently either.
"Open!" he bellowed.
"Who is it?" demanded a maid's frightened voice.
"The duke!  Open instantly!"
"It is quite impossible," said another voice from within.  It was calm
and firm.  "I am dressing."
"I must see you this instant.  Open or I shall force the door!"
"Is your serene Highness mad?"
"Will you open this door?"
"You command it?"
"A hundred times, yes!"
"Since you command it."  The voice was no longer calm; it was sharp and
angry.
The wait seemed an hour to his serene Highness, serene no longer.  At
length the bolt slipped, and the irate duke shouldered his way in.  The
tableau which met his gaze embarrassed him for a space.  He was even
ashamed.  The Honorable Betty stood behind a tall-backed chair, an
opera cloak thrown hastily over her bare shoulders.  Her hair was
partly down.  A beautiful woman in a rage is a fascinating sight.  The
duke stared at her irresolutely.
"Will your Highness explain this extraordinary intrusion?" she
demanded.  "You have literally forced your way into my room while I am
dressing.  It is utterly outside my understanding."
"I am old enough to be your father."
"That is the weakest excuse you could give me.  At your age one's blood
ought to be cooled to a certain discretion.  My father, if he had had
anything important to say, would have remained on the other side of the
door.  I am not deaf.  Your explanation is in order."
The duke had never been talked to so plainly in all his life.  For a
while he was without voice, but had plenty of color.  "It is easily
explained," he finally bawled out to her.  "Her Highness has eloped!"
The girl stared at him with wide eyes.  "Eloped?" she breathed faintly.
"Yes, eloped."
Betty wondered if she heard aright, or if the duke were out of his
mind; and then she recollected her conversation with the princess.  Her
mouth opened as if to speak, but instead she closed her lips tightly.
That wilful girl; whatever would become of her!
"Give this letter to your mistress," said the duke to the maid.  "I
will station myself in the window while she reads it."
He strode over to the window and drew the curtains about him.  Below,
the night crowds were wandering about the streets; the band was playing
in the Volksgarten; carriages were rolling to and from the opera; the
fountain in the center of the square sparkled merrily in the glare of
the arc lights.  But the duke saw none of these things.  Rather he saw
the telegraphic despatches flying to the four ends of the globe,
telling the peoples that he, the Grand Duke of Barscheit, had been
outwitted by a girl; that the Princess Hildegarde had eloped with a man
who was not the chosen one.  In other words, he saw himself laughed at
from one end of the continent to the other.  (There is something very
funny in domestic troubles when they occur in another man's family!)
No, the duke saw not the beauty of the night; instead of stars he saw
asterisks, that abominable astronomy of the lampoonists.   He had never
doubted the girl's courage; but to elope! . . .  And who the devil
had eloped with her?  He knew the girl's natural pride; whoever the
fellow might be, he could be no less than a gentleman.  But who, who?
"Your Highness?" called a quiet (I might say deceptive) voice.
The duke came forth.
"Your Highness will do me the honor to make out my passports to-night.
I desire to leave the palace immediately.  The affront you have put
upon me, even under the circumstances, is wholly unpardonable.  You
imply that I have had something to do with her Highness' act.  You will
excuse me to her serene Highness, whom I love and respect.  My dignity
demands that I leave at once."
A flicker--but only a flicker--of admiration lighted the duke's eyes.
It was a plucky little baggage.
"I will issue your passports upon one condition," he said.
"And that condition?"--proudly.
"Tell me everything: Where has she gone, and with whom?"
"I know absolutely nothing."
Silence.  The duke gnawed his mustache, while his eyes strove in vain
to beat down hers.
"Thank you, I believe you."  Then, giving way to his wrath: "You
English people, you are all the same!  You never understand.  I have
brought up this girl and surrounded her with every luxury; against my
will and reason I have let her become educated in foreign lands; I have
given her the utmost freedom; this is how I am repaid."
"You forgot one important thing, your Highness."
"What?"--haughtily.
"Affection.  You have never gives her that."
The duke felt himself beaten into silence, and this did not add to his
amiability.
"Your passports shall be made out immediately; but I beg of you to
reconsider your determination, and to remain here as long as you
please.  For the sake of appearances, I desire your presence at the
dinner-table."
"I shall leave as soon as the dinner is over."  This girl's mind seemed
immovable.
The duke shrugged.  There was no use in beating against this wall.  "I
wish you knew whither she has gone."
"Frankly, if I knew I should not tell your Highness.  My father taught
me never to betray a confidence."
"As you will.  I beg your pardon for the abruptness of my entrance," he
said, choking down his wrath.  He could not allow himself to be
out-done in the matter of coolness by this chit of an English girl.
"I grant it you."
The duke then retired, or, I should say, retreated.  He wandered
aimlessly about the palace, waiting for news and making wretched all
those with whom he came in contact.  The duchess was not feeling well;
a wrangle with her was out of the question; besides, he would make
himself hoarse.  So he waited and waited, and re-read the princess'
letter.  At dinner he ate nothing; his replies were curt and surly.
The Honorable Betty also ate nothing.  She sat, wondering if her maid
could pack five trunks in two hours.
I had quite a time of it myself that night.  As I predicted, I received
a visit from the police in regard to Mr. Scharfenstein.  I explained
the matter the best I knew how, and confessed that he had hurriedly
left the city for parts unknown.  I did not consider it absolutely
essential that I should declare that I had seen him enter a railway
carriage for Dresden.  Besides this, I had to stand sponsor for the
other boys and explain at length that they were in no wise concerned
with Mr. Scharfenstein's great offense.  The police were courteous and
deferential, admitting that Max was the culprit.  He had drawn a
revolver in a public restaurant; he had broken a grave law.  The
inspector wrote a dozen telegrams and despatched them from the
consulate.  I had, at his request, offered him the blanks.
At eleven I received a telephone call from the Continental Hotel.  It
was a woman's voice, and my heart beat violently as I recognized it.  I
was requested to come at once to the hotel.  I should find her in the
ladies' salon.  I walked the distance in ten minutes.  She told me all
that had happened.
"By this time it is all over the city.  But it is all nonsense about
her Highness' eloping with any one.  She is too nobly born to commit
such a folly.  She has simply run away; and I very much fear that she
will be caught.  The duke is in a terrible temper.  I could not remain
in the palace, for the duke suspects that I know where she has gone.  I
have my passports.  The British consul is away hunting.  You were the
only English-speaking person to whom I could come for aid."
"I am very glad."
"Will it be asking too much of you to aid me in leaving Barscheit
to-night?  There is a train at one o'clock for Dresden."
"Leave Barscheit?"  My heart sank dismally.
"Oh,"--with a smile,--"the world is small and England is even smaller."
"I shall have to give up the consulate,"--gravely.
She laughed.  "I shall be in England for something more than a year.
Truthfully, I hunger for mine own people.  You know what that hunger
is."
"Yes.  I shall go home as often as possible now.  I always stop a few
days in London."
"Then I shall expect to see you; perhaps during the holidays.  I am
determined to leave Barscheit before the duke changes his mind.
Heavens, he may put me in prison!"
"I doubt that."
I saw to it that she secured a sleeping-compartment all to herself,
took charge of her luggage and carefully examined her papers.  Then we
had a small supper.  I wanted to ask a thousand questions, but my
courage lacked the proper key.
"May I have the pleasure of writing to you occasionally?" I finally
ventured.  "I am sure that you would like a bit of Barscheit gossip
from time to time."
"Write to me, by all means.  I shall await these letters with great
pleasure."
"And answer them?"--growing bolder.
"It is easily seen that you are a diplomat.  Yes, I shall answer them.
Heigh-ho!  I shall miss my rides."  What a brave little woman she was!
Finally we started for the station, and I saw her to the gates.  We
shook hands, and I was sure I felt a very friendly pressure; and then
she disappeared.  There was altogether a different feeling in my heart
as I watched her train draw out.  Eh, well, the world is small and
England is smaller, even as she had said.  It's a mighty fine world,
when you get the proper angle of vision.
IX
There was very little light in the compartment into which Max had so
successfully dived.  Some one had turned down the wicks of the oil
lamps which hung suspended between the luggage-racks above, and the
gloom was notable rather than subdued.  So far as he was concerned he
was perfectly contented; his security was all the greater.  He pressed
his face against the window and peered out.  The lights of the city
flashed by, and finally grew few and far between, and then came the
blackness of the country.  It would take an hour and a half to cross
the frontier, and there would be no stop this side, for which he was
grateful.  He swore, mumbling.  To have come all this way to study, and
then to leg it in this ignominious fashion!  It was downright
scandalous!  Whoever heard of such laws?  Of course he had been rather
silly in pulling his gun, for even in the United States--where he
devoutly wished himself at that moment--it was a misdemeanor to carry
concealed weapons.  He felt of his cheek.  He would return some day,
and if it was the last thing he ever did, he would slash that
lieutenant's cheeks.  The insolent beggar!  To be struck and not to
strike back!  He choked.
Gradually his eyes became accustomed to the dim light, and he cast
about.
"The deuce!" he muttered.
He was not alone.  Huddled in the far corner was a woman heavily
veiled.  Young or old, he could not tell.  She sat motionless, and
appeared to be looking out of the opposite window.  Well, so long as
she did not bother him he would not bother her.  But he would much
rather have been alone.
He took out his passport and tried to read it.  It was impossible.  So
he rose, steadied himself, and turned up the wick of one of the lamps.
He did not hear the muffled exclamation which came from the other end.
He dropped back upon the cushion and began to read.  So he was George
Ellis, an American student in good standing; he was aged twenty-nine,
had blue eyes, light hair, was six feet tall, and weighed one hundred
and fifty-four pounds.  Ha! he had, then, lost thirty pounds in as many
minutes?  At this rate he wouldn't cast a shadow when he struck
Dresden.  He had studied three years at the college; but what the deuce
had he studied?  If they were only asleep at the frontier!  He returned
the document to his pocket, and as he did so his fingers came into
contact with the purse he had picked up in the road that
morning--Hildegarde von Heideloff.  What meant Fate in crossing her
path with his?  He had been perfectly contented in mind and heart
before that first morning ride; and here he was, sighing like a
furnace.  She had been merely pretty on Monday, on Tuesday she had been
handsome, on Wednesday she had been adorable; now she was the most
beautiful woman that ever lived.  (Ah, the progressive adjective, that
litany of love!)  Alas! it was quite evident that she had passed out of
his life as suddenly and mysteriously as she had entered it.  He would
keep the purse as a souvenir, and some day, when he was an old man, he
would open it.
There is something compelling in the human eye, a magnetism upon which
Science has yet to put her cold and unromantic finger.  Have you never
experienced the sensation that some [Transcriber's note: someone?] was
looking at you?  Doubtless you have.  Well, Max presently turned his
glance toward his silent fellow traveler.  She had lifted her veil and
was staring at him with wondering, fearing eyes.  These eyes were
somewhat red, as if the little bees of grief had stung them.
"You!" he cried, the blood thumping into his throat.  He tossed his hat
to the floor and started for her end of the compartment.
She held up a hand as if to ward off his approach.  "I can hear
perfectly," she said; "it is not needful that you should come any
nearer."
He sat down confused.  He could not remember when his heart had beaten
so irregularly.
"May I ask how you came to enter this compartment?" she asked coldly.
"I jumped in,"--simply.  What was to account for this strange attitude?
"So I observe.  What I meant was, by what right?"
"It happened to be the only door at hand, and I was in a great hurry."
Where was his usual collectedness of thought?  He was embarrassed and
angry at the knowledge.
"Did you follow me?"  Her nostrils were palpitating and the corners of
her mouth were drawn aggressively.
"Follow you?" amazed that such an idea should enter into her head.
"Why, you are the last person I ever expected to see again.  Indeed,
you are only a fairy-story; there is, I find, no such person as
Hildegarde von Heideloff."  Clearly he was recovering.
"I know it,"--candidly.  "It was my mother's name, and I saw fit to use
it."  She really hoped he hadn't followed her.
"You had no need to use it, or any name, for that matter.  When I gave
you my name it was given in good faith.  The act did not imply that I
desired to know yours."
"But you did!"--imperiously.
"Yes.  Curiosity is the brain of our mental anatomy."  When Max began
to utter tall phrases it was a sign of even-balanced mentality.
"And if I hadn't told you my name, you would have asked for it."
"Not the first day."
"Well, you would have on Tuesday."
"Not a bit of a doubt."  He certainly wouldn't show her how much he
cared.  (What was she doing in this carriage?  She had said nothing
that morning about traveling.)
"Well, you will admit that under the circumstances I had the right to
give any name it pleased me to give."
He came over to her end and sat down.  Her protests (half-hearted) he
ignored.
"I can not see very well from over there," he explained.
"It is not necessary that you should see; you can hear what I have to
say."
"Very well; I'll go back."  And he did.  He made a fine pretense of
looking out of the window.  Why should this girl cross his path at this
unhappy moment?
There was a pause.
"You are not near so nice as you were this morning," she said presently.
"I can't be nice and sit away over here."
"What made you jump into this compartment, of all others?"
"I wasn't particular what compartment I got into so long as I got into
one.  As I said, I was in a hurry."
"You said nothing this morning about going away from Barscheit."
"Neither did you."
Another pause.  (I take it, from the character of this dialogue, that
their morning rides must have been rather interesting.)
"You told me that you were in Barscheit to study nerves,"--wickedly.
"So thought I, up to half-past nine to-night; but it appears that I am
not,"--gloomily.
"You are running away, too?"--with suppressed eagerness.
"Running away, too!" he repeated.  "Are you running away?"
"As fast as ever the train can carry me.  I am on the way to Dresden."
"Dresden?  It seems that Fate is determined that we shall travel
together this day.  Dresden is my destination also."
"Let me see your passports,"--extending a firm white hand.
He obeyed docilely, as docilely as though he were married.  She gave
the paper one angry glance and tossed it back.
"George Ellis; so that is your name?"--scornfully.  "You told me that
it was Scharfenstein.  I did not ask you to tell me your name; you took
that service upon yourself."  She recalled the duke's declaration that
he should have her every movement watched.  If this American was
watching her, the duke was vastly more astute than she had given him
the credit for being.  "Are you in the pay of the duke?  Come, confess
that you have followed me, that you have been watching me for these
four days."  How bitter the cup of romance tasted to her now!  She had
been deceived.  "Well, you shall never take me from this train save by
force.  I will not go back!"
"I haven't the slightest idea of what you are talking about," he said,
mightily discouraged.  "I never saw this country till Monday, and never
want to see it again."
"From what are you running away then?"--skeptically.
"I am running away from a man who slapped me in the face,"--bitterly;
and all his wrongs returned to him.
"Indeed!"--derisively.
"Yes, I!"  He thrust out both his great arms miserably.  "I'm a
healthy-looking individual, am I not, to be running away from anything?"
"Especially after having been a soldier in the Spanish War.  Why did
you tell me that your name was Scharfenstein?"
"Heaven on earth, it is Scharfenstein!  I'm simply taking my chance
on another man's passports."
"I am unconvinced,"--ungraciously.  She was, however, inordinately
happy; at the sight of the picture of woe on his face all her trust in
him returned.  She believed every word he said, but she wanted to know
everything.
"Very well; I see that I must tell you everything to get back into your
good graces--Fräulein von Heideloff."
"If you ever were in my good graces!"
Graphically he recounted the adventure at Müller's.  He was a capital
story-teller, and he made a very good impression.
"If it hadn't been for the princess' eloping I should not have been
here," he concluded, "for my friend would have had a waiter bring me
that chair."
"The princess' eloping!"--aghast.
"Why, yes.  It seems that she eloped to-night; so the report came from
the palace."
The girl sat tight, as they say; then suddenly she burst into
uncontrollable laughter.  It was the drollest thing she had ever heard.
She saw the duke tearing around the palace, ordering the police hither
and thither, sending telegrams, waking his advisers and dragging them
from their beds.  My! what a hubbub!  Suddenly she grew serious.
"Have you the revolver still?"
"Yes."
"Toss it out of the window; quick!"
"But--"
"Do as I say.  They will naturally search you at the frontier."
He took out the revolver and gazed regretfully at it, while the girl
could not repress a shudder.
"What a horrible-looking thing!"
"I carried it all through the war."
"Throw it away and buy a new one."
"But the associations!"
"They will lock you up as a dangerous person."  She let down the window
and the cold night air rushed in.  "Give it to me."  He did so.  She
flung it far into the night.  "There, that is better.  Some day you
will understand."
"I shall never understand anything in this country--What are you
running away from?"
"A man with a red nose."
"A red nose?  Are they so frightful here as all that?"
"This one is.  He wants--to marry me."
"Marry you!"
"Yes; rather remarkable that any man should desire me as a wife, isn't
it?"
He saw that she was ironical.  Having nothing to say, he said nothing,
but looked longingly at the vacant space beside her.
She rested her chin upon the sill of the window and gazed at the stars.
A wild rush of the wind beat upon her face, bringing a thousand vague
heavy perfumes and a pleasant numbing.  How cleverly she had eluded the
duke's police!  What a brilliant idea it had been to use her private
carriage key to steal into the carriage compartment long before the
train was made up!  It had been some trouble to light the lamps, but in
doing so she had avoided the possible dutiful guard.  He had peered
in, but, seeing that the lamps were lighted, concluded that one of his
fellows had been the rounds.
The police would watch all those who entered or left the station, but
never would they think to search a carriage into which no one had been
seen to enter.  But oh, what a frightful predicament she was in!  All
she possessed in the world was a half-crown, scarce enough for her
breakfast.  And if she did not find her governess at once she would be
lost utterly, and in Dresden!  She choked back the sob.  Why couldn't
they let her be?  She didn't want to marry any one--that is, just yet.
She didn't want her wings clipped, before she had learned what a fine
thing it was to fly.  She was young.
"Oh!"
"What is it?" she said, turning.
"I have something of yours," answered Max, fumbling in his pocket,
grateful for some excuse to break the silence.  "You dropped your purse
this morning.  Permit me to return it to you.  I hadn't the remotest
idea how I was going to return it.  In truth, I had just made up my
mind to keep it as a souvenir."
She literally snatched it from his extended hand.
"My purse!  My purse!  And I thought it was gone for ever!" hugging it
hysterically to her heart.  She feverishly tried to unlatch the clasps.
"You need not open it," he said quietly, even proudly, "I had not
thought of looking into it, even to prove your identity."
"Pardon!  I did not think.  I was so crazy to see it again."  She laid
the purse beside her.  "You see," with an hysterical catch in her
voice, "all the money I had in the world was in that purse, and I was
running away without any money, and only Heaven knows what misfortunes
were about to befall me.  There were, and are, a thousand crowns in the
purse."
"A thousand crowns?"
"In bank-notes.  Thank you, thank you!  I am so happy!"--clasping her
hands.  Then, with a smile as warm as the summer's sun, she added: "You
may--come and sit close beside me.  You may even smoke."
Max grew light-headed.  This was as near Heaven as he ever expected to
get.
"Open your purse and look into it," he said.  "I'm a brute; you are
dying to do so."
"May I?"--shyly.
Then it came into Max's mind, with all the brilliancy of a dynamo
spark, that this was the one girl in all the world, the ideal he had
been searching for; and he wanted to fall at her feet and tell her so.
"Look!" she cried gleefully, holding up the packet of bank-notes.
"I wish," he said boyishly, "that you didn't have any money at all, so
I could help you and feel that you depended upon me."
She smiled.  How a woman loves this simple kind of flattery!  It tells
her better what she may wish to know than a thousand hymns sung in
praise of her beauty.
But even as he spoke a chill of horror went over Max.  He put his hand
hurriedly into his vest-pocket.  Fool!  Ass!  How like a man!  In
changing his clothes at the consulate he had left his money, and all he
had with him was some pocket change.
The girl saw his action and read the sequence in the look of dismay
which spread over his face.
"You have no money either?" she cried.  She separated the packet of
notes into two equal parts.  "Here!"
He smiled weakly.
"Take them!"
"No, a thousand times, no!  I have a watch, and there's always a
pawnbroker handy, even in Europe."
"You offered to help me," she insisted.
"It is not quite the same."
"Take quarter of it."
"No.  Don't you understand?  I really couldn't."
"One, just one, then!" she pleaded.
An idea came to him.  "Very well; I will take one."  And when she gave
it to him he folded it reverently and put it away.
"I understand!" she cried.  "You are just going to keep it; you don't
intend to spend it at all.  Don't be foolish!"
"I shall notify my friend, when we reach Doppelkinn, that I am without
funds, and he will telegraph to Dresden."
"Your friends were very wise in sending you away as they did.  Aren't
you always getting into trouble?"
"Yes.  But I doubt the wisdom of my friends in sending me away as they
did,"--with a frank glance into her eyes.  How beautiful they were, now
that the sparkle of mischief had left them!
She looked away.  If only Doppelkinn were young like this!  She sighed.
"Can they force one to marry in this country?" he asked abruptly.
"When one is in my circumstances."
He wanted to ask what those circumstances were, but what he said was:
"Is there anything I can do to help you?"
"You are even more helpless than I am,"--softly.  "If you are caught
you will be imprisoned.  I shall only suffer a temporary loss of
liberty; my room will be my dungeon-keep."  How big and handsome and
strong he looked!  What a terrible thing it was to be born in purple!
"Tell me about yourself."
His hand strayed absently toward his upper vest-pocket, and then fell
to his side.  He licked his lips.
"Smoke!" she commanded intuitively.  "I said that you might."
"I can talk better when I smoke," he advanced rather lamely.  "May I,
then?"--gratefully.
"I command it!"
Wasn't it fine to be ordered about in this fashion?  If only the train
might go on and on and on, thousands of miles!  He applied a match to
the end of his cigar and leaned back against the cushion.
"Where shall I begin?"
"At the beginning.  I'm not one of those novel readers who open a book
at random.  I do not appreciate effects till I have found out the
causes.  I want to know everything about you, for you interest me."
He began.  He told her that he was a German by birth and blood.  He had
been born either in Germany or in Austria, he did not know which.  He
had been found in Tyrol, in a railway station.  A guard had first
picked him up, then a kind-hearted man named Scharfenstein had taken
him in charge, advertised for his parents and, hearing nothing, had
taken him to America with him.
"If they catch you," she interrupted, "do not under any consideration
let them know that you were not born in the United States.  Your friend
the American consul could do nothing for you then."
"Trust me to keep silent, then."  He continued: "I have lived a part of
my life on the great plains; have ridden horses for days and days at a
time.  As a deputy sheriff I have arrested desperadoes, have shot and
been shot at.  Then I went East and entered a great college; went in
for athletics, and wore my first dress-suit.  Then my foster-parent
died, leaving me his fortune.  And as I am frugal, possibly because of
my German origin, I have more money than I know what to do with."  He
ceased.
"Go on," she urged.
"When the Spanish War broke out I entered a cavalry regiment as a
trooper.  I won rank, but surrendered it after the battle of Santiago.
And now there are but two things in the world I desire to complete my
happiness.  I want to know who I am."
"And the other thing?"
"The other thing?  I can't tell you that!"--hurriedly.
"Ah, I believe I know.  You have left some sweetheart back in America."
All her interest In his narrative took a strange and unaccountable
slump.
"No; I have often admired women, but I have left no sweetheart back in
America.  If I had I should now feel very uncomfortable."
Somehow she couldn't meet his eyes.  She recognized, with vague anger,
that she was glad that he had no sweetheart.  Ah, well, nobody could
rob her of her right to dream, and this was a very pleasant dream.
"The train is slowing down," he said suddenly.
"We are approaching the frontier."  She shaded her eyes and searched
the speeding blackness outside.
"How far is it to the capital?" he asked.
"It lies two miles beyond the frontier."
Silence fell upon them, and at length the train stopped with a jerk.
In what seemed to them an incredibly short time a guard unlocked the
door.
He peered in.
"Here they are, sure enough, your Excellency!" addressing some one in
the dark beyond.
An officer from the military household of the Prince of Doppelkinn was
instantly framed in the doorway.  The girl tried to lower her veil; too
late.
"I am sorry to annoy your Highness," he began, "but the grand duke's
orders are that you shall follow me to the castle.  Lieutenant, bring
two men to tie this fellow's hands,"--nodding toward Scharfenstein.
Max stared dumbly at the girl.  All the world seemed to have slipped
from under his feet.
"Forgive me!" she said, low but impulsively.
"What does it mean?"  His heart was very heavy.
"I am the Princess Hildegarde of Barscheit, and your entering this
carriage has proved the greatest possible misfortune to you."
He stared helplessly--And everything had been going along so
nicely--the dinner he had planned in Dresden, and all that!
"And they believe," the girl went on, "that I have eloped with you to
avoid marrying the prince."  She turned to the officer in the doorway.
"Colonel, on the word of a princess, this gentleman is in no wise
concerned.  I ran away alone."
Max breathed easier.
"I should be most happy to believe your Highness, but you will honor my
strict observance of orders."  He passed a telegram to her.
Search train for Doppelkinn.  Princess has eloped.  Arrest and hold
pair till I arrive on special engine.
Barscheit.
The telegraph is the true arm of the police.  The princess sighed
pathetically.  It was all over.
"Your passports," said the colonel to Max.
Max surrendered his papers.  "You need not tie my hands," he said
calmly.  "I will come peaceably."
The colonel looked inquiringly at the princess.
"He will do as he says."
"Very good.  I should regret to shoot him upon so short an
acquaintance."  The colonel beckoned for them to step forth.
"Everything is prepared.  There is a carriage for the convenience of
your Highness; Herr Ellis shall ride horseback with the troop."
Max often wondered why he did not make a dash for it, or a running
fight.  What he had gone through that night was worth a good fight.
"Good-by," said the princess, holding out her hand.
Scharfenstein gravely bent his head and kissed it.
"Good-by, Prince Charming!" she whispered, so softly that Max scarcely
heard her.
Then she entered the closed carriage and was driven up the dark,
tree-enshrouded road that led to the Castle of Doppelkinn.
"What are you going to do with me?" Max asked, as he gathered up the
reins of his mount.
"That we shall discuss later.  Like as not something very unpleasant.
For one thing you are passing under a forged passport.  You are not
an American, no matter how well you may speak that language.  You are a
German."
"There are Germans in the United States, born and bred there, who speak
German tolerably well," replied Max easily.  He was wondering if it
would not be a good scheme to tell a straightforward story and ask to
be returned to Barscheit.  But that would probably appeal to the
officer that he was a coward and was trying to lay the blame on the
princess.
"I do not say that I can prove it," went on the colonel; "I simply
affirm that you are a German, even to the marrow."
"You have the advantage of the discussion."  No; he would confess
nothing.  If he did he might never see the princess again. . . .  The
princess!  As far away as yonder stars!  It was truly a very
disappointing world to live in.
"Now, then, forward!" cried the colonel to his men, and they set off at
a sharp trot.
From time to time, as a sudden twist in the road broke the straight
line, Max could see the careening lights of the princess' carriage.  A
princess!  And he was a man without a country or a name!
X
The castle of the prince of Doppelkinn rested in the very heart of the
celebrated vineyards.  Like all German castles I ever saw or heard of,
it was a relic of the Middle Ages, with many a crumbling, useless tower
and battlement.  It stood on the south side of a rugged hill which was
gashed by a narrow but turbulent stream, in which lurked the rainbow
trout that lured the lazy man from his labors afield.  (And who among
us shall cast a stone at the lazy man?  Not I!)  If you are fortunate
enough to run about Europe next year, as like as not you will be
mailing home the "Doppelkinn" post-card.
More than once I have wandered about the castle's interior, cavernous
and musty, strolled through its galleries of ancient armor, searched
its dungeon-keeps, or loitered to soliloquize in the gloomy judgment
chamber.  How time wars upon custom!  In olden times they created pain;
now they strive to subdue it.
I might go into a detailed history of the Doppelkinns, only it would be
absurd and unnecessary, since it would be inappreciable under the name
of Doppelkinn, which happens to be, as doubtless you have already
surmised, a name of mine own invention.  I could likewise tell you how
the ancient dukes of Barscheit fought off the insidious flattery of
Napoleon, only it is a far interest, and Barscheit is simply a
characteristic, not a name.  Some day I may again seek a diplomatic
mission, and what government would have for its representative a teller
of tales out of school?
It was, then, to continue the fortunes and misfortunes of Max
Scharfenstein, close to midnight when the cavalcade crossed the old
moat-bridge, which hadn't moved on its hinges within a hundred years.
They were not entering by the formal way, which was a flower-bedded,
terraced road.  It was the rear entrance.  The iron doors swung outward
with a plaintive moaning, like that of a man roused out of his sleep,
and Max found himself in an ancient guard-room, now used as a kind of
secondary stable.  The men dismounted.
"This way, Herr Ellis," said the colonel, with a mocking bow.  He
pointed toward a broad stone staircase.
"All I ask," said Max, "is a fair chance to explain my presence here."
"All in due time.  Forward!  The prince is waiting, and his temper may
not be as smooth as usual."
With two troopers in front of him and two behind, Max climbed the steps
readily enough.  They wouldn't dare kill him, whatever they did.  He
tried to imagine himself the hero of some Scott or Dumas tale, with a
grim cardinal somewhere above, and oubliettes and torture chambers
besetting his path.  But the absurdity of his imagination, so
thoroughly Americanized, evoked a ringing laughter.  The troopers eyed
him curiously.  He might laugh later, but it was scarcely probable.  A
tramp through a dark corridor and they came to the west wing of the
castle.  It was here that the old prince lived, comfortably and
luxuriously enough, you may take my word for it.
A door opened, flooding the corridor with light.  Max felt himself
gently pushed over the threshold.  He stood in the great living-room of
the modern Doppelkinns.  The first person he saw was the princess.  She
sat on an oriental divan.  Her hands were folded; she sat very erect;
her chin was tilted ominously; there was so little expression on her
pale face that she might have been an incomplete statue.  But Max was
almost certain that there was just the faintest flicker of a smile in
her eyes as she saw him enter.  Glorious eyes!  (It is a bad sign when
a man begins to use the superlative adjectives!)
The other occupant of the room was an old man, fat and bald, with a
nose like a russet pear.  He was stalking--if it is possible for a
short man to stalk--up and down the length of the room, and, judging
from the sonorous, rumbling sound, was communing half-aloud.
Betweenwhiles he was rubbing his tender nose, carefully and lovingly.
When a man's nose resembles a russet pear it generally is tender.
Whoever he was, Max saw that he was vastly agitated about something.
This old gentleman was (or supposed he was) the last of his line, the
Prince of Doppelkinn, famous for his wines and his love of them.  There
was, so his subjects said, but one tender spot in the heart of this old
man, and that was the memory of the wife of his youth.  (How the years,
the good and bad, crowd behind us, pressing us on and on!) However,
there was always surcease in the cellars--that is, the Doppelkinn
cellars.
"Ha!" he roared as he saw the blinking Max.  "So this is the fellow!"
He made an eloquent gesture.  "Your Highness must be complimented upon
your good taste.  The fellow isn't bad-looking."
"When you listen to reason, Prince," replied the girl calmly, "you will
apologize to the gentleman and give him his liberty."
"Oh, he is a gentleman, is he?"
"You might learn from him many of the common rules of
courtesy,"--tranquilly.
"Who the devil are you?" the prince demanded of Max.
"I should be afraid to tell you.  I hold that I am Max Scharfenstein,
but the colonel here declares that my name is Ellis.  Who are you?"
Max wasn't the least bit frightened.  These were not feudal times.
The prince stared at him.  The insolent puppy!
"I am the prince."
"Ah, your serene Highness,"--began Max, bowing.
"I am not called 'serene'"--rudely.  "The grand duke is 'serene.'"
"Permit me to doubt that," interposed the girl, smiling.
Max laughed aloud, which didn't improve his difficulties any.
"I have asked you who you are!" bawled the prince, his nose turning
purple.
"My name is Max Scharfenstein.  I am an American.  If you will wire the
American consulate at Barscheit, you will learn that I have spoken the
truth.  All this is a mistake.  The princess did not elope with me."
"His papers give the name of Ellis," said the colonel, touching his cap.
"Humph!  We'll soon find out who he is and what may be done with him.
I'll wait for the duke.  Take him into the library and lock the door.
It's a hundred feet out of the window, and if he wants to break his
neck, he may do so.  It will save us so much trouble.  Take him away;
take him away!" his rage boiling to the surface.
The princess shrugged.
"I can't talk to you either," said the prince, turning his glowering
eyes upon the girl.  "I can't trust myself."
"Oh, do not mind me.  I understand that your command of expletives is
rather original.  Go on; it will be my only opportunity."  The princess
rocked backward and forward on the divan.  Wasn't it funny!
"Lord help me, and I was perfectly willing to marry this girl!"  The
prince suddenly calmed down.  "What have I ever done to offend you?"
"Nothing," she was forced to admit.
"I was lonely.  I wanted youth about.  I wanted to hear laughter that
came from the heart and not from the mind.  I do not see where I am to
be blamed.  The duke suggested you to me; I believed you to be willing.
Why did you not say to me that I was not agreeable?  It would have
simplified everything."
"I am sorry," she said contritely.  When he spoke like this he wasn't
so unlovable.
"People say," he went on, "that I spend most of my time in my
wine-cellars.  Well,"--defiantly,--"what else is there for me to do?  I
am alone."  Max came within his range of vision.  "Take him away, I
tell you!"
And the colonel hustled Max into the library.
"Don't try the window," he warned, but with rather a pleasant smile.
He was only two or three years older than Max.  "If you do, you'll
break your neck."
"I promise not to try," replied Max.  "My neck will serve me many years
yet."
"It will not if you have the habit of running away with persons above
you in quality.  Actions like that are not permissible in Europe."  The
colonel spoke rather grimly, for all his smile.
The door slammed, there was a grinding of the key in the lock, and Max
was alone.
The library at Doppelkinn was all the name implied.  The cases were low
and ran around the room, and were filled with romance, history,
biography, and even poetry.  The great circular reading-table was
littered with new books, periodicals and illustrated weeklies.  Once
Doppelkinn had been threatened with a literary turn of mind, but a bad
vintage coming along at the same time had effected a permanent cure.
Max slid into a chair and took up a paper, turning the pages at
random.--What was the matter with the room?  Certainly it was not
close, nor damp, nor chill.  What was it?  He let the paper fall to the
floor, and his eyes roved from one object to another.--Where had he
seen that Chinese mask before, and that great silver-faced clock?
Somehow, mysterious and strange as it seemed, all this was vaguely
familiar to him.  Doubtless he had seen a picture of the room
somewhere.  He rose and wandered about.
In one corner of the bookshelves stood a pile of boy's books and some
broken toys with the dust of ages upon them.  He picked up a row of
painted soldiers, and balanced them thoughtfully on his hand.  Then he
looked into one of the picture-books.  It was a Santa Claus story; some
of the pictures were torn and some stuck together, a reminder of
sticky, candied hands.  He gently replaced the book and the toys, and
stared absently into space.  How long he stood that way he did not
recollect, but he was finally aroused by the sound of slamming doors
and new voices.  He returned to his chair and waited for the
dénouement, which the marrow in his bones told him was about to
approach.
It seemed incredible that he, of all persons, should be plucked out of
the practical ways of men and thrust into the unreal fantasies of
romance.  A hubbub in a restaurant, a headlong dash into a carriage
compartment, a long ride with a princess, and all within three short
hours!  It was like some weird dream.  And how the deuce would it end?
He gazed at the toys again.
And then the door opened and he was told to come out.  The grand duke
had arrived.
"This will be the final round-up," he laughed quietly, his thought
whimsically traveling back to the great plains and the long rides under
the starry night.
XI
The Grand Duke of Barscheit was tall and angular and weather-beaten,
and the whites of his eyes bespoke a constitution as sound and hard as
his common sense.  As Max entered he was standing at the side of
Doppelkinn.
"There he is!" shouted the prince.  "Do you know who he is?"
The duke took a rapid inventory.  "Never set eyes upon him before."
The duke then addressed her Highness.  "Hildegarde, who is this fellow?
No evasions; I want the truth.  I have, in the main, found you
truthful."
"I know nothing of him at all," said the princess curtly.
Max wondered where the chill in the room came from.
"He says that his name is Scharfenstein," continued the princess, "and
he has proved himself to be a courteous gentleman."
Max found that the room wasn't so chill as it might have been.
"Yet you eloped with him, and were on the way to Dresden," suggested
the duke pointedly.
The princess faced them all proudly.  "I eloped with no man.  That was
simply a little prevarication to worry you, my uncle, after the manner
in which you have worried me.  I was on my way to Dresden, it is true,
but only to hide with my old governess.  This gentleman jumped into my
compartment as the train drew out of the station."
"But you knew him!" bawled the prince, waving his arms.
"Do you know him?" asked the duke coldly.
"I met him out riding.  He addressed me, and I replied out of common
politeness,"--with a sidelong glance at Max, who stood with folded
arms, watching her gravely.
The duke threw his hands above his head as if to call Heaven to witness
that he was a very much wronged man.
"Arnheim," he said to the young colonel, "go at once for a priest."
"A priest!" echoed the prince.
"Yes; the girl shall marry you to-night," declared his serene Highness.
"Not if I live to be a thousand!"  Doppelkinn struck the table with his
fist.
The girl smiled at Max.
"What?" cried the duke, all the coldness gone from his tones.  "You
refuse?"  He was thunderstruck.
"Refuse?  Of course I refuse!"  And the prince thumped the table again.
"What do you think I am in my old age,--an ass?  If you have any
fillies to break, use your own pastures.  I'm a vintner."  He banged
the table yet again.  "Why, I wouldn't marry the Princess Hildegarde if
she was the last woman on earth!"
"Thank you!" said the princess sweetly.
"You're welcome," said the prince.
"Silence!" bellowed the duke.  "Doppelkinn, take care; this is an
affront, not one to be lightly ignored.  It is international news that
you are to wed my niece."
"To-morrow it will be international news that I'm not!"  The emphasis
this time threatened to crack the table-leaf.  "I'm not going to risk
my liberty with a girl who has no more sense of dignity than she has."
"It is very kind of you," murmured the princess.
"She'd make a fine wife," went on the prince, ignoring the
interruption.  "No, a thousand times no!  Take her away--life's too
short; take her away!  Let her marry the fellow; he's young and may get
over it."
The duke was furious.  He looked around for something to strike, and
nothing but the table being convenient, he smashed a leaf and sent a
vase clattering to the floor.  He was stronger than the prince,
otherwise there wouldn't have been a table to thwack.
"That's right; go on!  Break all the furniture, if it will do you any
good; but mark me, you'll foot the bill."  The prince began to dance
around.  "I will not marry the girl.  That's as final as I can make it.
The sooner you calm down the better."
How the girl's eyes sparkled!  She was free.  The odious alliance would
not take place.
"Who is that?"
Everybody turned and looked at Max.  His arm was leveled in the
direction of a fine portrait in oil which hung suspended over the
fireplace.  Max was very pale.
"What's that to you?" snarled the prince.  He was what we Yankees call
"hopping mad."  The vase was worth a hundred crowns, and he never could
find a leaf to replace the one just broken.
"I believe I have a right to know who that woman is up there."  Max
spoke quietly.  As a matter of fact he was too weak to speak otherwise.
"A right to know?  What do you mean?" demanded the prince fiercely.
"It is my wife."
With trembling fingers Max produced his locket.
"Will you look at this?" he asked in a voice that was a bit shaky.
The prince stepped forward and jerked the locket from Max's hand.  But
the moment he saw the contents his jaw fell and he rocked on his heels
unsteadily and staggered back toward the duke for support.
"What's the matter, Prince?" asked the duke anxiously.  After all
Doppelkinn was an old crony, and mayhap he had been harsh with him.
"Where did you get that?" asked the prince hoarsely.
"I have always worn it," answered Max.  "The chain that went with it
originally will no longer fit my neck."
"Arnheim! . . .  Duke! . . .  Come and look at this!"--feebly.
"Good Heaven!" cried the duke.
"It is the princess!" said Arnheim in awed tones.
"Where did you get it?" demanded the prince again.
"I was found with it around my neck."
"Duke, what do you think?" asked the agitated prince.
"What do I think?"
"Yes.  This was around my son's neck the day he was lost.  If this
should be! . . .  If it were possible!"
"What?"  The duke looked from the prince to the man who had worn the
locket.  Certainly there wasn't any sign of likeness.  But when he
looked at the portrait on the wall and then at Max doubt grew in his
eyes.  They were somewhat alike.  He plucked nervously at his beard.
"Prince," said Max, "before Heaven I believe that I may be . . . your
son!
"My son!"
By this time they were all tremendously excited and agitated and white;
all save the princess, who was gazing at Max with sudden gladness in
her eyes, while over her cheeks there stole the phantom of a rose.  If
it were true!
"Let me tell you my story," said Max.  (It is not necessary for me to
repeat it.)
The prince turned helplessly toward the duke, but the duke was equally
dazed.
"But we can't accept just a story as proof," the duke said.  "It isn't
as if he were one of the people.  It wouldn't matter then.  But it's a
future prince.  Let us go slow."
"Yes, let us go slow," repeated the prince, brushing his damp forehead.
"Wait a moment!" said Colonel Arnheim, stepping forward.  "Only one
thing will prove his identity to me; not all the papers in the world
can do it."
"What do you know?" cried the prince, bewildered.
"Something I have not dared tell till this moment,"--miserably.
"Curse it, you are keeping us waiting!"  The duke kicked about the
shattered bits of porcelain.
"I used to play with the--the young prince," began Arnheim.  "Your
Highness will recollect that I did."  Arnheim went over to Max.  "Take
off your coat."  Max did so, wondering.  "Roll up your sleeve."  Again
Max obeyed, and his wonder grew.  "See!" cried the colonel in a high,
