modest fairness that had an attractive spirituality in it, yet it did
not savor of convent breeding. It was the old New England type. She
seemed to take so little from her surroundings, she kept so pure to
the standard.
They were at Mrs. Folsom's to dinner one day. Uncle Jason had found it
necessary to be away late on business, and would come for them. He did
not quite like to leave them alone in Pablo's care, though Bruno was a
good keeper. But an evil-disposed person might shoot the dog. He began
to realize that it was more exposed up on the hill now that there were
so many rough workmen about. Another year of it, and then----
They had a delightful little dinner in a "tea room," there was a great
deal of coming and going in the large dining room. And Mrs. Folsom
said:
"I'm going to ask a guest in to share your company. She's rather
lonely, as her husband is away on some business. They have been here a
fortnight or so. Laverne will like to hear her talk. She's been most
all over."
So she brought in Mrs. Westbury, and introduced her.
"I hope I haven't intruded," the newcomer said, in a peculiarly
attractive voice. In a young girl it would have been pronounced
winsome. "I have been taking some meals in my own room; I tired of
going to the public table when Mr. Westbury was not here. But I do get
so lonely. I generally go with him, but this was up to the mines,
where the roughness and wickedness of the whole world congregates, I
believe."
"You are quite welcome," Miss Holmes replied, with a certain New
England reserve in her voice.
"You came from the East?" with an appreciative smile, as if that was
in her favor.
"From Boston; yes." Miss Holmes was always proud of that.
"And I from southern New Hampshire; we're not so very far apart. I
married Mr. Westbury in New York, but we have been about--almost
everywhere," in a tired voice. "I had wanted to travel, and I've had
it."
Laverne's eyes kindled. "And were you abroad?" she asked rather
timidly.
"Well--yes," smiling. "I've lived longest in London. And there's been
Paris and Berlin, and, oh, ever so many German towns, where they're
queer and slow, and wouldn't risk a dollar a month if they could make
ten by it. Most of the Eastern cities, too, but I think this is the
strangest, wildest, most bewildering place I ever was in; as if the
whole town was seething and had no time to settle."
"I think that is it. You see, we are used to age in our New England
towns; permanent habits, and all that. Yet, one would hardly believe
so much could have been done towards a great city in a dozen years."
Mrs. Westbury raised her brows. "Is it as young as that?"
"And we have people from everywhere who will presently settle into a
phase of Americanism, different from all other cities. Most places
begin poor and accumulate slowly. San Francisco has begun rich."
"And the newly rich hardly know what to do with their money. You have
some fine buildings, and queer old ones, that look as if they had
stood hundreds of years."
There was something peculiar in the voice, and that had been born with
the girl, and had needed very little training. It had an appealing
quality; it indicated possibilities, that fixed it in one's memory.
She might have suffered, had strange experiences, but one deeply
versed in such matters would have said that she had come short of
entire happiness, that hers was not the tone of rich content. She had
a delicate enunciation that charmed you; she passed from one subject
to another with a grace that never wearied the listener.
Mrs. Folsom came in to see if all was agreeable. She had taken a fancy
to Mrs. Westbury, she had such an air of refinement and good-breeding.
Mr. Westbury seemed a fine, hearty, wholesome man, prosperous yet no
braggart. That was apt to be the fault out here. He had commended his
wife to Mrs. Folsom's special care, and paid liberally in advance,
besides depositing money at a banker's for his wife's needs.
They were having a pleasant, social time. When the dinner was through
they retired to Mrs. Folsom's private parlor. In the large one there
were card playing and piano drumming and flirtations going on.
Perhaps Mrs. Westbury did most of the talking, but she made sundry
halts to give her listeners opportunity to answer, and she never
seemed aggressive. Laverne listened, charmed over the delightful
experiences.
She had learned that these were more attractive than one's troubles or
perplexities, and she had set out to be a charming woman. There was
only one terror to her life now--she was growing so much older every
year. She had kept her youth uncommonly, but alas, no arts could bring
the genuine article back.
Some lives go purling along like a simple stream that encounters
nothing much larger than pebbles in its course, others wind in and
out, tumble over rocks, widen and narrow, and take in every variety.
She had been a mill hand, pretty, graceful, modest. After having been
a widower two years and married to a woman older than himself, a
bustling, busy worker who lived mostly in her kitchen, Mr. Carr, the
mill owner, married this pretty girl, installed her in the big, gloomy
mansion, and made her the envy of the small town where many of the
families were related to him. He had some peculiar views in this
marriage. He meant to rule, not to be ruled; he hoped there would be
children to heir every dollar of his estate. He succeeded in the
first, but in the twelve years there were no children. She was
miserable and lonely; there were times when she would have preferred
the old mill life. Her only solace came to be reading. There was a
fine library, histories, travels, and old English novels, and it
really was a liberal education.
Then Mr. Carr died suddenly, having made a will that tied up
everything just as far as the law allowed. She was to live in the
house, a brother and a cousin were to run the mill on a salary that
was made dependent on the profits. A shrewd lawyer discovered flaws,
and it was broken. The heirs paid her very well to step out of it all
and have no litigation. She was extremely glad. She took her money and
went to New York, and for three years had a really enjoyable time.
She was thirty-seven when she married David Westbury, who was
thirty-five. She set herself back five years and no one would have
questioned. After several years of ill-luck, fortune had smiled on him
and whatever he touched was a success. He bought up some valuable
patents and exploited them, he formed stock companies, he had been
sent abroad as an agent, he was shrewd, sharp, long-headed, and not
especially tricky. Honesty paid in the long run. And now she had
enjoyed seven happy, prosperous years. She had proved an admirable
co-partner, she had a way of attracting men that he wanted to deal
with and not lowering her dignity by any real overt act. Her
flirtations never reached off-color. But of late she felt she had lost
a little of her charm. She was not inclined to play the motherly to
young men, nor to flatter old men. Those between went to the charming
young girls.
"Oh, dear, I'm so sorry to go," Laverne exclaimed, when word was sent
up that Mr. Chadsey was waiting for them. "I've had such a splendid
time listening to you. It's been like travelling. And to see so many
celebrated people and places, and queens."
"I'm glad you enjoyed it. I hope you will come again. Oh, I like you
very much," and she leaned over and kissed her, though she was not an
effusive woman.
Jason Chadsey had been sorely bothered. A young fellow he had had high
hopes of had proved recreant and gone off with considerable money. He
had been straightening accounts, and trying to decide whether to set
the officers on his track or let him go--to do the trick over again on
some one else. So he only half listened, glad to have his darling gay
and full of delight. He really did not notice when she said "Mrs.
Westbury."
That lady had a talk with Dick the next morning. He thought she was
"quite nice for an old girl," so far off does youth remove itself.
Could she get a carriage and ask Miss Holmes and her young charge to
go out with her?
"Why, I'll take you, ma'am, and be glad to. Oh, yes, we're such old
friends. It's odd, but we may be called old settlers, really. A party
of us came round the Horn just at the last of '51. She was such a
little thing, the only child on board. And we all stayed and are
settled just about here. Tell you what I'll do. We'll stop at school
for her and take her home, and then go on."
"But, Miss Holmes"--hesitatingly--"she ought to have notice," smiling
deprecatingly.
"Oh, that won't count. You just take my word, Laverne will be glad
enough."
He was glad enough. He had a vague idea somehow that Miss Holmes
rather fenced him out. This time he would have Laverne on the front
seat with him. Not that he really was in love with her now, but in
time to come----
His plan worked admirably. Laverne was delighted and greeted her new
friend cordially. They drove around a little at first, then up to the
hill, and now the road was broken up unless one went a long way
round.
"I can run up," Laverne said eagerly. "I won't be many minutes," and
she sprang out.
"They're going to lower this hill," Dick explained. "They started it
once, but land! only a goat can climb it now."
"Say a deer or an antelope," with a light laugh, as both watched the
child threading her way in a zig-zag fashion, the shortest.
"It must be awfully lonely up there."
"But the prospect is wonderful. And there is Golden Gate and the
ocean. Still, I should like to be more with folks. Chadsey doesn't
mind. He's a queer Dick, and his mind is all on making money."
"She is his niece. Are there any others?"
"No, I guess not. I never heard of any. All her folks--family are
dead."
"And Miss Holmes isn't related?"
"Oh, no."
They watched and saw them coming down presently, but they took a
better pathway. Miss Holmes seemed pleased with the plan. Laverne
sprang in beside Mrs. Westbury.
"Perhaps the ladies----" Dick was disappointed.
"I want to sit here," the girl said rather imperiously. "And you know
you won't let me drive."
"You'd be like that fellow you told of driving the chariot to the sun,
I'm afraid. I don't dare trust any one except Nervy, the jockey, to
ride her. It was immense on Sunday. You saw that she won. Mother's
against having me enter her, and I don't do it often. But jimini! I'd
like to. And ride her myself."
Mrs. Westbury had seen the Derby, where all the style of London went,
and fortunes were lost and won. Dick was fascinated by the account.
They turned oceanward. Sandhills, stones, patches of verdure where one
least expected, tangled depths of laurels and alder, manzanita, vines
scrambling everywhere and such a wealth of bloom, then barren rocks
and sand. Now you could see the glorious ocean, the great flocks of
sea birds swirling, diving, flying so straight and swiftly that not a
wing moved. Cries of all kinds, then from the landward side a strange,
clear song that seemed to override the other. Seals thrusting up their
shiny black heads and diving again, sunning themselves lazily on the
rocks.
"Is there another country in the world like this?" exclaimed Mrs.
Westbury. "And all down the coast! I stayed at Monterey before. We
crossed the Isthmus and came up. It is wonderful."
Dick kept them out quite late to see the gorgeous sunset, and then
would fain have taken them home with him. Laverne had her hands full
of flowers that she had never seen before, and her eyes were lovely in
their delight.
"I shall be spoiled. I shall want to see you every day. I wish there
was no school," Mrs. Westbury said. "Oh, can't I come and visit you?"
and the entreaty in her voice would have won a harder heart.
"Our home is so very simple, and now the streets are in such a state,
almost impassable. But if you have the courage we shall be glad to see
you," responded Miss Holmes, curiously won.
"I shall come, most assuredly, although I have rather begged the
invitation. But you are so different from the women of the Hotel. I do
tire of their frivolity. I even go out alone to walk, though at first
I was afraid. Could I meet my little friend at her school and come
up?"
"Oh, yes, she will be glad to pilot you."
It was late that evening when Jason Chadsey came home. He looked tired
and worn. Indeed, the farther he went in the matter the worse it
appeared. And the culprit had made his escape. So there was nothing to
do but to pocket the loss.
"Shall I make you a cup of tea?" inquired Miss Holmes.
"If you please--yes. Then I shall go straight to bed; I must be up
betimes in the morning. Is Laverne in bed?"
She answered in the affirmative.
Friday Mrs. Westbury sent a little note to Laverne, asking if Saturday
would do for the visit. Every other Saturday the child spent at
Oaklands. So it was the next week when the visit was made. She stopped
at the school for Laverne, and Dick Folsom was to come for her in the
evening.
"It is very queer," she declared, laughing. "It seems a little like
Swiss châlets built in the mountain sides where you go up by wooden
steps. Only--the sand. I should think you would slip away."
"They are not going to take another street until next year. Of course,
we shall move; I think down in the town. But it has been so delightful
up here. And it did not seem so queer at first. But since they have
been putting up such splendid buildings in the town, and making such
fine streets, it has given us a wild appearance. Presently there will
not be anything of Old San Francisco left. A good part of it has
burned down already."
Miss Holmes welcomed her guest warmly and brought her a glass of
delightful fruit sherbet. The place was plain enough, and yet it gave
evidence of refined and womanly tastes in its adornments. And the
clustering vines and bloom made a complete bower of it.
Mrs. Westbury espied the guitar. She was really glad there was no
piano. Was Laverne musical?
"I've been learning the guitar. And I sing some. But you should hear
my friend at Oaklands. Her voice is most beautiful. If mine was not a
contralto I shouldn't venture to sing with her."
"You don't look like a contralto. A pure blonde should be a soprano."
"Perhaps I'm not a very pure blonde," with a merry light in her eyes.
"I've heard concert singers who could not compare with Miss Savedra,
but her people would be shocked at the idea of her singing in public.
I was telling her about you. We are great friends. She is odd in some
ways and foreign; they are Spanish people, but I love her better than
any girl I know."
"And this Olive?" questioningly.
"Oh, Olive. She took a great liking to me in the beginning--we were
quite children. She and the Savedras are cousins. And her father
married a friend of Miss Holmes, but she is a delightful stepmother.
Only now Olive seems so much older and has lovers. Yes, we are
friends in a way, but we do not really love each other."
"And you haven't any lovers?"
"Oh, no." She flushed at that. "I don't want any. Why, I am not
through school."
Mrs. Westbury found that she could not only read, but talk French
and Spanish, and that she was being sensibly educated. But that
was not the chief charm. It was a simplicity that defied art, a
straightforwardness that was gentle, almost deprecating, yet never
swerved from truth, a sweetness that was winning, a manner shy but
quite captivating. And though she told many things about her life up
here on the hill, there were no indiscreet or effusive confidences
such as she had often listened to in young girls.
When Mr. Chadsey met the guest as they were coming in from the arbor,
he simply stared at the name, not realizing that he had heard it
mentioned before. A fair, somewhat faded woman, so well made up that
she could still discount a few years. Her attire and her jewels
betokened comfortable circumstances, indeed wealth, for besides some
fine diamonds she had two splendid rubies.
Twice since he had been in California he had been startled by the
name. Once by a young fellow of two or three and twenty, looking for a
chance at clerking. The other had been a miserable, disreputable
fellow, who had failed at mining and was likely through drunkenness to
fail at everything else. He questioned him closely. The man had left a
wife and family at Vincennes, and would be only too glad to get back
to them. He had been born and raised in Indiana. So he had helped him
on his way, praying that he might reach there. And here it had cropped
up again. It sent a shiver through him.
He questioned the guest adroitly, carefully. She was proud of her
husband and his successes. She had met him in New York; she thought
him a native of that State.
Surely the David Westbury he knew could never have had all this good
fortune. So he dismissed this case from his mind, and smiled over
Laverne's new friend, who would be one of the transient guests of the
heart.
Mr. Westbury sent word by a messenger that he would be detained longer
than he expected. He hoped she found her quarters satisfactory, and
that she would take all the entertainment she could. He had struck a
new opening that would in all probability make a millionaire of him.
When he returned they must go at once to London, and they might remain
there for years, since it was one of the places she liked.
Yes, she did like it, and had made some very nice friends there.
But--if she had a daughter like this girl to draw young men; she
should always yearn for the young life that had never been hers, and a
girl to dress beautifully, to take out driving in the "Row," to have
one and another nod to her, to take her calling--that was the way
mothers did in England, to give dainty parties for her, to let her
tend stalls at fairs, to have her some day presented to the Queen, and
at last to marry well. Her daughter might have such a fortune. David
Westbury had been lucky in a good many things and he seldom made a
mistake.
She dreamed this over and over again. She had never cared for babies
or little children, and she had felt glad there had been no children
to tie her to the old New Hampshire town, where she must then have
spent her life. She had had so much more enjoyment, larger liberty,
and oh, worlds more money. Travelling, hotels, meeting delightful
people. But now her day was about over. If there was a young blossom
growing up beside her to shed a charm around, to attract, to fill a
house with gayety, so she could go through with it all again. Then
lovers and marriage. She should want a pretty girl, one with a winsome
manner. A little training would do wonders with this one, who was just
the right age to be moulded into success.
Of course, her uncle would never give her up, and one could not coax
her away. A man's journeying about would have no society advantages.
Miss Holmes was very nice and sensible, but there were some
old-maidish traits. She was rather narrow. She really pitied the
girl's life between them. It would lose the exquisite flavor of
enjoyment that by right belonged to youth.
Of course, all this was folly. But she did like the child so much. And
she wanted a new adoration, which she believed she could win easily.
CHAPTER XVI
IN THE BALANCE
Agnes Westbury had listened all the early part of the evening to her
husband's enthusiastic plans. Good fortune expanded him in every
direction. It was true that quicksilver had been discovered at
Alameda, also that the new process of separating gold was a great
saving. Working mines had been most extravagant and wasteful. Some of
the old ones had been deserted that no doubt would pay again. He had
taken options for the London Company, he had two or three for himself.
Luck had surely come his way. Now they must leave as soon as possible.
Had she enjoyed herself? Had the landlady been satisfactory? Had she
gone about and seen much, made any pleasant friends? San Francisco was
a strange and wonderful place. It had risen up in a night, as it were.
It was in the line of the Eastern trade, it would be the great mart of
the world. What was Congress thinking about not to establish a through
route, but depend on this miserable overland accommodation for the
crowds who would come! Its very wildness and sublimity outdid Europe.
Some day it would be a worldwide attraction for tourists. Such
mountains, such a range of climate, such a profusion of everything,
such a seacoast line.
David Westbury was pacing up and down the apartment with a light,
springy step. He had been in his youth a tall and rather lanky
down-easter. Now he had filled out, was fine and robust, with a good
clear skin. In those days his nose had been too large, his mouth wide,
with rather loose lips. Now the rest of his face had rounded out, his
lips had grown firm-set, decisive, and his mustache was trimmed in the
latest style. Just at the corners of his mouth his beard had begun to
whiten a little, his lightish hair had turned darker. Prosperity had
made a man of him. He had grown sharp, far-sighted, but he had an
amiability that was more than pleasing--attractive. He had learned to
use his own phrase, "not to buck against the world." Where he had been
rather credulous and lax in early life, he had become wary and shrewd,
and did not hesitate if he could turn the best of the deal his way.
"Yes, she had enjoyed herself very much. Mrs. Folsom and her son had
been most attentive, there had been some star players at the theatres
and a noted singer or two. She had met some nice people, there was a
good deal of crudeness and display, but on the whole it was very fair
for a new place. And some odd, quaint individuals, some really refined
women from Boston, and such a charming young girl that she coveted;
she wished she had her for a daughter."
"That's a queer wish; too, I thought you were not fond of children."
"Well, I am not generally. I'd like them full-grown, and attractive,"
laughing.
"I wouldn't mind a fine, upright, sober, honorable son that one could
trust in all things, but they are scarce."
"David, what will you do with your money?"
"Well,"--he laughed a little. "Let me see--endow a hospital perhaps,
or build a college. But we must have all the pleasure we desire."
She gave a little sigh.
"About this girl, now?" he queried.
"She's the dearest, sweetest, simplest body, not foolish, not
sentimental, but like water in a ground glass globe, if you can
understand. She's one of the old settlers, and that's laughable, came
in '51, round the Horn, from Maine, I believe, with an uncle and some
friends. He is a Mr. Chadsey, and keeps a big warehouse, shipping
stores and what not, and is, I believe, making a fortune--to take her
journeying round the world."
"Chadsey," he said thoughtfully. "Chadsey. What is the girl's name?"
"Oh, Chadsey, too."
"Ah!" nodding, yet he drew his brows a little.
"I suppose he was her mother's brother. Her mother died just before
they came out here."
He made a brief calculation. "Yes, it was in '51 that she died. And
Jason Chadsey was there, he took the little girl away. At Boston all
trace was lost, though he had not searched very exhaustively for
her. He had a feeling that she would be well cared for."
David Westbury glanced at his wife. Her elbow was on the window sill
and her cheek rested on her hand. There was a touch of sadness in her
face, a longing in her eyes. He loved her more now than when he had
married her. She was a little exacting then. She had been very fond of
pleasure, theatres, balls, fine dinners at hotels, journeys, dress,
jewels. He enjoyed them, too, with the zest that generally comes to
one who has been deprived of them in early life, and whose training
has been to consider them reprehensible.
They had taken their fill. Now his mind was all on business; he liked
to surmount difficulties, to bring success out of chaos. He had to
leave her alone a good deal. She used to find entertainment in
conquering the admiration of young men, but these last few years she
had found herself less attractive, except as she listened to their
love troubles and begged her for advice. He did not understand this at
all, only he felt he had an engrossing business and she had nothing
but looking on.
"You like this girl very much?"
"Yes, I can't tell just why, except that she is so honestly sweet, so
ready to give of her best without expecting any return. Do you
remember Lady Westmere and her two daughters? They were fine girls and
devoted to her. I had not considered it much before, but I understood
then what an interest and solace a young girl of the right sort would
be. You know I had Gladys Wynne to stay a month with me when you were
over to Paris. I had half a mind to engage her as a sort of companion,
and she would have been glad enough to come. But I found she had some
mean, underhand tricks, and was looking out for her own advantage
while she was trying to persuade you that it was yours. And she told
little fibs. So I gave up the idea. A maid, you know, is no company,
though one must have her abroad. But we couldn't coax or kidnap this
girl," and she sighed in the midst of a sad smile.
He still paced up and down. How long since he had thought of that old
life. He had always said to himself that he had been a fool to marry
Laverne Dallas, but he had taken a good deal of satisfaction then in
"cutting out" Jason Chadsey. What fools young fellows were!
"Agnes," he began, "before I married you I did not tell you my whole
story. I said I had lost my wife and child, that ill luck had dragged
me through those early years. She had another lover, Jason Chadsey, a
seafaring man, of whom she had not heard in a long time, when she
married me. Some years later I was at a low ebb and away, trying to
make money for them as well as myself. When I had a little success I
went back. She was dead and buried. Chadsey had come back, it seems,
and taken the child, since there were no near relatives to say him
nay. At Boston I lost trace of them."
"Oh, David!" She sprang up and flung both arms about him. "You don't
think--this Laverne--why, what if she should be yours!"
"She came here late in '51. Her mother died early in the spring
before. She must have been about eight. Why, it's quite a romance for
this prosaic world."
"If you are her father, you have the best right. Oh, David, I should
love her and be so good to her. She should have everything, and I
would be so happy. Oh, you must see to-morrow."
There was a hysterical catch in her voice, and a great throb at her
heart.
"There, don't get into a fit. Why, I didn't suppose you could care so
much. Yes, I know you will be good to her. Chadsey may kick about
giving her up, but I doubt if he took any steps toward legal adoption.
Oh, I think there will not be any real trouble unless she will not
come."
"But she ought to have some regard for her father! And he isn't really
her uncle or guardian. Why, it wouldn't be quite the thing for her to
travel round the world with him."
They talked it over until their plans seemed most reasonable. And then
they wondered at the strangeness of it. He had no real compunctions of
conscience about the past, though of course he would have accepted the
responsibility of his daughter if he could have found her. He had a
practical business way of looking at matters. And while Agnes Westbury
lay awake, and had vague visions, dropping now and then into snatches
of dreams, he slept soundly and awoke with a resolve to settle the
question with just the same purpose as if he had resolved to buy his
wife thousands of dollars' worth of jewels.
They had begun the necessary sea wall that was to safeguard the piers
and the shipping that grew more extensive every year. Here was the old
Fisherman's Pier, then steamers, trading vessels, queer foreign ships,
business places of all sorts, many of them quite dilapidated, fringed
East Street. Here, where Clay Street ran down, almost meeting
Sacramento, there were warehouses, packing houses, boxes and bales and
general confusion. The one-story place with the sign "J. Chadsey" over
the wide doorway, not much handsomer than that of a barn, but
strengthened with iron bars and great bolts, had stretched out and
out, and now they were packing in stores from the Orient, stores from
the Isthmus, that were being unloaded from two vessels. Jason Chadsey
had been giving orders here and there, setting men at work, and was
warm and tired when word came that a gentleman wanted to see him in
the office. They made distinctions in those days, even if the country
was new and rough.
That was no strange summons. He pulled out his handkerchief, and wiped
the sweat and grime from his face, listened a moment to the wrangling,
swearing, strange Chinese chatter, songs in various languages, then
turned and went in, hardly able to see at first from the glitter of
the sun that had drenched him. This was a place just now with two big
desks and a clerk writing at one. The inner office had a window on the
street side and two wooden stools, one dilapidated leathern chair
before another desk.
A man rose up and faced him. A well-dressed, well-kept man, with a
certain air of prosperity and authority, and if he had any scheme to
exploit it would no doubt have some advantage in it. But he was a
stranger.
"You are Jason Chadsey?" Westbury would have known him anywhere.
Except to grow older, to be a little more wrinkled,--weatherbeaten, he
had always been,--and his hair slightly grizzled at the temples, he
was the same. There was honesty, truth, and goodness in the face that
had not changed either.
"Yes," Chadsey replied briefly.
"And you don't remember me?"
Chadsey tried to consider the voice, but that had grown rounder,
fuller, and lost all the Maine twang. There had been so many faces
between youth and this time.
"Well, I am David Westbury."
Jason Chadsey dropped on a stool and stared, then mopped his face
again, while a shiver passed over him that seemed to wring his very
vitals, turn him stone-cold.
"It's odd how things come about." The man of the world had his rival
at a disadvantage. "I'd had runs of hard luck," in an easy, almost
indifferent tone, being where he could laugh at the past, "and I'd
tried about everything in vain. I was too proud to come back to
Laverne empty-handed. Then, when I had made something, I turned,
hoping to ease up her hard life, and found she was dead and buried.
You had befriended her; thank you for that. But you took my child. I
traced you to Boston. After that my search was vain. I have looked
over lists of vessels, thinking to strike your name as captain or
mate, and finally given up search. Business brought me here, perhaps
fate, too, had a hand in it. My wife has seen and known the child, and
already loves her. I am grateful for your care all these years, but I
would rather have had her in my keeping. I am a rich man--if I was a
poor devil I would put in no claim, no matter how dear she was to me,
but a father has the best right."
Jason Chadsey rose. For a moment he had murder in his heart. The man's
evident prosperity and effrontery stung him so. The past came rushing
over him.
"Do you know how I found her?" he began hoarsely. "I had resolved to
come out here. I was getting tired of seafaring. I went to Munro to
say good-by to a few old friends. I expected to find her a happy wife
and mother, with little ones about her. Instead it was a virtually
deserted wife, who had heard nothing of her husband in a long while,
who had used up all her little store and was in debt besides, who was
suffering from cold, want, heartbreak, and dying, knowing no refuge
for her child except the poor farm or to be bound out to some
neighbor."
"No, she would not have been," was the almost fierce interruption.
"The dying woman did not know that. She had some comfort in her last
moments," and his voice softened curiously with remembered pathos.
"She gave me the child. I have been father and mother to her. You
cannot have her."
"I believe the law gives the parent the right to the child until she
is of age. You had no consent of mine. You could not legally adopt
her, at least, it would not hold in law."
Jason Chadsey turned pale under the tan of years. Why, he had not even
thought of any legal protection for his claim. It rested only on love
and care.
"You see," continued the confident voice, "that my right has been in
no way jeopardized. I am Laverne Westbury's father, amply able to care
for her in an attractive and refined manner, place her in the best
society, to give her whatever education and accomplishment she needs,
the protection of a mother, the standing of a father, travel--we are
to go to England shortly--and it would be worse than folly to stand in
her way."
"She will not go," Jason Chadsey said sturdily.
"She will if the law directs."
"She will not when she knows the struggle of the last year of her
mother's life. Why, you robbed her mother, the poor, old, helpless
woman, of the little she had. You persuaded her to take up money on
the house--it was not worth much, but it was a home to shelter them."
"Laverne was as anxious to get out of the place as I. What could I do
there? She was willing that I should try. I was unfortunate. Other men
have been--you find wrecks everywhere. I struggled hard to recover,
and did, even if it was too late for her. We thank Providence for our
successes--doesn't the same power direct reverses? It wasn't my fault.
Luck runs against a man his whole life sometimes."
"You could have written. That would have cheered her solitary hours.
She would have told you she was dying, and begged you to come. When I
think of what that dreary winter was to her----"
"You were there to comfort her." There was a half sneer on the face.
"See here, Jason Chadsey, you were her first lover, not a very ardent
one, I fancy, either. I was a fool to persuade her to marry me, though
I think her grandmother had a strong hand in it. You were there those
last weeks. Did she confess her mistake, and admit that you had held
her heart all these years? What confidences took place?"
"None that you might not hear. Nothing but some truths that I guessed,
and wrung out of her--your neglect. You would not dare to stain the
mother's memory to the child. If you did I think I could kill you. Any
one who knows aught about those New England women, brought up among
the snowy hills like nuns, would know it was a base lie!"
"Come, come, we won't slop over into melodrama. We will leave it to
the law if you agree to abide by the decision."
"The law will not force her to go."
"I think she will be convinced. You are no kin to her. Now that she is
grown, it is hardly the thing for her to go on living in this fashion.
You may mean to marry her. That would be monstrous!"
"Go your way, go your way, David Westbury," and he made an indignant
gesture as if he would sweep him out of the place. "I have other
matters on hand. I have no time to parley."
Then Chadsey turned and, being near the door, made a rush for the
street, plunging the next minute into the thick of business. Westbury
laughed a moment, lighted a cigar, and sauntered out at his leisure.
Up in a more respectable street he glanced about, finding a lawyer's
office, and though he guessed the opinion must be in his favor he
wanted an assurance.
"If there had been an assignment under belief that the father was
dead, he could recover, if it was proved he was the proper person to
have the care of the child, and amply able to support it."
Jason Chadsey worked furiously. He would not think. It was high noon
before he found a respite. Then he went in the office instead of going
to lunch. He could not eat.
The shadow that would hang over him now and then, that he had always
managed to drive away, had culminated at length in a storm that would
sweep from its moorings the dearest thing he held on earth, that he
had toiled for, that he had loved with the tenderness of a strong,
true heart, that had been all his life. Without her it would only be a
breathing shell of a body, inert, with no hope, no real feeling. Ah,
if they had been ready to go away a few months ago! If Laverne was of
age! If he had a legal adoption, they might make a fight on that. He
had nothing. But she would not go, she would not go.
Ah, how could he tell her? Perhaps her father and yes, that
soft-spoken, insinuating woman, was her stepmother, and Laverne had a
young girl's fancy for her--perhaps they would go and lay the case
before her, persuade, entreat--oh, no, they could not win, he felt
sure of that. How could he ever go home! What would the home be
without her! What would life be--the money--anything!
It was quite late when he climbed the ascent, growing worse and worse.
There had been two landslides. Why, presently they would be swept
away.
"Oh, how late you are!" cried the soft, girlish voice. "How did you
get up? Isn't it dreadful! Have you had a hard day? Was there a
steamer in? Do you suppose we shall ever have a letter from the
Hudsons?"
Nothing had happened. Perhaps David Westbury did not dare. He almost
crushed the slim figure in his arms.
"Oh, what a bear hug!" she cried, when she could get her breath. "And
you are so late. We had such a splendid big fish that Pablo caught and
cooked, and it was delicious. And I made a berry cake, but you like
that cold, and we will have the fish heated up. Was it an awful busy
day?"
"Yes, a vessel in, and another to be loaded up."
His voice shook a little.
"Oh, you dear old darling, you are tired to death. Here's a cup of
nice tea. And if you were a young lover, I would sing you the
daintiest little Spanish song. Isola and I made it up. You see, things
don't sound quite so bare and bald in Spanish, and you can make the
rhymes easier. The music is all hers. We are supposed to sing it to
some one gone on a journey that we want back with us."
"Well, I'm an old lover; sing it to me!" Then she would not notice
that he was not eating much supper.
The guitar had a blue ribbon, and she threw it over her shoulder and
shook her golden hair about. Tinkle, tinkle, went the soft
accompaniment. She had a sweet parlor voice, with some sad notes in
it, wistful, longing notes. He wondered if she was thinking of any one
miles and miles across the water.
"It is tender and beautiful," he said, "sing something else."
"You are not eating your cake."
"But I shall." He must choke down a little.
Afterward they strolled about the hill. There was no moon, but the
stars were like great golden and silver globes, and the air was sweet
with a hundred fragrances. Nothing had happened, and he wondered a
little at it. Suddenly she said:
"Oh, you must go to bed after such a hard day's work. And I am cruel
dragging you about."
He could not tell her. Oh, what if he should never need to tell her!
How could he give her up? Was life all sacrifice?
Something odd had happened to her. She sat by the window living it
over. She had gone around by Folsom House to see Mrs. Westbury,
thinking how she should miss her when they went back to England. She
ran up to her room. There was a thin lace drapery in the doorway to
bring a breeze through and yet shield the occupant from the passer-by.
"Oh, you sweet little darling! Did you dream that I was wishing for
you? I've been just crazy to see you all day."
She was in a dainty white silk négligée, with cascades of lace and
some pale pink bows. She wore such pretty gowns, Laverne thought.
"Do you know that in about a week we shall go away? And I shan't know
how to live without you. I love you so! Why do you suppose I should be
always longing for you, thinking about you? Last night----"
She gave her a rapturous embrace and kissed lips and brow and eyelids.
Sometimes Isola Savedra caressed her this way. But Isola was just a
girl, musical, vehement, Spanish.
"I couldn't sleep for thinking of you, longing for you. Shall I steal
you and take you away? Oh, if you loved me well enough to come, you
should have everything heart could desire. I am so lonesome at times."
"I shouldn't come for the things," she returned, coloring. "And if I
loved you ever so much----"
"No, don't say you wouldn't. Oh, to-morrow I shall have something
strange to tell you, but now I say over and over again I want you, I
want you!"
Laverne drew a long breath. She was half magnetized by the intensity,
by the strange expression in the face, the eager eyes.
"I shall be sorry to have you go." She hardly knew what to say. Sorrow
did not half express it.
"Don't mind me--yes, it is true, too. But I heard a story last night
that suggested such a splendid possibility. I couldn't sleep. And I
can't tell you just yet, but when you hear it--oh, you'll be tender
and not break my heart that is so set upon it. Something you can do
for me."
"I will do anything in my power."
"Remember that when I ask you."
She was fain to keep her longer, but Laverne had a curious feeling
that she could not understand, a half fear or mystery. And then she
had some translation to make for to-morrow. She was studying German
now.
She worked steadily at her lessons. Then she had a race with Bruno,
and waited out on the steps for Uncle Jason. What would happen to her
to-morrow? It might be an elegant parting gift. How strange Mrs.
Westbury had been. No one had influenced her in just that way before.
Then she went to bed and fell asleep with the ease of healthy youth.
Jason Chadsey tossed and tumbled. What would to-morrow bring? How
would Laverne take it? Must she go? Would she go? How could he endure
it?
"One," the solemn old clock downstairs said. "Two." He had half a mind
to get up. Hark, what was that? Or was he dreaming? Oh, again, now a
clang sharp enough to arouse any one. Fire! Fire! He sprang out of bed
and went to the window. Was it down there on the bay? He stood
paralyzed while the clamor grew louder, and flames shot up in great
spires, yellow-red against the blue sky. And now an immense sheet that
seemed to blot out the middle of the bay, as if it could run across.
"Clang, clang," went the bells.
"Oh, what is it, fire?" cried Miss Holmes.
"Fire down on the docks. I must go. Do not disturb Laverne."
Let her sleep now. She would know sorrow soon enough.
He dressed hurriedly and went out. The stars were still shining in the
blue sky, though round the edges toward the eastward there were faint
touches of grayish white. But the zenith seemed aflame. Up went the
great spires grandly, a thing to be admired if it brought no loss. He
went stumbling down the rough ways in the semi-darkness. Once a stone
rolled and he fell. Then he hurried on. Other people were out--you
could discern windows crowded with heads. Was San Francisco to have
another holocaust? There were shrieks and cries. The noise of the
engines, blowing of horns, whistles, boats steaming up, others being
towed out in the bay, wooden buildings hastily demolished to stay the
progress of the red fiend. Crowds upon crowds, as if the sight were a
new one.
On the corner of Davis Street he sat down on a barrel, close by a
stoop, overwhelmed by the certainty. Why go any nearer? The rigging of
a vessel had caught, the flames twisted this way and that by their own
force, as there was no wind, fortunately.
All the labor of years was swallowed up, her fortune, her luxuries,
her pleasures. Another twelve months and it would have been secured.
But, alas! she would not be here to share it. Did it matter so very
much? His soul within him was numb. Since he had lost her, what need
he care for a prosperity she could not share?
The hot air swept his face. Pandemonium sounded in his ears. Men ran
to and fro, but he sat there in a kind of dumb despair that all his
life should have gone for nought, labor, and love as well.
CHAPTER XVII
THE DECISION OF FATE
Pablo told them the heart-breaking news. But about eight o'clock Uncle
Jason returned. The fire was out, there were only heaps of smoking
ashes and smouldering brands. Jason Chadsey had been warmly
sympathized with, proffered assistance to rebuild, to recommence
business, and would have been deluged with whiskey if he had accepted.
That was still a panacea for all ills and troubles. But he refused,
and wandered about in dogged silence. No one knew the whole loss.
In the farther office desk he had slipped a box with a string of
pearls for his darling's birthday. Some one had said pearls were for
blondes, and in spite of much out-of-door living, she had kept her
beautiful complexion. Then crushed by the astounding news, he had
forgotten about it.
"Oh, Uncle Jason!" Grimed as he was with smoke and cinders, she flew
to his arms, and sobbed out her sorrow.
"There, there, dear." His voice had the stress of fatigue and great
emotion. "I am not fit to touch. And I can't talk now. I am tired to
death. Give me a cup of coffee."
"I don't believe I will go to school to-day," she said, with fine
disregard of rules. "And yet I ought. There are the translations to be
handed in."
"Yes, do go. I must get some rest."
"I'll come home at noon," kissing him fondly.
He nodded. He was a broken old man in what should have been the prime
of life. He drank his coffee, then took the whiskey he had refused
down on the dock, went to his room, and after a good cool wash, threw
himself on the bed.
The fire was on everybody's tongue. Not that fires were a rarity. But
this might have been much worse, yet it was bad enough for Jason
Chadsey. The air was still full of smoke, there was a dense fog and a
cloudy sky. Everywhere you heard the same talk.
The lessons at school went on well enough, though Laverne's nerves
were all of a tremble. Just after eleven as recess began she was
summoned to the reception room.
David Westbury had been out to the fire and come in again.
"Gad!" he exclaimed. "It's that Chadsey's place! And he had a
tremendous stock, a new shipload just in, some others waiting to be
loaded up. This is a queer town where every so often there's a big
fire. The only amends is that it is rebuilt better. Half of the old
rookeries ought to come down, they look so forlorn and ancient."
"Oh, David. Well, if he has lost everything he will be the more
willing to give up the girl."
"He will give her up, anyhow," in a determined tone. Some things
Chadsey had said still rankled in David Westbury's mind.
He went downtown again. Yes, it was ruin sure enough. Being prosperous
now, he could afford to pity the unfortunate ones. Chadsey had gone
home. The police were in charge, to keep off the roughs and the
thieves.
"We must have the matter settled to-day," he declared to his wife.
"I know where she is at school. Let us go there."
"Excellent. I should like to see her alone. It is right that she
should hear my story."
So to the school they went. Laverne came in a little flurried, and yet
bewitching in her simple girlhood. Her bodice was rather low about the
throat, with some edging around, and a band of black velvet encircled
her white neck. Her skirt was ankle length, and the man noted her
trim, slender feet, with the high arch of the instep.
Mrs. Westbury kissed her with warmth and tenderness. Her eyes were
luminous this morning, and the flushes showed above the delicately
tinted cheeks; her whole air was pleading, enchanting.
"You know I said there was a strange story for you to hear," she
exclaimed, when they had talked at length about the fire. "Mr.
Westbury will tell you."
He began to pace up and down, as was his habit, so slowly that it gave
him an air of thoughtfulness. Mrs. Westbury had her arm around
Laverne.
"Yes, a rather curious story, yet numbers of these instances crop out
along life. Friends, often relatives are reunited, tangled threads are
straightened, mysteries explained. In a little village in Maine lived
a girl and her two friends, they were a little too old for real
schoolmates. Her name was Laverne Dallas."
Why, that was her mother's name. And Maine. She began to listen
attentively, just as one pieces out a dream that has nearly escaped
from memory. And Westbury! Why, she had forgotten she ever had any
other name than Chadsey--it was her story as well, and now she looked
at the man, who certainly had nothing repellant about him, and the
story of those early years was pathetic as he lent it several
appealing embellishments. She really could not remember him with any
distinctness. The death of her grandmother, the pale, reserved mother,
coughing and holding on to her side, the coming of Uncle Jason, who it
seemed was no uncle at all, her mother's death, and all the rest was
school and play.
"Oh! Oh!" she cried, and hid her face on Mrs. Westbury's shoulder.
"So you see you are my little daughter. Your own mother is not here to
care for you and make you happy, but here is a new mother, who has
learned to love you unaware. And now we are returning to London, and
will take you with us, and give you the life that rightly belongs to
you----"
"Oh, no, no," she interrupted with poignant pathos. "I cannot go. I
could not leave Uncle Jason in this sad loss and trouble. He has been
so good, so kind, so tender----"
"As if an own father could not be that! Laverne, my darling, my own
little girl!"
If he had been poor he would have thought any child a great burden. He
was not the sort of man to make sacrifices for any one. They would
have irked him terribly. But in prosperity he was very indulgent.
There are many such people. Jason Chadsey would have shared his last
dollar, his last crust, ungrudgingly.
They began to set the matter before her in a reasonable, practical
light. Henceforward she would be a burden on Mr. Chadsey, who had
already done so much for her. She would have in her parents' care
accomplishments, travel, society, a lovely home, pleasures of all
kinds, and now she was old enough to enjoy them. And they wanted her.
Her father had the lawful right, would have until she was of age.
"I must go home," she said at length. "It is so strange. I must think
it over. And if Uncle Jason wants me----"
"And we want you." Agnes Westbury gave her a tender embrace, as she
wiped the tears from her own eyes. They could not be allowed to run
riot down the cheeks as Laverne's were doing.
She rose unsteadily.
"Have you no word for me, your father?"
She went to the outstretched arms and hid her face on his breast. She
could not love all at once. She could not break Uncle Jason's heart.
"I know it must seem strange, but I think Mr. Chadsey will recognize
my right in you. We must see him----"
"To-morrow, then," she interrupted. "Let me have this afternoon to
consider, to talk."
Her voice trembled from exhaustion. She took a few unsteady steps. The
noon bells began to ring, and again she said she must go.
They importuned her to accompany them to the Folsom House to dinner,
but she would not consent. Then her father insisted that she should
have a hack, but she refused that strenuously. They walked together
some distance.
"Arrangements must be made to-morrow morning," her father said
authoritatively. She felt as if she had been metamorphosed into some
other person. Laverne Westbury! it made her shiver. She liked the old
personality so much better. Must she go away? This was all the real
home she had ever known, this strange, odd, ever-changing Old San
Francisco. Why, over here there was a row of tents when they first
came. And the queer little one-room and two-room adobe houses, and the
tangled-up streets that ended at some one's house. How plainly she
could see it all!
She began to climb the hill wearily. Then some one came to meet her,
helped her tenderly over the rough places. They did not pause at the
house, but took the winding path up to the pine tree that grew more
beautiful every year, with its shining needles and gray-green, fuzzy
buds, almost like little kittens rolling and tumbling in the wind.
Balder the beautiful was resting here. Here Victor had really said
good-by to her. Why, Victor was in London. And suddenly London seemed
to emerge from the gloom of the Tower, and the execution of King
Charles and a hundred other melancholy reminiscences.
"Laverne!" her uncle began.
"Oh, I know! I know! They both came to school. They told me
everything. But I shall not go. Do you think I could be so ungrateful,
so heartless now in all this trouble? And I love you. It is years of
love between us, and only a few weeks with them. Oh, no, no!"
There was a long silence. A vireo came and sang his merry lilt in the
tree overhead. The fog and a good deal of the smoke had cleared away,
and the sun was shining.
He was very glad of the love. It would comfort him all the rest of the
weary way.
"Listen, child," he said at length, and he went carefully over the
ground. The strongest point of all was that the law would give her to
her father the next four years. And now he would have to start in anew
and make another fortune. "I am not too old," he declared, with a
little pride.
A word had caught her, just as one catches a ball with a chain at
careless throw.
"Four years," she said. "Why, then when I am twenty-one I could come
back. Four years only! Will you be waiting for me? I shall surely
come."
She would be married before that. A pretty young girl with a fortune
was not likely to be left on the bush. He caught at it, too. It would
smooth the way since the parting had to be. He had nothing; Westbury
had it all.
"Oh," she cried impulsively, "I can think how you loved my mother. Was
she happy there at the last with you? But you two should have been
married, and I should have been your child. Why do things, wishes,
events go at cross-purposes?"
Alas! no one could tell. It was one of the great world's mysteries.
Miss Holmes summoned them to dinner presently. She had heard the
story, and though it was hard, they had to admit that the child
belonged to her father while she was under age.
Half the night Laverne thought she would defy them all and stay. Would
her father want to drag her away a prisoner? What was a father's love
like? Wasn't the playing at it better and holier; the sense of loss
somewhere else making it diviner, giving it a yearning that a full
right could never quite embody? She did not like the full right to be
taken, she would rather be coaxed a little and led along. And she
could not positively decide about Mrs. Westbury. Some girls she found
were quite extravagant in their protestations and then forgot. Olive
was one; there was another very sweet girl in school who wanted always
to be caressing the one she liked. Isola was not always demonstrative.
They did have some delightful quiet times. Were not women girls grown
larger and older?
It was strange, Laverne thought, how nearly every one was ranged on
Mr. Westbury's side. The Personettes admired him, Mrs. Folsom
considered him a gentleman, and at that time the term was a
compliment. The schoolgirls envied her the romance and the going
abroad. Even Miss Holmes thought it the right and proper thing to do.
Uncle Jason did not discuss the right, with him there was nothing else
to do.
Other matters troubled him. Property had been queerly held in the
city. There had been squatters, there had been old Mexican deeds,
claims coming up every now and then to be settled with difficulty.
Jason Chadsey had leased the ground and the waterfront when it had
not been very valuable. He had bought one building, erected others. In
a year more the lease would expire. Already large prices had been
offered for it. He could not rebuild, though generous friends had
proffered him any amount of money. He felt unable to take the stir and
struggle for no end, that he could not explain. Like a wounded animal,
he wanted to go off in quiet and seclusion and nurse his hurts. He had
been worsted everywhere, let him give up.
Mrs. Westbury had wisdom enough not to make her claim at all onerous.
There would be plenty of time on the long journey. Every day her old
friends seemed dearer to Laverne. At Oaklands they bewailed the
separation, but recognized its rightfulness, its necessity. To Isola
it was a joy that she would see Victor, and she sent no end of
messages.
Mrs. Savedra said to Miss Holmes, "If you desire to make a change, we
shall be more than glad to have you."
David Westbury drove his wife and pretty daughter about with a proud,
satisfied air. Agnes shopped for her, "just enough to make her
presentable," she said when Laverne protested. But, after all, the
parting was very hard.
"You must not come and see me off, Uncle Jason." She could not
renounce the dear, familiar name. "If you did, I should give one wild
leap and land on the wharf, and you would have to keep me. Four
years--it's a long, long while, and there will be room for a great
many heartaches in it, but one day they will be healed."
He obeyed her, and did not come. There were many friends who did. So
she went sailing out of the Golden Gate on as fair a day as she had
first entered it. Oh, how the sun shone and tipped the waves with
molten gold. Never were skies bluer. Even the rocks, and the clefts,
and the crannies brought out their indescribable colors, browns that
deepened through every shade into purple and black, grays that were
pink and mauve and dun, blues that ran into sapphire, and green and
chrysoprase. Telegraph Hill and the old, time-worn semaphore. Oh,
farewell, farewell, dear old San Francisco!
There was some trouble getting insurance matters straightened up and
paying debts. Jason Chadsey had lost the spring of ambition and life.
He would take a voyage up north with some of the explorers, then he
would think of the next thing. Four years. Oh, no, she would never
return. The bright, laughing, gay world would swallow her up.
Marian Holmes pitied the man profoundly through this time. They had
been excellent, sensible friends. There had been two or three
occasions when she would have married him if he had been really in
love with her. She knew now why his love-day had passed. She enjoyed
her own life, her own neat ways, her liberty. She and Miss Gaines were
still very warm friends, and the latter would have liked her to come
with her.
"I have a fancy to try it at Oaklands, and help Americanize these
charming people, perhaps spoil them. It will be very easy and
delightful. The daughter will be a rather curious study. If she were
poor, she would have a fortune in her voice. She has quite a gift of
poetry. I shall try to keep her from morbidness and a convent, now
that she has lost her friend. And her mother wants her fitted for
marriage. How these foreigners harp on that!" laughing a little.
Laverne Westbury cried herself to sleep many a night, though in the
daytime she took a warm interest in all about her, and tried to be
agreeable, tried to draw near to her father. He was proud of her
prettiness, of her refined ways, the delicacy that had come down to
her from the New England strain. It was English, and she would "take"
over there. Then he was glad to have Agnes so happy. It was like a
girl with her first doll. Often Laverne would rather have been left
alone, but she tried not to be ungracious.
They crossed the Isthmus, quite a new experience. They went up to
Washington, where David Westbury had an excellent scheme to exploit
that did get taken up afterward. Then to Liverpool. The little girl
never dreamed there would come a time when one could cross the
continent in a week, the ocean in another, and her father's
expectations seemed quite wild to her.
There was a visit over to Paris. Eugénie was at the height of her
popularity, but now she had to take a little pains with her beauty.
Still she was the mother of a future Emperor, she was a favorite
daughter of the Church, she set the fashions and the manners of the
day and did it most admirably.
It was not possible for a girl to be unhappy or cry herself to sleep
amid such charming surroundings. Her French was very useful, she had
been so in the habit of using it at home that she did not take it up
awkwardly.
Then they must go to London and get settled. They would have a real
home, an attractive place where they could entertain. Mr. Westbury
would be away a good deal on flying trips, and now he would not mind
