It was too late to take the ticket back to Friard's; so I determined to
mail it to him in the morning.
It was now high time for me to be off.  I got into my coat and took
down my opera hat.  Outside the storm was still active; but the snow
had a promising softness, and there were patches of stars to be seen
here and there in the sky.  By midnight there would be a full moon.  I
got to Jersey City without mishap; and when I took my seat in the
smoker, I found I had ten minutes to spare.  I bought a newspaper and
settled down to read the day's news.  It was fully half an hour between
Jersey City and Blankshire; in that time I could begin and finish the
paper.
There never was a newspaper those days that hadn't a war-map in some
one of its columns; and when I had digested the latest phases of the
war in the far East, I quite naturally turned to the sporting-page to
learn what was going on among the other professional fighters.  (Have I
mentioned to you the fact that I was all through the Spanish War, the
mix-up in China, and that I had resigned my commission to accept the
post of traveling salesman for a famous motor-car company?  If I have
not, pardon me.  You will now readily accept my recklessness of spirit
as a matter of course.)  I turned over another page; from this I
learned that the fair sex was going back to puff-sleeves again.  Many
an old sleeve was going to be turned upside down.
Fudge!  The train was rattling through the yards.  Another page
crackled.  Ha!  Here was that unknown gentleman-thief again, up to his
old tricks.  It is remarkable how difficult it is to catch a thief who
has good looks and shrewd brains.  I had already written him down as a
quasi-swell.  For months the police had been finding clues, but they
had never laid eyes on the rascal.  The famous Haggerty of the New York
detective force,--a man whom not a dozen New York policemen knew by
sight and no criminals save those behind bars, earthly and
eternal,--was now giving his whole attention to the affair.  Some
gaily-dressed lady at a ball would suddenly find she had lost some
valuable gems; and that would be the end of the affair, for none ever
recovered her gems.
The gentleman-thief was still at large, and had gathered to his account
a comfortable fortune; that is, if he were not already rich and simply
a kleptomaniac.  No doubt he owned one of my racing-cars, and was clear
of the delinquent lists at his clubs.  I dismissed all thought of him,
threw aside the paper, and mentally figured out my commissions on sales
during the past month.  It was a handsome figure, large enough for two.
This pastime, too, soon failed to interest me.  I gazed out of the
window and watched the dark shapes as they sped past.
I saw the girl's face from time to time.  What a fool I had been not to
ask her name!  She could easily have refused, and yet as easily have
granted the request.  At any rate, I had permitted the chance to slip
out of my reach, which was exceedingly careless on my part.  Perhaps
they--she and her uncle--frequently dined at Mouquin's; I determined to
haunt the place and learn.  It would be easy enough to address her the
next time we met.  Besides, she would be curious to know all about the
ten of hearts and the desperate adventure upon which I told her I was
about to embark.  Many a fine friendship has grown out of smaller
things.
Next, turning from the window, I fell to examining my fellow
passengers, in the hope of seeing some one I knew.  Conversation on
trains makes short journeys. . . .  I sat up stiffly in my seat.
Diagonally across the aisle sat the very chap I had met in the
curio-shop!  He was quietly reading a popular magazine, and
occasionally a smile lightened his sardonic mouth.  Funny that I should
run across him twice in the same evening!  Men who are contemplating
suicide never smile in that fashion.  He was smoking a small,
well-colored meerschaum pipe with evident relish.  Somehow, when a man
clenches his teeth upon the mouth-piece of a respectable pipe, it seems
impossible to associate that man with crime.  But the fact that I had
seen him selecting a pistol in a pawnshop rather neutralized the good
opinion I was willing to form.  I have already expressed my views upon
the subject.  The sight of him rather worried me, though I could not
reason why.  Whither was he bound?  Had he finally taken one of
Friard's pistols?  For a moment I was on the point of speaking to him,
if only to hear him tell more lies about the ten of hearts, but I
wisely put aside the temptation.  Besides, it might be possible that he
would not be glad to see me.  I always avoid the chance acquaintance,
unless, of course, the said chance acquaintance is met under favorable
circumstances--like the girl in Mouquin's, for instance!  After all, it
was only an incident; and, but for his picking up that card, I never
should have remembered him.
Behind him sat a fellow with a countenance as red and round and
complacent as an English butler's,--red hair and small twinkling eyes.
Once he leaned over and spoke to my chance acquaintance, who, without
turning his head, thrust a match over his shoulder.  The man with the
face of a butler lighted the most villainous pipe I ever beheld.  I
wondered if they knew each other.  But, closely as I watched, I saw no
sign from either.  I turned my collar up and snuggled down.  There was
no need of his seeing me.
Then my thoughts reverted to the ten of hearts again.  My ten of
hearts!  The wrinkle of a chill ran up and down my spine!  My ten of
hearts!
Hastily I took out the card and examined the back of it.  It was an
uncommonly handsome back, representing Diana, the moon, and the
midnight sky.  A horrible supposition came to me: supposing they looked
at the back as well as at the face of the card?  And again, supposing I
was miles away from the requisite color and design?  I was staggered.
Here was a pretty fix!  I had never even dreamed of such a contingency.
Hang it!  I now wished I had stuck to my original plan, and gone to the
theater.  Decidedly I was in for it; there was no backing down at this
late hour, unless I took the return train for Jersey City; and I
possessed too much stubbornness to surrender to any such weakness.
Either I should pass the door-committee, or I shouldn't; of one thing I
was certain--
"Blankshire!" bawled the trainman; then the train slowed down and
finally came to a stop.
No turning back for me now.  I picked up my suit-case and got out.  On
the platform I saw the curio-shop fellow again.  Tramping on ahead, the
smell from his villainous pipe assailing my nostrils, was the man who
had asked for a match.  The former stood undecided for a moment, and
during this space of time he caught sight of me.  He became erect, gave
me a sudden sardonic laugh, and swiftly disappeared into the dark.  All
this was uncommonly disquieting; in vain I stared into the blackness
that had swallowed him.  What could he be doing here at Blankshire?  I
didn't like his laugh at all; there was at once a menace and a
challenge in it.
"Any baggage, sir?" asked one of the station hands.
"No."  But I asked him to direct me to a hotel.  He did so.
I made my way down the street.  The wind had veered around and was
coming in from the sea, pure and cold.  The storm-clouds were broken
and scudding like dark ships, and at times there were flashes of
radiant moonshine.
The fashionable hotel was full.  So I plodded through the drifts to the
unfashionable hotel.  Here I found accommodation.  I dressed, sometimes
laughing, sometimes whistling, sometimes standing motionless in doubt.
Bah!  It was only a lark. . . .  I thought of the girl in Mouquin's;
how much better it would have been to spend the evening with her,
exchanging badinage, and looking into each other's eyes!  Pshaw!  I
covered my face with the grey mask and descended to the street.
The trolley ran within two miles of the Hunt Club.  The car was crowded
with masqueraders, and for the first time since I started out I felt
comfortable.  Everybody laughed and talked, though nobody knew who his
neighbor was.  I sat in a corner, silent and motionless as a sphinx.
Once a pair of blue slippers attracted my eye, and again the flash of a
lovely arm.  At the end of the trolley line was a carryall which was to
convey us to the club.  We got into the conveyance, noisily and
good-humoredly.  The exclamations of the women were amusing.
"Good gracious!"
"Isn't it fun!"
"Lovely!"  And all that.  It must have been a novelty for some of these
to act naturally for once.  Nothing lasts so long as the natural
instinct for play; and we always find ourselves coming back to it.
Standing some hundred yards back from the road was the famous Hollywood
Inn, run by the genial Moriarty.  Sometimes the members of the Hunt
Club put up there for the night when there was to be a run the
following morning.  It was open all the year round.
We made the club at exactly ten-thirty.  Fortune went with me;
doubtless it was the crowd going in that saved me from close scrutiny.
My spirits rose as I espied Teddy Hamilton at the door.  He was on the
committee, and was in plain evening clothes.  It was good to see a
familiar face.  I shouldered toward him and passed out my ten dollars.
"Hello, Teddy, my son!" I cried out jovially.
"Hello!"--grinning.  Teddy thought it was some one he knew; well, so it
was.  "What's your card?" he cried, as I pressed by him.
"The ten of hearts."
"The ten of hearts," repeated Teddy to a man who was keeping tally on a
big cardboard.
This sight did not reassure me.  If they were keeping tally of all the
cards presented at the door, they would soon find out that there were
too many tens of hearts, too many by one!  Well, at any rate, I had for
the time being escaped detection; now for the fun.  It would be
sport-royal while it lasted.  What a tale to give out at the club of a
Sunday night!  I chuckled on the way to the ball-room: I had dispensed
with going up to the dressing-room.  My robe was a genuine one, heavy
and warm; so I had no overcoat to check.
"Grave monk, your blessing!"
Turning, I beheld an exquisite Columbine.
"Pax vobiscum!" I replied solemnly.
"Pax . . .  What does that mean?"
"It means, do not believe all you see in the newspapers."
Columbine laughed gaily.  "I did not know that you were a Latin
scholar; and besides, you gave me to understand you were coming as a
Jesuit, Billy."
Billy?  Here was one who thought she knew me.  I hastened to
disillusion her.
"My dear Columbine, you do not know me, not the least bit.  My name is
not Billy, it is Dicky."
"Oh, you can not fool me," she returned.  "I heard you call out to
Teddy Hamilton that your card was the ten of hearts; and you wrote me,
saying that would be your card."
Complications already, and I hadn't yet put a foot inside the ball-room!
"I am sorry," I said, "but you have made a mistake.  Your Jesuit
probably told you his card would be the nine, not the ten."
"I will wager--"
"Hush!  This is a charity dance; no one makes wagers at such affairs."
"But--Why, my goodness! there's my Jesuit now!"  And to my intense
relief she dashed away.
I carefully observed the Jesuit, and made up my mind to keep an eye
upon him.  If he really possessed the ten of hearts, the man who kept
tally on the cardboard was doing some tall thinking about this time.  I
glided away, into the gorgeous ball-room.
What a vision greeted my eye!  The decorations were in red and yellow,
and it seemed as though perpetual autumnal sunset lay over everything.
At the far end of the room was a small stage hidden behind palms and
giant ferns.  The band was just striking up A Summer Night in Munich,
and a wonderful kaleidoscope revolved around me.  I saw Cavaliers and
Roundheads, Puritans and Beelzebubs, Musketeers, fools, cowboys,
Indians, kings and princes; queens and empresses, fairies and Quaker
maids, white and black and red and green dominoes.  Tom Fool's night,
indeed!
Presently I saw the noble Doge of Venice coming my way.  From his
portly carriage I reasoned that if he wasn't in the gold-book of Venice
he stood very well up in the gold-book of New York, He stopped at my
side and struck an attitude.
"Pax vobiscum!" said I, bowing.
"Be at the Inquisition Chamber, directly the clock strikes the midnight
hour," he said mysteriously.
"I shall be there to deliver the supreme interrogation," I replied.
"It is well."  He drifted away like a stately ship.
Delightful foolery!  I saw the Jesuit, and moved toward him.
"Disciple of Loyola, hast thou the ten of hearts?"
"My hearts number nine, for I have lost one to the gay Columbine."
"I breathe!  Thou art not he whom I seek."
We separated.  I was mortally glad that Columbine had made a mistake.
The women always seek the monk at a masquerade; they want absolution
for the follies they are about to commit.  A demure Quakeress touched
my sleeve in passing.
"Tell me, grave monk, why did you seek the monastery?"
"My wife fell in love with me,"--gloomily.
"Then you have a skeleton in the clothes-press?"
"Do I look like a man who owned such a thing as a clothes-press, much
less so fashionable a thing as a family skeleton?"
"Then what do you here?"
"I am mingling with fools as a penance."
A fool caught me by the sleeve and batted me gaily over the head with a
bladder.
"Merry come up, why am I a fool?"
"It is the fashion," was my answer.  This was like to gain me the
reputation of being a wit.  I must walk carefully, or these thoughtless
ones would begin to suspect there was an impostor among them.
"Aha!"  There was mine ancient friend Julius.  "Hail Caesar!"
He stopped.
"Shall I beware the Ides of March?" I asked jovially.
"Nay, my good Cassius; rather beware of the ten of hearts," said Caesar
in hollow tones, and he was gone.
The ten of hearts again!  Hang the card!  And then with a sigh of
relief I recollected that in all probability he, like Columbine, had
heard me call out the card to Hamilton.  Still, the popularity of the
card was very disquieting.  I wished it had been seven or five; there's
luck in odd numbers. . . .  A Blue Domino!  My heart leaped, and I
thought of the little ticket in my waistcoat pocket.  A Blue Domino!
If, by chance, there should be a connection between her and the ticket!
She was sitting all alone in a corner near-by, partly screened by a pot
of orange-trees.  I crossed over and sat down by her side.  This might
prove an adventure worth while.
"What a beautiful night it is!" I said.
She turned, and I caught sight of a wisp of golden hair.
"That is very original," said she.  "Who in the world would have
thought of passing comments on the weather at a masque!  Prior to this
moment the men have been calling me all sorts of sentimental names."
"Oh, I am coming to that.  I am even going to make love to you."
She folded her hands,--rather resignedly, I thought,--and the
rollicking comedy began.
III
When they give you a mask at a ball they also give you the key to all
manner of folly and impudence.  Even stupid persons become witty, and
the witty become correspondingly daring.  For all I knew, the Blue
Domino at my side might be Jones' wife, or Brown's, or Smith's, or even
Green's; but so long as I was not certain, it mattered not in what
direction my whimsical fancy took me.  (It is true that ordinarily
Jones and Brown and Smith and Green do not receive invitations to
attend masquerades at fashionable hunt clubs; but somehow they seem to
worry along without these equivocal honors, and prosper.  Still, there
are persons in the swim named Johnes and Smythe and Browne and Greene.
Pardon this parenthesis!)
As I recollected the manner in which I had self-invited the pleasure of
my company to this carnival at the Blankshire Hunt Club, I smiled
behind my mask.  Nerves!  I ought to have been a professor of clinics
instead of an automobile agent.  But the whole affair appealed to me so
strongly I could not resist it.  I was drawn into the tangle by the
very fascination of the scheme.  I was an interloper, but nobody knew
it.  The ten of hearts in my pocket did not match the backs of those
cards regularly issued.  But what of that?  Every one was ignorant of
the fact.  I was safe inside; and all that was romantic in my system
was aroused.  There are always some guests who can not avail themselves
of their invitations; and upon this vague chance I had staked my play.
Besides, I was determined to disappear before the hour of unmasking.  I
wasn't going to take any unnecessary risks.  I was, then, fairly secure
under my Capuchin's robe.
Out of my mind slipped the previous adventures of the evening.  I
forgot, temporarily, the beautiful unknown at Mouquin's.  I forgot the
sardonic-lipped stranger I had met in Friard's.  I forgot everything
save the little ticket that had accidentally slipped into my package,
and which announced that some one had rented a blue domino.
And here was a Blue Domino at my side.  Just simply dying to have me
talk to her!
"I am madly in love with you," I began.  "I have followed you often; I
have seen you in your box at the opera; I have seen you whirl up Fifth
Avenue in your fine barouche; and here at last I meet you!"  I clasped
my hands passionately.
"My beautiful barouche!  My box at the opera!" the girl mimicked.
"What a cheerful Ananias you are!"
"Thou art the most enchanting creature in all the universe.  Thou art
even as a turquoise, a patch of radiant summer sky, eyes of sapphire,
lips--"
"Archaic, very archaic," she interrupted.
"Disillusioned in ten seconds!" I cried dismally.  "How could you?"
She laughed.
"Have you no romance?  Can you not see the fitness of things?  If you
have not a box at the opera, you ought at least to make believe you
have.  History walks about us, and you call the old style archaic!
That hurts!"
"Methinks, Sir Monk--"
"There!  That's more like it.  By my halidom, that's the style!"
"Odds bodkins, you don't tell me!"  There was a second ripple of
laughter from behind the mask.  It was rare music.
"I could fall in love with you!"
"There once was a Frenchman who said that as nothing is impossible, let
us believe in the absurd.  I might be old enough to be your
grandmother,"--lightly.
"Perish the thought!"
"Perish it, indeed!"
"The mask is the thing!" I cried enthusiastically.  "You can make love
to another man's wife--"
"Or to your own, and nobody is the wiser,"--cynically.
"We are getting on."
"Yes, we are getting on, both in years and in folly.  What are you
doing in a monk's robe?  Where is your motley, gay fool?"
"I have laid it aside for the night.  On such occasions as this, fools
dress as wise men, and wise men as fools; everybody goes about in
disguise."
"How would you go about to pick out the fools?"--curiously.
"Beginning with myself--"
"Thy name is also Candor!"
"Look at yonder Cavalier.  He wabbles like a ship in distress, in the
wild effort to keep his feet untangled from his rapier.  I'll wager
he's a wealthy plumber on week-days.  Observe Anne of Austria!  What
arms!  I'll lay odds that her great-grandmother took in washing.
There's Romeo, now, with a pair of legs like an old apple tree.  The
freedom of criticism is mine to-night!  Did you ever see such
ridiculous ideas of costume?  For my part, the robe and the domino for
me.  All lines are destroyed; nothing is recognizable.  My, my!
There's Harlequin, too, walking on parentheses."
The Blue Domino laughed again.
"You talk as if you had no friends here,"--shrewdly.
"But which is my friend and which is the man to whom I owe money?"
"What!  Is your tailor here then?"
"Heaven forbid!  Strange, isn't it, when a fellow starts in to pay up
his bills, that the tailor and the undertaker have to wait till the
last."
"The subject is outside my understanding."
"But you have dressmakers."
"I seldom pay dressmakers."
"Ah!  Then you belong to the most exclusive set!"
"Or perhaps I make my own dresses--"
"Sh!  Not so loud.  Supposing some one should overhear you?"
"It was a slip of the tongue.  And yet, you should be lenient to all."
"Kind heart!  Ah, I wonder what all those interrogation points
mean--the black domino there?"
"Possibly she represents Scandal."
"Scandal, then, is symbolized by the interrogation point?"
"Yes.  Whoever heard of scandal coming to a full stop, that is to say,
a period."
"I learn something every minute.  A hundred years ago you would have
been a cousin to Mademoiselle de Necker."
"Or Madame de Staël."
"Oh, if you are married--"
"I shall have ceased to interest you?"
"On the contrary.  Only, marriage would account for the bitterness of
your tone.  What does the Blue Domino represent?"
"The needle of the compass."  She stretched a sleeve out toward me and
I observed for the first time the miniature compasses woven in the
cloth.  Surely, one does not rent a costume like this.
"I understand now why you attracted me.  Whither will you guide
me?'"--sentimentally.
"Through dark channels and stormy seas, over tropic waters, 'into the
haven under the hill.'"
"Oh, if you go to quoting Tennyson, it's all up with me.  Are you
married?"
"One can easily see that at any rate you are not."
"Explain."
"Your voice lacks the proper and requisite anxiety.  It is always the
married woman who enjoys the mask with thoroughness.  She knows her
husband will be watching her; and jealousy is a good sign."
"You are a philosopher.  Certainly you must be married."
"Well, one does become philosophical--after marriage."
"But are you married?"
"I do not say so."
"Would you like to be?"
"I have my share of feminine curiosity.  But I wonder,"--ruminating,
"why they do not give masquerades oftener."
"That is easily explained.  Most of us live masquerades day by day, and
there might be too much of a good thing."
"That is a bit of philosophy that goes well with your robe.  Indeed,
what better mask is there than the human countenance?"
"If we become serious, we shall put folly out of joint," said I,
rising.  "And besides, we shall miss the best part of this dance."
She did not hesitate an instant.  I led her to the floor, and we joined
the dancers.  She was as light as a feather, a leaf, the down of the
thistle; mysterious as the Cumaean Sibyl; and I wondered who she might
be.  The hand that lay on my sleeve was as white as milk, and the
filbert-shaped horn of the finger-tips was the tint of rose leaves.
Was she connected with the ticket in my pocket?  I tried to look into
her eyes, but in vain; nothing could I see but that wisp of golden hair
which occasionally brushed my chin as with a surreptitious caress.  If
only I dared remain till the unmasking!  I pressed her hand.  There was
an answering pressure, but its tenderness was destroyed by the low
laughter that accompanied it.
"Don't be silly!" she whispered.
"How can I help it?"
"True; I forgot you were a fool in disguise."
"What has Romance done to you that you should turn on her with the
stuffed-club, Practicality?"
"She has never paid any particular attention to me; perhaps that is the
reason."
As we neared a corner I saw the Honorable Julius again.  He stretched
forth his death's-head mask.
"Beware the ten of hearts!" he croaked.
Hang his impudence! . . .  The Blue Domino turned her head with a jerk;
and instantly I felt a shiver run through her body.  For a moment she
lost step.  I was filled with wonder.  In what manner could the ten of
hearts disturb her?  I made up my mind to seek out the noble Roman
and learn just how much he knew about that disquieting card.
The music ceased.
"Now, run away with your benedictions," said the Blue Domino
breathlessly.
"Shall I see you again?"--eagerly.
"If you seek diligently."  She paused for a moment, like a bird about
to take flight.  "Positive, fool; comparative, fooler; superlative,
foolest!"
And I was left standing alone: What the deuce did she mean by that?
After all, there might be any number of blue dominoes in the land; and
it seemed scarcely credible that a guest at the Hunt Club would go to a
costumer's for an outfit.  (I had gone to a costumer's, but my case was
altogether different.  I was an impostor.)  I hunted up Imperator
Rex.  It was not long ere we came face to face, or, to speak
correctly, mask to mask.
"What do you know about the ten of hearts?" I began with directness.
"I am a shade; all things are known to me."
"You may be a lamp-shade, for all I care.  What do you know about the
ten of hearts?"
"Beware of it,"--hollowly.  From under his toga he produced a ten of
hearts!
My knees wabbled, and there was a sense of looseness about my collar.
The fellow knew I was an impostor.  Why didn't he denounce me?
"Is the back of your card anything like this one?"--ironically.  "I
dare say it isn't.  But have your good time, grave monk; doubtless you
are willing that the fiddlers shall be paid."  And wrapping his toga
about him majestically, he stalked away, leaving me staring
dumfoundedly after his receding form.
Discovered!
The deuce!  Had I been attired like yon Romeo, I certainly should have
taken to my heels; but a fellow can not run in a Capuchin's gown, and
retain any dignity.  I would much rather be arrested than laughed at.
I stood irresolute.  What was to be done?  How much did he know?  Did
he know who I was?  And what was his object in letting me run my
course?  I was all at sea. . . .  Hang the grisly old Roman!  I shut my
teeth; I would see the comedy to its end, no matter what befell.  If
worst came to worst, there was always Teddy Hamilton to fall back on.
I made off toward the smoking-room, rumbling imprecations against the
gods for having given me the idea of attending this masquerade, when it
would have been cheaper and far more comfortable to go to the theater.
But as soon as I entered the smoking-room, I laughed.  It was a droll
scene.  Here we were, all of us, trying savagely to smoke a cigar or
cigarette through the flabby aperture designated in a mask as the
mouth.  It was a hopeless job; for myself, I gave it up in disgust.
Nobody dared talk naturally for fear of being identified.  When a man
did open his mouth it was only to commit some banal idiocy, for which,
during office hours, he would have been haled to the nearest insane
asylum and labeled incurable.  Added to this was a heat matching
Sahara's and the oppressive odor of weltering paint.
By Jove!  Only one man knew that the back of my card was unlike the
others: the man who had picked it up in old Friard's curio-shop, the
man who had come to Blankshire with me!  I knew now.  He had been there
buying a costume like myself.  He had seen me on the train, and had
guessed the secret.  I elbowed my way out of the smoking-room.  It
wouldn't do me a bit of harm to ask a few polite questions of Mr.
Caesar of the sardonic laugh.
But I had lost the golden opportunity.  Caesar had gone to join the
shades of other noble Romans; in vain I searched high and low for him.
Once I ran into Hamilton.  His face was pale and disturbed and anxious.
"What's the trouble, Hamilton?" I asked, with forced gaiety.
He favored me with a penetrating glance.
"The very devil is the trouble," he growled.  "Several of the ladies
have begun to miss valuable jewels.  Anne of Austria has lost her
necklace and Queen Elizabeth is without a priceless comb; altogether,
about ten thousand dollars."
"Robbery?"  I looked at him aghast.
"That's the word.  Curse the luck!  There is always something of this
sort happening to spoil the fun.  But whoever has the jewels will not
get away with them."
"What are you going to do?"
"I have already sent for the village police.  Now I shall lock
all the doors and make every man and woman produce cards for
identification,"--abruptly leaving me.
Thunderbolts out of heaven!  My knees and collar bothered me again; the
first attack was trifling compared to this second seizure.  How the
devil was I to get out?
"Are you searching for me?" inquired a soft voice at my elbow.
I turned instantly.  The Blue Domino had come back to me.
"I have been searching for you everywhere," I said gallantly.
"Oh!  but that is a black one.  Never mind; the fib was well meant."
I led her over to a secluded nook, within a few feet of the door which
gave entrance to the club cellars.  This door I had been bearing in
mind for some time.  It is well to know your topography.  The door was
at the left of the band platform.  There was a twin-door on the other
side.  We sat down.
"Have you heard the news?" I asked.
"No.  Has some one been discovered making love to his own wife by
mistake?"
"It's serious.  Anne of Austria and Queen Elizabeth have been robbed of
some jewels."
"A thief among us?"
"A regular Galloping Dick.  I'm a thief myself, for that matter."
"You?" she drew away from me a bit.
"Yes.  My name is Procrastination."
"Ah, my grave Capuchin, we do not steal time; we merely waste it.  But
is what you tell me true?"
"I am very sorry to say it is.  The jewels were worth something like
ten thousand dollars."
"Merciful heavens!"
"It is true, infernally true,"--looking around to see if by chance
Caesar had reappeared on the scene.  (How was I to manage my escape?
It is true I might hie me to the cellars; but how to get out of the
cellars!)  "Have you seen Julius Caesar?" I asked.
"Caesar?"
"Yes, Miss Hawthorne--"
The Blue Domino swung about and leaned toward me, her hands tense upon
the sides of her chair.
"What name did you say?"--a strained note in her voice.
"Hawthorne," I answered, taking out the slip of pasteboard.  "See! it
says that one blue domino was rented of Monsieur Friard at five-thirty
this afternoon."
"How did you come by that ticket?" she demanded.
"It was a miracle.  I purchased a mask there, and this ticket was
wrapped up in my bundle by mistake."
"It is a curious coincidence,"--her voice normal and unagitated.
I was confused.  "Then I am mistaken?"--my chagrin evident.  (All this
while, mind you, I was wondering if that cellar-door was unlocked, and
how long it would take me to reach it before the dénouement!)
"One way or the other, it does not matter," said she.
"Yet, if I could reach the cellars,"--absently.  Then I bit my tongue.
"Cellars?  Who said anything about cellars?  I meant that this is not
the hour for unmasking or disclosing one's identity,"--coldly.
"And yet, when Caesar whispered 'Beware the ten of hearts' you turned
and shuddered.  What have you to offer in defense?"
"It was the horrid mask he wore."
"Well, it wasn't handsome of him."
"What did you mean by cellars?"--suddenly becoming the inquisitor in
her turn.
"I?  Oh, I was thinking what I should do in case of fire,"--nimbly.
"That is not the truth."
"Well, no, it isn't.  Can you keep a secret?" I whispered.
"If it isn't a terrible one."
"Well, I have no earthly business here.  I am an impostor."
"An impostor!"
"Yes.  And for the past few minutes, since I heard of the robbery, I've
been thinking how I could get out of here upon the slightest notice."
While the reckless spirit was upon me, I produced the fatal card and
showed the back to her.  "You will find that yours is of a different
color.  But I am not the Galloping Dick; it was only a hare-brained
lark on my part, and I had no idea it would turn out serious like this.
I was going to disappear before they unmasked.  What would you advise
me to do?"
She took the card, studied it, and finally returned it.  There followed
an interval of silence.
"I have known the imposition from the first," she said.
"What!"
She touched the signet-ring on my little finger.  "I have seen that
once before to-night.  No," she mused, "you will not blow up the
post-office to-night, nor the police-station."
She lifted the corner of her mask, and I beheld the girl I had met in
Mouquin's!
"You?"
"Silence!  So this is the meaning of your shuffling those cards?  Oh,
it is certainly droll!"  She laughed.
"And are you Miss Hawthorne?"
"I am still in the mask, sir; I shall answer none of your questions."
"This is the finest romance in the world!" I cried.
"You were talking about getting out," she said.  "Shall I lend you my
domino?  But that would be useless.  Such a prestidigitator as Signor
Fantoccini has only to say--Presto! and disappear at once."
"I assure you, it is no laughing matter."
"I see it from a different angle."
An artist's model, and yet a guest at this exclusive function?
A commotion around the stage distracted us.  Presently we saw Teddy
Hamilton mount the stage and hold up his hands.
"Attention, ladies and gentlemen!" he called.
Silence gradually fell upon the motley groups of masqueraders.
"A thief is among us.  I have had all the exits closed.  Everybody will
be so kind as to present cards at the main entrance.  Three ten-spots
of hearts have been tallied on the comparing lists.  We have been
imposed upon.  The police are on the way.  Very sorry to cause you this
annoyance.  The identity of the holders of the cards will be known only
to those of us on the committee."
Silence and then a murmur which soon became a fuzzing like that of many
bees.
The Blue Domino suddenly clutched my arm.
"Please take me away, take me away at once!  I'm an impostor, too!"
Two of us!
This was disaster.  I give you my solemn word, there was nothing I
regretted so much as the fact that I hadn't gone to the theater.
But I am a man of quick thought and resource.  In the inelegant
phrasing of the day, me for the cellars!
"Come," said I to the girl; "There's only one chance in a hundred, but
we'll take it together."
"Together?  Where?"
"Why, to the cellars.  I've a pocketful of matches.  We can make a try.
For, if there's a thief around, and we are caught and proved
impostors--Well, I leave you to imagine!"
"I will go with you," she replied resolutely.
The gods were with us.  The door leading to the cellars was not locked.
I opened it, passed the girl before me, and closed the door.
"I am frightened!" she whispered.
"So am I," I offered, to reassure her.  "You are not afraid of rats,
are you?"
"No-o!"
"Bully!" I cried.  Then I laughed.
"How can you laugh?  It is horrible!" she protested.
"You would come, though I heard your uncle warn you.  Look at it the
way I do.  It's a huge joke, and years from now you'll have great fun
telling it to your grandchildren."
"I wish, at this moment, I could see so far ahead--What was
that?"--seizing my arm.
Click!
Somebody had locked the door behind us!
IV
In other words, we had departed the scene of festivities none too soon.
I could readily understand why the door had been locked: it was not to
keep us in the cellars; rather it was to prevent any one from leaving
the ball-room by that route.  Evidently our absence had not been
noticed, nor had any seen our precipitate flight.  I sighed gratefully.
For several minutes we stood silent and motionless on the landing.  At
length I boldly struck a match.  The first thing that greeted my
blinded gaze was the welcome vision of a little shelf lined with
steward's candles.  One of these I lighted, and two others I stuffed
into the pocket of my Capuchin's gown.  Then we tiptoed softly down the
stairs, the girl tugging fearfully at my sleeve.
There was an earthy smell.  It was damp and cold.  Miles and miles away
(so it seemed) the pale moonshine filtered through a cobwebbed window,
It was ghostly; but so far as I was concerned, I was honestly enjoying
myself, strange as this statement may seem.  Here was I, setting forth
upon an adventure with the handsomest, wittiest girl I had ever laid
eyes upon.  If I extricated her neatly, she would always be in my debt;
and the thought of this was mighty pleasant to contemplate.
"Do you know the way out?"
I confessed that, so far as I knew, we were in one of the fabled
labyrinths of mythology.
"Go ahead," she said bravely.
"I ask only to die in your Highness' service,"--soberly.
"But I do not want you to die; I want you to get me out of this cellar;
and quickly, too."
"I'll live or die in the attempt!"
"I see nothing funny in our predicament,"--icily.
"A few moments ago you said that our angles of vision were not the
same; I begin to believe it.  As for me, I think it's simply immense to
find myself in the same boat with you."
"I wish you had been an anarchist, or a performer in a dime-museum."
"You might now be alone here.  But, pardon me; surely you do not lack
the full allotment of the adventurous spirit!  It was all amusing
enough to come here under false pretenses."
"But I had not reckoned on any one's losing jewels."
"No more had I."
"Proceed.  I have the courage to trust to your guidance."
"I would that it might be always!"--with a burst of sentiment that was
not wholly feigned.
"Let us be on,"--imperatively.  "I shall not only catch my death of
cold, but I shall be horribly compromised."
"My dear young lady, on the word of a gentleman, I will do the best I
can to get you out of this cellar.  If I have jested a little, it was
only in the effort to give you courage; for I haven't the slightest
idea how we are going to get out of this dismal hole."
We went on.  We couldn't see half a dozen feet in front of us.  The
gloom beyond the dozen feet was Stygian and menacing.  And the great
grim shadows that crept behind us as we proceeded!  Once the girl
stumbled and fell against me.
"What's the matter?" I asked, startled.
"I stepped on something that--that moved!"--plaintively.
"Possibly it was a potato; there's a bin of them over there.  Where the
deuce are we?"
"If you swear, I shall certainly scream!" she warned.
"But I can swear in the most elegant and approved fashion."
"I am not inclined to have you demonstrate your talents."
"Aha!  Here is the coal-bin.  Perhaps the window may be open.  If so,
we are saved.  Will you hold the candle for a moment?"
Have you ever witnessed a cat footing it across the snow?  If you have,
picture me imitating her.  Cautiously I took one step, then another;
and then that mountain of coal turned into a roaring tread-mill.
Sssssh!  Rrrrr!  In a moment I was buried to the knees and nearly
suffocated.  I became angry.  I would reach that window--
"Hush!  Hush!  The noise, the noise!" whispered the girl, waving the
candle frantically.
But I was determined.  Again I tried.  This time I slipped and fell on
my hands.  As I strove to get up, the cord of my gown became tangled
about my feet.  The girl choked; whether with coal-dust or with
laughter I could not say, as she still had on her cambric-mask.
"Forgive me," she said.  And then I knew it was not the coal-dust.
"I'll forgive you, but I will not promise to forget."
"Merciful heavens! you must not try that again.  Think of the noise!"
"Was I making any noise?"--rubbing the perspiration from my forehead.
(I had taken off my mask.)
"Noise?  The trump of Judgment Day will be feeble compared to it.
Surely some one has heard you.  Why not lay that board on top of the
coal?"
A good idea.  I made use of it at once.  The window was unlatched, but
there was a heavy wire-screen nailed to the sills outside.  There was
no getting out that way.  The gods were evidently busy elsewhere.
"Nothing doing," I murmured, a bit discouraged.
"And even if there was, you really could not expect me to risk my neck
and dignity by climbing through a window like that.  Let us give up the
idea of windows and seek the cellar-doors, those that give to the
grounds.  I declare I shall leave by no other exit."
"It was very kind of you to let me make an ass of myself like that.
Why didn't you tell me beforehand?"
"Perhaps it's the angle of vision again.  I can see that we shall never
agree.  Seriously, I thought that if you got out that way, you might
find the other exit for me.  I am sorry if my laughter annoyed you."
"Not at all, not at all.  But wouldn't it be wise to save a little
laughter to make merry with when we get out?"
I stepped out of the bin and relieved her of the candle; and we went on.
"You did look funny," she said.
"Please don't!" I begged.
Soon we came to a bin of cabbages.  I peered in philosophically.
"I might find a better head in there than mine," I suggested.
"Now you are trying to be sarcastic," said the girl.
We went on.
"Wait a moment!" she cried.  "Here's a bin of nice apples."
Apples!  Well, my word, she was a cool one!  I picked up one, polished
it on my sleeve, and gave it to her.
"I'm hungry," she said apologetically.
"And plucky, too," I supplemented admiringly.  "Most women would be in
a weeping state by this time."
"Perhaps I am waiting till it is all over."
"You had better take off your mask."  In fact I felt positive that the
sight of her exquisite face would act like a tonic upon my nerves.
"I am doing very well with it on.  I can at least keep my face clean."
She raised the curtain and took a liberal bite of the apple--so
nonchalantly that I was forced to smile.
"Here's a box," said I; "let's sit down while we eat.  We are safe
enough.  If any one had heard the racket in the coal-bin, the cellar
would have been full of police by this time."
And there we sat, calmly munching the apples, for all the world as if
the iron hand of the law wasn't within a thousand miles of us.  It was
all very amusing.
"Are--are you the man they are hunting for?" she asked abruptly.
"I never stole anything more terrible than green apples--and ripe
ones"--with a nod toward the apple-bin.
"Pardon me!  I feel very guilty in asking you such a question.  You
haven't told me your name."
"Haven't I?  My name is Richard Comstalk.  My friends call me Dickey."
"Dickey," she murmured.  "It's a nice name."
"Won't you have another apple?" I asked impulsively.
"My appetite is appeased, thank you."
An idea came to me.  "Hamilton said there were three tens of hearts.
That meant that only one was out of order.  Where did you get your
card?"
"That I shall tell you--later."
"But are you really an impostor?"
"I should not be in this cellar else."
"You are very mystifying."
"For the present I prefer to remain so."
We tossed aside the apple-cores, rose, and went on.  It was the longest
cellar I ever saw.  There seemed absolutely no end to it.  The
wine-cellar was walled apart from the main cellar, and had the
semblance of a huge cistern with a door opening into it.  As we passed
it, the vague perfume of the grape drifted out to us.
"Let's have a bottle," I began.
"Mr. Comstalk!"
"By absent-treatment!" I hastened to add.
"You will make a capital comrade--if we ever get out of this cellar."
"Trust me for that!" I replied gaily.  "Be careful; there's a pile of
empty bottles, yearning to be filled with tomato-catsup.  Give me your
hand."
But the moment the little digits closed over mine, a thrill seized me,
and I quickly bent my head and kissed the hand.  It was wrong, but I
could not help it.  She neither spoke nor withdrew her hand; and my
fear that she might really be offended vanished.
"We are nearly out of it," I said exultantly.  "I see the cellar-stairs
on ahead.   If only those doors are open!"
"Heaven is merciful to the fool, and we are a pair," she replied,
sighing gratefully.  "It seems strange that nobody should be in the
cellar on a night like this.  Hark!  They are playing again up stairs
in the ball-room."
"And wondering a whole lot where that third ten of hearts has gone."
"But, listen.  How are we to get back to the trolley?  We certainly can
not walk the distance in these clothes."
"Oh, that carryall will come to our rescue.  We are weary and are
leaving early, don't you know?  That part is simple; the complicated
thing is to shake the dust of this cellar."
"What a big furnace!" she exclaimed, as we came into view of the huge
heating apparatus.  "And there's more coal."
A man stepped out from behind the furnace, and confronted us.  A red
bandana covered the lower part of his face and his hat was pulled down
over his eyes.  But I recognized him instantly.  It was the fellow with
the villainous pipe!  Something glittered ominously at the end of his
outstretched arm.
"If you make any noise, sir, I'll have to plug you, sir," he said in
polite but muffled tones.
The candle slipped from my fingers, and the three of us stood in
darkness!
V
There was a clicking sound, and the glare of a dark-lantern struck my
blinking eyes.
"Pick up the candle, sir," said the tranquil voice from behind the
light.
I obeyed readily enough.  Fate was downright cruel to us.  Not a dozen
feet away was liberty; and now we were back at the beginning again,
with the end nowhere in sight.
"Shall I light it, sir?" I asked, not to be outdone in the matter of
formal politeness.
"Yes, sir, doubtless you will need it."
I struck a match and touched the candle-wick.
"Burglar?" said I.  (For all my apparent coolness, my heart-beats were
away up in the eighties!)
The girl snuggled close to my side.  I could feel her heart beating
even faster than mine.
"Burglar?" I repeated.
"Indeed, no, sir,"--reproachfully.  "Mine is a political job."
"A political job?"--thunderstruck.
"Yes, sir; I am an inspector of cellars,"--grimly.  "I couldn't get
around to this here cellar earlier in the day, sir, and a fellow's work
must be done."
Here was a burglar with the sense of humor.
"What can I do for you?" I asked blandly.
"Firstly, as they say, you might tell me what you and this lady are
doing in this lonesome cellar."
"Say 'sir,' when you address me."
"Yes, sir."
"The lady and I were playing hide-and-seek."
"Nice game, sir,"--grinning.  "Were you trying to hide under the coal?"
"Oh, no; I was merely exploring it."
"Say 'sir,' when you address me."
"Sir."
"You're a cool hand, sir."
"I am gratified to learn that our admiration is mutual.  But what are
you doing here?"
"I was ascertaining if the law was properly observed, sir," shaking
with silent laughter.
"But what puzzles me," I went on, "is the fact that you could gather
the gems in that garb."  For I was positive that this was the Galloping
Dick every one was looking for.
"I don't understand a word you say, sir.  I'm an inspector of cellars,
sir, not a jeweler.  So you and the lady was playing hide-and-seek?
Come, now, what is your graft?  Is all the push here to-night?"
"That depends,"--cursing under my breath that I wore a gown which
hampered my movements.  For, truth to tell, I was watching him as a cat
watches a mouse.
"Well, sir, we of the profession never interferes with gentlemanly
jobs, sir.  All I want of you is to help me out of here."
"I am not a burglar."
"Oh, I understand, sir; I understand completely.  A gentleman is always
a gentleman, sir.  Now, you can return to that coal-bin.  I was just
about to make for it when you lit that candle."
"Why not leave by the cellar-doors?"
"I have my reasons, sir; most satisfactory reasons, sir.  I prefer
the window.  Get along!"--his tones suddenly hardening.
I got along.
"The lady may sit down, sir," he said courteously.
"Thank you, I will," replied the girl, plumping down on an empty
winecase.  (She afterward confessed that if she had not sat down on the
box, she would have sat down on the cellar-floor, as a sort of
paralysis had seized her knees.)
I stepped into the coal-bin, and rested the candle on the little shelf
for that purpose.  I was downright anxious to see the fellow safely
away.  There wasn't room in that cellar for the three of us.  His
presence doubly endangered us and multiplied the complications.  I was
in no position to force the gems from him.  A man who has ten thousand
dollars' worth of jewels on his person doesn't stop at shooting; and I
possessed a healthy regard for my skin.  I opened the window and caught
it to the ceiling by a hook I found there.
"There is a stout screen, my man."
"Take this, sir, and cut it out,"--handing me a pair of wire-clippers,
holding his lantern under his arm meanwhile.  The muzzle of the
revolver, during all this time, never wavered in its aim at my head.
I went to work at the screen, and presently it fell inward.
"Is that satisfactory?"--with impressive irony.
"You are the most perfect gentleman that I ever see, sir!"
The girl laughed hysterically.
"Now what?"  The fun was beginning to pall on me.
"Step out of the bin and stand aside.  Sit down by the lady.  Maybe
she's a bit frightened."
I obeyed him to the letter.
"Thanks!"  With the agility of a cat he leaped up and wriggled through
the window.  He turned.  "Good night, sir.  Sometime maybe I'll do the
same for you, sir."
"Go to the devil!" I snarled.
"My, my!  What a temper, sir!  I wouldn't have thought it of you, and a
nice lady in speaking distance!"
He disappeared.
The girl laid a hand on my arm.
"You have acted very sensibly, Mr. Comstalk.  If you had not, it is
quite certain he would have shot you."
"It would have been a good thing for me if he had.  He has gone, and
the jewels have gone with him.  I hadn't the least chance; the wretch!
He probably came disguised as a plumber, and nobody suspected him."
"But if he possessed the ten of hearts, why should he have left this
way?"
"Possibly my idea was only an imitation of his.  There must have been
at least a dozen tens of hearts.  My dear young lady, I would give a
good deal if you were well out of this.  I believed my plan was for the
best, and instead I have simply blackened the case against us.  I have
been too adventurous.  The situation looks very serious just now.  Of
course, in the long run, we shall clear ourselves; but it will take
some fine arguing to do it, and possibly half a dozen lawyers."
"It is a terribly embarrassing predicament; but since we started out
together, we'll hang together."  She held out her hand to me.  "It will
be fun to extricate ourselves with full honors."
"You're a brick!"  And I pressed her hand tightly.
"Now, I wonder why the burglar didn't try those cellar-doors?" she
murmured.
"By Jove, I'll soon find out!  Come on.  There's hope yet."
This time we reached the stone steps without interference.  I gave the
candle to the girl, cautiously put a shoulder against one of the doors,
and gave a gentle heave.  It was not locked.  Through the thin crack I
looked out upon the bright world of moonshine and crystal.  Instantly I
permitted the door to settle into its accustomed place.  I readily
understood the burglar's reasons.  Seated upon a box, less than a dozen
feet away, and blissfully smoking one of the club's cigars, sat a burly
policeman.  So they had arrived upon the scene!
"What is it?" asked the girl, as I motioned her to retreat.
"The worst has come: the police!" dramatically.
"Gracious heavens, this is frightful!  We shall never get out now.
Oh dear!  Why did I ever come?  It will be in the papers, with horrid
pictures.  We ought not to have left the ball-room.  Our very actions
will tell heavily against us.  Awful!"
"Now, don't you worry.  They will not take any notice of you, once they
set eyes upon me.  Homo sum!  They are looking for me.  There's
only one superfluous ten of hearts.  I have it."
"But I shall be found with you, and the stupid police will swear I am
an accomplice."  She wrung her hands.
"But no jewels will be found upon us," I argued half-heartedly.
"They will say we have already disposed of them."
"But the real burglar--"
"They will say that he came into the cellar at our bidding."
This girl was terribly reasonable and direct.
"Hang it!  I know Teddy Hamilton, the M. F. H.  He'll go my bail, and
yours, too, for that matter.  Come, let's not give up.  There must be
some other way out."
"I wish I might believe it.  Why did I come?"--a bit of a wail
stealing into the anger in her voice.
"This is Tom Fool's Night, and no mistake," I assented ruefully.
"But I am a bigger fool than you are; I had an alibi, and a good one."
"An alibi?  Why on earth, then, did you follow me?  What is your alibi?"
"Never mind now.  We should still be in this miserable
cellar,"--briefly.  "What a night!  I am so ashamed!  I shall be
horribly compromised."
"I'll take the brunt of it all.  I'm sorry; but, for the love of
Heaven, don't cry, or I shall lose what little nerve I have left."
"I am not crying!" she denied emphatically.  "My inclination is to
shriek with laughter.  I'm hysterical.  And who wouldn't be, with
police officers and cells staring one in the face?  Let us be going.
That policeman outside will presently hear us whispering if we stand
here much longer."
There was wisdom in this.  So, once again I took the candle, and we
marched back.  There wasn't a single jest left in my whole system, and
it didn't look as if there was ever going to be another supply.  We
took the other side of the furnace, and at length came to a flight of
wooden stairs, leading somewhere into the club.  It was our last
chance, or we should indeed be obliged to stay all night in some bin;
for it would not be long before they searched the cellars.  If this
flight led into the kitchen, we were saved, for I could bluff the
servants.  We paused.  Presently we ascended, side by side, with light
but firm step.  We reached the landing in front of the door without
mishap.  From somewhere came a puff of air which blew out the candle.
I struck a match viciously against the wall---and blundered into a
string of cooking-pans!  It was all over, the agony of suspense!
Blang!  Rumpity-bumpity-blang-blang!
I have heard many stage thunders in my time, but that racket beat
anything and everything this side of siege-guns.
Instantly the door opened and a policeman poked his head in.  Before I
had time to move, he grabbed me by the arm and yanked me--into the
ballroom!  The girl and I had made a complete circuit of the cellars,
and had stumbled into the ball-room again by the flight opposite to
that by which we left it.  Cheerful prospect, wasn't it?  The adventure
had ceased to have any droll side to it.
"Aha!" cried the base minion of the law.  "Here you are, then!
Hello, everybody!  Hello!" he bawled.
Caught!  Here we were, the Blue Domino and myself, the Grey Capuchin,
both of us in a fine fix.  Discovery and ejection I could have stood
with fortitude and equanimity; but there was bad business afoot.  There
wasn't any doubt in my mind what was going to happen.  As the girl
said, there would be flaring head-lines and horrid pictures.  We were
like to be the newspaper sensation of the day.  Arrested and lodged in
jail!  What would my rich, doting old uncle say to that, who had
threatened to disinherit me for lesser things!  I felt terribly sorry
for the girl, but it was now utterly impossible to help her, for I
couldn't help myself.
And behold!  The mysterious stranger I had met in the curio-shop, the
fellow who had virtually haunted me for six hours, the fellow who had
masqueraded as Caesar, suddenly loomed up before me, still wearing his
sardonic smile.  At his side were two more policemen.  He had thrown
aside his toga and was in evening dress.  His keen glance rested on me.
"Here he is, Mr. Haggerty!" cried the policeman cheerfully, swinging me
around.
A detective!  And Heaven help me, he believed me to be the thief!  Oh,
for Aladdin's lamp!
VI
I stood with folded arms, awaiting his approach.  Nonchalance is always
respected by the police.  I must have presented a likely picture,
however--my face blackened with coal-dust, cobwebs stringing down over
my eyes, my Capuchin gown soiled and rent.  The girl quietly took her
place beside me.
"So you took a chance at the cellars, eh?" inquired the detective
urbanely.  "Well, you look it.  Will you go with us quietly, or shall
we have to use force?"
"In the first place, what do you and your police want of me?" I
returned coolly.
He exhibited his star of authority.
"I am Haggerty of the Central Office.  I want you for several things."
Several things?  I stared at him stupidly.  Several things?  Then it
came to me, with a jar like an earthquake.  The story in the newspaper
returned to my vision.  Oh, this was too much, altogether too much!  He
took me to be the fashionable thief for whom half the New York police
force were hunting.  My sight swam for a moment in a blur.
"What is it you think I have done?" I demanded.
"You have, or have had, several thousand dollars' worth of gems on your
