On the rare occasions when he allowed any one but his servants to enter
that room, he said that the statue was a copy, which he had caused to
be very carefully made after an original found in Lesbos and secretly
carried off by a high Turkish official, who kept it in his house and
never spoke of it. This accounted for its being quite unknown to the
artistic world. He called attention to the fact that it was really a
facsimile, rather than a copy, and he seemed pleased at the perfect
reproduction of the injured points, which were few, and of the stains,
which were faint and not unpleasing. But he never showed it to an
artist or an expert critic.
'A mere copy,' he would say, with a shrug of his shoulders. 'Nothing
that would interest any one who really knows about such things.'
A very perfect copy, a very marvellous copy, surely; one that might
stand in the Vatican, with the Torso, or in the Louvre, beside the
Venus of Milo, or in the British Museum, opposite the Pericles, or in
Olympia itself, facing the Hermes, the greatest of all, and yet never
be taken for anything but the work of a supreme master's own hands. But
Constantine Logotheti shrugged his shoulders and said it was a mere
copy, nothing but a clever facsimile, carved and chipped and stained by
a couple of Italian marble-cutters, whose business it was to
manufacture antiquities for the American market and whom any one could
engage to work in any part of the world for twenty francs a day and
their expenses. Yes, those Italian workmen were clever fellows,
Logotheti admitted. But everything could be counterfeited now, as
everybody knew, and his only merit lay in having ordered this
particular counterfeit instead of having been deceived by it.
As Logotheti sat there in the quiet light, looking at it, the word
'copy' sounded in his memory, as he had often spoken it, and a peaceful
smile played upon his broad Oriental lips. The 'copy' had cost human
lives, and he had almost paid for it with his own, in his haste to have
it for himself, and only for himself.
His eyes were half-closed again, and he saw outlines of strong ragged
men staggering down to a lonely cove at night, with their marble
burden, and he heard the autumn gale howling among the rocks, and the
soft thud of the baled statue as it was laid in the bottom of the
little fishing craft; and then, because the men feared the weather, he
was in the boat himself, shaming them by his courage, loosing the sail,
bending furiously to one of the long sweeps, yelling, cheering,
cursing, promising endless gold, then baling with mad energy as the
water swirled up and poured over the canvas bulwark that Greek boats
carry, and still wildly urging the fishermen to keep her up; and then,
the end, a sweep broken and foul of the next, a rower falling headlong
on the man in front of him, confusion in the dark, the crazy boat
broached to in the breaking sea, filling, fuller, now quite full and
sinking, the raging hell of men fighting for their lives amongst broken
oars, and tangled rigging and floating bottom-boards; one voice less,
two less, a smashing sea and then no voices at all, no boat, no men, no
anything but the howling wind and the driving spray, and he himself,
Logotheti, gripping a spar, one of those long booms the fishermen carry
for running, half-drowned again and again, but gripping still, and
drifting with the storm past the awful death of sharp black rocks and
pounding seas, into the calm lee beyond.
And then, a week later, on a still October night, his great yacht lying
where the boat had sunk, with diver and crane and hoisting gear, and
submarine light; and at last, the thing itself brought up from ten
fathoms deep with noise of chain and steam winch, and swung in on deck,
the water-worn baling dropping from it and soon torn off, to show the
precious marble perfect still. And then--'full speed ahead' and west by
north, straight for the Malta channel.
Logotheti's personal reminiscences were not exactly dull, and the vivid
recollection of struggles and danger and visible death made the peace
of his solitude more profound; the priceless thing he had fought for
was alive in the stillness with the supernatural life of the ever
beautiful; his fingers pressed an ebony key in the table beside him and
the marble turned very slowly and steadily and noiselessly on the low
base, seeming to let her shadowy eyes linger on him as she looked back
over the curve of her shoulder. Again his fingers moved, and the motion
ceased, obedient to the hidden mechanism; and so, as he sat still, the
goddess moved this way and that, facing him at his will, or looking
back, or turning quite away, as if ashamed to meet his gaze, being
clothed only in warm light and dreamy shadows, then once more
confronting him in the pride of a beauty too faultless to fear a man's
bold eyes.
He leaned against his cushions, and sipped his coffee now and then, and
let the thin blue smoke make clouds of lace between him and the very
slowly moving marble, for he knew what little things help great
illusions, or destroy them. Nothing was lacking. The dark blue
pavement, combed like rippling water and shot with silver that cast
back broken reflections, was the sea itself; snowy gauze wrapped
loosely round the base was breaking foam; the tinted walls, the morning
sky of Greece; the goddess, Aphrodite, sea-born, too human to be quite
divine, too heavenly to be only a living woman.
And she was his; his not only for the dangers he had faced to have her,
but his because he was a Greek, because his heart beat with a strain of
the ancient sculptor's blood; because his treasure was the goddess of
his far forefathers, who had made her in the image of the loveliness
they adored; because he worshipped her himself, more than half
heathenly; but doubly his now, because his imagination had found her
likeness in the outer world, clothed, breathing and alive, and created
for him only.
He leaned against his cushions, and lines of the old poetry rose to his
lips, and the words came aloud. He loved the sound when he was alone,
the vital rush of it, and the voluptuous pause and the soft, lingering
cadence before it rose again. In the music of each separate verse there
was the whole episode of man's love and woman's, the illusion and the
image, the image and the maddening, leaping, all-satisfying,
softly-subsiding reality.
It was no wonder that he would not allow anything to disturb him in
that inner sanctuary of rare delight. His bodily nature, his
imagination, his deep knowledge and love of his own Hellenic poets, his
almost adoration of the beautiful, all that was his real self, placed
him far outside the pale that confines the world of common men as the
sheepfold pens in the flock.
It was late in the night when he rose from his seat at last,
extinguished the lights himself and left the room, with a regretful
look on his face; for, after his manner, he had been very happy in his
solitude, if indeed he had been alone where his treasure reigned.
He went downstairs, for the sanctuary was high up in the house, and he
found his man dozing in a chair in the vestibule at the door of his
dressing-room. The valet rose to his feet instantly, took a little
salver from the small table beside him, and held it out to Logotheti.
'A telegram, sir,' he said.
Logotheti carelessly tore the end off the blue cover and glanced at the
contents.
    Can buy moon. Cable offer and limit.
Logotheti looked at his watch and made a short calculation which
convinced him that no time would really be lost in buying the moon if
he did not answer the telegram till the next morning. Then he went to
bed and read himself to sleep with Musurus' Greek translation of
Dante's Inferno.
CHAPTER IX
On the following day Margaret received a note from Schreiermeyer
informing her in the briefest terms and in doubtful French that he had
concluded the arrangements for her to make her début in the part of
Marguerite, in a Belgian city, in exactly a month, and requiring that
she should attend the next rehearsal of Faust at the Opéra in Paris,
where Faust is almost a perpetual performance and yet seems to need
rehearsing from time to time.
She showed the letter to Mrs. Rushmore, who sighed wearily after
reading it, and said nothing. But there was a little more colour in
Margaret's cheek, and her eyes sparkled at the prospect of making a
beginning at last. Mrs. Rushmore took up her newspaper again with an
air of sorrowful disapproval, but presently she started uncomfortably
and looked at Margaret.
'Oh!' she exclaimed, and sighed once more.
'What is it?' asked the young girl.
'It must be true, for it's in the Herald.'
'What?'
Mrs. Rushmore read the following paragraph:--
    We hear on the best authority that a new star is about to dazzle
    the operatic stage. Monsieur Schreiermeyer has announced to a
    select circle of friends that it will be visible in the theatrical
    heaven on the night of June 21, in the character of Marguerite and
    in the person of a surprisingly beautiful young Spanish soprano,
    the Señorita Margarita da Cordova, whose romantic story as daughter
    to a contrabandista of Andalusia and granddaughter to the
    celebrated bullfighter Ramon and----
'Oh, my dear! This is too shameful! I told you so!'
Mrs. Rushmore's elderly cheeks were positively scarlet as she stared at
the print. Margaret observed the unwonted phenomenon with surprise.
'I don't see anything so appallingly improper in that,' she observed.
'You don't see! No, my child, you don't! I trust you never may. Indeed
if I can prevent it, you never shall. Disgusting! Vile!'
And the good lady read the rest of the paragraph to herself, holding up
the paper so as to hide her modest blushes.
'My dear, what a story!' she cried at last. 'It positively makes me
creep!'
'This is very tantalising,' said Margaret. 'I suppose it has to do with
my imaginary ancestry in Andalusia.'
'I should think it had! Where do they get such things, I wonder? A
bishop, my dear--oh no, really! it would make a pirate blush! Can you
tell me what good this kind of thing can do?'
'Advertisement,' Margaret answered coolly. 'It's intended to excite
interest in me before I appear, you know. Don't they do it in America?'
'Never!' cried Mrs. Rushmore with solemn emphasis. 'Apart from its
being all a perfectly gratuitous falsehood.'
'Gratuitous? Perhaps Schreiermeyer paid to have it put in.'
'Then I never wish to see him, Margaret, never! Do you understand! I
think I shall bring an action against him. At all events I shall take
legal advice. This cannot be allowed to go uncontradicted. If I were
you, I would sit down and write to the paper this very minute, and tell
the editor that you are a respectable English girl. You are, I'm sure!'
'I hope so! But what has respectability to do with art?'
'A great deal, my dear,' answered Mrs. Rushmore wisely. 'You may say
what you like, there is a vast difference between being respectable and
disreputable--perfectly vast! It's of no use to deny it, because you
can't.'
'Nobody can.'
'There now, I told you so! I must say, child, you are getting some very
strange ideas from your new acquaintances. If these are the principles
you mean to adopt, I am sorry for you, very sorry!'
Margaret did not seem very sorry for herself, however, for she went off
at this point, singing the 'jewel song' in Faust at the top of her
voice, and wishing with all her heart that she were already behind the
footlights with the orchestra at her feet.
Two days later, Mrs. Rushmore received a cable message from New York
which surprised her almost as much as the paragraph about Margaret had.
    Alvah Moon has sold invention for cash to anonymous New York
    syndicate who offer to compromise suit. Cable instructions naming
    sum you will accept, if disposed to deal.
Now Mrs. Rushmore was a wise woman, as well as a good one, though her
ability to express her thoughts in concise language was insignificant.
She had long known that the issue of the suit she had brought was
doubtful, and that as it was one which could be appealed to the Supreme
Court of the United States, it might drag on for a long time; so that
the possibility of a compromise was very welcome, and she at once
remembered that half a loaf is better than no bread, especially when
the loaf is of hearty dimensions and easily divided. What she could not
understand was that any one should have been willing to pay Alvah Moon
the sum he must have asked, while his interest was still in litigation,
and that, after buying that interest, the purchasers should propose a
compromise when they might have prolonged the suit for some time, with
a fair chance of winning it in the end. But that did not matter. More
than once since Mrs. Rushmore had taken up the case her lawyers had
advised her to drop it and submit to losing what she had already spent
on the suit, and of late her own misgivings had increased. The prospect
of obtaining a considerable sum for Margaret, at the very moment when
the girl had made up her mind to support herself as a singer, was in
itself very tempting; and as it presented itself just when the horrors
of an artistic career had been brought clearly before Mrs. Rushmore's
mind by the newspaper paragraph, she did not hesitate a moment.
Margaret was in Paris that morning, at her first rehearsal, and could
not come back till the afternoon; but after all it would be of no use
to consult her, as she was so infatuated with the idea of singing in
public that she would very probably be almost disappointed by her good
fortune. Mrs. Rushmore read the message three times, and then went out
under the trees to consider her answer, carrying the bit of paper in
her hand as if she did not know by heart the words written on it. For
once, she had no guests, and for the first time she was glad of it. She
walked slowly up and down, and as it was a warm morning, still and
overcast, she fanned herself with the telegram in a very futile way,
and watched the flies skimming over the water of the little pond, and
repeated her inward question to herself many times.
Mrs. Rushmore never thought anything out. When she was in doubt, she
asked herself the same question, 'What had I better do?' or, 'What will
he or she do next?' over and over again, with a frantic determination
to be logical. And suddenly, sooner or later, the answer flashed upon
her in a sort of accidental way as if it were not looking for her, and
so completely outran all power of expression that she could not put it
into words at all, though she could act upon it well enough. The odd
part of it all was that these accidental revelations rarely misled her.
They were like fragments of a former world of excellent common-sense
that had gone to pieces, which she now and then encountered like
meteors in her own orbit.
When she had walked up and down for a quarter of an hour one of these
aeroliths of reason shot across the field of her mental sight, and she
understood that one of two things must have occurred. Either Alvah Moon
had lost confidence in his chances and had sold the invention to some
greenhorn for anything he could get; or else some one else had been so
deeply interested in the affair as to risk a great deal of money in it.
Mrs. Rushmore's gleam of intelligence was a comet; but her comet had
two tails, which was very confusing.
Her meditations were disturbed by the noise of a big motor car,
approaching the house from a distance, and heralding its advance with a
steadily rising whizz and a series of most unearthly toots. Motor cars
often passed the house and ran down the Boulevard St. Antoine at
frightful speed, for the beautiful road is generally clear; but
something, perhaps a small meteor again, warned her that this one was
going to stop at the gate and demand admittance for itself.
Thereupon Mrs. Rushmore looked at her fingers; for she kept up an
extensive correspondence, in the course of which she often inked them.
For forty years she had asked herself why she, who prided herself on
her fastidious neatness, should have been predestined and condemned to
have inky fingers like an untidy school-girl, and she had spent time
and money in search of an ink that would wash off easily and
completely, without the necessity of flaying her hands with pumice
stone and chemicals. When suddenly aware of the approach of an
unexpected visitor, she always looked at her fingers.
The thing came nearer, roared, sputtered, tooted and was silent. In the
silence Mrs. Rushmore heard the tinkle of the gate bell and in a few
moments she saw Logotheti coming towards her across the lawn. She was
not particularly pleased to see him.
'I am afraid,' she said rather stiffly, 'that Miss Donne is out.'
In a not altogether well-spent life Logotheti had seen many things; but
he was not accustomed to American chaperons, whose amazing humility
always takes it for granted that no man under forty can possibly call
upon them except for the sake of seeing the young woman in their
charge. Logotheti looked vaguely surprised.
'Indeed?' he answered, with a little interrogation as though he found
it hard to be astonished, but wished to be obliging. 'That is rather
fortunate,' he continued, 'for I was hoping to find you alone.'
'Me?' Mrs. Rushmore unbent a little and smiled rather grimly.
'Yes. If I had not been so anxious to see you at once, I should have
written or telegraphed to ask for a few minutes alone with you. But I
could not afford to waste time.'
He spoke so gravely that she immediately suspected him of dark designs.
Perhaps he was going to propose to her, since Margaret had refused him.
She remembered instances of adventurers who had actually married widows
of sixty for their money. She compressed her lips. She would be firm
with him; he should have a piece of her mind.
'I am alone,' she said severely, a little as if warning him not to take
liberties.
'My errand concerns a matter in which we have common interests at
stake,' he said.
Mrs. Rushmore sat down on a garden chair, and pointed to the bench, on
which he took his seat.
'I cannot imagine what interests you mean,' she said, with dignity.
'Pray explain. If you refer to Miss Donne, I may as well inform you
with perfect frankness that it is of no use.'
Logotheti smiled and shook his head gently, keeping his eyes on Mrs.
Rushmore's face, all of which she took to mean incredulity on his part.
'You may say what you like,' she said. 'It's of no use.'
When Mrs. Rushmore declared that you might say what you liked, she was
in earnest, but her visitor was not familiar with the expression.
'Nevertheless,' he said, in a soothing way, 'my errand concerns Miss
Donne.'
'Well then,' said Mrs. Rushmore, 'don't! That's all I have to say, and
it's my last word. She doesn't care for you. I don't want to be unkind,
but I daresay you have made yourself think all sorts of things.'
She felt that this was a great concession, to a Greek and an
adventurer.
'Excuse me,' said Logotheti quietly, 'but we are talking at cross
purposes. What I have to say concerns Miss Donne's financial
interests--her fortune, if you like to call it so.'
Mrs. Rushmore's suspicions were immediately confirmed.
'She has none,' said she, with a snap as if she were shutting up a safe
with a spring lock.
'That depends on what you call a fortune,' answered the Greek coolly.
'In Paris most people would think it quite enough. It is true that it
is in litigation.'
'I really cannot see how that can interest you,' said Mrs. Rushmore in
an offended tone.
'It interests me a good deal. I have come to see you in order to
propose that you should compromise the suit about that invention.'
Mrs. Rushmore drew herself up against the straight back of the garden
chair and glared at him in polite wrath.
'You will pardon my saying that I consider your interferences very much
out of place, sir,' she said.
'But you will forgive me, dear madam, for differing with you,' said
Logotheti with the utmost blandness. 'This business concerns me quite
as much as Miss Donne.'
'You?' Mrs. Rushmore was amazed.
'I fancy you have heard that Mr. Alvah Moon has sold the invention to a
New York syndicate.'
'Yes--but----'
'I am the syndicate.'
'You!' The good lady was breathless with astonishment. 'I cannot
believe it,' she gasped.
Logotheti's hand went to his inner breast pocket.
'Should you like to see the telegrams?' he asked quietly. 'Here they
are. My agent's cable to me, my instructions to him, his
acknowledgment, his cable saying that the affair is closed and the
money paid. They are all here. Pray look at them.'
Mrs. Rushmore looked at the papers, for she was cautious, even when
surprised. There was no denying the evidence he showed her. Her hands
fell upon her knees and she stared at him.
'So you have got control of all that Margaret can ever hope to have of
her own,' she said blankly, at last. 'Why have you done it?'
Logotheti smiled as he put the flimsy bits of paper into his pocket
again.
'Purely as a matter of business,' he answered. 'I shall make money by
it, though I have paid Mr. Moon a large sum, and expect to make a heavy
payment to you if we agree to compromise the old suit, which, as you
have seen by the telegrams, I have assumed with my eyes open. Now, my
dear Mrs. Rushmore, shall we talk business? I am very anxious to oblige
you, and I am not fond of bargaining. I propose to pay a lump sum on
condition that you withdraw the suit at once. You pay your lawyers and
I pay those employed by Mr. Moon. Now, what sum do you think would be
fair? That is the question. Please understand that it is you who will
be doing me a favour, not I who offer to do you a service. As I
understand it, you never claimed of Mr. Moon the whole value of the
invention. It was a suit in equity brought on the ground that Mr. Moon
had paid a derisory price for what he got, in other words--but is Mr.
Moon a personal friend of yours, apart from his business?'
'A friend!' cried Mrs. Rushmore in horror. 'Goodness gracious, no!'
'Very well,' continued Logotheti. 'Then we will say that he cheated
Miss Donne's maternal grandfather--is that the relationship? Yes. Very
good. I propose to hand over to you the sum out of which Miss Donne's
maternal grandfather was cheated. If you will tell me just how much it
was, allowing a fair interest, I will write you a cheque. I think I
have a blank one here.'
He produced a miniature card-case of pale blue morocco, which exactly
matched his tie, and drew from it a blank cheque carefully folded to
about the size of two postage stamps.
'Dear me!' exclaimed Mrs. Rushmore. 'Dear me! This is very sudden!'
'You must have made up your mind a long time ago as to what Miss
Donne's share should be worth,' suggested Logotheti, smoothing the
cheque on his knee.
Mrs. Rushmore hesitated.
'But you have already paid much more to Senator Moon,' she said.
'That is my affair,' answered the Greek. 'I have my own views about the
value of the invention, and I have no time to lose. What shall we say,
Mrs. Rushmore.'
'I wish Margaret were here,' said the good lady vaguely.
'I'm very glad she is not. Now, tell me what I am to write, please.'
He produced a fountain pen and was already writing the date. The pen
was evidently one specially made to suit his tastes, for it was of
gold, the elaborate chasing was picked out with small rubies and a
large brilliant was set in the end of the cap. Mrs. Rushmore could not
help looking at it, and in her prim way she wondered how any man who
was not an adventurer or a sort of glorified commercial traveller could
carry such a thing. There was an unpleasant fascination in the mere
look of it, and she watched it move instead of answering.
'Yes?' said Logotheti, looking up interrogatively. 'What shall we say?'
'I--I honestly don't know what to say,' Mrs. Rushmore answered, really
confused by the suddenness of the man's proposal. I suppose--no--you
must let me consult my lawyer.'
'I am sorry,' said Logotheti, 'but I cannot afford to waste so much
time. Allow me to be your man of business. How much were you suing Mr.
Moon for?'
'Half a million dollars,' answered Mrs. Rushmore.
'Have you been paying your lawyer, or was he to get a percentage on the
sum recovered?'
'I have paid him about seventeen thousand, so far.'
'For doing nothing. I should like to be your lawyer! I suppose three
thousand more will satisfy him? Yes, that will make it a round twenty
thousand. That leaves your claim worth four hundred and eighty thousand
dollars, does it not?'
'Yes, certainly.'
'Which at four-eighty-four is--' he looked at the ceiling for ten
seconds--'ninety-nine thousand one hundred and eleven pounds, two
shillings and twopence halfpenny--within a fraction. Is that it? My
mental arithmetic is generally pretty fair.'
'I've no doubt that the calculation is correct,' said Mrs. Rushmore,
'only it seems to me--let me see--I'm a little confused--but it seems
to me that if I had won the suit for half a million, the lawyer's
expenses would have come out of that.'
'They do come out of it,' answered Logotheti blandly. 'That is why you
don't get half a million.'
'Yes,' insisted Mrs. Rushmore, who was not easily misled about money,
'certainly. But as it is, after I have received the four hundred and
eighty thousand, I shall still have to deduct the twenty thousand for
the lawyers before handing it over to Margaret, who would only get four
hundred and sixty. Excuse me, perhaps you don't understand.'
'Yes, yes! I do.' Logotheti smiled pleasantly. 'It was very stupid of
me, wasn't it? I'm always doing things like that!'
As indeed financiers are, for arithmetical obliquity about money is
caused by having too much or too little of it, and the people who lose
to both sides are generally the comparatively honest ones who have
enough. It certainly did not occur to Logotheti that he had tried to do
Margaret Donne out of four thousand pounds; he would have been only too
delighted to give her ten times the sum if she would have accepted it,
and so far as profit went the whole transaction was for her benefit,
and he might lose heavily by it. But in actual dealing he was
constitutionally unable to resist the impulse to get the better of the
person with whom he dealt. And on her side, Mrs. Rushmore, though
generous to a fault, was by nature incapable of allowing money to slip
through her fingers without reason. So the two were well matched, being
both born financiers, and Logotheti respected Mrs. Rushmore for
detecting his little 'mistake,' and she recognised in him a real 'man
of business' because he had made it.
'Let us call it a half million dollars, then,' he said, with a smile.
'At four-eighty-four, that is'--again he looked at the ceiling for ten
seconds--'that is one hundred and three thousand three hundred and five
pounds fifteen shillings fivepence halfpenny, nearly. Is that it? Shall
we say that, Mrs. Rushmore.'
'How quickly you do it!' exclaimed the lady in admiration. 'I wish I
could do that! Oh yes, I have no doubt it is quite correct. You
couldn't do it on paper, could you? You see it doesn't matter so much
about the halfpenny, but if there were a little slip in the thousands,
you know--it would make quite a difference----'
She paused significantly. Logotheti quietly pulled his cuff over his
hand, produced a pencil instead of his fountain pen, and proceeded to
divide five hundred thousand by four hundred and eighty-four to three
places of decimals.
'Fifteen and fivepence halfpenny,' he said, when he had turned the
fraction into shillings and pence, 'and the pounds are just what I
said.'
'Do you mean to say that you did all that in your head in ten seconds?'
asked Mrs. Rushmore, with renewed admiration.
'Oh no,' he answered. 'We have much shorter ways of reckoning money in
the East, but you could not understand that. You are quite satisfied
that this is right?'
'Oh, certainly!'
Mrs. Rushmore could no more have divided five hundred thousand by four
hundred and eighty-four to three places of decimals than she could have
composed Parsifal, but her doubts were satisfied by its having been
done 'on paper.'
Logotheti put away his jewelled pencil, took out his jewelled fountain
pen again, spread the cheque on the seat of the bench beside him and
filled it in for the amount, including the halfpenny. He handed it to
her, holding it by the corner.
'It's wet,' he observed. 'It's drawn on the Bank of England. It will be
necessary for you to sign a statement to the effect that you withdraw
the suit and that Miss Donne's claim is fully satisfied. She will have
to sign that too. I'll send you the paper. If you have any doubts,' he
smiled, 'you need not return it until the cheque has been cashed.'
That was precisely what Mrs. Rushmore intended to do, but she protested
politely that she had no doubt whatever on the score of the cheque,
looking all the time at the big figures written out in Logotheti's
remarkably clear handwriting. Only the signature was perfectly
illegible. He noticed her curiosity about it.
'I always sign my cheques in Greek,' he observed 'It is not so easy to
imitate.'
He rose and held out his hand.
'I suppose I ought to thank you on Margaret's behalf,' said Mrs.
Rushmore, as she took it. 'She will be so sorry not to have seen you.'
'It was much easier to do business without her. And as for that, there
is no reason for telling her anything about the transaction. You need
only say that a syndicate has bought out Alvah Moon and has compromised
the old suit by a cash payment. I am not at all anxious to have her
know that I have had a hand in the matter--in fact, I had rather that
she shouldn't, if you don't object.'
Mrs. Rushmore looked hard at him. She had not even thought of refusing
his offer, which would save Margaret a considerable fortune by a stroke
of a pen; but she had taken it for granted that what might easily be
made to pass for an act of magnificent liberality was intended to
produce a profound impression on Margaret's feelings. The elder woman
was shrewd enough to guess that the Greek would not lose money in the
end, but she went much too far in suspecting him of anything so vulgar
as playing on the girl's gratitude. She looked at him keenly.
'Do you mean that?' she asked, almost incredulously.
His quiet almond eyes gazed into hers with the trustful simplicity of a
child's.
'Yes,' he answered. 'This is purely a matter of business, in which I am
consulting nothing but my own interests. I should have acted precisely
in the same way if I had never had the pleasure of knowing either of
you. If it chances that I have been of service to Miss Donne, so much
the better, but there is no reason why she should ever know it, so far
as I am concerned. I would rather she should not. She might fancy that
I had acted from other motives.'
'Very well,' Mrs. Rushmore answered; 'then I shall not tell her.'
Nevertheless, when the motor car had tooted and puffed itself away to
Paris and Mrs. Rushmore still sat in her straight-backed garden chair
holding the cheque in her hand, she thought it all very strange and
unaccountable; and the only explanation that occurred to her was that
the invention must be worth far more than she had supposed. This was
not altogether a pleasant reflection either, as it made her inclined to
reproach herself for not having driven a hard bargain with Logotheti.
'But after all,' she said to herself, 'if half a million is not a
fortune, it's a competence, even nowadays, and I suppose the man isn't
an adventurer after all--at least, not if his cheque is good.'
In her complicated frame of mind she felt a distinct sense of
disappointment at the thought that her judgment had been at fault, and
that the Greek was not a blackleg, as she had decided that he ought to
be.
CHAPTER X
Logotheti's motor car was built to combine the greatest comfort and the
greatest speed which can be made compatible. It was not meant for
sport, though it could easily beat most things on the road, for though
the Greek lived a good deal among sporting men and often did what they
did, he was not one himself. It was not in his nature to regard any
sport as an object to be pursued for its own sake. Only the English
take that view naturally, and, of late years, some Frenchmen. All other
Europeans look upon sport as pastime which is very well when there is
nothing else to do, but not at all comparable with love-making, or
gambling, for the amusement it affords. They take the view of the late
Shah of Persia, who explained why he would not go to the Derby by
saying that he had always known that one horse could run faster than
another, but that it was a matter of perfect indifference to him which
that one horse might be. In the same way Logotheti did not care to
possess the fastest motor car in Europe, provided that he could be
comfortable in one which was a great deal faster than the majority.
Moreover, though he was by no means timid, he never went in search of
danger merely for the sake of its pleasant excitement. Possibly he was
too natural and too primitive to think useless danger attractive; but
if danger stood between him and anything he wanted very much, he could
be as reckless as an Irishman or a Cossack--which is saying all there
is to be said.
The motor tooted and whizzed itself from Mrs. Rushmore's gate to the
stage entrance of the Opéra in something like thirty minutes without
the slightest strain, and could have covered the distance in much less
time if necessary.
Logotheti found Schreiermeyer sitting alone in the dusk, in the stalls.
Half the footlights and one row of border lights illuminated the stage,
and a fat man in very light grey clothes, a vast white waistcoat and a
pot hat was singing 'Salut demeure' in a nasal half-voice to the tail
of the Commendatore's white horse, from Don Juan. The monumental
animal had apparently stopped to investigate an Egyptian palm tree
which happened to grow near the spot usually occupied by Marguerite's
cottage. The tenor had his hands in his pockets, his hat was rather on
the back of his head, and he looked extremely bored.
So did Schreiermeyer when Logotheti sat down beside him. He turned his
round glasses to the newcomer with a slight expression of recognition
which was not perceptible at all in the gloom, and then he looked at
the stage again, without a word. The tenor had heard somebody moving in
the house, and he stuck a single glass in his eye and peered over the
footlights into the abyss, thinking the last comer might be a woman, in
which case he would perhaps have condescended to sing a little louder
and better. A number of people were loafing on the stage, standing up
or sitting on the wooden steps of somebody's enchanted palace, but
Logotheti could not see Margaret amongst them.
The conductor of the orchestra rapped sharply on his desk, the music
ceased suddenly and he glared down at an unseen offender.
'D sharp!' he said, as if he were swearing at the man.
'I believe they hire their band from the deaf and dumb asylum,'
observed the tenor very audibly, but looking vaguely at the plaster
tail of the horse.
Some of the young women at the back of the stage giggled obsequiously
at this piece of graceful wit, but the orchestra manifested its
indignation by hissing. Thereupon the director rapped on his desk more
noisily than ever.
'Da capo,' he said, and the bows began to scrape and quiver again.
The tenor only hummed his part now, picking bits of straw out of the
plaster tail and examining them with evident interest.
'Is Miss Donne here?' Logotheti inquired of Schreiermeyer.
The impresario nodded indifferently, without looking round.
'I wish you had chosen Rigoletto for her début,' said the Greek.
'The part of Gilda is much better suited to her voice, take my word for
it.'
'What do you know about it?' asked Schreiermeyer, smiling faintly, just
enough to save the rude question from being almost insulting.
'When Gounod began Faust he was in love with a lady with a deep
voice,' answered Logotheti, 'but when he was near the end he was in
love with one who had a high voice. The consequence is that
Marguerite's part ranges over nearly three octaves, and is frightfully
trying, particularly for a beginner.'
'Bosh!' ejaculated the impresario, though he knew it was quite true.
He looked at the stage again, as if Logotheti did not exist.
'Oh, very well,' said the latter carelessly. 'It probably won't matter
much, as they say that Miss Donne is going to throw up her engagement,
and give up going on the stage.'
He had produced an effect at last, for Schreiermeyer's jaw dropped as
he turned quickly.
'Eh? What? Who says she is not going to sing? What?'
'I dare say it is nothing but gossip,' Logotheti answered coolly. 'You
seem excited.'
'Excited? Eh? Some one has heard her sing and has offered her more! You
shall tell me who it is!' He gripped Logotheti's arm with fingers that
felt like talons. 'Tell me quickly!' he cried. 'I will offer her more,
more than anybody can! Tell me quickly.'
'Take care, you are spoiling my cuff,' said Logotheti. 'I know nothing
about it, beyond that piece of gossip. Of course you are aware that she
is a lady. Somebody may have left her a fortune, you know. Her only
reason for singing was that she was poor.'
'Nonsense!' cried Schreiermeyer, with a sort of suppressed yell. 'It is
all bosh! Somebody has offered her more money, and you know who it is!
You shall tell me!' He was in a violent passion by this time, or seemed
to be. 'You come here, suggesting and interfering with my prima donnas!
You are in league, damn you! Damn you, you are a conspiracy!'
His face was as white as paper, his queer eyes blazed through his
glasses, and his features were disfigured with rage. He showed his
teeth and hissed like a wildcat; his nervous fingers fastened
themselves upon Logotheti's arm.
But Logotheti gazed at him with a look of amusement in his quiet eyes,
and laughed softly.
'If I were conspiring against you, you would not guess it, my friend,'
he observed in a gentle tone. 'And you will never get anything out of
me by threatening, you know.'
Schreiermeyer's face relaxed instantly into an expression of
disappointment, and he looked wearily at the stage again.
'No, it is of no use,' he answered in a melancholy tone. 'You are
phlegmatic.'
'Perfectly,' Logotheti assented. 'If I were you, I would put her on in
Rigoletto.'
'Does she know the part?' Schreiermeyer asked, as calmly as if nothing
had happened.
'Ask Madame De Rosa,' suggested the Greek. 'I see her on the stage.'
'I will. There is truth in what you say about Faust. The part is
trying.'
'You told me it was bosh,' Logotheti observed with a smile.
'I had forgotten that you are such a phlegmatic man, when I said that,'
answered Schreiermeyer with the frankness of a conjurer who admits that
his trick has been guessed.
They had been talking as if nothing were going on, but now the
conductor turned to them, and gave a signal for silence, which was
taken up by all the people on the stage.
'Sh--sh--sh--sh--' it came from all directions.
'Here comes Cordova,' observed Schreiermeyer in a low tone.
Margaret appeared, wearing an extremely becoming hat, and poked her
head round the white horse's tail, which represented the door of her
cottage as to position.
The tenor, who had nothing to do and was supposed to be off, at once
turned himself into a stage Faust, so far as expression went, but his
white waistcoat and pot hat hindered the illusion so much that Margaret
smiled.
She sang the 'King of Thule,' and every one listened in profound
silence. When she had finished, Schreiermeyer and Logotheti turned
their heads slowly, by a common instinct, looked at each other a moment
and nodded gravely. Then Logotheti rose rather suddenly.
'What's the matter?' asked the impresario.
But the Greek had disappeared in the gloom of the house and
Schreiermeyer merely shrugged his shoulders when he saw that his
question had not been heard. It would have been perfectly impossible
for him to understand that Logotheti, who was so 'phlegmatic,' could
not bear the disturbing sight of the white waistcoat and the hat while
Margaret was singing the lovely music and looking, Logotheti thought,
as she had never looked before.
He went behind, and sat down in a corner where he could hear without
seeing what was going on; he lent himself altogether to the delight of
Margaret's voice, and dreamt that she was singing only for him in some
vast and remote place where they were quite alone together.
The rehearsal went on by fits and starts; some scenes were repeated,
others were left out; at intervals the conductor rapped his desk
nervously and abused somebody, or spoke with great affability to
Margaret, or with the familiarity of long acquaintance to one of the
other singers. Logotheti did not notice these interruptions, for his
sensitiveness was not of the sort that suffers by anything which must
be and therefore should be; it was only the unnecessary that disturbed
him--the tenor's white waistcoat and dangling gold chain. While
Margaret was singing, the illusion was perfect; the rest was a blank,
provided that nothing offended his eyes.
The end was almost reached at last. There was a pause.
'Will you try the trio to-day?' inquired the conductor of Margaret. 'Or
are you tired?'
'Tired?' Margaret laughed. 'Go on, please.'
Now Marguerite's part in the trio, where she sings 'Anges pures,'
repeating the refrain three times and each time in a higher key, is one
of the most sustained high pieces ever written for a woman's voice; and
Logotheti, listening, suddenly shut out his illusions and turned
himself into a musical critic, or at least into a judge of singing.
Not a note quavered, from first to last; there was not one sound that
was not as true as pure gold, to the very end, not one tone that was
forced, either, in spite of the almost fantastic pitch of the last
passage.
It is not often that everybody applauds a singer at a rehearsal of
Faust, which has been sung to death for five-and-forty years; but as
the trio ended, and the drums rolled the long knell, there was a shout
of genuine enthusiasm from the little company on the stage.
'Vive la Cordova! Vive la Diva!' yelled the tenor, and he threw up his
pot hat almost to the border lights, quite forgetting to be
indifferent.
'Brava, la Cordova!' boomed the bass, with a tremendous roar.
'Brava, brava, brava!' shouted all the lesser people at the back of the
stage.
Little Madame De Rosa was in hysterics of joy, and embraced everybody
and everything in her way till she came to Margaret and reached the
climax of embracing in a perfect storm of tears. By this time the tenor
and bass were kissing Margaret's gloved hands with fervour and every
one was pressing round her.
Logotheti had come forward and stood a little aloof, waiting for the
excitement to subside. Margaret, surrounded as she was, did not see him
at once, and he watched her quietly. She was the least bit pale and her
eyes were very bright indeed. She was smiling rather vaguely, he
thought, though she was trying to thank everybody for being so pleased,
and Logotheti fancied she was looking for somebody who was not there,
probably for the mysterious 'some one else,' whose existence she had
confessed a few days earlier.
Presently she seemed to feel that he was looking at her, for she turned
her head to him and met his eyes. He came forward at once, and the
others made way for him a little, for most of them knew him by sight as
the famous financier, though he rarely condescended to come behind the
scenes at a rehearsal, or indeed at any other time.
Margaret held out her hand, and Logotheti had just begun to say a few
rather conventional words of congratulation when Schreiermeyer rushed
up with his hat on, pushing everybody aside without ceremony till he
seized Margaret's wrist and would apparently have dragged her away by
main force if she had not gone with him willingly.
'Ill-mannered brute!' exclaimed Logotheti in such a tone that
Schreiermeyer must certainly have heard the words, though he did not
even turn his head.
'I must speak to you at once,' he was saying to Margaret, very
hurriedly, as he led her away. 'It is all bosh, nonsense, stupid stuff,
I tell you! Rubbish!'
'What is rubbish?' asked Margaret in surprise, just as they reached the
other side of the stage. 'My singing?'
'Stuff! You sing well enough. You know it too, you know it quite well!
Good. Are you satisfied with the contract we signed?'
'Perfectly,' answered Margaret, more and more surprised at his manner.
'Ah, very good. Because, I tell you, if you are not pleased, it is just
the same. I will make you stick to it, whether you like it or not.
Understand?'
Margaret drew herself up, and looked at him coldly.
'If I carry out my contract,' she said, 'it will be because I signed my
name to it, not because you can force me to do anything against my
will.'
Schreiermeyer turned a little pale and glared through his glasses.
'Ah, you are proud, eh? You say to yourself, "First I am a lady, and
then I am a singer that is going to be a prima donna." But the law is
on my side. The law will give me heavy damages, enormous damages, if
you fail to appear according to contract. You think because you have
money in your throat somebody will pay me my damages if you go to
somebody else. You don't know the law, my lady! I can get an injunction
to prevent you from singing anywhere in Europe, pending suit. The other
man will have to pay me before you can open your beautiful mouth to let
the money out! Just remember that! You take my advice. You be an artist
first and a lady afterwards when you have plenty of time, and you stick
to old Schreiermeyer, and he'll stick to you. No nonsense, now, no
stupid stuff! Eh?'
'I haven't the slightest idea what you are driving at,' said Margaret.
'I have made an agreement with you, and unless I lose my voice during
the next month I shall sing wherever you expect me to.'
'All right, because if you don't, I'll make you dance from here to
Jerusalem,' answered Schreiermeyer, glaring again.
'Do you know that you are quite the rudest and most brutal person I
ever met?' inquired Margaret, raising her eyebrows.
But Schreiermeyer now smiled in the most pleasant manner possible,
ceased glaring, spread out his palms and put his head on one side as he
answered her, apparently much pleased by her estimate of him.
'Ah, you are not phlegmatic, like Logotheti! We shall be good friends.
I shall be rude to you when I am in a rage, and tell you the truth, and
you shall call me many bad names. Then we shall be perfectly good
friends. You will say, "Bah! it is only old Schreiermeyer!" and I shall
say, "Pshaw! Cordova may call me a brute, but she is the greatest
soprano in the world, what does it matter?" Do you see? We are going to
be good friends!'
It was impossible not to laugh at his way of putting it; impossible,
too, not to feel that behind his strange manner, his brutal speeches
and his serio-comic rage there was the character of a man who would
keep his word and who expected others to do the same. There might even
be lurking somewhere in him a streak of generosity.
'Good friends?' he repeated, with an interrogation.
'Yes, good friends,' Margaret answered, taking his hand frankly and
still smiling.
'I like you,' said Schreiermeyer, looking at her with sudden
thoughtfulness, as if he had just discovered something.
And then without a word he turned on his heel and disappeared as
quickly as he had come, his head sinking between his shoulders till the
collar of the snuff-coloured overcoat he wore in spite of the warm
weather was almost up to the brim of his hat behind.
Logotheti and little Madame De Rosa came up to Margaret at once. The
other singers were already filing out, eager to get into the fresh air.
'The Signora,' said Logotheti, 'says she will come and lunch with me.
Will you come too? I daresay we shall find something ready, and then,
if you like, I'll run you out to Mrs. Rushmore's in the motor car.'
Margaret hesitated a moment, and looked from one to the other. She was
very hungry, and the prospect of a luxurious luncheon was much more
alluring than that of the rather scrappy sort of meal she had expected
to get at a Bouillon Duval. As 'Miss Donne,' a fortnight ago, she would
certainly not have thought of going to Logotheti's house, except with
Mrs. Rushmore; but as the proposal tempted her she found it easy to
tell herself that since she was a real artist she could go where she
pleased, that people would gossip about her wherever she went, and that
what she did was nobody's business. And surely, for an artist, Madame
De Rosa was a chaperon of sufficient weight. Moreover, Margaret was
curious to see the place where the man lived. He interested her in
spite of herself, and since Lushington had insisted on going off,
though she had begged him to stay, she felt just a little reckless.
'Do come!' said Logotheti.
The two words were spoken in just the right tone, neither as if his
life depended on her answer, nor as if he were asking her to do
something just a little risky, which would be amusing; but quite
naturally, as if he would be really glad should she accept, but by no
means overwhelmed with despair if she refused.
'Thank you,' she answered. 'It's very nice of you to ask us. I'll
come.'
Logotheti smiled pleasantly, but looked away, perhaps not caring that
she should see his eyes, even in the uncertain light. The three
hastened to leave the theatre, for the stage was already full of
workmen, the Egyptian palm was moving in one direction, the
Commendatore's white horse was joggling away uneasily in another, and
the steps of somebody's enchanted palace were being dragged forward
into place. All was noise, dust and apparent confusion.
Margaret expected that Logotheti's house would somehow correspond with
his own outward appearance and would be architecturally over-dressed,
inside and out, but in this she was greatly mistaken. It was evidently
a new house, in a quarter where many houses were new and where some
were not in the most perfect taste, though none were monstrosities. It
was not exceptionally big, and was certainly not showy; on the whole,
it had the unmistakable air of having been built by a good architect,
of the very best materials and in a way to last as long as hewn stone
can. Such beauty as it had lay in its proportions and not in any sort
of ornament, for it was in fact rather plainer than most of its
neighbours in the Boulevard Péreire.
The big door opened noiselessly just as the car came up, but Logotheti,
who drove himself, did not turn in.
'It's rather a tight fit,' he explained, as he stopped by the
curbstone.
He gave his hand to Margaret to get down. As her foot touched the
pavement a man who was walking very fast, with his head down, made a
step to one side, to get out of the way, and then, recognising her and
the Greek, lifted his hat hastily and would have passed on. She started
with an exclamation of surprise, for it was Lushington, whom she had
supposed to be in London. Logotheti spoke first, calling to him in
English.
'Hollo! Lushington--I say!'
Lushington stopped instantly and turned half round, with an exclamation
intended to express an imaginary surprise, for he had recognised all
three at first sight.
'Oh!' he exclaimed coldly. 'Is that you? How are you?'
Margaret offered her hand as he did not put out his. She was a little
surprised to see that he did not change colour when he took it, as he
always used to do when they met; he did not seem in the least shy, now,
and there was a hard look in his eyes.
'All right?' he said, with a cool interrogation, and he turned to
Logotheti before Margaret could give any answer.
'Come in and lunch, my dear fellow,' said the Greek affably.
'I never lunch--thanks all the same.' He moved to go on, nodding a
good-bye.
'Are you here for long?' asked Margaret, forcing him to stop again.
'That depends on what you call long. I leave this evening.'
'I should call that a very short time!' Margaret tried to laugh a
little, with a lingering hope that he might unbend.
'It's quite long enough for me, thank you,' he answered roughly.
'Good-bye!'
He lifted his hat again and walked off very fast. Margaret's face fell,
and Logotheti saw the change of expression.
'He's an awfully good fellow in spite of his shyness,' he said quietly.
'I wish we could have made him stay.'
'Yes,' Margaret answered, in a preoccupied tone.
She was wondering whether Logotheti had guessed that there had been
anything between her and Lushington. Logotheti ushered his guests in
under the main entrance.
'Do you know Mr. Lushington well?' she asked.
'Yes, in a way. I once published a little book, and he wrote a very
nice article about it in a London Review. You did not know I was a man
of letters, did you?' Logotheti laughed quietly. 'My book was not very
long--only about a hundred pages, I think. But Lushington made out that
it wasn't all rubbish, and I was always grateful to him.'
'What was your book about?' asked Margaret, as they entered the house.
'Oh, nothing that would interest you--the pronunciation of Greek. Will
you take off your hat?'
At every step, at every turn, Margaret realised how much she had been
mistaken in thinking that anything in Logotheti's house could be in bad
taste. There was perfect harmony everywhere, and a great deal of
simplicity. The man alone offended her eye a little, the man himself,
with his resplendent tie, his jewellery and his patent leather shoes;
and even so, it was only the outward man, in so far as she could not
help seeing him and contrasting his appearance with his surroundings.
For he was as tactful and quiet, and as modest about himself as ever;
he did not exhibit the conquering air which many men would have found
it impossible not to assume under the circumstances; he showed himself
just as anxious to please little Madame De Rosa as Margaret herself,
and talked to both indiscriminately. If Margaret at first felt that she
was doing something a little eccentric, not to say compromising, in
accepting the invitation, the sensation had completely worn off before
luncheon was half over, and she was as much at her ease as she could
have been in Mrs. Rushmore's own house. She felt as if she had known
Logotheti all her life, as if she understood him thoroughly and was not
displeased that he should understand her.
They went into the next room for coffee.
'You used to like my Zara maraschino,' said Logotheti to Madame De
Rosa.
He took a decanter from a large case, filled a good-sized liqueur glass
for her and set it beside her cup.
'It is the most delicious thing in the world,' cried the little woman,
sipping it eagerly.
'May I not have some, too?' asked Margaret.
'Not on any account,' answered Logotheti, putting the decanter back on
the other side. 'It's very bad for the voice, you know.'
'I never heard that,' said Madame De Rosa, laughing. 'I adore it! But
as my singing days are over it does not matter at all. Oh, how good it
is!'
She sipped it again and again, with all sorts of little cries and sighs
of satisfaction.
Logotheti and Margaret looked on, smiling at her childish delight.
'Do you think I might have a little more?' she asked, presently. 'Only
half a glass!'
Logotheti filled the glass again, though she laughingly protested that
half a glass was all she wanted. But he took none himself.
Margaret saw a picture at the other end of the room which attracted her
attention, and she rose to go and look at it. Logotheti followed her,
but Madame De Rosa, who had established her small person in the most
comfortable arm-chair in the room, was too much interested in the
maraschino to move. Margaret stood in silence before the painting for a
few moments, and Logotheti waited for her to speak, watching her as he
always did when she was not looking.
'What is it?' she asked, at last. 'It's quite beautiful, but I don't
understand it.'
'Nor do I, in the least,' answered Logotheti. 'I found it in Italy two
years ago. It's what they call an encaustic painting, like the Muse of
Cortona, probably of the time of Tiberius. It is painted on a slab of
slate three inches thick, and burnt in by a process that is lost. You
might put it into the fire and leave it there without doing it any
harm. That much I know, for I found it built into a baker's oven. But I
can tell you no more about it. I have some pretty good things here, but
this is quite my best picture. It is very like somebody,
too--uncommonly like! Do you see the resemblance?'
'No. I suppose I don't know the person.'
Logotheti laughed and took up a little mirror set in an old Spanish
frame.
'Look at yourself,' he said. 'The picture is the image of you.'
'Of me?' Margaret took the glass, and her cheek flushed a little as she
looked at herself and then at the picture, and realised that the
likeness was not imaginary.
'In future,' said Logotheti, 'I shall tell people that it is a portrait
of you.'
'Of me? Oh please, no!' cried Margaret anxiously, and blushing deeper.
'Don't!'
Logotheti laughed.
'Did you think I was in earnest?' he asked.
The painting represented the head and shoulders of a woman--perhaps of
a goddess, though it had that strangely living look about the eyes and
mouth which belongs to all good portraits that are like the originals.
The woman's head was thrown back, her deep-set eyes were looking up
with an expression of strange longing, the rich hair flowed down over
her bare neck, where one beautiful hand caught it and seemed to press
the tangled locks upon her heart.
The picture's beauty was the beauty of life, for the features were not
technically faultless. The lips glowed with burning breath, the twining
hair was alive and elastic, the after-light of a profound and secret
pleasure lingered in the liquid eyes, blending with the shadow of pain
just past but passionately desired again.
Margaret gazed at the painting a few seconds, for it fascinated her
against her will. Then she laid down the small looking-glass and turned
away rather abruptly.
'I don't like to look at it,' she said, avoiding Logotheti's eyes. 'I
think it must be time to be going,' she added. 'Mrs. Rushmore will be
wondering where I am.'
She went back across the room a little way with Logotheti by her side.
Suddenly he stopped and laughed softly.
'By Jove!' he exclaimed under his breath, pointing to the arm-chair in
which Madame De Rosa was sitting. 'She's fast asleep!'
She was sleeping as peacefully as a cat after a meal, half curled up in
the big chair, her head turned to one side and her cheek buried in a
cushion of Rhodes tapestry. Margaret stood and looked at her with
curiosity and some amusement.
'She's not generally a very sleepy person,' said the young girl.
'The emotions of your first rehearsal have tired her out,' said
Logotheti. 'They don't seem to have affected you at all,' he added.
'Shall we wake her?'
Margaret hesitated, and then bent down and touched the sleeping woman's
arm gently, and called her by name in a low tone; but without the
slightest result.
'She must be very tired,' Margaret said in a tone of sympathy. 'After
all, it's not so very late. We had better let her sleep a few minutes
longer, poor thing.'
Logotheti bent his head gravely.
'We'll make up the time with the motor in going to Versailles,' he
said.
By unspoken consent, they moved away and sat down at some distance from
Madame De Rosa's chair, at the end of the room opposite to the picture.
Logotheti did not speak at once, but sat leaning forward, his wrists
resting on his knees, his hands hanging down limply, his eyes bent on
the carpet. As she sat, Margaret could see the top of his head; there
was a sort of fascination about his preternaturally glossy black hair,
and the faultless parting made it look like the wig on a barber's doll.
She thought of Lushington and idly wondered whether she was always to
be admired by men with phenomenally smooth hair.
'What are you thinking of?' Logotheti asked, looking up suddenly and
smiling as he met her eyes.
She laughed low.
'I was wondering how you kept your hair so smooth!' she answered.
'I should look like a savage if I did not,' he said. 'My only chance of
seeming civilised is to overdo the outward fashions of civilisation. If
I wore rough clothes like an Englishman, and did not smooth my hair and
let my man do all sorts of things to my moustache to keep it flat, I
should look like a pirate. And if I looked like a Greek pirate you
would have hesitated about coming to lunch with me to-day. Do you see?
There is a method in my bad taste.'
