Zeno, round whom alone the whole world had moved since she had known
that he loved her; and in her imagination she followed him on after he
had reached the tower window the second time and had whistled the call
that told her he was safe so far.
It was agonising to think of his danger. She did not believe that he
could possibly escape from within the prison through the palace
precincts; in some way or other he must succeed in climbing down the
wall again, and Gorlias would find him and bring him home. But when
she had said this to the astrologer, he had shaken his head. There
were good reasons why Zeno should not attempt the perilous descent
that night, when there had just been an alarm from below of which it
was not possible to let him know the result. Moreover, no one knew
whether the man whom Zoë had struck had sunk and was drowned, or had
parried the blow with his arm and had succeeded in swimming ashore.
Neither Gorlias nor Zoë knew that yet, and they might never know it.
She waited, but not a sound disturbed the silence of the chilly night.
Within the house every one was sleeping; the two little slave-girls,
curled up on their carpet in the corner, where Zoë had left them,
would not wake till dawn; Omobono slept the sleep of the just in his
small bedroom behind the counting-house, dreaming of the mysteries of
four toes and five toes, and quenching his insatiable curiosity at
last in the overflowing fountain of fancy. As for the servants and
slaves, all slumbered profoundly, after the way of their kind.
But Zeno did not come. Zoë crouched in the doorway, and drew the
skirts of her long Greek coat round her little white feet more than
half instinctively, for she did not care if she died of the cold,
since he did not come.
A mad longing seized her to go out into the city to look for him in
the dark and silent streets; he might be lying somewhere, wounded and
alone, perhaps left for dead; if she did not come upon him she would
push on to the great gate of Blachernæ; and she was sure that she
could find the way, though it was far. She would slip in, unnoticed by
the sentries; she would pass herself for a woman of the palace, where
she had often been taken by Kyría Agatha in the happy days; she
remembered where the great tower stood in the corner of the palace
yard, the farthest corner to the right, and she could almost see its
door, though indeed she had never noticed one. He was somewhere behind
it, somewhere in there, above or below ground, caught in the trap,
waiting for the dawn of his dying day. For Andronicus would not let
him live. If he was taken, his hours were numbered. He must die the
death Michael Rhangabé had died; there was none more cruel.
As she thought of it, there alone in the cold, a sharp pain bit at her
heart, and in the gloom she could no longer make out the white marble
steps, the chequered black-and-white pavement, nor the last
unextinguished lights of Pera reflected in the water; she saw nothing,
and she sank back against the step behind her, fainting and
unconscious.
She lay there alone, quite still; but he did not come. When she opened
her eyes again she thought she had fallen asleep, and was angry with
herself at the thought of having rested while he was in danger of his
life. She would go out to find him, come what might. Then she tried to
get upon her feet, and was startled to find that she could not.
Chilled to the bone and bruised as she was, she could not move her
limbs, and she wondered in terror whether she were paralysed. But she
was brave still, and after a time she managed to turn on one side,
and with her hands on the cold step she laboriously got upon her
knees. Sensation came back and pain with it, and presently she was
able to raise herself by holding the edge of the door, first on one
knee, then on her feet. But that was all, and she knew that she could
do no more. Perhaps she might crawl upstairs by and by, after resting
a little.
She stood still a long time, holding the door and hesitating, for in
her intense anxiety it seemed impossible to think of giving up and
going to bed. He must come. It would be late, it might be daylight,
but he must come; for if he came not, that could only mean that he was
taken, and if he was taken he must die.
Again the pain bit savagely at her heart, but she set her lips and
grasped the door with both hands, and refused to let herself faint.
She could at least rouse Omobono and the household to go out and
search for the master. She had almost let go of the door to make the
first step forward, when the counter-thought checked her. The attempt
to free the Emperor had been made very secretly; if she called the
secretary, the servants, the slaves, she would be revealing that
secret, and if, by some miracle, Zeno were still free and safe, some
one might betray him. Some one must have betrayed him already, else
the watch would not have come upon him exactly at the most critical
moment. The three men had been lurking near, waiting till he was on
the rope the second time, and expecting to catch him in the very act
of bringing out the prisoner. Who was the traitor? Most probably some
one in the house. It would not be wise to call the servants, after
all.
The hopelessness of it all came over the lonely girl now, and she
almost let herself sink down again upon the steps to wait till
daylight, if need be, for the awful news that was sure to reach her
only too soon. Gorlias would bring it, and no one else.
But she was too proud to give way altogether, unless she fainted
outright. It was torture, but she would bear it, as he would if he
were taken. Perhaps at that very moment they were questioning him
before Andronicus, twisting his handsome limbs till the joints
cracked, or holding red-hot irons close to his blistering feet. He
would set his teeth and turn white, but he would not speak; he would
be torn piecemeal and die, but his tormentors would not get a word
from him, not a syllable. Again and again, she felt the pain in
imagination; but she wished that she could indeed feel it for him, and
be in his place at that moment, if he were suffering. The pain would
be less, even the pain of the rack and the glowing irons, than the
agony of being powerless to help him.
Now, the time seemed endless; now, again, an hour passed quickly in a
waking dream, wherein Zeno was vividly before her, and she lived again
the moments that had taught her the truth in the touch of his lips.
Then, the world was dark once more and she was alone and shivering,
and mad with anxiety for the one living thing she loved.
He did not come. The northern stars sank to the west and he did not
come; they touched the horizon, yet he did not come; an icy breath
foreran the coming dawn, and still he came not, but still Zoë waited.
Then the stars faded, and the sky was less black, and she thought day
was coming; but it was the faint light of the waning moon rising above
the Bosphorus. It was not light, now, but the thick darkness had
become transparent; it was possible to see through it, and Zoë saw a
skiff come silently alongside the landing. It was Gorlias; he moored
the craft quickly and came up the steps. Zoë had recognised his
outline, because she expected him, and she made a step to meet him,
though it hurt her very much to move. He came quickly and securely, as
men do who can see at night, like cats and wild animals; when he was
near, Zoë even fancied that his eyes emitted a faint light of their
own in the dark, but her imagination was no doubt disturbed by her
bodily pain and terrible mental anxiety.
'Has he not come yet?' Gorlias asked in a low tone.
The question could only mean that Zeno was taken, and Zoë grasped the
astrologer's arm in sudden fear.
'He is lost!' she exclaimed. 'They will kill him to-morrow!'
'It is not easy to kill Carlo Zeno,' answered Gorlias, rubbing his
stiffened hands, and then slowly pulling each finger in succession
till the joints cracked. 'He is not dead yet,' he added.
'Not yet!' echoed Zoë despairingly.
'No,' said Gorlias, 'for he got out of the palace.'
'Got out? You are sure?' Zoë could have screamed for joy; the
revulsion was almost too sudden.
'Yes, I am sure of that. There is a search for him in all the quarters
about the palace. When I had cleared everything away below the tower,
I dropped downstream to a quiet place I know, and went ashore to learn
what I could. The great gate of Blachernæ was open, the court was full
of lights, and the guards had been called out. Half of them were
reeling about, still very drunk, but I met many that were more sober,
searching the streets and lanes with lanterns. I lingered till the
same party found me twice and looked at me suspiciously, and then I
slipped away again and came here. I do not believe any of them know
whom they are looking for; they have only been told that some one has
broken out of the palace, I suppose. That made me think that Zeno had
come quietly home, quite sure that he had not been recognised.'
Gorlias told his story in the low, monotonous tone peculiar to him,
which seemed to express the most perfect indifference to anything that
might happen. But Zoë cared nothing for his way of telling what was
just then the best possible news. Zeno was not safe yet, but she knew
him well enough to feel sure that if he had not been taken within the
palace, he had little to fear. Sooner or later he would come home, as
if nothing had happened. Gorlias understood her sigh of relief.
'You must go in and rest, Kokóna,' he said, and he quietly pushed her
towards the door. 'I will watch till daylight in the boat, in case he
should come and need anything.'
She could hardly walk, and he now noticed her lameness for the first
time, and asked the cause of it.
'He stepped on me when I was lying under the canvas,' she answered.
'But it is nothing,' she added quietly. 'I hardly felt anything at
first.'
'I will carry you,' said Gorlias.
Before she could prevent him, he had lifted her in his arms and was
carrying her into the house. He knew the way up to her apartment,
having been to see her there, and he stepped easily and surely with
his burden, his bare feet hardly making any sound on the marble steps.
She lay across his arms like a thing without weight, borne along as a
maid carries a fresh gown that she is afraid of ruffling. But the
man's arms and clothes were wet and cold, and even his breath chilled
her.
Her nerves were overwrought, and she was foolishly frightened now. The
stairs were very dark, and the touch of the man who carried her was
like that of a wet monster of night, cold and horribly strong, holding
her and carrying her in his vast arms as the autumn night wind whirls
the leaves along. He never paused for breath, he never stopped to try
and see the steps under his feet; he only went on and up, up, up, till
she fancied she was not in Zeno's house, but in some high and
mysterious tower to which she had been suddenly transported by an
awful being from another world who was taking her to the top and would
hurl her from the highest turret into space.
But now Gorlias stood still and set her on her feet at her own door,
steadying her by her shoulders, and guiding her in, for he could see
the ray of light that crept out between the curtain and the doorpost
of the inner entrance.
He lifted the heavy stuff and still supported her with his other hand.
After being so long in the dark the light of the little lamps was
dazzling, though they were burning low. Three or four of them had
already gone out, and the acrid smell of the burnt-out olive-oil and
the singed wicks hung in the air.
  [Illustration: Saw her sink down there exhausted, and draw a heavy
   silk shawl across her body.]
Gorlias watched Zoë while she limped over the thick carpet to the
divan, and he saw her sink down there exhausted, and draw a heavy silk
shawl across her body.
'Thank you,' she sighed, as her weary head pressed the pillow at last.
But he had already dropped the curtain again and was gone, and almost
at the same instant she shut her eyes and fell asleep.
Gorlias reached the bottom of the stairs without waking any one,
closed the door, which he could not fasten, and got into his boat to
wait for Zeno until daybreak, and also to watch lest any one should
try to enter the house.
But no one came, neither Zeno, nor any messenger from him, nor any
stealthy thief; and at last the dawn rose behind Constantinople and
dissolved the night, and the poor waning moon had not much light left
and almost went out altogether as the day broke. Then Gorlias drew his
oars inboard, and laid them across the boat before him, leaning his
elbows on them and resting his chin upon his folded hands, like a man
in deep thought; and he let the craft drift slowly away towards the
Bosphorus, into the morning mist.
Also, the dawn crept into the house between the half-closed shutters
of Zoë's room and made the lingering flame of the last lamp seem but a
smoky little yellow point in the cold clearness; and the girl's pale
face, that had taken a golden tinge from the lamplight, now turned as
white as silver.
Also, the coming sun waked Omobono, and he sat up in bed and gravely
rubbed his eyes, quite unaware that anything had happened during the
night; and it roused the slaves and the servants, and presently all
the house was astir; and Yulia and Lucilla got up too and came softly
and stood beside Zoë, who did not stir, and they wondered at her deep
sleep and at the weariness of her face, and at the look of pain all
about her mouth.
But where Zeno was the light did not enter; for dawn and sunset, and
noon and midnight were all alike there.
CHAPTER XIII
When Zeno slipped from his borrowed charger and ran for his life
towards that part of the square that looked darkest, he had no time to
choose the direction he would afterwards take, nor to think of
anything but covering the ground at the greatest possible speed
without stumbling over an unseen obstacle. On those singular occasions
when a perfectly brave man has no choice but to run, there is not much
time to spare.
The young Venetian strained his strength and his wind to get as far as
he could from his pursuers in the shortest possible time, and he was
so successful that he was out of their reach almost before they were
aware that he had fled.
At first he had run straight across the wide open space before
Blachernæ; he had then found the entrance to a street which he had
followed for about fifty yards, and he had turned a corner to his left
without meeting any one; he had rushed on without pausing till he
judged it time to double again and had then turned to the right. A few
steps farther on, he stopped short and listened, believing himself
alone and not at all sure where he was.
Suddenly a light flashed in his face, very near him.
'Is it time?' asked a low voice in Greek, and the lantern was closed
again, leaving him dazzled.
Accident, or his fate, had taken him into the very midst of the men he
had enlisted in the cause of the revolution, to storm the palace
before daybreak. They had waited two hours and were impatient, and
even before Zeno answered the question they saw that matters had gone
ill with him.
'There is an alarm,' he said hurriedly. 'I barely got away. Disperse
quickly, and get to your quarters, all of you! I will let you know
when we can do it.'
A murmur of discontent came from the invisible crowd of soldiers. Zeno
knew them to be a desperate crew, who would hold him responsible for
failure, and would not thank him for success.
'We must separate at once,' he said calmly. 'I thank you for having
been ready. If possible, we will meet a week from to-night.'
He did not choose to let them know that Johannes himself had refused
to quit the tower, and he was about to leave them, meaning to find his
way home alone, when the sound of feet moving behind him, and of men
whispering together told him that he was surrounded on all sides by
the soldiers. Then some one spoke in a tone of authority.
'You must stay with us,' the voice said. 'You have our lives in your
hand, and we cannot let you go. It might suit your interests to give
us up to the Emperor any day.'
Seeing his liberty threatened, Zeno laid his hand to the knife at the
back of his belt and was about to try and break his way through. In
the dark, a man with a drawn weapon in his hand easily inspires
terror in a crowd. But it was clear that the soldiers had determined
beforehand what to do, for they closed in upon him instantly, and his
arm was caught by a dozen hands when he was in the very act of drawing
his knife. He was held by twenty men, as it seemed to him, who all
took hold of him and lifted him from the ground, not very roughly, but
irresistibly. He had no chance against so many; Gorlias Pietrogliant
himself could have done nothing, and he was far stronger than Zeno,
stronger perhaps than any man in Constantinople.
Zeno knew that it would be worse than useless to shout for help; at
his first cry he would most likely be strangled by men whose own lives
were more or less at stake. They carried him quickly along the street
and through unfamiliar and narrow ways which he could hardly have
recognised even in broad daylight, much less at night. They turned
sharp corners to the right, to the left, to the right again, and he
thought he could distinguish the broken outlines of a ruined wall
against the faint greyness of the ink-and-water sky.
Then all was dark for an instant, and he felt that his bearers were
pausing at some obstacle or difficulty. The lantern flashed again, and
he saw a rough vault above him; there was a big cobweb just above his
head, and a loathsome fat spider jumped out of a crevice and ran along
the threads till it disappeared as if by magic in the very middle of
the web. He saw it in an instant in the sudden light as some one held
up the lantern to show the way. Such things take hold of the memory
and stick to it afterwards, as little burs fasten themselves upon
one's clothes in autumn fields. Besides, though Zeno was one of the
bravest men of any age, he detested fat spiders, and was very nearly
afraid of them.
He felt himself carried down an inclined plane at a swinging rate; the
air smelt of dry earth, and presently it grew much warmer, though it
was not at all close. It seemed a long time until the men stopped, set
him on his feet, and left their hold on him. The man who had acted as
the leader now pushed the others aside, and stood before him, a
broad-shouldered Tartar with a huge tawny beard, dressed in leather
and wearing a breastplate embossed with the Roman eagle. Zeno knew him
well; he was a Mohammedan, like many soldiers of fortune in the Greek
army at that time, his name was Tocktamish, and he had been with Zeno
in Patras. He spoke a barbarous dialect, compounded of Greek and
Italian.
'Messer Zeno,' he said, 'we are not going to hurt you, but we think it
better for your own safety to keep you here for a while, till
everything is quiet again. Do you understand?'
'Perfectly,' Zeno answered, with a laugh. 'Nothing could be clearer!
You naturally suppose that if I found myself in danger I would turn
evidence against you to save myself, and you propose to make that
impossible.'
Tocktamish pretended to be hurt.
'How can you think that I could take my old leader for a traitor,
sir?' he asked.
'The idea would occur naturally to a man of your intelligence,' Zeno
answered, laughing again. 'Listen to me, man. I am a soldier, and I do
not take you for a flight of angels or heavenly doves settling round
me for my consolation. You are an infernal deal more like a pack of
wolves! So let us be plain, as wolves generally are when they are
hungry. You joined me because you hoped to be plundering the palace by
this time. As that has failed, you want something instead. You know
very well that I am not the man to betray a comrade, and that if I am
free I shall probably get Johannes out of his prison in the end. But
you expect something now. How much do you want?'
The Tartar looked down sheepishly and passed his thumb round the lower
edge of his corselet, backwards and forwards, as if he were slowly
polishing the steel.
'Come,' continued Zeno, 'what is the use of hanging back? As I could
not succeed in turning you all into patriots to-night and regenerators
of your country, you have, of course, turned yourselves into bandits;
you have got me a prisoner, and you want a ransom. How much is it to
be?'
Tocktamish still hesitated, feeling very much ashamed of himself
before his old captain.
'Well, sir, you see--there are eight hundred of us--and----'
'And if any one gets less than the rest he will sell all your skins to
Andronicus for the balance,' laughed Zeno. 'Quite right, too! I love
justice above all things.'
'Then give us ten ducats each,' cried the clear voice of a Greek from
the background.
'Ten ducats apiece will make eight thousand,' said Zeno. 'I am sorry,
but I have not so much money at my disposal.'
'You can borrow,' answered the Greek.
'I am afraid not, my friend.' He turned to the Tartar leader again.
'You are a fool, Tocktamish,' he said calmly. 'As long as you keep me
here I cannot get money at all. Do you suppose that we merchants put
away thousands of ducats in strong boxes under our beds? If we did
that, you would have broken into our houses long ago, to help
yourselves!'
'What promise will you make, sir?' inquired the Tartar, beginning to
waver.
But half-a-dozen voices protested.
'No promises!' they cried. 'Let him send you for the money!'
'You hear them?' said Tocktamish.
'Yes,' answered Zeno, 'I hear them. Their nonsense will not change
facts. If you had the souls of mice in your miserable bodies,' he
continued, turning to the men with a contemptuous little laugh, 'you
would come with me now and seize the palace. The gates are open, and
the guards are all beastly drunk. There will be more than eight
thousand ducats to divide there!'
The men were silent; many shook their heads.
'The moment is passed,' answered the Tartar, speaking for them. 'The
whole city is roused by this time.'
'We shall have so many more good men to help us, then,' Zeno said.
'Not that we need any one. A handful could do the work.'
'Send for the money!' cried the voice of the Greek again.
'I have told you that I have not got it,' Zeno answered. 'If you have
nothing more sensible to say, go to your quarters and let me sleep.'
'Pleasant dreams!' jeered the Greek; and several men laughed.
'I hope my dreams will be pleasant, for I am extremely sleepy,' Zeno
answered carelessly. 'If you cut my throat before I wake you will get
nothing at all, not even my funeral expenses! Now good-night, and be
off!'
'We had better leave him,' Tocktamish said, pushing the nearest men
away. 'You will get nothing at present, and it is impossible to
frighten him. But he cannot get out, as you know. It is for our own
safety, sir,' he added, changing his tone as he addressed Zeno. 'We
cannot let you out till the city is quiet again, but you shall lack
nothing. There are two cloaks for you to sleep on and for covering
yourself, and I will bring you food and drink, and anything you want,
in the morning.'
Zeno had found time to look about him during the conversation, as far
as the light of the lanterns and the men who crowded upon him allowed
him to see. He had understood very soon that he was not in the cellar
of a ruined house, as he had at first supposed, but in one of those
great disused cisterns, of which there are several in Constantinople,
and of which two may still be seen. Centuries had passed since there
had been water in this one, and the dust lay thick on the paved
floor. Two or three score columns of grey marble supported the high
vaulted roof, in which Zeno guessed that there was no longer any
visible opening to the outer air. Yet air there was, in abundance, for
it entered by the narrow entrance through which Zeno had been carried
in, and probably found its way out through the disused aqueduct which
had once supplied the water, and which still communicated with some
distant exit. Zeno could only guess at this from his experience of
fortresses, which always contained some similar cistern; every one he
had seen was provided with openings, almost always both at the top; a
few had staircases in order that men might more conveniently go down
to clean them when they were empty.
His captors left him reluctantly at the bidding of their chief. They
set one lantern against a pillar and filed out, carrying away the
other. Zeno listened to their departing footsteps for a moment, when
the last man had gone out, and then he went quickly to the entrance
and listened again. In two or three minutes he heard what he expected;
a heavy door creaked and was shut with a loud noise that boomed down
the inclined passage. Then came another sound, which was not that of
bolt or bar, and was worse to hear. The men were rolling big loose
stones against the door to keep it shut--two, three, more, a dozen at
least, a weight no one man could push outward. Then there was no more
noise, and Zeno was alone.
His situation was serious, and his face was very thoughtful as he
went back to the lantern and picked up one of the two cloaks
Tocktamish had left him. He put it on and drew it closely round him,
for he was beginning to feel cold in spite of the heavy guardsman's
tunic he wore over his own clothes.
He thought of Arethusa, as he called Zoë; she had been in his mind
constantly, and most of all in each of the moments of danger through
which he had passed since he had left her. He thought of her lying
awake on her divan in the soft light of the small lamps, waiting to
hear his footsteps on the landing below her window, then falling
gently asleep out of sheer weariness, to dream of him; starting in her
rest, perhaps, as she dreamt that he was in peril, but smiling again,
without opening her eyes, when the vision changed, and he held her in
his arms once more. He little guessed what that yielding something
beneath the canvas had been, on which he had pressed his foot so
heavily when he had stepped ashore. She was happily ignorant, he
fancied, of the succession of hairbreadth escapes through which he had
passed unhurt so far. What weighed most on his mind, after all, was
the thought that when he met her he should have to tell her that he
had failed.
But he was not thinking of her only as he sat there, for his own
situation stared him in the face, and he could not think of Arethusa
without wondering whether he was ever to see her again. He had heard
those big stones rolled to the door, and something told him that
neither Tocktamish nor his men would bring the promised bread and
water in the morning. They did not believe that he was unable to pay
the ransom they demanded, and they meant to starve him into yielding.
But he had spoken the truth; he had not such a sum of money at his
command. The question was, what the end would be. For the present they
had not left him so much as a jug of water, and he suddenly realised
that he was thirsty after his many exertions. He could not help
laughing to himself at the idea that he might die of thirst in a
cistern.
But it was not in him to waste time in idly reflecting on the
detestable irony of his fate, when there was any possibility that his
own action might help him. He rose again and took up the lantern to
make a systematic examination of his prison. After all, Tocktamish and
his soldiers must have acted on the spur of the moment, and though
they evidently knew the entrance to the cistern, and had probably been
aware that it had a door which could be shut, it was not impossible
that there might be another way out which they had overlooked in their
haste.
But Zeno could find none, and the place was not so large as he had at
first supposed. He counted eight columns in each direction, which gave
sixty-four for the whole number, and he guessed the cistern to be
about one hundred feet square. The walls were covered with smooth
cement, to which the dust hardly adhered, and which extended upwards
to the spring of the vault, at the same level as the capitals of the
columns. There was no opening to be found except the one entrance.
Zeno followed the steep inclined passage upwards till he reached the
closed door which, as he well understood, must be at a considerable
distance from the cistern. It was made of oak, and though it might
have been in its place a couple of hundred years it was still
perfectly sound. The lock had been wrenched off long ago, probably to
be used for some neighbouring house, but Zeno had heard the stones
rolled up outside the door, and even before he tried it, he knew that
he could not make it move.
He wondered whether Tocktamish had set a watch, and he called out and
listened for an answer, but none came; he shouted, with the same
result. Then he took up his lantern and went down again, for it was
clear that the soldiers thought him so safely confined that it would
not be necessary to guard the entrance. Since that was their opinion,
there was nothing to be done but to agree with them. Zeno lay down in
the dust, rolled himself in the spare cloak, placing a doubled fold of
it between his head and the base of a column, and he was soon fast
asleep.
CHAPTER XIV
There was consternation in little Omobono's face the next morning when
he learnt that his master had gone out during the night, and had not
come home. The secretary would not believe it at first, and he went
himself to Zeno's bedroom and saw that the couch had not been slept
on; he could tell that easily, though it was not a bed but a narrow
divan covered with a carpet; for the two leathern pillows were not
disturbed, and the old dark red cloak which Zeno always used as a
covering was neatly folded in its place. It had been with him through
the long campaign in Greece, and he had the almost affectionate
associations with it which men of action often connect with objects
that have served them well in dangerous times.
Zeno had not slept at home, and he had changed his clothes before
going out. Questioned by Omobono, Vito could not say with any
certainty what the master had put on; in fact, he could not tell at
all. All the cloth hose and doublets and tunics were in their places
in the cedar wardrobes and chests of drawers, except those he had
taken off, which lay on a chair. It looked, said the servant, as if
the master had gone out without any clothes at all!
Omobono felt that if he had been a bigger man he would have boxed the
fellow's ears for the impertinent suggestion. But it was not quite
safe, for the man was a big Venetian gondolier and sailor. Besides, as
he went on to explain, the master had often gone down to the marble
steps at dawn for a plunge and a swim, with nothing but a sheet round
him, coming back to dress in his room. Perhaps he had done so now, and
perhaps----
The man stopped short. Perhaps Zeno was drowned. He looked at Omobono,
but the secretary shook his head, and pointed to the undisturbed
couch. Zeno would certainly not have gone out bathing before going to
bed. Neither of them thought of looking into the small military trunk
which stood in a dark corner, and from which Zeno had taken the
leathern jerkin and stout hose which he had put on for the expedition.
Omobono had, of course, already questioned the slave-girls. They told
what they knew, that the master had supped upstairs, and had dismissed
them. When they came back to the room he was gone, they said; and this
was true, since they had slept all night. The Kokóna was now asleep,
they added; but they did not say that she was sleeping dressed as she
had been on the previous evening, and looked very tired, for that was
none of the secretary's business.
Omobono went up and down the stairs almost as often that morning as on
the day of Zoë's first coming, and again and again he instructed Yulia
to call him when her mistress awoke. The answer was always the same:
the Kokóna was still asleep, and the secretary should be called as
soon as she rose. At last he began to think that she, too, had left
the house, and that the girls were in the secret, and he threatened to
go in and see for himself. To his surprise Yulia stood aside to let
him pass, laying one finger on her lips as a warning to make no noise;
for the little slave saw well enough that he suspected her of lying,
and she was afraid of him in Zeno's absence. Seeing that she did not
oppose him, he was convinced, and did not go in.
He would not send out messengers to ask for his master at the houses
of the Venetian merchants, or at their places of business, for he had
a true Italian's instinct to conceal from the outer world everything
that happens in the house. Yet he found himself in a dilemma; for Zeno
had invited Sebastian Polo, his wife and his daughter, and other
friends to dinner, and they would come, and be amazed to find that he
was not there to receive them. Yet if word were sent to them not to
come, Zeno might return in time and be justly angry; and then he would
call the poor secretary something worse than a cackling hen. It was a
terrible difficulty, and all the servants and slaves downstairs were
chattering about it like magpies, except when the secretary was just
passing. The cook sent to ask whether he was to prepare the dinner.
'Certainly,' answered Omobono. 'The master is no doubt gone out on
pressing business, and will be back in plenty of time to receive his
friends.'
He tried to speak calmly, poor man, but he was in a terrible stew.
Anxiety had brought out two round red spots on his grey cheeks; for
once his trim beard was almost ruffled, and his small round eyes were
haggard and bloodshot.
As the time for the arrival of the guests drew near, he felt his brain
reeling, and the rooms whirled round him, till he felt that the
universe was going raving mad, and that he was in the very centre of
it. Still Zoë slept, and still the master did not come.
At last there was but half an hour left. Omobono strained every nerve
he possessed, and determined to meet the tremendous difficulty in a
way that should elicit Zeno's admiration. He would receive the ladies
and gentlemen as major-duomo, he would make an excuse for his master,
he would instal them in their places at table, and would direct the
service. Of the cook and the cellar the little man felt quite sure,
and that was a great consolation in his extremity. If he gave Zeno's
friends of the best, and made a polite apology, and saw that nothing
went wrong, it would be impossible to ask more of him or to suggest
that he had failed in his duty. When the guests were gone he would go
to bed and have an attack of fever; of that he felt quite sure, but
then the terrible ordeal would be over, and it would be a relief to
lie on his back and feel very ill.
He retired and dressed himself in his best clothes. His cloth hose
were of a dark wine colour, but were now a little loose for his legs.
He looked at them affectionately as he examined them in the light.
They recalled many cheerful hours and some proud moments; they
remembered also the days when his little legs had not been so thin.
Yet by pulling them up almost to the tearing point they lost in width
what they gained in length, and made a very good appearance after all,
for he secured them by an ingenious contrivance of belt and string. It
was true that when he walked he felt as if he were being lifted from
the floor by the back of his waistband, but that only made him feel a
little taller than he was, and forced him to hold himself very
straight, which was a distinct advantage.
Now in all this trouble it never occurred to him that his master was
in any great danger or trouble, much less that he might have been
killed in some mad adventure. Carlo Zeno had lived through such
desperate perils again and again, that Omobono had formed the habit of
believing him to be indestructible, if not invulnerable, and sure to
fall on his feet whatever happened. The secretary only wished he would
not choose to disappear on the very day when he had asked five friends
to dine with him.
Omobono stood in his fine clean shirt and his wine-coloured hose,
combing and smoothing his beard carefully with the help of a little
mirror no bigger than the bottom of a tumbler. The glass was indeed so
small that he could only get an impression of his whole face by moving
the thing about, from his chin to his nose, from one cheek to the
other, and from his forehead to his thin throat, round which he
admired the neatly fitting line of the narrow linen collar. But this
last effort required a good deal of squinting, for the point of his
beard was in the way.
While he was thus engaged some one tapped at his door, and a small
voice informed him that Kokóna Arethusa was now awake, and wished to
see him instantly. Though the door was not opened by the speaker,
Omobono hastily laid down his glass and his comb, and struggled into
his tunic as if his life depended on his getting it on before he
answered; for he was a very modest man, and the voice was a girl's;
moreover, he was aware that the device of belt and strings by which
his hose were drawn up so very tightly must present a ridiculous
appearance until covered by his over-garment; then, however, the
effect would be excellent. So he got on his tunic as fast as he could,
and then answered with the calmness of perfectly restored dignity
through the closed door.
'Tell the Kokóna that I am at her service,' he said; 'and that I shall
be with her immediately.'
'Yes, sir,' said the small voice, and he heard the girl's retreating
footsteps immediately after she had spoken.
A few moments later he was going up the stairs as fast as the
tremendous tension of his hose would allow, and as he went he
reflected with satisfaction that as major-duomo he could not by any
possibility be called upon to sit down in the presence of his master's
guests.
One of the slave-girls ushered him into Zoë's presence. The latter was
seated on the edge of the divan, looking anxiously towards the door
when he entered, and for the first time since she had been in the
house he saw her face uncovered. It was very pale, and there were deep
shadows under her eyes. Her beautiful brown hair was in wild disorder,
too, and fell in a loosened tress upon one shoulder. The hand that
rested on the edge of the divan strained upon a fold of the delicate
silk carpet that covered the couch. She spoke as soon as Omobono
appeared.
'Have you heard from him?' she asked anxiously. 'Is he coming?'
It did not seem strange to the secretary that she should already know
of Zeno's absence, since no one in the house could think or talk of
anything else. On his part he was resolved to maintain the calm
dignity becoming to the major-duomo of a noble house.
'The master will doubtless come home when he has finished the urgent
business that called him away,' he answered. 'In his absence, it will
be my duty to make excuses to his guests----'
'Are they coming? Have you not sent them word to stay away?'
Omobono smiled in a sort of superiorly humble way.
'And what if the master should return just at the hour of dinner?' he
asked. 'What would he say if I had ventured to take upon myself such a
responsibility? The Kokóna does not know the master! Happily I have
been in his service too long not to understand my duty. If it pleases
him to come home, he will find that his friends have been entertained
as he desired. If he does not come, he will be glad to learn
afterwards that the proper excuses were offered to them for his
unavoidable absence, and that they were treated with the honour due to
their station.'
Zoë stared at the secretary, really amazed by his calmness, and
almost reassured by his evident belief in Zeno's safety. It was true
that he knew nothing of the facts, and had not seen his master hanging
by the end of a rope, fifty feet above the ground, within twelve
hours. It would have been hard to imagine Omobono's state of mind if
he had spent the night as Zoë had. But nevertheless his assurance
rested her, and restored a little of her confidence in Zeno's good
fortune. Of his courage and his strength she needed not to be
reminded; but she knew well enough that unless chance were in his
favour, he could never leave Blachernæ except to die.
'Do you really think he is safe?' Zoë asked, glad to hear the
reassuring words, even in her own voice.
'Of course, Kokóna----'
But at this moment the sound of oars in the water, and of several
voices talking together, came up through the open window from the
landing below.
All Omobono's excitement returned at the thought that he might not get
down the stairs in time to receive the guests at the marble steps just
as the boats came alongside. Without another word he turned and fled
precipitately.
Zoë had heard the voices too, and had understood; and, in spite of her
anxiety, a gentle smile at the secretary's nervousness flitted across
her tired face. The two slave-girls had run to the window to see who
was coming, and as they had always been told not to show themselves at
windows, they crouched down in the balcony and looked through the
open-work of marble which formed the parapet.
Zoë rose to cross the room. In the first rush of memory that came with
waking, she had almost forgotten that she had been hurt, and now she
bit her lip as the pain shot down her right side. But she smiled
almost instantly. She would rather have been hurt unawares by the man
she loved, than that he should not have touched her at the very moment
of going into danger. The memory of his crushing weight upon her for
that instant was something she would not part with. Women know what
that is. She thought how tenderly he would have stooped to kiss her,
if he had known that she was lying there under the canvas. Instead, he
had stepped upon her body; and it was almost better than a kiss, for
that would have left nothing of itself; but now each movement that
hurt her brought him close to her again.
She had received no real injury, but she limped as she walked to the
window. Then she stood still just within it, where she could not see
down to the steps below, but could talk with the slave-girls in a
whisper. Doubtless, since Zeno had not wished her to be seen, she
would not have shown herself; but she was quite conscious that she
looked ill and tired, and by no means fit to face a rival who had been
described to her as fresher than spring roses; so that the sacrifice
was, after all, not so great as it might have been.
'Tell me what you see,' she said to the maids.
Lucilla turned up her sallow little face.
'There are three,' she answered. 'There is a Venetian lord, and his
lady, and a young lady. At least, I suppose she is young.'
  [Illustration: 'Tell me what you see,' she said to the maids.]
'I should think you could see that,' Zoë said.
'Her face is veiled,' Lucilla replied, after peering down; 'but I can
see her hair. It is red, and she has a great deal of it.'
'Red like Rustan's wife's hair?' asked Zoë.
'Oh no! It is red like a lady's; for it is well dyed with the good
khenna that comes from Alexandria. Now they are getting out--the old
lady first--she is fat--the secretary and her husband help her on each
side. She is all wrapped in a long green silk mantle embroidered with
red roses. She is like a dish of spinach in flames. How fat she is!'
Lucilla shook a little, as if she were laughing internally.
'What does her daughter wear?' asked Zoë.
'A dark purple cloak, with a broad silver trimming.'
'How hideous!' exclaimed Zoë, for no particular reason.
'The secretary bows to the ground,' Lucilla said. 'He is saying
something.'
She stopped speaking, and all three listened. Zoë could hear Omobono's
voice quite distinctly.
'By a most unfortunate circumstance,' he was saying, 'Messer Carlo
Zeno was obliged to go out on very urgent business, and has not yet
returned. I am his secretary and major-duomo, as your lordship may
deign to remember. In my master's absence I have the honour to welcome
his guests, and to wait upon them.'
Sebastian Polo said something in answer to this fine speech; but in a
low tone, and Zoë could not hear the words. Then a peculiarly
disagreeable woman's voice asked a question. Zoë thought it sounded
like something between the croaking of many frogs and the clucking of
an old hen. 'We hope you will give us our dinner, whatever happens,'
said the lady, who seemed to be of a practical turn of mind.
'Is that the girl's voice?' asked Zoë of Lucilla, in a whisper.
The maid shook her head.
'The mother,' she answered. 'Now they are going in. I cannot hear what
Omobono says, for he is leading the way. They are all gone.'
Zoë did not care who else came, and now that the moment was over she
was much less disturbed by the fact that Giustina was under the same
roof with her than she had expected to be. She did not believe that
Zeno had ever kissed Giustina, and he had certainly never stepped on
her.
She let her maids do what they would with her now, hardly noticing the
skill they showed in helping her to move, and in smoothing away the
pain she felt, as only the people of the East know how to do it. As
she did not speak to them they dared not ask her questions about the
master's absence. They had left him with her when they had been sent
away; they had slept till morning; when they awoke they had found Zoë
lying on the divan asleep in her clothes, and the master had gone out
of the house unseen and had not returned. That was as far as their
knowledge went; but they were sure that she knew everything, and they
hoped that if they pleased her even more than usual she would let fall
some words of explanation, as mistresses sometimes do when their
servants are particularly satisfactory. Most young women, when they
are in a good humour, let their maids know what they have been doing;
and as soon as they are cross the maids revenge themselves by telling
the other servants everything. In this way the balance of power is
maintained between the employer and the employed, like the hydrostatic
equilibrium in the human body, which cannot be destroyed without
bringing on a syncope.
But though Zoë felt very much less pain after Yulia and Lucilla had
bathed her and rubbed her, and had gently pulled at all her joints
till she felt supple and light again, she said nothing about Zeno; and
though they dressed her so skilfully that she could not help smiling
with pleasure when they showed her to herself in the large mirror they
held up between them, yet she only thanked them kindly, and gave them
each two spoonfuls of roseleaf preserve, which represented to them an
almost heavenly delight, as she well knew, and which she herself did
not at all despise. That was all, however; and they were a little
disappointed, because she did not condescend to talk to them about the
master's disappearance, which was the greatest event that had happened
since they had all three lived under Zeno's roof.
Meanwhile Omobono was playing his part of major-duomo downstairs, and
had installed the guests at the table set for them in the large hall
looking over the Golden Horn. After Polo and his wife, another
Venetian merchant had arrived, the rich old banker Marin Cornèr, long
established in Constantinople, and a friend of Sebastian Polo. The
fifth person invited did not appear, so that two seats were vacant,
the sixth being Zeno's own; and behind his high carved chair Omobono
installed himself, to direct the servants, quite an imposing figure in
his dark purple tunic and the handsome silver chain, which he had put
on to-day to indicate his high office in the establishment. Poor
Omobono! He little dreamt of what was in store for him that day.
The three older guests were moderately sorry that Zeno was not
present. In their several ways they were all a little afraid of their
eccentric countryman, about whom the most wild tales were told. Though
in truth he was extremely punctual in meeting his financial
engagements, both Sebastian Polo and Marin Cornèr had always felt a
little nervous about doing business with a young man who was known to
have kept an army at bay for a whole winter, who was reported to have
slain at least a hundred Turks with his own hand, and whose brown eyes
gleamed like a tiger's at the mere mention of a fight. It would be so
extremely awkward if, instead of meeting a bill that fell due, he
should appear at Cornèr's bank armed to the teeth and demand the
contents of the strong box. On the whole the two elderly merchants ate
with a better appetite in his absence.
But Giustina was inconsolable, and the good things did not appeal to
her, neither the fresh sturgeon's roe from the Black Sea, nor the
noble palamit, nor the delicate quails, nor even the roasted peacock,
whose magnificent tail rose out of a vast silver dish like a rainbow
with spots on it.
She was a big, sleepy creature with quantities of handsomely dyed
hair, as Lucilla had told Zoë. She had large and regular features, a
perfectly colourless white skin, and a discontented mouth. She often
turned her eyes to see what was going on, without turning her head at
all, as if she were too lazy to make even that small effort. Her hands
were well shaped, but heavy in the fingers, and they looked like new
marble, too white to be interesting, too cold to touch.
She was terribly disappointed and deeply offended by what seemed to
her a deliberate insult; for she did not believe a word of Omobono's
polite apology. The truth was that Zeno had only invited the party
because her mother had invited herself in the hope of bringing him to
the point of offering to marry Giustina. As a matter of fact nothing
had ever been farther from his thoughts. Sebastian Polo, urged by his
wife, had entered into the closest relations of business with Zeno,
and had again and again given him a share in transactions that had
been extraordinarily profitable. He had rendered it necessary for Zeno
to see him often, and had made it easy by his constant hospitality; in
these things lay the whole secret of Zeno's visits to his house. But
seeing that matters did not take a matrimonial direction as quickly as
she had expected, Polo's wife had adopted a course which she intended
to make decisive; she had asked herself and her daughter to dine with
Zeno. From this to hinting that he had compromised Giustina, and
thence to extracting an offer of marriage, would be easy steps,
familiar to every enterprising mother, since the beginning of the
matrimonial ages. And that was a long time ago--even before Solomon's
day, when the horseleech's two daughters cried, 'Give, give!' Zeno's
value as a possible husband lay less in his fortune than in his very
magnificent connections at home, and in the fact that the Emperor
Charles had been his godfather and afterwards his friend and patron.
Giustina understood her thoughtful parent's policy; she was therefore
unhappy, and would eat no peacock, a circumstance which greatly
distressed Omobono. Happily for him, the young woman's abstention was
fully compensated by the readiness of the elder guests to partake of
what she obstinately refused, even to something like repletion.
While they ate, they talked; that is to say, Sebastian Polo and Marin
Cornèr compared opinions on business matters such as the value of
Persian silks, Greek wines, and white slaves, without giving away to
each other the least thread of information that could be turned into
money. And Polo's wife, who had an eye to the main chance, croaked a
few words now and then, encouraging Cornèr to talk more freely of his
affairs; perhaps, thought she, he might betray the secret of his
wonderful success in obtaining from the Caucasus certain priceless
furs which no merchant but he had ever been able to get. But though
the fat dame lured him on to talk and made signs to have his glass
filled again and again with Chian wine, and though the colours of a
most beautiful sunset began to creep up his thin nose and his high
cheek bones, as the rich evening light climbs in the western sky,
Marin Cornèr's speech was as quiet and clear as ever, and what he said
was, if anything, a trifle more cautious than before.
And meanwhile Giustina stared across her empty plate at the boats on
the Golden Horn, and nursed her wrath against the man she wished to
marry.
'My child,' croaked her mother, 'we fully understand your
disappointment. But you should make an effort to be cheerful, if only
for the sake of Messer Marin Cornèr, your father's valued friend.'
'I beg you to excuse my dulness, Madam,' answered the daughter
dutifully, and with all the ceremony that children were taught to use
in addressing their parents. 'I shall endeavour to obey you.'
'Come, come, Donna Giustina!' cried Cornèr. 'We will drink your health
and happiness in this good----'
The sentence remained unfinished, and his lips did not close; as he
set down the untasted wine, his eyes fixed themselves on a point
between Omobono and Polo, and the sunset effects faded from his nose,
leaving a grey twilight behind.
The fat dame thought it was an apoplexy, and half rose from her seat;
but Giustina's eyes followed the direction of his look and she uttered
a cry of real fear. Sebastian Polo, who sat with his back to the sight
that terrified his daughter, gazed at the other three in astonishment.
But Omobono turned half round and gasped, and seized the back of
Zeno's empty chair, swinging it round on one of its legs till it was
between him and the vision.
Tocktamish stood there, grinning at the assembled company in a way to
terrify the stoutest heart amongst them. He was magnificently arrayed
in his full dress uniform of flaming yellow and gold, and his huge
round fur papakh was set well back on his shaggy head. His right hand
toyed amidst a perfect arsenal of weapons in his belt, and his
blood-shot eyes rolled frightfully as he looked from one guest to the
other, showing his shark's teeth as he grinned and grinned again.
It was certainly Tocktamish, the Tartar; and Tocktamish was not
perfectly sober. He was the more pleased by the impression his
appearance had produced. He at once came forward to the empty place of
the absent guest, which was next to Giustina's.
'I see that you have kept a place for me,' he said in barbarous Greek.
'That was very kind of you! And I am in time for the peacock, too!'
Thereupon he sat down in the chair, looked round the table, and
grinned again.
The fat lady collapsed in a fainting fit, the two elderly merchants
edged away from the board as far as they could, and Giustina uttered
another piercing shriek when the Tartar leered at her.
'Who is this person?' her father tried to ask with dignity, meaning
the question for Omobono.
But Omobono had vanished, and the servants had fled after him.
CHAPTER XV
Tocktamish poured half a flagon of Chian wine into a tall Venetian
beaker and drank it off by way of whetting his appetite.
'The master of the house is unavoidably absent,' he observed, when he
had smacked his lips noisily. 'He has sent me to beg that you will
excuse him and make yourselves at home.'
By this time Dame Polo was beginning to revive, and the two men were
somewhat reassured as to the Tartar's intentions. When he had entered
he had looked as if he meant to murder them all, but it was now
evident from his manner that he wished to produce a pleasant
impression. He drew the peacock towards him, and at once took all the
best pieces that were left on the dish, using his fingers to save
trouble. Giustina watched him without turning her head, and judged
that, after all, he had only meant to show his admiration for her
beauty when he had leered so horribly. She was in reality the least
timid of all the party, though she had shrieked so loudly, and she
remembered a fairy story about a frightful monster that had loved a
beautiful princess. She was already pondering on the means of making a
similar conquest.
'Are we to understand,' asked Marin Cornèr, politely, but in a shaky
tone, 'that you come from Messer Carlo Zeno?'
Tocktamish grunted assent, for his mouth was full, and he nodded
emphatically.
'Messer Carlo Zeno is in need of a large sum of money without delay,'
he said, when he was able to speak again.
Sebastian Polo looked at Marin Cornèr significantly; and Marin Cornèr
looked at Sebastian Polo. The fat lady pricked her ears, figuratively
speaking, for indeed they were much too deeply embedded in their
exuberant surroundings of cheek and jowl to suggest that they could
ever prick at all. The Tartar crammed his mouth full again, and his
great beard wagged with his jaws in the inevitable silence that
followed. In her heart Giustina compared him to a ravenous lion, but
her father thought he resembled a hungry hyena.
Finding that his throat was not cut yet, and learning that there was
to be a question of money, Marin Cornèr felt that the colour was
returning to his nose and the warmth to his heart.
'Why does Messer Carlo not come home himself and get the money he
needs?' he asked.
By this time Omobono had recovered from his fright enough to creep
into the room behind Tocktamish. He was already making anxious
gestures to the two Venetian gentlemen to enjoin caution. The Tartar
drank again before he answered the question.
'He happened to be so busy that he preferred to send me to get the
money for him,' said the soldier. 'You see we are old friends. We
fought together in Greece.'
Then Omobono's voice was heard, quavering with anxiety.
'There is no money in the house!' he cried, winking violently at Polo
and Cornèr. 'There is not a penny, I swear! There were large payments
to make yesterday.'
The poor little secretary was so anxious to be heard that he had come
within arm's length of the Tartar, though behind him. Tocktamish
turned his big head, and put out his hand unexpectedly, and Omobono
felt himself caught and whirled round like a child till he was close
to the table and face to face with the tipsy giant. He was sure that
he felt his liver shrivelling up inside him with sheer fright.
'What is this little animal?' the Tartar asked, cocking one eye in a
knowing way and examining him with a sort of boozy gravity.
But Omobono really could not find a word. His captor shook him
playfully.
'What is your name, you funny little beast?' he enquired, and he
roared with laughter by way of answering himself.
Giustina, strange to say, was the only one to join in his mirth, and
she laughed quite prettily, to the inexpressible surprise of her
parents, who were shocked and grieved, as well as scared almost to
death.
'Come, come!' laughed the Tartar, shaking the little man like a
bean-bag. 'If you cannot speak, you can at least give up your keys,
and I will see for myself if there is any money!'
Thereupon he seized the bunch of keys which the secretary wore at his
belt, and wrenched it off with a pull that snapped the thong by which
it hung. Again Giustina laughed, but a little more nervously now; her
mother sat transfixed, open-mouthed, with an almost idiotic
expression. Again the two merchants glanced at each other, and then
both looked towards the door.
Between his fright and the terrible indignity of having his keys torn
from him, Omobono had never been nearer to fainting in his life.
'Robbery!' he gasped. 'Rank robbery!'
Tocktamish sent him spinning into the nearest corner by a turn of the
wrist, after which the ruffian took another mouthful of meat, and
slowly filled his glass while he was disposing of it. Omobono had
steadied himself in the corner, but his face was deadly white, and his
lips were moving nervously in a delirium of terror.
'Messer Carlo needs ten thousand ducats before sunset,' observed the
Tartar before he drank.
Polo and Cornèr started to their feet; to their commercial souls the
mere mention of such a demand was more terrifying than all the crooked
weapons that gleamed in Tocktamish's broad belt.
'Ten thousand ducats!' they repeated together in a breath.
'Yes!' roared the Tartar, in a voice that made the glasses on the
table shake together and ring. 'Ten thousand ducats! And if I do not
find the money in the house, you two must find it in yours! Do you
understand?'
  [Illustration: 'Yes!' roared the Tartar. 'Ten thousand ducats! And if
   I do not find the money in the house, you two must find it in yours!
   Do you understand?']
They understood, for his voice was like thunder, and he had risen too,
and towered above them with his full glass in one hand and Omobono's
keys in the other. Then, being already tolerably drunk, he solemnly
raised the keys to his lips, thinking that he held the glass in that
hand, and rolled his eyes terribly at the two merchants; and he set
the glass down with an emphatic gesture, as if it had been the bunch
of keys, and it broke to pieces, and the yellow wine splashed out
across the table and ran down and streamed upon the mosaic floor.
A terrific Tartar oath announced that he had realised his mistake, and
as he at once made up his mind that the Venetians were responsible for
it, his next action was to hurl the foot of the broken glass at Polo's
head; and he instantly seized the empty silver flagon and flung it at
Cornèr's face. The lighter weapon missed its aim and broke to atoms
against the opposite wall, but the jug struck Cornèr full on the
bridge of his thin nose with awful effect, and he fell to the floor
and lay there, a moaning, bleeding heap.
Polo looked neither at his wife nor at his daughter, but fled through
the open door at the top of his not very great speed. His wife fainted
outright, and in real earnest now, and with a final croak rolled
gently from her chair, without hurting herself at all. Omobono
flattened his lean body against the wall, trembling in every joint,
and gibbering with fear; and Tocktamish, seeing that he had so
satisfactorily cleared the field, proceeded to address his attentions
to Giustina, who had not fainted, but was really much too frightened
to rise from her seat or try to escape.
The Tartar drew his chair nearer to hers, and suddenly smiled, as if
he had done nothing unusual, and was only anxious to make himself
agreeable. He had been drinking since early morning, but he would be
good for at least another gallon of wine before it made him senseless.
