may make him careful, so I can get something out of my stock in the
iron works company."
"If you ever want me as a witness I will do what I can for you."
"Thank you, my lad; you are kind and I will remember what you say."
After that Mrs. Bartlett and Jack came in and learned something of what
had brought our hero to the house.
"Good for you, Randy!" cried Jack. "Father, if I were you, I'd break
into old Bangs's safe."
"Pray do nothing rash," pleaded Mrs. Bartlett. "Remember he is rich and
has many friends."
"He is certainly rich," said Randy, "but I doubt if the family have
many friends. All of them are too overbearing."
"Bangs broke into father's private desk and took the papers," went on
Jack. "It would be only tit for tat to break open the safe and get the
papers back."
"I shall see Robinson first and then make up my mind what to do,"
answered his father.
Randy spent a pleasant evening with Jack, and when it came time to go
to the boat Jack walked half the distance with our hero.
"I wish father could get what is due him," said Jack on the way. "He
can't stand the hard work he is now doing."
The next morning Randy sailed down the river on the steamboat.
Twenty-four hours later Mr. Bartlett crossed the Hudson and took a
train for Springfield. He hoped to find Mr. Robinson at one of the
banks and he was not disappointed.
The bank official--for such Mr. Robinson was--listened with interest to
all Philip Bartlett had to tell. He shook his head when Amos Bangs and
Tuller were mentioned.
"I suspected as much," said he. "I was given to understand that Bangs
had bought you out. I couldn't understand it either, for you once told
me that you did not wish to leave the works. I have just gotten back
from a trip to Europe and have a good deal to attend to here, but I
will take this matter up as soon as I possibly can."
"And you will stand in with me?" asked Mr. Bartlett, anxiously.
"If you wish it."
"I do."
"Then we must act together."
"And what would be your advice regarding those papers in Bangs's
private safe at his house?"
"Get out a search warrant and take a professional safe man along, to
open the strong box," answered the bank official, promptly. "And do not
delay either. He may take it into his head to burn the papers up."
"I will do as you say," answered Mr. Bartlett with decision.
Some of his old-time will power had come back to him and he lost not a
moment in carrying out his plans. He visited a firm dealing in safes
and from them got the address of a man who claimed to be able to open
any ordinary safe made. Then he called on this individual.
"You open safes?" he asked.
"I do--if I have the proper authority," answered the man.
"Can you open a first-class house safe?"
"Yes."
"How long will it take?"
"From five minutes to three hours."
"What are your charges?"
"Ten to fifty dollars. I'll have to see the safe before I can set a
definite figure."
"Will you be at liberty to-morrow?"
"I'll be at your service if you engage me now."
"Very well, you may consider yourself engaged. I wish you to meet me in
Riverport at about noon."
"Your own safe?"
"No."
"You'll have authority to open it?"
"I think so. I've got to go to court to get it, though."
"Ah! a legal case, eh?"
"Yes. You don't object, do you?"
"Oh, no, I have many legal cases. Had to force a safe for some lawyers
in Bridgeport only last week."
"You will not disappoint me?"
"Not at all, Mr. Bartlett."
With this understanding Philip Bartlett left the safe opener and took a
train back to his home. But, as it happened, a certain man saw him
leaving the safe opener's office. This man was none other than Tuller,
the friend to Amos Bangs.
"Bartlett, eh?" murmured Tuller to himself. "What is he doing in
Springfield?"
He chanced to know the safe opener, whose name was Westinghouse, and
presently dropped into the other's office as if by accident.
"How is business, Westinghouse?" he said, indifferently.
"Fair," was the answer. "Had two jobs last week."
"Good enough."
"How is business with you?"
"Booming. I suppose you get jobs ahead, is that it, or do you go out on
the run, so to speak?"
"Sometimes I get orders ahead, but most of the jobs come in on the
run--safe out of order, or something like that. I've got to go to
Riverport to-morrow."
"Is that so? Bank?"
"No, a private party, I reckon. Going to have a safe opened by an order
from the court, I think."
"Is that so! Well, I wish you luck on the job. Good-day."
"Good-day!" answered the safe opener.
Once on the street Tuller's face changed.
"Bartlett must have given that order, and if so he means to either open
up the safe at the iron works or else the safe at Bangs's house. I must
see Bangs and warn him, so that nothing is found which will do us
harm!"
At first he thought to telegraph, but then came to the conclusion that
it would be too risky. A letter might not be received in time.
"I'll go myself," he said, and an hour later was on his way to
Riverport.
CHAPTER XXIII
THE PAPERS IN THE SAFE
At Riverport the next day Mr. Bartlett called upon a lawyer with whom
he was well acquainted and told to the legal gentleman all that he had
learned and proposed to do.
"I wish your assistance, Mr. Soper," he said.
"You shall have it," was the lawyer's prompt answer.
"Can you get an order from the court to open that safe?"
"I believe I can. Come, we will go and see the judge at once."
Fortunately for Mr. Bartlett the judge was easily found, and when the
matter was explained he issued the necessary papers and placed them in
the hands of one of the constables.
"But how are you going to open the safe if it is locked?" asked the
judge. "Constable Carley is not equal to it."
"I have engaged a professional safe opener," answered Mr. Bartlett. "He
can do the trick for the constable."
"Very well."
Mr. Bartlett, the lawyer, and the constable waited until the stage came
in. The safe opener was one of the passengers and at once joined the
crowd and was introduced.
In the meantime Jasper Tuller had also arrived in Riverport. In the
morning he lost no time in calling at the iron works.
"I want to see Mr. Bangs," he said, to the clerk who came to wait on
him.
"Sorry, sir, but Mr. Bangs went out of town late last night."
"When will he be back?"
"Not until some time this afternoon--possibly not until evening."
"Where did he go? I must communicate with him at once."
"He went to Rochester, but I can't give you the exact address,"
answered the clerk.
Jasper Tuller groaned in spirit. Could he have telegraphed to Amos
Bangs he would have done so, but the telegram would have remained at
the office awaiting a call.
"I must make a move on my own account, if I can," he muttered.
He called a carriage and was driven to the Bangs mansion. A servant
answered his rather impatient ring at the front door.
"Is anybody at home?" he asked, abruptly.
"Mr. Bangs has gone away, sir."
"I know that," he snapped. "Is Mrs. Bangs at home?"
Now it happened Mrs. Bangs had come home the night before, intending to
go away again two days later. But she had given orders that she wished
to see no one.
"I--I don't know," said the servant girl. "I can see. What is the
name?"
"Jasper Tuller. It is highly important that I see somebody of the
family at once," went on the visitor.
Mrs. Bangs was in an upper hallway and overheard the talk. She knew her
husband had had some trouble with a book agent over the payment of a
bill and took Tuller to be that person.
"A gentleman to see you, Mrs. Bangs," said the maid. "He is very
anxious about it."
"I cannot see anybody," returned the fashionable woman, coldly. "Tell
him I am not at home."
The girl went down into the hallway, where she had left Jasper Tuller
standing.
"Mrs. Bangs is not at home, sir. You will have to call some other
time."
"Is Mr. Bangs's son at home?"
"No, sir; he is away for the summer."
"When will Mrs. Bangs be back?"
"I can't say, sir."
"It is too bad. The matter is very important. I came all the way from
Springfield to see Mr. Bangs. They told me at the works he had gone to
Rochester. I wanted to see him or his wife on business. Have you any
idea where I can find Mrs. Bangs?"
The girl hesitated.
"N--no, sir," she faltered.
Mrs. Bangs was listening as before and now realized that something
unusual was in the air. She slipped down a back stairs and out of a
rear door. Then she came around to the front piazza just as the door
opened to let Tuller out.
"Mamie, who is this?" she asked, looking at the servant girl meaningly.
"Are you Mrs. Bangs?" asked Jasper Tuller, quickly, and, as she nodded,
he continued: "I am glad you have come. I am Jasper Tuller, one of the
stockholders in the iron works. Perhaps you have heard your husband
mention my name."
"I have, Mr. Tuller. What can I do for you?"
"I would like to see you in private"--this with a side glance at the
servant girl.
"Very well, step into the library, Mr. Tuller," and the fashionable
woman led the way to that apartment. Then the door was carefully
closed.
"Something is wrong," said the servant girl to herself. "I wonder what
it can be?"
She was of a decidedly inquisitive nature and not above playing the
eavesdropper. She tiptoed her way to the library door and listened
intently, while at the same time applying her eye to the keyhole.
"Now, what is it, Mr. Tuller?" asked Mrs. Bangs, after the door to the
library was shut.
"Briefly, it is this," said the visitor. "Your husband has certain
papers in his safe--papers which belong to another man,--Philip
Bartlett."
"Proceed."
"I warned him to destroy the papers but he has not done so. Now Mr.
Bartlett is going to come here, force open your safe, and take the
papers away."
"Come here--force our safe!" gasped the fashionable woman. "He dare not
do it."
"He is going to do it legally, I presume."
"You mean he will bring an officer of the law here?"
"Yes. If those papers are found it will look black for your husband,
for he has no right to have them in his possession."
"Oh, Mr. Tuller, what shall I do?"
"It is easy enough. Open the safe, take out the papers, and put them
where they cannot be found."
"Yes, but I do not know how to open the safe!"
"Don't you know the combination? Your husband said something about
that, but I felt there must be some mistake."
"I did know the combination once, but I believe I have forgotten it,"
went on the fashionable woman. She knitted her brows. "Let me see. It
was three 9's, I remember--9, 18, and 27."
"Yes! yes! And what else. See if you cannot think. It is so very
important--not alone for your husband, but also for myself and others."
"I am trying to think. Let me see--yes, there was a 2 and a 3 and then
another 2,--I mean so many times around."
"I believe I understand, Mrs. Bangs. You mean twice around to 9, three
times around to 18, twice to 27, and then off at 0."
"Yes, yes, that is it!" burst out the lady of the mansion. "How clever
some men are!" and she beamed on her visitor, who chanced to be well
dressed and not bad-looking.
"If that is correct, I'll soon have the safe open," said Jasper Tuller,
and walked over to where the strong box stood, in a corner of the
apartment.
The lady of the mansion hovered near while Jasper Tuller got down on
his knees and began to try the combination. He had to work the knob all
of a dozen times before the door of the safe came open.
"At last!" he murmured, as the contents of the safe stood revealed.
"Do you see the papers, or rather, do you know them?" asked Mrs. Bangs.
"I will know them--if I can lay eyes on them," was the reply, as Tuller
began to rummage around in the safe.
The papers were sorted out in different piles and he went through each
pile as rapidly as possible. Presently he found what he wanted.
"Here they are!" he cried in triumph, as he held them up.
CHAPTER XXIV
ANOTHER HIDING PLACE
Mrs. Bangs breathed a sigh of relief when she saw the papers.
"You are certain you are right, Mr. Tuller?" she asked, anxiously.
"Yes."
"Where did those papers come from?"
"Mr. Bartlett's desk at the iron works."
"As they were in my husband's safe I think you ought to give them to
me."
"I will do so, Mrs. Bangs. But you must put them where they cannot be
found."
"Trust me for that."
"The officers of the law may search the whole house."
"Dare they do such a thing?"
"Yes, but if everything is found square your husband can sue Bartlett
for damages," and Jasper Tuller chuckled loudly. "It will be a good
joke on him."
"There are no more of the papers?"
"I will take another look and make sure."
This was done, but no more papers belonging to Philip Bartlett could be
found. Then the safe was locked once more.
"I will put these papers away at once," said Mrs. Bangs and left the
library with the documents in her hand. She was gone all of five
minutes and came back smiling quietly to herself.
"Now they are safe," she said. "Nobody can possibly find them."
"I am glad to hear it," answered Tuller. "Now I had better be
going--before Bartlett appears. Don't say anything about my having been
here."
"I will not."
"And another thing, Mrs. Bangs. Pretend not to know how to open the
safe. That will compel them to break it open, and your husband's case
against Bartlett will be so much stronger."
"I shall follow your advice, Mr. Tuller. But look, somebody is coming
already!" went on the fashionable woman, as a carriage turned in from
the road and came toward the horse block.
"I must get out of this! Can I go by a back door?"
"To be sure," said Mrs. Bangs, and showed the way. As Tuller slipped
out and passed toward the back road where Randy had had an encounter
with Bob Bangs, there came a ring at the front door.
"Good-morning, Mrs. Bangs," said Mr. Bartlett. "Is your husband at
home?"
"He is not," answered the fashionable woman, coldly.
"I've got a search warrant for this place," said the constable, pushing
his way in, and he proceeded to read the document aloud.
"This is an outrage!" cried Mrs. Bangs, with assumed dignity. "An
outrage, and you shall pay dearly for it, Mr. Bartlett. My husband is
no thief, to steal your papers."
"Perhaps not," answered Philip Bartlett. "Nevertheless, I am going to
have his safe searched and also this house."
"Well, since you have the law on your side, go ahead. But you shall
answer to my husband for this indignity."
The constable began his work, and the safe opener approached the strong
box and inspected it.
"Can you open it?" asked Mr. Bartlett, anxiously.
"With ease," was the answer. "This is one of the old-style safes."
"How much will it cost?"
"Ten dollars."
"Then go ahead."
The safe opener was soon at work. He turned the knob around slowly,
listening intently in the meanwhile. He worked thus for perhaps ten
minutes, when the door to the safe came open without an effort.
Mrs. Bangs was disappointed. She had expected that the safe would have
to be blown open in the most approved burglar fashion, and was
wondering what bill for damages she could render.
"You must have known the combination," she said, tartly, to the safe
opener.
"This is my business," was the quiet answer.
The constable, with Mr. Bartlett's aid, went through all the papers in
the safe. Of course the all-important documents were not found.
"Well?" asked the lawyer, after a long wait.
"They are not here," replied Mr. Bartlett. He felt sick at heart over
his failure to bring the papers to light.
"Not here!"
"No, they must have been removed."
The library was searched, and then a look was taken through the whole
house. Mrs. Bangs followed the men everywhere.
"You shall suffer for this outrage," she said to Mr. Bartlett several
times.
"I presume I shall have to stand for what I have done," he answered,
meekly. "Of one thing I am certain, Mrs. Bangs. Your husband has those
papers, or else he has destroyed them."
"You can say what you please, Mr. Bangs is an honest man and a
gentleman," retorted the fashionable woman.
At last there was nothing left to do but to leave the mansion, which
Mr. Bartlett did with reluctance.
"I am afraid I have made a mess of it," he said to his lawyer. "I was
certain we would find those papers."
"I am afraid you have hurt your case, Mr. Bartlett," answered the legal
light, bluntly. "Bangs will now be on his guard and will take good care
to keep those papers away from you."
"Perhaps he has destroyed them."
"That is not unlikely, since it would do him small good to keep them."
"What do you advise me to do next?"
"You had better wait and see what develops," said the lawyer.
The safe opener and the constable were paid off and Philip Bartlett
returned to Albany in anything but a happy frame of mind. A day or two
later he called upon Randy, when the steamboat tied up at the dock for
the night.
"My fat is in the fire," he said to our hero, and told of his failure
to locate the missing documents.
"Mr. Bartlett, I am sure Mr. Bangs said the papers were in his safe!"
cried Randy. "He must have taken them out when he returned home."
"You can be a witness if the matter is brought into court?"
"Of course. I remember very well all I heard."
"Well, that is something," answered Philip Bartlett, hopefully.
He went home and the next day received a strong letter from Amos Bangs
denouncing him for the action he had taken. Part of the letter ran as
follows:
    "I should sue you for damages, only I do not wish to drag you into
    court on account of your wife and family. In the future you need
    expect no favors from me. I am done with you. If you want to sell
    your stock in the iron company I will give you the market price,
    not a cent more. Remember, I shall be on my guard against you in
    the future, and if you dare to molest me again you shall take the
    consequences."
"He will do what he can to ruin us," said Mrs. Bartlett when her
husband read the letter to her.
"I suppose so."
"What is the market price of the stock?"
"It has no regular market value now. Bangs will buy it for about ten
cents on the dollar."
"Oh, Philip, that is so little!"
"I'll not sell the stock," said Mr. Bartlett. "I'd rather lose every
cent than play into Amos Bangs's hands!"
CHAPTER XXV
A VICTORY FOR RANDY
One day Randy was out in Albany buying a new pair of shoes when he met
Rose Clare, who was also doing some shopping for her mother.
"Oh, Randy, how do you do!" cried the girl, running up and shaking
hands.
"Very well, Rose," he answered. "You look well."
"Oh, I am feeling splendid."
"It did you good to get out of New York."
"Indeed it did, and mamma is ever so much better too."
"I am glad to hear that. Do you like it at Captain Hadley's home?"
"Yes, mamma and Mrs. Hadley have become great friends."
"Do you go to school?"
"Yes. And, oh, I 'most forgot to tell you. I got a letter from New York
to-day. It was from another girl, one who lived in the house with us.
She says Bill Hosker has come back to that neighborhood."
"To stay?"
"She says he is around every night."
"Then I am going to hunt him up."
"Oh, Randy, please don't get into any more trouble," pleaded Rose.
"He has got to give back my money, or take the consequences."
"You know what a ruffian he is!"
"I will be on my guard this time, Rose, and maybe I'll take a friend
along," added our hero.
When he returned to the steamboat he told Jones about what he had
heard. Jones was now feeling very well once again, and he readily
volunteered to go with Randy and hunt up Hosker as soon as the boat got
to the metropolis. Then Pat Malloy got wind of what was up and said he
would go too.
"It's no use of going to the police wid such a mather," said the head
deckhand. "We'll bring the rascal to terms ourselves."
It was a clear, cool night when the landing was made at New York. The
deckhands hurried through their labors and then made off for the
neighborhood where Randy had been attacked.
"Here is the spot where I was first robbed," said our hero, and pointed
it out.
They walked around the neighborhood for nearly an hour, and were
growing somewhat disheartened when Randy gave a cry:
"There he is!"
"You are sure?" asked Jones.
"Yes."
"Let me speak to him first. Then we'll know there ain't no mistake,"
went on Jones.
Randy was willing and he and Malloy dropped behind.
Bill Hosker had just come out of a saloon and was wiping off his mouth
with the back of his hand. He turned down a side street.
"Hullo there, Bill Hosker!" cried Jones, pleasantly.
The bully and thief swung around on his heel and looked at the deckhand
in perplexity.
"Who are you?" he asked, roughly.
"Am I right? Is this Bill Hosker?"
"Dat's my handle."
"Then you are the man I want to see," said Jones and beckoned for the
others to come up.
When the street ruffian saw Randy his face changed color and he wanted
to run away, but Jones grabbed him and so did Malloy. As both were
powerful men, Hosker was as a kitten in their grasp.
"Youse fellers let me go!"
"I want you to give up the money you took from me," said Randy.
"I don't know you, young feller!"
"Yes, you do. Will you give up the money or not?"
"I ain't got no cash."
"Then you'll come to the station house with me."
"I bet yer I won't!" cried Bill Hosker.
He started to struggle when Jones hauled off and slapped him hard on
the right ear.
"Now be good, or I'll shove a few of your teeth down your throat," said
the deckhand. "This ain't no foolin' affair. Give up the boy's money
and be quick about it. If you don't give up I'll maul you so your own
mother won't know you!"
Bill Hosker was thoroughly alarmed. He did not mind going to the
station house but he did mind a good drubbing, and he saw that those
who held him were in no mood to be trifled with.
"Say, let us straighten dis t'ing out," said he at length.
"I want my money," answered Randy.
"Will yer drop de matter if I cough up de cash?"
"Yes."
"All right den. How much was it?"
"Four dollars and eighty cents."
The street ruffian pulled a small roll of bills from his pocket.
"Dare you are," he said, as he passed over five dollars. "Youse kin
keep de change."
Randy took the bills and stowed them away in his pocket.
"I'll give the change to some poor person," he said. "I want only what
is coming to me."
"Are ye done wid de rascal?" asked Malloy.
"Yes."
"Well, I'm not," answered the head deckhand.
"And neither am I," added Jones.
And then both hauled off and let Bill Hosker have it, right and left.
The street ruffian had one eye blackened and a tooth knocked out, and
went down in a heap more than dazed.
"Let that teach you a lesson," said Jones.
"It's better nor a month in jug," was Pat Malloy's comment. "The state
won't have to feed the blackguard."
Randy had already walked on and his friends joined him, and all hurried
back to the steamboat.
It was several minutes before Bill Hosker got up. "I'd like ter kill
dem fellers!" he muttered.
He hurried for the nearest saloon, where he tried to drown his troubles
in drink. In the saloon were several who knew him, and one man jeered
him because of the black eye. This brought on another quarrel, and as a
consequence both men were pushed out of the drinking resort. They
continued to fight on the sidewalk, until a policeman came along and
tried to stop them. Then Hosker attacked the officer, and as a
consequence was placed under arrest. The next day he was brought up in
court and sentenced to a year in prison for his misdeeds.
"I don't think he'll forget us," said Jones, as the steamboat was
reached.
"Maybe he will lay for us," said Randy.
"Well, we can kape our eyes open," put in Pat Malloy.
"I shall not visit that neighborhood again," said our hero. "Now I have
my money back I am satisfied."
"New York has altogether too many such toughs," put in Jones. "The
police ought to clean them all out. When I first came here I was
attacked in my boarding place on the Bowery."
"Were you robbed?"
"The fellow tried to rob me, but he didn't succeed. I played a neat
trick on him."
"What did you do?"
"I had a roll of bills and these I placed in an inside pocket. I also
had an imitation bank-bill--one of these advertisements you often see.
Well, I took a small roll of paper and put the imitation bill around
it, and put the roll in my vest pocket. The would-be thief got the roll
and ran off with it."
"He must have been angry when he saw how he had been duped," laughed
Randy.
"I didn't see that fellow again for nearly six months. Then I met him
on the steamboat where I was working. When he saw me he sneaked out of
sight in a hurry, I can tell you."
"Did you follow him up?"
"I tried to, but I didn't see him again until we were making a landing.
Then I tried to grab him, but he slipped me in a crowd and went ashore
as fast as his legs could carry him," concluded the deckhand.
CHAPTER XXVI
NEW TROUBLES
On the following day Randy noticed that Peter Polk seemed unusually
sour and thoughtful.
"Something has gone wrong with him, that is certain," thought our hero.
"I wonder what it can be?"
He did his best to keep out of the way of the purser and succeeded
until nightfall. But then, when he was carrying an extra heavy trunk,
Peter Polk got in his way and made him stumble and drop the piece of
baggage. The trunk was split open at one end and some of the contents
fell on the deck. It was a lady's trunk, filled with feminine wearing
apparel, and a good many passengers laughed.
"What do you mean by running into me, you blockhead!" cried the purser,
in a loud voice. "Why don't you look where you are going!"
"It was not my fault," answered Randy, warmly, not liking the man's
manner of address. "You made me drop that trunk."
"I did not. It was your own clumsiness."
"No, sir," said our hero, firmly; and a crowd began to collect.
"Don't dare to contradict me!" fumed the purser. "It was your fault,
and the damage shall come out of your wages."
"Mr. Polk, it was not my fault and I shall not stand for the damage
done."
"Ha! you defy me, eh, you cub! Go on about your work and I'll settle
with you later."
"What is the trouble here?" asked Captain Hadley, coming up through the
crowd.
"The blockhead of a boy dropped that trunk and broke it open."
"He ran into me and made me drop it," retorted our hero. He felt just
reckless enough to stand up for his rights, be the consequences what
they might.
"Put the trunk to one side, along with the other baggage," said the
captain. "We have no time to waste on this just now. Get that other
baggage ashore."
"My trunk!" shrieked the maiden lady, rushing forward. "Oh, who broke
my trunk?"
"It was an accident, madam."
"And all my dresses spilt out, too! I shall sue the steamboat company
for damages."
"We will settle with you, madam. I am sorry it happened," went on the
captain, soothingly.
"It was a mean thing to do," said the maiden lady and began to weep.
"Two of those dresses are brand-new."
"I guess they are not injured much."
Randy and the others had gone to work again. Our hero's thoughts were
busy.
"I believe Polk ran into me on purpose," he whispered to Jones.
"Maybe he wants to get you discharged," answered the other deckhand.
"I don't see why."
"He's down on you because of that Clare affair."
"Do you think so?"
"Sure. He hated it worse than poison, for the captain now knows just
how meanly he acted towards the widow."
The damaged trunk was passed over to a man on the dock and after some
excited talk the maiden lady accepted ten dollars, with which to have
the box repaired and her things put in proper order. It was more than
was actually coming to her and she went off secretly pleased.
In the meantime one of the passengers, an elderly man who traveled on
the line a great deal, went to Captain Hadley.
"What is it, Mr. DeLong?" asked the master of the vessel, kindly.
"I wish to speak to you about that trunk that was broken open."
"What of it?"
"I saw the accident. I was standing quite near at the time."
"Well?"
"I take an interest in that young deckhand of yours--he has done me
several small favors from time to time. It was not his fault that the
trunk was smashed, and I wanted you to know it."
"How did it happen?"
"Your purser got in the way and made the boy stumble. To me it looked
as if the purser did it on purpose."
"This is interesting, Mr. DeLong. But I don't see why the purser should
do such a thing."
"Neither do I, excepting he may have a grudge against the boy."
"Humph!" The captain grew thoughtful. "I will investigate this."
"Do so, and believe me, the boy is not to blame," said the elderly
passenger, and withdrew.
As soon as the end of the trip came, and the work on deck was finished,
Randy was called to the captain's office.
"Now what have you to say about that smashed trunk, Thompson?"
"I am not to blame, Captain Hadley," answered our hero, and told
exactly how the incident had occurred.
"Do you mean to say Mr. Polk tripped you up?"
"He ran into me and made me drop the trunk. If I hadn't dropped the
trunk I would have fallen down with the box on the top of me, and
gotten hurt."
"This is a strange statement, Thompson. Why should Mr. Polk run into
you?"
"He hates me, because through me your family learned how he had treated
Mrs. Clare when he helped to settle her husband's affairs."
This threw a new light on the matter and the captain nodded slowly and
thoughtfully.
"I did not think this of Mr. Polk."
"I think he hopes I'll lose my job," went on our hero. "He continually
calls me a blockhead, just to get me mad. I think he'd like to see me
lose my temper and pitch into him, and then he could get me my walking
papers."
"I think I will have to put the damage to the trunk down to the regular
expense account," said the captain at last. "In the future be more
careful, and keep out of Mr. Polk's way."
"I will certainly be careful, and I'll watch him, too," answered Randy.
Evidently Peter Polk was surprised to see our hero go to his work
whistling after his interview with the captain. He went to the master
of the vessel himself a little later.
"Is that boy going to pay for the trunk?" he asked, sourly.
"No, you can put it down to the regular expense account," answered
Captain Hadley.
"Humph! It was his fault."
"He says not."
"Did he blame it on me?"
"He did."
"It was his own fault."
"We won't argue the matter, Mr. Polk. Put it down to the regular
expenses and let it go at that," and Captain Hadley turned again to the
magazine he had been reading.
"Sticking up for the boy," muttered the purser, as he walked away.
"Well, I'll get that cub yet, see if I don't!"
A day passed and Randy stuck closely to his duties. He saw but little
of Peter Polk and gave the purser a wide berth. The purser watched the
youth narrowly, but said nothing.
"He has got it in for you," said Jones to Randy. "Take my advice and
keep your eyes open."
"I am watching him."
"He is a man I shouldn't trust nohow. He has got a bad pair of eyes. I
don't see how Mr. Shalley trusts him with all the boat's money
matters."
"Neither do I," answered our hero.
"He could walk off with thousands of dollars if he wanted to," said
Jones, and there the talk was dropped.
CHAPTER XXVII
RANDY MAKES A DISCOVERY
The next day Randy wanted to change some of his underwear and went into
his locker for his things. To his surprise he found in the locker a lot
of wearing apparel that did not belong to him.
"Hullo, what does this mean?" he asked himself but could not answer the
question.
He looked the articles over and made sure they did not belong to any of
the other deckhands. Then as he was folding up an extra-fine outing
shirt, he saw a letter drop to the floor. He picked it up and saw that
it was addressed to Peter Polk.
"Can these things belong to Polk?" he asked himself. "If so, how did
they get here?"
Curiosity prompted him to look into the envelope in his hand. Inside
was a single sheet of paper on which was scrawled in a bold, heavy hand
this brief communication:
    "Peter Polk: If you don't pay me that commission of twenty dollars
    at once, I will go to old man Shalley and let him know how you are
    boosting up the expense account.
    G. A. G."
Randy read the letter with great interest. It was postmarked New York
and the date was four days back.
"There is some mystery here," he reasoned. "What can it mean? Can Mr.
Polk be cheating Mr. Shalley in some way?"
Then he remembered how the purser purchased all the supplies for the
steamboat and paid the bills, and gave a low whistle.
"I must see Captain Hadley about this, and at once," he thought. "But
no, maybe it would be better to go and see Mr. Shalley direct."
He placed the letter in a safe place and then went out on deck. He had
just started to look for Captain Hadley,--to tell him about the strange
wearing apparel--when Peter Polk rushed up to him.
"Look here, Thompson, I want you!" shouted the purser, wrathfully.
"What is it, Mr. Polk?"
"I've got you, you young thief!"
"I am no thief," answered our hero, warmly.
"You are!"
"Who says Randy is a thafe?" demanded Pat Malloy.
"I do."
"And I say it is false."
"He has stolen some of my underwear," went on the purser. "Tell me what
you have done with the stuff at once!"
"Your stuff is in my locker, Mr. Polk, but I did not take it."
"Ha! what a yarn to tell. Hand the stuff over at once!"
"You can get it if you wish," answered Randy, with a shrug of his
shoulders.
"I will. Malloy, come along as a witness," answered the purser.
He walked to the compartment where the deckhands slept and from our
hero's locker hauled the articles that belonged to him.
"What do you say to that?" he cried, turning to our hero.
"I did not put the things there, Mr. Polk."
"If you didn't, who did?" sneered the purser.
"Perhaps you did yourself."
"Me!"
"Yes."
"You are crazy, boy! Why should I do such a thing?"
"To get me into trouble. You hate me and want to injure me, that's
why."
"Nonsense. You stole these things, it is useless for you to deny it."
"But I do deny it. I am no more a thief than you are--maybe not as much
of a one," added Randy, significantly.
At these words the purser turned pale for a moment. But he quickly
recovered.
"I shall report this to the captain."
"I'll report too."
"I'll have you discharged."
"We'll see about that."
Taking his things, Peter Polk went to the captain's office and told his
story. Captain Hadley at once sent for Randy.
"This is a queer happening, Thompson," he said.
"Captain Hadley, I am not guilty," answered Randy. "It is only another
plot of Mr. Polk to get me into trouble."
"And you think he put the things there himself?"
"I certainly do. I wish you would give me a day off," went on our hero,
after an awkward pause.
"What for?"
"I wish to see Mr. Shalley."
"He is in New York, on business."
"So much the better. I can call on him there, after we tie up."
"Do you want to take this matter to him?"
"Not this alone. I have something else of importance. I know he will
want to see me."
"Well, you can go. I hope you are not going to run away," and the
captain smiled faintly.
"I have nothing to run away for, sir. Mr. Polk is down on me and I am
going to do what I can to show him up, that is all. But please don't
let him know that I am going to see Mr. Shalley."
"You have learned something important?"
"Yes, sir."
"About the purser?"
"Yes, sir. But I can't speak of it just yet to you."
"Well, what about this clothing affair?"
"Won't you let it rest for a few days?"
"If you wish," answered Captain Hadley, and then he was called away to
attend to some important duties.
Although Randy did not know it, Peter Polk was nearby and caught a good
bit of the talk between our hero and the captain. His face grew deathly
pale when he learned that Randy was going to see Mr. Shalley and about
his own personal doings.
"What has that cub discovered now?" he asked himself. "What can he tell
about my doings?"
He was so worried he could not attend to his work. He turned the matter
over in his mind and suddenly remembered the threatening letter he had
received. He had paid the claim, but what had he done with the
communication? He searched everywhere for it, but without avail.
"Fool that I was, that I did not tear it up and throw it overboard," he
muttered to himself. "If that boy has the letter it may lead to an
investigation, and then----" He did not finish but clenched his hands
in rage and fear.
He watched Randy narrowly, and after New York was reached saw our hero
make preparations to go ashore. He did not know that Mr. Shalley was in
the metropolis and could not comprehend Randy's move.
"Are you going ashore?" he asked of our hero, when he got the chance.
"I am."
"Where are you going?"
"Excuse me, Mr. Polk, but that is my private business."
"Did Captain Hadley say you could go?"
"He did."
"Well, come to my office a minute, I want to talk to you," went on the
purser, in a lower tone.
"Very well," answered Randy, and followed the man to the office, which
at this time was deserted.
"Thompson, I want to know what you found in your locker besides my
clothing," said the purser, after he had made certain that no outsiders
were around.
"I found a cigar holder and a match safe."
"And what else?"
"I must decline to answer that question."
At this blunt refusal the brow of the purser darkened.
"You won't tell me?"
"No."
"Did you find a--er--a letter?"
"Perhaps I did."
"I want you to give it up."
"I didn't say I found it."
"But you did find it. It is my property and you must give it to me."
To this Randy was silent.
"Do you hear me?"
"I am not deaf, Mr. Polk."
"I know what you want to do!" hissed the purser. "You want to get me
into trouble. But I'll not let you do it."
"Maybe you'll get yourself into trouble."
"Bah! I am not afraid of a boy, but----" He paused and his manner
changed. "See here, Thompson, you are a poor boy, aren't you?"
"I admit it."
"Well, some extra money will come in handy, won't it?"
"What do you mean, Mr. Polk?"
"I'll give you--er--five dollars for that letter."
"I haven't said that I had it yet."
"But I know you have it. Come, what do you say?"
"I say, I am going about my business," answered Randy, and started for
the doorway.
"Not yet!" cried the purser, wrathfully, and flung him back into a
corner. "You'll settle with me first, even if I have to call a police
officer!"
CHAPTER XXVIII
OUT OF A TIGHT CORNER
Randy was surprised and dazed by the treatment he received at the hands
of the enraged purser and for the moment knew not what to do. He rose
slowly to his feet.
"Don't you do that again!" he cried, a dangerous glitter coming into
his eyes.
"I will do it--unless you give up that letter."
"You shall never have the letter, Peter Polk."
"Ha! so you admit at last that you have it!"
"I do."
"Then hand it over or I will call an officer and have you locked up."
"Call the officer, if you dare," and our hero shrugged his shoulders.
"You stole more than the clothing and the letter," went on the purser,
craftily. "You took fifty dollars in money."
"I took absolutely nothing, and you know it."
"Then you want me to call in the officer?"
"Do as you please," said Randy, recklessly.
Peter Polk was nonplused. He did not want to call an officer. Yet he
wanted to get the precious letter.
"You will save yourself a lot of trouble by giving up that letter,
Thompson," he said, in a more subdued tone.
"Well, I don't intend to give it up."
"If I have you arrested I can send you to state's prison for five or
ten years."
"I will risk it."
"What do you intend to do with that letter?" said the purser.
"That is my affair."
"Going to Mr. Shalley, eh?"
"Perhaps."
"It won't do you any good."
Again Randy was silent. He had stepped close to the door. On the
instant Peter Polk did the same.
"You are not going just yet," cried the purser, meaningly.
Randy looked through the little window of the office. He heard
footsteps approaching.
"Hullo there, Jones!" he called out.
"What's wanted?" came from the other deckhand.
"Come to the office, please."
In a moment Jones appeared. He was carrying a bucket of water and a
deck swab.
"Now open that door," said Randy to Peter Polk. "No more nonsense,
please."
"You are not wanted here, Jones!" cried the purser, angrily.
"You are wanted," said Randy. "Open the door. I want to get out."
Jones set down his pail and pulled on the door. Seeing resistance would
be useless, Peter Polk allowed the door to come open. At once Randy
stepped out into the gangway.
"I'll explain this to you some other time!" he called to the other
deckhand, and then ran off before Peter Polk could stop him.
"Where are ye goin'?" called out Malloy, as he crossed the gang-plank.
"I'm off on business," answered our hero, and then paused for a moment.
"Tell Jones to keep an eye on Mr. Polk, will you, please? It is very
important."
"I will," was the reply.
In a minute more Randy was hurrying up the street. He knew where Andrew
Shalley was stopping and took a car to the location.
The place was a well-known hotel and in the corridor he met the
steamboat owner, just ready to go out.
"Oh, Mr. Shalley, I want to see you!" he cried.
"What is it, Randy?"
"It's quite a story and very important."
"Then come to my room," and the steamboat owner led the way to the
elevator.
As soon as they were in the room our hero told his story in all of its
details and then produced the letter he had found. Andrew Shalley
listened closely to the story and pondered over the letter for some
time.
"Randy, have you any idea who this person who signs himself G. A. G.
can be?"
"I've been thinking that over, Mr. Shalley, and I have found out that
there is a head clerk who works for Bann & Shadow, the wholesale
grocers, whose name is George A. Gaffney. Gaffney used to come and see
Polk once in a while."
"And we buy a great many things from Bann & Shadow," put in the
steamboat owner.
"So we do."
"I will look this man Gaffney up at once."
With the steamboat owner to think was to act, and going below with our
hero he consulted a directory and found that George A. Gaffney lived on
West Twenty-sixth Street.
"I will call upon this fellow," said he. "You can go along."
They took a car on one of the avenues and got out at the corner of
Twenty-sixth Street. They had to walk half a block. The neighborhood
was not of the best, and Gaffney's residence proved to be a four-story
apartment house. The man lived on the top floor with his wife and four
small children.
George Gaffney was at home, sitting in his shirt sleeves by a front
window, smoking a pipe. He was surprised to receive visitors at that
hour.
"Is this Mr. George A. Gaffney?" questioned Andrew Shalley.
"That's my name."
"Are you a clerk for Bann & Shadow, the wholesale grocers?"
"I am."
"I would like to see you privately, Mr. Gaffney."
"Who are you?"
"I am Andrew Shalley, the owner of the steamboat Helen Shalley."
"Oh!"
George Gaffney was taken aback and showed it plainly. His wife had come
to a back doorway and was looking at the visitors curiously.
"Step in, sir," said the clerk, in a husky voice. "Mary, I will see
this gentleman alone," he went on to his wife, who at once retired,
closing the door after her.
Andrew Shalley was a good judge of character and he saw that George
Gaffney was a family man of fairly good qualities. He was extremely
nervous.
"I think I can get him to confess easily enough--if he has anything to
tell," thought the steamboat owner.
"Please be seated," said the clerk, and Mr. Shalley and Randy sat down.
Then there was a slight pause.
"Mr. Gaffney, I am afraid I have an unpleasant duty to perform," began
Andrew Shalley, in a cold, hard voice.
"Why--er--what do you mean?" stammered the clerk.
"I refer to your dealings with my purser, Peter Polk."
"I--er--I haven't had anything to do with him--that is--we had some
little business, but----" The clerk was unable to go on.
"You sent him a threatening letter the other day."
"Me? Who says so?"
"I have the letter in my possession."
The clerk winced and the steamboat owner saw that the shot struck home.
"This affair is a very serious one--you know that as well as I do,"
continued Andrew Shalley. "The fact of the matter is, it is a state's
prison offense."
The mention of prison had the desired effect. George Gaffney broke down
completely.
"Oh, sir,--I--I didn't mean to do any wrong--Polk said it would be all
right. He got me to go into it--it was all his doings. All I ever got
out of it was thirty-five dollars and that I will pay back. Mr.
Shalley, I--er--I hope you won't prosecute me, for the sake of my wife
and children!" And the clerk wrung his hands in despair.
"Didn't you get any more than thirty-five dollars?"
"No, sir, not a cent more, I swear it. And Polk said that was due to me
legally."
"If that is true, I will not prosecute you,--but on one condition."
"Name it."
"That you tell me everything you know about Peter Polk's doings."
"I will do it, Mr. Shalley."
CHAPTER XXIX
GEORGE GAFFNEY'S STATEMENT
"I cannot tell you all Peter Polk has done," said George Gaffney, on
beginning his story, "but I can tell you all so far as it concerns his
purchase of goods from Bann & Shadow."
"That will be enough," answered Andrew Shalley, and brought out a book
and a pencil, to take notes.
"He came to our firm three years ago and began to purchase various
goods for the Helen Shalley. At first he met all bills promptly and
never asked for any rebate or commission. That lasted for about three
months."
"He must have been feeling his way."
"He was. At the end of six months he made a claim of a rebate on a bill
for a hundred and fifty dollars and we allowed him ten dollars. Then he
got ten dollars more on another bill, and after that he claimed a
rebate of ten per cent. on everything he bought of us."
"You have all those bills on your books?"
"We have."
"Good. Go on."
"He gradually got bolder and wanted me to aid him in getting a
commission elsewhere on regular steamboat supplies. I was willing to
make a little extra money and introduced him to the firm of Leeson &
Bronette. Leeson is an easy-going man and he promised Polk a big
commission on all goods purchased. Polk bought hundreds of dollars'
worth of goods from them, and got, I am pretty sure, from fifteen to
twenty per cent. on every bill paid."
"Oh, what a rascal!" murmured Randy.
"Then I introduced him to another man, Aaron Denman, and he got goods
from that man too and got his commission--how much I do not know. For
introducing him to Denman I was promised that commission of twenty
dollars. I saw Polk was making money hand over fist, and when he did
not pay me I got mad and wrote the letter."
"And you are sure you never got a cent more out of him than thirty-five
dollars?"
"Not a cent. Once in a while he treated me to a dinner and twice he
sent me a box of cigars, and that is all. To tell the honest truth, I
did not press him very hard, for I did not believe in what he was
doing. I want to be an honest man, and I was led into this thing almost
before I knew it," continued George Gaffney.
After that he went into a great many more details, to which Andrew
Shalley and Randy listened with interest.
"I can get the actual figures for you from our books," said the clerk.
"What does your firm say to this?" asked the steamboat owner.
"Oh, they wanted the business, so they simply shut their eyes and
didn't say anything."
"But that was dishonest."
"True--but such things are done every day," and the clerk shrugged his
shoulders.
"If Peter Polk has been getting ten to fifteen per cent. on all goods
he has been buying for me he has robbed me of thousands of dollars,"
said Andrew Shalley.
"It will be a hard matter to prove some of the transactions, Mr.
Shalley. I guess he knew how to cover up his footprints pretty well."
"Well, if I can only prove some of them it will be enough for my
purpose," answered the steamboat owner.
Before he left that night he drew up a long document containing the
main facts of the case, and had George Gaffney sign it and had Randy
put his name down as a witness.
"What do you want me to do, Mr. Shalley?" asked our hero, after they
had left the clerk's house.
"You can go back to the steamboat. I am going to hire a first-class
private detective to investigate this matter thoroughly. When I expose
Polk I want all the evidence on hand with which to convict him."
"He will want to know what I did."
"That is true." Andrew Shalley mused for a moment. "Randy, you mind
your own business," he said suddenly and sharply. Then he began to
chuckle. "Now you can go back and tell Polk that I told you to mind
your own business."
"I will, sir," and our hero grinned broadly.
"I will also give you a line to Captain Hadley," pursued the steamboat
owner. "That will help to keep you out of further trouble."
The letter was penned, and a few minutes later our hero was on his way
back to the boat. Andrew Shalley went in another direction, to hunt up
a detective to work on the case.
It must be confessed that Randy felt much lighter in heart. He now knew
exactly what kind of a rascal Peter Polk was, and felt that the purser
could no longer drag him into trouble.
"He will soon come to the end of his rope, and that will be the last of
him," said our hero to himself.
When he arrived at the boat it was very late and everybody but the
watchman had gone to bed. He turned in without awakening any of the
others and slept soundly until morning.
Much to his surprise Peter Polk did not come near him that morning, and
our hero was kept so busy at one thing and another that he had little
time to think about the purser and his nefarious doings. As soon as he
got the chance he delivered the letter Mr. Shalley had given him to
Captain Hadley.
The captain read the communication in silence. Then he uttered a low
whistle and looked at Randy thoughtfully.
"I've been suspecting this," he said. "Randy, I believe you are to keep
