but it was a jealousy without hatred, and his kind 
earnest often humorous eyes were always assuring his lady of an imperishable desire to serve 
her without reward. Of course Concha treated 
him with as little consideration as so humble a 
swain deserved; but in her heart she liked him 
better than either Castro or Sal, for he talked 
to her of something besides rodeos and balls, 
racing and cock-fights ; he had taught her English 
and lent her many books. Moreover, he neither 
sighed nor languished, nor ever had sung at her 
grating. But she regarded him merely as an 
intelligence, a well of refreshment in her stagnant 
life, never as a man. 
" Eosa,'' she said as she caught her hair into 
a high golden comb that had been worn in Spain 
by many a beauty of the house of Moraga, and 
spiked the knot with two long pins globed at the 
end with gold, while the maid fastened her slippers and smoothed the pink silk stockings over 
the arched thin instep above; " what is a lover 
like? Is it like meeting one of the saints of 
heaven? " 
" No, seniorita." 
'' Like what, then I '' 
" Like — like nothing but himself, sehorita. 
You would not have him otherwise."
" Oh, stupid one! Hast thou no imagination? 
Fancy any man being well enough as he is ! For 
instance, there is Don Antonio, who is so handsome and fiery, and Don Ignacio, who can sing 
and dance and ride as no one else in all the Californias, and Don Weeliam Sturgis, who is very 
clever and true. If I could roll them into one — 
a tamale of corn and chicken and peppers — there 
would be a man almost to my liking. But even 
then — not quite. And one man — what nonsense! 
I have too much color to-night, Eosa. ' ' 
" No, senorita, you have never been so beautiful. When the lover comes and you love him, 
sehorita, you will think him greater than our natural king and lord, and all other men poor Indians. ' ' 
'' But how shall I know? '' 
" Your heart win tell you, senorita." 
 
" My heart! My father and my mother will 
choose for me a husband whom I shall love as all 
other women love their husbands — just enough 
and no more. Then — I suppose — I shall never 
know? '' 
'' Would you marry at your parents' bidding, 
like a child, sehorita I I do not think you would. ' ' 
Concha looked at the girl in astonishment, but 
with a greater astonishment she suddenly 
realized that she would not. Even her little fingers stiffened in a rush of personality, of passionate resentment against the shackles bound by the 
ages about the feminine ego. Her individuality, 
long budding, burst into flower; her eyes gazed 
far beyond her radiant image in the mirror with 
a look of terrified but dauntless insight; then 
moved slowly to the girl that sat weeping on the 
floor. 
'' I know not what thy sin was,'' she said 
musingly. " But I have heard it said thou didst 
obey no law but thine own will — and his. Why 
should the punishment have been so terrible! 
Thou hast sworn to me thou didst not help to 
murder the woman." 
" I cannot tell you, seniorita. You will never 
know anything of sin; but of love — yes, I think 
you will know that, and before very long." 
 
" Before long? " Concha's lips parted and the 
nervous color she had deprecated left her cheeks. 
" What meanest thou, Rosa! '' Her voice rose 
hoarsely. 
And the Indian, with the insight of her own 
tragedy, replied: " The Eussian has come for 
you, senorita. You will go with him, far away to 
the north and the snow. These others never could 
win your heart; but this man who looks like a 
king, and as if many women had loved him, and 
he had cared little — Oh, senorita, Carlos was only 
a poor Indian, but the men that women love all 
have something that makes them brothers — the 
great Russian and the poor man who goes mad 
for a moment and kills one woman that he may 
live with another for ever. The great Russian is 
free, but he is the same, senorita — he too could 
kill for love, and such are the men we women die 
for! '' 
Concha, ambitious and romantic, eager for the 
brilliant life the advent of this Russian nobleman 
seemed to herald, had assured Santiago that he 
would love her; but they had been the empty 
words of the Favorita of many conquests; 
of love and passion she had known, suspected, 
nothing. As she watched Rosa, huddled and con- 
Tulsed, little pointed arrows flew into her brain. 
Girls in those old Spanish days went to the altar 
with a serene faith in miracles, and it was a 
matter of honor among those that preceded their 
friends to abet the parents in a custom which 
assuredly did not err on the side of ugliness. 
Concha had a larger vocabulary than other Cali- 
fornians of her sex, for she had read many books, 
and if never a novel, she knew something of 
poetry. Sturgis had filled the sala with the sonorous roll of his favorite masters and it had 
pleased her ear; but the language of passion had 
been so many beautiful words, neither vibrating 
nor lingering in her consciousness. But the rude 
expression of the miserable woman at her feet, 
whose sobs grew more uncontrollable every moment, made it for ever impossible that she should 
prattle again as she had to Santiago and Eezanov 
in the last day and night; and although she felt 
as if. straining her eyes in the dark, her cheeks 
burned once more, and she rose uneasily and 
ivalked to the window. 
She returned in a moment and stood over Eosa, 
but her voice when she spoke had lost its hoarseness and was cold and irritated. 
" Control thyself," she said. " And go and 
bathe thine eyes. Wouldst look like a tomato when 
it is time to pass the dulces and wines I And 
think no more of thy lover until he can come out 
of prison and marry thee,' She drew herself 
away as the woman attempted to clutch her skirts. 
" Go,' she said. " The musicians are tuning." 
IX 
" The sash, Excellency! '' Jon longed to see 
his master in full regalia once more, and after 
all, was not this an embassy of a sort? But 
Eezanov, who already regarded his reflection 
with some humor, shook his head. 
" I'll go as far as decency permits, for no one 
is so impressed by external magnificence as the 
Spaniard. But full dress uniform and orders are 
enough; an ambassador's sash and they might 
suspect I took them for the children they are. 
Children are not always fools. My stock is too 
tight. Eemember that I am to dance, and am too 
tall for most women's pretty little ears. And I 
doubt if an ear is less thirsty for being so provocatively screened." 
Jon, a '' prince '' whose family had fallen upon 
evil days long since, but whose thin clever fingers 
were no mean inheritance, unwound and read- 
justed the folds of soft batiste, that most becoming neck vesture man has ever worn. He 
would fain have pressed the matter of the 
sash, but Eezanov, most indulgent of masters 
 
to this devoted servant, was never patient of insistence. Jon also regretted the powdered wig 
and qneue, which he privately thought more befitting a fine gentleman than his own hair, even 
though the latter were thick and bright. He said 
tentatively : 
" I notice these Calif ornians still wear the hair 
long; and with their gay ribbons and showy hats 
look much better no doubt than if they followed 
a fashion of which it would seem they had not 
heard — and perhaps do not admire. I ventured 
to pack two of your excellency's wigs when we 
were leaving St. Petersburg '' 
" Good heavens, no ! " cried Eezanov, rising to 
his feet and casting a last impatient glance at the 
mirror. '' When a man has escaped from a furnace does he run back of his own accord? My 
brain would cook under a wig in this climate, and 
I need all my wits — for more reasons than one." 
And he went up on deck. 
There, while awaiting his horses and escort 
he had another glimpse of the happy Arcadian 
life of the Californians. Over the sand hills 
through which he had floundered twice that day 
rode young men in gala attire, a maiden, as colorous as the sunset along the western summits, on 
the saddle before them. These saddles were heavy 
with silver, the blanket beneath was embroidered 
with both silver and gold. Gay light laughter 
floated out on the cool evening breeze to the little 
ship in the harbor. 
" It has been a good day," thought Rezanov, 
lowering his glass. " It is like her to arrange so 
charming a finale." 
"When he arrived at the Presidio the guitars 
were tinkling and the sala was full of eager and 
sombre faces. The Californians had come early, 
determined to witness the arrival of the Eussians. 
Very pretty most of the girls were, and by no 
means a bevy of brunettes. There was hair of 
every shade of brown, looped over the ears, drawn 
high and confined by the high comb and the long 
pins; and Eafaella Sal, with her red hair and 
gray eyes, was still celebrated as a beauty, although no longer in her first youth — she was 
twenty-two, and should have been a matron and 
mother long since! But she looked very handsome and coquettish in her daring yellow frock 
that no other red head would have dared to wear, 
and she displayed three ropes of Baja California 
pearls, one strand being the common possession. 
The matrons, young and old, wore heavy satins 
or brocades, either red or yellow, but the maids 
were in flowered silks, sometimes with coquettish 
little jacket, generally with long pointed bodice 
and full flowing skirt. Concha's frock was made 
in this fashion, but quite different otherwise; 
an aunt in the City of Mexico being mindful at 
whiles of the cravings of relatives in exile. It 
was of a soft shimmering white stuff covered 
with gold spangles and cut to reveal her young 
neck and arms. She stood at the head of the 
room with her mother as Rezanov entered, and he 
noticed for the first time how tall she was. She 
held herself proudly; mischievous twinkle, nor 
child-like trust, nor flashing coquetry possessed 
her eyes; which, even more star-like than usual, 
nevertheless looked out upon her guests with a 
dignified composure. Her lips, her skin, were 
luminous. In this well cut evening gown he saw 
that her figure was superb; and that she could 
command stateliness as well as vivacity moved 
her toward a pedestal in his regard that had been 
occupied by few and never long. 
Rezanov, in his splendid uniform and blazing 
orders, filled the sala with his presence as he 
walked past the rows of bright critical eyes toward his hostesses. The young lips of the maids 
parted with delight and the men frowned. For 
the first time William Sturgis felt the sickness 
of jealousy instead of its not unagreeable pain. 
Davidov and Khostov, both handsome and well- 
bred young men, were also in full naval uniform, 
and by no means ignored; while Langsdorff, in 
the severe black of the scholar, was an admirable 
foil. 
Eezanov, wondering at the subtle change in 
Concha, bowed ceremoniously and murmured: 
" You will give me the first dance, senorita? " 
" Certainly, Excellency. Are you not the guest 
of honor? " 
She motioned to the Indian musicians, fiddles 
and guitars fairly leapt to position, and in a 
moment Eezanov enjoyed the novel delusion of 
encircling a girPs floating wraith. 
" We can waltz, you see? Are you not sur- 
prised? '' 
" It is but one accomplishment the more. I 
feared a preference for your native dances, but 
ventured to hope you would teach me. ' ' 
'' They are easy to learn. You will watch us 
dance the contra-danza after this." 
" With whom do you dance it? " 
Her black eyelashes were very thick ; he barely 
caught the glance she shot him. 
" The Eussian bear growls," slie said lightly. 
" Did you expect to dance every dance with me? " 
" I came for no other purpose." 
" You would have several duels to fight to- 
morrow. ' ' 
" I have no objection." 
" You have fought others, then*? " Her voice 
was the softer with the effort to turn its edge. 
" No more than most men, I suppose. May I 
ask how many have been fought for you! " 
" My memory is no better than yours. "Why 
should I burden it with trifles? " 
" True. It doubtless is charged with matters 
far more serious than the desires of mere men. 
Tell me, senorita, what is your dearest wish! " 
He had bent his head and fixed his powerful gaze 
on her stubborn lashes. As he hoped, she raised 
startled eyes in which an angry glitter dawned. 
" My dearest wish? If I had one should I tell 
you? Why do you ask me such a question? " 
" Because I lit a candle at the Mission to-day 
that you might realize it," he answered smiling. 
To his surprise he saw a flash of terror in her 
eyes before she dropped them, and felt her shiver. 
But she answered coldly: 
" You have wasted a candle, sehor. I have 
 
never had a wish that was not instantly gratified. 
But I thank you for the kind thought. Will you 
finish this waltz with my friend, and the fiancee 
of Luis, Eafaella Sal? She has quarrelled with 
Luis, I see; Don Weeliam is dancing with Caro- 
lina Ximeno, and she cares to waltz with no one 
else. Pardon me if I say that no one has ever 
waltzed as well as your excellency, and I must 
not be selfish." 
" I will release you if you are tired, but otherwise I shall do myself the honor to waltz with 
your friend later.'' 
" I must look after my other guests,'' she said 
coldly; and he was led with what grace he could 
summon to the fair but sulky Eafaella. 
" How am I to help flirting with that girl? " he 
thought as he mechanically guided another light 
and graceful partner through the crowded room. 
" If she were one girl I might resist. But since 
eleven o'clock yesterday morning she has been 
three. And if she was twenty yesterday, twelve 
this morning, she is twenty-eight to-night, and 
this might be a court ball in Madrid. I shall leave 
the day after I bring the Governor to terms." 
He sat beside Dona Ignacia during the contra- 
danza and found the scene remarkably brilliant 
and animated considering the primitive conditions. In addition to the bright flags on the wall 
and the vivid colors of the women, the officers of 
the Presidio and forts wore full dress uniform, 
either white coats with red velvet vest, red pantaloons and sash, or white trousers and scarlet 
coat and waistcoat faced with green. The young 
men from the Mission wore small clothes of a 
dove-colored cloth, fastened at the knee with silver 
buckles, and white silk stockings; two gentlemen 
from Monterey wore the evening costume of the 
capital, black silk small clothes, with white silk 
waistcoat and stockings, and much fine lawn and 
lace. The room was well lighted by many wicks 
stuck in lumps of tallow. The Indian musicians, 
soldiers recruited from a superior tribe in the 
Santa Clara valley, were clad almost entirely in 
scarlet, and danced sometimes as they played; 
and Indian girls, in short red skirts and snow- 
white smocks open at the throat, their long hair 
decorated with flowers and ribbons, already 
passed about wine and dulces. The windows 
were open. The sweet night air blew in. 
The contra-danza was not unlike the square 
dances of England except that it was far more 
graceful, and the men rivalled the women in their 
supple glidings and bendings, doublings and 
swayings. Concha danced with Ignacio Sal, Eafaella with William Sturgis; their pliant grace, 
as facile as grain rippling before the wind, would 
have put the best ballet in Europe to the blush. 
Concha's skirts swept Rezanov's feet, her little 
slippers twinkled before his admiring eyes, and 
he lost no sinuous turn or undulation of her 
beautiful figure; but she never vouchsafed him 
a glance. 
"When the dance finished his host introduced 
him to the prettiest of the girls and he paid them 
as many compliments as their heads would stand. 
He even took some trouble to talk to them, if only 
to fathom the sources of their unlikeness to 
Concha Argiiello. He concluded that the gulf that 
separated her from these charming vivacious 
shallow young girls was not dug by education 
alone. Individualities were rare enough in Europe; out here, in earthly, but sparsely settled 
paradises, they must be rarer still; but that one 
had wandered into the lovely shell of Concha 
Argiiello he no longer doubted. The fact that it 
had developed haphazardly, with little or no help 
from her sentience, and was still fluid and uncertain, but multiplied her in interest and charm. 
The women to whom he was accustomed knew 
themselves, consequently were no riddle to a man 
of his experience, but here he had an odd sense 
of having entered into a compact in the dark with 
a girl who might one day symbolize some high 
and impassioned ideal he had cherished in the 
days before ideals had been cast aside with the 
negative virtues that bred them. 
As he coolly studied the good looks of the 
young caballeros and the plain intellectual face 
and slight little figure of the Bostonian, noted 
the utter indifference with which they were 
treated by the Favorita of Presidio and Mission, 
he felt a sudden rush of arrogance, a youthful 
tingling of nerves, the same prophetic sense of 
imminent happiness and power that his first contact with the light electrical air and the beauty of 
the country had induced. After all, he was but 
forty-two. Life on the whole had been very kind to 
him. And, although he did not realize it as yet, 
his frame, blighted by the rigors of the past three 
years, was already sensible of a renewal of 
juice and sap. He admitted that he was more interested than he had been for many years, and 
that if he was not in love, he tingled with a 
very natural masculine desire for an adventure 
with a pretty girl. 
 
But he was by no means a weak man, and his 
mind counted the cost even while his imagination 
hummed. He had almost decided to bid Dona 
Ignacia an abrupt good-night, pleading fatigue, 
which his pallor indorsed, when the door of the 
dining-room was thrown open to the liveliest of 
fiddling, and a white hand with a singular sug- 
gestion of tenacity both in appearance and clasp 
took possession of his arm. 
" My mother has gone to Gertrudis Eudisinda, 
who is crying, ' ' said Concha. ' ' It is my pleasure 
to lead your excellency in to supper. " 
They sat side by side at the head of the long 
table almost covered by the massive service of 
silver and loaded with evidences of Dona Ignacia 's generosity and skill; chickens in red rice 
and gravy, oysters, tamales, dulces, pastries, 
fruits and pleasant drinks. Luis, with Eafaella 
Sal dimpling and sparkling at his side, and now 
quite resigned to the semi-official nature of the 
ball, rose and drank the health of the distin- 
guished guest in long and flowery phrases. Eez- 
anov responded in briefer but no less felicitous 
vein, and concluded by remarking that the only 
rift in the lute of his present enchanting experience was the fear that whereas he had nearly died 
of starvation several times during the past three 
years, he was now threatened with a far more 
ignominious end, so delicious and irresistible were 
the temptations that beset the wayfarer in this 
most hospitable land. Both speeches were gayly 
applauded, the conversation became animated and 
general, and Concha dropped her voice to the attentive ear beside her. 
" You were very successful to-day at the Mission, Excellency." 
" May I ask how you know! " 
" I never saw anything so serenely — arrogantly, perhaps would be a truer description — triumphant as your bearing when you walked down our 
humble sala to-night. You looked like Caesar returned from Gaul; but I suppose that all great 
conquests are merely the sum of many small 
ones.'' 
" I do not regard the friendship of so shrewd a 
man as Father Abella a trifling conquest. And 
according to yourself, dear senorita, it is essential 
to the success of a mission upon which many lives 
and my own honor depend." 
" Is it really so serious? " she asked with a 
faint sneer. 
He drew himself up stiffly and his light eyes 
glowed with anger. " It is a subject I never 
should have thought of introducing at a festivity like this,'' he said suavely. " May I be 
permitted to compliment you, sehorita, upon your 
marvellous grace in the contra-danza ? It quite 
turned my head, and I am' delighted to hear that 
you will dance alone after supper.'' 
Her face had flushed hotly. She dropped her 
eyes and her voice trembled as she replied : " You 
humiliate me, sehor, and I deserve it. I — my 
poor Kosa told me something of her great tragedy 
while dressing me, and for the moment other 
things seemed unimportant. What is hunger and 
court favor beside a broken heart and a desolate 
life? But that of course is the attitude of an 
ignorant girl." She raised her eyes. They were 
soft, and her voice was softer. " I beg that you 
will forgive me, senor. And be sure that I take 
an even deeper interest in your great mission 
than yesterday. I have thought much about it, 
and while I have told my mother nothing, I have 
expressed certain peevish hopes that a ship would 
not come all the way from Sitka without taking 
a hint more than one Boston skipper must have 
given, and brought us many of the things we need. 
She is quite excited over the prospect of a new 
 
shawl for herself, and of sending several as presents to the sonth ; besides many other things : cot- 
ton, shoes, kitchen utensils. Have you any of 
these things, Excellency? '' 
Eezanov stared at her face, barely tinted with 
color, dully wondering why it should be so different from the one, roguish, pathetically innocent, 
that had haunted him all day. He asked abruptly : 
" Which is the friend whose little ones you 
envy? You have made me wish to see them and 
her." 
" That is Elena — beside Gervasio." She indicated a young woman with soft patient brown 
eyes, the dignity of her race and the sweetness of 
young motherhood, who would have looked little 
older than herself had it not been for an already 
shapeless figure. " I can take you to-morrow 
to see them if you wish. ' ' 
She had cast down her eyes and her face was 
white. Still he groped on. 
" Pardon me if I say that I am surprised your 
parents should permit such a woman as this Rosa 
to attend you. "Why should your happy life be 
disturbed by the lamentations of an abandoned 
creature — who can do you no good, and possibly 
much harm? '' 
Still Conclia did not raise her eyes. " I do not 
think poor Rosa would do anyone harm. But perhaps it were as well she went elsewhere. We have 
had her long enough. I have taken a dislike to 
her. I reproach myself bitterly, but I cannot help 
it. I should like never to see her again.'' 
" What has she told you! '' Concha glanced 
up swiftly. His eyes were blazing. She felt quite 
certain that he rolled a Russian oath under his 
tongue, and she made a slight involuntary motion 
toward him, her lips trembling apart. 
" Nothing,'' she murmured. " I do not know — 
I do not know. But I no longer wish her near me. 
She — life is very strange and terrible, senor. 
You know it well — I, so little." 
Rezanov felt his breath short and his hands cold. 
For a moment he made no reply. Then he smiled 
charmingly and said in the conventional tone that 
was ever at his command : " Of course you know 
little of life in this Arcadia. One who hopes to be 
numbered among the best of your friends prays 
that you never may. Yes, senorita, life is strange 
— strangely commonplace and disillusionizing — 
but sometimes picturesque. Believe me when I 
eay that nothing stranger has ever befallen me 
than to find out here on the lonely brink of 
a continent nearly twenty thousand versts from 
Europe, a girl of sixteen with the grand manner, 
and the intellect without the detestable idiosyncrasies of the fashionable bas bleus I have hitherto 
had the misfortune to encounter." 
She was tapping the table slowly with her fork 
and he noted that her soft childish mouth was set. 
" No doubt you are quite right to put me off," 
she said finally, and in a voice as even as his own. 
" And my intellect would do me little good if it 
did not teach me to ignore mysteries I can never 
hope to fathom. There is no such thing as life 
in your sense in this forgotten corner of the 
world, nor ever will be in my time. If you come 
back and visit us twenty years hence you will 
find me fat and worn like Elena, and busy every 
minute like my mother — unless, indeed, I marry 
Don Weeliam Sturgis and become a great lady 
in Boston. It would not be so mean a fate." 
Rezanov darted a look of angry contempt at the 
pale young man who was eating little and miserably watching the handsome pair at the head of 
the table. " You will not marry him! " he said 
briefly. 
" I could do far worse." Concha's lashes 
framed an adorable glance that sent the blood to 
the hair of the sensitive youth. " You have no 
idea how clever and good he is. And — Madre de 
Dios ! — I am so tired of California. ' ' 
" But you are a part of it — the very symbol of 
its future, it seems to me, I wish I had a sculptor 
in my suite. I should make him model you, label 
the statue California, and erect it on the peak 
of that big island out there. '' 
" That is very poetical, but after all you are 
only saying that I am a pretty savage with an 
education that will be more common in the next 
generation. It is little consolation for an existence where the most exciting event in a life- 
time is the arrival of a foreign ship or the inauguration of a governor. '' And once more she 
smiled at Sturgis. He raised his glass impul- 
sively, and she hers in gay response. A moment 
later she gave the signal to leave the table. Hez- 
anov followed her back to the sala chewing the 
cud of many reflections. 
Concha had eaten no supper. As she entered 
the sala she clapped her hands, the gnests ranged 
themselves against the wall, the musicians, liveher than ever, flew to their instruments ; and, with 
the drifting swaying movement she could assume 
at will, she went slowly, absently, to the middle of 
the room. Then she let her head drop backward 
as if with the weight of her hair, and Rezanov, 
vaguely angry, expected one of those appeals to the 
senses for which Spanish women of another sort 
were notorious. But Concha, after tapping the 
floor alternately with the points and the wooden 
heels of her slippers, for a few moments, suddenly 
made an imperious gesture to Ignacio Sal. He 
sprang to her side, took her hand, and once more 
there was the same monotonous tapping of toes 
and heels. Then they whirled apart, bent their 
lithe backs until their brows almost touched the 
floor in a salute of mock admiration, and danced 
to and from each other, coquetry in the very tilt 
of her eyebrows, the bare semblance of masculine 
indulgence on his eager passionate face. Suddenly to the surprise of all, she snapped her fingers directly under his nose, waved her hand, turned her back and made a peremptory gesture 
to that other enamored young swain, Captain An- 
tonio Castro of Monterey. Don Ignacio, surprised and discomfited, retired amidst the jeers 
of his friends, and Concha, with her most vivacious 
and gracious manner, met Castro half-way, and 
taking his hand danced up and down the sala, 
slowly and with many improvisations. Then, as 
they returned to the centre of the room and 
stepped lightly apart before joining in a gay 
whirl, she snapped her fingers under his nose, 
made a gesture of dismissal over her shoulder 
and fluttered an uplifted hand in the direction of 
Sturgis. Again there was delighted laughter, 
again a discomfited knight and a triumphant 
partner. 
" Concha always gives us something we do not 
expect,'' said Santiago to Kezanov, whose eyes 
were twinkling. " The other girls dance El Son 
and La Jota very gracefully — yes. But Conchita 
dances with her head, and the musicians and the 
partner, when she takes one, have all they can do 
to follow. She will choose you next, senor." 
Eezanov turned cold, and measured the distance to the door. " I hope not! '' he said. " I 
should hate nothing so much as to make an exhibition of myself. The dances I know — that is 
all very well — but to improvise — for the love of 
heaven help me to get out.'' 
But Santiago, who was watching his sister intently, replied: " Wait a moment. Excellency. I 
do not think she will choose another. I know by 
her feet that she intends to dance El Son — in her 
own way, of course — after all." 
Concha circled about the room twice with Sturgis, lifted him to the seventh heaven of expectancy, dismissed him as abruptly as the others. 
Lifting her chin with an expression of supreme 
disdain for all his sex, she stood a moment, swaying, her arms hanging at her sides. 
" I am glad she will not dance with Weeliam, ' ' 
muttered Santiago. ' ' I love him — yes ; but the 
Spanish dance is not for the Bostonian." 
Eezanov awaited her performance with an interest that caused him some cynical amusement. 
But in a moment he had surrendered to her once 
more as a creature of inexhaustible surprise. The 
musicians watching her began to play more 
slowly. Concha, her arms still supine, her head 
lifted, her eyes half veiled, began to dance in a 
 
stately and measured fashion that seemed to 
powder her hair and dissolve the partitions before an endless vista of rooms. Eezanov had a 
sudden vision of the Hall of the Ambassadors in 
the royal palace at Madrid, where, when a young 
man on his travels, he had attended a state ball. 
There he had seen the most dignified beauties of 
Europe dance at the most formal of its courts. 
But Concha created the illusion of having stepped 
down from the throne in some bygone fashion to 
dance alone for her subjects and adorers. 
She raised her arms, barely budding at the top, 
with a gesture that was not only the poetry of 
grace but as though bestowing some royal favor ; 
when she curved and swayed her body, again it 
was with the lofty sweetness of one too highly 
placed to descend to mere seductiveness. She 
glided up and down, back and forth, with a dreamy 
revealing motion as if assisting to shape some 
vague impassioned image in the brain of a poet. 
She lifted her little feet in a manner that transformed boards into clouds. There were moments 
when she seemed actually to soar. 
" She is a little genius! " thought Eezanov 
enthusiastically. " Anything could be made of a 
woman like that." 
It was not her dancing alone that interested 
him, but its effect on her audience. The young 
men had begun with audible expressions of ap- 
proval. They were now shouting and stamping 
and clapping. Suddenly, as once more she danced 
back to the very centre of the room, her bosom 
heaving, her eyes like stars, her red lips parted, 
Don Ignacio, long since recovered from his spleen, 
invaded his pocket and flung a handful of silver 
at her feet. It was a signal. Gold and silver 
coins, chains, watches, jewels, bounced over 
the floor, to be laughingly ignored. Rezanov 
looked on in amazement, wondering if this were a 
part of the performance and if he should follow 
suit. But after a glance at the faces of the young 
men, lost to everything but their passionate ad- 
miration for the unique and beautiful dancing of 
their Favorita, and when Sturgis, after wildly 
searching in his pockets, tore a large pearl from 
the lace of his stock, he doubted no longer — nor 
hesitated. Fastened by a blue ribbon to the fourth 
button of his closely fitting coat was a golden key, 
the outward symbol of his rank at court. He 
detached it, then made a sudden gesture that 
eaught her attention. For a moment their 
eyes met. He tossed her the bauble, and mechanically she lifted her hand and caught it. 
Then she laughed confusedly, shrugged her shoul- 
ders, bowed graciously to her audience, and sig- 
nalled to the musicians to stop. Eezanov was at 
her side in a moment. 
" You must be tired,'' he said. " I insist that 
you come out on the veranda and rest." 
ii Very well,'' she said indifferently; " it is 
quite time we all went out to the air. Santiago 
mio, wilt thou bring my reboso — the white one? " 
Santiago, more flushed than his sister at her 
triumphs, fetched the long strip of silk, and Eezanov detached her from her eager court and led 
her without. Elena Castro followed closely, yet 
with a cavaher of her own that her friend might 
talk freely with this interesting stranger. The 
night air was cool and stimulating. The hills 
were black under the sparks of white fire in the 
high arch of the California sky. In the Presidio 
square were long blue shadows that might have 
been reflections of the smouldering blue beyond 
the stars. Eezanov and Concha sat on the railing 
at the end of the " corridor. ' ' 
" Is it a custom — all that very material admiration? " he asked. 
" A very old one, but not too often followed. 
Otherwise we should not prize it. But when some 
Favorita outdoes herself then she receives the 
greatest reward that man can think of — gold and 
silver and jewels. We do not dare to return the 
tributes in common fashion, but they have a way 
of appearing where they belong as soon as their 
owners are supposed to have forgotten the incident. As you are not a Californian, seHor, I 
take the liberty of returning this without any foolish subterfuge. ' ' She handed him his contribu- 
tion. ' ' I thank you all the same. It was a spontaneous act, and I am very proud. ' ' 
He accepted the key awkwardly, not daring to 
press it upon her, with the obvious banalities. 
But he felt a sudden desire to give her 
something, and, nothing better offering, he 
gathered half a dozen roses and laid them on 
her lap. 
" I was disappointed that you did not wear 
your roses to-night,'' he said. " I associate them 
with you in my thoughts. Will you put one in 
your hair I '' 
She found a place for two and thrust another 
in the neck of her gown. The rest she held closely 
in her hands. Then he noticed that she was very 
white, and again she shivered. 
" You are cold and tired,'' he murmured, his 
eyes melting to hers. " It was entrancing, but I 
hope never to see you give so much of yourself 
to others again." His hand in arranging the 
reboso touched hers. It lingered, and she stared 
up at him, helplessly, her eyes wide, her lips 
parted. She reminded him of a rabbit caught in 
a trap, and he had a sudden and violent revulsion 
of feeling. He rose and offered his arm. " I 
should be a brute if I kept you talking out here. 
Slip off and go to bed. I shall start the guests, 
for I am very tired myself." 
XI 
He did not talk with her again for several days. 
He called in state, but remained only a few moments. His officers went to several impromptu 
dances at the Presidio and Mission, but he pleaded 
fatigue, natural in the damaged state of his constitution, and left the ship only for a gallop over 
the hills or down the coast with Luis Argiiello. 
But he had never felt better. At the end of a 
week his pallor had gone, his skin was tanned and 
fresh. Even his wretched crew were different 
men. They were given much leave on shore, and 
already might be seen escorting the serving- 
women over the hills in the late afternoon. Kezanov gave them a long rope, although he knew they 
must be germinating with a mutinous distaste of 
the Russian north; he kept a strict watch over 
them and would have given a deserter his due 
without an instant's pause. 
The estafette that had gone with Luis' letters 
to Monterey had taken one from Eezanov as well, 
asking permission to pay a visit of ceremony to 
the Governor. Five days later the plenipotentiary 
received a polite welcome to California, and protest against another long journey; the humble 
servant of the King of Spain would himself go 
to San Francisco at once and offer the hospitality 
of California to the illustrious representative of 
the Emperor of all the Eussias. 
Eezanov was not only annoyed at the Governor's evident determination that he should see 
as little as possible of the insignificant military 
equipment of California, but at the delay to his 
own plans for exploration. He knew that Luis 
would dare take him upon no expedition into the 
heart of the country without the consent of the 
Governor, and he began to doubt this consent 
would be given. But he was determined to see 
the bay, at least, and he no sooner read the diplomatic epistle from Monterey than he decided to 
accomplish this part of his purpose before the 
arrival of the Governor or Don Jose. He knew 
the materials he had to deal with at the moment, 
but nothing of those already, no doubt, on their 
way to the north. 
Early in the morning after the return of the 
courier he wrote an informal note to Doha Ignacia, 
asking her to give him the honor of entertaining 
her for a day on the Juno and to bring all the 
young people she would. As the weather was so 
fine, he hoped to see them in time for chocolate 
at nine o'clock. He knew that Luis, who was 
pressingly included in the invitation, had left at 
daybreak for his father's rancho some thirty miles 
to the south. 
There was a flutter at the Presidio when the 
invitation of the Chamberlain was made known. 
The compliment was not unexpected, but there had 
been a lively speculation as to what form the Eussian's return of hospitality would take. Concha, 
whose tides had thundered and ebbed many times 
since the night of her party, submerging the happy 
inconsequence of her sixteen years, but leaving 
her unshaken spirit with wide clarified vision, 
felt young to-day from sheer reaction. She would 
listen to no protest from her prudent mother, and 
smothered her with kisses and a torrent of words. 
" But, my Conchita,'' gasped Dona Ignacia, 
" I have much to do. Thy father and his excellency come in two days. And perhaps they would 
not approve — before they are here ! — to go on the 
foreign ship! If Luis were not gone! Ay yi! 
Ayyi!'' 
" We go, we go, madre mia ! And his excellency 
will give you a shawl. I feel it ! I know it ! And 
 
if we go now we disobey no law. Have they ever 
said we could not visit a foreign ship when they 
were not here f We are light-headed irresponsible 
women. And if they should not let us go ! If the 
Governor and the Eussian should disagree! Now 
we have the opportunity for such a day as we 
never have had before. We should be imbeciles. 
We go, madre mia, we go! '' 
So it proved. At a few minutes before nine the 
Sehora Argiiello, clad in her best black silk skirt 
and jacket, a red shawl embroidered with yellow 
draped over her bust with unconquerable grace, 
and a black reboso folded about her fine proud 
head, rode down to the beach with Ana Paula on 
the aquera behind and Gertrudis Eudisinda on 
her arm. The boys howled on the corridor, but 
the good senora felt that she could not too liberally construe the kind invitation of a chamberlain 
of the Eussian Court. 
Behind her rode Concha, in white with a pink 
reboso ; Eaf aella Sal, Carolina Ximeno, Herminia 
Lopez, Delfina Eivera, the only other girls at the 
Presidio old enough to grace such an occasion; 
Sturgis, who happened to have spent the night at 
the Presidio, Gervasio, Santiago and Lieutenant 
Eivera. Castro had returned to Monterey, Sal was 
officer of the day, and the other young men had 
sulkily declined to be the guests of a man who 
looked as haughty as the Tsar himself and betrayed no disiDOsition to recognize in Spain the 
first nation of Europe. But no one missed them. 
The girls, in their flowered muslins and bright 
rebosos, the men in gay scrapes and embroidered 
botas, looked a fine mass of color as they galloped down to the beach and laughed and chat- 
tered as youth must on so glorious a morning. 
Even Sturgis, always careful to be as nearly one 
with these people as his different appearance and 
temperament would permit, wore clothes of green 
linen, a ruffled shirt, deer skin botas and sombrero. 
Three of the ship's canoes awaited the guests, 
and as not one of the women had ever set 
foot in a boat, there was a chorus of shrieks. 
Doiia Ignacia murmured an audible prayer and 
clutched Gertrudis Kudisinda to her breast. 
'' Madre de Dios! The water! I cannot! " she 
muttered. But Santiago took her firmly by one 
elbow, Sturgis by the other, Davidov caught up 
the children with a reassuring laugh, and in a 
moment she was trembling in the middle of the 
canoe. Concha had already leaped into the 
second and waved a careless little salutation to 
the Juno. Her eyes sparkled. Her nostrils flut- 
tered. She felt indifferent to everything but the 
certain pleasure of the day. Eezanov was sure 
to be charming. What mattered the morrow, and 
possible nights of doubt, despair, hatred of life 
and wondering self-contempt? 
Eezanov awaited the canoes in the prow of the 
ship. He wore undress uniform and a cap instead 
of the cocked hat of ceremony which had excited 
their awe. He too tingled with a sense of youthful 
gaiety and adventure. As he helped his guests 
up the side of the vessel, and listened to the delighted laughter of the girls, saw the dancing 
eyes of even the haughty and reserved Santiago, 
he also dismissed the morrow from his thoughts. 
As Dona Ignacia was hauled to the deck, uttering embarrassed apologies for bringing the two 
little girls, Eezanov protested that he adored children, patted their heads, and told off a young 
sailor to amuse them. 
Four tables on the deck were set with coffee, 
chocolate, Eussian tea, and strange sweets that 
the cook had fashioned from ingredients to which 
his skilful fingers had long been strangers. 
Dona Ignacia sat beside the host, and when she 
had tried both the tea and the coffee and had 
asked for the recipe of the sweets, he said casually: " After breakfast I shall ask you to go down 
to the cabin for a few moments. I bought the 
cargo with the Juno, and find there are several 
articles which I shall beg as a great favor to present to my kindest of hostesses and the young girls 
she has been good enough to bring to my ship. 
Shawls and ells of cotton and all that sort of thing 
are of no use to a bachelor, and I hope you will 
rid me of some of them. ' ' 
Doiia Ignacia lost all interest in the breakfast, 
and presently, murmuring an excuse, was escorted 
by Langsdorff down to the cabin. When the light 
repast was over, Eezanov made a signal to several 
sailors who awaited commands, and they sprang 
to the anchor and sails. 
" We are going to have a cruise,'' announced 
the host to his guests. " The bay is very smooth, 
there is a fine breeze, we shall neither be becalmed 
nor otherwise the sport of inclement waters. I 
know that most of you have never seen this beautiful bay and that you will enjoy its scenery as 
much as I shall." 
He moved to Concha's side and dropped his 
voice. '' This is for you, senorita," he said. 
" You want change, variety, and I have planned 
to give you all that I can in one day. I expect 
you to be happy.' 
' ' I shall be, ' ' she said dryly, ' ' if only in watching a diplomat get his way. You will see every 
corner of our bay, and I shall have the delightful 
sensation of doing something naughty for which 
I cannot be held responsible. ' ' 
He laughed. " I am quite willing that you 
should understand me," he said. " But it is true 
that I thought as much of you as of myself. ' ' 
In a few moments the ship was under way. 
Santiago and Sturgis had gone down to the cabin 
to reassure Dona Ignacia, who uttered a loud cry 
as the Juno gave a preliminary lurch. Gervasio 
and Eivera had opened their eyes as Eezanov 
abruptly unfolded his plan, but dropped them 
sleepily before the delight of the girls. After all, 
it was none of their affair, and what was a bay? 
If they requested him, as a point of honor, to refrain from examining the battery of Yerba Buena 
with his glass, their consciences would be as light 
as their hearts. 
As Eezanov stood alone with Concha in the 
prow of the ship and alternately cast softened 
eyes on her intense rapt face, and shrewd glances 
on the ramifications of the bay, he congratulated 
himself upon liis precipitate action and the collusion of nature. They were sailing east and would 
turn to the north in a moment. The mountain 
range bent abruptly at the entrance to the bay, 
encircling the immense sheet of water in a chain 
of every altitude and form: a long hard undulating line against the bright blue sky; smooth and 
dimpled slopes, as round as cones, bare but; for the 
green of their grasses; lofty ridges tapering to 
hills in the curve at the north but with blue peaks 
multiplying beyond. There were dense forests in 
deep canons on the mountain side, bare and 
jagged heights, the graceful sweep of valleys, 
promontories leaping out from the mainland like 
mammoth crocodiles guarding the bay. The 
view of the main waters was broken by the 
largest of the islands, but far away were the 
hills of the east and the soft blue peaks 
behind. And over all, hill and valley and 
canon and mountain, was a bright opalescent mist. 
Green, pink, and other pale colors gleamed as behind a thin layer of crystal. Where the sun shone 
through a low white cloud upon a distant slope 
there might have been a great globe of iridescent 
glass illuminated within. The water was a light 
soft filmy yet translucent blue. Concha gazed 
with parted lips. 
 
" I never knew before liow wonderful it was," 
slie murmured. '' I have been tauglit to believe 
that only the south is beautiful, and when we 
had to come here again from Santa Barbara it 
was exile. But now I am glad I was bom in the 
north. " 
" I have watched the lights on these hills and 
islands, and what I could see of the fine lines of 
the mountains, ever since I came; and were there 
but villas and castles, these waters would be far 
more beautiful than the Lake of Como or the Bay 
of Naples. But I am glad to see trees again. 
From our anchorage I had but a bare glimpse of 
two or three. They seem to hide from the western 
winds. Are they so strong then! " 
" We have terrible winds, sehor. I do not 
wonder the trees crouch to the east. But I must 
tell you our names." She pointed to the largest 
of the islands, a great bare mass that looked as 
had it been, when viscid, flung out in long folds 
from a central peak, concaving here and there 
with its own weight. Its southern point was on 
a line with a point of mainland far to the west, 
and its northern, from their vantage looking to be 
but a continuation of the curve of the mainland, 
finished an arc of almost perfect proportions, 
whose deep curve was a tumbled mass of hills and 
one great mountain. ' ' That is Nuestra Senora de 
los Angeles, and it opens a triple jaw, Luis has 
told me, at Point Tiburon — you will soon see the 
straits between. The big rock behind us is Alcatraz, and farther away still is Yerba Buena — 
that looks like a camel on its knees. ' ' 
But Eezanov was examining the scene before 
hihi. The lines of this bay within a bay were 
superb, and in its wide embrace, slanting from 
Point Tiburon toward an inner point two miles opposite was another island, as steep as Alcatraz, 
but long and waving of outline, with a glimpse of 
trees on its crest. Eezanov, while he lost nothing 
of the picturesque beauty surrounding him, was 
more deeply interested in noting the many foundations, sheltered and solid, for fortifications that 
would hold these rich lands against the fleets of 
the world. Never had he seen so many strategic 
advantages on one sheet of water. The islands 
farther south he had examined through his glass 
from the deck of the Juno until he knew every 
convolution they turned to the west. 
Concha was directing his attention to the tremendous angular peak rising above the tumbled 
hills. '' That is Mount Tamalpais— the mountain 
of peace. It was named by the Indians, not by 
us. Sometimes it is like a great purple shadow, 
and at others the clouds fight about it like the 
ghosts of big sea-gulls." They were sailing past 
the rounded end of the western inner point of the 
little bay. It was almost detached from the bare 
ridge behind and half covered with oaks and willow trees. " That is Point Sausalito. I have 
often looked at it through the glass and longed 
for a merienda in the deep shade.'' She turned 
to Rezanov with lips apart. " Could we not
ch, senor!— have our dinner on shore! " 
" It is only for you to select the spot. We can 
sail many miles before it is time for dinner, and 
you may find a place even more to your liking. I 
fancy we cannot go far here. It looks swampy 
and shallow. Nothing could be less romantic than 
to stick in the mud. ' ' 
" May I ask,'' said Concha demurely, '' how 
you dare to run the risks of an unknown sheet of 
water? I have heard it said that there is more 
than one rock and shoal in this bay." 
" I am not as rash as I may appear," replied 
Eezanov dryly, but smiling. " In 1789 there was 
a chart of this bay, taken from a Spanish MS., 
published in London; and I bought it there when 
 
I ran up from the Nadeshda — anchored at Fal- 
mouth — three years ago. Davidov, who, you may 
observe, is steering, oblivious to the charms of 
even Dona Carolina, knows every sounding by 
heart.' 
" Oh ! ' ' Concha shrugged her shoulders. ' ' The 
Governor, too, i.; very clever. It will be a drawn 
battle. Perhaps I shall remain neutral after all. 
It would be more amusing. " The ship was turning, and she waved her hand to the island between 
the deep arc of the hilly coast. " I have heard so 
much of the beauty of that island, " she said, 
" that I have called it La Bellissima, but I never 
lioped to see anything but the back of its head, 
from which the wind has blown all the hair. And 
now I shall. How kind you are, senor! '' 
" How easily you are made happy,'' he said 
with a sigh. " You look like a child." 
