people and this city, we pray, supplicate, and adjure them to desert the
temples, to abandon the altars, to inspire terror there, to come to Rome
near us and ours, that our temples, being more agreeable and precious, may
predispose them to protect us. It being understood and agreed that we
dedicate to them larger altars, grander games."[13]
It was with that formula that Rome conquered the world. She omitted it but
once, at the walls of Jerusalem. The deity whom she forgot there to
invoke, entered her temples and overthrew them.
Meanwhile the flatteries of the formula no known god could resist. In
triumph Rome escorted one after another away, leaving the forsaken but
doorposts to worship, and stimulating in them the desire to become part of
the favored city where their divinities were. But in that city everything
was closed to them. Deserted by their gods, divested, in consequence, of
religion and, therefore, of every right, they could no longer pray, the
significance of signs and omens was lost to them, they were plebs. But the
Romans, who had captivated the divinities, and who, through them, alone
possessed the incommunicable science of augury, were patrician. In that
distinction is the origin of Rome's aristocracy and her might.
The might pre-existed in the despotic organization of the home. There the
slaves and children were but things that could be sold or killed. They
were the chattels of the paterfamilias, whose wife was a being without
influence or initiative, a creature in the hands of a man, unable to leave
him for any cause whatever, a domestic animal over whom he had the right
of life and death, a ward who, regarded as mentally irresponsible--propter
animi lævitatem--might not escape his power even though he died, a woman
whom he could repudiate at will and of whom he was owner and judge.[14]
Such was the law and such it remained, a dead letter, nullified by a
reason profoundly human, which the legislature had overlooked, but which
the Asiatics had foreseen and which they combated with the seraglio where
woman, restricted to a fraction of her lord, exhausted herself in
contending even for that. But Rome, in making the paterfamilias despotic,
made him monogamous as well. He was strictly restricted to one wife. As a
consequence, the materfamilias, while theoretically a slave, became
practically what woman with her husband to herself and no rivals to fear
almost inevitably does become--supreme. Legally she was the property of
her husband, actually he was hers. When he returned from forage or from
war, she alone had the right to greet him, she alone might console and
caress. In the eye of the gods if not of the law she was his equal when
not his superior. By virtue of the law he could divorce her at will, he
could kill her if she so much as presumed to drink wine. By virtue of her
supremacy five hundred and twenty years passed before a divorce
occurred.[15]
The supremacy was otherwise facilitated. The atrium, unlike the gynæceum,
was not a remote and inaccessible apartment, it was the living-room, the
sanctuary of the household gods, a common hall to which friends were
admitted, visitors came, and where the matron presided. From the moment
when, in accordance with the ceremonies of marriage, her hair--in memory
of the Sabines--parted by a javelin's point, an iron ring--symbol of
eternity--on her fourth finger, the wedding bread eaten, her purchase
money paid, and she, lifted over the threshold of the atrium, uttered the
sacramental words--Ubi tu Caïus, ibi ego Caïa--from that moment, legally
in manum viri, actually she became mistress of whatever her husband
possessed, she became his associate, his partner, sharing with him the
administration of the patrimony, governing the household, the slaves,
Caïus himself.
Said Cato: "Everywhere else women are ruled by men, but we who rule all
men, are ruled by women." They had done so from the first. The treatment
of the Sabines was clearly violent in addition to being mythical. But,
even in legend, these young women were not deserted as were the Ariadnes
and Medeas of Greece. They became Roman matrons, as such circled with
respect. Later, Egeria instituted with symbolic nymphs a veritable worship
of women. Thereafter feminine prerogatives developed from the theory and
practice of marriage itself. In theory, marriage was an association for
the pursuit of things human and divine.[16] In practice, it was the fusion
of two lives--a fusion manifestly incomplete if all were not held in
common. Community of goods means equality. From equality to superiority
there is but a step. The matron took it. She became supreme as already she
was patrician.
Between patrician and plebeian there was an abyss too wide for marriage to
bridge. Such a union would have been regarded as abnormal. The plebeian
did not at first dare to conceive of such a thing. When later he protested
against his helotry it was in silence. He but vacated the city where the
earth threatened to open beneath him and where his lost gods brooded
inimical still. Ultimately, protests persisting, the patricians consented
that these nobodies should be somebodies, provided at least they were men.
Already Roman by birth, they became Roman by law.
Whether man or woman, it was a high privilege to be that. The woman who
was not, the manumitted slave, the foreigner within the walls, the code
disdained to consider. Statutes against shames took no account of her.
Beyond the pale even of ethics, the attitude to her of others concerned
but herself.
But about the Roman woman were thrown Lycurgian laws. A forfeiture of her
honor was a disgrace to the State. Her people killed her--Cognati necanto
uti volent--as they liked. On the morrow there was nothing that told of
the tragedy save the absence of a woman seen no more. If she were seen, if
father or husband neglected his duty, public indictment ensued with death
or exile for result. From the indictment and its penalties appeal could be
had. From the edile could be obtained the Licentia stupri, the right to
the antique livery of shame. But thereafter the purple no longer bordered
the robe of the ex-patrician. She could no longer be driven in chariots or
be borne in litters by slaves; the fillet, taken from her, was replaced
by a yellow wig; a harlot then, she was civilly dead.[17]
Tacitus has said that under Tiberius a special law had to be enacted to
prevent women of rank from such descent. During the austerer days of the
republic the derogation was unknown. The Greek ideal of woman which the
hetaira exemplified was beauty. Honor, which was the Roman ideal, the
matron achieved.
To the matrons reverently Rome bowed. The purple border on their mantle
compelled respect. The modesty of their eyes and ears was protected by
grave laws. In days of danger the senate asked their aid. The gods could
have no purer incense than their prayers. There was no homage greater than
their esteem. Such a word as dignity was too colorless to be employed
regarding them, it was the term majesty that was used. The vestal was but
a more perfect type of these women on whose tomb univiræ--the wife of
one man--was alone inscribed.
The honor of the Roman matron was a national affair, the honor of a Roman
girl a public concern. Because of the one, royalty was abolished. Because
of the other, the decemvirs fell. In neither case was there revolution. On
the contrary. In the first instance, that of Lucretia, it was the
insurrection of Tarquin against the inviolability of virtue. In the
second, that of Virginia, it was the insurrection of Appius Claudius
against the inviolability of love, dual insurrections, probably mythical,
which Rome, with legendary fury, suppressed, and which, whether historic
or imaginary, was typical of the energetic character that made her what
she was, proud, despotic, sovereign of the world.
"The empire that Rome won," St. Augustin, with agreeable ingenuousness,
remarked, "God gave her in order that, though pagan and consequently
unrewardable hereafter, her virtues should not remain unrecognized below."
Nor were they, and that, too, despite the fact that they omitted to
endure, except, as Cicero said, in books; "in old books," he added, "which
no one reads any more." But in the interim three things had occurred.
Greece, wounded to the death, had flooded Rome with the hemorrhages of her
expiring art. Asia had undyked the sea of her corruption. Both had
cascaded their riches. Rome hitherto had been poor, she had been puritan.
Hers had been the peasant's hard plain life. The costume of the matron,
which custom had made stately, the lex Oppia had made severe. This
statute, passed at the time of the Carthagenian invasion, was a measure of
public utility devised to increase the budget of war. Its abrogation
coincided with the fall of Macedon and the return of Æmilius Paulus,
bringing with him the sack of seventy cities, the prodigious booty of
ravaged Greece, the prelude to that of the East. Behind these eruptions
was the contagion of fastidious caprices that demoralized Rome.
Heretofore, innocent of excesses, ignorant of refinements, in antique
simplicity, Rome had sat briefly and upright before her frugal fare.
Thereafter, on cushioned beds were repasts, long and savorous, eaten to
the sound of crotal and of flute. There were after-courses of ballerine
and song, the refreshment of perfume, the luxurious tonic of the bath, the
red feather that enabled one to eat again, the marvels of Asiatic
debauchery, the surprises of Hellenic grace. In the charm of foreign
spells former austerities were forgot. Romans who had not been initiated
in them abroad had the returning victors for tutors at home.
Sylla was particularly instructive. Carthagenian in ferocity, Babylonian
in lubricity, Hamilcar and Belshazzar in one, the ugliest and most
formidable Roman of the lot, his life, which an ulcer ravaged, was a
succession of massacres, orgies, and crimes. Married one after another to
three women of wealth, who to him were but stepping stones to fortune, on
a day when he was preparing to give one of those festivals, the splendor
and the art of which he had learned from Mithridates, his third wife fell
ill. Death discourages Fortune. Sylla sent her a bill of divorce and
ordered her to be taken from the house, which was done, just in time, she
was dying. Sylla promptly remarried, then married again, and yet again.
Meanwhile, he had a daughter and an eye on the promising Pompey. His
daughter was married. So too was Pompey. He forced his daughter from her
husband, forced Pompey to repudiate his wife, and forced them to marry.
Sylla had brought with him from the East its curious cups in which blood
and passion mingled, and spilled them in the open streets. Crassus outdid
him in magnificence, and Lucullus eclipsed them both. Asia had yielded to
these men the fortune of her people, the honor of her children, the
treasure of her temples, the secrets of their sin. The Orientalisms which
they imported, their deluge of coin, their art of marrying cruelty to
pleasure, set Rome mad.
Among the maddest was Catiline. That tiger, in whose vestibule were
engraved the laws of facile love, affiliated women of rank, others of
none, soldiers and slaves, in his convulsive cause. Shortly, throughout
the Latin territory, a mysterious sound was heard. It was like the clash
of arms afar. The augurs, interrogated, announced that the form of the
State was about to change. The noise was the crackling of the
republic.[18]
Before it fell came Cæsar. Sylla told him to repudiate his wife as Pompey
had. Cæsar declined to be commanded. The house of Julia, to which he
belonged, descended, he declared, from Venus. Venus Pandemos, perhaps. But
the ancestry was typical. Cinna drafted a law giving him the right to
marry as often as he chose. After the episodes in Gaul, when he entered
Rome, his legions warned the citizens to have an eye to their wives.
Meanwhile, he had repudiated Pompeia, his wife, not to please Sylla but
himself, or rather because Publius Claudius, a young gallant, had been
discovered disguised as a woman assisting at the mysteries of the Bona
Dea, held on this occasion in Cæsar's house. To these ceremonies men were
not admitted. The affair made a great scandal. Pompeia was suspected of
having helped Publius to be present. The suspicion was probably unfounded.
But Cæsar held that his wife should be above suspicion. He divorced her in
consequence and married Calpurnia, not for love but for place. Her father
was consul. Cæsar wanted his aid and got it. Then, after creating a
solitude and calling it peace, after turning over two million people into
so many dead flies, after giving geography such a twist that to-day whoso
says Cæsar says history--after these pauses in the ascending scale of his
unequalled life, at the age of fifty, bald, tired, and very pale, there
was brought to him at Alexandria a bundle, from which, when opened, there
emerged a little wonder called Cleopatra, but who was Isis unveiled.[19]
VIII
ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA.
In Greece beauty was the secret of life. In Egypt it was the secret of
death. The sphinxes that crouched in the avenues, the caryatides at the
palace doors, the gods on their pedestals, had an expression enigmatic but
identical. It was as though some of them listened, while others repeated
the story of the soul's career. In the chambers of the tombs the echo of
the story descended. The dead were dreaming, and draining it. Saturated
with aromatics, wound about with spirals of thin bands, they were dressed
as for nuptials. On their faces was the same beatitude that the statues
displayed.
Isis typified that beatitude. The goddess, in whose mysteries were taught
both the immortality of the soul and the secret of its migrations, was one
of Ishtar's many avatars, the only one whose attributes accorded even
remotely with the divine. Egypt adored her. There were other gods. There
was Osiris, the father; Horus, the son, who with Isis formed the trinity
which India and Persia both possessed, and which Byzance afterward
perpetuated. There were other gods also, a hierarchy of great idle
divinities with, beneath them, cohorts of inferior fiends. But the great
light was Isis. Goddess of life and goddess of death, she had for sceptre
a lotos and for crown a cormorant; the lotos because it is emblematic of
love, and the cormorant because, however replete, it says never Enough.
Isis was the consort of Osiris. She was also his sister. It was customary
for the queens of Egypt to call themselves after her, and, like her, to
marry a brother. Cleopatra followed the usual custom. In other ways she
must have resembled her. She was beautiful, but not remarkably so. The
Egyptian women generally were good-looking. The Asiatics admired them very
much. They were preferred to the Chinese, whose eyes oblique and
half-closed perturbed sages, demons even, with whom, Michelet has
suggested, they were perhaps akin. Cleopatra lacked that insidiousness.
Semi-Greek, a daughter of the Ptolomies, she had the charm of the Hellenic
hetaira. To aptitudes natural and very great, she added a varied
assortment of accomplishments. It is said that she could talk to any one
in any tongue. That is probably an exaggeration. But, though a queen, she
was ambitious; though a girl, she was lettered; succinctly, she was
masterful, a match for any man except Cæsar.
Cleopatra must have been very heady. Cæsar knew how to keep his head. He
could not have done what he did, had he not known. Dissolute, as all men
of that epoch had become, he differed from all of them in his
epicureanism. Like Epicurus, he was strictly temperate. He supped on dry
bread. Cato said that he was the first sober man that had tried to
overthrow the republic. But, then, he had been to school, to the best of
schools, which the world is. His studies in anima vili had taught him
many things, among them, how to win and not be won. Cleopatra might almost
have been his granddaughter. But he was Cæsar. His eyes blazed with
genius. Besides, he was the most alluring of men. Tall, slender, not
handsome but superb--so superb that Cicero mistook him for a fop from whom
the republic had nothing to fear--at seventeen he had fascinated pirates.
Ever since he had fascinated queens. In the long list, Cleopatra was but
another to this man whom the depths of Hither Asia, the mysteries that lay
beyond, the diadems of Cyrus and Alexander, the Vistula and the Baltic
claimed. There were his ambitions. They were immense. So were also
Cleopatra's. What he wanted, she wanted for him, and for herself as well.
She wanted him sovereign of the world and herself its empress.
These views, in so far as they concerned her, did not interest him very
greatly. His lack of interest he was, however, too well bred to display.
He solidified her throne, which at the time was not stable, left her a son
for souvenir, went away, forgot her, remembered her, invited her to Rome,
where, presumably with Calpurnia's permission, he put her up at his house,
and again forgot her. He was becoming divine, what is superior, immortal.
Even when dead, his name, adopted by the emperors of Rome, survived in
Czars and Kaisers. His power too, coextensive with Rome, persisted.
Severed as it was like his heart when he fell, the booty was divided
between Octavius, Lepidus, and Marc Antony.
Their triumvirate--duumvirate rather, Lepidus was nobody--matrimony
consolidated. Octavius married a relative of Antony and Antony married
Octavius' sister. Then the world was apportioned. Octavius got the
Occident, Antony the Orient. Rome became the capital of the one,
Alexandria that of the other. At the time Alexandria was Rome's rival and
superior. Rome, unsightly still with the atrocities of the Tarquins, had
neither art nor commerce. These things were regarded as the occupations of
slaves. Alexandria, purely Greek, very fair, opulent, and teeming, was the
universal centre of both, of learning too, of debauchery as well--elements
which its queen, a viper of the Nile, personified.
Before going there Antony made and unmade a dozen kings. Then, presently,
at Tarsus he ordered Cleopatra to come to him. Indolently, his subject
obeyed.
Cæsar claimed descent from Venus. Antony's tutelary god was Bacchus, but
he claimed descent from Hercules, whom in size and strength he resembled.
The strength was not intellectual. He was an understudy of genius, a
soldier of limited intelligence, who tried to imitate Cæsar and failed to
understand him, a big barbarian boy, by accident satrap and god.
At Rome he had seen Cleopatra. Whether she had noticed him is uncertain.
But the gilded galley with the purple sails, its silver oars, its canopy
of enchantments in which she went to him at Tarsus, has been told and
retold, sung and painted.
At the approach of Isis, the Tarsians crowded the shore. Bacchus, deserted
on his throne, sent an officer to fetch her to him. Cleopatra insisted
that he come to her. Antony, amused at the impertinence, complied. The
infinite variety of this woman, that made her a suite of surprises,
instantly enthralled him. From that moment he was hers, a lion in leash,
led captive into Alexandria, where, initiated by her into the inimitable
life, probably into the refinements of the savoir-vivre as well, Bacchus
developed into Osiris, while Isis transformed herself anew. She drank
with him, fished with him, hunted with him, drilled with him, played
tricks on him, and, at night, in slave's dress, romped with him in
Rhakotis--a local slum--broke windows, beat the watch, captivating the
captive wholly.[20]
Where she had failed with Cæsar she determined to succeed with him, and
would have succeeded, had Antony been Cæsar. Octavius was not Cæsar,
either. Any man of ability, with the power and resources of which Antony
disposed, could have taken the Occident from him and, with Cleopatra,
ruled the world.
Together they dreamed of it. It was a beautiful dream, inimitable like
their life. Rumors of the one and of the other reached Octavius. He
waited, not impatiently and not long. Meanwhile Antony was still the
husband of Octavia. But Cleopatra had poisoned her brother-husband. There
being, therefore, no lawful reason why she and Antony should not marry,
they did. Together, in the splendid palace of the Bruchium--an antique gem
of which the historic brilliance still persists--they seated themselves,
he as Osiris, she as Isis, on thrones of gold. Their children they
declared kings of kings. Armenia, Phoenicia, Media, and Parthea, were
allotted to them. To Cleopatra's realm Antony added Syria, Lydia, and
Cyprus. These distributions constituted just so many dismemberments of
the res publica, Antony thought them so entirely within the scope of his
prerogatives that he sent an account of the proceedings to the senate.
With the account there went to Octavia a bill of divorce. Rome stood by
indignant. It was precisely what Octavius wanted.
Octavius had divorced his wife and married a married woman. According to
the ethics of the day, he was a model citizen, whereas Antony throning as
Osiris with a female Mithridates for consort, was as oblivious of Roman
dignity as of conjugal faith. In addition, it was found that he had made a
will by which Rome, in the event of capture, was devised as tributary city
to Cleopatra. Moreover, a senator, who had visited Antony at the Bruchium,
testified that he had seen him upholding the woman's litter like a slave.
It was obvious that he was mad, demented by her aphrodisiacs. But it was
obvious also that the gods of the East were rising, that Isis with her
cormorant, her lotos and her spangled arms, was arrayed against the Roman
penates.[21]
War was declared. At Actium the clash occurred. Antony might have won. But
before he had had time to lose, Cleopatra, with singular clairvoyance,
deserted him. Her reasons for believing that he would be defeated are not
clear, but her motive in going is obvious. She wanted to rule the world's
ruler, whoever he might be, and she thought by prompt defection to find
favor with Octavius.
At the sight of her scudding sail Antony lost his senses. Instead of
remaining and winning, as he might have, he followed her. Together they
reached Alexandria. But there it was no longer the inimitable life that
they led, rather that of the inseparables in death, or at least Antony so
fancied. Cleopatra intoxicated him with funereal delights while
corresponding in secret with Octavius who had written engagingly to her.
In the Bruchium the nights were festivals. By day she experimented on
slaves with different poisons. Antony believed that she was preparing to
die with him. She had no such intention. She was preparing to be rid of
him. Then, suddenly, the enemy was at the gates. Antony challenged
Octavius to single combat. Octavius sent him word that there were many
other ways in which he could end his life. At that the lion roared. Even
then he thought he might demolish him. He tried. He went forth to fight.
But Cleopatra had other views. The infantry, the cavalry, the flotilla,
joined the Roman forces. The viper of the Nile had betrayed him. Bacchus
had also. The night had been stirred by the hum of harps and the cries of
bacchantes bearing the tutelary god to the Romans.
Antony, staggering back to the palace, was told that Cleopatra had killed
herself. She had not, but fearful lest he kill her, she had hidden with
her treasure in a temple. Antony, after the Roman fashion, kept always
with him a slave who should kill him when his hour was come. The slave's
name, Plutarch said, was Eros. Antony called him. Eros raised a sword, but
instead of striking his master, struck himself. Antony reddened and
imitated him. Another slave then told him that Cleopatra still lived. He
had himself taken to where she was, and died while attempting to console
this woman who was preparing for the consolations of Octavius.
It is said that she received the conqueror magnificently. But his engaging
letters had been ruses de guerre. They had triumphed. The new Cæsar
wanted to triumph still further. He wanted Cleopatra, a chain about her
neck, dragged after his chariot through Rome. He wanted in that abjection
to triumph over the entire East. Instead of yielding to her, as she had
expected, he threatened to kill her children if she eluded him by killing
herself. The threat was horrible. But more horrible still was the thought
of the infamy to be.
Shortly, on a bed of gold, dressed as for nuptials, she was found dead
among her expiring women, one of whom even then was putting back on her
head her diadem which had fallen. At last the cormorant had cried
"Enough!"
Said Horace: "Nunc est bibendum."
IX
THE IMPERIAL ORGY
Death, in taking Cleopatra, closed the doors of the temple Janus. After
centuries of turmoil, there was peace. The reign of the Cæsars had begun.
Octavius became Augustus, the rest of the litter divine. The triumvirs of
war were succeeded by the triumvirs of love. These were the poets.
Catullus had gone with the republic. In verse he might have been primus.
He was too negligent. His microscopic masterpieces form but a brief bundle
of pastels. The face repeated there is Lesbia's. He saw her first lounging
in a litter that slaves carried along the Sacred Way. Immediately he was
in love with her. The love was returned. In the delight of it the poet was
born. His first verses were to her, so also were his last. But Lesbia
wearied of song and kisses, at least of his. She eloped with his nearest
friend. In the Somnambula the tenor sings O perché non posso
odiarte--Why can I not hate thee? The song is but a variant on that of
Catullus. Odi et amo, I love and hate you, he called after her. But, if
she heard, she heeded as little as Beatrice did when Dante cursed the day
he saw her first. Dante ceased to upbraid, but did not cease to love. He
was but following the example of Catullus, with this difference: Beatrice
went to heaven, Lesbia to hell, to an earthly hell, the worst of any, to a
horrible inn on the Tiber where sailors brawled. She descended to that,
fell there, rather. Catullus still loved her.
At the sight of Cynthia another poet was born. What Lesbia pulchra had
been to Catullus, Cynthia pulchrior became to Propertius. He swore that
she should be his sole muse, and kept his word, in so far as verse was
concerned. Otherwise, he was less constant. It is doubtful if she deserved
more, or as much. Never did a girl succeed better in tormenting a lover,
never was there a lover so poetically wretched as he. In final fury he
flung at her farewells that were maledictions, only to be recaptured,
beaten even, subjugated anew. She made him love her. When she died, her
death nearly killed him. Nearly, but not quite. He survived, and, first
among poets, intercepted the possibility of reunion there where all things
broken are made complete, and found again things vanished--Lethum non
omnia finit.
Horace resembled him very remotely. A little fat man--brevis atque obesus,
Suetonius said--he waddled and wallowed in the excesses of the day,
telling, in culpable iambics, of fair faces, facile amours, easy
epicureanism, rose-crowned locks, yet telling of them--and of other
matters less admissible--on a lyre with wonderful chords. At the
conclusion of the third book of the Odes, he declared that he had
completed a monument which the succession of centuries without number
could not destroy. "I shall not die," he added. He was right. Because of
that flame of fair faces, lovers turn to him still. Because of his
iambics, he has a niche in the hearts of the polite. Versatile in love and
in verse, his inconstancy and his art are nowhere better displayed than in
the incomparable Donec gratus eram tibi, which Ponsard rewrote:
HORACE.
     Tant que tu m'as aimé, que nul autre plus digne
     N'entourait de ses bras ton col blanc comme un cygne,
     J'ai vécu plus heureux que Xerxès le grand roi.
LYDIE.
     Tant que tu n'as aimé personne plus que moi,
     Quand Chloé n'était pas préférée à Lydie,
     J'ai vécu plus illustre et plus fière qu'Ilie.
HORACE.
     J'appartiens maintenant à la blonde Chloé,
     Qui plait par sa voix douce et son luth enjoué.
     Je suis prêt à mourir pour prolonger sa vie.
LYDIE.
     Calais maintenant tient mon âme asservie,
     Nous brûlons tous les deux de mutuels amours,
     Et je mourrais deux fois pour prolonger ses jours.
HORACE.
     Mais quoi! Si j'ai regret de ma première chaine?
     Si Vénus de retour sous son joug me ramène?
     Si je refuse à l'autre, et te rends mon amour?
LYDIE.
     Encor que Calais soit beau comme le jour,
     Et toi plus inconstant que la feuille inconstante,
     Avec toi je vivrais et je mourrais contente.
Horace was the poet of ease, Catullus of love, Propertius of passion,
Tibullus of sentiment. Ovid was the poet of pleasure. A man of means, of
fashion, of the world, what to-day would be called a gentleman, he might
have been laureate of the Empire. Corinna interfered. Corinna was his
figurative muse. Whether she were one or many is uncertain, but nominally
at least it was for her that he wrote the suite of feverish fancies
entitled the "Art of Love" and which were better entitled the "Art of not
Loving at all." Subsequently, he planned a great Homeric epic. But, if
Corinna inspired masterpieces, she gave him no time to complete them. She
wanted her poet to herself. She refused to share him even with the gods.
It is supposed that Corinna was Julia, daughter of Augustus. Because of
her eyes, more exactly because of her father's, Ovid was banished among
barbarian brutes. It was rather a frightful penalty for participating in
the indiscretions of a woman who had always been the reverse of discreet.
Corinna, as described by Ovid, was a monster of perversity. Julia, as
described by Tacitus, yielded to her nothing in that respect.
The epoch itself was strange, curiously fecund in curious things that
became more curious still. Rome then, thoroughly Hellenized, had become
very fair. There were green terraces and porphyry porticoes that leaned to
a river on which red galleys passed, there were bronze doors and garden
roofs, glancing villas and temples more brilliant still. There were
spacious streets, a Forum curtained with silk, the glint and evocations of
triumphal war. There were theatres in which a multitude could jeer at an
emperor, and arenas in which an emperor could watch a multitude die. On
the stage, there were tragedies, pantomime, farce. There were races in the
circus and in the sacred groves, girls with the Orient in their eyes and
slim waists that swayed to the crotals. Into the arenas patricians
descended, in the amphitheatre were criminals from Gaul, in the Forum,
philosophers from Greece. For Rome's entertainment the mountains sent
lions; the deserts giraffes; there were boas from the jungles, bulls from
the plains, hippopotami from the rushes of the Nile, and, above them,
beasts greater than they--the Cæsars.
There had been the first, memory of whose grandiose figure lingered still.
Rome recalled the unforgettable, and recalled, too, his face which
incessant debauches had blanched. After him had come Augustus, a pigmy by
comparison, yet otherwise more depraved. He gone, there was the spectacle
of Tiberius devising infamies so monstrous that to describe them new words
were coined. That being insufficient, there followed Caligula, without
whom Nero, Claud, Domitian, Commodus, Caracalla, and Heliogabalus could
never have been. It was he who gave them both inspiration and incentive.
It was he who built the Cloacus Maximus in which all Rome rolled.
Augustus had done a little digging for it himself, but hypocritically as
he did everything, devising ethical laws as a cloak for turpitudes of his
own. Mecænas, his minister and lackey, divorced and remarried twenty
times. Augustus repudiated his own marriages, those of his kin as well.
Suetonius said of Caligula that it was uncertain which were viler, the
unions he contracted, their brevity, or their cause. With such examples,
it was inevitable that commoner people united but to part, and that,
insensibly, the law annulled as a caprice a clause that defined marriage
as the inseparable life.[22]
Under the Cæsars marriage became a temporary arrangement, abandoned and
re-established as often as one liked. Seneca said that women of rank
counted their years by their husbands. Juvenal said that it was in that
fashion that they counted their days. Tertullian added that divorce was
the result of marriage. Divorce, however, was not obligatory. Matrimony
was. According to the Lex Pappea Poppoea, whoso at twenty-five was not
married, whoso, divorced or widowed, did not remarry, whoso, though
married, was childless, ipso facto became a public enemy, incapable of
inheriting or of serving the State. To this law--an Augustan
hypocrisy--only a technical attention was paid. Men married just enough to
gain a position or inherit a legacy. The next day they got a divorce. At
the moment of need a child was adopted. The moment passed the brat was
disowned. As with men so with women. The univira became the many-husbanded
wife, occasionally a matron with no husband at all, one who, to escape the
consequences of the lex Pappea Poppoea, hired a man to loan her his
name, and who, with an establishment of her own, was free to do as she
liked, to imitate men at their worst, to fight like them and with them
for power, to dabble in the bloody dramas of State, to climb on the throne
and kill there or be killed; perhaps, less ambitiously, whipping her
slaves, summoning the headsman to them, quieting her nerves with drink,
appearing on the stage, in the arena even, contending as a gladiator
there, and remaining a patrician meanwhile.
In those days a sin was a prayer, and a prayer, Perseus said, was an
invocation at which a meretrix would blush to hear pronounced aloud.
Religion sanctioned anything. The primal gods, supplemented with the lords
and queens of other skies, had made Rome an abridgment of every
superstition, the temple of every crime. Asiatic monsters, which Hellenic
poetry had deodorized, landed there straight from the Orient, their native
hideousness unchanged. It was only the graceful Greek myths that Rome
transformed. Eros, who in Arcady seemed atiptoe, so delicately did he
tread upon the tender places of the soul, acquired, behind the mask of
Cupid, a maliciousness that was simian. Aphrodite, whose eyes had been
lifted to the north and south, and who in Attica was draped with light,
obtained as Venus the leer of the Lampsacene. Long since from Syria
Astarte had arrived, as already, torn by Cilician pirates from Persia,
Mithra had come, while, from Egypt, had strayed Apis from whose mouth two
phalluses issued horizontally.
These were Rome's gods, the divinities about whom men and maidens
assembled, and to whom pledges were made. There were others, so many, in
such hordes had they come, that Petronius said they outnumbered the
population. The lettered believed in them no more than we do. But, like
the Athenians, they lived among a people that did. Moreover, the lettered
were few. Rome, brutal at heart, sanguinary and voluptuous, fought, she
did not read. She could applaud, but not create. Her literature, like her
gods, her art, her corruption, had come from afar. Her own breasts were
sterile. When she gave birth, it was to a litter of monsters, by accident
to a genius, again to a poet, to Cæsar and to Lucretius, the only men of
letters ever born within her walls.
Meanwhile, though the Pantheon was obviously but a lupanar, the people
clung piously to creeds that justified every disorder, tenaciously to gods
that sanctified every vice, and fervently to Cæsars that incarnated them
all.
The Cæsars were religion in a concrete form. Long before, Ennius, the
Homer of Latium, had announced that the gods were but great men. The
Cæsars accepted that view with amplifications. They became greater than
any that had been. Save Death, who, in days that precede the fall of
empires, is the one divinity whom all fear and in whom all believe, they
alone were august. In the absence of the aromas of tradition, they had
something superior. The Olympians inspired awe, the Cæsars fright. Death
was their servant. They ordered. Death obeyed. In the obedience was
apotheosis. In the apotheosis was the delirium that madmen know. At their
feet, Rome, mad as they, built them temples, raised them shrines, created
for them hierophants and flamens, all the phantasmagoria of the
megalomaniac Alexander, and, with it, a worship which they accepted as
their due perhaps, but in which their reason fled. That of Cæsar withstood
it. Insanity began with Antony, who called himself Osiris. The brain of
Tiberius, very steady at first, was insufficiently strong to withstand the
nectar fumes. The latter intoxicated Caligula so sheerly that he invited
the moon to share his couch. Thereafter, the palace of the Cæsars became a
vast court in which the wives and daughters of the nobility assisted at
perversions which a Ministry of Pleasure devised, and where Rome abandoned
whatever she had held holy, the innocence of girlhood, patrician pride,
everything, shame included.
In post-pagan convulsions there was much that was very vile. But there is
one aspect of evil which subsequent barbarism reproved, and in which Rome
delighted. It was the symbolized shapes of sin, open and public, for
which in modern speech there is no name, and which were then omnipresent,
sung in verse, exhibited on the stage, paraded in the streets, put on the
amulets that girls and matrons wore, put in the nursery, consecrated by
custom, art, religion, and since recovered from disinterred Pompeii. "The
mouth," said Quintillian, "does not dare describe what the eyes behold."
Rome that had made orbs and urbs synonymous was being conquered by the
turpitudes of the quelled.
"I have told of the Prince," said Suetonius, "I will tell now of the
Beast." It was his privilege. He wrote in Latin. In English it is not
possible. Gautier declared that the inexpressible does not exist. Even his
pen might have balked, had he tried it on the imperial orgy. The ulcer
that ravaged Sylla, gangrened a throne, and decomposed a world. Less
violent under Tiberius than under Caligula, under Nero the fever rose to
the brain and added delirium to it. In reading accounts of the epoch you
feel as though you were assisting at the spectacle of a gigantic asylum,
from which the keepers are gone, and of which the inmates are omnipotent.
But, in spite of the virulence of the virus, the athletic constitution of
the empire, joined to its native element of might, resisted the disease so
potently that one must assume that there was there a vitality which no
other people had had, a hardiness that enabled Rome to survive excesses in
which Nineveh and Babylon fainted. From the disease itself Rome might have
recovered. It was the delirium that brought her down. That delirium,
mounting always, increased under Commodus, heightened under Caracalla, and
reached its crisis in Heliogabalus. Thereafter, for a while it waned only
to flame again under Diocletian. The virus remained. To extirpate it the
earth had to produce new races. Already they were on their way.
Meanwhile, though there were reigns when, in the words of Tacitus, virtue
was a sentence of death, the emperors were not always insane. Vespasian
was a soldier, Hadrian a scholar, Pius Antoninus a philosopher, and Marcus
Aurelius a sage. Rome was not wholly pandemoniac. There is goodness
everywhere, even in evil. There was goodness even in Rome. Stoicism, a
code of the highest morality, had been adopted by the polite. Cicero, in
expounding it, had stated that no one could be a philosopher who has not
learned that vice should be avoided, however concealable it may be.
Aristotle had praised virtue because of its extreme utility. Seneca said
that vices were maladies, among which Zeno catalogued love, as Plato did
crime. To him, vice stood to virtue as disease does to health. All guilt,
he said, is ignorance.
Expressions such as these appealed to a class relatively small, but highly
lettered, whom the intense realism of the amphitheatre, the suggestive
postures of the pantomimes, and the Orientalism of the orgy shocked. There
are now honest men everywhere, even in prison. Even in Rome there were
honest men then. Moreover, paganism at its worst, always tolerant, was
often poetic. Then, too, life in the imperial epoch, while less fair than
in the age of Pericles, was so splendidly brilliant that it exhausted
possible glamour for a thousand years to come. Dazzling in violence, its
coruscations blinded the barbarians so thoroughly that thereafter there
was but night.
X
FINIS AMORIS
The first barbarian that invaded Rome was a Jew. There was then there a
small colony of Hebrews. Porters, pedlers, rag-pickers, valets-de-place,
they were the descendants mainly of former prisoners of war. The Jew had a
message for them. It was very significant. But it conflicted so entirely
with orthodox views that there were few whom it did not annoy. A
disturbance ensued. The ghetto was raided. A complaint for inciting
disorder was lodged against a certain Christos, of whom nothing was known,
and who had eluded arrest.
Rome, through her relations with Syria, was probably the first Occidental
city in which the name was pronounced. Though the message behind it
annoyed many, others accepted it at once. These latter, the former
denounced. Some suppression ensued. But it had no religious significance.
The purport of the message and the attitude of those who accepted it was
seditious. Both denied the divinity of the Cæsars. That was treason. In
addition, they announced the approaching end of the world. That was a slur
on the optimism of State. A law was passed--Non licet esse Christianos.
None the less, they multiplied. The message that had been brought to Rome
was repeated throughout the Roman world. It crossed the frontiers. It
reached races of whom Rome had never heard. They came and peered at her.
Over the context of the message they drank hydromel to her fall.
The message, initially significant, dynamic at birth, developed under
multiplying hands into a force so disruptive that it shook the gods from
the skies, buried them beneath their ruined temples, and in derision
tossed after them their rites for shroud. In the convulsions a page of
history turned. The great book of paganism closed. Another opened. In it
was a new ideal of love.
Realization was not immediate. Entirely uncontemplated and equally
unforeseen, the ideal was an after-growth, a blossom among other ruins, a
flower that developed subtly with the Rosa mystica from higher shrines.
Meanwhile, the message persisted. Titularly an evangel, it meant good
news. The Christ had said to his disciples: "As ye go, preach, saying, The
Kingdom of God is at hand--for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have
gone over the cities of Israel till the Son of Man be come."
"All these things shall come upon this generation," were his subsequent
and explicit words. After the incident in the wilderness he declared: "The
time is fulfilled and the Kingdom of God is at hand." Later he asserted:
"Verily I say unto you that there be some of them that stand by which
shall in no wise taste of death till they see the Kingdom of God come with
power."[23]
In repeating these tidings, the evangelists lived in a state of constant
expectation. Their watchword was "Maran atha"--the Lord cometh. In fancy
they saw themselves in immediate Edens, seated on immutable thrones.
The corner-stone of the early Church was based on that idea. When, later,
it was recognized as a misconception, the coming of the Kingdom of God was
interpreted as the establishment of the Christian creed.
Jesus had no intention of founding a new religion. He came to prepare men
not for life, but for death. He believed that the world was to end. Had he
not so believed, his condemnation of labor, his prohibition against
wealth, his injunction to forsake all things for his sake, his praise of
celibacy, his disregard of family ties, and his abasement of marriage
would be without meaning. Observance of his orders he regarded as a
necessary preparation for an event then assumed to be near. It was
exacted as a means of grace.
On the other hand, it may be that there was an esoteric doctrine which
only the more spiritual among the disciples received. The significant
threat, "In this life ye shall have tribulation," contains a distinct
suggestion of other views. Possibly they concerned less the termination of
the world than the termination of life. Life extinct, obviously there must
ensue that peace which passeth all understanding, the Pratscha-Paramita,
or beyond all knowledge, which long before had been taught by the Buddha,
in whose precepts it is not improbable that Jesus was versed.
To-day there are four gospels. Originally there were fifty. In some of
them succincter views may have been expressed. The possibility, surviving
texts support. These texts are provided by Clement of Alexandria. They are
quoted by him from the Gospel according to the Egyptians, an Evangel that
existed in the latter half of the second century and which was then
regarded as canonical. In one of them, Jesus said: "I am come to destroy
the work of woman, which is generation and death." In another, being asked
how long life shall continue, he answered: "So long as women bear
children."[24]
These passages seem conclusive. Even otherwise, the designed effect of
the exoteric doctrine was identical. It eliminated love and condemned the
sex. In the latter respect, Paul was particularly severe. In violent words
he humiliated woman. He enjoined on her silence and submission. He
reminded her that man was created in the image of God, while she was but
created for him. He declared that he who giveth her in marriage cloth
well, but he that giveth her not doth better.[25]
Theoretically, as well as canonically, marriage thereafter was regarded as
unholy. The only union in which it was held that grace could possibly be,
was one that in its perfect immaculacy was a negation of marriage itself.
St. Sebastian enjoined any other form. The injunction was subsequently
ratified. It was ecclesiastically adjudged that whoso declared marriage
preferable to celibacy be accursed.[26] St. Augustin, more leniently,
permitted marriage, on condition, however, that the married in no
circumstance overlooked the object of their union, which object was the
creation of children, not to love them, he added, but to increase the
number of the servants of the Lord.[27]
St. Augustin was considerate. But Jesus had been indulgent. In the
plentitudes of his charity there was both commiseration and forgiveness.
Throughout his entire ministry he wrote but once. It was on an occasion
when a woman was brought before him. Her accusers were impatient. Jesus
bent forward and with a finger wrote on the ground. The letters were
illegible. But the symbol of obliteration was in the dust which the wind
would disperse. The charge was impatiently repeated. Jesus straightened
himself. With the weary comprehension of one to whom hearts are as books,
he looked at them. "Whoever is without sin among you, may cast the first
stone."
The sins of Mary Magdalen were many. He forgave them, for she had loved
much. His indulgence was real and it was infinite. Yet occasionally his
severity was as great. At the marriage of Cana he said to his mother:
"Woman, what have I to do with thee?" In the house of the chief of the
Pharisees he more emphatically announced: "If any man come unto me and
hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and
sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple." Elsewhere
he advocated celibacy enforced with the knife. John, his favorite
disciple, beheld those who had practised it standing among the
redeemed.[28]
That vision peopled the deserts with hermits. It filled the bastilles of
God, the convents and monasteries of pre-mediæval days. The theory of it
was adopted by kings on their thrones. Lovers in their betrothals engaged
to observe it reciprocally. Husbands and wives separated that they might
live more purely apart.
The theory, contrary to the spirit of paganism, was contrary also to that
of the Mosaic law. The necessity of marriage was one of the six hundred
and thirteen Hebraic precepts. The man who omitted to provide himself with
heirs became a homicide. In the Greek republics celibacy was penalized. In
Rome, during the republic, bachelors were taxed. Under the empire they
could neither inherit nor serve the State. But the law was evaded. Even
had it not been, the people of Rome, destroyed by war or as surely by
pleasure, little by little was disappearing. Slaves could not replace
citizens. The affranchised could be put in the army, even in the senate,
as they were, but that did not change their servility, and it was
precisely that servility which encouraged imperial aberrations and
welcomed those which Christianity brought.
The continence which the Church inculcated was not otherwise new. The
Persians had imposed it on girls consecrated to the worship of the Sun. It
was observed by the priests of Osiris. It was the cardinal virtue of the
Pythagoreans. It was exacted of Hellenic hierophants. Gaul had her
druidesses and Rome her vestals. Celibacy existed, therefore, before
Christianity did. But it was exceptional in addition to being not very
rigorously enforced. Vesta was a mother. All the vestals that faltered
were not buried alive. There was gossip, though it be but legend, of the
druidesses, of the muses as well. Immaculacy was the ideal condition of
the ideal gods. Zeus materially engendered material divinities that
presided over forces and forms. But, without concurrence, there issued
armed and adult from his brain the wise and immaculate Pallas.
Like her and the muses, genius was assumed to be ascetic also. Socrates
thought otherwise. His punishment was Xantippe, and not a line to his
credit. A married Homer is an anomaly which imagination cannot comfortably
conjure. A married Plato is another. Philosophers and poets generally were
single. Lucretius, Vergil, and the triumvirs of love were unmarried. In
the epoch in which they appeared Rome was aristocratically indisposed to
matrimony. To its pomps there was a dislike so pronounced that Augustus
introduced coercive laws. Hypocrite though he were, he foresaw the dangers
otherwise resulting. It was these that asceticism evoked.
The better part of the tenets of the early Church--sobriety, stoicism,
the theory of future reward and punishment, pagan philosophy professed.
Adherents could, therefore, have been readily recruited. But the doctrine
of asceticism and, with it, the abnegation of whatever Rome loved,
angered, creating first calumny, then persecution.
Infanticide at the time was very common. To accuse the Christians of it
would have meant nothing. They were charged instead with eating the
children that they killed. That being insufficient they were further
charged with the united abominations of OEdipus and Thyestes.[29]
Thereafter, if the Tiber mounted or the Nile did not, if it rained too
heavily or not enough, were there famine, earthquakes, pests, the fault
was theirs. Then, through the streets, a cry resounded, Christianos ad
leonem!--to the arena with them. At any consular delay the mob had its
torches and tortures. Persecution augumented devotion. "Fast," said
Tertullian. "Fasting prepares for martyrdom. But do not marry, do not bear
children. You would only leave them to the executioner. Garment yourselves
simply, the robes the angels bring are robes of death."
The robes did not always come, the executioner did not, either. The
Kingdom of God delayed. The world persisted. So also did asceticism.
Clement and Hermas unite in testifying that the immaculacy of the single
never varied during an epoch when even that of the vestals did, and that
the love of the married was the more tender because of the immaterial
relations observed.[30] Grégoire de Tours cited subsequently an instance
in which a bride stipulated for a union of this kind. Her husband agreed.
Many years later she died. Her husband, while preparing her for the grave,
openly and solemnly declared that he restored her to God as immaculate as
she came. "At which," the historian added, "the dead woman smiled and
said, 'Why do you tell what no one asked you.'"
The subtlety of the question pleased the Church. The Church liked to
compare the Christian to an athlete struggling in silence with the world,
the flesh, and the devil. It liked to regard him as one whose life was a
continual exercise in purification. It liked to represent his celibacy as
an imitation of the angels. At that period Christianity took things
literally and narrowly. Paul had spoken eloquently on the dignity of
marriage. He authorized and honored it. He permitted and even counselled
second marriages. But his pre-eminent praise of asceticism was alone
considered. Celibacy became the ideal of the early Christians who
necessarily avoided the Forum and whatever else was usual and Roman. It is
not, therefore, very surprising that they should have been defined as
enemies of gods, emperors, laws, customs, nature itself, or, more briefly,
as barbarians.
Yet there were others. At the north and at the west they prowled,
nourished in hatred of Rome, in wonder, too, of the effeminate and
splendid city with its litters of gold, its baths of perfume, its
inhabitants dressed in gauze, and its sway from the Indus to Britannia.
From the day when a mass of them stumbled on Marius to the hour when
Alaric laughed from beneath the walls his derision at imperial might,
always they had wondered and hated.
In the slaking of the hate Christianity perhaps unintentionally assisted.
The Master had said, "All they that take the sword shall perish by the
sword." His believers omitted to do either. When enrolled, they deserted.
On the frontiers they refused to fight. The path of the barbarians was
easy. In disorganized hordes they battened on Rome and melted away there
in excesses. Tacitus and Salvian rather flattered them. They were neither
intelligent or noble. They must have lacked even the sense of
independence. They pulled civilization down, but they fell with it--into
serfdom.
Already from the steppes of Tartary had issued cyclones of Huns. Painted
blue, wrapped in cloaks of human skin, it was thought that they were the
whelps of demons. Their chief was Attila. The whirlwind that he loosed
swept the world like a broom. In the echoes of his passage is the crash of
falling cities, the cries of the vanquished, the death rattle of nations,
the surge and roar of seas of blood. In the reverberations Attila looms,
dragging the desert after him, tossing it like a pall on the face of the
earth. "But who are you?" a startled prelate gasped. Said Attila, "I am
the Scourge of God."
Satiated at last, overburdened with the booty of the world, he galloped
back to his lair where, on his wedding couch, another Judith killed him.
In spite of him, in spite of preceding Goths and subsequent Vandals, Rome,
unlike her gods that had fled the skies, was immortal. She could fall, but
she could not die. But though she survived, antiquity was dead. It
departed with the lords of the ghostland.
HISTORIA AMORIS
Part Two
PART II
I
THE CLOISTER AND THE HEART
In the making of the world that was Rome, ages combined. Centuries
unrolled in its dissolution. Step by step it had ascended the path of
empire, step by step it went down. The descent completed, Rome herself
survived. The eternal feminine is not more everlasting than the Eternal
City. Yet, in the descent, her power, wrested from a people who had but
the infirmities of corruption, by others that had only the instincts of
brutes, left but vices and ruins. From these feudalism and serfdom
erupted. Humanity became divided into beasts of burden and beasts of prey.
Feudalism was the transmission of authority from an overlord to an
underlord, from the latter to a retainer, and thence down to the lowest
rung of the social ladder, beneath which was the serf, between whom and
his master the one judge was God.
The resulting conditions have no parallel in any epoch of which history
has cognizance. Except in Byzance, the glittering seat of Rome's surviving
dominion, and in Islâm, the glowing empire further east, nowhere was there
light. Europe, pitch-black, became, almost in its entirety, subject to the
caprices of a hierarchy of despots who managed to be both stupid and
fierce, absolute autocrats, practically kings. To the suzerain they owed
homage at court, assistance in war; but in their own baronies, all power,
whether military, judiciary, or legislative, centred in them. They had the
further prerogative, which they abundantly abused, of maintaining
centuries of anarchy and intellectual night. The fief and the sword were
the investiture of their power. The donjon--a pillory on one side, a
gibbet on the other--was the symbol of their might. The blazon, with its
sanguinary and fabulous beasts, was emblematic of themselves. Could wolves
form a social order, their model would be that of these brutes, to whom
God was but a bigger tyrant. Their personal interest, which alone
prevented them from exterminating everybody, was the determining cause of
affranchisement when it came, and, when it did, was accompanied by
conditions always hard, often grotesque, and usually vile, among which was
the jus primæ noctis and the affiliated marchetum, subsequently
termed droit du seigneur, the dual right of poaching on maidenly and
marital preserves.[31]
With that, with drink and pillage for relaxations, the chief business of
the barons was war. When they descended from their keeps, it was to rob
and attack. There was no security, not a road was safe, war was an
intermittent fever and existence a panic.
In the constant assault and sack of burgs and keeps, the condition of
woman was perilous. Usually she was shut away more securely and remotely
than in the gynæceum. If, to the detriment of her lord, she emerged, she
might have one of her lips cut off, both perhaps, or, more expeditiously,
be murdered. She never knew which beforehand. It was as it pleased him.
Penalties of this high-handedness were not sanctioned by law. There was
none. It was the right of might. Civilization outwearied had lapsed back
into eras in which women were things.
The lapse had ecclesiastical approbation. At the second council of Macon
it was debated whether woman should not be regarded as beyond the pale of
humanity and as appertaining to a degree intermediary between man and
beast. Subsequent councils put her outside of humanity also, but on a
plane between angels and man. But in the capitularies generally it was as
Vas infirmius that she was defined. Yet already Chrysostom, with a
better appreciation of the value of words, with a better appreciation of
the value of woman as well, had defined her as danger in its most
delectable form. Chrysostom means golden mouth. His views are of interest.
Those of the mediæval lord are not recorded, and would not be citable, if
they were.
From manners such as his and from times such as those, there was but one
refuge--the cloister, though there was also the tomb. They were not always
dissimilar. In the monasteries, there was a thick vapor of crapulence and
bad dreams. They were vestibules of hell. The bishops, frankly barbarian,
coarse, gluttonous, and worse, went about armed, pillaging as freely as
the barons. Monks less adventurous, but not on that account any better,
saw Satan calling gayly at them, "Thou art damned." Yet, however drear
their life, it was a surcease from the apoplexy of the epoch. Kings
descended from their thrones to join them. To the abbeys and priories came
women of rank.
In these latter retreats there was some suavity, but chiefly there was
security from predatory incursions, from husbands quite as unwelcome,
from the passions and violence of the turbulent world without. But the
security was not over-secure. Women that escaped behind the bars, saw
those bars shaken by the men from whom they had fled, saw the bars sunder,
and themselves torn away. That, though, was exceptional. In the cloister
generally there was safety, but there were also regrets, and, with them, a
leisure not always very adequately filled. To some, the cloister was but
another form of captivity in which they were put not of their own
volition, but by way of precaution, to insure a security which may not
have been entirely to their wish. Yet, from whatever cause existence in
these retreats was induced, very rapidly it became the fashion.
There had been epochs in which women wore garments that were brief, there
were others in which their robes were long. It was a question of mode.
Then haircloth came in fashion. In Greece, women were nominally free. In
Rome, they were unrestrained. In Europe at this period, they were
cloistered. It was the proper thing, a distinction that lifted them above
the vulgar. Bertheflede, a lady of very exalted position, who, Grégoire de
Tours has related, cared much for the pleasures of the table and not at
all for the service of God, entered a nunnery for no other reason.
There were other women who, for other causes, did likewise. In particular,
there was Radegonde who founded a cloister of her own, one that within
high walls had the gardens, porticoes, and baths of a Roman villa, but
which in the deluge of worldly sin, was, Thierry says, intended to be an
ark. There Radegonde received high ecclesiastics and laymen of position,
among others Fortunatus, a poet, young and attractive, whom the abbess,
young and attractive herself, welcomed so well that he lingered, supping
nightly at the cloister, composing songs in which were strained the honey
of Catullus, and, like him, crowned with roses.[32]
But Radegonde was not Lesbia, and Fortunatus, though a poet, confined his
licence to verse. Together they collaborated in the first romance of pure
sentiment that history records, one from which the abbess passed to
sanctity, and the poet to fame. Thereafter the story persisting may have
suggested some one of the pedestals that antiquity never learned to
sculpture and to which ladies were lifted by their knights.
Meanwhile love had assumed another shape. Radegonde, before becoming an
abbess, had been a queen. As a consequence she had prerogatives which
other women lacked. It was not every one that could entertain a tarrying
minstrel. It was not every one that would. The nun generally was
emancipated from man as thoroughly as the hetaira had been from marriage.
But the latter in renouncing matrimony did not for that reason renounce
love and there were many cloistered girls who, in renouncing man, did not
renounce love either. One of them dreamed that on a journey to the
fountain of living waters, a form appeared that pointed at a brilliant
basin, to which, as she stooped, Radegonde approached and put about her a
cloak that, she said, was sent by the girl's betrothed.
Radegonde was then dead and a saint. The dream of her, particularly the
gift, more especially its provenance, seemed so ineffable that the girl
could think of nothing else save only that when at last the betrothed did
come, the nuptial chamber should be ready. She begged therefore that there
be given her a little narrow cell, a narrow little tomb, to which, the
request granted, other nuns led her. At the threshold she kissed each of
them, then she entered; the opening was walled and within, with her mystic
spouse, the bride of Christ remained.[33]
At Alexandria, something similar had already occurred. There another
Hypathia, fair as she, refused Christianity, refused also marriage. God
did not appeal to her, man did not either. But a priest succeeded in
interesting her in the possibility of obtaining a husband superior to
every mortal being on condition only that she prayed to Mary. The girl did
pray. During the prayer she fell asleep. Then beautiful beyond all beauty
the Lord appeared to whom the Virgin offered the girl. The Christ refused.
She was fair but not fair enough. At that she awoke. Immortally lovely and
mortally sad she suffered the priest to baptize her. Another prayer
followed by another sleep ensued in which she beheld again the Christ who
then consenting to take her, put on her finger a ring which she found on
awakening.
The legend, which afterward inspired Veronese and Correggio, had a
counterpart in that of St. Catherine of Sienna. To her also the Christ
gave a ring, yet one which, Della Fonte, her biographer, declared, was
visible only to herself. The legend had also a pendant in the story of St.
Theresa, a Spanish mystic, who in her trances discovered that the
punishment of the damned is an inability to love. In the Relacion de su
vida the saint expressed herself as follows:
"It seemed to me as though I could see my soul, clearly, like a mirror,
and that in the centre of it the Lord came. It seemed to me that in every
part of my soul I saw him as I saw him in the mirror and that mirror, I
cannot say how, was wholly absorbed by the Lord, indescribably, in a sort
of amorous confusion."
The mirror was the imagination, the usual reflector of the beatific. It
was that perhaps to which Paul referred when he said that we see through a
glass darkly. But it was certainly that which enabled Gerson to catalogue
the various degrees of ravishment of which the highest, ecstasy,
culminates in union with Christ, where the soul attaining perfection is
freed.
Gerson came later but theories similar to his, which neoplatonism had
advanced, were common. In that day or more exactly in that night, the
silver petals of the lily of purity were plucked so continuously by so
many hands, so many were the eyes strained on the mirror, so frequent were
the brides of Christ, that the aberration became as disquieting as
asceticism. Then through fear that woman might lose herself in dreams of
spiritual love and evaporate completely, an effort was attempted which
succeeded presently in deflecting her aspirations to the Virgin who,
hitherto, had remained strictly within the limits originally traced.
Commiserate to the erring she was Regina angelorum, the angel queen. In
the twelfth century suddenly she mounted. From queen she became sovereign.
Ceremonies, churches, cathedrals, were consecrated uniquely to her. In
pomp and importance her worship exceeded that of God. When Satan had the
sinner in his grasp, it was she who in the prodigalities of her divine
compassion rescued and redeemed him.[34]
In the art of the period, such as it was, the worship was reflected. The
thin hands of saints, the poignant eyes of sinners, were raised to her
equally. The fainting figures that were painted in the ex-voto of the
triptiques seemed ill with love. The forms of women, lost beneath the
