he had been mistaken in thinking her disturbed by some poignant
memory. She had probably felt ill.
When she left the palace at last, she told him to let her know when
the refurnishing was so far advanced as to make a visit from her
necessary, and she thanked him so kindly for his attention that he
blushed a little.
For Orlando Schmidt was a modest and well-educated young man, of a
respectable Austrian family by his father’s side, but an Italian
as to his nationality. He had been to good schools, he had studied
scientific farming at an agricultural institute in Upper Austria,
and he had followed a commercial course in Milan; he had also
learned something about practical building, and was naturally
possessed of tolerably good taste.
‘I hope you will stay here and take charge of the Roman estate,’
said the Countess. ‘I fancy the lands are in as bad a condition as
the apartment upstairs.’
She smiled graciously, and Schmidt blushed again.
‘Your Excellency is very kind,’ he said modestly, as he stood
beside her low phaeton with his hat in his hand. ‘I am lodged here
in the palace, if you need me.’
She drove away, and before the carriage turned the corner of
the palace on the way to the more central part of the city, she
had quite forgotten Orlando Schmidt, though he had made such a
favourable impression upon her.
But the young man stood before the great arched entrance and
watched her till she was out of sight, with an expression she could
not have understood; and afterwards he whistled softly as he turned
back to ascend the stairs again in order to make careful notes of
all she had said about each room. He began in the boudoir, and he
sat down on the little sofa near the fireplace, with his large
note-book on his knee, and wrote busily while her words were still
fresh in his memory. Once or twice he looked towards the door,
which he could see as he sat, and the broken pieces of mirror
caught his eye. He remembered that his Italian mother had once told
him when he was a boy that it was very unlucky to break a mirror.
But he smiled at the recollection, for he was not a superstitious
young man, and had received a half-scientific education.
It was nearly twelve o’clock when Maria left the palace. She had
not realised that it was so late, and she had told the coachman
to take her to a dressmaker’s far down the Corso, near the Piazza
del Popolo. She was to have tried on a couple of frocks which were
necessary to complete her mourning; but the gun-fire from the
Janiculus and the clashing of all the church bells told her that
it was noon already, and too late, for Leone always had his dinner
with her at half-past twelve. She touched Telemaco’s broad black
back with the edge of her parasol to call his attention, and she
told him to go home instead of stopping at the dressmaker’s.
He asked whether he should pass through the Villa by Porta
Pinciana, that being as near a way as any other, and easy for the
horses, and she nodded her assent. She had not been in the Villa
since the day when she had walked there alone, and had gone home
and found Montalto’s letter.
It was a warm spring morning, but the horses trotted briskly up
the main avenue that leads in from the gate, glad to be in the
pleasant shade. Maria lowered her parasol to the bottom of the
phaeton without shutting it, for she knew she should need it again
in a few minutes. There was no other carriage in the avenue just
then, but several riders were walking their horses slowly towards
the gate after exercising them on the course. The first she met
were two civilians, and one of them was Oderisio Boccapaduli. He
recognised her from a distance, and before he was near enough to
bow he glanced quickly behind him, as if he expected to see some
one. She did not know the other man. Oderisio took off his hat, and
she smiled and nodded. Then came a captain of artillery on a strong
Hungarian horse that was evidently in a bad temper and hard to
manage. Maria turned her head to watch them after she had passed,
but her carriage was going at a smart pace and she soon looked
before her again. Not far ahead were two officers of the Piedmont
Lancers, walking their horses and talking together.
One was the same young lieutenant who had jumped his English mare
in and out of the ring for her benefit on that morning when she had
been on foot. She might have met him there any day. The other was
Baldassare del Castiglione, and she had not known that he was in
Rome.
She was so startled that she made a movement to raise her open
parasol and hide her face; but she instantly understood the
absurdity of doing such a thing and dropped it again, and looked
steadily towards the advancing horsemen, though for a few seconds
she could not see them. They were hidden in a fiery mist that rose
between her and them. It dissolved suddenly, and Castiglione was
gravely saluting her; his face was calm, but his eyes were blazing
blue. The young lieutenant raised his hand to his cap almost at the
same instant. With infinite difficulty Maria slowly bent her head
in answer, but she did not turn her eyes as the two men passed her,
and in another moment she had left them behind.
Then she felt that her heart was beating again, for she was sure
that it had quite stopped. But at the same instant her hand
unconsciously relaxed, and her open parasol, which was already half
over the step of the phaeton, flew out, rolled a little way, and
lay in the middle of the road, with the handle upwards.
She sat up quickly and called to Telemaco to stop. But the old man
was a little deaf, and she had to call twice before he checked the
quickly-trotting pair and brought them to a stand.
‘My parasol!’ she cried, as the coachman looked over his shoulder.
‘Give me the reins and get it,’ she added.
She heard the hoofs of a horse cantering up behind her, and she
looked round. Castiglione must have turned in the saddle to look
after her, and must have seen the parasol fall. It lay with the
handle upward, and parasol handles chanced to be long that year. It
was easy for a good rider to bend low and pick the thing up almost
without slackening his pace, and in another moment he was beside
the carriage giving it back to Maria.
‘Thank you,’ she said faintly. ‘I did not know you were in Rome.’
A quick word rose to his lips, but he checked it. Then he bent down
to her from the saddle, on pretence of brushing an imaginary fly
from his horse’s shoulder.
‘I thought you would rather not know it from me,’ he said quietly,
but so low that the deaf coachman could not hear. ‘Good morning,
Contessa,’ he added more loudly, as he straightened himself in the
saddle and saluted again.
He was gone, trotting back to join his companion; but she would not
look after him when she had told Telemaco to drive on. And all the
way home a great wave of joy was surging up round her, to her very
feet, and she was trying to climb higher lest it should rise and
overwhelm her; and she was clinging to something dark, and cold,
and hard as a black marble pillar, that was Montalto, and duty, and
death, all in one.
That afternoon a note came for her, brought to the door by a
trooper and left with the remark that there was no answer.
It contained the telegram Castiglione had received in Milan, and a
sheet of note-paper on which a few words were written in pencil.
‘This explains itself,’ he wrote. ‘It is the inevitable. I shall
not try to see you.’ She knew that she ought to be proud of his
good faith, but it was not easy.
CHAPTER XI
More than a month had passed and it was near the end of May; yet
Maria had not again exchanged a word with Castiglione. She had seen
him twice in the street, from a distance, but she was not sure
that he had seen her the second time. If he saw her, he certainly
wished her to think that he did not. She never went to the Villa
Borghese, nor drove towards Tor di Quinto nor along the beautiful
Monte Parioli avenue, lest she should meet him in one of those
places where officers ride at all hours of the day. On his side, he
avoided the streets through which she was likely to pass. It was
easy enough to do that, and as she was in mourning he was sure not
to find her where people met in the houses of mutual acquaintances.
For he had no intention of shutting himself up, being much too
sensible not to foresee that if he did so people would say he
spent his time with her. He showed himself in many places, on
the contrary, frequented Teresa Crescenzi’s drawing-room at
tea-time, dined assiduously with his cousins the Boccapaduli, at
whose house the old-fashioned Romans congregated, and also with
the Campodonico, and he was often at the Parenzos’ pretty house
in the Via Ludovisi, which was a favourite gathering-place of
the political party then in power, and of that portion of the
diplomatic corps which was accredited to the Quirinal and not to
the Vatican. The Duca di Casalmaggiore had become a friend of
Parenzo’s, and Castiglione took a good deal of pains to be seen
as often as possible in society by his colonel, who was of an
inquisitive turn of mind. In order to make his existence still more
patent in the eyes of his comrades, he lodged with one of them, a
man of his own age who was also not very well off, and who could
hardly help knowing where Baldassare went, what he did, and whether
he received many notes addressed in feminine handwriting or not.
The consequence of all this, and of his assiduity in matters of
duty, was that Teresa Crescenzi’s latest story got little credit,
and his brother officers said that he was ambitious and was going
in for the career in earnest. The colonel, who was a widower with a
son in the navy and a daughter married in Naples, and whom Teresa
had once vainly tried to capture for herself, disliked her and so
effectually ridiculed her invention that the rest of Castiglione’s
comrades fell into the way of laughing at her, too; and they said
that after having failed to marry the colonel she had tried to
catch Baldassare, and now meant to revenge herself because he would
not have her. His chum, too, told them that he certainly had no
secret love affair, and that when he was not on duty or at the
officers’ club, or where every one could see him, he was in his
lodgings reading German books on military tactics. Clearly he was
going in for the career.
He did not act or look like a man in love either; not in the
least. He had not been talkative before he left the regiment, but
since he had returned he took more pains than formerly to join in
the conversation. Another point in his favour was that he never had
any vague engagement which hindered him from joining in anything
that was unexpectedly proposed. Whatever he had to do was open and
definite; when it was not duty, it was a real promise to dine with
some one whom he named, and he took care to have it known that he
went; or else he had agreed to ride somewhere with an acquaintance,
and if any one took the trouble to go to that place, there he was,
sure enough, with the man he had named. In what was left of society
so late in the season, if he once talked especially to any one
woman he gave himself as much pains to amuse and interest another
on the morrow. He was such a model of a sensible man and such a
good officer that the colonel, who was rich enough to have afforded
the luxury of a poor son-in-law, wished he had another daughter
that he might marry her to Castiglione; and he said so openly, to
the great edification of Roman society.
As for Maria Montalto she did not speak of him again to Giuliana,
but the latter knew she never let him come to the house and that
she had made up her mind to see him as rarely as possible. Giuliana
was too simple and natural to care whether this excellent state
of things was due to her own advice or to Montalto’s approaching
return. It was enough that Maria was doing right and giving the
gossips nothing to talk about.
Parenzo and his wife went to England at this time, with the
intention of spending three weeks there. The Marchese, it was
understood, was entrusted with some special political business, and
as a matter of course he took his wife with him; for the first time
in her life Maria was glad to part from her old friend.
There are ordeals which it is easier to face alone than under the
eyes of others, even of those we love best; there are tortures
which are a little easier to bear when our dearest friends are not
watching our faces to see if we shall wince.
The date of Montalto’s return was approaching, and the state
apartment in the palace was almost ready, thanks to Orlando
Schmidt’s quiet energy and to a rather lavish expenditure of money.
He was a truly wonderful young man, Maria thought, for he seemed to
know everything that was useful and possessed the power of making
people work without so much as complaining till they were quite
exhausted. He never raised his voice, he never spoke roughly to a
workman; but he seemed to inspire something like terror and abject
submission in all whom he employed, and they spoke in whispers when
he was near and worked till they could work no longer.
Maria went to the apartment twice again, once to select the
hangings and stuffs for her own rooms out of a quantity that had
been sent for her approval, and once again when the furnishing was
almost finished. She was quiet and collected, for nothing was left
to remind her of the old boudoir and the rest. At her second visit
she was surprised to find that the small room had three doors
instead of two as formerly, and she asked the steward if the third
one was real, or an imitation fastened against the solid wall for
the sake of symmetry.
‘It is a real door,’ answered Schmidt. ‘It had been thinly walled
up and plastered over long ago, and I found it accidentally, and
took the liberty of opening it again. I hope your Excellency will
approve.’
‘It looks well,’ Maria said, for it helped to change the aspect of
the room; ‘but where does it take one?’
‘To the chapel,’ replied the steward. ‘I found a narrow passage
leading directly to a small door on the left side of the altar. You
can thus reach the chapel by a private way without going through
the apartment. The corridor was quite dark, but I have had electric
light put in. The key is here, you see.’
Schmidt moved it and opened the door at the same time with his
other hand, and Maria saw a narrow passage, brightly lit up. The
walls were white and varnished, and the floor was of plain white
tiles.
‘It must have been made in the beginning of the eighteenth
century,’ Schmidt said. ‘There was a Countess at that time who was
a princess of Saxony and was excessively devout. She died mad.’
‘You know the family history better than I do,’ observed Maria.
‘We have served the Excellent house from father to son more than
two hundred years.’
Schmidt said this as if he were telling her the most ordinary fact
in the world.
‘Will your Excellency please go to the chapel by the private
passage?’ he asked.
Maria let him lead the way and followed him. She was gratified by
the use he had made of his discovery, for she thought that it would
sometimes be a relief to go to the chapel alone and unnoticed. But
she also wished to assure herself that no one else could use the
corridor, and that there was a bolt or a lock on the door at the
other end. It was not that she distrusted Schmidt; on the contrary,
she thought very well of him, and was sure that he had consulted
only her convenience in what he had done. But when she thought of
what was before her, she felt very defenceless in the great old
house, so different from the comfortable little modern apartment
in which she had lived with Leone, where there were no hidden
staircases, nor secret passages, nor legends of mad countesses in
the eighteenth century, nor any ghosts of Maria’s own life.
Apparently Schmidt had told her the exact truth about the passage,
which was much longer than she had expected, and turned to the
right very soon, and was straight beyond that for twenty yards or
more. Maria guessed that it here followed the long wall of the
great ball-room, which had no entrances opposite the windows. She
reached the door of the chapel, and the electric light showed her a
strong new bolt with a brass knob, besides the spring latch.
‘It is quite private, you see,’ said Schmidt. ‘The door can be
fastened from this side.’
‘I see. It is very satisfactory. You have thought of everything.’
He opened the door of the small dim chapel, but she would not go
in. It had memories for her which she was afraid to stir. She
remembered how she had once gone there alone between midnight and
morning with a great horror upon her; and how she had knelt down,
setting her candlestick on the pavement beside her; and the dawn
had found her there still. She knew also that in another week or
ten days she would have to kneel there at mass on a Sunday; and
Montalto would be kneeling on one side of her, and Leone with his
bright blue eyes would be on the other.
‘Thank you,’ she said to the steward. ‘I will not go into the
chapel now.’
‘Nothing has been changed there,’ he answered. ‘It has merely been
thoroughly cleaned.’
Maria remembered the two hideous barocco angels in impossible
gilt draperies that supported a dreadful gilt canopy above the
tabernacle; and the absurd decorations of the miniature dome; and
the detestable assemblage of many-coloured marbles; and all the
details that recalled the atrocious taste introduced under the
Spanish influence in the south of Italy during the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries. She had seen nothing of all that when she had
come there alone, long after midnight, years ago, with only her one
flickering candle to light her through the great dark rooms and to
show her where the altar was.
‘I thought the Count would not like to have electric light in the
chapel,’ said Schmidt, as he fastened the door carefully. ‘The key
for the lights in the passage is here on the wall, your Excellency,
just on a level with the lock as you come in.’
‘It is really very well arranged,’ Maria answered, and as the
passage was not wide enough for two persons to pass conveniently,
she turned and led the way back.
‘I have had the walls varnished, because almost any sort of tinting
might rub off on your Excellency’s dress,’ said Schmidt. ‘The
passage is so extremely narrow, you see.’
‘It is very nice,’ Maria answered. ‘It was most sensible of you.’
Behind her, Orlando Schmidt blushed with pleasure at her praise,
and watched her graceful moving figure, shown off against the
shining white walls by the close-fitting black she wore. They
reached the boudoir, and there also Schmidt closed and locked the
door. But this time he took out the key and handed it to Maria.
‘As the passage is for your Excellency’s private use, you may
prefer to take away the key, since the workmen have nothing more to
do there.’
‘Thank you,’ Maria answered.
‘The servants need not know that the door is a real one,’ observed
Schmidt.
It chanced that Maria did not much like the maid she had at that
time, but as the woman was clever she meant to keep her. It struck
her that there was certainly no reason why she need know that her
mistress could go from her own rooms to the chapel without being
seen, if she wished to say her prayers there in private. As for
the chapel itself, its outer door was formerly kept locked, and
Montalto had given her a key to it when they had been married.
The reason for keeping it shut was that the altar contained a
reliquary in which was preserved a comparatively large relic of
the Cross, already very long an heirloom in the family. No doubt
Schmidt knew this, as he seemed to know everything else about his
hereditary employers--or masters, as he would have called them.
When one family of men has served another faithfully, those who
serve possess a sort of universal knowledge of such details which
no ordinary servant could acquire in half a lifetime.
Maria left the boudoir, after putting the key into the small new
black Morocco bag, which had taken the place of the rather shabby
grey velvet one she had used so long. When she came to live in the
palace she meant to keep the key in her writing-desk.
‘The Count wishes me to be here when he comes,’ she said as they
passed through the great ball-room. ‘He writes that you will
engage servants and see to everything. Our old butler and coachman
have never left me. Do you think I may keep them still? I wish to
do nothing, however, which does not agree with your instructions.’
‘My master’s orders,’ said Schmidt, ‘are to meet your Excellency’s
wishes in every respect. He will not even bring his own man with
him, and I have orders to engage a valet for him. If you will tell
me what day will be convenient for you to move, I will see that
everything is ready.’
‘The Count writes that he will arrive on Sunday afternoon,’ Maria
answered. ‘I had better be here two days before that. I will come
on Friday morning.’
‘On Friday?’ repeated the steward with a little surprise.
‘Yes. Are you superstitious, Signor Orlando?’
She really could not call him ‘Signor Schmidt’; it was too absurd;
yet he was of Italian nationality.
‘No, your Excellency, I am not. But most people are. If the Signora
Contessa would be kind enough to call me simply Schmidt,’ he added
with a little hesitation, ‘it is an easy name to remember, and does
not occur in Ariosto’s poem.’
She looked at him rather curiously, but she smiled at his last
words.
‘Very well,’ she said. ‘As you like.’
‘It was my mother,’ he explained, blushing shyly. ‘She is very fond
of Ariosto, and she insisted on christening me Orlando. On Friday
next everything will be ready to receive your Excellency and the
young gentleman. Shall I provide for moving the Signora Contessa’s
things?’
‘I shall be much obliged,’ said Maria, who was glad that she was to
be spared all trouble.
She went home feeling as if she were in a painful dream, from which
she must awake before long. In the afternoon, when Agostino was
out with Leone and the little house was quiet, she went to the
telephone and asked for the number of the Palazzo Boccapaduli.
She got it, and was answered by a man-servant. She inquired when
Castiglione would be at home, but was told that he was not staying
in the house. It was the only address she knew, so she asked where
he lived. The servant did not know, but would go and find out, if
she would hold the communication.
A few moments later the voice that spoke to her was Oderisio’s,
and he asked with whom he was speaking, and on being told, at
once inquired if it was she who wanted Castiglione’s address.
Yes, it was she; did he know it? Yes, he did; and he gave it. Had
Castiglione a telephone? No, but he might be at the officers’ club;
did she wish the number of that? No, she did not care for it. Thank
you, and good-bye.
At first she was a little annoyed that young Boccapaduli should
know she wanted Castiglione’s address. But presently, as she went
back to the sitting-room, it struck her that it was just as well.
Oderisio would understand that she was not seeing Baldassare often,
since she did not know his address after he had been in Rome nearly
a month.
She wrote him a short note, which anybody might have read, begging
him to come and see her on the following Thursday after half-past
two. She addressed it and stamped it, she put on her hat without
calling her maid, and she went out to post it in the letter-box at
the corner of the railway station.
She was sure of herself, she thought, and she believed she had
earned the right to receive Castiglione once again, because she was
bravely resolved never to see him alone after she returned to her
husband’s house. That resolution had formed itself at the instant
when she had told Leone that Montalto was coming back, and she
had not wavered in it since, in spite of what she had felt when
he had brought her the fallen parasol in the Villa. The greatest
and most enduring resolutions in life are rarely made after mature
consideration, still less at those times of spiritual exaltation
which are too often self-suggested, and sought for the sake of a
half-sensuous, half-mysterious agitation of the nerves that is far
from healthy. People who are not morbid and are in great trouble
generally see the right course rather suddenly and unexpectedly;
if they are good they follow it, if they are bad they do not, but
if they attempt a careful and subtle examination of conscience
they often come to grief. It is hopeless to analyse processes in
which conscience and mind are involved together until we can find
a constant coefficient for humanity’s ever-varying strength and
weakness.
During more than a month Maria had acted and thought under the
domination of one idea; she had need of strength, but she had not
felt the want of advice or help. She knew better than the harsh old
Capuchin, better even than Monsignor Saracinesca, what she must do,
and as for help, no living man or woman could have given her any,
unless it were Castiglione himself. She had accepted what was laid
upon her, and when she went at early morning to kneel at the altar
rail in the small oratory, she prayed for strength and for nothing
else.
So far it had come to her and had borne her through more than
any one who knew her could have guessed; and when she sent for
Castiglione, to see him once more and for the last time, she was
far from thinking that she did so from any weakness. It seemed only
just, for no man could have acted more honourably and courageously
than he, and he had a right to know from her own lips what she
meant to do.
He came, knowing what was before him, and meaning to do what he
could to spare her all pain and useless emotion. More and more
often now he called her a saint in his thoughts, and his love for
her was sometimes very like veneration.
She had taken care that Leone should not be in the house that
afternoon, not because she had any thought of concealing
Castiglione’s visit from the child, but out of consideration for
the man himself. She knew only too well what he felt when he saw
the boy’s blue eyes and his short and thick brown hair.
He came in civilian’s dress, lest his brilliant uniform should
attract attention from a distance as he entered the house where she
lived. His hand met hers quietly and the two lovers looked into
each other’s earnest eyes. By a common impulse they sat down in the
places they had generally taken when they had met in the same room
before, on opposite sides of the empty fireplace.
‘I know why you have sent for me,’ began Baldassare, very gently.
‘May I try to tell you? It may be a little easier.’
Maria did not attempt to speak for a few moments, and he waited.
‘No,’ she said at last, quite steadily. ‘You could not tell me just
what I have to say to you. I asked you to come because you have
been so very brave, so very generous----’
She choked a little, but recovered herself quickly.
‘It is only just that I should tell you so before we say good-bye,’
she went on. ‘I knew I could trust you--but oh, I did not know how
much!’
‘I have only tried to do my duty,’ he answered.
‘You have done it like the brave man you are,’ said Maria.
‘Please----’ he spoke to interrupt her.
‘Yes,’ she went on, not heeding him. ‘We may not meet again, we
two, alone like this. One of us may die before that is possible.
So I shall say all that is in my thoughts, if I can. You most
know all, you must understand all, even if it hurts very much. My
husband is going to take me back altogether; he has forgiven me; he
asks me to be his wife again. Can I refuse?’
She had not meant to put the question to him, and he knew that she
expected no answer. Her tone showed that. But he would not let her
think that in his heart he rebelled against the knife.
‘No,’ he said very slowly. ‘I would not have you refuse what he
asks. It would be neither right nor just.’
In spite of the almost intolerable pain she was suffering, a glow
of wonder rose in her eyes; and there was no shadow of doubt to dim
it. At his worst, in the old days, he had always told the truth.
‘God bless you for that!’ she cried suddenly, and then her voice
dropped low. ‘You have travelled far on the good road since we last
talked together,’ she said. ‘Further than I.’
He shook his head gravely.
‘No,’ he answered. ‘You have led me, and I have followed.’
‘We have journeyed together,’ she said, ‘though we have been apart.
We may be separated, as we must be now, to the end, but we cannot
be divided any more. I wanted to tell you something else too, this
last time, and you have made it easy to say it, and altogether
right. It is this. I do not take back one word of what I said to
you and wrote to you before I knew Montalto was coming home. I do
not want you to think that I have changed my mind, or that the life
we were going to lead seems to me now one little bit less good and
true and honourable than it seemed to me that first time we talked
together here.’
‘Do you think I doubted you for a moment?’
‘You might. But it is only that other things have changed. We have
not, and I know we never shall, and in the end we are to meet where
there is peace, and somehow it will be right then, and we shall all
three understand that it is. Can you believe that too?’
‘I wish to. I shall try to. If anything could make a man believe in
God, it is the love of such a woman as you are.’
‘You have my love,’ Maria answered. ‘And some day you will believe
as I do, but in your own way, and we shall be together where there
are no partings. Yes, I am sure that we could have lived as we
meant to, and could have helped each other to rise higher and
higher, far above these dying bodies of ours. But we shall reach
the good end more quickly by our suffering than we ever could by
our happiness.’
‘That may be,’ said Castiglione, ‘but one thing is far more
certain: we must part now, cost what it may.’
‘Cost what it may!’ She pressed her hands to her eyes and was
silent a little while.
‘Has he spoken of Leone in his letters?’ Castiglione asked after a
time, in a tone that was almost timid.
Maria dropped her hands upon her knees at once and met his look.
‘Not to me,’ she answered. ‘But he gave orders about the child’s
room to the steward he sent from Montalto. Everything was to be
arranged for Leone just as I wished. That was all.’
‘Will he be kind to the boy, do you think?’ asked Castiglione, very
low.
‘I know he will try to be,’ Maria answered generously.
That was her greatest cause for fear in the future; it was the
stumbling-block she saw in the way of Montalto’s wish to take her
back; but although he might treat the boy coldly, and avoid seeing
him, and insist that he should be sent away to a school as soon as
he was old enough, she believed that her husband would be just, and
she was sure she should leave him if he were not. There was one
sacrifice which should not be exacted of her: she would not tamely
submit to see her child ill-treated. At that she would rebel, and
she would be dangerous for any man to face.
‘Yes,’ she repeated, ‘I know he will try to be kind.’
Castiglione merely nodded and said nothing, but Maria saw his
looks; and she was not all a saint yet, for with the sight came the
thrill of fierce elemental motherhood, rejoicing in the strength of
the man who could kill. There was nothing very saintly about that,
and she knew it.
‘We must not think of such things,’ she said, as she felt the deep
vibrations grow faint and die away. ‘Let us take it for granted
that my husband will be very just. That is all I have a right to
ask of him.’
Again Castiglione bent his head in assent. Then both were silent
for a long time.
‘Am I never to know anything of your life after this?’ he asked
suddenly.
‘You will know what every one may know,’ she said.
‘Nothing more? Only to hear that you are ill or well? Never to
be told whether he really does what he can to make it bearable
for you? May I not have news of you sometimes? Through Giuliana
Parenzo, for instance? Is it to be always outer darkness?’
‘Giuliana will know what you all will know, and no more,’ Maria
answered. ‘If I must not tell you what I suffer, do you think I
would tell her? I shall not tell myself!’ There was one bitter note
in that phrase. ‘You will always know something that no one else
can,’ she went on, and her voice softened. ‘And so shall I, and
that must be enough for us. Is it so little?’
‘Ah, no! It is all of us two that really lives!’
She heard the deeper tone of rising passion not far away, and she
interrupted him.
‘It is all I shall have for the rest of my life,’ she said, and she
rose suddenly and held out her hand, meaning that it was time to
part.
‘Already?’ he asked, not leaving his seat yet, and looking up
beseechingly.
‘Yes,’ she said. ‘You must not stay. We have told each other what
had to be said, and to say more would not be right. Less would not
have been just to you.’
He also had risen now and stood before her, meaning to be as brave
as she, cost what it might.
‘We are only human,’ she went on, ‘only a man and a woman alone
together, and if I let you stay longer this one last time, there
may be some word, some look, between us that we shall regret.
Though Diego is not here yet, I became his wife again in real truth
on the day I accepted his forgiveness; and as his wife, no word to
you shall pass my lips that he might not hear. We have tried to do
right, you and I; if we have not failed altogether, God help us
to do better! If we did wrong in those few sweet days, then God
pardon us! I thank you from my soul for being brave and true when
you might have dragged me down. For the past we have forgiven each
other, as we hope to be forgiven. And so good-bye. I would bless
you, if I dared; I can ask a blessing for you, and it will come; I
am sure it will. If I die first, I shall wait for you somewhere,
and you will come. If you are taken before me, wait for me!
Good-bye, good-bye, good-bye!’
Her voice was sweet and steady to the very end, but when he took
her hand at last it was cold, and it quivered in his. He began to
lift it to his lips, but it resisted him gently, and he obeyed its
resistance.
‘Good-bye,’ he said, as well as he could.
But she hardly heard the syllables; and then, in a moment, he was
gone.
CHAPTER XII
The day had come, and Maria was waiting alone for her husband
in one of the great rooms of the Palazzo Montalto. She had told
Leone that she would send for him when he was wanted, and he was
thoughtfully consoling himself for not being allowed to stay with
her by polishing the barrel of his tin rifle with his tooth-brush
and tooth powder, and he had the double satisfaction of seeing the
gun shine beautifully and of making the hated instrument useless
for its proper purpose. And meanwhile he wondered what his papa
would be like, and whether he should always hate him.
But Maria walked restlessly up and down the drawing-room, and her
head felt a little light. Now and then she stopped near one of
the open windows and listened for the sound of wheels below and
looked at her watch; and when she saw that it was still early, she
breathed more freely at first and sat down, trying to rest and
collect herself; but it was like thinking of resting ten minutes
before execution, and she rose almost directly and began to walk
again.
In her deep mourning she looked smaller and slighter in the great
room than in the simpler surroundings she had left. She had indeed
grown a little thinner of late, but she was not ill, nor even as
tired as she had expected to be at the crucial moment. The people
who feel most are not those whose nerves go to pieces in trouble,
and who get absolute rest then by the doctor’s orders; they are
more often those who are condemned to bear much, for the very
reason that they cannot break down. In the age of torture the weak
fainted or died and felt no more, but the strong were conscious and
suffered to the end, and that was very long in coming. Yet no one
ever pities the strong people.
Leone had told his mother that the white patch in her hair near
her left temple had grown so much larger of late that three of
his fingers only just covered it, and he had kindly offered to
ink it for her; and she was somewhat thinner and a little paler
than she had been a month earlier. But that was all there was to
show that she had lived through weeks of distress. Montalto would
scarcely notice the white lock at first, and her figure looked a
shade more perfect for being slighter. She had never been a beauty,
but she had more grace and charm than ever, and she was only
seven-and-twenty. Giuliana Parenzo was much handsomer, but few men
would have hesitated between her and Maria, who had that nameless
something in every easy movement, in every lingering smile, in each
soft tone of her warm voice, that wakes the man in men, as early
spring stirs the life in the earth, deep down and out of sight.
She did not understand what she had, and for years she had lived
so much away from the lighter side of her own world that she had
almost forgotten how the men used to gather round her and crowd
upon each other instinctively to come nearer to her in the first
year of her marriage, as they never did for Giuliana. She used to
notice it then, and she had a laugh and a quick answer for each
that showed no preference for any, and maddened them all till they
were almost ready to quarrel with each other; but she had been very
young then, and she had not understood, till one more reckless than
the rest, the very one she trusted too much because she loved him
only and too well, had laid waste for ever her fair young being,
half-wrecked his own life, and broken the heart of an honest man.
And this honest man had forgiven her, for love of her; he too, and
he more than any, had felt that her smile, and her breath, and
her touch could drive him mad; and now that he was coming back,
the minutes were passing quickly--a very few were left--still
fewer--the last but one--the very last, as she heard his carriage
roll in through the great arched entrance almost directly under her
feet.
The doors were open beyond the drawing-room towards the
ante-chamber; one door only was shut between that and the outer
hall where the butler and footmen in deep mourning were waiting for
their master.
She heard it opened, a once familiar voice asked in a formal
tone where she was, and a servant answered. Then came the
well-remembered step. In the painful tension of her hearing she
heard it far away, even on the soft carpet, more clearly than she
had ever heard it on tiled floor or marble pavement.
She steadied herself for a moment against the corner of a heavy
table; and then the drawing-room door, which had been open, was
shut, and Montalto was in the room, grey and hollow-eyed, coming
towards her with thin hands outstretched in greeting. By a miracle
of strength she went forward and met them with her own; met his
eyes, and let him kiss her. She sank into a chair then, and he was
close beside her, trying to speak in his old formal way, though he
could hardly control his voice.
He seemed dreadfully changed, and when she saw him clearly a sharp
pang of pity wrung her heart. His hair and pointed beard were quite
grey, his colourless cheeks were painfully thin, and his hollow
eyes burned with a feverish fire; he stopped speaking suddenly, in
the middle of a sentence, as if he were paralysed, and his lips
were parched, but his burning gaze did not waver from her face. She
was a little frightened.
‘You are ill!’ she cried. ‘Let me get you something!’
She half rose, but his thin hand caught her and held her back.
‘No,’ he said hoarsely, ‘I am not ill. It is only that--that I have
not--seen you--for so long!’
The words came in gasps; the last ones broke out in a frantic sob.
She was moved, and willing to be touched, and though she had felt
the old physical repulsion for him again the instant he came near
her, she took one of his hands now and held it on her knees and
stroked it kindly.
‘Diego!’
She did not know what to say, so she pronounced his name as softly
and as affectionately as she could. But she had not spoken yet, and
at the sound of her sweet voice the man broke down completely.
‘Oh, Maria, Maria!’ he moaned, drawing her hand to his chest and
rocking himself a little. ‘It was all a dreadful dream--and I have
got you back again--Maria----’
The over-strained, over-wrenched nerves gave way and he broke into
a flood of tears; the drops ran down the furrows of his thin cheeks
and his grey beard and wet her hand as he pressed passionate kisses
upon it, rocking himself over it and sobbing convulsively.
Maria had lived through a good deal of suffering and some moments
that now seemed too horrible to have been real, but she had never
had any emotion forced upon her from without that had been harder
to bear calmly than what she felt now.
If anything could strengthen the physical repulsion that made her
shrink from her husband’s touch it was the sight of his unmanly
tears and the sound of his hysterical sobbing. If anything could
make it more difficult to hide her loathing it was the knowledge
that she had wronged him and that she owed him gratitude for his
free forgiveness. She would much rather have had him turn upon her
like a maniac and strike her than be obliged to watch the painful
heaving of his thin, bent shoulders, and feel the hot tears that
ran down upon her hands.
It was so unutterably disgusting that she felt a terribly strong
impulse to throw him off, to scream out that she would not take his
forgiveness at any price, that he must let her go back and lead her
own life with her child, as she had lived for so many years. He
would suffer a little more, but what was a little more or less to a
man who seemed half mad?
Then the wave of pity rushed back, and that was even worse. It was
the pity a delicate woman feels for some wretched living thing half
killed in an accident, so crushed and torn that the mere thought
of touching it makes her shrink back and shiver to her very feet
because the suffering creature is not her own. If it were hers but
ever so little, if it were her dog, she would feel nothing but the
instant womanly need of saving it if she could, of helping it to
die easily if she could not.
Maria’s hand shrank from the scalding tears and writhed under the
man’s frantic kisses. She shut her eyes and threw back her head;
her face was drawn and white, and she prayed as she had never
prayed in her life, for strength to bear all that was before her.
It had seemed just possible, because she had imposed it upon
herself as her honourable duty, and because the husband she
remembered had been before all things proud, and as full of a
certain exaggerated dignity and self-respect as Spaniards sometimes
are, though he was only half-Spanish. She had felt him coming back
to her from far away, like a dark instrument of fate, to which she
must give herself up body and mind, if she hoped to expiate her sin
to the end. It had seemed hard, even dreadfully hard; but this was
worse. Instead of the erect and formal figure and the grave dark
face that had a certain strength in it which she could at least
respect--instead of that, it was a broken-down man who came to her,
prematurely old, a neurasthenic invalid no better than a hysterical
woman, palsied with unmanly emotion, lacking all strength,
self-respect and dignity, and without even a rag of vanity that
might have passed for pride.
She was not stronger in her hands than other women, but she was
sure that it would be easy to throw him from her; he would fall in
a heap on the carpet, and would lie there helpless and sobbing. As
she felt the instant contempt for his weakness, she prayed the more
for courage to humble her own strength to it; and her eyes were
still shut tight and her face was white and drawn. This was but the
beginning of what must last for years, ten, twenty, as long as he
lived, or until she died of it.
The future stretched out before her in length without end; she
forgot everything else, and did not know that the tears ceased to
flow and presently dried, nor that Montalto drew back from her into
his own chair as the storm subsided within him. His voice woke her
from the dream of pain to come.
‘I trust you will forgive my first emotion, my dear,’ he said with
all his characteristic formality. ‘I see that I have made a painful
impression on you. I shall not allow it to occur again.’
It was such a quick relief to see him more like himself, that she
had almost a sensation of pleasure, and she smiled faintly while
she tried to say something.
‘No--please--I’m so sorry----’
She could find no connected sentence. He rose and began to walk up
and down before her, making half a dozen steps each way, a shadowy
figure in black, passing and repassing before her.
‘I believe that I have made everything clear in my letters,’ he
said, and then he glanced at her from time to time without pausing
in his walk while he talked. ‘I shall not repeat anything I have
written, but there are one or two other matters of which I must
speak to you before we begin life again together, Maria. They need
not be mentioned more than once either. It is better to be done
with everything which may be in the least painful to you as soon as
possible.’
In spite of the formal manner, there were kind inflections in his
tone. It seemed marvellous that he should have recovered himself so
soon, and it was only possible because such exhibitions of weakness
were not really natural to him. Maria had felt relieved as soon
as he had begun to talk quietly, and when he left his seat, her
physical repugnance to him began to subside within its old limits.
But at the same time she felt a vague fear that he was going to
speak of Leone.
‘You have shown remarkable tact, my dear,’ he went on, ‘and you
will have no difficulty in making your friends understand that our
long separation has been principally due to my mother’s condition,
and that since she is gone’--his voice sank a little--‘we have
resumed our married life. This will be easy, no doubt. May I ask,
without indiscretion, who your most intimate friends are?’
‘Giuliana Parenzo is my only intimate friend,’ Maria answered at
once.
‘I am glad of that,’ said Montalto, approving. ‘She is a thoroughly
nice woman in all ways, and everybody respects her. Are there any
others whom you see often?’
‘I have dined a good many times with the Campodonico and the
Saracinesca and the Boccapaduli--sometimes with the Trasmondo.
I have never gone to balls. On the whole, I have tried to be on
friendly terms with most of the people who have children of Leone’s
age.’
She had boldly brought forward the question which she thought he
meant to reach, and she waited for his reply. But he would not take
it up.
‘Leone,’ he repeated, in a musing tone. ‘Friends for Leone. Yes,
yes--that was quite right. I will see him by and by.’
‘He is waiting to be called,’ said Maria quickly, for she was
anxious to get over the difficult moment as soon as possible.
‘Presently,’ answered Montalto. ‘I have one or two things to
say while we are alone. First, as to your friends, I wish you to
understand that even if there are some whom I do not know, they
shall all be welcome here. They will be the more welcome because
they stood by my wife when she was in trouble.’
He put a little emphasis on the words, his figure had straightened
and he held his head high. She understood the great generosity of
what he said.
‘Thank you, Diego,’ she said in a low voice. ‘You are very good.’
‘There is only one person who shall not come here,’ he continued,
in a tone that was suddenly hard.
Maria almost started, but controlled herself; he could only mean
Castiglione.
‘Who is it?’ she asked, as steadily as she could.
‘Teresa Crescenzi,’ answered Montalto, turning rather sharply. ‘I
beg you never to receive her. She spoke against my mother, and I
will not have her in the house.’
Maria actually laughed, though a little nervously.
‘She is no friend of mine,’ she said. ‘I do not care to see her.’
‘You need not quarrel with her, my dear, if you meet. I shall take
the responsibility on myself, and I shall be careful to let her
know that it is I who forbid her my house.’
He was not a short man, and when he drew himself up he looked tall.
Maria no longer felt that she could throw him to the floor if he
took her hand.
‘I have not many real friends here now,’ he said, more gently. ‘One
whom I especially esteem is Monsignor Saracinesca. Do you ever see
him?’
‘I saw him not long ago, and I sometimes meet him at his father’s
house. We are on good terms.’
‘That is very pleasant,’ Montalto answered. ‘I shall often ask him
here, if you do not object.’
‘I shall always be glad to see him,’ returned Maria. ‘But, please,
Diego, do not consult me about such things. I am very deeply
conscious of your generosity in all ways, and this house is yours,
not mine.’
‘It is ours,’ said Montalto, ‘except for Teresa Crescenzi. I do not
wish you to think of it in any other way. And that brings me to
the last point. May I inquire whether you have found yourself in
any--how shall I say?--in any financial straits in which my fortune
can be of service to you?’
You may judge a man of the world’s wisdom by the sort of wife he
chooses, but the test of a gentleman is the way he treats his
wife. Maria was profoundly touched by her husband’s question. She
rose from her seat and went close to him, overcoming her repulsion
easily for the moment as she took his hand and spoke.
‘No, I have made no debts. But I have no words to thank you for
your kindness. I shall try to deserve it.’
‘It is only what I owe to my wife,’ Montalto answered, and he bent
over her hand with as much ceremony as if there had been twenty
people in the room.
‘I have something to tell you, too,’ she said. ‘You ought to know
it. Baldassare del Castiglione has come back to Rome. We have met
alone, and we have agreed never to see each other again--except as
we may chance to find ourselves in a friend’s house at the same
time.’
Montalto could not help dropping her hand as soon as she pronounced
Castiglione’s name, but his face changed little.
‘I daresay you were wise to see him once,’ he replied, a trifle
coldly. ‘We need not refer to him again.’
She could not have expected more than that, but when he had
answered she was a little sorry that she had spoken at all. He
would willingly have trusted her without that explanation.
With an evident wish to change the subject, he began to ask
questions about the apartment, inquiring how she liked it, and
whether she had found Schmidt efficient in carrying out her wishes.
‘Very,’ she answered to the last question. ‘He is a wonderful man.’
‘Yes,’ Montalto assented coldly, ‘in some ways he is an
extraordinary young man.’
There was something more reserved in the tone than in the words,
but Maria was very far from being intimate enough with her husband
yet to ask whether Schmidt had any fault or weakness that justified
his master’s evident doubts about him. She wondered what the
trouble might be.
‘Shall we go and see Leone now?’ Montalto suggested. ‘On the way
you can show me what you have done to the house. You have not
ruined me in furniture,’ he added with a smile, as he looked round
the rather empty drawing-room.
‘I left as much as possible to you,’ Maria answered.
She was thinking of Leone, and she already saw before her the
sturdy little blue-eyed boy with his thick and short brown hair.
They went on through the house to the door of Maria’s boudoir, at
the end of the great ball-room.
‘That is where I have installed myself,’ she said, pointing to it
and turning to the left, towards the masked door that led to the
living rooms in the other wing.
‘Yes, I remember,’ answered Montalto. ‘And this is your
dressing-room, I suppose,’ he added as they walked on. ‘And this
used to be your bedroom.’
‘Yes,’ said Maria steadily. ‘That is the door of my bedroom.’
Leone’s was the next, and in a moment they were standing in a flood
of afternoon light, and Maria bent down and kissed the small boy’s
hair because he would not turn up his cheek to her, being very
intent on examining Montalto’s face. But Maria dared not look at
her husband just then.
‘Here we are at last, dear,’ she said as well as she could, still
bending over him.
To some extent she could trust the child’s manners, for she had
brought him up herself, but her heart beat fast during the little
silence before Montalto spoke, and she wondered what his tone would
be much more than what he was going to say, for she felt sure that
the words would not be unkind.
Montalto held out his hand, and Leone took it slowly. He had never
been kissed by a man, and did not imagine that his newly-introduced
papa could be expected to kiss him. This was fortunate, for
Montalto had not the least intention of doing so.
‘Can you ride yet?’ he asked, with a smile.
‘No,’ Leone answered, but his face changed instantly. ‘Not yet.’
‘I will teach you, my boy, and as soon as you can trot and gallop
nicely you shall have a good horse of your own.’
Leone flushed with pleasure, a healthy red that was good to see.
‘Oh, how splendid!’ he cried, and his blue eyes lit up with
happiness. ‘Really, really?’
‘Yes, really.’
‘When shall I begin?’
‘To-morrow morning.’
‘Hurrah!’ yelled the small boy. ‘At last!’
Maria could have cried out too, or laughed, or burst into tears
from sheer relief. Montalto had unconsciously received one of those
happy inspirations which turn the mingling currents of meeting
lives; and Leone was already astride of a stick, prancing round the
room on an imaginary horse, shouting out the tune of the Italian
royal march and sabring the air to right and left with the first
thing he happened to pick up. It chanced to be the tooth-brush with
which he had been polishing his tin gun.
Montalto looked pleased, and Leone pranced towards him on the stick
and pretended to rein in a fiery steed before his papa, saluting
with the tooth-brush sabre in correct cavalry fashion.
‘Viva Papa!’ he bawled. ‘Viva Papa!’
Montalto, who rarely smiled, could not help laughing now. Maria
could hardly believe her senses, for she had dreaded most of all
moments the one in which the two were to meet. But now her husband
suddenly looked younger. He was thin, indeed, to the verge of
emaciation, his hands were shrunken and transparent, his beard was
quite grey, his eyes were hollow; but there was no feverish fire
in them, his face was not colourless, and there was life in his
movements. Maria wondered whether it were humanly possible that he
should not only be kind to her child but should actually like him,
and perhaps love him some day.
At all events what had happened had made it easier for her than she
had dared to expect, and though nothing could efface the painful
impression of her meeting with him, what had now taken place
certainly made a great difference.
During dinner he talked quietly about Rome and politics and old
friends, and if she saw his eyes fixed upon her now and then with
an expression that made her nervous, there was still the broad
table between them, and he looked away almost directly.
Afterwards he smoked Spanish cigarettes, taking them to pieces and
rolling them again in thin French paper, and he went on talking;
but as the hour advanced he said less and less, and his cigarette
went out very often, till at last he rose, saying that it was late,
and he kissed her hand ceremoniously and left her.
‘Good-night,’ she said, just before he disappeared through the door.
He bent his head a little but did not answer.
An hour later she had dismissed her maid and sat in a small
easy-chair in her boudoir under a shaded light; she was trying
to read, in the hope of growing sleepy. She wore a thin silk
dressing-gown, wide open at the throat and showing a little simple
white lace; her dark hair was taken up in a loose knot rather
low down at the back of her neck, as she had always done it at
bedtime ever since she had been a young girl. Her bare feet were
half hidden in a pair of rather shabby little grey velvet slippers
without heel or heel-piece, for the spring night was warm. She was
trying to read.
She thought some one knocked softly at the door; she started in her
chair and dropped the book, while her hand went up to her throat to
gather the silk folds and hide the lace underneath. She could not
speak.
Another knock, quite distinct this time, and followed by a question
in her husband’s voice.
‘May I come in?’
An instant’s pause, and she closed her eyes to say two words.
‘Come in.’
PART II
THE COUNTESS OF MONTALTO
CHAPTER XIII
The Romans approved of Montalto’s return. The reason why any
civilised society continues to exist is that the majority of decent
people look upon marriage seriously, and consider it as a permanent
bond, spiritual or legal, or both. In such conservative countries
as admit divorce, the respectable part of society looks upon it as
a last resource in extreme cases, and no sensible citizen should
regard it as anything else. When it has taken place, the society to
which the two divorced persons belong decides which of them was in
the right, and that one is received as cordially as ever; the other
is treated coldly, and is sometimes turned out.
But there is no divorce law in Italy, and a civil marriage is
as indissoluble in the eyes of the Italian state as a religious
one is under the rules of the Catholic Church. There is such a
thing as separation by law, but it gives neither party a right to
marry again; it concerns the administration of property and the
guardianship of children, but nothing else, and the parties may
agree to unite again without any further ceremony.
Maria and her husband had never gone through the form of being
legally separated, though they had taken towards each other
the relative positions of separated husband and wife. Maria’s
sufficient independent fortune enabled her to decline any subsidy
from Montalto, and she had quitted his house after he left her; she
had also kept the child. The two had voluntarily placed themselves
where the law would probably have placed them, and society had been
grateful to Montalto for having avoided the open scandal of any
legal procedure against his wife; the more so, as it had chosen to
take Maria’s side, on the principle that absent friends are always
in the wrong.
But society was very glad to consider both Montalto and his wife
in the right, now that he had come back quietly, at the very end
