
To whom does Bellamy’s “Nationalism” appeal? Necessarily to the few:
people who read and dream, and are compassionate, and troubled for the
poor and the hard-driven. To whom does Spiritualism appeal? Necessarily
to the few; its “boom” has lasted for half a century, and I believe it
claims short of four millions of adherents in America. Who are attracted
by Swedenborgianism and some of the other fine and delicate “isms”? The
few again: educated people, sensitively organized, with superior mental
endowments, who seek lofty planes of thought and find their contentment
there. And who are attracted by Christian Science? There is no limit;
its field is horizonless; its appeal is as universal as is the appeal
of Christianity itself. It appeals to the rich, the poor, the high, the
low, the cultured, the ignorant, the gifted, the stupid, the modest,
the vain, the wise, the silly, the soldier, the civilian, the hero, the
coward, the idler, the worker, the godly, the godless, the freeman, the
slave, the adult, the child; they who are ailing in body or mind,
they who have friends that are ailing in body or mind. To mass it in a
phrase, its clientage is the Human Race. Will it march? I think so.

Remember its principal great offer: to rid the Race of pain and disease.
Can it do so? In large measure, yes. How much of the pain and disease in
the world is created by the imaginations of the sufferers, and then kept
alive by those same imaginations? Four-fifths? Not anything short of
that, I should think. Can Christian Science banish that four-fifths? I
think so. Can any other (organized) force do it? None that I know of.
Would this be a new world when that was accomplished? And a pleasanter
one--for us well people, as well as for those fussy and fretting sick
ones? Would it seem as if there was not as much gloomy weather as there
used to be? I think so.

In the mean time, would the Scientist kill off a good many patients? I
think so. More than get killed off now by the legalized methods? I will
take up that question presently.

At present, I wish to ask you to examine some of the Scientist’s
performances, as registered in his magazine, The Christian Science
Journal--October number, 1898. First, a Baptist clergyman gives us this
true picture of “the average orthodox Christian”--and he could have
added that it is a true picture of the average (civilized) human being:

“He is a worried and fretted and fearful man; afraid of himself and his
propensities, afraid of colds and fevers, afraid of treading on serpents
or drinking deadly things.”

Then he gives us this contrast:

“The average Christian Scientist has put all anxiety and fretting under
his feet. He does have a victory over fear and care that is not achieved
by the average orthodox Christian.”

He has put all anxiety and fretting under his feet. What proportion of
your earnings or income would you be willing to pay for that frame of
mind, year in, year out? It really outvalues any price that can be put
upon it. Where can you purchase it, at any outlay of any sort, in any
Church or out of it, except the Scientist’s?

Well, it is the anxiety and fretting about colds, and fevers, and
draughts, and getting our feet wet, and about forbidden food eaten in
terror of indigestion, that brings on the cold and the fever and the
indigestion and the most of our other ailments; and so, if the Science
can banish that anxiety from the world I think it can reduce the world’s
disease and pain about four-fifths.

In this October number many of the redeemed testify and give thanks;
and not coldly, but with passionate gratitude. As a rule they seem
drunk with health, and with the surprise of it, the wonder of it, the
unspeakable glory and splendor of it, after a long, sober spell spent in
inventing imaginary diseases and concreting them with doctor-stuff.
The first witness testifies that when “this most beautiful Truth first
dawned on him” he had “nearly all the ills that flesh is heir to”; that
those he did not have he thought he had--and this made the tale about
complete. What was the natural result? Why, he was a dump-pit “for all
the doctors, druggists, and patent medicines of the country.” Christian
Science came to his help, and “the old sick conditions passed away,” and
along with them the “dismal forebodings” which he had been accustomed
to employ in conjuring up ailments. And so he was a healthy and cheerful
man, now, and astonished.

But I am not astonished, for from other sources I know what must have
been his method of applying Christian Science. If I am in the right, he
watchfully and diligently diverted his mind from unhealthy channels and
compelled it to travel in healthy ones. Nothing contrivable by human
invention could be more formidably effective than that, in banishing
imaginary ailments and in closing the entrances against sub-sequent
applicants of their breed. I think his method was to keep saying, “I
am well! I am sound!--sound and well! well and sound! Perfectly sound,
perfectly well! I have no pain; there’s no such thing as pain! I have no
disease; there’s no such thing as disease! Nothing is real but Mind; all
is Mind, All-Good Good-Good, Life, Soul, Liver, Bones, one of a series,
ante and pass the buck!”

I do not mean that that was exactly the formula used, but that it
doubtless contains the spirit of it. The Scientist would attach value to
the exact formula, no doubt, and to the religious spirit in which it was
used. I should think that any formula that would divert the mind from
unwholesome channels and force it into healthy ones would answer every
purpose with some people, though not with all. I think it most likely
that a very religious man would find the addition of the religious
spirit a powerful reinforcement in his case.

The second witness testifies that the Science banished “an old organic
trouble,” which the doctor and the surgeon had been nursing with drugs
and the knife for seven years.

He calls it his “claim.” A surface-miner would think it was not
his claim at all, but the property of the doctor and his pal the
surgeon--for he would be misled by that word, which is Christian-Science
slang for “ailment.” The Christian Scientist has no ailment; to him
there is no such thing, and he will not use the hateful word. All that
happens to him is that upon his attention an imaginary disturbance
sometimes obtrudes itself which claims to be an ailment but isn’t.

This witness offers testimony for a clergyman seventy years old who had
preached forty years in a Christian church, and has now gone over to the
new sect. He was “almost blind and deaf.” He was treated by the C. S.
method, and “when he heard the voice of Truth he saw spiritually.” Saw
spiritually? It is a little indefinite; they had better treat him again.
Indefinite testimonies might properly be waste-basketed, since there is
evidently no lack of definite ones procurable; but this C. S. magazine
is poorly edited, and so mistakes of this kind must be expected.

The next witness is a soldier of the Civil War. When Christian Science
found him, he had in stock the following claims:

Indigestion, Rheumatism, Catarrh, Chalky deposits in Shoulder-joints,
Arm-joints, Hand-joints, Insomnia, Atrophy of the muscles of Arms.
Shoulders, Stiffness of all those joints, Excruciating pains most of the
time.

These claims have a very substantial sound. They came of exposure in the
campaigns. The doctors did all they could, but it was little. Prayers
were tried, but “I never realized any physical relief from that source.”
 After thirty years of torture, he went to a Christian Scientist and took
an hour’s treatment and went home painless. Two days later, he “began
to eat like a well man.” Then “the claims vanished--some at once, others
more gradually”; finally, “they have almost entirely disappeared.”
 And--a thing which is of still greater value--he is now “contented and
happy.” That is a detail which, as earlier remarked, is a Scientist
Church specialty. And, indeed, one may go further and assert with
little or no exaggeration that it is a Christian-Science monopoly. With
thirty-one years’ effort, the Methodist Church had not succeeded in
furnishing it to this harassed soldier.

And so the tale goes on. Witness after witness bulletins his claims,
declares their prompt abolishment, and gives Mrs. Eddy’s Discovery the
praise. Milk-leg is cured; nervous prostration is cured; consumption is
cured; and St. Vitus’s dance is made a pastime. Even without a fiddle.
And now and then an interesting new addition to the Science slang
appears on the page. We have “demonstrations over chilblains” and such
things. It seems to be a curtailed way of saying “demonstrations of
the power of Christian-Science Truth over the fiction which masquerades
under the name of Chilblains.” The children, as well as the adults,
share in the blessings of the Science. “Through the study of the ‘little
book’ they are learning how to be healthful, peaceful, and wise.”
 Sometimes they are cured of their little claims by the professional
healer, and sometimes more advanced children say over the formula and
cure themselves.

A little Far-Western girl of nine, equipped with an adult vocabulary,
states her age and says, “I thought I would write a demonstration to
you.” She had a claim, derived from getting flung over a pony’s head and
landed on a rockpile. She saved herself from disaster by remembering to
say “God is All” while she was in the air. I couldn’t have done it.
I shouldn’t even have thought of it. I should have been too excited.
Nothing but Christian Science could have enabled that child to do that
calm and thoughtful and judicious thing in those circumstances. She came
down on her head, and by all the rules she should have broken it;
but the intervention of the formula prevented that, so the only claim
resulting was a blackened eye. Monday morning it was still swollen and
shut. At school “it hurt pretty badly--that is, it seemed to.” So “I was
excused, and went down to the basement and said, ‘Now I am depending on
mamma instead of God, and I will depend on God instead of mamma.’” No
doubt this would have answered; but, to make sure, she added Mrs. Eddy
to the team and recited “the Scientific Statement of Being,” which
is one of the principal incantations, I judge. Then “I felt my eye
opening.” Why, dear, it would have opened an oyster. I think it is one
of the touchingest things in child-history, that pious little rat down
cellar pumping away at the Scientific Statement of Being.

There is a page about another good child--little Gordon. Little Gordon
“came into the world without the assistance of surgery or anaesthetics.”
 He was a “demonstration.” A painless one; therefore, his coming evoked
“joy and thankfulness to God and the Discoverer of Christian Science.”
 It is a noticeable feature of this literature--the so frequent linking
together of the Two Beings in an equal bond; also of Their Two Bibles.
When little Gordon was two years old, “he was playing horse on the bed,
where I had left my ‘little book.’ I noticed him stop in his play, take
the book carefully in his little hands, kiss it softly, then look about
for the highest place of safety his arms could reach, and put it there.”
 This pious act filled the mother “with such a train of thought as I had
never experienced before. I thought of the sweet mother of long ago
who kept things in her heart,” etc. It is a bold comparison; however,
unconscious profanations are about as common in the mouths of the lay
member ship of the new Church as are frank and open ones in the mouths
of its consecrated chiefs.

Some days later, the family library--Christian-Science books--was lying
in a deep-seated window. This was another chance for the holy child to
show off. He left his play and went there and pushed all the books to
one side, except the Annex “It he took in both hands, slowly raised
it to his lips, then removed it carefully, and seated himself in the
window.” It had seemed to the mother too wonderful to be true, that
first time; but now she was convinced that “neither imagination nor
accident had anything to do with it.” Later, little Gordon let the
author of his being see him do it. After that he did it frequently;
probably every time anybody was looking. I would rather have that child
than a chromo. If this tale has any object, it is to intimate that the
inspired book was supernaturally able to convey a sense of its sacred
and awful character to this innocent little creature, without
the intervention of outside aids. The magazine is not edited with
high-priced discretion. The editor has a “claim,” and he ought to get it
treated.

Among other witnesses there is one who had a “jumping toothache,”
 which several times tempted her to “believe that there was sensation in
matter, but each time it was overcome by the power of Truth.” She would
not allow the dentist to use cocaine, but sat there and let him
punch and drill and split and crush the tooth, and tear and slash its
ulcerations, and pull out the nerve, and dig out fragments of bone; and
she wouldn’t once confess that it hurt. And to this day she thinks it
didn’t, and I have not a doubt that she is nine-tenths right, and that
her Christian Science faith did her better service than she could have
gotten out of cocaine.

There is an account of a boy who got broken all up into small bits by
an accident, but said over the Scientific Statement of Being, or some of
the other incantations, and got well and sound without having suffered
any real pain and without the intrusion of a surgeon.

Also, there is an account of the restoration to perfect health, in
a single night, of a fatally injured horse, by the application of
Christian Science. I can stand a good deal, but I recognize that the ice
is getting thin, here. That horse had as many as fifty claims; how
could he demonstrate over them? Could he do the All-Good, Good-Good,
Good-Gracious, Liver, Bones, Truth, All down but Nine, Set them up on
the Other Alley? Could he intone the Scientific Statement of Being?
Now, could he? Wouldn’t it give him a relapse? Let us draw the line at
horses. Horses and furniture.

There is plenty of other testimonies in the magazine, but these quoted
samples will answer. They show the kind of trade the Science is driving.
Now we come back to the question, Does the Science kill a patient here
and there and now and then? We must concede it. Does it compensate
for this? I am persuaded that it can make a plausible showing in that
direction. For instance: when it lays its hand upon a soldier who has
suffered thirty years of helpless torture and makes him whole in body
and mind, what is the actual sum of that achievement? This, I think:
that it has restored to life a subject who had essentially died ten
deaths a year for thirty years, and each of them a long and painful one.
But for its interference that man in the three years which have since
elapsed, would have essentially died thirty times more. There are
thousands of young people in the land who are now ready to enter upon a
life-long death similar to that man’s. Every time the Science
captures one of these and secures to him life-long immunity from
imagination-manufactured disease, it may plausibly claim that in his
person it has saved three hundred lives. Meantime, it will kill a man
every now and then. But no matter, it will still be ahead on the credit
side.

[NOTE.--I have received several letters (two from educated and
ostensibly intelligent persons), which contained, in substance, this
protest: “I don’t object to men and women chancing their lives with
these people, but it is a burning shame that the law should allow them
to trust their helpless little children in their deadly hands.” Isn’t it
touching? Isn’t it deep? Isn’t it modest? It is as if the person said:
“I know that to a parent his child is the core of his heart, the apple
of his eye, a possession so dear, so precious that he will trust its
life in no hands but those which he believes, with all his soul, to be
the very best and the very safest, but it is a burning shame that the
law does not require him to come to me to ask what kind of healer I will
allow him to call.” The public is merely a multiplied “me.”--M.T.]




CHAPTER VII

“We consciously declare that Science and Health, with Key to the
Scriptures, was foretold, as well as its author, Mary Baker Eddy, in
Revelation x. She is the ‘mighty angel,’ or God’s highest thought to
this age (verse 1), giving us the spiritual interpretation of the
Bible in the ‘little book open’ (verse 2). Thus we prove that Christian
Science is the second coming of Christ-Truth-Spirit.”--Lecture by Dr.
George Tomkins, D.D. C.S.

There you have it in plain speech. She is the mighty angel; she is the
divinely and officially sent bearer of God’s highest thought. For the
present, she brings the Second Advent. We must expect that before she
has been in her grave fifty years she will be regarded by her following
as having been herself the Second Advent. She is already worshiped, and
we must expect this feeling to spread, territorially, and also to deepen
in intensity.

Particularly after her death; for then, as any one can foresee,
Eddy-Worship will be taught in the Sunday-schools and pulpits of the
cult. Already whatever she puts her trade-mark on, though it be only
a memorial-spoon, is holy and is eagerly and gratefully bought by the
disciple, and becomes a fetish in his house. I say bought, for the
Boston Christian-Science Trust gives nothing away; everything it has
is for sale. And the terms are cash; and not only cash, but cash in
advance. Its god is Mrs. Eddy first, then the Dollar. Not a spiritual
Dollar, but a real one. From end to end of the Christian Science
literature not a single (material) thing in the world is conceded to be
real, except the Dollar. But all through and through its advertisements
that reality is eagerly and persistently recognized.

The Dollar is hunted down in all sorts of ways; the Christian-Science
Mother-Church and Bargain-Counter in Boston peddles all kinds of
spiritual wares to the faithful, and always on the one condition--cash,
cash in advance. The Angel of the Apocalypse could not go there and get
a copy of his own pirated book on credit. Many, many precious Christian
Science things are to be had there for cash: Bible Lessons; Church
Manual; C. S. Hymnal; History of the building of the Mother-Church; lot
of Sermons; Communion Hymn, “Saw Ye My Saviour,” by Mrs. Eddy, half a
dollar a copy, “words used by special permission of Mrs. Eddy.” Also we
have Mrs. Eddy’s and the Angel’s little Blue-Annex in eight styles
of binding at eight kinds of war-prices; among these a sweet thing in
“levant, divinity circuit, leather lined to edge, round corners, gold
edge, silk sewed, each, prepaid, $6,” and if you take a million you get
them a shilling cheaper--that is to say, “prepaid, $5.75.” Also we
have Mrs. Eddy’s Miscellaneous Writings, at ‘andsome big prices, the
divinity-circuit style heading the exertions, shilling discount where
you take an edition Next comes Christ and Christmas, by the fertile Mrs.
Eddy--a poem--would God I could see it!--price $3, cash in advance. Then
follow five more books by Mrs. Eddy, at highwayman’s rates, some of
them in “leatherette covers,” some of them in “pebble cloth,” with
divinity-circuit, compensation-balance, twin-screw, and the other modern
improvements; and at the same bargain-counter can be had The Christian
Science Journal.

Christian-Science literary discharges are a monopoly of the
Mother-Church Headquarters Factory in Boston; none genuine without the
trade-mark of the Trust. You must apply there and not elsewhere.

One hundred dollars for it. And I have a case among my statistics where
the student had a three weeks’ course and paid three hundred for it.

The Trust does love the Dollar, when it isn’t a spiritual one.

In order to force the sale of Mrs Eddy’s Bible-Annex, no healer,
Metaphysical-College-bred or other, is allowed to practice the game
unless he possesses a copy of that book. That means a large and
constantly augmenting income for the Trust. No C.S. family would
consider itself loyal or pious or pain-proof without an Annex or two in
the house. That means an income for the Trust, in the near future, of
millions; not thousands-millions a year.

No member, young or old, of a branch Christian-Scientist church can
acquire and retain membership in the Mother-Church unless he pay
“capitation tax” (of “not less than a dollar,” say the By-Laws) to the
Boston Trust every year. That means an income for the Trust, in the near
future, of--let us venture to say--millions more per year.

It is a reasonably safe guess that in America in 1920 there will be ten
million Christian Scientists, and three millions in Great Britain;
that these figures will be trebled in 1930; that in America in 1920
the Christian Scientists will be a political force, in 1930 politically
formidable, and in 1940 the governing power in the Republic--to remain
that, permanently. And I think it a reasonable guess that the Trust
(which is already in our day pretty brusque in its ways) will then be
the most insolent and unscrupulous and tyrannical politico-religious
master that has dominated a people since the palmy days of the
Inquisition. And a stronger master than the strongest of bygone times,
because this one will have a financial strength not dreamed of by any
predecessor; as effective a concentration of irresponsible power as any
predecessor has had; in the railway, the telegraph, and the subsidized
newspaper, better facilities for watching and managing his empire
than any predecessor has had; and, after a generation or two, he will
probably divide Christendom with the Catholic Church.

The Roman Church has a perfect organization, and it has an effective
centralization of power--but not of its cash. Its multitude of Bishops
are rich, but their riches remain in large measure in their own hands.
They collect from two hundred millions of people, but they keep the
bulk of the result at home. The Boston Pope of by-and-by will draw his
dollar-a-head capitation-tax from three hundred millions of the human
race, and the Annex and the rest of his book-shop stock will fetch in as
much more; and his Metaphysical Colleges, the annual Pilgrimage to Mrs.
Eddy’s tomb, from all over the world-admission, the Christian-Science
Dollar (payable in advance)--purchases of consecrated glass beads,
candles, memorial spoons, aureoled chrome-portraits and bogus autographs
of Mrs. Eddy; cash offerings at her shrine no crutches of cured cripples
received, and no imitations of miraculously restored broken legs and
necks allowed to be hung up except when made out of the Holy Metal
and proved by fire-assay; cash for miracles worked at the tomb: these
money-sources, with a thousand to be yet invented and ambushed upon the
devotee, will bring the annual increment well up above a billion. And
nobody but the Trust will have the handling of it. In that day, the
Trust will monopolize the manufacture and sale of the Old and New
Testaments as well as the Annex, and raise their price to Annex rates,
and compel the devotee to buy (for even to-day a healer has to have the
Annex and the Scriptures or he is not allowed to work the game), and
that will bring several hundred million dollars more. In those days, the
Trust will have an income approaching five million dollars a day, and
no expenses to be taken out of it; no taxes to pay, and no charities
to support. That last detail should not be lightly passed over by the
reader; it is well entitled to attention.

No charities to support. No, nor even to contribute to. One searches in
vain the Trust’s advertisements and the utterances of its organs for
any suggestion that it spends a penny on orphans, widows, discharged
prisoners, hospitals, ragged schools, night missions, city missions,
libraries, old people’s homes, or any other object that appeals to a
human being’s purse through his heart.

I have hunted, hunted, and hunted, by correspondence and otherwise, and
have not yet got upon the track of a farthing that the Trust has spent
upon any worthy object. Nothing makes a Scientist so uncomfortable as to
ask him if he knows of a case where Christian Science has spent money
on a benevolence, either among its own adherents or elsewhere. He is
obliged to say “No” And then one discovers that the person questioned
has been asked the question many times before, and that it is getting to
be a sore subject with him. Why a sore subject? Because he has written
his chiefs and asked with high confidence for an answer that will
confound these questioners--and the chiefs did not reply. He has written
again, and then again--not with confidence, but humbly, now--and has
begged for defensive ammunition in the voice of supplication. A reply
does at last come to this effect: “We must have faith in Our Mother, and
rest content in the conviction that whatever She does with the money
it is in accordance with orders from Heaven, for She does no act of any
kind without first ‘demonstrating over’ it.”

That settles it--as far as the disciple is concerned. His mind
is satisfied with that answer; he gets down his Annex and does an
incantation or two, and that mesmerizes his spirit and puts that to
sleep--brings it peace. Peace and comfort and joy, until some inquirer
punctures the old sore again.

Through friends in America I asked some questions, and in some cases
got definite and informing answers; in other cases the answers were not
definite and not valuable. To the question, “Does any of the money go to
charities?” the answer from an authoritative source was: “No, not in
the sense usually conveyed by this word.” (The italics are mine.) That
answer is cautious. But definite, I think--utterly and unassailably
definite--although quite Christian-Scientifically foggy in its phrasing.
Christian-Science testimony is generally foggy, generally diffuse,
generally garrulous. The writer was aware that the first word in his
phrase answered the question which I was asking, but he could not help
adding nine dark words. Meaningless ones, unless explained by him. It is
quite likely, as intimated by him, that Christian Science has invented
a new class of objects to apply the word “charity” to, but without an
explanation we cannot know what they are. We quite easily and naturally
and confidently guess that they are in all cases objects which will
return five hundred per cent. on the Trust’s investment in them,
but guessing is not knowledge; it is merely, in this case, a sort
of nine-tenths certainty deducible from what we think we know of the
Trust’s trade principles and its sly and furtive and shifty ways.

Sly? Deep? Judicious? The Trust understands its business. The Trust does
not give itself away. It defeats all the attempts of us impertinents to
get at its trade secrets. To this day, after all our diligence, we have
not been able to get it to confess what it does with the money. It does
not even let its own disciples find out. All it says is, that the matter
has been “demonstrated over.” Now and then a lay Scientist says, with
a grateful exultation, that Mrs. Eddy is enormously rich, but he stops
there; as to whether any of the money goes to other charities or not,
he is obliged to admit that he does not know. However, the Trust is
composed of human beings; and this justifies the conjecture that if it
had a charity on its list which it was proud of, we should soon hear of
it.

“Without money and without price.” Those used to be the terms. Mrs.
Eddy’s Annex cancels them. The motto of Christian Science is, “The
laborer is worthy of his hire.” And now that it has been “demonstrated
over,” we find its spiritual meaning to be, “Do anything and everything
your hand may find to do; and charge cash for it, and collect the money
in advance.” The Scientist has on his tongue’s end a cut-and-dried,
Boston-supplied set of rather lean arguments, whose function is to show
that it is a Heaven-commanded duty to do this, and that the croupiers of
the game have no choice but to obey.

The Trust seems to be a reincarnation. Exodus xxxii. 4.

I have no reverence for the Trust, but I am not lacking in reverence for
the sincerities of the lay membership of the new Church. There is every
evidence that the lay members are entirely sincere in their faith, and
I think sincerity is always entitled to honor and respect, let the
inspiration of the sincerity be what it may. Zeal and sincerity can
carry a new religion further than any other missionary except fire and
sword, and I believe that the new religion will conquer the half of
Christendom in a hundred years. I am not intending this as a compliment
to the human race; I am merely stating an opinion. And yet I think that
perhaps it is a compliment to the race. I keep in mind that saying of
an orthodox preacher--quoted further back. He conceded that this new
Christianity frees its possessor’s life from frets, fears, vexations,
bitterness, and all sorts of imagination-propagated maladies and pains,
and fills his world with sunshine and his heart with gladness. If
Christian Science, with this stupendous equipment--and final salvation
added--cannot win half the Christian globe, I must be badly mistaken in
the make-up of the human race.

I think the Trust will be handed down like the other Papacy, and will
always know how to handle its limitless cash. It will press the button;
the zeal, the energy, the sincerity, the enthusiasm of its countless
vassals will do the rest.




CHAPTER VIII

The power which a man’s imagination has over his body to heal it or make
it sick is a force which none of us is born without. The first man had
it, the last one will possess it. If left to himself, a man is most
likely to use only the mischievous half of the force--the half which
invents imaginary ailments for him and cultivates them; and if he is
one of these--very wise people, he is quite likely to scoff at the
beneficent half of the force and deny its existence. And so, to heal
or help that man, two imaginations are required: his own and some
outsider’s. The outsider, B, must imagine that his incantations are the
healing-power that is curing A, and A must imagine that this is so. I
think it is not so, at all; but no matter, the cure is effected, and
that is the main thing. The outsider’s work is unquestionably valuable;
so valuable that it may fairly be likened to the essential work
performed by the engineer when he handles the throttle and turns on the
steam; the actual power is lodged exclusively in the engine, but if
the engine were left alone it would never start of itself. Whether the
engineer be named Jim, or Bob, or Tom, it is all one--his services are
necessary, and he is entitled to such wage as he can get you to pay.
Whether he be named Christian Scientist, or Mental Scientist, or Mind
Curist, or King’s-Evil Expert, or Hypnotist, it is all one; he is merely
the Engineer; he simply turns on the same old steam and the engine does
the whole work.

The Christian-Scientist engineer drives exactly the same trade as the
other engineers, yet he out-prospers the whole of them put together.

Is it because he has captured the takingest name? I think that that is
only a small part of it. I think that the secret of his high prosperity
lies elsewhere.

The Christian Scientist has organized the business. Now that was
certainly a gigantic idea. Electricity, in limitless volume, has
existed in the air and the rocks and the earth and everywhere since
time began--and was going to waste all the while. In our time we have
organized that scattered and wandering force and set it to work,
and backed the business with capital, and concentrated it in few and
competent hands, and the results are as we see.

The Christian Scientist has taken a force which has been lying idle in
every member of the human race since time began, and has organized it,
and backed the business with capital, and concentrated it at Boston
headquarters in the hands of a small and very competent Trust, and there
are results.

Therein lies the promise that this monopoly is going to extend its
commerce wide in the earth. I think that if the business were conducted
in the loose and disconnected fashion customary with such things, it
would achieve but little more than the modest prosperity usually secured
by unorganized great moral and commercial ventures; but I believe that
so long as this one remains compactly organized and closely concentrated
in a Trust, the spread of its dominion will continue.




CHAPTER IX

Four years ago I wrote the preceding chapters. I was assured by the wise
that Christian Science was a fleeting craze and would soon perish. This
prompt and all-competent stripe of prophet is always to be had in the
market at ground-floor rates. He does not stop to load, or consider, or
take aim, but lets fly just as he stands. Facts are nothing to him, he
has no use for such things; he works wholly by inspiration. And so, when
he is asked why he considers a new movement a passing fad and quickly
perishable, he finds himself unprepared with a reason and is more or
less embarrassed. For a moment. Only for a moment. Then he waylays the
first spectre of a reason that goes flitting through the desert places
of his mind, and is at once serene again and ready for conflict. Serene
and confident. Yet he should not be so, since he has had no chance
to examine his catch, and cannot know whether it is going to help his
contention or damage it.

The impromptu reason furnished by the early prophets of whom I have
spoken was this:

“There is nothing to Christian Science; there is nothing about it
that appeals to the intellect; its market will be restricted to the
unintelligent, the mentally inferior, the people who do not think.”

They called that a reason why the cult would not flourish and endure. It
seems the equivalent of saying:

“There is no money in tinware; there is nothing about it that appeals to
the rich; its market will be restricted to the poor.”

It is like bringing forward the best reason in the world why Christian
Science should flourish and live, and then blandly offering it as a
reason why it should sicken and die.

That reason was furnished me by the complacent and unfrightened
prophets four years ago, and it has been furnished me again to-day. If
conversions to new religions or to old ones were in any considerable
degree achieved through the intellect, the aforesaid reason would be
sound and sufficient, no doubt; the inquirer into Christian Science
might go away unconvinced and unconverted. But we all know that
conversions are seldom made in that way; that such a thing as a serious
and painstaking and fairly competent inquiry into the claims of a
religion or of a political dogma is a rare occurrence; and that the
vast mass of men and women are far from being capable of making such
an examination. They are not capable, for the reason that their minds,
howsoever good they may be, are not trained for such examinations. The
mind not trained for that work is no more competent to do it than
are lawyers and farmers competent to make successful clothes without
learning the tailor’s trade. There are seventy-five million men and
women among us who do not know how to cut out and make a dress-suit, and
they would not think of trying; yet they all think they can competently
think out a political or religious scheme without any apprenticeship to
the business, and many of them believe they have actually worked that
miracle. But, indeed, the truth is, almost all the men and women of our
nation or of any other get their religion and their politics where they
get their astronomy--entirely at second hand. Being untrained, they are
no more able to intelligently examine a dogma or a policy than they are
to calculate an eclipse.

Men are usually competent thinkers along the lines of their specialized
training only. Within these limits alone are their opinions and
judgments valuable; outside of these limits they grope and are
lost--usually without knowing it. In a church assemblage of five hundred
persons, there will be a man or two whose trained minds can seize upon
each detail of a great manufacturing scheme and recognize its value
or its lack of value promptly; and can pass the details in intelligent
review, section by section, and finally as a whole, and then deliver a
verdict upon the scheme which cannot be flippantly set aside nor easily
answered. And there will be one or two other men there who can do the
same thing with a great and complicated educational project; and one
or two others who can do the like with a large scheme for applying
electricity in a new and unheard-of way; and one or two others who can
do it with a showy scheme for revolutionizing the scientific world’s
accepted notions regarding geology. And so on, and so on. But the
manufacturing experts will not be competent to examine the educational
scheme intelligently, and their opinion about it would not be valuable;
neither of these two groups will be able to understand and pass upon the
electrical scheme; none of these three batches of experts will be able
to understand and pass upon the geological revolution; and probably not
one man in the entire lot will be competent to examine, capably, the
intricacies of a political or religious scheme, new or old, and deliver
a judgment upon it which any one need regard as precious.

There you have the top crust. There will be four hundred and
seventy-five men and women present who can draw upon their training and
deliver incontrovertible judgments concerning cheese, and leather,
and cattle, and hardware, and soap, and tar, and candles, and patent
medicines, and dreams, and apparitions, and garden trucks, and cats, and
baby food, and warts, and hymns, and time-tables, and freight-rates, and
summer resorts, and whiskey, and law, and surgery, and dentistry, and
blacksmithing, and shoemaking, and dancing, and Huyler’s candy, and
mathematics, and dog fights, and obstetrics, and music, and sausages,
and dry goods, and molasses, and railroad stocks, and horses, and
literature, and labor unions, and vegetables, and morals, and lamb’s
fries, and etiquette, and agriculture. And not ten among the five
hundred--let their minds be ever so good and bright--will be competent,
by grace of the requisite specialized mental training, to take hold of a
complex abstraction of any kind and make head or tail of it.

The whole five hundred are thinkers, and they are all capable
thinkers--but only within the narrow limits of their specialized
trainings. Four hundred and ninety of them cannot competently examine
either a religious plan or a political one. A scattering few of them do
examine both--that is, they think they do. With results as precious as
when I examine the nebular theory and explain it to myself.

If the four hundred and ninety got their religion through their minds,
and by weighed and measured detail, Christian Science would not be a
scary apparition. But they don’t; they get a little of it through their
minds, more of it through their feelings, and the overwhelming bulk of
it through their environment.

Environment is the chief thing to be considered when one is proposing to
predict the future of Christian Science. It is not the ability to reason
that makes the Presbyterian, or the Baptist, or the Methodist, or the
Catholic, or the Mohammedan, or the Buddhist, or the Mormon; it is
environment. If religions were got by reasoning, we should have the
extraordinary spectacle of an American family with a Presbyterian in it,
and a Baptist, a Methodist, a Catholic, a Mohammedan, a Buddhist, and
a Mormon. A Presbyterian family does not produce Catholic families
or other religious brands, it produces its own kind; and not
by intellectual processes, but by association. And so also with
Mohammedanism, the cult which in our day is spreading with the sweep of
a world-conflagration through the Orient, that native home of profound
thought and of subtle intellectual fence, that fertile womb whence has
sprung every great religion that exists. Including our own; for with all
our brains we cannot invent a religion and market it.

The language of my quoted prophets recurs to us now, and we wonder to
think how small a space in the world the mighty Mohammedan Church would
be occupying now, if a successful trade in its line of goods had been
conditioned upon an exhibit that would “appeal to the intellect” instead
of to “the unintelligent, the mentally inferior, the people who do not
think.”

The Christian Science Church, like the Mohammedan Church, makes no
embarrassing appeal to the intellect, has no occasion to do it, and can
get along quite well without it.

Provided. Provided what? That it can secure that thing which is
worth two or three hundred thousand times more than an “appeal to the
intellect”--an environment. Can it get that? Will it be a menace
to regular Christianity if it gets that? Is it time for regular
Christianity to get alarmed? Or shall regular Christianity smile a smile
and turn over and take another nap? Won’t it be wise and proper for
regular Christianity to do the old way, Me customary way, the historical
way--lock the stable-door after the horse is gone? Just as Protestantism
has smiled and nodded this long time (while the alert and diligent
Catholic was slipping in and capturing the public schools), and is now
beginning to hunt around for the key when it is too late?

Will Christian Science get a chance to show its wares? It has already
secured that chance. Will it flourish and spread and prosper if it
shall create for itself the one thing essential to those conditions--an
environment? It has already created an environment. There are families
of Christian Scientists in every community in America, and each family
is a factory; each family turns out a Christian Science product at the
customary intervals, and contributes it to the Cause in the only way
in which contributions of recruits to Churches are ever made on a large
scale--by the puissant forces of personal contact and association.
Each family is an agency for the Cause, and makes converts among the
neighbors, and starts some more factories.

Four years ago there were six Christian Scientists in a certain town
that I am acquainted with; a year ago there were two hundred and fifty
there; they have built a church, and its membership now numbers four
hundred. This has all been quietly done; done without frenzied revivals,
without uniforms, brass bands, street parades, corner oratory, or any of
the other customary persuasions to a godly life. Christian Science, like
Mohammedanism, is “restricted” to the “unintelligent, the people who
do not think.” There lies the danger. It makes Christian Science
formidable. It is “restricted” to ninety-nine one-hundredths of the
human race, and must be reckoned with by regular Christianity. And will
be, as soon as it is too late.






BOOK II

“There were remarkable things about the stranger called the
Man--Mystery-things so very extraordinary that they monopolized
attention and made all of him seem extraordinary; but this was not so,
the most of his qualities being of the common, every-day size and like
anybody else’s. It was curious. He was of the ordinary stature, and had
the ordinary aspects; yet in him were hidden such strange contradictions
and disproportions! He was majestically fearless and heroic; he had
the strength of thirty men and the daring of thirty thousand; handling
armies, organizing states, administering governments--these were
pastimes to him; he publicly and ostentatiously accepted the human race
at its own valuation--as demigods--and privately and successfully dealt
with it at quite another and juster valuation--as children and slaves;
his ambitions were stupendous, and his dreams had no commerce with the
humble plain, but moved with the cloud-rack among the snow-summits.
These features of him were, indeed, extraordinary, but the rest of
him was ordinary and usual. He was so mean-minded, in the matter of
jealousy, that it was thought he was descended from a god; he was vain
in little ways, and had a pride in trivialities; he doted on ballads
about moonshine and bruised hearts; in education he was deficient, he
was indifferent to literature, and knew nothing of art; he was dumb upon
all subjects but one, indifferent to all except that one--the Nebular
Theory. Upon that one his flow of words was full and free, he was a
geyser. The official astronomers disputed his facts and deeded his
views, and said that he had invented both, they not being findable in
any of the books. But many of the laity, who wanted their nebulosities
fresh, admired his doctrine and adopted it, and it attained to great
prosperity in spite of the hostility of the experts.”--The Legend of the
Man-Mystery, ch. i.




CHAPTER I

JANUARY, 1903. When we do not know a public man personally, we guess him
out by the facts of his career. When it is Washington, we all arrive
at about one and the same result. We agree that his words and his acts
clearly interpret his character to us, and that they never leave us in
doubt as to the motives whence the words and acts proceeded. It is the
same with Joan of Arc, it is the same with two or three or five or six
others among the immortals. But in the matter of motives and of a few
details of character we agree to disagree upon Napoleon, Cromwell, and
all the rest; and to this list we must add Mrs. Eddy. I think we can
peacefully agree as to two or three extraordinary features of her
make-up, but not upon the other features of it. We cannot peacefully
agree as to her motives, therefore her character must remain crooked to
some of us and straight to the others.

No matter, she is interesting enough without an amicable agreement. In
several ways she is the most interesting woman that ever lived, and the
most extraordinary. The same may be said of her career, and the same
may be said of its chief result. She started from nothing. Her enemies
charge that she surreptitiously took from Quimby a peculiar system of
healing which was mind-cure with a Biblical basis. She and her friends
deny that she took anything from him. This is a matter which we
can discuss by-and-by. Whether she took it or invented it, it
was--materially--a sawdust mine when she got it, and she has turned it
into a Klondike; its spiritual dock had next to no custom, if any at
all: from it she has launched a world-religion which has now six hundred
and sixty-three churches, and she charters a new one every four days.
When we do not know a person--and also when we do--we have to judge his
size by the size and nature of his achievements, as compared with the
achievements of others in his special line of business--there is no
other way. Measured by this standard, it is thirteen hundred years
since the world has produced any one who could reach up to Mrs. Eddy’s
waistbelt.

Figuratively speaking, Mrs. Eddy is already as tall as the Eiffel tower.
She is adding surprisingly to her stature every day. It is quite within
the probabilities that a century hence she will be the most imposing
figure that has cast its shadow across the globe since the inauguration
of our era. I grant that after saying these strong things, it is
necessary that I offer some details calculated to satisfactorily
demonstrate the proportions which I have claimed for her. I will do that
presently; but before exhibiting the matured sequoia gigantea, I believe
it will be best to exhibit the sprout from which it sprang. It may save
the reader from making miscalculations. The person who imagines that a
Big Tree sprout is bigger than other kinds of sprouts is quite mistaken.
It is the ordinary thing; it makes no show, it compels no notice, it
hasn’t a detectible quality in it that entitles it to attention, or
suggests the future giant its sap is suckling. That is the kind of
sprout Mrs. Eddy was.

From her childhood days up to where she was running a half-century a
close race and gaining on it, she was most humanly commonplace.

She is the witness I am drawing this from. She has revealed it in her
autobiography not intentionally, of course--I am not claiming that. An
autobiography is the most treacherous thing there is. It lets out
every secret its author is trying to keep; it lets the truth shine
unobstructed through every harmless little deception he tries to play;
it pitilessly exposes him as a tin hero worshipping himself as Big Metal
every time he tries to do the modest-unconsciousness act before the
reader. This is not guessing; I am speaking from autobiographical
personal experience; I was never able to refrain from mentioning, with
a studied casualness that could deceive none but the most incautious
reader, that an ancestor of mine was sent ambassador to Spain by Charles
I., nor that in a remote branch of my family there exists a claimant
to an earldom, nor that an uncle of mine used to own a dog that was
descended from the dog that was in the Ark; and at the same time I was
never able to persuade myself to call a gibbet by its right name when
accounting for other ancestors of mine, but always spoke of it as the
“platform”--puerilely intimating that they were out lecturing when it
happened.

It is Mrs. Eddy over again. As regards her minor half, she is as
commonplace as the rest of us. Vain of trivial things all the first half
of her life, and still vain of them at seventy and recording them with
naive satisfaction--even rescuing some early rhymes of hers of the sort
that we all scribble in the innocent days of our youth--rescuing them
and printing them without pity or apology, just as the weakest and
commonest of us do in our gray age. More--she still frankly admires
them; and in her introduction of them profanely confers upon them the
holy name of “poetry.” Sample:

     “And laud the land whose talents rock
     The cradle of her power,
     And wreaths are twined round Plymouth Rock
     From erudition’s bower.”

     “Minerva’s silver sandals still
     Are loosed and not effete.”

You note it is not a shade above the thing which all human beings churn
out in their youth.

You would not think that in a little wee primer--for that is what the
Autobiography is--a person with a tumultuous career of seventy years
behind her could find room for two or three pages of padding of this
kind, but such is the case. She evidently puts narrative together with
difficulty and is not at home in it, and is glad to have something
ready-made to fill in with. Another sample:

     “Here fame-honored Hickory rears his bold form,
     And bears a brave breast to the lightning and storm,
     While Palm, Bay, and Laurel in classical glee,
     Chase Tulip, Magnolia, and fragrant Fringe-tree.”

Vivid? You can fairly see those trees galloping around. That she
could still treasure up, and print, and manifestly admire those Poems,
indicates that the most daring and masculine and masterful woman that
has appeared in the earth in centuries has the same soft, girly-girly
places in her that the rest of us have.

When it comes to selecting her ancestors she is still human, natural,
vain, commonplace--as commonplace as I am myself when I am sorting
ancestors for my autobiography. She combs out some creditable Scots, and
labels them and sets them aside for use, not overlooking the one to whom
Sir William Wallace gave “a heavy sword encased in a brass scabbard,”
 and naively explaining which Sir William Wallace it was, lest we get
the wrong one by the hassock; this is the one “from whose patriotism
and bravery comes that heart-stirring air, ‘Scots wha hae wi’ Wallace
bled.’” Hannah More was related to her ancestors. She explains who
Hannah More was.

Whenever a person informs us who Sir William Wallace was, or who wrote
“Hamlet,” or where the Declaration of Independence was fought, it fills
us with a suspicion wellnigh amounting to conviction, that that person
would not suspect us of being so empty of knowledge if he wasn’t
suffering from the same “claim” himself. Then we turn to page 20 of the
Autobiography and happen upon this passage, and that hasty suspicion
stands rebuked:

“I gained book-knowledge with far less labor than is usually requisite.
At ten years of age I was as familiar with Lindley Murray’s Grammar as
with the Westminster Catechism; and the latter I had to repeat every
Sunday. My favorite studies were Natural Philosophy, Logic, and Moral
Science. From my brother Albert I received lessons in the ancient
tongues, Hebrew, Greek, and Latin.”

You catch your breath in astonishment, and feel again and still again
the pang of that rebuke. But then your eye falls upon the next sentence
but one, and the pain passes away and you set up the suspicion again
with evil satisfaction:

“After my discovery of Christian Science, most of the knowledge I had
gleaned from school-books vanished like a dream.”

That disappearance accounts for much in her miscellaneous writings. As I
was saying, she handles her “ancestral shadows,” as she calls them, just
as I do mine. It is remarkable. When she runs across “a relative of my
Grandfather Baker, General Henry Knox, of Revolutionary fame,” she sets
him down; when she finds another good one, “the late Sir John Macneill,
in the line of my Grandfather Baker’s family,” she sets him down, and
remembers that he “was prominent in British politics, and at one time
held the position of ambassador to Persia”; when she discovers that her
grandparents “were likewise connected with Captain John Lovewell, whose
gallant leadership and death in the Indian troubles of 1722-25 caused
that prolonged contest to be known historically as Lovewell’s War,”
 she sets the Captain down; when it turns out that a cousin of her
grandmother “was John Macneill, the New Hampshire general, who fought at
Lundy’s Lane and won distinction in 1814 at the battle of Chippewa,”
 she catalogues the General. (And tells where Chippewa was.) And then she
skips all her platform people; never mentions one of them. It shows that
she is just as human as any of us.

Yet, after all, there is something very touching in her pride in these
worthy small-fry, and something large and fine in her modesty in not
caring to remember that their kinship to her can confer no distinction
upon her, whereas her mere mention of their names has conferred upon
them a faceless earthly immortality.




CHAPTER II

When she wrote this little biography her great life-work had already
been achieved, she was become renowned; to multitudes of reverent
disciples she was a sacred personage, a familiar of God, and His
inspired channel of communication with the human race. Also, to them
these following things were facts, and not doubted:

She had written a Bible in middle age, and had published it; she had
recast it, enlarged it, and published it again; she had not stopped
there, but had enlarged it further, polished its phrasing, improved
its form, and published it yet again. It was at last become a compact,
grammatical, dignified, and workman-like body of literature. This was
good training, persistent training; and in all arts it is training that
brings the art to perfection. We are now confronted with one of the most
teasing and baffling riddles of Mrs. Eddy’s history--a riddle which may
be formulated thus:

How is it that a primitive literary gun which began as a hundred-yard
flint-lock smooth-bore muzzle-loader, and in the course of forty years
has acquired one notable improvement after another--percussion cap;
fixed cartridge; rifled barrel; efficiency at half a mile how is it that
such a gun, sufficiently good on an elephant hunt (Christian Science)
from the beginning, and growing better and better all the time during
forty years, has always collapsed back to its original flint-lock
estate the moment the huntress trained it on any other creature than an
elephant?

Something more than a generation ago Mrs. Eddy went out with her
flint-lock on the rabbit range; and this was a part of the result:

“After his decease, and a severe casualty deemed fatal by skilful
physicians, we discovered that the Principle of all healing and the law
that governs it is God, a divine Principle, and a spiritual not material
law, and regained health.”--Preface to Science and Health, first
revision, 1883.

N.B. Not from the book itself; from the Preface.

You will notice the awkwardness of that English. If you should carry
that paragraph up to the Supreme Court of the United States in order
to find out for good and all whether the fatal casualty happened to the
dead man--as the paragraph almost asserts--or to some person or persons
not even hinted at in the paragraph, the Supreme Court would be obliged
to say that the evidence established nothing with certainty except that
there had been a casualty--victim not known.

The context thinks it explains who the victim was, but it does nothing
of the kind. It furnishes some guessing-material of a sort which enables
you to infer that it was “we” that suffered the mentioned injury, but if
you should carry the language to a court you would not be able to prove
that it necessarily meant that. “We” are Mrs. Eddy; a funny little
affectation. She replaced it later with the more dignified third person.

The quoted paragraph is from Mrs. Eddy’s preface to the first revision
of Science and Health (1883). Sixty-four pages further along--in the
body of the book (the elephant-range), she went out with that same
