large fingers, which picked up the card and raised it deliberately to
the line of vision. By this means Mr. Van Torp saved himself the
trouble of turning his head.
It was a rather large card, bearing in the middle two or three
odd-looking signs which meant nothing to him, but underneath them he
read in plain characters the single work 'Barak.'
'Barrack!' grumbled the American. 'Rubbish! Why not "teapot," or
"rocking-horse," or anything else that's appropriate?'
As he paused for an answer, Stemp ventured to speak.
'Can't say, sir. P'rhaps it's the only word he knows, sir, so he's had
it printed.'
Van Torp turned his head at last, and his eyes glared unpleasantly as
he examined his valet's face. But the Englishman's features were
utterly impassive; if they expressed anything it was contempt for the
heathen person outside, who only knew one word of English.
Mr. Van Torp seemed satisfied and glanced at the card again.
'I guess you didn't mean to be funny,' he said, as if acknowledging
that he had made a mistake.
'Certainly not, sir,' answered Stemp, drawing himself up with an air
of injured pride, for he felt that his professional manners were
suspected, if not actually criticised.
'That's all right,' observed Mr. Van Torp, turning the card over. 'Oh,
the writing's on the back, I see. Yes. Now, that's very curious, I
must say,' he said, after reading the words. 'That's very curious,' he
repeated, laying strong and equal emphasis on the last two words. 'Ask
him to walk in, Stemp.'
'Yes, sir. With the man who speaks English for him, I suppose, sir?'
'No. He can wait outside till I want him, and you can go away too.
I'll see the man alone.'
'Very good, sir.'
As the valet went out Mr. Van Torp turned his chair half round without
getting up, so that he sat facing the door. A moment later Stemp had
ushered in the visitor, and was gone.
A slim youth came forward without boldness, but without the least
timidity, as if he were approaching an equal. He had an oval face, no
moustache, a complexion like cream, short and thick black hair and
very clear dark eyes that met the American's fearlessly. He was under
the average height, and he wore rather thin, loose grey clothes that
had been made by a good tailor. His hands and feet were smaller than a
European's.
'So you're Mr. Barrack,' Mr. Van Torp said, nodding pleasantly.
The young face smiled, and the parted lips showed quite perfect
teeth.
'Barak,' answered the young man, giving the name the right sound.
'Yes, I understand, but I can't pronounce it like you. Take a chair,
Mr. Barrack, and draw up to the table.'
The young man understood the gesture that explained the speech and sat
down.
'So you're a friend of Mr. Logotheti's, and he advised you to come to
me? Understand? Logotheti of Paris.'
Barak smiled again, and nodded quickly as he recognised the name. The
American watched his face attentively.
'All right,' he continued. 'You can trot out your things now, right on
the table-cloth here.'
He had seen enough of Indians and Mexicans in his youth to learn the
simple art of using signs, and he easily made his meaning clear to his
visitor. Barak produced a little leathern bag, not much bigger than an
ordinary purse, and fastened with thin thongs, which he slowly untied.
Mr. Van Torp watched the movements of the delicate fingers with great
interest, for he was an observant man.
'With those hands,' he silently reflected, 'it's either a lady or a
thief, or both.'
Barak took several little twists of tissue paper from the bag, laid
them in a row on the table-cloth, and then began to open them one by
one. Each tiny parcel contained a ruby, and when the young man counted
them there were five in all, and they were fine stones if they were
genuine; but Mr. Van Torp was neither credulous nor easily surprised.
When Barak looked to see what impression he had produced on such a
desirable buyer, he was disappointed.
'Nice,' said the American carelessly; 'nice rubies, but I've seen
better. I wonder if they're real, anyway. They've found out how to
make them by chemistry now, you know.'
But Barak understood nothing, of course, beyond the fact that Mr. Van
Torp seemed indifferent, which was a common trick of wily customers;
but there was something about this one's manner that was not assumed.
Barak took the finest of the stones with the tips of his slender young
fingers, laid it in the palm of his other hand, and held it under Mr.
Van Torp's eyes, looking at him with an inquiring expression. But the
American shook his head.
'No rubies to-day, thank you,' he said.
Barak nodded quietly, and at once began to wrap up the stones, each in
its own bit of paper, putting the twists back into the bag one by one.
Then he drew the thongs together and tied them in a neat sort of knot
which Mr. Van Torp had never seen. The young man then rose to go, but
the millionaire stopped him.
'Say, don't go just yet. I'll show you a ruby that'll make you sit
up.'
He rose as he spoke, and Barak understood his smile and question, and
waited. Mr. Van Torp went into the next room, and came back almost
immediately, bringing a small black morocco case, which he set on the
table and unlocked with a little key that hung on his watch-chain. He
was not fond of wearing jewellery, and the box held all his
possessions of that sort, and was not full. There were three or four
sets of plain studs and links; there were half a dozen very big gold
collar-studs; there was a bit of an old gold chain, apparently cut off
at each end, and having one cheap little diamond set in each link; and
there was a thin old wedding-ring that must have been a woman's;
besides a few other valueless trinkets, all lying loose and in
confusion. Mr. Van Torp shook the box a little, poked the contents
about with one large finger, and soon found an uncut red stone about
the size of a hazel-nut, which he took out and placed on the white
cloth before his visitor.
'Now that's what I call a ruby,' he said, with a smile of
satisfaction. 'Got any like that, young man? Because if you have I'll
talk to you, maybe. Yes,' he continued, watching the Oriental's face,
'I told you I'd make you sit up. But I didn't mean to scare you
bald-headed. What's the matter with you, anyway? Your eyes are popping
out of your head. Do you feel as if you were going to have a fit? I
say! Stemp!'
Barak was indeed violently affected by the sight of the uncut ruby,
and his face had changed in a startling way; a great vein like a
whipcord suddenly showed itself on his smooth forehead straight up and
down; his lids had opened so wide that they uncovered the white of the
eye almost all round the iris; he was biting his lower lip so that it
was swollen and blood-red against the little white teeth; and a moment
before Mr. Van Torp had called out to his servant, the young man had
reeled visibly, and would perhaps have collapsed if the American had
not caught the slender waist and supported the small head against his
shoulder with his other hand.
Stemp was not within hearing. He had been told to go away, and he had
gone, and meant to be rung for when he was wanted, for he had suffered
a distinct slight in being suspected of a joke. Therefore Mr. Van Torp
called to him in vain, and meanwhile stood where he was with his arm
round Barak, and Barak's head on his shoulder; but as no one came at
his call, he lifted the slim figure gently and carried it towards the
sofa, and while he was crossing the large room with his burden the
palpable truth was forced upon him that his visitor's slimness was
more apparent than real, and an affair of shape rather than of pounds.
Before he had quite reached the lounge, however, Barak stirred,
wriggled in his arms, and sprang to the floor and stood upright,
blinking a little, like a person waking from a dream, but quite
steady, and trying to smile in an apologetic sort of way, though
evidently still deeply disturbed. Mr. Van Torp smiled, too, as if to
offer his congratulations on the quick recovery.
'Feel better now?' he inquired in a kindly tone, and nodded. 'I wonder
what on earth you're up to, young lady?' he soliloquised, watching
Barak's movements.
He was much too cautious and wise to like being left alone for many
minutes with a girl, and a good-looking one, who went about London
dressed in men's clothes and passed herself for a ruby merchant. Mr.
Van Torp was well aware that he was not a safe judge of precious
stones, that the rubies he had seen might very well be imitation, and
that the girl's emotion at the sight of the rough stone might be only
a piece of clever acting, the whole scene having been planned by a
gang of thieves for the purpose of robbing him of that very ruby,
which was worth a large sum, even in his estimation; for it was nearly
the counterpart of the one he had given Lady Maud, though still uncut.
Therefore he returned to the table and slipped the gem into his pocket
before going to the door to see whether Stemp was within hail.
But Barak now understood what he was going to do, and ran before him,
and stood before the door in an attitude which expressed entreaty so
clearly that Mr. Van Torp was puzzled.
'Well,' he said, standing still and looking into the beautiful
imploring eyes, 'what on earth do you want now, Miss Barrack? Try and
explain yourself.'
A very singular conversation by signs now began.
Barak pointed to the waistcoat-pocket into which he had put the stone.
The matter concerned that, of course, and Van Torp nodded. Next,
though after considerable difficulty, she made him understand that she
was asking how he had got it, and when this was clear, he answered by
pretending to count out coins with his right hand on the palm of his
left to explain that he had bought it. There was no mistaking this,
and Barak nodded quickly and went on to her next question. She wanted
to know what kind of man had sold him the ruby. She improvised a
pretty little dumb show in which she represented the seller and Mr.
Van Torp the buyer of the ruby, and then by gestures she asked if the
man who sold it was tall.
Van Torp raised his hand several inches higher than his own head. He
had bought the ruby from a very tall man. Putting both hands to her
chin and then drawing them down as if stroking a long beard, she
inquired if the man had one, and again the answer was affirmative. She
nodded excitedly and pointed first to Van Torp's sandy hair and then
to her own short black locks. The American pointed to his own, and
then touched his watch-chain and smiled. The man's hair was fair, and
even golden. By a similar process she ascertained that his eyes were
blue and not black, and her excitement grew. Last of all she tried to
ask where the man was, but it was some time before she could make Mr.
Van Torp understand what she meant. As if to help her out of her
difficulty, the sun shone through the clouds at that moment and
streamed into the room; she pointed to it at once, turned her back to
it, and then held out her right hand to indicate the east, and her
left to the west.
'Oh, yes,' said Van Torp, who had seen Indians do the same thing, 'it
was west of here that I bought it of him, a good way west.'
He pointed in that direction, and thrust out his arm as if he would
make it reach much further if he could. At this Barak looked deeply
disappointed. Several times, to show that she meant London, or at
least England, she pointed to the floor at her feet and looked
inquiringly at Van Torp, but he shook his head and pointed to the
west again, and made a gesture that meant crossing something. He spoke
to her as if she could understand.
'I've got your meaning,' he said. 'You're after the big man with the
yellow beard, who is selling rubies from the same place, and has very
likely gone off with yours. He looked like a bad egg in spite of his
handsome face.'
He turned his eyes thoughtfully to the window. Barak plucked gently at
his sleeve and pretended to write in the palm of her left hand, and
then went through all the descriptive gestures again, and then once
more pretended to write, and coaxingly pushed him towards a little
table on which she saw writing materials.
'You'd like to have his address, would you, Miss Barrack? I wonder why
you don't call in your interpreter and tell me so. It would be much
simpler than all this dumb crambo.'
Once more he made a step towards the door, but she caught at his
sleeve, and entreated him in her own language not to call any one; and
her voice was so deliciously soft and beseeching that he yielded, and
sat down at the small table and wrote out an address from memory. He
handed her the half-sheet of paper when he had dried the writing and
had looked over it carefully.
'Poor little thing!' he said in a tone of pity. 'If you ever find him
he'll eat you.'
  [Illustration: "'You want my blessing, do you, Miss Barrack?'"]
Barak again showed signs of great emotion when she put the address
into an inside pocket of her man's coat, but it was not of the same
kind as before. She took Van Torp's big hand in both her own, and,
bending down, she laid it on her head, meaning that he might
dispose of her life ever afterwards. But he did not understand.
'You want my blessing, do you, Miss Barrack? Some people don't think
Brassy Van Torp's blessing worth much, young lady, but you're welcome
to it, such as it is.'
He patted her thick hair and smiled as she looked up, and her eyes
were dewy with tears.
'That's all right, my dear,' he said. 'Don't cry!'
She smiled too, because his tone was kind, and, standing up, she took
out her little leathern bag again quickly, emptied the twists of paper
into her hand, selected one by touch, and slipped the rest back. She
unwrapped a large stone and held it up to the light, turning it a
little as she did so. Van Torp watched her with curiosity, and with an
amused suspicion that she had perhaps played the whole scene in order
to mollify him and induce him to buy something. So many people had
played much more elaborate tricks in the hope of getting money from
him, and the stones might be imitations after all, in spite of
Logotheti's pencilled line of recommendation.
But Barak's next action took Van Torp by surprise. To his amazement,
she pressed the ruby lightly to her heart, then to her lips, and last
of all to her forehead, and before he knew what she was doing she had
placed it in his right hand and closed his fingers upon it. It was a
thank-offering.
'Nonsense!' objected the millionaire, smiling, but holding out the
stone to her. 'It's very sweet of you, but you don't mean it, and I
don't take presents like that. Why, it's worth a thousand pounds in
Bond Street any day!'
But she put her hands behind her back and shook her head, to show that
she would not take it back. Then with her empty hand she again touched
her heart, her lips, and forehead, and turned towards the door.
'Here, stop!' said Mr. Van Torp, going after her. 'I can't take this
thing! See here, I say! Put it back into your pocket!'
She turned and met him, and made a gesture of protest and entreaty, as
if earnestly begging him to keep the gem. He looked at her keenly, and
he was a judge of humanity, and saw that she was hurt by his refusal.
As a last resource, he took out his pocket-book and showed her a
quantity of folded bank-notes.
'Well,' he said, 'since you insist, Miss Barrack, I'll buy the stone
of you, but I'll be everlastingly jiggered if I'll take it for
nothing.'
Barak's eyes suddenly flashed in a most surprising way, her lower lip
pouted, and her cheek faintly changed colour, as a drop of scarlet
pomegranate juice will tinge a bowl of cream.
She made one step forwards, plucked the stone from his fingers, rather
than took it, and with a quick, but girlishly awkward movement, threw
it towards the window as hard as she could, stamping angrily with her
little foot at the same moment. Mr. Van Torp was extremely
disconcerted, as he sometimes was by the sudden actions of the sex he
did not understand. Fortunately the stone hit the wall instead of
going out of the window.
'I'm really very sorry, Miss Barrack,' he said in a tone of humble
apology, and he went quickly and picked up the gem. 'I hadn't quite
understood, you see.'
She watched him, and drew back instinctively towards the door, as if
expecting that he would again try to give it back to her. But he shook
his head now, bowed with all the grace he could affect, which was
little, and by way of making her feel that he accepted the gift, he
pressed it to his heart, as she had done, and to his lips, but not to
his forehead, because he was afraid that might cause some new mistake,
as he did not know what the gesture meant.
Barak's face changed instantly; she smiled, nodded, and waved her hand
to him, to say that it was all right, and that she was quite
satisfied. Then she made a sort of salute that he thought very
graceful indeed, as if she were taking something from near the floor
and laying it on her forehead, and she laughed softly and was out of
the room and had shut the door before he could call her back again.
He stood still in the middle of the room, looking at the gem in his
hand with an expression of grave doubt.
'Well,' he said to himself, and his lips formed the words, though no
sound articulated them, 'that's a queer sort of a morning's work,
anyway.'
He reflected that the very last thing he had ever expected was a
present of a fine ruby from a pretty heathen girl in man's clothes,
recommended to him by Logotheti. Though he almost laughed at the
thought when it occurred to him, he did not like the idea of keeping
the stone; yet he did not know what to do with it, for it was more
than probable that he was never to see Barak again, and if he ever
did, it was at least likely that she would refuse to take back her
gift, and as energetically as on the first occasion.
At that moment it occurred to him that he might sell it to a dealer
and give the proceeds to Lady Maud for her good work. His
recollections of Sunday School were very misty, poor man, but a story
came back to him about some one who had observed that something
valuable might have been sold and the money given to the poor. If he
had remembered the rest, and especially that the person who made the
suggestion had been Judas Iscariot, he would certainly have hesitated,
for he would have been sure that there was something wrong with any
advice that came from that quarter. But, happily for the poor, the
name of Judas had dropped out of his memory in connexion with the
incident.
'At least it will do some good to somebody, and I shall not be keeping
what I've no right to.'
A mere acquaintance, judging him by his hard face and his
extraordinary financial past, would not have believed that such a
simple and highly moral reflexion could occur to him. But Lady Maud,
who knew him, would have given him credit for this and much more, even
though she felt that he had lately tempted her to do something which
her father would call dishonourable, and that the temptation had not
yet quite taken itself off to the bottomless pit, where temptations
are kept in pickle by the devil's housekeeper.
Mr. Van Torp took his hat and gloves, but as he was really a good
American, he had no stick to take; and he went out without even
telling Stemp that he was going. In spite of what Londoners were
calling the heat, he walked, and did not even feel warm; for in the
first place he had lately come from Washington and New York, where a
Hottentot would be very uncomfortable in July, and, moreover, he had
never been at all sensitive to heat or cold, and lived as soberly as
an Arab in the desert. Therefore London seemed as pleasantly cool to
him with the thermometer at eighty as it seems to a newly landed
Anglo-Indian who has lately seen the mercury at a hundred and
thirty-five on the shady side of the verandah.
He walked up at a leisurely pace from his hotel by the river to
Piccadilly and Bond Street, and he entered a jeweller's shop of modest
appearance but ancient reputation, which had been in the same place
for nearly a century, and had previously been on the other side of the
street.
Outside, two well-dressed men were looking at the things in the
window; within, a broad-shouldered, smart-looking man with black hair
and dressed in perfectly new blue serge was sitting by the counter
with his back to the door, talking with the old jeweller himself. He
turned on the chair when he heard the newcomer's step, and Mr. Van
Torp found himself face to face with Konstantin Logotheti, whom he had
supposed to be in Paris.
'Well,' he said, without betraying the surprise he felt, 'this is
what I call a very pleasant accident, Mr. Logotheti.'
The Greek rose and shook hands, and the American did not fail to
observe on the counter a small piece of tissue paper on which lay an
uncut stone, much larger than the one he had in his pocket.
'If you are in any hurry,' said Logotheti politely, 'I don't mind
waiting in the least. Mr. Pinney and I are in the midst of a
discussion that may never end, and I believe neither of us has
anything in the world to do.'
Mr. Pinney smiled benignly and put in a word in the mercantile plural,
which differs from that of royalty in being used every day.
'The truth is, we are not very busy just at this time of the year,' he
said.
'That's very kind of you, Mr. Logotheti,' said Van Torp, answering the
latter, 'but I'm not really in a hurry, thank you.'
The stress he laid on the word 'really' might have led one to the
conclusion that he was pretending to be, but was not. He sat down
deliberately at a little distance, took off his hat, and looked at the
gem on the counter.
'I don't know anything about such things, of course,' he said in a
tone of reflexion, 'but I should think that was quite a nice ruby.'
Again Mr. Pinney smiled benignly, for Mr. Van Torp had dealt with him
for years.
'It's a very fine stone indeed, sir,' he said, and then turned to
Logotheti again. 'I think we can undertake to cut it for you in
London,' he said. 'I will weigh it and give you a careful estimate.'
As a matter of fact, before Van Torp entered, Logotheti had got so far
as the question of setting the gem for a lady's ring, but Mr. Pinney,
like all the great jewellers, was as discreet and tactful as a
professional diplomatist. How could he be sure that one customer might
like another to know about a ring ordered for a lady? If Logotheti
preferred secrecy, he would only have to assent and go away, as if
leaving the ruby to be cut, and he could look in again when it was
convenient; and this was what he at once decided to do.
'I think you're right, Mr. Pinney,' he said. 'I shall leave it in your
hands. That's really all,' he added, turning to Mr. Van Torp.
'Really? My business won't take long either, and we'll go together, if
you like, and have a little chat. I only came to get another of those
extra large collar-studs you make for me, Mr. Pinney. Have you got
another?'
'We always keep them in stock for your convenience, sir,' answered the
famous jeweller, opening a special little drawer behind the counter
and producing a very small morocco case.
Mr. Van Torp did not even open it, and had already laid down the
money, for he knew precisely what it cost.
'Thanks,' he said. 'You're always so obliging about little things, Mr.
Pinney.'
'Thank you, sir. We do our best. Good-morning, sir, good morning.'
The two millionaires went out together. Two well-dressed men stood
aside to let them pass and then entered the shop.
'Which way?' asked Logotheti.
'Your way,' answered the American. 'I've nothing to do.'
'Nor have I,' laughed the Greek. 'Nothing in the world! What can
anybody find to do in London at this time of year?'
I'm sure I don't know,' echoed Van Torp, pleasantly. 'I supposed you
were on the Continent somewhere.'
'And I thought you were in America, and so, of course, we meet at old
Pinney's in London!'
'Really! Did you think I was in America? Your friend, the heathen girl
in boy's clothes, brought me your card this morning. I supposed you
knew I was here.'
'No, but I thought you might be, within six months, and I gave her
several cards for people I know. So she found you out! She's a born
ferret--she would find anything. Did you buy anything of her?'
'No. I'm not buying rubies to-day. Much obliged for sending her, all
the same. You take an interest in her, I suppose, Mr. Logotheti? Is
that so?'
'I?' Logotheti laughed a little. 'No, indeed! Those days were over
long ago. I'm engaged to be married.'
'By the bye, yes. I'd heard that, and I meant to congratulate you. I
do now, anyway. When is it to be? Settled that yet?'
'Some time in October, I think. So you guessed that Barak is a girl.'
'Yes, that's right. I guessed she was. Do you know anything about
her?'
'What she told me. But it may not be true.'
'Told you? Do you mean to say you understand her language?'
'Oh, yes. Tartar is spoken all over the East, you know. It's only a
sort of simplified Turkish, and I picked it up in the Crimea and the
Caucasus when I was travelling there some years ago. She comes from
some place in Central Asia within a possible distance of Samarkand and
the Transcaucasian railway, for that was the way she ultimately got to
the Caspian and to Tiflis, and then to Constantinople and Paris. How a
mere girl, brought up in a Tartar village, could have made such a
journey safely, carrying a small fortune with her in precious stones,
is something nobody can understand who has not lived in the East,
where anything is possible. A woman is practically sacred in a
Mohammedan country. Any man who molests her stands a good chance of
being torn to ribands by the other men.'
'It used to be something like that in the West, when I punched
cattle,' observed Mr. Van Torp, quietly. 'A man who interfered with a
lady there was liable to get into trouble. Progress works both ways,
up and down, doesn't it? Bears at one end and rots at the other. Isn't
that so?'
'It's just as true of civilisation,' answered the Greek.
'They're the same thing, I should say,' objected Mr. Van Torp.
'Oh, not quite, I think!'
Logotheti smiled at his own thoughts. To his thinking, civilisation
meant an epigram of Meleager, or Simonides' epitaph on the Spartans
who fell at Thermopylæ, or a Tragedy of Sophocles, or the Aphrodite of
Syracuse, or the Victory of the Louvre. Progress meant railways, the
Paris Bourse, the Nickel Trust, and Mr. Van Torp.
'Well,' said the latter, 'you were telling me about Miss Barrack.'
'Is that what you call her?' Logotheti laughed lightly.
He seemed to be in very good humour. Men often are, just before
marriage; and sometimes, it is said, when they are on the eve of great
misfortunes which they cannot possibly foresee. Fate loves unexpected
contrasts. Logotheti told his companion the story of the ruby mine,
substantially as it was narrated at the beginning of this tale, not
dreaming that Van Torp had perhaps met and talked with the man who had
played so large a part in it, and to find whom Baraka had traversed
many dangers and overcome many difficulties.
'It sounds like the Arabian Nights,' said Mr. Van Torp, as if he
found it hard to believe.
'Exactly,' assented Logotheti. 'And, oddly enough, the first of these
stories is about Samarkand, which is not so very far from Baraka's
native village. It seems to have taken the girl about a year to find
her way to Constantinople, and when she got there she naturally
supposed that it was the capital of the world, and that her man, being
very great and very rich, thanks to her, must of course live there. So
she searched Stamboul and Pera for him, during seven or eight months.
She lived in the house of a good old Persian merchant, under the
protection of his wife, and learned that there was a world called
Europe where her man might be living, and cities called Paris and
London, where people pay fabulous prices for precious stones. Persian
merchants are generally well-educated men, you know. At last she made
up her mind to dress like a man, she picked up an honest Turkish
man-servant who had been all over Europe with a diplomatist and could
speak some French and English as well as Tartar, she got a letter of
recommendation to me from a Greek banker, through the Persian who did
business with him, joined some Greeks who were coming to Marseilles by
sea, and here she is. Now you know as much as I do. She is perfectly
fearless, and as much more sure of herself than any man ever was, as
some young women can be in this queer world. Of course, she'll never
find the brute who thought he was leaving her to be murdered by her
relations, but if she ever did, she would either marry him or cut his
throat.'
'Nice, amiable kind of girl,' remarked Mr. Van Torp, who remembered
her behaviour when he had refused her proffered gift. 'That's very
interesting, Mr. Logotheti. How long do you count on being in London
this time? Three or four days, maybe?'
'I daresay. No longer, I fancy.'
'Why don't you come and take dinner with me some night?' asked the
American. 'Day after to-morrow, perhaps. I'd be pleased to have you.'
'Thank you very much,' Logotheti answered. 'Since you ask me, I see no
reason why I should not dine with you, if you want me.'
They agreed upon the place and hour, and each suddenly remembered an
engagement.
'By the way,' said Mr. Van Torp without apparent interest, 'I hope
Madame Cordova is quite well? Where's she hiding from you?'
'Just now the hiding-place is Bayreuth. She's gone there with Mrs.
Rushmore to hear Parsifal. I believe I'm not musical enough for
that, so I'm roving till it's over. That's my personal history at this
moment! And Miss Donne is quite well, I believe, thank you.'
'I notice you call her "Miss Donne" when you speak of her,' said Van
Torp. 'Excuse me if I made a mistake just now. I've always called her
Madame Cordova.'
'It doesn't matter at all,' answered Logotheti carelessly, 'but I
believe she prefers to be called by her own name amongst friends.
Good-bye till day after to-morrow, then.'
'At half after eight.'
'All right--half-past--I shall remember.'
But at two o'clock, on the next day but one, Logotheti received a
note, brought by hand, in which Mr. Van Torp said that to his very
great regret he had been called away suddenly, and hoped that
Logotheti would forgive him, as the matter was of such urgent
importance that he would have already left London when the note was
received.
This was more than true, if possible, for the writer had left town two
days earlier, very soon after he had parted from Logotheti in Pall
Mall, although the note had not been delivered till forty-eight hours
later.
CHAPTER V
Mr. Van Torp knew no more about Bayreuth than about Samarkand, beyond
the fact that at certain stated times performances of Wagner's operas
were given there with as much solemnity as great religious festivals,
and that musical people spoke of the Bayreuth season in a curiously
reverent manner. He would have been much surprised if any one had told
him that he often whistled fragments of Parsifal to himself and
liked the sound of them; for he had a natural ear and a good memory,
and had whistled remarkably well when he was a boy.
The truth about this seemingly impossible circumstance was really very
simple. In what he called his cow-punching days, he had been for six
months in company with two young men who used to whistle softly
together by the hour beside the camp fire, and none of the other
'boys' had ever heard the strange tunes they seemed to like best, but
Van Torp had caught and remembered many fragments, almost
unconsciously, and he whistled them to himself because they gave him a
sensation which no 'real music' ever did. Extraordinary natures, like
his, are often endowed with unnoticed gifts and tastes quite unlike
those of most people. No one knew anything about the young men who
whistled Wagner; the 'Lost Legion' hides many secrets, and the two
were not popular with the rest, though they knew their business and
did their work fairly well. One of them was afterwards said to have
been killed in a shooting affray and the other had disappeared about
the same time, no one knew how, or cared, though Mr. Van Torp thought
he had recognised him once many years later. They were neither
Americans nor Englishmen, though they both spoke English well, and
never were heard to use any other language. But that is common enough
with emigrants to the United States and elsewhere. Every one who has
been to sea in an American vessel knows how the Scandinavian sailors
insist on speaking English amongst themselves, instead of their own
language.
Mr. Van Torp was fond of music, quite apart from his admiration for
the greatest living lyric soprano, and since it was his fancy to go to
Bayreuth in the hope of seeing her, he meant to hear Wagner's
masterpiece, and supposed that there would not be any difficulty about
such a simple matter, nor about obtaining the sort of rooms he was
accustomed to, in the sort of hotel he expected to find where so many
rich people went every other year. Any one who has been to the holy
place of the Wagnerians can imagine his surprise when, after infinite
difficulty, he found himself, his belongings and his man deposited in
one small attic room of a Bavarian tanner's house, with one
feather-bed, one basin and one towel for furniture.
'Stemp,' said Mr. Van Torp, 'this is a heathen town.'
'Yes, sir.'
'I suppose I'm thought close about money,' continued the millionaire,
thinking aloud, 'but I call five dollars a day dear, for this room,
don't you?'
'Yes, sir, I do indeed! I call it downright robbery. That's what I
call it, sir.'
'Well, I suppose they call it business here, and quite a good business
too. But I'd like to buy the whole thing and show 'em how to run it.
They'd make more in the end.'
'Yes, sir. I hope you will, sir. Beg pardon, sir, but do you think it
would cost a great deal?'
'They'd ask a great deal, anyway,' answered the millionaire
thoughtfully. 'Stemp, suppose you get me out some things and then take
a look around, while I try to get a wash in that--that tea-service
there.'
Mr. Van Torp eyed the exiguous basin and jug with some curiosity and
much contempt. Stemp, impassive and correct under all circumstances,
unstrapped a valise, laid out on the bed what his master might need,
and inquired if he wished anything else.
'There isn't anything else,' answered Mr. Van Torp, gloomily.
'When shall I come back, sir?'
'In twenty-five minutes. There isn't half an hour's wash in that
soup-plate, anyway.'
He eyed the wretched basin with a glance that might almost have
cracked it. When his man had gone, he proceeded to his toilet, such as
it was, and solaced himself by softly whistling as much of the 'Good
Friday' music as he remembered, little dreaming what it was, or that
his performance was followed with nervous and almost feverish interest
by the occupant of the next room in the attic, a poor musician who had
saved and scraped for years to sit at the musical feast during three
days.
'E sharp!' cried an agonised voice on the other side of the closed
door, in a strong German accent. 'I know it is E sharp! I know it!'
Mr. Van Torp stopped whistling at once, lowered his razor, and turned
a mask of soapsuds in the direction whence the sound came.
'Do you mean me?' he inquired in a displeased tone.
'I mean who whistles the "Good Friday" music,' answered the voice. 'I
tell you, I know it is E sharp in that place. I have the score. I
shall show you if you believe not.'
'He's mad,' observed Mr. Van Torp, beginning to shave again. 'Are you
a lunatic?' he asked, pausing after a moment. 'What's the matter with
you anyhow?'
'I am a musician, I tell you! I am a pianist!'
'It's the same thing,' said Mr. Van Torp, working carefully on his
upper lip, under his right nostril.
'I shall tell you that you are a barbarian!' retorted the voice.
'Well, that doesn't hurt,' answered Mr. Van Torp.
He heard a sort of snort of scorn on the other side and there was
silence again. But before long, as he got away from his upper lip with
the razor, he unconsciously began to whistle again, and he must have
made the same mistake as before, for he was interrupted by a deep
groan of pain from the next room.
'Not feeling very well?' he inquired in a tone of dry jocularity.
'Stomach upset?'
'E sharp!' screamed the wretched pianist.
Van Torp could hear him dancing with rage, or pain.
'See here, whoever you are, don't call names! I don't like it. See?
I've paid for this room and I'm going on whistling if I like, and just
as long as I like.'
'You say you make noises you like?' cried the infuriated musician.
'Oh, no! You shall not! There are rules! We are not in London, sir, we
are in Bayreuth! If you make noises, you shall be thrown out of the
house.'
'Shall I? Well, now, that's a funny sort of a rule for a hotel, isn't
it?'
'I go complain of you,' retorted the other, and Mr. Van Torp heard a
door opened and shut again.
In a few minutes he had done all that the conditions would permit in
the way of making himself presentable, and just as he left the room he
was met by Stemp, the twenty-five minutes being just over.
'Very good, sir. I'll do what I can, sir,' said the excellent man, as
Mr. Van Torp pointed to the things that lay about.
As he went out, he recognised the voice of his neighbour, who was
talking excitedly in voluble German, somewhere at the back of the
house.
'He's complaining now,' thought Mr. Van Torp, with something like a
smile.
He had already been to the best hotel, in the hope of obtaining rooms,
and he had no difficulty in finding it again. He asked for Madame da
Cordova. She was at home, for it was an off-day; he sent in his card,
and was presently led to her sitting-room. Times had changed. Six
months earlier he would have been told that there had been a mistake
and that she had gone out.
She was alone; a letter she had been writing lay unfinished on the
queer little desk near the shaded window, and her pen had fallen
across the paper. On the round table in the middle of the small bare
room there stood a plain white vase full of corn-flowers and poppies,
and Margaret was standing there, rearranging them, or pretending to do
so.
She was looking her very best, and as she raised her eyes and greeted
him with a friendly smile, Mr. Van Torp thought she had never been so
handsome before. It had not yet occurred to him to compare her with
Lady Maud, because for some mysterious natural cause the beautiful
Englishwoman who was his best friend had never exerted even the
slightest feminine influence on his being; he would have carried her
in his arms, if need had been, as he had carried the Tartar girl, and
not a thrill of his nerves nor one faster beat of his heart would have
disturbed his placidity; she knew it, as women know such things, and
the knowledge made her quite sure that he was not really the
coarse-grained and rather animal son of nature that many people said
he was, the sort of man to whom any one good-looking woman is much the
same as another, a little more amusing than good food, a little less
satisfactory than good wine.
But the handsome singer stirred his blood, the touch of her hand
electrified him, and the mere thought that any other man should ever
make her his own was unbearable. After he had first met her he had
pursued her with such pertinacity and such utter ignorance of women's
ways that he had frightened her, and she had frankly detested him for
a time; but he had learned a lesson and he profited by it with that
astounding adaptability which makes American men and women just what
they are.
Margaret held out her hand and he took it; and though its touch and
her friendly smile were like a taste of heaven just then, he pressed
her fingers neither too much nor too little, and his face betrayed no
emotion.
'It's very kind of you to receive me, Miss Donne,' he said quietly.
'I think it's very kind of you to come and see me,' Margaret answered.
'Come and sit down and tell me how you got here--and why!'
'Well,' he answered slowly, as they seated themselves side by side on
the hard green sofa, 'I don't suppose I can explain, so that you'll
understand, but I'll try. Different kinds of things brought me. I
heard you were here from Lady Maud, and I thought perhaps I might have
an opportunity for a little talk. And then--oh, I don't know. I've
seen everything worth seeing except a battle and Parsifal, and as it
seemed so easy, and you were here, I thought I'd have a look at the
opera, since I can't see the fight.'
Margaret laughed a little.
'I hope you will like it,' she said. 'Have you a good seat?'
'I haven't got a ticket yet,' answered Mr. Van Torp, in blissful
ignorance.
'No seat!' The Primadonna's surprise was almost dramatic. 'But how in
the world do you expect to get one now? Don't you know that the seats
for Parsifal are all taken months beforehand?'
'Are they really?' He was very calm about it. 'Then I suppose I shall
have to get a ticket from a speculator. I don't see anything hard
about that.'
'My dear friend, there are no speculators here, and there are no
tickets to be had. You might as well ask for the moon!'
'I can stand, then. I'm not afraid of getting tired.'
'There are no standing places at all! No one is allowed to go in who
has not a seat. A week ago you might possibly have picked up one in
Munich, given up by some one at the last moment, but such chances are
jumped at! I wonder that you even got a place to sleep!'
'Well, it's not much of a place,' said Mr. Van Torp, thoughtfully.
'There's one room the size of a horsebox, one bed, one basin, one
pitcher and one towel, and I've brought my valet with me. I've
concluded to let him sleep while I'm at the opera, and he'll sit up
when I want to go to bed. Box and Cox. I don't know what he'll sit on,
for there's no chair, but he's got to sit.'
Margaret laughed, for he amused her.
'I suppose you're exaggerating a little bit,' she said. 'It's not
really quite so bad as that, is it?'
'It's worse. There's a lunatic in the next room who calls me E. Sharp
through the door, and has lodged a complaint already because I
whistled while I was shaving. It's not a very good hotel. Who is E.
Sharp, anyway? Maybe that was the name of the last man who occupied
that room. I don't know, but I don't like the idea of having a mad
German pianist for a neighbour. He may get in while I'm asleep and
think I'm the piano, and hammer the life out of me, the way they do.
I've seen a perfectly new piano wrecked in a single concert by a
fellow who didn't look as if he had the strength to kick a mosquito.
They're so deceptive, pianists! Nervous men are often like that, and
most pianists are nothing but nerves and hair.'
He amused her, for she had never seen him in his present mood.
'E sharp is a note,' she said. 'On the piano it's the same as F
natural. You must have been whistling something your neighbour knew,
and you made a mistake, and nervous musicians really suffer if one
does that. But it must have been something rather complicated, to have
an E sharp in it! It wasn't "Suwanee River," nor the "Washington Post"
either! Indeed I should rather like to know what it was.'
'Old tunes I picked up when I was cow-punching, years ago,' answered
Mr. Van Torp. 'I don't know where they came from, for I never asked,
but they're not like other tunes, that's certain, and I like them.
They remind me of the old days out West, when I had no money and
nothing to worry about.'
'I'm very fond of whistling, too,' Margaret said. 'I study all my
parts by whistling them, so as to save my voice.'
'Really! I had no idea that was possible.'
'Quite. Perhaps you whistle very well. Won't you let me hear the tune
that irritated your neighbour the pianist? Perhaps I know it, too.'
'Well,' said Mr. Van Torp, 'I suppose I could. I should be a little
shy before you,' he added, quite naturally. 'If you'll excuse me, I'll
just go and stand before the window so that I can't see you. Perhaps I
can manage it that way.'
Margaret, who was bored to the verge of collapse on the off-days,
thought him much nicer than he had formerly been, and she liked his
perfect simplicity.
'Stand anywhere you like,' she said, 'but let me hear the tune.'
Van Torp rose and went to the window and she looked quietly at his
square figure and his massive, sandy head and his strong neck.
Presently he began to whistle, very softly and perfectly in tune. Many
a street-boy could do as well, no doubt, and Mrs. Rushmore would have
called it a vulgar accomplishment, but the magnificent Primadonna was
too true a musician, as well as a singer, not to take pleasure in a
sweet sound, even if it were produced by a street-boy.
But as Mr. Van Torp went on, she opened her eyes very wide and held
her breath. There was no mistake about it; he was whistling long
pieces from Parsifal, as far as it was possible to convey an idea of
such music by such means. Margaret had studied it before coming to
Bayreuth, in order to understand it better; she had now already heard
it once, and had felt the greatest musical emotion of her life--one
that had stirred other emotions, too, strange ones quite new to her.
She held her breath and listened, and her eyes that had been wide open
in astonishment, slowly closed again in pleasure, and presently, when
he reached the 'Good Friday' music, her own matchless voice floated
out with her unconscious breath, in such perfect octaves with his high
whistling that at first he did not understand; but when he did, the
rough hard man shivered suddenly and steadied himself against the
window-sill, and Margaret's voice went on alone, with faintly breathed
words and then without them, following the instrumentation to the end
of the scene, beyond what he had ever heard.
Then there was silence in the room, and neither of the two moved for
some moments, but at last Van Torp turned, and came back.
'Thank you,' he said, in a low voice.
Margaret smiled and passed her hand over her eyes quickly, as if to
dispel a vision she had seen. Then she spoke.
'Do you really not know what that music is?' she asked. 'Really,
really?'
'Oh, quite honestly I don't!'
'You're not joking? You're not laughing at me?'
'I?' He could not understand. 'I shouldn't dare!' he said.
'You've been whistling some of Parsifal, some of the most beautiful
music that ever was written--and you whistle marvellously, for it's
anything but easy! Where in the world did you learn it? Don't tell me
that those are "old tunes" you picked up on a Californian ranch!'
'It's true, all the same,' Van Torp answered.
He told her of the two foreigners who used to whistle together in the
evenings, and how one was supposed to have been shot and the other had
disappeared, no one had known whither, nor had cared.
'All sorts of young fellows used to drift out there,' he said, 'and
one couldn't tell where they came from, though I can give a guess at
where some of them must have been, since I've seen the world. There
were younger sons of English gentlemen, fellows whose fathers were
genuine lords, maybe, who had not brains enough to get into the army
or the Church. There were cashiered Prussian officers, and Frenchmen
who had most likely killed women out of jealousy, and Sicilian
bandits, and broken Society men from New York. There were all sorts.
And there was me. And we all spoke different kinds of English and had
different kinds of tastes, good and bad--mostly bad. There was only
one thing we could all do alike, and that was to ride.'
'I never thought of you as riding,' Margaret said.
'Well, why should you? But I can, because I was just a common cow-boy
and had to, for a living.'
'It's intensely interesting--what a strange life you have had! Tell me
more about yourself, won't you?'
'There's not much to tell, it seems to me,' said Van Torp. 'From being
a cow-boy I turned into a miner, and struck a little silver, and I
sold that and got into nickel, and I made the Nickel Trust what it is,
more by financing it than anything else, and I got almost all of it.
And now I've sold the whole thing.'
'Sold the Nickel Trust?' Margaret was quite as much surprised as Lady
Maud had been.
'Yes. I wasn't made to do one thing long, I suppose. If I were, I
should still be a cow-boy. Just now, I'm here to go to Parsifal, and
since you say those tunes are out of that opera, I daresay I'm going
to like it very much.'
'It's all very uncanny,' Margaret said thoughtfully. 'I wonder who
those two men were, and what became of the one who disappeared.'
'I've a strong impression that I saw him in New York the other day,'
Van Torp answered. 'If I'm right, he's made money--doing quite well, I
should think. It wouldn't surprise me to hear he'd got together a
million or so.'
'Really? What is he doing? Your stories grow more and more
interesting!'
'If he's the fellow we used to call Levi Longlegs on the ranch, he's a
Russian now. I'm not perfectly sure, for he had no hair on his face
then, and now he has a beard like a French sapper. But the eyes and
the nose and the voice and the accent are the same, and the age would
about correspond. Handsome man, I suppose you'd call him. His name is
Kralinsky just at present, and he's found a whole mine of rubies
somewhere.'
'Really? I love rubies. They are my favourite stones.'
'Are they? That's funny. I've got an uncut one in my pocket now, if
you'd like to see it. I believe it comes from Kralinsky's mine, too,
though I got it through a friend of yours, two or three days ago.'
'A friend of mine?'
He was poking his large fingers into one of the pockets of his
waistcoat in search of the stone.
'Mr. Logotheti,' he said, just as he found it. 'He's discovered a
handsome young woman from Tartary or somewhere, who has a few rubies
to sell that look very much like Kralinsky's. This is one of them.'
He had unwrapped the stone now and he offered it to her, holding it
out in the palm of his hand. She took it delicately and laid it in her
own, which was so white that the gem shed a delicate
pomegranate-coloured light on the skin all round it. She admired it,
turned it over with one finger, held it up towards the window, and
laid it in her palm again.
But Van Torp had set her thinking about Logotheti and the Tartar girl.
She put out her hand to give back the ruby.
'I should like you to keep it, if you will,' he said. 'I shan't forget
the pleasure I've had in seeing you like this, but you'll forget all
about our meeting here--the stone may just make you remember it
sometimes.'
He spoke so quietly, so gently, that she was taken off her guard, and
was touched, and very much surprised to feel that she was. She looked
into his eyes rather cautiously, remembering well how she had
formerly seen something terrifying in them if she looked an instant
too long; but now they made her think of the eyes of a large
affectionate bulldog.
'You're very kind to want to give it to me,' she answered after a
moment's hesitation, 'but I don't like to accept anything so valuable,
now that I'm engaged to be married. Konstantin might not like it. But
you're so kind; give me any little thing of no value that you have in
your pocket, for I mean to remember this day, indeed I do!'
'I gave nothing for the ruby,' said Van Torp, still not taking it from
her, 'so it has no value for me. I wouldn't offer you anything that
cost me money, now, unless it was a theatre for your own. Perhaps the
thing's glass, after all; I've not shown it to any jeweller. The girl
made me take it, because I helped her in a sort of way. When I wanted
to pay for it she tried to throw it out of the window. So I had to
accept it to calm her down, and she went off and left no address, and
I thought I'd like you to have it, if you would.'
'Are you quite, quite sure you did not pay for it?' Margaret asked.
'If we are going to be friends, you must please always be very
accurate.'
'I've told you exactly what happened,' said Van Torp. 'Won't you take
it now?'
'Yes, I will, and thank you very much indeed. I love rubies, and this
is a beauty, and not preposterously big. I think I shall have it set
as it is, uncut, and only polished, so that it will always be itself,
just as you gave it to me. I shall think of the "Good Friday" music
and the Chimes, and this hideous little room, and your clever
whistling, whenever I look at it.'
'You're kind to-day,' said Mr. Van Torp, after a moment's debate as to
whether he should say anything at all.
'Am I? You mean that I used to be very disagreeable, don't you?' She
smiled as she glanced at him. 'I must have been, I'm sure, for you
used to frighten me ever so much. But I'm not in the least afraid of
you now!'
'Why should any one be afraid of me?' asked Van Torp, whose mere smile
had been known to terrify Wall Street when a 'drop' was expected.
Margaret laughed a little, without looking at him.
'Tell me all about the Tartar girl,' she said, instead of answering
his question.
She would not have been the thoroughly feminine woman she was--far
more feminine, in the simple human sense, than Lady Maud--if she had
not felt satisfaction in having tamed the formidable money-wolf so
that he fawned at her feet; but perhaps she was even more pleased, or
amused, than she thought she could be by any such success. The man was
so very much stronger and rougher than any other man with whom she had
ever been acquainted, and she had once believed him to be such a
thorough brute, that this final conquest flattered her vanity. The
more dangerous the character of the wild beast, the greater the merit
of the lion-tamer who subdues him.
'Tell me about this handsome Tartar girl,' she said again.
Van Torp told her Baraka's history, as far as he knew it from
Logotheti.
'I never heard such an amusing set of stories as you are telling me
to-day,' she said.
'That particular one is Logotheti's,' he answered, 'and he can
probably tell you much more about the girl.'
'Is she really very pretty?' Margaret asked.
'Well,' said Van Torp, quoting a saying of his favourite great man,
'for people who like that kind of thing, I should think that would be
the kind of thing they'd like.'
The Primadonna smiled.
'Can you describe her?' she asked.
'Did you ever read a fairy story about a mouse that could turn into a
tiger when it liked?' inquired the American in a tone of profound
meditation, as if he were contemplating a vision which Margaret could
not see.
'No,' said she, 'I never did.'
'I don't think I ever did, either. But there might be a fairy story
about that, mightn't there?' Margaret nodded, with an expression of
displeased interest, and he went on: 'Well, it describes Miss Barrack
to a T. Yes, that's what I call her. She's put "Barak" on her business
card, whatever that means in a Christian language; but when I found
out it was a girl, I christened her Miss Barrack. People have to have
names of some kind if you're going to talk about them. But that's a
digression. Pardon me. You'd like a description of the young person.
I'm just thinking.'
'How did you find out she was a girl?' Margaret asked, and her tone
was suddenly hard.
Mr. Van Torp was not prepared for the question, and felt very
uncomfortable for a moment. In his conversation with women he was
almost morbidly prudish about everything which had the remotest
connexion with sex. He wondered how he could convey to Margaret the
information that when he had been obliged to carry the pretended boy
across the room, he had been instantly and palpably convinced that he
was carrying a girl.
'It was a question of form, you see,' he said awkwardly.
'Form? Formality? I don't understand.' Margaret was really puzzled.
'No, no!' Mr. Van Torp was actually blushing. 'I mean his form--or her
form----'
'Oh, her figure? You merely guessed it was a girl in boy's clothes?'
'Certainly. Yes. Only, you see, he had a kind of fit--the boy did--and
I thought he was going to faint, so I picked him up and carried him to
a sofa, and--well, you understand, Miss Donne. I knew I hadn't got a
boy in my arms, that's all.'
'I should think so!' assented the Englishwoman--'I'm sure I should!
When you found out she was a girl, how did she strike you?'
'Very attractive, I should say; very attractive,' he repeated with
more emphasis. 'People who admire brunettes might think her quite
fascinating. She has really extraordinary eyes, to begin with, those
long fruity Eastern eyes, you know, that can look so far to the right
and left through their eyelashes. Do you know what I mean?'
'Perfectly. You make it very clear. Go on, please.'
'Her eyes--yes.' Mr. Van Torp appeared to be thinking again. 'Well,
there was her complexion, too. It's first-rate for a dark girl. Ever
been in a first-class dairy? Do you know the colour of Alderney cream
when it's ready to be skimmed? Her complexion's just like that, and
when she's angry, it's as if you squeezed the juice of about one red
currant into the whole pan of cream. Not more than one, I should
think. See what I mean?'
'Yes. She must be awfully pretty. Tell me more. Has she nice hair?
Even teeth?'
'I should think she had!' answered Mr. Van Torp, with even more
enthusiasm than he had shown yet. 'They're as small and even and white
as if somebody had gone to work and carved them all around half a new
billiard ball, not separate, you understand, but all in one piece.
Very pretty mouth they make, with those rather broiled-salmon-coloured
lips she has, and a little chin that points up, as if she could hold
her own. She can, too. Her hair? Well, you see, she's cut it short, to
be a boy, but it's as thick as a beaver's fur, I should say, and
pretty black. It's a silky kind of hair, that looks alive. You know
what I mean, I daresay. Some brunettes' hair looks coarse and dusky,
like horsehair, but hers isn't that kind, and it makes a sort of
reflection in the sun, the way a young raven's wing-feathers do, if
you understand.'
'You're describing a raving beauty, it seems to me.'
'Oh, no,' said the American innocently. 'Now if our friend Griggs, the
novelist, were here, he'd find all the right words and things, but I
can only tell you just what I saw.'
'You tell it uncommonly well!' Margaret's face expressed anything but
pleasure. 'Is she tall?'
'It's hard to tell, in men's clothes. Three inches shorter than I am,
maybe. I'm a middle-sized man, I suppose. I used to be five feet ten
in my shoes. She may be five feet seven, not more.'
'But that's tall for a woman!'
'Is it?' Mr. Van Torp's tone expressed an innocent indifference.
'Yes. Has she nice hands?'
'I didn't notice her hands. Oh, yes, I remember!' he exclaimed,
suddenly correcting himself. 'I did notice them. She held up that ruby
to the light and I happened to look at her fingers. Small, well-shaped
fingers, tapering nicely, but with a sort of firm look about them that
you don't often see in a woman's hands. You've got it, too.'
'Have I?' Margaret looked down at her right hand. 'But, of course,
hers are smaller than mine,' she said.
'Well, you see, Orientals almost all have very small hands and
feet--too small, I call them--little tiny feet like mice.'
Margaret's own were well-shaped, but by no means small.
'The girl is in London, you say?' Her tone made a question of the
statement.
'She was there two days ago, when I left. At least, she had been to
see me that very morning. Almost as soon as she was gone I went out,
and in the first shop I looked into I met Logotheti. It was Pinney's,
the jeweller's, I remember, for I bought a collar stud. We came away
together and walked some time, and he told me the Tartar girl's story.
