errands for him all over the village. Her well- 
developed feet made frolic of the six-mile walk 
to Balsam which she took to find the particular 
orchids that struck his scientific fancy. For what 
might be called more human flowers, Thomas 
Frost did not care. It occurred to him that he 
had married a healthy, sensible, and not a selfish 
girl, who could attach herself to a man in the 
proper feminine ways as successfully as she had 
wielded a brassie. He went so far as to wonder if 
the golf girl, after all, might not prove a champion 
wife. But upon mere matters of sentiment his 
mind did not dwell tenaciously. His enforced 
inactivity and acute suffering had converted him 
into a raging schemer. His gray eyes smouldered 
like cool embers. 
Against the dog he was powerless, perforce. A 
man cannot sacrifice his reputation, or even his 
domestic happiness, to private vengeance upon an 
 
animal. Unfortunately, Mrs. Frost was fond of 
dogs ; she had three in her father's home. 
Then, if the story should leak out, his colleagues 
would be ill pleased. The new professor would 
start under a sentimental cloud. A disabled hand 
might be overcome ; demonstrators could be found 
to perform the butchery while he supplied the 
oratory of his brilliant experiments. But when it 
came to a moral blur, what could be done ? No 
understudy could supply the ethical quality. 
But for this obstinate fact, Clyde would have 
been shot through the head without delay. The 
vivisector was not stupid, and he accepted his 
situation. Against the dog he could not avenge 
himself; but the woman remained. 
Thomas Frost had some years since passed the 
point of sensitiveness to the sight of suffering. It 
had become as easy for him to inflict as for an- 
other man to spare. He thought of Carolyn Dane 
with a cold conviction that if she could be made 
to suffer for the fault of her dog, it would not be 
more than she deserved, at least no more than 
he was willing to impose. He brooded upon the 
matter with an icy bitterness. 
While receiving the surgical attention of Charles 
Royal, he scrutinized the man. A chance ques- 
tion to the old Balsam doctor ; a clever hint to the 
consulting surgeon from the city; a few flying 
 
arrows shot into the mind of Sterling Hart when 
the preacher made his priestly call — these psy- 
chological experiments occupied the ruined honey- 
moon of the vivisector. The human heart had 
become his laboratory, and in this, though some- 
thing of a bungler at that finer art, he worked 
with a determination which was a substitute for 
skill. The experiment did not occupy much time. 
Within two weeks Dr. Frost returned with his wife 
to her father's house, where three fine dogs em- 
braced the bride, and sniffed at the bridegroom. 
Sterling Hart did not return to Dr. Royal's 
office within the week whose iron boundary he 
had set before the man. He lingered two weeks; 
he delayed for three. If he came to see his cousin, 
it was at hours when the tenant could not be found, 
and to speak of subjects in which the doctor had 
no concern. 
It could be seen that Mr. Hart obviously avoided 
the matter which had annoyed and troubled Caro- 
lyn upon his earlier visit; and she, full of a mingled 
emotion, half resentment and half fear, did not 
herself recall it. 
But one evening in the later May — a rainy 
evening, when patients would be few — the 
preacher presented himself in office hours, and 
asked distinctly for the doctor. 
 
The two men met courteously, but without 
cordiality. The preacher, with some hesitation, took 
the patient's chair. The physician retained his 
own. His manner was as grave as that of the 
other, and possessed, it might be said, an equal 
dignity. He was, in fact, the first to speak. 
" Well," he said, " my time is more than up. I 
am not sure whether I should thank you for the 
reprieve. But I am ready to hear whatever you 
have to say to me." 
" It will not take long," replied the preacher ; 
curtly for Sterling Hart. " It is chiefly in a word: 
You have given me to understand that you are 
an educated physician, properly graduated." 
" I have, because I am." 
" You possess, of course, the diploma of some 
accredited institution ? " 
" I don't frame it and hang it," returned Dr. 
Royal, with a smile whose bitterness was disguised 
by its gentleness. " It is in one of the drawers of 
my desk." 
"Are you willing — pray excuse me — that I 
should see it?" asked the preacher point-blank. 
" No," said the physician, with equal bluntness. 
" At least," he added, " not under the present 
circumstances. I can conceive of those in which I 
might be." 
" Pardon me," proceeded Sterling Hart,
without smiling, " but the time has come when I must 
tell you that it is said, — I have been told, — the 
authority is good, Dr. Royal, or you will believe 
that I should not act upon it. I learn that your 
name does not stand upon the list of registered 
physicians of this state." 
" Have you been meddling — looking that up ? " 
The lame doctor got to his feet, and took fire, 
like a less gentle man. 
"I never thought of it!" blazed back the 
preacher. " If I had, I should undoubtedly have 
done so. I have my cousin's interests to protect. 
Nothing else matters to me beside those. I could 
not have a charlatan — an adventurer — assuming 
and sustaining the position which you hold in this 
house." 
The doctor waved these words off with a ees- 
ture whose dignity impressed itself upon the 
preacher even in that agitated moment. 
" You would be quite right," he replied with 
unexpected self-possession. " I should not blame 
you. ... I suppose," he added, wheeling, " Frost 
told you this ? " 
Mr. Hart, too, got to his feet. He made no 
reply to this question, and the eyes of the two 
men met poignantly. Then the preacher said : — 
"Would it matter who discovered the fact — if 
it were a fact ? If it be a fact ? " 
 
" He is capable of it," mused the doctor,
looking into the fire more drearily than angrily. " I 
might have thought of it — I didn't, that 's all. 
. . . Mr. Hart ! " He turned his marred face with 
a pathetic movement, half appeal, half pain. " Mr. 
Hart! The time has come, I see, when I must 
answer your questions — some of them, at least. 
We both belong to the confessional professions. 
I ought to be able to trust you. Do you demand 
my confidence ? " 
" I demand nothing," returned the preacher, 
quickly. 
"Will you accept it, then ? " 
The preacher hesitated. " I can't put myself 
under bonds — " he argued hurriedly. " You must 
see that. All I can say is : I have never betrayed 
a human soul — that I can remember — in my 
life." 
" It can't be helped, at any rate," replied the 
doctor, wearily. " There is no other way. I must 
risk it. If you will be seated, Mr. Hart? Thank 
you. I am rather lame to conduct a difficult 
conversation on my feet. Are the doors all shut? 
Where is Mrs. Dane?" 
Mr. Hart looked out into the hall, and closed 
and locked the office door again. 
" I think she must be upstairs with Joyce," he 
said. He returned to his chair before the office 
 
fire. The doctor sat looking into it. It was some 
moments before he spoke. 
It was half an hour, it was an hour, it was two, 
but the interchange of voices in the office did not 
cease. Some time after ten o'clock, Carolyn came 
down to put out the gas and go up to bed. Sud- 
denly the office door opened, and she heard her 
cousin saying gently : — 
" How much time do you want ? " 
"How can I tell you?" returned the doctor. 
" It may be a month ; it might be a day." 
Then Sterling Hart came through the door- 
way with bowed head. His manner indicated 
emotion so great that Cara shrank back, afraid to 
speak to him. But he took a step or two, and 
approached her silently. Without a word he 
stretched his arms above her head — not touching 
her — as if he blessed her; as a priest, and as a 
man, and as a kinsman ; as if he blessed her 
altogether and forever ; and so, still mute, he left her. 
In that moment she had seen his noble face ; and 
that it rained with tears. 
Now, the evening and the morning were the 
next day. The storm was spent. It was a shining 
day, and blossomed like a white, hot rose. It was 
the national Memorial Day, as it befell, and Caro- 
lyn had been early to the churchyard, taking her 
 
boy and her flowers with her. This made her late 
at her day's work, and she left Joyce, as her habit 
was, in Kathleen's quite trustworthy care, and 
hurried away, disregarding the child's peremptory 
demand "to see some soiljers," without her usual 
attention to his fixed ideas. 
Dr. Royal (to whom she offered that day an 
abstracted greeting, as if the anniversary had 
detached her altogether from him) paid his early 
morning call on Solomon Hops, and was about 
to proceed upon his rounds, when a change of 
purpose took him ; he left his horse at his office 
hitching-post, and made across the lawn of the 
Sterling place towards the house of Mr. Hart, 
musing as he walked. As he leisurely approached 
the ravine and the iron bridge he heard, or fancied 
that he heard, a scream, followed by another, and 
another, each cleaving the May morning like a 
rapier, and seeming to him like a succession of 
mortal stabs. The lame man limped into a chaotic 
run, and hobbled up — slowly, at his best — in 
time to meet the preacher coming towards him 
rapidly. Mr. Hart in his coffin will be no grayer 
than he was at that monstrous moment. 
In his arms he clasped a little shrinking figure. 
It was Cara's boy. 
" What is it? " demanded the doctor. " Let me 
have him ! Let me have him — quickly ! " 
 
But the preacher held his little kinsman to his 
leaping heart. The motion was automatic and im- 
perious. 
" He fell," gasped Sterling Hart. " He was com- 
ing to find me, I think. He slipped and rolled — 
off — off — " He shivered, and hid his eyes upon 
the sobbing child. 
" Not there ! " 
Dr. Royal pointed to the chasm with a finger 
that shook like a ribbon in a gale. 
" He fell, and rolled — his little clothes caught 
somewhere — I think it was the leather belt — he 
was hanging — over the — over the — when I found 
him. There was a break in the railing we put up 
after Timothy George — nobody knew it. I was 
out walking. It just happened so ; that is all." 
" Give him to me!" insisted the physician, with 
a formidable look. " You should not yield to any 
feeling you have — any impulse or affection till we 
know — God ! Don't you see Joyce is in 
convulsions? Give me — that is — the child, I say!" 
The preacher's mighty arms surrendered the 
boy to the doctor, who laid him on the grass and 
examined him in absolute silence. After a few 
moments he lifted the lad jealously again to his 
own breast, and the two men walked on with their 
shuddering little burden. 
In the May morning they looked at each other. 
Their eyes said: "Which of us must tell her?" 
" What will this do to her? " They had gone but 
a short and difficult distance when they met Kath- 
leen running and panting. 
" It was but the drop of me eyelash, the twist 
of me head," argued Kathleen, " an' when I turns 
the tail of me eye, he was not forninst me. He 'd 
been that crazy over them soldiers since the drums 
begun. He says, 'Mr. Cousin Sterling Hart 'll 
show me some soiljers — ' Mother of Heaven! 
Mother of God ! " cried Kathleen. She gave one 
glance at the writhing child, threw her apron over 
her head, and dropped upon the grass. The two 
men strode on. 
When they approached the cottage they stopped 
and stood irresolute. A woman's figure, draped 
in translucent black, moved uneasily about the 
grounds, and a woman's voice — the tenderest in 
all the world of women that either the physician 
or the preacher knew — was calling with 
penetrating sweetness: — 
"Joyce? Joyce? My baby! My little man! 
Where is mother's precious boy ? " 
From the village churchyard, a mile away, the 
throb of military music, like the beat of a heart, 
pulsated plainly, and seemed to answer her. Now 
the bugle was calling taps above the soldiers' 
graves, where the living had left all they had to 
 
give the dead, — their flowers and their tears. 
But Joyce did not hear the " soiljers." Without a 
wound, without a break, without a bruise upon his 
perfect little body, the child, smitten by terror and 
shock, passed from convulsion to convulsion in 
the doctor's arms. 
CHAPTER XVII 
Carolyn crept, leaning upon one elbow. She 
had put the child into her own bed at the first, 
and there, on the edge of the broad mattress, she 
had lain day and night. The sleeve of her loose 
white gown was worn through to her bare flesh 
from the constraint and persistence of her posi- 
tion. She was able in this way at once to watch 
the boy's face and to hold his hand while he slept; 
so to foretell, by the tightening of little fingers on 
her own, the advance of the throes in which he 
would awake. 
Outside of the sickroom it was laughing June. 
For three weeks the child had floated between 
life and death, as the little flags on the soldiers' 
graves fluttered and fell with wind or calm upon 
their fragile staffs. The flowers were ashes upon 
the mounds, but the small human soul clung to 
its rights in its racked body. Brain fever with 
complications, superinduced by shock, were om- 
inous words. The mother listened to them dully. It 
did not seem to her to matter what they called it. 
Nothing mattered. The child would die ; that was 
all. Nothing could save him. Consultants from 
 
the city came and went. She listened stupidly to 
what they said. Dr. Royal would understand. She 
turned to Dr. Royal. Carolyn's natural courage 
had quite forsaken her in this last extremity. She 
had reached the point of endurance where a 
woman ceases to hope, or even to struggle for any 
form of happiness, since fate has denied her so 
many, and accepts as her lot that reiteration of 
sorrow which we find to be the portion of certain 
lives. All the optimism of the situation came from 
the nature of Charles Royal. All the will power, 
all the hope concentrated upon the sinking boy, 
were his. He had held the flickering life in the 
hollow of his hand. For three weeks he had not 
known a night's rest or a day's relief. He watched 
the disease as a burning glass observes a piece of 
scorching paper. Sometimes it seemed to shrivel, 
whether before his professional skill or his 
personal absorption. Then the lad subtly lost more 
than he gained, and the unequal contest set in 
again. The physician did not yield his case by the 
width of a wearied moment, or the weakness of a 
diverted purpose. Carolyn had no heart to wonder 
at the tenacity of his determination to save the 
patient, or at his affection for the child ; but she 
was steadily and acutely conscious of both. 
Now, with the breadth of the little lad's bed 
between them, they sat, she on its edge, he on a 
 
chair at the other side. It was a warm evening, 
and all the windows were flung wide. There was 
but one light in the sickroom, and that, shaded 
from the little patient, embossed the doctor's face 
and head and hands in a soft illumination against 
the shadow of a screen. The screen was black, 
and its embroidery gold. Carolyn could see that 
one of his hands was clenched ; the other played 
along the boy's pulse like a listening finger on 
an invisible flute, — a magical instrument, which 
offered music, but did not yield it. 
The " sorryfool man " looked older than usual. 
It seemed to Mrs. Dane that he had aged rapidly 
within the last few weeks. His hair was a shade 
whiter; the hollows in his cheeks were gaunt. His 
gray beard drooped at the corners of his mouth, 
and she was sure that his unseen lips trembled. 
Her wasted eyes traversed the familiar map of his 
face. Perhaps for the first time it occurred to her 
that there were spaces upon it marked " unex- 
plored." Certain sacred words forced themselves 
upon her imagination, and her thought repeated 
them, not irreverently: — 
" For his visage was so marred, more than any 
man." 
How brutally that wreck had treated him ! A 
dark scar ran across his forehead and his temple; 
one of his cheeks was quite defaced. The strain 
 
of his battle for the life of her child, the long- 
drawn vigil, the lost vitality, and the sensitive 
anxiety which she could not deceive herself in 
thinking that he had experienced — these had em- 
phasized his physical defects and deformities. His 
hoarse voice was fainter than she had ever known 
it ; more raucous, more unpleasant to the ear. 
She had never seen him limp so much as he did 
now. Her haggard eyes absorbed every feature, 
every gesture of the disfigured and exhausted 
man. 
" He stands between me and the worst," she 
thought. 
Her hurt heart crawled towards him as a 
wounded creature seeks the only shelter it can 
find. She leaned to him with the passion of pity 
which only tender women know for unselfish, un- 
attractive men. Cara thought : " If you were well, 
and strong, and handsome, and fortunate, I should 
not care so much." 
A clock in the room ticked gently, and the boy 
stirred. 
" Hasn't he slept a good while ? " his mother 
asked. 
" Longer than at any time before." 
" What did Dr. Strang say ? " 
" Oh, he agreed with the rest." 
" Doesn't he think there is any hope ? " 
 
" Why do you ask me these questions ? " 
" What did he say to you when you were alone 
together ? " 
" The usual things. He advised anodynes, and 
so forth." 
" Have you given them ? " 
"No." 
" Do you mean to give them ? " 
" No." 
Carolyn looked at the child. Her face worked. 
" Do you want Dr. Strang to take the case ? 
I should not blame you. You are trusting me 
very far." 
" I shall trust you farther, — to the uttermost, 
to the end." 
Although subdued conversation did not disturb 
the boy, but tended rather to soothe him (so large 
a part had the element of terror taken in his dis- 
order), yet they had been speaking in the lowest 
whispers, scarcely articulate. Their own voices 
sounded unreal to them. The physician did not 
reply to Mrs. Dane's last words. His emotion over- 
came him, and he made no effort to conceal that 
it did so, but averted his scarred face from her. 
His finger crept back to the child's pulse. 
" He is still sleeping ! " breathed Carolyn. 
The doctor glanced at his watch. " Almost an 
hour more than at any time before." 
 
Her eyes ran to the little wrist where the trained 
ringer tip rested as lightly as a leaf. 
" Stronger," he whispered, " a little. More even, 
I think." 
Across his disfigured face a frail smile stirred. 
Carolyn's courage took fire from it. She sat with 
held breath, as if the child's life — still a part of 
her own being — would exhale with the action of 
her lungs. Her eyes sought the physician eagerly. 
But his cautiously replied. 
Now, when Mrs. Dane turned her head, Kath- 
leen at the door was standing with hot soup, and 
beckoning to the doctor. 
" You, too," he said ; and Carolyn followed him. 
Kathleen took the watcher's place beside the boy, 
and the two sat down in the hall. There was a 
divan beneath the window, and a small light table. 
They put the cups of soup upon the table, and 
sipped comfortably; they had never taken a meal 
together, and both remembered the fact. Carolyn 
felt curiously comforted, as a woman does by the 
domestic atmosphere in her saddest moments. 
This had suddenly and subtly become something 
lighter and brighter than a sad moment. 
" Is there any chance ? " she asked outright. 
" Do not be too sure of it," he parried gently. 
" It seems to me possible ; that 's all I can say." 
" If Joyce should get well — " Panting, she set 
her cup down. " I think I would never complain of 
anything, never ask for anything again. It would 
be ... so much happiness. I should not know 
how to . . . bear it." 
" Do you mean," demanded the doctor, unex- 
pectedly, " that there would be no room left in 
you for any other happiness ? Of any other kind, 
I mean." 
His lowered voice took for the first time since 
they had been together the tone which no woman 
can mistake. Carolyn's eyes fled before the con- 
centration of his. 
" If the little fellow should live — could you not 
bear any more joy? Would that exhaust your 
capacity ? You could be very happy, you know. 
Power to be glad is measured by power to suffer. 
And you—" 
He stopped. Carolyn lifted her trembling face. 
Before she could check herself her innermost, ut- 
termost soul sprang to her lips. 
" His poor father ! " she said. " His poor father ! " 
The doctor did not answer. He regarded her 
solemnly. The child waked, calling faintly, and the 
two returned to the sickroom together 
The doctor did not leave it again until morn- 
ing. He expelled the mother from the room 
peremptorily, ordered her to go to sleep, and him- 
 
self watched the night out. When Carolyn came 
back, the June morning was in the room. Birds 
were singing everywhere. The pale, pearl-pink 
dawn tinged the cheeks of the sleeping child. His 
forehead was moist ; his curls lay close upon it 
in pretty rings. One hand closed about the doc- 
tor's finger. The physician gently loosened the 
clasp, and rose. He stood shining against the tall, 
black screen. He limped across the room softly, 
and took Mrs. Dane's hands in both of his. She 
stood flooded in his emotion and her own. 
" There was a change at three o'clock," he said, 
" when the tide turned to come in. The worst 
symptoms are under control of the last remedy. If 
it holds — if it lasts — I think " — he choked. 
Before Carolyn could speak he had raised her 
hand to his lips, and she felt them quivering upon it. 
The doctor did not watch the next night, but he 
did not leave the house. To Mrs. Dane's sugges- 
tion that he should occupy a comfortable bed in 
one of her empty rooms (for he was wasted with 
vigil) he returned a quick refusal, and went down- 
stairs. 
" I 'm all right on the office sofa," he said. " I 
shall stay there, as I have done before." 
He slept, and heavily, for no emergency 
disturbed him. The child fared well. Carolyn took 
her turn at watching, but was scarcely needed. 
Joyce passed from one sane, sweet sleep to another, 
and with the second daybreak his mouth curled 
into a smile, and from it the dearest word in the 
world stole out quite distinctly: — 
" Mum — mumma? " 
Carolyn dared not kiss, and could not cry, but 
she lay upon the ragged elbow of her white 
gown, and put her cheek to his. When the doctor 
came in she rose and stood, — a statue of rapture. 
She could have knelt at his feet, and knew that 
she could. Perhaps he had some consciousness of 
what was thrilling in her, for he extended his 
hand involuntarily, as if to check the expression 
of her gratitude. 
The June day had a celestial gentleness. The 
sunrise warmed without the window and within 
the room. The child put out his little fingers as if 
he would grasp the light, laughed softly, and slept 
again. The doctor moved unsteadily towards the 
bed. 
Now, at that moment, the collie came thumping 
up the stairs, and Mrs. Dane, fearing the effect of 
the disturbance in the sickroom, hurried out to 
send the dog away. This proved to be a matter 
of some moments. It was necessary to persuade 
Clyde or to convince him that he was not wanted 
(never under any circumstances an easy task), and 
 
in the end she was obliged to take him by the 
collar and tug him downstairs. When she returned, 
stepping without sound in her knit woolen slip- 
pers, the doctor was sitting in her place upon the 
empty side of the bed. He did not see her; he 
did not hear her; and as she stood upon the 
threshold, hesitating, she perceived that his arm 
had crept beneath the child, and that his tears were 
storming upon the pillow. Faintly to her ears 
there came these smothered words : — 
"Joy! Joyce! My little boy! Papas sonny boy " 
Then he lifted his wet, disfigured face. Carolyn 
stood staring upon him. He gently withdrew his 
arm, got to his feet, and made as if he would leave 
the room, but fell back that she might precede 
him. In the hall they confronted each other. 
" Cara ! " he said, " dont you know me — after 
all?" 
CHAPTER XVIII 
The great miracles of the healing art are the quiet 
ones. The boy was now sleeping more soundly 
than at any moment hitherto. A deep renewal of 
brain and body had passed upon him. Only his 
gentle, even breathing could be heard in the sol- 
emn stillness of the house. 
The two in the hall stood looking upon each 
other, as two might who had met in the after life 
that follows pain, and joy, and trust, and love, and 
all the mere emotions of an unreal earth. Both were 
as gray as the dead ; but the woman in her long 
white gown acquired an added pallor from the 
circumstance of it. She was the first to speak. 
" Dr. Royal, will you repeat what you said to 
me — just now? I am pretty tired, — and you, — 
you have not slept. We are neither of us quite 
ourselves. I should not wish to . . . wrong you 
... in any way." 
She uttered the words gently, as one speaks to 
a person mentally confused. It was plain to him 
that her instinct was to treat him as though he had 
given utterance to some temporary but unpardon- 
able hallucination. 
 
" I have said it," he replied with a terrible brevity. 
" I am your husband. I am Chanceford Dane." 
She retreated from him with an evasive, pitying 
glance. 
" My husband — you know that — is dead. He 
is buried in Balsam Cemetery. I put flowers on his 
grave the day that Joyce — that Joyce — Go and 
rest! " she urged compassionately. " You have ex- 
hausted yourself — for our sake. You are starving 
for sleep. Go — go, and feed the famine of your 
brain. Then — " 
" Only one thing can feed my famine," he made 
answer to her. " I am your husband. I am your 
husband, Chanceford Dane. I know that I have 
forfeited my right to be believed. You must do 
as you choose about that. But, as God lives, I am 
telling you the truth. That poor fellow yonder in 
the churchyard . . . whom you cried over that 
day when you took the flowers ... is my little 
brother Clay." 
" Come downstairs," said Carolyn, quietly. " I 
will call Kathleen to stay with Joyce. Get on the 
office sofa, and sleep, Dr. Royal. You must, — do 
you see? You must! It is more necessary than 
you understand." 
"If you call Kathleen — just yet — I shall tell 
her. I shall tell everybody. Cara ! stand where you 
are and listen to me. I will speak ... at last. I 
 
tell you I will speak, and you shall listen. Cara ! 
Cava! Look at me. Don't turn away so soon. 
Look back. Lift your eyes. Don't you know me 
in spite of all? Don't you see anything about me 
that you can recognize if you try, — if you should 
want to try ? " 
In a silence cruder than any words she shook 
her head. 
" Oh, I know what a wreck I am ! A shattered, 
grotesque thing; a mask; a gargoyle! Even my 
voice — if my voice had been left me, I could not 
have carried it out. But I thought — I hoped — 
if I told you (I always meant to tell you, when I 
dared) that you would find something in me that 
would remind you . . . Cara! Look! Look again! 
Don't you see? Cant you see? " 
She turned her head and obeyed him slowly. 
Her eyes searched his marred face, lighted now 
by brilliant, insomniac eyes; traversed his gaunt 
figure; took note of every physical defect and 
deformity that had ravaged him. Not a feature, 
not a contour recalled the beauty, the grace, the 
scintillant face and frame which had held the 
debonair soul of Chanceford Dane. She did not 
speak. 
" Now I understand," he said, " how dead people 
feel. I never did before. They come into their old 
homes ; nobody knows it ; nobody knows them. I 
 
have always pitied them. They must be an uncom- 
fortable lot for a while." 
Something in the whimsical words — what was 
it? — for a startled instant reminded her of Dane. 
That glint in his dark eyes, burning through the 
solemnity of the situation, stabbed her like a fine 
electric needle. Chanceford never tolerated the 
intense; he always threw it off as soon as he could. 
Few tragedies but yielded to his sense of humor. 
His wilful voracity for joy had remained with her 
as the most memorable thing about him. In the 
forced merrimentof that momentsomething leaped 
from the being of the man to hers. She received 
a current of mystery charged with a thousand volts 
of emotion. It seemed to her that either ecstasy 
or annihilation hung upon the instant. Old
remembered hours, old forgotten things, closed and 
crashed about her. Smitten half with terror, half 
with joy, her lifted face received the impact of his 
personality. Her brain began to reel. 
" It is not he who is delirious," she thought. 
" It must be I." 
She thrust up her hands to clasp her forehead, 
as one does in a moment of unbearable mental 
confusion. As she did so she felt one of them 
seized. Before she could withdraw it, he had kissed 
her arm. His lips sought and found the ragged 
elbow of her white gown, where love, and grief, 
 
and watching, had worn the muslin through, — 
and there rested on her, warm and shrinking. 
Carolyn gasped and swayed. The disfigured face, 
the crippled body, the shattered voice had not
betrayed him. His flesh had become the prison of his 
soul, and hers had given her no key. But before his 
touch the heart of the wife stopped. She swayed 
and fell. She was not a fainting woman, but for 
this second, as for that first time when Dane took 
her from the Country Club after Clyde had turned 
upon his tormentor, she drifted away. He caught 
and laid her upon the divan where they had been 
sitting. When her mind anchored, she was lying 
on the bed in her husband's old room, — that which 
he had occupied when their estrangement began. 
She herself had always retained the one that they 
had shared. 
The doctor was sitting beside her, and Kathleen 
was in the room. It was now broad, bright day. 
The child called from the sickroom. 
"Go, Kathleen!" the doctor said. "Sit with 
him until I come. Mrs. Dane has had an ill turn. 
She has watched too long." 
The two were left in a silence which ached 
about them. She could not, and he did not break 
it. He did not touch her again. Presently he said, 
as if nothing had happened, " Lie quietly. Stay 
where you are. I must go to Joy." 
 
At the old, familiar baby name, forbidden to 
her lips since the year her husband died, the color 
splashed on Carolyn's ashen face. She struggled 
up against the pillows and watched the doctor 
limping from the room. Her head swam so that 
she laid it back and closed her starting eyes. 
The doctor remained with the child and did 
not immediately return ; when he did so, his
morning office hour had struck, and patients were 
clamoring for him downstairs. Kathleen was in the 
room with a breakfast tray. The girl's presence 
checked the natural movement of a tremendous 
situation. Carolyn said, " I will go at once and sit 
with Joyce." 
And the doctor answered, " Are you able ? Are 
you sure ? " as if nothing had occurred. 
He went to his morning's work methodically. 
The day set in like any other day, and moved 
prosaically along. Nannie Hops ran in to ask 
what she could do. Mrs. Marriot stopped in driv- 
ing by, to offer her horses, " if Mrs. Dane would 
take a mouthful of air." Mrs. Marriot had invited a 
phalanx of the Salvation Army to a lawn party at 
her house that afternoon ; but the horses would be 
free till luncheon ; she urged the ride upon Mrs. 
Dane. Sterling Hart came over anxiously and early 
to inquire for the child. Carolyn lay upon the little 
fellow's bed, and denied herself to all her world. 
 
It occurred to her that she had to reckon with it, 
sometime, somehow. It suggested itself to her 
that, if the claim which this man of mystery put 
upon her were genuine, the world's attitude to- 
wards it could not be ignored ; perhaps not even 
scorned. Her whirling brain already perceived 
that she was like a swimmer caught in a long, 
deep seine — entangled, whatever happened,
almost beyond hope of rescue ; she could not sink ; 
she could not rise ; the meshes were tight upon 
her hands, her feet, and strangling at her throat. 
She saw that, whatever course she should pursue, 
she might be forced into a position either false or 
fatal. The necessity of concealment, even for the 
sake of throwing off concealment, was hateful to 
her. Her instinctive candor, her translucent na- 
ture, recoiled violently. In all her sweet, white 
life there had never been anything in her conduct 
which she must disguise, or allow- to appear as 
other than it was. It seemed to her intolerable 
that she must sustain for one hour a position she 
might, or might not — God knew ! — be able to 
explain to all the world. At first the woman was 
stronger than the widow in her. 
As the day progressed, her consciousness of 
danger surmounted almost every other sense 
of her situation, except that of the insolence of 
events. This grew into something incredible, when 
 
hour upon hour moved on, and the impending 
interview between herself and Dr. Royal was frus- 
trated at every point. Nannie returned and came 
upstairs without permission. Nannie had great 
news ; for she was engaged to her dentist after all. 
Carolyn listened dully. Nannie was grieved at her 
friend's attitude towards the most wonderful thine 
in the world ; her pretty New England profile 
drooped when Mrs. Dane said apathetically : — 
" Why should a woman ever marry anybody ? " 
Downstairs Sterling Hart sat stolidly waiting 
for a rift in his cousin's obdurate seclusion. Joyce 
was restless, and only an omnipresent mother 
could suffice him. Then a mortal case demanded 
the doctor. It was afternoon before he could hew 
his way through the blockade of daily life, and 
seek her ; as he did. 
Now, peremptorily, he put Kathleen on duty in 
the sickroom, and in a tone that admitted of no 
reprieve he said : — 
" Mrs. Dane must rest. I shall take Mrs. Dane 
downstairs for a while." 
It seemed terrible to Carolyn that he should be 
giving reasons and excuses, keeping up the sub- 
terfuge in teeth of such delusion as possessed 
him. She obeyed him reluctantly. He led her into 
his office and shut (she noticed that he locked) 
the door. Then his formidable manner fell from 
 
him instantly and utterly, and he stood before her 
like a culprit. She could see that he drooped in 
every nerve and muscle. 
" Well," he began, " what have you to say ? " 
" I am here to listen, not to speak," said Caro- 
lyn, coldly. 
" You should be merciful — if nothing more." 
"You must be explicit — if nothing more." 
" I cannot be less. I wish to be more. If you 
would give me a chance — " He stood panting. 
"It is an incredible claim — that which you 
make. You do not seem to realize how unbeliev- 
able it is, though a woman . . . even if she w r anted 
to believe it. You do not seem to understand the 
position in w r hich you place me — you, whoever 
you are, whatever you are. Your story is so . . . 
unreal, so unlikely. On the face of it, why should 
I believe it ? Nothing in fiction or on the stage 
could be more unnatural." 
" Life is more extraordinary than any replica of 
life," he answered quickly. " You should know 
that." 
" Oh, I know," she returned wearily, " that such 
things sometimes happen. I have heard of them, 
of course — now and then. I never knew anybody 
to whom they did happen." 
All the conventional in Carolyn's nature rose 
to the surface ; family position and tradition ; 
experience of the commonplace and the accepted — 
these comfortable facts only one thing had ever dis- 
turbed. Her father's death, and the wretched way 
of it, had, in a measure, prepared her to under- 
stand that fate did not swerve from the third rail 
of its terrible track for East Shore society. Sud- 
denly she felt herself old and disillusioned. It 
occurred to her that anything might happen to 
her — mystery, melodrama, or a preposterous 
and tragic joy. 
" I do not present my claim without evidence," 
said the doctor, abruptly. " I have all . . . that sort 
of thing." 
He unlocked a drawer in his desk and tore out 
a mass of papers ; these he tossed about and laid 
in her lap. 
" My diploma is here. See ! The certificate of 
the medical examiners in this state (I had the 
notion to get that, too, after I graduated) ; army 
records, journals, personal accounts; an order 
from my surgeon to come and help him in the 
hospital. They found out that I knew something, 
and kept me at it. Letters and more letters ! 
These are from Balsam patients. That is from 
Sterling Hart. And here — " From a carefully 
sealed package he broke the wax and laid in her 
hand her own letters written to him while he was 
at the front. " There was a great deal more of it, 
 
but it got lost in the scuffle. These I managed to 
hold on to through everything." 
" These have not been in the water," said Caro- 
lyn, quickly, " and you were, a good while." 
" That is clever of you," he said, smiling drear- 
ily. " A man could not fool you if he wanted to." 
He threw his head back with a merry gesture 
which it almost seemed to her she could recall. 
" No, I did not trust my papers to that coaster ; 
in November, too. I had sent them North before 
then. But that is the least of it." 
Carolyn rose suddenly and dropped everything 
from her lap except her own letters ; these her 
fingers instinctively clutched. 
" When a man is dead," she said, " under such con- 
ditions his papers may fall into anybody's hands." 
" Very well," said the doctor, dully. He turned, 
and limped to the window. 
" If I could take advice ! " cried Carolyn. " If I 
could tell anybody ! If I could talk with Cousin 
Sterling — " 
" Talk with your Cousin Sterling ! " urged the 
doctor, wheeling. "Show him everything. Tell 
him everything ; he has seen it all ; he has heard 
it all. He is satisfied with the proofs of my claim. 
He doesn't take me for a worse scoundrel than 
I am." 
" Doesn't he ? " asked Carolyn, stupidly. 
 
Her hand crept to her pocket and hid her let- 
ters there. They were few and worn and yellow. 
Her fingers closed upon them convulsively. 
" Don't you see ? " she gasped. " Don't you see 
what this means ? If this is true ? If you are what 
you say you are ? ... If a man treats a woman — 
treats a wife like that — why, you have deserted 
me ! " She broke into dry, dreadful sobs. " Oh, I 
had rather you had died ! I had rather you had 
died!" 
She whirled, and turned the key, and fled from 
him. 
All the rest of that day she denied herself to 
him. But for the illness of the boy he was sure 
she would have left the house. Only the tenuous 
thread of that little life held the two beneath the 
same roof. Had it not been for the child, he felt 
that she would have judged him without defense. 
In the evening he sent up these words to 
her: — 
" It is necessary that I should finish my story. 
Let us have it over with at once. After that, do 
with me as you will. Leave Joy with Kathleen, 
and come down." 
The message was written in his own hand, and 
signed C. D. She obeyed the summons, as he had 
thought she would. She did not speak. They sat 
down on opposite sides of the office table. 
 
" Have you sent for Hart ? " he began. 
" No." 
" Are you going to ? " 
" Not yet. Nobody, no third person, can help 
us. When I have heard what you have to say I 
will decide what I ought to do." 
He perceived, or he thought he did, that Caro- 
lyn's whole nature was suffering from something 
akin to that which surgeons call shock when they 
deal with the effects of a physical accident. She 
was both gashed and stunned. Her gentlest in- 
stincts were in a state of collapse. Her excitement 
was visibly increasing, and the doctor's composure 
grew as hers declined. 
" I will make it as short as I can," he said 
quietly. " It isn't a very long story, anyhow. But it 
is a little complicated, like a novel where the plot 
has run away with the hero. You are perfectly 
right ; we will not clip the truth ; we will have it 
down to the roots. I did desert you, if you choose 
to call it so. I don't suppose it is possible to con- 
vince you that I did not mean to do it at the 
first. . . . 
" I was a pretty miserable chap, anyhow you 
look at it, when I enlisted. A man is, when he 
goes wrong; there isn't much fun in it. I had 
gone wrong, but then, you see, I 'd been wronged. 
It wasn't just as you thought it was. A man can't 
 
explain at the expense of a woman ; that 's the 
code. I 'm not so sure it isn't a damnable code 
on occasions." 
" When my husband was dead, and everybody 
thought she was dying — a woman confessed to 
me," interrupted Carolyn, " that I had been . . . 
mistaken." 
" Oh, she did, did she ? " queried the doctor. " I 
wondered what she wanted of you." He showed 
but little interest in the matter, and drummed 
upon the table with his long, thin fingers. 
" I got to feeling pretty bitter, and all that — 
thought about marriage the way a man does 
when his has failed. I don't deny — I won't keep 
back any part of the price of it all — that I had 
times of thinking I'd like to get out of it; for 
your sake more than for mine. I used to reason : 
' She would be better off.' Then poor Clay turned 
up in that accursed war — it was just one of the 
desperate chances that we met at all — and that 
gave me something else to think about. I don't 
know that I mentioned Clay, did I ? But I wrote 
you, didn't I ? I meant to." 
" Sometimes," said Carolyn, cautiously, " I had 
letters from my husband." 
" You see Clay had that white lock, too," pro- 
ceeded the doctor, as if he had not heard her. 
" The older he grew, the more it seemed to show, 
 
for he never got gray at all. He looked a great 
deal like me, too, when he outgrew his youth, his 
first youth. The resemblance was very marked. I 
wouldn't have believed it possible. We had three 
or four good hours together, in spite of all, at odd 
times. He was terribly shattered . . . poor Clay! 
He went down at San Juan. He was in the 
charge. And so was I. I was half blown to atoms. 
It wasn't the wreck so much; that only finished 
what the shell began. But I was nearly shot to 
pieces. You see I was hit in the throat (that did 
my voice up) ; but my head was the worst — de- 
lirious for I don't know how long. Nobody knows ; 
it settled into amnesia — one of those cases of 
alteration of personality, when a fellow forgets 
who he is. After hospital, I went — God knows 
where ; and I did — God knows what. My opinion 
is I sent the package North about that time. 
" One day I looked up and saw that I was work- 
ing in an orange grove in Florida. There were 
the everglades, and the darkies, and the oranges 
blazing on the squat trees. I went into the house 
and asked the man who owned it — he was a nice 
fellow, graduated at Princeton — if he had any 
Northern papers. He kept them on file, the way 
people do, you know, in dull places, where no- 
thing happens, and I read them every one. That 's 
how I found it out. I read about my funeral in Bal- 
 
sam Cemetery, and all the rest of it. ' Well,' I 
said, 'she is rid of me now. It's the best thing 
could have happened to her.' Besides" . . . 
"Besides what?" asked Cara, with dry, judi- 
cial eyes. 
" Why, I was still drinking, that 's the upshot 
of it. Army life doesn't help a fellow that way. 
And then I 'd had a pretty hard time — not that 
I want to excuse myself, — for anything." 
" Go on," said Mrs. Dane. She sat with her 
face averted from him ; the white splashes that had 
settled about her mouth were extending slowly. 
The feeling recurred to her that he and she might 
have been two ghosts comparing notes on the his- 
tory of a closed existence. 
" I said, ' I won't go back to be a burden to her 
