"I suppose you haven't seen the newspapers," she said. "I cut out all
the editorials and paragraphs I thought would interest you. One of the
big dailies, I forget which, said that the interruption of your career
was a greater political tragedy than Parnell's or Lord Randolph
Churchill's."
"Do they say that?" asked Gwynne, eagerly. "Well, God knows, it is a
tragedy for me."
"Don't you like being a peer the least little bit? I am too feminine,
possibly too American, not to see a certain picturesqueness in a title,
especially in such a pretty one as yours; and there is no doubt that you
are a more imposing figure in the eyes of the world to-day than you were
a week ago. Are you really indifferent to that side of it?"
"Am I? One does such a lot of self-posing and self-imposition. There are
few things in this world that gratify a man's vanity more than being a
peer of Great Britain, and, no doubt, had I happened to be born without
what you might call a fighting ambition, and certain abilities, I
should--barring natural grief--feel that I was one of the favorites of
destiny--that is to say if I had a commensurate income. The fact that I
must let the Abbey and Capheaton, and after portioning off all the
unmarried women of the family, shall have barely enough left to keep up
my flat in Charles Street, may have something to do with my absence of
enthusiasm. But--yes--I am sure of myself!" he burst out. "I am the
most miserable man on earth to-night, and the reason is not that I have
lost two good friends, but because my career is ruined, broken off in
the middle."
"You could become a militant Liberal peer."
"Paradoxes don't happen to appeal to me. And the only chance for a
genuine fighter is the House of Commons. Besides, it is impossible for a
man to be a peer and remain a true Liberal. Power, and inherited
influence, and exalted social position have a deadly insinuation. I
don't believe any man is strong enough to withstand them. There is never
an hour that a peer is not reminded of his difference from the mass of
humanity; and human nature is too weak to resist complacency in the
end--long before the end. And complacency is the premature old age of
the brain and character. If this tragedy had not occurred, even if my
grandfather had lived on for fifteen years more, as there was every
reason to believe he would, I might have gone on that much longer before
discovering weak points in my character. Now God knows what I shall
develop."
"Have you made any plans?"
"Plans? I hadn't faced the situation until you spoke."
"You have weak spots like other people, of course. You would be a horrid
prig if you hadn't. But you surely must know if your Liberalism is
sincere, ingrained. There is no question that you are a hopeless
aristocrat in essentials. But so have been certain of America's greatest
patriots--Washington and Hamilton, for instance. I do not see that it
matters. One can hold to what seems to me the first principles of
advanced civilization--that hereditary monarchy is an insult to
self-respecting and enlightened men--without wishing to associate with
those that offend grammar and good taste. Education, intellect,
breeding, would create an aristocracy among anarchists on a desert
island--supposing any possessed them; and in time it would become as
intolerant of liberties as if it harked back to the battle of Hastings.
There is no plant that grows so rapidly in the human garden as
self-superiority, and it is ridiculous only when watered by nothing more
excusable than the arbitrary social conditions that exist in the United
States. I don't see that the qualities you have inherited should
interfere with your ability to see the justice and rationality of
self-government."
"They do not!" She seemed to beat his thoughts into their old coherent
and logical forms. "Whatever may have been the various motives that
impelled me into the Liberal party in the beginning, there is no
question that I have become even more extreme and single-minded than I
have let the world know. Perhaps it is my American blood, although I
never thought of that before. At all events, had the time been ripe I
should have devoted all the gift for leadership I now possess, and all
the power I could build up, to overturning monarchy in this country and
establishing a republic. There! I never confessed as much to a living
soul, but I think you have bewitched me, for I never have been less--or
more--myself!"
"With yourself as President?"
"Sooner or later--the sooner the better. But I waste no time in dreams,
my fair cousin--although I have something of a tendency that way. It was
enough that I had a great and useful career before me and might have
gone into history as the prime factor of the great change."
"Well, that is over," said Isabel, conclusively. "There is only one
thing left you and that is to come over and be an American."
"What?" He stared, and then laughed. "Ah!"
"You will have all the fighting you want over there. You will have to
work twenty times harder than you ever did here, for your accent, your
personality, the thirty years you have lived out of the country you were
born in, all will be against you. You will have to be naturalized in
spite of your birth--I happen to know of a similar case in my father's
practice--and that will take five years. In those five years you will
encounter all the difficulties that strew the way of the foreigner who
would gain the confidence of the shrewd American people--they are most
characteristic in the small towns and farming districts. You will win
because you were born to win, but you will learn for the first time what
it is to stand and fight absolutely alone--for if they learn of your
exalted birth they will but distrust you the more; and you will taste
the sweets of real success for the first time in your life. In spite of
your youth and enthusiasm, there is in you a vein of inevitable
cynicism, for you have had far too much experience of the flatterer and
the toady. You are too honest not to confess that if you had been born
John Smith there would have been no editorial comments of any sort upon
the tragic end of your relatives, and the great world would have taken
as little notice of your abilities until you had compelled its unwilling
attention by many more years of hard work. America will take you for
exactly what you are and no more. But you will have to become more
American than the Americans; although you may continue to say 'ain't it'
and 'it's me' and drop your final gs, because those are all the
hall-marks of the half-educated in the United States, and will rather
help you than otherwise. Of course you will assume charge of your own
ranch, for that will not only give you plenty to do, but it will be the
quickest way of becoming one of the people; and after you have been out
in all weathers for a year or two, turned a dark brown down to your
chest, ridden a loping horse on a Mexican saddle, talked politics on
street corners and in saloons, left your muddy or dusty wagon once a
week at the Rosewater hitching-rail while you transact business in a
linen duster, or yellow oil-skin overalls and rubber boots, you will
feel so American--Californian, to be exact--that the mere memory of this
formal cut-and-dried Old World will fill you with ennui."
There was a glint of laughter in Gwynne's eyes, but they were widely
open and very bright.
"I see! You are determined to make a convert of me. You began the night
of your arrival. I suspect you of having come over on a crusade."
"That was the moment of inspiration--that first night. I won't deny that
I have thought a great deal about it since--of little else since I read
those editorials."
He leaned back and regarded the sole of his shoe as if it were a
familiar. "That is a large order," he said, in a moment. "Colossal!
There might be worse solutions. And the life of a cow-boy, for a while
at least--"
"Don't delude yourself. You would not be the least bit of a cow-boy.
You wouldn't even look picturesque--if you did you might be sorry.
You would just be a plain northern California rancher. Of course
you would have all the riding you wanted, but there are no round-ups
worth speaking of on a ranch the size of Lumalitas. And probably you
would continue to let sections of it to men that wanted to raise cattle
or horses on a small scale. You had better devote yourself to the dairy
and to raising hay and grain, and turn about five hundred acres into a
chicken-ranch--nothing pays like that."
He threw back his head and laughed as heartily as if death and disaster
had never been.
"From the English hustings and the greatest parliamentary body the world
has ever known to chickens and butter in California! From Capheaton to
Rosewater, oil-skin overalls and a linen 'Duster!' Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord!
But give me a comprehensive idea of the place, in your own inimitable
unvarnished diction. That will keep the ghosts off, at all events."
XVIII
Julia Kaye was one of those women designed by nature for the rôle of a
Valérie Marneffe, or of that astute Parisian's bourgeoise and more
romantic daughter, Emma Bovary; but tossed, in the gamble of the fates,
into a setting of respectable opulence, where her instincts for prey
were trimmed of their crudities, and the vehemence of her passions
subdued by the opportunity to gratify all other whims and desires.
Her father, born in the sooty alley of a manufacturing town in the north
of England, had run away to sea in his boyhood, deserted in the port of
New York, starved, stolen, peddled, washed dishes in cheap restaurants,
shovelled snow, tramped to Chicago, starved and peddled and shovelled
again, finally found a position with a firm of wholesale druggists. He
attended a night school, proved himself a lad of uncommon sharpness, and
in less than a year was first packing and then dispensing drugs. Five
years later he was drawing a large salary, and at the age of thirty he
had opened a retail drug store of his own.
It was during his earlier period of comparative leisure and peace of
mind that he began to test the inventive faculty that had pricked him in
small but significant ways during his boyhood. His first inventions were
of a minor importance, although they increased his income and were
permanently remunerative; but when he turned the torch of his genius
upon the fatal antipathies of vermin, his success was so deservedly
rewarded that he was a millionaire in less than three years. He returned
to England, and, avoiding the alley of inglorious memory, courted and
won the daughter of a manufacturer, his ambition driving him to compel
social recognition in his native city. It soared no higher, but his
wife, now no longer one of a large family, but with the income of a
generous millionaire at her disposal, was open to higher promptings; and
he to conversion. They moved to London and laid their plans with some
skill.
But although London can stand a good deal in the cause of resupply and
novelty, the violence of Mrs. Tippett's accent, and the terrible
solecisms of a gentleman whose education had begun in a Lancashire alley
and finished in the business purlieus of Chicago, who had acquired the
American vice of brag in its acutest form, and who, when in his cups,
shouted and spat and swore, were more than the most enterprising among
them had been called upon to endure. The social ambitions of the
Tippetts were so definitely quenched that the indignant millionaire
threatened to return to Chicago. But Mrs. Tippett moved him firmly to
Brighton, where, in the course of time, she toned him down. They made
their way slowly into society of a sort, and attracted the attention of
the public. There was no law to prevent them from dining at the
fashionable hotels, where Paris gowns could not pass unobserved; and
their turnouts were irreproachable.
Mrs. Tippet, an astute woman, by this time had realized that hers was
not the destiny of the social star, and she concentrated her hopes and
ambitions upon her one child, an uncommonly clever little girl. This
child grew up in a luxury that would have stifled even her precocious
mind had it not been for the rigid laws of the school-room. Her
governesses and tutors were selected with a sharp eye to the number of
titles in their reference-books, but dismissed promptly if they were
unworthy of their hire. Later, the little Julia was sent to a
distinguished school near Paris, where, with an eye to her future
well-being, remarkable in one so young, she divided her affectionate
affluence among the few whose exalted station made them worth the while
of a maiden with an indefinite future.
These friends did not prove as useful as she had hoped. At home there
were her parents to terrify theirs, and although she visited at several
châteaux, and more than one title was laid at her gilded feet, she made
up her mind to read her name in Burke.
She took her parents for a tour round the world with a view to polishing
off their lingering idiosyncrasies, and her chance came in India, where
she buried them both. They succumbed to cholera, and the kindly wife of
the viceroy, to whom she had had the forethought to secure a letter,
sent for her to come to Simla and remain as her guest until she found
courage and a chaperon for the return to England. Here she met Captain,
the Honorable Augustus Kaye, heir to an ancient barony, chivalrous,
impressionable, and hard-up. They were married with the blessings of old
friends and new, and, to do her full justice, she made him a good wife
according to her lights. She was quite insanely in love with him at
first, for he looked like one of Ouida's guardsmen, and his pedigree was
so long, and so varied with romantic historic episode, that she was
fully a week committing it to memory.
When he left the army and they had returned to England--via Paris--she
had the wardrobe and establishment of a princess, the right to dine at
the Queen's table, and not a relative in London. She was immoderately
happy, and during the five years of her wedded life she exhausted the
first strength of her affections, buried her feminine caprice, and
whatever of impulse youth may have clung to as its right. When Gussy
Kaye died, the predominant feeling in her bosom was rage at his
inconsiderateness in leaving the world before his father, and nothing
behind him but a courtesy prefix which she could not even use on her
cards.
She opened her soul to searching, and decided that five years of love
were quite enough for any woman, and that her attentions hereafter
should be directed towards the highest worldly success obtainable with
brains, talents, and wealth. To be merely a rich woman in the right set
did not come within measurable distance of her ambition's apex, and she
determined to gratify her passionate self-love by becoming a
personality.
She had long since simulated the repose of the high-born Englishwoman,
until, like all imitators, she far surpassed her models, and her manners
were marked not so much by the caste of Vere de Vere as by an almost
negative stolidity. This at least provided her with an unruffled front
for trying occasions--others besides the Arcots were insensible of her
offerings--which in the United States of America would have been
admiringly characterized as "nerve." This manner became solidified after
her popular husband's death, and if it was generally referred to as
"aplomb" or "poise," allowances must be made for the poverty of the
average vocabulary.
It is not difficult for a clever, handsome, correct, and wealthy woman
to reach and hold a distinctive position even in London, that world's
headquarters of individualities. In addition to a judiciously lavish
hospitality, it is only necessary to personalize intelligently, and this
Mrs. Kaye did with an industry that would have carried her to greatness
had she been granted a spark of the divine fire. She cultivated the
great and the fashionable in art, letters, and the drama, mixed them
tactfully with her titles, attended the banquets of the ruling class in
Bohemia attired flatteringly in her best, and founded a society for the
study of Leonardo da Vinci. She became intimate with several royal
ladies, who were charmed with her endless power to amuse them and her
magnificent patronage of their charities; and she formed close relations
with other dames but a degree less exalted, and generally more
discriminating. She cultivated a witty habit of speech, the society of
cabinet ministers, and her chef was a celebrity. Her gowns would have
been notable in New York, and she was wise enough to avoid eccentricity
and openly to regard all forms of sensationalism with a haughty disdain.
Her attitude to men was equally well-advised. Detrimentals and
ineligibles never so much as came up for inspection; she had a
far-reaching sense of selection and a proper notion of the value of
time. Therefore, the many that had the run of her luxurious mansion
contributed personally to her prestige, and she flattered herself that
her particular band was little less distinguished than the Royal
Household. And they invariably found her witty, entertaining, or, like
Madame Récamier, ready to listen "avec seduction." Her knowledge of
politics was practically unbounded.
In such moments as she happened to be alone with any of her swains, she
became distractingly personal, inviting, gently repelling, afforded
dazzling glimpses of possibilities awaiting time and the man: so
accomplishing the double purpose of agreeably titillating her own depths
and wearing the halo of a well-behaved Circe. Altogether her success was
what it always must be when brains and ambition, money and a cold heart
are allied; but it was small wonder if the head of the daughter of the
House of Tippett was a trifle turned and certain of her perceptions were
blunted.
Although ofttimes large with complacency, she by no means lost sight of
her original purpose to wed a coronet, and if she endured four years of
widowhood it was merely because she knew that she could afford to wait
for transcendence. This she had finally run to earth in Lord Brathland,
imminent heir to a dukedom, and personally more agreeable to her than
any man in London. That he was notoriously inconstant but added zest to
the chase, and it was, perhaps, the illusion she at times achieved of a
certain resemblance to the ladies of his preference that finally
overcame his intense aversion from respectability. He had offered
himself to her on the day of his undoing.
This was the woman with whom Elton Gwynne was infatuated at the most
critical moment of his career. Of her profound aybsses he suspected
nothing. She reigned in his imagination as the unique woman in whom
intellect and passion, tenderness and all the social graces united in an
exquisite harmony. There had been a time when, dazzled by the brilliancy
of his ascending star, and Brathland being but a name to her, she had
considered marriage with a man who assuredly would be the next leader of
a Liberal House, and was no less certain of being prime-minister. She
was under no delusion that she could one day induce him to accept a
peerage, but she was reasonably sure that Zeal would not marry again,
and there were times when the heir looked so ill that she tightened her
bonds about the heir-presumptive, while assuring him that she was too
much in love with liberty to think of marriage. Even when Zeal came back
from Norway or Sorrento looking almost well, she never permitted Gwynne
to escape, to see so much as a corner of her ego that might disturb the
image of herself she had created in his mind; and when she met Brathland
and her senses swam with the subtle scent of strawberry leaves, she saw
no reason for losing the stimulating society and flattering attentions
of the brightest star in the political firmament. Therefore, when he was
ready to hand, in the crushing hour of her riven ambitions, and his own
of serenest effulgence, she promptly reflected that the distance between
a marquisate and a dukedom was quickly traversed by a powerful
statesman. Meanwhile, although Elton Gwynne would no doubt be a hideous
trial as a husband, his wife's position, supported by a million in the
funds and another in Chicago, would be one of the most brilliant in
England. And she too had seen Lord Zeal in Piccadilly on Saturday.
XIX
The sudden elevation of her Jack to a marquisate, beside whose roots,
gripping the foundations of Britain's aristocracy, and ramifying the
length and breadth of its society, the lost dukedom was a mere mushroom,
created for a favorite of the last George, and notorious for its
mésalliances, did not cost Mrs. Kaye a moment's loss of poise. She
merely wondered that she had ever questioned her star. People that
disliked her found a subtle suggestion of arrogance in her manner, and
the slight significant smile on her large firm lips was a trifle more
stereotyped. Those that she favored with the abundance of her offerings
remembered afterwards that she had never been so brilliant as during the
month that followed the announcement of her bethrothal, and attributed
the fact to the electrified springs of affection.
Gwynne and she had been invited to the same houses for the rest of the
autumn, but he cancelled his engagements while begging her to fulfil
hers, as he should be too busy to entertain her were she so sweet as to
insist upon coming to Capheaton. This she had not the least intention of
doing, for she not only yearned for the additional tribute due to her,
but she always avoided long sojourns in Lady Victoria's vicinity,
knowing her as a woman of caprice, who often dropped people as abruptly
as she took them up. Susceptible to the charm of novelty, so far Mrs.
Kaye had wholly pleased her; but the clever Julia gauged the depths of
her future mother-in-law's credulity and kept her distance. With all her
reason for self-gratulation, in the depths of her cynical soul she was
quite aware of her natural inferiority to the women she emulated in all
but their license. That prerogative, with the wisdom that had marked her
upward course, she had flagrantly avoided, knowing that the world is
complacent only to those that fire its snobbishness, never to those that
fan the flame; and while she bitterly envied these women, she never
forgot the market value of her own unimpeachable virtue. She could not
in any case have been the slave of her passions, but her serenity was
sometimes ruffled as she reflected that, in spite of eminence achieved,
her caution in this and in other respects branded her in her secret soul
as second rate.
But if she tactfully did not insist upon flying to Capheaton, she wrote
such charming letters, happily free of solecisms, that Gwynne wondered
at his failure to sound the depths of her charm. But he refrained from
meeting her, and the reason was that he was slowly working towards a
momentous decision, and wished to arm himself at all points before
braving her possible disapproval. When he was his cool normal collected
self again, he gave way to his impatience to see the woman he had every
reason to believe was deeply in love with him. He telegraphed her a
peremptory appeal to go up to her house in London, and she was too wise
to refuse. It was now October and London quite bearable. She telegraphed
to her servants to strip her house of its summer shroud, and returned
early on the day of his choice.
It is hardly necessary to state that Mrs. Kaye lived in Park Lane. She
had cultivated half-tones with a notable success, but to symbolize her
new estate was a temptation it had not occurred to her to resist.
Shortly after her return from India she had bought a large house in the
façade of London, and furnished it with a luxury that satisfied one of
the deepest cravings of her being, while her admirable sense of balance
saved her from the peculiar extravagances of the cocotte.
She had seen Lady Victoria's expressive boudoir at Capheaton, and its
mate in Curzon Street, and relieved the envy they inspired in a caustic
epigram that happily did not reach the insolent beauty's ear. "These old
coquettes," she had lisped, with an amused uplift of one eyebrow. "They
surround themselves with the atmosphere of the demi-monde and forget
that a wrinkle is as fatal as a chaperon."
The pictures in her own house were as correct as they were costly, and
she had no boudoir. She invariably received her guests in the
drawing-room, an immense and unique apartment, with a frieze of dusky
copies of old masters, all of a size, and all framed in gilt as dim with
time. From them depended a tapestry of crimson silk brocade of
uncheckered surface. By a cunning arrangement of furniture the great
room was broken up into a semblance of smaller ones, each with its group
of comfortable chairs, its tea-table, or book case, or cabinet of
bibelots, or open hearth. And all exhaled the inviting atmosphere of
occupation.
Mrs. Kaye, rested, and more self-possessed than if the hastening lover
had been the late Lord Brathland, but agreeably stirred nevertheless,
awaited the new peer in a charming corner before a screen of dull gold,
the last reviews on a table beside her, the afternoon sun shining in on
her healthy unworn face. When he entered and advanced impetuously across
the room she decided that he certainly was a dear, even if he lacked the
fascination of Brathland and his kind. And his halo was almost visible.
She therefore yielded enchantingly when he enveloped her, smothered her,
stormed her lips, and even pulled her hair. She finally got him over to
the little sofa--she had advanced to meet him--but remained in his arm,
the very picture of tender voluptuous young womanhood. Indeed, she was
well pleased, and found her Jack, with that light blazing in his eyes,
quite handsome, and fascinating in his own boyish imperious
self-confident way.
It was half an hour before she rang for tea, and then she looked so
pretty and domestic on the other side of the little table, with its
delicate and costly service, that Gwynne was obliged to pause and summon
all his resolution before proceeding to another subject that possessed
him as fully as herself; but he succeeded, for not even passion could
turn him from his course; and she gave him his opening.
"Poor Lord Strathland!" she exclaimed, with a tear in her throat. "He
was always so jolly and amusing, quite the most cheerful person I ever
met. And before your cousin became--lost his health--we were great
friends. Indeed he never quite forgot me. But it was for you I was so
horribly cut up. I cried for two nights."
"Did you? But I was positive you did not make those tears in your first
letter with your hair-brush." He laughed like a happy school-boy, while
she protested with a roughish expression that made her look like a very
young girl.
"It need not prevent our immediate marriage," he said. "What do you say
to the last of this month?"
"I could get ready. Only girls, who never have any clothes, poor things,
get trousseaux in these days. I had set my heart upon spending the
honeymoon at the Abbey, but it would be rather indecent yet awhile;
don't you think so?"
He had not an atom of tact and rushed upon his doom. "We shall have to
cut the Abbey," he said, firmly. "I start for California three weeks
from to-day."
"Indeed?" she said, stiffly. "I should have thought you would have
consulted me. Not but that I shall be enchanted to visit California,
but--well, you are rather lordly, you know."
"My dear girl, I have been too harassed to consider the amenities. And
when a man is rearranging his whole life he must isolate himself or run
the risk of clouds in his judgment."
He paused. She disguised her mortification and answered, kindly: "I can
understand that in this sudden demand for readjustment you have had many
bad moments. It was far too soon for you to go up to the Peers'. But
with your marvellous energies, your genius--there is no other word for
it--you can soon astonish the world anew with a patent for
defossilization. At all events the Peers' will enter upon a new life as
a sort of mastodon cave swept out and illuminated by the most energetic
and aspiring of knights-errant."
Gwynne laughed dryly. "The rôle does not appeal to me; nor any other in
the same setting. I have done a month of the hardest thinking of my
life. Everything that went before looks like child's play. I have
arrived at the definite conclusion that my career in England has come
to a full stop, and I have made up my mind to create another--out of
whole cloth--in the United States."
She stared at him, her face not yet unset, but her eyes expanding with
incredulous apprehension. "You mean to desert England?" she asked,
quietly.
"Forever. Absolutely. It is all or nothing. I cannot become an American
citizen until five years after entering the country, and I do not wish
to lose any valuable time. Having made up my mind, I have ceased to
wonder if I shall like it. That is now beside the question. I shall drop
my title as a matter of course, and hope that I shall pass undiscovered
as John Gwynne. In short, I shall begin life all over again--as if I
were a criminal in disguise instead of the sport of circumstances. I
have ceased to regret the inevitable and begun to be stimulated by the
thought of a struggle to which all that I have had here was a mere game,
and I am sure that you, with your brains and energy, will enjoy the
fight as much as I. I am not going into the wilderness. We shall be only
two hours from San Francisco, which I am told is the only city in
America that in the least suggests Europe; it should be very attractive.
On the ranch you shall have every comfort and luxury. You must be sick
of London, anyhow. You have conquered everything here."
He paused and regarded her in some trepidation. In spite of his
self-confidence he had had his moments of doubt. And although he had
anticipated tears and remonstrance, he was unprepared for the more
subtle weapon of amusement, flickering through absolute calm. He
suddenly wished that she were younger. He had never given a thought to
her age before, but he remembered that she had lived for two years
longer than himself, and it made him feel even less than thirty.
"My dear boy," she said, wonderingly, "I never heard anything so
romantic and impossible. Of course it is the American cousin with whom
you have been shut up all these weeks that has been putting such
preposterous ideas into your head. I always said that nature just missed
making you a poet. But if you wish to work out your manifest destiny--to
be immortalized in history--you will remind yourself that England is the
one place on earth where an Anglo-Saxon can cut a really great figure.
Not only because he has the proper background of traditions, but because
he has an audience trained to recognize a man's greatness during his
lifetime. If you go in for those unspeakable American politics you will
never be given credit for anything higher than your medium; in other
words, should you develop into a statesman on American lines you would
never be recognized for anything but a successful politician. Even if
you survived in their hurly-burly of history, you would be judged by
contemporary standards--infused with a certain contempt because you were
not American-born."
"I have thought it all out. The obstacles to greatness, even more than
to success, have whetted my appetite for the struggle. I must fight!
fight! fight! I must exercise my powers of usefulness to some good end,
and now, now, when I am young and ardent. I should go mad sitting round
doing nothing. I have no temper for attacking the passive resistance of
inertia. I want to fight out in the open. If I fail I will take my
beating like a man. But I have not the least intention of failing. I am
acutely aware of the powers within me, and I can use them anywhere."
"Then why not in the Upper House?" she asked, quickly.
"For the reasons I have given you, and because I should fear the results
on my character. You know what it means to be a peer of Great Britain.
Flattery without accomplishment is demoralizing--would be to me, at all
events. It is wine to me when I am achieving, but it would drug me in
idleness. Are you so wedded to London?"
"London is the raison d'être of life. Has it occurred to you," she
asked, gently, "that I might refuse to go to America?"
"I was afraid the idea would be something of a shock, but I was sure you
would see the matter in my light."
"It is not wanting in power! But it seems that I am. I have never
aspired to the rôle of Amelia Sedley. I have, in fact, rather a
pronounced individuality; and yet you have taken upon yourself to
dispose of my future as if I were a slip of eighteen--delighted at the
prospect of a husband."
"Indeed you are wrong!" he cried, distressed to have bruised so beloved
an ego. "But, I repeat, it was a question I was forced to decide alone.
Nor would it have been fair to ask you to assume any part of so great a
responsibility. Do you suppose I did not think of that? Do you suppose I
have ever lost sight of your happiness? Let me think for both and you
shall not regret it."
She could have smiled outright at this evidence of the ingenuousness of
man, but her breast was raging with a fury of disappointment and
consternation. She kept her eyes down lest they should betray her. But
suddenly she had an inspiration. She controlled herself with a masterly
effort, flooded her eyes with tenderness, raised them, and said,
softly:
"I do love London, love it with what I called a passion before I--before
we met. And I cannot believe that this extraordinary resolution of yours
has had time to mature. Promise me at least that you will not apply for
letters of citizenship for at least a year after your arrival--"
"I shall apply the day after I arrive in Rosewater." He steeled himself,
for he had had his experience of woman's wiles; and his faith in
masculine supremacy as a habit did not waver. "I only regret that the
time of probation must be so long. I am on fire to throw myself into the
arena--however, there will be opportunities to make myself known and
felt. I have decided to study law meanwhile--and the law, it seems, is a
career in itself in America."
And then he watched her eyes, fascinated. They slowly hardened, until,
with the sun slanting into them, they looked like bronze. She was too
intent upon studying his own to hide them, and upon arriving at a final
conclusion. She reached it in a moment, for to her habit of rapid
thought and her understanding of the workings of the masculine mind she
owed no little of her supremacy among the clever women of London.
"I see that your decision is irrevocable," she said. "You are yourself;
no one could make or unmake you, and God forbid that I should try.
But--and I forbear to lead up to it artistically--I dissever myself from
your chariot wheels. I am not afraid of being crushed, for no doubt you
would always remember to be polite, if not considerate. I am not sure
that you would even permit me to become unrecognizable with dust. But I
am no longer plastic. I am thirty-two, and I am as much I as you are
you. I shall watch you from afar with great interest, and I sincerely
hope, for both your sakes, that Miss Otis will succeed in marrying you.
I cannot fancy anything more suitable."
He had turned white, but he looked at her steadily. He felt as if the
round globe were slipping from under him; and vaguely wondered if she
had gone about alluding to him as "the marquess." Then he sprang to his
feet, lifted her forcibly from her chair, deposited her on the sofa, and
taking her in his arms defied her to dismiss him, to live without him.
As the body, so yielding before, declined even to become rigid in
resistance, he poured out such a flood of pleading that, believing
passion had conquered reason, she flung her arms about his neck and
offered to marry him on the morrow if he would promise to remain in
England. But there was a crystal quality in Gwynne's intellect that no
passion could obscure. He merely renewed his pleadings; and then she
slipped out of his embrace and rose to her feet.
"We are wasting time," she said. "I always drive before dinner, and I
cannot go out in a tea-gown." She paused a moment to summon from her
resources the words that would humiliate him most and slake the desire
for vengeance that shrieked within her. She had never hated any one so
bitterly before, not even in her youth, when snubs were frequent. For
the third time she watched a coronet slip through her strong determined
impotent fingers. She could forgive her husband and Brathland their
untimely deaths, but for this young man, passionately in love with her,
who tossed the dazzling prize aside as an actor might a "property
crown," she felt such a rage of hatred that for almost a moment she
thought of giving her inherited self the exquisite satisfaction of
scratching his eyes out. But it was too late in her day to be wholly
natural, and, indeed, she preferred the weapons the world and her
ambitions had given her. As he rose and stared at her doubtingly, she
said, without a high or a sharp note, in her clear lisping voice:
"I think it wise to put an end to all this by telling you that I was
engaged to Lord Brathland when he died. I was more in love with him than
I ever shall be with any one again. You caught me in the violence of the
rebound, for I was confused with grief, and distraction was welcome: you
are always sufficiently amusing. I have not the least idea it would ever
have come off, for, to tell you the truth, my friend, you are too
hopelessly the enfant gaté for a woman who is neither young enough nor
old enough to crave youth on any terms. As a husband, I fear, not to put
too fine a point on it, you would be a bore. At the risk of being
thought a snob--to which I am quite indifferent--I will add that as
plain John Gwynne you seem to have so shrunk in size as to have become
as insignificant as most men are, no doubt, when you catch a glimpse of
their unmanufactured side. However"--with the air of a great lady
dismissing an object of patronage--"I wish you good-fortune, and
sincerely hope that we shall one day read of John Gwynne, senator, and
recall for a moment the brilliant Elton Gwynne so long forgotten in this
busy London of ours."
During quite half of her discourse Gwynne had felt his soul writhe under
a rain of hot metal, gibber towards some abyss where it could hide its
humiliation and its scars for ever. His brain seemed vacant and his very
nostrils turned white. But like many clever people goaded to words by a
furious sense of failure, she overshot her mark, and before she
finished his pride had made a terrified rebound and taken complete
possession of him. He still felt stripped, lashed, a presumptuous youth
before a scornful woman in the ripeness of her maturity, but it was
imperative for his future self-respect that he should reassert his
manhood and retire in good order. He let her finish, and then, as she
stood with a still impatience, he lifted his eyes and drew himself up.
His face was devoid of expression. His eyes did not even glitter; he
might have been listening with voluntary politeness to the speech of
majesty laying a corner-stone.
"You are quite right," he said. "You have given me the drubbing I
deserve, and I am grateful to you. It was the only thing I needed to
snap my last tie with England and brace me for the struggle in America.
It emboldens me to ask another favor--that you will regard what I have
told you of my plans as confidential. I shall give out that I am going
to travel for a time. As I believe I mentioned, I do not wish to be
recognized in the United States; and that by the time I have made my new
name my old one will be forgotten, is one of the sure points upon which
I have reckoned. Have I your promise?"
"My oath!" she said, flippantly; and although she was not generous
enough to admire, and still felt as if the world itself were a corpse,
every inherited instinct in her united in a visible respect for a poise
that was a gift of the centuries, not a deftly manufactured mask.
She rang the bell and extended her hand. Gwynne shook it politely; and a
moment later was walking down Park Lane in that singular state of
elation that in mercurial natures succeeds one of the brutal blows of
life, when all the forces of the spirit have leaped to the rescue.
PART II
1905
I
For Isabel Otis the genius loci had a more powerful and enduring
magnetism than any man or woman she had ever known. She had felt the
consolation of it, although without analysis, in her lonely girlhood by
the great Rosewater Marsh; definitely in Tyrol, Perugia, Toledo, in
Munich where she had lingered too long, in a hundred tiny high-perched
and low-set villages of Austria and Italy of which the tourist had never
heard, at Konigsee and Pragserwildsee; and deeply in England. But no
place had ever called her, disturbed her, excited her into furious
criticism, mockingly maintained its hold upon the very roots of her
being, like the city of her birth. Her childhood's memories of it
clustered about the old house on Russian Hill where the most cordial
neighbors were goats; the beach by the Cliff House on a stormy day; long
rides up and down the almost perpendicular hills of the city in the
swift cable cars; and certain candy stores on Polk and Kearney streets.
At long intervals there was a children's party at one of the fine houses
on the ledge below her home; or out in the Western Addition, where an
always migratory people were rivalling the splendors of Nob Hill--as
that craggy height had long since humbled South Park and Rincon Hill
into their abundant dust. She also cherished many charming memories of
her mother, with dinner or ball-gown so prudently looped under her
rain-coat that it gave her slender figure the proportions of the
old-fashioned hoop-skirt; always laughing as she kissed the little girls
good-night before braving the two flights of steps to the carriage at
the foot of the cliff. Two years before her death Mrs. Otis was glad to
bury her mortification and misery in Rosewater. After that Isabel had
never so much as a glimpse of San Francisco until she was sixteen, when
her father was induced to visit his adopted daughter and take his
youngest martyr with him. Isabel had planned for this visit throughout
six long months, and arrived in the city of her heart radiant in a frock
every breadth of which was new--heretofore her wardrobe had risen like
an apologetic ph[oe]nix from the moth-eaten remnants of her mother's old
finery--and such uncompromising trust in the benevolence of fate as a
girl rarely knows twice in a lifetime. There were three days of
enchanted prowling about the old house on Russian Hill, where, as the
tenant, in the rocking-chair by the bedroom window, did not invite her
to enter, she consoled herself with the views and the memories; and of
an even more normal delight in the shopping streets and gay restaurants
of a real city. After that the visit existed in her mind with the
confused outlines of a nightmare.
Her adopted sister's peevish complaints at being obliged to remain in
the foggy windy city all summer, the crying baby, the whirlwinds of dust
and shivering nights, she might have dismissed as unworthy the spirit of
sixteen, and dreamed herself happy. But Mr. Otis, who had been sober for
seven months, selected this occasion for a fall which resounded from
Market Street to Telegraph Hill, and rejuvenated the long line of
saloons that had graced Montgomery Street since the days when "Jim" Otis
had been one of the wildest spirits in the wildest city on earth. That
was "back in the Sixties," when his lapses were as far apart as they
were unrivalled in consumption, span, and pyrotechny. By the late
Eighties he had disappeared into the north, and the careless city knew
him no more.
During the Seventies and early Eighties there had been a period of
reform, incident upon his marriage with a pretty and high-spirited girl,
and one of the city's estimable attempts to clean out its political
stables. His brilliant and desperate encounter with Boss Buckley was
historic, but its failure, and the indifference of the gay contented
majority to the city's underworld, soured him and struck a fatal blow at
the never vital roots of personal ambition. When he began to water the
roots at his old haunts, the finish of his career and of his splendid
inheritance passed into the region of problems that Time solves so
easily. When she solved his problem he was glad to subside into one of
his cottages in Rosewater. Here he reformed and collapsed, reformed and
collapsed; but, with fewer temptations, and a remnant of his legal
brilliancy, he supported his family after a fashion; and fed his pride
to the day of his death with the fact that his wife, unlike the
forgotten half of many another comet, had never been obliged to do her
own work.
During that last visit to San Francisco, Isabel, guided by her amused
brother-in-law, routed him out of no less than fourteen saloons, and
spent night after night walking the streets with him to conquer the
restlessness that otherwise would find a prolonged surcease beyond her
influence. When she finally steered him back to Rosewater he fell into
an exuberant fit of repentance, during which he was so charming and so
legal that Isabel forgave him, laid by her bitterness and
mortification, and hoped. But although no repentance could maintain a
grip upon that slippery flabby substance which he still called his
character, at least he never went to San Francisco again. Occasionally
he permitted Isabel to spend a week with her sister, while he pledged
himself to good behavior during her absence; and kept his word. He
always kept his word; and he took care to withhold it except when he was
sure of himself. Isabel decided that as everything was relative it was
better to have a dipsomaniac as her life portion than a drinking-machine
of more steady and industrious habits.
Finally his patient clients left him, he sold the cottage in
Rosewater--all that remained of his inheritance--to pay its mortgages,
and moved with Isabel out to the ranch-house, preserved with a few
hundred acres by the more canny and less thirsty Hiram. When the elder
brother died James would have returned forthwith to the sources of
supply, but by this time Isabel had the upper hand, and although he
disappeared for days at a time, he was always forced to return to the
ranch when the small monthly sum allowed him by the terms of his
brother's will was exhausted; no one in Rosewater would give him credit.
As he invariably left a note behind him promising to "be quiet about
it," Isabel ceased to haunt his footsteps. His appetite was far beyond
his control or hers, and as he kept his word and spent his time in the
back parlor of a saloon, and had no longer the digestive capacity to
achieve his former distinction, she merely sat at home and waited.
Fortunately he did not live long enough after his brother hopelessly to
embitter his daughter's youth. Liberty came to her when she had ceased
to hate with young intolerance and begun to pity; and before too much
longing for freedom, and its insidious suggestions, had poisoned her
nature. Indeed, when she had seen her father buried with much pomp in
the cemetery behind Rosewater, and returned to the permanent peace of
her home, she missed her cares and responsibilities, so long and
systematically borne, and mourned, not as a child for its parent, but as
an adoptive mother suddenly bereft. Nevertheless, she was bent upon
enjoying her freedom to the utmost and rebelled against the obduracy of
her uncle's executors, who disapproved of her pilgrimage to Europe
unattended by a matron of Rosewater. Hiram Otis, who trusted no man, had
appointed four executors; and had not Judge Leslie been one of them the
other three might have delayed the settling of the estate beyond the
legal term. But at the end of a year Isabel was absolute mistress of her
property and herself.
One of the happiest moments of her life was when she sat before her
lawyer's table in San Francisco and watched the pen strokes that
cancelled the mortgage of the house on Russian Hill. The house and its
acre, encumbered by the inevitable mortgage, had been all that remained
of Mrs. Otis's personal inheritance when she left San Francisco for
ever. James Otis had promised his dying wife that he would never sell
the place, which she bequeathed to Isabel; and when his last client left
him and he could no longer pay the interest, Hiram, who was morosely
devoted to his niece, met the yearly obligation: he would not redeem the
mortgage unless he were permitted to buy the property. But to this James
Otis, clinging to his solitary virtue, would not consent; and Hiram,
although he intended to leave all he possessed to Isabel, could not
bring himself to part with any sum in four figures.
Before leaving for Europe Isabel had leased the house to a young
newspaper man whose wife had an income of her own, and not only an
artistic appreciation of the view, but a more practical esteem for a
site so far removed from the "all-night life" below. Immediately after
Isabel's return Mrs. Glait had asked permission to sublet the house,
remarking cynically that time had inured her to the desultory phenomena
of journalism, but never to the stable prospect of her husband's death
struggle with foot-pads, or her children falling down the cliff of this
wild bit of nature in the heart of a city.
Isabel took back her old home with another spasm of delight, and vowed
that not until she was a pauper would she part with it again. Five or
six days of every week must be spent on the chicken-ranch, which had
grown to such proportions that she was now one of the persons that
counted in her flourishing community. But in time she would live more
and more in her lofty home, become a notable figure in San Francisco,
drawing with both hands from its varied best; and meanwhile, once a
week, she could sit for hours and look down upon the city, which, even
in rainy weather, was a wild and beautiful sight from her eyrie.
Mrs. Otis had been a niece of the Mrs. Montgomery who had reigned on
Rincon Hill twenty years ago, and a cousin of the Helena Belmont who had
been the greatest belle the city had seen since that earlier time when
Nina Randolph, Guadalupe Hathaway, Mrs. Hunt McLane, and "The Three
Macs" had made history for themselves in spite of the momentous era of
which they were so unheeding a part. Mary Belmont would have been no
mean heiress herself had not her father been too adventurous a spirit
on the stock-market during the Belcher Bonanza excitement of 1872. For a
time it looked as if Gordon Belmont would be a far richer man than his
famous brother, Colonel Jack, always contented with a modest million;
but in ten mad days there was a decline of sixty million dollars in the
aggregate value of stocks on the San Francisco market; and six months
later, when he died of sheer exhaustion, he had nothing to leave his
only child but the house on Russian Hill, and a small income generously
supplemented by her uncle and guardian until her marriage. She was
thirteen at her father's death, and as her mother had preceded him, she
spent the following five years in a New York boarding-school. Then she
returned home, and, after a year's gayety, married James Otis. Colonel
Belmont surrendered her small property. Skilfully "turned over" it would
have multiplied indefinitely. But James Otis and his wife knew far more
about spending money than making it, and to-day nothing was left to
commemorate the meteoric and eminently typical career of Gordon Belmont
but the ancient structure whose nucleus he had taken over just after his
marriage as a "bad debt." His wife, too, had insisted upon living in it,
for reasons subsequently understood by her daughter and Mrs. Glait, and
complacently enlarged it with all the hideous improvements of the day.
That part of Russian Hill conspicuous from the city is little more than
a great cliff rising abruptly from the extreme north end of the graded
ledge on the summit of Nob Hill, which, in its turn, almost overhangs
the steep and populous ascent from the valley. In "early days" none but
the goat could cling to those rough hills that all but stood on end, and
the brush was so thick and the titles so uncertain that their future
distinction was undreamed of. Then came a determined period of grading
which embraced the heights in due course, titles were settled, and many
that foresaw the ultimate possession of that great valley now known as
"South of Market Street"--but which in its haughty youth embraced South
Park and Rincon Hill--by the tenacious sons of Erin and Germania, moved
to the uplands while lots could still be bought for a song. The Jack
Belmonts, the Yorbas, the Polks, and others of the first aristocracy to
follow the Spanish, made Nob Hill fashionable before a new class of
millionaires sprang up in a night, and indulged its fresh young fancy
with monstrous wooden structures holding a large portion of converted
capital. Mrs. Yorba, who led society in the Eighties, when it was as
exclusive as a small German principality, was disposed to snub all
parvenus. But the young people made their way. When Mary Belmont
returned from school, and, chaperoned by a widowed relative, gave at
least a dance a month until she married, and many a one after, the heirs
of all grades thought nothing of leaving their carriages at the foot of
the cliff to climb the precarious stair; groping blindly more often than
not through the rains of winter or the fogs of summer. To-day Isabel's
neighbors wisely made no such demands upon the pampered, but in that
incomparably older time the young people would have climbed to the stars
for the sake of the lavish hospitality of the gay indulgent young
hostess; and if some of the youths rolled down the hill when the lights
went out, that was hardly a matter to excite indignant comment in a city
where drink was so admittedly the curse that it was philosophically
accepted with such other standing evils as fogs, trade-winds,
small-pox, mud-holes, dust-storms, and unmentionable politics.
When Mary Belmont became the wife of James Otis, one of the greatest
ranchers in California--in which State, unlike other fervent patriots of
that era, he had been born--and a brilliant figure in one of the most
notable legal groups of any time, she long held her position as a social
favorite. But children came and died too quickly for her health and
fragile beauty, and the storms of life beset her. She continued to live
in her inconvenient eyrie, not only in the waning hope of ultimately
separating her husband from the convivial beings on the lower plain, but
because she felt an intense pride in owning a home two generations old
in that young community. She was determined that it should remain in the
family and be occupied by at least one of her children. So the ugly
brown wooden structure with its bay-windows, its central tower, its
Mansard-roof--added for the servants--had, contrary to all tradition,
actually joined three generations of San Franciscans in one unbroken
chain. It owed its proud position, no doubt, to the fact that when the
Otis fortunes collapsed there was but one child left to inherit it and
to be supported meanwhile.
Isabel intended in time to give the house a new façade, and had gloated
over such of the Burnham plans as had been reproduced by the city press.
These lovely plans were designed to make the city as classic and
imposing as Nature had dreamed of when she piled up that rugged
amphitheatre out of chaos; and Isabel had long since resolved that, if
she could not be the first to plant a bit of ancient Athens upon a brown
and ragged bluff, the high tide of her fortunes should coincide with the
awakening of the city to the sense of its architectural guilt. She
banished much of the tasteless furniture of the old time, and refitted
with a stately comfort that expressed one side of her nature. She too
clung to traditions--and to the long mirrors in their tarnished gilt
frames, with the little shelf below; the multitude of family portraits
engraved on wood, and surrounded by a wide white margin and tiny gilt
frame. That they might strike no discordant note, she made use of a
lesson learned in London, where she had spent a month with Lady
Victoria, and had the walls and wood of the living-room painted white,
covered the windows and furniture with a plain stuff of a dark but
neutral blue. In the dining-room were a few paintings of her New England
and Spanish ancestors, and she disturbed them only to replace the
wall-paper with leather; at the same time sending the black walnut
furniture to the auction-room.
Being the one practical member of her family, and the product of an
earthquake country, she repaired the uncertain foundations of her house
before removing the walls that had cut up the lower floor into the
conventional number of rooms and hallways. The house, of no great depth,
was so close to the hill-side, still rising above it, that more than one
enterprising cook had made use of the natural ledges before the windows.
Besides the kitchen department and pantries, there were now but three
rooms on the lower floor: the dining-room, a small reception-room in the
tower, and an immense living-room, broken by the white pillars that
supported the storys above.
Mrs. Belmont and Mrs. Otis, in the time-honored American fashion, had
made a day nest of their bedroom, but Isabel was far too modern for that
lingering provincialism, and lived luxuriously in the big room
down-stairs when she was not in the porch. She had reserved her mother's
old alcoved bedroom with its mahogany four-poster for her own use, but
the rest of the second-story rooms she had fitted for her English
cousins, that they too might have headquarters in town.
Neither appeared to be in any haste to visit the city of their
ancestors. Gwynne had left England in October, now nearly a year ago,
but, having discovered from his solicitor that he could apply for
letters of citizenship as late as the end of the third year after
landing, had announced to Isabel his intention to travel slowly about
the country "before settling down in its remotest part, which, from all
accounts, was sufficiently unlike the rest to provincialize his point of
view unless he saw something first of the East, South, and Middle West."
He had written to her several times, but only on business. She had
returned in January, after a round of visits in England, and had put his
house in order at once. The lease had expired, and Mr. Colton had
engaged a temporary superintendent, but Gwynne sent Isabel his power of
attorney and she was temporarily in possession. She wrote to him from
time to time that all was well, or to send him an account of her
expenditures; but felt no promptings towards a friendly correspondence
with one who showed as little disposition to encourage it.
From Victoria she had not heard directly since she bade her good-bye in
Curzon Street, but Flora Thangue had written that her ladyship's superb
health had (to her ill-concealed fury) given way, following an attack of
influenza, and she would not be able to leave her doctor for an
indefinite time. A few months later she wrote that "dear Vicky" was
outwardly herself again, but in reality very nervous, the result, no
doubt, of her illness, and of the prolonged stress of business. However,
she had finally succeeded in letting the Abbey and Capheaton to
advantage, and it was on the cards that she would reach California
before the end of the year. Isabel hoped that, unfed by her son's
exacting presence the maternal fires burned low; she had a clearly
defined intention to be a factor in the new career of Elton Gwynne, and
no desire for the capricious interference of his mother.
II
As Isabel stood in her little porch that brilliant September morning,
she dismissed her occasional regret that she had not remained in England
for a London season. Not only had she put the time to better use on her
ranch, but no doubt her agent would have relet this house, and delayed
the fulfilment of one of those dreams upon which she unconsciously fed
her soul. The shrieking trade-winds and the dense white fogs were
hibernating somewhere out in the Pacific. All the city, in the great
irregular amphitheatre below, was sharply outlined in the yellow light;
Isabel wondered if the sun renewed its stores from the golden veins to
north and south. On the wide broken ledge just beneath her pinnacle was
the concrete evidence of an architectural orgy to be seen nowhere else
on earth: wooden mansions with the pure outlines of the Renaissance; a
Gothic palace with bow-windows, also of wood; a big brown-stone house in
the style of New York; piles of shingles and stones; here and there a
touch of Romanesque, later French, and Italian; the majority of those
plutocratic and perishable masses, of no style in particular, unless it
were that of Mansard combined with the criminalities of him who invented
the bow-window and the irrelevant tower. On the slopes were a few old
houses in gardens, some with cottage roofs, others square, brown, dusty,
melancholy. But the majority were of the "house in a row" type,
radiating in all directions from the "boarding-house blocks" on the
lower slopes. Then, down on the plain, came the big compact masses of
stone and concrete, brick and steel, devoted to business and housing of
the itinerant. The lofty domes of the City Hall and a newspaper
building, a few church spires and the great white-stone hotel on a crest
not far from Isabel's, were the sole pretenders to architectural beauty
within her ken.
Far away she could make out the Mission Church, once called after St.
Francis of Assisi, now named Dolores for the vanished lake. It was the
last reminder of the work of the Spanish fathers, and looked
indescribably ancient in the midst of that busy and densely populated
district. At night Isabel watched the lights of the electric cars
flashing about that old monument of an almost forgotten conquest--like
the angry haunted eyes of the padres that had labored in the wilderness
for naught. But although this old church and the Presidio, which still
retained its quadrangle and a few of the original adobe houses, appealed
deeply to Isabel on account of the romance of Rezánov and Concha
Argüello that distinguished her family, her more personal sympathies
were with the streets just below her hill-top, packed as they were with
memories, tragic, humorous, gay, pathetic, of a people that had made the
city great.
Even the dilapidated houses, with their sixty steps or more toppling
above the cut that had widened and levelled the street, had been very
hospitable in their time, and Isabel knew that her mother and
grandmother had toiled up those perpendicular flights in satin slippers
and ballooning skirts on many a rainy night. Mrs. Otis had told her
little girls stories of all those old houses, fine and simple, more
particularly of the fortunate mansions on Nob Hill's brief level. Isabel
longed for the time when she should enter them and pick up the threads
dropped from her mother's nerveless fingers. The Belmont house was
closed, the still restless Helena occupying a palace in Rome at the
moment. The Polk house had been sold to the energetic son of one of the
plodding old money-makers that had fought shy of stock gambling and
railroads. Nicolas Hofer belonged to the latest type the prolific city
had bred: the son of a millionaire, but a keen man of business, whom the
wildness of the city had never tempted, highly educated, honorable, and
an ardent reformer.
Magdaléna Yorba--Mrs. Trennahan--like most of her old neighbors, still
dwelt in the ancestral mansion, although she had given it a stucco
façade and shaved off the bow-windows. In each, Isabel was sure of
welcome, and she longed particularly to wander through the old Polk
house, where one of her Spanish great-aunts had reigned for a time. Like
all San Franciscans of family, she took more pride in her young-old city
than a Roman in his Rome. Its forty-two square miles had seen so many
changes, its story was so romantic and unique, that its age was not to
be measured by the standards of Time. Her grandfather had stood on this
hill after his Sunday climb and looked over and down a ragged wilderness
to the city bursting out of its shell--a wretched huddle of shacks and
tents by the water's edge. The bay no doubt was crowded with ships from
every corner of the world, many of them deserted, unmanned, forced to
lie idle until the return of the hungry disappointed gold-seekers. That
was less than sixty years ago. In the first ten years of its rapid
growth the city had burned seven times, millions blazing out in an hour.
To-day San Francisco was replete not only with life but with wealth,
talents, and every variety of enterprise; it was as full of fads and
cults and artistic groups as London itself; it had sent forth authors,
artists, mummers, singers--and millionaires by the score. Many of the
art treasures of the world had been brought here and hidden from the
vulgar in those awful impermanent "palatial mansions." Some of the
finest libraries of the world were here. It had its bibliomaniacs, its
collectors, its precieux. And yet what a lonely city it was, stranded on
the edge of the still half-vacant western section of the United States,
with all the Pacific before it. Save for the rim of towns across the
bay, which were little more than a part of itself, it watched the Orient
alone, and was far too gay and careless, too self-absorbed and insolent,
to keep its jaws on the alert. Tact it was much too high-handed to
cultivate. It welcomed the hungry Oriental for so long as he was useful,
and when he outstayed his welcome, incontinently kicked him out. San
Francisco's intensity of independence as well as of civic pride was due
in part no doubt to the isolation which compelled it to be self-centred,
and to its unconscious dislike of the elder breeds beyond the Rocky
Mountains; but largely to the old adventurous reckless gambling spirit
and the habit of sleeping on its pistol. These first causes had
developed individuality to such proportions that the hair of a
Californian bristled when he was alluded to as a "Westerner," or even as
