look after her, that was her father's wish; so there will be no change.
Of course, it alters our quiet mode of living, but perhaps we were
getting in too much of a rut and needed some shaking up;" smiling
gravely. "Try and make it as comfortable for them as you can. There is
plenty of room in the house for us all."
Then there was nothing before them but acceptance. In a way she had
known it, but there was a vague idea seething in her mind that if the
maid could be dismissed, she and her sister could train the child in a
better manner, and instil some Salem virtues in her that yet held a
little of the old Puritanic leaven; like industry, economy, forethought.
She still believed in the strait and narrow pathway.
That Chilian should take the matter so philosophically did surprise
her. To him there seemed something so pitiful in the hope held out to
the little girl, yet after all could it have been managed any more
wisely? She would not know what the acute pang of death was. And her
longing would become less, there would be a vagueness in her sorrow that
would help to heal it. This would be her home. He had been living all
these years for himself, was it not time that he espoused some other
motive? That he began to be of real service?
He finished his talk with Miss Winn. Cynthia was hopping over some coils
of cable, and he watched her agile, graceful movements, half smiling.
"Come and tell me good-bye," he said, holding out his hand. "I am going
in to Boston."
"In a vessel?"
"No; though I suppose that would be possible. I am late for the stage,
and must go on horseback."
"Where is Boston?"
"Oh, some eighteen miles--rather southerly. It is a big city, and the
capital."
"When are you coming back?" with a daintily anxious air.
"Oh, by supper-time."
"Well;" nodding.
"What shall I bring you?"
"Nothing at all. We have twice too much now, Rachel says. Only--be sure
to come back."
"If I did not, what then?"
"If you did not come back, I should go to India with Captain Corwin. I
like Miss Eunice a little, but your other lady doesn't want me," she
replied with a frankness that was amusing, it was so free from malice.
"Good-bye until to-night, then."
She put her hand in his. Then she reached up tiptoe. "Kiss me," she
said. "Father always did and he said, 'Be a good girl.'"
"Be a good girl." Chilian kissed the soft red lips and then went his
way. There was not much caressing in the restrained New England nature
of that day, especially among those who had grown up with few family
ties. His mother had died while he was yet quite a boy.
"Let us go back now," said Rachel presently. "I believe I have found all
our goods. Miss Leverett will be appalled."
The child repeated the word. "What does it mean?" she asked.
"Astonished, surprised."
"Why, they have a houseful of things;" in protest.
"Then there is the less room for ours."
"But there is ever so much room in the garret."
"I almost wish we were going to live by ourselves in a little house,
like some we saw yesterday."
"Who would cook the dinner and wash the dishes?"
"Oh, I could;" laughing.
"Only us two? It would be lonesome."
"We are not likely to."
"Don't go straight home. Let us find the market again. I didn't half see
it last night."
"It wasn't night exactly. Yes--we must learn to find our way about, for
we cannot stay in all the time. This is Essex Street. Let us turn here."
The market was in its glory this morning. The stalls were ornamented
with branches of evergreens, the floors sifted over with sawdust. There
were vegetables and meats, but no great variety. There was no sunny
south, no swift train to send in delicious luxuries. The cold storage of
that day was being buried in pits and being brought out to light as
occasion required.
There were other stalls, with various household stores. Iron-holders,
tin kettles, whiskbrooms, pins (which were quite a luxury), crockery
ware even. Wagons had come in from country places and customers were
thronging about them.
The people interested Miss Winn, and the chaffering, the beating down in
prices, was quite amusing. Here a woman was measuring some cotton goods
from her chin to the ends of her fingers; here sat a cobbler doing odd
jobs while some one waited. Altogether it was very entertaining, and it
was dinner-time when they reached home.
"Mr. Leverett has gone to Boston," announced Miss Leverett. "We must
have our dinner without him."
"Yes, he was down on the ship," said Miss Winn. "Do you often go to
Boston?"
"I am much too busy to be gadding about," returned Elizabeth sharply;
"though we have connections there, and I once spent several years in the
city."
"I don't suppose it is at all like London. Eastern cities are so
different--and dirty," she added.
"Boston is very nice, quite a superior place, but we do not consider it
much above Salem," Miss Elizabeth said, with an air. "We have nearly all
of the East India trade. To be sure, there is Harvard at Cambridge, and
that calls students and professors. Cousin Chilian is a graduate. He
could have been an accepted professor if he had chosen."
Then the conversation languished. They were hardly through dinner when
the next relay of goods arrived.
"Cynthia's desk must go upstairs, I suppose. Her father had it made for
her birthday. Will Silas unpack again? There is a small cabinet of
teakwood that is beautifully carved. If you could find room in the
parlor for that. There were many other fine pieces that will no doubt be
sold, and it seems a great pity."
Elizabeth acquiesced rather frigidly, adding, "It is fortunate the house
is large, but one seems to accumulate a good deal through generations."
Cynthia went up in the garret with Miss Winn and was full of interest
over the old Leverett treasures. Here was the cradle in which Leverett
babies had been rocked, an old bit of mahogany nearly black with age.
"How funny!" cried Cynthia, springing into it, and making a clatter on
the floor.
"Don't, dear! Miss Elizabeth may not like it," said Miss Winn.
"As if I should hurt it!" indignantly.
"It is not ours."
"But we sit on their chairs, and sleep in their beds, and eat at their
table," returned the child. "Do you suppose they do not want us?"
"Our coming is Mr. Leverett's affair, and he is your guardian, so
whatever home he provides is right."
"Well, we can have a home of our own when father comes?"
"Oh, yes; when he comes."
"Well, then I shall not mind;" decisively.
Still she peered about among the old things. There were some iron
fire-dogs, a much-tarnished frame, with a cracked glass that cut her
face in a grotesque fashion, old dishes and kitchen furniture past
using, or that had been supplanted by a newer and better kind.
"Oh, dear! this is an undertaking!" declared Miss Winn, with a sigh. "I
do not believe you will ever use half these things; there are stuffs
enough to dress a queen."
It was beginning to grow dusky before she was through, though the sky
was overcast, and there would be no fine sunset. Indeed, the wind blew
up stormily. Cynthia had been viewing the place from the windows in the
four gables, though she had to stand on a box. There were South River
and the Neck and the shipping--the men, hurrying to and fro, looking so
much smaller that it puzzled Cynthia. And there was North River winding
about, and over beyond the great ocean she had crossed. There was old
St. Peter's Church, the new one was not built until long afterward, and
smaller places of worship. There was the small beginning of things to be
famous later on.
The wind began to whistle about and it grew cool, so they were glad to
go down to the cheerful sitting-room, where a fire was blazing on the
hearth.
"We shall have a storm to-night," said Miss Eunice, "our three days'
storm that usually makes its appearance about this time. Didn't you
'most perish upstairs? And what did you find to interest you?"
Cynthia had brought a stool and sat close to Miss Eunice, leaning one
arm on her knee.
"Oh, so many queer things. You don't mind if I call them queer, do you?"
"Oh, no; they are queer. And when we are dead and gone some one will
call ours queer, no doubt. But we haven't many. When father died we were
on a farm just out of Marblehead. Things were mostly sold at a vendue,
for the two boys were going in the army. That was back in '78. Mother
and we two girls went to her mother's at Danvers. Elizabeth took up
sewing, but there were hard times, for the war stretched out so long,
and it did seem as if the Colonies would never gain their cause. But
they did. Brother Linus was killed, and later on I had a dear friend
lost at sea. Mother died, and we were sort of scattered about till we
came here. Cousin Chilian was very good to us. So you see we haven't
much to leave, but then we haven't any descendant;" and she gave a soft
little laugh. "Elizabeth has mother's gold comb, set with amethysts, and
a brooch, and I have the string of gold beads and some rings. A cousin
in London sent them to grandmother."
"Eunice, you might set the table," said Elizabeth, rather sharply. "I'm
making some fritters. They will taste good this cold night."
"Couldn't I help?" asked Rachel.
"Oh, you must be tired enough without doing any more. It's a good thing
you have all your belongings housed. The garret doesn't leak."
"Yes, I am thankful. I really did not think there was so much."
There was a savory fragrance in the sitting-room. Chilian came in,
looking weary with his long ride.
"It is almost wintry cold," he said, holding his hands to the fire.
"Have you had a nice day, little girl?"
"Yes;" glancing up with a smile.
They did justice to Bessy's nice supper. Chilian had seen Cousin Giles,
who sent remembrances to them all, and was coming up some day to see
Letty Orne's little girl. Chilian found there was a good deal of
business to do. For a while his days of leisure and ease would be over.
Then he brought out a Boston paper and read them some of the news. Miss
Eunice went on with her fringe. Elizabeth was knitting a sock for
Chilian out of fine linen yarn, spun by herself, and she put pretty
open-work stitches all up the instep. For imported articles were still
dear, and there was a pride in the women to do all for themselves that
they could. Cynthia leaned her head on Rachel's lap and went asleep.
"Do hear that rain! The storm has begun in good earnest."
It was rushing like a tramp of soldiers, flinging great sheets against
the closed shutters, and the wind roared in the chimney like some
prisoned spirit.
"Wake up, Cynthia, and say good-night."
Elizabeth watched the child. Her theory was that children should be put
to bed early and not allowed to lie around on any one's lap. There was
always a tussle of wills when you roused them. She drew herself up with
a kind of severe mental bracing and awaited the result, glad Chilian was
there.
Rachel toyed with the hair, patted the soft flushed cheek, and took the
hands in hers.
"Cynthia," she said gently, "Cynthia, dear, wake up."
The child roused, opened her eyes. "I'm so tired," she murmured. "Will
we never be done crossing the wide, wide ocean? And where is Salem?"
"We are there, dear, safe and housed from the storm. You have been
asleep on my knee. Come to bed now. Say good-night."
She stood the little girl up on her feet and put one arm around her.
It was against Elizabeth Leverett's theories that any child should go
off peaceably, with no snarling protest. Chilian raised his book a
little, hoping in the depths of his soul there would be no scene.
"Say good-night."
No child of Puritan training, with the fear of the rod before her eyes,
could have done better. She said good-night in a very sleepy tone, and
slipped her arm about Rachel's waist as they left the room together.
No one made any comment at first. Then Eunice said, in what she made a
casual tone:
"She seems a very tractable child."
"You can't tell by one instance. Children of that age are always
self-willed. And allowing a child to lie around one's lap, when she
should have said her prayers and gone to bed at the proper hour, is a
most reprehensible habit. And I don't suppose she ever says a prayer."
Eunice thought of the daily prayers for her father's safe journey. Would
that be set down as a sort of idolatry?
Chilian picked up his papers; he had grown fastidious, and rarely left
his belongings about to annoy Elizabeth. Eunice rolled up her work and
dropped it in the bag that hung on the post of her chair, straightened
up a few things, stood the logs in the corner and put up the wire
fender, so there should be no danger of fire; while Elizabeth set all
things straight in the kitchen.
Cynthia meanwhile was undressed and mounted the steps to the high bed.
Then she flung her arms about Rachel's neck.
"Oh, come and sleep in my bed to-night!" she cried pleadingly. "It's so
big and lonesome, that I am afraid. I wish it was like your little bed.
They were so cunning on the ship. I don't like this one, where you have
to go upstairs to get in it. Oh, do come!"
And Elizabeth Leverett would have been shocked if she could have seen
the child cuddled up in her attendant's arms. Theoretically, she
believed Holy Writ--"He hath made of one blood all nations." Practically
she made many exceptions.
CHAPTER V
MAKING FRIENDS WITH THE LITTLE GIRL
The northeast storm was terrific. The wind lashed the ocean until it
writhed and groaned and sent great billows up on the land. The trees
bent to the fierce blasts; many storms had toughened them and perhaps
taught them the wisdom of yielding, since it must be break or bend.
Silas sat in the barn mending tools and harness and clearing up
generally; Elizabeth spent most of the first day clearing up the garret
again, and looking with a grudging eye on the new accession of boxes,
and sniffing up the queer smell disdainfully.
"One can't have the windows open," she ruminated, "and the smell must go
through the house. I don't believe it will ever get out."
More than one family in Salem had stores from the Orient. Many of them
liked the fragrance of sandalwood and strange perfumes. "God's fresh air
was good enough for her," said Elizabeth.
Eunice had finished her fringe and brought out some patchwork in the
afternoon--a curious pattern, called basket-work. The basket was made of
green chintz, with a small yellow figure here and there. It had a handle
from side to side, neatly hemmed on a white half square. The upper edge
of the basket was cut in points and between each one was a bit of color
to represent or suggest a possible bud of some kind. One had pink,
different shades of red, and a bright yellow. She had seven blocks
finished and they were in the bottom of the box. Eunice took them out
for the little girl, who spread them on the floor.
No one was thinking at that day of the mills that would dot New England,
where cotton cloths, calicoes, and cambrics would be turned out by the
bale. These things had to be imported and were costly. One could dye
plain colors that were used for frocks and gowns, and some of the hand
looms wove ginghams that were dyed in the thread beforehand.
"It will take forty-two blocks," said Miss Eunice. "Six one way, seven
the other."
"Then what are you going to do with it?" asked the child eagerly.
"Why, quilt it. Put some cotton between this and the lining, and sew
them together with fine stitches."
"And then----"
"Why"--Eunice wondered herself. There were chests of them piled away in
the garret--Chilian's mother's, and those they had made to fill in the
moments when housework was finished. She had a quiet sense of humor, and
she smiled. What were they laying up these treasures for? Neither of
them would be married, most of their relatives were well provided for.
"Well, some one may like to have them;" after a pause. "You must learn
to sew."
"Patchwork?"
It was absurd to pile up any more.
"You see," said the child, "no one needed them over there;" inclining
her head to the East. "You have a little bed and a pallet, and it is
warm, so you do not need quilts. And the poor people and the servants
have a mat they spread down anywhere and a blanket, but you see, they
sleep with their clothes on."
Eunice looked rather horrified.
"But they change them! They would--why, there would be soil and vermin."
"They go to the river and bathe and wash them out. They sling them on
the stones in a queer way. But some of them are very dirty and ragged.
They are not like the English and us, and don't wear many clothes.
Sometimes they are wrapped up in a white sheet."
"It is a very queer country. They are not civilized, or Christianized. I
don't know what will become of them in the end."
"It's their country and no one knows how old it is. China is the oldest
country in the world."
"But, my dear, there was the garden of Eden when God first created the
world. Nothing could be older than that, you know. Two thousand years to
the flood, and two thousand years to the coming of Christ, and some
people think the world will end in another two thousand years."
"I don't see any sense in burning it up, when there are so many lovely
things in it;" and Cynthia's eyes took on a deep, inquiring expression.
"That was what the chaplain used to say. Father thought it would go on
and on, getting wiser and greater, and the people learning to be better
and making wonderful things."
"My dear, what the Bible says must be true. And it will be burned up.
You have a Bible?"
"The chaplain gave me a pretty prayer-book. It is upstairs."
"We do not believe in prayer-books, dear." The tone was soft, yet
decided. "We came over here, at least our forefathers did, that we might
worship God according to the dictates of our conscience. We tried to
leave the prayer-books and the bishops behind, but we couldn't quite.
You must have a Bible and read a chapter every day. Why, I had read it
through once before I was as old as you."
Cynthia simply stared. Then, after a pause, she said:
"Did you sew patchwork, too?"
"When I was eight I had finished a quilt. And I learned to knit. I knit
my own stockings; I always have. And I braided rags for a mat. Mother
sewed it together."
"And your clothes--who made those?"
"Well--mother made some. But a woman used to come round fall and spring
and make for the girls and boys, though father bought his best suit. He
had one when he was married; it was his freedom suit as well----"
"Why, was he a prisoner?" the child interrupted.
"Oh, no;" smiling a little. "Boys had to be subject to their fathers
until they were twenty-one. Then they had a suit of clothes all the way
through and their time, which meant they were at liberty to work for any
one and ask wages. He had been courting mother and they were married
soon after, so it was his wedding suit. He had outgrown it before he
died, so he had to get a new one. Mother sold that to a neighbor that it
just fitted."
"Tell me some more about them." Cynthia was fond of stories. And this
was about real folks, not the fantastic legends she had heard so often.
"Well--he and mother worked, she had been living with a family. Girls
did in those days, and were like daughters of the house. Father went to
work there. They were married in the spring and in the fall he took a
place on shares; that is, he had half of everything, and they divided up
the house. A year or so afterward it was for sale, and he bought it, and
we were all born there, and there was no change until he died. That was
a sad thing for us. He'd been buying some more land, and the place
wasn't clear. Another man stood ready to buy it, and mother thought it
best to sell. You see there was a good deal of trouble between us and
England, who wanted to get all the money she could out of the Colonies,
and wasn't willing to send troops to protect us from the Indians, and we
had to sell our produce and things to her, and presently the Colonies
wouldn't stand it any longer, and there was war. Some people were
bitterly opposed to it, some favored it. Then we wouldn't take the tea
she insisted on our buying, and there was the Stamp Act. And Salem
really made the first armed resistance. You must go out some nice day to
North Bridge. The British troops marched up from Marblehead to seize
some arms they heard were stored here. General Gage sent them. But the
people had word, for a Major Pedrick rode up to give the alarm, and they
hid them in a secure place. Colonel Leslie headed the British troops to
make the search. But the people of Salem turned out strong and met the
colonel and declared that he was marching on private property, not on
the King's highway, that the lane and the bridge were private property,
where he had no right. You see, war had not been declared and the people
had a right to defend their own. So they would not allow them to cross
the river and make a search. But, finally, they agreed, if the draw over
the river could be lowered and they allowed to march a few rods, they
would withdraw. Of course, they saw nothing suspicious and came back,
keeping their word. Otherwise, I suppose, that would have been the first
battle of the war. We were not living here then, but Cousin Chilian's
father lived in this very house."
"And the arms were really there!" Cynthia drew a long breath.
"Oh, yes! They were ships' cannon going to be mounted for protection.
Some day Cousin Chilian may take you over to the bridge and tell you all
about it. There was a romance about a girl said to be in love with a
British officer, but you are too young for such stories."
If she had not been, the entrance of Elizabeth and Miss Winn would have
checked the garrulity of Eunice. Cynthia had been laying down the small
diamond-shaped pieces, making a block.
"Why do you let the child muddle over those pieces, Eunice? The carpet
may not be clean," said Elizabeth sharply.
"And it is getting dark, so we had better put them all up. Mercy! how it
still rains. Why, it seems as if there would be another flood."
"That can never happen. We have the promise."
"That the whole world will not be destroyed. But parts of it may suffer.
You and Cynthia are fortunate not to be in it;" and Eunice raised her
eyes to them, with a certain thankfulness.
It had not stopped yet in the morning, but the wind was veering to the
south, the air was not so cold and the rain much gentler. Cynthia
wandered about like an unquiet spirit. It was cold up in their room.
Chilian had proposed a fire, but Elizabeth had negatived it sharply.
"There ought to be room enough in the dining-room and keeping-room for
two extra people," she said decidedly.
He felt sorry for the little girl with her downcast face, as he met her
on the landing.
"Don't you want to come and visit me?" he asked, in an inviting tone.
"Oh, yes!" and the grave little face lightened.
The blaze was brighter here than downstairs, she felt quite sure. And
the room had a more cheerful look. The table was spread with books and
papers, and, oh, the books that were on the shelves! The curious things
above them suggested India. There really was the triple-faced god she
had seen so often, carved in ivory, and another carving of a temple. She
walked slowly round and inspected them. Then she paused at a window.
"How much it rains!" she began. "I don't see how so much rain can be
made. When is it going to stop?"
"I think it will hold up this afternoon and be clear to-morrow, clear
and sunny."
"I like sunshine best. And little rains. This has been so long."
"And we haven't much to amuse a child. When it clears up we must find
some little folks. Does it seem very strange to you?"
"I haven't lived with big women much, except Rachel. And the houses are
so different. You get things about, and the servants pick them up. There
are so many servants. Sometimes there are white children, but not many.
Their mothers take them back to England. Or they die."
She uttered the last sadly, and her long lashes drooped.
He wondered a little how she had stood the climate. She looked more like
a foreigner than a native of Salem town.
"What did you do there?" He hardly knew how to talk to a little girl.
"Oh, a great many things. I went to ride in a curious sort of cart--the
natives pulled it. Then the children came and played in the court. They
threw up balls and caught them, ever so many, and they played curious
games on the stones, and acrobatic feats, and sung, and danced, and
acted stories of funny things. Then father read to me, and told me about
Salem when he was a little boy. You can't really think the grown-up
people were little, like you."
"And that one day you will be big like them."
She pushed up her sleeve. They were large and made just big enough for
her hand at the wrist, not at all like the straight, small sleeves of
the Puritan children. After surveying it a moment, she said gravely:
"I can't understand how you grow. You must be pushed out all the time
by something inside."
"You have just hit it;" and he smiled approvingly. "It is the forces
inside. There is a curious factory inside of us that keeps working, day
and night, that supplies the blood, the warmth, the strength, and is
always pushing out; it even enlarges the bones until one is grown and
finished, as one may say. And the food you eat, the air you breathe, are
the supplies."
"But you go on eating and breathing. Why don't you go on growing?"
There was a curious little knot in her forehead where the lines crossed,
and she raised her eyes questioningly to him. What wonderful eyes they
were!
"I suppose it is partly this: You employ your mind and your body and
they need more nourishment. Then--well, I think it is the restraining
law of nature, else we should all be giants. In very hot countries and
very cold countries they do not grow so large."
He could not go into the intricacies of physiology, as he did with some
of the students.
"You did not go to school?"
"Oh, no!" She laughed softly. "The native schools were funny. They sat
on mats and did not have any books, but repeated after the teacher. And,
sometimes, he beat them dreadfully. There were some English people had a
school, but it was to teach the language to the natives. And then Mr.
Cathcart came to stay with father. He had been the chaplain somewhere
and wasn't well, so they gave him a--a----"
"Furlough?" suggested Chilian.
"Yes; father sent him out in one of the boats. He began to teach me some
things. I could read, you know. And I could talk Hindostani some--with
the children. Then I learned to spell and pronounce the words better. He
had a few books of verses that were beautiful. I learned some of them by
heart. And Latin."
"Latin!" in surprise.
"He had some books and a Testament. It was grand in the sound, and I
liked it. There were many things, cases and such, that I couldn't get
quite straight, but after a little I could read, and then make it over
into English."
When he was eight he was reading Latin and beginning French. Some of the
Boston women he knew were very good French scholars, though education
was not looked upon as a necessity for women. It seemed odd to him--this
little girl in Calcutta learning Latin.
"Let us see how far you have gone." Teaching never irked him when he
once set about it.
He hunted up a simple Latin primer.
"Come around this side;" and he drew her nearer to him. There had been
no little girls to train and teach, and for a moment he felt
embarrassed. But she took it as a matter of course, and he could see
she was all interest.
It had been, as he supposed, rather desultory teaching. But she took the
corrections and explanations with a sweetness that was quite enchanting.
And she could translate quite well, in an idiomatic fashion. Really,
with the right kind of training she would make a good scholar.
"Oh, you must be tired of standing," he said presently. "How thoughtless
of me. I have no little chairs, so I must hunt one up, but this will
have to do now. That will be more comfortable. Now we can go on."
She laughed at her own little blunders in a cheerful fashion, and made
haste to correct them. And then he found that she knew several of the
old Latin hymns by heart, as they had been favorites of the English
clergyman.
They were interrupted by a light tap at the door. He said "Come"; and
turned his head.
It was Miss Winn.
"Pardon me. We couldn't imagine where Cynthia was. Hasn't she been an
annoyance?"
"Oh, no; we have had a very nice time."
"But--had you not better come downstairs. Miss Eunice is sewing her
pretty patchwork again."
"Oh, let me stay," she pleaded. "Do I bother you?"
It crossed his mind just then that in the years to come more than one
man would yield to the sweet persuasiveness of those eyes.
"Yes, let her stay. She is no trouble. Indeed, we are studying."
Miss Winn was glad of his indorsement. Miss Elizabeth had been
"worrying" for the last ten minutes. She had crept softly up to the
garret, quite sure she should find the child in mischief. Then she had
glanced into the "best chamber," but there was no sign of her there.
"Very well," replied Miss Winn.
Cynthia drew a long breath presently.
"Oh, you are tired!" he exclaimed. "Run over to the window and tell me
how the sky looks. I think it doesn't rain now."
She slipped down, stood still for a moment, then turned and clapped her
hands, laughing deliciously.
"Oh, there is blue sky, and a great yellow streak. The clouds are trying
to hide the sun, but they can't. Oh, see, see!"
She danced up and down the room like a fairy in the long ray of sunshine
that illumined the apartment.
"Oh, are you not glad!" She turned such a joyous face to him that he
smiled and came over to the window that nearly faced the west.
"Better than the Latin?"
"Well--I like both;" archly.
He raised the window. A warm breath of delightful air rushed in, making
the room with the fire seem chilly by contrast. He drew in long
reviving breaths. Spring had truly come. To-morrow the swelling buds
would burst.
"We must have a little Latin every day. And occasionally a walk in the
sunshine. Twice a week I go down to Boston, but the other days will be
ours."
"I like your room," she said frankly. "But what sights of books! Do you
read them all?"
"Not very often. I do not believe I have read them all through. But I
need them for reference, and some I like very much."
He wanted to add, "And some were a gift from your dear father," but he
could not disturb her happy mood.
"Suppose we go down on the porch. It is too wet to walk anywhere."
"Oh, yes;" delightedly. "And to-morrow I will go down to the vessel
again and see Captain Corwin. I do not want it to rain any more for
weeks and weeks."
"No, for days and days. Weeks would dry us all up, and we would have no
lovely spring flowers."
"And a famine maybe. Do the very poor people sometimes starve?"
"I do not think we have any very poor people, as they do in India. We
are not overcrowded yet."
The rain had beaten the paths and the street hard, and it looked as if
it had been swept clean. In spite of it all there were cheering
evidences of spring.
"There are some children in that house," she exclaimed, nodding her
head.
"Yes, the Uphams. There are two girls and two boys, the oldest and the
youngest, who isn't much more than a baby. Bentley Upham must be about
twelve. Polly is next, but she is a head taller than you. Then there's
Betty. I am glad there will be some little girls for you to play with."
She looked eager and interested.
"Will you come in to supper? Chilian, you ought to know better than to
be standing in this damp air. And that child with nothing around her!"
"The air is reviving, after having been housed for two days." But he
turned and went in, leading the child by the hand.
The long, bleak New England coast winter was over, though it had
lingered as if loath to go. Springs were seldom early, no one expected
that. But this one came on with a rush. The willows donned their silver
catkins and then threw them off for baby leaves, the lilac buds showed
purple, the elms and maples came out in bloom, and the soft ones drew
crowds of half-famished bees to their sweet tassels. The grass was
vividly green, iridescent in the morning sun, with the dew still upon
it. Snowdrop, crocus, hepatica, and coltsfoot, wild honeysuckle, were
all about, the forsythia flared out her saucy yellow, the fruit buds
swelled. Parties were out in the woods hunting trailing arbutus that has
been called the darling of northern skies, that lies hidden in its nest
of green leaves, silent, with no wind tossing it to and fro, but
betrayed by its sweetness.
There were other signs of spring at Salem. The whole town seemed to
burst out in house-cleaning. Parlor shutters were thrown open and
windows washed. Carpets were beaten, blankets hung out to air, those
that had been in real use washed. Women were out in gardens with
sunbonnets and gloves, a coat of tan not being held in much esteem, and
snipped at roses and hardy plants. Men were spading and planting the
vegetable gardens, painting or white-washing fences. All was stir and
bustle, and tired folk excused themselves if they nodded in church on
Sunday.
Cynthia made pilgrimages to the Flying Star that had been her home for
so long. The storm had wrought great havoc with some of the shipping,
and big boys were out gathering driftwood. The Gazette had some
melancholy news of "lost at sea." But Captain Corwin thought he had
weathered worse storms.
"She is picking up mightily," he said to Miss Winn, nodding toward
Cynthia. "Shouldn't be surprised if she favored her mother, after all.
Only them eyes ain't neither Orne nor Leverett. Don't let her grieve too
much when the bad news comes."
Eunice and Chilian had taken her to call on the Uphams. And though she
was quite familiar at home, here she shrank into painful shyness and
would not leave Eunice's sheltering figure.
"Children get soonest acquainted by themselves," declared Mrs. Upham. "I
suppose you will send her to school. If she's not very forward, Dame
Wilby's is best. She and Betty can go together. Why, she isn't as tall
as Betty--and nine, you said? Granny was talking the other day about the
time she was born. She's a real little Salem girl after all, though
she's got a foreign skin, and what odd-colored hair! We've started Polly
to Miss Betts. I want her to learn sewing and needlework, and she's too
big now to company with such children. Why, I was almost a woman at
twelve, and could spin and knit with the best of them. Miss Eunice, I
wish you'd teach her that pretty openwork stitch you do so handy.
Imported stockings cost so much. They say there's women in Boston doing
the fancy ones for customers. But I tell Polly if she wants any she must
do them herself."
Mrs. Upham had a tolerably pleasant voice. She always talked in
monologues. Betty edged around presently and would have taken Cynthia's
hand, but the child laid it in Miss Eunice's lap, and looked
distrustful.
Chilian was as glad as she when the call ended. He did not seek the
society of women often enough to feel at home with them, though he was
kindly polite when he did meet them.
"Did you ask about the school?" was the inquiry of Elizabeth that
evening.
"Yes; she thinks Dame Wilby's the best for small children. And Cynthia
knows so little that is of real importance, though she reads pretty
well," said Eunice.
"Yes, she must get started. I shall be glad when the Flying Star is
off and she isn't running down there with the men. I don't see what's
got into Chilian to think of teaching her Latin. It had enough sight
better be the multiplication table."
So she proposed the school to Chilian. She had a queer feeling about his
fancy for the child. She would have scouted the idea of jealousy, but
she would have had much the same feeling if he had "begun to pay
attention" to some woman. The other matters had reached a passable
settlement. The "best chamber" was tidily kept, the little girl well
looked after to see that she troubled no one. Miss Winn kept her clothes
in order, but they had a decidedly foreign look, and of materials no one
would think of buying for a child. But the goods were here, and might as
well be used.
Miss Winn had made a few alterations in the room--softened the aspect of
it. She longed to take out the big carved bedstead, but she knew that
would never do. She made herself useful in many unobtrusive ways,
gardened a little, was neighborly yet reserved.
"I don't know what we would do if she were a gossip," Elizabeth
commented.
She broached the subject of the school to Chilian.
"Why, yes," he answered reluctantly. "I suppose she ought to go. She's
curiously shy with other children."
"She talks enough about that Nalla, as if they had been like sisters."
"You can notice that she always preserves the distinction, though."
"There's no use bothering with that Latin, Chilian. Next thing it will
be French. And she won't know enough figuring to count change. Girls
don't need that kind of education."
"But some of them have to be Presidents' wives. And some of them wives
to men who have to go abroad. French seems to be quite general among
cultivated people."
"It's hardly likely she'll go abroad. And she needs to be like other
people. I don't see what you find so entertaining about her. And you
couldn't bear children in your room!"
"She isn't any annoyance. Then she is so deft, so dainty. She touches
books with the lightest of fingers. She will sit and look at pictures,
and it quite surprises me how much she knows about geography."
"And nothing much about her native country. She can't tell the
difference between Pilgrims and Puritans. And she didn't know why we
came over here, and why it was not the same God in England, and if all
the gods in India were idols. Chilian, you shouldn't encourage her
irreverence. It looks pert in a child."
"She will get over these ways as she grows older and mingles with other
children."
"That is what I am coming to. She ought to begin at once. Betty Upham
goes to Dame Wilby. Her mother considers it excellent for small
children. She could go with Betty and there would be no fear of her
trailing off no one knows where."
Of course, she ought to go to school. He could manage a big boy on the
verge of manhood very well. But this woman-child puzzled him. She seemed
very tractable, obedient in a certain sense, yet in the end she seemed
to get, or to take, her own way. Suppressing one train of action opened
another. She had a sweet way of yielding, but a strong way of holding
on. A little thing made her happy, yet in her deepest happiness there
was much gravity. His theories were that certain qualities brought to
pass certain results. He forgot that there were no such things as pure
temperaments, and that environments made second nature different from
what the first might have been. The child puzzled him by her
contrariety, yet she was not a troublesome child.
"Well;" reluctantly.
"I'll see the Dame. And we will start her on Monday."
He nodded.
Elizabeth had another point to gain. She looked over her trunk of
pieces. Here were several yards of brown and white gingham, quite enough
for a frock without any furbelows. With the roll in her hand she tapped
at the partly open door. Rachel had laid out on the bed several white
frocks, plain enough even for Salem tastes.
"Cynthia's going to school on Monday," she announced. "And I thought
this would make her a good school frock. It won't be dirtysome. You see
children here do dress differently. You'll get into the ways."
Rachel looked at the gingham. "I shouldn't like it for her," she said
quietly. "Her father always wanted to see her in white. That is new
every time it is washed. These things fade and then look so wretched.
Beside she will only outgrow these frocks."
"Children here keep their white frocks for Sundays," was the decisive
reply.
"She may as well wear these out. They were made last summer. She has not
grown much meanwhile. I should like to keep her in the way her father
desired."
"Then she must have a long-sleeved apron to cover her up. This will make
two. For those white things make an endless sight of washing."
"I have been considering that," said Rachel Winn quietly. "I wear white
a good deal myself. I noticed a small house on Front Street where there
were nearly always clothes on the lines, and I stopped in to inquire. I
felt it was too much laundry-work for your woman through the summer.
This Mrs. Pratt is very reasonable and does her work nicely. So I have
made arrangements with her. Captain Leverett made a generous allowance
for incidental expenses."
What Elizabeth termed Miss Winn's "independence" grated sorely upon her
ideas of what was owing to the head of the house, which was herself. It
was always done so quietly and pleasantly one could hardly take umbrage.
Cynthia was not exactly a child of the house. She was in no wise
dependent on her newly found relatives. Chilian had made that understood
in the beginning, when he had chosen the best chamber for them.
"You don't need to take boarders," she had replied tartly.
"I don't know as we are to call it that. I am the child's guardian and
answerable for her comfort and her welfare. The perfect trust confided
in me has touched me inexpressibly. I didn't know that Anthony Leverett
held me in such high esteem. And if I choose to put this money by until
she is grown--it will make such a little difference in our living----"
"Chilian Leverett, you are justly entitled to it," she interrupted with
sharp decision. "He's right enough in making a fair provision for
them--no doubt he has plenty. But I don't quite like the boarder
business, for all that."
"We must get some one to help you with the work."
"I don't want any more help than I have. Land sakes! Eunice and I have
plenty of leisure on our hands. I wouldn't have a servant around wasting
things, if she paid me wages."
They had gone on very smoothly. Eunice had found her way to the child's
heart. But then Eunice had lived with her dream children that might have
been like Charles Lamb's "Children of Alice." Elizabeth might have
married twice in her life, but there was no love in either case, rather
a secret mortification that such incapables should dare to raise their
thoughts to her. But she had some strenuous ideas on the rearing of
children, quite of the older sort. Life was softening somewhat, even for
childhood, but she did not approve of it.
CHAPTER VI
GOING TO SCHOOL
Elizabeth Leverett interviewed Dame Wilby beforehand. The woman came
half a day on Monday to wash and she hardly knew how to spend half an
hour, but when she found Miss Winn was going, she loftily relegated the
whole business to her.
Dame Wilby lived in an old rambling house, already an eyesore to the
finer houses in Lafayette Street, but the Dame was obstinate and would
not sell. "It was going to last her time out. She was born here when it
was only a lane, and she meant to be buried from here." Once it had been
quite a flourishing school; but newer methods had begun to supersede it.
It was handy for the small children about the neighborhood, it took them
over the troublesome times, it gave their mothers a rest, and kept them
out of mischief. And the old dames were thorough, as far as they went.
Indeed, some of the mothers had never gone any farther. They could cast
up accounts, they could weigh and measure, for they had learned all the
tables. They could spell and read clearly, they knew all the common arts
of life, and how to keep on learning out of the greater than printed
books--experience.
Dame Wilby might have been eighty. No one remembered her being young.
Her husband was lost at sea and she opened the school, worked in her
garden, saved until she had cleared her small old home, and now was
laying up a trifle every year. She was tall and somewhat bent in the
shoulders, very much wrinkled, with clear, piercing light blue eyes and
snowy hair. She always wore a cap and only a little line of it showed at
the edge of her high forehead. Her frocks were made in the plainest
style, skirts straight and narrow, and she always wore a little shoulder
shawl, pinned across the bosom--white in the summer, home-dyed blue in
the winter.
Some children were playing tag in the unoccupied lot next door. The
schoolroom door opened at the side. There were two rows of desks, with
benches for the older children, two more with no desks for the A B C and
spelling classes. The rest they learned in concert, orally. The dame had
a table covered with a gray woollen cloth, some books, an inkstand, a
holder for pens and pencils, and the never-failing switch.
"Yes," she answered to Miss Winn's explanation. "Miss Leverett was
telling about her. I was teaching school here when she was born, and
then the captain took her away to the Ingies again." Most folks
pronounced it that way. "Rather meachin' little thing--I s'pose it was
the climate over there. They say it turns the skin yellow. Let's see how
you read, sissy?"
She read several verses out of the New Testament quite to the dame's
satisfaction. Then about spelling. The second word, in two syllables,
floored her. Had she ciphered? No. Did she know her tables? No. The
capital of the state? That she could answer. When the war broke out?
When peace was declared?
"I'll ask Cousin Leverett," she answered, in nowise abashed by her
ignorance. "He tells me a great many things."
"You must study it out of books. I s'pose she's going to live here?
She's not going back to the Ingies? I heard the captain was coming
home."
"He is settling up his affairs," was the quiet answer.
Dame Wilby looked the child all over.
"You'll sit on that bench," she said. Then she rang the bell and the
children trooped in, staring at her. The little boys--four of them--were
on the seat back of her, on her seat she made the fifth. Betty Upham was
in the desk contingent.
They repeated the Lord's prayer in concert. Then lessons were given out.
The larger girls read.
"You can come and read with this class;" nodding to Cynthia.
She was not a regularly bashful child, but she flushed as the children
stared at her. They sometimes wore their Sunday white frock one or two
days at school. Cynthia was so used to her clothes, cared so little
about them that they were rarely in her mind. But this universal
attention annoyed her.
"'Tend to your books, children."
Cynthia acquitted herself finely, rather too much so, the dame thought.
She would talk to her about it. A girl didn't want to read as if she was
a minister preaching a sermon.
Then she was given a very much "dog's-eared" spelling-book to study down
a column. Another class read some easy lesson; a story about a dog that
interested her so much that she forgot to study. While the older
children were doing sums one little boy after another came up to the
desk and spelled from a book. One's attention wandered and the dame hit
him a sharp rap. Tables followed, eight and nine times; dry measure, and
then questions were asked singly. Some few missed. Cynthia followed the
spelling where they went up and down. Then the larger ones were
dismissed for recess.
"Cynthy Leverett, come up here and see how many words you can spell. You
ought to be ashamed, a big girl like you staying behind in next to the
baby class."
Cynthia's face was scarlet. Alas! She had been so interested watching
and listening she had not studied at all. But the words were rather easy
and she did know all but two.
"Now you take the next line and those two over again. See if you can't
get them all learned by noon."
The next little girl, who could not have been more than six, missed a
number. She had a queer drawl in her voice.
"What did I tell you, Jane Mason? And you have missed more than two.
Hold out your hand!"
The switch came down on the poor little hand with an angry swish.
Cynthia winched.
"Now you go back and study. No going out to play for you this morning.
Jane Mason, you're the biggest dunce in school."
The two other girls did better. Then the bell rang and the girls came in
with flushed and laughing faces.
Cynthia studied her two words over until they ceased to have any
meaning. At twelve they were all dismissed.
"Isn't she a hateful old thing?" said Janie Mason, when they were
outside of the door. "I wish I was big enough to strike back. I don't
like school anyhow. Do you?"
"I--I don't know. I have never been before."
Several of the other girls swarmed around her with curious eyes.
"What a pretty frock!" began Betty Upham. "I suppose it's your Sunday
best, with all that work."
"Betty said you were an Injun," said another. "I never saw an Injun who
didn't have coarse, straight, black hair, and yours is lightish and
curls. I'd so love to have curly hair."
"I'm not the kind of Indians you have here," she returned indignantly.
"I was born right here in Salem. I've lived in Calcutta and in China,
and been to Batavia, and ever so many places."
"Then you ain't an Injun at all! Betty, how could you?"
"Well, that's what some of them said. Maybe your mother was an Injun!"
looking as if she had fixed the uncertain suspicion.
"No, she wasn't. She lived here part of the time. She was born in
Boston."
They glanced at each other in a kind of upbraiding fashion.
"And you had to be put with the little children! Aren't there any
schools in that place you came from? It's a heathen country. Our
minister prays for it. Don't you have any churches either? What do
people do when they are grown up if they never go to school?"
"Are you coming stiddy?"
"Is Mr. Chilian Leverett your real relation?"
"Oh, tell me--have you any other frock as pretty as this? My sister
Hetty has a beautiful one, all lace and needlework. She's saving it to
be married in."
"Martha, I dare you to a race!"
Two girls ran off as fast as they could. Betty Upham caught Cynthia's
arm.
"I didn't say you were a real Injun. Debby Strang always gets things
mixed up. But it is something queer----"
"East India;" in a tone of great dignity.
"Where the ships are coming from all the time? Is it prettier than
Salem?"
"It's so different you can't tell. We do not have hardly any winter. And
there are vines and flowers and temples to heathen gods, and the people
are yellow and brown."
"Do you suppose you will ever grow clear white?"
Cynthia had half a mind to be angry. Even Miss Elizabeth was fair, and
Miss Eunice had such a soft, pretty skin.
"There, that's your corner. You're coming this afternoon?"
"Oh, I suppose so."
Miss Elizabeth was all bustle and hurry. It was clouding up a little. It
hadn't been a real fair day, and the hot sun had dried the clothes too
quick. She liked them to bleach on the line, it was almost as good as
the grass. And Miss Drake couldn't stay and iron, they had sickness over
to the Appletons and she had to go there. Everything was out of gear.
"I'd help with the ironing, if you would like," said Miss Winn.
"Well, the ironing isn't so much;" rather ungraciously. "You see, there
were four blankets. I never touch an iron to them, but shake them good
and fold them, and let them lay one night, then hang them on the line in
the garret. The bulk of it was large. And a good stiff breeze blows out
wrinkles. The wind hasn't blown worth a Continental;" complainingly.
"Did you like the school?" Miss Winn inquired in the hall.
"No, I didn't. And I don't seem to know anything;" in a discouraged
tone.
"Oh, you will learn."
It was warm in the afternoon. Two of the boys were decidedly bad and
were punished. They positively roared. Cynthia spelled, and spelled, and
studied--"One and one are two," "one and two are three," and after a
while it dawned on her that it was just one more every time. Why, she
had known that all the time, only it hadn't been put in a table.
It grew very tiresome after a while. She asked if she couldn't have
recess with the big girls, but was sharply refused. In truth the good
dame grew very weary herself, and was glad when five o'clock came and
she could go out in the garden and recruit her tired nerves.
The stage was stopping at the door. Oh, how glad she was to see Cousin
Leverett. He smiled down in the flushed face.
"How did the school go?" he asked.
She hung her head. "I don't like it. I have to be with the little class
because I don't know tables, but I learned all the one times. That was
easy enough when you came to see into it. But--nine and nine?"
"Eighteen," he answered promptly.
"And you answered it right offhand!" She gave a soft, cheerful laugh.
"Oh, do you suppose I shall ever know so much?"
"There was a time when I didn't know it."
"Truly?" She looked incredulous.
"Truly. And I had quite hard work remembering to spell correctly."
"I studied two lines. This morning I missed two words, but this
afternoon I knew them all. And I can't write on the slate. The pencil
wabbles so, and then it gives an awful squeak that goes all over you.
And I can't do sums. And there's all the tables to learn. And I don't
like the teacher. I wish Miss Eunice could teach me. Or maybe Rachel
might."
"I might help you a little. But you read well?"
"She said it was too--too"--she wrinkled up her forehead--"too affected,
like a play-actor."
"Nonsense!" he cried disapprovingly. "We will see about some other
school presently. Would you like to take a walk with me? I'm tired of
the long stage-ride."
"Oh, so much!" She caught one hand in both of hers and gave a few skips
of joy.
"Let us go over to the river."
Of course, he should have gone in and announced their resolve. But he
was so used to considering only himself, and he realized that it must
have been a tiresome day to her. They went over Lafayette Street, which
was only a lane, and then turned up the stream.
Oh, how sweet the air was with the odorous dampness and the smell of
new growths, tree and grass. The sun, low in the west, slanted golden
gleams through the tree branches which chased each other over the grassy
spaces, as if they were quite alive and at merry-making. There were
sedgy plants in bloom, jack-in-the-pulpit, and what might have been a
lily, with a more euphonious name. Iridescent flies were skimming about,
now and then a fish made a stir and dazzle. Squirrels ran up and down
the trees and chattered, robins were singing joyously, the thrush with
her soft, plaintive note. She glanced up now and then and caught his
eye, and he felt she was happy. It was a delightful thing, after all, to
render some one truly happy. Perhaps children were more easily
satisfied, more responsive.
"Oh," he said presently, "we must go back or we will lose our supper,
and Cousin Elizabeth will scold."
"I shouldn't think she would dare to scold you;" raising wondering eyes.
"Why not?" He wondered what reason she would give.
"Because you are a man."
"She scolds Silas."
"Oh, that is different."
"How--different? We are both men. He is quite as tall as I."
"But you see--well, he is something like a servant. She tells him what
to do, and if he doesn't do it right she can find fault with it. But
you are--well, the house is yours. You can do what pleases you."
"Quite reasoned out, little one;" and he laughed with an approving
sound.
"It's curious that you scold people you like, and other people may do
the same thing and--is it because you don't dare to? If it is wrong in
the one place, why not in the other?"
"Perhaps politeness restrains us."
"I don't like people to scold. Miss Eunice never does."
"Eunice has a sweet nature. Doesn't Miss Winn ever scold you?"
"Well--I suppose I am bad and wilful sometimes, and then she has the
right. But when you do things that do not matter----"
Miss Winn was walking in the garden. Cynthia waved her hand, but walked
leisurely forward.
"I couldn't imagine what had become of you."
"It was my fault," interposed Chilian. "I met her at the gate and asked
her to go for a walk."
"And with that soiled apron!"
"That came off the slate. I hadn't any desk. It was hard to hold it on
my knee."
"You might have come in for a clean one. Run upstairs and change it."
But she was destined to meet Cousin Elizabeth in the hall. The elder
caught her arm roughly.
"Where have you been gadding to, bad girl? Didn't you know you must
come straight home from school? Here we have been worried half to death
about you, and I'm tired as a dog, trotting 'round all day. You deserve
a good whipping;" and she shook her. She would have enjoyed slapping her
soundly. But Chilian entered at that instant.
"She is going upstairs for a clean apron," he said. "I took her off for
a walk."
"She might have asked whether she could go or not," snapped Elizabeth.
"She's the most lawless thing!"
"It was my place. Don't blame the child!"
"Well, supper's ready."
She didn't have her apron on quite straight and her hair was a little
frowsy. Elizabeth had proposed it should be cut short on the neck for
the summer, but Miss Winn had objected.
"Such a great mop! No child wears it!"
Cynthia came in quietly and took her place. After her first cup of tea
Elizabeth thawed a little, enough to announce that two of the Appleton
children were ill, they thought with scarlet fever.
Chilian expressed some sympathy.
"And how was the school, Cynthia? We thought you might have been kept in
for some of your good deeds, as children are so seldom bad."
"I--I didn't like it," she answered simply.
"Children can't have just what they like in this world," was Elizabeth's
rejoinder.
"Nor grown people either," was Chilian's softening comment. Then he
changed the subject. He had seen Cousin Giles, who proposed to pay them
a visit, coming on some Saturday.
"Have you any lesson to learn?" he asked of Cynthia. "If so, bring your
book and come to my room."
"Oh, thank you!" Her face was radiant with delight.
Where had she left her book? Dame Wilby had told her to take it home and
study. Surely she had brought it--oh, yes! she had put it just inside
the gate under the great clump of ribbon grass. If only Cousin
Elizabeth's sharp eyes had not seen it. But there it was, safe enough.
She was delighted to go to Cousin Chilian's room, though she never
presumed. She seemed to have an innate sort of delicacy that he wondered
at.
The spelling was soon mastered. It was the rather unusual words that
puzzled her. Then they attacked the tables and he practised her in
making figures. Like most children left to themselves, she printed
instead of writing.
"Oh!" she cried with a wistful yet joyous emphasis, "I wish I could come
to school to you. And I'd like to be the only scholar."
"But you ought to be with little girls."
"I don't like them very much."
Then Miss Winn came for her. "You are very good to take so much
trouble," she said.
"Oh, I like you so much, so much!" she exclaimed with her sweet eyes as
well as her lips.
