the papal interests required, he ordered the officer at the door to send
for the prisoner who had been taken at the inn that morning.
'Let us see this famous Sicilian coiner,' he said, rubbing his hands and
screwing up his little red eyes. 'Bring up his effects, too, and send
for a goldsmith with his touchstone and acids.'
He leaned back in his high chair to wait, and mentally ran over the
questions he meant to ask. The shabby old clerk took snuff, and
sprinkled a liberal quantity of it on his spotted black clothes and on
the edge of the paper before him. His colleague at the other end
occupied himself in improving the point of his quill pen. In the
silence, a huge spotted cat sprang upon the table and calmly seated
itself upright beside the crucifix, facing the Legate, who paid no
attention whatever to it. From time to time it blinked and slowly moved
the yellow tip of its tail.
Presently Stradella was led in by the gaoler and his assistant. On his
wrists there were manacles, joined with each other by a strong chain
which was highly polished by constant use. He was bare-headed, of
course, and he seemed perfectly cool and self-possessed. Immediately
after him, two men entered bringing his luggage, which was set down on
the floor before the table. The cat did not even turn to look at the
people who had entered.
'What is your name?' asked the Legate, eyeing him sharply.
'Alessandro Stradella.'
Instead of writing down the answer the two clerks looked at their
superior for instructions.
'His name is Bartolo,' the Legate said, in a decided tone.
'By your worship's leave, my name is Stradella,' protested the musician.
'You may note that this fellow Bartolo persists in calling himself
Stradella,' said the Legate, looking first at one clerk and then at the
other.
'I am not Bartolo!' cried the musician indignantly. 'I am Alessandro
Stradella, the singer, well known to hundreds of people in Rome.'
'You see how he persists,' answered the Legate with an ironical smile.
'Write down what he says as correctly as you can.'
Stradella saw that it was useless to protest, and that vehemence might
be dangerous.
'By your leave,' he said more quietly, 'if you will loosen my hands and
let me have my lute there, I will prove what I say, by singing and
playing to you.'
'Anybody can sing,' retorted Monsignor Pelagatti with profound contempt,
and without even looking at him. 'Write down that he has insulted this
tribunal by offering to sing to the Legate and his clerks--which low
jesting is contempt of court, and nothing else. The man is either drunk
or insane.'
Stradella was speechless with anger and disgust, and his face grew very
pale.
'Open his effects,' the Legate said, when the clerks' pens stopped
moving.
Two of the sbirri at once unstrapped the valises, and laid out the
contents on the long table on each side of the Legate, neatly and in
order. One of the bags contained clothes and personal effects, but the
other was almost entirely filled with manuscript compositions and a
supply of paper ruled for writing music. It also contained a leathern
pouch stuffed full of gold ducats.
'There we have it!' exclaimed Monsignor Pelagatti. 'Is the goldsmith
come?'
'He is waiting, your worship,' answered the officer at the door.
The goldsmith was ushered in, a grey-haired man, who still stooped when
he had finished his bow to the Legate. The latter ordered him to sit at
the table and test the gold coins one by one.
'This fellow,' said Monsignor Pelagatti, by way of explanation, 'is the
famous Sicilian coiner of counterfeit money, Bartolo. Push the good
ducats towards me, if you find any, and the false coin towards the clerk
at your elbow.'
The goldsmith glanced curiously at Stradella, and then took his small
block of basalt and a stoneware bottle of nitric acid from a leathern
bag he carried, slung on his arm. The spotted cat seemed interested in
these objects, and after having gazed at them placidly for half a
minute, rose with deliberation, walked along the edge of the table, and
sniffed at the stone and the goldsmith's fingers. It then crossed to the
Legate and sat down on his left, surveying the prisoner with apparent
satisfaction.
The Legate's eyes followed with keen interest the operations of the
expert, who took one coin after another from the pouch, rubbed it on the
basalt, poured a drop of acid on the yellow mark made by the gold, and
then examined the wet spot closely to see how the colour changed; and he
shook his head each time and pushed ducat after ducat towards Monsignor
Pelagatti, but not a single one towards the clerk. The Legate's crooked
fingers played absently with the coins as they came to his side,
arranging them in little piles, and the piles in patterns, almost
without glancing at them. The goldsmith worked quickly, but the ducats
were many, for Stradella had supplied himself plentifully with money
before leaving Venice, and had drawn the whole balance of the letter of
credit he had brought with him from the banking-house of Chigi in Rome.
The sbirri and the two clerks eyed the gold longingly. Stradella stood
motionless between his keepers, wondering what would happen next, and
never doubting but that the whole proceeding had been inspired by
Pignaver.
But what had really happened can be explained in a dozen words, and will
show that the sharp little Legate was acting in perfectly good faith.
The truth was that a notorious Sicilian counterfeiter who was described
as a pale young man with black hair, and who went by the name of
Bartolo, was really travelling in the north of Italy, and had been heard
of at Vicenza, whence it was reported that he had set out in haste for
Padua. The spies who were in pursuit of him learned in the latter city
that a dark young man with a pale complexion had hired an extra post for
Rovigo, in a very great hurry, and was spending money liberally, and
after that it had been easy to trace Stradella to the inn at Ferrara.
One of the spies had ridden in before daybreak and had warned the
innkeeper not to let the musician have horses at any price, and had then
given information at the castle, which the Legate had received before
sunrise, for he was an early riser. For the rest, he always followed the
time-honoured custom of considering every prisoner guilty till he was
proved innocent. In his opinion any criminal could call himself a
singer, and could very likely sing, too, if his life depended upon it.
Moreover, a hundred gold Apostolic florins had been offered for the
capture of Bartolo, and the Legate meant to have a share of the prize
money.
By the time the goldsmith had tested all the coins and found these good,
Monsignor Pelagatti had also counted them over several times.
'Three hundred and ninety-one ducats,' he said, dictating to the clerks,
'were found amongst the criminal's possessions, and were confiscated to
the Papal Treasury.'
'But they are all good,' objected Stradella.
'Precisely,' answered the Legate. 'If anything was wanting to prove you
guilty, it was this fact. Could any one but an expert counterfeiter have
in his possession three hundred and ninety-one ducats without a single
false one, in these dishonest days? But a coiner, whose nefarious
business it is to exchange counterfeit coin for genuine, is not to be
deceived like an ordinary person.'
'But I drew the money from an honest bank in Venice----'
'Silence!' cried the Legate in a squeaky voice.
'Silence!' roared the gaolers and the sbirri with one accord, all
looking at the musician together.
The spotted cat rose sleepily at the noise, arched its back and clawed
the oak table, by way of stretching itself.
'The counterfeiter Bartolo is duly committed for trial and will be sent
to Rome in chains with the next convoy of prisoners,' said the Legate,
dictating. 'Till then,' he added, speaking to the officer, 'put him into
one of the cells at the foot of the Lion Tower. He is a criminal of some
note.'
It was worse than useless to attempt any further protest; the gaolers
seized the singer by his arms again, one on each side, and in ten
minutes he was left to his own reflections, locked up in a pitch-dark
cell that smelt like a wet grave. They had brought a lantern with them,
and had shown him a stone seat, long enough to lie down upon, and at one
end of it there was a loose block of sandstone for a pillow, a luxury
which had been provided for a political prisoner who had passed some
months in the cell under the last of the Este marquises, some eighty
years earlier, and which had doubtless been forgotten.
After he had been some time in the dark, Stradella saw that a very
feeble glimmer was visible through a square grated opening which he had
noticed in the door when the gaoler was unlocking it before entering.
Even that would be some comfort, but the unlucky musician was too
utterly overcome to think of anything but Ortensia's danger, and his own
fate sank to insignificance when compared with hers; for he was sure
that Pignaver's agents must have seized her as soon as he himself had
been taken away, and he dared not think of what would happen when they
brought her back to Venice and delivered her up to her uncle. That they
would murder the defenceless girl he did not believe, and besides, it
was much more likely that Pignaver would prefer to torment her to death
at his leisure, after assassinating her lover. Stradella guessed as much
as that from what he knew of the Senator's character.
As for himself, when he was able to reflect soberly after being several
hours alone in the dark, the singer came to the conclusion that he was
in no immediate danger of his life, though he owed his present
imprisonment to his enemy. It looked as if he stood a good chance of
being sent to Rome, as Bartolo the counterfeiter, to be tried; but once
there, he would have no difficulty in obtaining his liberation, for he
was well known to many distinguished persons, including Cardinal Altieri
himself. Pignaver had cleverly cut short his flight in order to take
Ortensia from him, but to accomplish this the Senator had been obliged
to put off the murder he doubtless contemplated. Stradella's life would
probably be attempted in Rome, as soon as he was free, but meanwhile he
could not but admit that the Senator had succeeded in making him
exceedingly uncomfortable, merely from a material point of view. It was
not likely that prisoners were sent to Rome more than once a month, and
the last convoy had perhaps left yesterday. He might have to spend
thirty days in the cell.
As the hours passed he forgot himself again, and thought only of
Ortensia. In his imagination he fancied her already far on her way to
Rovigo in the jolting coach with her captors; in the very coach,
perhaps, in which he had brought her to Ferrara only last night. He
called up her face, and saw it as pale as death; her eyes were half
closed and her lips sharp-drawn with pain. He could hardly bear to think
of her suffering, but not to think of her he could not bear at all.
He did not know how long he had been locked up, when he noticed that the
faint glimmer at the grated hole was almost gone, and suddenly he felt
horribly hungry, in spite of his misery, for it was nearly twenty-four
hours since he had tasted food. The gaolers had brought a little bread
and a jug of water, and had set them down on the ground at one end of
the bench. He felt about till he found them, and he gnawed the tough
crust voraciously, though it tasted of the damp earth on which it had
lain since morning.
After a long time he fell asleep with the stone pillow under his head.
CHAPTER IX
Cucurullo came back to the inn in less than an hour after Pina and
Ortensia had left it. In spite of the asseverations of the innkeeper, he
had found that there were horses to be had in plenty in the city, and
that it was merely a question of choice and of paying well for the
accommodation. He was hastening upstairs to tell this to Stradella when
he was stopped by the host himself, who informed him that Stradella was
imprisoned in the castle, and that the lady and her serving-woman had
just gone away on foot.
'You had better melt away yourself,' the innkeeper concluded in a
confidential tone, 'unless you wish to be clapped into prison too.'
Cucurullo had betrayed no surprise at what the host told him, and he did
not seem inclined to pay any immediate attention to the latter's advice,
though it was distinctly friendly. He was used to that, for few Italians
would care to incur the hatred of a hunch-backed man, who is supposed to
bring good luck to those who treat him well, and to dispose of the
mysterious curses of the Evil Eye for wreaking vengeance on those who
injure him. Cucurullo stood still on the stairs, in deep thought, after
the innkeeper had ceased speaking.
'What is the name of the Legate?' he inquired, looking up at last.
'Pelagatti,' answered the other. 'He is from the South, they say;
though, between you and me, he looks more like a rat than a Christian.
Monsignor Luigi Pelagatti, that is his name.'
Again Cucurullo was silent, apparently more absorbed in his thoughts
than ever.
'Come, come!' cried the innkeeper in an encouraging tone. 'You need not
be so down-hearted! I will have a good meal cooked for you, and if you
need a little ready money for your journey, it is at your disposal. A
clever fellow like you will soon find another place.'
By way of laying in a stock of luck for the day, he patted the deformed
man's hump as he spoke, but he awaited the answer with evident concern,
for it was fortunate to have a hunch-backed man eat and drink in one's
house; a hunch-backed woman, on the contrary, always brought evil with
her, and should be driven from the door.
Cucurullo's reply was not only of favourable omen, but announced a piece
of unexpected good-fortune.
'You are very obliging,' he said, 'and I shall be glad of a mouthful at
noon. As for your kind offer to lend me money, I thank you heartily, but
I am well provided, and wish to pay my master's bill here before
accepting your friendly offer of a dinner. My master always trusts me
with a few ducats to pay his small expenses.'
The innkeeper congratulated himself on having patted the man's hump, for
it was clear that the good luck which at once befell him could be traced
to no other source. He now inwardly cursed his haste in turning
Ortensia and Pina out of the house, since Cucurullo was perhaps in a
position to have paid their score for some time. Of this, however, the
host could not be quite sure, for the serving-man did not show his
purse, but only produced some loose silver from the pocket of his wide
brown breeches.
'I shall charge nothing for the lady's use of the room,' said the
innkeeper magnanimously. 'You came with three horses from Rovigo, I
believe; there is their feed, and the supper of the postillion, who left
in an hour. That is all. Three pauls will pay for everything.'
'You are very obliging,' Cucurullo said again, as he paid the money.
'Your charges are very moderate. Since you act in such a friendly
manner, I will tell you something.'
Thereupon Cucurullo laid one of his large hands gently on the
innkeeper's sleeve, and looked up earnestly into the latter's face; and
when he was very much in earnest, his large blue eyes had a peculiar
expression, which lent great weight to what he said.
'A friendly act deserves a friendly return,' he said, 'for, as we say in
the South, "one hand washes the other and both wash the face." My master
has been arrested by mistake. He is really and truly the famous Maestro
Stradella, and is a great favourite with the Roman Court, for he has
sung to His Holiness himself and often to His Eminence Cardinal Altieri.
Therefore, if any harm comes to him in Ferrara through the ignorance of
Monsignor Pelagatti, there will be trouble for you, since the Legate
will be severely reprimanded, and will make those persons who gave him
wrong information pay for his scolding. As you have shown me kindness, I
tell you these things beforehand, because I know them for certain. Do
you understand?'
The innkeeper not only understood, but began to feel uncomfortable at
the thought of being called to account even for his small share in
Stradella's arrest. As for the spy who had made the mistake, his lot
would not be enviable if he was within the Legate's reach when the error
was discovered.
'Pardon the question, my dear friend,' said the host in an extremely
gentle tone, 'but are you quite sure of these things?'
'Altogether sure,' was the answer. 'I have been in the Maestro's service
since he first began to be famous. He saved my life at the risk of his
own, and I have served him five years come the Feast of Saint John. I
therefore know that he is not a Sicilian counterfeiter! If you have any
means of reaching the Legate, therefore, it would be well to set him
right at once in this matter. He will be the more grateful, or, at
least, the less angry, if my master is detained in prison for a few
hours only.'
The innkeeper saw the wisdom of this, on the supposition that Cucurullo
was speaking the truth, but of that he was not quite sure. It was a bad
world, he reflected, and the counterfeiter might have a clever hunchback
for a servant, with a knack of fixing his eyes as Cucurullo did, and of
putting great earnestness into his tone. So far, the innkeeper had only
done what the law had required of him, except in the matter of turning
out two women who could not pay for their lodging, and in doing this
the law would support him. Monsignor Pelagatti was a tremendous
personage, who ruled the whole Marquisate of Ferrara in the name of the
Pope; he knew his business, or believed he did, and it was absurd to
think that a humble innkeeper and posting-master could influence him to
act upon the mere word of a serving-man.
On the other hand, it was unsafe to doubt a hunchback openly, and it
would be fatal to quarrel with him, because he could cast the spell of
the Evil Eye.
'I shall do my best,' the innkeeper replied, 'and far more readily for
your sake, my dear friend, than for my own, I assure you.'
Cucurullo smiled quietly, and seemed quite satisfied with this answer.
He now went on to ask questions about Ortensia and Pina, but the host
knew nothing, except that they had left the house together, immediately
after the arrest of Stradella. For obvious reasons he said nothing of
his interview with Pina. He declared that they had simply left the inn,
and that he had not hindered them. He had not seen them go out, and
could not tell whether they had turned to the north or the south. He
suggested that since they had gone away at once and without the least
hesitation, they probably had friends in Ferrara to whom they could turn
for protection and help in their difficulty. He was ready, he said, to
help Cucurullo to find them out; he would be only too happy to be of
use.
What he suggested was not unlikely. During the flight from Venice,
Cucurullo had observed Pina closely, and had come to the conclusion that
she was a woman of resources, who had travelled much at some time or
other, and who could hold her tongue. She would certainly think of some
expedient, and would succeed in placing her mistress under some sort of
protection. His own mind always instinctively ran in the direction of an
ecclesiastical solution of any difficulty in life; if he himself were
starving and friendless in a strange city he would knock at the door of
a Franciscan monastery and beg for shelter and work. He therefore
concluded that Pina would naturally have taken Ortensia directly to a
convent, where they would both be cared for; the serving-woman would
take care to be informed of what happened to Stradella, and as soon as
he was let out she would communicate with him.
Moreover, as compared with the fate of the musician, Cucurullo cared
little what became of Ortensia; for his devotion to his master filled
his whole life, whereas the young girl's only claim to his attachment
was that Stradella was in love with her. On the other hand, the pious
serving-man saw in the present separation of the two a special
intervention of Providence for the purpose of keeping the lovers apart
till they could be duly and properly married. From this point of view to
putting Ortensia out of his thoughts altogether was only a step, and he
devoted every energy to the liberation of his master.
Having come to this conclusion in a much shorter time than it has taken
to explain his reasons, he again thanked his new friend, promising to
come back for dinner at noon, and adding that he would go over to the
castle gate and gather such information as he could. He was hindered
from doing so at once, however, by the preparations for the Nuncio's
departure, which has been already described. He mixed with the crowd
that had gathered to see the sight, and waited till some time had
elapsed after the Legate and the guard had gone in before he approached
the drawbridge.
The single sentinel had now returned to his beat, but half-a-dozen of
the halberdiers were loitering about the door of the guard-room within
the deep archway, at some distance from the gate. The sentry stopped
Cucurullo and asked his business.
'I am the servant of the gentleman who has been arrested by mistake at
the inn,' the hunchback answered humbly. 'My master had sent me out on
an errand, and when I came in I learnt the news. So I have come to wait
for him.'
'I am afraid you may wait long,' answered the sentry, with a friendly
glance at Cucurullo's hump; 'but you are welcome to sit in the
guard-room, if you like.'
'Thank you,' Cucurullo answered, and as he passed he felt the soldier's
light touch on his crooked back.
The other halberdiers received him with equal kindness, and there was
not one of them who did not believe that he would have a stroke of luck
before night, if he could by any means touch the magic hump without
offending its possessor. Cucurullo took off his hat civilly as he
stopped before them.
'Good-morning, gentlemen,' he said. 'The sentinel was kind enough to say
that I might wait here for my master, who has been arrested by mistake
and will soon come out.'
'And welcome!' cried the sergeant on duty, who had lost money at play on
the previous evening.
'At your service! Pray sit down! Bring out a chair!'
The men all spoke together, and gathered closely round Cucurullo to
touch his hump, so that he almost disappeared amongst them. Then they
got a chair from the guard-room and made him sit down at his ease, and
some remained standing beside him while others sat on the end of the
stone seat that ran along the wall. He thanked them warmly, and at once
entered into conversation, asking for news of Stradella, and explaining
the strange mistake that had led to his arrest. In a few minutes he had
learned that his master was in all likelihood at that very moment before
the Legate.
'And what sort of person is his worship, the Governor?' asked Cucurullo,
anxious for information, and lowering his voice.
The sergeant was a jolly, red-faced, merry-eyed man from the March of
Ancona, and he laughed before he answered.
'We used to call him Pontius Pilate, because he does not know what truth
is,' he said, 'but we gave that up because he never washes his hands!'
Cucurullo smiled at the rough jest, but he looked curiously at the
speaker.
'I see that you are familiar with the Scriptures, sir,' observed the
hunchback.
'I come by the knowledge honestly,' answered the soldier. 'I did not
steal it! My father, bless his soul, was killed in battle, and so my
mother tried to make a priest of me. Eh? You see me as I am! This is the
kind of priest my mother made! Neither more nor less than a poor
sergeant of halberdiers. But a little of the Latin stuck to me, for
indeed it is sticky stuff enough, and the priests laid it on with a
stick!'
The men roared with delight at their superior's elegant wit, and
Cucurullo laughed a little too, more out of politeness than because he
was amused.
'You may yet die a saint, sir,' he said with a grave smile when the
general mirth had subsided. 'Many of the saints were soldiers, you know.
There was the blessed Saint Eustace, and there was Saint Martin, and
Saint Sebastian, and Saint George----'
'But there never was a Saint Hector, and that is my name, at your
service.'
At this retort the men again showed their delight, laughing in chorus.
'Do you think you have no chance of being the first Saint Hector in the
calendar?' asked Cucurullo pleasantly. 'Why not? You have a good heart,
sir. I see it in your face, if you will pardon me for saying so.
Gentlemen'--he smilingly appealed to the other men--'has not Sergeant
Hector a good heart?'
'A heart of gold!' cried one of the soldiers.
'A heart as big as a pumpkin!' another chimed in.
'A lion's heart!'
'There is not another like him in all the Pope's army!'
'And God bless him!'
The sergeant stood back, pretending to put on a terrible frown, and
cutting the air in carte and tierce with his handsome tasselled stick.
'You ruffians!' he roared. 'You know well enough that I would beat you
all black and blue if you did not praise me seventeen times a day, four
times for each watch and once more for good luck! Eh?' He glared
ferociously about him, and his stick flew round in his hand like
lightning, through a whole series of cuts, feints, and round parries.
'Have I trained my men well or not?' he asked, desisting at last, and
turning to Cucurullo.
'You have trained them to tell the truth about you, sir, I have no
doubt,' answered the hunchback.
'And we will make a bad day of it for any man who says a word against
him,' said the biggest of the halberdiers with a grin.
The rest confirmed his statement with a variety of asseverations,
according to their several tastes, calling to witness indifferently both
heathen deities and Christian saints.
'Very well,' said Cucurullo. 'It is proved that you have a very good
heart, sir, and that is the chief thing needed to make a saint. For to
say that a man is kind-hearted is only another way of saying that he is
charitable, and Charity is the greatest of the three Theological
Virtues, as you must have learned at the seminary.'
'Good friend,' answered the sergeant, 'if you are going to open the
"Process" concerning my Beatification this morning, the Devil's Advocate
must be appointed to argue against you and try to prove me the worst of
sinners, for that is the rule in Rome.'
'Very well, sir,' laughed the hunchback. 'Appoint him yourself, sir!'
'He is upstairs just now,' retorted the other, 'sitting in judgment on
your master! But I will promise that if you argue with him about me, he
will prove that my soul is rotting in original and acquired sin, and
that nothing can save me but cutting my pay!'
Again the gloomy archway rang with the soldiers' hoarse laughter, which
was by no means the expression of obsequious flattery. The sergeant was
more than popular with the whole company of halberdiers that garrisoned
the castle; he was beloved for his inexhaustible good-nature and
respected for his undoubted courage. Cucurullo had guessed this in a few
moments, and in view of possible complications he was resolved to make
an ally of the sergeant and friends of the men.
He felt amongst the loose silver in his pocket and jingled it in a
manner agreeable for poor soldiers to hear.
'It is still early,' he said, 'but talking always makes me thirsty. If
you would allow some one to fetch some drink, sir, I should be
grateful.'
The sergeant assented to the proposal with alacrity, and at his nod a
young soldier stepped briskly forward to take the piece of silver
Cucurullo was holding up.
'How much shall I fetch?' asked the man, grinning.
Cucurullo counted the company quickly before he answered.
'We are nine,' he said. 'I think you had better get nine pints in a
stoup.' A little murmur of approval and anticipatory satisfaction ran
round. 'I do not know whether that is right,' he added, in a tone of
hesitating interrogation.
'You speak the wisdom of all ages,' answered the sergeant. 'Solomon
never said anything better. "Take a little wine for the good of the
stomach," says Saint Paul.'
So the time passed pleasantly for the soldiers down there under the
great gate, while Monsignor Pelagatti was conducting his singular
judicial proceedings upstairs. A couple of horn cups were produced from
the guard-room, and the men drank to Cucurullo's health in turn, while
he himself swallowed a little; for he was tired, and he was terribly
anxious, in spite of his cheerful manner and jesting tone.
They were all laughing and talking together when the old goldsmith
appeared from within, on his way home. The sergeant hailed him and asked
what news of the counterfeiter there was from the Legate's court.
'Three hundred and ninety-one good gold ducats confiscated to the
Treasury,' answered the grey-haired crafts-man, 'and the prisoner to be
lodged under the Lion Tower till he is sent to Rome for trial.'
The sergeant looked at Cucurullo, and saw that he grew paler, and dead
white all round the lips; but the hunchback showed no other sign of
emotion, and the goldsmith nodded gravely and went out.
'This is bad news, gentlemen,' said Cucurullo. 'Is there any way by
which I could send a message to my master?' he asked in a low voice.
'Either of the turnkeys would sell his soul for a dodkin, and blow up
the castle for a ducat, Legate and all,' answered the sergeant in the
same tone.
'I would willingly give a ducat if I might see my master.'
'I will bargain with him for half that, but it will have to be after
dark. We go off duty at Ave Maria this evening, but to-morrow we have
the night watch. Come about the first hour of the night, and you will
find the little postern ajar in the left half of the gate. Push it open
and come in.'
With this friendly promise Cucurullo had to be satisfied; and, indeed,
he had good reason to congratulate himself, for if he had chanced upon
one of the other sergeants he might have had a very different reception,
though the whole garrison hated the Legate heartily. The guard for the
month at the main gate was divided into three watches that took turns,
being on duty there for twelve hours and off for twenty-four; this did
not mean, however, that they were at liberty during all that time, for
there was other sentry duty to be done about the castle.
Having taken leave of his new friends, the hunchback went back to the
inn, debating with himself whether he should remain there until the
following night, or seek a lodging in a more remote and quiet part of
the town. But, on the whole, he resolved to trust the innkeeper--or it
would be nearer the truth to say that he trusted to the power his
deformity exercised over a man in whom he would not otherwise have
placed much confidence. If he took a room elsewhere, he would be forced
to make acquaintance with the owners of the house, and he was convinced
that such a Governor as Monsignor Pelagatti must have his spies
everywhere; it was safer to stay where he was already known, and was
looked upon as a bringer of luck, than to go where he might find less
superstitious people.
He therefore took the cheapest room in the inn, announced his intention
of waiting till his master was set free, and by way of inspiring
confidence he paid for three days' lodging in advance. His object in
seeing Stradella was to get definite instructions in the first place,
and, secondly, to take him a dish of meat and a supply of such food as
would keep some time without spoiling. Stradella would probably bid him
ride post to Rome and bring back an order from Cardinal Altieri which
would set everything right; but it would scarcely be possible to cover
the distance and return in less than ten days, at the very least, during
which time it was only too probable that the musician would fall ill
from lack of food and from the possible dampness and closeness of his
prison.
The hours passed slowly enough in the solitude of the little upper room
in which Cucurullo spent most of that day and the next, and the
intervening night; for he thought it wiser not to be seen much in the
town, being what he was, a mark for men's eyes wherever he went. He
would have read if he could have found a book, for he was a good reader
and writer, and often copied music for his master, for he could engross
handsomely; but there were no books in the inn, not even the works of
that 'poor Signor Torquato Tasso,' who had been so long shut up as a
lunatic in Ferrara in the days of the Marquis Alfonso Second. The only
book Cucurullo had been able to find was a small volume with a very
strange name, for its title was Eikon Basilike; but Cucurullo did not
understand a word of it, and the innkeeper said he thought the book must
have been forgotten by two rich English gentlemen who had lately spent
some days in his house.
At the appointed hour Cucurullo crossed the drawbridge of the castle,
pushed the small postern, and went in. A hanging iron lamp, fed with
mingled olive-oil and tallow, dimly lighted the great archway, where the
sentry was pacing up and down. Sergeant Hector came forward as soon as
the hunchback appeared, and closed and bolted the postern after him
before speaking. The other men of the watch were presumably dozing in
the guard-room, from the open door of which no light appeared.
'This way, my dear friend,' whispered the sergeant. 'The man is
waiting.'
He hurried Cucurullo along the dark way towards the inner court, laying
a hand on his crooked back by way of guiding him; but the truth was that
since he had met Cucurullo his luck at play had been surprisingly good,
and he would not miss the chance of refreshing it again at the magic
source of fortune.
They passed the foot of the main staircase, went on a few steps farther,
and then turned into a narrow passage. The glare of a lantern flashed in
Cucurullo's eyes.
'Here is the gentleman,' the sergeant said in a low voice. 'This is our
head gaoler,' he added, turning to Cucurullo. 'I have agreed that you
should pay three silver florins in advance for the visit.'
'Cash,' said a voice that was unnaturally hoarse, possibly from the
dampness of the underground labyrinth to which the man's business often
took him.
Cucurullo was wrapped in his wide cloak, under which he had slung on
himself the bottles and provisions he was bringing. He had prepared some
loose money in his breeches pocket, and immediately produced the three
coins. The turnkey was holding the lantern in such a position that it
was impossible to see his face, but a grimy hand shot out into the
yellow glare to take the money.
'Come,' said the hoarse voice; and as the speaker turned to lead the
way, Cucurullo heard the jingling of his keys.
The sergeant was already gone, and the hunchback followed his guide
along the passage, which descended by a distinctly perceptible grade. It
was clear from this that the prisons must be below the level of the
water in the moat, and already the moving light showed that the walls
were dripping with moisture. Presently the passage emerged into a sort
of crypt, in which huge masses of masonry supported low arches that in
turn carried the cross vaulting. The floor, if it was anything but
beaten earth, was slippery with a thin film of greasy mud.
At last the turnkey stopped before one of half-a-dozen doors, all
studded alike with rusty iron nails, and each having a lock, a bolt, and
a square aperture at the height of a man's head, strongly barred.
Cucurullo now saw the gaoler's ugly features for the first time.
The door opened, creaking loudly on its hinges; and as the turnkey held
up his lantern to see into the cell, Cucurullo, peering past him, caught
sight of his master's face. It was ghastly pale, his sunken eyes had
dark half-circles under them, and his unshaven chin and cheeks looked
grimy in the yellow light.
'Is it morning?' he asked, in a dull voice.
Cucurullo slipped past the gaoler and spoke to him, and instantly the
light flashed in his eyes and he smiled, for the first time since he had
been arrested in Ortensia's room. Cucurullo took his hand and kissed it
with devotion, as Italian servants often do in great moments.
Neither had yet spoken when the heavy door creaked and was slammed, and
they were suddenly in the dark. The key turned noisily in the lock,
twice in quick succession, and the additional bolt rattled as it was
pushed into its socket.
'Good-night, gentlemen,' said the preternaturally hoarse voice of the
turnkey through the square hole in the door. 'I will bring you your
dinner at noon!'
Cucurullo sprang to the grated aperture, only to see the ruffian
stalking off into the gloom with his lantern.
'Hi! Listen!' he cried. 'Come back, Sir Gaoler! You shall have a
ducat----'
The man stood still, and turned his face towards the door of the cell
with a sardonic grin.
'Now that I have you and your ducats under lock and key I shall take
them at my leisure, Sir Fool!' he answered. 'I only agreed to let you
in; I did not promise to let you out.'
Thereupon he turned again and stalked away, much to Cucurullo's
consternation; and in this manner the fourth and last of the runaway
party that had arrived at the inn from Rovigo disappeared in Ferrara,
somewhat to the surprise of the innkeeper, but not to his loss, since
Cucurullo had paid for his lodging in advance.
CHAPTER X
Stradella and Ortensia had fled from Venice on Thursday evening and had
reached Ferrara at midnight on Friday. It was therefore on a Saturday
morning that the musician was imprisoned, and on Sunday night Cucurullo
was caught in the trap and locked up with him. It was late on that same
afternoon that the Bravi took leave of Pignaver in the church of the
Frari, and they did not leave Venice till the next day; for since they
were to be paid for their time they could really not see any reason for
being in a hurry. Moreover, they travelled like gentlemen, and though
the proceeds of the emerald ring had already amply furnished them with
the means of replacing many useful articles which adversity had forced
them to sell or pawn, yet some further preparation seemed necessary, if
they were to make their journey in a manner becoming to their rank.
As for travelling night and day, that was quite out of the question, for
they would have thought it very foolish to trust implicitly to the
information about the runaways which Pignaver had got from the Venetian
police. Where such grave responsibility was laid upon them, it was right
that they should rely only on what they themselves could learn with
certainty. The consequence was that they did not reach Ferrara till
Wednesday afternoon, having spent a night in Padua and another in
Rovigo; and they were of course persuaded that Stradella and Ortensia
were by that time already in Florence, if they had taken that direction.
So far, the Bravi had only spoken of their business when it was
necessary to compare notes about the information they gathered. Having
undertaken to murder both the lovers on the one hand, but also to
deliver both of them safe and unhurt, Ortensia to the Senator and
Stradella to the enamoured lady, the subject presented certain
complications which were too tiresome to discuss until a final decision
became necessary; and for that matter, Trombin and Gambardella fully
intended to obtain the full five hundred ducats from each side.
'You and I were certainly meant to be lawyers or bankers,' Trombin had
observed at Rovigo over a bottle of very old Burgundy; 'for whichever of
two cards turns up, we must win half the stakes.'
'Both must turn up at the end of the deal,' Gambardella had answered
with decision, 'and we must win everything.'
'Under Providence,' Trombin had replied, 'we will.'
Having said this much they had dismissed the subject, and their
conversation during the rest of the evening had been of artistic
matters, politics, literature, women's beauty, and whatsoever else two
tolerably cultivated gentlemen might discuss with propriety in the
presence and hearing of a landlord and his servants. As soon as they had
arrived, they had learned without difficulty that the runaway party had
passed through the place and had safely reached Ferrara, whence the
carriage they had hired in Padua had duly returned.
The Bravi preferred to ride post, sending their luggage on with their
servant, six or seven hours in advance of them. The serving-man they had
hired in Venice had been a highway robber for several years, as they
were well aware, and in an ordinary situation he might have made away
with his masters' valuables, if entrusted with them; but he knew who
Trombin and Gambardella were, and what they had done, and his admiration
for such very superior cut-throats was boundless. Anything of theirs was
safe in his hands, and therefore safe from robbers on the road, for he
had not long retired from the profession, and had the thieves'
pass-words by heart from Milan to Naples, and farther. As a servant, he
had parted his hair in the middle and resumed his modest and unobtrusive
baptismal name of Tommaso; but he had always been known to the gang as
Grattacacio, that is, 'Cheese-grater,' because it was told of him that
he had once done good execution with that simple kitchen instrument on
the nose of a sbirro who had tried to catch him, but was himself caught
instead.
The worthy courier arrived at the inn in Ferrara on Wednesday before
noon and took the best room in the house for his masters, who, he said,
would arrive at their convenience during the afternoon; as in fact they
did, looking very magnificent in fashionable long-skirted riding-coats
buttoned tight across the chest and under the broad linen collar,
high-crowned felt hats with magnificent feathers, boots of the new
fashion, cut off below the knee, and handsome silver chains instead of
shoulder-belts for their rapiers.
Grattacacio had announced them as two Venetian gentlemen travelling for
their pleasure, and when the innkeeper asked their names, the man
answered that they had received titles of nobility from the King of
France, and were called respectively Count Tromblon de la Trombine and
Count Gambardella. When in Venice, he said, they dropped these
appellations and took their seats in the Grand Council as nobles of the
Republic. For the rest, Grattacacio continued, they were gentlemen of
exquisite taste and most fastidious in their eating and drinking.
Burgundy was their favourite wine, and they could not drink French
claret if it was more than twelve or less than eight years old. They
abhorred the sweet Malmsey which the Tuscans were so fond of, but if
there was any old Oporto in the cellar they were connoisseurs and could
appreciate it.
The landlord received them with all the respect due to such a noble pair
of epicures, and long before they arrived preparations were making in
the kitchen to cook them a dinner worthy of their refined taste and
portentous appetites.
So far as their other pretensions went, they had really seen some
service in the French Army, but their highest title to distinction was
that they had narrowly escaped being hanged for selling information to
the Dutch, and as soon as they had fled it was discovered that they had
taken with them all the loose gold in the regimental chest, and the two
fleetest horses in the Field-Marshal's stable.
The landlord, who did not know this, bowed to the ground as they
dismounted under the archway, and at once led them to the best rooms,
with which they expressed themselves well satisfied. For whatever their
real names might be, they had been originally brought up as gentlemen,
and they did not abuse everything that was offered them in order to make
innkeepers believe that they lived magnificently at home. When they saw
that they were given the best there was to be had, no matter how poor
that might be, they accepted it quietly and said 'Thank you' without
more ado; but if they perceived that the best was being withheld for
some one else, they were a particularly troublesome pair of gentlemen to
deal with; for nothing abashed them, and nothing seemed to frighten
them, and they were always as ready to beat an innkeeper as to skewer a
marquis according to the most rigidly honourable rules of duelling. As
for the law, it might as well not have existed, so far as they were
concerned. They never needed it, and when it wanted them they were never
to be found--unless they were under the powerful protection of a prince
or an ambassador, of whom the law itself was very much afraid, and who
promptly demanded for them a written pardon for their last offence. For
those were the only conditions under which Bravi could have exercised
their profession as they did throughout Italy in the seventeenth
century.
Trombin detained the innkeeper a moment when he was about to leave the
two to their toilet, after the day's ride.
'Some acquaintances of ours must have spent a night here last week,'
Trombin began. 'Do you remember them? They were the celebrated Maestro
Alessandro Stradella and his young Venetian wife. They have with them a
middle-aged serving-woman. Can you recollect when they left here?'
The landlord scratched his head and pretended to be racking his memory;
for it would have been quite easy to say that the party had left on
Saturday, on their way to Bologna. That was the answer the gentleman
expected, and the innkeeper generally found that it served best to tell
people what they expected to hear. But, on the other hand, there was the
question of truth, if not of truthfulness. Who could tell but that such
fine gentlemen might have with them an introduction to the Legate, who
might tell them the story. If this happened, the two travellers would be
angry at having been deceived, since, if the imprisoned man was really
Stradella, they would naturally wish to help him to regain his liberty.
This reflection carried the day; the innkeeper therefore decided in
favour of truth, and he told the tale of Stradella's arrest, and of the
mysterious disappearance of the other three members of the party. The
two Bravi listened in silent surprise, glancing at each other from time
to time, as if to note some point of importance.
'Something must be done at once!' cried Trombin, when the landlord had
told all. 'This is an egregious miscarriage of the law! Something must
be done at once!'
'Something must be done at once!' echoed Gambardella very emphatically,
though in a much lower tone. 'Are you quite sure that you do not know
where the lady went, Master Landlord? Or have you only forgotten?'
He had fixed his evil black eyes on the innkeeper's face, and there was
something in his look and tone that suddenly scared the stout Romagnole,
who was no great hero after all; he backed against the door as if he
expected Gambardella to spring at him.
'Indeed, Signor Count,' he cried in a rather shaky voice, 'if it were my
last word, I know nothing more of the lady and her woman! They left the
house immediately, but I do not know whether they turned to the right or
the left from my door, for I did not see them go out.'
'Have you made any inquiries in the town?' asked Gambardella in the same
tone as before. 'No? Then you had better set about it at once. Do you
understand? That young lady is the niece of a friend of ours, who is a
Venetian Senator, and if any harm comes to her through your having
allowed her to leave your house unprotected, you may be held
responsible. I fancy that the Legate here must be anxious to oblige the
Republic in such matters!'
This was no doubt arrant nonsense, but nothing seemed laughable when
Gambardella assumed that tone.
'Something must be done at once!' cried Trombin, and turning suddenly to
the landlord he opened his round blue eyes as wide as possible, and drew
his breath sharply in through his pursed lips with a soft sound of
whistling.
He looked like a colossal angry cat, and was at least as terrifying as
Gambardella. The landlord faltered as he replied to both the Bravi at
once.
'Certainly, my lords, certainly--I will have inquiries made--I will do
my best--it was really not my fault----'
'It may not have been your intention, but it was, in a measure, your
fault,' answered Trombin, allowing his expression to relax, 'though it
may have been only a fault of omission, and therefore venial, which is
to say, pardonable, Master Landlord, in proportion to the gravity of the
consequences that may attend it. And now we will make ourselves ready
for the succulent dinner which, I have no doubt, your wise care is about
to set before us, for your house has an excellent name, but we would
have you know that our appetites are at least as good, and our
understanding of the noble art of cookery much better. It is not
becoming to speak of any actions we may have to our past credit in war,
but we can at least boast without reproach that we have eaten some of
the best dinners cooked since Lucullus supped with himself!'
This tirade, delivered with the utmost rapidity and punctuated with
several smiles that showed the speaker's sharp and gleaming teeth,
partially reassured the innkeeper, who took himself off at once; and as
he had been frightened he proceeded at once to restore his self-respect
by frightening the cook, cuffing the scullions, and threatening the
drawer with an awful end if he should shake the bottles and disturb the
ancient sediment when he brought the Burgundy to the gentlemen's table.
When he was gone, the Bravi did not at once talk over the unexpected
news, for Grattacacio was with them, coming and going, bringing hot
water, shaving them as well as any barber, unpacking their linen and
clothes, and waiting on them with such a constant prescience of their
needs as only a highly trained body-servant can possess. For the truth
was that he had begun life as a bishop's footman, and had risen to be
valet to a cardinal, before he had taken to the road after robbing his
master of some valuable jewels; but his hair was now growing grey at the
temples, and his nerve was not so good as it had been, and as he had
escaped hanging till now, he gave up risking it any longer. Accordingly
he had parted his hair and called himself Tommaso once more, and he was
now looking out for a good place with a not too decrepit prelate; for he
had been used to boast that no valet in all the Roman Curia could put on
a bishop's sandals at High Mass with such combined skill and unction as
he, nor carry a cardinal's scarlet train at a consistory with such
mingled devoutness and grace. As for serving Mass, it had been a second
nature to him, and even now he could rattle off the responses without a
mistake, from the first 'sicut erat in principio' to the last 'Deo
gratias' after the Second Gospel.
Trombin and Gambardella did not discuss the situation until this highly
accomplished servant of theirs had accompanied them to the dining-room,
to push their chairs under them as they sat down, and to assure himself
that the table-cloth was spotless and the glasses not only clean but
polished. Then he left them to their dinner, which, as he well knew,
would last at least two hours.
The dining-room was spacious and airy, having two large grated windows
that overlooked the square, and there were several small tables besides
the long one at which the 'ordinary' was served every day at noon. The
Bravi were now the only guests, and were installed near one of the
windows, for the day was warm. From the middle of the vaulted ceiling a
huge bunch of fresh green ferns was hung, not as a substitute for
flowers, but to attract and stupefy the stray flies that found their way
in from the kitchen, even at that early season of the year.
Trombin was the first to speak, after the preliminary appetisers had
been placed on the table and the glasses had been filled.
'The situation strikes me as amusing,' he said. 'I have always felt that
destiny possesses a sense of humour which makes the wittiest French
comedy lugubrious by comparison.'
'You are easily amused, my friend,' answered Gambardella gloomily, and
picking out a very thin slice of Bologna sausage for his next mouthful.
'We were looking forward to a pleasant journey to Florence or Rome, our
expenses being liberally paid; instead, we find that all the people we
wish to meet are here, barely two days from Venice, and as if that were
not enough, they must needs melt away like snow in the street and
disappear underground, so that we must turn sbirri to find them. I see
no sense of humour in the destiny that brings about such silly
circumstances.'
'You were always a melancholic soul,' Trombin observed. 'As for me, I
cannot but laugh when I think that we shall have to rescue our man from
the danger of being hanged as a counterfeiter, in order that we may
conveniently cut his throat.'
Having expressed his view of the case Trombin swallowed half a glass of
wine at a draught, while his companion sipped a few drops from his.
'I do not call it melancholy to like good things and to wish that they
may last as long as possible,' Gambardella said, rather sourly. 'What
could have been more delightful than to ride all the way to Rome or
Naples in this way, travelling only on fine days, and stopping where one
can get a bottle of old Burgundy and a slice of a decently cooked capon?
Talk of sending people to a better world, my friend--it would give me
infinite satisfaction to skewer this fool of a Legate for having
interfered with our plans! A pretty job it is going to be, to get a man
out of a dungeon under the Lion Tower.'
'Which one is that?' asked Trombin, looking through the grated window at
the gloomy castle on the other side of the square.
'It is at the northeast corner at the head of the street they call
Giovecca. You cannot see it from here. When we have dined we will
stroll over and look at it, if you like, but you might as well try to
rescue a prisoner from the Bastille!'
Gambardella sniffed his wine discontentedly and then sipped it. He was a
grave man and business-like; he could drive as hard a bargain for a life
as any Bravo in Italy, and do his work as neatly and expeditiously, when
it was plainly laid out before him; but he had no imagination, and his
idea of rescuing Stradella was evidently to get him out of the castle by
some simple trick such as poor Cucurullo had tried in order to see his
master.
'This seems to be a good inn,' observed Trombin thoughtfully, after a
pause. 'I had as soon spend a ducat a day here as in a worse house. Now
this Burgundy is of the vintage of the year fifty-one.'
'Undoubtedly,' assented Gambardella, sipping again as he did about once
a minute. 'It has the "rose" bouquet like that of forty-six, but is a
little younger. To think that if we could only get that fellow out of
prison we could have him to dinner, and he would sing for us this
evening! It is maddening to think that he may lose his voice in a damp
hole through the idiocy of that thrice-confounded Legate!'
'It is indeed,' agreed Trombin. 'I wonder what has become of the lady.'
'I thought you were thinking of the girl,' said the other
discontentedly. 'It would complete the situation if you should find her
and fall in love with her yourself!'
'That is possible. It has pleased Providence to make me susceptible,
whereas you are designed by nature for a monastic life. Our friend's
description of his niece calls up an enchanting picture! The "Bella" of
the late Titian, but younger and slimmer! Heaven send such a sweet
creature to cheer my declining years! I do not wonder that the Maestro
lost his heart and carried her off. And at this very moment she must be
hiding somewhere in Ferrara, perhaps not a quarter of a mile from here!
In a convent, no doubt, in some gloomy old house full of yellow-faced
Carmelite or Franciscan nuns, with her glorious hair and her matchless
complexion! I can see her in my imagination, a gilded rose amongst
cabbages, a luscious peach in a heap of turnips.'
'For goodness' sake stop raving!' interrupted Gambardella. 'Why should
she be in a convent, I should like to know?'
'Where else could two respectable women without money go? They could not
possibly travel, and no one in the town would take them in without
baggage or cash. I tell you they went from here to a convent and asked
for shelter and protection. It is the most natural thing in the world.
It is what the girl's middle-aged serving-woman would certainly think of
first.'
'You may be right,' answered the other, his tone changing. 'Drink more
wine, for it always stimulates your imagination, and you may imagine a
way of getting Stradella out of the Lion Tower. I think you are right
about the girl. We will make inquiries at the convents after dinner.'
Trombin filled his glass, which was quite empty, drank half the contents
and set it down.
'In the first place,' he said, 'we had better try simple persuasion with
the Legate. If you agree, I will go and see him late in the afternoon.
He may make some little difficulty about receiving me, but that will
only be in order to impress me with his greatness. Besides, you will
give me a letter of introduction which I shall ask to present in
person.'
'I?' Gambardella looked at his friend across his glass with an
expression of inquiry.
'Certainly,' answered Trombin. 'I could not ask such a favour of any one
who knows me better, could I? If any one can vouch for me, you can.'
Gambardella condescended to smile faintly, and suggested an outline of
the letter.
'"I have the honour to introduce to your lordship's good graces the very
noble Count Tromblon de la Trombine, who is here at great personal
inconvenience for the express purpose of cutting Alessandro Stradella's
throat, and will be much obliged if your worship will at once order the
Maestro to be let out for that purpose." Would that do? I could sign
Pignaver's name to it!'
'You have no imagination. I will make a rough draft, which you will then
write out much better than I could. You shall see. While I am at the
castle, you may make inquiries at the different convents.'
As their servant Tommaso had foreseen, they sat at table two hours, and
on the whole, though they were highly experienced epicures, they were
not dissatisfied with the dinner. Gambardella even admitted that one
more day in Ferrara would not be intolerable, but that was as much as
his second bottle of Burgundy could bring him to say. At dessert,
Trombin called for writing materials and quickly drafted the letter of
introduction he wished his friend to write out for him. The latter
watched him, and from time to time picked out a fat red cherry from a
quantity that floated in a large bowl of water, and ate it thoughtfully.
An hour and a half later the Legate returned from his daily airing,
which he generally took on a handsome brown mule, accompanied by his
private secretary or by the captain of the halberdiers of the garrison.
He came home early, though the weather was warm, for he was beginning to
be a little rheumatic, and he established himself in the sunny room
which he used as his study. He had not been seated ten minutes in his
high-backed chair, with a red cotton quilt spread over his knees and
tucked in round his legs, dictating letters to his secretary, when word
was brought him that a Venetian gentleman desired to be received, in
order to present a letter of introduction from a high personage.
Monsignor Pelagatti had an almost exaggerated respect for high
personages, though he was now considered to be one of them himself. Even
kings may be snobs, when they are not very big kings, and much more,
therefore, the lay governor of a papal province who had climbed to
distinction from a steward's office in a Roman patrician's household.
The Legate sent his secretary downstairs to bring up the visitor with
all the ceremony due to the bearer of an important letter.
In a few minutes Trombin entered the sunny room, and the Governor, who
had dropped his red cotton quilt and kicked it out of sight under the
table, rose to receive him. Trombin's round cheeks were rounder and
pinker than ever, his long yellow hair was as smooth as butter, his bow
was precisely suited to the dignity of the Legate, and his manner
inspired confidence by its quiet self-possession. His right hand held
out the letter he brought, which Monsignor Pelagatti received with a
gracious smile after returning his visitor's bow, at the same time
inviting the latter to be seated on his right, where the secretary had
already placed a comfortable chair.
'With your permission,' said the Governor politely, before proceeding to
read the letter.
Trombin bowed his acquiescence from his chair and smiled again. The
succulent dinner and rich Burgundy seemed to have made him sleeker and
pinker than ever, and he watched the Legate's face with a pleasantly
benevolent expression.
But Monsignor Pelagatti's jaw dropped as he read the missive, and his
shrivelled lids seemed to shrink back from all round his little red eyes
till they looked as if they were starting from his head, while Trombin
watched him with quiet satisfaction.
The letter purported to be from the acting Chief of the Council of Ten
in Venice, and was really a miracle of official style in its way.
The writer took the liberty of introducing a gentleman to whom he
entrusted a delicate business, the noble Signor Trombin del Todescan.
His high regard for the Legate, and his desire to avert all unpleasant
consequences from so friendly and distinguished an official, had led him
to treat directly and privately of a matter which would otherwise have
to go through the hands of the Venetian Ambassador in Rome. The Legate
had accidentally imprisoned a distinguished musician who had lately been
the guest of the Republic, a matter which, in itself, might not be
thought to have great importance. But the Maestro Stradella was on his
wedding journey, and his young bride was no less a person than the noble
lady Ortensia Grimani, the writer's niece. As for Bartolo, the
counterfeiter, he had just been caught at Treviso, and, at the time of
writing, was safely lodged in the Pozzi, either to be tried in Venice or
sent to Rome, as might hereafter be agreed between the respective
governments. Under the circumstances the Legate would see the propriety
of setting the Maestro at liberty without delay, and of extending every
courtesy to him and his young wife, who must be in despair at his
arrest. The letter concluded by saying that if the Legate 'did not feel
justified' in complying with these requests, the noble Signor Trombin
del Todescan had instructions to proceed to Rome with the utmost haste
and to place the matter in the hands of the Venetian Ambassador there,
on behalf of the noble lady Ortensia Grimani, unjustly deprived of her
husband, a Spanish subject, within the States of the Church.
The letter left nothing to be desired in the way of clearness, and the
Legate's consternation was considerable. He had actually made a mistake
which could not be glossed over by the simple process of condemning an
innocent person to fine or imprisonment without appeal. He had never
done such a thing in his life, and it was not pleasant to feel the
coming humiliation of being forced to revoke an order given in court and
to restore property he had summarily confiscated to the Treasury.
He felt himself shrinking in his chair, while the noble Signor Trombin
del Todescan, the secret envoy of the Venetian Republic, seemed to grow
bigger and more imposing every moment.
