was and never will be any wine to equal it when it has the body of a
Burgundy and the bouquet of wild-grape blossoms. Louis," cocking his
heavy red face and considering a morsel of duck, "what is your opinion
concerning the proper mélange for that plumcot salad dressing?"
"They say," said Malcourt gravely, "that when it's mixed, a current of
electricity passed through it gives it a most astonishing flavour--"
"What!"
"So they say at the Stuyvesant Club."
Portlaw's eyes bulged; Hamil had to bend his head low over his plate,
but Malcourt's bland impudence remained unperturbed.
"Good God!" muttered Portlaw; "Hamil, did you ever hear of passing
electricity through a salad dressing composed of olive oil, astragon,
Arequipa pepper, salt, Samara mustard, essence of anchovy, chives,
distilled fresh mushrooms, truffles pickled in 1840 port--did you?"
"No," said Hamil, "I never did."
For a while silence settled upon the table while Portlaw struggled to
digest mentally the gastronomic suggestion offered by Malcourt.
"I could send to town for a battery," he said hesitatingly; "or--there's
my own electric plant--"
Malcourt yawned. There was not much fun in exploiting such a man.
Besides, Hamil had turned uncomfortable, evidently considering it the
worst of taste on Malcourt's part.
"What am I to do about that telegram?" he asked, lighting a cigarette.
Portlaw, immersed in sauce and the electrical problem, adjusted his mind
with an effort to this other and less amusing question.
"Wire for particulars and sit tight," advised Portlaw. "We've just three
now for 'Preference,' and if you go kiting off to town Hamil and I will
be forced into double dummy, and that's a horrible mental strain on a
man--isn't it, Hamil?"
"I could use the long-distance telephone," said Malcourt pensively.
"Well, for the love of Mike go and do it!" shouted Portlaw, "and let me
try to enjoy this Andelys cheese."
So Malcourt sauntered out through the billiard-room, leaving an aromatic
trail of cigarette smoke in his wake; and he closed all the intervening
doors--why, he himself could not have explained.
He was absent a long time. Portlaw had terminated the table ceremony,
and now, ensconced among a dozen fat cushions by the fire, a plump cigar
burning fragrantly between his curiously clean-cut and sharply chiselled
lips, he sat enthroned, majestically digesting; and his face of a Greek
hero, marred by heavy flesh, had become almost somnolent in its
expression of well-being and corporeal contentment.
"I don't know what I'd do without Louis," he said sleepily. "He keeps my
men hustling, he answers for everything on the bally place, he's so
infernally clever that he amuses me and my guests, he's on the job every
minute. It would be devilishly unpleasant for me if I lost him.... And
I'm always afraid of it.... There are usually a lot of receptive girls
making large eyes at him.... My only safety is that they are so
many--and so easy.... If Cardross hadn't signed that telegram I'd bet my
bottes-sauvage it concerned some entanglement."
Hamil lay back in his chair and studied the forest through the leaded
casement. Sometimes he thought of Portlaw's perverse determination to
spoil the magnificent simplicity of the place with exotic effects lugged
in by the ears; sometimes he wondered what Mr. Cardross could have to
say to Malcourt--what matter of such urgent importance could possibly
concern those two men.
And, thinking, he thought of Shiela--and of their last moments together;
thought of her as he had left her, crouched there on her knees beside
the bed, her face and head buried in her crossed arms.
Portlaw was nodding drowsily over his cigar; the April sunshine streamed
into the room through every leaded pane, inlaying the floor with glowing
diamonds; dogs barked from the distant kennels; cocks were crowing from
the farm. Outside the window he saw how the lilac's dully varnished buds
had swollen and where the prophecy of snow-drop and crocus under the
buckthorn hedge might be fulfilled on the morrow. Already over the
green-brown, soaking grass one or two pioneer grackle were walking
busily about; and somewhere in a near tree the first robin chirked and
chirped and fussed in its loud and familiar fashion, only partly pleased
to find himself in the gray thaw of the scarcely comfortable North once
more.
Portlaw looked up dully: "Those robins come up here and fatten on our
fruit, and a fool law forbids us to shoot 'em. Robin pie," he added, "is
not to be despised, but a sentimental legislature is the limit....
Sentiment always did bore me.... How do you feel after your luncheon?"
"All right," said Hamil, smiling. "I'd like to start out as soon as
Malcourt comes back."
"Oh, don't begin that sort of thing the moment you get here!" protested
Portlaw. "My heavens, man! there's no hurry. Can't you smoke a cigar and
play a card or two--"
"You know I've other commissions--"
"Oh, of course; but I hoped you'd have time to take it easy. I've
looked forward to having you here--so has Malcourt; he thinks you're
about right, you know. And he makes damn few friends among men--"
The door opened and Malcourt entered slowly, almost noiselessly. There
was not a vestige of colour in his face, nor of expression as he crossed
the room for a match and relighted his cigarette.
"Well?" inquired Portlaw, "did you get Cardross on the wire?"
"Yes."
Malcourt stood motionless, hands in his pockets, the cigarette smoke
curling up blue in the sunshine.
"I've got to go," he said.
"What for?" demanded Portlaw, then sulkily begged pardon and pouted his
dissatisfaction in silence.
"When do you go, Malcourt?" asked Hamil, still wondering.
"Now." He lifted his head but looked across at Portlaw. "I've telephoned
the stable, and called up Pride's Fall to flag the five-thirty express,"
he said.
Portlaw was growing madder and madder.
"Would you mind telling me when you expect to be back?" he inquired
ill-temperedly.
"I don't know yet."
"Don't know!" burst out Portlaw; "hell's bells!"
Malcourt shook his head.
Portlaw profanely requested information as to how the place was to be
kept going. Malcourt was patient with him to the verge of indifference.
"There's nothing to blow up about. Hastings is competent to manage
things--"
"That conceited pup!"
"Hastings understands," repeated Malcourt, in a listless voice. "I've
always counted on Alexander Hastings for any emergency. He knows things,
and he's capable.... Only don't be brusque. He doesn't understand you as
I do ... and he's fully your equal--fully--in every way--and then
some--" The weariness in his tone was close to a sneer; he dropped his
cigarette into the fire and began to roll another.
"Louis," said Portlaw, frightened.
"Well?"
"What the devil is the meaning of all this? You are coming back,
aren't you?"
Malcourt continued to roll his cigarette, but after a while he spoiled
it and began to construct another.
"Are you, Louis?"
"What?"
"Coming back here--soon?"
"If I--if it's the thing to do. I don't know yet. You mustn't press the
matter now."
"You think there's a chance that you won't come back at all!"
exclaimed Portlaw, aghast.
Malcourt's cigarette fell to pieces in his fingers.
"I'll come if I can, Billy. I tell you to let me alone.... I don't know
where I am coming out--yet."
"If it's money you need, you know perfectly well--"
But Malcourt shook his head. From the moment of his entrance he had kept
his face carefully averted from Hamil's view; had neither looked at him
nor spoken except in monosyllabic answer to a single question.
The rattle of the buckboard on the wet gravel drive brought Portlaw to
his feet. A servant appeared with Malcourt's suit-case and overcoat.
"There's a trunk to follow; Williams is to pack what I need....
Good-bye, Billy. I wouldn't go if I didn't have to."
Portlaw took his offered hand as though dazed.
"You'll come back, of course," he said, "in a couple of days--or a week
if you like--but you'll be back, of course. You know if there's anything
the matter with your salary just say so. I always meant you should feel
perfectly free to fix your salary to suit yourself. Only be sure to come
back in a week, won't you?"
"Good-bye," said Malcourt in a low voice. "I'd like to talk to Hamil--if
he can give me a few moments."
Bareheaded, Hamil stepped out into the clear, crisp, April sunshine
where the buckboard stood on the gravel.
The strong outdoor light emphasized Malcourt's excessive pallor, and the
hand he offered Hamil was icy. Then his nervous grasp relaxed; he drew
on his dog-pelt driving gloves and buttoned the fur coat to the throat.
"I want you--to--to remember--remember that I always liked you," he said
with an effort, in curious contrast to his habitual fluency. "You won't
believe it--some day. But it is true.... Perhaps I'll prove it, yet....
My father used to say that everything except death had been proven; and
there remained, therefore, only one event of any sporting interest to
the world.... He was a very interesting man--my father. He did not
believe in death.... And I do not.... This sloughing off of the material
integument seems to me purely a matter of the mechanical routine of
evolution, a natural process in further and inevitable development, not
a finality to individualism!... Fertilisation, gestation, the hatching,
growth, the episodic deliverance from encasing matter which is called
death, seem to me only the first few basic steps in the sequences of an
endless metamorphosis.... My father thought so. His was a very fine
mind--is a finer mind still.... Will you understand me if I say that
we often communicate with each other--my father and I?"
"Communicate?" repeated Hamil.
"Often."
Hamil said slowly: "I don't think I understand."
Malcourt looked at him, the ever-latent mockery flickering in his eyes;
then, by degrees, his head bent forward in the old half-cunning,
half-wistful attitude as though listening. A vague smile touched the
pallor of his face, and he presently looked up with something of his old
debonair impudence.
"The truly good are always so interested in creating hell for the
wicked," he said, "that sometimes the good get into the pit themselves
just to see how hot it really is. And find the wicked have never been
there.... Hamil, the hopelessly wicked--and there are few of them who
are not mentally irresponsible--never go to hell because they wouldn't
mind it if they did. It's the good who are hell's architects and often
its tenants.... I'm speaking of all prisoners of conscience. The wicked
have none."
He shrugged his shoulders.
"There's always an exit from one of these temporary little pits of
torment," he said; "when one finds it too oppressive in the shade....
When one obtains a proper perspective, and retains one's sense of
humour, and enough of conscience to understand the crime of losing
time.... And when, in correct perspective, one realises the fictitious
value of that temporary phase called the human unit, and when one cuts
free from the absurd dogma concerning the dignity and the sanctity of
that human unit.... I'm keeping you from your cigar and arm-chair and
from Portlaw.... A good, kindly gossip, who fed my belly and filled my
purse and loved me for the cards I played. I'm a yellow pup to mock him.
I'm a pup anyhow.... But, Hamil, there is, in the worst pup, one streak
not all yellow. And the very worst are capable of one friendship. You
may not believe this some day. But it is true.... Good-bye."
"Is there anything, Malcourt--"
"Nothing you can do for me. Perhaps something I can do for you--" And,
laughing, "I'll consult my father; he's not very definite on that point
yet."
So Malcourt swung aboard the wagon, nodded again to Hamil, waved a
pleasant adieu to Portlaw at the window, and was gone in a shower of wet
gravel and mud.
And all that day Portlaw fussed and fumed and pouted about the house,
tormenting Hamil with questions and speculations concerning the going of
Malcourt, which for a while struck Hamil merely as selfish ebullitions;
but later it came to him by degrees that this rich, selfish, over-fed,
over-pampered, and revoltingly idle landowner, whose sole mental and
physical resources were confined to the dinner and card tables, had been
capable of a genuine friendship for Malcourt. Self-centred, cautious to
the verge of meanness in everything which did not directly concern his
own comfort and well-being, he, nevertheless, was totally dependent upon
his friends for a full enjoyment of his two amusements; for he hated to
dine alone and he loathed solitaire.
Therefore, in spending money to make his house and grounds attractive
to his friends, he was ministering, as always, to himself; and when he
first took Malcourt for his superintendent he did so from purely selfish
motives and at a beggarly stipend.
And now, in the two years of his official tenure, Malcourt already
completely dominated him, often bullied him, criticised him to his face,
betrayed no illusions concerning the absolute self-interest which
dictated Portlaw's policy in all things, coolly fixed and regulated all
salaries, including his own, and, in short, matched Portlaw's
undisguised selfishness with a cynicism so sparkling and so frankly
ruthless that Portlaw gradually formed for him a real attachment.
There was no indiscriminate generosity in that attachment; he never
voluntarily increased Malcourt's salary or decreased his
responsibilities; he got out of his superintendent every bit of labour
and every bit of amusement he could at the lowest price Malcourt would
take; yet, in spite of that he really cared for Malcourt; he secretly
admired his intellectual equipment; feared it, too; and the younger
man's capacity for dissipation made him an invaluable companion when
Portlaw emerged from his camp in November and waddled forth upon his
annual hunt for happiness.
Something of this Hamil learned through the indiscriminate volubility of
his host who, when his feelings had been injured, was amusingly naive
for such a self-centred person.
"That damn Louis," he confided to Hamil over their after-dinner cigars,
"has kept me guessing ever since he took command here. Half the time I
don't understand what he's talking about even when I know he's making
fun of me; but, Hamil, you have no idea how I miss him."
And on another occasion a week later, while laboriously poring over some
rough plans laid out for him by Hamil:
"Louis agrees with you about this improvement business. He's dead
against my building Rhine-castle ruins on the crags, and he had the
impudence to inform me that I had a cheap mind. By God, Hamil, I can't
see anything cheap in trying to spend a quarter of a million in
decorating this infernal monotony of trees; can you?"
And Hamil, for the first time in many a day, lay back in his arm-chair
and laughed with all his heart.
He had hard work in weaning Portlaw from his Rhine castles, for the
other invariably met his objections by quoting in awful German:
    "Hast du das Schloss gesehen--
    Das hohe Schloss am Meer?"
--pronounced precisely as though the words were English. Which laudable
effort toward intellectual and artistic uplift Hamil never laughed at;
and there ensued always the most astonishing causerie concerning art
that two men in a wilderness ever engaged in.
Young Hastings, a Yale academic and forestry graduate, did fairly well
in Malcourt's place, and was doing better every day. For one thing he
knew much more about practical forestry and the fish and game problems
than did Malcourt, who was a better organiser than executive.
He began by dumping out into a worthless and landlocked bass-pond every
brown trout in the hatchery. He then drew off the water in the
brown-trout ponds, sent in men with seines and shotguns, and finally,
with dynamite, purged the free waters of the brown danger for good and
all.
"When Malcourt comes back," observed Portlaw, "you'll have to answer for
all this."
"I won't be questioned," said Hastings, smiling.
"Oh! And what do you propose to do next?"
"If I had the money you think of spending on ruined castles "--very
respectfully--"I'd build a wall in place of that mesh-wire fence."
"Why?" asked Portlaw.
"The wire deceives the grouse when they come driving headlong through
the woods. My men pick up dozens of dead grouse and woodcock along the
fence. If it were a wall they'd go over it. As it is, if I had my way,
I'd restock with Western ruffed-grouse; cut out that pheasantry
altogether, and try to breed our own native game-bird--"
"What! You can't breed ruffed-grouse in captivity!"
"I've done it, sir," said young Hastings modestly.
That night, over the plans, Portlaw voiced his distrust of Hastings and
mourned aloud for Malcourt.
"That infernal Louis," he complained, waving his fat cigar, "hasn't
written one line to me in a week! What the deuce is he doing down there
in town? I won't stand it! The ice is out and Wayward and Cuyp and
Vetchen are coming up for the fishing; and Mrs. Ascott, perhaps, is
coming, and Miss Palliser, and, I hope, Miss Suydam; that makes our
eight for Bridge, you see, with you and me. If Louis were here I'd have
three others--but I can't ask anybody else until I know."
"Perhaps you'll get a telegram when the buckboard returns from Pride's
Fall," said Hamil quietly. He, too, had been waiting for a letter that
had not come. Days were lengthening into weeks since his departure from
the South; and the letter he taught himself to expect had never come.
That she would write sooner or later he had dared believe at first; and
then, as day after day passed, belief faded into hope; and now the
colours of hope were fading into the gray tension of suspense.
He had written her every day, cheerful, amusing letters of current
commonplaces which now made up his life. In them was not one hint of
love--no echo of former intimacy, nothing of sadness, or regret, only a
friendly sequence of messages, of inquiries, of details recounting the
events of the days as they dawned and faded through the silvery promise
of spring in the chill of the Northern hills.
Every morning and evening the fleet little Morgans came tearing in from
Pride's Fall with the big leather mail-bag, which bore Portlaw's
initials in metal, bulging with letters, newspapers, magazines for
Portlaw; and now and then a slim envelope for him from his aunt, or
letters, bearing the Palm Beach post-mark, from contractors on the
Cardross estate, or from his own superintendent. But that was all.
His days were passed afoot in the forested hills, along lonely little
lakes, following dashing trout-brooks or studying the United States
Geological Survey maps which were not always accurate in minor details
of contour, and sometimes made a mockery of the lesser water-courses,
involving him and his surveyors in endless complications.
Sometimes, toward evening, if the weather was mild, he and Portlaw took
their rods for a cast on Painted Creek--a noble trout stream which took
its name from the dropping autumn glory of the sugar-bush where the
water passed close to the house. There lithe, wild trout struck
tigerishly at the flies and fought like demons, boring Portlaw
intensely, who preferred to haul in a prospective dinner without waste
of energy, and be about the matter of a new sauce with his cook.
CHAPTER XX
A NEW ENEMY
One evening in April, returning with a few brace of trout, they found
the mail-bag awaiting them on the hall table; and Portlaw distributed
the contents, proclaiming, as usual, his expectation of a letter from
Malcourt.
There was none. And, too peevish and disappointed to even open the
heterogeneous mass of letters and newspapers, he slumped sulkily in his
chair, feet on the fender, biting into his extinct cigar.
"That devilish Louis," he said, "has been away for several of the most
accursedly lonely weeks I ever spent.... No reflection on you,
Hamil--Oh, I beg your pardon; I didn't see you were busy--"
Hamil had not even heard him. He was busy--very busy with a
letter--dozens of sheets of a single letter, closely written, smeared in
places--the letter that had come at last!
In the fading light he bent low over the pages. Later a servant lighted
the lamps; later still Portlaw went into the library, drew out a book
bound in crushed levant, pushed an electric button, and sat down. The
book bound so admirably in crushed levant was a cook-book; the bell he
rang summoned his cook.
In the lamplit living-room the younger man bent over the letter that had
come at last. It was dated early in April; had been written at Palm
Beach, carried to New York, but had only been consigned to the mails
within thirty-six hours:
   "I have had all your letters--but no courage to answer. Now you
   will write no more.
   "Dear--this, my first letter to you, is also my last. I know now
   what the condemned feel who write in the hour of death.
   "When you went away on Thursday I could not leave my room to say
   good-bye to you. Gray came and knocked, but I was not fit to be
   seen. If I hadn't looked so dreadfully I wouldn't have minded
   being ill. You know that a little illness would not have kept me
   from coming to say good-bye to you.
   "So you went away, all alone with Gray. I remained in bed that
   day with the room darkened. Mother and Cecile were troubled but
   could not bring themselves to believe that my collapse was due to
   your going. It was not logical, you know, as we all expected to
   see you in a week or two in New York.
   "So they had Dr. Vernam, and I took what he prescribed, and
   nobody attached any undue importance to the matter. So I was left
   to myself, and I lay and thought out what I had to do.
   "Dear--I knew there was only one thing to do; I knew whither my
   love--our love--was carrying me--faster and faster--spite of all
   I'd said. Said! What are words beside such love as ours? What
   would be my affection for dad and mother beside my love for you?
   Would your loyalty and your dear self-denial continue to help me
   when they only make me love you more intensely?
   "There is only one thing clear in all this pitiful confusion;
   I--whom they took and made their child--cannot sacrifice them!
   And yet I would!--oh, Garry!--I would for you. There was no
   safety for me at all as long as there was the slightest chance to
   sacrifice everything--everybody--and give myself to you.
   "Listen! On the second day after you left I was sitting with
   mother and Cecile on the terrace. We were quietly discussing the
   closing of the house and other harmless domestic matters. All at
   once there swept over me such a terrible sense of desolation that
   I think I lost my mind; for the next thing I knew I was standing
   in my own room, dressed for travelling--with a hand-bag in my
   hand.
   "It was my maid knocking that brought me to my senses: I had been
   going away to find you; that was all I could realise. And I sank
   on my bed, trembling; and presently fell into the grief-stricken
   lethargy which is all I know now of sleep.
   "But when I woke to face the dreadful day again, I knew the time
   had come. And I went to mother that evening and told her.
   "But, Garry, there is never to be any escape from deception, it
   seems; I had to make her think I wanted to acknowledge and take
   up life with my husband. My life is to be a living lie!...
   "As I expected, mother was shocked and grieved beyond words--and,
   dearest, they are bitterly disappointed; they all had hoped it
   would be you.
   "She says there must positively be another ceremony. I don't know
   how dad will take it--but mother is so good, so certain of his
   forgiving me.
   "It wrings my heart--the silent astonishment of Cecile and
   Gray--and their trying to make the best of it, and mother,
   smiling for my sake, tender, forgiving, solicitous, and deep
   under all bitterly disappointed. Oh, well--she can bear that
   better than disgrace.
   "I've been crying over this letter; that's what all this blotting
   means.
   "Now I can never see you again; never touch your hand, never look
   into those brown eyes again--Garry! Garry!--never while life
   lasts.
   "I ask forgiveness for all the harm my love has done to you, for
   all the pain it has caused you, for the unhappiness that, please
   God, will not endure with you too long.
   "I have tried to pray that the pain will not last too long for
   you; I will try to pray that you may love another woman and
   forget all this unhappiness.
   "Think of me as one who died, loving you. I cling to this paper
   as though it were your hand. But--
   "Dearest--dearest--Good-by.
                                               "SHIELA CARDROSS."
When Portlaw came in from his culinary conference he found Hamil
scattering the black ashes of a letter among the cinders.
"Well, we're going to try an old English receipt on those trout," he
began cheerfully--and stopped short at sight of Hamil's face.
"What's the matter?" he asked bluntly.
"Nothing."
Hamil returned to his chair and picked up a book; Portlaw looked at him
for a moment, then, perplexed, sorted his mail and began to open the
envelopes.
"Bills, bills," he muttered, "appeals for some confounded foundlings'
hospital--all the eternal junk my flesh is heir to--and a letter from a
lawyer--let them sue!--and a--a--hey! what the devil--what the--"
Portlaw was on his feet, startled eyes fairly protruding as he scanned
incredulously the engraved card between his pudgy fingers.
"O Lord!" he bellowed; "it's all up! The entire bally business has gone
up! That pup of a Louis!--Oh, there's no use!--Look here, Hamil! I tell
you I can't believe it, I can't, and I won't--Look what that fool card
says!"
And Hamil's stunned gaze fell on the engraved card:
"Mr. and Mrs. Neville Cardross have the honour of announcing the
marriage of their daughter Shiela to Mr. Louis Malcourt."
The date and place followed.
Portlaw was making considerable noise over the matter, running about
distractedly with little, short, waddling steps. Occasionally he aimed a
kick at a stuffed arm-chair, which did not hurt his foot too much.
It was some time before he calmed enough to pout and fume and protest in
his usual manner, appealing alternately to Heaven as witness and to
Hamil for corroboration that he had been outrageously used.
"Now, who the devil could suspect him of such intention!" wailed poor
Portlaw. "God knows, he was casual with the sex. There have been dozens
of them, Hamil, literally dozens in every port!--from Mamie and Stella
up to Gladys and Ethelberta! Yes, he was Harry to some and Reginald to
others--high, low--and the game, Hamil--the game amused him; but so help
me kings and aces! I never looked for this--never so help me; and I
thought him as safe with the Vere-de-Veres as he was with the Pudding
Sisters, Farina and Tapioca! And now"--passionately displaying the
engraved card--"look who's here!... O pip! What's the use."
Dinner modified his grief; hope bubbled in the Burgundy, simmered in the
soup, grew out of gravy like the sturdy, eternal weed she is, parasitic
in the human breast.
"He's probably married a million or so," suggested Portlaw, mollified
under the seductive appeal of a fruit salad dressed with a mixture
containing nearly a hundred different ingredients. "If he has I don't
see why he shouldn't build a camp next to mine. I'll give him the
land--if he doesn't care to pay for it," he added cautiously. "Don't say
anything to him about it, Hamil. After all, why shouldn't he pay for the
land?... But if he doesn't want to--between you and me--I'll come within
appreciable distance of almost giving him what land he needs.... O gee!
O fizz! That damn Louis!... And I'm wondering--about several matters--"
After dinner Portlaw settled down by the fire, cigar lighted, and began
to compose a letter to Malcourt, embodying his vivid ideas concerning a
new house near his own for the bridal pair.
Hamil went out into the fresh April night. The young grass was wet under
the stars; a delicate fragrance of new buds filled the air.
He had been walking for a long time, when the first far hint of thunder
broke the forest silence. Later lightning began to quiver through the
darkness; a wind awaking overhead whispered prophecy, wailed it,
foreboding; then slowly the woods filled with the roar of the rain.
He was moving on, blindly, at random, conscious only of the necessity of
motion. Where the underbrush halted him he sheered off into the open
timber, feeling his way, falling sometimes, lying where he fell for a
while till the scourge of necessity lashed him into motion again.
About midnight the rain increased to a deluge, slackened fitfully, and
died out in a light rattle of thunder; star after star broke out through
the dainty vapours overhead; the trees sighed and grew quiet. For a
while drumming drops from the branches filled the silence with a musical
tattoo, then there remained no sound save, far away in the darkness, the
muffled roar of some brook, brimming bank-high with the April rain. And
Hamil, soaked, exhausted, and believing he could sleep, went back to the
house. Toward morning sleep came.
He awoke restless and depressed; and the next morning he was not well;
and not quite as well the next, remaining in his room with a headache,
pestered by Portlaw and retinues of servants bearing delicacies on
trays.
He had developed a cold, not a very bad one, and on the third day he
resumed his duties in the woods with Phelps and Baker, the surveyors,
and young Hastings.
The dull, stupid physical depression hung on to him; so did his cold;
and he found breathing difficult at night. The weather had turned very
raw and harsh, culminating in a flurry of snow.
Then one morning he appeared at breakfast looking so ghastly that
Portlaw became alarmed. It seemed to be rather late for that; Hamil's
face was already turning a dreadful bluish white under his host's
astonished gaze, and as the first chill seized him he rose from the
table, reeling.
"I--I am sorry, Portlaw," he tried to say.
"What on earth have you got?" asked Portlaw in a panic; but Hamil could
not speak.
They got him to the gardener's cottage as a precautionary measure, and
telephoned to Utica for trained nurses, and to Pride's Fall for a
doctor. Meanwhile, Hamil, in bed, was fast becoming mentally
irresponsible as the infection spread, involving both lungs, and the
fever in his veins blazed into a conflagration. That is one way that
pneumonia begins; but it ought not to have made such brutally quick work
of a young, healthy, and care-free man. There was not much chance for
him by the next morning, and less the following night when the oxygen
tanks arrived.
Portlaw, profoundly shocked and still too stunned by the swiftness of
the calamity to credit a tragic outcome, spent the day in a heavily
bewildered condition, wandering, between meals, from his house to the
cottage where Hamil lay, and back again to the telephone.
He had physicians in consultation from Utica and Albany; he had nurses
and oxygen; he had Miss Palliser on the telephone, first in New York,
then at Albany, and finally at Pride's Fall, to tell her that Hamil was
alive.
She arrived after midnight with Wayward. Hamil was still breathing--if
it could be called by that name.
Toward dawn a long-distance call summoned Portlaw: Malcourt was on the
end of the wire.
"Is Hamil ill up at your place?"
"He is," said Portlaw curtly.
"Very ill?"
"Very."
"How ill?"
"Well, he's not dead."
"Portlaw, is he dying?"
"They don't know yet."
"What is the sickness?"
"Pneumonia. I wish to heaven you were here!" he burst out, unable to
suppress his smouldering irritation any longer.
"I was going to ask you if you wanted me--"
"You needn't ask such a fool question. Your house is here for you and
the servants are eating their heads off. I haven't had your resignation
and I don't expect it while we're in trouble.... Mrs. Malcourt will come
with you, of course."
"Hold the wire."
Portlaw held it for a few minutes, then:
"Mr. Portlaw?"--scarcely audible.
"Is that you, Mrs. Malcourt?"
"Yes.... Is Mr. Hamil going to die?"
"We don't know, Mrs. Malcourt. We are doing all we can. It came
suddenly; we were caught unprepared--"
"Suddenly, you say?"
"Yes, it hit him like a bullet. He ought to have broken the journey
northward; he was not well when he arrived, but I never for a moment
thought--"
"Mr. Portlaw--please!"
"Yes?"
"Is there a chance for him?"
"The doctors refuse to say so."
"Do they say there is no chance?"
"They haven't said that, Mrs. Malcourt. I think--"
"Please, Mr. Portlaw!"
"Yes, madam!"
"Will you listen very carefully, please?"
"Certainly--"
"Mr. Malcourt and I are leaving on the 10.20. You will please consult
your time-table and keep us informed at the following stations--have you
a pencil to write them down?... Are you ready now? Ossining, Hudson,
Albany, Fonda, and Pride's Fall.... Thank you.... Mr. Malcourt wishes
you to send the Morgan horses.... If there is any change in Mr. Hamil's
condition before the train leaves the Grand Central at 10.20, let me
know. I will be at the telephone station until the last moment.
Telegrams for the train should be directed to me aboard "The
Seminole"--the private car of Mr. Cardross.... Is all this clear?...
Thank you."
With a confused idea that he was being ordered about too frequently of
late Portlaw waddled off bedward; but sleep eluded him; he lay there
watching through his window the light in the window of the sick-room
where Hamil lay fighting for breath; and sometimes he quivered all over
in scared foreboding, and sometimes the thought that Malcourt was
returning seemed to ease for a moment the dread load of responsibility
that was already playing the mischief with his digestion.
A curry had started it; a midnight golden-buck superimposed upon a
miniature mince pie had, to his grief and indignation, continued an
outrageous conspiracy against his liver begun by the shock of Hamil's
illness. But what completed his exasperation was the indifference of the
physicians attending Hamil who did not seem to appreciate the gravity of
an impaired digestive system, or comprehend that a man who couldn't
enjoy eating might as well be in Hamil's condition; and Portlaw angrily
swallowed the calomel so indifferently shoved toward him and hunted up
Wayward, to whom he aired his deeply injured feelings.
"What you need are 'Drover's Remedies,'" observed Wayward, peering at
him through his spectacles; and Portlaw unsuspiciously made a memorandum
of the famous live-stock and kennel panacea for future personal
emergencies.
The weather was unfavourable for Hamil; a raw, wet wind rattled the
windows; the east lowered thick and gray with hurrying clouds; volleys
of chilly rain swept across the clearing from time to time.
Portlaw and Wayward sat most of the time in the big living-room playing
"Canfield." There was nothing else to do except to linger somewhere
within call, and wait. Constance Palliser remained near whichever nurse
happened to be off duty, and close enough to the sick-room to shudder at
what she heard from within, all day, all night, ceaselessly ominous,
pitiable, heart-breaking.
At length Wayward took her away without ceremony into the open air.
"Look here, Constance, your sitting there and hearing such things isn't
helping Garry. Lansdale is doing everything that can be done; Miss Race
and Miss Clay are competent. You're simply frightening yourself sick--"
She protested, but he put her into a hooded ulster, buckled on her feet
a pair of heavy carriage boots, and drew her arm under his, saying: "If
there's a chance Garry is having it, and you've got to keep your
strength.... I wish this mist would clear; Hooper telephoned to Pride's
for the weather bulletin, but it is not encouraging."
They walked about for an hour and finally returned from the wet woodland
paths to the bridge, leaning on the stone parapet together.
A swollen brook roared under the arches, carrying on its amber
wave-crests tufts of green grass and young leaves and buds which the
promise of summer had tenderly unfolded to the mercy of a ruthless
flood.
"Like those young lives that go out too early," murmured Constance. "See
that little wind-flower, Jim, uprooted, drowning--and that dead thing
tumbling about half under water--"
Wayward laid a firm hand across hers.
"I don't mean to be morbid," she said with a pathetic upward glance,
"but, Jim, it is too awful to hear him fighting for just--just a chance
to breathe a little--"
"I think he's going to get well," said Wayward.
"Jim! Why do you think it? Has any--"
"No.... I just think it."
"Is there any reason--"
"None--except you."
His voice within the last month or two had almost entirely lost its
indistinct and husky undertone; the clear resonant quality, which had
always thrilled her a little as a young girl, seemed to be returning;
and now she felt, faintly, the old response awaking within her.
"It is very sweet of you to believe he'll live because I love him," she
said gently.
Wayward drew his hand from hers and, folding his arms, leaned on the
parapet inspecting the turbid water through his spectacles.
"There are no fights too desperate to be won," he said. "The thing to do
is to finish--still fighting!"
"Jim?"
"Yes."
This time her hand sought his, drew it toward her, and covered it with
both of hers.
"Jim," she said tremulously, "there is something--I am horribly
afraid--that--perhaps Garry is not fighting."
"Why?" he asked bluntly.
"There was an--an attachment--"
"A what?"
"An unfortunate affair; he was very deeply in love--"
"Not ridiculously, I hope!"
"I don't know what you mean.... He cared more than I have believed
possible; I saw him in New York on his way here and, Jim, he must have
known then, for he looked like death--"
"You mean he was in love with that Cardross girl?"
"Oh, yes, yes!... I do not understand the affair; but I tell you, Jim,
the strangest part was that the girl loved him! If ever a woman was in
love with a man, Shiela Cardross was in love with Garry! I tell you I
know it; I am not guessing, not hazarding an opinion; I know it....
And she married Louis Malcourt!... And, Jim, I have been so
frightened--so terrified--for Garry--so afraid that he might not care to
fight--"
Wayward leaned there heavily and in silence. He was going to say that
men do not do such things for women any longer, but he thought of the
awful battle not yet ended which he had endured for the sake of the
woman beside him; and he said nothing; because he knew that, without
hope of her to help him, the battle had long since gone against him. But
Garry had nothing to fight for, if what Constance said was true. And
within him his latent distrust and contempt for Malcourt blazed up,
tightening the stern lines of his sun-burnt visage.
"Portlaw says that Louis is coming to-night, and that young Mrs.
Malcourt is with him," he observed.
"I know it.... I was wondering if there was any way we could use
her--make use of her--"
"To stir up Garry to fight?"
"Y-yes--something like that--I am vague about it myself--if it could be
done without anybody suspecting the--O Jim!--I don't know; I am only a
half-crazed woman willing to do anything for my boy--"
"Certainly. If there's anything that might benefit Garry you need not
hesitate on account of that little beast Malcourt--"
She said in her gentle, earnest way: "Louis Malcourt is so very strange.
He has treated Virginia dreadfully; they were engaged--they must have
been or she could not have gone all to pieces the way she has.... I
cannot understand it, Jim--"
"What's Louis coming here for?"
"Mr. Portlaw begged him to come--"
"What for? Oh, well, I guess I can answer that for myself; it's to save
Portlaw some trouble or other--"
"You are very hard on people--very intolerant, sometimes--"
"I have no illusions concerning the unselfishness of Billy Portlaw. Look
at him tagging after the doctors and bawling for pills!--with Garry
lying there! He hustled him into a cottage, too--"
"He was quite right, Jim, Garry is better off--"
"So's William. Don't tell me, Constance; he's always been the same;
he never really cared for anybody in all his life except Louis Malcourt.
But it's a jolly, fat, good-humoured beast, and excellent company aboard
the Ariani!" ... He was silent a moment, then his voice deepened to a
clear, gentle tone, almost tender: "You've been rained on enough, now;
come in by the fire and I'll bring you the latest news from Garry."
But when he returned to the fire where Constance and Portlaw sat in
silence, the report he brought was only negative. A third doctor from
Albany arrived at nightfall and left an hour later. He was non-committal
and in a hurry, and very, very famous.
CHAPTER XXI
REINFORCEMENTS
All day Portlaw had been telephoning and telegraphing the various
stations along the New York Central Railroad, following the schedule
from his time-table and from the memoranda given him by young Mrs.
Malcourt; and now the big, double, covered buckboard and the fast
horses, which had been sent to meet them at Pride's, was expected at any
moment.
"At least," Portlaw confided with a subdued animation to Wayward, "we're
going to have a most excellent dinner for them when they arrive. My
Frenchman is doing the capons in Louis XI style--"
"Somebody," said Wayward pleasantly, "will do you in the same style some
day." And he retired to dress, laughing in an odd way. But Portlaw
searched in vain for the humour which he had contrived somehow to miss.
He also missed Malcourt on such occasions--Malcourt whose nimble
intelligence never missed a trick!
"Thank the Lord he's coming!" he breathed devoutly. "It's bad enough to
have a man dying on the premises without having an earthly thing to do
while he's doing it.... I can see no disrespect to Hamil if we play a
few cards now and then."
His valet was buttoning him up when Malcourt arrived and walked coolly
into his room.
"Louis! Damnation!" ejaculated Portlaw, purple with emotion.
"Especially the latter," nodded Malcourt. "They tell me, below, that
Hamil is very sick; wait a moment!--Mrs. Malcourt is in my house; she is
to have it for herself. Do you understand?"
"Y-yes--"
"All right. I take my old rooms here for the present. Tell Williams.
Mrs. Malcourt has brought a maid and another trained nurse for
emergencies. She wanted to; and that's enough."
"Lord, but I'm glad you've come!" said Portlaw, forgetting all the
reproaches and sarcasms he had been laboriously treasuring to discharge
at his superintendent.
"Thanks," said Malcourt drily. "And I say; we didn't know anybody else
was here--"
"Only his aunt and Wayward--"
Malcourt cast a troubled glance around the room, repeating: "I didn't
understand that anybody was here."
"What difference does that make? You're coming back to stay, aren't
you?"
Malcourt looked at him. "That's supposed to be the excuse for our
coming.... Certainly; I'm your superintendent, back from a fortnight's
leave to get married in.... That's understood." ... And, stepping
nearer: "There's hell to pay in town. Have you seen the papers?"
"Not to-day's--"
"They're down-stairs. Wormly, Hunter & Blake have failed--liabilities
over three million. There's probably going to be a run on the Shoshone
Securities Company; Andreas Hogg and Gumble Brothers have laid down on
their own brokers and the Exchange has--"
"What!"
"A nice outlook, isn't it? Be careful what you say before Mrs. Malcourt;
she doesn't realise that Cardross, Carrick & Co. may be involved."
Portlaw said with that simple self-centred dignity which characterised
him in really solemn moments: "Thank God, I'm in an old-line institution
and own nothing that can ever pass a dividend!"
"Even your hens pay their daily dole," nodded Malcourt, eyeing him.
"Certainly. If they don't, it's a fricassee for theirs!" chuckled
Portlaw, in excellent humour over his own financial security in time of
stress.
So they descended to the living-room together where Constance and
Wayward stood whispering by the fire. Malcourt greeted them; they
exchanged a few words in faultless taste, then he picked an umbrella
from the rack and went across the lawn to his house where his bride of a
fortnight awaited him. Portlaw rubbed his pudgy hands together
contentedly.
"Now that Louis is back," he said to Wayward, "this place will be run
properly again."
"Is it likely," asked Wayward, "that a man who has just married several
millions will do duty as your superintendent in the backwoods?"
"Well," said Portlaw, with his head on one side, "do you know, it is
extremely likely. And I have a vague idea that he will draw his salary
with great regularity and promptness."
"What are you talking about?" said Wayward bluntly.
"I'll tell you. But young Mrs. Malcourt does not know--and she is not to
be told as long as it can be avoided: Cardross, Carrick & Co. are in a
bad way."
"How bad?"
"The worst--unless the Clearing House does something--"
"What!"
"--And it won't! Mark my words. Wayward, the Clearing House won't lift a
penny's weight from the load on their shoulders. I know. There's a
string of banks due to blow up; the fuse has been lighted, and it's up
to us to stand clear--"
"Oh, hush!" whispered Constance in a frightened voice; the door swung
open; a gust of chilly air sent the ashes in the fireplace whirling
upward among the leaping flames.
Young Mrs. Malcourt entered the room.
Her gown, which was dark--and may have been black--set off her
dead-white face and hands in a contrast almost startling. Confused for a
moment by the brilliancy of the lamplight she stood looking around her;
then, as Portlaw waddled forward, she greeted him very quietly;
recognised and greeted Wayward, and then slowly turned toward Constance.
There was a pause; the girl took a hesitating step forward; but Miss
Palliser met her more than half-way, took both her hands, and, holding
them, looked her through and through.
Malcourt's voice broke in gravely:
"It is most unfortunate that my return to duty should happen under such
circumstances. I do not think there is any man in the world for whom I
have the respect--and affection--that I have for Hamil."
Wayward was staring at him almost insolently; Portlaw, comfortably
affected, shook his head in profound sympathy, glancing sideways at the
door where his butler always announced dinner. Constance had heard, but
she looked only at young Mrs. Malcourt. Shiela alone had been
unconscious of the voice of her lord and master.
She looked bravely back into the golden-brown eyes of Miss Palliser;
and, suddenly realising that, somehow, this woman knew the truth,
flinched pitifully.
But Constance crushed the slender, colourless hands in her own, speaking
tremulously low:
"Perhaps he'll have a chance now. I am so thankful that you've come."
"Yes." Her ashy lips formed the word, but there was no utterance.
Dinner was announced with a decorous modulation befitting the
circumstances.
Malcourt bore himself faultlessly during the trying function; Wayward
was moody; his cynical glance through his gold-rimmed glasses resting
now on Malcourt, now on Shiela. The latter ate nothing, which grieved
Portlaw beyond measure, for the salad was ambrosial and the capon was
truly Louis XI.
Later the men played Preference, having nothing else to do after the
ladies left, Constance insisting on taking Shiela back to her own house,
and Malcourt acquiescing in the best of taste.
The stars were out; a warm, sweet, dry wind had set in from the
south-west.
"It was what we've prayed for," breathed Constance, pausing on the lawn.
"It was what the doctors wanted for him. How deliciously warm it is! Oh,
I hope it will help him!"
"Is that his cottage?" whispered Shiela.
"Yes.... His room is there where the windows are open.... They keep
them open, you know.... Do you want to go in?"
"Oh, may I see him!"
"No, dear.... Only I often sit in the corridor outside.... But perhaps
you could not endure it--"
"Endure what?"
"To hear--to listen--to his--breathing--"
"Let me go with you!" she whispered, clasping her hands, "let me go with
you, Miss Palliser. I will be very quiet, I will do whatever you tell
me--only let me go with you!"
Miss Clay, just released from duty, met them at the door.
"There is nothing to say," she said; "of course every hour he holds out
is an hour gained. The weather is more favourable. Miss Race will show
you the chart."
As Shiela entered the house the ominous sounds from above struck her
like a blow; she caught her breath and stood perfectly still, one hand
pressing her breast.
"That is not as bad as it has been," whispered Constance, and
noiselessly mounted the stairs.
Shiela crept after her and halted as though paralysed when the elder
woman pointed at a door which hung just ajar. Inside the door stood a
screen and a shaded electric jet. A woman's shadow moved across the wall
within.
Without the slightest noise Constance sank down on the hallway sofa;
Shiela crept up close beside her, closer, when the dreadful sounds broke
out again, trembling in every limb, pressing her head convulsively
against the elder woman's arm.
Young Dr. Lansdale came up-stairs an hour later, nodded to Constance,
looked sharply at Shiela, then turned to the nurse who had forestalled
him at the door. A glance akin to telepathy flashed between physician
and nurse, and the doctor turned to Miss Palliser:
"Would you mind asking Miss Clay to come back?" he said quietly.
"Oh!--has she gone to bed?"
Shiela was on her feet: "I--I have brought a trained nurse," she said;
"the very best--from Johns Hopkins--"
"I should be very glad to have her for a few moments," said the doctor,
looking at the chart by the light of the hall lamp.
Shiela sped down the stairs like a ghost; the nurse re-entered the room;
the doctor turned to follow, and halted short as a hand touched his arm.
"Dr. Lansdale?"
He nodded pleasantly.
"Does it do any good--when one is very, very ill--to see--"
The doctor made a motion with his head. "Who is that young girl?" he
asked coolly.
"Mrs. Malcourt--"
"Oh! I thought it might have been this Shiela he is always talking about
in his delirium--"
"It is," whispered Constance.
For a moment they looked one another in the eyes; then a delicate colour
stole over the woman's face.
"I'm afraid--I'm afraid that my boy is not making the fight he could
make," she whispered.
"Why not?"
She was speechless.
"Why not!" ... And in a lower voice: "This corridor is a
confessional. Miss Palliser--if that helps you any."
She said: "They were in love."
"Oh! Are they yet?"
"Yes."
"Oh! She married the other man?"
"Yes."
"Oh!"
Young Lansdale wheeled abruptly and entered the sick-room. Shiela
returned in a few minutes with her nurse, a quick-stepping, cool-eyed
young woman in spotless uniform. A few minutes afterward the sounds
indicated that oxygen was being used.
An hour later Miss Race came into the hallway and looked at Shiela.
"Mr. Hamil is conscious," she said. "Would you care to see him for a
second?"
A dreadful fear smote her as she crouched there speechless.
"The danger of infection is slight," said the nurse--and knew at the
same instant that she had misunderstood. "Did you think I meant he is
dying?" she added gently as Shiela straightened up to her slender
height.
"Is he better?" whispered Constance.
"He is conscious," said the nurse patiently. "He knows"--turning to
Shiela--"that you are here. You must not speak to him; you may let him
see you for a moment. Come!"
In the shadowy half-light of the room Shiela halted at a sign from the
nurse; the doctor glanced up, nodding almost imperceptibly as the girl's
eyes fell upon the bed.
How she did it--what instinct moved her, what unsuspected reserve of
courage prompted her, she never understood; but looking into the
dreadful eyes of death itself there in the sombre shadows of the bed,
she smiled with a little gesture of gay recognition, then, turning,
passed from the room.
"Did he know you?" motioned Constance.
"I don't know--I don't know.... I think he was--dying--before he saw
me--"
She was shuddering so violently that Constance could scarcely hold her,
scarcely guide her down the stairs, across the lawn toward her own
house. The doctor overtook and passed them on his way to his own
quarters, but he only bowed very pleasantly, and would have gone on
except for the soft appeal of Constance.
"Miss Palliser," he said, "I don't know--if you want the truth. You
know all that I do; he is conscious--or was. I expect he will be, at
intervals, now. This young lady behaved admirably--admirably! The thing
to do is to wait."
He glanced at Shiela, hesitated, then:
"Would it be any comfort to learn that he knew you?"
"Yes.... Thank you."
The doctor nodded and said in a hearty voice: "Oh, we've got to pull him
through somehow. That's what I'm here for." And he went away briskly
across the lawn.
"What are you going to do?" asked Constance in a low voice.
"I don't know; write to my father, I think."
"You ought not to sit up after such a journey."
"Do you suppose I could sleep to-night?"
Constance drew her into her arms; the girl clung to her, head hidden on
her breast.
"Shiela, Shiela," she murmured, "you can always come to me. Always,
always!--for Garry's sake.... Listen, child: I do not understand your
tragedy--his and yours--I only know you loved each other.... Love--and a
boy's strange ways in love have always been to me a mystery--a sad one,
Shiela.... For once upon a time--there was a boy--and never in all my
life another. Dear, we women are all born mothers to men--and from birth
to death our heritage is motherhood--grief for those of us who
bear--sadness for us who shall never bear--mothers to sorrow
everyone.... Do you love him?"
"Yes."
"That is forbidden you, now."
"It was forbidden me from the first; yet, when I saw him I loved him.
What was I to do?"
Constance waited, but the girl had fallen silent.
"Is there more you wish to tell me?"
"No more."
She bent and kissed the cold cheek on her shoulder.
"Don't sit up, child. If there is any reason for waking you I will come
myself."
"Thank you."
So they parted, Constance to seek her room and lie down partly dressed;
Shiela to the new quarters still strange and abhorrent to her.
Her maid, half dead with fatigue, slept in a chair, and young Mrs.
Malcourt aroused her and sent her off to bed. Then she roamed through
the rooms, striving to occupy her mind with the negative details of the
furnishing; but it was all drearily harmless, unaccented anywhere by
personal taste, merely the unmeaning harmony executed by a famous New
York decorator, at Portlaw's request--a faultless monotony from garret
to basement.
There was a desk in one room; ink in the well, notepaper bearing the
name of Portlaw's camp. She looked at it and passed on to her bedroom.
But after she had unlaced and, hair unbound, stood staring vacantly
about her, she remembered the desk; and drawing on her silken
chamber-robe, went into the writing-room.
At intervals, during her writing, she would rise and gaze from the
window across the darkness where in the sick-room a faint, steady glow
remained; and she could see the white curtains in his room stirring like
ghosts in the soft night wind and the shadow of the nurse on wall and
ceiling.
   "Dear, dear dad and mother," she wrote; "Mr. Portlaw was so
   anxious for Louis to begin his duties that we decided to come at
   once, particularly as we both were somewhat worried over the
   serious illness of Mr. Hamil.
   "He is very, very ill, poor fellow. The sudden change from the
   South brought on pneumonia. I know that you both and Gray and
   Cecile and Jessie will feel as sorry as I do. His aunt, Miss
   Palliser, is here. To-night I was permitted to see him. Only his
   eyes were visible and they were wide open. It is very dreadful,
   very painful, and has cast a gloom over our gaiety.
   "To-night Dr. Lansdale said that he would pull him through. I am
   afraid he said it to encourage Miss Palliser.
   "This is a beautiful place--" She dropped her pen with a shudder,
   closed her eyes, groped for it again, and forced herself to
   continue--"Mr. Portlaw is very kind. The superintendent's house
   is large and comfortable. Louis begins his duties to-morrow.
   Everything promises to be most interesting and enjoyable--" She
   laid her head in her arms, remaining so, motionless until
   somewhere on the floor below a clock struck midnight."
At last she managed to go on:
   "Dad, dear; what you said to Louis about my part of your estate
   was very sweet and generous of you; but I do not want it. Louis
   and I have talked it over in the last fortnight and we came to
   the conclusion that you must make no provision for me at present.
   We wish to begin very simply and make our own way. Besides I know
