She turned to Smith, but he put out a hand in violent protest; then to
Worth, but he smiled and shook his head.
"O'Mally is right," he said. "We need no guaranty."
She put the ring away. It was her mother's. She never would smile in
secret at these men again. They might be vain and artificial and always
theatrical, but there was nevertheless a warm and generous heart
beneath.
"Thank you," she said quietly. "If I lose your money we will all go to
Florence. I have another plan, but that will keep till this one under
hand proves a failure. None of you shall regret your confidence in me."
"Pshaw!" said O'Mally.
"Nonsense!" said Smith.
And Worth smiled reassuringly.
O'Mally beckoned to a waiter. " Oony  bottle  vino dee Asti, caldo,
frappé !" he said loudly, so that all might hear him give the order. A
month in Venice, and he would be able to talk like a native. True, if
any Italian spoke to him, he was obliged to shake his head; but that was
a trifling matter.
"Tom!" warned Smith.
"You let me alone," replied O'Mally. "A quart of Asti won't hurt
anybody."
So the thin sweet wine of Asti was served, and La Signorina toasted them
all gratefully.
Early the next morning she and Kitty departed for Monte Carlo in quest
of fortune. Fortune was there, waiting, but in a guise wholly
unexpected.
CHAPTER XII
A BOX OF CIGARS
On the way up to Rome Hillard and his pupil had a second-class
compartment all to themselves. The train was a fast one; for the day of
slow travel has passed in Italy and the cry of speed is heard over the
land. The train stopped often and rolled about a good deal; but the
cushions were soft, and there was real comfort in being able to stretch
out full length. Hillard, having made this trip many times, took the
forward seat and fell into a doze.
Merrihew was like a city boy taking his first trip into the country. He
hung out of the window, and smoked and smoked. Whenever the train swept
round a curve he could look into the rear carriages; and the heads
sticking out of the thirds reminded him of chicken-crates. Never had he
seen such green gardens, such orange and lemon groves, such forests of
olives. Save that it was barren rock, not a space as broad as a man's
hand was left uncultivated; and not a farm which was not in good repair.
One saw no broken fences, no slovenly out-houses, no glaring
advertisements afield: nobody was asked impertinently if Soandso's soap
had been used that morning, nor did the  bambini  cry for
soothing-syrups. Everything was of stone (for wood is precious in
Italy), generally whitewashed, and presenting the smiling countenance of
comfort and cleanliness. The Italian in the city is seldom clean; there,
it is so easy to lie in the gutters under the sun. Reared and bred in
laziness for centuries, dirt has no terrors, but water has. With his
brother in the country it is different. Labor makes him self-respecting.
Merrihew had seen so many dirty Sicilians and Neapolitans working on
American railways that he had come to the conclusion that Italy was the
most poverty-stricken country in the world. He was now forming new
opinions at the rate of one every hour.
How pretty were the peasants in the fields with their bright bits of
color, a scarlet shawl, a skirt of faded blue, a yellow kerchief round
the head! And the great white oxen at the plows! Sometimes he saw a
strange, phantom-like, walled town hanging to some cliffs far away. It
disappeared and reappeared and disappeared again. Never a chimney with
the curling black smoke of the factory did he see above any of these
clustered cities. When he recalled to mind the pall of soft-coal smoke
which hangs over the average American city, he knew that while Italy
might be cursed with poverty she had her blessing in fine clear skies.
And always, swinging down the great roads, he saw in fancy the ghosts of
armies, crusaders, mercenaries, feudal companies, crossbowmen, and
knights in mail.
It amused him to see the buxom women flagging the train at crossings.
And the little stations, where everybody rushed out to buy a drink of
bottled water! Suddenly the station-master struck a bell, the conductor
tooted a horn, and the engine's shrill whistle shrieked; and off they
flew again. No newsboy to bother one with stale gum, rank cigars,
ancient caramels and soiled novels; nothing but solid comfort. And oh!
the flashing streams which rushed under bridges or plunged alongside.
Merrihew's hand ached to hold a rod and whip the green pools where the
fallen olive leaves floated and swam like silver minnows. Half a dozen
times he woke Hillard to draw his attention to these streams. But
Hillard disillusioned him. Rarely were there any fish, nor were these
waters drinkable, passing as they did over immense beds of lime.
There was a change of cars at Rome and a wait of two hours. Hillard led
the way to a popular café in the Piazza delle Terme, near the station.
Here they lunched substantially. In that hour or so Merrihew saw more
varied uniforms than he had seen in all his past life; perambulating
parrakeets which glittered, smoked cigarettes or black cigars with
straws in them, and drank coffee out of tumblers. He readily imagined
that he was surrounded by enough dukes and princes and counts to run a
dozen kingdoms, with a few left over for the benefit of the American
market. He was making no mistakes now; he could distinguish a general
from a hotel concierge without the least difficulty.
And still Americans, everywhere Americans; rich and poor Americans, loud
and quiet Americans; Americans who had taste and education, and some who
had neither; well-dressed and over-dressed, obtrusive and unobtrusive,
parvenu and aristocrat. Once Merrihew saw a fine old gentleman wearing
the Honor Legion ribbon in his buttonhole, and his heart grew warm and
proud. Here was an order which was not to be purchased like the Order of
Leopold and the French Legion of Honor. To win this simple order a man
must prove his courage under fire, must be the author of an heroic
exploit on the battle-field. And besides, there was this advantage: to
servants in Europe a button or a slip of ribbon in the lapel signifies
an order, a nobility of one sort or another, and as a consequence they
treat the wearer with studied civility.
"I wish I had remembered," sighed Merrihew, after gazing at the old
gentleman.
"Remembered what?"
"Why, I've got a whole raft of medals I won at college. I could wear
them quite handily over here."
"Buy an order. Any pawnshop will have a few for sale. You could wear it
in Switzerland or France, and nobody would be any the wiser."
"But I'm serious."
"So am I."
Merrihew brightened, reached into a vest pocket, and to Hillard's horror
produced a monocle, which he gravely screwed in his eye.
"Where the--"
"Sh! If you make me laugh I'll drop it."
Merrihew stared about calmly and coldly, as he had seen some Englishmen
do. A waiter, seeing the sun flash on the circle of crystal, hurried
over, firmly believing he had been heliographed.
" Niente ," said Merrihew, waving him aside. "You see?" he whispered to
Hillard, who was rather amused at this tomfoolery. "Brings 'em without a
word. Hanged if I don't wear it the rest of the trip. There's a
certain--whatdyecallit?--eclaw about the demmed thing."
"Wear it, by all means. You'll be as amusing as a comic weekly. But if
you ever drop it, I'll step on it accidentally."
"I can keep it in my eye all right," said Merrihew, "so long as I don't
laugh. Now, while there's time, let us see some of the sights; the
Golden House of Nero, for instance, and the Forum, the Colosseum, St.
Peter's and the Vatican; just a passing glance at a few things, as it
were." Merrihew as he spoke kept a sober countenance.
It deceived Hillard, who eyed him with unfeigned wonder, marveling that
any rational mind should even think of such a thing, much less propose
it.
"Why not run up to Venice and back?" he inquired sarcastically.
"Is it as far as that?" innocently. "Well, we'll make it just St.
Peter's and the Vatican."
"Impossible! In the hour we have left we can see nothing, positively
nothing. And even now we had better start for the station to get a
compartment before the rush. St. Peter's and the Vatican! You talk like
the Englishman who wanted to run over to San Francisco and back to
Philadelphia in the morning."
A grin now spread over Merrihew's face. Hillard scratched his chin
reflectively.
"I'll pay for the luncheon myself," he said.
"You had better. It was great sport to watch your face. I'll be in a
happy frame of mind all day now."
After luncheon Merrihew secretly bought two boxes of cigars to carry
along. They were good cigars and cost him fifteen dollars. He covered
them with some newspapers, and at the station succeeded by some
legerdemain in slipping them into one of his cases. Hillard would have
lectured him on his extravagance, and this was a good way to avoid it.
But some hours later he was going to be very sorry that he had not made
a confidant of his guide. Merrihew had never heard of the town of
Ventimiglia, which straddles the frontiers of France and Italy. As they
were boarding the train they noticed two gentlemen getting into the
forward compartment of the carriage.
"Humph! Our friend with the scar," said Hillard. "We do not seem able to
shake him."
"I'd like to shake him. He goes against the grain, somehow." Merrihew
swung into the compartment. "I wonder why the Sandfords dropped him?"
"For some good reason. They are a liberal pair, and if our friend
forward offended them, it must have been something deliberate and
outside the pale of forgiveness. But I should like to know where old
Giovanni is. I miss him."
"Poor devil!" said Merrihew with careless sympathy. It is easy to be
sympathetic with persons whose troubles are remote from our own.
The train started, and again they had the compartment.
"Monte Carlo! Gold, gold, little round pieces of gold!" Merrihew rubbed
his hands like the miser in  The Chimes of Normandy .
"Hard to get and heavy to hold!" quoted Hillard. "I suppose that you
have a system already worked out."
"Of course. I shall win if I stick to it."
"Or if the money lasts. Bury your system, my boy. It will do you no
good. Trust to luck only. Monte Carlo is the graveyard of systems."
"But maybe my system is the one. You can't tell till I have tried it."
Merrihew lighted a cigar, and Hillard smiled secretly. After some time
the conductor came in to examine the tickets. When the examination was
over he paused in front of Merrihew, who puffed complacently.
"Signore," the conductor said politely, " e vietato fumare ."
Merrihew replied with an uncomprehending stare.
" Non fumer! " said the conductor, with his hand at the side of his
mouth, as one does to a person who is suddenly discovered to be hard of
hearing.
Merrihew smiled weakly and signified that he did not understand.
" Nicht rauchen! " cried the official in desperation.
Merrihew extended his hands hopelessly. He had nothing belonging to the
conductor. Hillard had the tickets.
" Niet rooken! Niet rooken! "
"I say, Jack, what the deuce does he want, anyhow?"
" Cigare, cigare! " The conductor gesticulated toward the window.
"Oh!" Merrihew took the cigar from his teeth and went through the
pantomime of tossing it out of the window.
" Si, si! " assented the conductor, delighted that he was finally
understood.
"You might have given me the tip," Merrihew grumbled across to Hillard.
He viewed the halfburnt perfecto ruefully and filliped it through the
window. "How should I know smoking was prohibited?"
"You had your joke; this is mine. Besides, I remained silent to the
advantage of your future education. The conductor has spoken to you in
four languages--Italian, French, German and Dutch." Hillard then spoke
to the conductor. "May not my friend smoke so long as ladies do not
enter?"
"Certainly, since it does not annoy you." Then the conductor bowed and
disappeared into the next compartment.
Merrihew inscribed on the back of an envelope, for future reference, the
four phrases, and in ten minutes had, with the assistance of his
preceptor, mastered their pronunciations.
"I wish I had been born a hotel concierge," he said mournfully. "They
speak all languages, and the Lord knows where they find the time to
learn them."
"The Englishman, the Parisian and the American are the poorest
linguists," said Hillard. "They are altogether too well satisfied with
themselves and their environments to bother learning any language but
their own, and most Americans do not take the trouble to do that."
"Hear, hear!"
"It is because I am a good patriot that I complain," said Hillard. "I
love my country, big, healthy and strong as it is; but I wish my people
would brush up their learning, so that these foreigners would have less
right to make sport of us."
"There's some truth in what you say. But we are young, and going ahead
all the time."
Soon the train began to lift into the mountains, the beautiful
Apennines, and Merrihew counted so many tunnels he concluded that this
was where the inventor of the cinematograph got his idea. Just as some
magnificent valley began to unfold, with a roar the train dashed into a
dank, sooty tunnel. One could neither read nor enjoy the scenery;
nothing to do but sit tight and wait, let the window down when they
passed a tunnel, lift it when they entered one. By the time they arrived
in Genoa, late at night, both compared favorably with the coalers in the
harbor of Naples.
The English and American tourists have done much toward making Italy a
soap-and-water tolerating country (loving would be misapplied). But in
Italy the State owns the railroads. There is water (of a kind), but
never soap or towels.
Early the next morning the adventurers set out for Monte Carlo, taking
only their hand-luggage. More tunnels. A compartment filled with women
and children. And hot besides. But the incomparable beauty of the
Riviera was a compensation. Ventimiglia, or Vintimille, has a sinister
sound in the ears of the traveler, if perchance he be a man fond of his
tobacco. A turbulent stream cuts the town in two. On the east side
stands a gloomy barn of a station; on the other side one of the most
picturesque walled towns in Europe, and of Roman antiquity. The train
drew in. A dozen steps more, and one was virtually in France. But there
is generally a slight hitch before one takes the aforesaid steps: the
French customs. A  facchino  popped his head into the window.
"Eight minutes for examination of luggage!" he cried.
He held out his arms, and Hillard piled the luggage upon him.
"Come, Dan; lively, if we want good seats when we come out. We change
trains."
The two men followed the porter to the ticket entrance, surrendered
their coupons, and passed into the customs. The porter had to go round
another way. After a short skirmish they located their belongings, which
unfortunately were far down toward the end of the barrier. They would
have to be patient. Hillard held in his hands his return coupons to
Genoa. Sometimes this helps at the frontier; and if one has a steamer
ticket, better still. Inspectors then understand that one is to be but a
transient guest.
Among the inspectors at Ventimiglia is a small, wizened Frenchman, with
a face as cold and impassive as the sand-blown Sphinx. He possesses
among other accomplishments a nose, peculiar less for its shape than for
its smell. He can "smell out" tobacco as a witch doctor in Zululand
smells out a "devil." Fate directed this individual toward the
Americans. Hillard knew him of old; and he never forgets a face, this
wizened little man.
"Monsieur has nothing to declare?" he asked.
Hillard made a negative sign and opened his cases. With scarce a glance
at their contents, and waving aside the coupons, the inspector applied
the chalk and turned to Merrihew.
"Monsieur has nothing to declare?" he repeated.
Merrihew shook his head airily. " Niente, niente! " he said in his best
Italian. He did not understand what the inspector said; he merely had
suspicions.
"Look!" suddenly exclaimed Hillard.
Passing out of the door which led to liberty and to France, their
luggage guaranteed by cabalistic chalk marks, were two women. One of
them was veiled, the other was not.
"Kitty Killigrew, as I live!" shouted Merrihew, making a dash for the
door.
But the inspector blocked the way, beckoned to a gendarme, who came
over, and calmly pointed to Merrihew's unopened cases.
"Open!" said the inspector, all his listlessness gone. He had seen
people in a hurry before.
"But--" Merrihew struggled to pass.
"For Heaven's sake!" cried Hillard, "be patient and open the cases at
once."
Merrihew handled his keys clumsily. The first key on the ring should
have been the last, and the last first. It is ever thus when one is in a
hurry. Finally he threw back the lids, feeling that in another moment he
must have spouted Italian or French out of pure magic, simply to tell
this fool inspector what he thought of him.
"Oho! Monsieur-in-a-hurry!" mocked the inspector. "Nothing, nothing!" He
took out the two boxes of cigars.
"Why the devil didn't you tell me you had them?" Hillard demanded
wrathfully. To find the women by this stroke of luck, and then to lose
them again for two boxes of cigars! It was maddening!
As a matter of fact, Merrihew had forgotten all about them, so far as
intentional wrong-doing was concerned.
The inspector went through Merrihew's possessions with premeditated
leisure. Everything had to come out. He even opened the shaving sets,
the collar box, the pin cases, and the tie bag. Other persons pushed by
toward the train, uttering their relief aloud. Still the inspector
doddered on. "Will you hasten?" asked Hillard. "We do not wish to miss
this train."
"Others follow," said the inspector laconically.
Hillard produced a five-franc piece. The inspector laughed without noise
and shook his head. This one inspector is impervious to money or smooth
speeches. He is the law personified, inexorable.
"Tell him to keep the cigars, but let us go!" Merrihew begged.
No, that would not do. Monsieur had not declared the cigars. If he
persisted, the government would confiscate the cigars, but in place of
duty there would be a large fine. Monsieur had better be patient and pay
the duty only, retaining his valuable cigars. It was very liberal on his
(the inspector's) part.
Hillard strained his eyes, but saw neither Kitty nor the veiled lady
again. Doubtless they were already on the train. Had Merrihew been an
old traveler he would have left him to get to Monte Carlo the best way
he could; but Merrihew was as helpless as a child, and he hadn't the
heart to desert him, though he deserved to be deserted.
Ding-ding! went the bell. Toot-toot! went the horn. Whee-whee! went the
whistle. The train for Monte Carlo was drawing out, and they were being
left behind. Hillard swore and Merrihew went white with impotent anger.
If only he could hit something! The inspector smiled and went on with
his deadly work. When he was certain that they could not possibly catch
the train, he chalked the cases, handed the cigars to their owner, and
pointed to a sign the other side of the barricade.
"What shall I do now, Jack?" Merrihew asked.
"I refuse to help you. Find out yourself."
So Merrihew, hopeless and subdued, went into the room designated, saw
the cigars taken out and weighed, took the bill and presented it with a
hundred-lire note at the little window in the off-room. The official
there pushed the money back indifferently.
" Française, Monsieur, française! "
Merrihew blinked at him. What  was  the matter now? Was the note bad?
" Change, cambio! " said the official testily. Would tourists never
learn anything?
Merrihew got it through his head somehow where the difficulty lay. He
went out again, remembering the sign  Cambio  hanging in front of the
news-stand. He lost half a dollar in the exchange, but for the time
being his troubles were over.
Meanwhile Hillard had made inquiries at the door. No, the official there
told him, he had not noticed the lady in the veil. So many passed; it
was impossible to recollect.
And Merrihew found him sitting disconsolately on the barricade.
"I hope you are perfectly satisfied," said Hillard, with an amiability
which wouldn't have passed muster anywhere.
"Oh, I'm satisfied," answered Merrihew. He stuffed his pockets with
cigars, slammed the boxes into the case, and locked them up. He
collected his belongings and repacked the other case, keeping up a
rumbling monotone as he did so. "Oh, yes; I am damned satisfied."
"I warned you about tobacco."
"I know it."
"You should have told me."
"I know that, too; but I didn't want you to lecture me."
"A lecture would have been better than waiting here in this barn for
three hours."
"Three hours?" despondently.
"Oh, there's a restaurant, but it's not much better than this. It's bad;
flies and greasy plates."
Conversation died. For the first time in the long run of their
friendship there was a coolness between them. However, their native
sense of humor was too strong for this coolness to last. Merrihew was
first to break the silence.
"Jack, I  am  an ass!" penitently.
"I admit it," said Hillard, smiling.
"Let's hunt up the restaurant; I am hungry and thirsty."
And by the time they had found the Ristorante Tornaghi--miserable and
uninviting--they were laughing.
"Only, I wish I knew where they were going," was Hillard's regret.
"They?" said Merrihew.
"Yes. The woman with Kitty is the woman I'm going to find if I stay in
Europe ten years. And when I find her, I'm going to marry her."
"Sounds good," said Merrihew, pouring himself a third glass of very
indifferent Beaune.
"And they may be going anywhere but to Monte Carlo--Paris, Cherbourg,
Calais. In my opinion, Monte Carlo is the last place two such women are
likely to go to alone."
"Have a cigar," Merrihew urged drolly. "I paid fifteen cents apiece for
them in Rome. They are now four for a dollar. And I suppose that I'll
have to smoke them all up in Monte Carlo, or the Italian end of this
ruin will sink the harpoon into me for fifty more francs. I'd like to
get that blockhead over the line. I'd customs him."
"Don't blame him. He is to be admired. He is one of the rarities of
Europe--an honest official."
So they sat in the dingy restaurant, smoking and laughing and grumbling
till the next train was announced. At four that afternoon they arrived
without further mishap at the most interesting station of its size in
Europe--Monte Carlo. And Merrihew saw gold whichever way he looked: in
the sunshine on the sea, in the glistening rails, in the reflecting
windows of the many-terraced hotels, in the orange trees; gold, gold,
beautiful gold napoleons.
And then, into the omnibus adjoining, came the man with the scar.
CHAPTER XIII
KITTY ASKS QUESTIONS
The Riviera, from San Remo on the Italian side to Cannes on the French,
possesses a singular beauty. Cities and villages nestle in bays or crown
frowning promontories; and sheltered from northern winds by mountains
rugged and lofty, the vegetation is tropical and rich. Thousands of
splendid villas (architectural madnesses) string out along the
rock-bound coast; and princes and grand dukes and kings live in some of
these. Often a guide will point out some little palace and dramatically
whisper that this will be the villa of a famous ballerina, or Spanish
dancer, or opera singer, or some duchess whose husband never had any
duchy. And seldom these villas are more than a stone's throw from the
villas of the princes and grand dukes and kings. Nobility and royalty
are fond of jovial company. Aladdin's lamp is not necessary here, where
one may build a villa by the aid of one's toes!
Nature--earthly nature--has nothing to do with the morality of humanity,
if it can not uplift. Yet humanity can alter nature, beautify it after a
conventional manner, or demolish it, still after a conventional manner.
On the Riviera humanity has nature pretty well under hand.
Villefranche stands above Nice, between that white city and Monte Carlo.
It is quiet and lovely. For this reason the great army of tourists pass
it by; there is no casino, no band, no streets full of tantalizing
shops. On the very western limit of Villefranche, on the winding white
road which rises out of Nice, a road so frequently passed over by
automobiles that a haze of dust always hangs over it, is a modest little
villa, so modest that a ballerina would scorn it and a duchess ignore
it. It is, in truth, a  pensione , where only those who come well
recommended are accepted as guests. It is on the left of the road as you
ride east, and its verandas and window balconies look straight out to
sea, the eternally blue Mediterranean. A fine grove of shade trees
protects it from the full glare of the sun.
In the balcony La Signorina reposed in a steamer chair, gazing seaward.
The awning cast a warm glow as of gold upon her face and hair, a
transparent shadow. She was at this moment the most precious thing upon
which the eye may look--a wholly beautiful woman. Kitty Killigrew,
standing in the casement window, stared at her silently, not without
some envy, not without some awe. What was going on behind those dreamy
eyes? Only once did the woman in the chair move, but this movement was
tense with passion: she clenched her hands and struck them roughly on
the arms of the chair. Immediately she relaxed, as if realizing how
futile such emotion was. Kitty stirred and came out. She sat in the
neighboring chair.
"Hilda?" said Kitty.
"Yes, Kitty."
"Who and what are you?" Kitty asked bravely.
La Signorina's eyes wandered till they met Kitty's. There was neither
anger nor surprise in the glance, only deliberation.
"And what good would it do you to know? Would it change our positions
any? Would it bring money from home any sooner? You already know,
without my telling you, that I am unhappy. The adventuress always is."
"Adventuress?" Kitty laughed scornfully. "The proprietor pretends he
does not know you, but I am certain he does. He forgets himself
sometimes in the way he bows to you. He has even called you  altezza ,
which you tell me is Italian for highness."
"He is in hope of a liberal tip."
"The proprietor? One does not tip him."
"That is true. I can not understand his motive, then."
"If he also applied the title to me, it would be different. He rarely
notices me. Won't you tell me what the secret is?"
"How beautiful that white sail looks!"
"You know all about me," went on Kitty stubbornly.
"Because you told me. I never asked you a single question."
"And you have told me nothing."
"Why should I? Come, Kitty, be reasonable. Tell me what you think of
that sail. Is it not beautiful in the sunset?"
"Is it--love?"
"Love?" La Signorina shrugged. "Poor Kitty, you are trying in vain to
make a romance out of my life. What should I know of love? It is a myth,
a fable, only to be found in story-books. You should not read so much."
"It is not curiosity," declared Kitty. "It is because I love you, and
because it makes me sad when I hear you laugh, when I see you beat your
hands against the chair as you did just now." There was a tremble in
Kitty's voice that suggested the nearness of tears.
La Signorina turned again, in a passion which was as fierce as it was
sudden.
"There  is  a man," she whispered rather than spoke, the pupils in her
eyes dilating so that the blue irises nearly disappeared. "But I loathe
him, I hate him, I abhor him! And were it not wicked to kill, he would
have been dead long ago. Enough! If you ever ask another question, I
will leave you. I like you, but I insist that my secrets shall be my
own, since they concern you in no manner."
"I am sorry," said Kitty with contrition. "But I suspected there was a
man. I understand. He was false to you and broke your heart,"
romantically.
"No, Kitty; only my pride."
"It is a strange world," mused Kitty.
"It would be otherwise were it not that the heart and the mind are
always at war. But let us turn to our affairs. I received a letter
to-day."
"From home?" eagerly.
"I have no home, Kitty. The letter is from a friend in Naples. Mr.
Hillard and Mr. Merrihew, friends of yours, are in Italy."
Kitty could scarce believe her ears. "Where are they? Where are they
stopping?"
"That I do not know. But listen. They have started out to find us. When
I tell you that Mr. Hillard is the gentleman I dined with that night
before we sailed, you will understand my reasons for wishing to avoid
him. From this time on we must never appear on the streets without our
veils. If by chance we meet them, we must give no sign. It will be only
for a little while. Your letter will come soon, and you may renew your
acquaintance with these two gentlemen when you return home. It may be
hard for you; but if you wish to stay with me, my will must be a law
unto you."
"Not to speak to them if we meet them?" urged Kitty in dismay.
"No."
"But that is cruel of you. They are both gentlemen," said Kitty, with
fierce pride.
"I do not know Mr. Merrihew, but I can say that Mr. Hillard is a
gentleman. I have proved that. As for being cruel, I am not; only
selfish."
"Are you not a queen who has run away from a kingdom?" asked Kitty
bitterly. "One reads about them every day in the papers."
"My dear, you are free to choose one of two paths. Sometimes I need you,
Kitty; and the sight of you and the knowledge of your nearness helps me.
I shall not urge you one way or the other, but you must make your final
choice at once."
Several minutes passed. Kitty looked out to sea, and La Signorina closed
her eyes. In her heart Kitty knew that she could no more leave this
woman than she could fly. She was held by curiosity, by sentiment, by
the romantic mystery.
"I have chosen," she said at length. "I shall stay with you."
"Thanks, Kitty. And now, the affairs of the company. We have played
three days and have lost steadily. To-night will be the last chance. Win
or lose, to-morrow we shall return to Venice. I do not like the idea of
going to Monte Carlo at night; it is not exactly safe. But since beggars
mustn't be choosers, we must go. Again I warn you to speak to no one
while I am playing; and under no circumstance raise your veil. They have
begun to notice us, but it will end to-night. I was mad to think that I
could win. And by the way, Kitty, we shall not go back to the Campo
Formosa."
Kitty accepted this news brightly. If there was one place she hated, it
was the Campo. She had never been so lonely in all her days as in that
evil-smelling tenement in the Campo Santa Maria Formosa.
"Now run and dress," advised La Signorina. "Let me dream a little more,
while the sun sets. I can dream a pleasant dream sometimes."
And indeed the dream was not unpleasant, for her thoughts went back to
that night in New York. Did he really think of her, then? Was it
possible for a man to forget so bizarre an episode? Rather would it not
leave a lasting impression? She liked him. He had a clean, kindly face
and handsome eyes. How she had played with him! How she had tempted him!
And yet, through it all, a gentleman, a witty, interesting, amiable
gentleman, who never approached the innuendo, or uttered a
double-meaning. On her part she had taken great risks; but the fun had
been merry and harmless.
She recalled his liberal-minded patriotism and his sensible comparisons.
Surely he was right: the race of gentlemen had not yet died out in far
America. With what mystery had he invested her? With what charms had he
endued her? She smiled gently. It was pleasant to be made a heroine even
for the small space of two hours. He was an idle young man, after a
fashion; that was because he had not been waked up. But under his jest
and under his laughter she was sure that there was courage and purpose
and high emprise. Take care! she thought. Take care! Might not this
little dream carry her too far out to sea?... To have met a man like
this one in time! How gracefully, how boyishly, he had kissed her hand!
More than this, there had been an artless admiration in his upturned
eyes, an expression which a gentleman of the Old World would have
lacked. Why had she sent him that mask? Had it been a challenge, an
indirect challenge, daring him to follow and seek her? She really could
not answer. It had been one of those half-conscious whims which may be
assigned to no positive cause. Besides, no sensible man would have
accepted such a challenge. She knew men tolerably well: after thirty
they cease to follow visions; they seek tangible things. . . . No, they
must never meet again. It would not be wise. Her heart, lonely,
disappointed, galled as it were by disillusion, might not withstand much
storming. And she had no wish to add this irretrievable folly to the
original blunder. Too late, too late! Decidedly they must not meet
again. She was afraid.
The red rim of the sun sank quickly now, and the sea turned cold and
deeply blue, and the orange-tinted sails grew drab and lonely. And with
the sun the brightness of her dream went out. Would she never cast out
the life which was false, though colorful and fantastic? Would she never
accept real life, dull and sober? Romance? She was always seeking it,
knowing right well that it was never to be found. Romance! Had it not
led her into this very pit from which only death could release her? This
impossible vein was surely the legacy of some far ancestor, some knight
of the windmills, not of her father and mother, both so practical, so
wise, so ambitious. Ah, she thought in her heart, had they but lived to
see the folly of what they believed to be wisdom!
No, they must go their separate ways till the end. When she was old she
would re-read his letters. With a sigh she rose and went into the room.
Kitty was busy with the finishing touches of her toilet. Kitty was not
vain; she was only pretty. The older woman kissed her fondly.
"Pretty Kitty Killigrew!" she said. "It is positively lyrical."
"And do you realize that you are the most beautiful woman in the world?"
"Little flatterer!"
"And if I were a man--" Kitty paused.
"Well, and if you were a man?"
"I'd fall in love with you and marry you." La Signorina looked into the
mirror.
CHAPTER XIV
GREY VEILS
The fascination of Monte Carlo is not to be described; it must be seen.
Vice shall be attractive, says the Mother of Satan. At Monte Carlo it is
more than attractive; it is compelling. A subtle hypnotism prevails. One
scarce realizes that this lovely spot is at the same time the basest.
What passions have stormed this cliff! What rage and despair have beaten
their hands against these bastions of pleasure! How few who plunge into
this maelstrom of chance ever rise again! The lure of gold, there is
nothing stronger save death. Fool and rogue, saint and sinner, here they
meet and mingle and change. To those who give Monte Carlo but a trifling
glance, toss a coin or two on the tables, and leave by the morrow's
train, it has no real significance; it is simply one of the sights of
Europe.
To this latter class belonged the two young men. They had no fortunes to
retrieve, no dishonesty to hide, no restitutions to make, no dancers to
clothe and house. It was but a mild flirtation. They saw the silken gown
outside rather than the rags beneath; they saw the smile rather than the
tortured mind behind it.
They dined sumptuously at the café de Paris. They wandered about the
splendid terraces on the sea-front, smoking. They had grown accustomed
to the many beautiful women, always alone, always with roving eyes.
Frequently Merrihew longed to chat with this one or that; and sometimes
he rebelled against his inability to speak the maddening tongue.
To-night, though the dinner had been excellent and the chambertin all
that could be desired, the two were inclined to be moody. So far fortune
had not smiled, she had frowned persistently. They found a vacant bench
and sat down.
"Ho-hum!" said Merrihew, dangling his monocle to which he had attached a
string.
"Heigh-ho!" replied Hillard.
"Curse those cigars!"
"With all my heart!"
They had searched Nice, and Monaco, and Mentone, but the women they
sought were not to be found. They decided, therefore, that the women had
gone on to Paris, and that there was now no hope of seeing them this
side of the Atlantic. They had not entered the Casino during the day;
they had been too busy quizzing hotel porters and concierges along the
Riviera.
"My system needs a tonic," said Merrihew.
"We'll hold the funeral after to-night's play. Of all the damfool games,
it's roulette."
"And I can prove it," Merrihew replied. "I have just fifty dollars
left." He took out the gold and toyed with it. "Can't you hear it?" he
asked.
"Hear what?"
"The swan-song of these tender napoleons!"
Merrihew had played the numbers, the dozens, the columns, the colors,
odd and even. Sometimes he would win a little, but a moment later the
relentless rake would drag it back to the bank. His chance to play the
good Samaritan to the derelicts of the American Comic Opera Company was
fast approaching the dim horizon of lost opportunities. Presently he
screwed the monocle into his eye and squinted at the sea, the palaces on
the promontory, the yachts in the harbor, all tranquil in shadowy
moonlight.
"Nature has done this very prettily. Quite clever with her colors, don't
you know," he drawled, plucking the down on his upper lip, for he was
trying to raise a mustache, convinced that two waxed points of hair at
each corner of his mouth would impress the hotel waiters and other
 facchini --baseborn.
"Don't be a jackass!" Hillard was out of sorts.
"You agreed with me that I was one. Why not let me make a finished
product?" good-humoredly.
"You will have your joke."
"Yes, even at the expense of being blind in one eye; for I can't see
through this glass; positive stove-lid. Every time I focus you, you grow
as big as a house. No, I'd never be happy as a lord. Well, let us have
our last fling. You might as well let me have my letter of credit now."
"You will not set eyes upon it till we return to Genoa. That's final. I
know you, my boy, and I know Monte Carlo. Even with your fifty, a watch
and a ring, I'm afraid to trust you out of sight."
"I can see that you will never forgive nor forget--those cigars. Come
on. We'll take a look at our Italian friend. He's a bad loser. I have
seen him lose his temper, too. It's my opinion that he's a desperate
man."
"They usually are when they come to Monte Carlo."
So they walked round to the entrance to the gaming halls, where the
lights, the gowns, the jewels, the sparkling eyes, the natural beauty
and the beauty of enamel, the vague perfumes, the low murmur of voices,
the soft rustle of silks, the music of ringing gold, all combine to
produce a picture and ensemble as beautiful as a mirage and as false.
Nothing is real in Monte Carlo but the little pieces of gold and the
passion to win them. The two renewed their tickets of admission and
passed on into the famous atrium, stared a while at the news bulletin,
whereon all the important events of the day are briefly set forth, and
gazed musingly at the bats darting across the ceiling, real bats, a
sinister omen such as one sees in imaginative paintings of the Door of
Hades. At nine they joined the never-ending procession which passes in
and out of the swinging doors day after day, year after year.
The faces one sees in the Hall of Roulette! Here and there one which
will haunt the onlooker through the rest of his days. Packed about the
long tables were young faces flushed with hope or grey with despair;
middle-aged faces which expressed excitement or indifference; old, old
faces, scarred and lined and seamed, where avarice, selfishness,
cruelty, dishonesty crossed and recrossed till human semblance was
literally blotted out. Light-o'-loves, gay and careless; hideous old
crones, who watched the unwary and stole the unwary's bets; old women in
black, who figured and figured imaginary winnings and never risked
anything but their nerves. And there were beautiful women, beautifully
gowned, beautifully gemmed, some of them good, some of them indifferent,
and some of them bad. Invariably Hillard found himself speculating on
the history of this woman or that; the more gems, the more history. Here
the half-world of Europe finds its kingdom and rules it madly. The
fortunes these women have poured into this whirligig of chance will
never be computed. And there was the gentlemanly blackleg, the
ticket-of-leave man, and outcasts and thieves; but all of them were well
dressed, and, for the time being, well behaved.
Occasionally Merrihew caught some daring beauty's eye, and usually there
followed a conversation, familiar to all ages and to all peoples,
confined to the eyebrow, the eyelid, and the merry little wrinkles in
the corner. When any spoke to him, however, and many did, for his face
was fresh and pleasing, he would reply in English that he spoke no
French, regretfully.
"There's the chap with the scar. He is a handsome beggar," Hillard
admitted. "I wonder what sort of blackleg he is? He's no ordinary one,
I'm certain. I begin to recognize the face of the man with him. He's a
distinguished diplomat, and he would not associate with a man who was
thoroughly bad, according to law, leaving out the moral side of it. Let
us watch them."
The Italian played like an old hand; a number once in a while, but
making it a point to stake on the colors. Red began to repeat itself. He
doubled and doubled. On the sixth consecutive turn he played the maximum
of twelve thousand francs, and won. The diplomat touched him on the arm
significantly, but the player shook his head. Ten minutes later he had
won forty thousand francs. Again he refused to leave his chair.
"If he stays now," said Hillard, "he will lose it all. His friend is
right."
"Forty thousand francs, eight thousand dollars!" murmured Merrihew
sadly. Why couldn't he have luck like this?
Hillard was a true prophet. There came a change in the smile of fortune.
The game jumped from color to color, seldom repeating, with zero making
itself conspicuous. The man with the scar played on, but he began to
lose, small sums at first, then larger, till finally he was down to his
original stake. The scar grew livid. He waited five turns of the wheel,
then placed his stake on the second dozen. He lost. He rose from his
chair, scowling. His eye chanced to meet Hillard's, and their glances
held for a moment.
"Fool!" said Merrihew in an undertone, as the man strolled leisurely
past them. "Eight thousand, and not content to quit!"
"My boy, a man who needs a hundred thousand and wins but eight is seldom
content." Hillard followed the Italian with his eyes as he approached
one of the lounges. There the loser was joined by his friend, and the
two of them fell to gesticulating wildly, after the manner of their
race. Hillard understood this pantomime; the diplomat had been a
share-holder. "Start your play, Dan. I'll find plenty of amusement at
the other tables. My watching your game hasn't brought you any luck up
to the present. Go in and give 'em a beating."
Merrihew hastened over to the north table. This was, according to
report, the table which had no suicide's chair; and Merrihew had his
private superstitions like the rest of us. At eleven o'clock the banks
closed, so he had but two hours in which to win a fortune. It was not
possible for him to lose one; in this the gods were with him.
Meanwhile the trolleys from Nice and Mentone had poured into Monte Carlo
their usual burdens of pleasure seekers. On one of the cars from Nice
there had arrived two women, both veiled and simply gowned. The
conductor had seen them before, but never at night. They seldom
addressed each other, and never spoke to any one else. He picked them up
at Villefranche. Doubtless they were some sober married women out for a
lark. Upon leaving the car they did not at once go into the Casino, but
directed their steps toward the terraces, for the band was playing. They
sat in the shadow of the statue of Massenet, and near-by the rasp of a
cricket broke in upon the music. When the music stopped they linked arms
and sauntered up and down the wide sweep of stone, mutually interested
in the crowds, the color, and the lights. Once, as they passed behind a
bench, the better to view the palaces of the prince, they heard the
voices of two men.
"Ho-hum!"
"Heigh-ho!"
As they went on, the women heard something about cigars. The men were
Americans, evidently. It was only an inconsequent incident, and a moment
later both had forgotten it. By and by they proceeded to the Casino.
Rarely women wear veils at Monte Carlo. On the contrary, they go there
(most of them) to be seen, admired and envied. Thus, these two were
fully aware of the interest they excited. At frequent intervals
royalty--the feminine side of the family--steals into Monte Carlo, often
unattended. When one's yacht is in the harbor below, it does not entail
much danger. There is a superstition regarding veils; but no attendant
requested the women to remove them. They dared not, for fear of
affronting royalty. It was a delicate situation, so far as the
attendants were concerned.
"At which table shall I make the stake, Kitty?"
"The center; there is always a crush there, and we shall not be
noticed."
"I do not agree with you there. However, it shall be the center table.
What would you do, Kitty, if I should break the bank?"
"Die of excitement!" truthfully.
"You will live through this event, then." With a light careless laugh,
La Signorina pressed her way to the table.
The play here was in full swing, and in some cases very high. She opened
her purse and took out a handful of gold. These napoleons were all that
remained of the capital intrusted her. She hesitated for some time, then
placed a coin on the number twenty-five, her age. The ivory ball spun
round and round, till it lost some of its force and slanted, struck one
of the little silver obstacles, and bounded into one of the
compartments. It was the number twenty-five: thirty-five napoleons for
one, a hundred and forty dollars! Kitty uttered an ejaculation of
delight. Many looked enviously at the winner as the neat little stack of
gold was pushed toward her. She took the gold and placed it on black.
Again she won. Then fortune packed up and went elsewhere. She lost
steadily, winning but one bet in every ten. She gave no sign, however,
that her forces were in full retreat from the enemy. She played on, and
the hand which placed the bets was steady. She was a thoroughbred. And
when the gold was all gone, she opened her empty hands expressively and
shrugged. She was beaten. Behind the chair of the banker, opposite,
stood the Italian. The scowl still marred his forehead. When the woman
in the veil spread out her hands, he started. There was something
familiar to his mind in that gesture. And then the woman saw him. For
the briefest moment her form stiffened and the shape of her chin was
molded in the veil. Slight as this sign was, the Italian observed it.
But he was puzzled.
"Kitty," La Signorina whispered, "let us go out to the atrium. I am
tired."
They left the hall leisurely and found a vacant settle in the atrium.
"I have a horror of bats," said La Signorina.
"How cold your hands are!" exclaimed Kitty. "Never mind about the money.
They will understand."
"Kitty, I am a fool, a fool! I have unwittingly put my head in the
lion's mouth. If I had not reached this seat in time, I should have
fallen. I would willingly give all my rings if, at this moment, I could
run across the hall and out into the open!"
"Merciful Heaven! Why, what is the matter? What has happened?" Kitty was
all in a flutter.
"I can not explain to you."
"Was it some one you saw in there?"
"Silence; and sit perfectly still!"
The swinging doors opened and closed. A man in evening dress came out
into the atrium, lighting a cigarette. At the sight of him both women
were startled. Their emotions, however, were varied and unlike.
"It is Mr. Hillard, Mr. Merrihew's friend!" Kitty would have risen, but
the other's strong hand restrained her.
"Kitty, remember your promise."
"Is  he  the man?"
"No, no! Only, I have said that we must not meet him. It might do him
incalculable harm. Harm!" La Signorina repeated; "do you understand?"
"But--"
"Silence, I command you!"
The tone had the power to subdue Kitty. The indignant protest died on
her lips. She sat perfectly still, but she would have liked to cry. To
let Mr. Hillard pass by in this manner, without a sign of friendliness
or recognition! It was intolerable. And he could tell where Merrihew was
(as indeed he could!) and what he was doing. She choked and crushed the
ends of her veil.
Hillard blew outward a few pale rings of smoke and circled the atrium
with an indolent glance which stopped as it rested upon the two veiled
women sitting alone. Besides being bored and wanting amusement, a
certain curiosity impelled him toward them, and he sank on the settle
beside them, with perhaps half a dozen spans of the hand between. He
smoked till the cigarette scorched his fingers, then he dropped it,
extinguishing the coal with the toe of his pump. He observed the women
frankly. Not a single wisp of hair escaped the veils, not a line of any
feature could be traced, and yet the tint of flesh shone dimly behind
the silken bands of crape; and the eyes sparkled. He nodded.
"A wonderful scene in there," indicating the swinging doors. "Puck was
right. What fools these mortals be! Something for nothing will always
lure us."
The veils did not move so much as the breadth of a hair.
"Fortune favors the brave, but rarely the foolish."
There was no response, but the small shoe of the woman nearest began to
beat the floor ever so lightly. Hillard was chagrined. To be rebuffed
the very first time he spoke to a woman in the Casino!
"Perhaps madame does not understand?" he said in French.
One of the women stirred restlessly; that was all.
He repeated the question in Italian, at the same time feeling like a
pedant airing his accomplishments.
Nothing.
"I beg your pardon," he said, getting upon his feet. "I see that you do
not wish to talk."
Thereupon he bowed, sought another seat, and lighted a fresh cigarette.
But not for a moment did his eye leave these two mysterious women. Their
absolute silence confused him. Usually a woman gives some sign of
disapproval when addressed by a stranger. These two sat as if they
neither saw nor heard him. He shook the ash from his cigarette, and when
he looked up again, the women were hurrying across the floor to the
lobby. He would have given them no further thought had not the Italian
with the scar appeared upon the scene, eyed the retreating figures
doubtfully, and then started after them. That he did not know them
Hillard was reasonably certain. He assumed that the Italian saw a
possible flirtation. He rose quickly and followed. If these two women
desired to be left alone, he might be of assistance.
The four departed from the Casino and crossed toward the Hotel de Paris,
the women in the lead. As yet they had not observed that they were being
followed. The car stops at this turn. As the women came to a stand, one
of them saw the approaching men. Instantly she fled up the street, swift
as a hare. The other hesitated for a second, then pursued her companion
frantically. Whatever doubts the Italian might have entertained, this
unexpected flight dissipated them. He knew now; he knew, he knew! With a
sharp cry of exultation he broke into a run. So did Hillard. He was no
longer bored. This promised to be interesting. People turned and stared,
but none sought to intercept any of the runners. In Monte Carlo there
are many strange scenes, and the knight-errant often finds that his bump
of caution has suddenly developed. In other words, it is none of his
affair. To look was one thing, to follow, to precipitate one's head into
the unknown, was another. And there were no police about; they were on
the Casino terraces, or strolling through the gardens, or patrolling the
railway station.
Past the park the quartet ran, and took the first turn to the left for a
block or more. Then came a stretch of darkness, between one electric
lamp and another. And then, as if whisked away by magic, the foremost
woman disappeared. The other halted, breathless and wondering. She
started again, but a moment too late. The Italian caught her roughly by
the arm and with a quick movement tore aside the veil.
"Kitty Killigrew!" Hillard cried.
He sprang forward, grasped the Italian by the shoulders and whirled him
round in no gentle manner. The Italian struck out savagely and
fearlessly, but Hillard seized his arm and held it firmly. There was a
short tableau. Each man could hear the breathing of the other, quick and
deep. The devil gleamed in the Italian's eyes, but there was a menace
Hillard's equally strong.
"You meddling figure of a dog!"
"Take care lest the dog bite, signore."
"Release my arm and stand aside!"
"Presently. Now, that way is yours," said Hillard, pointing in the
direction of the way they had come.
"Are you certain?" The Italian regulated his breathing, forcing down the
beat of his heart.
"So certain that if you do not obey me, I shall call the police and let
you explain to them."
"I should like nothing better," replied the Italian, with a coolness
which dumfounded Hillard.
"Do you know these ladies?"
"Do you?" insolently.
"My knowing them does not matter. But it is any gentleman's concern when
a man gives pursuit to a lady who does not wish to meet him, even in
Monte Carlo."
"A lady? Grace of Mary, that is droll!"
Hillard released the imprisoned arm, consciously chilled by the tone.
There was a patent raillery, a quizzical insolence, which convinced
Hillard that the Italian had not given chase out of an idle purpose.
While this idea was forming in his mind, the Italian inspected his cuff,
brushed his sleeve, and then recalled that he was bareheaded. He laughed
shortly.
"We shall meet again," he said softly.
"I hope not," replied Hillard frankly, at the same time placing himself
so as to block any sudden attempt to take up the chase. "However, you
may find me at the Hotel de Londres."
The Italian laughed again. "You understand the language well,"
debatingly.
"And the people, too." Hillard had no desire to pass the time of day
with his opponent.
"Well, I have said that we shall meet again, and it must be so."
"And your hat, as well as mine, is still in the Casino. The night is
cold."
The Italian tugged impatiently at his mustache and permitted his glance
to wander over Hillard critically. No, a struggle, much as he longed for
it, would not be wise. He swung round on his heel and walked rapidly
down the street, much to Hillard's relief. Presently the Italian took
the corner, and Hillard turned to reassure Kitty.
But Kitty had vanished!
CHAPTER XV
MANY NAPOLEONS
Having yawned luxuriously, Merrihew sighed with perfect content. The
pretty woman sitting opposite smiled at him tenderly, and he smiled
back, abstractedly, as a man sometimes will when his mind tries to
gather in comprehensively a thought and a picture which are totally
different. Before him, in neat little lustrous stacks, stood seven
thousand francs in gold, three hundred and fifty effigies of Napoleon
the Little. And this was the thought which divided the smile with the
picture. Seven thousand francs, fourteen hundred dollars, more than half
the sum of his letter of credit! And all this prodigious fortune for a
little gold put here, and a little gold put there, wisely,
scientifically; for he would have strenuously denied that it was due to
bald, blind luck. If only the boys at the club could see him now! He wet
his lips suggestively, but the lust for gold was stronger than the call
of tobacco. Tobacco could wait; fortune might not. Still, he took out a
cigar, bit off the end, and put it back in his pocket. And where the
deuce had Hillard gone? Twenty minutes to eleven, and no sign of him
since the play began.
He counted off ten coins and placed them on the second dozen. The ball
rolled into number twenty-three. He leaned back again with a second
sigh, and the pretty woman smiled a second smile, and the wooden rake
pushed the beautiful gold over to him. He was playing a system, one bet
in every three turns of the wheel, in stakes of forty and eighty
dollars. To be sure he lost now and then, but the next play he doubled
and retrieved. Oh, the American Comic Opera Company should be well taken
care of. He could play the good Samaritan after the manner of a prince,
if, indeed, princes ever elected to play that role. Two more bets, and
then he would pocket his winnings and go. He laid forty francs on number
twenty-six and four hundred on black, leaned upon his elbows and studied
the pretty woman, who smiled. If she spoke English.... He scribbled the
question on a scrap of paper and pushed it across the table, blushing a
little as he did so. She read it, or at least she tried to read it, and
shook her head with the air of one deeply puzzled. He sighed again,
reflecting that there might have been a pleasant adventure had he only
understood French. Hang the legend of the Tower of Babel! it was always
confronting him in this part of the world.
Twenty-six, black and even!
Merrihew slid back his chair and rose. He swept up the gold by the
handful and poured it into his pockets, casually and unconcernedly, as
if this was an every-day affair and of minor importance. But as a matter
of fact, his heart was beating fast, and there was a wild desire in his
throat to yell with delight. Eighteen hundred dollars, nine thousand
francs! A merry music they made in his pockets. Jingle, jingle, jingle!
Not only the good Samaritan, but the accursed thousand, that baneful
thousand, that Nemesis of every New Year, might now be overtaken and
annihilated. O happy thought! His pockets sagged, he could walk but
stiffly, and in weight he seemed to have gained a ton. And then he saw
Hillard coming across the hall. Instantly he forced the joy from his
face and eyes and dropped his chin in his collar. He became in that
moment the picture of desolation.
"Is it all over?" asked Hillard gravely.
"All over!" monotonously.
"Come over to the café, then. I've something important to tell you."
"Found them?" with rousing interest.
"I shall tell you only when we get out of this place. Come."
Merrihew followed him into the cloak-room; and as they came out into the
night, Hillard put out a friendly hand.
"I am sorry, boy; I wanted you to win something. Cheer up; we'll shake
the dust of this place in the morning."
Merrihew took off his hat and tossed it into the air hilariously. As it
came down he tried to catch it on the toe of his pump, but active as he
was he missed, and it rolled along the pavement. He recovered it
quickly.
"Oh, for a vacant lot and a good old whooper-up! Feel!" he said,
touching his side pockets. Hillard felt. "Feel again!" commanded
Merrihew, touching his trousers pockets. Hillard, with increasing
wonder, felt again.
"What is it?" he asked.
"What is it? It is four hundred and fifty napoleons!"
"What?" sharply, even doubtfully.
"That's what! Eighteen hundred dollars, more than three hundred and
sixty pounds, nearly a million centesimi, and Heaven only knows what it
would be in Portuguese. My system will have no funeral to-night. Pretty
