with a charm. 

It was getting dusky. She heard Jane be- 
ginning with the tea things. 

“ We must have a light,” she exclaimed, ris- 
ing. “And oh, there comes Mrs. Stirling!” 

That lady and her niece had had a rather 
pleasant time calling. She came in with pink 
cheeks and bright eyes, and greeted her visitor 
cordially. 

Mr. Hildreth declared presently that he 
must return home. 


“No, you must stay and have a cup of tea 
with us,” said Mrs. Stirling persuasively. “ It 
has been so long since you have dropped in to 
tea.” 

“ I do not think I will need much coaxing. 
I sometimes tire of my own solitary meals 
when I have no guests.” 

Then they discussed neighborhood matters 
and the coming Christmas, church festivities, 
Christmas trees, and the new proprietor of the 
paper mill who was putting in up-to-date ma- 
chinery, and who had purchased the old Craw- 
ford house and was having that put in order. 

“ There are five or six children,” he said, 
“ some quite large, and they may be a new 
trial for you, Miss Grant,” with a rather hu- 
morous expression. 

Helen noticed that he made no reference to 
the Thanksgiving visit. Did she quite like 
having secrets with him? Yet she liked him 
very much. 


CHAPTER X 


SOWING BESIDE ALL WAYS 

Helen overruled Lilian Firth’s objections 
and she was ready to accompany her on the 
skating expedition. Helen felt she had been a 
little rash in promising, but the splendid ex- 
ercise had tempted her. 

“ Do you suppose there will be any other 
venturesome people out?” she asked of Allen. 

“ Oh, lots of them. And Mr. Hildreth said 
to skate along the edge soon after we passed 
the first bridge. It will shorten the walk a 
good deal.” 

They picked their way down. The going 
was rather rough. Here was where she had 
crossed over the day she felt so lonesome and 
tired, and had run away and met with an ad- 
venture. She laughed softly to herself. But 
her sympathies went warmly out to the boy 
with a little limp, who trudged along buoy- 
antly. 


 

It was a glorious night with a full moon that 
silvered the leafless twigs and made great 
reaches of whitened meadow-land that sug- 
gested snow. It sparkled on the river as if it 
were sown with diamonds. The air had soft- 
ened and there was no wind. 

“ It will snow in a day or two,” said Lilian. 

“ It is in the air.” 

* 

“ Oh, I hope not! ” cried Allen. 

“ But there is grand fun in a snowstorm and 
after,” declared Helen. 

“ We can put on our skates here,” began the 
boy. 

“ Now you must allow me to wait upon my- 
self,” protested Helen, and while they were 
making ready several others came up. Helen 
knew two of the girls and with them was their 
mother, Mrs. Ridley. 

“ Lm glad to know you, Miss Grant. And 
I am doubly glad that you skate. You will set 
a good example to our supersensitive young 
ladies. Of course you know some of the doc- 
tors say that a girl should never skate, but Tve 
done it ever since I was seven. I’ve had four 
children, I do my own housekeeping, and a 


 

good deal of spring gardening. I’m round and 
rosy, I have no fads about eating, I am never 
ill and very rarely take a cold. We women do 
not get out of doors enough, dawdle too much. 
You want to keep your blood in circulation. 
Come, girls ! ” 

“Hello, Miss Grant! I had half a mind 
to ask you to-day if you didn’t want to join a 
skating party, but I wasn’t quite sure I should 
go myself. Mrs. Underwood doesn’t skate, 
more’s the pity. And she has a cold. But the 
night was so fine I couldn’t resist. Well, 
Allen! And Miss Firth! Isn’t that Mrs. Rid- 
ley ahead? She’s the champion skater of the 
county, I think.” 

“ I had an invitation,” announced Helen 
laughingly. “ And it is one of my pleasures.” 

“ It’s a fine country amusement, worlds bet- 
ter than playing bridge in a warm room.” 

They started off. Helen was truly glad to 
see Mr. Underwood. Lilian and he spun on 
ahead. Helen held in a little for Allen’s sake. 

After the turn in the river they saw quite 
a throng ahead of them. Here the river wid- 
ened out again, but was rather shallow. 





“ Now I want you to skate your best, Miss 
Grant, and not mind me,” said Allen. “ I 
shall enjoy seeing you distance some of them, 
as I can’t do it.” 

One and another nodded to her without 
waiting for an introduction. There was much 
merry laughter. There were many of the 
schoolboys, but a good sprinkling of grown 
folk, too. 

“ A dare ! ” cried Mr. Underwood. “ That 
big tree up there the stake.” 

They were as fleet as the wind. One and 
another turned to look at them. Neither 
seemed to gain an inch. 

“ Underwood’s a first-class skater. That 
girl can’t beat him,” said a man. 

“ She’s the high-school teacher.” 

“ By jove, she goes like the wind ! ” said 
another. 

Helen’s training had given her the keynote 
to running, not to waste her efforts in the be- 
ginning. Now she spurred up as the great 
sycamore loomed dark before them. Long 
straight strides with hardly a motion of the 
body. She passed the tree, turned and faced 


 

him. How her radiant countenance glowed 
and her eyes shone like stars ! 

“ Well, I’m beaten! I’m quite out of prac- 
tice. I didn’t skate much last winter,” he said 
excusingly. 

“ And I didn’t skate a bit all summer,” she 
replied with comical gravity. 

The others came up. Some of the men 
chaffed Mr. Underwood, who was a little 
nettled. 

“ Oh ! ” cried Allen when they met, “ it was 
splendid ! I didn’t think you would beat, but 
I was sort of praying in my heart. Mr. Under- 
wood led the van last winter.” 

“ But Mrs. Ridley is excellent.” 

“ Yes. They are about neck and neck. 
Now please take a turn with me. Oh, Miss 
Grant, you don’t quite know what it is to 

be ” and there was a quiver in the voice. 

“ But you are making a fine scholar. After 
all, it is a man’s brains and not his heels that 
win him the victories of life.” 

“ How you comfort one ! ” 

They went slowly down, and he was proud 
of his lovely partner. The young men were 




begging introductions to her. Truth to tell, 
they had felt a little afraid of so much erudi- 
tion. 

It was a very jolly time, and Mrs. Ridley 
said to her, “ Sometime, when we are fresher, 
I’ll try you for a race. But my ! You are an 
elegant skater ! ” 

She was pretty tired when they reached 
home, but she took a good rub-down and slept 
late the next morning. 

“ We ought to have gone and seen the 
show,” said Dick Eastman in a sarcastic tone. 
“ She beat Woody all to rags. I bet I could 
have run her down.” 

Eastman had been at the club playing whist 
for small stakes, though his father had 
forbidden that. It was just among the 
boys. 

There were strugglings and heartburnings, 
and much wasted time planning about Christ- 
mas. Katherine Ford was going to have a 
real dancing party on Christmas Eve, which 
would be Monday night. Georgia Winters 
would have hers on Thursday of the week, so 
they wouldn’t clash. She was beginning to 


 

hold her head quite high, for she had written 
two rather pretty poetic compositions and one 
had been published in the Gazette. 

Christmas fell on Tuesday. School would 
close the previous Friday. Helen and Mr. 
Underwood had been very much engrossed in 
some new plans, though they could not be put 
into execution until after the midwinter exam- 
inations. 

It had snowed the very next day after the 
skating frolic. And a few days after snow 
again, then when the roads were broken the 
sleighing was excellent. Mr. Hildreth was a 
kind of public benefactor just now. He took 
the Miss Goulds out in his two-seated sleigh, he 
made a party for some of the larger girls, and 
several of the busy mothers who had not many 
pleasures. Sometimes the sleigh was sent with 
Martin. And one afternoon he took Mrs. 
Stirling and Lilian. 

“ It will be your turn on Saturday,” he an- 
nounced to Helen gravely. 

“Another party? I am afraid you are get- 
ting too wild and youthful?” 

“Would you like me to be set back?” 




“No!” decisively, with a bright upward 
look. “ I like you best just as you are.” 

She did not color at the frank admission. 
He knew there was no coquetry in it. 

“ Having done my duty by my neighbors, 
I am going to please myself, and have a pleas- 
ant talk with you. Mr. Underwood said you 
had been working very hard lately. You must 
have a little diversion as well as the others.” 

His tone was grave and straightforward. 
She would be silly to attach any meaning 
to it. 

“ That is my business, you know. And now 
we are soon to have quite a long holiday.” 

“ I would like to know how you are going 
to spend it. So we will talk it over,” he said 
with his adieu. 

He came as he had announced. The light, 
dainty cutter would hold but two. There was 
a sparkle of frostiness in the air and the sun 
was rather pale. 

“ Some more snow,” he said. “ Now that 
it has come I should like it to go on. It is fine 
winter weather.” 

The horses were full of spirit. It was ex- 


 

hilarating to be spinning along over the sound- 
less road. 

“ I suppose you have heard there is to be 
an influx of young people,” he began. “ We 
are to gather them up for the school. I have 
met this Mr. Henderson and he seems a very 
nice, sensible man, tired of city life and its sur- 
rounding, its temptations, too. The paper mill 
has been on the down-hill road for two years. 
He understands the business and has plenty 
of capital. And he has seven children of his 
own and an orphan niece.” 

“ What a crowd ! They can’t all be in the 
high school, though.” 

“ The son is past seventeen. He means to 
take him into business when he has a little 
more education. The niece is sixteen, has had 
some training abroad. There are twin girls 
past fifteen, who have spent a year in a board- 
ing school which he didn't seem to like. There 
are four younger children.” 

“We have no commercial course. O dear, 
I wish there were fifty new children ! I 
should so like to have all the divisions. We 
cannot have any seniors,” with an arch laugh. 




“ I’m afraid they will not be ready for it even 
next year. The smallness of it troubles me.” 
“ But you see you have been with such a 
crowd. And isn't it easier? ” he asked. 

“ You want enough for a spirit of rivalry. 
There are five large boys banded together, with 
Dick Eastman for a leader. Mr. Underwood 
gave them a good stirring up and since then 
they have done better. But you should hear 
the foolish questions they ask with an inno- 
cent air that did deceive me at first, and I was 
very anxious to increase their supply of knowl- 
edge. Then, as the boys say, I ‘ caught on,’ ” 
and she turned a mirthful face toward him. 
“ Now I refer him to a rule or his book. It is 
a kind of covert strife as to which shall come 
out best. You see if there were two or three 
others to make a variety, but here one always 
upholds the other. Eastman isn’t truthful. 
He can wriggle out of anything with the 
smoothest air. And I just hate those miser- 
able, mean subterfuges.” 

He could see that she hated all things that 
were not honest and upright. What a splendid 
boy she would make! Then he would offer 


 

her a father’s consideration and affection. To 
have a son like that ! 

“ I’m telling tales out of school,” and she 
flushed in spite of the cold. “ I don’t dare 
ever to say all of this to Mr. Underwood. He 
has an idea that all boys have to pass through 
this transition period, and that somehow they 
come out right. But he is very kind and help- 
ful and makes them respect my position out- 
wardly, at all events.” 

“ It is a hard place for a young girl to fill. I 
did not realize that at first,” he said with a sort 
of sympathizing regret. 

“ But I like the fight, too,” and she smiled 
enchantingly. “ I like to convince myself that 
my four years’ training has done something 
for me. I like to surmount difficulties. And 
I’m not finding fault, do not think that. I’m 
going straight on until my year is up, at least. 
I think of old Carlyle — ‘ Not what I have, but 
what I do, is my kingdom.’ And I want to do 
something worth while, to have some in- 
fluence, to pay back the good and kindly things 
that have been done to me. Oh, am I a fool- 
ishly erratic girl with a head full of impossible 




ideals ? But you have a quality that I found in 
my dear Mrs. Bell. You seem to win one to 
confidence, and one doesn’t feel afraid to trust 
you, to rely upon you. I think if any one was 
in bitter trouble, if any young fellow had gone 
astray, you would be a splendid and judicious 
friend.” 

Her voice rang with penetrative earnest- 
ness and touched him. How few understood 
— and to be appreciated for a duty was a rare 
thing ! 

“ I have tried it several times. I hope I shall 
not have lived quite in vain, and at the last I 
shall not be ashamed to give an account of my 
stewardship.” 

Then they lapsed into silence. She wished 
he knew Mr. Morse, and there was Gordon 
Danforth. She thought she would like to tell 
him of the young fellow’s first sacrifice and his 
three years’ banishment in western wilds, and 
then his relinquishing a sure prosperity in the 
hope of doing something better than mere 
money-getting. Ah, if he had such a son! She 
was momentarily jealous lest his own father 
should not appreciate him to the full. 


 

They passed pretty Rossmore in her snowy 
robes, here and there a wreath of faint blue 
curling smoke rising out of some chimney and 
drifting away. On some of the farms, chickens 
and cows were out for a little exercise. A 
lovely pastoral scene like a picture, with the 
outlines a little vague from the grayness steal- 
ing over the sky. 

“What are your plans for the holidays?” 
he inquired presently. 

“ Oh ! ” she seemed to awake from a dream. 
“ I shall go to New York, and to Kingsland 
Manor, I think. After all, the time will be 
short, but I shall try to crowd it full. You see 
I am foolishly fond of enjoyment.” 

“ As youth should be. I wonder if I shall 
rouse your jealousy when I say I am going to 

N and shall see your dear Alma Mater , 

Professor Yarrow and his wife, and that won- 
derful little daughter. They are dying — think 
of that from the grave professor — to hear 
how you succeed.” 

“ Oh ! I half envy you ! ” and she turned her 
face toward him, wistful yet brilliant with 
pleasure. 




“ It’s a case where you want to be divided 
again,” she continued merrily. “ And my as- 
tral body wouldn’t do them much good. But 
I’m so glad you are going. Oh, I 
shall just count on hearing about them when 
you return! You will have a delightful 
time.” 

“ And on the return, — I wonder if it would 
be presuming to call on your friend at the 
Manor? She gave me a cordial invitation. I 
have a great curiosity to see her household, her 
orphan asylum, as you call it.” 

“ Why, she would be glad to see you, I 
know. And we could have a nice visit talking 
over matters.” 

“ I’m taking Dr. Johnson’s advice about 
keeping my friendships in repair by making 
new ones. Miss Grant, as you grow older 
make some friends younger than yourself. 
The older ones drop out of life and you may 
not, then you are left alone. And there is a 
vim and joyousness in the spirit of the younger 
ones that may keep you from growing old. 
Ah ! we all do like youth, and how prodigal we 
are of it, and 


 

“ The something sweet 
That follows youth with flying feet.” 

The sun had grown paler and now the lav- 
ender gray clouds rose up and quite obscured 
it, while a slow-moving, sullen wind began to 
moan through the leafless trees. He tucked 
the wolf robe closer around her. How soft 
and white it was! She could have buried her 
face in it. 

“ Now for a spin! ” he exclaimed. “ Fancy 
yourself in an auto.” 

And spin they surely did. Trees, houses, 
and fences flew by with a blur. The horses 
felt they were on the homeward road, and 
jingled the bells merrily. A few flakes of 
snow drifted about. 

“ It spoiled the skating,” he said, “ but we 
have had this in its place. I wish the day had 
been pleasanter for your outing.” 

“ You have made it very pleasant,” she re- 
turned, with grave sweetness. 

There followed a very busy week. School 
was to close on Friday, though Christmas was 
not until Tuesday. They were all to go to 
the Auditorium for some closing exercises. 




Just before that Miss Grant demanded the 
attention of all the pupils. 

“ You are aware,” she began, “ that the 
mid-winter examination will take place next 
month and that will determine your standing 
until the close of the school year. There will 
be a reorganization of all the classes and per- 
haps some change in the studies. It is my ear- 
nest desire that you will be able to show a de- 
cided improvement that will not only be to 
your credit, but to that of the school. Each 
child has a duty toward that, a fact children do 
not seem to consider. You have been pro- 
vided with a beautiful building and many of 
the appliances of the higher education, but it 
rests with you to improve the advantages. I 
hope we shall all work together with a hearty 
good will during the next term, and I wish 
you all a very Merry Christmas.” 

Some of the children hung about her fondly. 
She had won a little love, she was sure of that, 
and there certainly was some improvement in 
them. They had not come up to her expecta- 
tions, it was true. 

(< And only a few of them will,” said Miss 


 

Parker. “ You see there’s the home environ- 
ment; the common ways, the incorrect speech, 
the careless habits. The mothers hope they 
will outgrow it all. A teacher can't do every- 
thing. If she can stuff a little knowledge into 
their addle-pates she must be satisfied with 
that.” 

It was not encouraging nor enthusiastic, in- 
deed it rather depressed Helen. 

“ You must not lay it to heart,” consoled 
Mr. Underwood. “You have done so much 
better than I was afraid you would that I feel 
quite jubilant. And now we will go off and 
refresh ourselves with chances and changes. I 
hope all yours will be pleasant,” and he bade 
her a very friendly adieu. 

Lilian Firth had decided to go home, as she 
called her brother’s house, and keep the feast 
with them. 

“ I don’t quite know what to make of her,” 
Mrs. Stirling said confidentially to Helen. 
“ She is a nice, truthful, helpful girl, and I 
shall be glad to have her. But somehow her 
heart doesn’t seem set on advancement. There 
may be schools that she could teach with her 




present knowledge, but they would be in some 
far-away place. That unlucky love affair has 
upset her. And I can’t tell you, Miss Grant, 
how much I have enjoyed your being here ! It 
has opened a new world to me, old as I am. 
Your reading and your talks have been such a 
pleasure, you have so much courage and hope, 
you see so much good everywhere, so much 
joy, and you are not afraid of using it. I think 
some of us make mistakes and believe that it is 
laying up treasures in heaven when we are so 
choice of it, while it is for our everyday use 
instead. I shall be so glad to welcome you 
back.” 

Then she had not wasted her efforts here. 
She felt moved, gratified. 

She went in to see Mrs. Underwood, who 
had not been very well and was rather cap- 
tious. 

“ I wish you cared to come without a special 
invitation,” she began rather upbraidingly. 
“ I’d counted on having a good time with you. 
But you fuss over the children so much. You 
are at the Deans’ and the Millards’, and 
Heaven only knows where! ” 



“ You have so many old friends,” in a tone 
of excuse. 

“ As if I hadn’t room for any new ones ! ” 

“ Oh, there has been so much to do. Re- 
member that I am quite new to these methods, 
the best methods. I have to study out many 
ways, dubious ways sometimes,” smiling 
gravely, “ and often retrace my steps. There 
are exercises to go over and over, occasion- 
ally the last is worse than the first, instead of 
being better. And then one doesn’t feel enter- 
taining.” 

“ Oh, you are taking it too seriously. And 
you see by Miss Parker what that amounts to. 
She is as good as gold, and conscientious to a 
certain extent. But she has lopped off all the 
frills, and the frills are half the charm of life 
as well as of gowns. You can be a charming 
woman, Miss Grant, and you have enough 
good looks, too. For heaven’s sake don’t sink 
into a scrupulous, highly moral old maid and 
be disappointed that you can’t set the world 
straight. There’ll be teachers and schools and 
imps of children when you are dust and ashes. 
Look up a nice lover and get married.” 




“Why are you not always happy then?” 
There was a bit of mischief in Helen’s eyes. 

“ I’ve had an awful cold; the grippe, I think. 
And I wanted to go away and be jolly, but — 
headaches and nerves that feel as if some place 
would snap, and a dark brown taste in your 
mouth and a hundred other things! Well, go 
off and have a grand time. I’ll be better- 
natured when you return; ” 

Helen packed up a few things. She must 
do some shopping, get a new winter suit and a 
few books the library did not own. And her 
heart beat unwontedly at the thought of seeing 
those so dear to her. There were others at 
Hope. Would she ever get to them again? 

It was odd, she admitted, but of all the 
people she had met she was most interested in 
the Goulds and Mrs. Dean. She was simply 
a plain woman who seemed to know how to 
make the best of everything. Some of the 
neighbors called her a poor housekeeper. It 
was often nine o’clock at night before the sup- 
per dishes were washed. And she admitted 
frankly that she never studied a cook-book, 
neither was she troubled about any special 


 

style of diet. The children were healthy and 
happy, nicely but plainly dressed. 

“ I really cannot spend much time or money 
over any but their actual needs, and I want to 
train them not to be ashamed of their station 
in life. It seems a pity to me that people dress 
their children so much, but I simply can’t 
do it.” 

“ I’m sure Lois is a great favorite, and one 
of my best scholars,” Helen said approvingly. 
“ The other day she was the only one who 
knew about radium. Of course, it is a new 
thing.” 

“ Their father read about Madame Curie 
and the strange way they came to discover it, 
and how wonderful its heating properties were. 
When he comes to any new discovery or ex- 
periment he wants them to hear about it. I 
think he would have made quite a scholar, only 
he had to go to work so young. But he thinks 
that isn’t a good reason for a man remaining 
ignorant.” 

Ah, if there were more parents in such 
earnest ! 

The baby was bathed, given his supper, car- 



ried upstairs, and put in his crib while the 
supper was cooking. The children had their 
play hour. The happy group around the table 
was like a picture, Helen thought. They were 
not rude or boisterous, though they talked or 
laughed, or told some bright incident or a new 
fact that had come out at school. Lois, with 
a small basket, went round and gathered up 
knives and folks and spoons without any un- 
necessary rattle, then the plates, and brought 
on the simple dessert. All the while the con- 
versation flowed on harmoniously, and there 
seemed no haste to leave the table. Then Lois 
and Ethel helped their mother clear the rest of 
the table, put on the cloth, and the children 
went into a small ante-room to study their 
lessons. Mrs. Dean took up a bit of sewing. 

“ I don’t see how you keep them so good- 
natured,” Helen said in surprise. 

“ Why, they are healthy children, not over- 
worked, and have time for play. Of course 
there are little tiffs, but they soon learn that 
each child has equal rights. One isn’t made 
to give in to the other unless there is a good 
reason. Lois is quite a womanly little girl al- 




ready, but I don’t mean to have her grow up 
too soon, nor carry too many burdens. And 
they get plenty of sleep. I let them lie as long 
as possible in the morning. I can get my break- 
fast easier alone. And at night I send them 
out for a little run in the fresh air before they 
go to bed. Since they are here, it is my duty 
to give them good sound bodies.” 

Lois wanted to walk with father when he 
took Helen home and her mother consented. 
Helen felt as if she had been reading a page 
out of a book when she went there. Why 
couldn’t other mothers be as wise and ju- 
dicious, and give the home an air of restful- 
ness? 

The four months had widened her horizon 
a good deal, Helen felt. She was glad of the 
little break and she wanted to see her friends 
so much. She would have liked a few days 
with the old college tutors, and she almost 
envied Mr. Hildreth his visit with the 
Yarrows. 


CHAPTER XI 


A MERRY CHRISTMAS 

“ Shirley, why are you so mysterious?” 
Helen asked laughingly as they rose from the 
dinner table. They were well and had wel- 
comed her warmly, but there was an indescrib- 
able charm about her friend that roused 
Helen’s curiosity. 

They went to the pretty parlor, where the 
lights were softened and already some Christ- 
mas greens were in evidence. The piano stood 
invitingly open. Helen sat down and ran her 
fingers over the keys. 

“ I’m starved for some music of my own 
making,” she exclaimed. “ And I miss the 
college and chapel singing. There is a sort of 
cultivated playing, and the young girls who 
pound or wander through the latest lesson, and 
ragtime songs. There are some good voices in 
school, — we are not rich enough to have a 


 


 

regular musical trainer. I'd like to start a glee 
club. They have a mandolin club and a band 
at the clubhouse, but only men and boys be- 
long to that. Mr. Underwood has a fine voice, 
but he will not even take the trouble to sing in 
church. And Lilian Firth used to sing in the 
choir of her country church. O dear ! ” in a 
perplexed tone. 

“ Leave all the school matters alone,” in- 
sisted Shirley. “ Come over here. We have a 
great Christmas surprise for you. I have been 
keeping it almost a month and it has nearly 
worn me out. You are going up to Kingsland 
on Monday, and we must go quite early Tues- 
day morning. So we have decided ” 

“What is all this preamble about?” Helen 
glanced from one to the other; both faces were 
full of smiles. 

“It is a Christmas gift we have for you,” 
Willard said. “ I must be the donor. So — 
imagine the loveliest presentation speech — I 
couldn’t say anything beautiful enough,” and 
Shirley’s eyes were luminous with emotion. 
“ Open your box. From the two people who 
love you dearly.” 




It was folded in paper and tied with a white 
satin ribbon. 

“ The bow is too beautiful to disturb,” glanc- 
ing up archly. “ I hope you haven’t been ex- 
travagant. I am only a half-country school 
ma’am, you must remember, really fallen from 
my high estate.” 

She untied it as she saw the curiously re- 
pressed look husband and wife exchanged, and 
lifted the cover. There lay a beautiful book 
in a pale lavender tint and gilt. “ Poems, by 
Shirley Chardevoyne.” 

“ Oh ! ” was all Helen said, too much sur- 
prised for any other word. 

Shirley turned the cover and title page. 
There was an inscription 

“ To my dearest friend, H. G.” 

Helen reached up her arms and clasped 
them about Shirley’s neck. For a moment 
neither spoke. 

Presently Shirley said, “ Oh, do not let us 
get unduly sentimental ! I want to tell you the 
story.” 

She dropped down beside Helen on the 
divan. 



“ And I want to hear it. And how you 
could keep the secret,” and Helen’s voice was 
tremulous with emotion. 

“ It was awfully hard,” and her pretty face 
was wrinkled up with the remembered en- 
deavor, making it like the veriest girl’s. 

“ But the story. Tell it while I am getting 
my delight into shape.” 

“ Do you recall the person — Willard’s 
friend — who set some songs to music? He 
had a friend in a publishing house, a Mr. Len- 
hart, who liked one of them very much, and 
Mr. Harrison brought him here one evening. 
I played and sang, and talked about you, and 
the old poem you made me write about Stre- 
phon and Phyllis. And he said it was a gem. 
Then he wanted to see some of the others, and 
I’ve promised him a sight of you, too,” press- 
ing her hand fondly, and giving a rippling 
laugh. “ Willard said he had thought of col- 
lecting them in a book when he was a little 
richer, because they suggested so many of the 
lovely things in our lives. He took them all 
away with him and said he would consider it, 
and it might not be so costly if it was out for 



a Christmas holiday book. Well, they planned 
and planned and decided to bring them out, 
though everybody says poetry is not a money- 
making scheme. But we didn’t either of us 
care for the money, and I thought how utterly 
lovely it would be for Christmas gifts. That 
was long before Thanksgiving. Didn’t I keep 
my secret well ? ” triumphantly. 

“ Oh, you darling ! ” 

“ You know I never dreamed of being a real 
poet and writing grand things. I don’t care 
especially about fame. I think I should feel 
as if I were a sort of fraud when people 
praised me. I love to write verses for you and 
Willard, and sometimes a little thing comes in 
my mind just like a strain of music, but I 
couldn’t work days and nights over a thing 
and polish it and do it according to rule. So I 
didn’t expect anything but just the pure pleas- 
ure. Only Mr. Lenhart insisted that it should 
be put on the market, that it would be a shame 
to spend so much money for nothing. And 
they found some beautiful plates that had been 
very little used — of course I didn’t mind that,” 
smiling. “ But if it was offered for sale I was 


 

afraid it would leak out to you. We bound 
Miss Craven over, and she is delighted. She 
will tell you all that herself.’ 

Willard’s face was alight with enjoyment 
as he watched his wife and the fascinating 
changes that seemed to make her face prettier 
each time. 

“ I sent a copy to father, but all the rest are 
to be real Christmas gifts and mailed to-mor- 
row. I’m so glad to have something of my 
very own to send to the girls.” 

“ We came near a dispute on one point,” in- 
terposed Willard. “ I don’t know which you 
would have liked best, but I felt — somehow — ” 
hesitating. 

“ About the dedication,” and Shirley’s face 
was brilliant with eager interest. “ I wanted 
it ‘ Helen Grant,’ but Willard said that it 
would seem like a precious thing just between 
us and the ones who loved you best, who 

would surely know ” 

“ Willard was right.” Helen passed her 
hand over to him with a warm and sincere 
clasp. “ It does seem to unite us more closely 
