I felt that she was right when Mary Anne and “Mammy,” Gilbert, Tom, his
assistant, and my little maid Paulina, with black Molly, Percy’s nurse,
trooped in, one after the other, to welcome “Miss Firginny” home. They
had done the like ever since I was born. I should have felt hurt and
angry had they failed in the ceremony. My sharpened senses detected
something that was overdone in manner and speech. They were too glad to
see me, and while they protested, I discerned sarcasm in their grins, a
sinister roll in lively eyeballs.
We talked fast over the supper-table, and of all manner of things
irrelevant to the topic uppermost in our thoughts. Once, while Gilbert
and his half-grown subaltern were out of the room, I ventured a hasty
whisper to my father, at whose right I sat:
“Father, have we any arms in the house if they should come?”
Without turning his head, he saw, out of the tail of his eye, Gilbert
on the threshold, a plate of hot waffles in hand, and Tom at his heels
bearing a pitcher of fresh water. My father reached out a deliberate
hand for a slice of bread from a plate near his elbow.
“All that I have to say, my daughter” (his speech as deliberate as his
hand, and every syllable sharp and clear), “is that we are prepared for
them, come when and how they may.”
A perceptible shiver, as when one catches breath after an electric
shock, ran around the table. All felt that he had thrown down the
gauntlet, and was ready to take the consequences. My heart leaped up as
an elastic bough from the weight that had bowed it to the earth. It was
no effort after that to be gay. I told stories of my country sojourn,
retailed the humors of the visit to our old neighborhood, mimicking
this and that rustic, telling of comical sayings of the colored people
who pressed me with queries as to town life—in short, unbottled a
store of fun and gossip that lasted until bedtime. Then, as I told my
correspondent, I went to bed and slept the sleep of youth, health, and
an easy mind.
And this because he who never lied to me had said that he was
“prepared” for the assassins, come when they might.
A week later, when the fireless smoke had vanished quite from the
horizon, and we dared jest at the “scare,” I asked my mother what
arsenal my father had had in reserve that he could speak so confidently
of preparation for midnight attack and domestic treachery.
“Nothing more formidable than a carving-knife,” she answered, merrily,
“and courage that has always served him in the hour of peril. He was
not alarmed. I believe he would face a hundred negroes with no other
weapon than his bare hands.”
I am often asked why, if our family servants were really and warmly
attached to us, we should have let the “bugbear” poison our pleasures
and haunt our midnight visions. To the present hour I am conscious of a
peculiar stricture of the heart that stops my breath for a second, at
the sudden blast of a hunter’s horn in the country. Before I was eight
years old I had heard the tale of Gabriel’s projected insurrection,
and of the bloodier outbreak of murderous fury led by Nat Turner, the
petted favorite of a trusting master. Heard that the signal of attack
in both cases was to be “a trumpet blown long and loud.” Again and
again, on my visits to country plantations, I have been thrown into
a paroxysm of terror when awakened from sleep in the dead of night,
by the sound of the horns carried by “coon hunters” in their rounds
of the woods nearest us. I could not have been over ten, when, on a
visit to “Lethe,” a homestead occupied for a while by Uncle Carus, I
was rambling in the garden soon after sunrise, picking roses, and let
them fall from nerveless fingers at the ringing blast of a “trumpet
blown long and loud”, from the brow of a neighboring hill. As it pealed
louder and longer, until the blue welkin above me repeated the sound,
I fled as fast as my freezing feet would carry me, to the deepest
recesses of the graveyard at the foot of the garden, and hid in a
tangle of wild raspberry bushes higher than my head. There I lay, wet
with the dews of the past night, and my face and hands scratched to
bleeding, until the winding horn grew faint and fainter, and the bay of
a pack of hounds told me what a fool panic had made of me. We always
thought of the graveyard as an asylum in the event of a rising. No
negro would venture to enter it by day or night.
In any ordinary period of danger or distress, I would have trusted my
life in the hands of the men and women who had been born on the same
plantation with my mother, and the younger generation, to whom she had
been a faithful and benignant friend from their cradles. In fire and
flood and tempest; in good report and evil report; in sickness and in
health; in poverty, as in riches—they would have stood with, and for
us to the death. We knew them to be but children of a larger growth,
passionate and unreasoning, facile and impulsive, and fanatical beyond
anything conceivable by the full-blooded white. The superstitious
savagery their ancestors had brought from barbarous and benighted
Africa, was yet in their veins. We had heard how Gabriel, a leader
in prayer-meetings, and encouraged by the whites to do Christian
evangelization among his own race, had deliberately meditated and
written down, as sections of the code to be put into practice, when he
should come into his kingdom of Lower Virginia—a plan of murder of all
male whites, and a partition of the women and girl-children among his
followers, together with arson and tortures exceeding the deviltries
of the red Indians. We had heard from the lips of eyewitnesses, scenes
succeeding the Southampton massacre of every white within the reach
of the murderous horde howling at the heels of the negro preacher
whom his master had taught to read and write—how the first victim of
the uprising, in the name of God and freedom, was that master as he
lay asleep at his wife’s side. Of how coolly—even complacently—Turner
recorded: “He sprang up, calling his wife’s name. It was his last word.
A single blow was sufficient to kill him. We forgot a baby that was
asleep in the cradle, but Hark went back and dispatched it.”
In every plan of rising against their masters, Religion was a potent
element. It was, to their excitable imaginations, a veritable Holy War,
from which there would be no discharge. The “Mammy” who had nursed her
mistress’s baby at her own bosom, would brain it, with the milk yet wet
upon its lips, if bidden by the “prophet” to make the sacrifice. Nat
Turner split with his axe the skull of a boy he had carried in his arms
scores of times, and stayed not his hand, although the little fellow
met him with a happy laugh and outstretched arms and the cry, “Uncle
Nat, you have come to give me a ride! Haven’t you?”
I repeat, we knew with what elements we should have to deal if the
“rising” ever took an organized form. This ever-present knowledge
lay at the root of the hatred of the “abolition movement.” To the
Northerner, dwelling at ease among his own people, it was—except to the
leaders—an abstract principle. “All men are created free and equal”—a
slaveholder had written before his Northern brother emancipated his
unprofitable serfs. Ergo, reasoned the Northern brother, in judicial
survey of the increasing race, whose labor was still gainful to tobacco
and wheat planter, the negro slave had a right to “liberty and the
pursuit of happiness.”
He did not count the cost of a consummation devoutly to be desired. He
had no occasion to meditate upon the bloody steps by which the enslaved
and alien race would climb to the height the Abolitionist would
stimulate him to attain.
So well was it understood that a mother ran dangerous risks if she put
her child into the care of the colored woman who complained that she
“was tired of that sort of work,” that neglect of such dislike of a
nurse’s duties was considered foolhardy. I heard a good old lady, who
owned so many servants that she hired a dozen or so to her neighbors,
lament that Mrs. Blank “did not mind what I told her about Frances’
determination not to take care of children. I hired the girl to her
as a chambermaid, and gave her fair warning that she just would not
be a nurse. A baby was born when Frances had been there four months,
and she was set to nurse it. You must have heard the dreadful story?
Perhaps you saw it in the papers. When the child was six months old
the wretched creature pounded glass and put it in the baby’s milk. The
child died, and the girl was hanged.”
Ugly stories, these, but so true in every particular that I cannot
leave them out of my chronicle of real life and the workings of what we
never thought, then, of calling “the peculiar institution.”
One of my most distinct recollections of the discussions of Slavery
held in my hearing is that my saintly Aunt Betsy said, sadly and
thoughtfully:
“One thing is certain—we will have to pay for the great sin of having
them here. How, or when, God alone knows.”
“We did not bring them to Virginia!” was my mother’s answer. “And I,
for one, wish they were all back in Africa. But what can we do, now
that they are on our hands?”
Before turning to other and pleasanter themes, let me say that my
father, after consultation with the wife who had brought to him eight
or ten “family servants” as part of her father’s estate, resolved to
free them and send them to Liberia at his own expense. This was in
my early childhood, yet I recollect how the scheme failed through the
obstinate refusal of the slaves to leave master, home, and country
for freedom in a strange land. They clung to my mother’s knees, and
prayed her, with wild weeping, not to let them go. They had blood
relatives and dear friends here; their children had intermarried with
men and women in different parts of the county; their grandfathers and
great-grandfathers had left them no legacy of memories that would draw
them toward the far-off country which was but the echo of an empty name
to their descendants. They were comfortable and happy here. Why send
them, for no fault of theirs, into exile?
“There is something in what they say!” my father had said to my mother,
in reviewing the scene. “I cannot see that anything is left for us to
do except to keep on as we are, and wait for further indications of the
Divine will.”
This was in the thirties, not many years after an act of gradual
emancipation was lost in the Legislature by the pitiful majority I
named in an earlier paragraph. A score of years had passed since that
momentous debate in our capitol, and our Urim and Thummin had not
signified that we could do anything better than to “keep on as we were.”
It would be idle to say that we were not, from time to time, aware that
a volcano slumbered fitfully beneath us. There were dark sides to the
Slavery Question, for master, as for slave.
XIX
WEDDING AND BRIDESMAID—THE ROUTINE OF A LARGE FAMILY—MY FIRST
BEREAVEMENT
IN the summer of 1851, my grandmother had bought and given to her
only child the house which was to be our home as long as we remained
a resident family in Richmond. Of this house I shall have a story to
tell in the next chapter. It stands upon Leigh Street (named for the
distinguished lawyer of whom we have heard in these pages as taking
a part in the Clay campaign), and the locality was then quietly, but
eminently, aristocratic. There were few new houses, and the old had a
rural, rather than an urban, air. Each had its garden, stocked with
shrubbery and flowers. Some had encompassing lawns and outlying copses
of virgin native growth.
The new home held a large family. The stately old dame who had settled
us for life, occupied a sunny front chamber, and in addition to our
household proper, we had had with us, for two years, my mother’s
widowed brother-in-law, “Uncle” Cams, and the stepdaughter for whose
sake we had consented to receive him. My aunt had died soon after her
youngest child (Anne) was taken to a Better Country; Cousin Paulina
went a year later, and as the mother’s parting request to the eldest
of her flock was that she would “take care of her father,” separation
was not to be thought of. None of us loved the lonely old man. One and
all, we loved her who was a younger sister to our mother, and a second
mother to her children.
So we sat down to our meals every day, a full dozen, all told, and
as we were seldom without a visitor, we must have been “thirteen
at table”, times without number. If we had ever heard the absurd
superstition that would have forbidden it, we never gave it a thought.
I should not have liked to meet my father’s frown and hear his comment,
had the matter been broached in his hearing.
The modern (nominal) mistress would be horrified at the thought of
twelve eaters, drinkers, and sleepers under the roof of a private
house. We descried nothing out of the way in it, and fared exceeding
comfortably from year’s end to year’s end. Large families were still
respectable in the public eye, and an increase in the number of
domestics kept the addition to the white family from bearing hard upon
the housemother.
How gayly and smoothly the little craft of my life moved on up to the
middle of ’53, let a few passages from a letter dated July 23d of that
year, testify:
    “I came back from the mountains on the 2d of this month.
    I had a charming visit at Piedmont. I believe I left warm
    friends behind me when I reluctantly said ‘Good-bye’ to
    the hospitable abode. I was the only young lady on the
    plantation, and there were four grown brothers and a cousin
    or two. Each had his pet riding-horse, which he ‘must have
    me try.’ I had rides, morning and evening, and once at
    high noon. In June! Think of it! I won’t tell you which
    Rosinante I preferred. You might have a notion that his
    master shared his honors, and these shrewd guesses are
    inconvenient sometimes. The very considerate gallants found
    out, ‘by the merest chance,’ that it made me sick to ride in
    a closed carriage, and, of course, as there were two buggies
    on the place, there was ‘tall’ bidding as to which I should
    distinguish by accepting a seat in it. Sarah C., her mother,
    and sister were kindness itself to me. I was quite ashamed
    of my unworthiness of such petting....
    “I got home just in time to help Mea with the preparations
    for her Northern trip, and to get ready for Sarah Ragland’s
    wedding—an event that had its influence in shaping my summer
    plans.
    “We enjoyed the ‘occasion’ heartily. How could I do
    otherwise when my attendant groomsman was ordered for the
    affair from Charlottesville?—the very youth who smote my
    already beriddled heart when I was up in that region. He
    is a cousin of the Raglands—Charley Massie by name—and the
    arrangement was Mary’s (bless her heart!). Mr. Budwell,
    the bridegroom, was indisputably the handsomest man in the
    room. This was as it should be; but I never attended another
    wedding where this could be said with truth. My knight was
    the next best-looking, and for once I was content with a
    second-best article.”
I allude in this letter to “Cousin Mollie’s” illness, but with no
expression of anxiety as to the result. She had been delicate ever
since I could recollect anything. She went to Saratoga every summer,
and now and then to Florida in the winter. The only intimation I ever
had from her as to the cause of her continued singlehood was in answer
to the girlish outburst: “Cousin Mary, you must have been beautiful
when you were young! You will always be charming. I can’t comprehend
why you have never married!”
Her speech was ever even and sweet. I detected a ring of impatience or
of pain in it, as she said: “Why should I marry, Namesake? To get a
nurse for life?”
I had suspected all along that she had a history known to none of us.
After that I knew it, and asked no more questions.
Patient, brave, unselfishly heroic—
            “The sweetest soul
    That ever looked with human eyes,”
—she lingered day after day, now weaker, now rallying, until she spoke
her own conviction to me one day in late July, as I sat by, fanning
her, and no one else was present.
I smiled as she opened her large dark eyes, the only beauty left in the
wasted face, and saw me.
“You are better, dear! We shall have you up and out driving before
long.”
“No, dear child!”—infinite weariness in tone and look. “The old clock
has run clean down!”
I did not believe it, and I said it stoutly aloud, and to myself.
She seemed no more languid—only drowsy—the next afternoon, as I
fluttered into the room and leaned over her in a glow of excitement:
“Cousin Mollie, darling! I have come in to say that Junius Fishburn is
down-stairs. He is in town for a day on his way to Newport.”
The great eyes opened wide, a smile lighted them into liveliness.
“Oh, I am so glad!” she gasped.
She was “glad” of everything that gave me pleasure. I had never doubted
that. I had never gone to her with a pain or a pleasure without getting
my greedy fill of sympathy.
When I had said a hearty “bon voyage!” to my caller, I went back
to tell her of the interview. She was dying. We watched by her from
evening to morning twilight.
Ned Rhodes, who was in Boston when he got my letter, telling briefly
what had come to us, sent me lines I read then for the first time. Had
the writer shared that vigil with us, he could not have described it
more vividly:
    “We watched her breathing thro’ the night,
       Her breathing soft and low,
     As in her breast the wave of life
       Kept heaving to and fro.
     Our very hopes belied our fears;
       Our fears our hopes belied:
     We thought her dying while she slept,
       And sleeping when she died.”
At midnight there was a rally for a few minutes. I was wetting the
dry lips, leaning over the pillow, so that she looked into my eyes in
unclosing hers. A smile of heavenly sweetness played over her face—a
ray that irradiated, without moving a feature or line. The poor mouth
stirred ever so slightly. I bent closer to it to hear the whisper:
“I’m almost there!”
Two months later I wrote to my old friend:
    “Our great sorrow in July was my first affliction. Yet I
    was wonderfully supported under it, and the terrible
    desolation that has grown upon us, instead of lessening. I
    say ‘supported,’ for not once have I wished her back; but I
    miss her—oh, so sadly!
                 “‘I cannot make her dead!’
    “Then mother went to the country for a month, and I was
    left as housekeeper, with the whole care of the family
    on my hands. Rising betimes to preside at father’s early
    breakfast, pickling, preserving, sewing, overseeing the
    servants, etcetera.
    “Enough of this! Although the little girls’ lessons begin
    again to-day, and I have my sister’s domestic and social
    duties to perform in addition to my own, I have more leisure
    than you might think, and you shall have the benefit of
    a spare half-hour on this bright Monday morning. (Alice
    practising, meanwhile, in the same room!)
    “Mea is still in Boston and the vicinity, and will not
    return for a month or more. Lizzie M. is to be married late
    in October or early in November, and wishes to have Mea with
    her. Another of the three Lizzies, and the prettiest—Lizzie
    N.—married last week a Mr. L.—a nice young man, Mea says. I
    have never seen him, although they have been engaged for
    some time. He has taken up his abode in Boston, to keep his
    lovely wife with her invalid mother.
    “And while upon marriage—E. G. is to wed on October 11th,
    Mr. R. H., one of ten brothers. She is ‘doing very well,’
    say the gossips.
    “Sarah and Mr. Budwell are at home again, he handsomer than
    ever, while she looks prettier and happier than she ever was
    before.
    “While retailing news, let me chronicle the arrival of
    Master Robert Wallace Courtney, an interesting youth, who—as
    father dryly remarked, when I said that he ‘came from a
    foreign shore’—‘speaks the language of the Cry-mea.’
    “Heigho! so goes this mad world of ours: death; marriage;
    birth. Ranks are mowed down, and filled up as soon. Few
    of us appreciate what a fearful thing it is to die, and
    fewer yet how awful it is to live—writing our histories by
    our actions in the Book of God’s Remembrance, a stroke for
    every word, movement, and thought! Again I say, if Death be
    fearful, Life is awful!
    “We are prone to forget, as one and another fall, and the
    chasm is closed up and Life seems the same—except within
    the bleeding hearts of mourners—that our day is coming as
    surely as those others have gone. In effect, we arrogate
    immortality for ourselves.
    “The longer I live, and the more I see of the things that
    perish with the using, the more firmly persuaded am I that
    there is but one reality in life, and that is Religion. Why
    not make it an every-day business? Since the loving care of
    the Father is the only thing that may not be taken from us,
    why do we not look to it for every joy, and cling to it for
    every comfort?...
    “Write soon. Will you not come to me? I am very lonely at
    times. One sister gone! Another absent!
    “I am wondering if you have changed as much as I feel
    that I have? It is not natural to suppose that you have.
    You have not the same impression of added responsibility,
    the emulation to throw yourself into the breach made by
    the removal of one so beloved, and, in her quiet way,
    exercising so much influence. If I could but hope that
    patience and prayerful watchfulness would ever make me
    ‘altogether such an one’ as she was!
    “How many and how happy have been the meetings in heaven
    since I last saw you! Dear little Sallie B.! How often in
    fancy do I see her walk away in the moonlight night of our
    parting! I never look from the front window in the evening
    without recalling that hour.”
XX
OUR TRUE FAMILY GHOST-STORY
ONE evening of the winter following the events recorded in the last
chapter, “Ned” Rhodes and I had spent a cosey two hours together. My
parents never did chaperon duty, in the modern acceptation of the
word. They made a habit, without hinting at it as a duty, of knowing
personally every man who called upon us. When, as in the present case,
and it was a common one, the visitor was well known to them, and they
liked him, both of them came into the drawing-room, sat for a half-hour
or longer, as the spirit moved them, then slipped out, separately, to
their own sitting-room and books.
I have drawn Ned Rhodes’s picture at length as “Charley” in Alone. I
will only say here that he was my firm and leal friend from the time I
was twelve years old to the time of his death, in the early eighties.
He had a piece of new music for me to-night, and we fell to work with
piano and flute soon after my father’s exit. It was not difficult. The
songs and duets that followed were familiar to us both. We chatted
by the glowing grate when we left the piano—gayly and lightly, of
nothing in particular—the inconsequent gossip of two old and intimate
acquaintances that called for no effort from either.
I mention this to show that I carried a careless spirit and a light
heart with me, as I went off in the direction of my bedroom, having
extinguished the hanging lamp in the hall, and taking one of the lamps
from the parlor to light myself bedward.
It was a big, square Colonial house, with much waste of space in the
matter of halls and passages. The entrance-hall on the first floor was
virtually a reception-room, and nearly as large as any apartment on
that level. It was cut across the left side by an archway, filled with
Venetian blinds and door. Beyond these was a broad, easy stairway,
dropping, by a succession of landings, to the lower from the upper
story. Directly opposite the front door was a second and narrower arch,
the door in which was, likewise, of Venetian slats. This led to the
rooms at the back of the house. The plan of the second floor was the
same. On this eventful night I passed through the smaller archway,
closing the door behind me. It had a spring latch that clicked into
place as I swung it to. The bedroom I shared with my sister, who was
not at home that night, was directly across the passage from that
occupied by our parents. A line of light under their door proved that
they were still up, and I knocked.
“Come in!” called both, in unison.
My mother, wrapped in her dressing-gown, lay back in her rocking-chair,
her book closed upon her finger. My father had laid aside his coat, and
stood on the rug, winding his watch.
“I was hoping that you would look in,” he said. “I wanted to ask what
that new piano-and-flute piece is. I like it!”
We exchanged a few sentences on the subject; I kissed both good-night,
and went out into the hall, humming, as I went, the air that had caught
his fancy.
The lamp in my hand had two strong burners. Gas had not then been
introduced into private dwellings in Richmond. We used what was sold as
“burning fluid,” in illuminating our houses—something less gross than
camphene or oil, and giving more light than either. I carried the lamp
in front of me, so that it threw a bright light upon the door across
the passage, here a little over six feet wide. As I shut the door of my
mother’s room, I saw, as distinctly as if by daylight, a small woman in
gray start out of the opposite door, glide noiselessly along the wall,
and disappear at the Venetian blinds giving upon the big front hall.
I have reviewed that moment and its incident a thousand times, in the
effort to persuade myself that the apparition was an optical illusion
or a trick of fancy.
The thousandth-and-first attempt results as did the first. I shut
my eyes to see—always the one figure, the same motion, the same
disappearance.
She was dressed in gray; she was small and lithe; her head was bowed
upon her hands, and she slipped away, hugging the wall, as in flight,
vanishing at the closed door. The door I had heard latch itself five
minutes ago! Which did not open to let her through! I recall, as
clearly as I see the apparition, what I thought in the few seconds that
flew by as I stood to watch her. I was not in the least frightened
at first. My young maid, Paulina, a bright mulatto of fifteen, had
more than once that winter fallen asleep upon the rug before my fire,
when she went into the room to see that all was in readiness for my
retiring. The servants slept in buildings detached from the main
residence, a custom to which I have referred before.
“The house” was locked up by my father’s own hands at ten o’clock,
unless there were some function to keep one or more of the servants
up and on duty. Therefore, when I had twice awakened Paulina from
her unlawful slumber, I had sent her off to the “offices”—in English
parlance—with a sharp reproof and warning against a repetition of the
offence. My instant thought now was:
“The little minx has been at it again!” The next, “She went like a
cat!” The third, in a lightning flash, “She did not open the door to go
through!” Finally—“Nor did she open the door when she came out of my
room!”
I had never, up to that instant, known one thrill of supernatural dread
since I was old enough to give full credence to my father’s assurances
that there were no such things as ghosts, and to laugh at the tales
told by ignorant negroes to frighten one another, and to awe white
children. I had never been afraid of the darkness or of solitude. I
would take my doll and book to the graveyard and spend whole happy
afternoons there, because it was quiet and shady, and nobody would
interrupt study or dream.
It was, then, the stress of extraordinary emotion which swept me back
into the room I had just quitted, and bore me up to the table by which
my mother sat, there to set down the lamp I could scarcely hold,
enunciating hoarsely:
“I have seen a ghost!”
My father wheeled sharply about.
“What!”
At that supreme moment, the influence of his scornful dislike to every
species of superstition made me “hedge,” and falter, in articulating,
“If there is such a thing as a ghost, I have seen one!”
Before I could utter another sound he had caught up the lamp and was
gone. Excited, and almost blind and dumb as I was, I experienced a new
sinking of heart as I heard him draw back the bolt of the door through
which the Thing had passed, without unclosing it. He explored the whole
house, my mother and I sitting, silent, and listening to his swift
tramp upon floor and stairs. In a few minutes the search was over.
He was perfectly calm in returning to us.
“There is nobody in the house who has not a right to be here. And
nobody awake except ourselves.”
Setting down the lamp, he put his hand on my head—his own, and almost
only, form of caress.
“Now, daughter, try and tell us what you think you saw?”
Grateful for the unlooked-for gentleness, I rallied to tell the
story simply and without excitement. When I had finished, he made no
immediate reply, and I looked up timidly.
“I really saw it, father, just as I have said! At least, I believe I
did!”
“I know it, my child. But we will talk no more of it to-night. I will
go to your room with you.”
He preceded me with the lamp. When we were in my chamber, he looked
under the bed (how did he guess that I should do it as soon as his
back was turned, if he had not?). Then he carried the light into the
small dressing-room behind the chamber. I heard him open the doors of a
wardrobe that stood there, and try the fastenings of a window.
“There is nothing to harm you here,” he said, coming back, and speaking
as gently as before. “Now, try not to think of what you believe you
saw. Say your prayers and go to bed, like a good, brave girl!”
He kissed me again, putting his arm around me and, holding me to him
tenderly, said “Good-night,” and went out.
I was ashamed of my fright—heartily ashamed! Yet I was afraid to look
in the mirror while I undid and combed my hair and put on my night-cap.
When, at last, I dared put out the light, I scurried across the floor,
plunged into bed, and drew the blankets tightly over my head.
My father looked sympathizingly at my heavy eyes next morning when I
came down to prayers. After breakfast he took me aside and told me to
keep what I had seen to myself.
“Neither your mother nor I will speak of it in the hearing of the
children and servants. You may, of course, take your sister into your
confidence. She may be trusted. But my opinion is that the fewer who
know of a thing that seems unaccountable, the better. And your sister
is more nervous than you.”
Thus it came about that nothing was said to Mea, and that we three who
knew of the visitation did not discuss it, and tried honestly not to
think of it.
Until, perhaps a month after my fright, about nine o’clock, one wet
night, my mother entered the chamber where my father and I were talking
over political news, as we still had a habit of doing, and said,
hurriedly, glancing nervously behind her:
“I have seen Virginia’s ghost!”
She saw it, just as I had described, issuing from the closed door and
gliding away close to the wall, then vanishing at the Venetian door.
“It was all in gray,” she reported, “but with something white wrapped
about the head. It is very strange!”
Still we held our peace. My father’s will was law, and he counselled
discretion.
“We will await further developments,” he said, oracularly.
Looking back, I think it strange that the example of his cool
fearlessness so far wrought upon me that I would not allow the
mystery to prey upon my spirits, or to make me afraid to go about the
house as I had been wont to do. Once my father broke the reserve we
maintained, even to each other, by asking if I would like to exchange
my sleeping-room for another.
“Why should I?” I interrogated, trying to laugh. “We are not sure where
she goes after she leaves it. It is something to know that she is no
longer there.”
Mea had to be taken into confidence after she burst into the
drawing-room at twilight, one evening, and shut the door, setting her
back against it and trembling from head to foot. She was as white as a
sheet, and when she spoke, it was in a whisper. Something had chased
her down-stairs, she declared. The hall-lamp was burning, and she
could see, by looking over her shoulder, that the halls and stairs
were empty but for her terrified self. But Something—Somebody—in
high-heeled shoes, that went “Tap! tap! tap!” on the oaken floor and
staircase, was behind her from the time she left the upper chamber
where she had been dressing, until she reached the parlor door. Her
nerves were not as stout as mine, perhaps, but she was no coward, and
she was not given to foolish imaginations. When we told her what had
been seen, she took a more philosophical view of the situation than I
was able to do.
“Bodiless things can’t hurt bodies!” she opined, and readily joined our
secret circle.
Were we, as a family, as I heard a woman say when we were not
panic-stricken at the rumored approach of yellow-fever, “a queer lot,
taken altogether”? I think so, sometimes.
The crisis came in February of that same winter.
My sister Alice and a young cousin who was near her age—fourteen—were
sent off to bed a little after nine one evening, that they might get
plenty of “beauty sleep.” Passing the drawing-room door, which was
ajar, they were tempted to enter by the red gleam of the blazing
fire of soft coal. Nobody else was there to enjoy it, and they sat
them down for a school-girlish talk, prolonged until the far-off cry
“All’s well!” of the sentinel at the “Barrack” on Capitol Square told
the conscience-smitten pair that it was ten o’clock. Going into the
hall, they were surprised to find it dark. We found afterward that the
servant whose duty it was to fill the lamp had neglected it, and it had
burned out. It was a brilliant moonlight night, and the great window
on the lower landing of the staircase was unshuttered. The arched door
dividing the two halls was open, and from the doorway of the parlor
they had a full view of the stairs. The moonbeams flooded it half-way
up to the upper landing; and from the dark hall they saw a white figure
moving slowly down the steps. The mischievous pair instantly jumped to
the conclusion that one of “the boys”—my brothers—was on his way, en
déshabillé, to get a drink of water from the pitcher that always stood
on a table in the reception-room, or main hall. To get it, he must pass
within a few feet of them, and they shrank back into the embrasure of
the door behind them, pinching each other in wicked glee to think how
they would tease the boy about the prank next morning. Down the stairs
it moved, without sound, and slowly, the concealed watchers imagined,
listening for any movement that might make retreat expedient. They
said, afterward, that his nightgown trailed on the stairs, also that he
might have had something white cast over his head. These things did not
strike them as singular while they watched his progress, so full were
they of the fun of the adventure.
It crossed the moonlit landing—an unbroken sheet of light—and stepped,
yet more slowly, from stair to stair of the four that composed the
lowermost flight. It was on the floor and almost within the archway
when the front door opened suddenly and in walked the boys, who had
been out for a stroll.
In a quarter-second the apparition was gone. As Alice phrased it:
“It did not go backward or forward. It did not sink into the floor. It
just was not!”
With wild screams the girls threw themselves upon the astonished boys,
and sobbed out the story. In the full persuasion that a trick had been
played upon the frightened children, the brothers rushed up-stairs and
made a search of the premises. The hubbub called every grown member of
the household to the spot except our deaf grandmother, who was fast
asleep in her bed up-stairs.
Assuming the command which was his right, my father ordered all hands
to bed so authoritatively that none ventured to gainsay the edict. In
the morning he made light to the girls and boys of the whole affair,
fairly laughing it out of court, and, breakfast over, sent them off to
school and academy. Then he summoned our mother, my sister, and myself
to a private conference in “the chamber.”
He began business without preliminaries. Standing on the rug, his back
to the fire, his hands behind him, in genuine English-squirely style,
he said, as nearly as I can recall his words:
“It is useless to try to hide from ourselves any longer that there is
something wrong with this house. I have known it for a year and more.
In fact, we had not lived here three months before I was made aware
that some mystery hung about it.
“One windy November night I had gone to bed as usual, before your
mother finished her book.”
He glanced smilingly at her. Her proclivity for reading into the small
hours was a family joke.
“It was a stormy night, as I said, and I lay with closed eyes,
listening to the wind and rain, and thinking over next day’s business,
when somebody touched my feet. Somebody—not something! Hands were
laid lightly upon them, were lifted and laid in the same way upon my
knees, and so on until they rested more heavily on my chest, and I felt
that some one was looking into my face. Up to that moment I had not a
doubt that it was your mother. Like the careful wife she is, she was
arranging the covers over me to keep out stray draughts. So, when she
bent to look into my face, I opened my eyes to thank her.
“She was not there! I was gazing into the empty air. The pressure was
removed as soon as I lifted my eyelids. I raised myself on my elbow
and looked toward the fireplace. Your mother was deep in her book, her
back toward me. I turned over without sound, and looked under the bed
from the side next the wall. The firelight and lamplight shone through,
unobstructed.
“I speak of this now for the first time. I have never opened my lips
about it, even to your mother, until this moment. But it has happened
to me, not once, nor twice, nor twenty—but fifty times—maybe more. It
is always the same thing. The hands—I have settled in my mind that
they are those of a small woman or of a child, they are so little and
light—are laid on my feet, then on my knees, and travel upward to
my chest. There they rest for a few seconds, sometimes for a whole
minute—I have timed them—and something looks into my face and is gone!
“How do I account for it? I don’t account for it at all! I know that
it is! That is all. Shakespeare said, long before I was born, that
‘there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our
philosophy.’ This is one of them. You can see, now, daughter”—turning
to me—“why I was not incredulous when you brought your ghost upon the
scene. I have been on the lookout for what our spiritualistic friends
call ‘further manifestations.’”
“You believe, then,” Mea broke in, “that the girls really saw something
supernatural on the stairs last night? That it was not a trick of
moonlight and imagination?”
“If we can make them think so, it will be better for them than to fill
their little brains with ghostly fears. That was the reason I took
a jesting tone at breakfast-time. I charged them, on the penalty of
being the laughing-stock of all of us, not to speak of it to any one
except ourselves. I wish you all to take the cue. Moreover, and above
everything else, don’t let the servants get hold of it. There would be
no living in the house with them, if they were to catch the idea that
it is ‘haunted.’”
He drew his brows into the horseshoe frown that meant annoyance
and perplexity. “How I hate the word! You girls are old enough to
understand that the value of this property would be destroyed were this
story to creep abroad. I would better burn the house down at once than
to attempt to sell it at any time within the next fifty years with a
ghost-tale tagged to it.
“Now, here lies the case! We can talk to outsiders of what we have
seen and felt and heard in this, our home, where your grandmother,
your mother and father have hoped to live comfortably and to die in
peace, or we can keep our own counsel like sensible, brave Christians.
‘Bodiless spirits cannot hurt bodies,’ and”—the frown passing before a
humorous gleam—“the little gray lady seems to be amiable enough. I can
testify that her hands are light, and that they pet, not strike. She is
timid, too. What do you say—all of you? Can we hold our tongues?”
We promised in one voice. We kept the pledge so well that both the
girls and the boys were convinced of our incredulity. Our father
forbade them positively to drop a hint of their foolish fancies in the
hearing of the servants. Young as they were, they knew what stigma
would attach to a haunted house in the community. As time passed,
the incident faded from their minds. It was never mentioned in their
hearing.
A year went by without further demonstration on the part of the little
gray lady, except for two nocturnal visitations of the small, caressing
hands. My father admitted this when we questioned him on the subject;
but he would not talk of it.
The one comic element connected with the bodiless visitant was
introduced, oddly enough, by our sanctimonious clerical uncle-in-law,
who now and then paid us visits of varying lengths. As he came
unannounced, it was not invariably convenient to receive him. On one
occasion his appearance caused dismay akin to consternation. We were
expecting a houseful of younger friends within two days, and needed the
guest-room he must occupy. He was good for a week at the shortest.
True to the Arab-like traditions of hospitality that pervaded all
ranks of Old Dominion society, we suffered nothing of this to appear
in our behavior. Nor could he have heard the anguished discussion of
ways and means that went on between Mea and myself late that night. It
was, therefore, a delightful surprise when he announced, next morning,
his intention of going out to Olney that day, and to remain there
for—perhaps a week. He “had let too long a time elapse since he had
paid the good people there a visit. He didn’t want them to think he had
forgotten them.”
One of the “good people,” the wife of my mother’s brother, drove into
town to spend the day with us, a week after the close of his stay at
Olney. “Aunt Sue” was a prime favorite with us all, and she was in fine
feather to-day, full of fun and anecdote. She interrupted a spicy bit
of family news to say, by-and-by:
“Did any of you ever suspect that your house is haunted?”
“How ridiculous!” laughed my mother. “Why do you ask?”
The narrator laughed yet more merrily.
“The funniest thing you ever heard! The old gentleman had an awful
scare the last night he was here. I asked him what he had eaten—and
drunk—for supper that evening. But he stuck to it that he was standing
at his window, looking out into the moonlight in the garden, when
somebody came up behind him, and took him by the elbows and turned
him clear around! He felt the two hands that grabbed hold of him so
plainly that he made sure Horace had hidden under the bed and jumped
out to scare him. So he looked under the bed and in the wardrobe and
the closet, and, for all I know, in the bureau drawers and under the
washstand, for the boy. There was nobody in the room but himself, and
the door was locked. He says he wouldn’t sleep in that room another
night for a thousand dollars.”
“Nobody is likely to offer it!” retorted Mea, dryly. “I have slept
there nearly a thousand nights, and nothing ever caught hold of me.”
Passing over what might or might not have been a link in the true,
weird history of our bodiless tenant, I leap a chasm of a dozen
years to wind up the tale of the “little gray lady,” so far as it
bears directly upon our family. After the death of her husband and
the marriages of sons and daughters left my mother alone in the old
colonial homestead, she decided to sell it and to live with my youngest
sister.
The property was bought as a “Church Home”—a sort of orphanage,
conducted under the patronage of a prominent Episcopal parish renowned
for good works. In altering the premises to adapt buildings to their
new uses, the workmen came upon the skeleton of a small woman about
four feet below the surface of the front yard. She lay less than
six feet away from the wall of the house, and directly under the
drawing-room window. There was no sign of coffin or coffin-plate. Under
her head was a high, richly carved tortoise-shell comb, mute evidence
that she had not been buried in cap and shroud, as was the custom a
hundred years agone. The oldest inhabitant of a city that is tenacious
of domestic legends, had never heard of an interment in that quarter
of a residential and aristocratic district. The street, named for the
eminent lawyer, must have been laid out since the house was built,
and may have been cut right through grounds, then far more spacious
than when we bought the place. Even so, the grave was dug in the front
garden, and so close to the house as to render untenable the theory
that the plot was ever part of a family burying-ground.
The papers took inquisitive note of all these circumstances, and let
the matter drop as an unexplained mystery. Within the present occupancy
of the house, I have heard that the gray lady still walks on moonlight
nights, and, in gusty midnights, visits the bedside of terrified
inmates to press small, light hands upon the feet, and so passing
upward, to rest upon the chest of the awakened sleeper. I was asked by
one who had felt them, if I had “ever heard the legend that a bride,
dressed for her wedding, fell dead in that upper chamber ages ago.”
My informant could not tell me from whom she had the grewsome tale, or
the date thereof. “Somebody had told her that it happened once upon a
time.” She knew that the unquiet creature still “walked the halls and
stairs.”
She should have been “laid” by the decent ceremony of burial in
consecrated ground, awarded to the exhumed bones.
I have talked with a grandson of our former next-door neighbor, and had
from him a circumstantial account of the disinterment of the nameless
remains. They must have lain nearer the turf above them, a century
back, than when they were found. The young man was a boy when he ran
to the hole made by the workmen’s spades, and watched the men bring to
light the entire skeleton. He verified the story of the high, carved
comb. He told me, too, of a midnight alarm of screaming children at the
vision of a little gray lady, walking between the double row of beds in
the dormitory, adding:
“I told those who asked if any story was attached to the house, that I
had lived next door ever since I was born, and played every day with
your sisters and brothers, and never heard a whisper that the house was
haunted.”
So said all our neighbors. We kept our own counsel. It was our father’s
wise decree.
I have told my ghost-story with no attempt at explanation of psychical
phenomena. After all these years I fall back, when questioned as to
hypotheses, upon my father’s terse dicta:
“How do I account for it? I don’t account for it at all!”
XXI
TWO MONUMENTAL FRIENDSHIPS
EVEN at that period, when I visited my father’s Northern kindred,
I failed to bring them to a right comprehension of the frank, and
oftentimes intimate, relations existing between the young people of
both sexes in my Virginia home. I have marvelled within myself since,
how these relations came to be established at the first. We brought
to the New World, and retained, scores of English customs of domestic
management, and traditions of social obligations. It was never the
fashion in England, or in her Northern colonies, for boys to begin
“visiting the young ladies” before they discarded roundabouts, and to
keep up the fascinating habit until they tottered into the grave at
fourscore. For the same dozen young fellows to call at least once a
week upon as many young girls; to read, chat, jest, flirt, drive, ride,
and walk with them, month after month, and year after year, perhaps
choosing one of the dozen as a lifelong partner, and quite as often
running off for a season to another county or State, and bringing home
a wife, with whom the philosophic coterie speedily got acquainted
amiably, widening the circle to take her in, with never a thought of
chagrin.
The thumbnail sketches I have jotted down in my “purposeful” chapter,
bring in the same names, again and again. They were, indeed, and in
truth, household words. None of the young men and maidens catalogued
in the Christmas doggerel I shall speak of, presently, intermarried.
Two—perhaps four—had secret intentions that tended toward such a
result in the fulness of time. Intentions, that interfered in nowise
with their participation in the general hilarity. If there were any
difference in the demeanor of the engaged, or partially betrothed,
pairs from the behavior of the fancy-free, it was in a somewhat too
obvious show of impartiality. Engagements were never “announced,” and
if suspected, were ignored in general society. Thus it often happened
that a direct proposal took a girl utterly by surprise.
I was but sixteen, and on a summer vacation in Albemarle County,
when a collegian of nineteen, who was swinging me “under green apple
boughs”—lazily, because the rapid rush through the air would interfere
with the chat we were carrying on, in full sight of groups scattered on
the porch steps and about the lawn—brought down my thoughts—which had
strayed far afield under the influence of the languorous motion, the
sunset and the soft mingling of young voices—with stunning velocity,
by declaring that he adored me, and “couldn’t keep it to himself any
longer.”
With never the suspicion of a blush, I looked him straight in the eyes
and begged him not to make a goose of himself, adding: “I didn’t think
you mistook me for a girl who enjoys that kind of badinage. It is not a
bit to my taste. And we have been such good friends!”
When he suffocated himself dangerously with protestations that actually
brought tears to his eyes, I represented that lookers-on would think
we had quarrelled if I left the swing and his society abruptly, as I
certainly should do if he did not begin to talk sensibly, out of hand.
I set the example by calling to a boy who was passing with a basket of
apples, and calmly selecting one, taking my time in doing it.
Coquetry? Not a bit of it! I liked the lad too well to allow him to
make a breach in our friendship by love-making. When he came to his
senses (four years later!) he thanked me for not taking the matter
seriously.
We gave, and attended, few large parties. But there were no dead calms
in our intercourse. Somebody was always getting up a frolic of some
sort. Tableaux, musicales, “sociables,” where, in Christmas week,
and sometimes at other times, we played old-fashioned games, such as
“Consequences” upon slips of paper, and “Kings of England” with cards,
and “What is my thought like?” viva voce. We had picnics in warm
weather. Richmond College boys invited us out to receptions following
orations on February 22d, and we had Valentine parties, with original
verses, on February 14th.
Nowhere, and at no time, was there romping. Still less would
kissing-games be allowed among really “nice” young people. This was
deemed incredible by my Boston cousins, and yet more strange the fact
that we kept up among ourselves decorous conventions that appeared
stiff and inconsistent to those not to the manor born and bred. For
example, while I might, and did, name our most intimate masculine
visitors, “Tom,” “Dick,” or “Harry” in chat with my girl friends, I
addressed them as “Mr. Smith,” “Jones,” or “Robinson,” and always spoke
of them in the same manner in mentioning them to strangers. For a man
to touch a lady’s arm or shoulder to attract her attention, was an
unpardonable liberty. If a pair were seen to “hold hands,” it was taken
for granted that they were engaged or—as I heard a matron say, when she
had surprised a couple walking in the moonlight, the fair one’s hand on
the swain’s arm, and his laid lightly upon it—“they ought to be.”
The well-bred girl of the fifties might be a rattle; she might
enjoy life with guileless abandon that earned her the reputation of
“dashing”; she parried shaft of teasing and badinage with weapons
of proof; but she was never “fast.” She kept her self-respect, and
challenged the reverent respect of the men who knew her best.
To this code of social and ceremonial ethics, and to the ban put upon
dancing and card-playing by church and parents, is undoubtedly due the
fact that Southern women of that generation were almost invariably what
we would call, “good talkers.” In the remembrance, and in contrasting
that all-so-long-ago with the times in which we live, I could write a
jeremiade upon “Conversation as a Lost Art.”
From the list of names drawn into line by some Yule-tide rhymes of
my own, bearing the date of “1852,” I single two that must have
more than a passing notice if I would write the true story of my
threescore-and-ten years.
Mary Massie Ragland was, at that Christmas-tide, twenty-two years of
age. I had liked and admired her from the first. In time she grew into
a place in my heart no other friend had ever held, and which, left
vacant by her death six years later, has never been taken. I think no
man or woman has more than one complete, all-satisfying friendship in
a lifetime. Her portrait hangs against the wall in my bedchamber now.
I awake each morning to meet her gaze bent, as in life, on mine. In
sorrow and in joy, I have gone secretly to my room, as to an oratory,
to seek in the depths of the beautiful eyes the sympathy never denied
while she was with me, and visible to my dull vision. To a mind stored
richly with the best literature, eager to acquire and faithful to
retain, she added exquisite fancies, poetic tastes, and love for the
beautiful that was a passion. Her heart was warm, deep, tender, and
true. It well-nigh breaks mine in remembering how true! In all the
ten years in which we lived and loved together in closest intimacy, not
a cloud ever crossed the heaven of our friendship.
One remark, uttered simply and with infinite gentleness by her, after
a great loss had chastened her buoyant spirits, stands with me as the
keynote to action and character.
I was commenting somewhat sharply upon my disappointment in not
meeting, from one whom I loved and trusted, the fulness of sympathy I
thought I had a right to expect in what was a genuine trial to myself.
“She was hard and critical!” I moaned. “You saw it, yourself! You
cannot deny it! And she was absolutely rude to you!”
“Dear!” The stroking fingers upon my bowed head were a benediction; the
sweet voice was eloquent with compassion. “Don’t judge her harshly!
She is good, and true to you and to the right. But she has never had
sorrow to make her tender.”
How boundless was the tenderness, my mentor, who comforted while she
admonished, learned in the school of pain in which she studied until
Death dismissed her spirit, was fully known to Him alone whose faithful
disciple she was to the end.
To the world she showed a smiling front; her merry laugh and ready
repartee were the life of whatever company she entered, and over and
through it all, it might be reverently said of the true, heroic soul,
that, to high and humble, “her compassions failed not.”
“Refined by nature and refined by grace!” said one above her coffin.
I added, inly: “And by sorrow!”
“The kind of woman to whom a fellow takes off his hat when he thinks
of her,” a young cousin, who had been as a brother to her, wrote to me
after her death. “It took six thousand years to make one such. I shall
never know another.”
While on a visit to my old and beloved preceptors, Mrs. Nottingham
and her daughters, then resident in Lexington, Virginia, I met Junius
Fishburn, lately graduated from Washington College—now Washington and
Lee. He was an early and intimate friend of the “Ragland girls,” and
in a way (according to Virginia ways of reckoning kinship) a family
connection of theirs, too remote to deserve recognition in any other
region or society. But he claimed through this the right to omit the
initial steps of acquaintanceship, and I recognized the right. We
were quickly friends—so quickly, that it was no surprise to me when
he enclosed a note to me in a letter to one of the Ragland sisters,
shortly after my return home. I answered it, and thus was established
a correspondence continued through a term of years, without serious
interruption, up to the day when, in the second year after my marriage,
my husband entered my room with a paper in his hand, and a grave look
on his face.
“Here is sad, sad news for you,” he said, gently. “Professor Fishburn
is dead!”
The beautiful young wife, to whom he had been married less than two
years, was a sister of “Stonewall Jackson’s” first wife, a daughter of
Dr. George Junkin, then President of Washington College, and sister of
the poet, Margaret Junkin Preston. After “June’s” death, Mrs. Preston,
my dear friend, wrote to me of a desire her widowed sister hesitated to
express directly to me. Her husband had told her that more of his early
and inner life was told in this series of letters to me than he could
ever relate to any one else. Would I be willing to let her read a few
selected by myself? I had known him before he met her. If the request
were unreasonable, she would withdraw it.
There could have been no surer proof of the sincerity, the purity, and
absolute absence of everything pertaining to love-making and flirtation
in our ten-year-long friendship, than was offered in the circumstance
that, without a moment’s hesitation or the exclusion of a single
letter, I made up a parcel of the epistles, and sent it, with my fond
love, to the widow of my lamented friend.
His letters were but a degree less charming than his conversation. I
considered him, then, and I have not changed my opinion after seeing
much more of the world of society men and brilliant women, one of the
best talkers I have known.
“You have hit it off happily there,” said Mary, at the jolly reading of
the lines on New-Year’s Day, to “us girls.”
And she repeated:
    “Social and witty, kind and clever;
       His chat an easy, pleasant flow,
     A thread you’d never wish to sever.”
He was all this, and more. Our correspondence was a stage, and an
important, in my education. We discussed books, authors, military and
political heroes, psychology, philology, theology, and, as time made us
more intimate with the depths underlying the dancing waves of thought
and fancy, we talked much of religious faith and tenets.
On August 26, 1850, I wrote to Effie:
    “My long neglect of correspondents (for you are not the
    only neglected one) has caused letters in abundance to
    accumulate. Among others there lies before me one from my
    friend, Junius F., a full sheet, bearing a date anterior to
    your last, and requesting an ‘immediate reply.’ He is a fine
    fellow—one of my ‘literary’ friends. Have you chanced to see
    anything of his published work? His poems, essays, etc.,
    would reflect credit upon any one. I give you the preference
    to-day because it will not hurt him to wait.”
The same calm confidence in the liking we bore one another prevailed
throughout our intercourse. Untimely storms and sudden gusts belong
to the tropics of passion, not to the temperate zone of Platonic
affection.
It was about this time that my presumptuous brain conceived the thought
that my friend should be in the pulpit, instead of in the professorial
chair to which he was appointed after winning his degree from the
University of Virginia, whither he had gone from Washington College for
a post-graduate course, and a more thorough equipment for his chosen
life-work. With the Brahmin traditions strong upon me, and the blue
blood of Presbyterianism seething in my veins, I forthwith made out a
“call,” amplified through six pages of Bath post, and dispatched it to
Lexington.
The nearest approach to tenderness in any of our many letters, came out
in his reply:
“A brother’s fondness gushed up in my heart as I read your earnest
pleadings,” was the opening sentence of a masterly exposition of the
reasons that, as he phrased it, “forbid my unhallowed feet to stand
within the sacred desk.” I was wrong, and he was right. His fearless
utterance of the faith which was the mainspring of life and action,
carried force a licensed clergyman seldom gains.
He fought the good fight in the ranks, refusing the commission that had
not, as he believed, the King’s seal.
I had no living elder brother. I hardly felt the loss while Junius
lived. In 1855 he took a year’s leave of absence, and spent it in a
German university. My father and myself were just setting out for
Boston and the White Mountains, and accompanied him as far as New York.
Junius and I were promenading the deck of the Potomac steamer when I
showed him an ambrotype given me by “a friend whom I am sorry you have
never met.”
He looked at it intently for a moment, and, in closing the case,
searched my face with eyes at once smiling and piercing.
“Are you trying to tell me something?” he asked, in the gentlest of
tones.
I answered honestly: “No; there is nothing to tell. We are warm
friends—no more.”
