{Illustration: THE LOGGIA, LUCCA.}
II
To Lucca I was not to return often--I was to return only once; when that
compact and admirable little city, the very model of a small pays de
Cocagne, overflowing with everything that makes for ease, for plenty,
for beauty, for interest and good example, renewed for me, in the
highest degree, its genial and robust appearance. The perfection of
this renewal must indeed have been, at bottom, the ground of my rather
hanging back from possible excess of acquaintance--with the instinct
that so right and rich and rounded a little impression had better be
left than endangered. I remember positively saying to myself the second
time that no brown-and-gold Tuscan city, even, could be as happy as
Lucca looked--save always, exactly, Lucca; so that, on the chance of any
shade of human illusion in the case, I wouldn’t, as a brooding analyst,
go within fifty miles of it again. Just so, I fear I must confess, it
was this mere face-value of the place that, when I went back, formed my
sufficiency; I spent all my scant time--or the greater part, for I took
a day to drive over to the Bagni--just gaping at its visible attitude.
This may be described as that of simply sitting there, through the
centuries, at the receipt of perfect felicity; on its splendid solid
seat of russet masonry, that is--for its great republican ramparts of
long ago still lock it tight--with its wide garden-land, its ancient
appanage or hereditary domain, teeming and blooming with everything that
is good and pleasant for man, all about, and with a ring of graceful and
noble, yet comparatively unbeneficed uplands and mountains watching
it, for very envy, across the plain, as a circle of bigger boys, in
the playground, may watch a privileged or pampered smaller one munch a
particularly fine apple. Half smothered thus in oil and wine and
corn and all the fruits of the earth, Lucca seems fairly to laugh for
good-humour, and it’s as if one can’t say more for her than that, thanks
to her putting forward for you a temperament somehow still richer than
her heritage, you forgive her at every turn her fortune. She smiles up
at you her greeting as you dip into her wide lap, out of which you may
select almost any rare morsel whatever. Looking back at my own choice
indeed I see it must have suffered a certain embarrassment--that of the
sense of too many things; for I scarce remember choosing at all, any
more than I recall having had to go hungry. I turned into all the
churches--taking care, however, to pause before one of them, though
before which I now irrecoverably forget, for verification of Ruskin’s so
characteristically magnified rapture over the high and rather narrow
and obscure hunting-frieze on its front--and in the Cathedral paid my
respects at every turn to the greatest of Lucchesi, Matteo Civitale,
wisest, sanest, homeliest, kindest of quattro-cento sculptors, to
whose works the Duomo serves almost as a museum. But my nearest approach
to anything so invidious as a discrimination or a preference, under the
spell of so felt an equilibrium, must have been the act of engaging a
carriage for the Baths.
That inconsequence once perpetrated, let me add, the impression was as
right as any other--the impression of the drive through the huge general
tangled and fruited podere of the countryside; that of the pair of
jogging hours that bring the visitor to where the wideish gate of the
valley of the Serchio opens. The question after this became quite other;
the narrowing, though always more or less smiling gorge that draws you
on and on is a different, a distinct proposition altogether, with its
own individual grace of appeal and association. It is the association,
exactly, that would even now, on this page, beckon me forward, or
perhaps I should rather say backward--weren’t more than a glance at it
out of the question--to a view of that easier and not so inordinately
remote past when “people spent the summer” in these perhaps slightly
stuffy shades. I speak of that age, I think of it at least, as easier
than ours, in spite of the fact that even as I made my pilgrimage the
mark of modern change, the railway in construction, had begun to be
distinct, though the automobile was still pretty far in the future. The
relations and proportions of everything are of course now altered--I
indeed, I confess, wince at the vision of the cloud of motor-dust that
must in the fine season hang over the whole connection. That represents
greater promptness of approach to the bosky depths of Ponte-a-Serraglio
and the Bagni Caldi, but it throws back the other time, that of the
old jogging relation, of the Tuscan grand-ducal “season” and the small
cosmopolite sociability, into quite Arcadian air and the comparatively
primitive scale. The “easier” Italy of our infatuated precursors
there wears its glamour of facility not through any question of “the
development of communications,” but through the very absence of the
dream of that boon, thanks to which every one (among the infatuated)
lived on terms of so much closer intercourse with the general object of
their passion. After we had crossed the Serchio that beautiful day we
passed into the charming, the amiably tortuous, the thickly umbrageous,
valley of the Lima, and then it was that I seemed fairly to remount the
stream of time; figuring to myself wistfully, at the small scattered
centres of entertainment--modest inns, pensions and other places of
convenience clustered where the friendly torrent is bridged or the
forested slopes adjust themselves--what the summer days and the summer
rambles and the summer dreams must have been, in the blest place, when
“people” (by which I mean the contingent of beguiled barbarians) didn’t
know better, as we say, than to content themselves with such a mild
substitute, such a soft, sweet and essentially elegant apology, for
adventure. One wanted not simply to hang about a little, but really to
live back, as surely one might, have done by staying on, into the so
romantically strong, if mechanically weak, Italy of the associations of
one’s youth. It was a pang to have to revert to the present even in the
form of Lucca--which says everything.
III
If undeveloped communications were to become enough for me at those
retrospective moments, I might have felt myself supplied to my taste,
let me go on to say, at the hour of my making, with great resolution,
an attempt on high-seated and quite grandly out-of-the-way Volterra:
a reminiscence associated with quite a different year and, I should
perhaps sooner have bethought myself, with my fond experience of
Pisa--inasmuch as it was during a pause under that bland and motionless
wing that I seem to have had to organise in the darkness of a summer
dawn my approach to the old Etruscan stronghold. The railway then
existed, but I rose in the dim small hours to take my train; moreover,
so far as that might too much savour of an incongruous facility,
the fault was in due course quite adequately repaired by an apparent
repudiation of any awareness of such false notes on the part of the
town. I may not invite the reader to penetrate with me by so much as a
step the boundless backward reach of history to which the more massive
of the Etruscan gates of Volterra, the Porta all’ Arco, forms the
solidest of thresholds; since I perforce take no step myself, and am
even exceptionally condemned here to impressionism unashamed. My errand
was to spend a Sunday with an Italian friend, a native in fact of the
place, master of a house there in which he offered me hospitality; who,
also arriving from Florence the night before, had obligingly come on
with me from Pisa, and whose consciousness of a due urbanity, already
rather overstrained, and still well before noon, by the accumulation
of our matutinal vicissitudes and other grounds for patience, met
all ruefully at the station the supreme shock of an apparently great
desolate world of volcanic hills, of blank, though “engineered,”
 undulations, as the emergence of a road testified, unmitigated by the
smallest sign of a wheeled vehicle. The station, in other words, looked
out at that time (and I daresay the case hasn’t strikingly altered) on a
mere bare huge hill-country, by some remote mighty shoulder of which
the goal of our pilgrimage, so questionably “served” by the railway, was
hidden from view. Served as well by a belated omnibus, a four-in-hand of
lame and lamentable quality, the place, I hasten to add, eventually
put forth some show of being; after a complete practical recognition of
which, let me at once further mention, all the other, the positive and
sublime, connections of Volterra established themselves for me without
my lifting a finger.
The small shrunken, but still lordly prehistoric city is perched, when
once you have rather painfully zigzagged to within sight of it, very
much as an eagle’s eyrie, oversweeping the land and the sea; and to
that type of position, the ideal of the airy peak of vantage, with all
accessories and minor features a drop, a slide and a giddiness, its
individual items and elements strike you at first as instinctively
conforming. This impression was doubtless after a little modified for
me; there were levels, there were small stony practicable streets, there
were walks and strolls, outside the gates and roundabout the cyclopean
wall, to the far end of downward-tending protrusions and promontories,
natural buttresses and pleasant terrene headlands, friendly suburban
spots (one would call them if the word had less detestable references)
where games of bowls and overtrellised wine-tables could put in their
note; in spite of which however my friend’s little house of hospitality,
clean and charming and oh, so immemorially Tuscan, was as perpendicular
and ladder-like as so compact a residence could be; it kept up for me
beautifully--as regards posture and air, though humanly and socially
it rather cooed like a dovecote--the illusion of the vertiginously
“balanced” eagle’s nest. The air, in truth, all the rest of that
splendid day, must have been the key to the promptly-produced intensity
of one’s relation to every aspect of the charming episode; the light,
cool, keen air of those delightful high places, in Italy, that tonically
correct the ardours of July, and which at our actual altitude could but
affect me as the very breath of the grand local legend. I might have
“had” the little house, our particular eagle’s nest, for the summer,
and even on such touching terms; and I well remember the force of the
temptation to take it, if only other complications had permitted; to
spend the series of weeks with that admirable interesting freshness
in my lungs: interesting, I especially note, as the strong appropriate
medium in which a continuity with the irrecoverable but still effective
past had been so robustly preserved. I couldn’t yield, alas, to the
conceived felicity, which had half-a-dozen appealing aspects; I could
only, while thus feeling how the atmospheric medium itself made for a
positively initiative exhilaration, enjoy my illusion till the morrow.
The exhilaration therefore supplies to memory the whole light in which,
for the too brief time, I went about “seeing” Volterra; so that my
glance at the seated splendour reduces itself, as I have said, to
the merest impressionism; nothing more was to be looked for, on the
stretched surface of consciousness, from one breezy wash of the brush.
I find there the clean strong image simplified to the three or four
unforgettable particulars of the vast rake of the view; with the
Maremma, of evil fame, more or less immediately below, but with those
islands of the sea, Corsica and Elba, the names of which are sharply
associational beyond any others, dressing the far horizon in the grand
manner, and the Ligurian coast-line melting northward into beauty and
history galore; with colossal uncemented blocks of Etruscan gates and
walls plunging you--and by their very interest--into a sweet surrender
of any privilege of appreciation more crushing than your general
synthetic stare; and with the rich and perfectly arranged museum, an
unsurpassed exhibition of monumental treasure from Etruscan tombs,
funereal urns mainly, reliquaries of an infinite power to move and charm
us still, contributing to this same so designed, but somehow at the same
time so inspired, collapse of the historic imagination under too heavy a
pressure, or abeyance of “private judgment” in too unequal a relation.
IV
I remember recovering private judgment indeed in the course of two or
three days following the excursion I have just noted; which must have
shaped themselves in some sort of consonance with the idea that as we
were hereabouts in the very middle of dim Etruria a common self-respect
prescribed our somehow profiting by the fact. This kindled in us the
spirit of exploration, but with results of which I here attempt to
record, so utterly does the whole impression swoon away, for present
memory, into vagueness, confusion and intolerable heat, Our self-respect
was of the common order, but the blaze of the July sun was, even for
Tuscany, of the uncommon; so that the project of a trudging quest for
Etruscan tombs in shadeless wastes yielded to its own temerity.
There comes back to me nevertheless at the same time, from the mild
misadventure, and quite as through this positive humility of failure,
the sense of a supremely intimate revelation of Italy in undress, so
to speak (the state, it seemed, in which one would most fondly, most
ideally, enjoy her); Italy no longer in winter starch and sobriety, with
winter manners and winter prices and winter excuses, all addressed to
the forestieri and the philistines; but lolling at her length, with
her graces all relaxed, and thereby only the more natural; the brilliant
performer, in short, en famille, the curtain down and her salary
stopped for the season--thanks to which she is by so much more the easy
genius and the good creature as she is by so much less the advertised
prima donna. She received us nowhere more sympathetically, that is
with less ceremony or self-consciousness, I seem to recall, than at
Montepulciano, for instance--where it was indeed that the recovery of
private judgment I just referred to couldn’t help taking place. What we
were doing, or what we expected to do, at Montepulciano I keep no other
trace of than is bound up in a present quite tender consciousness that I
wouldn’t for the world not have been there. I think my reason must have
been largely just in the beauty of the name (for could any beauty be
greater?), reinforced no doubt by the fame of the local vintage and the
sense of how we should quaff it on the spot. Perhaps we quaffed it too
constantly; since the romantic picture reduces itself for me but to two
definite appearances; that of the more priggish discrimination so far
reasserting itself as to advise me that Montepulciano was dirty, even
remarkably dirty; and that of her being not much else besides but
perched and brown and queer and crooked, and noble withal (which is what
almost any Tuscan city more easily than not acquits herself of; all the
while she may on such occasions figure, when one looks off from her to
the end of dark street-vistas or catches glimpses through high arcades,
some big battered, blistered, overladen, overmasted ship, swimming in a
violet sea).
If I have lost the sense of what we were doing, that could at all suffer
commemoration, at Montepulciano, so I sit helpless before the memory
of small stewing Torrita, which we must somehow have expected to yield,
under our confidence, a view of shy charms, but which did n’t yield, to
my recollection, even anything that could fairly be called a breakfast
or a dinner. There may have been in the neighbourhood a rumour
of Etruscan tombs; the neighbourhood, however, was vast, and that
possibility not to be verified, in the conditions, save after due
refreshment. Then it was, doubtless, that the question of refreshment so
beckoned us, by a direct appeal, straight across country, from Perugia,
that, casting consistency, if not to the winds, since alas there were
none, but to the lifeless air, we made the sweltering best of our way
(and it took, for the distance, a terrible time) to the Grand Hotel of
that city. This course shines for me, in the retrospect, with a light
even more shameless than that in which my rueful conscience then saw it;
since we thus exchanged again, at a stroke, the tousled bonne fille of
our vacational Tuscany for the formal and figged-out presence of Italy
on her good behaviour. We had never seen her conform more to all the
proprieties, we felt, than under this aspect of lavish hospitality to
that now apparently quite inveterate swarm of pampered forestieri,
English and Americans in especial, who, having had Roman palaces and
villas deliciously to linger in, break the northward journey, when once
they decide to take it, in the Umbrian paradise. They were, goodness
knows, within their rights, and we profited, as anyone may easily and
cannily profit at that time, by the sophistications paraded for them;
only I feel, as I pleasantly recover it all, that though we had arrived
perhaps at the most poetical of watering-places we had lost our finer
clue. (The difference from other days was immense, all the span of
evolution from the ancient malodorous inn which somehow did n’t matter,
to that new type of polyglot caravanserai which everywhere insists on
mattering--mattering, even in places where other interests abound, so
much more than anything else.) That clue, the finer as I say, I would
fain at any rate to-day pick up for its close attachment to another
Tuscan city or two--for a felt pull from strange little San Gimignano
delle belle Torre in especial; by which I mean from the memory of a
summer Sunday spent there during a stay at Siena. But I have already
superabounded, for mere love of my general present rubric--the real
thickness of experience having a good deal evaporated, so that the Tiny
Town of the Many Towers hangs before me, not to say, rather, far
behind me, after the manner of an object directly meeting the wrong or
diminishing lens of one’s telescope.
It did everything, on the occasion of that pilgrimage, that it was
expected to do, presenting itself more or less in the guise of some rare
silvery shell, washed up by the sea of time, cracked and battered and
dishonoured, with its mutilated marks of adjustment to the extinct
type of creature it once harboured figuring against the sky as maimed
gesticulating arms flourished in protest against fate. If the centuries,
however, had pretty well cleaned out, vulgarly speaking, this amazing
little fortress-town, it wasn’t that a mere aching void was bequeathed
us, I recognise as I consult a somewhat faded impression; the whole
scene and occasion come back to me as the exhibition, on the contrary,
of a stage rather crowded and agitated, of no small quantity of sound
and fury, of concussions, discussions, vociferations, hurryings to and
fro, that could scarce have reached a higher pitch in the old days of
the siege and the sortie. San Gimignano affected me, to a certainty,
as not dead, I mean, but as inspired with that strange and slightly
sinister new life that is now, in case after case, up and down the
peninsula, and even in presence of the dryest and most scattered bones,
producing the miracle of resurrection. The effect is often--and I find
it strikingly involved in this particular reminiscence--that of the
buried hero himself positively waking up to show you his bones for a
fee, and almost capering about in his appeal to your attention. What
has become of the soul of San Gimignano who shall say?--but, of a genial
modern Sunday, it is as if the heroic skeleton, risen from the dust,
were in high activity, officious for your entertainment and your
detention, clattering and changing plates at the informal friendly inn,
personally conducting you to a sight of the admirable Santa Fina of
Ghirlandaio, as I believe is supposed, in a dim chapel of the Collegiata
church; the poor young saint, on her low bed, in a state of ecstatic
vision (the angelic apparition is given), acconpanied by a few figures
and accessories of the most beautiful and touching truth. This image
is what has most vividly remained with me, of the day I thus so
ineffectually recover; the precious ill-set gem or domestic treasure of
Santa Fina, and then the wonderful drive, at eventide, back to Siena:
the progress through the darkening land that was like a dense fragrant
garden, all fireflies and warm emanations and dimly-seen motionless
festoons, extravagant vines and elegant branches intertwisted for miles,
with couples and companies of young countryfolk almost as fondly united
and raising their voices to the night as if superfluously to sing out at
you that they were happy, and above all were Tuscan. On reflection, and
to be just, I connect the slightly incongruous loudness that hung about
me under the Beautiful Towers with the really too coarse competition for
my favour among the young vetturini who lay in wait for my approach,
and with an eye to my subsequent departure, on my quitting, at some
unremembered spot, the morning train from Siena, from which point there
was then still a drive. That onset was of a fine mediaeval violence, but
the subsiding echoes of it alone must have afterwards borne me company;
mingled, at the worst, with certain reverberations of the animated
rather than concentrated presence of sundry young sketchers and copyists
of my own nationality, which element in the picture conveyed beyond
anything else how thoroughly it was all to sit again henceforth in the
eye of day. My final vision perhaps was of a sacred reliquary not so
much rudely as familiarly and “humorously” torn open. The note had, with
all its references, its own interest; but I never went again.
{Illustration: TOWERS OF SAN GIMIGNANO.}
RAVENNA
I write these lines on a cold Swiss mountain-top, shut in by an intense
white mist from any glimpse of the underworld of lovely Italy; but as
I jotted down the other day in the ancient capital of Honorius and
Theodoric the few notes of which they are composed, I let the original
date stand for local colour’s sake. Its mere look, as I transcribe it,
emits a grateful glow in the midst of the Alpine rawness, and gives a
depressed imagination something tangible to grasp while awaiting the
return of fine weather. For Ravenna was glowing, less than a week since,
as I edged along the narrow strip of shadow binding one side of the
empty, white streets. After a long, chill spring the summer this year
descended upon Italy with a sudden jump and an ominous hot breath. I
stole away from Florence in the night, and even on top of the Apennines,
under the dull starlight and in the rushing train, one could but sit and
pant perspiringly.
At Bologna I found a festa, or rather two festas, a civil and a
religious, going on in mutual mistrust and disparagement. The civil,
that of the Statuto, was the one fully national Italian holiday as by
law established--the day that signalises everywhere over the land at
once its achieved and hard-won unification; the religious was a jubilee
of certain local churches. The latter is observed by the Bolognese
parishes in couples, and comes round for each couple but once in ten
years--an arrangement by which the faithful at large insure themselves
a liberal recurrence of expensive processions. It was n’t my business
to distinguish the sheep from the goats, the pious from the profane, the
prayers from the scoffers; it was enough that, melting together under
the scorching sun, they filled the admirably solid city with a flood
of spectacular life. The combination at one point was really dramatic.
While a long procession of priests and young virgins in white veils,
bearing tapers, marshalled itself in one of the streets, a review of
the King’s troops went forward outside the town. On its return a large
detachment of cavalry passed across the space where the incense was
burning, the pictured banners swaying and the litany being droned, and
checked the advance of the little ecclesiastical troop. The long vista
of the street, between the porticoes, was festooned with garlands and
scarlet and tinsel; the robes and crosses and canopies of the priests,
the clouds of perfumed smoke and the white veils of the maidens, were
resolved by the hot bright air into a gorgeous medley of colour, across
which the mounted soldiers rattled and flashed as if it had been a
conquering army trampling on an embassy of propitiation. It was, to tell
the truth, the first time an’ Italian festa had really exhibited to my
eyes the genial glow and the romantic particulars promised by song and
story; and I confess that those eyes found more pleasure in it than they
were to find an hour later in the picturesque on canvas as one observes
it in the Pinacoteca. I found myself scowling most unmercifully at Guido
and Domenichino.
For Ravenna, however, I had nothing but smiles--grave, reflective,
philosophic smiles, I hasten to add, such as accord with the historic
dignity, not to say the mortal sunny sadness, of the place. I arrived
there in the evening, before, even at drowsy Ravenna, the festa of the
Statuto had altogether put itself to bed. I immediately strolled forth
from the inn, and found it sitting up a while longer on the piazza,
chiefly at the cafe door, listening to the band of the garrison by the
light of a dozen or so of feeble tapers, fastened along the front of
the palace of the Government. Before long, however, it had dispersed and
departed, and I was left alone with the grey illumination and with an
affable citizen whose testimony as to the manners and customs of
Ravenna I had aspired to obtain. I had, borrowing confidence from prompt
observation, suggested deferentially that it was n’t the liveliest place
in the world, and my friend admitted that it was in fact not a seat of
ardent life. But had I seen the Corso? Without seeing the Corso one did
n’t exhaust the possibilities. The Corso of Ravenna, of a hot summer
night, had an air of surprising seclusion and repose. Here and there in
an upper closed window glimmered a light; my companion’s footsteps
and my own were the only sounds; not a creature was within sight. The
suffocating air helped me to believe for a moment that I walked in the
Italy of Boccaccio, hand-in-hand with the plague, through a city which
had lost half its population by pestilence and the other half by flight.
I turned back into my inn profoundly satisfied. This at last was the
old-world dulness of a prime distillation; this at last was antiquity,
history, repose.
The impression was largely confirmed and enriched on the following day;
but it was obliged at an early stage of my visit to give precedence to
another--the lively perception, namely, of the thinness of my saturation
with Gibbon and the other sources of legend. At Ravenna the waiter at
the café and the coachman who drives you to the Pine-Forest allude to
Galla Placidia and Justinian as to any attractive topic of the hour;
wherever you turn you encounter some fond appeal to your historic
presence of mind. For myself I could only attune my spirit vaguely to
so ponderous a challenge, could only feel I was breathing an air of
prodigious records and relics. I conned my guide-book and looked up
at the great mosaics, and then fumbled at poor Murray again for some
intenser light on the court of Justinian; but I can imagine that to
a visitor more intimate with the originals of the various great
almond-eyed mosaic portraits in the vaults of the churches these
extremely curious works of art may have a really formidable interest. I
found in the place at large, by daylight, the look of a vast straggling
depopulated village. The streets with hardly an exception are
grass-grown, and though I walked about all day I failed to encounter a
single wheeled vehicle. I remember no shop but the little establishment
of an urbane photographer, whose views of the Pineta, the great
legendary pine-forest just without the town, gave me an irresistible
desire to seek that refuge. There was no architecture to speak of; and
though there are a great many large domiciles with aristocratic names
they stand cracking and baking in the sun in no very comfortable
fashion. The houses have for the most part an all but rustic rudeness;
they are low and featureless and shabby, as well as interspersed
with high garden walls over which the long arms of tangled vines
hang motionless into the stagnant streets. Here and there in all this
dreariness, in some particularly silent and grassy corner, rises an old
brick church with a front more or less spoiled, by cheap modernisation,
and a strange cylindrical campanile pierced with small arched windows
and extremely suggestive of the fifth century. These churches constitute
the palpable interest of Ravenna, and their own principal interest,
after thirteen centuries of well-intentioned spoliation, resides
in their unequalled collection of early Christian mosaics. It is an
interest simple, as who should say, almost to harshness, and leads one’s
attention along a straight and narrow way. There are older churches in
Rome, and churches which, looked at as museums, are more variously and
richly informing; but in Rome you stumble at every step on some curious
pagan memorial, often beautiful enough to make your thoughts wander far
from the strange stiff primitive Christian forms.
Ravenna, on the other hand, began with the Church, and all her monuments
and relics are harmoniously rigid. By the middle of the first century
she possessed an exemplary saint, Apollinaris, a disciple of Peter, to
whom her two finest places of worship are dedicated. It was to one of
these, jocosely entitled the “new,” that I first directed my steps.
I lingered outside a while and looked at the great red, barrel-shaped
bell-towers, so rusty, so crumbling, so archaic, and yet so resolute to
ring in another century or two, and then went in to the coolness, the
shining marble columns, the queer old sculptured slabs and sarcophagi
and the long mosaics that scintillated, under the roof, along the wall
of the nave. San Apollinare Nuovo, like most of its companions, is a
magazine of early Christian odds and ends; fragments of yellow marble
incrusted with quaint sculptured emblems of primitive dogma; great rough
troughs, containing the bones of old bishops; episcopal chairs with the
marble worn narrow by centuries of pressure from the solid episcopal
person; slabs from the fronts of old pulpits, covered with carven
hierogylphics of an almost Egyptian abstruseness--lambs and stags and
fishes and beasts of theological affinities even less apparent. Upon all
these strange things the strange figures in the great mosaic panorama
look down, with coloured cheeks and staring eyes, lifelike enough to
speak to you and answer your wonderment and tell you in bad Latin of
the decadence that it was in such and such a fashion they believed and
worshipped. First, on each side, near the door, are houses and ships and
various old landmarks of Ravenna; then begins a long procession, on
one side, of twenty-two white-robed virgins and three obsequious magi,
terminating in a throne bearing the Madonna and Child, surrounded
by four angels; on the other side, of an equal number of male saints
(twenty-five, that is) holding crowns in their hands and leading to a
Saviour enthroned between angels of singular expressiveness. What it
is these long slim seraphs express I cannot quite say, but they have an
odd, knowing, sidelong look out of the narrow ovals of their eyes which,
though not without sweetness, would certainly make me murmur a defensive
prayer or so were I to find myself alone in the church towards dusk.
All this work is of the latter part of the sixth century and brilliantly
preserved. The gold backgrounds twinkle as if they had been inserted
yesterday, and here and there a figure is executed almost too much in
the modern manner to be interesting; for the charm of mosaic work is,
to my sense, confined altogether to the infancy of the art. The great
Christ, in the series of which I speak, is quite an elaborate picture,
and yet he retains enough of the orthodox stiffness to make him
impressive in the simpler, elder sense. He is clad in a purple robe,
even as an emperor, his hair and beard are artfully curled, his eyebrows
arched, his complexion brilliant, his whole aspect such a one as the
popular mind may have attributed to Honorius or Valentinian. It is all
very Byzantine, and yet I found in it much of that interest which is
inseparable, to a facile imagination, from all early representations of
our Lord. Practically they are no more authentic than the more or less
plausible inventions of Ary Scheffer and Holman Hunt; in spite of which
they borrow a certain value, factitious perhaps but irresistible, from
the mere fact that they are twelve or thirteen centuries less distant
from the original. It is something that this was the way the people in
the sixth century imagined Jesus to have looked; the image has suffered
by so many the fewer accretions. The great purple-robed monarch on the
wall of Ravenna is at least a very potent and positive Christ, and the
only objection I have to make to him is that though in this character he
must have had a full apportionment of divine foreknowledge he betrays no
apprehension of Dr. Channing and M. Renan. If one’s preference lies, for
distinctness’ sake, between the old plainness and the modern fantasy,
one must admit that the plainness has here a very grand outline.
{Illustration: SANT APOLLINAR NUOVO, RAVENNA.}
I spent the rest of the morning in charmed transition between the hot
yellow streets and the cool grey interiors of the churches. The
greyness everywhere was lighted up by the scintillation, on vault and
entablature, of mosaics more or less archaic, but always brilliant and
elaborate, and everywhere too by the same deep amaze of the fact that,
while centuries had worn themselves away and empires risen and fallen,
these little cubes of coloured glass had stuck in their allotted places
and kept their freshness. I have no space for a list of the various
shrines so distinguished, and, to tell the truth, my memory of them has
already become a very generalised and undiscriminated record. The total
aspect of the place, its sepulchral stillness, its absorbing perfume
of evanescence and decay and mortality, confounds the distinctions
and blurs the details. The Cathedral, which is vast and high, has
been excessively modernised, and was being still more so by a lavish
application of tinsel and cotton-velvet in preparation for the centenary
feast of St. Apollinaris, which befalls next month. Things on this
occasion are to be done handsomely, and a fair Ravennese informed me
that a single family had contributed three thousand francs towards a
month’s vesper-music. It seemed to me hereupon that I should like in
the August twilight to wander into the quiet nave of San Apollinare,
and look up at the great mosaics through the resonance of some fine
chanting. I remember distinctly enough, however, the tall
basilica of San Vitale, of octagonal shape, like an exchange or
custom-house--modelled, I believe, upon St. Sophia at Constantinople.
It has a great span of height and a great solemnity, as well as a choir
densely pictured over on arch and apse with mosaics of the time of
Justinian. These are regular pictures, full of movement, gesture and
perspective, and just enough sobered in hue by time to bring home their
remoteness. In the middle of the church, under the great dome, sat an
artist whom I envied, making at an effective angle a study of the choir
and its broken lights, its decorated altar and its incrusted twinkling
walls. The picture, when finished, will hang, I suppose, on the library
wall of some person of taste; but even if it is much better than is
probable--I did n’t look at it--all his taste won’t tell the owner,
unless he has been there, in just what a soundless, mouldering,
out-of-the-way corner of old Italy it was painted. An even better place
for an artist fond of dusky architectural nooks, except that here the
dusk is excessive and he would hardly be able to tell his green from
his red, is the extraordinary little church of the Santi Nazaro e Celso,
otherwise known as the mausoleum of Galla Placidia. This is perhaps on
the whole the spot in Ravenna where the impression is of most sovereign
authority and most thrilling force. It consists of a narrow low-browed
cave, shaped like a Latin cross, every inch of which except the floor
is covered with dense symbolic mosaics. Before you and on each side,
through the thick brown light, loom three enormous barbaric sarcophagi,
containing the remains of potentates of the Lower Empire. It is as if
history had burrowed under ground to escape from research and you
had fairly run it to earth. On the right lie the ashes of the Emperor
Honorius, and in the middle those of his sister, Galla Placidia, a lady
who, I believe, had great adventures. On the other side rest the bones
of Constantius III. The place might be a small natural grotto lined with
glimmering mineral substances, and there is something quite tremendous
in being shut up so closely with these three imperial ghosts. The shadow
of the great Roman name broods upon the huge sepulchres and abides for
ever within the narrow walls.
But still other memories hang about than those of primitive bishops and
degenerate emperors. Byron lived here and Dante died here, and the tomb
of the one poet and the dwelling of the other are among the advertised
appeals. The grave of Dante, it must be said, is anything but Dantesque,
and the whole precinct is disposed with that odd vulgarity of taste
which distinguishes most modern Italian tributes to greatness. The
author of The Divine Comedy commemorated in stucco, even in a
slumbering corner of Ravenna, is not “sympathetic.” Fortunately of all
poets he least needs a monument, as he was pre-eminently an architect in
diction and built himself his temple of fame in verses more solid
than Cyclopean blocks. If Dante’s tomb is not Dantesque, so neither is
Byron’s house Byronic, being a homely, shabby, two-storied dwelling,
directly on the street, with as little as possible of isolation and
mystery. In Byron’s time it was an inn, and it is rather a curious
reflection that “Cain” and the “Vision of Judgment” should have been
written at an hotel. The fact supplies a commanding precedent for
self-abstraction to tourists at once sentimental and literary. I must
declare indeed that my acquaintance with Ravenna considerably increased
my esteem for Byron and helped to renew my faith in the sincerity of
his inspiration. A man so much de son temps as the author of the
above-named and other pieces can have spent two long years in this
stagnant city only by the help of taking a great deal of disinterested
pleasure in his own genius. He had indeed a notable pastime--the various
churches are adorned with monuments of ancestral Guicciolis--but it is
none the less obvious that Ravenna, fifty years ago, would have been an
intolerably dull residence to a foreigner of distinction unequipped with
intellectual resources. The hour one spends with Byron’s memory then
is almost compassionate. After all, one says to one’s self as one turns
away from the grandiloquent little slab in front of his house and looks
down the deadly provincial vista of the empty, sunny street, the author
of so many superb stanzas asked less from the world than he gave it. One
of his diversions was to ride in the Pineta, which, beginning a couple
of miles from the city, extends some twenty-five miles along the sands
of the Adriatic. I drove out to it for Byron’s sake, and Dante’s, and
Boccaccio’s, all of whom have interwoven it with their fictions, and for
that of a possible whiff of coolness from the sea. Between the city and
the forest, in the midst of malarious rice-swamps, stands the finest of
the Ravennese churches, the stately temple of San Apollinare in Classe.
The Emperor Augustus constructed hereabouts a harbour for fleets, which
the ages have choked up, and which survives only in the title of this
ancient church. Its extreme loneliness makes it doubly impressive. They
opened the great doors for me, and let a shaft of heated air go wander
up the beautiful nave between the twenty-four lustrous, pearly columns
of cipollino marble, and mount the wide staircase of the choir and spend
itself beneath the mosaics of the vault. I passed a memorable half-hour
sitting in this wave of tempered light, looking down the cool grey
avenue of the nave, out of the open door, at the vivid green swamps, and
listening to the melancholy stillness. I rambled for an hour in the Wood
of Associations, between the tall smooth, silvery stems of the pines,
and beside a creek which led me to the outer edge of the wood and a
view of white sails, gleaming and gliding behind the sand-hills. It
was infinitely, it was nobly “quaint,” but, as the trees stand at wide
intervals and bear far aloft in the blue air but a little parasol of
foliage, I suppose that, of a glaring summer day, the forest itself
was only the more characteristic of its clime and country for being
perfectly shadeless.
{Illustration: RAVENNA PINETA.}
1873.
THE SAINT’S AFTERNOON AND OTHERS
Before and above all was the sense that, with the narrow limits of past
adventure, I had never yet had such an impression of what the summer
could be in the south or the south in the summer; but I promptly found
it, for the occasion, a good fortune that my terms of comparison were
restricted. It was really something, at a time when the stride of the
traveller had become as long as it was easy, when the seven-league boots
positively hung, for frequent use, in the closet of the most sedentary,
to have kept one’s self so innocent of strange horizons that the Bay of
Naples in June might still seem quite final. That picture struck me--a
particular corner of it at least, and for many reasons--as the last
word; and it is this last word that comes back to me, after a short
interval, in a green, grey northern nook, and offers me again its warm,
bright golden meaning before it also inevitably catches the chill. Too
precious, surely, for us not to suffer it to help us as it may is the
faculty of putting together again in an order the sharp minutes and
hours that the wave of time has been as ready to pass over as the salt
sea to wipe out the letters and words your stick has traced in the sand.
Let me, at any rate, recover a sufficient number of such signs to make a
sort of sense.
I
Far aloft on the great rock was pitched, as the first note, and indeed
the highest, of the wondrous concert, the amazing creation of the friend
who had offered me hospitality, and whom, more almost than I had ever
envied anyone anything, I envied the privilege of being able to reward
a heated, artless pilgrim with a revelation of effects so incalculable.
There was none but the loosest prefigurement as the creaking and puffing
little boat, which had conveyed me only from Sorrento, drew closer
beneath the prodigious island--beautiful, horrible and haunted--that
does most, of all the happy elements and accidents, towards making
the Bay of Naples, for the study of composition, a lesson in the grand
style. There was only, above and below, through the blue of the air and
sea, a great confused shining of hot cliffs and crags and buttresses,
a loss, from nearness, of the splendid couchant outline and the more
comprehensive mass, and an opportunity--oh, not lost, I assure you--to
sit and meditate, even moralise, on the empty deck, while a happy
brotherhood of American and German tourists, including, of course, many
sisters, scrambled down into little waiting, rocking tubs and, after a
few strokes, popped systematically into the small orifice of the Blue
Grotto. There was an appreciable moment when they were all lost to view
in that receptacle, the daily “psychological” moment during which it
must so often befall the recalcitrant observer on the deserted deck to
find himself aware of how delightful it might be if none of them
should come out again. The charm, the fascination of the idea is not a
little--though also not wholly--in the fact that, as the wave rises
over the aperture, there is the most encouraging appearance that they
perfectly may not. There it is. There is no more of them. It is a case
to which nature has, by the neatest stroke and with the best taste in
the world, just quietly attended.
Beautiful, horrible, haunted: that is the essence of what, about itself,
Capri says to you--dip again into your Tacitus and see why; and yet,
while you roast a little under the awning and in the vaster shadow, it
is not because the trail of Tiberius is ineffaceable that you are most
uneasy. The trail of Germanicus in Italy to-day ramifies further and
bites perhaps even deeper; a proof of which is, precisely, that his
eclipse in the Blue Grotto is inexorably brief, that here he is popping
out again, bobbing enthusiastically back and scrambling triumphantly
back. The spirit, in truth, of his effective appropriation of Capri has
a broad-faced candour against which there is no standing up, supremely
expressive as it is of the well-known “love that kills,” of Germanicus’s
fatal susceptibility. If I were to let myself, however, incline to
that aspect of the serious case of Capri I should embark on strange
depths. The straightness and simplicity, the classic, synthetic
directness of the German passion for Italy, make this passion probably
the sentiment in the world that is in the act of supplying enjoyment in
the largest, sweetest mouthfuls; and there is something unsurpassably
marked in the way that on this irresistible shore it has seated itself
to ruminate and digest. It keeps the record in its own loud accents; it
breaks out in the folds of the hills and on the crests of the crags into
every manner of symptom and warning. Huge advertisements and portents
stare across the bay; the acclivities bristle with breweries and
“restorations” and with great ugly Gothic names. I hasten, of course, to
add that some such general consciousness as this may well oppress, under
any sky, at the century’s end, the brooding tourist who makes himself a
prey by staying anywhere, when the gong sounds, “behind.” It is behind,
in the track and the reaction, that he least makes out the end of it
all, perceives that to visit anyone’s country for anyone’s sake is more
and more to find some one quite other in possession. No one, least of
all the brooder himself, is in his own.
II
I certainly, at any rate, felt the force of this truth when, on scaling
the general rock with the eye of apprehension, I made out at a point
much nearer its summit than its base the gleam of a dizzily-perched
white sea-gazing front which I knew for my particular landmark and which
promised so much that it would have been welcome to keep even no
more than half. Let me instantly say that it kept still more than it
promised, and by no means least in the way of leaving far below it the
worst of the outbreak of restorations and breweries. There is a road at
present to the upper village, with which till recently communication was
all by rude steps cut in the rock and diminutive donkeys scrambling on
the flints; one of those fine flights of construction which the
great road-making “Latin races” take, wherever they prevail, without
advertisement or bombast; and even while I followed along the face of
the cliff its climbing consolidated ledge, I asked myself how I could
think so well of it without consistently thinking better still of
the temples of beer so obviously destined to enrich its terminus. The
perfect answer to that was of course that the brooding tourist is never
bound to be consistent. What happier law for him than this very one,
precisely, when on at last alighting, high up in the blue air, to
stare and gasp and almost disbelieve, he embraced little by little the
beautiful truth particularly, on this occasion, reserved for himself,
and took in the stupendous picture? For here above all had the thought
and the hand come from far away--even from ultima Thule, and yet were
in possession triumphant and acclaimed. Well, all one could say was that
the way they had felt their opportunity, the divine conditions of the
place, spoke of the advantage of some such intellectual perspective as a
remote original standpoint alone perhaps can give. If what had finally,
with infinite patience, passion, labour, taste, got itself done there,
was like some supreme reward of an old dream of Italy, something perfect
after long delays, was it not verily in ultima Thule that the vow
would have been piously enough made and the germ tenderly enough
nursed? For a certain art of asking of Italy all she can give, you must
doubtless either be a rare raffine or a rare genius, a sophisticated
Norseman or just a Gabriele d’ Annunzio.
All she can give appeared to me, assuredly, for that day and the
following, gathered up and enrolled there: in the wondrous cluster and
dispersal of chambers, corners, courts, galleries, arbours, arcades,
long white ambulatories and vertiginous points of view. The greatest
charm of all perhaps was that, thanks to the particular conditions, she
seemed to abound, to overflow, in directions in which I had never yet
enjoyed the chance to find her so free. The indispensable thing was
therefore, in observation, in reflection, to press the opportunity hard,
to recognise that as the abundance was splendid, so, by the same stroke,
it was immensely suggestive. It dropped into one’s lap, naturally, at
the end of an hour or two, the little white flower of its formula: the
brooding tourist, in other words, could only continue to brood till he
had made out in a measure, as I may say, what was so wonderfully the
matter with him. He was simply then in the presence, more than ever yet,
of the possible poetry of the personal and social life of the south, and
the fun would depend much--as occasions are fleeting--on his arriving
in time, in the interest of that imagination which is his only field
of sport, at adequate new notations of it. The sense of all this, his
obscure and special fun in the general bravery, mixed, on the morrow,
with the long, human hum of the bright, hot day and filled up the golden
cup with questions and answers. The feast of St. Antony, the patron of
the upper town, was the one thing in the air, and of the private beauty
of the place, there on the narrow shelf, in the shining, shaded loggias
and above the blue gulfs, all comers were to be made free.
III
The church-feast of its saint is of course for Anacapri, as for any
self-respecting Italian town, the great day of the year, and the
smaller the small “country,” in native parlance, as well as the simpler,
accordingly, the life, the less the chance for leakage, on other
pretexts, of the stored wine of loyalty. This pure fluid, it was easy
to feel overnight, had not sensibly lowered its level; so that nothing
indeed, when the hour came, could well exceed the outpouring. All up and
down the Sorrentine promontory the early summer happens to be the time
of the saints, and I had just been witness there of a week on every day
of which one might have travelled, through kicked-up clouds and other
demonstrations, to a different hot holiday. There had been no bland
evening that, somewhere or other, in the hills or by the sea, the white
dust and the red glow didn’t rise to the dim stars. Dust, perspiration,
illumination, conversation--these were the regular elements. “They’re
very civilised,” a friend who knows them as well as they can be known
had said to me of the people in general; “plenty of fireworks and plenty
of talk--that’s all they ever want.” That they were “civilised”--on the
side on which they were most to show--was therefore to be the word of
the whole business, and nothing could have, in fact, had more interest
than the meaning that for the thirty-six hours I read into it.
Seen from below and diminished by distance, Anacapri makes scarce a
sign, and the road that leads to it is not traceable over the rock; but
it sits at its ease on its high, wide table, of which it covers--and
with picturesque southern culture as well--as much as it finds
convenient. As much of it as possible was squeezed all the morning, for
St. Antony, into the piazzetta before the church, and as much more into
that edifice as the robust odour mainly prevailing there allowed room
for. It was the odour that was in prime occupation, and one could only
wonder how so many men, women and children could cram themselves into so
much smell. It was surely the smell, thick and resisting, that was least
successfully to be elbowed. Meanwhile the good saint, before he could
move into the air, had, among the tapers and the tinsel, the opera-music
and the pulpit poundings, bravely to snuff it up. The shade outside was
hot, and the sun was hot; but we waited as densely for him to come out,
or rather to come “on,” as the pit at the opera waits for the great
tenor. There were people from below and people from the mainland and
people from Pomerania and a brass band from Naples. There were other
figures at the end of longer strings--strings that, some of them indeed,
had pretty well given way and were now but little snippets trailing in
the dust. Oh, the queer sense of the good old Capri of artistic legend,
of which the name itself was, in the more benighted years--years of the
contadina and the pifferaro--a bright evocation! Oh, the echo, on the
spot, of each romantic tale! Oh, the loafing painters, so bad and so
happy, the conscious models, the vague personalities! The “beautiful
Capri girl” was of course not missed, though not perhaps so beautiful
as in her ancient glamour, which none the less didn’t at all exclude
the probable presence--with his legendary light quite undimmed--of
the English lord in disguise who will at no distant date marry her. The
whole thing was there; one held it in one’s hand.
The saint comes out at last, borne aloft in long procession and under a
high canopy: a rejoicing, staring, smiling saint, openly delighted
with the one happy hour in the year on which he may take his own walk.
Frocked and tonsured, but not at all macerated, he holds in his hand a
small wax puppet of an infant Jesus and shows him to all their friends,
to whom he nods and bows: to whom, in the dazzle of the sun he literally
seems to grin and wink, while his litter sways and his banners flap and
every one gaily greets him. The ribbons and draperies flutter, and the
white veils of the marching maidens, the music blares and the guns go
off and the chants resound, and it is all as holy and merry and noisy
as possible. The procession--down to the delightful little tinselled and
bare-bodied babies, miniature St. Antonys irrespective of sex, led or
carried by proud papas or brown grandsires--includes so much of the
population that you marvel there is such a muster to look on--like the
charades given in a family in which every one wants to act. But it
is all indeed in a manner one house, the little high-niched island
community, and nobody therefore, even in the presence of the head of it,
puts on an air of solemnity. Singular and suggestive before everything
else is the absence of any approach to our notion of the posture of
respect, and this among people whose manners in general struck one as so
good and, in particular, as so cultivated. The office of the saint--of
which the festa is but the annual reaffirmation--involves not the
faintest attribute of remoteness or mystery.
While, with my friend, I waited for him, we went for coolness into the
second church of the place, a considerable and bedizened structure,
with the rare curiosity of a wondrous pictured pavement of majolica,
the garden of Eden done in large coloured tiles or squares, with every
beast, bird and river, and a brave diminuendo, in especial, from
portal to altar, of perspective, so that the animals and objects of the
foreground are big and those of the successive distances differ with
much propriety. Here in the sacred shade the old women were knitting,
gossipping, yawning, shuffling about; here the children were romping and
“larking”; here, in a manner, were the open parlour, the nursery, the
kindergarten and the conversazione of the poor. This is everywhere the
case by the southern sea. I remember near Sorrento a wayside chapel that
seemed the scene of every function of domestic life, including cookery
and others. The odd thing is that it all appears to interfere so little
with that special civilised note--the note of manners--which is so
constantly touched. It is barbarous to expectorate in the temple of your
faith, but that doubtless is an extreme case. Is civilisation really
measured by the number of things people do respect? There would seem to
be much evidence against it. The oldest societies, the societies
with most traditions, are naturally not the least ironic, the least
blasees, and the African tribes who take so many things into account
that they fear to quit their huts at night are not the fine flower.
IV
Where, on the other hand, it was impossible not to feel to the full
all the charming riguardi--to use their own good word--in which our
friends could abound, was, that afternoon, in the extraordinary temple
of art and hospitality that had been benignantly opened to me. Hither,
from three o’clock to seven, all the world, from the small in particular
to the smaller and the smallest, might freely flock, and here, from the
first hour to the last, the huge straw-bellied flasks of purple wine
were tilted for all the thirsty. They were many, the thirsty, they were
three hundred, they were unending; but the draughts they drank were
neither countable nor counted. This boon was dispensed in a long,
pillared portico, where everything was white and light save the blue
of the great bay as it played up from far below or as you took it in,
between shining columns, with your elbows on the parapet. Sorrento and
Vesuvius were over against you; Naples furthest off, melted, in the
middle of the picture, into shimmering vagueness and innocence; and the
long arm of Posilippo and the presence of the other islands, Procida,
the stricken Ischia, made themselves felt to the left. The grand air of
it all was in one’s very nostrils and seemed to come from sources too
numerous and too complex to name. It was antiquity in solution, with
every brown, mild figure, every note of the old speech, every tilt of
the great flask, every shadow cast by every classic fragment, adding
its touch to the impression. What was the secret of the surprising
amenity?--to the essence of which one got no nearer than simply by
feeling afresh the old story of the deep interfusion of the present with
the past. You had felt that often before, and all that could, at the
most, help you now was that, more than ever yet, the present appeared
to become again really classic, to sigh with strange elusive sounds of
Virgil and Theocritus. Heaven only knows how little they would in truth
have had to say to it, but we yield to these visions as we must, and
when the imagination fairly turns in its pain almost any soft name is
good enough to soothe it.
It threw such difficulties but a step back to say that the secret of
the amenity was “style”; for what in the world was the secret of style,
which you might have followed up and down the abysmal old Italy for so
many a year only to be still vainly calling for it? Everything, at any
rate, that happy afternoon, in that place of poetry, was bathed and
blessed with it. The castle of Barbarossa had been on the height behind;
the villa of black Tiberius had overhung the immensity from the right;
the white arcades and the cool chambers offered to every step some sweet
old “piece” of the past, some rounded porphyry pillar supporting a bust,
some shaft of pale alabaster upholding a trellis, some mutilated marble
image, some bronze that had roughly resisted. Our host, if we came to
that, had the secret; but he could only express it in grand practical
ways. One of them was precisely this wonderful “afternoon tea,” in which
tea only--that, good as it is, has never the note of style--was not to
be found. The beauty and the poetry, at all events, were clear enough,
and the extraordinary uplifted distinction; but where, in all this,
it may be asked, was the element of “horror” that I have spoken of as
sensible?--what obsession that was not charming could find a place in
that splendid light, out of which the long summer squeezes every secret
and shadow? I’m afraid I’m driven to plead that these evils were exactly
in one’s imagination, a predestined victim always of the cruel, the
fatal historic sense. To make so much distinction, how much history had
been needed!--so that the whole air still throbbed and ached with it,
as with an accumulation of ghosts to whom the very climate was pitiless,
condemning them to blanch for ever in the general glare and grandeur,
offering them no dusky northern nook, no place at the friendly fireside,
no shelter of legend or song.
V
My friend had, among many original relics, in one of his white
galleries--and how he understood the effect and the “value” of
whiteness!--two or three reproductions of the finest bronzes of the
Naples museum, the work of a small band of brothers whom he had found
himself justified in trusting to deal with their problem honourably
and to bring forth something as different as possible from the usual
compromise of commerce. They had brought forth, in especial, for him, a
copy of the young resting, slightly-panting Mercury which it was a pure
delight to live with, and they had come over from Naples on St. Antony’s
eve, as they had done the year before, to report themselves to their
patron, to keep up good relations, to drink Capri wine and to join
in the tarantella. They arrived late, while we were at supper; they
received their welcome and their billet, and I am not sure it was not
the conversation and the beautiful manners of these obscure young men
that most fixed in my mind for the time the sense of the side of life
that, all around, was to come out strongest. It would be artless,
no doubt, to represent them as high types of innocence or even of
energy--at the same time that, weighing them against some ruder folk
of our own race, we might perhaps have made bold to place their share
even of these qualities in the scale. It was an impression indeed never
infrequent in Italy, of which I might, in these days, first have felt
the force during a stay, just earlier, with a friend at Sorrento--a
friend who had good-naturedly “had in,” on his wondrous terrace, after
dinner, for the pleasure of the gaping alien, the usual local quartette,
violins, guitar and flute, the musical barber, the musical tailor,
sadler, joiner, humblest sons of the people and exponents of Neapolitan
song. Neapolitan song, as we know, has been blown well about the world,
and it is late in the day to arrive with a ravished ear for it. That,
however, was scarcely at all, for me, the question: the question, on the
Sorrento terrace, so high up in the cool Capri night, was of the present
outlook, in the world, for the races with whom it has been a tradition,
in intercourse, positively to please.
The personal civilisation, for intercourse, of the musical barber and
tailor, of the pleasant young craftsmen of my other friend’s company,
was something that could be trusted to make the brooding tourist brood
afresh--to say more to him in fact, all the rest of the second occasion,
than everything else put together. The happy address, the charming
expression, the indistinctive discretion, the complete eclipse, in
short, of vulgarity and brutality--these things easily became among
these people the supremely suggestive note, begetting a hundred hopes
and fears as to the place that, with the present general turn of affairs
about the globe, is being kept for them. They are perhaps what the races
politically feeble have still most to contribute--but what appears to
be the happy prospect for the races politically feeble? And so the
afternoon waned, among the mellow marbles and the pleasant folk---the
purple wine flowed, the golden light faded, song and dance grew free and
circulation slightly embarrassed. But the great impression remained and
finally was exquisite. It was all purple wine, all art and song, and
nobody a grain the worse. It was fireworks and conversation--the former,
in the piazzetta, were to come later; it was civilisation and amenity. I
took in the greater picture, but I lost nothing else; and I talked with
the contadini about antique sculpture. No, nobody was a grain the worse;
and I had plenty to think of. So it was I was quickened to remember
that we others, we of my own country, as a race politically not
weak, had--by what I had somewhere just heard--opened “three hundred
‘saloons’” at Manila.
VI
The “other” afternoons I here pass on to--and I may include in them,
for that matter, various mornings scarce less charmingly sacred to
memory--were occasions of another and a later year; a brief but all
felicitous impression of Naples itself, and of the approach to it from
Rome, as well as of the return to Rome by a different wonderful way,
which I feel I shall be wise never to attempt to “improve on.” Let
me muster assurance to confess that this comparatively recent and
superlatively rich reminiscence gives me for its first train of
ineffable images those of a motor-run that, beginning betimes of a
splendid June day, and seeing me, with my genial companions, blissfully
out of Porta San Paolo, hung over us thus its benediction till the
splendour had faded in the lamplit rest of the Chiaja. “We’ll go by the
mountains,” my friend, of the chariot of fire, had said, “and we’ll come
back, after three days, by the sea”; which handsome promise flowered
into such flawless performance that I could but feel it to have closed
and rounded for me, beyond any further rehandling, the long-drawn rather
indeed than thick-studded chaplet of my visitations of Naples--from the
first, seasoned with the highest sensibility of youth, forty years ago,
to this last the other day. I find myself noting with interest--and just
to be able to emphasise it is what inspires me with these remarks--that,
in spite of the milder and smoother and perhaps, pictorially speaking,
considerably emptier, Neapolitan face of things, things in general,
of our later time, I recognised in my final impression a grateful,
a beguiling serenity. The place is at the best wild and weird and
sinister, and yet seemed on this occasion to be seated more at her ease
in her immense natural dignity. My disposition to feel that, I hasten to
add, was doubtless my own secret; my three beautiful days, at any rate,
filled themselves with the splendid harmony, several of the minor notes
of which ask for a place, such as it may be, just here.
Wondrously, it was a clean and cool and, as who should say, quiet
and amply interspaced Naples--in tune with itself, no harsh jangle of
forestieri vulgarising the concert. I seemed in fact, under the blaze
of summer, the only stranger--though the blaze of summer itself was,
for that matter, everywhere but a higher pitch of light and colour and
tradition, and a lower pitch of everything else; even, it struck me,
of sound and fury. The appeal in short was genial, and, faring out to
Pompeii of a Sunday afternoon, I enjoyed there, for the only time I
can recall, the sweet chance of a late hour or two, the hour of
the lengthening shadows, absolutely alone. The impression remains
ineffaceable--it was to supersede half-a-dozen other mixed memories, the
sense that had remained with me, from far back, of a pilgrimage always
here beset with traps and shocks and vulgar importunities, achieved
under fatal discouragements. Even Pompeii, in fine, haunt of all the
cockneys of creation, burned itself, in the warm still eventide, as
