“--I know: it was Stell the alienist. Why did you do that, Allonby?”
The other’s face did not lose its composure. “Because I looked up your
story first--and there’s nothing in it.”
“Nothing in it?” Granice furiously interposed.
“Absolutely nothing. If there is, why the deuce don’t you bring me
proofs? I know you’ve been talking to Peter Ascham, and to Denver, and
to that little ferret McCarren of the Explorer. Have any of them been
able to make out a case for you? No. Well, what am I to do?”
Granice’s lips began to tremble. “Why did you play me that trick?”
“About Stell? I had to, my dear fellow: it’s part of my business. Stell
is a detective, if you come to that--every doctor is.”
The trembling of Granice’s lips increased, communicating itself in a
long quiver to his facial muscles. He forced a laugh through his dry
throat. “Well--and what did he detect?”
“In you? Oh, he thinks it’s overwork--overwork and too much smoking. If
you look in on him some day at his office he’ll show you the record of
hundreds of cases like yours, and advise you what treatment to follow.
It’s one of the commonest forms of hallucination. Have a cigar, all the
same.”
“But, Allonby, I killed that man!”
The District Attorney’s large hand, outstretched on his desk, had an
almost imperceptible gesture, and a moment later, as if an answer to the
call of an electric bell, a clerk looked in from the outer office.
“Sorry, my dear fellow--lot of people waiting. Drop in on Stell some
morning,” Allonby said, shaking hands.
McCarren had to own himself beaten: there was absolutely no flaw in the
alibi. And since his duty to his journal obviously forbade his wasting
time on insoluble mysteries, he ceased to frequent Granice, who dropped
back into a deeper isolation. For a day or two after his visit to
Allonby he continued to live in dread of Dr. Stell. Why might not
Allonby have deceived him as to the alienist’s diagnosis? What if he
were really being shadowed, not by a police agent but by a mad-doctor?
To have the truth out, he suddenly determined to call on Dr. Stell.
The physician received him kindly, and reverted without embarrassment
to the conditions of their previous meeting. “We have to do that
occasionally, Mr. Granice; it’s one of our methods. And you had given
Allonby a fright.”
Granice was silent. He would have liked to reaffirm his guilt, to
produce the fresh arguments which had occurred to him since his last
talk with the physician; but he feared his eagerness might be taken
for a symptom of derangement, and he affected to smile away Dr. Stell’s
allusion.
“You think, then, it’s a case of brain-fag--nothing more?”
“Nothing more. And I should advise you to knock off tobacco. You smoke a
good deal, don’t you?”
He developed his treatment, recommending massage, gymnastics, travel, or
any form of diversion that did not--that in short--
Granice interrupted him impatiently. “Oh, I loathe all that--and I’m
sick of travelling.”
“H’m. Then some larger interest--politics, reform, philanthropy?
Something to take you out of yourself.”
“Yes. I understand,” said Granice wearily.
“Above all, don’t lose heart. I see hundreds of cases like yours,” the
doctor added cheerfully from the threshold.
On the doorstep Granice stood still and laughed. Hundreds of cases like
his--the case of a man who had committed a murder, who confessed his
guilt, and whom no one would believe! Why, there had never been a case
like it in the world. What a good figure Stell would have made in a
play: the great alienist who couldn’t read a man’s mind any better than
that!
Granice saw huge comic opportunities in the type.
But as he walked away, his fears dispelled, the sense of listlessness
returned on him. For the first time since his avowal to Peter Ascham
he found himself without an occupation, and understood that he had been
carried through the past weeks only by the necessity of constant action.
Now his life had once more become a stagnant backwater, and as he stood
on the street corner watching the tides of traffic sweep by, he asked
himself despairingly how much longer he could endure to float about in
the sluggish circle of his consciousness.
The thought of self-destruction recurred to him; but again his flesh
recoiled. He yearned for death from other hands, but he could never take
it from his own. And, aside from his insuperable physical reluctance,
another motive restrained him. He was possessed by the dogged desire
to establish the truth of his story. He refused to be swept aside as
an irresponsible dreamer--even if he had to kill himself in the end,
he would not do so before proving to society that he had deserved death
from it.
He began to write long letters to the papers; but after the first had
been published and commented on, public curiosity was quelled by a
brief statement from the District Attorney’s office, and the rest of his
communications remained unprinted. Ascham came to see him, and begged
him to travel. Robert Denver dropped in, and tried to joke him out of
his delusion; till Granice, mistrustful of their motives, began to dread
the reappearance of Dr. Stell, and set a guard on his lips. But the
words he kept back engendered others and still others in his brain.
His inner self became a humming factory of arguments, and he spent long
hours reciting and writing down elaborate statements of his crime,
which he constantly retouched and developed. Then gradually his activity
languished under the lack of an audience, the sense of being buried
beneath deepening drifts of indifference. In a passion of resentment he
swore that he would prove himself a murderer, even if he had to commit
another crime to do it; and for a sleepless night or two the thought
flamed red on his darkness. But daylight dispelled it. The determining
impulse was lacking and he hated too promiscuously to choose his
victim... So he was thrown back on the unavailing struggle to impose
the truth of his story. As fast as one channel closed on him he tried to
pierce another through the sliding sands of incredulity. But every issue
seemed blocked, and the whole human race leagued together to cheat one
man of the right to die.
Thus viewed, the situation became so monstrous that he lost his last
shred of self-restraint in contemplating it. What if he were really
the victim of some mocking experiment, the centre of a ring of
holiday-makers jeering at a poor creature in its blind dashes against
the solid walls of consciousness? But, no--men were not so uniformly
cruel: there were flaws in the close surface of their indifference,
cracks of weakness and pity here and there...
Granice began to think that his mistake lay in having appealed to
persons more or less familiar with his past, and to whom the visible
conformities of his life seemed a final disproof of its one fierce
secret deviation. The general tendency was to take for the whole of life
the slit seen between the blinders of habit: and in his walk down that
narrow vista Granice cut a correct enough figure. To a vision free to
follow his whole orbit his story would be more intelligible: it would
be easier to convince a chance idler in the street than the trained
intelligence hampered by a sense of his antecedents. This idea shot up
in him with the tropic luxuriance of each new seed of thought, and he
began to walk the streets, and to frequent out-of-the-way chop-houses
and bars in his search for the impartial stranger to whom he should
disclose himself.
At first every face looked encouragement; but at the crucial moment he
always held back. So much was at stake, and it was so essential that
his first choice should be decisive. He dreaded stupidity, timidity,
intolerance. The imaginative eye, the furrowed brow, were what he
sought. He must reveal himself only to a heart versed in the tortuous
motions of the human will; and he began to hate the dull benevolence
of the average face. Once or twice, obscurely, allusively, he made a
beginning--once sitting down at a man’s side in a basement chop-house,
another day approaching a lounger on an east-side wharf. But in both
cases the premonition of failure checked him on the brink of avowal. His
dread of being taken for a man in the clutch of a fixed idea gave him an
unnatural keenness in reading the expression of his interlocutors, and
he had provided himself in advance with a series of verbal alternatives,
trap-doors of evasion from the first dart of ridicule or suspicion.
He passed the greater part of the day in the streets, coming home at
irregular hours, dreading the silence and orderliness of his apartment,
and the critical scrutiny of Flint. His real life was spent in a
world so remote from this familiar setting that he sometimes had the
mysterious sense of a living metempsychosis, a furtive passage from one
identity to another--yet the other as unescapably himself!
One humiliation he was spared: the desire to live never revived in
him. Not for a moment was he tempted to a shabby pact with existing
conditions. He wanted to die, wanted it with the fixed unwavering desire
which alone attains its end. And still the end eluded him! It would not
always, of course--he had full faith in the dark star of his destiny.
And he could prove it best by repeating his story, persistently and
indefatigably, pouring it into indifferent ears, hammering it into dull
brains, till at last it kindled a spark, and some one of the careless
millions paused, listened, believed...
It was a mild March day, and he had been loitering on the west-side
docks, looking at faces. He was becoming an expert in physiognomies: his
eagerness no longer made rash darts and awkward recoils. He knew now the
face he needed, as clearly as if it had come to him in a vision; and
not till he found it would he speak. As he walked eastward through the
shabby reeking streets he had a premonition that he should find it that
morning. Perhaps it was the promise of spring in the air--certainly he
felt calmer than for many days...
He turned into Washington Square, struck across it obliquely, and walked
up University Place. Its heterogeneous passers always allured him--they
were less hurried than in Broadway, less enclosed and classified than in
Fifth Avenue. He walked slowly, watching for his face.
At Union Square he felt a sudden relapse into discouragement, like a
votary who has watched too long for a sign from the altar. Perhaps,
after all, he should never find his face... The air was languid, and
he felt tired. He walked between the bald grass-plots and the twisted
trees, making for an empty seat. Presently he passed a bench on which a
girl sat alone, and something as definite as the twitch of a cord made
him stop before her. He had never dreamed of telling his story to a
girl, had hardly looked at the women’s faces as they passed. His case
was man’s work: how could a woman help him? But this girl’s face was
extraordinary--quiet and wide as a clear evening sky. It suggested a
hundred images of space, distance, mystery, like ships he had seen, as
a boy, quietly berthed by a familiar wharf, but with the breath of far
seas and strange harbours in their shrouds... Certainly this girl would
understand. He went up to her quietly, lifting his hat, observing the
forms--wishing her to see at once that he was “a gentleman.”
“I am a stranger to you,” he began, sitting down beside her, “but your
face is so extremely intelligent that I feel... I feel it is the face
I’ve waited for ... looked for everywhere; and I want to tell you--”
The girl’s eyes widened: she rose to her feet. She was escaping him!
In his dismay he ran a few steps after her, and caught her roughly by
the arm.
“Here--wait--listen! Oh, don’t scream, you fool!” he shouted out.
He felt a hand on his own arm; turned and confronted a policeman.
Instantly he understood that he was being arrested, and something hard
within him was loosened and ran to tears.
“Ah, you know--you know I’m guilty!”
He was conscious that a crowd was forming, and that the girl’s
frightened face had disappeared. But what did he care about her face? It
was the policeman who had really understood him. He turned and followed,
the crowd at his heels...
VII
IN the charming place in which he found himself there were so many
sympathetic faces that he felt more than ever convinced of the certainty
of making himself heard.
It was a bad blow, at first, to find that he had not been arrested
for murder; but Ascham, who had come to him at once, explained that he
needed rest, and the time to “review” his statements; it appeared that
reiteration had made them a little confused and contradictory. To
this end he had willingly acquiesced in his removal to a large quiet
establishment, with an open space and trees about it, where he had
found a number of intelligent companions, some, like himself, engaged
in preparing or reviewing statements of their cases, and others ready to
lend an interested ear to his own recital.
For a time he was content to let himself go on the tranquil current of
this existence; but although his auditors gave him for the most part
an encouraging attention, which, in some, went the length of really
brilliant and helpful suggestion, he gradually felt a recurrence of his
old doubts. Either his hearers were not sincere, or else they had
less power to aid him than they boasted. His interminable conferences
resulted in nothing, and as the benefit of the long rest made itself
felt, it produced an increased mental lucidity which rendered inaction
more and more unbearable. At length he discovered that on certain days
visitors from the outer world were admitted to his retreat; and he wrote
out long and logically constructed relations of his crime, and furtively
slipped them into the hands of these messengers of hope.
This occupation gave him a fresh lease of patience, and he now lived
only to watch for the visitors’ days, and scan the faces that swept by
him like stars seen and lost in the rifts of a hurrying sky.
Mostly, these faces were strange and less intelligent than those of his
companions. But they represented his last means of access to the world,
a kind of subterranean channel on which he could set his “statements”
 afloat, like paper boats which the mysterious current might sweep out
into the open seas of life.
One day, however, his attention was arrested by a familiar contour,
a pair of bright prominent eyes, and a chin insufficiently shaved. He
sprang up and stood in the path of Peter McCarren.
The journalist looked at him doubtfully, then held out his hand with a
startled deprecating, “Why--?”
“You didn’t know me? I’m so changed?” Granice faltered, feeling the
rebound of the other’s wonder.
“Why, no; but you’re looking quieter--smoothed out,” McCarren smiled.
“Yes: that’s what I’m here for--to rest. And I’ve taken the opportunity
to write out a clearer statement--”
Granice’s hand shook so that he could hardly draw the folded paper from
his pocket. As he did so he noticed that the reporter was accompanied by
a tall man with grave compassionate eyes. It came to Granice in a wild
thrill of conviction that this was the face he had waited for...
“Perhaps your friend--he is your friend?--would glance over it--or
I could put the case in a few words if you have time?” Granice’s voice
shook like his hand. If this chance escaped him he felt that his last
hope was gone. McCarren and the stranger looked at each other, and the
former glanced at his watch.
“I’m sorry we can’t stay and talk it over now, Mr. Granice; but my
friend has an engagement, and we’re rather pressed--”
Granice continued to proffer the paper. “I’m sorry--I think I could have
explained. But you’ll take this, at any rate?”
The stranger looked at him gently. “Certainly--I’ll take it.” He had his
hand out. “Good-bye.”
“Good-bye,” Granice echoed.
He stood watching the two men move away from him through the long light
hall; and as he watched them a tear ran down his face. But as soon as
they were out of sight he turned and walked hastily toward his room,
beginning to hope again, already planning a new statement.
Outside the building the two men stood still, and the journalist’s
companion looked up curiously at the long monotonous rows of barred
windows.
“So that was Granice?”
“Yes--that was Granice, poor devil,” said McCarren.
“Strange case! I suppose there’s never been one just like it? He’s still
absolutely convinced that he committed that murder?”
“Absolutely. Yes.”
The stranger reflected. “And there was no conceivable ground for the
idea? No one could make out how it started? A quiet conventional sort of
fellow like that--where do you suppose he got such a delusion? Did you
ever get the least clue to it?”
McCarren stood still, his hands in his pockets, his head cocked up in
contemplation of the barred windows. Then he turned his bright hard gaze
on his companion.
“That was the queer part of it. I’ve never spoken of it--but I did get
a clue.”
“By Jove! That’s interesting. What was it?”
McCarren formed his red lips into a whistle. “Why--that it wasn’t a
delusion.”
He produced his effect--the other turned on him with a pallid stare.
“He murdered the man all right. I tumbled on the truth by the merest
accident, when I’d pretty nearly chucked the whole job.”
“He murdered him--murdered his cousin?”
“Sure as you live. Only don’t split on me. It’s about the queerest
business I ever ran into... Do about it? Why, what was I to do? I
couldn’t hang the poor devil, could I? Lord, but I was glad when they
collared him, and had him stowed away safe in there!”
The tall man listened with a grave face, grasping Granice’s statement in
his hand.
“Here--take this; it makes me sick,” he said abruptly, thrusting the
paper at the reporter; and the two men turned and walked in silence to
the gates.
HIS FATHER’S SON
I
AFTER his wife’s death Mason Grew took the momentous step of selling out
his business and moving from Wingfield, Connecticut, to Brooklyn.
For years he had secretly nursed the hope of such a change, but had
never dared to suggest it to Mrs. Grew, a woman of immutable habits.
Mr. Grew himself was attached to Wingfield, where he had grown up,
prospered, and become what the local press described as “prominent.”
 He was attached to his ugly brick house with sandstone trimmings and
a cast-iron area-railing neatly sanded to match; to the similar row of
houses across the street, the “trolley” wires forming a kind of aerial
pathway between, and the sprawling vista closed by the steeple of the
church which he and his wife had always attended, and where their only
child had been baptized.
It was hard to snap all these threads of association, visual and
sentimental; yet still harder, now that he was alone, to live so far
from his boy. Ronald Grew was practising law in New York, and there
was no more chance of returning to live at Wingfield than of a river’s
flowing inland from the sea. Therefore to be near him his father must
move; and it was characteristic of Mr. Grew, and of the situation
generally, that the translation, when it took place, was to Brooklyn,
and not to New York.
“Why you bury yourself in that hole I can’t think,” had been Ronald’s
comment; and Mr. Grew simply replied that rents were lower in Brooklyn,
and that he had heard of a house that would suit him. In reality he had
said to himself--being the only recipient of his own confidences--that
if he went to New York he might be on the boy’s mind; whereas, if
he lived in Brooklyn, Ronald would always have a good excuse for not
popping over to see him every other day. The sociological isolation of
Brooklyn, combined with its geographical nearness, presented in fact the
precise conditions for Mr. Grew’s case. He wanted to be near enough to
New York to go there often, to feel under his feet the same pavement
that Ronald trod, to sit now and then in the same theatres, and find
on his breakfast-table the journals which, with increasing frequency,
inserted Ronald’s name in the sacred bounds of the society column. It
had always been a trial to Mr. Grew to have to wait twenty-four hours to
read that “among those present was Mr. Ronald Grew.” Now he had it
with his coffee, and left it on the breakfast-table to the perusal of a
“hired girl” cosmopolitan enough to do it justice. In such ways Brooklyn
attested the advantages of its propinquity to New York, while remaining,
as regards Ronald’s duty to his father, as remote and inaccessible as
Wingfield.
It was not that Ronald shirked his filial obligations, but rather
because of his heavy sense of them, that Mr. Grew so persistently sought
to minimize and lighten them. It was he who insisted, to Ronald, on the
immense difficulty of getting from New York to Brooklyn.
“Any way you look at it, it makes a big hole in the day; and there’s not
much use in the ragged rim left. You say you’re dining out next Sunday?
Then I forbid you to come over here for lunch. Do you understand me,
sir? You disobey at the risk of your father’s malediction! Where did you
say you were dining? With the Waltham Bankshires again? Why, that’s
the second time in three weeks, ain’t it? Big blow-out, I suppose? Gold
plate and orchids--opera singers in afterward? Well, you’d be in a nice
box if there was a fog on the river, and you got hung up half-way over.
That’d be a handsome return for the attention Mrs. Bankshire has shown
you--singling out a whipper-snapper like you twice in three weeks!
(What’s the daughter’s name--Daisy?) No, sir--don’t you come fooling
round here next Sunday, or I’ll set the dogs on you. And you wouldn’t
find me in anyhow, come to think of it. I’m lunching out myself, as it
happens--yes sir, lunching out. Is there anything especially comic in
my lunching out? I don’t often do it, you say? Well, that’s no reason
why I never should. Who with? Why, with--with old Dr. Bleaker: Dr.
Eliphalet Bleaker. No, you wouldn’t know about him--he’s only an old
friend of your mother’s and mine.”
Gradually Ronald’s insistence became less difficult to overcome. With
his customary sweetness and tact (as Mr. Grew put it) he began to
“take the hint,” to give in to “the old gentleman’s” growing desire for
solitude.
“I’m set in my ways, Ronny, that’s about the size of it; I like to
go tick-ticking along like a clock. I always did. And when you come
bouncing in I never feel sure there’s enough for dinner--or that I
haven’t sent Maria out for the evening. And I don’t want the neighbors
to see me opening my own door to my son. That’s the kind of cringing
snob I am. Don’t give me away, will you? I want ‘em to think I keep four
or five powdered flunkeys in the hall day and night--same as the lobby
of one of those Fifth Avenue hotels. And if you pop over when you’re not
expected, how am I going to keep up the bluff?”
Ronald yielded after the proper amount of resistance--his intuitive
sense, in every social transaction, of the proper amount of force to be
expended, was one of the qualities his father most admired in him. Mr.
Grew’s perceptions in this line were probably more acute than his son
suspected. The souls of short thick-set men, with chubby features,
mutton-chop whiskers, and pale eyes peering between folds of fat like
almond kernels in half-split shells--souls thus encased do not reveal
themselves to the casual scrutiny as delicate emotional instruments.
But in spite of the dense disguise in which he walked Mr. Grew vibrated
exquisitely in response to every imaginative appeal; and his son Ronald
was perpetually stimulating and feeding his imagination.
Ronald in fact constituted his father’s one escape from the impenetrable
element of mediocrity which had always hemmed him in. To a man so
enamoured of beauty, and so little qualified to add to its sum total,
it was a wonderful privilege to have bestowed on the world such a being.
Ronald’s resemblance to Mr. Grew’s early conception of what he himself
would have liked to look might have put new life into the discredited
theory of pre-natal influences. At any rate, if the young man owed his
beauty, his distinction and his winning manner to the dreams of one of
his parents, it was certainly to those of Mr. Grew, who, while outwardly
devoting his life to the manufacture and dissemination of Grew’s Secure
Suspender Buckle, moved in an enchanted inward world peopled with all
the figures of romance. In this high company Mr. Grew cut as brilliant
a figure as any of its noble phantoms; and to see his vision of himself
suddenly projected on the outer world in the shape of a brilliant
popular conquering son, seemed, in retrospect, to give to that image a
belated objective reality. There were even moments when, forgetting his
physiognomy, Mr. Grew said to himself that if he’d had “half a chance”
 he might have done as well as Ronald; but this only fortified his
resolve that Ronald should do infinitely better.
Ronald’s ability to do well almost equalled his gift of looking well.
Mr. Grew constantly affirmed to himself that the boy was “not a genius”;
but, barring this slight deficiency, he was almost everything that
a parent could wish. Even at Harvard he had managed to be several
desirable things at once--writing poetry in the college magazine,
playing delightfully “by ear,” acquitting himself honorably in his
studies, and yet holding his own in the fashionable sporting set that
formed, as it were, the gateway of the temple of Society. Mr. Grew’s
idealism did not preclude the frank desire that his son should pass
through that gateway; but the wish was not prompted by material
considerations. It was Mr. Grew’s notion that, in the rough and hurrying
current of a new civilization, the little pools of leisure and enjoyment
must nurture delicate growths, material graces as well as moral
refinements, likely to be uprooted and swept away by the rush of the
main torrent. He based his theory on the fact that he had liked the
few “society” people he had met--had found their manners simpler, their
voices more agreeable, their views more consonant with his own, than
those of the leading citizens of Wingfield. But then he had met very
few.
Ronald’s sympathies needed no urging in the same direction. He took
naturally, dauntlessly, to all the high and exceptional things about
which his father’s imagination had so long sheepishly and ineffectually
hovered--from the start he was what Mr. Grew had dreamed of being.
And so precise, so detailed, was Mr. Grew’s vision of his own imaginary
career, that as Ronald grew up, and began to travel in a widening orbit,
his father had an almost uncanny sense of the extent to which that
career was enacting itself before him. At Harvard, Ronald had done
exactly what the hypothetical Mason Grew would have done, had not his
actual self, at the same age, been working his way up in old Slagden’s
button factory--the institution which was later to acquire fame, and
even notoriety, as the birthplace of Grew’s Secure Suspender Buckle.
Afterward, at a period when the actual Grew had passed from the factory
to the bookkeeper’s desk, his invisible double had been reading law at
Columbia--precisely again what Ronald did! But it was when the young man
left the paths laid out for him by the parental hand, and cast himself
boldly on the world, that his adventures began to bear the most
astonishing resemblance to those of the unrealized Mason Grew. It was in
New York that the scene of this hypothetical being’s first exploits had
always been laid; and it was in New York that Ronald was to achieve
his first triumph. There was nothing small or timid about Mr. Grew’s
imagination; it had never stopped at anything between Wingfield and
the metropolis. And the real Ronald had the same cosmic vision as his
parent. He brushed aside with a contemptuous laugh his mother’s tearful
entreaty that he should stay at Wingfield and continue the dynasty of
the Grew Suspender Buckle. Mr. Grew knew that in reality Ronald winced
at the Buckle, loathed it, blushed for his connection with it. Yet it
was the Buckle that had seen him through Groton, Harvard and the Law
School, and had permitted him to enter the office of a distinguished
corporation lawyer, instead of being enslaved to some sordid business
with quick returns. The Buckle had been Ronald’s fairy godmother--yet
his father did not blame him for abhorring and disowning it. Mr. Grew
himself often bitterly regretted having bestowed his own name on the
instrument of his material success, though, at the time, his doing so
had been the natural expression of his romanticism. When he invented
the Buckle, and took out his patent, he and his wife both felt that to
bestow their name on it was like naming a battle-ship or a peak of the
Andes.
Mrs. Grew had never learned to know better; but Mr. Grew had discovered
his error before Ronald was out of school. He read it first in a black
eye of his boy’s. Ronald’s symmetry had been marred by the insolent fist
of a fourth former whom he had chastised for alluding to his father as
“Old Buckles;” and when Mr. Grew heard the epithet he understood in a
flash that the Buckle was a thing to blush for. It was too late then
to dissociate his name from it, or to efface from the hoardings of the
entire continent the picture of two gentlemen, one contorting himself in
the abject effort to repair a broken brace, while the careless ease
of the other’s attitude proclaimed his trust in the Secure Suspender
Buckle. These records were indelible, but Ronald could at least be
spared all direct connection with them; and from that day Mr. Grew
resolved that the boy should not return to Wingfield.
“You’ll see,” he had said to Mrs. Grew, “he’ll take right hold in New
York. Ronald’s got my knack for taking hold,” he added, throwing out his
chest.
“But the way you took hold was in business,” objected Mrs. Grew, who was
large and literal.
Mr. Grew’s chest collapsed, and he became suddenly conscious of his
comic face in its rim of sandy whiskers. “That’s not the only way,” he
said, with a touch of wistfulness which escaped his wife’s analysis.
“Well, of course you could have written beautifully,” she rejoined with
admiring eyes.
“ Written? Me!” Mr. Grew became sardonic.
“Why, those letters--weren’t they beautiful, I’d like to know?”
The couple exchanged a glance, innocently allusive and amused on the
wife’s part, and charged with a sudden tragic significance on the
husband’s.
“Well, I’ve got to be going along to the office now,” he merely said,
dragging himself out of his rocking-chair.
This had happened while Ronald was still at school; and now Mrs. Grew
slept in the Wingfield cemetery, under a life-size theological virtue of
her own choosing, and Mr. Grew’s prognostications as to Ronald’s ability
to “take right hold” in New York were being more and more brilliantly
fulfilled.
II
RONALD obeyed his father’s injunction not to come to luncheon on the day
of the Bankshires’ dinner; but in the middle of the following week Mr.
Grew was surprised by a telegram from his son.
“Want to see you important matter. Expect me to-morrow afternoon.”
Mr. Grew received the telegram after breakfast. To peruse it he had
lifted his eye from a paragraph of the morning paper describing a
fancy-dress dinner which had taken place the night before at the
Hamilton Gliddens’ for the house-warming of their new Fifth Avenue
palace.
“Among the couples who afterward danced in the Poets’ Quadrille were
Miss Daisy Bankshire, looking more than usually lovely as Laura, and Mr.
Ronald Grew as the young Petrarch.”
Petrarch and Laura! Well--if anything meant anything, Mr. Grew
supposed he knew what that meant. For weeks past he had noticed how
constantly the names of the young people appeared together in the
society notes he so insatiably devoured. Even the soulless reporter was
getting into the habit of coupling them in his lists. And this Laura and
Petrarch business was almost an announcement...
Mr. Grew dropped the telegram, wiped his eye-glasses, and re-read the
paragraph. “Miss Daisy Bankshire ... more than usually lovely...” Yes;
she was lovely. He had often seen her photograph in the papers--seen
her represented in every conceivable attitude of the mundane game:
fondling her prize bull-dog, taking a fence on her thoroughbred, dancing
a gavotte, all patches and plumes, or fingering a guitar, all tulle
and lilies; and once he had caught a glimpse of her at the theatre.
Hearing that Ronald was going to a fashionable first-night with the
Bankshires, Mr. Grew had for once overcome his repugnance to following
his son’s movements, and had secured for himself, under the shadow of
the balcony, a stall whence he could observe the Bankshire box without
fear of detection. Ronald had never known of his father’s presence at
the play; and for three blessed hours Mr. Grew had watched his boy’s
handsome dark head bent above the dense fair hair and white averted
shoulder that were all he could catch of Miss Bankshire’s beauties.
He recalled the vision now; and with it came, as usual, its ghostly
double: the vision of his young self bending above such a white shoulder
and such shining hair. Needless to say that the real Mason Grew had
never found himself in so enviable a situation. The late Mrs. Grew had
no more resembled Miss Daisy Bankshire than he had looked like the happy
victorious Ronald. And the mystery was that from their dull faces,
their dull endearments, the miracle of Ronald should have sprung. It was
almost--fantastically--as if the boy had been a changeling, child of a
Latmian night, whom the divine companion of Mr. Grew’s early reveries
had secretly laid in the cradle of the Wingfield bedroom while Mr. And
Mrs. Grew slept the deep sleep of conjugal indifference.
The young Mason Grew had not at first accepted this astral episode as
the complete cancelling of his claims on romance. He too had grasped at
the high-hung glory; and, with his fatal tendency to reach too far when
he reached at all, had singled out the prettiest girl in Wingfield.
When he recalled his stammered confession of love his face still tingled
under her cool bright stare. The wonder of his audacity had struck her
dumb; and when she recovered her voice it was to fling a taunt at him.
“Don’t be too discouraged, you know--have you ever thought of trying
Addie Wicks?”
All Wingfield would have understood the gibe: Addie Wicks was the
dullest girl in town. And a year later he had married Addie Wicks...
He looked up from the perusal of Ronald’s telegram with this memory in
his mind. Now at last his dream was coming true! His boy would taste
of the joys that had mocked his thwarted youth and his dull gray
middle-age. And it was fitting that they should be realized in Ronald’s
destiny. Ronald was made to take happiness boldly by the hand and lead
it home like a bridegroom. He had the carriage, the confidence, the high
faith in his fortune, that compel the wilful stars. And, thanks to
the Buckle, he would have the exceptional setting, the background of
material elegance, that became his conquering person. Since Mr. Grew
had retired from business his investments had prospered, and he had been
saving up his income for just such a contingency. His own wants were
few: he had transferred the Wingfield furniture to Brooklyn, and his
sitting-room was a replica of that in which the long years of his
married life had been spent. Even the florid carpet on which Ronald’s
tottering footsteps had been taken was carefully matched when it
became too threadbare. And on the marble centre-table, with its
chenille-fringed cover and bunch of dyed pampas grass, lay the
illustrated Longfellow and the copy of Ingersoll’s lectures which
represented literature to Mr. Grew when he had led home his bride. In
the light of Ronald’s romance, Mr. Grew found himself re-living, with
a strange tremor of mingled pain and tenderness, all the poor prosaic
incidents of his own personal history. Curiously enough, with this new
splendor on them they began to emit a small faint ray of their own. His
wife’s armchair, in its usual place by the fire, recalled her placid
unperceiving presence, seated opposite to him during the long drowsy
years; and he felt her kindness, her equanimity, where formerly he had
only ached at her obtuseness. And from the chair he glanced up at the
large discolored photograph on the wall above, with a brittle brown
wreath suspended on a corner of the frame. The photograph represented
a young man with a poetic necktie and untrammelled hair, leaning
negligently against a Gothic chair-back, a roll of music in his hand;
and beneath was scrawled a bar of Chopin, with the words: “ Adieu,
Adele.”
The portrait was that of the great pianist, Fortune Dolbrowski; and its
presence on the wall of Mr. Grew’s sitting-room commemorated the only
exquisite hour of his life save that of Ronald’s birth. It was some time
before the latter memorable event, a few months only after Mr. Grew’s
marriage, that he had taken his wife to New York to hear the great
Dolbrowski. Their evening had been magically beautiful, and even Addie,
roused from her habitual inexpressiveness, had quivered into a momentary
semblance of life. “I never--I never--” she gasped out helplessly when
they had regained their hotel bedroom, and sat staring back entranced
at the evening’s evocations. Her large immovable face was pink and
tremulous, and she sat with her hands on her knees, forgetting to roll
up her bonnet-strings and prepare her curl-papers.
“I’d like to write him just how I felt--I wisht I knew how!” she burst
out suddenly in a final effervescence of emotion.
Her husband lifted his head and looked at her.
“Would you? I feel that way too,” he said with a sheepish laugh. And
they continued to stare at each other shyly through a transfiguring mist
of sound.
Mr. Grew recalled the scene as he gazed up at the pianist’s faded
photograph. “Well, I owe her that anyhow--poor Addie!” he said, with a
smile at the inconsequences of fate. With Ronald’s telegram in his hand
he was in a mood to count his mercies.
III
“A CLEAR twenty-five thousand a year: that’s what you can tell ‘em
with my compliments,” said Mr. Grew, glancing complacently across the
centre-table at his boy’s charming face.
It struck him that Ronald’s gift for looking his part in life had never
so romantically expressed itself. Other young men, at such a moment,
would have been red, damp, tight about the collar; but Ronald’s cheek
was only a shade paler, and the contrast made his dark eyes more
expressive.
“A clear twenty-five thousand; yes, sir--that’s what I always meant you
to have.”
Mr. Grew leaned back, his hands thrust carelessly in his pockets, as
though to divert attention from the agitation of his features. He had
often pictured himself rolling out that phrase to Ronald, and now that
it was actually on his lips he could not control their tremor.
Ronald listened in silence, lifting a nervous hand to his slight dark
moustache, as though he, too, wished to hide some involuntary betrayal
of emotion. At first Mr. Grew took his silence for an expression of
gratified surprise; but as it prolonged itself it became less easy to
interpret.
“I--see here, my boy; did you expect more? Isn’t it enough?” Mr. Grew
cleared his throat. “Do they expect more?” he asked nervously. He was
hardly able to face the pain of inflicting a disappointment on Ronald
at the very moment when he had counted on putting the final touch to his
felicity.
Ronald moved uneasily in his chair and his eyes wandered upward to the
laurel-wreathed photograph of the pianist above his father’s head.
“ Is it that, Ronald? Speak out, my boy. We’ll see, we’ll look
round--I’ll manage somehow.”
“No, no,” the young man interrupted, abruptly raising his hand as though
to silence his father.
Mr. Grew recovered his cheerfulness. “Well, what’s the matter than, if
she’s willing?”
Ronald shifted his position again, and finally rose from his seat.
“Father--I--there’s something I’ve got to tell you. I can’t take your
money.”
Mr. Grew sat speechless a moment, staring blankly at his son; then he
emitted a puzzled laugh. “My money? What are you talking about? What’s
this about my money? Why, it ain’t mine, Ronny; it’s all yours--every
cent of it!” he cried.
The young man met his tender look with a gaze of tragic rejection.
“No, no, it’s not mine--not even in the sense you mean. Not in any
sense. Can’t you understand my feeling so?”
“Feeling so? I don’t know how you’re feeling. I don’t know what you’re
talking about. Are you too proud to touch any money you haven’t earned?
Is that what you’re trying to tell me?”
“No. It’s not that. You must know--”
Mr. Grew flushed to the rim of his bristling whiskers. “Know? Know
what? Can’t you speak?”
Ronald hesitated, and the two men faced each other for a long strained
moment, during which Mr. Grew’s congested countenance grew gradually
pale again.
“What’s the meaning of this? Is it because you’ve done something ...
something you’re ashamed of ... ashamed to tell me?” he suddenly
gasped out; and walking around the table he laid his hand on his son’s
shoulder. “There’s nothing you can’t tell me, my boy.”
“It’s not that. Why do you make it so hard for me?” Ronald broke out
with passion. “You must have known this was sure to happen sooner or
later.”
“Happen? What was sure to hap--?” Mr. Grew’s question wavered on his lip
and passed into a tremulous laugh. “Is it something I’ve done that you
don’t approve of? Is it--is it the Buckle you’re ashamed of, Ronald
Grew?”
Ronald laughed too, impatiently. “The Buckle? No, I’m not ashamed of
the Buckle; not any more than you are,” he returned with a sudden
bright flush. “But I’m ashamed of all I owe to it--all I owe to
you--when--when--” He broke off and took a few distracted steps across
the room. “You might make this easier for me,” he protested, turning
back to his father.
“Make what easier? I know less and less what you’re driving at,” Mr.
Grew groaned.
Ronald’s walk had once more brought him beneath the photograph on the
wall. He lifted his head for a moment and looked at it; then he looked
again at Mr. Grew.
“Do you suppose I haven’t always known?”
“Known--?”
“Even before you gave me those letters--after my mother’s death--even
before that, I suspected. I don’t know how it began ... perhaps from
little things you let drop ... you and she ... and resemblances that I
couldn’t help seeing ... in myself ... How on earth could you suppose
I shouldn’t guess? I always thought you gave me the letters as a way of
telling me--”
Mr. Grew rose slowly from his chair. “The letters? Dolbrowski’s
letters?”
Ronald nodded with white lips. “You must remember giving them to me the
day after the funeral.”
Mr. Grew nodded back. “Of course. I wanted you to have everything your
mother valued.”
“Well--how could I help knowing after that?”
“Knowing what?” Mr. Grew stood staring helplessly at his son. Suddenly
his look caught at a clue that seemed to confront it with a deeper
bewilderment. “You thought--you thought those letters ... Dolbrowski’s
letters ... you thought they meant ...”
“Oh, it wasn’t only the letters. There were so many other signs. My love
of music--my--all my feelings about life ... and art... And when you
gave me the letters I thought you must mean me to know.”
Mr. Grew had grown quiet. His lips were firm, and his small eyes looked
out steadily from their creased lids.
“To know that you were Fortune Dolbrowski’s son?”
Ronald made a mute sign of assent.
“I see. And what did you mean to do?”
“I meant to wait till I could earn my living, and then repay you ...
as far as I can ever repay you... But now that there’s a chance of
my marrying ... and your generosity overwhelms me ... I’m obliged to
speak.”
“I see,” said Mr. Grew again. He let himself down into his chair,
looking steadily and not unkindly at the young man. “Sit down, Ronald.
Let’s talk.”
Ronald made a protesting movement. “Is anything to be gained by it?
You can’t change me--change what I feel. The reading of those letters
transformed my whole life--I was a boy till then: they made a man of me.
From that moment I understood myself.” He paused, and then looked up at
Mr. Grew’s face. “Don’t imagine I don’t appreciate your kindness--your
extraordinary generosity. But I can’t go through life in disguise. And I
want you to know that I have not won Daisy under false pretences--”
Mr. Grew started up with the first expletive Ronald had ever heard on
his lips.
“You damned young fool, you, you haven’t told her--?”
Ronald raised his head quickly. “Oh, you don’t know her, sir! She thinks
no worse of me for knowing my secret. She is above and beyond all
such conventional prejudices. She’s proud of my parentage--” he
straightened his slim young shoulders--“as I’m proud of it ... yes, sir,
proud of it...”
Mr. Grew sank back into his seat with a dry laugh. “Well, you ought to
be. You come of good stock. And you’re father’s son, every inch of you!”
 He laughed again, as though the humor of the situation grew on him with
its closer contemplation.
“Yes, I’ve always felt that,” Ronald murmured, flushing.
“Your father’s son, and no mistake.” Mr. Grew leaned forward. “You’re
the son of as big a fool as yourself. And here he sits, Ronald Grew.”
The young man’s flush deepened to crimson; but Mr. Grew checked his
reply with a decisive gesture. “Here he sits, with all your young
nonsense still alive in him. Don’t you see the likeness? If you don’t,
I’ll tell you the story of those letters.”
Ronald stared. “What do you mean? Don’t they tell their own story?”
“I supposed they did when I gave them to you; but you’ve given it a
twist that needs straightening out.” Mr. Grew squared his elbows on the
table, and looked at the young man across the gift-books and the dyed
pampas grass. “I wrote all the letters that Dolbrowski answered.”
Ronald gave back his look in frowning perplexity. “You wrote them? I
don’t understand. His letters are all addressed to my mother.”
“Yes. And he thought he was corresponding with her.”
“But my mother--what did she think?”
Mr. Grew hesitated, puckering his thick lids. “Well, I guess she kinder
thought it was a joke. Your mother didn’t think about things much.”
Ronald continued to bend a puzzled frown on the question. “I don’t
understand,” he reiterated.
Mr. Grew cleared his throat with a nervous laugh. “Well, I don’t know
as you ever will--quite. But this is the way it came about. I had a
toughish time of it when I was young. Oh, I don’t mean so much the fight
I had to put up to make my way--there was always plenty of fight in
me. But inside of myself it was kinder lonesome. And the outside didn’t
attract callers.” He laughed again, with an apologetic gesture toward
his broad blinking face. “When I went round with the other young fellows
I was always the forlorn hope--the one that had to eat the drumsticks
and dance with the left-overs. As sure as there was a blighter at a
picnic I had to swing her, and feed her, and drive her home. And all the
time I was mad after all the things you’ve got--poetry and music and all
the joy-forever business. So there were the pair of us--my face and my
imagination--chained together, and fighting, and hating each other like
poison.
“Then your mother came along and took pity on me. It sets up a gawky
fellow to find a girl who ain’t ashamed to be seen walking with him
Sundays. And I was grateful to your mother, and we got along first-rate.
Only I couldn’t say things to her--and she couldn’t answer. Well--one
day, a few months after we were married, Dolbrowski came to New York,
and the whole place went wild about him. I’d never heard any good music,
but I’d always had an inkling of what it must be like, though I couldn’t
tell you to this day how I knew. Well, your mother read about him in the
papers too, and she thought it’d be the swagger thing to go to New York
and hear him play--so we went... I’ll never forget that evening. Your
mother wasn’t easily stirred up--she never seemed to need to let off
steam. But that night she seemed to understand the way I felt. And when
we got back to the hotel she said suddenly: ‘I’d like to tell him how I
feel. I’d like to sit right down and write to him.’
“‘Would you?’ I said. ‘So would I.’
“There was paper and pens there before us, and I pulled a sheet toward
me, and began to write. ‘Is this what you’d like to say to him?’ I
asked her when the letter was done. And she got pink and said: ‘I don’t
understand it, but it’s lovely.’ And she copied it out and signed her
name to it, and sent it.”
Mr. Grew paused, and Ronald sat silent, with lowered eyes.
“That’s how it began; and that’s where I thought it would end. But it
didn’t, because Dolbrowski answered. His first letter was dated January
10, 1872. I guess you’ll find I’m correct. Well, I went back to hear him
again, and I wrote him after the performance, and he answered again. And
after that we kept it up for six months. Your mother always copied the
letters and signed them. She seemed to think it was a kinder joke, and
she was proud of his answering my letters. But she never went back to
New York to hear him, though I saved up enough to give her the treat
again. She was too lazy, and she let me go without her. I heard him
three times in New York; and in the spring he came to Wingfield and
played once at the Academy. Your mother was sick and couldn’t go; so I
went alone. After the performance I meant to get one of the directors to
take me in to see him; but when the time came, I just went back home
and wrote to him instead. And the month after, before he went back to
Europe, he sent your mother a last little note, and that picture hanging
up there...”
Mr. Grew paused again, and both men lifted their eyes to the photograph.
“Is that all?” Ronald slowly asked.
“That’s all--every bit of it,” said Mr. Grew.
“And my mother--my mother never even spoke to Dolbrowski?”
“Never. She never even saw him but that once in New York at his
concert.”
The blood crept again to Ronald’s face. “Are you sure of that, sir?” he
asked in a trembling voice.
“Sure as I am that I’m sitting here. Why, she was too lazy to look at
his letters after the first novelty wore off. She copied the answers
just to humor me--but she always said she couldn’t understand what we
wrote.”
“But how could you go on with such a correspondence? It’s incredible!”
Mr. Grew looked at his son thoughtfully. “I suppose it is, to you.
You’ve only had to put out your hand and get the things I was starving
for--music, and good talk, and ideas. Those letters gave me all that.
You’ve read them, and you know that Dolbrowski was not only a great
musician but a great man. There was nothing beautiful he didn’t see,
nothing fine he didn’t feel. For six months I breathed his air, and I’ve
lived on it ever since. Do you begin to understand a little now?”
“Yes--a little. But why write in my mother’s name? Why make it a
sentimental correspondence?”
Mr. Grew reddened to his bald temples. “Why, I tell you it began that
way, as a kinder joke. And when I saw that the first letter pleased and
interested him, I was afraid to tell him--I couldn’t tell him. Do you
suppose he’d gone on writing if he’d ever seen me, Ronny?”
Ronald suddenly looked at him with new eyes. “But he must have thought
your letters very beautiful--to go on as he did,” he broke out.
“Well--I did my best,” said Mr. Grew modestly.
Ronald pursued his idea. “Where are all your letters, I wonder?
Weren’t they returned to you at his death?”
Mr. Grew laughed. “Lord, no. I guess he had trunks and trunks full of
better ones. I guess Queens and Empresses wrote to him.”
“I should have liked to see your letters,” the young man insisted.
“Well, they weren’t bad,” said Mr. Grew drily. “But I’ll tell you one
thing, Ronny,” he added suddenly. Ronald raised his head with a quick
glance, and Mr. Grew continued: “I’ll tell you where the best of those
letters is--it’s in you. If it hadn’t been for that one look at life I
couldn’t have made you what you are. Oh, I know you’ve done a good deal
of your own making--but I’ve been there behind you all the time. And
you’ll never know the work I’ve spared you and the time I’ve saved you.
Fortune Dolbrowski helped me do that. I never saw things in little again
after I’d looked at ‘em with him. And I tried to give you the big view
from the stars... So that’s what became of my letters.”
Mr. Grew paused, and for a long time Ronald sat motionless, his elbows
on the table, his face dropped on his hands.
Suddenly Mr. Grew’s touch fell on his shoulder.
“Look at here, Ronald Grew--do you want me to tell you how you’re
feeling at this minute? Just a mite let down, after all, at the idea
that you ain’t the romantic figure you’d got to think yourself... Well,
that’s natural enough, too; but I’ll tell you what it proves. It proves
you’re my son right enough, if any more proof was needed. For it’s just
the kind of fool nonsense I used to feel at your age--and if there’s
anybody here to laugh at it’s myself, and not you. And you can laugh at
me just as much as you like...”
THE DAUNT DIANA
I
“WHAT’S become of the Daunt Diana? You mean to say you never heard the
sequel?”
Ringham Finney threw himself back into his chair with the smile of the
collector who has a good thing to show. He knew he had a good listener,
at any rate. I don’t think much of Ringham’s snuff-boxes, but his
anecdotes are usually worth while. He’s a psychologist astray among
bibelots, and the best bits he brings back from his raids on
Christie’s and the Hotel Drouot are the fragments of human nature he
picks up on those historic battle-fields. If his flair in enamel had
been half as good we should have heard of the Finney collection by this
time.
He really has--queer fatuous investigator!--an unusually sensitive touch
for the human texture, and the specimens he gathers into his museum
of heterogeneous memories have almost always some mark of the rare and
chosen. I felt, therefore, that I was really to be congratulated on
the fact that I didn’t know what had become of the Daunt Diana, and on
having before me a long evening in which to learn. I had just led
my friend back, after an excellent dinner at Foyot’s, to the shabby
pleasant sitting-room of my rive-gauche hotel; and I knew that, once
I had settled him in a good arm-chair, and put a box of cigars at his
elbow, I could trust him not to budge till I had the story.
II
YOU remember old Neave, of course? Little Humphrey Neave, I mean. We
used to see him pottering about Rome years ago. He lived in two tiny
rooms over a wine shop, on polenta and lentils, and prowled among the
refuse of the Ripetta whenever he had a few soldi to spend. But you’ve
been out of the collector’s world for so long that you may not know what
happened to him afterward...
He was always a queer chap, Neave; years older than you and me, of
course--and even when I first knew him, in my raw Roman days, he gave
me an extraordinary sense of age and experience. I don’t think I’ve ever
known any one who was at once so intelligent and so simple. It’s the
precise combination that results in romance; and poor little Neave was
romantic.
He told me once how he’d come to Rome. He was originaire of Mystic,
Connecticut--and he wanted to get as far away from it as possible. Rome
seemed as far as anything on the same planet could be; and after he’d
worried his way through Harvard--with shifts and shavings that you and
I can’t imagine--he contrived to get sent to Switzerland as tutor to a
chap who’d failed in his examinations. With only the Alps between, he
wasn’t likely to turn back; and he got another fellow to take his pupil
home, and struck out on foot for the seven hills.
I’m telling you these early details merely to give you a notion of the
man’s idealism. There was a cool persistency and a headlong courage in
his dash for Rome that one wouldn’t have guessed in the little pottering
chap we used to know. Once on the spot, he got more tutoring, managed to
make himself a name for coaxing balky youths to take their fences, and
was finally able to take up the more congenial task of expounding “the
antiquities” to cultured travellers. I call it more congenial--but how
it must have seared his soul! Fancy unveiling the sacred scars of Time
to ladies who murmur: “Was this actually the spot--?” while they
absently feel for their hatpins! He used to say that nothing kept him
at it but the exquisite thought of accumulating the lire for his
collection. For the Neave collection, my dear fellow, began early, began
almost with his Roman life, began in a series of little nameless odds
and ends, broken trinkets, torn embroideries, the amputated extremities
of maimed marbles: things that even the rag-picker had pitched away when
he sifted his haul. But they weren’t nameless or meaningless to Neave;
his strength lay in his instinct for identifying, putting together,
seeing significant relations. He was a regular Cuvier of bric-a-brac.
And during those early years, when he had time to brood over trifles and
note imperceptible differences, he gradually sharpened his instinct, and
made it into the delicate and redoubtable instrument it is. Before he
had a thousand francs’ worth of anticaglie to his name he began to be
known as an expert, and the big dealers were glad to consult him. But
we’re getting no nearer the Daunt Diana...
Well, some fifteen years ago, in London, I ran across Neave at
Christie’s. He was the same little man we’d known, effaced, bleached,
indistinct, like a poor “impression”--as unnoticeable as one of his own
early finds, yet, like them, with a quality, if one had an eye for
it. He told me he still lived in Rome, and had contrived, by fierce
self-denial, to get a few decent bits together--“piecemeal, little by
little, with fasting and prayer; and I mean the fasting literally!” he
said.
He had run over to London for his annual “look-round”--I fancy one or
another of the big collectors usually paid his journey--and when we met
he was on his way to see the Daunt collection. You know old Daunt was a
surly brute, and the things weren’t easily seen; but he had heard Neave
was in London, and had sent--yes, actually sent!--for him to come and
give his opinion on a few bits, including the Diana. The little man bore
himself discreetly, but you can imagine his pride. In his exultation he
asked me to come with him--“Oh, I’ve the grandes et petites entrees,
my dear fellow: I’ve made my conditions--” and so it happened that I saw
the first meeting between Humphrey Neave and his fate.
For that collection was his fate: or, one may say, it was embodied in
the Diana who was queen and goddess of the realm. Yes--I shall always be
glad I was with Neave when he had his first look at the Diana. I see him
now, blinking at her through his white lashes, and stroking his seedy
wisp of a moustache to hide a twitch of the muscles. It was all very
quiet, but it was the coup de foudre. I could see that by the way
his hands trembled when he turned away and began to examine the other
things. You remember Neave’s hands--thin, sallow, dry, with long
inquisitive fingers thrown out like antennae? Whatever they hold--bronze
or lace, hard enamel or brittle glass--they have an air of conforming
themselves to the texture of the thing, and sucking out of it, by every
finger-tip, the mysterious essence it has secreted. Well, that day,
as he moved about among Daunt’s treasures, the Diana followed him
everywhere. He didn’t look back at her--he gave himself to the business
he was there for--but whatever he touched, he felt her. And on the
threshold he turned and gave her his first free look--the kind of look
that says: “You’re mine.”
It amused me at the time--the idea of little Neave making eyes at any of
Daunt’s belongings. He might as well have coquetted with the Kohinoor.
And the same idea seemed to strike him; for as we turned away from the
big house in Belgravia he glanced up at it and said, with a bitterness
I’d never heard in him: “Good Lord! To think of that lumpy fool having
those things to handle! Did you notice his stupid stumps of fingers? I
suppose he blunted them gouging nuggets out of the gold fields. And in
exchange for the nuggets he gets all that in a year--only has to hold
out his callous palm to have that great ripe sphere of beauty drop into
it! That’s my idea of heaven--to have a great collection drop into
one’s hand, as success, or love, or any of the big shining things,
drop suddenly on some men. And I’ve had to worry along for nearly fifty
years, saving and paring, and haggling and intriguing, to get here a
bit and there a bit--and not one perfection in the lot! It’s enough to
poison a man’s life.”
The outbreak was so unlike Neave that I remember every word of it:
remember, too, saying in answer: “But, look here, Neave, you wouldn’t
take Daunt’s hands for yours, I imagine?”
He stared a moment and smiled. “Have all that, and grope my way through
it like a blind cave fish? What a question! But the sense that it’s
always the blind fish that live in that kind of aquarium is what makes
anarchists, sir!” He looked back from the corner of the square, where we
had paused while he delivered himself of this remarkable metaphor. “God,
I’d like to throw a bomb at that place, and be in at the looting!”
And with that, on the way home, he unpacked his grievance--pulled the
bandage off the wound, and showed me the ugly mark it had made on his
little white soul.
It wasn’t the struggling, stinting, self-denying that galled him--it was
the inadequacy of the result. It was, in short, the old tragedy of the
discrepancy between a man’s wants and his power to gratify them. Neave’s
taste was too exquisite for his means--was like some strange, delicate,
capricious animal, that he cherished and pampered and couldn’t satisfy.
“Don’t you know those little glittering lizards that die if they’re not
fed on some wonderful tropical fly? Well, my taste’s like that, with
one important difference--if it doesn’t get its fly, it simply turns and
feeds on me. Oh, it doesn’t die, my taste--worse luck! It gets larger
and stronger and more fastidious, and takes a bigger bite of me--that’s
all.”
That was all. Year by year, day by day, he had made himself into this
delicate register of perceptions and sensations--as far above the
ordinary human faculty of appreciation as some scientific registering
instrument is beyond the rough human senses--only to find that the
beauty which alone could satisfy him was unattainable--that he was never
to know the last deep identification which only possession can give. He
had trained himself in short, to feel, in the rare great thing--such
an utterance of beauty as the Daunt Diana, say--a hundred elements of
perfection, a hundred reasons why, imperceptible, inexplicable even,
to the average “artistic” sense; he had reached this point by a long
