would be able to do with all the money. He 
might help the poor at last. He and Miss Gladys 
would devote their lives to this. Perhaps some 
day he might even own the mill where the chil- 
dren worked, and he would be able to send them 
all to school! And he would be a member of the 
Lockman family, in a way — he might even have 
some influence over Master Albert! And Ethel 
and Dr. Vince — how happy they would be when 
they heard of his good fortune ! 
In the end his thoughts left all these things, 
and came back to Miss Gladys. After all, what 
counted but that? She loved him! She was his! 
And like a swiftly spreading fire there came over 
him the memory of what he had done to her; he 
walked on, trembling with wonder and fear. It 
was a kind of madness in his blood. It had taken 
possession of his whole being — he would never 
again be the same! He stretched out his arms 
as he walked down the street, because his emo- 
tions were greater than he could bear. 
Then suddenly, in the midst of the turmoil, a 
sight met his eyes which brought bun back to the 
world. Approaching him, about to pass him, was 
an old man with a gray beard, stooping as he 
walked and carrying a peddler's basket. The 
disguise was excellent, but it did not deceive Sam- 
uel for an instant. He stood stock-still and cried 
in amazement: " Charlie Swift! " 
The peddler shot a quick glance at him. " Shut 
up!" he muttered; and then he passed on, and 
left Samuel staring. 
So with a sudden rush, a new set of emotions 
overwhelmed the boy. He was only a week away 
from the burglary; and yet it was an age. And 
how terrible it seemed — how almost incredible! 
And here was he, about to marry the daughter 
of a millionaire — while his friend and confeder- 
ate was still skulking in the shadows, hiding from 
the police. 
Of all the distressed people whom Samuel had 
met in the course of his adventures, Charlie Swift 
was the only one whom he had not benefited. 
And simply to set eyes upon him was to hear in 
his soul a new call. How could he pursue his 
own gratifications while Charlie was left a prey 
to wickedness? 
The figure almost passed from sight while 
Samuel stood wrestling with the problem. He 
shrunk from the task before him; he was afraid 
of Charlie Swift, afraid of his cynical smile, and 
of his merciless sneering. But his duty was clear 
before him — as clear as that of any soldier, who 
in the midst of love and pleasure hears the bugle 
call. He might not be able to do anything for 
Charhe. But he must try I 
And so he turned and followed the old ped- 
dler to his home. 
CHAPTER XX 
" CJO you've let them turn you into a mission 
kJ stiff!" said Charlie Swift, when the two 
were seated in his room. 
" A what? " exclaimed Samuel perplexed. 
" A mission stiff," repeated the other. " One 
of the guys that gets repentance I " 
Samuel experienced a sudden chilling of the 
ardor with which he had come into the room. The 
old grin was upon the other's face; and the hoy 
realized with a sudden sinking of the heart how 
hard and savage he was. Finnegan was a babe 
in arms compared with Charlie Swift. 
To convert him would be a real task, a test of 
one's fervor and vision. Samuel resolved sud- 
denly upon diplomacy. 
" They've been very good to me," he said. 
" I dare say," responded the other indiffer- 
ently. 
" And Dr. Vince is really a very good man," 
he went on. 
" Humph! " commented the burglar; and then 
he added quickly, " You haven't been telling him 
anything about me? " 
" Oh, no! " exclaimed the boy. 
"Not a word?" 
" Have you forgotten that I promised you? " 
" That's all right," said Charhe, " only I just 
wanted to warn you. You can tie up with the 
church guys if you feel like it — only don't men- 
tion your lost brothers down in the pit. Just you 
remember that I got some of the doctor's silver." 
The boy gave a start. " Oh I " he exclaimed. 
" Didn't you know that? " laughed the other. 
" No, I didn't know it." 
" What did you suppose I was doing all that 
time while you were watching? " 
Samuel said nothing for a minute. " Why did 
you pick out Dr. Vince? " he asked suddenly. 
" Him? Why not? I knew his house." 
" But a clergyman! Does it seem quite fair? " 
" Oh, that's all right," laughed the other. 
" He's got a-plenty. It don't have to come out 
of his salary, you know." 
" Why not? " 
" Because, he's got a rich wife. You didn't 
suppose he lived in that palace of a house on his 
own salary, did you? " 
" I hadn't thought anything about it." 
" Well, he's all right — he married one of the 
richest girls in town. And she'll keep his nest 
feathered." 
There was a pause. " Don't you think that 
Dr. Vince is a good man? " asked Samuel. 
" I don't know," said the other. " I've got no 
quarrel with him. But I don't like his trade." 
" Doesn't he do a great deal of good to 
people? " 
" Maybe," said the other, shrugging his shoul- 
ders. 
" To poor people? " persisted Samuel. 
" I dare say," admitted Charlie. " But you'll 
notice it takes all the sand out of them — makes 
them into beggars. And I ain't that sort." 
" Why do you think he tries to help them? " 
" Well, he gets paid for it, don't he? " 
" But the other people in the church — the ones 
who pay the money. Why do you think they 
do it? " 
The burglar thought for a moment. " I reckon 
they do it to make themselves feel good," he 
said. 
" To make themselves feel good," repeated the 
other perplexed. 
"Sure!" said the man. "You take one of 
those rich women — she's got a lot of money that 
she never earned, and she spends all her life 
amusing herself and ordering servants about. 
And all the time she knows that most of the peo- 
ple — the people that do the work — are suffering 
and dying. And she don't want to let that make 
her feel bad, so she hires some fellow hke your 
friend, the doctor, to preach to 'em — and maybe 
give 'em a turkey at Christmas. And that takes 
the trouble oflF her mind. Don't you see? " 
" Yes," said the other weakly. " I see." 
" Or else," added Charlie, " take some of those 
smooth grafters they've got up there — the men, 
I mean. They spend six days in the week cutting 
other people's throats, and robbing the public. 
Don't you think it's handy for them to know they 
can come on Sunday and drop a five-dollar-bill 
in the plate, and square the whole account? " 
Samuel sought for a reply to these cruel taunts. 
" I don't think you put it quite fairly," he pro- 
tested. 
" Why not? " demanded the other. 
" In the first place, men like that wouldn't go 
to church " 
Charlie stared at him. "What!" he ex- 
claimed. 
" No," said the boy. 
"Why not?" 
" Well, why should they care to go? And they 
wouldn't be welcome " 
Charlie burst into laughter. " You poor kid! " 
he exclaimed. " What have you been doing up 
there at St. Matthew's, anyhow? " 
" I'm the sexton's assistant," said Samuel 
gravely. 
" Yes," said the other. " Evidently a sexton's 
assistant doesn't see much of the congregation." 
I wish you'd explain," remarked the boy 
after a pause. 
" I hardly know where to begin," replied the 
other. " They've such a choice collection of 
crooks up there. Did you ever notice a little pot- 
belhed fellow with mutton-chop whiskers — looks 
as if he was eating persimmons all the time? " 
" You mean Mr. Hickman? " 
" Yes, that's the chap. He's one of the pillars 
of the church, isn't he? " 
" I suppose so," said Samuel. " He's one of 
the vestrymen." 
" And did you ever hear of Henry Hickman 
before? " 
" I know he's a famous lawyer; and I was told 
that he managed the Lockman estate." 
" Yes," said Charlie, " and I suppose you don't 
know what that means! " 
" No," admitted Samuel, " I don't." 
" It means," went on the other, " that he was 
old Lockman's right-hand man, and had his 
finger in every dirty job that the old fellow ever 
did for thirty years. And it means that he runs 
the business now, and does all the crooked work 
that has to be done for it." 
There was a pause. " For instance, what? " 
asked Samuel in a low voice. 
" For instance, politics," said the other. 
" Steering the grafters oflP the Lockman preserve. 
Getting the right men named by the machine, 
and putting up the dough to elect them. Last 
year the Democrats got in, in spite of all he 
could do; and he had to buy the city council 
outright." 
" WbatI " gasped the boy in horror. 
" Siu-e thing," laughed Charlie — " there was 
an independent water company trying to break 
in, and the Democrats were pledged to them. 
They say it cost Hickman forty-five thousand 
dollars." 
" But do you know that? " cried the other. 
" Know it, Sammy? Why everybody in town 
knows it. It was a rotten steal, on the face of it." 
Samuel was staring at him. " I can't believe 
it! " he exclaimed. 
" Nonsense! " laughed the other. " Ask round 
a bit I " And then he added quickly, " Why, see 
here — didn't you tell me you knew Billy Finne- 
gan — the barkeeper? " 
" Yes, I know him." 
" Well, then, you can go right to headquarters 
and find out. His boss, John Callahan, was one 
of the supervisors — he got the dough. Go and 
ask Finnegan." 
" But will he tell? " exclaimed Samuel. 
" I guess he'll tell," said Charlie, " if you go 
at him right. It's no great secret — the whole 
town's been laughing about it." 
Samuel was almost too shocked for words. 
" Do you suppose Dr. Vince knows it? " he cried. 
" He don't know much if he doesn't," was the 
other's reply. 
"A member of his church!" gasped the boy. 
"Oh, pshaw!" laughed the other. "You're 
too green, Sammy! What's the church got to do 
with business? Why, look — there's old Wygant 
— another of the vestrymen! " 
" Miss Gladys' father, you mean? " 
" Yes ; old Lockman's brother-in-law. He's the 
other trustee of the estate. And do you suppose 
there's any rascality he doesn't know about? " 
" But he's a reformer! " cried the boy wildly. 
" Siu-e ! " laughed Charlie. " He made a speech 
at the college commencement about representa- 
tive government; I suppose you read it in the 
Express. But all the same, when the Democrats 
got in, his nibs came round and made his terms 
with Slattery, the new boss; and they get along 
so well it'll be his money that will put them in 
again next year." 
" But tiohy? " cried Samuel dazed. 
" For one thing," said Charlie, " because he's 
got to have his man in the State legislature, to 
beat the child-labor bill." 
"The child-labor bill!" 
" Surely. You knew he was fighting it, didn't 
you? They wanted to prevent children imder 
fourteen from working in the cotton mills. Wy- 
gant sent Jack Pemberton up to the Capital for 
nothing at all but to beat that law." 
Samuel sat with his hands clenched tightly. 
Before him there had come the vision of httle So- 
phie Stedman with her wan and haggard face I 
" But why does he want the children in his mill? " 
he cried. 
" Why? " echoed Charhe. " Good God! Be- 
cause he can pay them less and work them harder. 
Did you suppose he wanted them there for their 
health? " 
There was a long pause. The boy was wrest- 
ling with the most terrible specter that had yet 
laid hold upon him. " I don't believe he knows 
it! " he whispered half to himself. " I don't be- 
lieve it!" 
" Who? " asked the other. 
" Dr. Vince! " said the boy. And he rose sud- 
denly to his feet. " I will go and see him about 
it," he said. 
" Go and see him! " echoed Charlie. 
"Yes. He will tell me!" 
Charhe was gazing at him with a broad grin. 
" I dare you! " he cried. 
" I am going," said the boy simply; and the 
burglar slapped his thigh in delight. 
" Go on! " he chuckled. " Sock it to him, Sam- 
my! And come back and tell me about it! " 
CHAPTER XXI 
" T~' -"-  * lunch," said the maid who 
JL-/ answered the bell. 
" Please tell him I must see him at once," said 
Samuel. " It's something very important." 
He went in and sat down in the library, and 
the doctor came, looking anxious. " What is it 
now? " he asked. 
And Samuel turned to him aJFace of anguish. 
" Doctor," he said, " I've just had a terrible ex- 
perience." 
" What is it, Samuel? " 
" I hardly know how to tell you," said the boy. 
" I know a man — a very wicked man ; and I went 
to him to try to convert him, and to bring him 
into the church. And he laughed at me, and at 
the church, too. He said there are wicked men 
in it — in St. Matthew's, Dr. Vince! He told me 
who they are, and what they are doing! And, 
doctor — I can't believe that you know about it 
— that you would let such things o on! " 
The other was staring at him in alarm. " My 
dear boy," he said, " there are many wicked men 
in the world, and I cannot know everything." 
" Ah, but this is terrible, doctor ! You will have 
to find out about it — you cannot let such men stay 
in the church." 
The other rose and closed the door of his study. 
Then he drew his chair close to Samuel. " Now," 
he said, " what is it? " 
" It's Mr. Wygant," said Samuel. 
" Mr, Wygant ! " cried the other in dismay. 
" Yes, Dr. Vince." 
" What has he done? " 
" Did you know that it was he who beat the 
child-labor bill — that he named the State senator 
on purpose to do it? " 
The doctor was staring at him. " The child- 
labor bill!" he gasped. "Is that what you 
mean? " 
" Yes, Dr. Vince," said Samuel. " Surely you 
didn't know that!" 
" Why, I know that Mr. Wygant is very much 
opposed to the bill. He has opposed it openly. 
He has a perfect right to do that, hasn't he? " 
" But to name the State senator to beat it, doc- 
tor!" 
" Well, my boy, Mr. Wygant is very much 
interested xa. politics; and, of course, he would 
use his influence. Why not? " 
"But, Dr. Vince — it was a wicked thing! 
Think of Sophie!" 
" But, my boy — haven't we found Sophie a 
place in Mr. Wygant's own home? " 
"Yes, doctor! But there are all the others! 
Think of the suffering and misery in that dread- 
ful mill! And Mr. Wygant pays such low wages. 
And he is such a rich man — he might help the 
children if he would." 
" Really, Samuel — " began the doctor. 
But the boy, seeing the frown of displeasure 
on his face, rushed on swiftly. " That's only the 
beginning! Listen to me! There's Mr. Hick- 
man ! " 
"Mr. Hickman!" 
" Mr. Henry Hickman, the lawyer. He has 
done even worse things " 
And suddenly the clergyman clenched his 
hands. " Really, Samuel! " he cried. " This is 
too much! You are exceeding all patience! " 
" Doctor! " exclaimed the boy in anguish. 
" It seems to me," the doctor continued, " that 
you owe it to me to consider more carefully. You 
have been treated very kindly here — you have 
been favored in more ways than one." 
" But what has that to do with it? " cried the 
other wildly. 
"It is necessary that you should remember 
your place. It is certainly not becoming for you, 
a mere boy, and filling a subordinate position, to 
come to me with gossip concerning the vestry of 
my church." 
"A subordinate position!" echoed Samuel 
dazed. *' But what has my position to do witH 
it? " 
" It has a great deal to do with it, Samuel." 
The boy was staring at him. " You don't un- 
derstand mel " he cried. " I am not doing this 
for myself I I am not setting myself up I I am 
thinking of the saving of the church ! " 
" What do you mean — saving the chtu-ch? " 
" Why, doctor — just seel I went to reform a 
man; and he sneered at me. He would not have 
anything to do with the church, because such 
wicked men as Mr. Hickman were in it. He said 
it was their money that saved them from exposiu:e 
— he said " 
"What has Mr. Hickman done?" demanded 
the other quickly. 
" He bribed the city council, sir I He bribed 
it to beat the water bill." 
Dr. Vince got up from his chair and began to 
pace the floor nervously. "Tell me, doctor !" 
cried Samuel. " Please tell me ! Surely you 
didn't know that!" 
The other turned to him suddenly. " I don't 
think you quite realize the circumstances," said 
he. " You come to me with this tale about Mr.' 
Hickman. Do you know that he is my brother- 
in-law? " 
Samuel clutched the arms of his chair and stared 
aghast. " Yoiu" brother-in-law! " he gasped. 
" Yes," said the other. " He is my wife's only 
brother." 
Samuel was dumb with dismay. And the doc- 
tor continued to pace the floor. " You see," he 
saidj " the position you put me in." 
" Yes," said the boy. " I see. It's very ter- 
rible." But then he rushed on in dreadful 
anxiety: "But, doctor, you didn't know it. 
Oh, I'm sure — please tell me that you didn't 
know it!" 
"I didn't know it!" exclaimed the doctor. 
"And what is more, I don't know it now! I 
have heard these rumors, of course. Mr. Hick- 
man is a man of vast responsibilities, and he has 
many enemies. Am I to believe every tale that 
I hear about him? " 
" No," said Samuel, taken aback. " But this 
is something that everyone knows." 
" Everyone ! " cried the other. " Who is every- 
one? Who told it to you? " 
" I — I can't tell," stammered the boy, 
" How does he know it? " continued the doc- 
tor. " And what sort of a man is he? Is he a 
good man? " 
" No," admitted Samuel weakly. " I am afraid 
he is not." 
" Is he a man who loves and serves others? A 
man who never speaks falsehood — whom you 
would beheve in a matter that involved yom- dear- 
est friends? Would believe him if he told you 
that I was a briber and a scoundrel? " 
Samuel was obliged to admit that Charlie 
Swift was not a man like that. " Dr. Vince," he 
said quickly, " I admit that I am at fault. I 
have come to you too soon. I will find out about 
these things; and if they are true, I will prove 
them to you. If they are not, I will go away in 
shame, and never come to trouble you again as 
long as I live." 
Samuel said this very humbly; and yet there 
was a note of grim resolution in his voice — which 
the doctor did not fail to note. " But, Samuel ! " 
he protested. "Why — why should you meddle 
in these things? " 
"Meddle in them!" exclaimed the other. 
" Surely, if they are true, I have to. You don't 
mean that if they were proven, you would let 
such men remain in your church? " 
" I don't think," said the doctor gravely, " that 
I can say what I should do in case of anything 
so terrible." 
" No," was Samuel's reply, " you are right. 
,The first thing is to find out the truth." 
And so Samuel took his departure. 
He went straight to his friend Finnegan. 
" Hello ! " exclaimed Finnegan. Then, 
" What about that job of mine? " he asked with 
a broad grin. 
" Dr. Vince says he will look out for you," was 
the boy's reply. "But I'm not ready to talk 
about that yet. There's something else come up." 
He waited imtil his friend had attended to the 
wants of a customer, and until the customer had 
consumed a glass of beer and departed. Then 
he called the bartender into a corner. 
" Mr. Finnegan," he said, " I want to know 
something very important." 
" What is it? " asked the other. 
" Do you know Mr. Hickman — Henry Hick- 
man, the lawyer? " 
" He's not on my calling list," said Finnegan. 
" I know him by sight." 
" I've heard it said that he had something to 
do with beating a water bill in the city council. 
Did he? " 
" You bet your life he did ! " said the bartender 
with a grin. 
" Is it true that he bought up the council? " 
" You bet your life it's true! " 
" And is it true that Mr. Callahan got some of 
the money? " 
Finnegan glanced at the other suspiciously. 
" Say," he said, " what's all this about, anyhow? " 
" Listen," said Samuel gravely. " You know 
that Mr. Hickman is a member of my church. 
And he's Dr. Vince's brother-in-law, which makes 
it more complicated yet. Dr. Vince has heard 
these terrible stories, and you can see how awk- 
ward it is for him. He cannot let such evil-doers 
go unrebuked." 
"Geel" said the other. "What's he going 
to do? " 
" I don't know," said Samuel. " He hasn't 
told me that. First, you see, he has to be sure 
that the thing is true. And, of course, Mr. Hick- 
man wouldn't tell." 
" No," said Finnegan. " Hardly! " 
" And it isn't easy for the doctor to find out. 
lYou see — he's a clergyman, and he only meets 
good people. But I told him I would find out 
for him. 
" I see," said Finnegan. 
" What I want," said the boy, " is to be able 
to tell him that I heard it from the lips of one 
of the men who got the money. I won't have to 
say who it is — he'll take my word for that. Do 
you suppose Mr. Callahan would talk about it? " 
The bartender thought for a moment. " You 
wait here," he said. " The boss has only stepped 
round the corner; and perhaps I can get the doc- 
tor what he wants." 
So Samuel sat down and waited ; and in a few 
minutes John Callahan came in. He was a thick- 
set and red-faced Irishman, good-natured and 
pleasant looking — not at all like the desperado 
Samuel had imagined. 
" Say, John," said Finnegan. " This hoy here 
used to work for Bertie Lockman; and he's got 
a girl works for the Wygants." 
" So! " said Callahan. 
" And what do you think," went on the other. 
"He heard old Henry Hickman talking — he 
says you fellows held him up on that water bill." 
" Go on I " said Callahan. " Did he say that? " 
" He did," said Finnegan, without giving 
Samuel a chance to reply. 
" Well," said the other, " he's a damned liar, 
and he knows it. It was a dead straight proposi- 
tion, and wfe hadn't a thing to do with it. There 
was an independent water company that wanted 
a franchise — and it would have given the city 
its water for just half. Every time I pay my 
water bill I am sorry I didn't hold out. It would 
have been cheaper for me in the end." 
" He says it cost him sixty thousand," re- 
marked Finnegan. 
"Maybe," said the other. "You can't tell 
what the organization got. All I know is that 
ten of us fellows in the council got two thousand 
apiece out of it." 
There was a pause. Samuel was listening with 
his hands clenched tightly. 
" Did he pay it to you himself? " asked Finne- 
gan. 
" Who, Hickman? No, he paid it to Slattery, 
and Slattery came here from his office. Why, is 
he trying to crawl out of that part of it? " 
" No, not exactly. But he makes a great fuss 
about being held up." 
"Yes!" said Callahan. "I dare say! He's 
got his new franchise, and he and the Lockman 
estate are clearing about ten thousand a month 
out of it. And my two thousand was gone the 
week I got it — it had cost me twice that to get 
elected — and without counting the free drinks. 
It's a great graft, being a supervisor, ain't it? " 
" Why did you do it then? " asked Samuel in 
a faint voice. ' 
" I'll never do it again, yoimg fellow," said 
the saloon keeper. " I'm the Honorable John 
for the rest of my hfe, and I guess that'll do me. 
And the next time old Henry Hickman wants 
his dirty work done, he can hunt up somebody 
that needs the money more than me! " 
Then the Honorable John went on to discuss 
the politics of Lockmanville, and to lay bare the 
shameless and grotesque corruption in a town 
where business interests were fighting. The 
trouble was, apparently, that the people were be- 
ginning to rebel — they were tired of being robbed 
in so many different ways, and they went to the 
polls to find redress. And time and again, after 
they had elected new men to carry out their will, 
the great concerns had stepped in and bought out 
the law-makers. The last time it had been the 
unions that made the trouble; and three of the last 
supervisors had been labor leaders — " the worst 
skates of all," as Callahan phrased it. 
Samuel listened, while one by one the last of 
his illusions were torn to shreds. There had been 
a general scramble to get favors from the new 
government of the town; and the scramblers 
seemed to include every pious and respectable 
member of St. Matthew's whose name Samuel 
had ever heard. There was old Mr. Cxui;is, an- 
other of the vestrymen, who passed the plate 
every Sunday morning, and looked like a study 
of the Olympian Jove. He wanted to pile boxes 
on the sidewalks in front of his warehouse, and 
he had come to Slattery and paid him two hun- 
dred dollars. 
"And Mr. Wygant!" exclaimed Samuel, as 
a sudden thought came to him. " Is it true that 
he is back of the organization? " 
" Good God! " laughed Callahan. " Did you 
hear him say that? " 
" Some one else told me," was the reply. 
" Well," said the other, " the truth is that Wy- 
igant got cold feet before the election, and he came 
to Slattery and fixed it. I know that, for Slat- 
tery told me. We had him bluffed clean — I 
don't think we'd ever have got in at all if it hadn't 
been for his money." 
I seel " whispered the boy. 
" Oh, he's a smooth guy! " laughed the saloon 
keeper. " Look at that new franchise he got for 
his trolley road — ninety-nine years, and anything 
he wants in the meantime ! And then to hear him 
making reform speeches ! That's what makes me 
mad about them fellows up on the hill. They get 
a thousand dollars for every one we get ; but they 
are tip-top swells, and they wouldn't speak to one 
of us low grafters on the street. And they're 
eminent citizens and pillars of the church — 
wouldn't it make you sick? " 
" Yes," said Samuel in a low voice, " that's 
just what it does. It makes me sick! 
CHAPTER XXII 
SAMUEL now had his evidence; and he went 
straight back to Dr. Vince. " Doctor," he 
said, " I am able to tell you that I know. I have 
heard it from one of the men who got the money." 
" Who is he? " asked the doctor. 
" I could not tell you that," said the boy — '" it 
would not be fair. But you know that I am tell- 
ing the truth. And this man told me with his 
own lips that Mr. Hickman paid twenty thou- 
sand dollars to Slattery, the Democratic boss, to 
be paid to ten of the supervisors to vote against 
the other company's water bill." 
There was a long pause ; the doctor sat staring 
in front of him. " What do you want me to do ? " 
he asked faintly. 
" I don't know," said Samuel. " Is it for me 
to tell you what is right? " 
And again there was a pause. 
" My boy," said the doctor, " this is a terrible 
thing for me. Mr. Hickman is my wife's brother, 
and she loves him very dearly. And he is a very 
good friend of mine — I depend on him in all the 
business matters of the church. 
" Yes," said Samuel. " But he bribed the city 
council." 
" This thing would make a frightful scandal 
if it were known," the other went on. " Think 
what a terrible thing it would be for St. Mat- 
thew's!" 
" It is much worse as it is," said the boy. " For 
people hear the story, and they say that the 
church is sheltering evil doers." 
" Think what a burden you place upon mel '* 
cried the clergyman in distress. " A member of 
my own family I" 
" It is just as hard for me," said Samuel 
quickly. 
" In what way? " 
" On account of Mr. Wygant, sir." 
" What of that? " 
Samuel had meant to say — " He is to be my; 
father-in-law." But at the last moment some in- 
stinct told him that it might be best to let Miss 
Gladys make that announcement at her own time. 
So instead he said, " I am thinking of Sophie." 
" It is not quite the same," said the doctor; 
and then he repeated his question, " What do 
you want me to do? " 
" Truly, I don't know! " protested the boy. " I 
am groping about to find what is right." 
" But you must have some idea in coming to 
me ! " exclaimed the other anxiously. " Do you 
Mant me to expose my brothier-in-law and drive 
him from the church?" 
" I suppose," said Samuel gravely, " that he 
W;ould be sent to prison. But I certainly don't 
think that he should be driven from the church 
— at least not unless he is unrepentant. First of 
lall we should labor with him, I thiak." 
" And threaten him with exposure? " 
"I'll tell you, doctor," said the boy quickly. 
"I've been thinking about this very hard; and 
I don't think it would do much good to expose 
and punish any one. That only leads to bitter- 
ness and hatred — and we oughtn't to hate any 
person, you know." 
" Ah! " said the doctor with relief. 
" The point is, the wicked thing that's been 
done. It's this robbing of the people that must 
be stopped! And it's the things that have been 
stolen! — Let me give you an example. To-day 
I met the man who came here with me to rob your 
house; and I learned for the first time that he 
had carried off some of your silver." 
" Yes," said the other. 
" And the man asked me to say nothing about 
what he had done, and I promised. I felt about 
him just as you do about your brother-in-law — 
I wouldn't denoimce him and put him in jail. 
[But I saw right away that I must do one 
thing — I must make him return the things 
he had stolen! That was right, was it not, 
doctor? " 
" Yes," said Dr. Yince promptly, " that was 
right." 
"Very well," said the boy; "and the same 
thing is true about Mr. Hickman. He has 
robbed the people. He has got a franchise that 
enables him and the Lockman estate to make 
about ten thousand dollars a month out of the 
pubhc. And they must give up that franchise! 
They must give up every dollar that they have 
made out of it! That is the whole story, as I see 
it — nothing else counts but that. You can make 
all the fuss you want about bribery and graft, 
but you haven't accomplished anything unless 
you get back the stolen money." 
There was a pause. " Don't you see what I 
mean, doctor? " asked Samuel. 
" Yes," was the reply, " I see." 
'"Well?"said Samuel. 
" It would be no use to try it," said the doctor, 
" They would never do it." 
" They wouldn't? " 
" No. Nothing in the world could make them 
do it." 
"Not even if we threatened to denounce 
them? " 
" No; not even then." 
** Not even if we put them in jail? " 
Dr. Vince made no reply. The other sat wait- 
ing. And then suddenly he said in a low voice, 
" Doctor, I mean to make them give it up. I see 
it quite clearly now — that is my duty. They 
must give it upl " 
Again there was silence. 
" Dr. Vince," cried the boy in a voice of pain, 
" you surely mean to help me! " 
And suddenly the doctor shut his lips together 
tightly. " No, Samuel," he said. " I do not! " 
The boy sat dumb. He felt a kind of f aintness 
come over him. " You will leave me all alone? " 
he said in a weak voice. 
The other made no reply. 
"Am I not right?" cried the boy wildly. 
" Have I not spoken the truth? " 
" I don't know," the doctor answered. " It is 
too hard a question for me to answer. I only 
know that I do not feel such things to be in my 
province; and I will not have anything to do with 
them." 
" But, doctor, you are the representative of the 
church ! " 
" Yes. And I must attend to the affairs of the 
church." 
" But is it no affair of the church that the peo- 
ple are being robbed? " 
There was no reply. 
"You give out charity!" protested Samuel. 
" You pretend to try to help the poor! And I 
bring you cases, and you confess that you can't 
help them — because there are too many. And 
you couldn't tell how it came to be. But here 
I show you — I prove to you what makes the peo- 
ple poor! They are being robbed — they are be- 
ing trampled upon! Their own government has 
been stolen from them, and is being used to cheat 
them! And you won't hft yom* voice to help! " 
"There is nothing that I can do, Samuel!" 
cried the clergyman wildly. 
" But there is ! There is ! You won't try ! You 
might at least withdraw your help from these 
criminals! " 
" My help! " 
"Yes, sir! You help them! You permit them 
to stay in the church, and that gives them your 
sanction! You shelter them, and save them from 
attack! If I were to go out to-morrow and try 
to open the eyes of the people, no one would listen 
to me, because these men are so respectable — be- 
cause they are members of the church, and 
friends and relatives of yours ! " 
" Samuel! " exclaimed the clergyman. 
"And worse than that, sir! You take their 
money — you let the church become dependent up- 
on them! You told me that yovu-self, sir! And 
you give their money to the poor people — the 
very people they have robbed! And that blinds 
the people — they are grateful, and tHey don't un- 
derstand! And so you help to keep them in their 
chains! Don't you see that. Dr. Vince? — why, 
it's just the same as if you were hired for that 
purpose! " 
Dr. Vince had risen in agitation. " Really, 
Samuel ! " he cried. " You have exceeded the hmit 
of endiu-ance. This cannot go on! I will not 
hear another word of it! " 
Samuel sat, heart broken. " Then you are go- 
ing to desert me ! " he exclaimed. " You are go- 
ing to make me do it alone." 
The other stared. " What are you going to 
do? " he demanded. 
" First," said Samuel, " I am going to see 
these men. I am going to give them a chance to 
see the error of their ways." 
" Boy! " cried the doctor. " You are mad! " 
" Perhaps I am," was the reply. " But how 
can I help that? " 
" At least," exclaimed the other, " if you take 
any such step, you will make it clear to them that 
I have not sent you, and that you have no sanc- 
tion from me." 
For a long time Samuel made no reply to this. 
Somehow it seemed the most unworthy thing that 
his friend had said yet. It meant that Dr. Vince 
was a coward! 
" No, sir," he said at last, " you may rest easy 
about that. I will take the whole burden on my 
own shoulders. There's no reason why I should 
trouble you any more, I think." 
And with that he rose, and went out from the 
house. 
CHAPTER XXIII 
AFTER Samuel had left Dr. Vince, a great 
L, wave of desolation swept over him. He was 
alone again, and all the world was against him I 
For a moment he had an impulse to turn back. 
After all, he was only a boy; and who was he, to 
set himself up against the wise and great? But 
then like a stab, came again the thought which 
drove him always — the thought of the people, 
suffering and starving! Truly it was better to 
die than to live in a world in which there was so 
much misery and oppression! That was the truth, 
he would rather die than let these things go on 
unopposed. And so there could be no turning 
back — there was nothing for him save to do what 
he could. 
Where should he begin? He thought of Mr. 
Hickman — a most unpromising person to work 
with. Samuel had been afraid of him from the 
first time he had seen him. 
Then he thought of Mr. Wygant; should he 
begin with him? This brought to his mind some- 
thing which had been driven away by the rush 
of events. Miss Gladys! How would she take 
these things? And what would she think when 
she learned about her father's wickedness? 
A new idea came to Samuel. Why should he 
not take Miss Gladys into his confidence? She 
would be the one to help him She had helped 
him with Sophie; and she had promised to help 
with Master Albert. And surely it was her right 
to know about matters which concerned her fam- 
ily so nearly. She would know what was best, 
so far as concerned her own father; he would 
take her advice as to how to approach him. 
He went to the house and asked for Sophie. 
" Tell Miss Gladys that I want to see her," he 
said ; " and that it's something very, very impor- 
tant." 
So Sophie went away, and returning, took him 
upstairs. 
" Samuel," said his divinity, " it isn't safe for 
you to come to see me in the afternoons." 
"Yes, Miss Gladys," said he. "But this is 
something very serious. It's got nothing to do 
with myself." 
"What is it?" she asked. 
" It's your father, Miss Gladys." 
" My father? " 
" Yes, Miss Gladys. It's a long story. I shall 
have to begin at the beginning." 
So he told the story of his coming to the church, 
and of the fervor which had seized upon him, and 
how he Had set to work to bring converts into 
the fold ; and how he had met a wicked man who 
had resisted his faith, and of all the dreadful 
things which this man had said. When he came 
to what Charlie Swift had told about her own 
father, Samuel was disposed to expurgate the 
story; but Miss Gladys would have it all, and 
seemed even to be disappointed that he had not 
more details to give her. 
"And Hickman !" she exclaimed gleefully. 
I always knew he was an old scamp! I'll 
wager you haven't found out the hundredth part 
about him, Samuel!" 
Samuel went on to tell about the revelation at 
Callahan's. 
" And you took that to Dr. Vince ! " she cried 
amazed. 
" Yes," said he. 
" And what did he say? " 
" He wouldn't have anything to do with it. 
And so it's all left to me." 
" And what are you going to do now? " 
" I don't know. Miss Gladys. For one thing, 
I think I shall have to see yoiu- father." 
" See my father! " gasped the girl. 
" Yes, Miss Gladys." 
" But what for? " 
" To try to get him to see how wicked these 
things are." 
The other was staring at him with wide-open, 
startled eyes. " Do you mean," she cried, " that 
you want to go to my father and talk to him 
about what he's doing in politics? " 
"Why, yes. Miss Gladys — what else can I 
do? " 
And Miss Gladys took out her handkerchief, 
and leaned down upon the table, hiding her face. 
She was overcome with some emotion, the nature 
of which was not apparent. 
The boy was naturally alarmed. " Miss 
Gladys!" he cried. "You aren't angry with 
me?" 
She answered, in a muffled voice, " No, Sam- 
uel— no !" 
Then she looked up, her face somewhat red. 
" Go and see him, Samuel! " she said. 
" You don't mind? " he cried anxiously. 
" No, not in the least," she said. " Go right 
ahead and see what you can do. He's a very 
bad, worldly man ; and if you can soften his heart, 
it will be the best thing for all of us." 
" And it won't make any diflference in our re- 
lationship? " he asked. 
" In om- relationship? " she repeated; and then, 
" Not in the least. But mind, of course, don't 
say anything about that to him. Don't give him 
any idea that you know me! " 
" Of course not, Miss Gladys." 
" Tell him that you come from the church. 
And give it to him good and hard, Samuel — for 
I'm sure he's done everything you told me, and 
lots that is worse." 
" Miss Gladys! " gasped the other. 
"And mind, Samuel!" she added. "Come 
and tell me about it afterwards. Perhaps I can 
advise you what to do next." 
There was a pause, while the two looked at 
each other. And then in a sudden burst of emo- 
tion Miss Gladys exclaimed, " Oh, Samuel, you 
are an angel! " 
And she broke into a peal of laughter; and 
swiftly, like a bird upon the wing, she leaned 
toward him, and touched his cheek with her lips. 
And then, like a flash, she was gone; and Samuel 
was left alone with his bewilderment. 
Samuel set out forthwith for Mr. Wygant's 
office. But just before he came to the bridge Mr. 
Wygant's automobile flashed past him; and so 
he turned and went back to the house. 
This time he went to the front door. " I am 
Samuel Prescott, from St. Matthew's Church," 
he said to the butler. " And I want to see Mr, 
Wygant upon important business." 
Mr. Wygant sat in a great armchair by one 
of the windows in his library. About him was the 
most elaborate collection of books that Samuel 
had yet seen; and in the luxurious room was an 
atmosphere of profound and age-long calm. Mr. 
Wygant himself was tall and stately, with an 
indescribable air of exclusiveness and reserve. 
Samuel clenched his hands and rushed at once 
to the attack. " I am Samuel Prescott, the sex- 
ton's boy at the church," he said; " and I have 
to talk to you about something very, very seri- 
ous." 
" Well? " said Mr. Wygant. 
Then Samuel told yet again how he had been 
led into evil ways, and how he had been converted 
by Dr. Vince. He tojd the story in detail, so that 
the other might comprehend his fervor. Then 
he told of the converts he had made, and how at 
last he had encovmtered Charlie Swift. " And 
this man would not come into the church," he 
wound up, "because of the wicked people who 
are in it." 
The other had been listening with perplexed 
interest. " Who are these people? " he asked. 
" YourseK for one," said Samuel. 
Mr. Wygant started. " Myself !" he ex- 
claimed. " What have I done? " 
" For one thing," rephed Samuel, " you work 
little children in your mill, and you named the 
State senator to beat the child-labor bill. And 
for another, you make speeches and pose as a 
political reformer, while you are paying money 
to-Slattery, so that he will give you franchises." 
There was a silence, while Mr. Wygant got 
back his breath. " Young man," he cried at 
last, " this is a most incredible piece of imper- 
tinence! " 
And suddenly the boy started toward him, 
stretching out his arms. "Mr. Wygant!" he 
cried. "You are going to be angry with me! 
But I beg you not to harden your heart! I have 
come here for your own good! I came because I 
couldn't bear to know that such things are done 
by a member of St. Matthew's Church! " 
For a moment or two Mr. Wygant sat staring. 
" Let me ask you one thing," he said. " Does 
