out of a large affectation of good-nature perhaps, out of 
chivalry, of boredom, he may tell himself; but the boy in 
him answers the mother in her and he gives way. 
"You're a silly. Cat," said he. Nevertheless he got on 
his feet. " I'll find her, but Bess'll tell you you 're a 
silly." 
At the edge of the clearing he stopped. She had called 
him back. She was sitting up now, her eyes distraught, the 
color in her face disordered. 
" Let me go, too," she cried. " I can't be left here, John. 
I 'm afraid, afraid ! " 
Winterbourne returned to her. This, in a measure, he 
could understand. He took her wrists, drew her up, and 
kept one hand within his arm. 
" Come on then," he said. " I know what you 're afraid 
of. I felt it myself once, by the sea, in a bright day when 
there was nobody in sight nor likely to be." 
But her teeth were chattering, and she shuddered while 
he led her out. It was nothing to her to know what she 
was afraid of, while the dreadful place loomed dark about 
her and the way through the lane stretched into imf)ossible 
miles. 
" It was Pan," Winterbourne's cheerful voice boomed 
against her ears, "the god Pan. He's in the stillness, you 
know. He makes himself manifest because we omit his wor- 
ship. But the fear's all he expects of us. That's recognition. 
That 's all he wants, old Pan." 
But naught heard Catherine save that words were beating 
at her ears, and she felt her feet drag heavily. Midway in 
the lane she stopped, and found a little voice. 
" It's over, John. I 'm dying." 
 
Wintcrbourne, recalled from Pan, got an arm about her, 
and looked down into her face. And then her knees really 
did give way, and the weight of her on his arm was the only 
sign of her being a creature still in this world. He looked 
at her distraught, but for a second only. The spring — he 
thought of that — was behind them. For an instant he con- 
sidered leaving her there by the pathside, and running home 
for Bess ; but if she was ever to wake she might wake 
frightened and that would be infernal. Pan might get her, 
after all. So he lifted her to his heart, and carrying her as 
he might have carried Tonty, for she was very light and he 
was strong, he strode homeward as fast as he could go, and 
once he put his cheek down to hers and then kissed the 
tangle of her hair. It was a pity Catherine could not have 
had the kiss in the days when kisses freely given would 
have beatified her; but perhaps then she would not have 
prized this kind at all, for it was pure, warm pity of some- 
thing he had hurt. And when he came out into the carrot- 
patch, there was Bess, as if their need had summoned her, 
standing like a sea-woman perhaps watching for her hus- 
band's boat, hand over her eyes in the attitude of those who 
look and wait. 
Winterbourne thought he had never been so glad to see 
any human creature. He felt like throwing Catherine at her 
and himself also into her arms — those kind arms, in the 
illusion of his need, seemed big enough — and blubbering 
like Tony on her breast. But all he did do was to stride on, 
and say in a monotone when he reached her, — 
" I vc killed her, Bess, I 've killed her." 
Bess turned, and, he noted, stepping over carrot-plumes 
with precision, went on with him. She took up Catherine's 
lax hand and held the wrist a moment. 
" I 've killed her, Bess," he said again ; and she answered 
 
him quite seriously, as if she had to believe every word he 
said, — 
" No, no, you didn't mean to." 
And then Winterbourne despaired indeed, and knew Bess 
also judged that Catherine was dead. He carried her into the 
sitting-room, as still now as it had been with its morning 
peace upon it, and laid her on the old hard sofa. Bess mean- 
time flew for brandy, for several things, he thought, for she 
came back with her hands full ; but before the brandy had 
fairly touched her lips, Catherine's eyes opened, and Winter- 
bourne, looking down upon her, gulped and said, " My 
God ! " He wanted to say it a great many times, knowing it 
would be a relief to him, but Bess gave him a quick frown 
and shook her head. He knew he must be derelict indeed 
for Bess to frown at him, and took it meekly. Catherine had 
things administered to her, and resumed her aspect of a hu- 
man creature with blood in her, and then what did she do 
but turn from Bess whom she had been crying out for, who 
was her rescuer, Winterbourne would fervently have sworn, 
her earthly hope and prop, to him who had dragged her from 
her bed and taken her out into the tree-solitudes to hear dis- 
sertations on Pan. She smiled even, and when she spoke 
there was a little undertone of pleasure in her voice. 
" Didn't we have a nice time, John ?" 
Winterbourne could only stare at her. Then he grinned 
a little. Catherine was game, he thought. 
" You help her upstairs," Bess commanded, with her air of 
giving not much attention to the present outward state of 
things, having so much to think about. 
So Winterbourne put his arms about his wife and lifted 
her again, though Catherine had been willing to take less of 
him, and carried her up in silence to her bed. 
When Bess came down, her kingdom being once more in 
 
security, he was waiting for her in the hall. His hand was 
closed upon an idle pipe. Not even that solace would he 
allow himself until he knew where he stood as criminal or 
sound citizen. 
" Going to hit me, Bess?" he inquired. "Going to turn 
your old father out of doors ? " 
But she had no questions to ask. There was too much to 
do in the world, and she had got out of the habit of curios- 
ity, save as it furthered deeds. 
" I guess she'll go right off to sleep," she said, " after she's 
had her milk and egg." 
He followed her to the kitchen. 
" What was it, Bess?" he insisted. 
" Why, she fainted away," said Bess, as if faints even were 
all in the day's work. " Here, you measure me a pint of 
milk while I beat these eggs. It 's time for Mrs. Ramsay's 
too." 
Hercules did it with precision, being used to chemistry in 
his youth. 
" Is her heart wrong ? " he suggested. " Don't you think 
she 'd better see a doctor ? " 
" She 's just give out, that 's all," said Bess, with one of her 
returns to the vernacular. " She's got no strength. That 's 
the way they are." 
" They ! " Who were they ? He pondered on it weakly 
and dared not ask. Had Catherine entered some classified 
estate never more to emerge to the vaguer limits of the mass ? 
But he had to inquire finally, or perish with the wonder 
of it. 
" Who 's they, Bess ? " he insisted, following her like a 
boy, tagging her while she went from kitchen to the stairs 
again with her two foaming beakers deftly carried. She was 
treating him like a boy, too. 
 
" Why, folks when they 've used themselves up,' she 
vouchsafed him, almost impatiently it seemed, because he 
didn't know. " They get just this way. Mrs. Ramsay's done 
it one way ; she has another. Men-folks do it, too. Some- 
times they drop dead when they 're making a speech. That 's 
because they 've wore their hearts out. Sometimes they get 
just like this." 
She was halfway up the stairs now, and he stood finger- 
ing the newel-post in a maze. 
" Then it 's getting worn out ? " he said. " Bess, hold on 
a minute. If it's getting worn out, how about you? I don't 
suppose the rig you 're running here, being nigger dog to 
everybody, — I don't suppose you think that 's going to wear 
you out, do you ? " 
She looked gravely down at him and made the answer he 
least expected. 
" It might, I s'pose, but I don't mean to let it." 
She went on, leaving him confounded. He had looked for 
some gay disclaimer, some bravado of youth flaunting its 
own strength, but the brief homely words opened his mind 
suddenly to the idea that she was fighting a fight and knew 
it. She was not only serving other people, but she had the 
masterly sense to see that she, too, must be saved. 
" By Jupiter ! " Winterbourne swore. He dared not call, 
as he so often did in mere warm blood, on the Most High 
God of all, because it seemed, in a way, as if he dared not, 
as if he himself had somehow offended by being out of the 
fight, and if he challenged the God of all, he might hear 
answers. 
 
XXV 
CELIA had to meet Lovell at last and hearing him 
in the sitting-room, asking Bess for her, she went 
straight about it, taking a hat in her hand : for though 
she walked bareheaded always, it seemed wise to indicate 
that she was on her way out of doors. In the hall she met 
Bess, who had not lingered with him, and flashed a glance 
at her. No, he had not told. Bess wore her air of serene pre- 
occupation, not as one who has learned that an unexpected 
brother has stormed her threshold. And then Celia, with the 
frankest air of morning welcome, unillusioned by the memory 
even of kisses in the moonlight, went in to meet him. He was 
changed. The first glance at him as she advanced, hand pret- 
tily out, told her that. As that other moment had shocked 
and terrified her, it had transfigured him with hope and con- 
fidence. He looked like a splendid young man of another 
type than Dwight Hunter, but as fortunate in strength and 
prospective mastery. She felt a thrill at this, which might 
have been a little personal pride in him, but was more than 
half gratified vanity that her momentary conqueror was of 
an admirable mould. Lovell himself, if he had had time in 
these fleeting moments of the best days of his life, to look 
into a mirror and interrogate himself, would have wondered 
at the change in him. The old wary look lest the undesired 
should speak to him, the introspective beginning of bent 
shoulders, had given place to the tense muscles and high pose 
of the man set on victory. His love for Celia was so infinitely 
more than a fancy or a passion for a girl. She had called 
him out of that seclusion where the soul is practically done 
 
for, because it has taught itself to desire nothing. Now he 
aspired to everything. If he had had any design of a tenderer 
greeting than this hand-clasp in the morning light, he could 
not, in the face of her frank attitude, bring it about. 
" I 'm going to walk," she said. "You want to come?" 
" I came to get you," said Lovell, at once delighted at their 
according views. " I want you to come over to the house a 
minute." 
" The house ? What house ? " The candid glance inquired 
as her tone did. 
" Mine." 
"Why, I can't, Mr. Lovell." 
The set title he did not like. He frowned at it, but dis- 
missed it as matter that might be settled at some tenderer 
time. 
"Why can't you?" 
"There 's nobody to go with me. Mamma is ill in bed. It 
would be queer." 
That he considered seriously. 
" Nothing 's queer in Clyde," he ventured. " Except me. 
I 'm tabulated queer, but I 'm not going to be any more." 
"Oh, do be queer," said Celia brightly. "You mustn't 
change, or I shan't know you." 
"I shan't change about — other things." 
This was a brief indication that love-making was not to be 
superseded by the overhauling of houses. " But I want you. 
You 've got to come. Hopkins is putting off his vacation for 
me, and we must know what to do." 
"Who's Hopkins?" Yet she knew who Hopkins was. 
" The builder. How can he tell whether the missus'll 
like her house unless she gives the orders ? " 
That note in his voice almost angered her. She did not 
love him apparently, her appraising sense of the moment 
 
told her. She was sorry. It would have been so easy, living 
in the big house with him, to take Bess to her and establish 
both their lives. 
" Come!" she said, for it was evident he had meant in 
another instant to find her hand. " Come on out doors." 
She spoke lightly, as she thought Tonty, just arrived to 
make her mother a proper womanly call, might have spoken, 
and she went immediately out of the room, he following. 
Then he had his inspiration. 
" Why," said he, " there 's Winterbourne ! '' 
"Where?" 
She was going down the path, her pretty dress enwrapping 
her, he felt, with similes surging about him, like the calyx 
of a rose. She hummed a little under her breath, and he 
knew that he was following her into the land of faerie. But 
he would much rather stay and get the house ready for their 
mating. 
" If you want a chaperon, why not Winterbourne ? " he 
pressed it. " He 's always wandering up and down the earth. 
He 's got nothing to do. In a minute we shall see him sit- 
ting under a tree somewhere, and we'll call upon him to 
come and hear us talk ceilings and gutter-pipes." 
Celia laughed and sang a little clearly. Winterbourne was 
not going to be told secrets about engagements. But there 
was no danger. She knew where he was ; he had gone down 
to the Ramsays' to lull three little Ramsays into seemliness 
with old wives' tales while Tonty made her call. 
"I can talk ceilings just as well outdoors," said she. 
" Come, let 's go into the Valley of Birds. Mr. Winter- 
bourne 's down there lying on his back, smoking. Come." 
Lovell fell into step with her and they went down the 
lane, Celia singing in her light true voice, with a r'egret she 
could never help behind it, that hers was not the marketable 
 
one. Then we should see. Out in the open day, daring came 
on her, and a sense of mastery over such a helpless thing as 
a man in love. Why had she dreaded to see him? He 
couldn't kiss her, because there would never be any mo- 
ment when she was unprepared. He couldn't marry her 
against her will. He was a well-made creature with a domi- 
nating look now there was something he wanted to domi- 
nate ; but she, too, was good-looking, and she could take a 
hand at reigning. And the woman's desire to play with what 
it has caught possessed her, and she liked it. She had been 
all her later life the plaything of another's will. Catherine had 
pursued her into the desire to be something of mark, and 
now suddenly, through nature and not herself, because a man 
was a man and she had inexplicably bidden him remember 
that she was a woman, she stood queen in her own right. 
At the wood-opening she stopped and turned her candid 
eyes on him. 
" I don't believe — " She hesitated here, and he helped her 
tenderly. 
"What don't you believe, dearest?" 
" I don't believe I want Mr. Winterbourne told why you 
arc taking me to see the house. I don't want anybody told." 
That seemed fitting in her, a most maidenly deliciousness. 
He was a poet, and he thought he saw with her the lovely 
vague outlines of her dream. 
" Don't you, dearest ? " He bent toward her, better to note 
the flush in her cheek averted now while she broke a spray 
from the wilding hedge, and showed the more to him her 
sweet confusion, — for it was not a blossomy spray, but only 
a homely branch to give pretext to her eyes and fingers. " I 
want them to know. They'll have to know, you see. If 
we were back a century or two, I could carry you oflF to my 
stronghold, but not now." 
 
" I 'd like that better,' said Celia, and laughing, looked at 
him again. 
It was not a confused face she turned on him ; it was just 
Celiacs face, untouched by soft emotion. But he was in his 
dream, and she looked to him any way and of any hue the 
dream required. 
"I should like it better, too," he said; and her heart 
leaped in a kind of resentment at his voice and the messages 
it was willing she should hear. " Then it could be now. It 
could be to-day." 
Celia did not know she had so many fierce passions in her, 
and she walked quickly on as if, though they were within, 
they were also a mob that could overtake her. She had had 
her discontents, a plenty, but this virginal revolt against a 
man appealing always, some secret voice in him to a hidden 
voice in her, and getting an answer even, if only of anger 
and despite, this was new to her. She hurried their pace into 
the Valley of Birds, and sat down by the tree-bole where 
Winterbourne had bidden Catherine, that other day, see the 
play of sunshine on the bark. 
" He isn't here," she said. " Mr. Winterbourne isn't 
here." 
Lovell, too, threw himself down and looked at her, tumul- 
tuous feeling in his eyes. 
" I 'm glad," he said. " Good man, not to be here ! " 
His spirit seemed to be getting the better of her, and she 
found herself wondering whether it would dash her self-con- 
trol, make her betray herself and show how much she hated 
him. 
" Do you come here often ? " she asked crudely. 
He laughed a little. 
" I used to come a lot. That 's when I wrote poetry. I 
thought it had got to be written out-of-doors. Jackass ! " 
 
He was smiling with an idle patronage for the young poet 
who had, after all his shots at greatness, yet managed this 
last crowning feat of man : persuaded a wonderful girl to love 
him. His momentaryretrospect released her. For an instant 
she did not feel the summons of that inner self of his laying 
fine wires to her door. She could afford to play a little in 
her turn. 
" I want to know your poetry," she offered meltingly. 
The poet, surprised, came broad awake, accusingly. 
" You said you 'd read it." 
She caught herself up. Her laugh came on the dot. 
" So you did remember," she challenged him. 
" Getting a rise out of me? Is that it? " 
" I meant to find out whether you did remember." 
" Well, I did. I haven't thought of much else. It wasn't 
the verses. It was your reading 'em. It seemed so — " 
He could not think logically of any particular thing it 
seemed to indicate, except that it was destined and adorable. 
" But I do want to know them better," she insisted. " I 
want to hear you read them. I wish we had the book. We 
could read them here." 
j Lovell, shaking his head in decisive turns from side to 
side, looked at her in something more nearly approaching 
a query of her real complexion of mind than he had ever 
shown. It seemed to ask whether indeed she could be cut 
out of the pattern, or anything approaching it, of the ladies 
who bade him to teas with a horrible prospective tendency 
to yearn over his verse. 
" Not on your life," said he. " You don't catch this minor 
poet reading his own stuff." 
" But why ? " Celia persisted, with a delicate upward lilt 
of tone. " You know so well how it ought to be read. You 
could interpret it." 
 
That had a familiar ring. Was this the way the Ramsay 
faction used to talk when they besought him to share his 
gifts with them ? He felt a wave of the old nervous terror. 
" Don't, dearest. You'll make me begin to be deaf." 
" You can't be deaf with me. You promised." 
" I ought to have made you promise, same time, not to 
flatter me. I like other kinds, dearest. Tell me you like 
me awfully. That 's flattering enough. Don't tell me I 'm 
a poet. I 'm just what Tony 's bending pins to catch. I 'm 
a minny, not a whale. Not a trout even. Just a minny." 
" Do you think," said Celia, " that Tim Ramsay isn't 
very well understood ? " 
"Tim?" He showed his frank surprise. "Why, there's 
nothing about Tim to understand." 
" You 'd say he 's all on the surface ? " 
" What there is of him. He 's got a nice complexion. 
That 's on the surface." 
He was looking idly before him now, following the waver- 
ing course of a white butterfly that had somehow strayed into 
the cool of the woods, and went wandering about, drawing 
indecisive curves upon the air, like a weak hand striving to 
form linesj and hesitating. 
" Don't you think he might have good ideas," she ven- 
tured, seeing, in this mood of his, how far away they were 
from pan-pipes and patents, " if somebody would only help 
him develop them ? " 
"Ideas about what? See that butterfly. He's lost in the 
infinite." 
She had time to stop and widen her eyes over the but- 
terfly. 
" If some one would help him out," she ventured. 
Lovell didn't understand. He began to give a lazy, 
disquisition on Tim, who had never seemed to him any- 
 
thing but an unmarketable commodity whom Mrs. Ram- 
say had, in the period of her discontents and unformulated 
theories, summoned into the world. Perhaps he was like 
Ramsay, save that he couldn't figure. Perhaps he was the 
memory of Mrs. Ramsay's girlhood, before she became a 
caryatid with a world or the temple of the millennium on 
her head and hands. But he did not know how to elucidate 
Tim's prenatal tendencies or his present fiiculties to an 
idealizing young woman who was caught by his complexion. 
" Oh, Tim 's all right," he said absently. " Do you like 
white paint all over the house ? " 
She smiled and shook her head at the paint. 
"You see he wants to make a business venture," she 
pursued, though doubtfully. " And I feel as if he ought to 
have the advice of an older man." 
Lovell threw her a quick look. 
"Tim Ramsay been talking to you?" he inquired. 
She retreated. She thought there was displeasure in his 
tone. 
" Oh, no, not talking. Only he seems pathetic somehow. 
They don't teach him to do anything — " 
" He wouldn't do it if they did. Tim 's lazy. He 's got 
no stamina. That 's why he 's lazy. The boy 's no better 
than a weakling girl." 
" There, you see ! you own he 's to be pitied." 
"You're divine," said Lovell, falling into his coma of 
blind love, " you women. You idealize and pity and build 
up pedestals, and we 're no such matter as you think us." 
His mind had gone suddenly back to his mother and sister 
and their adoration of him, and with this passion for a girl 
opening his eyes to the way women's fancies ought to be cher- 
ished, he wondered if he had been kind to them. " But don't 
waste anything on Tim. He never'll grow up. You'll see." 
 
" I 'd waste something on him,' she dared. " If I had it
I 'd waste — money." 
The word was out, the word she had at the back of her 
brain, but she said it like a pretty jest. Again he threw her 
that sharp, sudden look, and it stayed on her. 
" What 's Tim been saying to you ? " he asked. 
" Nothing, nothing," she protested. " Only I somehow 
got the idea he was clever. I thought he might invent 
something, had invented it, and I thought with his father 
always in the city and his mother sick — why, it seemed a 
shame no one should help him." 
" He brought something of the sort to me a while ago," 
Lovell said absently. " No, I shouldn't give Tim money." 
She rose to her feet. 
" Come, then," she wanted to say, " the talk is over. This 
was what we were to consider, and since it 's ended and you 
won't, there 's nothing else." 
He, too, rose, and stood staring at her, awed by the 
strained pallor of her face. He had never seen her look 
like that. It was as if the white butterfly, strayed into the 
large darkness of the woods, had suddenly become the soul 
of which it was the symbol, and wanly faced him. Celia's 
eyes filled with tears. She looked about her at the tree- 
trunks and the light sifting down beyond them. It was 
all beauty, that impalpable veil upon the form of things to 
bid the soul worship and the eye rejoice in the prophecy 
of the ineffable. That it was beautiful she saw, but she 
could not beckon it to her heart with that glad rush of 
music to the ear. She had muffled herself so that the call 
of things failed to reach her. She had spun about herself a 
web. What was it? She thought of Bess with a little 
breath of relief, a grasping for her as if that might keep her 
sane.' If Bess were here, she would see the beauty. She 
 
might be too tired, she might have to shut her lovely eye- 
lids down and just lie and listen to the needles murmuring ; 
but she and the spot would be akin. Celia did not even 
know whether Bess had ever been here. She felt indignant 
pity for her, tied down to common tasks, and it seemed as 
if she must be at home that minute, kissing her and telling 
her how wroth she was. But it did not come to her, since 
Bess had been trained to do all these hard, hateful things 
and she had not, that she could make her less tired. 
All this time, a moment only perhaps, but long to both 
of them, Lovell stood watching the tragic misery of her 
look, waiting, in an extremity of sympathy, for it to clear. 
She turned to him slowly. The guarded sweetness was off 
her face. She seemed to be about to appeal to him, to beg 
him to help her brush away the web; but the color ran 
into her cheeks again, and she laughed hardily. 
"Come," she said, "let's go home." 
They went, silently. Once in the lane he tried to take 
her hand ; but she seemed remote, and a sad strangeness 
assailed him. 
"What is it?" he asked at the door. "What was it, 
Celia?" 
Now she could laugh again. 
"What was it?" she asked, in her high, clear voice. 
"Why, nothing!" 
 
XXVI 
WINTERBOURNE was at the Ramsays' while 
Tonty made her dutiful call. He had Teeny on 
one knee and Tiny on the other, and Tony sat 
before him, legs apart in painful travesty of man's majesty, 
whittling, but not omitting to keep a sharp ear out for the 
story. 
"Once upon a time," said Winterbourne, musing and 
telling the story to himself, as he almost always did when 
Tonty was not there, for then he could tell it to her, " once 
upon a time there was a little boy." 
Tony gave a nod of perfect satisfaction. The story, then, 
was for him. 
" Everybody thought he was a little boy, but he was n't. 
He was a fool." 
Tony, disgusted, withdrew from participation. But then 
he remembered there were kings' fools, and they always 
said the best things and came out ahead. So he took heart. 
" Was it a king's fool ? " he asked hopefully. 
"Maybe," said Winterbourne. "We'll see before we 
get through. Well, one day when he was quite a young 
fool, he found he had some money in his pocket." 
"Gold?" 
"Yes, gold in a silk purse. He hadn't really known he 
had it, but as soon as he thought about it a minute, he re- 
membered that every little boy and every fool has some to 
buy things with. Only he must be sure he buys the thing 
he wants most, for if he docs n't, he'll be sorry all his life." 
Tony whittled no more, but, knife on knee, sat staring 
 
up at him. There was poignant anxiety in the gaze — hope, 
too. Had he also a silk purse since it was said that all boys 
had them? Winterbourne read the query. 
" No, Tony," said he, " you won't find the purse for a 
number of years yet. But you'll find it in time, and then 
you must be sure to buy the right things with it." 
" Did this fellow ? " Tony asked, abandoning hope for 
himself. He was used to these postponings of valuable ex- 
perience to some future which was, apparently, to be his at a 
shadowy time. It seemed to him a part of the disgusting way 
things were arranged. You had to acquiesce in them for a while 
because grown-ups had a way of knowing how to keep them 
out of your reach ; but when he saw Dwight Hunter driving 
a pair of horses, or Winterbourne smoking a pipe of heavenly 
dusk, he knew this would not be so always. 
" Well, this fool looked round, as soon as he found he had 
the silk purse, and he saw a pretty child — a little girl she 
was — " 
" One of us ? " Tony inquired. 
" No, not one of you. But he liked her, and he said to the 
big Market-Man, ' How much ? ' " 
"Where's the Market-Man?" Tony inquired. 
He would never have been allowed to interrupt so fre- 
quently if Tonty had been there, and this he knew and it 
gave the moment piquancy. 
" He is said to live up in the sky," said Winterbourne. 
" But besides that He lives on the earth and in the sea." 
"Is He a whale?" 
" No, He 's bigger than a whale." 
"Then He couldn't live in the world without our seeing 
of Him." 
" We do see Him sometimes. We could oftener, if we 
didn't think about anything else. Well, the fool asked 
 
the big Market-Man how much, and He said, 'All you've 
got'" 
" Did Helook in the silk purse? " asked Tony. "Or how 'd 
He know how much he had got?" 
" No, He didn't look in the silk purse, but He knew 
what the price was, because it's always that. If a fool wants 
to buy a little girl, he must always pay all he 's got. He can't 
have any tops, or any engines, or any bow 'n' arrers. One 
reason is, little girls are so hungry. They eat a lot." 
" Tonty don't." Tony accorded this in rebuttal. 
"No, but Tonty hasn't been bought yet. They're not 
half so hungry till they're bought. Anyhow, if they are, they 
don't say anything about it. But there's lots of things they 
want to eat, then, pretty things, all of them. They want to 
eat rose-leaves and violet-leaves and cream and honey and 
cinnamon and nutmeg and clove and mace." 
"All together?" 
"Yes, all together and separate. And they want everything 
to smell like roses all the time. Well, when the little girl 
had lived with the fool a long spell, she thought she would 
buy her a little girl of her own, and she did. And she had 
to eat rose-leaves and violet-leaves and cream and honey and 
mace and nutmeg and cinnamon and cloves. And the fool 
got tired of seeing them do it, for he wanted beefsteak and 
bread and clear water — " 
" I 'm hungry," Tiny piped from his knee, and Teeny 
wriggled with antiphonal protest. 
" So he said to the two little girls, ' You run away and 
play in a garden where you can get rose-leaves and violet- 
leaves all the time, and I'll go back home where I was, and 
lie down under a haystack and go fast asleep.' " 
" Little Boy Blue I " Tiny remembered. 
" So the two little girls went off into the garden, and I dare 
 
say they just crammed themselves with violets and roses, 
there were such a lot there, and the rivers ran cream and 
honey, and there was cinnamon on every bush — " 
" Stick cinnamon ? " 
This from Tony, who chewed it in lieu of the tobacco he 
had seen other yet not greater men gloriously squirting. 
"Yes, stick andground. All the guns were loaded with 
cinnamon powder. They shot moonbeams with them. Well, 
the fool went back, and lay down under the haystack." 
" Was Boy Blue there ? " Tiny inquired. 
" Hush up," said Tony, "there ain't any." 
He had reached the period of agnosticism when it soothed 
him to announce, from point to point, that there weren't any. 
" No, he 'd waked up and gone to look after the sheep. 
But the fool went to sleep. No, only just half asleep. He 
could hear the birds singing and the leaves moving and the 
river running by, and other fools talkingwhile they worked, 
or bought little girls themselves. He had a beautiful time. 
But pretty soon somebody touched him on the shoulder. 
'Wake up!' said some one. It was the little girl. And then 
he looked up and rubbed his eyes to get the sand out of 
them, and what should he see but the little girl he had bought 
and the little girl she had bought. And he saw the little girl 
she had bought had boughtanother little girl, and there they 
stood, the little girl he had bought and the little girl she had 
bought and the little girl she had bought, three of them in a 
row. ' Wake up,' said the little girl he had bought . She said 
it quite loud, so he couldn't say he didn't hear. ' We've 
all come to live with you.' " 
Teeny and Tiny were both wriggling now. They didn't 
think it was much of a story. But Winterbourne only kept 
a clutch on each little back and went on with it. This story 
he was telling to himself. 
 
'' So the fool waked up, and he tried to stay awake. But 
he couldn't really. The birds were singing, and they made 
him sleepy, and the river was running, and that made him 
sleepy, and he heard the grass growing, and that made him 
sleepy. But he couldn't tell the three little girls they must 
go and build them a house of their own. So he said, ' Come 
in. You 're welcome. Help yourself.' " 
" In the haystack ? " Tony inquired. 
" Yes. And they came in. But pretty soon they said, — 
two of them said it, — ' Where 's the rose-leaves and the 
violets and the cinnamon ? ' And he said, ' There isn't 
any.' " 
" Which of 'em said it ? " Tony wanted to know. 
" The little giri he 'd bought, and the little girl she 'd 
bought. The other one just ate bread and drank water. He 
could get things for her as well as not." 
"Then why didn't he keep her, and send the others 
home ? " Tony inquired, with masculine insight. 
Winterbourne shook his head and screwed up his face in 
a way they, for some reason, always liked. 
" That 's it, Tony. You can't do it. After you 've bought 
one little girl, she 's your little girl, and you can't go round 
swapping off for other little girls. No, sir. Well, there were 
n't any rose-leaves, and there wasn't any cinnamon. And if 
he 'd had his silk purse back again, so he could go out and 
buy 'em, there wouldn't have been anything to buy beef- 
steak and bread with, and he 'd have had to starve. Tony, 
what do you think you 'd do ? " 
" I 'd let them starve," said Tony, " They wouldn't 
starve long. They 'd go into the kitchen." _ 
"Admirable Tony!" Winterbourne cried. "Wise young 
judge! Sage from the Orient! Has it been put into your 
mouth, O babe and suckling, to guide my murky way ? " 
 
Tony for an instant thought he was being made light of, 
but as he was a young man of proud self-estimate, and Jackie, 
he had always considered, merely his toy and tool, he de- 
cided to dismiss the suspicion. Yet it clung slightly to the 
word babe, disquietingly like one in more familiar use ; but 
this he knew could never be applied to him. 
"Well, what'd he do?" asked Tony. 
Winterbourne sat dejected. 
" I don't know," he owned. " No, I 'm blest if I know. 
Sometimes I think if he was any kind of a fool, he 'd say to 
them right out, ' Now, if you 're going to stay here, you come 
into the kitchen and eat bread with me.' " 
" Lyddy 's in your kitchen," said Tony. " Only Harriet's 
in ours. Lyddy makes little cakes like a heart and that girl 
gives 'em to us." 
" Lyddy ? Lyddy isn't a girl. She 's a woman-lady." 
" No, that other girl. Bess. She gives you things to eat." 
"Yes," said Winterbourne dreamily. "She gives you 
things to eat. Well, Tony, so you think they 'd go into the 
kitchen before they 'd starve ? " 
But Tony had forgotten about that. He wished Jackie 
would invite them all to go home with him, where the girl 
undoubtedly, at a hint, would give them cookies. 
" I guess Harriet won't cook us anything to-day," he 
offered speciously. " She don't ever cook little cakes." 
" Or," said Winterbourne, " suppose he should say to the 
big Market-Man, ' I 'm very sleepy, sir. I like my bed here 
by the haystack. I hate to sit in parlors, smelling cinnamon 
and rose.' But would the big Market-Man say, ' You made 
your choice, Winterbourne, old boy. I 'm sorry, sorry as I can 
be, but it 's the best I can do for you. No more snoozes under 
haystacks, listening to the birds. No more deciding you 'd 
done your stent and you could loaf the rest of your days. 
 
No, you 're going to keep moving now. There 's likely to 
be a watchman on the tower, and it 's got to be you.' " 
He pulled himself awake. He had been near swearing, in 
the distaste of it all, but he remembered who sat with him 
and upon him, and forbore. But he had been talking in a 
grown-up tone, and they were tired of him. Tony shut his 
jack-knife and put it in his pocket with a manly air. The 
two little ones groped their way down, and they all began to 
make new plans for themselves. 
" Now you run into the kitchen with Harriet," Winter- 
bourne bade them. " Tonty'll be home in a little while. 
I 'm going back that way and I'll send her." 
But Tony had plans of his own. He saw Winterbourne 
well up the road and set out with a man's stride, head down, 
after him. He was going to the house where there lived 
little cakes with holes in the middle. Tony, at this period 
of his life, had the hard lot of one who plays a difficult part. 
He was such a very little boy, and yet, at moments of dash- 
ing imitation, so proficient, that he forgot, and everybody 
else with him, how little he was. Therefore his career was 
dotted with ignominious surrenders. 
Tonty had made only a short call, but Bess thought she 
needed refreshing after it, and had a little plate and a cup 
and saucer waiting on a small table in the sitting-room. 
There was a pitcher with milk in it, and a little teapot with 
hot water in it, and a little sugar-bowl, because Bess knew 
how much rather Tonty would sit down and pour play tea 
for herself than have any number of children's festivals ad- 
ministered as to a child in any arbor. Tonty loved it. She 
got out of her chair and put a small kiss primly on her 
mother's cheek. 
" Should you like to have me come to-morrow? "she in- 
quired. 
 
She herself was not particular. She could not find out 
whether the pink lady known as mother, who never got up, 
really wished to see her or not, and she often found her face 
burning, when she escaped from the prudish little calls, with 
the effort to think of something to say. 
"Yes, Antoinette, come to-morrow," her mother bade 
her. " Brush your hair at night and use the pink paste on 
your elbows." 
Tonty went downstairs then, being familiar with the fact 
that the lady known as mother said queer things, but accept- 
ing it in a child's way because the lady known as Bess seemed 
to accept it. Then she had her little luncheon and poured a 
small cup of cambric tea for Bess, who took it gravely while 
they talked about dolls and whether they liked black ones 
or whether they were just horrid, and then they went off 
together into the shed-chamber where Bess thought she had 
seen a little trunk for a doll's clothes. And Mrs. Ramsay 
lay and looked at the wall-paper and thought of nothing at 
all. The working force, the laboring class of nerve and muscle 
within her, had taken its revenge. It was on strike. Her 
nerves had been driven at the pace of forty thousand motor- 
cars for years and years, and now they had lain down in the 
harness and said, "We won't go at all." Suddenly Mrs. 
Ramsay had discovered how blissful it is to do nothing, and 
neither ideals nor shame under the ministrations of her neigh- 
bors could woo her forth. Bess, the puissant, could not stir 
her. Now, she, had announced, Mrs. Ramsay would be the 
better for an afternoon drive ; but Mrs. Ramsay would not 
hear to it. She did not even answer. She turned her smooth 
brown head on the pillow and said she thought she felt huffy, 
which Bess, considering by skill of her own, interpreted as 
sleepy. 
The lady's illness had roused waves of consternation and 
 
sympathy throughout a world. Letters had come from scores 
of clubs, reminders of imminent engagements, warm expres- 
sions of concern: for Mrs. Ramsay was a power. But for these, 
though she must have known their sources, Mrs. Ramsay 
did not care. " Open them," she said to Bess, when the first 
consignment came over from Mr. Ramsay, helpless in the 
emergency of a wife whose business was a book as tightly 
sealed to him as his had been to her, and they had gone 
naturally into Celia's hands. She was a graceful scribe, and 
wrote charming notes of explanation, venturing, with every 
hint of an engagement not to be fulfilled, to suggest that 
Lilian Winterbourne would sing ballads, and enclosing the 
little circular that had never brought in a return. Only one 
club accepted the proflFer of the unknown Lilian, and when 
Celia, against all probability of her thinking of it with any- 
thing but terror, flew to her in triumph, Bess turned on her 
eyes of amazed reproach. 
" Why, of course I can't," she said. " Who's going to do 
the work ? " 
And Celia was forced to rescind her oflFer, saying, in her 
own fluent way, that she found her sister had an engagement 
for that afternoon. 
Ladies resident in Clyde, hearing that Mrs. Ramsay was 
lying ill at the Winterbournes', called in due form to ask 
for her and tender help. They were darling ladies, of a kind 
almost gone out now except in the illustrations of artists 
who don't know how to do them, and rely on guesses at a 
period that, to their young eyes, might as well be known at 
once as the dark ages. They had every accompaniment of 
a gentler, quainter village civilization but the crinoline. Clyde 
was a place where, though fashion was accurately copied 
among the class that had every opportunity and desire to 
be a smart set, you could wear what clothes you pleased. 
 
Except in the smart set, which might have been better known 
as the flaunting annuals of the garden, changes in deference 
to fashion were unheard of. The votaries of constancy would 
as soon have thought of altering the style of their sleeves 
because some French minion had decreed it, as they would 
of levelling a gambrel roof to a flat one, to suit the season. 
They bought the best material, these dear ladies, and had it 
made up according to a style that had pleased once and kept 
its vogue through worth. Dolmans had been graceful 
and genteel. In Clyde, dolmans never went out. There was 
in every sewing-room great accumulation of narrow black 
velvet ribbon, wide silk fringe, and something known as 
lutestring. With lutestring Lovell's mind had intimate con- 
nection. He used, in his poet days, to hear his mother talk 
of it, and it gave him a thrill, a response to the time of 
spinets and ringlets, that was never to be lost to him. So 
softly-stepping ladies barred with parallels of velvet ribbon 
and tangled with fringe, the only thing about them capable 
of enmeshing, came in their low-heeled shoes to the Winter- 
bournes' door, and often they brought jelly and delicate blanc 
mange, made from the moss itself, no grocer's instantane- 
ous substitute. Celia was always delighted to receive them, 
and they spoke of her afterwards as very pleasing. One 
of them — It was the wife of the old minister who had died 
that year, an ancient lady cut out of ivory, all yellow tones 
in face and hair — said to her, " My dear, I hear you have 
a beautiful voice. Young Dwight Hunter told me so. He 
was seeing to my cistern. We 've had quite a time getting 
it cleaned out." 
It was her sister, Celia brightly conceded. She was ready 
to sing in public, to women's clubs especially. And at that 
instant, to her mortification, Bess came in, just pushing down 
her sleeves and warm from kitchen work. 
 
The minister's wife, through the habit of a long life when 
she was first lady of the town, had no hesitations. She looked 
kindly at Bess, and asked, " So you 're the one, my dear ? 
you 're the one that sings. I wish you 'd sing something to 
me now." 
Celia felt one of her moments of despair. Bess, she knew, 
had her mind on making breadcake and saving Lyddy. How 
should she recall even the words of the songs she had been 
so painstakingly taught ? But Bess just sat down opposite the 
minister's wife, dropped her hands in her lap, — those dear 
plump hands like mothers' hands, that looked sometimes, so 
great was the surge and stress they lived in, as if soapsuds 
had wilfully boiled them, — smiled at the minister's wife 
and asked, " Should you like a hymn ? " 
" We 've no piano here — yet," Celia was beginning; but 
Bess had evidently determined that this was her venture. 
She sang three hymns, and the minister's wife cried. 
" You have a great gift, my dear," she said, as she rose to 
go. " I mustn't keep you now from your invalids, but I 
hope to see your gift made much of. I hope to live to see 
you singing in church." 
To sing in clubs and concert-halls did not much affect the 
minister's wife and the other ladies of her color who pre- 
served the dear traditions of Clyde. They, too, went to the 
meetings of the Woman's Club founded by the annual bed, 
and relished every word, these hardy perennials, with an 
unction the annuals could hardly guess, for it had in it the 
savor of, "It sounds as if it must be so, but, dear us! what 
are we coming to ! " Yet all the strife of factions and the 
reaching out for bette'r things went on without them, as a 
comet may whisk by the ordered stars. They really lived in 
their world of old remembrance, and after the surge and dash 
of dub meeting, they melted softly back to its repose. But the 
 
minister's wife lost no time in telling her intimates among 
the perennials how beautifully Bess had sung, and a stream 
of wilfully ancient-seeming ladies directed itself, day by day, 
to the house, and as regular as their admission was the under- 
standing that Bess should sing to them. For the first time Celia, 
to her perfect amazement, saw her sister delighting in her 
voice and unrestrained in using it. She could not, it seemed, 
be tired in this incidental homely sharing of her gift. Old 
ladies loved her, and the news got round, and the annuals in 
their silken petals came flaunting in, and frightened her and 
she was dumb. To Celia, the world was upside down. 
But something else came of all this. The waves of Mrs. 
Ramsay's illness threw up other treasure on the shore. 
When John Winterbourne had come back, three years be- 
fore, to live in his house, there had been a waft of curiosity 
and interest. Men and women who had known him a little 
in his youth, or been the intimates of his father and mother, 
came to call ; but he never returned the visits. He was im- 
mersed, they found, in his book, and he seemed to show 
them out with haste, not surprising, because they hoped 
they knew the ways of scholars. And he had taken to an inti- 
macy with James Trenton Lovell, and this also was fitting, be- 
cause James was a scholar and a poet, too, though debarred, 
poor fellow ! by his infirmity from entering into the village 
life. But now it became known through the lively interest 
in perennials and annuals that there were at Winterbourne's 
(this in another language, that of the young men who went 
to town daily) two stunning girls, and it was to be hoped, 
when the illness in the family was over, that the town would 
see more of them. 
Celia was in evidence. She often walked abroad, clad in 
gowns that commended themselves almost holily to the 
feminine eye that knew how to distinguish what when it 
 
becomes what, though the young men thought she must be 
a particularly nice girl because she dressed so simply. She 
was really pretty, too, they decided, for her beauty spoke 
for itself without adorning ; and at this their sisters laughed 
aloud and lost no time in enlightening them on the money 
and genius that go into clothes wonderfully conceived and 
simply made. 
These things that were going on below stairs, Catherine 
did not guess. She was thinking how incredible a thing it is 
that man who has once loved us should not love us again, 
and whether she had, as mistress of the house, any duty to 
Mrs. Ramsay as a guest, and whether the moral obliquity in 
Celia was straightening out. She and Mrs. Ramsay, each 
knowing the other had become derelict, had, each for the 
other, a terrified distaste. Far from wanting to talk over their 
ills, they chose not to hear the mention of the other's name. 
Each, an altruist, insisted upon reigning absolute and egotistical 
in the kingdom of rest. This was nature's ironic joke. 
" You can't get the better of me," the great jovial mother 
was saying to them. " Broke my rules, did you ? See how 
you like my reactions." 
But to Mrs. Ramsay lying this morning in her luxury of 
nothingness, came a sound, and perhaps because the mental 
part of her had gone so completely to sleep and nothing was 
left but the human creature that holds the strings of actual 
life, the sound went straight to the core of Mrs. Ramsay, who 
had, though she ignored them as soon as she could rise to 
address a meeting, given birth to beautiful children. It was 
the cry of Tony. He had followed on after Winterbourne, 
at first and as long as he could compass it, with his man's 
stride, and then, when Winterbourne seemed in danger of 
getting out of sight, with the dog-trot of the little boy afraid 
he will be lost. For Tony, though he was not the least of 
 
Mrs. Ramsay's children, was not much used to going out 
alone. They always made their raids as a clan, this family, 
and when, a quarter of a mile away from home, the world- 
loneliness suddenly came upon them, there was always Tonty 
to become mother, by a swift transformation. No matter 
what Tonty was, a pirate or a redskin, you had only to call 
on the maternal in her, and there was she beside each flagging 
one to take a hand or even administer the rebuke which is 
in itself so heartening, — because if you thought you were 
going to be killed in a few minutes by a tiger or a ghost, of 
course you couldn't be cross to your little brother. You 'd 
be going to see God almost the next instant, and you 'd be 
afraid. 
But now, Tony, alone, unsupported by his clan, was out of 
breath and heart. Suddenly he was all baby, and his legs, as 
he called on them, hatefully shortened. His throat hurt him, 
and he was in a rage with Winterbourne, who wouldn't turn 
round and see him, and ask where he was going. Then he 
could answer, as man to man, " Oh, I thought I 'd go over 
to your house," and Winterbourne might, in a kind of rough- 
and-tumble wherein there was no offence to dignity, toss him 
up to his shoulder and carry him the rest of the way. But 
Winterbourne never looked behind. He strode up the path 
to his own door, threw open the screen with one motion, and 
disappeared. Tony also, in due time, went up the path and 
banged at the screen. No one came. He flattened his little 
nose on the wires and looked in. The hall was large and still. 
There were broad stairs. He remembered climbing them that 
other day to see somebody in bed. Then — for Tony was 
clever — he considered that it might be possible to open the 
door another way. So he reached up to the handle and 
pulled it toward him, and once it banged away from him 
and caught the ends of two fingers when it shut. Rising 
 
passion, of his hurt fingers, of his lonely soul, was pent in 
him until he had tugged it open once more and got round 
the edge of it. There he let it go, and it returned upon him, 
shamefully slapping him, and Tony fell upon the floor of the 
great still hall and cried aloud, since his warfare was over, to 
all that had deserted him. 
This Mrs. Ramsay, enisled in peace, heard; it called to her 
and her alone as, it might be, there were no other woman in 
the universe. She whipped out of bed and down the stairs, 
barefooted, and swooped upon the wreck of a dirty little boy 
on the point, if indications were correct, of being deafened by 
his own roars and drowned in his own tears. She snatched 
him up and, hand over his mouth, fled with him to her cham- 
ber. There she set him on the floor, and Tony, red with 
grief and suffocation, could keep silence very well now with- 
out the restraining hand. He had been shocked into dumb- 
ness. He was afraid to cry. Mrs. Ramsay fell upon his tier 
and tore it from him. She skinned him as neatly as a mother 
more used to homely parts. Vain peeling ! he was just as dirty 
underneath. His little bare feet were dusty only. His clothes 
were sights. Not this a child to be taken into bed with a 
clean mother, however instinct yearned for him. But Mrs. 
Ramsay was really a great woman, a captain in emergency. 
She snatched a pillow from the chair and reft its case off. 
. She sat down and lifted Tony to her knee, and there she 
pulled the pillow-case deftly to his shoulder blades. He was 
in a sleeping-bag, frightened to death but still securely there, 
warranted to leave the cleanest sheets inviolate. And then, 
before he could do much more than wonder whether it was 
a nice game and he might laugh, she had slipped into bed with 
him, and he was scientifically cuddled in her arms. 
For an instant Tony thought it was force, and the man 
in him rebelled. Then two lips touched his hot, tear-wet 
 
34i JOHN WINTERBOURNE15 FAMILY 
cheek. That made him consider a moment, and while he 
