
He laughed again without the slightest bitterness, and looked out of the
window.

The view from the club window was soothing: Fifth Avenue lay silent and
deserted in the sunshine of an early summer morning.

Inwood said: "The papers—everybody—spoke most glowingly of the way your
firm settled with its creditors."

"Oh, hell!  Why should ordinary honesty make such a stir in New York?
Don’t let’s talk about it; I’m going home, anyway."

"Where?"

"To my place."

"It’s been locked up for over a year, hasn’t it?"

"Yes, but there’s a janitor——"

"Come down to Oyster Bay with me," urged Inwood; "come on, Jim, and
forget your troubles over Sunday."

"As for my troubles," returned the other, rising with a shrug and
pulling on his gloves, "I’ve had leisure on the ocean to classify and
pigeonhole the lot of them.  I know exactly what I’m going to do, and
I’m going home to begin it."

"Begin what?" inquired Inwood with a curiosity entirely friendly.

"I’m going to find out," said Edgerton, "whether any of what my friends
have called my ’talents’ are real enough to get me a job worth three
meals a day, or whether they’ll merely procure for me the hook."

"What are you thinking of trying?"

"I don’t know exactly.  I thought of turning some one of my parlor
tricks into a future profession—if people will let me."

"Writing stories?"

"Well, that, or painting, or illustrating—music, perhaps.  Perhaps I
could write a play, or act in some other fellow’s; or do some damn thing
or other—" he ended vaguely. And for the first time Inwood saw that his
friend’s eyes were weary, and that his face seemed unusually worn.  It
was plain enough that James Edgerton 3d had already journeyed many a
league with Black Care, and that he had not yet outridden that shadowy
horseman.

"Jim," said Inwood seriously, "why won’t you let me help you—"  But
Edgerton checked him in a perfectly friendly manner.

"You are helping me," he said; "that’s why I’m going about my
business.  Success to yours, Billy.  Good-by!  I’ll be back"—glancing
around the familiar room—"sometime or other; back here and around town,
everywhere, as usual," he added confidently; and the haunted look faded.
He smiled and nodded with a slight gesture of adieu, picked up his suit
cases, and, with another friendly shake of his head for the offers of
servants’ assistance, walked out into the sunshine of Fifth Avenue, and
west toward his own abode in Fifty-sixth Street.

When he arrived there, he was hot and dusty, and he decided to let Kenna
carry up his luggage.  So he descended to the area.

Every time he pulled the basement bell he could hear it jingle inside
the house somewhere, but nobody responded, and after a while he
remounted the area steps to the street and glanced up at the brown-stone
façade.  Every window was shut, every curtain drawn.  That block on
Fifty-sixth Street on a Sunday morning in early summer is an unusually
silent and deserted region. Edgerton looked up and down the sunny
street. After Paris the city of his birth seemed very mean and treeless
and shabby in the merciless American sunshine.

Fumbling for his keys he wondered to what meaner and shabbier street he
might soon be destined, now that fortune had tripped him up; and how
soon he would begin to regret the luxury of this dusty block and the
comforts of the house which he was now about to enter.  And he fitted
his latch-key to the front door and let himself in.

It was a very clumsy and old-fashioned apartment house, stupidly built,
five stories high; there was only one apartment to a floor, and no
elevator.  The dark and stuffy austerity of this out-of-date building
depressed him anew as he entered.  Its tenants, of course, were away
from town for the summer—respectable, middle-aged people—stodgy,
wealthy, dull as the carved banisters that guarded the dark, gas-lit
well of the staircase. Each family owned its own apartment—had been
owners for years.  Edgerton inherited his floor from an uncle—widely
known among earlier generations as a courtly and delightful old
gentleman—an amateur of antiquities and the possessor of many very
extraordinary things, including his own private character and
disposition.

Carrying his suit cases, which were pasted all over with tricolored
labels, the young man climbed the first two flights of stairs, and then,
placing his luggage on the landing, halted to recover his breath and
spirits.

The outlook for his future loomed as dark as the stair well.  He sat
down on the top step, lighted a cigarette, and gazed up at the sham
stained glass in the skylight above.  And now for the first time he
began to realize something of the hideousness of his present position,
his helplessness, unfitted as he was to cope with financial adversity or
make an honest living at anything.

If people had only let him alone when he first emerged from college as
mentally naked as anything newly fledged, his more sensible instincts
probably would have led him to remain in the ancient firm of his
forefathers, Edgerton, Tennant & Co., dealers in iron.

But fate and his friends had done the business for him, finally
persuading him to go abroad.  He happened, unfortunately, to possess a
light, graceful, but not at all unusual, talent for several of the arts;
he could tinkle catchy improvisations on a piano, sketch in oil and
water colors, model in clay, and write the sort of amateur verse popular
in college periodicals.  Women often evinced an inclination to paw him
and tell him their troubles; fool friends spoke vaguely of genius and
"achieving something distinctly worth while"—which finally spoiled a
perfectly good business man, especially after a third-rate periodical
had printed one of his drawings, and a fourth-rate one had published a
short story by him; and the orchestra at the Colonnade had played one of
his waltzes, and Bernstein of the Frivolity Theater had offered to read
any libretto he might send.

So he had been ass enough to take a vacation and offer himself two
years’ study abroad; and he had been away almost a year when the firm
went to the wall, carrying with it everything he owned on earth except
this apartment and its entailed contents, which he could neither cast
into the melting pot for his creditors nor even sell for his own
benefit. However, the creditors were paid dollar for dollar, and those
finer and entirely obsolete points of the Edgerton honor remained silver
bright; and the last of the Edgertons was back once more in New York
with his apartment, his carvings, tapestries and pictures, which the
will forbade him to sell, and two dollars change in his pockets.


Presently he cast his cigarette from him, picked up his suit cases, and
started upward, jaw set.  It was a good thing for him that he had a jaw
like that.  It was his only asset now.  So far in life, however, he had
never used it.

Except the echo of his tread on the uncarpeted staircase, not another
sound stirred in the house.  Every landing was deserted, every apartment
appeared to be empty and locked up for the summer.  Dust lay gray on
banister and landing; the heated atmosphere reeked with the odor of moth
balls and tar paper seeping from locked doors.

On the top floor a gas jet flickered as usual in the corridor which led
to his apartment. By its uncertain flame he selected a key from the
bunch he carried, and let himself into his own rooms; and the instant he
set foot across the threshold he knew that something was wrong.

Whether it had been a slight sound which he fancied he heard in the
private passage-way, or whether he imagined some stealthy movement in
the golden dusk beyond, he could not determine; but a swift instinct
halted and challenged him, and left him listening.

As he stood there, checked, slowly the idea began to possess him that
there was somebody else in the apartment.  When the slight but sudden
chill had left him, and his hair no longer tingled on the verge of
rising, he moved forward a step, then again halted.  For a moment, still
grasping both suit cases, he stood as though at bay, listening, glancing
from alcove to corridor, from one dim spot of light to another where a
door ajar here and there revealed corners of empty rooms.

Whether or not there was at that moment another living being except
himself in the place he did not know, but he did know that otherwise
matters were not as he had left them a year ago in his apartment.

For one thing, here, under his feet, was spread his beautiful, antique
Daghestan runner, soft as deep velvet, which he had left carefully
rolled up, sewed securely in burlap, and stuffed full of camphor balls.
For another thing, his ear had caught a low, rhythmical sound from the
mantel in his bedroom. It was his frivolous Sèvres clock ticking as
indiscreetly as it had ever ticked in the boudoir of its gayly patched
and powdered mistress a hundred and fifty years ago—which was disturbing
to Edgerton, as he had been away for a year, and had left his apartment
locked up with orders to Kenna, the janitor, to keep out until otherwise
instructed by letter or cable.

Listening, eyes searching the dusk, he heard somewhere the rustle of a
curtain blowing at an open window; and, stepping softly to his
dining-room door, he turned the knob cautiously and peered in.

No window seemed to be open there; the place was dark, the furniture
still in its linen coverings.

As he moved silently to the butler’s pantry, where through loosely
closed blinds the sunshine glimmered, making an amber-tinted mystery of
the silence, it seemed for a moment to him as though he could still hear
somewhere the stir of the curtain; and he turned and retraced his steps
through the library.

In the twilight of the place, half revealed as he passed, he began now
to catch glimpses of a state of things that puzzled him.

Coming presently to his dressing room, he opened the door, and, sure
enough, there was a window open, and beside it a curtain fluttered
gayly.  But what completely monopolized his attention was a number of
fashionable trunks—wardrobe trunks, steamer trunks, hat trunks, shoe
trunks—some open, and the expensive-looking contents partly visible;
some closed and covered.  And on every piece of this undoubtedly
feminine luggage were the letters D.T. or S.T.

And on top of the largest trunk sat a live cat.




                              *CHAPTER II*

                            *CORPUS DELICTI*


The cat was pure white and plumy, and Persian.  Out of its wonderful
sky-blue eyes it looked serenely at Edgerton; and the young man gazed
back, astonished.  Then, suddenly, he caught a glimpse of the bedroom
beyond, and froze to a statue.

The object that appeared to petrify him lay flung across his bed—a
trailing garment of cobweb lace touched here and there with rose-tinted
ribbons.

For a moment he stared at it hypnotized; then his eyes shifted wildly to
his dresser, which seemed to be covered with somebody else’s toilet
silver and crystal, and—what was that row of cunning little commercial
curls!—that chair heaped with fluffy stuffs, lacy, intimate things,
faintly fragrant!

[Illustration: "A dainty, unreal shape, exquisite as a tinted phantom
stealing through a fairy tale of Old Japan."]

With a violent shiver he turned his startled eyes toward the parted
tapestry gently stirring in the unfelt summer wind.

From where he stood he could see into the great studio beyond.  A small,
flowered silk slipper lay near the threshold, high of heel, impertinent,
fascinating; beyond, on the corner of a table stood a bowl full of
peonies, ivory, pink, and salmon-tinted; and their perfume filled the
place.

Somebody had rolled up the studio shades. Sunshine turned the great
square window to a sheet of dazzling glory, and against it, picked out
in delicate silhouette, a magic shadow was moving—a dainty, unreal
shape, exquisite as a tinted phantom stealing through a fairy tale of
Old Japan.

Suddenly the figure turned its head and saw him, and stood motionless
against the flare of light—a young girl, very slim in her shimmering
vestments of blossom-sprayed silk.

The next moment he walked straight into the studio.

Neither spoke.  She examined him out of wide and prettily shaped eyes;
he inspected her with amazed intentness.  Everything about her seemed so
unreal, so subtly fragrant—the pink peonies like fluffy powder-puffs
above each little close-set ear, the rose-tinted silhouette of her, the
flushed cheeks, soft bare arms, the silk-sheathed feet shod in tiny
straw sandals tied with vermilion cords.

"Who are you?" she asked; and her voice seemed to him as charmingly
unreal as the rest of the Japanese fairy tale that held him enthralled.

"Will you please go out again at once!" she said, and he woke up partly.

"This—this is perfectly incredible," he said slowly.

"It is, indeed," she said, placing a snowy finger upon an electric
button and retaining it there.

He regarded her without comprehension, muttering:

"I—I simply cannot realize it—that cat—those g-garments—you——"

"There is another thing you don’t realize," she said with heightened
color, "that I am steadily ringing the janitor’s bell—and the janitor is
large and violent and Irish, and he is probably halfway upstairs by this
time——"

"Do you take me for a malefactor?" he asked, astounded.

"I am not afraid of you in the least," she retorted, still keeping her
finger on the bell.

"Afraid of me?  Of course you are not."

"I am not!  Although your two suit cases are probably packed with the
silver from my dressing stand."

"What!"

"Then—then—what have you put into your suit cases?  What are you doing
in this apartment?  And will you please leave your suit cases and escape
immediately?"

Her voice betrayed a little unsteadiness now, and Edgerton said:

"Please don’t be frightened if I seem to remain——"

"You are remaining!"

"Of course, I am."  He forced an embarrassed smile.  "I’ve got to; I
haven’t any other place to go.  There are all kinds of complications
here, and I think you had better listen to me and stop ringing.  The
janitor is out anyway."

"He is not!" she retorted, now really frightened; "I can hear him
coming up the stairway—probably with a p-pistol——"

Edgerton turned red.  "When I next set eyes on that janitor," he said,
"I’ll probably knock his head off....  Don’t be frightened! I only
meant it humorously.  Really, you must listen to me, because you and I
have some rather important matters to settle within the next few
minutes."

In his growing perplexity and earnestness he placed his suit cases on
the rug and advanced a step toward her, and she shrank away, her hands
flat against the wall behind her, the beautiful, frightened eyes fixed
on his—and he halted.

"I haven’t the slightest notion who you are," he said, bewildered; "but
I’m pretty sure that I’m James Edgerton, and that this is my apartment.
But how you happen to be inhabiting it I can’t guess, unless that
rascally janitor sublet it to you supposing that I’d be away for another
year and never know it."

"You!—James Edgerton!" she exclaimed.

"My steamer docked yesterday."

"You are James Edgerton?—of Edgerton, Tennant & Co.?"

He began to laugh.

"I was James Edgerton, of Edgerton, Tennant & Co.; I am now only a
silent partner in Fate, Destiny & Co....  If you don’t mind—if you
please—who are you?"

"Why, I’m Diana Tennant!"

"Who?"

"Diana Tennant!  Haven’t you ever heard of my sister and me?"

"You mean you’re those two San Francisco nieces?" he asked, astonished.

"I’m one of them.  Silvette is sitting on the roof."

"On—the roof!"

"Yes; we have a roof garden—some geraniums and things, and a hammock.
It’s just a makeshift until we secure employment.... Is it possible that
you are really James Edgerton?  And didn’t you know that we had rented
your apartment by the month?"

He passed an uncertain hand over his eyes.

"Will you let me sit down a moment and talk to you?" he said.

"Please—of course.  I do beg your pardon, Mr. Edgerton....  You must
understand how startling it was to look up and see a man standing there
with two suit cases."

He began to laugh; and after a moment she ventured to smile in an
uncertain, bewildered way, and seated herself in a big velvet chair
against the light.

They sat looking at each other, lost in thought: he evidently absorbed
in the problem before him; she, unquiet, waiting, the reflex of unhappy
little perplexities setting her sensitive lips aquiver at moments.

"You did rent this apartment from the janitor?" he said at length.

"My sister and I—yes.  Didn’t he have your permission?"

"No....  But don’t worry....  I’ll fix it up somehow; we’ll arrange——"

"It is perfectly horrid!" she exclaimed. "What in the world can you
think of us? ... But we were quite innocent—it was merely chance.  Isn’t
it strange, Mr. Edgerton!—Silvette and I had walked and walked and
walked, looking for some furnished apartment within our means which we
might take by the month; and in Fifty-sixth Street we saw the sign,
’Apartment and Studio to let for the summer,’ and we inquired, and he
let us have it for almost nothing.... And we never even knew that it
belonged to you!"

"To whom did you draw your checks for the rent?"

"We were to pay the janitor."

"Have you done so?" he asked sharply.

"N-no.  We arranged—not to pay—until we could afford it——"

"I’m glad of that!  Don’t you pay that scoundrel one penny.  As for me,
of course I couldn’t think of accepting——"

"Oh, dear! oh, dear!" she said in pretty despair; "I’ve got to tell you
everything now! Several humiliating things—circumstances—very tragic,
Mr. Edgerton."

"No; you need not tell me a single thing that is likely to distress
you."

"But I’ve got to!  You don’t understand. That wretched janitor has put
us in a position from which there is absolutely no escape. Because I—we
ought to go away instantly—b-but we—can’t!"

"Not at all, Miss Tennant.  I ought to leave you in possession, and
I—I’m trying to think out how to—to do it."

"How can we ask you to do such a——"

"You don’t ask; I’ve got to find some means—ways—expedients——"

"But we can’t turn you out of your own place!"

"No; but I’ve got to turn myself out.  If you’ll just let me think——"

"I will—oh, I will, Mr. Edgerton; but please, please let me explain
the dreadful and humiliating conditions first, so that you won’t
consider me absolutely shameless."

"I don’t!"

"You will unless I tell you—unless I find courage to tell you how it is
with my sister and me."

"I’d like to know, but you must not feel obliged to tell me."

"I do feel obliged!  I must!  We’re poor. We’ve spent all our money,
and we can’t go anywhere else very well!"

Edgerton glanced at the luxury in the next room, astonished; then his
gaze reverted to the silk-clad figure before him.

"You don’t understand, of course," she said, flushing.  "How could you
suppose us to be almost penniless living here in such a beautiful place
with all those new trunks and gowns and pretty things!  But that is
exactly why we are doing it!"

She leaned forward in her chair, the tint of excitement in her cheeks.

"After the failure, Silvette and I hadn’t anything very much!—you know
how everything of uncle’s went—"  She stopped abruptly.  "Why—why,
probably everything of yours went, too!  Did it?"

He laughed: "Pretty nearly everything."

"Oh! oh!" she cried; "what a perfectly atrocious complication!
Perhaps—perhaps you haven’t money enough to—to go somewhere else for a
while.  Have you?"

"Well, I’ll fix it somehow."

"Mr. Edgerton!" she said excitedly, "Silvette and I have got to go!"

"No," he said laughing, "you’ve only got to go on with your story, Miss
Tennant.  I am a very interested and sympathetic listener."

"Yes," she said desperately, "I must go on with that, too.  Listen, Mr.
Edgerton; we thought a long while and discussed everything, and we
concluded to stake everything on an idea that came to Silvette.  So we
drew out all the money we had and we paid all our just debts, and we
parted with our chaperone—who was a perfect d-darling—I’ll tell you
about her sometime—and we took Argent, our cat, and came straight to New
York, and we hunted and hunted for an apartment until we found this!
And then—do you know what we did?" she demanded excitedly.

"I couldn’t guess!" said Edgerton, smiling.

"We bought clothes—beautiful clothes! And everything luxurious that we
didn’t have we bought—almost frightened to death while we were doing
it—and then we advertised!"



"Advertised!"

"From here!  Can you ever forgive us?"

"Of course," he said, mystified; "but what did you advertise?"

"Ourselves!"

"What!"

"Certainly; and we’ve had replies, but we haven’t liked the people so
far.  Indeed, we advertised in the most respectable daily, weekly and
monthly papers—"  She sprang to her feet, trotted over to the sofa,
picked up an illustrated periodical devoted to country life, and
searching hastily through the advertising pages, found and read aloud to
him, still standing there, the following advertisement:

"Two ladies of gentle birth and breeding, cultivated linguists,
musicians, thoroughly conversant with contemporary events, efficient at
auction bridge, competent to arrange dinners and superintend
decorations, desire employment in helping to entertain house parties,
week-ends, or unwelcome but financially important relatives and other
visitations, at country houses, camps, bungalows, or shooting boxes.

"For terms write to or call at Apartment Five——"

She turned her flushed face toward him.

"Your address in full follows," she said. "Can you ever bring yourself
to forgive us?"

His astonished gaze met hers.  "That doesn’t worry me," he said.

"It is generous and—splendid of you to say so," she faltered.  "You
understand now, don’t you?  We had to spend all our money on clothes;
and we thought ourselves so fortunate in this beautiful apartment
because it was certain to impress people, and nobody could possibly
suspect us of poverty with that great picture by Goya over the mantel
and priceless tapestries and rugs and porcelains in every direction—and
our cat to make it look as though we really belonged here."  Her voice
trembled a moment on the verge of breaking and her eyes grew brilliant
as freshly washed stars, but she lifted her resolute little head and
caught the tremulous lower lip in her teeth.  Then, the crisis over, she
dropped the illustrated paper, came slowly back to her chair and sank
down, extending her arms along the velvet upholstery in silence.

Between them, on the floor, a sapphire rug stretched its ancient Persian
folds.  He looked at it gravely, thinking that its hue matched her eyes.
Then he considered more important matters, plunging blindly into
profound abstraction; and found nothing in the depths except that he had
no money to go anywhere, but that he must go nevertheless.

He looked up after a moment.

"Would you and your sister think it inhospitable of me if I ask when
you—I mean—if I——"

"I know what you mean, Mr. Edgerton. Silvette and I are going at once.

"You can’t.  Do you think I’d permit it? Please remember, too, that
you’ve advertised from here, and you’ve simply got to remain here.  All
I meant to ask was whether you think it might be for a week or two yet,
but, of course, you can’t tell—and forgive me for asking—but I was
merely trying to adjust several matters in my mind to conditions——"

"Mr. Edgerton, we cannot remain.  There is not in my mind the slightest
doubt concerning your financial condition.  If you could let us stay
until we secured employment, I’d ask it of you—because you are James
Edgerton; but you can’t"—she rose with decision—"and I’m going up to the
roof to tell Silvette."

"If you stir I’ll take those suit cases and depart for good."

"You are very generous—the Edgertons always were, I have heard, but we
cannot accept——"

He interrupted, smiling: "I think the Tennants never needed instruction
concerning the finer points of obligation." ... He stood a moment
thoughtfully, turning over and over the two dollars in his pocket; then
with a laugh he walked across the studio and picked up his suit cases.

"Don’t do that!" she said in a grave voice.

"There is nothing else to do, Miss Tennant."

"There’s another bedroom."

They stood, not regarding one another, considering there in the
sunshine.

"Will you wait until I return?" she asked, looking up.  "I want to talk
to Silvette.... I’d like to have Silvette see you.  Will you wait?
Because I’ve come to one of my quick conclusions—I’m celebrated for
them, Mr. Edgerton.  Will you wait?"

"Yes," he said, smiling.

So she trotted away in her little straw sandals and flowery vestments
and butterfly sash; and he began to pace the studio, hands clasped
behind him, trying to think out matters and ways and means—trying to see
a way clear which offered an exit from this complication without forcing
him to do that one thing of which he had a steadfast horror—borrow money
from a friend.

Mingled, too, with his worried cogitations was the thought of Henry
Tennant’s nieces—these young California girls of whom he had vaguely
heard without any particular interest. New Yorkers are never interested
in relatives they never saw; seldom in any relatives at all. And, long
ago, there had been marriage between Tennant and Edgerton—in colonial
days, if he remembered correctly; and, to his own slight surprise, he
felt it now as an added obligation.  It was not enough that he efface
himself until they found employment; more than that was due them from an
Edgerton. And, as he had nothing to do it with, he wondered how he was
to do anything at all for these distant cousins.

Standing there in the sunshine he cast an ironical glance around him at
the Beauvais tapestries, the old masters, the carved furniture of
Charles II’s time, rugs dyed with the ancient splendor of the East, made
during the great epoch when carpets of Ispahan, Damascus—and those
matchless hues woven with gold and silver which are called
Polish—decorated the palaces of Emperor and Sultan.

Not one thing could he sell under the will of Peter Edgerton to save his
body from starvation or his soul from anything else; and he jingled the
two dollars in his pocket and thought of his talents, and wondered what
market there might be for any of them in a city where bricklayers were
paid higher wages than school teachers, and where the wealthy employed
others to furnish their new and gorgeous houses with everything from
pictures and books to the ancient plate from which they ate.

And, thinking of these things, his ears caught a slight rustle of silk;
and he lifted his head as Diana Tennant and her sister Silvette came
toward him through the farther room.




                             *CHAPTER III*

                              *SUB JUDICE*


"Isn’t this a mess!" said Silvette in a clear, unembarrassed voice,
giving him her hand.  "Imagine my excitement up on the roof, Mr.
Edgerton, when Diana appeared and told me what a perfectly delightful
man had come to evict us!"

"I didn’t say it that way," observed Diana, her ears as pink as the
powder-puff peonies above them.  "My sister," she explained, "is one of
those girls whose apparent frankness is usually nonsense.  I’m merely
warning you, Mr. Edgerton."

Silvette—a tall, free-limbed, healthy, and plumper edition of her
sister—laughed.  "In the first place," she said, "suppose we have
luncheon.  There is a fruit salad which I prepared after breakfast.  Our
maid is out, but we know how to do such things, having been made to when
schoolgirls."

"You’ll stay, won’t you?" asked Diana.

"Poor Mr. Edgerton—where else is he to go?" said Silvette calmly.
"Diana, if you’ll set places for three at that very beautiful and
expensive antique table, I’ll bring some agreeable things from the
refrigerator."

"Could I be of any use?" inquired Edgerton, smiling.

"Indeed, you can be.  Talk to Diana and explain to her how respectable
we are and you are, and how everything is certain to be properly
arranged to everybody’s satisfaction. Diana has a very wonderful idea,
and she’s come to one of her celebrated snap-shot conclusions—a
conclusion, Mr. Edgerton, most flattering to you.  Ask her."  And she
went away toward the kitchenette not at all embarrassed by her pretty
morning attire nor by the thick braid of golden hair which hung to her
girdle.

Diana cast a swift glance at Edgerton, and, seeing him smile, smiled,
too, and set about laying places for three with snowy linen, crystal,
silver, and the lovely old Spode porcelain which had not its match in
all the city.

"It’s like a play or a novel," she said; "the hazard of our coming here
the way we did, and of you coming back to America; but, of course, the
same cause operated in both cases, so perhaps it isn’t so remarkable
after all! And"—she repressed a laugh—"to think that I should mistake
you for a malefactor!  Did it seem to you that I behaved in a silly
manner?"

"On the contrary, you exhibited great dignity and courage and
self-restraint."

"Do you really mean it?  I was nearly scared blue, and I was perfectly
certain you’d stuffed your suit cases full of our toilet silver.
Wasn’t it funny, Mr. Edgerton!  And what did you think when you
looked into your studio and saw a woman?"

"I was—somewhat prepared."

"Of course—after a glimpse into our bedroom! But that must have
astonished you, didn’t it?"

"Slightly.  The first thing I saw was a white cat staring at me from the
top of a trunk."

She laughed, arranging the covers with deft touch.

"And what next did you see?"

"Garments," he explained briefly.

"Oh!  Yes, of course."

"Also a silk-flowered slipper with a very high heel on the threshold."

"Mine," she said.  "You see, in the days of our affluence, I used to
have a maid.  I forget, and throw things about sometimes."

"You’ve a maid now, haven’t you?"

"Oh, just a combination cook and waitress until we can find employment.
She’s horridly expensive, too, but it can’t be helped, because it would
create an unfavorable impression if Silvie or I answered the door bell."

"You’re quite right," he said; "people have a curious aversion to
employing those who really need it.  Prosperity never lacks employment.
It’s odd, isn’t it?"

"It’s rather cruel," she said under her breath.

Silvette came in bringing a chilled fruit salad, bread and butter, cold
chicken, and tea. "We’ll have to put it all on at once.  You don’t mind,
do you, Mr. Edgerton?"

He said smilingly but distinctly: "One’s own family can do no wrong.
That is my creed."

Diana looked up at him.

"I wondered whether you knew we were relations," she said, flushing
deliriously.

"You see," added Silvette, "it was not for us to remind you."

"Of our kinship?  Why not?"

"Because you might have considered it an added obligation toward us,"
said Diana, blushing.

"I do—a delightful one; and it is very gracious of you to acknowledge
it."

"But we don’t mean to presume on it," interrupted Silvette hastily.
"Some day we really do mean to regulate our financial obligations toward
you."

"There are no such obligations.  Please remember what roof covers you——"

"Mr. Edgerton!"

"And whose salt——"

"It’s our salt, anyway," said Diana; "I bought it myself!"

They seated themselves, laughing; then suddenly Edgerton remembered, and
he went away with a hasty excuse, only to return again with a brace of
decanters.

"My uncle’s port and sherry," he said.



Silvette jumped up and found half-a-dozen old-time glasses; and the
luncheon continued.

"Isn’t it ridiculous!" observed the young fellow, glancing around the
studio; "here am I surrounded by a fortune in idiotic antiquities,
lunching from a table that the Metropolitan Museum inherits after my
death, sipping a sherry which came from the cellars of a British
monarch—with two dollars and several cents in my pockets, and not the
slightest idea where to get more.  Isn’t it funny!"

Silvette forced a smile, then glanced significantly at her sister.
Diana said, gravely:

"We have several hundred dollars.  Would you be kind enough to let us
offer you what you require for immediate use until——"

"Why, you blessed child!" he said, laughing, "that isn’t what worries me
now!"

"Then—what is it?" inquired Silvette.

"You and your sister."

"What do you mean, Mr. Edgerton?"

"I mean that I’m worried over your prospects!"

"Why, they are perfectly bright!" exclaimed Diana; "In a few days
somebody will employ us to help entertain a number of stupid and wealthy
people.  We’ll make a great deal of money, I expect; don’t you, Silvie?"

"Certainly; but I’m wondering what Mr. Edgerton is going to do with two
dollars in his pocket and us in his apartment."

"So am I," said Diana.

"It’s perfectly charming of you to care."

"What an odd thing to say to us!  Is it not very natural to care?
Besides your being related, you have also been so considerate and so
nice to us that we’d care anyway, I think. Don’t you, Silvie?"

Silvette nodded her golden-crowned head.

"The thing to do for the present," she said, "is for you to take that
farther room.  It was Diane’s idea, and I entirely agree with her—after
seeing you."

"That was the sudden conclusion of which I spoke to you," explained
Diana.  "Such things come to me instinctively.  I thought to myself, ’If
he mentions the kinship between us, then we’ll ask him to remain.’  And
you did.  And we do ask you; don’t we, Silvie?"

"Certainly.  If two old maids wish to entertain their masculine cousin
for a week or two, whose affair is it?  Let Mrs. Grundy shriek; I don’t
care.  Do you, Diane?"

"No, I don’t.  Besides," she added naïvely, "she’s out of town."

They all laughed.  The germ of a delightful understanding was beginning
to take shape; it had already become nascent and was developing in every
frank smile, every candid glance, every unembarrassed question and
reply.

"We have no parents," said Diana gravely. "You have none, have you?"

"No," he said.

"Then it seems natural to me, our being here together; but"—and Diana
glanced sideways at him—"in the East, I believe, people consider
relationship of little or no importance."

He sipped his sherry, reflecting.

"As a rule," he said; "but"—and he laughed—"if any Easterner even
suspected he had two such California cousins, he’d start for the Pacific
coast without his breakfast!"

"Did you ever hear anything half as amiable?" asked Silvette, laughing.

"I never did," replied Diana; "especially as we’re probably his
twenty-second cousins."

"That distance may lend an enchantment to the obligations of kinship!"
he said gayly.

Diana looked up, grave as a youthful Japanese goddess.

"You don’t mean that, do you?"

"No, I don’t," he said, reddening.  "If I did, the janitor ought to
throw me out."

Silvette nodded seriously.

"We know you said it in joke; but the only straw to float Diane’s idea
is our kinship, Mr. Edgerton.  And we grasped at it—for your sake."

"Please cling to it for your own sakes," too, he said, also very serious
now; "it may become a plank to float us all....  I realize the point you
are straining out of kindness to me.  If I accept shelter here for a day
or two, I shall know very well what it costs you to offer it."

"It doesn’t cost us anything," interrupted Diana hastily.  "Silvette
meant only that you should understand why our consciences and common
sense sanction your remaining if we remain."

"You must remain anyway!" he said.

"So must you, cousin," said Silvette, laughing.  "Anyway, you’ve
probably sent your trunks here—haven’t you?"

"By jinks!  I forgot that!" he exclaimed. "I believe that racket on the
stairs means that my trunks are arriving!"

It did mean exactly that.  And when Edgerton went out to the landing he
encountered two expressmen staggering under the luggage, and, behind
them, the terrified janitor who had returned, and who, on the advent of
the baggage, had hurried upstairs to summarily evict the illegal lodgers
before Edgerton’s arrival.

Now, at sight of Edgerton himself, the Irishman turned white with horror
and clung to the banisters for support; but Edgerton only said
pleasantly: "Hello, Mike!  I hope you’ve made my cousins comfortable.
I’ll be here for a day or two.  Bring up any mail there may be for me,
and see that the landing is properly dusted after this."

He came back to the studio intensely amused.

"I thought that guilty Irishman would faint on the stairs when he saw
me," he said. "I merely said that I hoped he’d looked out for my
cousins’ comfort....  You know," he added laughingly, "I’m anything
except angry at him."

Silvette rose from the table and strolled over toward him.

"Are you really glad to know us?" she asked curiously.  "We’ve heard
that New Yorkers are not celebrated for their enthusiasm over poor
relatives from the outer darkness."

"New Yorkers," he said, "are not different from any other creatures
segregated in a self-imposed and comfortable captivity.  People who have
too much of anything are spoiled to that extent—ignorant to that
degree—selfish and prejudiced according to the term of their
imprisonment.  All over the world it is the same; the placidity of
self-approval and self-absorption is the result of local isolation.
We’re not stupid; we merely have so much to look at that we don’t care
what may take place outside our front gate.  But if anybody opens our
gate and comes in, he’ll have no trouble, because he’ll be as much of a
New Yorker as anybody really is."

Silvette laid her head on one side and, drawing the heavy burnished
braid of hair over her left shoulder, rebraided the end absently.

"Is it," she inquired, "because we are merely attractive that you
mentioned the relationship?"

[Illustration: "’Is it because we are merely attractive that you
mentioned the relationship?’"]

"I’m afraid it’s—partly that," he admitted, reddening and glancing
askance at Diana.

"Stop tormenting him!" said Diana.  "He’s candid, anyhow.  It’s very
fortunate all around, anyway," she added naïvely; though exactly why she
considered it fortunate to meet a man with two dollars in his pocket and
the legal right to evict her, she did not explain to herself.

Silvette, caressing her braid with deft fingers, mused aloud: "It’s very
noble of him to claim relationship with two poverty-stricken old maids
from the Pacific coast.  Don’t you think so, Diane?"  And she glanced up
with a bewitching smile that had in it a glint of malice.

"Stop tormenting him!" repeated Diana. "We’re pretty and young, and he
knows it and we know it.  What’s the use in speculating about what he
might have done if we were not attractive?  He’s perfectly satisfied
with his western cousins—aren’t you?" glancing up.

"Perfectly," he said.

Diana nodded emphatically.

"Do you hear, Silvie?  He says he is perfectly satisfied with us, and he
is a typical New Yorker.  Therefore, we need not be at all disturbed
about our capacity for entertaining anybody, if somebody will only offer
us employment."

Silvette looked around at him.  "I’d like to have you see us in our
afternoon gowns; I believe you’d really be rather proud of the
relationship."

"Good Lord!" he exclaimed, half laughing, half annoyed; "I’m proud of it
anyway. What on earth do you think a New Yorker is?"

"We’ve seen some," said Diana meaningly. "Several came here in answer
to our advertisement.  But we knew, of course, that your type existed,
too."

"Have you been—annoyed?"

Silvette laughed.  "One man, of very red complexion, inquired if Diana
would act as his housekeeper.  He had several country places, he said."

"There was a woman came; we didn’t care for her," added Diana
thoughtfully.  Then, lifting her head, she looked at Edgerton with a
gaze so pure and sweet, so exquisitely candid, that he felt his heart
stop for a moment. Then the blood mounted to his face—to the roots of
his hair.

"Take me into your partnership," he said impulsively; "will you?"

"What!"

"Can you?  Is it all right?"

"I don’t know what you mean!" said Diana.

"Why couldn’t I help entertain week-ends with you?"

The proposition seemed to astound them all, even the young fellow who
had made it.

For a moment they all stood silent; then, pursuing his own impulsive
idea toward a plausible conclusion, he said: "Why not, after all?  It
would make a better combination than two young girls alone.  I’ve
clothes—two trunks in there, two more at the customs—London made and
duty paid! Why not?  It’s a good combination.  The more I think of it
the better I like it!"

He began to pace to and fro nervously.

"I know a lot of people—the right kind. I’m not ashamed to ask them to
employ me. There is no reason why a Tennant or an Edgerton should not be
in their houses——"

"But," said Silvette quietly, "the right sort of people, as you call
them, have no need of asking anybody to aid them in entertaining. It is
very generous of you, Mr. Edgerton, but don’t you see that services of
our kind will be accepted only by—by newcomers, newly wealthy
people—those whose circle is small and not very select."

"Yes, that is so," he said so forlornly that Diana watched him
curiously, and a delicate color came into her cheeks as he looked up
again, eager, radiant.

"That’s true," he repeated; "but if I can’t do anything in that way for
us among the right sort, at least the other kind will have a man to
reckon with"—he glanced at Diana grimly now—"when they inquire about
housekeepers, and when women whom you do not care for reply to your
advertisements."

"That is rather a nice thing to say," observed Silvette, looking at him
