that the reason for the dissatisfaction was a fault of 
my own, that it had come from my own blindness. I 
had gone wrong in my attitude to you ; I had failed in 
my sternness and my high devotion to perfection ; I had 
contented myself with lesser things, had come down from 
my best self, and had failed to make you see what a 
 
task was before you, if you ever meant to know my best 
self. You perceive that this is a return to my old-time 
attitude; I am sorry if it makes you wretched, but I 
cannot help it. It is a surgical operation that must 
be borne. I shall not make it necessary again, I hope. 
Now, dear Corydon, I am not trying to choose 
pleasant words in this letter, this is the way I talk 
to myself. And if anything good comes from our love, 
it will be because of this letter. I challenge what is 
noblest in you to rise to meet the truth of it. I should 
not care to write to you if I did not feel that it would. 
You have had a possibility offered to you, and because 
you are very hungry for life you have clasped it to 
you, placed all your happiness in it. The possibility is 
the love of a man whose heart has been filled with the 
fire of genius. There are few men whom life takes 
hold of as it does me, who sacrifice themselves for their 
duty as I do, who demand experience knowledge, 
power, beauty as I do. There are very few men who 
will wrest out of existence as much as I will, or know 
and have as much of life. I am a boy just now, and 
only beginning to live ; but I have my purpose in hand, 
and I know that if I am given health and life, there 
is nothing that men have known that I shall not know, 
nothing that is done in the world that I shall not do, 
or try to. I have a strong physique, and I labor day 
and night, and always shall. I shall always be hungry 
and restless, always dissatisfied with myself, and with 
everything about me, and acting and feeling most of 
the time like a person haunted by a devil. I make no 
apologies to you for the conceit of what I am saying ; 
it is what I think of myself, without caring what other 
people think. I know that I have a tremendous tempera- 
ment, tremendous powers hidden within me, and they 
 
have got to come out. When they do, the world will 
know what I know now. 
Now Corydon, as you understand, I dream love ab- 
solute, and would scorn any other kind. I can master 
my passion, if it be that upon earth there is no woman 
willing or able to go with me to the last inch of my 
journey. I dream a life-companion to follow wherever 
my duty drives me; to feel all the desperateness of de- 
sire that I feel, to be stern and remorseless as I must 
be, wild and savage as I must be ; to race through 
knowledge with me and to share my passion for truth 
with me ; a woman with whom I need have no shame in 
the duty of my genius ! As I tell you, if I marry you, 
I expect to give myself to you as your own heart; and 
then I think of the gentle and mild existence you have 
led! 
It is very hard for me even to tell about my life, or 
to explain this thing that drives me mad. But I am 
writing this letter to you for the purpose of making 
clear to you that there are two alternatives before you, 
and that you must choose one or the other and stick 
by it, and bear the consequences. It is painful to me 
to think that I have fascinated you by what oppor- 
tunities I have, even by what power and passion and 
talents I have, and filled you with a hunger for me- 
when really you do not realize at all what I am, or 
what I must be, and when what I have to do will terrify 
you. I write in the thought of terrifying you now, 
and making you give up this red-hot iron that you are 
trying to hold on to; or else to show you my life so 
plainly that never afterwards can you blame me, or 
shrink back except by your own fault. 
You must not blame me for writing these words, 
for wondering if a woman, if any woman has power 
 
to stand what I need to do. And when I talk to you 
about giving me up, you must not think that is cold, 
but know that it is my faithfulness to my vision, which 
is the one thing to which I owe any duty in the world. 
Nor is it right that you should expect to be essential 
to me, when I have labored to be all to myself. You 
could become necessary to me in the years to come ; if 
I marry you to-day I shall marry you for what you 
are to become, and for that alone at any rate if I 
am true to myself. 
If you are to be my wife you are to be my soul 
to live my soul's life and bear its pain. You are to 
understand that I talk to you as I talk to myself, call 
you the names I call myself, and if you cry, give you 
up in disgust ; that I am to deny you all pleasure as I
do myself, and what God knows will be ten thousand 
times harder, let you take pleasure, and then spring 
up in the very midst of it you know what I mean ! 
That I am to be ever dissatisfied with you, ever incon- 
siderate of your feelings, and ever declaring that you 
are failing! That however much I may love you, I am 
to be your conscience, and therefore keep you just 
about as you are now, miserable ! You told me that you 
would gladly be whipped to learn to live ; and this can 
be the only thing to happen to you. 
You must understand why I act in this way. I am 
a weak and struggling man, with a thousand tempta- 
tions ; and when I marry you, you will be the greatest 
temptation of all. You are a beautiful girl, and I love 
you, and every instinct of my nature drives me to you ; 
for me to live with you without kissing you or putting 
my arms about you, will remain always difficult. It will 
be so for you, as for me, and it will always be our 
danger, and always make us wretched. Your soul rises 
 
in you as I write this, and you say (as you've said 
before) that if I offered to kiss you after it, it would 
be an insult. But only wait until we meet ! 
This is the one thing that has become clear to me: 
just as soon as there comes the least thought of satis- 
faction in our love, just so soon does it cease to satisfy 
my best self. You cannot satisfy my best self, you 
do not even know it ; and if it were a question of that, 
I should never dream of marrying you ! I love you for 
this and for this alone because you are an undeveloped 
soul, the dream of whose infinite possibilities is my one 
delight in the matter. I think that you are perfect 
in character, that you are truth itself; and therefore, 
no matter how helpless you may be, I have no fear of 
failing to make you "all the world to me", provided only 
that I am not false to my ideal. You must know from 
what I have written before that I can love, that I do 
know what love is, and that you may trust me. I am 
not trying to degrade passion I simply see how pas- 
sion throws the burden on the woman, and therefore it 
is utterly a crime with us the least thought of it ! I 
ought to consider you as a school-girl, really just that; 
and instead of that I write you love letters ! 
I tell you there is nothing more hateful for me to 
look back upon than that childish business of ours, 
that time when we went upstairs that we might kiss 
each other unseen. I tell you, it revolts my soul, from 
love and from you ! I should be perfectly willing to 
take all the blame I do ; only I have led you to like 
that (or to act as if you did) and I must stop it. Can 
you not understand how hateful it is to me to think of 
making you anything that I should be disgusted with? 
I expect you to read over this letter until you realize 
that it is, every word of it, completely true and noble, 
 
and until you can write me so. You and I are to feel 
ourselves two school-children and live just so. It is 
not usual for school-children to marry, but that we dare 
upon the strength of our purpose, and in defiance of all 
counsel, and of every precedent. We are to feel that 
we owe our duty to our ideal ; and that simply because 
of the strength and passion of our love for each other, 
we demand perfection, each of the other. My setting 
this stern challenge before you is nothing but my de- 
termination to give you my right love, to demand that 
you be a perfect woman. 
I promise you therefore no quarter; I shall make no 
sacrifice of my ideal for your sake. As I wrote you, I 
mean to be absolutely one with you, and I expect you 
to be the same. You shall have (if you wish it) all of 
my soul I shall live my life with you and think all my 
thoughts aloud study to give you everything that I 
have. And God only, who knows my heart, knows what 
utter love for you lies in those words, what utter trust 
of you how I think of you as being purity and holi- 
ness itself. To offer to take any other being into my 
soul, to lay bare all the secret places of it to its gaze, 
all the weaknesses as well as all the strength, and all 
that is vain as well as all that is sacred! You cannot 
know how I feel about my heart, but this you may 
know, that no one else has had a glimpse of it, you are 
the first and the last; and so sure am I of you that I 
dare to say it, all my life will I live in your presence, 
and trust to your sympathy and truth and feel that 
I am false to love if I do not. If there were anything 
in my heart so foul that I feared to speak of it, I should 
give you that first, as the sacrifice of love; or any 
vanity or foible such things are really hardest to have 
others know, so great is our conceit. 
 
If I could talk to you to-night, I should do just as 
I did up on the hill in the moonlight frighten you, 
and make you wonder if there was any woman who 
wished to bear such a burden ; and perhaps the saddest 
thing of all to me is that I do not bear it instead I 
bear the gnawing of a conscience bitter and ashamed 
of itself. And could you bear that burden? For Cory- 
don, as I look at myself to-night, I am before God, 
a coward and a dastard ! I have not done my work ! 
I have not borne the pain He calls me to bear, I have 
not wrested out the strength He put in my secret 
heart! And here I am chattering, talking about work 
to you! And these things are like a nightmare J;o me; 
they turn all my life's happiness to gall. And you are 
taking upon yourself this same burden coming to 
help me to get rid of it. Or if you do not wish to, for 
God's sake, and mine, and yours, don't come near me 
you have come too near as it is ! Can you not see 
that when I am face to face with these fearful things 
and you come and ask me to give my life to you, to 
worship you with the best faculties I possess that I 
have no right to say yes? 
You once told me you were happy because I called 
you "mein guter Geist, mein bess'res Ich" ; well, you 
are not in the least that. The name that I give you, 
and that you may keep, is "the beautiful possibility of 
a soul". Remember a phrase I told you at the very 
beginning of our love, of the peril of "ceasing to love 
perfection and coming to love a woman." And read 
Shelley's sad note to "Epipsychidion" ! 
 
VIII 
DEAR CORYDON: 
You tell me in your last letter that you are leaving 
all who love you ; and you ask "How do you know that 
because you love beauty, you will love me?" 
I have been thinking a good deal about this ; I do 
not believe, Corydon, that a man more haunted by the 
madness of desire ever lived upon earth than I. And 
when I get at the essence of myself, I do not believe 
that I am a kind man ; I think that a person with less 
patience for human hearts never existed, perhaps with 
less feeling. There is only one thing in the world that 
I can be sure of, or that you can, my fidelity to my 
ideal ! I know that however often I may fail or weaken, 
however many mistakes I may make, my hunger for the 
things of the soul will never leave me, and that night 
and day I shall work for them. I do not believe I have 
the right to promise you anything else, I have no right 
to dream of anything else ; this is not my pleasure, as I 
feel it, it is a frenzy, it is that to which some blind and 
nameless and merciless impulse drives me. And I may 
try to persuade myself all my life that -I love you, 
Corydon, and nothing else, and want nothing else ; and 
all the time in the depths of my heart I hear these words 
from my conscience "You are a fool." I love power, 
I love life, and seek them and strive for them, and care 
for nothing else and never have; and nothing else can 
satisfy me. And I cannoi give any other love than this, 
any other promise. 
 
IX 
MY DEAR CORYDON ! 
I have been taking a walk this morning, thinking 
about us, and that I had treated you fearfully. The 
whole truth of it all is this that I am so raw and so 
young and so helpless (and you are as much, if not more 
so) that I cannot, to save my life, be sure if my love for 
you is what it ought to be, or even if I could love any 
one as I ought. And I am so wretchedly dissatisfied! 
Do you know that for two weeks I have been trying to 
write a passage of my book and before God, I cannot! 
I have not the power, I have not the life! 
Dear Corydon, it comes to me that you are miserable 
to be in love with me that I had no right to put this 
burden on your shoulders. I would say better things 
if I could, but I think that our marriage will be a 
setting out across a wild ocean in the dark! It is for 
you to be the heroine, to dare the voyage if you choose. 
These sound like wild words, but they are the truth 
of my life, and I dare not say any others. Can a girl 
who has been brought up in gentleness and sweetness, 
in innocence of life and of pain can she say things, 
feel things like these? 
X 
THYRSIS : 
God did not endow me with your tongue, or else it 
would not be the great effort it is to me to tell you some 
of the thoughts that have rushed through my mind 
in the last hour. 
It is an hour since I began to read your letter of 
Horrible Truth. Now it seems to me it might have 
 
been in the last year, in the last century. Actually I 
feel like a stranger to myself ; and my movements are 
very slow. First, I will tell you that I believe in God, 
oh, so implicitly this thought gives me infinite hope. 
I long to let you know as much of my heart as I can, 
if I am to be your life-companion, as I firmly believe 
I am to be. I have such a strange calmness now, and 
I imagine that I must feel very much the way Rip Van 
Winkle did when he awoke. I want to try to show you 
my heart it is right that I should try, is it not? 
Know that I have placed much faith and trust in 
you, in anything that you did. If you opened one door 
to me and told me it led to the great and permanent 
truth, I believed you absolutely. If you hauled me 
back and put me through an opposite one, telling me 
that there my road lay, I believed you with equal faith. 
Now, now, at the end of an hour, I am, through you, 
convinced of one door, the only and true entrance ; and 
I am as sure as I am that the sun is shining at this 
moment, that nothing in God's world can ever again 
make me lose sight of it. I have found that you can 
lose sight of it, Thyrsis, something shows me that I 
have in the last month been more right than you. Yes, 
I have, Thyrsis, though you may not know it. And 
the reason I couldn't stay right was because I am not 
strong enough to grasp my good impulses, and keep 
hold of them: because I have not enough faith in the 
soul within me. 
I will try to tell you what I have felt since reading 
your letter. All is so disgustingly calm in me now. 
But listen, I believe I have had a little glimpse this 
afternoon of what it is to feel; and because of that 
knowledge I now am not afraid to tell you that I claim 
something of God and life that I can get it if you 
 
can. This has been very strong in me at moments, 
but, as I tell you, I have not yet learned to hold my 
glimpses of truth they seem to come to me, and as 
quickly disappear. 
I began to read your letter, and I cannot describe 
to you the convulsion that came over me. It seemed 
that I had the feeling of an empty skull on a 
desert ; such a feeling you can never have it ! All 
the horror and despair! I tried to form my thoughts 
and tell myself it was not true. I tried to pray, and I 
did pray out loud and asked God to give me strength 
to read the letter. 
I tried to use all the penetration I was capable of, 
to find out one thing, whether you were purely and 
unreservedly sincere in it. I wondered whether you 
really wished to live your life alone, but could not find 
the courage to tell me so. I firmly believe that no 
failure in the future, no disgust or helplessness, could 
ever bring me the complete anguish of those moments. 
Can you realize what such a thing meant to me, 
Thy rsis ? 
Last spring, I had succeeded in bringing myself into 
an almost complete state of coma I saw that I could 
do nothing, and because I would not endure such profit- 
less pain I drugged myself to sleep. And you, you 
fiend, waked me up ; and may your soul be thrice cursed 
if you have only pulled the doll to pieces to see what it 
was made of! Know, you that have a soul which 
says it lives and suffers that I can't go to sleep again ! 
There is no joy for me in mother or father, in friends 
or admiration I can tolerate nothing that I tolerated 
before you came with your cursed or blessed fire ! 
Also, if you do not marry me, or if I do not find some 
man who has your strength and desire for life, and 
 
who will take me and help me to learn, I shall die with- 
out having lived. And I cried out in misery only 
forty-two years, only forty-two little years, and I shall 
be an old woman of sixty ! Only forty-two years in 
which to learn to live ! 
I believe if I had you here now I could almost strangle 
you. We may kill each other some day. I sometimes 
feel that there is nothing that will give me any relief, 
that I cannot breathe, I cannot support my body. But 
these are foolish and unprofitable feelings and I be- 
lieve I will yet be saved, if not by you, perhaps by 
myself. I think some heavenly aid came to me to-day. 
I asked for it, I simply said it must come and now I 
am able to bear myself and look around me, and say 
that the secret of my liberation is not death but life. 
Please realize, Thyrsis, that I know you do not need 
me, that I cannot either entertain you or help you. 
My dear, do you not know that I have been conscious 
of this from the very beginning and it has been this 
thought that has often made me worry, and doubt, and 
question. And then I have told myself that you had 
found something in me to love ; and that I also was very 
hungry to know about life and God ; and that if you 
loved me enough to believe I was not dross, we might, 
with our untiring devotion well, we might be right 
in going with each other. And now would you rather 
I should tell you I will not marry you, be my desire, 
or effort, what it may? I do not know even though 
I want to live so terribly. I have no word, no proof 
to give! 
And now, Thyrsis, I have no more strength to write. 
I only wish I had some power to make you know what 
I have felt this afternoon I think if I could, you 
 
would have no more doubt of me. And I believe it i& 
my God-given right not to doubt myself. 
I will write no more I have written enough to make 
you answer one of two things. "Come with me," or y 
"I would rather go alone." I know which one it will 
be, even now in my wretchedness. The sky is so blue 
this evening, and everything is so beautiful and I am 
trying so hard to be right, to feel strong and confident! 
XI 
DEAR THYRSIS: 
I have just arisen. I woke in the middle of the night,, 
and there was a spectre sitting by my bedside to 
frighten me ; he succeeded at first, but I managed finally 
to get rid of him, and to find some peace. Many of 
your sentences came to me, and I was able to get be- 
hind the words, and I saw plainly that the letters were 
just what you should have written, and that they could 
not but benefit me. They have accomplished their pur- 
pose, I believe they are burned into my soul, and have 
placed me rightly in our relation. I shall simply never 
trust the permission you may give me, in the future, 
to rest or be satisfied. I shall only hate you, for the 
pain of some of your words I shall never forget. 
The memory of the first two pages of your letter 
will always put me in mortal terror of you. For the 
rest, I am very grateful, and I will try to show you 
how I love your ideal. I can never repay you as long 
as I live for letting me come with you. Oh Thyrsis, 
I am sure that I will never think or care whether you 
love me or not, if only I may go with you and learn 
how to strive ! 
I tore up all your love-letters this morning. I kept 
 
the last letter though I do not think I could bear to 
read it over. I should be afraid of again going 
through with that despair. Oh, I beg for the time 
when I shall be obliged to waste none of my minutes 
and when I shall have no opportunity of writing you! 
What time I have spent over your letters and mine ! 
XII 
DEAR THYESIS: 
I am restlessly waiting for the supper-bell to ring, 
and my head is aching intensely, and I am generally 
topsy-turvy. Alas ! alas ! the distance that separates 
us and our understanding! 
I received a letter to-day while I was studying but 
said I would not open it for a week, that I wanted 
strength to study. Well, I studied all the afternoon 
and found it none too easy. When I came home, I 
thought perhaps it was better to read your letter, which 
I grimly did. 
Do you know, you are keeping me on the rack, liter- 
ally on the rack, and my flesh and blood do not seem 
to be able to stand it my body seems to be the organ 
that first fails me, my brain is never so tired as my 
body. I love to think that you are not less merciful 
to me than you would be to yourself, I feel that you 
could not have used more cruel whips to yourself. Do 
you suppose that any disgust, scolding, or malediction 
to me could, as your wife, hurt me, as your doubt of 
me hurts me now? 
And I just begin to read your letter again, and 
I tell you, you are a fool. You say you do not know 
whether you could love any one as you ought well, 
I, with all my weakness, know whether I can love, and 
 
I love you a thousand times more than you have given 
me cause to. And you are so hungry! Will you always 
starve because you are blind? As to being satisfied, 
how could you be? But you say you will love me as 
much as I deserve. How much do I deserve do you 
know? I sometimes cry out against you and long to 
get hold of you. If you have genius, why doesn't it 
give you some inkling whether you are a man with a 
heart, not only a stupid boy? And then I see it all 
plainly, or think I do, and know that you are trying 
so hard to be right towards us, because you think you 
love me the way other people love; and you know if I 
am weak, it would degrade your genius ; and you can- 
not be sure of my character or strength. You cannot 
know whether I realize the life I am selecting you 
have found it hard, and you have every reason to think 
that I will find it ten times harder ; and you love me in 
a way that is not the highest, but yet you love me 
enough, thank God, to tell me the whole truth! 
I have come to a pass where I can say to myself with 
truth, that I do not care how much or how little you 
love me. That depends upon you, as well as myself. I 
believe the time will come, when you will love me as you 
ought, and I say this in perfect calm conviction, in 
all my weakness, and with all my maudlin habits cling- 
ing to me. Strangely enough your doubt of me has 
made me rise up in arms to champion my cause, or else 
I should lie down forever in the dust, and deny my 
God. 
I wonder whether it is my love for you that makes 
me believe? I cling to you, as a mother might cling 
to her child; I cling to you as the embodiment, the 
promise, of all I will ever find true in life. I look to 
live in you, to fulfil all my possibilities in you, and if 
 
you die or forsake me, all my hope is gone, and I am 
dead. This is a letter in which I have no scorn or doubt, 
or ridicule of myself, as formerly. 
And then you ask me, "Can a girl brought up in 
gentleness and sweetness, and innocence of life and of 
pain, can she say things, feel things like these?" It is 
the gentleness and sweetness and innocence that are 
galling to me. I can tolerate no more of them. They 
have warped me, they have given me no chance. But 
I have had some pain in my life, and since I have 
known you I have known more about pain and what it 
brings, and leaves. And now I am feeling ill, and I 
cannot control that. Oh, God! 
XIII 
DEAREST CORYDON: 
I have a chance to finish the first part of my book 
to-day, and save myself from Hades ; and here I am 
writing to you just a line. (Of course it turned out 
to be six pages !) 
Your last letter was very noble; I can only say to 
you, that the treatment which makes you upbraid me 
is not done for my sake; that the life which I live is 
not lived for my sake. You say perhaps you are better 
than I; it is very possible I often think so myself; 
but that is nothing to the point. I should be very 
wretched if I sat down to think what I am. Oblige me 
by being better than my ideal if you can ! You must 
understand, dearest, that behind all that I am doing, 
there is truth to the soul; and that truth to the soul 
is love, and the only; love. I am seeking for nothing 
but the privilege of treating you as myself; and rest 
assured, that if I treat you any differently it will be 
 
better than I treat myself! There is no peril in our 
life except that! 
Some day you will understand that I can sometimes 
feel about myself that I am utterly hateful, utterly 
false, utterly shallow and bad; and that to get away 
from myself would be all that I desire in life. I cannot 
imagine my having such opinion of you ; but some dis- 
satisfaction just a little I may have. Only let us 
love perfection, you and I, with all our souls, and I 
think our love for each other may safely be allowed 
to take care of itself. Remember the two ships in 
Clough's poem, which parted, but sailed by the compass, 
and reached the same port. 
I shall spend no more time comforting you about 
this. 
And dear Corydon, when you are angry at my doubt- 
ing your power, and say that I do not know you, I can 
only reply Why of course I don't, and neither do you. 
You find your own self out little by little why get 
angry with me because I don't know it until you tell 
me? You are a grown woman compared to what you were 
three months ago ; and this character that you ask me 
to know well, it takes years of hard labor to prove 
a character. 
XIV 
DEAREST CORYDON: 
Do you ever realize how much faith in you I have? 
As utterly different is your whole life, as if you had 
been in another world ; and through all the wilderness 
that I have travelled, I hope to drag you. But I cannot 
carry you, or take you; I must trust in the frenzy of 
your grip upon me. There is nothing else you could 
have that I would trust. You might be wonderfully 
 
clever and wonderfully wise and I could do nothing 
with you. Do you remember Beethoven's saying, that 
he would like to take a certain woman, if he had time, 
and marry her and break her heart, so that she might 
be able to sing? 
Ah dear heart, I wish you could read in my words 
what I feel ! I wonder if I am dreaming when I live 
in this ideal of what a woman's love can be so com- 
plete and so utter a surrender, so complete a forgetting, 
a losing of the self, so complete a living in another 
heart! I am not afraid to ask just this from a woman 
from you! For I have enough heart's passion to 
satisfy every thirst that you may feel. Ah, Cory don, 
I want you ! I am drunk with the thought of making 
a woman to love. I wonder if any man ever thought of 
that before ! Artists go about the world with the great 
hunger of their hearts, and expecting to find by chance 
another soul like the one they have spent years in mak- 
ing beautiful and swift and strong ; but has anyone ever 
thought that instead of writing books that no one un- 
derstands, he might be making another kind of an art- 
work one that would be alive, and with sacred possi- 
bilities of its own? 
XV 
DEAR THYRSIS: 
Your last letters have been very beautiful. I see one 
thing though you inform me that you believe you are 
a hard man, your natural gentleness and sympathy of 
heart would be the ruin of both of us in the future 
if I would permit it. But I think you can trust me, 
not ever as long as I live to lead you into weakness. 
My desperateness, before I received your letter saying 
that I might come with you, was rather dreadful ; it 
 
made me doubt myself, for it was so difficult to keep 
myself from going to pieces. I have been wicked 
enough, to wonder whether I could ever make you feel 
as I felt for two days if I could only bring to your 
heart that one pang, the only real one I ever felt in 
my life! But it taught me one thing, that the only 
road toward realization of life and one's self is through 
suffering. I found out that I could bear, for it seems 
to me as I look back at that horrible nightmare, that 
it was almost by a superhuman effort I was able to read 
the letter at all. But enough of that ! 
I think I have effectually cured myself of any weak 
yearning for your love. I go to you in gratefulness, 
knowing what I lack and what you need. Anything 
my love can do for you, it shall do. It may have some 
power I sometimes think that it could have more than 
you realize. 
I suppose every woman has thought that the man 
she loved was her very life, but I do not think it of 
you, I simply know it. I must go with you, whether I 
loved you or not. 
Meanwhile my love has assumed a strength to me that 
I never felt before. I don't know how my wild and in- 
coherent letters have affected you, but there were many 
times when I longed to get hold of you, literally, and 
simply shake into you some recognition of my soul. 
Oh, I am afraid you couldn't get away from me ; the 
more merciless you are to me, the wilder I get. 
I am possessed by so many opposite moods and in- 
fluences. I am afraid of you a little. I never know 
what you are going to do to me. 
I feel, I cannot help but feel, that I am part of 
your life, now, you could not neglect me any more 
than you could your own soul. I consider you just 
 
as responsible for mine as you are for your own. I 
say this with no doubts, but know that it is true, and 
you must know it. 
XVI 
DEAR THYRSIS: 
You certainly have a wonderful task in store for me, 
and I pray God to give me strength for it. I can see 
very plainly that you expect to find the essence of my 
soul better than yours, because it seems that you are 
making my task harder than yours. 
Do you know, I have actually found myself asking, 
at times, with a certain defiant rage if you were 
actually going to give love to your princess before you 
had made her suffer ! So far you have not made her 
suffer at all. I had become quite excited over this idea 
though perhaps I had no right to. I suppose it is 
all right, because she is an imaginary person, and you 
can endow her with all the perfections you please. She 
is triumphant and thrilling, and worthy of love 
whereas I am just little Corydon, whom you have known 
all your life, and who is stupid and helpless, and im- 
possible to imagine romances about! Is that the way 
of it? 
XVII 
MY DEAREST THYRSIS : 
A long letter has just come to me. I always receive 
your letters with many palpitations, and by the time I 
get through reading, my cheeks are naming. It is too 
bad it takes letters so long to go to and fro. 
I have finally come to bear the attitude towards my- 
self, that I would to a naughty child. I will have no 
 
nonsense, and all my absurdities and inefficiencies must 
be cured. I think I have come to know myself a little 
better within the last few days. I know that I have no 
right to quick victories, or any happiness at all, even 
your love. I tell you truly, if it were only possible, 
I would go away this minute do you hear? oh! to 
some lonely place, and then I would do something with 
myself. I want to be alone, alone I want to be face 
to face with myself, and God, if possible ! I have come 
to the conclusion that I can do anything I must do. 
I think (I am not sure) I could give you up, if I were 
obliged to, and go away by myself and try alone. If 
I do not have you, I must have solitude. 
XVIII 
MY DEAREST CORYDON: 
Thinking about my work this morning, and how hard 
it was, and how much strength it would take, my 
thoughts turned to you, and I discovered, as never be- 
fore, just how I like to think of you. It seemed to me 
that you were part of the raw material that I had to 
use; that I had mastered you, and was going to make 
you what you had to be. And there woke in my heart 
at those words a fierceness of purpose that I had never 
felt in my life before I was quite mad with it ; and you 
cried out to escape me, but I would not let you go, but 
held you right tightly in my arms. And so I do not 
mean to let you go! I shall bear you away with me, 
and make you what I wish. And the promise of mar- 
riage that I make you is just this: not that I love you 
I do not love you ; but what I wish the woman to be 
whom I am to love that I will make you ! 
 
And do not ever dare to ask me for any other promise, 
for you will not get it. You will come with this. 
XIX 
MY THYRSIS: 
I had an iron grip at my heart just now, as I was 
trying to study. I had a foreboding of something 
and then I came home and found your letter telling 
me I was yours, and I must. At last I may go to you 
the way I wish ! My love, my love, I do not care what 
you are, or what you do to me, as long as I may go 
with you. 
How I laugh at myself as I say it! You have mas- 
tered me to worship your life not you. I shall not 
work for your love, I shall work to live. Our love will 
be one of the incidents of our life. Meanwhile, I may 
go with you, that is all that I say I sing it. I may 
go with you, not to happiness, but to necessity ! 
And now that cursed German ! It hangs over my 
head like a sword of Damocles I have heard of though 
I don't know why it was held over his head ! 
You think our love was settling into the cooing 
state ! Dear me, Thyrsis, I hope I will not always have 
to yell to you over a foggy ocean ! 
XX 
DEAR THYRSIS: 
Can you imagine what it must be to be shut up in 
a little room on a rainy night, with the children and 
people screaming under your window? That is my 
position now. 
I find myself hard to manage at times. I want to 
 
become discouraged or melancholy or disgusted, but I 
drive myself better than I used to. I even was happy 
a little for a few moments to-night. I was playing one 
of my piano-pieces, and I found myself imagining all 
sorts of things. But this happens very seldom, and 
only lasts for a moment. I often wonder at myself. 
Two months ago I did not love you one particle ; I love 
you now, so that so that it is impossible for me to 
do anything else. In fact I did not realize how much 
I loved you until that terrible moment when I read you 
did not love me. I saw how impossible it will be to 
cease to love you, no matter what you do to me. I do 
not know why it is ; I simply know it is, and perhaps 
some day I may teach you how to love. I do not imagine 
you know how very well, at present no, Thyrsis, I 
don't. 
I know your true self now, and I love it better than 
ever I loved the other. I say it with a certain grim- 
ness. I know you, your real self, and I love it. 
Know, oh, my Beloved, that in the last three months 
you have grown to me from a boy into a man, into 
my husband ! When I think of you as you were at first 
you seem a child compared to what you are now. 
XXI 
DEAREST LOVE: 
Last night, as I went to sleep, I was thinking of you 
and our problem, and there were all sorts of uncer- 
tainties ; but one thing I have to tell you, my Corydon 
that it came to me how sweet and true, and how pure 
and good you have been; and I loved you very, very 
much indeed. I thought : I should like to tell her that, 
and ask her always to be so noble and unselfish. Can 
 
you not realize how all your deficiencies are as nothing 
to me, in the sight of that one unapproachable per- 
fection? For my Corydon is all devotion and love, and 
pure, pure, maiden goodness ! And there is quite a 
whole heart full of feeling for you in that, and I wish 
I had you here to tell you. 
XXII 
MY CORYDON : 
I am coming more and more to realize myself, and 
what is the single faculty I have been given. I think 
of a dear clergyman friend I used to have, and I realize 
w r hat a loving heart is what it is to delight in a human 
soul for its own sake, and to be kind to it, fond of it. 
And I know that there could not be a man with less 
of that than I have. Certainly I know this, I never 
did love a soul for its own sake, and don't think I could. 
I love beauty, and truth, and power, and I hate every- 
thing else, if it come across my way. If I had to live 
the life of that clergyman friend I should be insane in 
a month. I see this as something very hateful; but 
there is only one thing I can do, to see that I hate my 
own self more than I hate any other self and work, 
work, for the thing I love. 
You asked me once to tell you if your death would 
make any difference to me. If you were to die to-mor- 
row I should feel that .a sacred opportunity was gone 
out of my life, that all my efforts must have less result 
forever after. But I do not think I should stop work- 
ing a day. 
I love you because you are something upon which 
I may exert the force of my will. I honestly believe that 
the truest word, the nearest to my character, I ever 
 
spoke. If I care about you it is for one thing, and 
one only because you are a soul hungry for life, be- 
cause you are capable of sacrifice and high effort, be- 
cause you are sensitive and eager. I love you and honor 
you for this ; I take you to my bosom, I give all my life 
to your service ; and I shall make you a perfect woman, 
or else kill you. 
You must understand what I want; I want no con- 
crete thing, no dozen languages to throw you into 
despair. I want effort, effort, effort! That's all. And I 
believe that you might be a stronger soul than I at 
this moment, if only you chose to hunt yourself out 
and fight! That is truly what I feel about you, and 
that is why I love you. 
xxm 
DEAREST THYRSIS : 
I have no more to say, my precious one; I bow in 
joy before your will, your certainty, your power. Let 
it be so, I shall adore you as I so long to do. 
You are giving me all I could ask for. What more 
could I wish from you, dear Thyrsis, than to know 
you will never leave my side? I will try not to do 
any more bemoaning of my shortcomings. To-night 
I reached a wonderful security and almost sublimity, 
until I could have fallen on my face and praised God 
for His mercy. I talked out loud to myself, I ex- 
horted myself, I explained to myself what is my beauty 
and possibility in life the reason for which I was 
born. I was quite lifted out of myself, by a conviction 
that came like a benediction, that the essence of my 
soul was good and pure, and that if anybody upon 
earth had the power to reach God, it was myself. 
 
Dear God, how I have spent the years of my life ! 
like an imbecile! But you if you take me, I shall go 
mad I shall love you like a tigress ! I shall implore 
you to invent any way that will enable me to realize 
life ! Oh, if you take me, how madly I shall love you ! 
I fancy myself seeing you now, and I don't know what 
I should do I love you so dreadfully ! I think of you, 
and everything about you seems so wondrously beauti- 
ful to me! 
I almost have a feeling that I have no right to love 
you so much. Oh, tell me, do you want me to love you 
as I can ? Already you seem part of me, mine mine ! 
And it is wonderful how you help me. 
XXIV 
THYRSIS : 
I spent the whole day in the park without a bite to 
eat, because I did not want to take the trouble to come 
home after it, and I only had five cents. I have tried, 
oh, tried to control myself and make myself saner. I 
am seized with occasional fits of the horrors, and of wild 
cravings for you, until I could scream. It is so un- 
bearable, and I almost want to die. Oh, but I do not 
want to die ! My imagination has become so fevered in 
the last few days if I do not see you soon, I know not 
what will become of me ! 
I have never loved you so wildly though I have 
always longed for you. I sometimes feel now as if my 
brain were utterly wrecked. I know not what is the 
matter ; I gasp, when I think of you. I am convinced 
of heaven and hell almost in the same breath experi- 
ence each in rapid succession. One touch of your hand 
and one look, I think would cure me. I seem as if in 
 
a thunder-storm pitchy blackness with flashes of light 
and in the flashes I see you, my beloved ! 
XXV 
THYRSIS : 
I am atrociously weary of being able to depend upon 
myself not at all; but oh, how marvellously sweet and 
good you are to me ! I shall never be able to pay you 
for your help ! 
Dear Heaven, what a cup of bitterness I have drunk, 
since I last saw you! Dearest, you have really torn 
me to pieces, unwittingly. But now I am healed, and 
I may go on in your blessed sight, with my terrors gone 
forever. 
And then I actually wonder if you have an earthly 
form ! It will be very strange to see you and touch 
you, I sometimes wake up with a start at the thought 
of it! 
XXVI 
THYRSIS : 
Here I am, the most restless and miserable and un- 
comfortable and pining of creatures a very Dido ! 
Are you satisfied, now that you have made it almost im- 
possible for me to put my mind on anything but you, 
you? I spend hours reading one page of my book. 
I was reading peaceably just now, and I suddenly 
thought how I would feel if I saw you coming in at 
the door. I started and could hardly believe that I 
will really see you in something besides visions. When 
night comes I usually get fidgety, and can hardly realize 
I do not need to worry over phantoms. Then I go on 
with "Classicism and Romanticism in Music," and I 
 
think of you and read a line and think of you ! You 
see, it doesn't do for me to be too intense, for I just 
devour myself, and that is all. My only idea of a vent 
is to knock my head against something. 
I suppose it is the inevitable result of caring for 
someone you cannot see. Here I might be studying 
now, but what do I do ? I go around seeking rest and 
I write you a dozen times a day, and use up all the 
stamps in the house. 
Oh well, I dare say if you washed me to love you, 
you have accomplished your purpose most successfully. 
There is nothing in life but you, and to suddenly 
acquire a new self is most startling, and something hard 
to believe. Thyrsis, I simply cannot realize that I may 
go to you and find peace and security. 
XXVII 
MY DEAREST CORYDON: 
I have just a few words to say. I have two weeks 
left in which to shake off my shoulders the fearful 
animal that has been tearing me. For just three weeks 
to-day, not a line written ! 
The task seems almost beyond my powers. God, 
will people ever know how I have worked over this book ! 
But unless you develop some new doubt, or I persist 
in writing letters, I ought to get it done now. I shall 
see you as soon as I have finished, and meantime I shall 
write no letters. 
XXVIII 
DEAR THYRSIS: 
I would give a great deal to let you know how I have 
struggled and suffered. 
 
I have had almost more than I could bear the more 
horrible because the more unreasonable. You must 
know it. If it disturbs you, please put the letter away 
until a favorable time. I account my trouble greatly 
physical I have never been in such a nervous state. 
The murky despair that has come over me that I have 
writhed and struggled in, as in the clutches of some 
fiend ! It seems to me I have experienced every torment 
of each successive stage of Dante's Inferno. I know 
what is the emotion of a soul in all the bloom and hope 
of youth, condemned to die. 
I woke up in the middle of the night last night and 
felt as if a monster sat by to throw a black cloth over 
me and smother me. I got up and shook myself, and 
my heart was beating violently. 
I managed to get myself free. This morning I am 
better. God in Heaven only knows I would rather 
be torn limb from limb, yes, honestly, than endure the 
blackness of soul that I have had through all these 
years of strife and failure by myself. 
XXIX 
DEAREST THYRSIS : 
Perhaps if I have written to you a few words, I shall 
be able to put my mind on study as so far I have not 
done. I actually to-night have been indulging in all 
sorts of romantic moods about you. I felt in a sing- 
ing mood, and when I came up from dinner I put on a 
beautiful dress, just for fun, and I looked quite radiant. 
I dreamed of you, and imagined that you were at my 
feet, in true Romeo fashion and I was your Juliet. 
I imagined I couldn't help thinking of this, and I 
knew I ought to be doing something else ! Oh, but how 
I want a poor taste of joy! You were my Romeo to- 
night you were beautiful and young and loving ; and 
well, I had one dream of youth and happiness before 
my miseries begin. 
I have felt that we were very near to each other 
lately. You have shown me the tenderness of your 
heart, and I love you quite rapturously. I love your 
goodness, your sympathy perhaps when I see you I 
can tell vou! 
mi 
XXX 
DEAREST THYRSIS : 
I received a postal just now, saying that you were 
coming soon. I had my usual queer faintness. It was 
like receiving word from the dead it seemed such 
centuries aeons since I heard from you! I send you 
this batch of notes I have written you at various times, 
a sort of mental itinerary, for my mind has traveled 
into all sorts of queer places, back and forth. I tell 
you that without your continual influence, I am lost 
in doubt and uncertainty. Please try to understand 
these notes and my fits of love and fear. 
XXXI 
DEAR THYRSIS: 
I am in one of my cast-iron moods this morning 
in a fighting mood, I do not care with whom or what. 
You, even you, have not altogether understood me 
you have often given me a dog's portion. I have been 
a slave, a cowering kitten before you, and you (un- 
wittingly I know) have done much to destroy all my 
courage and hope and love by what you call making 
me aware of your higher self. Fortunately I k?ww 
 
what your higher self is, quite as well as you do, if 
not a little better and I know that it is the self that 
most strengthens my love and courage, the self that 
most fills me with life. I have a right to life as well 
as you, and a right to the love in you that most inspires 
me. I feel I am capable of judging this, in spite of 
all my lack of education, and my inability to follow 
you in your intellectual life. 
I have thought lately that you were able to make 
yourself believe that you were anything you wished to 
think yourself. Whenever you wring my heart and de- 
prive me of strength, I shall go somewhere alone, and 
when I have controlled myself, come back to you. 
You say you are master but it must be master of 
the right. I want strength, and why you should think 
it right ever to have helped to throw me into more 
despair, I do not know. The reason I have written all 
this is because such ideas have come to me lately, and 
a fear that sometimes you might resort to your un- 
loving methods, with the thought of its being right. I 
tell you I would rather stay at home, than ever go 
through with some of the pangs you have cost me, in 
what you called your higher moods. You must not 
gainsay me, that I am also capable of respecting high 
moods and bowing before them ; but it would seem to 
me that they are only high if they are a source of in- 
spiration and joy to me. 
Because we love each other, would that be any reason 
