“You don’t keep them up, you depress them to anguish,” she almost
passionately protested, “when you don’t tell me you’ll treat!”
He paused in his preoccupation, his perambulation, conscious evidently
of no reluctance that was worth a scene with so charming and so hungry
a woman. “Well, if it’s a question of your otherwise suffering torments,
may I have another interview with the old lady?”
“Dear Mr. Bender, she’s in the flower of her youth; she only yearns for
interviews, and you may have,” Lady Sandgate earnestly declared, “as
many as you like.”
“Oh, you must be there to protect me!”
“Then as soon as I return----!”
“Well,”--it clearly cost him little to say--“I’ll come right round.”
She joyously registered the vow. “Only meanwhile then, please, never a
word!”
“Never a word, certainly. But where all this time,” Mr. Bender asked,
“is Lord John?”
Lady Sandgate, as he spoke, found her eyes meeting those of a young
woman who, presenting herself from without, stood framed in the doorway
to the terrace; a slight fair grave young woman, of middle, stature and
simply dressed, whose brow showed clear even under the heavy shade of
a large hat surmounted with big black bows and feathers. Her eyes
had vaguely questioned those of her elder, who at once replied to the
gentleman forming the subject of their inquiry: “Lady Grace must know.”
 At this the young woman came forward, and Lady Sandgate introduced the
visitor. “My dear Grace, this is Mr. Breckenridge Bender.”
The younger daughter of the house might have arrived in preoccupation,
but she had urbanity to spare. “Of whom Lord John has told me,” she
returned, “and whom I’m glad to see. Lord John,” she explained to his
waiting friend, “is detained a moment in the park, open to-day to a big
Temperance school-feast, where our party is mostly gathered; so that if
you care to go out--!” She gave him in fine his choice.
But this was clearly a thing that, in the conditions, Mr. Bender wasn’t
the man to take precipitately; though his big useful smile disguised his
prudence. “Are there any pictures in the park?”
Lady Grace’s facial response represented less humour perhaps, but more
play. “We find our park itself rather a picture.”
Mr. Bender’s own levity at any rate persisted. “With a big Temperance
school-feast?”
“Mr. Bender’s a great judge of pictures,” Lady Sandgate said as to
forestall any impression of excessive freedom.
“Will there be more tea?” he pursued, almost presuming on this.
It showed Lady Grace for comparatively candid and literal. “Oh, there’ll
be plenty of tea.”
This appeared to determine Mr. Bender. “Well, Lady Grace, I’m after
pictures, but I take them ‘neat.’ May I go right round here?”
“Perhaps, love,” Lady Sandgate at once said, “you’ll let me show him.”
“A moment, dear”--Lady Grace gently demurred. “Do go round,” she
conformably added to Mr. Bender; “take your ease and your time.
Everything’s open and visible, and, with our whole company dispersed,
you’ll have the place to yourself.”
He rose, in his genial mass, to the opportunity. “I’ll be in
clover--sure!” But present to him was the richest corner of the pasture,
which he could fluently enough name. “And I’ll find ‘The Beautiful
Duchess of Waterbridge’?”
She indicated, off to the right, where a stately perspective opened, the
quarter of the saloon to which we have seen Mr. Banks retire. “At the
very end of those rooms.”
He had wide eyes for the vista. “About thirty in a row, hey?” And he was
already off. “I’ll work right through!”
III
Left with her friend, Lady Grace had a prompt question. “Lord John
warned me he was ‘funny’--but you already know him?”
There might have been a sense of embarrassment in the way in which, as
to gain time, Lady Sandgate pointed, instead of answering, to the small
picture pronounced upon by Mr. Bender. “He thinks your little Cuyp a
fraud.”
“That one?” Lady Grace could but stare. “The wretch!” However, she made,
without alarm, no more of it; she returned to her previous question.
“You’ve met him before?”
“Just a little--in town. Being ‘after pictures’” Lady Sandgate
explained, “he has been after my great-grandmother.”
“She,” said Lady Grace with amusement, “must have found him funny! But
he can clearly take care of himself, while Kitty takes care of Lord
John, and while you, if you’ll be so good, go back to support father--in
the hour of his triumph: which he wants you so much to witness that
he complains of your desertion and goes so far as to speak of you as
sneaking away.”
Lady Sandgate, with a slight flush, turned it over. “I delight in
his triumph, and whatever I do is at least above board; but if it’s a
question of support, aren’t you yourself failing him quite as much?”
This had, however, no effect on the girl’s confidence. “Ah, my dear, I’m
not at all the same thing, and as I’m the person in the world he least
misses--” Well, such a fact spoke for itself.
“You’ve been free to return and wait for Lord John?”--that was the
sense in which the elder woman appeared to prefer to understand it as
speaking.
The tone of it, none the less, led her companion immediately, though
very quietly, to correct her. “I’ve not come back to wait for Lord
John.”
“Then he hasn’t told you--if you’ve talked--with what idea he has come?”
Lady Grace had for a further correction the same shade of detachment.
“Kitty has told me--what it suits her to pretend to suppose.”
“And Kitty’s pretensions and suppositions always go with what
happens--at the moment, among all her wonderful happenings--to suit
her?”
Lady Grace let that question answer itself--she took the case up further
on. “What I can’t make out is why this should so suit her!”
“And what I can’t!” said Lady Sandgate without gross honesty and
turning away after having watched the girl a moment. She nevertheless
presently faced her again to follow this speculation up. “Do you like
him enough to risk the chance of Kitty’s being for once right?”
Lady Grace gave it a thought--with which she moved away. “I don’t know
how much I like him!”
“Nor how little!” cried her friend, who evidently found amusement in the
tone of it. “And you’re not disposed to take the time to find out? He’s
at least better than the others.”
“The ‘others’?”--Lady Grace was blank for them.
“The others of his set.”
“Oh, his set! That wouldn’t be difficult--by what I imagine of some of
them. But he means well enough,” the girl added; “he’s very charming and
does me great honour.”
It determined in her companion, about to leave her, another brief
arrest. “Then may I tell your father?”
This in turn brought about in Lady Grace an immediate drop of the
subject. “Tell my father, please, that I’m expecting Mr. Crimble; of
whom I’ve spoken to him even if he doesn’t remember, and who bicycles
this afternoon ten miles over from where he’s staying--with some people
we don’t know--to look at the pictures, about which he’s awfully keen.”
Lady Sandgate took it in. “Ah, like Mr. Bender?”
“No, not at all, I think, like Mr. Bender.”
This appeared to move in the elder woman some deeper thought “May I ask
then--if one’s to meet him--who he is?”
“Oh, father knows--or ought to--that I sat next him, in London, a month
ago, at dinner, and that he then told me he was working, tooth and
nail, at what he called the wonderful modern science of
Connoisseurship--which is upsetting, as perhaps you’re not aware, all
the old-fashioned canons of art-criticism, everything we’ve stupidly
thought right and held dear; that he was to spend Easter in these parts,
and that he should like greatly to be allowed some day to come over and
make acquaintance with our things. I told him,” Lady Grace wound
up, “that nothing would be easier; a note from him arrived before
dinner----”
Lady Sandgate jumped the rest “And it’s for him you’ve come in.”
“It’s for him I’ve come in,” the girl assented with serenity.
“Very good--though he sounds most detrimental! But will you first just
tell me this--whether when you sent in ten minutes ago for Lord John
to come out to you it was wholly of your own movement?” And she followed
it up as her young friend appeared to hesitate. “Was it because you knew
why he had arrived?”
The young friend hesitated still. “‘Why ‘?”
“So particularly to speak to you.”
“Since he was expected and mightn’t know where I was,” Lady Grace said
after an instant, “I wanted naturally to be civil to him.”
“And had he time there to tell you,” Lady Sand-gate asked, “how very
civil he wants to be to you?”
“No, only to tell me that his friend--who’s off there--was coming; for
Kitty at once appropriated him and was still in possession when I came
away.” Then, as deciding at last on perfect frankness, Lady Grace went
on: “If you want to know, I sent for news of him because Kitty insisted
on my doing so; saying, so very oddly and quite in her own way, that she
herself didn’t wish to ‘appear in it.’ She had done nothing but say to
me for an hour, rather worryingly, what you’ve just said--that it’s
me he’s what, like Mr. Bender, she calls ‘after’; but as soon as
he appeared she pounced on him, and I left him--I assure you quite
resignedly--in her hands.”
“She wants”--it was easy for Lady Sandgate to remark--“to talk of you to
him.”
“I don’t know what she wants,” the girl replied as with rather a tired
patience; “Kitty wants so many things at once. She always wants money,
in quantities, to begin with--and all to throw so horribly away; so that
whenever I see her ‘in’ so very deep with any one I always imagine her
appealing for some new tip as to how it’s to be come by.”
“Kitty’s an abyss, I grant you, and with my disinterested devotion to
your father--in requital of all his kindness to me since Lord Sandgate’s
death and since your mother’s--I can never be too grateful to you, my
dear, for your being so different a creature. But what is she going to
gain financially,” Lady Sand-gate pursued with a strong emphasis on
her adverb, “by working up our friend’s confidence in your listening to
him--if you are to listen?”
“I haven’t in the least engaged to listen,” said Lady Grace--“it will
depend on the music he makes!” But she added with light cynicism:
“Perhaps she’s to gain a commission!”
“On his fairly getting you?” And then as the girl assented by silence:
“Is he in a position to pay her one?” Lady Sandgate asked.
“I dare say the Duchess is!”
“But do you see the Duchess producing money--with all that Kitty, as
we’re not ignorant, owes her? Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds!”--Lady
Sandgate piled them up.
Her young friend’s gesture checked it. “Ah, don’t tell me how many--it’s
too sad and too ugly and too wrong!” To which, however, Lady Grace
added: “But perhaps that will be just her way!” And then as her
companion seemed for the moment not quite to follow: “By letting Kitty
off her debt.”
“You mean that Kitty goes free if Lord John wins your promise?”
“Kitty goes free.”
“She has her creditor’s release?”
“For every shilling.”
“And if he only fails?”
“Why then of course,” said now quite lucid Lady Grace, “she throws
herself more than ever on poor father.”
“Poor father indeed!”--Lady Sandgate richly sighed it
It appeared even to create in the younger woman a sense of excess.
“Yes--but he after all and in spite of everything adores her.”
“To the point, you mean”--for Lady Sandgate could clearly but
wonder--“of really sacrificing you?”
The weight of Lady Grace’s charming deep eyes on her face made her
pause while, at some length, she gave back this look and the interchange
determined in the girl a grave appeal. “You think I should be
sacrificed if I married him?”
Lady Sandgate replied, though with an equal emphasis, indirectly.
“Could you marry him?”
Lady Grace waited a moment “Do you mean for Kitty?”
“For himself even--if they should convince you, among them, that he
cares for you.”
Lady Grace had another delay. “Well, he’s his awful mother’s son.”
“Yes--but you wouldn’t marry his mother.”
“No--but I should only be the more uncomfortably and intimately
conscious of her.”
“Even when,” Lady Sandgate optimistically put it, “she so markedly likes
you?”
This determined in the girl a fine impatience. “She doesn’t ‘like’ me,
she only wants me--which is a very different thing; wants me for
my father’s so particularly beautiful position, and my mother’s so
supremely great people, and for everything we have been and have done,
and still are and still have: except of course poor not-at-all-model
Kitty.”
To this luminous account of the matter Lady Sand-gate turned as to a
genial sun-burst. “I see indeed--for the general immaculate connection.”
The words had no note of irony, but Lady Grace, in her great
seriousness, glanced with deprecation at the possibility. “Well, we
haven’t had false notes. We’ve scarcely even had bad moments.”
“Yes, you’ve been beatific!”--Lady Sandgate enviously, quite ruefully,
felt it. But any further treatment of the question was checked by the
re-entrance of the footman--a demonstration explained by the concomitant
appearance of a young man in eyeglasses and with the ends of his
trousers clipped together as for cycling. “This must be your friend,”
 she had only time to say to the daughter of the house; with which, alert
and reminded of how she was awaited elsewhere, she retreated before her
companion’s visitor, who had come in with his guide from the vestibule.
She passed away to the terrace and the gardens, Mr. Hugh Crimble’s
announced name ringing in her ears--to some effect that we are as yet
not qualified to discern.
IV
Lady Grace had turned to meet Mr. Hugh Crimble, whose pleasure in at
once finding her lighted his keen countenance and broke into easy words.
“So awfully kind of you--in the midst of the great doings I noticed--to
have found a beautiful minute for me.”
“I left the great doings, which are almost over, to every one’s relief,
I think,” the girl returned, “so that your precious time shouldn’t be
taken to hunt for me.”
It was clearly for him, on this bright answer, as if her white hand
were holding out the perfect flower of felicity. “You came in from your
revels on purpose--with the same charity you showed me from that first
moment?” They stood smiling at each other as in an exchange of sympathy
already confessed--and even as if finding that their relation had grown
during the lapse of contact; she recognising the effect of what they had
originally felt as bravely as he might name it. What the fine, slightly
long oval of her essentially quiet face--quiet in spite of certain vague
depths of reference to forces of the strong high order, forces involved
and implanted, yet also rather spent in the process--kept in range
from under her redundant black hat was the strength of expression, the
directness of communication, that her guest appeared to borrow from
the unframed and unattached nippers unceasingly perched, by their
mere ground-glass rims, as she remembered, on the bony bridge of his
indescribably authoritative (since it was at the same time decidedly
inquisitive) young nose. She must, however, also have embraced in this
contemplation, she must more or less again have interpreted, his main
physiognomic mark, the degree to which his clean jaw was underhung
and his lower lip protruded; a lapse of regularity made evident by a
suppression of beard and moustache as complete as that practised by Mr.
Bender--though without the appearance consequent in the latter’s case,
that of the flagrantly vain appeal in the countenance for some other
exhibition of a history, of a process of production, than this so
superficial one. With the interested and interesting girl sufficiently
under our attention while we thus try to evoke her, we may even make out
some wonder in her as to why the so perceptibly protrusive lower lip of
this acquaintance of an hour or two should positively have contributed
to his being handsome instead of much more logically interfering with
it. We might in fact in such a case even have followed her into another
and no less refined a speculation--the question of whether the surest
seat of his good looks mightn’t after all be his high, fair, if somewhat
narrow, forehead, crowned with short crisp brown hair and which, after
a fashion of its own, predominated without overhanging. He spoke after
they had stood just face to face almost long enough for awkwardness. “I
haven’t forgotten one item of your kindness to me on that rather bleak
occasion.”
“Bleak do you call it?” she laughed. “Why I found it, rather,
tropical--‘lush.’ My neighbour on the other side wanted to talk to me of
the White City.”
“Then you made it doubtless bleak for him, let us say. I couldn’t
let you alone, I remember, about this--it was like a shipwrecked
signal to a sail on the horizon.” “This” obviously meant for the young
man exactly what surrounded him; he had begun, like Mr. Bender, to be
conscious of a thick solicitation of the eye--and much more
than he, doubtless, of a tug at the imagination; and he
broke--characteristically, you would have been sure--into a great free
gaiety of recognition.
“Oh, we’ve nothing particular in the hall,” Lady Grace amiably objected.
“Nothing, I see, but Claudes and Cuyps! I’m an ogre,” he said--“before a
new and rare feast!”
She happily took up his figure. “Then won’t you begin--as a first
course--with tea after your ride? If the other, that is--for there has
been an ogre before you--has left any.”
“Some tea, with pleasure”--he looked all his longing; “though when you
talk of a fellow-feaster I should have supposed that, on such a day
as this especially, you’d find yourselves running a continuous table
d’hôte.”
“Ah, we can’t work sports in our gallery and saloon--the banging or
whacking and shoving amusements that are all most people care for;
unless, perhaps,” Lady Grace went on, “your own peculiar one, as I
understand you, of playing football with the old benighted traditions
and attributions you everywhere meet: in fact I think you said the old
idiotic superstitions.”
Hugh Crimble went more than half-way to meet this description of his
fondest activity; he indeed even beckoned it on. “The names and stories
and styles--the so often vain legend, not to be too invidious--of author
or subject or school?” But he had a drop, no less, as from the sense of a
cause sometimes lost. “Ah, that’s a game at which we all can play!”
“Though scarcely,” Lady Grace suggested, “at which we all can score.”
The words appeared indeed to take meaning from his growing impression
of the place and its charm--of the number of objects, treasures of art,
that pressed for appreciation of their importance. “Certainly,” he said,
“no one can ever have scored much on sacred spots of this order--which
express so the grand impunity of their pride, their claims, their
assurance!”
“We’ve had great luck,” she granted--“as I’ve just been reminded;
but ever since those terrible things you told me in town--about the
tremendous tricks of the whirligig of time and the aesthetic fools’
paradise in which so many of us live--I’ve gone about with my heart in
my mouth. Who knows that while I talk Mr. Bender mayn’t be pulling us to
pieces?”
Hugh Crimble had a shudder of remembrance. “Mr. Bender?”
“The rich American who’s going round.”
It gave him a sharper shock. “The wretch who bagged Lady Lappington’s
Longhi?”
Lady Grace showed surprise. “Is he a wretch?”
Her visitor but asked to be extravagant. “Rather--the scoundrel. He
offered his infernal eight thousand down.”
“Oh, I thought you meant he had played some trick!”
“I wish he had--he could then have been collared.”
“Well,” Lady Grace peacefully smiled, “it’s no use his offering us
eight thousand--or eighteen or even eighty!”
Hugh Crimble stared as at the odd superfluity of this reassurance,
almost crude on exquisite lips and contradicting an imputation no one
would have indecently made. “Gracious goodness, I hope not! The man
surely doesn’t suppose you’d traffic.”
She might, while she still smiled at him, have been fairly enjoying the
friendly horror she produced. “I don’t quite know what he supposes. But
people have trafficked; people do; people are trafficking all round.”
“Ah,” Hugh Crimble cried, “that’s what deprives me of my rest and, as
a lover of our vast and beneficent art-wealth, poisons my waking hours.
That art-wealth is at the mercy of a leak there appears no means of
stopping.” She had tapped a spring in him, clearly, and the consequent
flood might almost at any moment become copious. “Precious things are
going out of our distracted country at a quicker rate than the very
quickest--a century and more ago--of their ever coming in.”
She was sharply struck, but was also unmistakably a person in whom
stirred thought soon found connections and relations. “Well, I suppose
our art-wealth came in--save for those awkward Elgin Marbles!--mainly
by purchase too, didn’t it? We ourselves largely took it away from
somewhere, didn’t we? We didn’t grow it all.”
“We grew some of the loveliest flowers--and on the whole to-day the most
exposed.” He had been pulled up but for an instant. “Great Gainsboroughs
and Sir Joshuas and Romneys and Sargents, great Turners and Constables
and old Cromes and Brabazons, form, you’ll recognise, a vast garden in
themselves. What have we ever for instance more successfully grown than
your splendid ‘Duchess of Waterbridge’?”
The girl showed herself ready at once to recognise under his eloquence
anything he would. “Yes--it’s our Sir Joshua, I believe, that Mr. Bender
has proclaimed himself particularly ‘after.’”
It brought a cloud to her friend’s face. “Then he’ll be capable of
anything.”
“Of anything, no doubt, but of making my father capable--! And you
haven’t at any rate,” she said, “so much as seen the picture.”
“I beg your pardon--I saw it at the Guildhall three years ago; and am
almost afraid of getting again, with a fresh sense of its beauty, a
livelier sense of its danger.”
Lady Grace, however, was so far from fear that she could even afford
pity. “Poor baffled Mr. Bender!”
“Oh, rich and confident Mr. Bender!” Crimble cried. “Once given his
money, his confidence is a horrid engine in itself--there’s the rub!
I dare say”--the young man saw it all--“he has brought his poisonous
cheque.”
She gave it her less exasperated wonder. “One has heard of that, but
only in the case of some particularly pushing dealer.”
“And Mr. Bender, to do him justice, isn’t a particularly pushing
dealer?”
“No,” Lady Grace judiciously returned; “I think he’s not a dealer at
all, but just what you a moment ago spoke of yourself as being.”
He gave a glance at his possibly wild recent past. “A fond true lover?”
“As we all were in our lucky time--when we rum-aged Italy and Spain.”
He appeared to recognise this complication--of Bender’s voracious
integrity; but only to push it away. “Well, I don’t know whether the
best lovers are, or ever were, the best buyers--but I feel to-day that
they’re the best keepers.”
The breath of his emphasis blew, as her eyes showed, on the girl’s
dimmer fire. “It’s as if it were suddenly in the air that you’ve brought
us some light or some help--that you may do something really good for
us.”
“Do you mean ‘mark down,’ as they say at the shops, all your greatest
claims?”
His chord of sensibility had trembled all gratefully into derision, and
not to seem to swagger he had put his possible virtue at its lowest.
This she beautifully showed that she beautifully saw. “I dare say that
if you did even that we should have to take it from you.”
“Then it may very well be,” he laughed back, “the reason why I feel,
under my delightful, wonderful impression, a bit anxious and nervous and
afraid.”
“That shows,” she returned, “that you suspect us of horrors hiding from
justice, and that your natural kindness yet shrinks from handing us
over!”
Well, clearly, she might put it as she liked--it all came back to his
being more charmed. “Heaven knows I’ve wanted a chance at you, but what
should you say if, having then at last just taken you in in your so
apparent perfection, I should feel it the better part of valour simply
to mount my ‘bike’ again and spin away?”
“I should be sure that at the end of the avenue you’d turn right round
and come back. You’d think again of Mr. Bender.”
“Whom I don’t, however, you see--if he’s prowling off there--in the
least want to meet.” Crimble made the point with gaiety. “I don’t
know what I mightn’t do to him--and yet it’s not of my temptation to
violence, after all, that I’m most afraid. It’s of the brutal mistake
of one’s breaking--with one’s priggish, precious modernity and
one’s possibly futile discriminations--into a general situation or
composition, as we say, so serene and sound and right. What should one
do here, out of respect for that felicity, but hold one’s breath and
walk on tip-toe? The very celebrations and consecrations, as you tell
me, instinctively stay outside. I saw that all,” the young man went on
with more weight in his ardour, “I saw it, while we talked in London,
as your natural setting and your native air--and now ten minutes on the
spot have made it sink into my spirit. You’re a case, all together, of
enchanted harmony, of perfect equilibrium--there’s nothing to be done or
said.”
His friend listened to this eloquence with her eyes lowered, then
raising them to meet, with a vague insistence, his own; after which
something she had seen there appeared to determine in her another
motion. She indicated the small landscape that Mr. Bender had, by Lady
Sandgate’s report, rapidly studied and denounced. “For what do you take
that little picture?”
Hugh Crimble went over and looked. “Why, don’t you know? It’s a jolly
little Vandermeer of Delft.”
“It’s not a base imitation?”
He looked again, but appeared at a loss. “An imitation of Vandermeer?”
“Mr. Bender thinks of Cuyp.”
It made the young man ring out: “Then Mr. Bender’s doubly dangerous!”
“Singly is enough!” Lady Grace laughed. “But you see you have to
speak.”
“Oh, to him, rather, after that--if you’ll just take me to him.”
“Yes then,” she said; but even while she spoke Lord John, who had
returned, by the terrace, from his quarter of an hour passed with Lady
Imber, was there practically between them; a fact that she had to notice
for her other visitor, to whom she was hastily reduced to naming him.
His lordship eagerly made the most of this tribute of her attention,
which had reached his ear; he treated it--her “Oh Lord John!”--as a
direct greeting. “Ah Lady Grace! I came back particularly to find you.”
She could but explain her predicament. “I was taking Mr. Crimble to see
the pictures.” And then more pointedly, as her manner had been virtually
an introduction of that gentleman, an introduction which Lord John’s
mere noncommittal stare was as little as possible a response to: “Mr.
Crimble’s one of the quite new connoisseurs.”
“Oh, I’m at the very lowest round of the ladder. But I aspire!” Hugh
laughed.
“You’ll mount!” said Lady Grace with friendly confidence.
He took it again with gay deprecation. “Ah, if by that time there’s
anything left here to mount on!”
“Let us hope there will be at least what Mr. Bender, poor man, won’t
have been able to carry off.” To which Lady Grace added, as to strike a
helpful spark from the personage who had just joined them, but who had
the air of wishing to preserve his detachment: “It’s to Lord John that
we owe Mr. Bender’s acquaintance.”
Hugh looked at the gentleman to whom they were so indebted. “Then do you
happen to know, sir, what your friend means to do with his spoil?”
The question got itself but dryly treated, as if it might be a
commercially calculating or interested one. “Oh, not sell it again.”
“Then ship it to New York?” the inquirer pursued, defining himself
somehow as not snubbed and, from this point, not snubbable.
That appearance failed none the less to deprive Lord John of a betrayed
relish for being able to displease Lady Grace’s odd guest by large
assent. “As fast as ever he can--and you can land things there now,
can’t you? in three or four days.”
“I dare say. But can’t he be induced to have a little mercy?” Hugh
sturdily pursued.
Lord John pushed out his lips. “A ‘little’? How much do you want?”
“Well, one wants to be able somehow to stay his hand.”
“I doubt if you can any more stay Mr. Bender’s hand than you can empty
his purse.”
“Ah, the Despoilers!” said Crimble with strong expression. “But it’s
we,” he added, “who are base.”
“‘Base’?”--and Lord John’s surprise was apparently genuine.
“To want only to ‘do business,’ I mean, with our treasures, with our
glories.”
Hugh’s words exhaled such a sense of peril as to draw at once Lady
Grace. “Ah, but if we’re above that here, as you know------!”
He stood smilingly corrected and contrite. “Of course I know--but you
must forgive me if I have it on the brain. And show me first of all,
won’t you? the Moretto of Brescia.”
“You know then about the Moretto of Brescia?”
“Why, didn’t you tell me yourself?” It went on between them for the
moment quite as if there had been no Lord John.
“Probably, yes,” she recalled; “so how I must have swaggered!” After
which she turned to the other visitor with a kindness strained clear of
urgency. “Will you also come?”
He confessed to a difficulty--which his whole face begged her also to
take account of. “I hoped you’d be at leisure--for something I’ve so at
heart!”
This had its effect; she took a rapid decision and turned persuasively
to Crimble--for whom, in like manner, there must have been something in
her face. “Let Mr. Bender himself then show you. And there are things
in the library too.”
“Oh yes, there are things in the library.” Lord John, happy in his
gained advantage and addressing Hugh from the strong ground of an
initiation already complete, quite sped him on the way.
Hugh clearly made no attempt to veil the penetration with which he was
moved to look from one of these counsellors to the other, though with a
ready “Thank-you!” for Lady Grace he the next instant started in pursuit
of Mr. Bender.
V
“Your friend seems remarkably hot!” Lord John remarked to his young
hostess as soon as they had been left together.
“He has cycled twenty miles. And indeed,” she smiled, “he does appear to
care for what he cares for!”
Her companion then, during a moment’s silence, might have been noting
the emphasis of her assent. “Have you known him long?”
“No--not long.”
“Nor seen him often?”
“Only once--till now.”
“Oh!” said Lord John with another pause. But he soon proceeded. “Let us
leave him then to cool! I haven’t cycled twenty miles, but I’ve motored
forty very much in the hope of this, Lady Grace--the chance of being
able to assure you that I too care very much for what I care for.” To
which he added on an easier note, as to carry off a slight awkwardness
while she only waited: “You certainly mustn’t let yourself--between us
all--be worked to death.”
“Oh, such days as this--I” She made light enough of her burden.
“They don’t come often to me at least, Lady Grace! I hadn’t grasped
in advance the scale of your fête,” he went on; “but since I’ve the
great luck to find you alone--!” He paused for breath, however, before
the full sequence.
She helped him out as through common kindness, but it was a trifle
colourless. “Alone or in company, Lord John, I’m always very glad to see
you.”
“Then that assurance helps me to wonder if you don’t perhaps gently
guess what it is I want to say.” This time indeed she left him to
his wonder, so that he had to support himself. “I’ve tried, all
considerately--these three months--to let you see for yourself how
I feel. I feel very strongly, Lady Grace; so that at last”--and his
impatient sincerity took after another instant the jump--“well, I
regularly worship you. You’re my absolute ideal. I think of you the
whole time.”
She measured out consideration as if it had been a yard of pretty
ribbon. “Are you sure you know me enough?”
“I think I know a perfect woman when I see one!” Nothing now at least
could have been more prompt, and while a decent pity for such a mistake
showed in her smile he followed it up. “Isn’t what you rather mean that
you haven’t cared sufficiently to know me? If so, that can be little
by little mended, Lady Grace.” He was in fact altogether gallant about
it. “I’m aware of the limits of what I have to show or to offer, but I
defy you to find a limit to my possible devotion.”
She deferred to that, but taking it in a lower key. “I believe you’d be
very good to me.”
“Well, isn’t that something to start with?”--he fairly pounced on it.
“I’ll do any blest thing in life you like, I’ll accept any condition you
impose, if you’ll only tell me you see your way.”
“Shouldn’t I have a little more first to see yours?” she asked. “When
you say you’ll do anything in life I like, isn’t there anything you
yourself want strongly enough to do?”
He cast a stare about on the suggestions of the scene. “Anything that
will make money, you mean?”
“Make money or make reputation--or even just make the time pass.”
“Oh, what I have to look to in the way of a career?” If that was her
meaning he could show after an instant that he didn’t fear it. “Well,
your father, dear delightful man, has been so good as to give me to
understand that he backs me for a decent deserving creature; and I’ve
noticed, as you doubtless yourself have, that when Lord Theign backs a
fellow----!”
He left the obvious moral for her to take up--which she did, but all
interrogatively. “The fellow at once comes in for something awfully
good?”
“I don’t in the least mind your laughing at me,” Lord John returned,
“for when I put him the question of the lift he’d give me by speaking
to you first he bade me simply remember the complete personal liberty in
which he leaves you, and yet which doesn’t come--take my word!” said the
young man sagely--“from his being at all indifferent.”
“No,” she answered--“father isn’t indifferent. But father’s ‘great’”
“Great indeed!”--her friend took it as with full comprehension. This
appeared not to prevent, however, a second and more anxious thought.
“Too great for you?”
“Well, he makes me feel--even as his daughter--my extreme comparative
smallness.”
It was easy, Lord John indicated, to see what she meant “He’s a grand
seigneur, and a serious one--that’s what he is: the very type and model
of it, down to the ground. So you can imagine,” the young man said,
“what he makes me feel--most of all when he’s so awfully good-natured
to me. His being as ‘great’ as you say and yet backing me--such as I
am!--doesn’t that strike you as a good note for me, the best you could
possibly require? For he really would like what I propose to you.”
She might have been noting, while she thought, that he had risen to
ingenuity, to fineness, on the wings of his argument; under the effect
of which her reply had the air of a concession. “Yes--he would like it.”
“Then he has spoken to you?” her suitor eagerly asked.
“He hasn’t needed--he has ways of letting one know.”
“Yes, yes, he has ways; all his own--like everything else he has. He’s
wonderful.”
She fully agreed. “He’s wonderful.”
The tone of it appeared somehow to shorten at once for Lord John the
rest of his approach to a conclusion. “So you do see your way?”
“Ah--!” she said with a quick sad shrinkage.
“I mean,” her visitor hastened to explain, “if he does put it to you as
the very best idea he has for you. When he does that--as I believe him
ready to do--will you really and fairly listen to him? I’m certain,
honestly, that when you know me better--!” His confidence in short
donned a bravery.
“I’ve been feeling this quarter of an hour,” the girl returned, “that I
do know you better.”
“Then isn’t that all I want?--unless indeed I ought perhaps to ask
rather if it isn’t all you do! At any rate,” said Lord John, “I may
see you again here?”
She waited a moment. “You must have patience with me.”
“I am having it But after your father’s appeal.”
“Well,” she said, “that must come first.”
“Then you won’t dodge it?”
She looked at him straight “I don’t dodge, Lord John.”
He admired the manner of it “You look awfully handsome as you say
so--and you see what that does to me.” As to attentuate a little the
freedom of which he went on: “May I fondly hope that if Lady Imber too
should wish to put in another word for me----?”
“Will I listen to her?”--it brought Lady Grace straight down. “No, Lord
John, let me tell you at once that I’ll do nothing of the sort Kitty’s
quite another affair, and I never listen to her a bit more than I can
help.”
Lord John appeared to feel, on this, that he mustn’t too easily, in
honour, abandon a person who had presented herself to him as an ally.
“Ah, you strike me as a little hard on her. Your father himself--in his
looser moments!--takes pleasure in what she says.”
Our young woman’s eyes, as they rested on him after this remark, had
no mercy for its extreme feebleness. “If you mean that she’s the most
reckless rattle one knows, and that she never looks so beautiful as when
she’s at her worst, and that, always clever for where she makes out her
interest, she has learnt to ‘get round’ him till he only sees through
her eyes--if you mean that I understand you perfectly. But even if you
think me horrid for reflecting so on my nearest and dearest, it’s not on
the side on which he has most confidence in his elder daughter that his
youngest is moved to have most confidence in him.”
Lord John stared as if she had shaken some odd bright fluttering
object in his face; but then recovering himself: “He hasn’t perhaps an
absolutely boundless confidence--”
“In any one in the world but himself?”--she had taken him straight up.
“He hasn’t indeed, and that’s what we must come to; so that even if he
likes you as much as you doubtless very justly feel, it won’t be because
you are right about your being nice, but because he is!”
“You mean that if I were wrong about it he would still insist that he
isn’t?”
Lady Grace was indeed sure. “Absolutely--if he had begun so! He began so
with Kitty--that is with allowing her everything.”
Lord John appeared struck. “Yes--and he still allows her two thousand.”
“I’m glad to hear it--she has never told me how much!” the girl
undisguisedly smiled.
“Then perhaps I oughtn’t!”--he glowed with the light of contrition.
“Well, you can’t help it now,” his companion remarked with amusement.
“You mean that he ought to allow you as much?” Lord John inquired.
“I’m sure you’re right, and that he will,” he continued quite as in good
faith; “but I want you to understand that I don’t care in the least what
it may be!”
The subject of his suit took the longest look at him she had taken yet.
“You’re very good to say so!”
If this was ironic the touch fell short, thanks to his perception that
they had practically just ceased to be alone. They were in presence of
a third figure, who had arrived from the terrace, but whose approach to
them was not so immediate as to deprive Lord John of time for another
question. “Will you let him tell you, at all events, how good he
thinks me?--and then let me come back and have it from you again?”
Lady Grace’s answer to this was to turn, as he drew nearer, to the
person by whom they were now joined. “Lord John desires you should tell
me, father, how good you think him.”
“‘Good,’ my dear?--good for what?” said Lord Theign a trifle absurdly,
but looking from one of them to the other.
“I feel I must ask him to tell you.”
“Then I shall give him a chance--as I should particularly like you to go
back and deal with those overwhelming children.”
“Ah, they don’t overwhelm you, father!”--the girl put it with some
point.
“If you mean to say I overwhelmed them, I dare say I did,” he
replied--“from my view of that vast collective gape of six hundred
painfully plain and perfectly expressionless faces. But that was only
for the time: I pumped advice--oh such advice!--and they held the
large bucket as still as my pet pointer, when I scratch him, holds his
back. The bucket, under the stream--”
“Was bound to overflow?” Lady Grace suggested.
“Well, the strong recoil of the wave of intelligence has been not
unnaturally followed by the formidable break. You must really,” Lord
Theign insisted, “go and deal with it.”
His daughter’s smile, for all this, was perceptibly cold. “You work
people up, father, and then leave others to let them down.”
“The two things,” he promptly replied, “require different natures.” To
which he simply added, as with the habit of authority, though not of
harshness, “Go!”
It was absolute and she yielded; only pausing an instant to look as with
a certain gathered meaning from one of the men to the other. Faintly and
resignedly sighing she passed away to the terrace and disappeared.
“The nature that can let you down--I rather like it, you know!” Lord
John threw off. Which, for an airy elegance in them, were perhaps just
slightly rash words--his companion gave him so sharp a look as the two
were left together.
VI
Face to face with his visitor the master of Dedborough betrayed the
impression his daughter appeared to have given him. “She didn’t want
to go?” And then before Lord John could reply: “What the deuce is the
matter with her?”
Lord John took his time. “I think perhaps a little Mr. Crimble.”
“And who the deuce is a little Mr. Crimble?”
“A young man who was just with her--and whom she appears to have
invited.”
“Where is he then?” Lord Theign demanded.
“Off there among the pictures--which he seems partly to have come for.”
“Oh!”--it made his lordship easier. “Then he’s all right--on such a
day.”
His companion could none the less just wonder. “Hadn’t Lady Grace told
you?”
“That he was coming? Not that I remember.” But Lord Theign, perceptibly
preoccupied, made nothing of this. “We’ve had other fish to fry, and you
know the freedom I allow her.”
His friend had a vivid gesture. “My dear man, I only ask to profit by
it!” With which there might well have been in Lord John’s face a light
of comment on the pretension in such a quarter to allow freedom.
Yet it was a pretension that Lord Theign sustained--as to show himself
far from all bourgeois narrowness. “She has her friends by the score--at
this time of day.” There was clearly a claim here also--to know the
time of day. “But in the matter of friends where, by the way, is your
own--of whom I’ve but just heard?”
“Oh, off there among the pictures too; so they’ll have met and taken
care of each other.” Accounting for this inquirer would be clearly the
least of Lord John’s difficulties. “I mustn’t appear to Bender to have
failed him; but I must at once let you know, before I join him, that,
seizing my opportunity, I have just very definitely, in fact very
pressingly, spoken to Lady Grace. It hasn’t been perhaps,” he continued,
“quite the pick of a chance; but that seemed never to come, and if
I’m not too fondly mistaken, at any rate, she listened to me without
abhorrence. Only I’ve led her to expect--for our case--that you’ll be
so good, without loss of time, as to say the clinching word to her
yourself.”
“Without loss, you mean, of--a--my daughter’s time?” Lord Theign,
confessedly and amiably interested, had accepted these intimations--yet
with the very blandness that was not accessible to hustling and was
never forgetful of its standing privilege of criticism. He had come in
from his public duty, a few minutes before, somewhat flushed and blown;
but that had presently dropped--to the effect, we should have guessed,
of his appearing to Lord John at least as cool as the occasion required.
His appearance, we ourselves certainly should have felt, was in all
respects charming--with the great note of it the beautiful restless,
almost suspicious, challenge to you, on the part of deep and mixed
things in him, his pride and his shyness, his conscience, his taste and
his temper, to deny that he was admirably simple. Obviously, at this
rate, he had a passion for simplicity--simplicity, above all, of
relation with you, and would show you, with the last subtlety of
displeasure, his impatience of your attempting anything more with
himself. With such an ideal of decent ease he would, confound you,
“sink” a hundred other attributes--or the recognition at least and the
formulation of them--that you might abjectly have taken for granted in
him: just to show you that in a beastly vulgar age you had, and small
wonder, a beastly vulgar imagination. He sank thus, surely, in defiance
of insistent vulgarity, half his consciousness of his advantages,
flattering himself that mere facility and amiability, a true effective,
a positively ideal suppression of reference in any one to anything that
might complicate, alone floated above. This would be quite his religion,
you might infer--to cause his hands to ignore in whatever contact any
opportunity, however convenient, for an unfair pull. Which habit it was
that must have produced in him a sort of ripe and radiant fairness; if
it be allowed us, that is, to figure in so shining an air a nobleman of
fifty-three, of an undecided rather than a certified frame or outline,
of a head thinly though neatly covered and not measureably massive, of
an almost trivial freshness, of a face marked but by a fine inwrought
line or two and lighted by a merely charming expression. You might
somehow have traced back the whole character so presented to an ideal
privately invoked--that of his establishing in the formal garden of his
suffered greatness such easy seats and short perspectives, such winding
paths and natural-looking waters, as would mercifully break up the
scale. You would perhaps indeed have reflected at the same time that the
thought of so much mercy was almost more than anything else the thought
of a great option and a great margin--in fine of fifty alternatives.
Which remarks of ours, however, leave his lordship with his last
immediate question on his hands.
“Well, yes--that, of course, in all propriety,” his companion has
meanwhile replied to it. “But I was thinking a little, you understand,
of the importance of our own time.”
Divinably Lord Theign put himself out less, as we may say, for
the comparatively matter-of-course haunters of his garden than for
interlopers even but slightly accredited. He seemed thus not at all to
strain to “understand” in this particular connection--it would be his
familiarly amusing friend Lord John, clearly, who must do most of the
work for him. “‘Our own’ in the sense of yours and mine?”
“Of yours and mine and Lady Imber’s, yes--and a good bit, last not
least, in that of my watching and waiting mother’s.” This struck no
prompt spark of apprehension from his listener, so that Lord John went
on: “The last thing she did this morning was to remind me, with her fine
old frankness, that she would like to learn without more delay where, on
the whole question, she is, don’t you know? What she put to me”--the
younger man felt his ground a little, but proceeded further--“what she
put to me, with her rather grand way of looking all questions straight
in the face, you see, was: Do we or don’t we, decidedly, take up
practically her very handsome offer--‘very handsome’ being, I mean,
what she calls it; though it strikes even me too, you know, as rather
decent.”
Lord Theign at this point resigned himself to know. “Kitty has of course
rubbed into me how decent she herself finds it. She hurls herself again
on me--successfully!--for everything, and it suits her down to the
ground. She pays her beastly debt--that is, I mean to say,” and he took
himself up, though it was scarce more than perfunctory, “discharges
her obligations--by her sister’s fair hand; not to mention a few other
trifles for which I naturally provide.”
Lord John, a little unexpectedly to himself on the defensive, was yet
but briefly at a loss. “Of course we take into account, don’t we? not
only the fact of my mother’s desire (intended, I assure you, to be most
flattering) that Lady Grace shall enter our family with all honours, but
her expressed readiness to facilitate the thing by an understanding over
and above----”
“Over and above Kitty’s release from her damnable payment?”--Lord Theign
reached out to what his guest had left rather in the air. “Of course
we take everything into account--or I shouldn’t, my dear fellow, be
discussing with you at all a business one or two of whose aspects so
little appeal to me: especially as there’s nothing, you easily conceive,
that a daughter of mine can come in for by entering even your family,
or any other (as a family) that she wouldn’t be quite as sure of by just
staying in her own. The Duchess’s idea, at any rate, if I’ve followed
you, is that if Grace does accept you she settles on you twelve
thousand; with the condition--”
Lord John was already all there. “Definitely, yes, of your settling the
equivalent on Lady Grace.”
“And what do you call the equivalent of twelve thousand?”
“Why, tacked on to a value so great and so charming as Lady Grace
herself, I dare say such a sum as nine or ten would serve.”
“And where the mischief, if you please, at this highly inconvenient
time, am I to pick up nine or ten thousand?”
Lord John declined, with a smiling, a fairly irritating eye for his
friend’s general resources, to consider that question seriously. “Surely
you can have no difficulty whatever--!”
“Why not?--when you can see for yourself that I’ve had this year to
let poor dear old Hill Street! Do you call it the moment for me to have
liked to see myself all but cajoled into planking down even such a
matter as the very much lower figure of Kitty’s horrid incubus?”
“Ah, but the inducement and the quid pro quo,” Lord John brightly
indicated, “are here much greater! In the case you speak of you will
only have removed the incubus--which, I grant you, she must and you must
feel as horrid. In this other you pacify Lady Imber and marry Lady
Grace: marry her to a man who has set his heart on her and of whom she
has just expressed--to himself--a very kind and very high opinion.”
“She has expressed a very high opinion of you?”--Lord Theign scarce
glowed with credulity.
But the younger man held his ground. “She has told me she thoroughly
likes me and that--though a fellow feels an ass repeating such
things--she thinks me perfectly charming.”
“A tremendous creature, eh, all round? Then,” said Lord Theign, “what
does she want more?”
“She very possibly wants nothing--but I’m to that beastly degree,
you see,” his visitor patiently explained, “in the cleft stick of my
fearfully positive mother’s wants. Those are her ‘terms,’ and I don’t
mind saying that they’re most disagreeable to me--I quite hate ‘em:
there! Only I think it makes a jolly difference that I wouldn’t
touch ‘em with a long pole if my personal feeling--in respect to Lady
Grace--wasn’t so immensely enlisted.”
“I assure you I’d chuck ‘em out of window, my boy, if I didn’t believe
you’d be really good to her,” Lord Theign returned with the properest
spirit.
It only encouraged his companion. “You will just tell her then, now
and here, how good you honestly believe I shall be?”
This appeal required a moment--a longer look at him. “You truly hold
that that friendly guarantee, backed by my parental weight, will do your
job?”
“That’s the conviction I entertain.”
Lord Theign thought again. “Well, even if your conviction’s just, that
still doesn’t tell me into which of my very empty pockets it will be of
the least use for me to fumble.”
“Oh,” Lord John laughed, “when a man has such a tremendous assortment
of breeches--!” He pulled up, however, as, in his motion, his eye caught
the great vista of the open rooms. “If it’s a question of pockets--and
what’s in ‘em--here precisely is my man!” This personage had come back
from his tour of observation and was now, on the threshold of the hall,
exhibited to Lord Theign as well. Lord John’s welcome was warm. “I’ve
had awfully to fail you, Mr. Bender, but I was on the point of joining
you. Let me, however, still better, introduce you to our host.”
VII
Mr. Bender indeed, formidably advancing, scarce had use for this
assistance. “Happy to meet you--especially in your beautiful home,
Lord Theign.” To which he added while the master of Dedborough stood
good-humouredly passive to his approach: “I’ve been round, by your kind
permission and the light of nature, and haven’t required support; though
if I had there’s a gentleman there who seemed prepared to allow me any
amount.” Mr. Bender, out of his abundance, evoked as by a suggestive
hand this contributory figure. “A young, spare, nervous gentleman with
eye-glasses--I guess he’s an author. A friend of yours too?” he asked of
Lord John.
The answer was prompt and emphatic. “No, the gentleman is no friend at
all of mine, Mr. Bender.”
“A friend of my daughter’s,” Lord Theign easily explained. “I hope
they’re looking after him.”
“Oh, they took care he had tea and bread and butter to any extent; and
were so good as to move something,” Mr. Bender conscientiously added,
“so that he could get up on a chair and see straight into the Moretto.”
This was a touch, however, that appeared to affect Lord John
unfavourably. “Up on a chair? I say!”
Mr. Bender took another view. “Why, I got right up myself--a little more
and I’d almost have begun to paw it! He got me quite interested”--the
proprietor of the picture would perhaps care to know--“in that Moretto.”
 And it was on these lines that Mr. Bender continued to advance. “I take
it that your biggest value, however, Lord Theign, is your splendid Sir
Joshua. Our friend there has a great deal to say about that too--but it
didn’t lead to our moving any more furniture.” On which he paused as to
enjoy, with a show of his fine teeth, his host’s reassurance. “It has
yet, my impression of that picture, sir, led to something else. Are you
prepared, Lord Theign, to entertain a proposition?”
Lord Theign met Mr. Bender’s eyes while this inquirer left these few
portentous words to speak for themselves. “To the effect that I part to
you with ‘The Beautiful Duchess of Waterbridge’? No, Mr. Bender, such a
proposition would leave me intensely cold.”
Lord John had meanwhile had a more headlong cry. “My dear Bender, I
envy you!”
“I guess you don’t envy me,” his friend serenely replied, “as much as I
envy Lord Theign.” And then while Mr. Bender and the latter continued to
face each other searchingly and firmly: “What I allude to is an overture
of a strong and simple stamp--such as perhaps would shed a softer light
on the difficulties raised by association and attachment. I’ve had some
experience of first shocks, and I’d be glad to meet you as man to man.”
Mr. Bender was, quite clearly, all genial and all sincere; he intended
no irony and used, consciously, no great freedom. Lord Theign, not less
evidently, saw this, and it permitted him amusement. “As rich man to
poor man is how I’m to understand it? For me to meet you,” he added,
“I should have to be tempted--and I’m not even temptable. So there we
are,” he blandly smiled.
His blandness appeared even for a moment to set an example to Lord John.
“‘The Beautiful Duchess of Waterbridge,’ Mr. Bender, is a golden apple
of one of those great family trees of which respectable people don’t lop
off the branches whose venerable shade, in this garish and denuded age,
they so much enjoy.”
Mr. Bender looked at him as if he had cut some irrelevant caper. “Then
if they don’t sell their ancestors where in the world are all the
ancestors bought?”
“Doesn’t it for the moment sufficiently answer your question,” Lord
Theign asked, “that they’re definitely not bought at Dedborough?”
“Why,” said Mr. Bender with a wealthy patience, “you talk as if it were
my interest to be reasonable--which shows how little you understand.
I’d be ashamed--with the lovely ideas I have--if I didn’t make you
kick.” And his sturdy smile for it all fairly proclaimed his faith.
“Well, I guess I can wait!”
This again in turn visibly affected Lord John: marking the moment from
which he, in spite of his cultivated levity, allowed an intenser and
more sustained look to keep straying toward their host. “Mr. Bender’s
bound to have something!”
It was even as if after a minute Lord Theign had been reached by his
friend’s mute pressure. “‘Something’?”
“Something, Mr. Bender?” Lord John insisted.
It made their visitor rather sharply fix him. “Why, have you an
interest, Lord John?”
This personage, though undisturbed by the challenge, if such it was,
referred it to Lord Theign. “Do you authorise me to speak--a little--as
if I have an interest?”
Lord Theign gave the appeal--and the speaker--a certain attention, and
then appeared rather sharply to turn away from them. “My dear fellow,
you may amuse yourself at my expense as you like!”
“Oh, I don’t mean at your expense,” Lord John laughed--“I mean at Mr.
Bender’s!”
“Well, go ahead, Lord John,” said that gentleman, always easy, but
always too, as you would have felt, aware of everything--“go ahead, but
don’t sweetly hope to create me in any desire that doesn’t already exist
in the germ. The attempt has often been made, over here--has in fact
been organised on a considerable scale; but I guess I’ve got some
peculiarity, for it doesn’t seem as if the thing could be done. If the
germ is there, on the other hand,” Mr. Bender conceded, “it develops
independently of all encouragement.”
Lord John communicated again as in a particular sense with Lord Theign.
“He thinks I really mean to offer him something!”
Lord Theign, who seemed to wish to advertise a degree of detachment from
the issue, or from any other such, strolled off, in his restlessness,
toward the door that opened to the terrace, only stopping on his way
to light a cigarette from a matchbox on a small table. It was but after
doing so that he made the remark: “Ah, Mr. Bender may easily be too much
for you!”
“That makes me the more sorry, sir,” said his visitor, “not to have been
enough for you!”
“I risk it, at any rate,” Lord John went on--“I put you, Bender, the
question of whether you wouldn’t Move,’ as you say, to acquire that
Moretto.”
Mr. Bender’s large face had a commensurate gaze. “As I say? I haven’t
said anything of the sort!”
“But you do ‘love’ you know,” Lord John slightly overgrimaced.
“I don’t when I don’t want to. I’m different from most people--I can
love or not as I like. The trouble with that Moretto,” Mr. Bender
continued, “is that it ain’t what I’m after.”
His “after” had somehow, for the ear, the vividness of a sharp whack
on the resisting surface of things, and was concerned doubtless in Lord
John’s speaking again across to their host. “The worst he can do for me,
you see, is to refuse it.”
Lord Theign, who practically had his back turned and was fairly dandling
about in his impatience, tossed out to the terrace the cigarette he had
but just lighted. Yet he faced round to reply: “It’s the very first time
in the history of this house (a long one, Mr. Bender) that a picture, or
anything else in it, has been offered----!”
It was not imperceptible that even if he hadn’t dropped Mr. Bender
mightn’t have been markedly impressed. “Then it must be the very first
time such an offer has failed.”
“Oh, it isn’t that we in the least press it!” Lord Theign quite
naturally laughed.
“Ah, I beg your pardon--I press it very hard!” And Lord John, as taking
from his face and manner a cue for further humorous license, went so far
as to emulate, though sympathetically enough, their companion’s native
form. “You don’t mean to say you don’t feel the interest of that
Moretto?”
Mr. Bender, quietly confident, took his time to reply. “Well, if you had
seen me up on that chair you’d have thought I did.”
“Then you must have stepped down from the chair properly impressed.”
“I stepped down quite impressed with that young man.”
“Mr. Crimble?”--it came after an instant to Lord John. “With his
