"Couldn't you come back for a day? Querida is coming. Sammy and Harry
Annan are coming up over Sunday. Couldn't you?"
"Valerie, dear, I could"--he checked himself; thought for a while
until the strain of his set teeth aroused him to consciousness of his
own emotion.
Rather white he looked at her, searching for the best phrase--for it was
already threatening to be a matter of phrases now--of forced smiles--and
some breathing spot fit for the leisure of self-examination.
"I'm going back to paint," he said. "Those commissions have waited long
enough."
He strove to visualise his studio, to summon up the calm routine of the
old regime--as though the colourless placidity of the past could steady
him.
"Will you need me?" she asked.
"Later--of course. Just now I've a lot of men's figures to deal
with--that symbolical affair for the new court house."
"Then you don't need me?"
"No."
She thought a moment, slim fingers resting on the knob of her door,
standing partly turned away from him. Then, opening her door, she
stepped inside, hesitated, looked back:
"Good-bye, Louis, dear," she said, gently.
CHAPTER VI
Neville had begun to see less and less of Valerie West. When she first
returned from the country in September she had come to the studio and
had given him three or four mornings on the portrait which he had begun
during the previous summer. But the painting of it involved him in
difficulties entirely foreign to him--difficulties born of technical
timidity of the increasing and inexplicable lack of self-confidence. And
deeply worried, he laid it aside, A dull, unreasoning anxiety possessed
him. Those who had given him commissions to execute were commencing to
importune him for results. He had never before disappointed any client.
Valerie could be of very little service to him in the big mural
decorations which, almost in despair, he had abruptly started. Here and
there, in the imposing compositions designed for the Court House, a
female figure, or group of figures, was required, but, in the main, male
figures filled the preliminary cartoons--great law-givers and
law-defenders of all ages and all lands, in robes and gowns of silks; in
armour, in skins, in velvet and ermine--men wearing doublet, jack-coat,
pourpoint; men in turban and caftan, men covered with mail of all
kinds--armour of leather, of fibre, of lacquer, of quilted silk, of
linked steel, Milanaise, iron cuirass; the emblazoned panoply of the
Mongol paladins; Timour Melek's greaves of virgin gold; men of all
nations and of all ages who fashioned or executed human law, from Moses
to Caesar, from Mohammed to Genghis Kahn and the Golden Emperor, from
Charlemagne to Napoleon, and down through those who made and upheld the
laws in the Western world, beginning with Hiawatha, creator of the
Iroquois Confederacy--the Great League.
His studio was a confusion of silks, cut velvets, tapestries,
embroideries, carpets of the East, lay figures glittering with replicas
of priceless armour. Delicate fabrics trailed over chair and floor
almost under foot; inlaid and gem-hilted weapons, illuminated missals,
glass-cased papyri, gilded zones, filets, girdles, robes of fur, hoods,
wallets, helmets, hats, lay piled up, everywhere in methodical disorder.
And into and out of the studio passed male models of all statures, all
ages, venerable, bearded men, men in their prime, men with the
hard-hammered features and thick, sinewy necks of gladiators, men
slender and pallid as dreaming scholars, youths that might have worn the
gold-red elf-locks and the shoulder cloak of Venice, youth chiselled in
a beauty as dark and fierce as David wore when the mailed giant went
crashing earthward under the smooth round pebble from his sling.
Valerie's turn in this splendid panoply was soon over. Even had she been
so inclined there was, of course, no place for her to visit now, no
place to sit and watch him among all these men. After hours, once or
twice, she came in to tea--to gossip a little with the old-time ease,
and barter with him epigram for jest, nonsense for inconsequence. Yet,
subtly--after she had gone home--she felt the effort. Either he or she
had imperceptibly changed; she knew not which was guilty; but she knew.
Besides, she herself was now in universal demand--and in the furor of
her popularity she had been, from the beginning, forced to choose among
a very few with whom she personally felt herself at ease, and to whom
she had become confidently accustomed. Also, from the beginning, she had
not found it necessary to sit undraped for many--a sculptor or
two--Burleson and Gary Graves--Sam Ogilvy with his eternal mermaidens,
Querida--nobody else. The other engagements had been for costume or, at
most, for head and shoulders. Illustrators now clamoured for her in
modish garments of the moment--in dinner gown, ball gown, afternoon,
carriage, motor, walking, tennis, golf, riding costumes; poster artists
made her pretty features popular; photographs of her in every style of
indoor and outdoor garb decorated advertisements in the backs of monthly
magazines. She was seen turning on the water in model bathtubs, offering
the admiring reader a box of bonbons, demurely displaying a brand of
hosiery, recommending cold cream, baked beans, railroad routes, tooth
powder, and real-estate on Long Island.
Her beauty, the innocent loveliness of her features, her dainty modest
charm, the enchanting outline and mould of her figure were beginning to
make her celebrated. Already people about town--at the play, in the
park, on avenue and street, in hotels and restaurants, were beginning to
recognise her, follow her with approving or hostile eyes, turn their
heads to watch her.
Theatrical agents wrote her, making attractive offers for an engagement
where showgirls were the ornamental caryatids which upheld the three
tottering unities along Broadway. She also had chances to wear very
wonderful model gowns for next season at the Countess of Severn's new
dressmaking, drawing-rooms whither all snobdom crowded and shoved to get
near the trade-marked coronet, and where bewildering young ladies
strolled haughtily about all day long, displaying to agitated Gotham the
most startling gowns in the extravagant metropolis.
She had other opportunities, too--such as meeting several varieties of
fashionable men of various ages--gentlemen prominently identified with
the arts and sciences--the art of killing time and the science of
enjoying the assassination. And some of these assorted gentlemen
maintained extensive stables and drove tandems, spikes, and fours; and
some were celebrated for their yachts, or motors, or prima-donnas, or
business acumen, or charitable extravagances.... Yes, truly, Valerie
West was beginning to have many opportunities in this generously
philanthropic world. And she was making a great deal of money--for
her--but nothing like what she might very easily have made. And she knew
it, young as she was. For it does not take very long to learn about such
things when a girl is attempting to earn her living in this altruistic
world.
"She'll spread her wings and go one of these days," observed Archie
Allaire to Rita Tevis, who was posing as Psyche for one of his clever,
thinly brushed, high-keyed studies very much after the manner and
palette of Chaplin when they resembled neither Chartrain nor Zier, nor
any other artist temporarily in vogue. For he was an adaptable man,
facile, adroit, a master navigator in trimming sail to the fitful breeze
of popular favour. And his work was in great demand.
"She'll be decorating the tonneau of some big touring car with crested
panels--and there'll be a bunch of orchids in the crystal holder, and a
Chow dog beside her, defying the traffic squad--"
"No, she won't!" snapped Rita. "She's as likely to do that as she is to
dine with you again."
Allaire, caught off his guard, scowled with unfeigned annoyance.
Repeated essays to ingratiate himself with Valerie had finally resulted
in a dinner at the Astor, and in her firm, polite, but uncompromising
declination of all future invitations from him, either to sit for him or
beside him under any circumstances and any conditions whatever.
"So that's your opinion, is it, Rita?" he inquired, keeping his
light-blue eyes and his thin wet brush busy on his canvas. "Well,
sister, take it from muh, she thinks she's the big noise in the Great
White Alley; but they're giving her the giggle behind her back."
"That giggle may be directed at you, Archie," observed Rita, scornfully;
"you're usually behind her back, you know, hoisting the C.Q.D."
"Which is all right, too," he said, apparently undisturbed; "but when
she goes to Atlantic City with Querida--"
"That is an utter falsehood," retorted Rita, calmly. "Whoever told you
that she went there with Querida, lied."
"You think so?"
"I know so! She went alone."
"Then we'll let it go at that," said Allaire so unpleasantly that Rita
took fiery offence.
"There is not a man living who has the right to look sideways at Valerie
West! Everybody knows it--Neville, Querida, Sam, John Burleson--even you
know it! If a man or two has touched her finger tips--her waist--her
lips, perhaps--no man has obtained more than that of her--dared more
than that! I have never heard that any man has ever even ventured to
offend her ears, unless"--she added with malice, "that is the reason
that she accepts no more invitations from you and your intimate
friends."
Allaire managed to smile and continue to paint. But later he found use
for his palette knife--which was unusual in a painter as clever as he
and whose pride was in his technical skill with materials used and
applied premier coup.
With October came the opening of many theatres; a premature gaiety
animated the hotels and restaurants; winter fabrics, hats, furs, gowns,
appeared in shops; the glittering windows along Fifth Avenue reflected
more limousines and fewer touring bodies passing. Later top hats
reappeared on street and in lobby; and when the Opera reopened, Long
Island, Jersey, and Westchester were already beginning to pour in
cityward, followed later by Newport, Lenox, and Bar Harbour. The police
put on their new winter uniforms; furs were displayed in carriages,
automobiles, and theatres; the beauty of the florist's windows became
mellower, richer, and more splendid; the jewellery in the restaurants
more gorgeous. Gotham was beginning to be its own again, jacked up by
the Horse Show, the New Theatre, and the Opera; and by that energetic
Advertising Trust Company with its branches, dependencies, and mergers,
which is called Society, and which is a matter of eternal vigilance and
desperate business instead of the relaxation of cultivated security in
an accepted and acceptable order of things.
Among other minor incidents, almost local in character, the Academy and
Society of American Artists opened its doors. And the exhibition
averaged as well as it ever will, as badly as it ever had averaged.
Allaire showed two portraits of fashionable women, done, this time, in
the manner of Zorn, and quite as clever on the streaky surface. Sam
Ogilvy proudly displayed another mermaid--Rita in the tub--and two
babies from photographs and "chic"--very bad; but as usual it was very
quickly marked sold.
Annan had a portrait of his sister Alice, poorly painted and even
recognised by some of her more intimate friends. Clive Gail offered one
of his marines--waves splashing and dashing all over the canvas so
realistically that women instinctively stepped back and lifted their
skirts, and men looked vaguely around for a waiter--at least Ogilvy said
so. As for Neville, he had a single study to show--a full length--just
the back and head and the soft contour of limbs melting into a
luminously sombre background--a masterpiece in technical perfection,
which was instantly purchased by a wise and Western millionaire, and
which left the public staring but unmoved.
But it was José Querida who dominated the whole show, flooding
everything with the splendour of his sunshine so that all else in the
same room looked cold or tawdry or washed out. His canvas, with its
superbly vigorous drawing, at once became the sensation of the
exhibition. Sunday supplements reproduced it with a photograph of
Querida looking amiably at a statuette of Venus which he held in his
long, tapering fingers; magazines tried to print it in two colours, in
three, in dozens, and made fireworks of it to Querida's inwardly
suppressed agony, and their own satisfaction. Serious young men wrote
"appreciations" about it; serious young women published instructive
discourses concerning it in the daily papers. Somebody in the valuable
columns of the Tribune inquired whether Querida's painting was meant
to be symbolical; somebody in the Nation said yes; somebody in the
Sun said no; somebody in something or other explained its
psychological subtleties; somebody in something else screamed, "bosh!"
Meanwhile the discussion was a god-send to fashionable diners-out and to
those cultivated leaders of society who prefer to talk through the Opera
and philharmonic.
In what the educated daily press calls the "world of art" and the "realm
of literature," Querida's picture was discussed intelligently and
otherwise, but it was discussed--from the squalid table d'hôte, where
unmanicured genius punctures the air with patois and punches holes in it
with frenzied thumbs, to quiet, cultivated homes, where community of
taste restricts the calling lists--from the noisy studio, where pianos
and girls make evenings lively, to the austere bare boards or the velvet
elegance of studios where authority and preciousness, and occasionally
attainment, reside, and sometimes do not.
    Cognatis maculis similis fera.
Neville was busy, but not too busy to go about in the evening among his
own kind, and among other kinds, too. This unexpected resurgance within
him of the social instinct, he made no attempt to account for to others
or to himself. He had developed a mental and physical restlessness,
which was not yet entirely nervous, but it had become sufficiently
itching to stir him out of fatigue when the long day's work had
ended--enough to drive him out of the studio--at first merely to roam
about at hazard through the livelier sections of the city. But to the
lonely, there is no lonelier place than a lively one; and the false
brilliancy and gaiety drove him back upon himself and into his lair
again, where for a while he remained meditating amid the sombre menace
of looming canvases and the heavy futility of dull-gold hangings, and
the mischievous malice of starlight splintering into a million
incandescent rainbow rays through the sheet of glass above.
Out of this, after some days, he emerged, set in motion by his
increasing restlessness. And it shoved him in the direction of his kind
once more--and in the direction of other kinds.
He dined at his sister's in Seventy-ninth Street near Madison Avenue; he
dined with the Grandcourts on Fifth Avenue; he decorated a few dances,
embellished an opera box now and then, went to Lakewood and Tuxedo for
week ends, rode for a few days at Hot Springs, frequented his clubs,
frequented Stephanie, frequented Maxim's.
And all the while it seemed to him as though he were temporarily
enduring something which required patience, which could not last
forever, which must one day end in a great change, a complete
transformation for himself, of himself, of the world around him and of
his aim and hope and purpose in living. At moments, too, an odd
sensation of expectancy came over him--the sense of waiting, of
suppressed excitement. And he could not account for it.
Perhaps it concerned the finishing of his great mural frieze for the
Court House--that is, the completion of the section begun in September.
For, when it was done, and cleared out of his studio, and had been set
in its place, framed by the rose and gold of marble and ormolu, a heavy
reaction of relief set in, leaving him listless and indifferent at
first, then idle, disinclined to begin the companion frieze; then again
restless, discontented, tired, and lonely in that strange solitude which
seemed to be growing wider and wider around him in rings of silence. Men
praised and lauded the great frieze; and he strove to respond, to
believe them--to believe in the work and in himself--strove to shake off
the terrible discouragement invading him, lurking always near to reach
out and touch him, slinking at his heels from street to street, from
room to room, skulking always just beyond the shadows that his reading
lamp cast.
Without envy, yet with profound sadness, he stood and faced the
splendour of Querida's canvas. He had gone to Querida and taken him by
both of his thin, olive-skinned hands, and had praised the work with a
heart clean of anything unworthy. And Querida had laughed and displayed
his handsome teeth, and returned compliment for compliment.... And
Neville had seen, on his dresser, a photograph of Valerie, signed in her
long, girlish, angular hand--"To José from Valerie"; and the date was of
mid-winter.
Christmas came; he sent Valerie some furs and a note, and, before he
went to Aiken to spend the holidays with his father and mother, he tried
to get her on the telephone--tried half a dozen times. But she was
either busy with business or with pleasure somewhere or other--and he
never found her at home; so he went South without hearing from her.
[Illustration: "Querida had laughed ... and returned compliment for
compliment."]
After he arrived, it is true, he received from her a cigarette case and
a very gay and frank Christmas greeting--happy and untroubled
apparently, brimming with gossip, inconsequences, and nonsense. In it
she thanked him for his letter and his gift, hoped he was happy with his
parents, and expressed an almost conventional desire to see him on his
return.
Then his parents came back to New York with him. Two days before New
Year's Day they went to Spindrift House instead of sailing for Egypt,
where for some years now they had been accustomed to spend the winters
shivering at Shepherd's. And he and his sister and brother-in-law and
Stephanie dined together that evening. But the plans they made to
include him for a New Year's Eve home party remained uncertain as far as
he was concerned. He was vague--could not promise--he himself knew not
why. And they ceased to press him.
"You're growing thin and white," said Lily. "I believe you're getting
painter's colic."
"House painters acquire that," he said, smiling. "I'm not a member of
their union yet."
"Well, you must use as much white lead as they do on those enormous
canvases of yours. Why don't you start on a trip around the world,
Louis?"
He laughed.
Later, after he had taken his leave, the suggestion reoccurred to him.
He took enough trouble to think about it the next morning; sent out his
servant to amass a number of folders advertising world girdling tours of
various attractions, read them while lunching, and sat and pondered. Why
not? It might help. Because he certainly began to need help. He had gone
quite stale. Querida was right; he ought to lie fallow. No ground could
yield eternally without rest. Querida was clever enough to know that;
and he had been stupid enough to ignore it--even disbelieve it,
contemptuous of precept and proverb and wise saw, buoyed above
apprehension by consciousness and faith in his own inexhaustible energy.
And, after all, something really seemed to have happened to him. He
almost admitted it now for the first time--considered the proposition
silently, wearily, without any definite idea of analysing it, without
even the desire to solve it.
Somehow, at some time, he had lost pleasure in his powers, faith in his
capacity, desire for the future. What had satisfied him yesterday,
to-day became contemptible. Farther than ever, farther than the
farthest, stars receded the phantoms of the great Masters. What they
believed and endured and wrought and achieved seemed now not only
hopelessly beyond any comprehension or attainment of his, but even
beyond hope of humble discipleship.
And always, horribly, like an obsession, was creeping over him in these
days the conviction of some similarity between his work and the thin,
clear, clever brush-work of Allaire--with all its mastery of ways and
means, all its triumph over technical difficulties, all its tricks and
subtle appeals, and its falsity, and its glamour.
Reflection, retrospection sickened him. It was snowing and growing late
when he wrote to a steamship agent making inquiries and asking for plans
of staterooms.
Then he had tea, alone there in the early winter dusk, with the
firelight playing over Gladys who sat in the full heat of the blaze,
licking her only kitten, embracing its neck with one maternal paw.
He dressed about six, intending to dine somewhere alone that New Year's
Eve. The somewhere, as usual, ended at the Syrinx Club--or rather at the
snowy portal--for there he collided with Samuel Strathclyde Ogilvy and
Henry Knickerbocker Annan, and was seized and compelled to perform with
them on the snowy sidewalk, a kind of round dance resembling a pow-wow,
which utterly scandalised the perfectly respectable club porter, and
immensely interested the chauffeurs of a row of taxicabs in waiting.
"Come! Let up! This isn't the most dignified performance I ever assisted
at," he protested.
"Who said it was dignified?" demanded Ogilvy. "We're not hunting for
dignity. Harry and I came here in a hurry to find an undignified
substitute for John Burleson. You're the man!"
"Certainly," said Annan, "you're the sort of cheerful ass we need in our
business. Come on! Some of these taxis belong to us--"
"Where do you want me to go, you crazy--"
"Now be nice, Louis," he said, soothingly; "play pretty and don't kick
and scream. Burleson was going with us to see the old year out at the
Cafe Gigolette, but he's got laryngitis or some similar species of
pip--"
"I don't want to go--"
"You've got to, dear friend. We've engaged a table for six--"
"Six!"
"Sure, dearie. In the college of experience coeducation is a necessary
evil. Step lively, son!"
"Who is going?"
"One dream, one vision, one hallucination--" he wafted three kisses
from his gloved finger tips in the general direction of Broadway--"and
you, and Samuel, and I. Me lord, the taxi waits!"
"Now, Harry, I'm not feeling particularly cheerful--"
"But you will, dear friend; you will soon be feeling the Fifty-seven
Varieties of cheerfulness. All kinds of society will be at the
Gigolette--good, bad, fashionable, semi-fashionable--all imbued with the
intellectual and commendable curiosity to see somebody 'start
something.' And," he added, modestly, "Sam and I are going to see what
can be accomplished--"
"No; I won't go--"
But they fell upon him and fairly slid him into a taxi, beckoning two
other similar vehicles to follow in procession.
"Now, dearie," simpered Sam, "don't you feel better?"
Neville laughed and smoothed out the nap of his top hat.
They made three stops at three imposing looking apartment hotels between
Sixth Avenue and Broadway--The Daisy, The Gwendolyn, The Sans
Souci--where negro porters and hallboys were gorgeously conspicuous and
the clerk at the desk seemed to be unusually popular with the guests.
And after every stop there ensued a shifting of passengers in the
taxicabs, until Neville found himself occupying the rear taxi in the
procession accompanied by a lively young lady in pink silk and
swansdown--a piquant face and pretty figure, white and smooth and
inclined to a plumpness so far successfully contended with by her corset
maker.
"I have on my very oldest gown," she explained with violet-eyed
animation, patting her freshly dressed hair with two smooth little hands
loaded with diamonds and turquoises. "I'm afraid somebody will start
something and then they'll throw confetti, and somebody will think it's
funny to aim champagne corks at you. So I've come prepared," she added,
looking up at him with a challenge to deny her beauty. "By the way," she
said, "I'm Mazie Gray. Nobody had the civility to tell you, did they?"
"They said something.... I'm Louis Neville," he replied, smiling.
"Are you?" she laughed. "Well, you may take it from mother that you're
as cute as your name, Louis. Who was it they had all framed up to give
me my cues? That big Burleson gentleman who'd starve if he had to laugh
for a living, wasn't it? Can you laugh, child?"
"A few, Mazie. It is my only Sunday accomplishment."
"Dearie," she added, correcting him.
"It is my only accomplishment, dearie."
"That will be about all--for a beginning!" She laughed as the cab
stopped at the red awning and Neville aided her to descend.
Steps, vestibules, stairs, cloak-rooms were crowded with jolly,
clamouring throngs flourishing horns, canes, rattles, and dusters decked
with brilliant ribbons. Already some bore marks of premature encounters
with confetti and cocktails.
Waiters and head-waiters went gliding and scurrying about, assigning
guests to tables reserved months in advance. Pages in flame-coloured and
gold uniforms lifted the silken rope that stretched its barrier between
the impatient crowd and the tables; managers verified offered
credentials and escorted laughing parties to spaces bespoken.
Two orchestras, relieving each other, fiddled and tooted continuously;
great mounds of flowers, smilax, ropes of evergreens, multi-tinted
electroliers made the vast salon gay and filled it with perfume.
Even in the beginning it was lively enough though not yet boisterous in
the city where all New York was dining and preparing for eventualities;
the eventualities being that noisy mid-winter madness which seizes the
metropolis when the birth of the New Year is imminent.
It is a strange evolution, a strange condition, a state of mind not to
be logically accounted for. It is not accurate to say that the nicer
people, the better sort, hold aloof; because some of them do not. And in
this uproarious carnival the better sort are as likely to misbehave as
are the worse; and they have done it, and do it, and probably will
continue to say and do and tolerate and permit inanities in themselves
and in others that, at other moments, they would regard as
insanities--and rightly.
Around every table, rosily illuminated, laughter rang. White throats and
shoulders glimmered, jewels sparkled, the clear crystalline shock of
glasses touching glasses rang continual accompaniment to the music and
the breezy confusion of voices.
Here and there, in premonition of the eventual, the comet-like passage
of streaming confetti was blocked by bare arms upflung to shield
laughing faces; arms that flashed with splendid jewels on wrist and
finger.
Neville, coolly surveying the room, recognised many, responding to
recognition with a laugh, a gesture, or with glass uplifted.
"Stop making goo-goos," cried Mazie, dropping her hand over his wrist.
"Listen, and I'll be imprudent enough to tell you the very latest
toast--" She leaned nearer, opening her fan with a daring laugh; but
Ogilvy wouldn't have it.
"This is no time for single sentiment!" he shouted. "Everybody should
be perfectly plural to-night--everything should be plural, multiple,
diffuse, all embracing, general, polydipsiatic, polygynyatic,
polyandryatic!"
"What's polyandryatic?" demanded Mazie in astonishment.
"It means everybody is everybody else's! I'm yours and you're mine but
everybody else owns us and we own everybody."
"Hurrah!" shouted Annan. "Hear--hear! Where is the fair and total
stranger who is going to steal the first kiss from me? Somebody count
three before the rush begins--"
A ball of roses struck him squarely on the mouth; a furious shower of
confetti followed. For a few moments the volleys became general, then
the wild interchange of civilities subsided, and the cries of laughter
died away and were lost in the loud animated hum which never ceased
under the gay uproar of the music.
When they played the barcarole from Contes d'Hoffman everybody sang it
and rose to their feet cheering the beautiful prima donna with whom the
song was so closely identified, and who made one of a gay group at a
flower-smothered table.
And she rose and laughingly acknowledged the plaudits; but they wouldn't
let her alone until she mounted her chair and sang it in solo for them;
and then the vast salon went wild.
Neville, surveying the vicinity, recognised people he never dreamed
would have appeared in such a place--here a celebrated architect and his
pretty wife entertaining a jolly party, there a well-known lawyer and
somebody else's pretty wife; and there were men well known at
fashionable clubs and women known in fashionable sets, and men and women
characteristic of quieter sets, plainly a little uncertain and surprised
to find themselves there. And he recognised assorted lights of the
"profession," masculine and feminine; and one or two beautiful meteors
that were falling athwart the underworld, leaving fading trails of
incandescence in their jewelled wake.
The noise began to stun him; he laughed and talked and sang with the
others, distinguishing neither his own voice nor the replies. For the
tumult grew as the hour advanced toward midnight, gathering steadily in
strength, in license, in abandon.
And now, as the minute hands on the big gilded clock twitched nearer and
nearer to midnight, the racket became terrific, swelling, roaring into
an infernal din as the raucous blast of horns increased in the streets
outside and the whistles began to sound over the city from Westchester
to the Bay, from Long Island to the Palisades.
Sheer noise, stupefying, abominable, incredible, unending, greeted the
birth of the New Year; they were dancing in circles, singing, cheering
amid the crash of glasses. Table-cloths, silken gowns, flowers were
crushed and trampled under foot; flushed faces looked into strange
faces, laughing; eyes strange to other eyes smiled; strange hands
exchanged clasps with hands unknown; the whirl had become a madness.
And, suddenly, in its vortex, Neville saw Valerie West. Somebody had set
her on a table amid the silver and flowers and splintered crystal. Her
face was flushed, eyes and mouth brilliant, her gown almost torn from
her left shoulder and fluttering around the lovely arm in wisps and rags
of silk and lace. Querida supported her there.
They pelted her with flowers and confetti, and she threw roses back at
everybody, snatching her ammunition from a great basket which Querida
held for her.
Ogilvy and Annan saw her and opened fire on her with a cheer, and she
recognised them and replied with volleys of rosebuds--was in the act of
hurling her last blossom--caught sight of Neville where he stood with
Mazie on a chair behind him, her arms resting on his shoulders. And the
last rose dropped from her hand.
Querida turned, too, inquiringly; recognised Neville; and for a second
his olive cheeks reddened; then with a gay laugh he passed his arm
around Valerie and, coolly facing the bombardment of confetti and
flowers, swung her from the table to the floor.
A furious little battle of flowers began at his own table, but Neville
was already lost in the throng, making his way toward the door, pelted,
shouldered, blocked, tormented--but, indifferent, unresponsive, forcing
his path to the outer air.
Once or twice voices called his name, but he scarcely heard them. Then a
hand caught at his; and a breathless voice whispered:
"Are you going?"
"Yes," he said, dully.
"Why?"
"I've had enough--of the New Year."
Breathing fast, the colour in her face coming and going, she stood,
vivid lips parted, regarding him. Then, in a low voice:
"I didn't know you were to be here, Louis."
"Nor I. It was an accident."
"Who was the--girl--"
"What girl?"
"She stood behind you with her hands on your shoulders."
"How the devil do I know," he said, savagely--"her name's
Mazie--something--or--other."
"Did you bring her?"
"Yes. Did Querida bring you?" he asked, insolently.
She looked at him in a confused, bewildered way--laid her hand on his
sleeve with an impulse as though he had been about to strike her.
He no longer knew what he was doing in the sudden surge of unreasoning
anger that possessed him; he shook her hand from his sleeve and turned.
And the next moment, on the stairs, she was beside him again, slender,
pale, close to his shoulder, descending the great staircase beside him,
one white-gloved hand resting lightly within his arm.
Neither spoke. At the cloak-room she turned and looked at him--stood a
moment slowly tearing the orchids from her breast and dropping the
crushed petals underfoot.
A maid brought her fur coat--his gift; a page brought his own coat and
hat.
"Will you call a cab?"
He turned and spoke to the porter. Then they waited, side by side, in
silence.
When the taxicab arrived he turned to give the porter her address, but
she had forestalled him. And he entered the narrow vehicle; and they sat
through the snowy journey in utter silence until the cab drew up at his
door.
Then he said: "Are you not going home?"
"Not yet."
They descended, stood in the falling snow while he settled with the
driver, then entered the great building, ascended in the elevator, and
stepped out at his door.
He found his latch-key; the door swung slowly open on darkness.
CHAPTER VII
An electric lamp was burning in the hallway; he threw open the
connecting doors of the studio where a light gleamed high on the
ceiling, and stood aside for her to pass him.
She stepped across the threshold into the subdued radiance, stood for a
moment undecided, then:
"Are you coming in?" she asked, cheerfully, quite aware of his
ill-temper. "Because if you are, you may take off my coat for me."
He crossed the threshold in silence, and divested her of the fur garment
which was all sparkling with melting snow.
"Do let's enjoy the firelight," she said, turning out the single ceiling
lamp; "and please find some nice, big crackly logs for the fire,
Kelly!--there's a treasure!"
His frowning visage said: "Don't pretend that it's all perfectly
pleasant between us"; but he turned without speaking, cleared a big
arm-chair of its pile of silks, velvets, and antique weapons, and pushed
it to the edge of the hearth. Every movement he made, his every attitude
was characterised by a sulky dignity which she found rather funny, now
that the first inexplicable consternation of meeting him had subsided.
And already she was wondering just what it was that had startled her;
why she had left the café with him; why he had left; why he seemed to
be vexed with her. For her conscience, in regard to him, was perfectly
clear and serene.
"Now the logs, Kelly, dear," she said, "the kind that catch fire in a
second and make frying-pan music, please."
He laid three or four logs of yellow birch across the bed of coals. The
blaze caught swiftly, mounting in a broad sheet of yellow flame, making
their faces brilliant in the darkness; and the tall shadows leaped
across floor and wall and towered, wavering above them from the ruddy
ceiling.
"Kelly!"
"What?"
"I wish you a Happy New Year."
"Thank you. I wish you the same."
"Come over here and curl up on the hearth and drop your head back on my
knees, and tell me what is the trouble--you sulky boy!"
He did not appear to hear her.
"Please?--" with a slight rising inflection.
"What is the use of pretending?" he said, shortly.
"Pretending!" she repeated, mimicking him delightedly. Then with a
clear, frank laugh: "Oh, you great, big infant! The idea of you being
the famous painter Louis Neville! I wish there was a nursery here. I'd
place you in it and let you pout!"
"That's more pretence," he said, "and you know it."
"What silly things you do say, Louis! As though people could find life
endurable if they did not pretend. Of course I'm pretending. And if a
girl pretends hard enough it sometimes comes true."
"What comes true?"
"Ah!--you ask me too much.... Well, for example, if I pretend I don't
mind your ill-temper it may come true that you will be amiable to me
before I go home."
There was no smile from him, no response. The warmth of the burning logs
deepened the colour in her cold cheeks. Snow crystals on her dark hair
melted into iris-rayed drops. She stretched her arms to the fire, and
her eyes fell on Gladys and her kitten, slumbering, softly embraced.
"Oh, do look, Kelly! How perfectly sweet and cunning! Gladys has her
front paws right around the kitten's neck."
Impulsively she knelt down, burying her face in the fluffy heap; the
kitten partly opened its bluish eyes; the mother-cat stretched her legs,
yawned, glanced up, and began to lick the kitten, purring loudly.
For a moment or two the girl caressed the drowsy cats, then, rising, she
resumed her seat, sinking back deeply into the arm-chair and casting a
sidelong and uncertain glance at Neville.
The flames burned steadily, noiselessly, now; nothing else stirred in
the studio; there was no sound save the ghostly whisper of driving snow
blotting the glass roof above.
Her gaze wandered over the silken disorder in the studio, arrested here
and there as the firelight gleamed on bits of armour--on polished
corselet and helmet and the tall hilts of swords. Then she looked upward
where the high canvas loomed a vast expanse of gray, untouched except
for the brushed-in outlines of men in shadowy processional.
She watched Neville, who had begun to prowl about in the disorder of
the place, stepping over trailing velvets, avoiding manikins armed
cap-a-pie, moving restlessly, aimlessly. And her eyes followed his
indecision with a smile that gradually became perplexed and then a
little troubled.
For even in the uncertain firelight she was aware of the change in his
face--of features once boyish and familiar that seemed now to have
settled into a sterner, darker mould--a visage that was too lean for his
age--a face already haunted of shadows; a mature face--the face of a man
who had known unhappiness.
He had paused, now, head lifted, eyes fixed on vast canvas above. And
for a long while he stood there leaning sideways against a ladder,
apparently oblivious of her.
Time lagged, halted--then sped forward, slyly robbing him of minutes of
which his senses possessed no record. But minutes had come and gone
while he stood there thinking, unconscious of the trick time played
him--for the fire was already burning low again and the tall clock in
the shadows pointed with stiff and ancient hands to the death of another
hour and the birth of yet another; and the old-time bell chimed
impartially for both with a shift and slide of creaking weights and
wheels.
He lifted his head abruptly and looked at Valerie, who lay curled up in
her chair, eyes closed, dark lashes resting on her cheeks.
As he passed her chair and returned to place more logs on the fire she
opened her eyes and looked up at him. The curve of her mouth grew softly
humorous.
"I'd much prefer my own bed," she said, "if this is all you have to say
to me."
"Had you anything to say to me?" he asked, unsmiling.
"About what, Kelly, dear?"
"God knows; I don't."
"Listen to this very cross and cranky young man!" she exclaimed, sitting
up and winking her eyes in the rushing brilliancy of the blaze. "He is
neither a very gracious host, nor a very reasonable one; nor yet
particularly nice to a girl who left a perfectly good party for an hour
with him."
She stole a glance at him, and her gaze softened:
"Perhaps," she said aloud to herself, "he is not really very cross;
perhaps he is only tired--or in trouble. Otherwise his voice and manners
are scarcely pardonable--even by me."
He stood regarding the flames with narrowing gaze for a few moments,
then, hands in his pockets, walked over to his chair once more and
dropped into it.
A slight flush stole into her cheeks; but it went as it came. She rose,
crossed to where he sat and stood looking down at him.
"What is the matter?"
"With me?" in crude pretence of surprise.
"Of course. I am happy enough. What troubles you?"
"Absolutely nothing."
"Then--what troubles us?" she persisted. "What has gone wrong between
us, Kelly, dear? Because we mustn't let it, you know," she added,
slowly, shaking her head.
"Has anything gone wrong with us?" he asked, sullenly.
"Evidently. I don't know what it is. I'm keeping my composure and
controlling my temper until I find out. You know what that dreadful
temper of mine can be?" She added, smiling: "Well, then, please beware
of it unless you are ready to talk sensibly. Are you?"
"What is it you wish me to say?"
"How perfectly horrid you can be!" she exclaimed, "I never knew you
could be like this? Do you want a girl to go on her knees to you? I care
enough for our friendship to do it--but I won't!"
Her mood was altering:
"You're a brute, Kelly, to make me miserable. I was having such a good
time at the Gigolette when I suddenly saw you--your expression--and--I
don't even yet know why, but every bit of joy went out of everything for
me--"
"I was going out, too," he said, laughing. "Why didn't you remain?
Your gay spirits would have returned untroubled after my departure."
There was an ugly sound to his laugh which checked her, left her silent
for a moment. Then:
"Did you disapprove of me?" she asked, curiously. "Was that it?"
"No. You can take care of yourself, I fancy."
"I have had to," she said, gravely.
He was silent.
She added with a light laugh not perfectly genuine:
"I suppose I am experiencing with you what all mortals experience when
they become entangled with the gods."
"What is that?"
"Unhappiness. All the others experienced it--Proserpine, Helen, poor
little Psyche--every nice girl who ever became mixed up with the
Olympians had a bad half hour of it sooner or later. And to-night the
great god Kelly has veiled his face from me, and I'm on my knees at his
altar sacrificing every shred of sweet temper to propitiate him. Now,
mighty and sulky oracle! what has happened to displease you?"
He said: "If there seems to be any constraint--if anything has altered
our pleasant intimacy, I don't know what it is any more than you do,
Valerie."
"Then there is something!"
"I have not said so."
"Well, then, I say so," she said, impatiently. "And I say, also, that
whatever threatens our excellent understanding ought to be hunted out
and destroyed. Shall we do it together, Louis?"
He said nothing.
"Come to the fire and talk it over like two sensible people. Will you?
And please pull that sofa around to the blaze for me. Thank you. This,
Kelly, is our bed of justice."
She drew the cushions under her head and nestled down in the full warmth
of the hearth.
"Le lit de justice," she repeated, gaily. "Here I preside, possessing
inquisitorial power and prerogative, and exercising here to-night the
high justice, the middle, and the low. Now hale before me those skulking
knaves, Doubt, Suspicion, and Distrust, and you and I will make short
work of them. Pull 'em along by their ears, Louis! This Court means to
sit all night if necessary!"
She laughed merrily, raised herself on one arm, and looked him straight
in the eyes:
"Louis!"
"What?"
"Do you doubt me?"
"Doubt what?"
"That my friendship for you is as warm as the moment it began?"
He said, unsmiling: "People meet as we met, become friends--very good,
very close friends--in that sort of friendship which is governed by
chance and environment. The hazard that throws two people into each
other's company is the same hazard that separates them. It is not
significant either way.... I liked you--missed you.... Our companionship
had been pleasant."
"Very," she said, quietly.
He nodded: "Then chance became busy; your duties led you elsewhere--mine
set me adrift in channels once familiar--"
"Is that all you see in our estrangement?"
"What?" he asked, abruptly.
"Estrangement," she repeated, tranquilly. "That is the real word for it.
Because the old intimacy is gone. And now we both admit it."
"We have had no opportunity to be together this--"
"We once made opportunities."
"We have had no time--"
"We halted time, hastened it, dictated to it, ruled it--once."
"Then explain it otherwise if you can."
"I am trying to--with God's help. Will you aid me, too?"
Her sudden seriousness and emotion startled him.
"Louis, if our estrangement is important enough for us to notice at all,
it is important enough to analyse, isn't it?"
"I have analysed the reasons--"
"Truthfully?"
"I think so--as far as I have gone--"
"Let us go farther, then--to the end."
"But there is no particular significance--"
"Isn't there?"
"I don't know. After all, why did you leave that café? Why did I?
Why are we together, now--here in your studio, and utterly miserable at
one o'clock of the New Year's morning? For you and I are unhappy and ill
at ease; and you and I are talking at cross purposes, groping, evading,
fencing with words. If there is nothing significant in the friendship we
gave each other from the hour we met--it is not worth the self-deception
you are content with."
"Self-deception!" he repeated, flushing up.
"Yes. Because you do care more for me than what you have said about our
friendship indicates.... And I care more for your regard than you seem
willing to recognise--"
"I am very glad to--"
"Listen, Kelly. Can't we be honest with ourselves and with each other?
Because--our being here, now--my leaving that place in the way I
did--surprises me. I want to find out why there has been confusion,
constraint, somewhere--there is something to clear up between us--I
have felt that, vaguely, at moments; now I know it. Let us try to find
out what it is, what is steadily undermining our friendship."
"Nothing, Valerie," he said, smiling. "I am as fond of you as ever. Only
you have found time for other friendships. Your life has become more
interesting, fuller, happier--"
"Not happier. I realise that, now, as you say it." She glanced around
her; swiftly her dark eyes passed over things familiar. "I was happier
here than I have ever been in all my life," she said. "I love this
room--and everything in it. You know I do, Louis. But I couldn't very
well come here when you were using all those models. If you think that I
have neglected you, it is a silly and unfair thing to think. If I did
neglect you I couldn't help it. And you didn't seem to care."
He shrugged and looked up at the outlined men's figures partly covering
the canvas above them. Her gaze followed his, then again she raised
herself on one elbow and looked around her, searching with quick eyes
among the shadows.
"Where is my portrait?"
"Behind the tapestry."
"Have you abandoned it?"
"I don't know."
Her smile became tremulous: "Are you going to abandon the original,
too?"
"I never possessed very much of you, did I?" he said, sulkily; and
looked up at her quick exclamation of anger and surprise.
"What do you mean? You had all of me worth having--" there came a quick
catch, in her throat--"you had all there is to me--confidence in you,
gratitude for your friendship, deep, happy response to your every
mood--my unquestioning love and esteem--"
"Your love?" he repeated, with an unpleasant laugh.
"What else do you call it?" she demanded, fiercely. "Is there a name
less hackneyed for it? If there is, teach it to me. Yet--if ever a girl
truly loved a man, I have loved you. And I do love you, dearly,
honestly, cleanly, without other excuse than that, until to-night, you
have been sweet to me and made me happier and better than I have ever
been."
He sprang to his feet confused, deeply moved, suddenly ashamed of his
own inexplicable attitude that seemed to be driving him into a
bitterness that had no reason.
"Valerie," he began, but she interrupted him:
"I ask you, Kelly, to look back with me over our brief and happy
companionship--over the hours together, over all you have done for me--"
"Have you done less for me?"
"I? What have I done?"
"You say you have given me--love."
"I have--with all my heart and soul. And, now that I think of it, I have
given you more--I have given you all that goes with love--an unselfish
admiration; a quick sympathy in your perplexities; quiet solicitude in
your silences, in your aloof and troubled moments." She leaned nearer, a
brighter flush on either cheek:
"Louis, I have given you more than that; I gave you my bodily self for
your work--gave it to you first of all--came first of all to you--came
as a novice, ignorant, frightened--and what you did for me then--what
you were to me at that time--I can never, never forget. And that is why
I overlook your injustice to me now!"
She sat up on the sofa's edge balanced forward between her arms, fingers
nervously working at the silken edges of the upholstery.
"You ought never to have doubted my interest and affection," she said.
"In my heart I have not doubted yours--never--except to-night. And it
makes me perfectly wretched."
"I did not mean--"
"Yes, you did! There was something about you--your expression--when you
saw me throwing roses at everybody--that hurt me--and you meant to."
"With Querida's arm around you, did you expect me to smile?" he asked,
savagely.
"Was it that?" she demanded, astonished.
"What?"
"Querida's arm--" She hesitated, gazing straight into his eyes in utter
amazement.
"It wasn't that?" she repeated. "Was it?... You never cared about such
petty things, did you? Did you? Do you care? Because I never dreamed
that you cared.... What has a little imprudence--a little silly
mischief--to do with our friendship? Has it anything to do with it?
You've never said anything--and ... I've flirted--I've been spoons on
men--you knew it. Besides, I've nearly always told you. I've told you
without thinking it could possibly matter to you--to you of all men!
What do you care what I do?--as long as I am to you what I have always
been?"
"I--don't--care."
"Of course not. How can you?" She leaned nearer, dark and curious gaze
searching his. Then, with a nervous laugh voicing the impossible--"You
are not in love with me--that way. Are you?" she asked, scarcely
realising what she was saying.
"No," he said, forcing a smile. "Are you with me?"
She flushed scarlet:
"Kelly, I never thought--dreamed--hoped--" Her voice caught in her
throat a moment; "I--such a matter has not occurred to me." She looked
at him partly dismayed, partly confused, unable now to understand
him--or even herself.
"You know--that kind of love--" she began--"real love, never has
happened to me. You didn't think that, did you?--because--just because
I did flirt a little with you? It didn't mean anything serious--anything
of that kind. Kelly, dear, have you mistaken me? Is that what
annoys you? Were you afraid I was silly enough, mad enough to--to really
think of you--in that way?"
"No."
"Oh, I was sure you couldn't believe it of me. See how perfectly frank
and honest I have been with you. Why, you never were sentimental--and a
girl isn't unless a man begins it! You never kissed me--except last
summer when you were going away--and both of our hearts were pretty
full--"
"Wait," he said, suddenly exasperated, "are you trying to make me
understand that you haven't the slightest real emotion concerning
me--concerning me as a man--like other men?"
She looked at him, still confused and distressed, still determined he
should not misunderstand her:
"I don't know what you mean; truly I don't. I'm only trying to make you
believe that I am not guilty of thinking--wishing--of pretending that in
our frank companionship there lay concealed anything of--of deeper
significance--"
"Suppose--it were true?" he said.
"But it is not true!" she retorted angrily--and looked up, caught his
gaze, and her breath failed her.
"Suppose it were true--for example," he repeated. "Suppose you did find
that you or I were capable of--deeper--"
"Louis! Louis! Do you realise what you are saying to me? Do you
understand what you are doing to the old order of things between us--to
the old confidences, the old content, the happiness, the--the innocence
of our life together? Do you? Do you even care?"
"Care? Yes--I care."
"Because," she said, excitedly, "if it is to be--that way with
you--I--I can not help you--be of use to you here in the studio as I
have been.... Am I taking you too seriously? You do not mean that you
really could ever love me, or I you, do you? You mean that--that you
just want me back again--as I was--as we were--perfectly content to be
together. That is what you mean, isn't it, Kelly, dear?" she asked,
piteously.
He looked into her flushed and distressed face:
"Yes," he said, "that is exactly what I mean, Valerie--you dear,
generous, clear-seeing girl! I just wanted you back again; I miss you; I
am perfectly wretched without you, and that is all the trouble. Will you
come?"
"I--don't--know. Why did you say such a thing?"
"Forgive me, dear!"
She slowly shook her head:
"You've made me think of--things," she said. "You shouldn't ever have
done it."
"Done what, Valerie?"
"What you did--what you said--which makes it impossible for me to--to
ever again be what I have been to you--even pose for you--as I did--"
"You mean that you won't pose for me any more?" he asked, aghast.
"Only--in costume." She sat on the edge of the sofa, head averted,
looking steadily down at the hearth below. There was a pink spot on
either cheek.
He thought a moment. "Valerie," he said, "I believe we had better finish
what we have only begun to say."
"Is there--anything more?" she asked, unsmiling.
"Ask yourself. Do you suppose things can be left this way between
us--all the happiness and the confidence--and the innocence, as you say,
destroyed?"
"What more is there to say," she demanded, coldly.
"Shall--I--say it?" he stammered.
She looked up, startled, scarcely recognising the voice as his--scarcely
now recognising his altered features.
"What is the matter with you?" she exclaimed nervously.
"Good God," he said, hoarsely, "can't you see I've gone quite mad about
you!"
"About--me!" she repeated, blankly.
"About you--Valerie West. Can't you see it? Didn't you know it? Hasn't
it been plain enough to you--even if it hasn't been to me?"
"Louis! Louis!" she cried in hurt astonishment, "what have you said to
me?"
"That I'm mad about you, and I am. And it's been so--for
months--always--ever since the very first! I must have been crazy not to
realise it. I've been fool enough not to understand what has been the
matter. Now you know the truth, Valerie!" He sprang to his feet, took a
short turn or two before the hearth, then, catching sight of her face in
its colourless dismay and consternation:
"I suppose you don't care a damn for me--that way!" he said, with a
mirthless laugh.
"What!" she whispered, bewildered by his violence. Then: "Do you mean
that you are in love with me!"
"Utterly, hopelessly--" his voice broke and he stood with hands
clenched, unable to utter a word.
She sat up very straight and pale, the firelight gleaming on her neck
and shoulders. After a moment his voice came back to his choked throat:
"I love you better than anything in the world." he said in unsteady
tones. "And that is what has come between us. Do you think it is
something we had better hunt down and destroy--this love that has come
between us?"
"Is--is that true?" she asked in the awed voice of a child.
"It seems to be," he managed to say. She slid stiffly to the floor and
stood leaning against the sofa's edge, looking at him wide-eyed as a
schoolgirl.
"It never occurred to you what the real trouble might be," he asked,
"did it?"
She shook her head mechanically.
"Well, we know now. Your court of inquiry has brought out the truth
after all."
She only stared at him, fascinated. No colour had returned to her
cheeks.
He began to pace the hearth again, lip caught savagely between his
teeth.
"You are no more amazed than I am to learn the truth," he said. "I never
supposed it was that.... And it's been that from the moment I laid eyes
on you. I know it now. I'm learning, you see--learning not to lie to
myself or to you.... Learning other things, too--God knows what--if this
is love--this utter--suffering--"
He swung on his heel and began to pace the glimmering tiles toward her:
"Discontent, apathy, unhappiness, loneliness--the hidden ache which
merely meant I missed you when you were not here--when I was not beside
you--all these are now explained before your bed of justice. Your court
has heard the truth to-night; and you, Valerie, are armed with
justice--the high, the middle, and the low."
Pale, mute, she raised her dark eyes and met his gaze.
In the throbbing silence he heard his heart heavy in his breast; and now
she heard her own, rapid, terrifying her, hurrying her she knew not
whither. And again, trembling, she covered her eyes with her hands.
"Valerie," he said, in anguish, "come back to me. I will not ask you to
love me if you cannot. Only come back. I--can't--endure it--without
you."
There was no response.
He stepped nearer, touched her hands, drew them from her face--revealing
its pallid loveliness--pressed them to his lips, to his face; drew them
against his own shoulders--closer, till they fell limply around his
neck.
She uttered a low cry: "Louis!" Then:
"It--it is all over--with us," she faltered. "I--had never thought of
you--this way."
"Can you think of me this way, now?"
"I--can't help it."
"Dearest--dearest--" he stammered, and kissed her unresponsive lips, her
throat, her hair. She only gazed silently at the man whose arms held
her tightly imprisoned.
Under the torn lace and silk one bare shoulder glimmered; and he kissed
it, touched the pale veins with his lips, drew the arm from his neck and
kissed elbow, wrist, and palm, and every slender finger; and still she
looked at him as though dazed. A lassitude, heavy, agreeable to endure,
possessed her. She yielded to the sense of fatigue--to the confused
sweetness that invaded her; every pulse in her body beat its assent,
every breath consented.
"Will you try to care for me, Valerie?"
