pretense, complacency, bluff, bragg, she'd devilish soon see through it
all with those clear, intelligent eyes--see at the bottom what lies
squirming there--anxiety, self-distrust, eternal dread, undying envy,
the secret insecurity of those who imitate the real--which does not
exist in America--and who know in their hopeless hearts that they are
only shams, like that two-year-old antique tavern yonder, made quaint to
order."
He said smilingly: "She'll soon have enough of your particular
familiars. But, little by little, she'll find herself in accord with
people who seek her as frankly as she seeks them. Natural selection, you
know. Your only usefulness is to give her the opportunity, and you've
begun to do it, bless your heart."
She flashed a malicious glance at him; under cover of the gay hubbub she
said:
"I may do more than that, James."
"Really."
"Yes; I may open her eyes to men of your sort."
"Her eyes are open already, I suppose."
"Not very wide. For example--you'd never marry her. Would you?"
"Don't talk that way," he said coldly.
"No, I don't have to talk at all. I know. If you ever marry, I know
what deadly species of female it will be. You're probably right; you're
that kind, too--no real substance to you, James. And so I think I'll
have to look after my intellectual protégée, and be very sure that her
pretty eyes are wide open."
He turned toward her; their glances met level and hard:
"Let matters alone," he said. "I have myself in hand."
"You have in hand a horse with a runaway record, James."
Cairns, on her left, spoke to her; she turned and answered, then
presented her well-shaped back to that young gentleman and again crossed
glances with Desboro, who was waiting, cool as steel.
"Come, James," she said in a low voice, "what do you mean to do? A man
always means something or nothing; and the latter is the more
dangerous."
As that was exactly what Desboro told himself he had always meant, he
winced and remained silent.
"Oh, you--the lot of you!" she said with smiling contempt. "I'll equip
that girl to take care of herself before I'm through with her. Watch
me."
"It is part of your business. Equip her to take care of herself as
thoroughly as anybody you know. Then it will be up to her--as it is up
to all women, after all--and to all men."
"Oh, is it? You've all the irresponsibility and moral rottenness of your
Cavalier ancestors in you; do you know it, James? The Puritan, at least,
never doubted that he was his brother's keeper."
Desboro said doggedly: "With the individual alone rests what that
individual will be."
"Is that your mature belief?" she asked ironically.
"It is, dear lady."
"Lord! To think of a world full of loosened creatures like you! A
civilised society swarming with callow and irresponsible opportunists,
amateur Jesuits, idle intelligences reinfected with the toxins of their
own philosophy! But," she shrugged, "I am indicting man himself--nations
and nations of him. Besides, we women have always known this. And
hybrids are hybrids. If there's any claret in the house, tell Farris to
fetch some. Don't be angry, James. Man and woman once were different
species, and the world has teemed with their hybrids since the first
mating."
Mrs. Barkley leaned across the table toward him:
"What's the matter, James? You look dangerous."
His face cleared and he smiled:
"Nobody is really dangerous except to themselves, Betty."
She quoted saucily: "Il n'y a personne qui ne soit dangereux pour
quelqu'un!"
Mrs. Hammerton added: "Il faut tout attendre et tout craindre du temps
et des hommes."
Reggie Ledyard, much flattered, admitted the wholesale indictment
against his sex:
"How can we help it? Man, possessing always dual personality, is
naturally inclined toward a double life."
"Man's chief study has been man for so long," observed Mrs. Hammerton,
"that the world has passed by, leaving him behind, still engrossed in
counting his thumbs. Name your French philosopher who can beat that
reflection," she added to Desboro, who smiled absently.
[Illustration: "All the men there had yielded to the delicate attraction
of her"]
From moment to moment he had been watching Jacqueline and the men always
leaning toward her--Reggie Ledyard persistently bringing to bear on her
the full splendour of his straw-blond and slightly coarse beauty;
Cairns, receptive and débonnaire as usual; Herrendene, with his keen
smile and sallow visage lined with the memory of things that had left
their marks--all the men there had yielded to the delicate attraction of
her.
Desboro said to Mrs. Hammerton: "Now you realise where she really
belongs."
"Better than you do," she retorted drily.
After luncheon there were vehicles to convey them to the pond, a small
sheet of water down in the Desboro woods. And while a declining sun
glittered through the trees, the wooded shores echoed with the clatter
and scrape of skates and the rattle of hockey-sticks crossed in lively
combat.
But inshore the ice had rotted; the end of such sport was already in
sight. Along the gravelly inlet, where water rippled, a dozen fingerling
trout lay half hidden among the pebbles; over a bank of soft, sun-warmed
snow, gnats danced in the sunset light; a few tree-buds had turned
sticky.
Later, Vail came and built a bonfire; Farris arrived with tea baskets
full of old-fashioned things, such as turnovers and flip in stone jugs
of a century ago.
Except for a word or two at intervals, Desboro had found no chance to
talk to Jacqueline. Now and then their glances encountered, lingered,
shifted, with scarcely a ghost of a smile in forced response to
importunities. So he had played an impartial game of hockey, skated with
any girl who seemed to be receptive, cut intricate figures with Mrs.
Hammerton in a cove covered with velvet-smooth black ice, superintended
the bonfire construction, directed Farris with the tea.
Now, absently executing a "grape-vine," he was gliding along the outer
ranks of his guests with the mechanical patrolling instinct of a collie,
when Jacqueline detached herself from a fire-lit group and made him a
gay little sign to halt.
Picking her way through the soft snow on the points of her skates,
she took to the ice and joined him. They linked hands and swung out into
the starlight.
"Are you enjoying it?" he asked.
"That's why I signalled you. I never have had such a good time. I wanted
you to know it."
"You like my friends?"
She looked up: "They are all so charming to me! I didn't expect people
to be cordial."
"You need expect nothing else wherever you go and whomever you
meet--barring the inevitable which no attractive girl can avoid
arousing. Do you get on with Aunt Hannah?"
She laughed: "Isn't it odd? I call her that, too. She asked me to. And
do you know, she has been a perfect dear about everything. We shopped
together; I never had quite ventured to buy certain fascinating things
to wear. And we had such a good time lunching at the Ritz, where I had
never dared go. Such beautiful women! Such gowns! Such jewels!"
They halted and looked back across the ice at the distant fire and the
dark forms moving about it.
"You've bowled over every man here, as a matter of course," he said
lightly. "If you'll tell me how you like the women I'll know whether
they like you."
"Oh, I like them; they are as nice to me as they are to each other!" she
exclaimed, "--except, perhaps, one or two----"
"Marie Ledyard is hopelessly spoiled; Athalie Vannis is usually
discontented," he said philosophically. "Don't expect either of them to
give three cheers for another girl's popularity."
They crossed hands and swept toward the centre of the pond on the "outer
edge." Jacqueline's skating skirt was short enough for her to manage a
"Dutch roll," steadied and guided by Desboro; then they exchanged it for
other figures, not intricate.
"Your friend, Mr. Sissly, is dining with us," he observed.
"He's really very nice," she said. "Just a little too--artistic--for
you, perhaps, and for the men here--except Captain Herrendene----"
"Herrendene is a fine fellow," he said.
"I like him so much," she admitted.
He was silent for a moment, turned toward her as though to speak, but
evidently reconsidered the impulse.
"He is not very young, is he?" she asked.
"Herrendene? No."
"I thought not. Sometimes in repose his face seems sad. But what kind
eyes he has!"
"He's a fine fellow," said Desboro without emphasis.
Before they came within the firelight, he asked her whether she had
really decided to give them a little lecture on jades and crystals; and
she said that she had.
"It won't be too technical or too dry, I hope," she added laughingly. "I
told Captain Herrendene what I was going to say and do, and he liked the
idea."
"Won't you tell me, too, Jacqueline?"
"No, I want you to be surprised. Besides, I haven't time; we've been
together too long already. Doesn't one's host have to be impartially
attentive? And I think that pretty little Miss Steyr is signalling you."
Herrendene came out on the ice toward them:
"The cars are here," he said, "and Mrs. Hammerton is cold."
Dinner was an uproariously lively function, served amid a perfect
eruption of bewildering gowns and jewels and flowers. Desboro had never
before seen Jacqueline in a dinner gown, or even attempted to visualise
her beauty amid such surroundings in contrast with other women.
She fitted exquisitely into the charming mosaic; from crown to toe she
was part of it, an essential factor that, once realised, became
indispensable to the harmony.
Perhaps, he told himself, she did not really dominate with the fresh
delicacy of her beauty; perhaps it was only what he saw in her and what
he knew of her that made the others shadowy and commonplace to him.
[Illustration: "In all the curious eyes turned toward her, he saw
admiration, willing or conceded."]
Yet, in all the curious eyes repeatedly turned toward her, he saw
admiration, willing or conceded, recognised every unspoken tribute of
her own sex as well as the less reserved surrender of his; saw her
suddenly developed into a blossom of unabashed and youthful loveliness
under what she had once called "the warm sun of approval"; and sat in
vague and uneasy wonder, witnessing the transfiguration.
Sissly was there, allotted to Katharine Frere; and that stately girl,
usually credited among her friends with artistic aspirations, apparently
found him interesting.
So all went well enough, whether gaily or seriously, even with Aunt
Hannah, who had discovered under Desboro's smiling composure all kinds
of food for reflection and malicious diversion.
For such a small party it was certainly a gay one--at least people were
beginning to think so half way through dinner--which merely meant that
everybody was being properly appreciated by everybody's neighbours, and
that made everybody feel unusually witty, and irrepressible, and a
little inclined to be silly toward the end.
But then the after-dinner guests began to arrive--calm, perfectly poised
and substantial Westchester propositions who had been bidden to assist
at an unusual programme, and to dance afterward.
The stodgy old house rang with chatter and laughter; hall, stairs,
library, and billiard-room resounded delightfully; you could scare up a
pretty girl from almost any cover--if you were gunning for that variety
of girl.
Reggie Ledyard had managed to corner Jacqueline on the stairs, but
couldn't monopolise her nor protect himself against the shameless
intrusion of Cairns, who spoiled the game until Herrendene raided the
trio and carried her off to the billiard-room on a most flimsy pretext.
Here, very properly, a Westchester youth of sterling worth got her away
and was making toward the library with her when Desboro unhooked a
hunting horn from the wall and filled the house with deafening blasts as
signal that the show was about to begin in the armoury.
The armoury had been strung with incandescent lights, which played over
the huge mounted figures in mail, and glanced in a million reflections
from the weapons on the wall. A curtained and raised stage faced seats
for a hundred people, which filled the long, wide aisle between the
equestrian shapes; and into these the audience was pouring, excited and
mystified by the odd-looking and elaborate electrical attachments
flanking the stage in front of the curtained dressing-rooms.
Jacqueline, passing Desboro, whispered:
"I'm so thrilled and excited. I know people will find Mr. Sissly's
lecture interesting, but do you think they'll like mine?"
"How do I know, you little villain? You've told Herrendene what you are
going to do, but you haven't given me even a hint!"
"I know it; I wanted to--to please you--" Her light hand fell for a
moment on his sleeve, and he saw the blue eyes a little wistful.
"You darling," he whispered.
"Thank you. It isn't the proper thing to say to me--but I've quite
recovered my courage."
"Have you quite recovered all the scattered fragments of your heart? I
am afraid some of these men may carry portions of it away with them."
"I don't think so, monsieur. Really, I must hurry and dress----"
"Dress?"
"Certainly; also make up!"
"But I thought you were to give us a little talk on Chinese jades."
"But I must do it in my own way, Mr. Des----"
"Wait!" They were in the rear of the dressing-room and he took her hand.
"I call you Jacqueline, unreproved. Is my name more difficult for you?"
"Do you wish me to? In cold blood?"
"Not in cold blood."
He took her into his arms; she bent her head gravely, but he felt her
restless fingers worrying his sleeve.
"Jacqueline?"
"Yes--Jim."
The swift fire in his face answered the flush in hers; he drew her
nearer, but she averted her dainty head in silence and stood so, her
hand always restless on his arm.
"You haven't changed toward me in these few weeks, have you,
Jacqueline?"
"Do you think I have?"
He was silent. After a moment she glanced up at him with adorable
shyness. He kissed her, but her lips were cold and unresponsive, and she
bent her head, still picking nervously at the cloth of his sleeve.
"I must go," she said.
"I know it." He released her waist.
She drew a quick, short breath and looked up smiling; then sighed again,
and once more her blue eyes became aloof and thoughtful.
He stood leaning against the side of the dressing-room, watching her.
Finally she said with composure: "I must go. Please like what I shall
do. It will be done to please you--Jim."
He opened the dressing-room door for her; she entered, turned to look
back at him for an instant, then closed the door.
He went back to his place among the audience.
A moment later a temple gong struck three times; the green curtains
parted, revealing a white screen, and Mr. Lionel Sissly advancing with a
skip to the footlights. The audience looked again at its programme cards
and again read:
"No. 1: A Soundless Symphony ... Lionel Sissly."
"Colour," lisped Mr. Sissly, "is not only precious for its own sake,
but also because it is the blessed transmogrification of sound. And
sound is sacred because all vibrations, audible or inaudible, are in
miraculous harmony with that holiest of all phenomena, silence!"
"Help!" whispered Ledyard to Cairns, with resignation.
"Any audible rate of regular air vibrations is a musical note,"
continued Mr. Sissly. "If you double that vibratory speed, you have the
first note of the octave above it. Now, the spectrum band is the colour
counterpart of the musical octave; the ether vibrates with double the
speed at the violet end of the spectrum band that it does at the
opposite extremity, or red end. Let me show you the chromatic scales
in colour and music--the latter the equivalent of the former, revealing
how the intervals correspond when C represents red." And he flashed upon
the screen a series of brilliant colours.
"Remember," he said, "that it is with colour as it is with sound--there
is a long range of vibrations below and above the first and last visible
colour and the first and last audible note--a long, long range beyond
compass of the human eye and ear. Probably the music of the spheres is
composed of such harmonies," he simpered.
"Modern occidental music is evolved in conformity with an arbitrary
scale," he resumed earnestly. "An octave consists of seven whole tones
and five half-tones. Combinations and sequences of notes or tints affect
us emotionally--pleasurably when harmonious, painfully when discordant.
But," and his voice shook with soulful emotion, "the holiest and the
most precious alliance ever dreamed of beyond the Gates of Heaven lies
in the sacred intermingling of harmonious colour and harmonious
silence. Let me play for you, upon my colour organ, my soundless
symphony which I call 'Weather.' Always in the world there will be
weather. We have it constantly; there is so much of it that nobody knows
how much there is; and I do not see very clearly how there ever could be
any less than there is. Weather, then, being the only earthly condition
which is eternal, becomes precious beyond human comprehension; and I
have tried to interpret it as a symphony of silence and of colour
divinely intermingled."
Ledyard whispered to Betty Barkley: "I'll go mad and bite if he says
another word!"
She cautioned him with a light touch of her gloved hand, and strove very
hard to remain serious as Mr. Sissly minced over to his "organ," seated
himself, and gazed upward.
All at once every light in the house went out.
For a while the great screen remained invisible, then a faint sheen
possessed its surface, blotted out at eccentric intervals by a deep and
thunderous tint which finally absorbed it and slowly became a coldly
profound and depthless blue.
The blue was not permanent; almost imperceptible pulsations were
stirring and modifying it toward a warmer and less decisive hue, and
through it throbbed and ebbed elusive sensations of palest turquoise,
primrose and shell-pink. This waned and deepened into a yellow which
threatened to become orange.
Suddenly all was washed out in unaccented grey; the grey gradually
became instinct with rose and gold; the gold was split by a violet
streak; then virile scarlet tumbled through crashing scales of green,
amethyst, crimson, into a chaos of chromatic dissonance, and vanished
engulfed in shimmering darkness.
The lights flashed up, disclosing Mr. Sissly, very pale and damp of
features, facing the footlights again.
"That," he faltered, amid a stillness so profound that it seemed to fill
the ear like a hollow roar,--"that is weather. If you approve it, the
most precious expression of your sympathy will be absolute silence."
Fortunately, not even Reggie Ledyard dropped.
Mr. Sissly passed a lank and lily hand across his large pale eyes.
"Like the Japanese," he lisped, "I bring to you my most precious
thought-treasures one at a time--and never more than two between the
rising of the orb of day and the veiling of it at eventide. I offer you,
on the altar of my colour organ, a transposition of Von Schwiggle's
symphony in A minor; and I can only say that it is replete with a
meaning so exquisitely precious that no human intelligence has yet
penetrated it."
Out went the lights. Presently the screen became visible. Upon it there
seemed to be no colour, no hint of any tint, no quality, no value. It
was merely visible, and remained so for three mortal minutes. Then the
lights broke out, revealing Mr. Sissly half fainting at his organ, and
two young women in Greek robes waving bunches of violets at him. And the
curtain fell.
"There only remains," whispered Ledyard, "the funny-house for me."
"If you make me laugh I'll never forgive you," Mrs. Barkley warned him
under her breath. "But--oh, do look at Mrs. Hammerton!"
Aunt Hannah's visage resembled that of a cornered and enraged mink
surrounded by enemies.
"If that man comes near me," she said to Desboro, "I shall destroy him
with hatpins. You'd better keep him away. I'm morally and nervously
disorganised."
Sissly had come off the stage and now stood in the wide aisle,
surrounded by the earnest and intellectual womanhood of Westchester,
eagerly seeking more light.
But there was little in Mr. Sissly's large and washed-out eyes; even
less, perhaps, than illuminated his intellect. He gazed wanly upon
adoration, edging his way toward Miss Frere, who, at dinner, had rashly
admitted that she understood him.
"Was it satisfying?" he lisped, when he had attained to her vicinity.
"It was most--remarkable," she said, bewildered. "So absolutely new to
me that I can find nothing as yet to say to you, except thank you."
"Why say it? Why not merely look it? Your silence would be very, very
precious to me," he said in a low voice. And the stately Miss Frere
blushed.
The audience, under the stimulus of the lights, recovered very quickly
from its semi-stupor, and everybody was now discussing with animation
the unique experience of the past half-hour. New York chattered;
Westchester discussed; that was the difference. Both had expected a new
kind of cabaret show; neither had found the weird performance
disappointing. Flippant and unintellectual young men felt safe in the
certainty that neither their pretty partners nor the more serious
representatives of the substantial county knew one whit more about
soundless symphonies than did they.
So laughter and noise filled the armoury with a gaily subdued uproar,
silenced only when Katharine Frere's harp was brought in, and the tall,
handsome girl, without any preliminaries, went forward and seated
herself, drew the gilded instrument back against her right shoulder, set
her feet to the pedals, her fingers to the strings, and wandered
capriciously from Le Donne Curiose and the far, brief echoes of its
barcarolle, into Koenigskinder, and on through Versiegelt, till she
lost herself in a dreamy Bavarian folk-song which died out as sunset
dies on the far alms of the Red Valepp.
Great applause; no cabaret yet. The audience looked at the programme and
read:
"A Thousand Years B.C. ... Miss Nevers."
And Reggie Ledyard was becoming restless, thinking perhaps that a little
ragtime of the spheres might melt the rapidly forming intellectual ice,
and was saying so to anybody who'd listen, when ding-dong-dang!
ding-dong! echoed the oriental gong. Out went the lights, the curtain
split open and was gathered at the wings; a shimmering radiance grew
upon the stage disclosing a huge gold and green dragon of porcelain on
its faïence pedestal. And there, high cradled between the forepaws of
the ancient Mongolian monster, sat a slim figure in silken robes of
turquoise, rose, and scarlet, a Chinese lute across her knees, slim feet
pendant below the rainbow skirt.
Her head-dress was wrought fantastically of open-work gold, inlaid with
a thousand tiny metallic blue feathers, accented by fiery gems; across
the silky folds of her slitted tunic were embroidered in iris tints the
single-winged birds whirling around each other between floating clouds;
little clog-like shoes of silk and gold, embroidered with moss-green
arabesques inset with orange and scarlet, shod the feet.
Ancient Cathay, exquisitely, immortally young, sat in jewelled silks and
flowers under the huge and snarling dragon. And presently, string by
string, her idle lute awoke, picked with the plectrum, note after note
in strange and unfamiliar intervals; and, looking straight in front of
her, she sang at random, to "the sorrows of her lute," verses from "The
Maker of Moons," sung by Chinese lovers a thousand years ago:
        "Like to a Dragon in the Sky
  The fierce Sun flames from East to West;
  The flower of Love within my breast
  Blooms only when the Moon is high
  And Thou art nigh."
The dropping notes of her lute answered her, rippled on, and were lost
like a little rill trickling into darkness.
  "The Day burns like a Dragon's flight
  Until Thou comest in the night
  With thy cool Moon of gold--
  Then I unfold."
A faint stirring of the strings, silence; then she struck with her
plectrum the weird opening chord of that sixth century song called "The
Night Revel"; and sang to the end the ancient verses set to modern music
by an unknown composer:
  "Along the River scarlet Lanterns glimmer,
  Where gilded Boats and darkling Waters shimmer;
      Laughter with Singing blends;
      But Love begins and ends
      Forever with a sigh--
      A whispered sigh.
  "In fire-lit pools the crimson Carp are swirling;
  The painted peacocks shining plumes are furling;
      Now in the torch-light by the Gate
      A thousand Lutes begin the Fête
      With one triumphant Cry!
      Why should Love sigh?"
The curtain slowly closed on the echoes of her lute; there came an
interval of absolute silence, then an uproar of cries and of people
getting to their feet, calling out: "Go on! Go on! Don't stop!" No
applause except this excited clamour for more, and the racket of moving
chairs.
"Good Lord!" muttered Captain Herrendene. "Did you ever see anything as
beautiful as that girl?"
And: "Where did she learn such things?" demanded people excitedly of one
another. "It must be the real business! How does she know?"
The noise became louder and more emphatic; calls for her reappearance
redoubled and persisted until the gong again sounded, the lights went
out, and the curtains twitched once more and parted.
She slid down from her cradled perch between the forelegs of the shadowy
dragon and came to the edge of the footlights.
"I was going to show you one or two jades from the Desboro collection,
and tell you a little about them," she began, "but my lute and I will
say for you another song of ancient China, if you like. It was made by
Kao-Shih about seven hundred years after the birth of Christ. He was one
of the T'ang poets--and not a very cheerful one. This is his song."
And she recited for them: "There was a king of Liang."
After that she stepped back; but they would not have it, to the point of
enthusiastic rudeness.
She recited for them Mêng Hao-Jan's "A Friend Expected," from "The Maker
of Moons," and the quatrains of the lovely, naïve little "Spring Dream,"
written by Ts'en-Ts'an in the eighth century.
But they demanded still more. She laid aside her lute and intoned for
them the noble lines of China's most famous writer:
  "Thou that hast seen six kingdoms pass away----"
Then, warming to her audience, and herself thrilled with the spirit of
the ancient splendour, she moved forward in her whispering silks, and,
slightly bending, her finger lifted like one who hushes children with a
magic tale, she spoke to them of Fei-yen, mistress of the Emperor; and
told them how T'ai-Chên became an empress; sang for them the song of Yu
Lao, the "Song of the Moon Moth":
  "The great Night Moth that bears her name
        Is winged in green,
  Pale as the June moon's silver flame
        Her silken sheen:
  No other flame they know, these twain
        Where dark dews rain--
  This great Night Moth that bears her name
        And my sweet Queen;
  So let me light my Lantern flame
        And breathe Her name."
She held her audience in the palm of her smooth little hand; she knew
it, and tasted power. She told them of the Blue Mongol's song,
reciting:
  "From the Gray Plains I ride,
    Where the gray hawks wheel,
  In armour of lacquered hide,
    Sabre and shield of steel;
  The lance in my stirrup rattles,
    And the quiver and bow at my back
  Clatter! I sing of Battles,
    Of Cities put to the sack!
  Where is the Lord of the West,
    The Golden Emperor's son?
  I swung my Mongol sabre;--
    He and the Dead are one.
  For the tawny Lion of the Iort
    And the Sun of the World are One!"
Then she told them the old Chinese tale called "The Never-Ending
Wrong"--the immortal tragedy of that immortal maid, "a reed in motion
and a rose in flame," from where she alights "in the white hibiscus
bower" to where "death is drumming at the door" and "ten thousand
battle-chariots on the wing" come clashing to a halt; and the trapped
King, her lover, sends her forth
        "Lily pale,
  Between tall avenues of spears, to die."
And so, amid "the sullen soldiery," white as a flower, and all alone in
soul, she "shines through tall avenues of spears, to die."
"The King has sought the darkness of his hands," standing in stricken
grief, then turns and gazes at what lies there at his feet amid its
scattered
                        "--Ornaments of gold,
    One with the dust; and none to gather them;--
    Hair-pins of jade and many a costly gem,
  Kingfishers' wings and golden beads scarce cold."
Lingering a moment in the faint reflection of the low-turned footlights,
she stood looking out over the silent audience; and perhaps her eyes
found what they had been seeking, for she smiled and stepped back as the
curtain closed. And no uproar of applause could lure her forth again
until the lights had been long blazing and the dancers were whirling
over the armoury floor, and she had washed the paint from lid and lip
and cheek, and put off her rustling antique silken splendour to bewitch
another century scarce begun.
Desboro, waiting at her dressing-room door for her, led her forth.
"You have done so much for me," he whispered. "Is there anything in all
the world I can do for you, Jacqueline?"
She was laughing, flushed by the flattery and compliments from every
side, but she heard him; and after a moment her face altered subtly. But
she answered lightly:
"Can I ask for more than a dance or two with you? Is not that honour
enough?" Her voice was gay and mocking, but the smile had faded from eye
and lip; only the curved sweetness of the mouth remained.
They caught the music's beat and swung away together among the other
dancers, he piloting her with great adroitness between the avenues of
armoured figures.
When he had the opportunity, he said: "What may I send you that you
would care for?"
"Send me?" She laughed lightly again. "Let me see! Well, then, perhaps
you may one day send me--send me forth 'between tall avenues of spears,
to die.'"
"What!" he said sharply.
"The song is still ringing in my head--that's all. Send me any
inexpensive thing you wish--a white carnation--I don't really care--"
she looked away from him--"as long as it comes from you."
CHAPTER X
Desboro's guests were determined to turn the house out of the windows;
its stodgy respectability incited them; every smug, smooth portrait
goaded them to unusual effort, and they racked their brains to invent
novelties.
On one day they opened all the windows in the disused west wing, flooded
the ground floor, hung the great stone room with paper lanterns, and
held an ice carnival. As masks and costumes had been made entirely out
of paper, there were several startling effects and abrupt retirements to
repair damages; but the dancing on skates in the lantern light was very
pretty, and even the youth and pride of Westchester found the pace not
unsuitably rapid.
On another day, Desboro's feminine guests sent to town for enough green
flannel to construct caricatures of hunting coats for everybody.
The remains of a stagnant pack of harriers vegetated on a neighbouring
estate; Desboro managed to mount his guests on his own live-stock,
including mules, farm horses, polo ponies, and a yoke of oxen; and the
county saw a hunting that they were not likely to forget.
Reggie Ledyard was magnificent astride an ox, with a paper megaphone for
a hunting horn, rubber boots, and his hastily basted coat split from
skirt to collar. The harriers ran wherever they pleased, and the
astonished farm mules wouldn't run at all. There was hysterical
excitement when one cotton-tail rabbit was started behind a barn and
instantly lost under it.
The hunt dinner was a weird and deafening affair, and the Weber-Field
ball costumes unbelievable.
Owing to reaction and exhaustion, repentant girls came to Jacqueline
requesting an interim of intellectual recuperation; so she obligingly
announced a lecture in the jade room, and talked to them very prettily
about jades and porcelains, suiting her words to their intellectual
capacity, which could grasp Kang-he porcelains and Celedon and
Sang-de-boeuf, but balked at the "three religions," and found blanc
de Chine uninspiring. So she told them about the famille vert and the
famille rose; about the K'ang Hsi period, which they liked, and how
the imperial kilns at Kiangsi developed the wonderful clair de lune
"turquoise blue" and "peach bloom," for which some of their friends or
relatives had paid through their various and assorted noses.
All of this her audience found interesting because they recognised in
the exquisite examples from Desboro's collection, with which Jacqueline
illustrated her impromptu lecture, objects both fashionable and
expensive; and what is both fashionable and expensive appeals very
forcibly to mediocrity.
"I saw a jar like that one at the Clydesdales'," said Reggie Ledyard, a
trifle excited at his own unexpected intelligence. "How much is it
worth, Miss Nevers?"
She laughed and looked at the vase between her slender fingers.
"Really," she said, "it isn't worth very much. But wealthy people have
established fictitious values for many rather crude and commonplace
things. If people had the courage to buy only what appealed to them
personally, there would be a mighty crash in tumbling values."
"We'd all wake up and find ourselves stuck," remarked Van Alstyne, who
possessed some pictures which he had come to loathe, but for which he
had paid terrific prices. "Jim, do you want to buy any primitives,
guaranteed genuine?"
"There's the thrifty Dutch trader for you," said Reggie. "I'm loaded
with rickety old furniture, too. They got me to furnish my place with
antiques! But you don't see me trying to sell 'em to my host at a house
party!"
"Stop your disputing," said Desboro pleasantly, "and ask Miss Nevers for
her professional opinion later. The chances are that you both have been
properly stuck, and I never had any sympathy for wealthy ignorance,
anyway."
But Ledyard and Van Alstyne, being very wealthy, became frightfully
depressed over the unfeeling jibes of Desboro; and Jacqueline seemed to
be by way of acquiring a pair of new clients.
In fact, both young men at various moments approached her on the
subject, but Desboro informed them that they might with equal propriety
ask a physician to prescribe for them at a dance, and that Miss Nevers'
office was open from nine until five.
"Gad," remarked Ledyard to Van Alstyne, with increasing respect, "she is
some girl, believe me, Stuyve. Only if she ever married up with a man
of our kind--good-night! She'd quit him in a week."
Van Alstyne touched his forehead significantly.
"Sure," he said. "Nothing doing inside our conks. But why the Lord
made her such a peach outside as well as inside is driving me to
Jersey! Most of 'em are so awful to look at, don't y'know. Come on,
anyway. I can't keep away from her."
"She's somewhere with the others playing baseball golf," said Reggie,
gloomily, following his friend. "Isn't it terrible to see a girl in the
world like that--apparently created to make some good gink happy--and
suddenly find out that she has even more brains than beauty! My God,
Stuyve, it's hard on a man like me."
"Are you really hard hit?"
"Am I? And how about you?"
"It's the real thing here," admitted Van Alstyne. "But what's the use?"
They agreed that there was no use; but during the dance that evening
both young men managed to make their intentions clear to Jacqueline.
Reggie Ledyard had persuaded her to a few minutes' promenade in the
greenhouse; and there, standing amid thickets of spicy carnations, the
girl listened to her first proposal from a man of that outer world about
which, until a few days ago, she had known nothing.
The boy was not eloquent; he made a clumsy attempt to kiss her and was
defeated. He seemed to her very big, and blond, and handsome as he stood
there; and she felt a little pity for him, too, partly because his ideas
were so few and his vocabulary so limited.
Perplexed, silent, sorry for him, yet still conscious of a little thrill
of wonder and content that a man of the outer world had found her
eligible, she debated within herself how best to spare him. And, as
usual, the truth presented itself to her as the only explanation.
"You see," she said, lifting her troubled eyes, "I am in love with some
one else."
"Good God!" he muttered. After a silence he said humbly: "Would it be
unpardonable if I--would you tell me whether you are engaged?"
She blushed with surprise at the idea.
"Oh, no," she said, startled. "I--don't expect to be."
"What?" he exclaimed incredulously. "Is there a man on earth ass enough
not to fall in love with you if you ever condescended to smile at him
twice?"
But the ideas which he was evoking seemed to distress her, and she
averted her face and stood twisting a long-stemmed carnation with
nervous fingers.
Not even to herself, either before or since Desboro's letter which had
revealed him so unmistakably, had the girl ventured in her inmost
thoughts to think the things which this big, blond, loutish boy had
babbled.
What Desboro was, she understood. She had had the choice of dismissing
him from her mind, with scorn and outraged pride as aids to help the
sacrifice, or of accepting him as he was--as she knew him to be--for the
sake of something about him as yet inexplicable even to herself.
And she had chosen.
But now a man of Desboro's world had asked her to be his wife. More than
that; he had assumed that she was fitted to be the wife of anybody.
       *       *       *       *       *
They walked back together. She was adorable with him, kind, timidly
sympathetic and smilingly silent by turns, venturing even to rally him a
little, console him a little, moved by an impulse toward friendship
wholly unfeigned.
"All I have to say is," he muttered, "that you're a peach and a corker;
and I'm going to invent some way of marrying you, even if it lands me in
an East Side night-school."
Even he joined in her gay laughter; and presently Van Alstyne, who had
been glowering at them, managed to get her away. But she would have
nothing further to do with greenhouses, or dark landings, or libraries;
so he asked her bluntly while they were dancing; and she shook her head,
and very soon dropped his arm.
There was a bay-window near them; she made a slight gesture of
irritation; and there, in the partly curtained seclusion, he learned
that she was grateful and happy that he liked her so much; that she
liked him very much, but that she loved somebody else.
He took it rather badly at first; she began to understand that few girls
would have lightly declined a Van Alstyne; and he was inclined to be
patronising, sulky and dignified--an impossible combination--for it
ditched him finally, and left him kissing her hands and declaring
constancy eternal.
That night, at parting, Desboro retained her offered hand a trifle
longer than convention required, and looked at her more curiously than
usual.
"Are you enjoying the party, Jacqueline?"
"Every minute of it. I have never been as happy."
"I suppose you realise that everybody is quite mad about you."
"Everybody is nice to me! People are so much kinder than I imagined."
"Are they? How do you get on with the gorgon?"
"Mrs. Hammerton? Do you know she is perfectly sweet? I never dreamed she
could be so gentle and thoughtful and considerate. Why--and it seems
almost ridiculous to say it--she seems to have the ideas of a mother
about whatever concerns me. She actually fusses over me
sometimes--and--it is--agreeable."
An inexplicable shyness suddenly overcame her, and she said good-night
hastily, and mounted the stairs to her room.
Later, when she was prepared for bed, Mrs. Hammerton knocked and came
in.
"Jacqueline," she said bluntly, "what was Reggie Ledyard saying to you
this evening? I'll box his ears if he proposed to you. Did he?"
"I--I am afraid he did."
"You didn't take him?"
"No."
"I should think not! I'd as soon expect you to marry a stable groom. He
has all the beauty and healthy colour of one. Also the distinguished
mental capacity. You don't want that kind."
"I don't want any kind."
"I'm glad of it. Did any other fool hint anything more of that sort?"
"Mr. Van Alstyne."
"Oho! Stuyvesant, too? Well, what did you say to him?" asked the old
lady, with animation.
"I said no."
"What?"
"Of course, I said no. I am not in love with Mr. Van Alstyne."
"Child! Do you realise that you had the opportunity of your life!"
Jacqueline's smile was confused and deprecating.
"But when a girl doesn't care for a man----"
"Do you mean to marry for love?"
The girl sat silent a moment, then shook her head.
"I shall not marry," she said.
"Nonsense! And if you feel that way, what am I good for? What earthly
use am I to you? Will you kindly inform me?"
She had seated herself on the bed's edge, leaning over the girl where
she lay on her pillows.
"Answer me," she insisted. "Of what use am I to you?"
For a full minute the girl lay there looking up at her without stirring.
Then a smile glimmered in her eyes; she lifted both arms and laid them
on the older woman's shoulders.
"You are useful--this way," she said; and kissed her lightly on the
forehead.
The effect on Aunt Hannah was abrupt; she caught the girl to her breast
and held her there fiercely and in silence for a moment; then, releasing
her, tucked her in with mute violence, turned off the light and marched
out without a word.
       *       *       *       *       *
Day after day Desboro's guests continued to turn the house inside out,
ransacking it from garret to cellar.
"We don't intend to do anything in this house that anybody has ever done
here, or at any house party," explained Reggie Ledyard to Jacqueline.
"So if any lady cares to walk down stairs on her head the incident will
be quite in order."
"Can she slide down the banisters instead?" asked Helsa Steyr.
"Oh, you'll have to slide up to be original," said Betty Barkley.
"How can anybody slide up the banisters?" demanded Reggie hotly.
"You've the intellect of a terrapin," said Betty scornfully. "It's
because nobody has ever done it that it ought to be done here."
Desboro, seated on the pool table, told her she could do whatever she
desired, including arson, as long as she didn't disturb the Aqueduct
Police.
Katharine Frere said to Jacqueline: "Everything you do is so original.
Can't you invent something new for us to do?"
"She might suggest that you all try to think," said Mrs. Hammerton
tartly. "That would be novelty enough."
Cairns seized the megaphone and shouted: "Help! Help! Aunt Hannah is
after us!"
Captain Herrendene, seated beside Desboro with a half smile on his face,
glanced across at Jacqueline who stood in the embrasure of a window, a
billiard cue resting across her shoulders.
"Please invent something for us, Miss Nevers," he said.
"Why don't you play hide and seek?" sneered Mrs. Hammerton, busily
knitting a tie. "It's suited to your intellects."
"Let Miss Nevers suggest a new way of playing the oldest game ever
invented," added Betty Barkley. "There is no possibility of inventing
anything new; everything was first done in the year one. Even
protoplasmic cells played hide-and-seek together."
"What rot!" said Reggie. "You can't play that in a new way."
"You could play it in a sporting way," said Cairns.
"How's that, old top?"
"Well, for example, you conceal yourself, and whatever girl finds you
has got to marry you. How's that for a reckless suggestion?"
But it had given Reggie something resembling an idea.
"Let us be hot sports," he said, with animation; "draw lots to see which
girl will hide somewhere in the house; make a time-limit of one hour;
and if any man finds her she'll marry him. There isn't a girl here," he
added, jeeringly, "who has the sporting nerve to try it!"
A chorus of protests greeted the challenge. Athalie Vannis declared that
she was crazy to marry somebody; but she insisted that the men would
only pretend to search, and were really too cowardly to hunt in earnest.
Cairns retorted that the girl in concealment would never permit a real
live man to miss her hiding place while she possessed lungs to reveal
it.
"There isn't," repeated Reggie, "a girl who has the nerve! Not one!" He
inspected them scornfully through the wrong end of the megaphone. "Phony
sports," he added. "No nerves and all fidgets. Look at me; I don't
want to get married; but I'm game for an hour. There isn't a girl here
to call my bluff!" And he ventured to glance at Jacqueline.
"They've had a chance to look at you by daylight, Reggie, and that is
fatal," said Cairns. "Now, if they were only sure that I'd discover
'em, or the god-like captain yonder, or the beautiful Mr. Desboro----"
"I've half a mind to do it," said Helsa Steyr. "Marie, will you draw
lots to see who hides?"
"Why doesn't a man hide?" drawled Miss Ledyard. "I'm very sure I could
drag him to the altar in ten minutes."
Cairns had found a sheet of paper, torn it into slips, and written down
every woman's name, including Aunt Hannah's.
"She's retired to her room in disgust," said Jacqueline, laughing.
"Is she included?" faltered Reggie.
"You've brought it on yourself," said Cairns. "Are you going to renig
just because Aunt Hannah is a possible prize? Are you really a tin
sport?"
"No, by heck! Come on, Katharine!" to Miss Frere. "But Betty Barkley
can't figure in this, or there may be bigamy done."
"That makes it a better sporting proposition," said Betty coolly. "I
insist on figuring; Bertie can take his chances."
"Then I'm jingled if I don't play, too," said Barkley. "And I'm not sure
I'll hunt very hard if it's Betty who hides."
The pretty little woman turned up her nose at her husband and sent a
dazzling smile at Desboro.
"I'll whistle three times, like the daughter in the poem," she said.
"Please beat my husband to it."
Cairns waved the pool basket aloft: "Come ladies!" he cried. "Somebody
reach up and draw; and may heaven smile upon your wedding day!"
Betty Barkley, standing on tip-toe, reached up, stirred the folded
ballots with tentative fingers, grasped one, drew it forth, and
flourished it.
"Goodness! How my heart really beats!" she said. "I don't know whether I
want to open it or not. I hadn't contemplated bigamy."
"If it's my name, I'm done for," said Katharine Frere calmly. "I'm
nearly six feet, and I can't conceal them all."
"Open it," said Athalie Vannis, with a shiver. "After all there's the
divorce court!" And she looked defiantly at Cairns.
Betty turned over the ballot between forefinger and thumb and regarded
it with dainty aversion.
"Well," she said, "if I'm in for a scandal, I might as well know it.
Will you be kind to me, Jim, and not flirt with my maid?"
She opened the ballot, examined the name written there, turned and
passed it to Jacqueline, who flushed brightly as a delighted shout
greeted her.
"The question is," said Reggie Ledyard excitedly, "are you a sport, Miss
Nevers, or are you not? Kindly answer with appropriate gestures."
The girl stood with her golden head drooping, staring at the bit of
paper in her hand; then, as Desboro watched her, she glanced up with
that sudden, reckless smile which he had seen once before--the first day
he met her--and made a gay little gesture of acceptance.
"You're not really going to do it, are you?" said Betty, incredulously.
"You don't have to; they're every one of them short sports themselves!"
"I am not," said Jacqueline, smiling.
"But," argued Katharine Frere, "suppose Reggie should find you. You'd
never marry him, would you?"
"Great Heavens!" shouted Ledyard. "She might have a worse fate. There's
Desboro!"
"You don't really mean it, do you, Miss Nevers?" asked Captain
Herrendene.
"Yes, I do," said Jacqueline. "I always was a gambler by nature."
The tint of excitement was bright on her cheeks; she shot a daring
glance at Ledyard, looked at Van Alstyne and laughed, but her back
remained turned toward Desboro.
He said: "If the papers ever get wind of this they'll print it as a
serious item."
"I am perfectly serious," she said, looking coolly at him over her
shoulder. "If there is a man here clever enough to find me, I'll marry
him in a minute. But"--and she laughed in Desboro's face--"there isn't.
So nobody need really lose one moment in anxiety. And if a girl finds me
it's all off, of course. May I have twenty minutes? And will you time
me, Mr. Ledyard? And will you all remain in this room with the door
closed?"
"If nobody finds you," cried Cairns, as she crossed the threshold, "we
each forfeit whatever you ask of us?"
She paused at the door, looking back: "Is that understood?"
Everybody cried: "Yes! Certainly!"
She nodded and disappeared.
For twenty minutes they waited; then, as Reggie closed his watch, a
general stampede ensued. Amazed servants shrank aside as Cairns, blowing
fearful blasts on the megaphone, cheered on the excited human pack;
everywhere Desboro's cats and dogs fled before the invasion; room after
room was ransacked, maids routed, butler and valet defied. Even Aunt
Hannah's sanctuary was menaced until that lady sat up on her bed and
swore steadily at Ledyard, who had scaled the transom.
Desboro, hunting by himself, entered the armoury, looked suspiciously at
the armoured figures, shook a few, opened the vizors of others, and
peered at the painted faces inside the helmets.
Others joined him, prying curiously, gathering in groups amid the
motionless army of mailed men. Then, as more than half of the allotted
hour had already expired, Ledyard suggested an attic party, where trunks
full of early XIXth century clothing might be rifled with pleasing
results.
"We may find her up there in a chest, like the celebrated bride,"
remarked Aunt Hannah, who had reappeared from her retreat. "It's the
lesser of several tragedies that might happen," she added insolently, to
Desboro.
"To the attic!" thundered Cairns through his megaphone; and they
started.
But Desboro still lingered at the armoury door, looking back. The noise
of the chase died away in the interior of the main house; the armoury
became very still under the flood of pale winter sunshine.
He glanced along the steel ranks of men-at-arms; he looked up at the
stately mounted figures; dazzling sunlight glittered over helmet and
cuirass and across the armoured flanks of horses.
Could it be possible that she was seated up there, hidden inside some
suit of blazing mail, astride a battle-horse?
Cautiously he came back, skirting the magnificent and motionless ranks,
hesitated and halted.
Of course the whole thing had been proposed and accepted in jest; he
told himself that. And yet--if some other man did discover her--the
foundation of the jest might serve for a more permanent understanding.
He didn't want her to have any intimate understanding with anybody until
he and she understood each other, and he understood himself.
He didn't want another man to find and claim the forfeit, even in jest,
because he didn't know what might happen. No man was ever qualified to
foretell what another man might do; and men already were behaving toward
her with a persistency and seriousness unmistakable--men like
Herrendene, who meant what he looked and said; and young Hammerton,
Daisy's brother, eager, inexperienced and susceptible; and Bertie
Barkley, a little, hard-faced snob, with an unerring instinct for
anybody who promised to be popular among desirable people, was beginning
to test her metal with the acid of his experience.
Desboro stood quite still, looking almost warily about him and thinking
faster and faster, trying to recollect who it was who had dragged in the
silly subject of marriage. That blond and hulking ass Ledyard, wasn't
it?
He began to walk, slowly passing the horsemen in review.
Suppose a blond animal like Reggie Ledyard offered himself in earnest.
Was she the kind of girl who would nail the worldly opportunity? And
Herrendene--that quiet, self-contained, keen-eyed man of forty-five. You
could never tell what Herrendene was thinking about anything, or what he
was capable of doing. And his admiration for Jacqueline was
undisguised, and his attentions frankly persistent. Last night, too,
when they were coasting under the new moon, there was half an hour's
disappearance for which neither Herrendene nor Jacqueline had even
pretended to account, though bantered and challenged--to Desboro's vague
discomfort. And the incident had left Desboro a trifle cool toward her
that morning; and she had pretended not to be aware of the slight
constraint between them, which made him sulky.
       *       *       *       *       *
He had reached the end of the double lane of horsemen. Now he pivoted
and retraced his steps, hands clasped behind his back, absently scanning
the men-at-arms, preoccupied with his own reflections.
How seriously had she taken the rôle she was playing somewhere at that
moment? Only fools accepted actual hazards when dared. He himself was
apt to be that kind of a fool. Was she? Would she really have abided
by the terms if discovered by Herrendene, for example, or Dicky
Hammerton--if they were mad enough to take it seriously?
He thought of that sudden and delicious flash of recklessness in her
eyes. He had seen it twice now.
"By God!" he thought. "I believe she would! She is the sort that sees a
thing through to the bitter end."
He glanced up, startled, as though something, somewhere in the vast,
silent place, had moved. But he heard nothing, and there was no movement
anywhere among the armoured effigies.
Suppose she were here hidden somewhere within a hollow suit of steel.
She must be! Else why was he lingering? Why was he not hunting her with
the pack? And still, if she actually were here, why was he not
searching for her under every suit of sunlit mail? Could it be because
he did not really want to find her--with this silly jest of marriage
dragged in--a thing not to be mentioned between her and him even in
jest?
Was it that he had become convinced in his heart that she must be here,
and was he merely standing guard like a jealous, sullen dog, watching
lest some other fool come blundering back from a false trail to discover
the right one--and perhaps her?
Suddenly, without reason, he became certain that she and he were there
in the armoury alone together. He knew it somehow, felt it, divined it
in every quickening pulse beat.
He heard the preliminary click of the armoury clock, indicating five
minutes' grace before the hour struck. He looked up at the old dial,
where it was set against the wall--an ancient piece in azure and gold
under a foliated crest borne by some long dead dignitary.
Four more minutes now. And suppose she should stir in her place, setting
her harness clashing? Had the thought of marrying him ever entered her
head? Was it in such a girl to challenge the possibility, make it as
near a serious question as it ever could be? It had never existed for
them, even as a question. It was not a dead issue, because it had never
lived. If she made one movement now, if she so much as lifted her
finger, this occult thing would be alive. He knew it--knew that it lay
with her; and stood silent, unstirring, listening for the slightest
sound. There was no sound.
It lacked now only a minute to the hour. He looked at the face of the
lofty clock; and, looking, all in a moment it flashed upon him where she
was concealed.
Wheeling in his tracks, on the impulse of the moment he walked straight
back to the great painted wooden charger, sheathed in steel and cloth of
gold, bearing on high a slender, mounted figure in full armour--the
dainty Milanese mail Of the Countess of Oroposa.
The superb young figure sat its saddle, hollow backed, graceful, both
delicate gauntlets resting easily over the war-bridle on the gem-set
pommel. Sunbeams turned the long spurs to two golden flames, and
splintered into fire across the helmet's splendid crest. He could not
pierce the dusk behind the closed vizor; but in every heart-beat, every
nerve, he felt her living presence within that hollow shell of inlaid
steel and gold.
For a moment he stood staring up at her, then glanced mechanically
toward the high clock. Thirty seconds! Time to speak if he would; time
for her to move, if in her heart there ever had been the thought which
he had never uttered, never meant to voice. Twenty seconds! Through that
slitted vizor, also, the clock was in full view. She could read the
flight of time as well as he. Now she must move--if ever she meant to
challenge in him that to which he never would respond.
He waited now, looking at the clock, now at the still figure above him.
Ten seconds! Five!
"Jacqueline!" he cried impulsively.
There was no movement, no answer from the slitted helmet.
"Jacqueline! Are you there?"
No sound.
Then the lofty gold and azure clock struck. And when the last of the
twelve resounding strokes rang echoing through the sunlit armoury, the
mailed figure stirred in its saddle, stretched both stirrups, raised its
arms and flexed them.
"You nearly caught me," she said calmly. "I was afraid you'd see my eyes
through the helmet slits. Was it your lack of enterprise that saved
me--or your prudence?"
