left her at her door, she had half-promised to rejoin them for a late
dinner in the Bois; and as she leaned back among the cushions disturbing
thoughts were banished by the urgent necessity of deciding what dress
she should wear.
These bright weeks of the Parisian spring had given her a first real
glimpse into the art of living. From the experts who had taught her to
subdue the curves of her figure and soften her bright free stare with
dusky pencillings, to the skilled purveyors of countless forms of
pleasure--the theatres and restaurants, the green and blossoming
suburbs, the whole shining shifting spectacle of nights and days--every
sight and sound and word had combined to charm her perceptions and
refine her taste. And her growing friendship with Raymond de Chelles had
been the most potent of these influences.
Chelles, at once immensely "taken," had not only shown his eagerness to
share in the helter-skelter motions of Undine's party, but had given her
glimpses of another, still more brilliant existence, that life of the
inaccessible "Faubourg" of which the first tantalizing hints had but
lately reached her. Hitherto she had assumed that Paris existed for the
stranger, that its native life was merely an obscure foundation for
the dazzling superstructure of hotels and restaurants in which her
compatriots disported themselves. But lately she had begun to hear
about other American women, the women who had married into the French
aristocracy, and who led, in the high-walled houses beyond the Seine
which she had once thought so dull and dingy, a life that made her own
seem as undistinguished as the social existence of the Mealey
House. Perhaps what most exasperated her was the discovery, in this
impenetrable group, of the Miss Wincher who had poisoned her far-off
summer at Potash Springs. To recognize her old enemy in the Marquise de
Trezac who so frequently figured in the Parisian chronicle was the more
irritating to Undine because her intervening social experiences had
caused her to look back on Nettie Wincher as a frumpy girl who wouldn't
have "had a show" in New York.
Once more all the accepted values were reversed, and it turned out that
Miss Wincher had been in possession of some key to success on which
Undine had not yet put her hand. To know that others were indifferent to
what she had thought important was to cheapen all present pleasure and
turn the whole force of her desires in a new direction. What she wanted
for the moment was to linger on in Paris, prolonging her flirtation with
Chelles, and profiting by it to detach herself from her compatriots and
enter doors closed to their approach. And Chelles himself attracted
her: she thought him as "sweet" as she had once thought Ralph, whose
fastidiousness and refinement were blent in him with a delightful
foreign vivacity. His chief value, however, lay in his power of exciting
Van Degen's jealousy. She knew enough of French customs to be aware that
such devotion as Chelles' was not likely to have much practical bearing
on her future; but Peter had an alarming way of lapsing into security,
and as a spur to his ardour she knew the value of other men's
attentions.
It had become Undine's fixed purpose to bring Van Degen to a definite
expression of his intentions. The case of Indiana Frusk, whose brilliant
marriage the journals of two continents had recently chronicled with
unprecedented richness of detail, had made less impression on him than
she hoped. He treated it as a comic episode without special bearing on
their case, and once, when Undine cited Rolliver's expensive fight for
freedom as an instance of the power of love over the most invulnerable
natures, had answered carelessly: "Oh, his first wife was a laundress, I
believe."
But all about them couples were unpairing and pairing again with an ease
and rapidity that encouraged Undine to bide her time. It was simply a
question of making Van Degen want her enough, and of not being obliged
to abandon the game before he wanted her as much as she meant he should.
This was precisely what would happen if she were compelled to leave
Paris now. Already the event had shown how right she had been to come
abroad: the attention she attracted in Paris had reawakened Van Degen's
fancy, and her hold over him was stronger than when they had parted
in America. But the next step must be taken with coolness and
circumspection; and she must not throw away what she had gained by going
away at a stage when he was surer of her than she of him. She was still
intensely considering these questions when the door behind her opened
and he came in.
She looked up with a frown and he gave a deprecating laugh. "Didn't I
knock? Don't look so savage! They told me downstairs you'd got back, and
I just bolted in without thinking."
He had widened and purpled since their first encounter, five years
earlier, but his features had not matured. His face was still the
face of a covetous bullying boy, with a large appetite for primitive
satisfactions and a sturdy belief in his intrinsic right to them. It was
all the more satisfying to Undine's vanity to see his look change at her
tone from command to conciliation, and from conciliation to the entreaty
of a capriciously-treated animal.
"What a ridiculous hour for a visit!" she exclaimed, ignoring his
excuse. "Well, if you disappear like that, without a word--"
"I told my maid to telephone you I was going away."
"You couldn't make time to do it yourself, I suppose?"
"We rushed off suddenly; I'd hardly time to get to the station."
"You rushed off where, may I ask?" Van Degen still lowered down on her.
"Oh didn't I tell you? I've been down staying at Chelles' chateau in
Burgundy." Her face lit up and she raised herself eagerly on her elbow.
"It's the most wonderful old house you ever saw: a real castle, with
towers, and water all round it, and a funny kind of bridge they pull up.
Chelles said he wanted me to see just how they lived at home, and I did;
I saw everything: the tapestries that Louis Quinze gave them, and the
family portraits, and the chapel, where their own priest says mass, and
they sit by themselves in a balcony with crowns all over it. The priest
was a lovely old man--he said he'd give anything to convert me. Do you
know, I think there's something very beautiful about the Roman Catholic
religion? I've often felt I might have been happier if I'd had some
religious influence in my life."
She sighed a little, and turned her head away. She flattered herself
that she had learned to strike the right note with Van Degen. At this
crucial stage he needed a taste of his own methods, a glimpse of the
fact that there were women in the world who could get on without him.
He continued to gaze down at her sulkily. "Were the old people there?
You never told me you knew his mother."
"I don't. They weren't there. But it didn't make a bit of difference,
because Raymond sent down a cook from the Luxe."
"Oh, Lord," Van Degen groaned, dropping down on the end of the sofa.
"Was the cook got down to chaperon you?"
Undine laughed. "You talk like Ralph! I had Bertha with me."
"BERTHA!" His tone of contempt surprised her. She had supposed that Mrs.
Shallum's presence had made the visit perfectly correct.
"You went without knowing his parents, and without their inviting you?
Don't you know what that sort of thing means out here? Chelles did it
to brag about you at his club. He wants to compromise you--that's his
game!"
"Do you suppose he does?" A flicker of a smile crossed her lips. "I'm
so unconventional: when I like a man I never stop to think about such
things. But I ought to, of course--you're quite right." She looked at
Van Degen thoughtfully. "At any rate, he's not a married man."
Van Degen had got to his feet again and was standing accusingly before
her; but as she spoke the blood rose to his neck and ears. "What
difference does that make?"
"It might make a good deal. I see," she added, "how careful I ought to
be about going round with you."
"With ME?" His face fell at the retort; then he broke into a laugh. He
adored Undine's "smartness," which was of precisely the same quality
as his own. "Oh, that's another thing: you can always trust me to look
after you!"
"With your reputation? Much obliged!"
Van Degen smiled. She knew he liked such allusions, and was pleased that
she thought him compromising.
"Oh, I'm as good as gold. You've made a new man of me!"
"Have I?" She considered him in silence for a moment. "I wonder what
you've done to me but make a discontented woman of me--discontented with
everything I had before I knew you?"
The change of tone was thrilling to him. He forgot her mockery, forgot
his rival, and sat down at her side, almost in possession of her waist.
"Look here," he asked, "where are we going to dine to-night?"
His nearness was not agreeable to Undine, but she liked his free way,
his contempt for verbal preliminaries. Ralph's reserves and delicacies,
his perpetual desire that he and she should be attuned to the same key,
had always vaguely bored her; whereas in Van Degen's manner she felt a
hint of the masterful way that had once subdued her in Elmer Moffatt.
But she drew back, releasing herself.
"To-night? I can't--I'm engaged."
"I know you are: engaged to ME! You promised last Sunday you'd dine with
me out of town to-night."
"How can I remember what I promised last Sunday? Besides, after what
you've said, I see I oughtn't to."
"What do you mean by what I've said?"
"Why, that I'm imprudent; that people are talking--"
He stood up with an angry laugh. "I suppose you're dining with Chelles.
Is that it?"
"Is that the way you cross-examine Clare?"
"I don't care a hang what Clare does--I never have."
"That must--in some ways--be rather convenient for her!"
"Glad you think so. ARE you dining with him?"
She slowly turned the wedding-ring upon her finger. "You know I'm NOT
married to you--yet!"
He took a random turn through the room; then he came back and planted
himself wrathfully before her. "Can't you see the man's doing his best
to make a fool of you?"
She kept her amused gaze on him. "Does it strike you that it's such an
awfully easy thing to do?"
The edges of his ears were purple. "I sometimes think it's easier for
these damned little dancing-masters than for one of us."
Undine was still smiling up at him; but suddenly her grew grave. "What
does it matter what I do or don't do, when Ralph has ordered me home
next week?"
"Ordered you home?" His face changed. "Well, you're not going, are you?"
"What's the use of saying such things?" She gave a disenchanted laugh.
"I'm a poor man's wife, and can't do the things my friends do. It's not
because Ralph loves me that he wants me back--it's simply because he
can't afford to let me stay!"
Van Degen's perturbation was increasing. "But you mustn't go--it's
preposterous! Why should a woman like you be sacrificed when a lot of
dreary frumps have everything they want? Besides, you can't chuck me
like this! Why, we're all to motor down to Aix next week, and perhaps
take a dip into Italy--"
"OH, ITALY--" she murmured on a note of yearning.
He was closer now, and had her hands. "You'd love that, wouldn't you?
As far as Venice, anyhow; and then in August there's Trouville--you've
never tried Trouville? There's an awfully jolly crowd there--and the
motoring's ripping in Normandy. If you say so I'll take a villa
there instead of going back to Newport. And I'll put the Sorceress in
commission, and you can make up parties and run off whenever you like,
to Scotland or Norway--" He hung above her. "Don't dine with Chelles
to-night! Come with me, and we'll talk things over; and next week we'll
run down to Trouville to choose the villa."
Undine's heart was beating fast, but she felt within her a strange lucid
force of resistance. Because of that sense of security she left her
hands in Van Degen's. So Mr. Spragg might have felt at the tensest hour
of the Pure Water move. She leaned forward, holding her suitor off by
the pressure of her bent-back palms.
"Kiss me good-bye, Peter; I sail on Wednesday," she said.
It was the first time she had permitted him a kiss, and as his face
darkened down on her she felt a moment's recoil. But her physical
reactions were never very acute: she always vaguely wondered why
people made "such a fuss," were so violently for or against such
demonstrations. A cool spirit within her seemed to watch over and
regulate her sensations, and leave her capable of measuring the
intensity of those she provoked.
She turned to look at the clock. "You must go now--I shall be hours late
for dinner."
"Go--after that?" He held her fast. "Kiss me again," he commanded.
It was wonderful how cool she felt--how easily she could slip out of his
grasp! Any man could be managed like a child if he were really in love
with one....
"Don't be a goose, Peter; do you suppose I'd have kissed you if--"
"If what--what--what?" he mimicked her ecstatically, not listening.
She saw that if she wished to make him hear her she must put more
distance between them, and she rose and moved across the room. From the
fireplace she turned to add--"if we hadn't been saying good-bye?"
"Good-bye--now? What's the use of talking like that?" He jumped up and
followed her. "Look here, Undine--I'll do anything on earth you want;
only don't talk of going! If you'll only stay I'll make it all as
straight and square as you please. I'll get Bertha Shallum to stop over
with you for the summer; I'll take a house at Trouville and make my wife
come out there. Hang it, she SHALL, if you say so! Only be a little good
to me!"
Still she stood before him without speaking, aware that her implacable
brows and narrowed lips would hold him off as long as she chose.
"What's the matter. Undine? Why don't you answer? You know you can't go
back to that deadly dry-rot!"
She swept about on him with indignant eyes. "I can't go on with my
present life either. It's hateful--as hateful as the other. If I don't
go home I've got to decide on something different."
"What do you mean by 'something different'?" She was silent, and he
insisted: "Are you really thinking of marrying Chelles?"
She started as if he had surprised a secret. "I'll never forgive you if
you speak of it--"
"Good Lord! Good Lord!" he groaned.
She remained motionless, with lowered lids, and he went up to her and
pulled her about so that she faced him. "Undine, honour bright--do you
think he'll marry you?"
She looked at him with a sudden hardness in her eyes. "I really can't
discuss such things with you."
"Oh, for the Lord's sake don't take that tone! I don't half know what
I'm saying...but you mustn't throw yourself away a second time. I'll do
anything you want--I swear I will!"
A knock on the door sent them apart, and a servant entered with a
telegram.
Undine turned away to the window with the narrow blue slip. She was glad
of the interruption: the sense of what she had at stake made her want to
pause a moment and to draw breath.
The message was a long cable signed with Laura Fairford's name. It told
her that Ralph had been taken suddenly ill with pneumonia, that his
condition was serious and that the doctors advised his wife's immediate
return.
Undine had to read the words over two or three times to get them into
her crowded mind; and even after she had done so she needed more time to
see their bearing on her own situation. If the message had concerned
her boy her brain would have acted more quickly. She had never troubled
herself over the possibility of Paul's falling ill in her absence, but
she understood now that if the cable had been about him she would have
rushed to the earliest steamer. With Ralph it was different. Ralph was
always perfectly well--she could not picture him as being suddenly at
death's door and in need of her. Probably his mother and sister had had
a panic: they were always full of sentimental terrors. The next moment
an angry suspicion flashed across her: what if the cable were a device
of the Marvell women to bring her back? Perhaps it had been sent
with Ralph's connivance! No doubt Bowen had written home about
her--Washington Square had received some monstrous report of her
doings!... Yes, the cable was clearly an echo of Laura's letter--mother
and daughter had cooked it up to spoil her pleasure. Once the thought
had occurred to her it struck root in her mind and began to throw out
giant branches. Van Degen followed her to the window, his face still
flushed and working. "What's the matter?" he asked, as she continued to
stare silently at the telegram.
She crumpled the strip of paper in her hand. If only she had been alone,
had had a chance to think out her answers!
"What on earth's the matter?" he repeated.
"Oh, nothing--nothing."
"Nothing? When you're as white as a sheet?"
"Am I?" She gave a slight laugh. "It's only a cable from home."
"Ralph?"
She hesitated. "No. Laura."
"What the devil is SHE cabling you about?"
"She says Ralph wants me."
"Now--at once?"
"At once."
Van Degen laughed impatiently. "Why don't he tell you so himself? What
business is it of Laura Fairford's?"
Undine's gesture implied a "What indeed?"
"Is that all she says?"
She hesitated again. "Yes--that's all." As she spoke she tossed the
telegram into the basket beneath the writing-table. "As if I didn't HAVE
to go anyhow?" she exclaimed.
With an aching clearness of vision she saw what lay before her--the
hurried preparations, the long tedious voyage on a steamer chosen at
haphazard, the arrival in the deadly July heat, and the relapse into all
the insufferable daily fag of nursery and kitchen--she saw it and her
imagination recoiled.
Van Degen's eyes still hung on her: she guessed that he was intensely
engaged in trying to follow what was passing through her mind. Presently
he came up to her again, no longer perilous and importunate, but
awkwardly tender, ridiculously moved by her distress.
"Undine, listen: won't you let me make it all right for you to stay?"
Her heart began to beat more quickly, and she let him come close,
meeting his eyes coldly but without anger.
"What do you call 'making it all right'? Paying my bills? Don't you see
that's what I hate, and will never let myself be dragged into again?"
She laid her hand on his arm. "The time has come when I must be
sensible, Peter; that's why we must say good-bye."
"Do you mean to tell me you're going back to Ralph?"
She paused a moment; then she murmured between her lips: "I shall never
go back to him."
"Then you DO mean to marry Chelles?"
"I've told you we must say good-bye. I've got to look out for my
future."
He stood before her, irresolute, tormented, his lazy mind and impatient
senses labouring with a problem beyond their power. "Ain't I here to
look out for your future?" he said at last.
"No one shall look out for it in the way you mean. I'd rather never see
you again--"
He gave her a baffled stare. "Oh, damn it--if that's the way you feel!"
He turned and flung away toward the door.
She stood motionless where he left her, every nerve strung to the
highest pitch of watchfulness. As she stood there, the scene about her
stamped itself on her brain with the sharpest precision. She was aware
of the fading of the summer light outside, of the movements of her maid,
who was laying out her dinner-dress in the room beyond, and of the fact
that the tea-roses on her writing-table, shaken by Van Degen's tread,
were dropping their petals over Ralph's letter, and down on the
crumpled telegram which she could see through the trellised sides of the
scrap-basket.
In another moment Van Degen would be gone. Worse yet, while he wavered
in the doorway the Shallums and Chelles, after vainly awaiting her,
might dash back from the Bois and break in on them. These and other
chances rose before her, urging her to action; but she held fast,
immovable, unwavering, a proud yet plaintive image of renunciation.
Van Degen's hand was on the door. He half-opened it and then turned
back.
"That's all you've got to say, then?"
"That's all."
He jerked the door open and passed out. She saw him stop in the
ante-room to pick up his hat and stick, his heavy figure silhouetted
against the glare of the wall-lights. A ray of the same light fell
on her where she stood in the unlit sitting-room, and her reflection
bloomed out like a flower from the mirror that faced her. She looked
at the image and waited. Van Degen put his hat on his head and slowly
opened the door into the outer hall. Then he turned abruptly, his bulk
eclipsing her reflection as he plunged back into the room and came up to
her.
"I'll do anything you say. Undine; I'll do anything in God's world to
keep you!"
She turned her eyes from the mirror and let them rest on his face, which
looked as small and withered as an old man's, with a lower lip that
trembled queerly....
XXI
The spring in New York proceeded through more than its usual extremes of
temperature to the threshold of a sultry June.
Ralph Marvell, wearily bent to his task, felt the fantastic humours of
the weather as only one more incoherence in the general chaos of his
case. It was strange enough, after four years of marriage, to find
himself again in his old brown room in Washington Square. It was
hardly there that he had expected Pegasus to land him; and, like a man
returning to the scenes of his childhood, he found everything on a much
smaller scale than he had imagined. Had the Dagonet boundaries really
narrowed, or had the breach in the walls of his own life let in a wider
vision?
Certainly there had come to be other differences between his present and
his former self than that embodied in the presence of his little boy in
the next room. Paul, in fact, was now the chief link between Ralph and
his past. Concerning his son he still felt and thought, in a general
way, in the terms of the Dagonet tradition; he still wanted to implant
in Paul some of the reserves and discriminations which divided that
tradition from the new spirit of limitless concession. But for himself
it was different. Since his transaction with Moffatt he had had the
sense of living under a new dispensation. He was not sure that it was
any worse than the other; but then he was no longer very sure about
anything. Perhaps this growing indifference was merely the reaction
from a long nervous strain: that his mother and sister thought it so
was shown by the way in which they mutely watched and hovered. Their
discretion was like the hushed tread about a sick-bed. They permitted
themselves no criticism of Undine; he was asked no awkward questions,
subjected to no ill-timed sympathy. They simply took him back, on his
own terms, into the life he had left them to; and their silence had none
of those subtle implications of disapproval which may be so much more
wounding than speech.
For a while he received a weekly letter from Undine. Vague and
disappointing though they were, these missives helped him through the
days; but he looked forward to them rather as a pretext for replies than
for their actual contents. Undine was never at a loss for the spoken
word: Ralph had often wondered at her verbal range and her fluent use of
terms outside the current vocabulary. She had certainly not picked these
up in books, since she never opened one: they seemed rather like some
odd transmission of her preaching grandparent's oratory. But in her
brief and colourless letters she repeated the same bald statements
in the same few terms. She was well, she had been "round" with Bertha
Shallum, she had dined with the Jim Driscolls or May Beringer or Dicky
Bowles, the weather was too lovely or too awful; such was the gist of
her news. On the last page she hoped Paul was well and sent him a kiss;
but she never made a suggestion concerning his care or asked a question
about his pursuits. One could only infer that, knowing in what good
hands he was, she judged such solicitude superfluous; and it was thus
that Ralph put the matter to his mother.
"Of course she's not worrying about the boy--why should she? She knows
that with you and Laura he's as happy as a king."
To which Mrs. Marvell would answer gravely: "When you write, be sure
to say I shan't put on his thinner flannels as long as this east wind
lasts."
As for her husband's welfare. Undine's sole allusion to it consisted
in the invariable expression of the hope that he was getting along all
right: the phrase was always the same, and Ralph learned to know
just how far down the third page to look for it. In a postscript she
sometimes asked him to tell her mother about a new way of doing hair or
cutting a skirt; and this was usually the most eloquent passage of the
letter. What satisfaction he extracted from these communications he
would have found it hard to say; yet when they did not come he missed
them hardly less than if they had given him all he craved. Sometimes the
mere act of holding the blue or mauve sheet and breathing its scent
was like holding his wife's hand and being enveloped in her fresh young
fragrance: the sentimental disappointment vanished in the penetrating
physical sensation. In other moods it was enough to trace the letters
of the first line and the last for the desert of perfunctory phrases
between the two to vanish, leaving him only the vision of their
interlaced names, as of a mystic bond which her own hand had tied.
Or else he saw her, closely, palpably before him, as she sat at her
writing-table, frowning and a little flushed, her bent nape showing the
light on her hair, her short lip pulled up by the effort of composition;
and this picture had the violent reality of dream-images on the verge
of waking. At other times, as he read her letter, he felt simply that at
least in the moment of writing it she had been with him. But in one of
the last she had said (to excuse a bad blot and an incoherent sentence):
"Everybody's talking to me at once, and I don't know what I'm writing."
That letter he had thrown into the fire....
After the first few weeks, the letters came less and less regularly:
at the end of two months they ceased. Ralph had got into the habit of
watching for them on the days when a foreign post was due, and as the
weeks went by without a sign he began to invent excuses for leaving
the office earlier and hurrying back to Washington Square to search
the letter-box for a big tinted envelope with a straggling blotted
superscription.
Undine's departure had given him a momentary sense of liberation: at
that stage in their relations any change would have brought relief.
But now that she was gone he knew she could never really go. Though his
feeling for her had changed, it still ruled his life. If he saw her in
her weakness he felt her in her power: the power of youth and physical
radiance that clung to his disenchanted memories as the scent she used
clung to her letters. Looking back at their four years of marriage he
began to ask himself if he had done all he could to draw her half-formed
spirit from its sleep. Had he not expected too much at first, and grown
too indifferent in the sequel? After all, she was still in the toy age;
and perhaps the very extravagance of his love had retarded her growth,
helped to imprison her in a little circle of frivolous illusions. But
the last months had made a man of him, and when she came back he would
know how to lift her to the height of his experience.
So he would reason, day by day, as he hastened back to Washington
Square; but when he opened the door, and his first glance at the hall
table showed him there was no letter there, his illusions shrivelled
down to their weak roots. She had not written: she did not mean to
write. He and the boy were no longer a part of her life. When she
came back everything would be as it had been before, with the dreary
difference that she had tasted new pleasures and that their absence
would take the savour from all he had to give her. Then the coming of
another foreign mail would lift his hopes, and as he hurried home he
would imagine new reasons for expecting a letter....
Week after week he swung between the extremes of hope and dejection,
and at last, when the strain had become unbearable, he cabled her. The
answer ran: "Very well best love writing"; but the promised letter never
came....
He went on steadily with his work: he even passed through a phase of
exaggerated energy. But his baffled youth fought in him for air. Was
this to be the end? Was he to wear his life out in useless drudgery? The
plain prose of it, of course, was that the economic situation remained
unchanged by the sentimental catastrophe and that he must go on working
for his wife and child. But at any rate, as it was mainly for Paul that
he would henceforth work, it should be on his own terms and according to
his inherited notions of "straightness." He would never again engage in
any transaction resembling his compact with Moffatt. Even now he was not
sure there had been anything crooked in that; but the fact of his
having instinctively referred the point to Mr. Spragg rather than to his
grandfather implied a presumption against it.
His partners were quick to profit by his sudden spurt of energy, and
his work grew no lighter. He was not only the youngest and most recent
member of the firm, but the one who had so far added least to the volume
of its business. His hours were the longest, his absences, as summer
approached, the least frequent and the most grudgingly accorded. No
doubt his associates knew that he was pressed for money and could not
risk a break. They "worked" him, and he was aware of it, and submitted
because he dared not lose his job. But the long hours of mechanical
drudgery were telling on his active body and undisciplined nerves. He
had begun too late to subject himself to the persistent mortification of
spirit and flesh which is a condition of the average business life; and
after the long dull days in the office the evenings at his grandfather's
whist-table did not give him the counter-stimulus he needed.
Almost every one had gone out of town; but now and then Miss Ray came
to dine, and Ralph, seated beneath the family portraits and opposite the
desiccated Harriet, who had already faded to the semblance of one of
her own great-aunts, listened languidly to the kind of talk that the
originals might have exchanged about the same table when New York
gentility centred in the Battery and the Bowling Green. Mr. Dagonet was
always pleasant to see and hear, but his sarcasms were growing faint
and recondite: they had as little bearing on life as the humours of a
Restoration comedy. As for Mrs. Marvell and Miss Ray, they seemed to the
young man even more spectrally remote: hardly anything that mattered to
him existed for them, and their prejudices reminded him of sign-posts
warning off trespassers who have long since ceased to intrude.
Now and then he dined at his club and went on to the theatre with some
young men of his own age; but he left them afterward, half vexed with
himself for not being in the humour to prolong the adventure. There
were moments when he would have liked to affirm his freedom in however
commonplace a way: moments when the vulgarest way would have seemed
the most satisfying. But he always ended by walking home alone and
tip-toeing upstairs through the sleeping house lest he should wake his
boy....
On Saturday afternoons, when the business world was hurrying to the
country for golf and tennis, he stayed in town and took Paul to see the
Spraggs. Several times since his wife's departure he had tried to bring
about closer relations between his own family and Undine's; and the
ladies of Washington Square, in their eagerness to meet his wishes, had
made various friendly advances to Mrs. Spragg. But they were met by a
mute resistance which made Ralph suspect that Undine's strictures on his
family had taken root in her mother's brooding mind; and he gave up the
struggle to bring together what had been so effectually put asunder.
If he regretted his lack of success it was chiefly because he was so
sorry for the Spraggs. Soon after Undine's marriage they had abandoned
their polychrome suite at the Stentorian, and since then their
peregrinations had carried them through half the hotels of the
metropolis. Undine, who had early discovered her mistake in thinking
hotel life fashionable, had tried to persuade her parents to take a
house of their own; but though they refrained from taxing her with
inconsistency they did not act on her suggestion. Mrs. Spragg seemed
to shrink from the thought of "going back to house-keeping," and Ralph
suspected that she depended on the transit from hotel to hotel as the
one element of variety in her life. As for Mr. Spragg, it was impossible
to imagine any one in whom the domestic sentiments were more completely
unlocalized and disconnected from any fixed habits; and he was probably
aware of his changes of abode chiefly as they obliged him to ascend from
the Subway, or descend from the "Elevated," a few blocks higher up or
lower down.
Neither husband nor wife complained to Ralph of their frequent
displacements, or assigned to them any cause save the vague one of
"guessing they could do better"; but Ralph noticed that the decreasing
luxury of their life synchronized with Undine's growing demands for
money. During the last few months they had transferred themselves to the
"Malibran," a tall narrow structure resembling a grain-elevator divided
into cells, where linoleum and lincrusta simulated the stucco and marble
of the Stentorian, and fagged business men and their families consumed
the watery stews dispensed by "coloured help" in the grey twilight of a
basement dining-room.
Mrs. Spragg had no sitting-room, and Paul and his father had to be
received in one of the long public parlours, between ladies seated at
rickety desks in the throes of correspondence and groups of listlessly
conversing residents and callers.
The Spraggs were intensely proud of their grandson, and Ralph perceived
that they would have liked to see Paul charging uproariously from group
to group, and thrusting his bright curls and cherubic smile upon the
general attention. The fact that the boy preferred to stand between his
grandfather's knees and play with Mr. Spragg's Masonic emblem, or dangle
his legs from the arm of Mrs. Spragg's chair, seemed to his grandparents
evidence of ill-health or undue repression, and he was subjected by Mrs.
Spragg to searching enquiries as to how his food set, and whether he
didn't think his Popper was too strict with him. A more embarrassing
problem was raised by the "surprise" (in the shape of peanut candy or
chocolate creams) which he was invited to hunt for in Gran'ma's pockets,
and which Ralph had to confiscate on the way home lest the dietary rules
of Washington Square should be too visibly infringed.
Sometimes Ralph found Mrs. Heeny, ruddy and jovial, seated in the
arm-chair opposite Mrs. Spragg, and regaling her with selections from a
new batch of clippings. During Undine's illness of the previous winter
Mrs. Heeny had become a familiar figure to Paul, who had learned to
expect almost as much from her bag as from his grandmother's pockets; so
that the intemperate Saturdays at the Malibran were usually followed by
languid and abstemious Sundays in Washington Square. Mrs. Heeny, being
unaware of this sequel to her bounties, formed the habit of appearing
regularly on Saturdays, and while she chatted with his grandmother the
little boy was encouraged to scatter the grimy carpet with face-creams
and bunches of clippings in his thrilling quest for the sweets at the
bottom of her bag.
"I declare, if he ain't in just as much of a hurry f'r everything as his
mother!" she exclaimed one day in her rich rolling voice; and stooping
to pick up a long strip of newspaper which Paul had flung aside she
added, as she smoothed it out: "I guess 'f he was a little mite older
he'd be better pleased with this 'n with the candy. It's the very thing
I was trying to find for you the other day, Mrs. Spragg," she went on,
holding the bit of paper at arm's length; and she began to read out,
with a loudness proportioned to the distance between her eyes and the
text:
"With two such sprinters as 'Pete' Van Degen and Dicky Bowles to set
the pace, it's no wonder the New York set in Paris has struck a livelier
gait than ever this spring. It's a high-pressure season and no mistake,
and no one lags behind less than the fascinating Mrs. Ralph Marvell,
who is to be seen daily and nightly in all the smartest restaurants and
naughtiest theatres, with so many devoted swains in attendance that the
rival beauties of both worlds are said to be making catty comments. But
then Mrs. Marvell's gowns are almost as good as her looks--and how can
you expect the other women to stand for such a monopoly?"
To escape the strain of these visits, Ralph once or twice tried the
experiment of leaving Paul with his grand-parents and calling for him in
the late afternoon; but one day, on re-entering the Malibran, he was
met by a small abashed figure clad in a kaleidoscopic tartan and a
green velvet cap with a silver thistle. After this experience of the
"surprises" of which Gran'ma was capable when she had a chance to take
Paul shopping Ralph did not again venture to leave his son, and their
subsequent Saturdays were passed together in the sultry gloom of the
Malibran. Conversation with the Spraggs was almost impossible. Ralph
could talk with his father-in-law in his office, but in the hotel
parlour Mr. Spragg sat in a ruminating silence broken only by the
emission of an occasional "Well--well" addressed to his grandson. As for
Mrs. Spragg, her son-in-law could not remember having had a sustained
conversation with her since the distant day when he had first called at
the Stentorian, and had been "entertained," in Undine's absence, by her
astonished mother. The shock of that encounter had moved Mrs. Spragg to
eloquence; but Ralph's entrance into the family, without making him seem
less of a stranger, appeared once for all to have relieved her of the
obligation of finding something to say to him.
The one question she invariably asked: "You heard from Undie?" had been
relatively easy to answer while his wife's infrequent letters continued
to arrive; but a Saturday came when he felt the blood rise to his
temples as, for the fourth consecutive week, he stammered out, under the
snapping eyes of Mrs. Heeny: "No, not by this post either--I begin to
think I must have lost a letter"; and it was then that Mr. Spragg,
who had sat silently looking up at the ceiling, cut short his wife's
exclamation by an enquiry about real estate in the Bronx. After that,
Ralph noticed, Mrs. Spragg never again renewed her question; and he
understood that his father-in-law had guessed his embarrassment and
wished to spare it.
Ralph had never thought of looking for any delicacy of feeling under
Mr. Spragg's large lazy irony, and the incident drew the two men nearer
together. Mrs. Spragg, for her part, was certainly not delicate; but
she was simple and without malice, and Ralph liked her for her silent
acceptance of her diminished state. Sometimes, as he sat between the
lonely primitive old couple, he wondered from what source Undine's
voracious ambitions had been drawn: all she cared for, and attached
importance to, was as remote from her parents' conception of life as her
impatient greed from their passive stoicism.
One hot afternoon toward the end of June Ralph suddenly wondered if
Clare Van Degen were still in town. She had dined in Washington Square
some ten days earlier, and he remembered her saying that she had sent
the children down to Long Island, but that she herself meant to stay on
in town till the heat grew unbearable. She hated her big showy place on
Long Island, she was tired of the spring trip to London and Paris, where
one met at every turn the faces one had grown sick of seeing all winter,
and she declared that in the early summer New York was the only place in
which one could escape from New Yorkers... She put the case amusingly,
and it was like her to take up any attitude that went against the habits
of her set; but she lived at the mercy of her moods, and one could never
tell how long any one of them would rule her.
As he sat in his office, with the noise and glare of the endless
afternoon rising up in hot waves from the street, there wandered into
Ralph's mind a vision of her shady drawing-room. All day it hung before
him like the mirage of a spring before a dusty traveller: he felt a
positive thirst for her presence, for the sound of her voice, the wide
spaces and luxurious silences surrounding her.
It was perhaps because, on that particular day, a spiral pain was
twisting around in the back of his head, and digging in a little deeper
with each twist, and because the figures on the balance sheet before him
were hopping about like black imps in an infernal forward-and-back, that
the picture hung there so persistently. It was a long time since he had
wanted anything as much as, at that particular moment, he wanted to
be with Clare and hear her voice; and as soon as he had ground out the
day's measure of work he rang up the Van Degen palace and learned that
she was still in town.
The lowered awnings of her inner drawing-room cast a luminous shadow on
old cabinets and consoles, and on the pale flowers scattered here and
there in vases of bronze and porcelain. Clare's taste was as capricious
as her moods, and the rest of the house was not in harmony with this
room. There was, in particular, another drawing-room, which she now
described as Peter's creation, but which Ralph knew to be partly hers: a
heavily decorated apartment, where Popple's portrait of her throned over
a waste of gilt furniture. It was characteristic that to-day she had
had Ralph shown in by another way; and that, as she had spared him the
polyphonic drawing-room, so she had skilfully adapted her own appearance
to her soberer background. She sat near the window, reading, in a clear
cool dress: and at his entrance she merely slipped a finger between the
pages and looked up at him.
Her way of receiving him made him feel that restlessness and stridency
were as unlike her genuine self as the gilded drawing-room, and that
this quiet creature was the only real Clare, the Clare who had once been
so nearly his, and who seemed to want him to know that she had never
wholly been any one else's.
"Why didn't you let me know you were still in town?" he asked, as he sat
down in the sofa-corner near her chair.
Her dark smile deepened. "I hoped you'd come and see."
"One never knows, with you."
He was looking about the room with a kind of confused pleasure in its
pale shadows and spots of dark rich colour. The old lacquer screen
behind Clare's head looked like a lustreless black pool with gold leaves
floating on it; and another piece, a little table at her elbow, had the
brown bloom and the pear-like curves of an old violin.
"I like to be here," Ralph said.
She did not make the mistake of asking: "Then why do you never come?"
Instead, she turned away and drew an inner curtain across the window to
shut out the sunlight which was beginning to slant in under the awning.
The mere fact of her not answering, and the final touch of well-being
which her gesture gave, reminded him of other summer days they had spent
together long rambling boy-and-girl days in the hot woods and fields,
when they had never thought of talking to each other unless there was
something they particularly wanted to say. His tired fancy strayed off
for a second to the thought of what it would have been like come back,
at the end of the day, to such a sweet community of silence; but his
mind was too crowded with importunate facts for any lasting view of
visionary distances. The thought faded, and he merely felt how restful
it was to have her near...
"I'm glad you stayed in town: you must let me come again," he said.
"I suppose you can't always get away," she answered; and she began to
listen, with grave intelligent eyes, to his description of his tedious
days.
With her eyes on him he felt the exquisite relief of talking about
himself as he had not dared to talk to any one since his marriage.
He would not for the world have confessed his discouragement, his
consciousness of incapacity; to Undine and in Washington Square any
hint of failure would have been taken as a criticism of what his wife
demanded of him. Only to Clare Van Degen could he cry out his present
despondency and his loathing of the interminable task ahead.
"A man doesn't know till he tries it how killing uncongenial work is,
and how it destroys the power of doing what one's fit for, even if
there's time for both. But there's Paul to be looked out for, and I
daren't chuck my job--I'm in mortal terror of its chucking me..."
Little by little he slipped into a detailed recital of all his lesser
worries, the most recent of which was his experience with the Lipscombs,
who, after a two months' tenancy of the West End Avenue house, had
decamped without paying their rent.
Clare laughed contemptuously. "Yes--I heard he'd come to grief and been
suspended from the Stock Exchange, and I see in the papers that his
wife's retort has been to sue for a divorce."
Ralph knew that, like all their clan, his cousin regarded a divorce-suit
as a vulgar and unnecessary way of taking the public into one's
confidence. His mind flashed back to the family feast in Washington
Square in celebration of his engagement. He recalled his grandfather's
chance allusion to Mrs. Lipscomb, and Undine's answer, fluted out on her
highest note: "Oh, I guess she'll get a divorce pretty soon. He's been a
disappointment to her."
Ralph could still hear the horrified murmur with which his mother had
rebuked his laugh. For he had laughed--had thought Undine's speech fresh
and natural! Now he felt the ironic rebound of her words. Heaven knew he
had been a disappointment to her; and what was there in her own feeling,
or in her inherited prejudices, to prevent her seeking the same redress
as Mabel Lipscomb? He wondered if the same thought were in his cousin's
mind...
They began to talk of other things: books, pictures, plays; and one
by one the closed doors opened and light was let into dusty shuttered
places. Clare's mind was neither keen nor deep: Ralph, in the past, had
smiled at her rash ardours and vague intensities. But she had his own
range of allusions, and a great gift of momentary understanding; and
he had so long beaten his thoughts out against a blank wall of
incomprehension that her sympathy seemed full of insight.
She began by a question about his writing, but the subject was
distasteful to him, and he turned the talk to a new book in which he had
been interested. She knew enough of it to slip in the right word here
and there; and thence they wandered on to kindred topics. Under the
warmth of her attention his torpid ideas awoke again, and his eyes
took their fill of pleasure as she leaned forward, her thin brown hands
clasped on her knees and her eager face reflecting all his feelings.
There was a moment when the two currents of sensation were merged in
one, and he began to feel confusedly that he was young and she was kind,
and that there was nothing he would like better than to go on sitting
there, not much caring what she said or how he answered, if only she
would let him look at her and give him one of her thin brown hands to
hold. Then the corkscrew in the back of his head dug into him again with
a deeper thrust, and she seemed suddenly to recede to a great distance
and be divided from him by a fog of pain. The fog lifted after a minute,
but it left him queerly remote from her, from the cool room with its
scents and shadows, and from all the objects which, a moment before, had
so sharply impinged upon his senses. It was as though he looked at it
all through a rain-blurred pane, against which his hand would strike if
he held it out to her...
That impression passed also, and he found himself thinking how tired he
was and how little anything mattered. He recalled the unfinished piece
of work on his desk, and for a moment had the odd illusion that it was
there before him...
She exclaimed: "But are you going?" and her exclamation made him aware
that he had left his seat and was standing in front of her... He fancied
there was some kind of appeal in her brown eyes; but she was so dim and
far off that he couldn't be sure of what she wanted, and the next moment
he found himself shaking hands with her, and heard her saying something
kind and cold about its having been so nice to see him...
Half way up the stairs little Paul, shining and rosy from supper, lurked
in ambush for his evening game. Ralph was fond of stooping down to let
the boy climb up his outstretched arms to his shoulders, but to-day, as
he did so, Paul's hug seemed to crush him in a vice, and the shout
of welcome that accompanied it racked his ears like an explosion of
steam-whistles. The queer distance between himself and the rest of the
world was annihilated again: everything stared and glared and clutched
him. He tried to turn away his face from the child's hot kisses; and as
he did so he caught sight of a mauve envelope among the hats and sticks
on the hall table.
Instantly he passed Paul over to his nurse, stammered out a word about
being tired, and sprang up the long flights to his study. The pain
in his head had stopped, but his hands trembled as he tore open the
envelope. Within it was a second letter bearing a French stamp and
addressed to himself. It looked like a business communication and had
apparently been sent to Undine's hotel in Paris and forwarded to him by
her hand. "Another bill!" he reflected grimly, as he threw it aside and
felt in the outer envelope for her letter. There was nothing there, and
after a first sharp pang of disappointment he picked up the enclosure
and opened it.
Inside was a lithographed circular, headed "Confidential" and bearing
the Paris address of a firm of private detectives who undertook,
in conditions of attested and inviolable discretion, to investigate
"delicate" situations, look up doubtful antecedents, and furnish
reliable evidence of misconduct--all on the most reasonable terms.
For a long time Ralph sat and stared at this document; then he began to
laugh and tossed it into the scrap-basket. After that, with a groan, he
dropped his head against the edge of his writing table.
XXII
When he woke, the first thing he remembered was the fact of having
cried.
He could not think how he had come to be such a fool. He hoped to heaven
no one had seen him. He supposed he must have been worrying about the
unfinished piece of work at the office: where was it, by the way, he
wondered? Why--where he had left it the day before, of course! What a
ridiculous thing to worry about--but it seemed to follow him about like
a dog...
He said to himself that he must get up presently and go down to the
office. Presently--when he could open his eyes. Just now there was a
dead weight on them; he tried one after another in vain. The effort set
him weakly trembling, and he wanted to cry again. Nonsense! He must get
out of bed.
He stretched his arms out, trying to reach something to pull himself up
by; but everything slipped away and evaded him. It was like trying
to catch at bright short waves. Then suddenly his fingers clasped
themselves about something firm and warm. A hand: a hand that gave back
his pressure! The relief was inexpressible. He lay still and let the
hand hold him, while mentally he went through the motions of getting
up and beginning to dress. So indistinct were the boundaries between
thought and action that he really felt himself moving about the room,
in a queer disembodied way, as one treads the air in sleep. Then he felt
the bedclothes over him and the pillows under his head.
"I MUST get up," he said, and pulled at the hand.
It pressed him down again: down into a dim deep pool of sleep. He lay
there for a long time, in a silent blackness far below light and sound;
then he gradually floated to the surface with the buoyancy of a dead
body. But his body had never been more alive. Jagged strokes of pain
tore through it, hands dragged at it with nails that bit like teeth.
They wound thongs about him, bound him, tied weights to him, tried to
pull him down with them; but still he floated, floated, danced on the
fiery waves of pain, with barbed light pouring down on him from an
arrowy sky.
Charmed intervals of rest, blue sailings on melodious seas, alternated
with the anguish. He became a leaf on the air, a feather on a current, a
straw on the tide, the spray of the wave spinning itself to sunshine as
the wave toppled over into gulfs of blue...
He woke on a stony beach, his legs and arms still lashed to his sides
and the thongs cutting into him; but the fierce sky was hidden, and
hidden by his own languid lids. He felt the ecstasy of decreasing pain,
and courage came to him to open his eyes and look about him...
The beach was his own bed; the tempered light lay on familiar things,
and some one was moving about in a shadowy way between bed and window.
He was thirsty and some one gave him a drink. His pillow burned, and
some one turned the cool side out. His brain was clear enough now for
him to understand that he was ill, and to want to talk about it; but his
tongue hung in his throat like a clapper in a bell. He must wait till
the rope was pulled...
So time and life stole back on him, and his thoughts laboured weakly
with dim fears. Slowly he cleared a way through them, adjusted himself
to his strange state, and found out that he was in his own room, in his
grandfather's house, that alternating with the white-capped faces about
him were those of his mother and sister, and that in a few days--if he
took his beef-tea and didn't fret--Paul would be brought up from Long
Island, whither, on account of the great heat, he had been carried off
by Clare Van Degen.
No one named Undine to him, and he did not speak of her. But one day,
as he lay in bed in the summer twilight, he had a vision of a moment,
a long way behind him--at the beginning of his illness, it must have
been--when he had called out for her in his anguish, and some one had
said: "She's coming: she'll be here next week."
Could it be that next week was not yet here? He supposed that illness
robbed one of all sense of time, and he lay still, as if in ambush,
watching his scattered memories come out one by one and join themselves
together. If he watched long enough he was sure he should recognize one
that fitted into his picture of the day when he had asked for Undine.
And at length a face came out of the twilight: a freckled face,
benevolently bent over him under a starched cap. He had not seen the
face for a long time, but suddenly it took shape and fitted itself into
the picture...
Laura Fairford sat near by, a book on her knee. At the sound of his
voice she looked up.
"What was the name of the first nurse?"
"The first--?"
"The one that went away."
"Oh--Miss Hicks, you mean?"
"How long is it since she went?"
"It must be three weeks. She had another case."
He thought this over carefully; then he spoke again. "Call Undine."
She made no answer, and he repeated irritably: "Why don't you call her?
I want to speak to her."
Mrs. Fairford laid down her book and came to him.
"She's not here--just now."
He dealt with this also, laboriously. "You mean she's out--she's not in
the house?"
"I mean she hasn't come yet."
As she spoke Ralph felt a sudden strength and hardness in his brain and
body. Everything in him became as clear as noon.
"But it was before Miss Hicks left that you told me you'd sent for her,
and that she'd be here the following week. And you say Miss Hicks has
been gone three weeks."
This was what he had worked out in his head, and what he meant to say
to his sister; but something seemed to snap shut in his throat, and he
closed his eyes without speaking.
Even when Mr. Spragg came to see him he said nothing. They talked about
his illness, about the hot weather, about the rumours that Harmon B.
Driscoll was again threatened with indictment; and then Mr. Spragg
pulled himself out of his chair and said: "I presume you'll call round
at the office before you leave the city."
"Oh, yes: as soon as I'm up," Ralph answered. They understood each
other.
Clare had urged him to come down to Long Island and complete his
convalescence there, but he preferred to stay in Washington Square till
he should be strong enough for the journey to the Adirondacks, whither
Laura had already preceded him with Paul. He did not want to see any
one but his mother and grandfather till his legs could carry him to Mr.
Spragg's office. It was an oppressive day in mid-August, with a
yellow mist of heat in the sky, when at last he entered the big
office-building. Swirls of dust lay on the mosaic floor, and a stale
smell of decayed fruit and salt air and steaming asphalt filled the
place like a fog. As he shot up in the elevator some one slapped him
on the back, and turning he saw Elmer Moffatt at his side, smooth and
rubicund under a new straw hat.
Moffatt was loudly glad to see him. "I haven't laid eyes on you for
months. At the old stand still?"
"So am I," he added, as Ralph assented. "Hope to see you there again
some day. Don't forget it's MY turn this time: glad if I can be any use
to you. So long." Ralph's weak bones ached under his handshake.
"How's Mrs. Marvell?" he turned back from his landing to call out; and
Ralph answered: "Thanks; she's very well."
Mr. Spragg sat alone in his murky inner office, the fly-blown engraving
of Daniel Webster above his head and the congested scrap-basket beneath
his feet. He looked fagged and sallow, like the day.
Ralph sat down on the other side of the desk. For a moment his throat
contracted as it had when he had tried to question his sister; then he
asked: "Where's Undine?"
Mr. Spragg glanced at the calendar that hung from a hat-peg on the door.
Then he released the Masonic emblem from his grasp, drew out his watch
and consulted it critically.
"If the train's on time I presume she's somewhere between Chicago and
Omaha round about now."
Ralph stared at him, wondering if the heat had gone to his head. "I
don't understand."
"The Twentieth Century's generally considered the best route to Dakota,"
explained Mr. Spragg, who pronounced the word ROWT.
"Do you mean to say Undine's in the United States?"
Mr. Spragg's lower lip groped for the phantom tooth-pick. "Why, let me
see: hasn't Dakota been a state a year or two now?"
"Oh, God--" Ralph cried, pushing his chair back violently and striding
across the narrow room.
As he turned, Mr. Spragg stood up and advanced a few steps. He had given
up the quest for the tooth-pick, and his drawn-in lips were no more
than a narrow depression in his beard. He stood before Ralph, absently
shaking the loose change in his trouser-pockets.
Ralph felt the same hardness and lucidity that had come to him when he
had heard his sister's answer.
"She's gone, you mean? Left me? With another man?"
Mr. Spragg drew himself up with a kind of slouching majesty. "My
daughter is not that style. I understand Undine thinks there have been
mistakes on both sides. She considers the tie was formed too hastily. I
believe desertion is the usual plea in such cases."
Ralph stared about him, hardly listening. He did not resent his
father-in-law's tone. In a dim way he guessed that Mr. Spragg was
suffering hardly less than himself. But nothing was clear to him save
the monstrous fact suddenly upheaved in his path. His wife had left him,
and the plan for her evasion had been made and executed while he lay
helpless: she had seized the opportunity of his illness to keep him in
ignorance of her design. The humour of it suddenly struck him and he
laughed.
"Do you mean to tell me that Undine's divorcing ME?"
"I presume that's her plan," Mr. Spragg admitted.
"For desertion?" Ralph pursued, still laughing.
His father-in-law hesitated a moment; then he answered: "You've always
done all you could for my daughter. There wasn't any other plea she
could think of. She presumed this would be the most agreeable to your
family."
"It was good of her to think of that!"
Mr. Spragg's only comment was a sigh.
"Does she imagine I won't fight it?" Ralph broke out with sudden
passion.
His father-in-law looked at him thoughtfully. "I presume you realize it
ain't easy to change Undine, once she's set on a thing."
"Perhaps not. But if she really means to apply for a divorce I can make
it a little less easy for her to get."
"That's so," Mr. Spragg conceded. He turned back to his revolving chair,
and seating himself in it began to drum on the desk with cigar-stained
fingers.
"And by God, I will!" Ralph thundered. Anger was the only emotion in him
now. He had been fooled, cheated, made a mock of; but the score was not
settled yet. He turned back and stood before Mr. Spragg.
"I suppose she's gone with Van Degen?"
"My daughter's gone alone, sir. I saw her off at the station. I
understood she was to join a lady friend."
At every point Ralph felt his hold slip off the surface of his
father-in-law's impervious fatalism.
"Does she suppose Van Degen's going to marry her?"
"Undine didn't mention her future plans to me." After a moment Mr.
Spragg appended: "If she had, I should have declined to discuss them
with her." Ralph looked at him curiously, perceiving that he intended in
this negative way to imply his disapproval of his daughter's course.
"I shall fight it--I shall fight it!" the young man cried again. "You
may tell her I shall fight it to the end!"
Mr. Spragg pressed the nib of his pen against the dust-coated inkstand.
"I suppose you would have to engage a lawyer. She'll know it that way,"
he remarked.
"She'll know it--you may count on that!"
Ralph had begun to laugh again. Suddenly he heard his own laugh and it
pulled him up. What was he laughing about? What was he talking about?
The thing was to act--to hold his tongue and act. There was no use
uttering windy threats to this broken-spirited old man.
A fury of action burned in Ralph, pouring light into his mind and
strength into his muscles. He caught up his hat and turned to the door.
