for the same career as his father — 'that of 
notary — that he had made the acquaintance 
of the young working girl. It may not be 
easy to believe, but Lizette had really been 
a decent girl. She had a family to take 
care of, and was in need. There was a 
grandmother in poor health, a father not 
much better, and three little brothers; 
so Lizette did not very long resist George 
Dupont, and he felt quite virtuous in giving 
her sufficient money to take care of these 
unfortunate people. Among people of his 
class it was considered proper to take such 
things if one paid for them. 
All the family of this working girl were 
grateful to him. They adored him, and 
they called him Uncle Raoul (for of course 
he had not been so foolish as to give them 
his true name). 
Since George was paying for Lizette, 
he felt he had the right to control her 
life. He gave her fair warning concerning 
his attitude. If she deceived him he 
would leave her immediately. He told 
this to her relatives also, and so he had 
them all watching her. She was never 
trusted out alone. Every Sunday George 
went to spend the day with his little 
''family.' so that his coming became almost 
a matter of tradition. He interested her 
in church affairs — 'mass and vespers were 
her regular occasions for excursions. 
George rented two seats, and the grand- 
mother went with her to the services. The 
simple people were proud to see their name 
engraved upon the brass plate of the pew. 
The reason for all these precautions 
was George's terror of disease. He had 
been warned by his father as to the dangers 
wiiich young men encounter in their amours. 
And these lessons had sunk deep into 
George's heart; he had made up his mind 
that whatever his friends might do, he, 
for one, would protect himself. 
That did not mean, of course, that he 
intended to live a virtuous life; such 
was not the custom among young men 
of his class, nor had it probably ever 
occurred to his father that it was possible 
for a young man to do such a thing. The 
French have a phrase, L'homme moyen 
sensuel'' — 'the average sensual man. And 
George was such a man. He had no noble 
idealisms, no particular reverence for 
women. The basis of his attitude was a 
purely selfish one; he wanted to enjoy 
himself, and at the same time to keep out 
of trouble. 
He did not find any happiness in the 
renunciation which he imposed upon him- 
self; he had no religious ideas about it. 
On the contrary, he suffered keenly, and 
was bitter because he had no share in 
the amusements of his friends. He stuck 
to his work and forced himself to keep 
regular hours, preparing for his law exami- 
nations. But all the time he was longing 
for adventures. And, of course, this could 
not go on forever, for the motive of fear 
alone is not sufficient to subdue the sexual 
urge in a full-blooded young man. 
The affair with Lizette might have con- 
tinued much longer had it not been for the 
fact that his father died. He died quite 
suddenly, while George was away on a trip. 
The son came back to console his broken- 
hearted mother, and in the two weeks 
which they spent in the country together 
the mother broached a plan to him. The 
last wish of the dying man had been that 
his son should be fixed in life. In the midst 
of his intense suffering he had been able 
to think about the matter, and had named 
the girl whom he wished George to marry. 
Naturally, George waited with some interest 
to learn who this might be. He was 
surprised when his mother told him that 
it was his cousin, Henriette Loches. 
He could not keep his emotion from 
revealing itself in his face. "It doesn't 
please you?'' asked his mother, with a 
tone of disappointment. 
"Why no, mother," he answered. "It's 
not that. It just surprises me." 
"But why?" asked the mother. "Hen- 
riette is a lovely girl and a good girl." 
"Yes, I know," said George; "but then 
she is my cousin, and — " He blushed a 
Httle with embarrassment. ''I had never 
thought of her in that way.' 
Madame Dupont laid her hand upon her 
son's. ''Yes, George.' she said, tenderly. 
''I know. You are such a good boy.'' 
Now, of course, George did not feel 
that he was quite such a good boy; but 
his mother was a deeply religious woman, 
who had no idea of the truth about the 
majority of men. She would never have 
got over the shock if he had told her about 
himself, and so he had to pretend to be 
just what she thought him. 
"Tell me," she continued, after a pause, 
"have you never felt the least bit in love?'* 
"Why no — 'I don't think so," George 
stammered, becoming conscious of a sudden 
rise of temperature in his cheeks. 
"Because," said his mother, "it is really 
time that you were settled in life. Your 
father said that we should have seen to it 
before, and now it is my duty to see to it. 
It is not good for you to Hve alone so long." 
"But, mother, I have you," said George, 
generously. 
''Some day the Lord may take me 
away' was the reply. ''I am getting old. 
And, George, dear — *' Here suddenly 
her voice began to tremble with feeling — 
''I would like to see my baby grand- 
children before I go. You cannot imagine 
what it would mean to me.'' 
Madame Dupont saw how much this 
subject distressed her son, so she went on 
to the more worldly aspects of the mat- 
ter. Henriette's father was well-to-do, 
and he would give her a good dowry. 
She was a charming and accompHshed 
girl. Everybody would consider him most 
fortunate if the match could be arranged. 
Also, there was an elderly aunt to whom 
Madame Dupont had spoken, and who 
was much taken with the idea. She o'Tied 
a great deal of property and would surely 
help the young couple. 
George did not see just how he could 
object to this proposition, even if he had 
wanted to. What reason could he give 
for such a course? He could not explain 
that he already had a family — with step- 
children, so to speak, who adored him. 
 
And what could he say to his mother's 
obsession, to which she came back again 
and again — 'her longing to see her grand- 
children before she died? Madame Dupont 
waited only long enough for George to 
stammer out a few protestations, and then 
in the next breath to take them back; 
after which she proceeded to go ahead with 
the match. The family lawyers conferred 
together, and the terms of the settlement 
were worked out and agreed upon. It 
happened that immediately afterwards 
George learned of an opportunity to pur- 
chase the practice of a notary, who was 
ready to retire from business in two months' 
time. Henriette's father consented to 
advance a portion of her dowry for this 
purpose. 
Thus George was safely started upon 
the same career as his father, and this 
was to him a source of satisfaction which 
he did not attempt to deny, either to him- 
self or to any one else. George was a 
cautious young man, who came of a frugal 
and saving stock. He had always been 
taught that it was his primary duty to 
make certain of a reasonable amount of 
comfort. From his earliest days, he had 
been taught to regard material success 
as the greatest goal in life, and he would 
never have dreamed of engaging himself 
to a girl without money. But when he 
had the good fortune to meet one who 
possessed desirable personal qualities in 
addition to money, he was not in the least 
barred from appreciating those qualities. 
They were, so to speak, the sauce which 
went with the meat, and it seemed to him 
that in this case the sauce was of the very 
best. 
George — a big fellow of twenty-six, with 
large, round eyes and a good-natured 
countenance — 'Aas full blooded, well fed, 
with a hearty laugh which spoke of un- 
impaired contentment, a soul untroubled 
in its deeps. He seemed to himseh the 
luckiest fellow in the whole round world; 
he could not think what he had done to 
deserve the good fortune of possessing such 
a girl as Henriette. He was ordinarily 
of a somewhat sentimental turn — easily 
influenced by women and sensitive to their 
 
charms. Moreover, his relationship with 
Lizette had softened him. He had learned 
to love the young working girl, and now 
Hemiette, it seemed, was to reap the 
benefit of his experience with her. 
In fact, he found himself always with 
memories of Lizette in his relationships 
with the girl who was to be his wife. 
When the engagement was announced, 
and he claimed his first kiss from his 
bride-to-be, as he placed a ring upon 
her finger, he remembered the first time 
he had kissed Lizette, and a double blush 
suffused his round countenance. When 
he walked arm and arm with Henrietta 
in the garden he remembered how he had 
walked just so with the other girl, and he 
was interested to compare the words of 
the two. He remembered what a good 
time he had had when he had taken 
Lizette and her little family for a picnic 
upon one of the excursion steamers which 
nm down the River Seine. Imippc''ately 
he decided that he would like to take 
Henriette on such a picnic, and he per- 
suaded an aunt of Henriette's to go with 
her as chaperon. George took his bride- 
to-be to the same Httle inn where he had 
had lunch before. 
Thus he was always haunted by memo- 
ries, some of which made him cheerful 
and some of which made him mildly sad. 
He soon got used to the idea, and did not 
find it awkward, except when he had to 
suppress the impulse to tell Henriette 
something which Lizette had said, or some 
funny incident which had happened in the 
home of the little family. Sometimes he 
found himself thinking that it was a shame 
to have to suppress these impulses. There 
must be something wrong, he thought, 
with a social system which made it necessary 
for him to hide a thing which was so 
obvious and so sensible. Here he was, 
a man twenty-six years of age; he could 
not have afforded to marry earlier, nor 
could he, as he thought, have been expected 
to lead a continent life. And he had 
really loved Lizette; she was really a 
good girl. Yet, if Henriette had got any 
idea of it, she would have been horrified 
and indignant — she might even have broken 
off the engagement. 
 
And then, too, there was Henriette's 
father, a personage of great dignity and 
importance. M. Loches was a deputy of 
the French Parliament, from a district in 
the provinces. He was a man of upright 
Hfe, and a man who made a great deal 
of that upright life — 'keeping it on a 
pedestal where everyone might observe 
it. It was impossible to imagine M. 
Loches in an undignified or compromising 
situation — such as the younger man found 
himself facing in the matter of Lizette. 
The more he thought about it the more 
nervous and anxious George became. Then 
it was that he decided it would be necessary 
for him to break with the girl, and be 
''good'' until the time of his marriage. 
Dear little soft-eyed Lizette — 'he did not 
dare to face her personally; he could 
never bear to say good-by, he felt. Instead, 
he went to the father, who as a man could 
be expected to understand the situation. 
George was embarrassed and not a little 
nervous about it; for although he had 
never misrepresented his attitude to the 
family, one could never feel entirely free 
from the possibility of blackmail in such 
cases. However, Lizette's father behaved 
decently, and was duly grateful for the 
moderate sum of money which George 
handed him in parting. He promised to 
break the news gently to Lizette, and George 
went away with his mind made up that he 
would never see her again. 
This resolution he kept, and he con- 
sidered himself very virtuous in doing it. 
But the truth was that he had grown used 
to intimacy with a woman, and was restless 
without it. And that, he told himself, 
was why he had yielded to the shameful 
temptation the night of that fatal supper 
party. 
He paid for the misadventure liberally 
in remorse. He felt that he had been a 
wretch, that he had disgraced himself 
forever, that he had proved himself un- 
worthy of the pure girl he was to marry. 
So keen was his feeling that it was several 
days before he could bring himself to see 
Henriette again; and when he went, it 
was with a mind filled with a brand-new 
set of resolutions. It was the last time 
 
that he would ever fall into error. He 
would be a new man from then on. He 
thanked God that there was no chance of 
his sin being known, that he might have 
an opportunity to prove his new determina- 
tion. 
So intense were his feelings that he 
could not help betraying a part of them 
to Henriette. They sat in the garden 
one soft summer evening, with Henriette's 
mother occupied with her crocheting at 
a decorous distance. George, in reverent 
and humble mood, began to drop vague 
hints that he was really unworthy of his 
bride-to-be. He said that he had not 
always been as good as he should have 
been; he said that her purity and sweetness 
had awakened in him new ideals; so that 
he felt his old life had been full of blunders. 
Henriette, of course, had but the vaguest 
of ideas as to what the blunders of a tender 
and generous young man like George might 
be. So she only loved him the more for 
his humility, and was flattered to have 
such a fine effect upon him, to awaken in 
him such moods of exaltation. When he 
 
told her that all men were bad, and that 
no man was worthy of such a beautiful 
love, she was quite ravished, and wiped 
away tears from her eyes. 
It would have been a shame to spoil 
such a heavenly mood by telling the real 
truth. Instead, George contented him- 
self with telling of the new resolutions 
he had formed. After all, they were the 
things which really mattered; for Henriette 
was going to live with his future, not with 
his past. 
It seemed to George a most wonderful 
thing, this innocence of a young girl, 
which enabled her to move through a 
world of wickedness with unpolluted mind. 
It was a touching thing; and also, as a 
prudent young man could not help reahzing, 
a most convenient thing. He realized the 
importance of preserving it, and thought 
that if he ever had a daughter, he would 
protect her as rigidly as Henriette had been 
protected. He made haste to shy off from 
the subject of his '' badness'' and to turn 
the conversation with what seemed a clever 
jest. 
 
''If I am going to be so good' he said, 
"don't forget that you will have to be 
good also!'' 
"I will try," said Henriette, who was 
still serious. 
"You will have to try hard," he per- 
sisted. "You will find that you have a 
very jealous husband." 
"Will I?" said Henriette, beaming with 
happiness — 'for when a woman is very 
much in love she doesn't in the least 
object to the man's being jealous. 
"Yes, indeed," smiled George. "I'll 
always be watching you." 
"Watching me?" echoed the girl with 
a surprised look. 
And inmaediately he felt ashamed of 
himself for his jest. There could be no 
need to watch Henriette, and it was bad 
taste even to joke about it at such a time. 
That was one of the ideas which he had 
brought with him from his world of evil. 
The truth was, however, that George 
would always be a suspicious husband; 
nothing could ever change that fact, for 
there was something in his owti con- 
 
science which he could not get out, and 
which would make it impossible for him 
to be at ease as a married man. It was 
the memory of something which had hap- 
pened earlier in his life, before he met 
Lizette. There had been one earlier expe- 
rience, with the wife of his dearest friend. 
She had been much younger than her 
husband, and had betrayed an interest 
in George, who had yielded to the tempta- 
tion. For several years the intrigue con- 
tinued, and George considered it a good 
solution of a young man's problem. There 
had been no danger of contamination, 
for he knew that his friend was a man of 
pure and rigid morals, a jealous man who 
watched his wife, and did not permit her 
to contract those new relations which are 
always dangerous. As for George, he 
helped in this worthy work, keeping the 
woman in terror of some disease. He told 
her that almost all men were infected, for 
he hoped by this means to keep her from 
deceiving him. 
I am aware that this may seem a dreadful 
story. As I do not want anyone to think 
 
too ill of George Dupont, I ought, perhaps, 
to point out that people feel differently 
about these matters in France. In judging 
the unfortunate young man, we must 
judge him by the customs of his own 
country, and not by ours. In France, 
they are accustomed to what is called the 
manage de convenance. The young girl 
is not permitted to go about and make 
her own friends and decide which one of 
them she prefers for her husband; on the 
contrary, she is strictly guarded, her train- 
ing often is of a religious nature, and her 
marriage is a matter of business, to be 
considered and decided by her parents 
and those of the young man. Now, 
whatever we may think right, it is hu- 
manly certain that where marriages are 
made in that way, the need of men and 
women for sympathy and for passionate 
interest will often lead to the forming of 
irregular relationships after marriage. It 
is not possible to present statistics as to 
the number of such irregular relationships in 
Parisian society; but in the books which 
he read and in the plays which he saw, 
 
George found everything to encourage 
him to think that it was a romantic and 
delightful thing to keep up a secret intrigue 
with the wife of his best friend. 
It should also, perhaps, be pointed out 
that we are here telling the truth, and 
the whole truth, about George Dupont; 
and that it is not customary to tell this 
about men, either in real life or in novels. 
There is a great deal of concealment 
in the world about matters of sex; and 
in such matters the truth-telling man is 
apt to suffer in reputation in comparison 
with the truth-concealing one. 
Nor had George really been altogether 
callous about the thing. It had happened 
that his best friend had died in his arms; 
and this had so affected the guilty pair 
that they had felt their relationship was 
no longer possible. She had withdrawn 
to nurse her grief alone, and George had 
been so deeply affected that he had avoided 
affairs and entanglements with women 
until his meeting with Lizette. 
All this was now in the far distant 
past, but it had made a deeper impres- 
 
sion upon George than he perhaps reaHzed, 
and it was now working in his mind and 
marring his happiness. Here was a girl 
who loved him with a noble and unselfish 
and whole-hearted love — and yet he would 
never be able to trust her as she deserved, 
but would always have suspicions lurking 
in the back of his mind. He would be 
unable to have his friends intimate in his 
home, because of the memory of what he 
had once done to a friend. It was a subtle 
kind of punishment. But so it is that 
Nature often finds ways of punishing us, 
without our even being aware of it. 
That was all for the future, however. 
At present, George was happy. He put 
his black sin behind him, feeling that he 
had obtained absolution by his confession 
to Henriette. Day by day, as he realized 
his good fortune, his round face beamed 
with more and yet more joy. 
He went for a little trip to Henriette 's 
home in the country. It was a simple 
village, and they took walks in the country, 
and stopped to refresh themselves at a 
farmhouse occupied by one of M. Loches' 
 
tenants. Here was a rosy and buxom 
peasant woman, with a nursing child in 
her arms. She was destined a couple of 
years later to be the foster-mother of 
Henriette's little girl and to play an impor- 
tant part in her Hfe. But the pair had no 
idea of that at present. They simply saw 
a proud and happy mother, and Henriette 
played with the baby, giving vent to 
childish delight. Then suddenly she looked 
up and saw that George was watching her, 
and as she read his thoughts a beautiful 
blush suffused her cheeks. 
As for George, he turned away and 
went out under the blue sky in a kind of 
ecstasy. Life seemed very wonderful to 
him just then; he had found its supreme 
happiness, which was love. He was really 
getting quite mad about Henriette, he 
told himself. He could hardly beheve 
that the day was coming when he would 
be able to clasp her in his arms. 
But in the blue sky of George's happi- 
ness there was one httle cloud of storm. 
As often happens with storm-clouds, it was 
 
so small that at first he paid no attention 
to it at all. 
He noted upon his body one day a tiny 
ulcer. At first he treated it with salve pur- 
chased from an apothecary. Then after 
a week or two, when this had no effect, he 
began to feel imcomfortable. He remem- 
bered suddenly something he had heard 
about the symptoms of an unmentionable, 
dreadful disease, and a vague terror took 
possession of him. 
For days he tried to put it to one side. 
The idea was nonsense, it was absurd 
in connection with a woman so respecta- 
ble! But the thought would not be put 
away, and finally he went to a school 
friend, who was a man of the world, and 
got him to talk on the subject. Of 
course, George had to be careful, so that 
his friend should not suspect that he had 
any special purpose in mind. 
The friend was willing to talk. It was 
a vile disease, he said; but one was fool- 
ish to bother about it, because it was so 
rare. There were other diseases which 
fellows got, which nearly ever'' fellow 
had, and to which none of them paid any 
attention. But one seldom met anyone 
who had the red plague that George dreaded. 
''And yet' he added, '' according to the 
books, it isn't so uncommon. I suppose 
the truth is that people hide it. A chap 
naturally wouldn't tell, when he knew it 
would damn him for life.'' 
George had a sick sensation inside of 
him. "Is it as bad as that?" he asked. 
"Of course," said the other. "Should 
you want to have anything to do with a 
person who had it? Should you be willing 
to room with him or travel with him? 
You wouldn't even want to shake hands 
with him!" 
"No, I suppose not," said George, feebly. 
"I remember," continued the other, 
"an old fellow who used to live out in the 
country near me. He was not so very 
old, either, but he looked it. He had to 
be pushed around in a wheel-chair. People 
said he had locomotor ataxia, but that 
really meant syphilis. We boys used 
to poke all kinds of fun at him because 
one windy day his hat and his wig were 
 
blown off together, and we discovered 
that he was as bald as an egg. We used 
to make jokes about his automobile, as 
we called it. It had a httle handle in 
front, instead of a steering-wheel, and a 
man behind to push, instead of an engine," 
''How horrible!" remarked George with 
genuine feeling. 
''I remember the poor devil had a 
stroke of paralysis soon after," continued 
the friend, quite carelessly. ''He could 
not steer any more, and also he lost his 
voice. When you met him he would 
look at you as if he thought he was talk- 
ing, but all he could say was 'Ga-ga-ga." 
George went away from this conversa- 
tion in a cold sweat. He told himself 
over and over again that he was a fool, 
but still he could not get the hellish idea 
out of his mind. He found himself brood- 
ing over it all day and lying awake at night, 
haunted by images of himself in a wheel- 
chair, and without any hair on his head. 
He realized that the sensible thing would 
be for him to go to a doctor and make 
certain about his condition; but he could 
 
not bring himself to face the ordeal — 'he 
was ashamed to admit to a doctor that he 
had laid himself open to such a taint. 
He began to lose the radiant ex- 
pression from his romid and rosy face. 
He had less appetite, and his moods of 
depression became so frequent that he 
could not hide them even from Henriette. 
She asked him once or twice if there were 
not something the matter wath him, and 
he laughed — a forced and hurried laugh — 
and told her that he had sat up too late 
the night before, worrying over the mat- 
ter of his examinations. Oh, what a 
cruel thing it was that a man who stood 
in the very gateway of such a garden of 
dehght should be tormented and made 
miserable by this loathsome idea! 
The disturbing symptom still continued, 
and so at last George purchased a medical 
book, dealing with the subject of the 
disease. Then, indeed, he opened up a 
chamber of horrors; he made his mind an 
abiding place of ghastly images. In the 
book there were pictures of things so 
awful that he turned white, and trembled 
 
like a leaf, and had to close the volume 
and hide it in the bottom of his trunk. 
But he could not banish the pictures from 
his mind. Worst of all, he could not forget 
the description of the first symptom of 
the disease, which seemed to correspond 
exactly with his own. So at last he made 
up his mind he must ascertain definitely 
the truth about his condition. 
He began to think over plans for seeing 
a doctor. He had heard somewhere a 
story about a young fellow who had fallen 
into the hands of a quack, and been ruined 
forever. So he decided that he would 
consult only the best authority. 
He got the names of the best-known 
works on the subject from a bookstore, 
and found that the author of one of these 
books was practicing in Paris as a specialist. 
Two or three days elapsed before he 
was able to get up the courage to call on 
this doctor. And oh, the shame and 
horror of sitting in his waiting-room with 
the other people, none of whom dared to 
look each other in the eyes! They must 
all be afflicted, George thought, and he 
 
glanced at them furtively, looking for the 
various symptoms of which he had read. 
Or were there, perhaps, some like himself — 
merely victims of a foolish error, coming 
to have the hag of dread pulled from off 
their backs? 
And then suddenly, while he was specu- 
lating, there stood the doctor, signaling 
to him. His turn had come! 
CHAPTER II 
THE doctor was a man about forty 
years of age, robust, with every 
appearance of a strong character. 
In the buttonhole of the frock coat he wore 
was a red rosette, the decoration of some 
order. Confused and nervous as George 
was, he got a vague impression of the 
physician's richly furnished office, with its 
bronzes, marbles and tapestries. 
The doctor signaled to the young man 
to be seated in the chair before his desk. 
George complied, and then, as he wiped 
away the perspiration from his forehead, 
stammered out a few words, explaining his 
errand. Of course, he said, it could not 
be true, but it was a man's duty not to 
take any chances in such a matter. "I 
have not been a man of loose life," he 
added; ''I have not taken so many chances 
as other men." 
 
The doctor cut him short with the brief 
remark that one chance was all that was 
necessary. Instead of discussing such ques- 
tions, he would make an examination. 
''We do not say positively in these cases 
until we have made a blood test. That is 
the one way to avoid the possibility of 
mistake." 
A drop of blood was squeezed out of 
George's finger on to a little glass plate. 
The doctor retired to an adjoining room, 
and the victim sat alone in the office, deriv- 
ing no enjoyment from the works of art 
which surrounded him, but feeling like a 
prisoner who sits in the dock with his life 
at stake while the jury deliberates. 
The doctor returned, calm and impas- 
sive, and seated himself in his office-chair. 
"Well, doctor?'' asked George. He was 
trembling with terror. 
''Well," was the reply, "there is no 
doubt whatever." 
George wiped his forehead. He could 
not credit the words. "No doubt what- 
ever? In what sense?" 
"In the bad sense," said the other. 
 
He began to write a prescription, with- 
out seeming to notice how George turned 
pale with terror. "Come' he said, after 
a silence, ''you must have known the truth 
pretty well' 
''No, no, sir!'' exclaimed George. 
''Well," said the other, "you have 
syphihs." 
George was utterly stunned. "My 
God!" he exclaimed. 
The doctor, having finished his pre- 
scription, looked up and observed his 
condition. "Don't trouble yourseK, sir. 
Out of every seven men you meet upon the 
street, in society, or at the theater, there 
is at least one who has been in your condi- 
tion. One out of seven — fifteen per cent!" 
George was staring before him. He 
spoke low, as if to himself. "I know what 
I am going to do!" 
"And I know also," said the doctor, 
with a smile. "There is your prescrip- 
tion. You are going to take it to the drug- 
store and have it put up." 
George took the prescription, mechani- 
cally, but whispered, "No, sir." 
 
''Yes, sir, you are going to do as every- 
body else does." 
"No, because my situation is not that 
of everybody else. I know what I am 
going to do." 
Said the doctor: "Five times out of 
ten, in the chair where you are sitting, 
people talk like that, perfectly sincerely. 
Each one believes himself more unhappy 
than all the others; but after thinking it 
over, and listening to me, they understand 
that this disease is a companion with 
whom one can live. Just as in every 
household, one gets along at the cost of 
mutual concessions, that's all. Come, sir, 
I tell you again, there is nothing about it 
that is not perfectly ordinary, perfectly 
natural, perfectly common; it is an accident 
which can happen to any one. It is a 
great mistake that people speak of this as 
the 'French disease,' for there is none 
which is more universal. Under the pic- 
ture of this disease, addressing myself to 
those who follow the oldest profession in 
the world, I would write the famous 
phrase: 'Here is your master. It is, it 
was, or it must be.' " 
 
George was putting the prescription into 
the outside pocket of his coat, stupidly, 
as if he did not know what he was doing. 
''But, sir,'' he exclaimed, "I should have 
been spared!'' 
''Why?" inquired the other. "Because 
you are a man of position, because you are 
rich? Look around you, sir. See these 
works of art in my room. Do you imagine 
that such things have been presented to 
me by chimney-sweeps?" 
"But, Doctor," cried George, with a 
moan, "I have never been a libertine. 
There was never any one, you understand 
me, never any one could have been more 
careful in his pleasures. If I were to tell 
you that in all my life I have only had 
two mistresses, what would you answer to 
that?" 
"I would answer, that a single one would 
have been sufficient to bring you to me." 
"No, sir!" cried George. "It could not 
have been either of those women." He 
went on to tell the doctor about his first 
mistress, and then about Lizette. Finally 
he told about Henriette, how much he 
 
adored her. He could really use such a 
word — 'he loved her most tenderly. She 
was so good — 'and he had thought himself 
so lucky! 
As he went on, he could hardly keep 
from going to pieces. ''I had everything' 
he exclaimed, "everything a man needed! 
All who knew me envied me. And then I 
had to let those fellows drag me off to that 
miserable supper-party! And now here I 
am! My future is ruined, my whole exist- 
ence poisoned! What is to become of me? 
Everybody will avoid me — 'I shall be a 
pariah, a leper!'' 
He paused, and then in sudden wild 
grief exclaimed, "Come now! Would it 
not be better that I should take myself 
out of the way? At least, I should not 
suffer any more. You see that there could 
not be any one more unhappy than my- 
self — not any one, I tell you, sir, not any 
one!'' Completely overcome, he began to 
weep in his handkerchief. 
The doctor got up, and went to him. 
"You must be a man," he said, "and not 
cry like a child." 
 
"But sir' cried the young man, with 
tears riuming down his cheeks, ''if I had 
led a wild life, if I had passed my time 
in dissipation with chorus girls, then I 
could understand it. Then I would say 
that I had deserved it.'' 
The doctor exclaimed with emphasis, 
'•'No, no! You would not say it. How- 
ever, it is of no matter — 'go on." 
''I tell you that I would say it. I am 
honest, and I would say that I had 
deserved it. But no, I have deprived my- 
seK of every pleasure. I have worked, 
I have been a regular grind. And now, 
when I think of the shame that is in store 
for me, the disgusting things, the fright- 
ful catastrophes to which I am con- 
demned " 
"What is all this you are telling me?" 
asked the doctor, laughing. 
"Oh, I know, I know!" cried the other, 
and repeated what his friend had told him 
about the man in a wheel-chair. "And 
they used to call me handsome Raoul! 
That was my name — 'handsome Raoul!" 
"Now, my dear sir," said the doctor. 
 
cheerfully, ''wipe your eyes one last time, 
blow your nose, put your handkerchief into 
your pocket, and hear me dry-eyed." 
George obeyed mechanically. "But I 
give you fair warning," he said, "you are 
wasting your time." 
"I tell you — " began the other. 
"I know exactly what you are going to 
tell me!" cried George. 
"Well, in that case, there is nothing 
more for you to do here — 'run along." 
"Since I am here," said the patient 
submissively, "I will hear you." 
"Very well, then. I tell you that if you 
have the will and the perseverance, none 
of the things you fear will happen to you." 
"Of course, it is your duty to tell me 
that." 
"I tell you that there are one hundred 
thousand like you in Paris, alert, and 
seemingly well. Come, take what you 
were just saying — 'Steel-chairs. One 
doesn't see so many of them." 
"No, that's true," said George. 
"And besides," added the doctor, "a 
good many people who ride in them are 
 
not there for the cause you think. There 
is no more reason why you should be the 
victim of a catastrophe than any of the 
one hundred thousand. The disease is 
serious, nothing more.'' 
''You admit that it is a serious disease?'' 
argued George. 
''Yes.'' 
''One of the most serious?" 
''Yes, but you have the good fortune — " 
"The 'oo(i fortune?" 
* "Relatively, if you please. You have 
the good fortune to be infected with one 
of the diseases over which we have the 
most certain control." 
"Yes, yes," exclaimed George, "but the 
remedies are worse than the disease." 
"You deceive yourself," replied the 
other. 
"You are trying to make me believe that 
I can be cured?" 
"You can be." 
"And that I am not condenmed?" 
"I swear it to you." 
"You are not deceiving yourself, you 
are not deceiving me? Why, I was 
told—" 
 
The doctor laughed, contemptuously. 
"You were told, you were told! I'll 
wager that you know the laws of the 
Chinese concerning party-walls." 
"Yes, naturally' said George. "But I 
don't see what they have to do with it." 
"Instead of teaching you such things' 
was the reply, "it would have been a 
great deal better to have taught you 
about the nature and cause of diseases of 
this sort. Then you would have known 
how to avoid the contagion. Such knowl- 
edge should be spread abroad, for it is the 
most important knowledge in the world. 
It should be found in every newspaper." 
This remark gave George something of a 
shock, for his father had owned a little 
paper in the provinces, and he had a 
sudden vision of the way subscribers would 
have fallen off, if he had printed even so 
much as the name of this vile disease. 
"And yet," pursued the doctor, "you 
pubHsh romances about adultery!" 
"Yes' said George, "that's what the 
readers want." 
"They don't want the truth about vene- 
 
real diseases," exclaimed the other. ''If 
they knew the full truth, they would no 
longer think that adultery was romantic 
and interesting." 
He went on to give his advice as to the 
means of avoiding such diseases. There 
was really but one rule. It was: To love 
but one woman, to take her as a virgin, 
and to love her so much that she would 
never deceive you. "Take that from me," 
added the doctor, "and teach it to your 
son, when you have one." 
George's attention was caught by this 
last sentence. 
"You mean that I shall be able to have 
children?" he cried. 
"Certainly," was the reply. 
"Healthy children?" 
"I repeat it to you; if you take care of 
yourself properly for a long time, con- 
scientiously, you have little to fear." 
"That's certain?" 
"Ninety-nine times out of a hundred." 
George felt as if he had suddenly 
emerged from a dungeon. ''Why then," 
he exclaimed, "I shall be able to marry!" 
 
''You will be able to marry' was the 
reply. 
''You are not deceiving me? You would 
not give me that hope, you would not 
expose me? How soon will I be able to 
marry?'' 
''In three or four years' said the doctor. 
''What!" cried George, in consternation. 
''In three or four years? Not before?" 
''Not before.'' 
"How is that? Am I going to be sick 
all that time? Why, you told me just 
now — " 
Said the doctor: ''The disease will no 
longer be dangerous to you, yourself — 'but 
you will be dangerous to others." 
"But," the young man cried, in despair, 
"I am to be married a month from now." 
"That is impossible." 
"But I cannot do any differently. The 
contract is ready! The banns have been 
published! I have given my word!" 
"Well, you are a great one!" the doctor 
laughed. "Just now you were looking for 
your revolver! Now you want to be 
married within the month." 
 
"But; Doctor, it is necessary !'' 
"But I forbid it' 
"As soon as I knew that the disease is 
not what I imagined, and that I could be 
cured, naturally I didn't want to commit 
suicide. And as soon as I make up my 
mind not to commit suicide, I have to take 
up my regular life. I have to keep my 
engagements; I have to get married." 
"No,'' said the doctor. 
"Yes, yes!" persisted George, with blind 
