she did French, and she had read some poetry, 
and could use the language of ideahsm whenever 
necessary. She had even a certain religious 
streak, and could voice the most generous senti- 
ments, and really believe that she believed them. 
So it might have been some time before you 
discovered the springs of her weakness. 
In the beginning I blamed van Tuiyer; but 
in the end I concluded that for most of her troubles 
she had herself to thank — or perhaps the ancestors 
who had begotten her. She could talk more nobly 
and act more abjectly than any other woman I 
have ever known. She wanted pleasant sensations, 
and she expected life to furnish them continuously. 
Instinctively she studied the psychology of the 
person she was dealing with, and chose a reason 
which would impress that person. 
At this time, you imderstand, I knew nothing 
about Sylvia Castleman or her fianci, except 
 
what the public knew. But now I got an inside 
view — and what a view! I had read some refer- 
ence to Douglas van Tuiver's Harvard career: 
how he had met the peerless Southern beauty, 
and had given up college and pursued her to her 
home. I had pictured the wooing, in the rosy 
light of romance, with all the glamour of worldly 
greatness. But now, suddenly, what a glimpse 
into the soul of the princely lover! "He had a 
good scare, let me tell you," said Claire. "He 
never knew what I was going to do from one 
minute to the next." 
" Did he see you in the crowd before the church- 
door?" I inquired. 
"No," she replied, "but he thought of me, I 
can promise you." 
"He knew you were coming?" 
She answered, "I told him I had got an 
admission-card, just to make sure he'd keep me 
in mind!" 
I DID not have to hear much more of Claire's 
story before making up my mind that the wealth- 
iest and most fashionable of New York's young 
bachelors was a rather self-centered person. 
He had fallen desperately in love with the peerless 
Southern beauty, and when she had refused to 
have anything to do with him, he had come back 
to the other woman for consolation, and had 
compelled her to pretend to sympathize with his 
agonies of soul. And this when he knew that she 
loved him with the intensity of a jealous nature. 
Claire had her own view of Sylvia Castleman, a 
view for which I naturally made due reservations. 
Sylvia was a schemer, who had known from the 
first what she wanted, and had played her part 
with masterly skdlL As for Claire, she had 
striven to match her moves, plotting in the dark- 
ness against her, and fighting desperately with 
such weak weapons as she possessed. It was 
characteristic that she did not blame herself for 
her failure; it was the baseness of van Tuiver, 
his inability to appreciate sincere devotion, his 
unworthiness of her love. And this, just after 
she had been naSvely telling me of her efforts 
to poison his mind against Sylvia, while pretend- 
ing to admire her! But I made allowances for 
Claire at this moment — realizing that the situa- 
tion had been one to overstrain any woman's 
altruism. 
She had failed in her subtleties, and there had 
followed scenes of bitter strife between the two. 
Sylvia, the ciinning huntress, having pretended 
to relent, van Tuiver had gone South to his wooing 
again, while Claire had stayed at home and read 
a book about the poisoners of the Italian renais- 
sance. And then had come the announcement 
of the engagement, after which the royal conqueror 
had come back in a panic, and sent embassies of 
his male friends to plead with Claire, alternately 
promising her wealth and threatening her with 
destitution, appealing to her fear, her cupidity, 
and even to her love. To all of which I listened, 
thinking of the wide-open, innocent eyes of the 
picture, and shedding tears within my sovd. So 
must the gods feel as they look down upon the 
affairs of mortals, seeing how they destroy them- 
selves by ignorance and folly, seeing how they walk 
into the future as a blind man into a yawning 
abyss. 
I gave, of course, due weight to the sneers of 
Claire. Perhaps the innocent one really had set 
a trap — had picked van Tuiver out and married 
him for his money. But even so, I could hope that 
she had not known what she was doing. Surely 
it had never occurred to her that throu all the 
days of her triumph she would have to eat and 
sleep with the shade of another woman at her side! 
Claire said to me, not once, but a dozen times, 
"He'll come back to me. She'll never be able to 
make him happy." And so I pictured Sylvia 
upon her honeymoon, followed by an invisible 
 
ghost whose voice she would never hear, whose 
name she would never know. All that van Tuiver 
had learned from Claire, the sensuality, the 
ennui, the contempt for woman — it would rise 
to torment and terrify his bride, and turn her 
life to bitterness. And then beyond this, deeps 
upon deeps, to which my imagination did not go — 
and of which the Frenchwoman, with all her free- 
dom of tongue, gave me no more than a hint 
which I could not comprehend! 
 
Claire Lepage at this time was desperately 
lonely and unhappy. Having made the dis- 
covery that my arms were sturdy, used to doing 
a man's work, she climg to them. She begged 
me to go home with her, to visit her — finally 
to come and live with her. Until recently an 
elderly companion had posed as her aimt and 
kept her respectable while she was upon van 
Tuiver's yacht, and at his castle in Scotland. 
But this companion had died, and now Claire 
had no one with whom to discuss her soul-states. 
She occupied a beautiful house on the West 
Side, not far from Riverside Drive; and in addi- 
tion to the use of this she had an income of eight 
thousand a year — which was not enough to make 
possible a chauffeur, nor even to dress decently, 
but only enough to keep in debt upon. Such 
as the income was, however, she was willing to 
share it with me. So there opened before me a 
new profession — and a new insight into the 
complications of parasitism. 
I went to see her frequently at first, partly 
because I was interested in her and her associates, 
and partly because I really thought I could help 
her. But I soon came to realize that influencing 
Claire was like moulding water; it flowed back 
round your hands, even while you worked. I 
would argue with her about the physiological 
 
effects of alcohol, and when I had convinced her, 
she would promise caution; but soon I would 
discover that my arguments had gone over her 
head. I was at this time feeling my way towards 
my work in the East. I tried to interest her 
in such things as social reform, but realized that 
they had no meaning for her. She was living 
the life of the pleasure-seeking idlers of the 
great metropolis, and every time I met her it 
seemed to me that her character and her appear- 
ance had deteriorated. 
Meantime I picked up scraps of information 
concerning the van Tuivers. There were 
occasional items in the papers: their yacht, the 
"Triton", had reached the Azores; it had run 
into a tender in the harbor of Gibraltar; Mr. 
and Mrs. van Tuiver had received the honor 
of presentation at the Vatican; they were spend- 
ing the season in London, and had been presented 
at court; they had been royal guests at the 
German army-maneuvers. The million wage- 
slaves of the metropolis, packed morning and 
night into the roaring subways and whirled to 
and from their tasks, read items such as these 
and were thrilled by the triumphs of their fellow- 
coimtrymen. 
At Claire's house I learned to be interested in 
"society" news. From a weekly pap>er of gossip 
about the rich and great she would read para- 
graphs, explaining subtle allusions and laying 
bare veiled scandals. Some of the men she 
knew well, referring to them for my benefit as 
 
Bertie and Reggie and Vivie and Algie. She 
also knew not a little about the women of that 
super-world — information sometimes of an inti- 
mate nature, which these ladies would have 
been startled to hear was "going the rounds." 
This insight I got into Claire's world I found 
useful, needless to say, in my occasional forays 
as a soap-box orator of Socialism. I would go 
from the super-heated luxury of her home to 
visit tenement-dens where little children made 
paper-flowers twelve and fourteen hom-s a day 
for a trifle over one cent an hoiu-. I would 
spend the afternoon floating about in the park 
in the automobile of one of her expensive friends, 
and then take the subway and visit one of the 
settlements, to hear a discussion of conditions 
which doomed a certain number of working- 
girls to be burned ahve every year in factory- 
fires. 
As time went on, I became savage concerning 
such contrasts, and the speeches I was making 
for the party began to attract attention. Dur- 
ing the siunmer, I recollect, I had begun to feel 
hostile even towards the lovely image of Sylvia, 
which I had framed in my room. While she 
was being presented at St. James's, I was study- 
ing the glass-factories in South Jersey, where 
I foxmd little boys of ten working in front of 
glowing furnaces until they dropped of exhaus- 
tion, and sometimes had their eyes burned out. 
While she and her husband were guests of the 
German Emperor, I was playing the part of a Polish 
working-woman, penetrating the carefully guarded 
secrets of the sugar-trust's domain in Brooklyn, 
where human lives are snuffed out almost every 
day in noxious fumes. 
And then in the early fall Sylvia came home, 
her honeymoon over. She came in one of the 
costly suites in the newest of the de luxe steam- 
ers; and the next morning I saw a pictiire of 
her, and read a few words her husband had 
condescended to say to a fellow-traveler about 
the courtesy of Europe to visiting Americans. 
Then for several months I heard no more of 
them. I was busy with my child-labor work, 
and I doubt if a thought of Sylvia crossed my 
mind, until that never-to-be-forgotten afternoon 
at Mrs. Allison's when she came up to me and 
took my hand in hers. 
 
Mks. Roland Allison was one of the com- 
fortable in body who had begun to feel uncom- 
fortable in mind. I had happened to meet her 
at the settlement, and tell her what I had seen 
in the glass-factories; whereupon she made up 
her mind that everybody she knew must hear 
me talk, and to that end gave a reception at her 
Madison Avenue home. 
I don't remember much of what I said, but 
if I may take the evidence of Sylvia, who remem- 
bered everything, I spoke effectively. I told 
them, for one thing, the story of little Angelo 
Patri. Little Angelo was of that indeterminate 
Italian age where he helped to support a dnmken 
father without regard to the child-labor laws of 
the State of New Jersey. His people were ten- 
ants upon a fruit-farm a couple of miles from 
the glass-factory, and httle Angelo walked to 
and from his work along the railroad-track. It 
is a peculiarity of the glass-factory that it has 
to eat its children both by day and by night; 
and after working six hoiu-s before midnight and 
six more after midnight, httle Angelo was tired. 
He had no eye for the birds and flowers on a 
beautiful spring morning, but as he was walking 
home, he dropped in his tracks and fell asleep. 
The driver of the first morning train on that 
branch-line saw what he took to be an old coat 
lying on the track ahead, and did not stop to 
investigate. 
All this had been narrated to me by the child's 
mother, who had worked as a packer of "beers", 
and who had loved little Angelo. As I repeated 
her broken words about the poor mangled body, 
I saw some of my auditors wipe away a sur- 
reptitious tear. 
After I had stopped, several women came up 
to talk with me; at the last, when most of the 
company was departing, there came one more, 
who had waited her turn. The first thing I saw 
was her loveliness, the thing about her that 
dazzled and stunned people; and then came the 
strange sense of familiarity. Where had I met 
this girl before? 
She said what everybody always says; she 
had been so much interested, she had never 
dreamed that such conditions existed in the 
world. I, applying the acid test, responded, 
"So many people have said that to me that 
I have begun to believe it." 
"It is so in my case," she replied, quickly. 
"You see, I have lived all my life in the South, 
and we have no such conditions there." 
"Are you sure?" I asked. 
"Our negroes at least can steal enough to 
eat," she said. 
I smiled. Then — since one has but a moment 
or two to get in one's work in these social affairs, 
and so has to learn to thrust quickly: "You 
have timber-workers in Louisiana, steel-workers 
in Alabama. You have tobacco-factories, can- 
ning-factories, cotton-mills — have you been to 
any of them to see how the people live?" 
All this I said automatically, it being the 
routine of the agitator. But meantime in my 
mind was an excitement, spreading like a flame. 
The loveliness of this yoimg girl; the eagerness, 
the intensity of feeling written upon her coim- 
tenance; and above all, the strange sense of 
familiarity! Siu-ely, if I had met her before, 
I should never have forgotten her; surely it 
could not be — not possibly — 
My hostess came, and ended my bewilderment. 
"You ought to get Mrs. van Tuiver on your 
child-labor committee," she said. 
A kind of panic seized me. I wanted to say, 
"Oh, it is Sylvia Castleman!" But then, how 
could I explain? I couldn't say, "I have your 
picture in my room, cut out of a newspaper." 
Still less could I say, "I know a friend of your 
husband." 
Fortimately Sylvia did not heed my excite- 
ment. (She had learned by this time to pretend 
not to notice.) "Please don't misimderstand me," 
she was saying. "I really don't know about 
these things. And I would do something to 
help if I could." As she said this she looked 
with the red-brown eyes straight into mine — 
a gaze so clear and frank and honest, it was 
as if an angel had come suddenly to earth, and 
learned of the horrible tangle into which we 
mortals have got our affairs. 
 
"Be careful what you're saying," put in our 
hostess, with a laugh. "You're in dangeroxis 
hands." 
But Sylvia would not be warned. "I want 
to know more about it," she said. "You must 
tell me what I can do." 
"Take her at her word," said Mrs. Allison, to 
me. "Strike while the iron is hot!" I detected 
a note of triumph in her voice; if she could say 
that she had got Mrs. van Tuiver to take up 
child-labor — that indeed would be a feather to 
wear! 
"I will tell you all I can," I said. "That's my 
work in the world." 
"Take Mrs. Abbott away with you," said the 
energetic hostess, to Sylvia; and before I quite 
understood what was happening, I had received 
and accepted an invitation to drive in the park 
with Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver. In her role of 
dea ex machina the hostess extricated me from 
the other guests, and soon I was established in a 
big new motor, ghding up Madison Avenue as 
swiftly and silently as a cloud-shadow over the 
fields. As I write the words there lies upon my 
table an English Socialist paper with one of Will 
Dyson's vivid cartoons, representing two ladies of 
the great world at a reception. Says the first, 
"These social movements are becoming quite 
worth while!" "Yes, indeed," says the other. 
"One meets such good society!" 
 
 
Sylvia's part in this adventure was a nobler one 
than mine. Seated as I was in a regal motor- 
car, and ia company with one favored of all the 
gods of this world, I must have had an intense 
conviction of my own saintliness not to distrust 
my excitement. But Sylvia, for her part, had 
nothing to get from me but pain. I talked of 
the factory-fires and the horrors of the sugar- 
refineries, and I saw shadow after shadow of 
suffering cross her face. You may say it was 
cruel of me to tear the veil from those lovely 
eyes; but in such a matter I felt myself the 
angel of the Lord and his vengeance. 
"I didn't know about these things!" she cried 
again. And I found it was true. It was hard 
for me to imagine anyone so ignorant of the 
realities of modem life. The men and women she 
had met she understood quite miraculously; but 
they were only two kinds, the "best people", 
and their negro servants. There had been a 
whole regiment of relatives on guard to keep her 
from knowing anybody else, or anything else; 
and if by chance a dangerous fact broke into the 
family stockade, they had formulas ready with 
which to kill it. 
"But now," Sylvia went on, "I've got some 
money, and I can help, so I dare not be ignorant 
any longer. You must show me the way — and 
 
my husband too. I'm sure he doesn't know what 
can be done." 
I said that I would do anything in my power. 
Her help would be invaluable, not merely because 
of the money she might give, but because of the 
influence of her name, the attention she could 
draw to any cause she chose. I explained to her 
the aims and the methods of our child-labor com- 
mittee. We lobbied to get new legislation, we 
watched officials to compel them to enforce the 
laws already existing; above all, we worked for 
publicity, to make people realize what it meant 
that the new generation was growing up without 
education, and stimted by premature toiL And 
that was where she could help us most. If she 
would go and see the conditions with her own 
eyes, and then appear before the legislative com- 
mittee this winter, in favor of our new bill! 
She tinned her startled eyes upon me at this. 
Her ideas of doing good in the world were the old- 
fashioned ones of visiting and almsgivings; she 
had no more conception of modem remedies than 
she had of modem diseases. "Oh, I couldn't 
possibly make a speech!" she exclaimed. 
"Why not?" I asked. 
"I never thought of such a thing. I don't 
know enough." 
"But you can leam." 
"I know; but that kind of work ought to be 
done by men." 
"We've given men a chance, and they have 
made the evils. Whose business is it to protect 
the children, if not the women's?" 
 
She hesitated a moment, and said, "I suppose 
you'll laugh at me." 
"No, no," I promised; then, as I looked at her, 
I guessed. "Are you going to tell me that 
woman's place is the home?" 
"That is what we think in Castleman County," 
she said, smiling ia spite of herself. 
"The children have got out of the home," I 
replied. "If they are ever to get back, we women 
must go and fetch them." 
Suddenly she laughed — that merry laugh that 
was the April srmshine of my life for many years. 
"Somebody made a Suffrage speech in our State 
a couple of years ago, and I wish you could have 
seen the horror of my people! My Aimt Nannie 
— she's Bishop Chilton's wife — thought it was 
the most dreadful thiag that had happened since 
Jefferson Davis was put in irons. She talked 
about it for days, and at last she went upstairs 
and shut herself in the attic. The yoimger chil- 
dren came home from school, and wanted to 
know where Mamma was. Nobody knew. By 
and by the cook came. 'Marse Basil, what we 
gwine have fo' dinner? I done been up to Mis' 
Nannie, an' she say g'way an' not pester her — 
she busy. ' Company came, and there was dread- 
ful confusion — nobody knew what to do about 
anything — and still Aunt Nannie was locked in! 
At last came dinner-time, and everybody else 
came. At last up went the butler, and came 
down with the message that they were to eat 
whatever they had, and take care of the company 
 
somehow, and go to prayer-meeting, and let her 
alone — she was writing a letter to the Castlenmn 
Coimty Register on the subject of 'The Duty of 
Woman as a Hoinemaker'!" 
 
This was the bnning of my introduction to 
Castleman Coimty. It was a long time before I 
went there, but I learned to know its inhabitants 
from Sylvia's stories of them. Funny stories, 
trac stories, wild and incredible stories out of a 
half-barbaric age! She would tell them, and we 
woiild laugh together; but then a wistful look 
would come into her eyes, and a silence would falL 
So very soon I made the discovery that my 
Sylvia was homesick. In all the years that I 
knew her she never ceased to speak of Castleman 
Hall as "home". All her standards came from 
there; her new ideas were referred there. 
We talked of Suffrage for a while, and I spoke 
about the lives of women on lonely farms — how 
they give their youth and health to their hus- 
band's struggle, yet have no money partnership 
which they can enforce in case of necessity. 
"But surely," cried Sylvia, "you don't want to 
make divorce more easy!" 
"I want to make the conditions of it fair to 
women," I said. 
"But then more women will get it! And there 
are so many divorced women now! Papa says 
that divorce is a greater menace than Social- 
ism!" 
She spoke of Suffrage in England, where women 
were just beginning to make public disturbances. 
 
Surely I did not approve of their leaving their 
homes for such purposes as that! As tactfully as 
I could, I suggested that conditions in England 
were peculiar. There was, for example, the 
quaint old law which permitted a husband to 
beat his wife, subject to certain restrictions. 
Would an American woman submit to such a 
law? There was the law which made it impos- 
sible for a woman to divorce her husband for 
infidelity, unless accompanied by desertion or 
cruelty. Surely not even her father would con- 
sider that a decent arrangement! I mentioned a 
recent decision of the highest court in the land, 
that a man who brought his mistress to live in his 
home, and compelled his wife to wait upon her, 
was not committing cruelty within the meaning 
of the English law. I heard Sylvia's exclamation 
of horror, and met her stare of incredulity; and 
then suddenly I thought of Claire, and a little 
chill ran over me. It was a difficult horn*, in 
more ways than one, that of my first talk with 
Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver! 
I soon made the discovery that, childish as her 
ignorance was, there was no prejudice in it. If 
you brought her a fact, she did not say that it 
was too terrible to be true, or that the Bible said 
otherwise, or that it was indecent to know about 
it. Nor, when you met her next, did you dis- 
cover that she had forgotten it. On the contrary, 
you discovered that she had followed it to its 
remote consequences, and was ready with a 
score of questions as to these. I remember 
 
saying to myseK, that first automobile-ride: 
"If this girl goes on thinking, she will get into 
trouble! She will have to stop, for the sake of 
others!" 
"You must meet my husband some time," 
she said; and added, "I'll have to see my engage- 
ment-book. I have so much to do, I never 
know when I have a moment free." 
"You must find it interesting," I ventured. 
"I did, for a while; but I've begun to get 
tired of so much going about. For the most 
part I meet the same people, and I've found 
out what they have to say." 
I laughed. "You have caught the society 
complaint already — ennui!" 
"I had it years ago, at home. It's true I 
never would have gone out at all if it hadn't 
been for the sake of my family. That's why I 
envy a woman like you — " 
I could not help laughing. It was too funny, 
Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver envyiag me! 
"What's the matter?" she asked. 
"Just the irony of life. Do you know, I cut 
you out of the newspaper, and put you in a 
little frame on my bureau. I thought, here is 
the loveliest face I've ever seen, and here is the 
most-to-be-envied of women." 
She smiled, but quickly became serious. "I 
learned very early in life that I was beautiful; 
and I suppose if I were suddenly to cease being 
beautiful, I'd miss it; yet I often think it's a 
nuisance. It makes one dependent on externals. 
 
Most of the beautiful women I've known make 
a sort of profession of it — they live to shine and 
be looked at. 
"And you don't enjoy that?" I asked. 
"It restricts one's life. Men expect it of 
you; they resent your having any other in- 
terest." 
"So," I responded, gravely, "with all your 
beauty and wealth, you aren't perfectly 
happy?" 
"Oh, yes!" she cried — not having meant to 
confess so much. "I told myself I would be 
happy, because I would be able to do so much 
good in the world. There must be some way 
to do good with money! But now I'm not 
sure; there seem to be so many things in the 
way. Just when you have your mind made up 
that you have a way to help, some one comes 
and points out to you that you may be really 
doing harm." 
She hesitated again, and I said, "That means 
you have been looking into the matter of charity." 
She gave me a bright glance. "How you 
understand things!" she exclaimed. 
"It is possible," I replied, "to know modem 
society so well that when you meet certain causes 
you know what resiilts to look for." 
"I wish you'd explain to me why charity 
doesn't do any good." 
"It would mean a lecture on the competitive 
wage-system," I laughed — "too serious a matter 
for a drive!" 
 
This may have seemed shirking on my part. 
But here I was, wrapped in luxurious furs, rolling 
gloriously through the park at twilight on a 
brilliant autumn evening; and the confiscation 
of property seems so much more startling a 
proposition when you are in immediate contact 
with it! This principle, which explains the 
"opportunism" of Socialist cabinet-ministers and 
labor M.P.s, may be used to accoimt for the 
sudden resolve which I had taken, that for this 
afternoon at least Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver 
should not discover that I was either a divorced 
woman, or a soap-box orator of the revolution. 
 
 
Sylvia, in that first conversation, told me much 
about herself that she did not know she was 
telling. I became fairly certain, for instance, 
that she had not married Mr. Douglas van 
Tuiver for love. The young girl who has so 
married does not suffer from ennui in the first 
year; nor does she find her happiness depending 
upon her ability to solve the problem of charity 
in connection with her husband's wealth. 
She would have ridden and talked longer, 
she said, but for a dinner engagement. She 
asked me to call on her, and I promised to come 
some morning, as soon as she set a day. When 
the car drew up before the door of her home, 
I thought of my first ride about the city in the 
"rubberneck wagon", and how I had stared 
when the lecturer pointed out this mansion. We, 
the passengers, had thrilled as one soul, imagin- 
ing the wonderful life which must go on behind 
those massive portals, the treasures outshining 
the wealth of Ormus and of Ind, which required 
those thick bronze bars for their protection. 
And here was the mistress of all the splendor, 
inviting me to come and see it from within! 
She wanted to send me home in the car, but 
I would not have that, on account of the push- 
cart men and the babies in my street; I got 
out and walked — my heart beating fast, my 
 
blood leaping with exultation. I reached home, 
and there on the bureau was the picture — but 
behold, how changed! It was become a miracle 
of the art of color-photography; its hair was 
golden, its eyes a wonderful red-brown, its cheeks 
aglow with the radiance of youth! And yet 
more amazing, the picture spoke! It spoke 
with the most delicious of Southern drawls — 
referring to the "repo't" of my child-labor com- 
mittee, shivering at the cold and bidding me 
pull the "fu-uzz" up rovmd me. And when 
I told funny stories about the Italians and the 
Hebrews of my tenement-neighborhood, it broke 
into silvery laughter, and cried, "Oh, de-ah me! 
How que-ah!" Little had I dreamed, when I 
left that picture in the morning, what a miracle 
was to be wrought upon it! 
I knew, of course, what was the matter with 
me; the symptoms were unmistakable. After 
having made up my mind that I was an old 
woman, and that there was nothing more in 
life for me save labor — here the little archer 
had come, and with the sharpest of his golden 
arrows had shot me through. I had all the 
thrills, the raptures and delicious agonies of first 
love; I hved no longer in myself, but in the 
thought of another person. Twenty times a day 
I looked at my picture, and cried aloud, "Oh, 
beautiful, beautiful!" 
I do not know how much of her I have been 
able to give. I have told of our first talk — but 
words are so cold and dead! I stop and ask 
 
what there is, in all nature, that has given me 
the same feeling; I remember how I watched 
a dragon-fly emerging from its chrysalis. It is 
soft and green and tender; it clings to a branch 
and dries its wings in the sun; and when the 
miracle is completed, there for a brief space it 
poises, shimmering with a thousand hues, quiver- 
ing with its new-bom ecstasy. And just so was 
Sylvia; a creatm-e from some other world than 
ovirs, as yet unsoiled by the dust and heat of 
reality. It came to me with a positive shock, 
as a terrifying thing — that there should be in 
this world of strife and wickedness any young 
thing that took life with such intensity, that 
was so palpitating with eagerness, with hope, 
with sympathy. Such was the impression that 
one got of her, even when her words most denied 
it. She might be saying world-weary and cynical 
things, out of the maxims of Lady Dee; but there 
was still the eagerness, the sympathy, surging 
beneath and lifting her words. 
The crown of her loveliness was her imcon- 
sciousness of self. Even though she might be 
talking of herself, frankly admitting her beauty, 
she was really thinking of other people, how 
she could get to them to help them. This I 
must emphasize — because, apart from jesting, 
I would not have it thought that I had fallen 
under the spell of a beautiful countenance, com- 
bined with a motor-car and a patrician name. 
There were things about Sylvia that were aristo- 
cratic, that could be nothing else; but she could 
 
be her same lovely self in a cottage — as I shall 
prove to you before I finish with the story of 
her life. 
I was in love. At that time I was teaching 
myself German, and I sat one day puzzling out 
two lines of Goethe — 
"Odin and Thor, these two thou knowest, 
Freya, the heavenly, knowest thou not." 
And I remember how I cried aloud, in sudden 
delight, "I know her!" For a long time that 
was one of my pet names — "Freya die Himm- 
lische!" I only heard of one other that I pre- 
ferred — when in course of time she told me about 
Frank Shirley, and how she had loved him, and 
how their hopes had been wrecked. He had 
called her "Lady Simshine"; he had been wont 
to call it over and over in his happiness; and 
as Sylvia repeated it to me — "Lady Sunshine! 
Lady Sunshine!" I could imagine that I caught 
an echo of the very tones of Frank Shirley's 
voice. 
 
 
FoK several days I waited upon the postman; 
and when the summons came I dodged a commit- 
tee-meeting, and ascended the marble stairs with 
trepidation, and imderwent the doubting scrutiny 
of an English lackey, sufficiently grave in deport- 
ment and habiliments to have waited upoh a 
bishop in his own land. I have a vague memory 
of an entrance-hall with paneled paintings, and 
a double-staircase with a snow-white carpet, 
about which I had read in the newspapers that it 
was woven in one piece and had cost some incredi- 
ble sum. One did not have to profane it with his 
feet, as there was an elevator provided. 
I was shown to Sylvia's morning-room, which 
had been "done" in pink and white and gold 
by some decorator who had known her colors. 
It was large enough to have held half a dozen 
of my own quarters, and the sun was allowed to 
flood it. Through a door at one side came Sylvia, 
holding out her hands to me. 
She was really glad to see me! She began to 
apologize at once for the time she had taken to 
write. It was because she had so much to do. 
She had married into a world that took itself 
seriously: the "idle rich", who worked like slaves. 
"You know," she said, while we sat on a pink 
satin couch, and a footman brought us coffee, 
"you read that Mrs. So-and-so is a 'social queen'- 
 
and you thiok it's a newspaper phrase, but it 
isn't; she really feels that she's a queen, and other 
people feel it, and she goes through her ceremonies 
as solemnly as the Lord's anointed." 
She went on to tell me some of her adventxires. 
She had a keen sense of fun, and was evidently 
suffering for an outlet for it. She saw through 
the follies and pretences of people in a flash; 
but they were all such august and important 
people that out of regard for her husband she 
dared not let them suspect her clairvoyant 
power. 
She referred to her experiences abroad. She 
had not liked Em-ope — being quite frankly a 
provincial person. To Castleman County a 
foreigner was a strange, dark person who mixed 
up his consonants, and was under suspicion of 
being a fiddler or an opera-singer. The people 
she had met xmder her husband's charge had 
been socially indubitable; but still they were 
foreigners, and Sylvia could never really be sure 
what they meant. 
There was, for instance, the yoimg son of a 
German steel-king, a person of amazing samir 
faire, who had made bold to write books and 
exhibit pictm-es, and had traveled so widely 
that he had even heard of Castleman County. 
He had taken Sylvia to show her the sights of 
Berlin, and had rolled her down the "Sieges 
AIe," making outrageous fim of his Kaiser's 
taste in art, and coming at last to a great marble 
column, with a female figure representing Victory 
 
upon the top. "You will observe," said the cul- 
tured young plutocrat, "that the Grecian lady 
stands a hundred meters in the air, and has no 
stairway. There is a popular saying about her 
which is charming — that she is the only chaste 
woman in Berlin!" 
I had been through the culture-seeking stage, 
and knew my Henry James; so I could read be- 
tween the lines of Sylvia's experiences. I figured 
her as a person walking on volcanic ground, not 
knowing her peril, but vaguely disquieted by a 
smell of sulphur in the air. And once in a while 
a crack would open in the ground! There was the 
Duke of Something in Rome, for example — a 
melancholy young man, with whom she had 
coquetted, as she did, in her merry fashion, with 
every man she met. Being married, she had taken 
it for granted that she might be as winsome as she 
chose; but the young Italian had misimderstood 
the game, and had whispered words of serious 
import, which had so horrified Sylvia that she 
flew to her husband and told him the story — 
begging him incidentally not to horsewhip the 
fellow. In reply it had to be explained to her 
that she had laid herseK hable to the misadventm-e. 
The ladies of the Itahan aristocracy were severe 
and formal, and Sylvia had no right to expect 
an ardent young duke to understand her native 
wildiiess. 
 
 
Something of that sort was always happening — 
something in each country to bewilder her afresh, 
and to make it necessary for her husband to 
remind her of the proprieties. In France a 
cousin of van Tuiver's had married a marquis, 
and they had visited the chateau. The family 
was Catholic, of the very oldest and strictest, 
and the brother-in-law, a prelate of high degree, 
had invited the guests to be shown through his 
cathedral. "Imagine my bewilderment!" said 
Sylvia. "I thought I was going to meet a church 
dignitary, grave and reverent; but here was a 
wit, a man of the world. Such speeches you never 
heard! I was ravished by the grandeur of the 
building, and I said, 'If I had seen this, I would 
have come to you to be married.' ' Madame is an 
American,' he replied. 'Come the next time!' 
When I objected that I was not a Catholic, he said, 
'Your beauty is its own religion!' When I pro- 
tested that he would be doing me too great an 
honor, 'Madame,' said he, 'the honneur would 
be all to the Church ! ' And because I was shocked 
at all this, I was considered to be a provincial 
person!" 
Then they had come to London; a dismal, 
damp city where "you never saw the sun, and 
when you did see it, it looked like a poached 
egg;" where you had to learn to eat fish with the 
 
help of a knife, and where you might speak of 
bitches, but must never on any account speak of 
your stomach. They went for a week-end to 
"Hazelhurst", the home of the Dowager Duchess 
of Danbury, whose son van Tuiver had enter- 
tained in America, and who, in the son's absence, 
claimed the right to repay the debt. The old 
lady sat at table with two fat poodle-dogs in 
infants' chairs, one on each side of her, feeding 
out of golden trays. There was a visiting curate, 
a frightened httle man at the other side of one 
poodle; in an effort; to be at ease he offered the 
wheezing creature a bit of bread. "Don't feed 
my dogs!" snapped the old lady. "I don't 
allow anybody to feed my dogs!" 
And tlien there was the Honorable Reginald 
Annersley, the youngest son of the family, home 
from Eton on vacation. The Honorable Ra- 
nald was twelve years of age, imdersized and ill- 
nourished. (" They feed them badly," his mother 
had explained, "an' the teachin's no good either, 
but it's a school for gentlemen.") "Honestly," 
said Sylvia, "he was the queerest little manikin — 
like the tiny waiter's assistants you see in hotels 
on the Continent. He wore his Eton suit, you 
understand — grown-up evening clothes minus the 
coat-tails, and a top hat. He sat at tea and 
chatted, with the mincing graces of a cotillion 
leader. You expected to find some of his hair 
gone when he took off his hat! He spoke of his 
brother, the duke, who had gone off shooting 
seals somewhere. 'The jolly rotter has nothing 
 
to do but spend his money; but we younger sons 
have to work like dogs when we grow up!' I 
asked what he'd do, and he said, 'I suppose there's 
nothin' but the Church. It's a beastly bore, but 
you do get a liviu' out of it.' 
"That was too much for me," said Sylvia. 
"I proceeded to tell the poor, blasted infant about 
my childhood: how my sister Celeste and I had 
caught half-tamed horses and galloped about the 
pasture on them, when we were so small that our 
little fat legs stuck out horizontally; how we had 
given ourselves convulsions in the green apple 
orchard, and had to be spanked every day before 
we had our hair combed. I told how we heard a 
war-story about a 'train of gunpowder,' and 
proceeded to lay such a train about the attic of 
Castleman Hall, and set fire to it. I might have 
spent the afternoon teaching the future church- 
man how to be a boy, if I hadn't suddenly caught 
a glimpse of my husband's face!" 
 
 
I DID not hear these stories all at once; I have 
put them together here because they make a 
httle picture of her honeymoon, and also because 
they show how, without meaning it, she was 
giving me an account of her husband. 
There had been even fewer adventures in the 
life of young Douglas van Tuiver than in the life 
of the Honorable Regiuald Annersley. When 
one heard the details of the upbringing of this 
"millionaire baby", one was able to forgive him 
for being self-centered. He had grown into a 
yoimg man who lived to fulfill his social duties; 
and he had taken to wife a girl who was reckless, 
high-spirited, with a streak of almost savage pride 
in her. 
Sylvia's was the true aristocratic attitude 
towards the rest of the world. It could never 
have occiured to her to imagine that anywhere 
upon the whole earth there were people superior 
to the Castlemans of Castleman County. If you 
had been ignorant enough to suggest such an 
idea, you would have seen her eyes flash and her 
nostrils quiver; you would have been enveloped 
in a net of bewilderment, and transfixed with a 
trident of mockery and scorn. That was what 
she had done in her husband-hunt. The trouble 
was that van Tuiver was not clever enough to 
realize this, and to trust her prowess against 
other beasts in the social jungle. 
 
Strange to me were such inside glimpses into 
the life of these two favorites of the gods! I 
never grew weary of speculating about them, and 
the mystery of their alliance. How had Sylvia 
come to make this marriage? She was not 
happy with him; keen psychologist that she was, 
she must have foreseen that she would not be 
happy with him. Had she dehberately sacrificed 
herself, because of the good she imagined she could 
do to her family? 
I was beginning to believe this. Irritated as 
she was by the solemn snobberies of van Tuiver's 
world, it was none the less true that she believed 
in money; she beheved in it with a faith which 
appalled me as I came to realize it. Everybody 
had to have money; the social graces, the 
aristocatic virtues, were impossible without it. 
The rich needed it — even the poor needed it. 
Could it be that the proud Castlemans of Castle- 
man Coimty had needed it also? 
If that guess at her inmost soul was correct, 
then what a drama was her meeting with me! 
A person who despised money, who had proven 
it by grim deeds — and this a person of her own 
money-worshipping sex! What was the mean- 
ing of this phenomenon — this new religion that 
was challenging the priesthood of Mammon? 
So some Roman consul's daughter might have 
sat in her father's palace, and questioned in won- 
der a Christian slave-woman, destined ere long to 
face the lions in the arena. 
The exactness of this simile was not altered by 
 
the fact that in this case the slave-woman was 
an "agnostic", while the patrician girl had been 
brought up in the creed of Christ. Sylvia had 
long since begun to question the formulas of a 
chiurch whose very pews were rented, and whose 
existence, she declared, had to be justified by 
charity to the poor. As we sat and talked, she 
knew this one thing quite definitely — that I had 
a relion, and she had none. That was the 
reason for the excitement which possessed her. 
Nor was that fact ever out of my own mind for 
a moment. As she sat there in her sxm-flooded 
morning-room, clad in an exquisite embroidered 
robe of pink Japanese silk, she was such a lovely 
thing that I was ready to cry out for the joy of 
her; and yet there was something within me, grim 
and relentless, that sat on guard, warning me that 
she was of a different faith from mine, and that 
between those two faiths there could be no com- 
promise. Some day she must find out what I 
thought of her husband's wealth, and the work 
it was doing in the world! Some day she must 
hear my real opinion of the religion of motor-cars 
and hand-woven carpets! 
 
 
Nor was the day so very far off. She sat 
opposite me, leaning forward in her eagerness, 
declaring, "You must help to educate me! I 
shall never rest until I'm of some real use in the 
world." 
"What have you thought of doing?" I inquired. 
"I don't know yet. My husband has an aunt 
who's interested in a day-nm-sery for the children 
of working-women. I thought I might help this, 
but my husband says it does no good whatever — 
it only makes paupers of the poor. Do you think 
so?" 
"I think more than that," I replied. "It sets 
women free to compete with men, and beat down 
men's wages." 
"Oh, what a puzzle!" she exclaimed; and then, 
"Is there any way of helping the poor that 
wouldn't be open to the same objection?" 
That brought us once more to the subject I had 
put aside at our last meeting. She had not for- 
gotten it, and asked again for an explanation. 
What did I mean by the competitive wage sys- 
